

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Fiestang celebrates Filipino culture 
By DUSTIN VON HANDORF News Writer 

The Filipino American Student Organization (FASO) will be sponsoring Fiestang Saturday, showcasing Filipino culture, and includ­ing traditional dancing and dinner in Stepan Center. 
Charlene Vinalon, co-pres­ident of FASO, said the event will include elements of both 
traditional  and  modern  
Filipino culture.  
"Fiestang  will  share  

Filipino culture, traditional food and dance, with a mod­ern twist," Vinalon said. 
The evening will start with an authentic Filipino dinner, 
· serving dishes such as adobo, a chicken dish, lumpia, which is a traditional wrap similar 
to an egg roll, pa.ncit, a noo­dle dish and a pork dish called lechon. 
"Filipinos are very big on food, and it's a great time to share what we love," Vinalon said. 
The evening will continue with a prese-ntation of vari­
ous  traditional dance  num­ 
bers.  
Eileen Magno. also a  FASO  

co-president, said the event will include numerous types of dances influenced by a variety of cultural groups. 
"It will include Pinkling, our national dance, Maglalatik, an all-guys coconut dance, and the Binasuan, a candle dance," Magno said. 
FASO has asked other stu­
see FIESTANG/page 6 


Quill to design commemorative coins 
By JOE TROMBELLO Assistant News Editor 
Senior marketing and art studio major Pat Quill picked the right day to read The Washington Post. 
One day before the Jan. 9 deadline, Quill said he noticed an advertisement calling for student artists to apply for positions with the United States Mint to design some of the state quarters. 
Quill joins five other student artists from around the nation as Associate Designers, who, along with 18 Master Designers -all professional -will develop future coin designs. 
"I read the article, and it was emphasizing people who were focused on detailed work, and that's what I love to do," he said. "Drawing is my first love." 
see QUILL/page 4 


OLUME 38: ISSUE 100 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27,2004 

Senate to decide junior class officers 
Scott, Flynn, Raaf, Boyd ticket elected officers for the 2005 senior class council 
dismay shown at the outcome of announcement less ofa shock. prepared for the Senate sce­
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
the student body presidential "The worst thing is when you nario. 
Assistant News Editor 
election, the candidates for the don't know what's going to hap­"In the back of my mind, I officers of the class of 2006 took pen, and you kind of know was afraid something like this It felt like deja vu all over the news in stride. what's going to happen now," would happen," he said. "It again -one candidate received "We had a good laugh about he said. "It could go either way, wasn't a pleasant surprise, but just over 48 percent, and the it," said Vijay Ramanan, who but I don't think I'll spend time after the Ebersol-Istvan situa­other received just under 44. will vie with Steve Miller for worrying." tion, it didn't catch me com­The election will be decided junior class president. He added Miller said after a tightly con­pletely off guard." 
by a dorm vote in the Student that being familiar with the tested primary race Monday, he 
Senate. But unlike the initial Senate process made the and his running mates had been see ELECTION/page 8 
ND students observe leap year birthdays 
20-year old sophomores Kathryn Lindsey, Mike Doversberger celebrate fifth birthday 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 
For people born on Feb. 29, yearly birthday celebrations are far from an easy annual routine. 
Notre Dame sophomores Kathryn Lindsey and Mike Doversberger are two such leap year babies. They will both be celebrating their 20th birthday {or 5th in Leap Years) this Feb. 29. Despite the unorthodox nature of their birthdays, however, they do not feel as though they have missed out on years of celebra­tions. They said they consider themselves lucky to be among the estimated one out of 1 ,506 people around the world ­approximately 200,000 in the United States -who were born on such a special day. 
Although Doversberger can­not recall the specific date 
see LEAP YEAR/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Mass forges friendships, community inhalls 
Editor's Note: This is the sec­ond of a two-part series exploring Mass at Notre Dame. 
By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writer 
Father Paul Doyle likes milk­shakes. He's so fond of them, in fact. that when he became rector of Dillon Hall in 1997, he bought a one-beater com­mercial "drink mixer" and began serving milkshak.es to students who attended Father Mike Baxter's Thursday night mass in Dillon Chapel. Six years later, he's serving up 13 gallons of milk and ice cream to crowds that sometimes grow to 190 strong -almost unheard of for a weeknight liturgy. 
Dillon's famous "Milkshake Mass" is just one of many sto­ries in the long tradition that surrounds Notre Dame's unique dorm-worship system. · 
While priests-in-residence at other Catholic institutions, such as Boston College and Georgetown, occasionally hold Masses in their rooms, the concept of having an active chapel in each individual resi­dence hall is distinctively Notre Dame's. 
"Dorm Masses are a very special Notre Dame phenome­non," said Father Richard Warner, director of campus 
see MASSIpage 4 

page 2 Friday, February 27, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
End of the road 

I've been asked, over and over again, how The Observer comes out five days a week when we all have classes. I've also been asked why I traded most of my social life for endless hours in 
the basement of South Dining Hall. Each time, I give the same answer. 
I don't know. 
Somehow, every day a newspaper 

appears in bins Andrew Soukup across campus. The last 140 issues have hap-Editor in chief pened to have my name at the top of the mast­head (today will be the last one), but The Observer is a product of over 100 students who give up some portion of their day to ensure that Notre Dame has a campus newspaper. Why they do it, I don't know, but I'm grateful that they do it nonetheless. 
Directing The Observer over the last year has been a tremendous challenge. And I've been blessed to work with an incredibly talented staff who is just as devoted to their jobs as I am to mine. 
But when I'm cursing out a print­er that won't print at 5 a.m. or responding to deranged e-mails from angry readers, I sometimes scratch my head and wonder if it's. worth it. 
Then I walk into the dining hall to go to work, and I see the stacks of papers almost depleted. I sit down for lunch at the dining hall and see everyone reading the story that took three hours to edit. I walk down the halls in dorms and see articles taped up outside the doors. I listen to professors in class start discussions by holding up a; copy of The Observer. 
And that's when I remember why I love this job. And why I'm going to have a tough time saying good­bye. 
Today is officially my last day at The Observer, but I've never been more proud of the product we turn out every day. I've had the pleasure of leading a talented staff that poured their hearts and souls into their jobs, of watching them mature, of seeing them grudgingly admit that the late nights in the office aren't that bad. And I've had one heck of a fun time working with them in the process. 
When I was named editor in chief 13 months ago, one of my prede­cessors sent me an e-mail saying my final day on the job would be my toughest. I didn't know what he was trying to tell me, not on the days when I dealt with irate phone calls or fought losing battles with faulty computer systems. But tomorrow, somebody else gets the honor of leading The Observer's staff. 
That's why, today, I understand what he meant. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con tact us at 631-4 541 so we ca:n correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE DINING HALLS NOT SERVING MEAT ON FRIDAYS? 





Chase Gund  Chelsea Rush  Megan Buller  Mike Kalman  Jason Bogovic  
Freshman  Junior  Junior  Sophomore  Sophomore  
O'Neill  Lyons  Lewis  O'Neill  O'Neill  
"Only ifthey  ''People should  "Ifpeople have  "Eh, the chicken  "Whatever,  
have corn  be able to  a problem, they  patties probably  there are still  
dogs.··  choose whatever they  can go to Subway...  aren't real meat .. any ways.  quarter dogs, rzg. ht?".  

like ... 

DAVE ROONEY !The Observer 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, featuring Rebecca Paul as soprano and Ricky Leal on oboe, performs Its Winter Concert Thursday In Washington Hall. The program featured music by Mozart, Wager and Brahms. 
OFFBEAT 
Trash truck stopped with 2 tons of marijuana 
SIERRA VISTA, Ariz. -A garbage truck was stopped carrying more than two tons of marijuana north of Huachuca City, a Department of Public Safety official said. 
The truck had been driv­ing erratically late Tuesday, said DPS Sgt. Steve Tritz. 
"It got my attention," Tritz said. "He was driving slow and failing to signal." 
The driver, who identi­fied himself as 28-year-old Brian Rivera Martinez, said he didn't know how to drive the truck. 
When a drug-sniffing dog arrived, it alerted authori­ties to possible narcotics. DPS officers found 4,112 pounds of marijuana bun­dled in the area where trash would be carried. 
Martinez and passenger, Michael Trejo Duran Sr., 38, were arrested on suspi­cion of transporting and possessing marijuana for sale. 
Driver calls 911 as cops chase him 
MARYVILLE, Tenn.-It may be right to call 911 to report someone's chasing you on the highway -but not if it's a sheritrs deputy in pursuit. 
Kevin Richard Vowell, 31, of Maryville placed such a call to emergency dispatchers during a high speed chase on U.S. 411 early Sunday morning, Blount County, sheriff's spokeswoman Marian O'Briant said. 
The incident began when a deputy noticed Vowell driving erratically and sig­naled for him to stop. Vowell pulled over but then spun his pickup truck around and fled down the highway, with three patrol cars in pursuit. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY a:: 
1.&.1 ::J: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
c( (,) 

0
.... HIGH 44 HIGH 34 HIGH 50 HIGH 56 LOW 34 LOW 27 LOW 37 LOW 42 IN BRIEF 
The Gutherie Theatre of Minneapolis will perform its national touring production of Shakespeare's Othello from 7 to 10 p.m. tonight. The play will be held in the O'Laughlin Auditorium in Saint Mary's Moreau Center for the Performing Arts. 
The first annual Shakespeare Scene Festival will occur in the LaFortune Ballroom tonight from 7:30 to 10 p.m. Tickets are $5 and can be purchased at the door. 
Siegfried Hall is sponsoring an all-day, nine-hole putt­putt golf tournament with food. music and prizes. to benefit those suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease. 
Student Government will sponsor a free performance of the comedy Sex Signals tonight in the Hesburgh Library's Carey Auditorium from 7 to 8:30 p.m. 
Flipside is sponsoring a Simpsons trivia contest from 10 to 11:30 p.m. tonight in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
Lace up your dancing shoes and join free dance lessons sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Activities Board. Hawaiian Dance lessons will occur tonight from 6 to 7 p.m., while Afro-Brazilian lessons will take place Saturday afternoon from 1 to 
2:30 p.m. in the Regina Dance Studio. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 49 HIGH 43 LOW 35 LOW 33 

Atlanta 34 I 25 Boston 33 I 24 Chicago 47 I 32 Denver 55 I 34 Houston 64 I 47 Los Angeles 61 I 45 Minneapolis 42 I 30 New York 43 I 30 Philadelphia 46 I 29 Phoenix 64 I 46 Seattle 51 I 42 St. Louis 55 I 32 Tampa 60 I 45 Washington 47 I 28 

Friday, February 27, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 



Dining halls go meatless for Lenten season 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Ash Wednesday marked the beginning of Lent and the end of meat on Fridays, as the University's dining halls replaced sauteed meat, stir-fry and rotisserie chicken with items such as eggs, fish and grilled vegetables. 
Notre Dame's staff began preparation for the Lenten Season in October. Tony Williams, South Dining Hall unit chef. attended a culinary academy in New York, where he learned preparation for var­ious vegetable medleys, corn­breads and tofu. These new platters are being prepared and will be served in the dining halls to replace meat dishes. 
Williams said the meals being served will include cheese dishes, fish, vegetables, grilled pizzas and breakfast items such as eggs and hash browns. In addition, the popu­lar mozzarella breadsticks will be seen more often. 
Williams said students should be creative with their food selections, suggesting stir-fry, a collection of vegetables or tofu" and saying that chefs are will­ing to fry or help with any new platter creations. 
"By the third meal, you're grumpy," he said. "People will go off campus," 
Williams suggested that stu­dents give the. dining hall staff feedback on meals they enjoyed by filling out surveys. He said student input is valued and shared at weekly Food Services meetings. 
While students will face a more limited food selection during Lenten Fridays, Williams said they can look for­ward to Easter dinner at South Dining Hall, which will feature lamb, chicken, fish, baked ham, rice pilaf and vegetable medley. 
While the dining halls will be meatless, Reekers and Lafortune will continue to carry their regular products. 
Notre Dame's close adher­ence to the Catholic Church 
policies has created divergent viewpoints within the student body. 
"If you are Catholic, you can choose not to eat meat; they can at least put smaller por­tions of meat out for those who do not choose to fast," sopho­more Kate Lorenz said. 
Sophomore Craig Brede said he supports the Notre Dame food policy of not serving meat. 

"People choose to come here, so when you choose this school, you're pretty much choosing to accept some Catholic practices," Brede said. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 

:t/f?\Jt?t< >>....... '·············-....,.,,....._______ ...,,, :~::::t.. l j (_::=<: ··=;~;~,....::··(:_:::=:= l''] ·t:;;~~:) ~~::::'t 1/~ t;~:::·~-·.[··:i···=·:,f:~·~. {_:::_:=~: 
...... 
.................. 
................................. 
.............
.....·--""'.~-•.....,......,.........·-·--.., •....,.,•.. .......... 
............ 
·---·····--................... 
............... 
......... 
··WS.:.PNESDAY, FEBRU.AR'Y·25TH 
8:00--PM"P.a:u~.YIEW NJGHT·~~-Fo'R'T'UH.E UNIVERSiTv'··oF...N.OTRE DAME JAZZ 
~;::No...iJN"AN"o'"c·o~-~-;;· 
........................................... 
FR l DAY, FEBRUARY 27TH -~ ......_................................. , ..........w 
.............. , .......__. ....., ...................... 
EVENING CONCERT BLOCK• WASHINGTON HALL 
6:45 PM MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY JAZZ BAND I RODNEY WHITAKER, DIRECTOR 
7:30PM WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY AP QUINTET TRENT KYNASTON, DIRECTOR 
8: 1 5 PM MICHIGAN STATE OCTET l RODNEY WHITAKER, DIRECTOR 
9:00 PM WESTERN MICHIAGN JAZZ ORCHESTRA SCOTT COWAN, DIRECTOR 
9:45 PM JUDGES' JAM JEFF CLAYTON (SAXOPHONE) JOHN FADDIS (TRUMPET) ALAN PASQUA (PIANO) DAVE CARPENTER (BASS) PETER ERSKINE (PERCUSSION) 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28TH 
2:00 PM .JUDGES' CLINIC-BAND BUILDING 
:, ........._..E;y_~~-!~G CONCERT BLOCK-WASHINGTON HALL 

·: s;4's··pM..U.NfVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME JAZZ BAND ...,,,..,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,. ';::'·'' .,.... ··=·=·: LA~·RY'DV!o(:'f_E R, D 1RECTOR :: )}L;:::;::H:•:•})::=:::::::::::~•••••••••••oooooo'"'""""'"'"""oo._.,7..:P..Q, PM MARSHALL,,UNIVERSITY JAZZ ENSEMBLE ........_..MART!.,N W. SAUNDE~~:··-blRECTOR 
8:1 5 PM TEXAS s'TATE--..l.,.J_NIVERSITY JAZZ .;~N·D...............~,..._........-···-w··--·· ........................ , ........ --.........fREDDIE MENDOZ~·:~'DIRECT.OR 
9:00 PM''l"NDlAN~.. UNIVERSITY J0~~000KE'LSEY ·COMBO........~-W"'""""""""~··• 
9:45 PM TEXAS STA,TE··Uti..JVERSITY SALSA DEL RIO JOHN LOPEZ, DIRE~-~o~··-........... . 
.............. 
.............................~.......................-.-.-·-· ........ 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY SUB 
www.nd.edu/-sub/cjf/ 

,,,_,,,,,.,_,,,,.,.,.,.,.·.·· .."'..,.·-.J.~_?g·ed by 5 highl)®·)lCClairnedJazz artists. 

SMCholds Sophomore Parents Weekend 
By EMILIE DESJARDINES 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's campus will 
host 360 parents this weekend 
for Sophomore Parents 
Weekend. 
The theme for this year's 
event, "Like You Forever, Love 
You For Always," was inspired 
by the children's book with the 
same title. 
"It appealed to us because the 
book is about the relationship 
between parents and children," 
said Jessica Eaton, a 
Sophomore Parents Weekend 
committee member. 
Although many of the sched­
uled activities are similar to 
those of Notre Dame's Junior 
Parents Weekend, the Saint 
Mary's event is somewhat small­
er, confined mostly to Saturday. 
Saint Mary's combines the 
Presidential Dinner with a 
dance and does not have a clos­
ing brunch on Sunday. 
However, Saint Mary's students 
"also have Junior Mom's 
Weekend and Senior Dad's 
\Veekend, which are both three­
day events," said Kristin 
Palombo, the committee's chair­
woman. 
"I think this weekend will be 
fun," Palombo said. "It's a great 
way to involve families and an 
opportunity for parents to see 
what your life is like away from 
home." 
The three-member committee 
has been working hard since 
last fall to ensure a successful 
event. The activities will com­
mence today, when students are 
encouraged to take their par­
ents to Dalloway's, an on-cam­
pus cafe, for dinner with the 
"Dalloway's Dollars" they will 
receive. 
Saturday morning will begin 
with an academic ppen house in 
the Noble Family Dining Hall 
where students will have the 
opportunity to introduce their 
parents to professors. 
During the afternoon, the 
South Bend Chocolate Factory, 
which usually closes by 2 p.m., 
is staying open for tours. 
"I think it will be fun," Palombo said. "The assembly lines will be open, and there will be samples of chocolate." 
At 4:30 p.m., parents and their daughters can celebrate Mass in the Church of Loretto. 
Saturday evening is the Dinner/Dance, held at the Palais Royale. It will start with a pres­idential welcome followed by a slideshow. The slides, arranged by Maureen Zimmer, "jnclude pictures of life at Saint Mary's and pictures with parents," Zimmer said, "in order to show a little about their lives over the past two years and include their lives at home." 
The weekend will culminate with a night of dinner and danc­ing, an event about which Eaton said she is very enthusiastic. 
"We picked out the menu, and I think it will be delicious," she said. ''I'm looking forward to spending time with my parents and letting them meet my friends." 
Contact Emilie Desjardines at desj4986@saintma.rys.edu 


Friday, February 27, 2004

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
ministry and rector of Fisher Hall. "To build a space for wor­ship into every residence hall is a strong statement about the nature of our community of faith." 
Sixty-eight Masses are cele­brated each week in the dorms alone -more during football season -with an average of five per week in the male resi­dence halls and two in the female residence halls. The disparity is mainly due to the fact that men's dorms have up to three or four priests-in-resi­dence, while only four women's dorms are set up as such, Warner said. 
Voicing a sentiment common across campus, McGlinn rector Beth Maureen Skinner said having weekly liturgies in every residence hall strength­ens the bonds within that small community. 
"The fact that we have Mass in the dorm is a value that makes this living situation dif­ferent than just sharing a dorm space," Skinner said. "That people pray together -that Mass can be a part of the total dorm experience -adds an element that is intangible and sacred. If Mass weren't offered in the dorm, it would change its atmosphere completely." 
Father George Rozum, Alumni rector, agreed, adding that the Masses are essential to the preservation of the unique Notre Dame experience. 
"Without dorm Masses, we wouldn't have a spirit of Christian fellowship. We wouldn't have Christian morals brought to our attention," Rozum said. "The Basilica only holds a thousand or so people, so where would everyone go? If we didn't have Masses in the . dorms, we might as well be Northwestern." 
Despite the enthusiasm for the hall worship and the efforts of individual dorms to encour­
age participation  - like Dillon  
and  Carroll's  milkshake  
Masses,  and  St.  Edward's  

Spanish Mass -attendance at some weeknight liturgies can drop below the double digits. 
Rozum defended the daily Masses, despite small num­
bers. 
"What does it mat­ter if we have, at most, a dozen or so? We can still pray," he said. "You have got to pray every day if you're going to be a Christian." 
Agreeing with Rozum, Skinner also said that even though only 25 to 40 percent of the girls wherever they believe that their faith will be best nour­ished," Rocca said. "The more informal style of liturgy in the dorms, obviously, is quite dif­ferent from the more formal Basilica setting. Also, the music can be quite different between what you hear in the Basilica and in a dorm." 
Many students also praise the residence hall Masses, especially the accessibility and 
"The fact that we have Mass in the dorm is a value that makes this living situation different than just sharing a dorm space. That people pray together-that Mass can be a part ofthe total dorm experience-adds an element that is intangible and sacred. ·· 
Beth Maureen Skinner McGlinn Rector 

in McGlinn go to the hall's Mass, a large number find their way to one of the liturgies on campus. 
"One hundred percent partic­ipation is unrealistic," she said. "Many of our girls are in one of the choirs and participate in the Mass in the Basilica, or some don't want to go to Mass at 10 at night because it's their best study time, so they find a different place to go." 
Basilica rector Father Peter Rocca supported the presence of dorm Masses, saying that while the Basilica plays a cen­tral role in the community, worship within the residence halls fills a different yet equal­ly essential place in students' lives. 
"I believe students should go variety of options they pro­vide. 
"It's conven­ient, and everyone from my d o r m goes," Knott freshman C h r i s Rainville s a i d . "And if I miss my dorm's Mass, there's usually 
another one I can make it to." 
Badin senior Alice Bartek cited the intimacy of the dorm chapels and the sense of com­munity they inspire. 
"When you go to the Basilica for Mass, you get all dressed up and the choir sings and it's just a huge deal," she said. "In dorm Masses, you can get on a personal, intimate level with those around you and with God." 
Though each dorm is autonomous in deciding when and how they celebrate Mass -milkshakes or no -all 27 together form a unique net­work of faith within the Notre Dame community. 
Contact Amanda Micahels at amichael@nd.edu 
each submission and an additional $500 for each


Quill 
design that is accepted. He said a submission for the
continued from page 1 
new nickel will be due in 
Quill, who is pursuing a early March. painting concentration, said Quill's position will last for he remembers drawing on two years. In the interim, he the walls of his room when said he plans on finding a 
he was less than two years business-related job and is 
old. He said he has always been drawn to art. 
"I've always loved [art]," he said. 
Judges from the U.S. Mint, as well as the National Endowment for the Arts, select­ed the winners from 306 appli­cations. 
"I'm still pinching myself," he said. "I was 
../ think it's a great honor considering that the coins are going to be in circulation for over 30 years, and then they'll be aroundfor history.·· 
Pat Quill Illustrator 
completely shocked." 
applying at several adver­tising firms and marketing departments. Although he said he plans to pursue a full­time art career later, he wants to first work in the business world. 
"I hope to find a business job and then turn to art as my main source of income," he 
The new batch of design­said. "This is a stepping 
ers, part of the U.S. Mint's stone to that." Artistic Infusion Program, Quill said he considers the replaced state position to be a artists responsi-true honor and 
ble for design­is excited about
"/ hope to find
ing their coins. getting to be a The 24 artists a business job part of history. will receive and then turn · "I think it's a written back­great honor
to art as my
ground infor­considering
main source of
mation about that the coins
income.
each state to are going to be give them ideas This is a in circulation and inspiration stepping stone to for over 30 for appropriate that., years, and then designs. they'll be Quill, an around for his­
Pat Quill 
Observer illus­tory," he said.
Illustrator 
trator, said the "It's hard to 
· job will be part­believe that I'll time, and he is be looking at a uncertain how many coins coin and it could be my he will submit designs for. design." 
"At the least, six different coins; at the most, who knows," he said. Contact Joe Trombello 
Quill will receive $500 for at jtrombel@nd.edu 



Tue~ March2r, 2.004 
7:00P.M. 
I4I DeBartolo 
Partkipattts: 
John Caw.dini, Theology Peter Holland. Fdm, Tdtvisio~ and Theatre Fr. Jerome H. Neyrey, S.J., ~n Rabbi Michael A. Signer. T'htology 
SpabSOftdby Campua MinWy Film. Tcleriaioo.am'J"beaac ND Holoca111t Pro;ea 
~Department 


Friday, February 27, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \.YIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Officials say Britain spied on U.N. 
Britain spied on U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan in the build up to the Iraq war, a for­mer Cabinet minister said Thursday, triggering yet another postwar crisis for Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
Blair refused to confirm or deny the accusa­tion and branded his former international development secretary, Clare Short, "deeply irresponsible" for commenting on the issues. 
For Blair, the allegation is another potential­ly damaging aftershock of the Iraq invasion, following controversies over Britain's prewar intelligence dossiers, the death of a weapons scientist, the coalition's failure to find weapons of mass destruction and the collapse of a court case on alleged U.S.-British bugging of the United Nations. 
Macedonian president missing 
BITONJA, Bosnia-Herzegovina-Macedonia state radio switched to classical music and the government declared a day of mourning after President Boris Trajkovski was missing and presumed dead in a plane crash Thursday. 
Mourners lit candles in front of Trajkovski's office in the capital, Skopje, and condolences poured in from world leaders. Secretary of State Colin Powell called the moderate Trajkovski "a great friend of the United States" who helped put his ethnically divided nation on "a stable footing." 
The president's party initially said he died in the crash, which happened in a remote, rocky area of mountainous southern Bosnia ­treacherous in the. bad weather and heavily mined from Bosnia's 1992-1995 war. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Supermarkets, clerks reach contract LOS ANGELES -Negotiators for grocery clerks and three supermarket chains reached a tentative contract agreement Thursday that could bring an end to the longest supermarket strike in U.S. history and send 70,000 cash­strapped employees back to work. Greg Denier, a spokesman for the United Food and Commercial Workers union, declined to disclose details of the agreement. The 4 1/2-month strike has inconvenienced millions of shoppers in Southern California and led to hundreds of millions of dollars in losses for the three grocery chains, which had taken a stand against rising employee health costs .. 
Winter storm hits Southeast CHARLOTTE, N.C. -A storm brought snow, sleet and freezin'g rain to the Southeast on Thursday, shutting down schools and gov­ernment offices and forcing the cancellation of a visit here by President Bush. The un,settled weather in the Carolinas, Georgia, Tennessee and Kentucky left up to 6 unches of snow in some places, with a second wave in the forecast that could add several inches overnight. In Georgia, which got up to 4 inches in northern counties, high winds brought down trees and power lines, knock­ing out electricity to as many as 61,000 homes. 
LOCAL NEWS 
No suspects in killing of mother 
LAPEL -Madison County authorities con­ducted autopsies Thursday on the bodies of a mother and her 4-year-old daughter who were found dead with their throats cut. 
Results of the autopsies were not yet avail­able, Coroner Marian Dunnichay said. 
Investigators had no suspect'i in Wednesday's slayings of Cory Clark, 26, and her daughter Jenna, sheriff's Capt. Rick Garrett said. J;Iowever, detectives concluded the deaths were not the result of a homicide-suicide, he said. 
HAITI 

Rebels say they are preparing new attack 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE Haiti's rebel leader said his fighters were advancing on the capital Thursday and awaited an order to attack unless President Jean­Bertrand Aristide resigns. The United States ques­tioned whether Aristide could "effectively continue" in office. 
With Haiti's ill-equipped police force not expected to put up much resistence against a rebel assault, goverment loyalists threat­ening death and torchings began building defenses in front of the National Palace in Port-au-Prince. 
At a U.N. Security Council meeting on Haiti, Caribbean nations urged the immediate authoriza­tion of a multinational force to end the violence and restore law and order. But key council members the United States and France said they want a political settlement first. 
In Washington, Secretary of State Colin Powell openly questioned whether Aristide can continue to serve effectively as Haiti's leader -the closest Powell has come to suggesting that Aristide bow out as president before his elected 
term  ends in  February  
20006.  
"Whether or  not he is  

able to effectively continue as president is something he will have to examine carefully in the interests of the Haitian people," Powell told reporters. 
Powell's comments came a day after French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin condemned Aristide for Haiti's crisis and called for him to resign. 
Earlier Thursday, Aristide told CNN he would not resign. He said a small international force -"a couple of dozen" soldiers or police -could prompt the rebels to stand down. Referring to the rebels, he said: "At any time those terrorists may come to Port-au-Prince and kill thousands of people." 

The insurgents have overrun half of the country since the rebellion began three weeks ago. 
Hundreds of Aristide sup­porters, some armed with machetes and pistols, gath­ered Thursday in front of the National Palace and, with teenagers driving bulldozers and forklifts, started building a defensive rampart. 
"If Aristide goes, cut off their heads and burn down their houses!" they shout­ed, echoing the war cry of Jean-Jacques Dessalines, the Haitian general who ousted French colonizers from Haiti to end slavery 200 years ago. The Aristide loyalists shouted epithets against France. 
As rumors spread that the rebels were arriving by boat, truckloads of Aristide supporters armed with old pistols were seen heading toward the seaside Carrefour neighborhood. 
In Carrefour, gunmen fired shots at the home of Haiti's most prominent architect, Albert Mangones, and wounded a security guard, a family member said. The French Embassy was calling the police to try to evacuate Mangones' widow, an eld­erly French citizen, and their daughter. 
Rebel leader Guy Philippe said the pro­Aristide militants, called chimeres or angry young men, were not his enemies. 
"We are calling for every­body to stay home, not to fight against us because we are fighting for them," Philippe said in an inter­view with The Associated Press in the northern city of Cap-Haitien. 
"All those chimeres, we have nothing against them," he said. "We know Mr. Aristide gave them some money and we know how poor they are." 
Some 90 miles to the south, Port-au-Prince was a city on edge. 
Americans with M-16s guarded U.N. workers and their families on the way to the airport, passing street barricades of wrecked, abandoned cars, rock and tires built by Aristide sup­porters to block the city from an assault. 
Military helicopters of the Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti, were ferrying people fro~ the Dominican Embassy to the airport. 
Senate approves handgun safety lock 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A Senate agree­ment requiring child safety locks on 
U.S. handguns gave Democrats encouragement Thursday that renewing an assault weapons ban might also become part of a package to protect gun makers and sellers from gun crime lawsuits. 
The GOP-controlled Senate voted 70-27 to require all handguns sold in the United States to have child safety locks, adding the measure to the leg­islation providing the gun industry immunity from suits when a legally sold gun is subsequently used in a crime. 
Democratic Sens. Barbara Boxer of California and Herb Kohl of Wisconsin argued that requiring child safety locks on newly pur­chased handguns would help reduce the number of children accidentally killed by handguns in the home. Every 48 hours, a child is killed through an accidental shooting, Boxer said. 
"If we were to pass this legislation and it became the law of the land, the number of children involved in the number of accidental shootings would go way down," she said. 
Kohl said the bill "is not a panacea. It will not prevent every single avoid­able firearm-related accident. But the fact is that all parents want to protect their children.· This legisla­tion will ensure that people purchase child-safety locks when they buy guns. Those who buy locks are more likely to use them. That much we know is certain." 
The Senate in 1999 passed similar legislation but the House refused to approve the measure. 
Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, the sponsor of the gunmaker immunity legislation, argued against the meas­ure, saying gun manufacturers already are working on the problem. Craig said the amendment would be an intrusion of the federal govern­ment into people's private homes. 
Friday, February 27, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Debate team encourages support at weekend tournament 
By K. AARON VAN 
OOSTERHOUT 
News Wricer 
The Notre Dame debate team is inviting any and all students to heckle, cheer or simply observe the upcoming "Irish Invitational" this weekend. 
Starting Saturday at noon and continuing until Sunday after­noon, the team is hosting the largest Midwest invitational of the spring semester, bringing 16 schools to engage in parliamen­tary-style debate at DeBartolo 



Leap year 
continued from page 1 
when he realized his birthday was celebrated differently from his friends, he has been aware of the uniqueness of his leap year birthday for as long as he can remember. Rather than believing his birthday loses sig­nificance as because he can only celebrate it on its exact day once every four years, Doversberger thinks that it becomes more special because of its rareness. 
"Unlike a typical yearly birthday, when I explain to people when I was born and how I go about celebrating my birthday, they remember it. As a result, I think it gains signifi­cance because it is unique," he said. 
Lindsey agreed with Doversberger, saying that leap year birthdays are more excit­ing to celebrate because they happen so infrequently. She first learned that her Feb. 29 birthday was special when she and her family celebrated her first "real" birthday when she turned four. Instead of being disappointed in what appeared to be a lack of actual birth­days, Lindsey found humor in her situation. 
"I thought it was funny," Lindsey said. "Of all the years, months, days and times to be born, I was born on a leap year. [It's] the story of my life." 
In non-leap years, both Doversberger and Lindsey cel­ebrate their birthday on March 1, as they were born on the 


Fiestang 
continued from page 1 
dent clubs on campus to per­form, including the First Class Steppers and the Ballet Folklorico. 
"We are aiming to show­case Filipino culture and cel­ebrate it with the Notre Dame and South Bend com­munities," Magno said. 
Vinalo said FASO, a student organization that is dedicat­ed to "sharing culture and building a Filipino communi­ty on campus," hopes to raise awareness of the Filipino culture by hosting the event. 
The event will take begin at 6 p.m. Saturday. Dinner will be served at 6:30 p.m., and the dance show will start at 7:30p.m. 
Tickets will be available at the door, costing $5 for fac­ulty and students, and $7 for general admission. 
Contact Dwtin Van Handorfat dvanhand@nd.edu 
Hall. 
"Crowds are definitely encour­aged," team president Meghan Callahan-Peters. "There's heck­ling involved, and you can shame people." 
This is the second invitational in as many years Notre Dame has hosted. The number of schools attending has doubled, this year including such institu­tions as Indiana University, Hillsdale College, Purdue University and the University of South Carolina. 
"[Hosting] elevates a school's prestige. The program as a whole gets a boost," Callahan said. "It brings more involvement from the Notre Dame communi­
ty." 
As tournament director, team coach Kate Huetteman sent out invitations to each school, peti­tioned alumni to judge for the tournament and .selected the "resolutions" for the debates. 
Resolutions, or debate topics, come primarily from the political realm, ranging from internation­al relations to domestic politics. Past topics include Bush's policy on Iraq both before and after the war. 
"You usually have to be more up to date as well as just have a wider knowledge base, because you never know what the topic is going to be," Callahan said. 
On the other hand, policy debate demands more facts and evidence to be successful. 
"[Parliamentary debate] defi­nitely teaches you how to think on your feet," Callahan said. "Even ifyou don't know an exact fact about a topic, you can come 'up with a logical problem with it." 
Already a formidable opponent in debate circles, the team fin­ished eighth last year in the National Parliamentary Debate Association's season-long sweep­stakes. "Sweepstakes awards" are given only to the top schools at any particular tournament. 
According to Callahan, the Notre Dame team is one of the best in the nation. This coming weekend still looms large, how­ever, and "there's definitely more pressure" to perform well at home, Callahan said. "It should be a good tournament." 
ContactK. AaronVan Oosterhout at kvanoost@nd.edu 
60th day of the year. While nei­ther one has specific traditions for the day, each one cele­brates with a little more fan­fare when Feb. 29 rolls around every four years. 
"Someone usually gives me a 'you're turning three, four or five years old' card," Lindsey said. "They also Uokingly] tell me I'm tall or smart for my age." 
Over the years, both students have also found other perks to being a birthday-celebrity of sorts. Doversberger has appeared in a local newspaper or on television every real birthday of his life and has received free $25 gift certifi­cates from the University Park Mall in Mishawaka. 
Although Lindsey has not received any special treatment as of late, when she was younger she often won extra prizes at fairs or in games. Recently, her birthday has been of more use to friends and family who have tried to utilize it to win free items of their own. 

Perhaps one of the greatest benefits Doversberger and Lindsey gained due to their leap year birthdays is the fact that it sets them apart from the multitude of other students at Notre Dame. 
"[Another] great thing about being born on a leap year is that I will always be able to tell people I was a student at the University of Notre Dame before my fifth birthday," said Doversberger. 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 



Come and join the Campus Bible Study 

Learn what Jesus taught by reading and discussing His words. 
1 day a \Veek-1 hour per session Attending CBS would be a solid Lenten practice. 

l: Meeting every Tuesday at 7:00 pm in room 114KColeman-Morse Center 

Ifneeded, Bibles provided. For more info call Fr. AJ631-5955 


Campus Ministry 


Friday, February 27, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 580.14 -21.48
Jones ' 
,. 

Same: •.... . : Composite Volume 2,071 179 . 1,375,480,320 
AMfX 1,245.14 +8.04 t NASDAQ 2,032.57 +9.59 NYS£ 6,6zz.66 +:.7.39
....;.. 

S&PSOO 1,144.91 +4.58 NIKKE.I(Tokyo) ~"1 0/$15.29 (l.QQ FTS£ IOO(London) 4,515.90 +8.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +0.67 +0.02 3.00 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.75 -0.20 26.50 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.98 -0.23 23.35 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.68 +0.09 13.28 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.41 -0.12 29.50 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.57 +0.28 49.21 10-YEAR NOTE -+0.77 +0.31 40.46 5-YEAR NOTE +0.91 +0.27 30.00 3-MONTH BILL -0.64 -0.06 9.32 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.17 35.51 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.60 395.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.925 96.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN 109.6 EURO 0.8045 POUND 0.5373 
IN BRIEF 
Justice Dept. blocks Oracle takeover SAN FRANCISCO -The U.S. Justice Department sued Thursday to block Oracle Corp.'s hostile $9.4 billion bid for rival business software maker PeopleSoft Inc., raising the like­lihood the proposed shotgun marriage won't 
happen. 
Seven states joined the Justice Department in a lawsuit that contends a combination between Oracle and PeopleSoft would stifle competition in the $20 billion market for business applica­tions software -the computer coding that auto­mates a wide range of administrative tasks. 
The antitrust challenge represents a major blow to Oracle, which has been stalking its rival for nearly nine months, and a coup for PeopleSoft, which rallied its customers to help persuade the Justice Department to derail the deal. 
Redwood Shores-based Oracle could still win · the antitrust battle in court, but that fight could last for months, and time isn't on Oracle's side. Oracle is trying to seize control of PeopleSoft's board of directors in a shareholder vote sched­uled March 25. 
Wall Street remains unchanged 
NEW YORK-Wall Street stumbled through a mostly lifeless session Thursday as bargain hunters gave technology stocks a moderate lift but struggling defense contractors kept blue chips under pressure. 
A Commerce Department report th'at orders for big-ticket items from factories fell by 1.8 percent in January limited investors' enthusi­asm, but analysts were not concerned that this presaged a steeper decline. While the indexes have registered losses in five of the last six ses­sions, the market has shown great resiliency .. 
"I don't think the numbers are so out of whack. But it's giving more cause to take some profits," Carl said. 
"We've had a fine run-up, we're not seeing crazy swings, so [the market's] handling every­thing well. I don't see anything horrible on the horizon now.'' The Dow Jones industrial average lost 21.48, or 0.2 percent, to 10,580.14, after advancing 35.25 Wednesday. 
Gasoline at six-month high 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Gasoline 
futures closed at a new six 
-month high Thursday 
in New York as analysts 
said a "squeeze" appeared 
to be developing ahead of 
the front -month con­
tract's expiration. 
March petroleum prod­
ucts futures contracts 
expire at the end of open 
outcry trading Friday on 
the New York Mercantile 
Exchange. 
Futures traders occa­sionally try to get buyers with a need for prompt, physical delivery of crude oil to pay a premium on the futures contract on or near expiration, said Phil Flynn, an analyst who trades with Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago. 
Such a move becomes more evident when the next contract month -in this case. April -doesn't rise by nearly as much, he said. 
March gasoline futures settled up 1.84 cents at $1.0773 a gallon -a six-month high -after trading between $1.051 and $1.08 during the ses­sion. 
The front-month March contract traded at the highest level for a front month since Aug. 29, when the September con­tract settled at $1.093 a .Jnternational Petroleum Natural gas futures "It's just profit-taking, gallon on the day that Exchange, April Brent trading influenced heating nothing more than that," contract expired. blend crude oil futures oil and the rest of the said Scott Meyers, an ana­
But Nymex crude oil settled unchanged on the petroleum complex lyst who trades with futures closed lower day at $31.57 a barrel Thursday following the Pioneer Futures Inc. in Thursday as enthusiastic after touching a low of release of bullish weekly New York. "It's had a huge buying on concerns about $31.30. natural gas storage data, run. The market just ran tight supply gave way to March heating oil analysts said. a little bit ahead of itself. profit -taking on those futures settled up . 93 cent Natural gas and petrole­A little bit of the excess gains. at 94.32 cents a gallon on um markets trade on has come off the top.'' 
Light, sweet April crude the Nymex after touching somewhat different funda­But Meyers predicted oil futures settled down 17 a high of 94.50 cents. mentals, though they April crude futures will cents at $35.51 a barrel Natural gas futures for influence each other as test $36 a barrel again, after touching a low of March delivery rose 1. 7 some users have the abili­perhaps Friday. $35.15. cents to settle at $5.39 per ty to switch between heat­"Definitely," he said, 
On London's 1,000 cubic feet. ing oil and natural gas. "the bull run is not over." 







Dollar pushes higher against euro 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The dollar extended its broad-based gains Thursday amid growing concern that the European Central Bank may lower interest rates to subvert the strength of the euro. 
The dollar rose to its highest level in nearly three months at 
109.82 yen and a one-month peak against the Swiss franc of 1.2711 francs. The euro also· sank as far as $1.2386, a level not seen since the beginning of January. 
Investor uncertainty about offi­cial European resolve to keep the euro from renewing a push toward all-time highs reached last week above $1.29 has led to increasingly volatile swings in the foreign­exchange market. 
Disappointing January durable goods and weekly initial claims for unemployment benefits data out of the U.S. resulted in a swing of nearly a cent in the euro against the dollar before the market set­tled back into the middle of its overnight ranges. 
In late New York trading, the euro was quoted at $1.2439 cents, down from $1.2495 late Wednesday. The dollar was quoted at 109.63 yen, up from 109.02 yen late Wednesday. It was also quoted at 1.2677 Swiss francs, up from 1.2600, and 1.3416 Canadian dol­lars, up from 1.3345. The British pound fell to $1.8608 from $1.8713. 
The dollar has surged about 4 percent against the euro and yen over the past week, sending many investors to the sidelines ahead of the ECB's monetary policy meeting next Thursday. 
Most economists expect ECB to keep its main target rate at the current 2 percent level at its policy meeting next week, but European leaders have increased pressure on the central bank to act on the euro, saying the currency's strength is hurting exports from the region. 
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, who is expected to bring up foreign-exchange policy when he visits with President Bush on Friday, has urged the ECB to consider using monetary policy as a tool against the currency. 
"Major imbalances in the global economy and fluctuations in exchange rates give us cause for serious concerns," Schroeder said Thursday in a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations in Chicago. 
French Prime Minister Jean­Pierre Raffarin said he shared Schroeder's view on rates, citing the "brutal nature" of the euro's rise. 
"This indicates that there is some consensus between not only the ECB but also finance ministers that verbal intervention is the first line of defense," said Michael Woolfolk. senior currency strategist at Bank of New York. 
"I expect the Europeans to follow through with continued verbal intervention, as it appears to be working for the time being.'' 
Euro-zone data on inflation and economic sentiment due out Friday could shed some light on whether the ECB will consider a rate cut. and some market participants are expecting the numbers to disap­point. 
Friday, February 27, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Panelists discuss Patriot Act at SMC 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 

The atmosphere was thick Thursday night at the panel discussion of the 2001 U.S. Patriot Act, held at the Stapleton Lounge in Saint Mary's LeMans Hall. 
That was just the way the four panelists wanted it to be. "It does affect normal, every­day people when the atmos­
phere [allows for] giving up civil liberties for safety,·· speaker Anita Morse said. 
Panelist Doug Archer con­curred. 
"It chills the air in which we exercise our first amendment rights," Archer said. "It's a terrorism, among other things. 
Now, however, it can be used to enter the lives of everyday Americans. 
Under the act, government officials may search homes and obtain lists of purchases, com­munications, financial and medical records and even library records without inform­ing the person they are investi­gating. 
"It made all of your electronic communications available to 
"It does affect normal, everyday people when ·the atmosphere [allows for] giving up civil liberties for safety.·· 
Anita Morse SMC research analyst 
chilling of the atmosphere that allows for mutual understand­ing." 
Morse, a lawyer, librarian and research analyst for Saint Mary's, and Archer, a reference and peace studies librarian at the Hesburgh Library, were joined by South 
Wilson, who is the previous president of the Indiana Civil Liberties Union, gave an abbreviated history of the groundwork behind the Patriot Act. He labeled it "a misnomer, if there ever was one." 
The Patriot Act (or Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism) was developed after Sept. 11 to enhance domestic security and surveillance, pro­tect the borders better and remove barriers to investigate the government on the same level that they can get a pen register or a 
track  and  
trace."  Morse  
said.  

"If I can track and trace all of your Internet information, I have access to everything you have looked at." 

Bend lawyer "We all ought to be The panelists William L. talking about it, in agreed that the Wilson and Isis act has positive
the dining hall,
Nusair, a Center attributes, in its
around the dinner
for Women's ability to better Intercultural table.·· protect against Leadership fel­money launder­
William Wilson 
low. ing and the
attorney 
This includes records for all foreign students, Nusair said. A Palestinian citizen of Israel, she gave an outside view of the act. 
"It's the step by step process 

that encroaches on your pri­vate and your public life," she said. 
implemented 
information 

sharing between branches of investiga­tion such as the FBI and CIA. 
Also, Wilson said discussion of civil liberties is always posi­tive. 
"We all ought to be talking about it, in the dining hall, around the dinner table," he said. "Where do we draw the line?" 
Contact Nicole Zook zook8928at @nd.edu 
Seafood Celebration 
Featuring the neu-' Seafood Trio 

• 

Accepted • Unmirtakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
and Istvan did," Poindexter said.
Election 
He said the winner would be decided at Wednesday's regu­
continued from page 1 
larly scheduled Student Senate 
Judicial Council president Elliot Poindexter, who informed the Miller-Ben Zerante-Patricia Adams-Erika D'Addabbo (48.2 percent) and the Ramanan­Lauren Mullins-Lauren Hallemann-Emily Short (43.8 percent) tickets of the results Thursday night, agreed observ­ing a similarly close race unfold just two weeks before was a definite advantage for the can­didates. 
"Because [a Senate decision] already happened, I thought they handled themselves a lot more respectfully than Ebersol meeting, and declined to release dorm vote totals to The Observer. 
Of a total of 966 votes. Miller's ticket received 466 and Ramanan's ticket received 423, with the remaining 77 account­ing for abstentions. The decreased participation meant that every vote carried a greater weight, Poindexter said. 
"Traditionally the numbers go down from a primary to a runoff anyway," he said. "It's a lot closer because there are a lot fewer votes." 
The class of 2005 race was nearly as close. with the Darrell Scott-Lauren Flynn­Tom Raaf-Kristin Boyd ticket beating the Katie Boyle-Brian Agganis-Sarah Bates-Stephanie Aberger ticket by 50 votes, 515 to 465. The Scott ticket earned 
59.9 percent to Boyd's 45.9 percent with 3.2 percent abstaining. 
Scott praised his opposition. saying Boyle had been "great competition" and that he looked forward to working closely with her and her run­ning mates during the year ahead. Boyle could not be reached for comment. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Chiropractic... 
The Choice For Me 
Jason Kucma is a Third-year student from Medford, NJ. He graduated from Ithaca College with a Bachelor's Degree in Exercise Physiology concentrating in Cardiac Rehabilitation. 
''The only thing that has ever captured my attention was studying the human body. The more I learned in school, the more I needed to know. The most logical step for me was to become a Doctor of Chiropractic so I could truly help people". 
Before making his decision to attend Logan, Jason visited nearly half of the chiropractic colleges in the United States. ..Logan is in the perfect location in a safe, residential area. The Admissions staff are very friendly and helpful and the 
./
faculty are excellent." 
Logan College offers students an incredible learning environment blending a rigorous chiropractic program with diverse and active student population. If you are looking for a healthcare career that offers tremendous personal satisfaction, professional success and income commensurate with your position as a Doctor of Chiropractic. contact Logan College of Chiropractic today and explore your future. 
"All the fun of college~ without the education" 
Nelv Three Person Rates -$298..00 Per Person, Per l\lonth 

• ' 
Proudly Se"'~ng the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community• The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Available • 4 & 5 Bedroom lJnits • WASHER .rod DRYER in F..ai.::h Uni:t • Dish'\.vashcr • 24-llour Em(!rgencyM.ajnl'(mance• ADT Atams Systems• Close to Campus 
For More Infi:u:mati2n~ Real Estate Manage..ment Curporaiiun 
· P.0.. Box 540 So1.1th Bend~ lN 46624 Telephone: 574·234-9923 
F+~esim'ile: 574~234-9925 
Jbl.ad~u!cbresb.rom 
\"'ou've tried the rest, now l.ive at the best!. 
Notre Da1ne Apartn1ents 
Starting at just $120.00 per person, per month! 
• 
Just 4 Blucks S<)ulh ~)fthe Nolrc Dame Campus 

• 
Spacious 2-Bcdroom A.partmCottts on Notre Dame A vttnue • CL11'rCnt 1-)''Car & 10-monlh I..ea.."es Available 

• 
On·Site l-aundry Facility 

• 
2 Cfoscts and l Desk in Each Bedroom 

• 
Priva!e Parking Lots • •24 -hour Emer-gellCY Jt>laintenancc 

• 
Up to 4 Persons Pet Apartment 


Far MOTe lnfonnottian: Re<i~l Es.ttlte ?vfanag~¢1lt Corporation 
P.O. Box 540 • 
South Bend. IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234·9923 
.l-'a~similc: 574-234-992~ !J?lad{tt'chre~>tu;nm 

Friday, February 27, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 

Abuse study concludes 4 percent of priests accused 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A national, church-sanctioned study docu­menting sex abuse by U.S. Roman Catholic clergy found that about 4 percent of clerics have been accused of molesting minors since 1950, a diocese said Thursday. 
The Diocese of Yakima, Wash., said in a news release that the survey compiled by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice found 4,392 of the 109,694 clergy who served over that five-decade period faced allegations of abuse. 
The survey was overseen by the National Review Board, a lay watchdog panel the bishops formed at the height of the abuse crisis. The review board had a Friday morning news conference scheduled in Washingtoll to discuss the report and a companion study on how the abuse crisis devel­oped. 
Dioceses nationwide received 10,667 abuse claims since 1950, according to the news release. Of those, claims by 6,700 were substantiated. About 3,300 were not investi-· gated because the accused cler­gymen were dead. 
Another 1,000 or so claims proved to be unsubstantiated, the diocese said. 
The national report also tal­lied abuse-related costs at $533.4 million. 
A source who has read both the John Jay tally of abuse cases and the report on causes provided some other findings to the AP on condition of anonymity. 
The causes report places much of the blame on bishops, saying "moral laxity" in disci­plining offenders created an atmosphere that allowed the crisis to occur. 
The report acknowledges that some bishops recognized the gravity of the problem early on and spent years lobbying the Vatican to change church law so they could move faster against abusers. 
The study also said the bish­ops were sometimes ill-served by the therapists and lawyers they sought out for guidance. 
Still. there have been wide­spread reports of bishops who sheltered abusers and the review board used harsh lan­guage to criticize churchmen who failed to act. It said these bishops were guilty of "neglect" and insensitivity toward victims that allowed the "smoke of Satan" to enter the church, the source said. 
The raw numbers of abuse claims and accused clergy are higher than previously estimat­ed by the media, victims groups and church officials. 
Estimates of the number of guilty clerics have varied dra­matically. Church officials have said anywhere between 1 per­cent and 3 percent of clergy abused minors. 
The Rev. Andrew Greeley, a sociologist at the University of Chicago, put the number at 4 percent. Psychologist Richard Sipe, a former monk who researches sexuality in the priesthood, said it could be as high as 5 percent. 
The bishops have apologized repeatedly for any wrongdoing and have enacted several reforms to protect children since the long-simmering abuse problem erupted more than two years ago in Boston. The discipline policy they adopted in June 2002 bars sex offenders from all public ministry. 
The bishops authorized the new, landmark studies to restore trust in their leader­ship. No other profession or religious group has exposed itself to such scrutiny on the abuse issue, even though molestation is an acknowledged problem among coaches, teach­ers and clergy of other faiths. 
The prelates said they want­ed to undertake the investiga­tion to demonstrate their will­ingness to confront abuse in the church. 
Victims, however, say the bishops acted only under intense public pressure and said any study by the church is bound to underestimate the number of abuse cases. 
In Boston, where the national crisis began with the case of rogue priest John Geoghan, officials said Thursday that 162 archdiocesan priests -about 7 percent of those who served over the last half-century ­had been accused of abuse. 
But plaintiffs' attorney Mitchell Garabedian scoffed at the count. 
"We have an entity here that has allowed the wholesale sex­ual abuse of children by clergy, and to allow them to count the numbers just doesn't make any sense," he said. "There is a huge credibility problem here." 

Bush administration to end U.S. use of land mines 
Associated Press ing on condition of anonymity. to remain operable. mines in its defense programs. policy, "on the whole it is a 
Lincoln Bloomfield, an assis­In Afghanistan and "We have a great deal of deeply disappointing step 
WASHINGTON -The Bush tant secretary of state who is Cambodia, among other coun­momentum everywhere else backward." administration intends to end President Bush's special advis­tries, the buried land mines around the world. The U.S. is "This is another squandered the U.S. military's use of land er on land mines, was expect­serve no military purpose and the only country in NATO that opportunity for U.S. leadership mines that are not timed to ed to announce the new policy are a menace to farmers, chil­hasn't banned this weapon. We on a crucial arms control and self-destruct but will not sign a at the State Department on dren and other people who have a situation where the U.S. humanitarian issue," he said. 150-nation anti-land mine Friday. accidentally trip over them. is undermining the interna­"Worst Qf all, in a sharp depar­treaty, a senior administration From now on, all new U.S. The mines maim or kill. tional norm against this ture from past policy, it says official said Thursday. land mines will be detectable Stephen Goose, executive weapon," said Goose, who said the United States will continue 
The new policy also will dou­to U.S. authorities and geared director of the arms control he was informed by the State using land mines indefinitely." ble, to $70 million, what the to become inert. But those division of Human Rights Department on Thursday The International Campaign United States spends annually considered to be part of deter­Watch, praised the plan to about the new policy. to Ban Landmines, which won to locate and remove mines ring attacks, such as in Korea, increase spenc!ing for mine Goose said that the U.S. goal, the 1997 Nobel Peace Prize for considered hazards to people will remain in use. Those clearance projects. But he said for a decade, has been to move its efforts in getting the treaty and serving no deterrent pur­mines will be timed to self­the United States is isolated by toward the point where it approved in Ottawa, Canada. pose, the official said, speak-destruct, but they can be reset its insistence on using land could eliminate all anti-per­said 150 countries have signed 
sonnel mines. on. They included Afghanistan, 
"This is a goal that has been Canada, Germany, Italy and 
embraced by the entire world. Britain. Among the 44 nations 
But it's a goal that the United that had not done so, as of 
States has now given up on. October, were the United 
They now say they want to use States, China, Iran, North· 
some types of anti-personnel Korea, South Korea, Pakistan 
mines, the so-called smart and Russia, according to the 
mines that self-destruct, any­group. 
where in the world in perpetu­The 1997 pact went into 
ity," he said. force on March 1, 1999. and 
Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., a bans the stockpile of mines 
leading opponent of land and requires each nation to 
mines, said although there are destroy its stock within four 
some positive aspects of the years. 




oldshmied * Blue Cult1!:1::.•111II ple * Herve-Chapelie r~:::ttml~t *Seven Jeans )to Fren-.4-"''''''~ 
312 vvr. Cleveland Ave. (-;ranger> IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 
528 E. (:olfax Ave.

18011rish wav 
South Bend, lN 46617

·South Bend, IN 46631 
(574)_232-1822 
p

page 10 Friday, February 27, 2004 


Why the delay? 


Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on vate the connection a second time 48 hours later is unac­me. This old adage can be applied to modern situations, ceptable. even of a technical nature, such as the Office of Seniors, faculty and anyone else who has been on cam­Information Technologies' two failed attempts to install a pus for at least four years painfully remember the 2000­new Internet connection. 01 academic year that was marred by multi­
Early Sunday morning, OIT activated this ple, long-lasting Internet outages that crip­
OJhe 
new connection only to have it fail three userver pled campus computing. Since then, Internet hours later; the backup connection used outages have been few and far between. slowed Internet on campus to a crawl. But the University's decision to install a Tuesday morning, OIT tried again to activate new connection that has failed twice in the
Editorial 
the connection and it failed two hours later. five hours it was active raises questions 
While OIT and the University should be commended for about whether Internet reliability is returning to the days their attempts to increase the University's Internet band­of old. width, the failures encountered exhibit a lack of neces­OIT is now carefully reviewing its plans and meeting sary testing and preparation for the switchover. And with the Internet vendor to ensure that the next upgrade OIT's blind faith in the Internet vendor's promise that will be a success. But one has to wonder why it took two they had fixed the problem when they attempted to acti-failures to cause this review. 
Critiquing the Notre Dame student election 
I do not personally know Charlie Ebersol, but from what I read in The Observer, it seems that many coordi­nated opposition to his bid for student body president despite his extensive experience. His opponents claim 
Gary Caruso 
that he drives a gas guzzling, envi­ronment-choking Hummer and may Capitol even torture small Comments animals in the back seat. In essence, they suggest that Ebersol lacks the testosterone to become stu­dent body president. 
In the rough and tumble unreal world of academia, election campaigns can become far worse an experience than any national effort. I should know. Thirty-three years ago I ran for student body president, losing to a guy dressed in a Burger King crown with his kitten as his running mate. My campaign offered many sound, sensi­ble and realistic solutions to the cam­pus problems of parking, dining, book­store prices and social life. But stu­dents saw no relevance in our sitting student body president who, in exchange for a letter of recommenda­tion to Yale law school, ignored a turnout of nearly 2,000 students and caved to the administration's proposed ban of beer kegs on campus. 
Why should a contemporary campus electorate, like Americans in 2000, vote for the most experienced candi­date when the issues of the day do not seem as pressing as they might some day become? Nobody really cares about what may lurk beyond the hori­zon. All of us vote our immediate interests. Many of us vote our greed and fears. 
It is ironic that the 2004 Notre Dame student election in many ways mirrors the 2000 presidential race, replete with similar voting trends, an uncer­tain outcome and Elliott Poindexter playing the vote keeper role of Katherine Harris. Unfortunately, Ebersol must endure a loss in part because of an archaic runoff election system and in part as a hostage of his own public persona. 
While Ebersol swept nearly all of the women's dormitories, he nearly lost all of the men's dormitories. His strengths were women, freshmen and sopho­mores. Obviously such liberal elitist characteristics as sensitivity and ideal­ism alone could not carry Ebersol to victory.. He lost the vote of off-campus students like Gore lost the Christian coalition. Upperclassmen in 2004 rejected Ebersollike the angry, gun­toting NASCAR Bubba voters who could not relate to Gore's 2000 effort. 
Gore's losses in Tennessee and West Virginia equated to Ebersol's loss of campus men. The male voting block yearned for an important reason to better identify with Ebersol. He could have better related by going duck hunting like Dick Cheney or at least publicly quoting Digger's basketball record when leading at half-time. 
Ebersol's campaign on the final bal­lot further parallels 2000 in that he faced his own version of Ralph Nader as a third option. What student gov­ernment academic imbecile included an option to abstain on the run-off bal­lot? Maybe the initial ballot should include an area for "none of the above," but never on a final ballot when only two tickets have qualified and successfully advanced. That ballot flaw is like allowing Howard Dean to appear again in November. 
I personally oppose any form of runoff in our public election system, opting for one ballot listing all oppo­nents where the winner takes all. This applies to party primary elections where a party nominee is selected as well as in the general election where all party nominees and independents compete. However, for campus elec­tions, I might be persuaded to accept some form of a primary style effort other than a runoff format. 
Runoff systems are post-Civil War concoctions, originally established to prevent a substantial block of minority voters, in some cases the largest seg­ment of the voting electorate, from electing one of their own. Since alone minorities rarely can muster more than 50 percent of the electorate, big­ots rigged the electoral system so that "like-minded folk" could gang up against such minority efforts when they qualified for a runoff. Regrettably, the runoff system still exists today, primarily in regions of this nation where the electorate pro­nounces all six syllables in the word "school." 
Despite the drama of this year's stu­dent election, Ebersol's legacy on cam­pus will not be completely written until next school year, when Americans vote for a new president. Like many students who ganged up against Ebersol in favor of Istvan in the runoff election, Democrats will ignore Nader to defeat Bush this November. Only then will Ebersol's legacy be written. He will have been the campus version of both AI Gore in 2000 and George Bush in 2004. 
Legacies have a way of changing over time. As alumni, we who endured the betrayal of our student body presi­dent defeated him twice on the nation­al alumni ballot. Funny how politics brings out the worst in everyone. 
Gary Caruso, class of 1973, served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
Where do you attend Mass? 
a. My dorm  40%  
b. Do not atend mass  24%  
c. Basillica  20%  
d. Another dorm  10%  
e. Off campus/ other service  6%  
*Poll appears courtesy of  

www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 260 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
.. 
..Facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored., 
Aldous Huxley writer 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community responds to comments about Lenten food options 

I am writing in response to tpe Feb. 26 article submitted by Chris Vierig. I was a student at Saint Mary's from 1995 to 1997 and graduated from Notre Dame in 1999. In 2002, I received my J.D. from the law school. Each year over that span of time, someone lodged a complaint in some manner about not serving meat in the dining halls during Lent. Mr. Vierig suggests that this is the University's "fas­cist" way of imposing Catholicism on non­Catholic students. He has. of course. also suggested some other ways in which the University is oppressing him because he is not Catholic. The last time I checked, Notre Dame is a private, Catholic institu­tion; therefore, it is the school's preroga­tive to follow the traditions of the Catholic faith in whatever manner it deems appro­priate. 
Mr. Vierig indicates that he was equally aware of Notre Dame's Catholic affiliation when he accepted the University's invita­tion to enter the class of 2007. 
The dining hall staff is not forcing stu­dents to pray before their meals; students are not directed to fast during Lent; Burger King is not shut down for 40 dayS"; and the University does not require atten­dance at Sunday Mass. It has bothered me for some years to hear students com­plain about the religious values that Notre Dame has so wrongly thrust upon them. The University does not force stu­dents to do anything in contravention of their own religious beliefs. However, the University merely asks you to respect the traditions of the faith upon which Notre Dame was founded. Limiting the stu­dents' selection of food one day a week for 40 days hardly seems like religious persecution. I would suggest that Mr. Vierig's outrage might be better directed at something more meaningful than miss­ing dining hall meatloaf. 
Nicole Borda alumni Class of 1999, 2002 Feb. 26 

Freshman determination 
commendable, but point is lost 
According to Chris Vierig's letter in yes­terday's Viewpoint, "the Notre Dame administration has crossed the line into fascism by forcing their views upon us." You're kidding? It took you a semester and a half of college to figure that out? I defi­nitely applaud your freshman-like deter­mination to speak out and express your differing opinions, but you are just wasting your time -I realize the irony in saying that you are "wasting your time" when, in fact, I am also wasting my time by responding to your letter. However, you probably should take some time and talk to an upperclassman and discover that the University has not just recently "been going down a slippery slope by forcefully exercising its iron fist more and more." 
During my freshman year, five years ago, hundreds of dorm parties used to radiate through campus every weekend. Dorms thumped with bass as strobe lights from cleared-out rooms flashed into the quads. If you even talk to someone that went here 15 years ago, he or she will tell you crazy keg-tossing stories on North Quad during AnTostal. Granted, the anni­hilation of the O'Neill Mardi Gras is unfor­tunate, but it was only a tiny obstacle in the way of the administration, as are you and I. 
You expressed your "right to choose"-in your article as well, but you chose to come to Notre Dame, and consequently relin­quished said rights. However, I will give you some real choices. If you want to eat meat on Fridays, walk to McDonalds. If you want to get away from the administra­tion's "iron fist," move off campus. If you want hard liquor and excitement in South Bend, go to Boat Club. While the adminis­tration holds all the cards at Notre Dame, you still do have choices. Before you can be happy here, you have to understand that and respect it. 
My suggestion to you, Mr. Vierig, is to try and understand that some things at Notre Dame are always changing while others never will, but either way there isn't a 
thing you can do about it ­ unless you  
have a lot of money.  
Michael Kinder  
semor  
off-campus  
Feb. 26  

Stop being offended by 
Catholic traditions 
After nearly four years of dining hall food, I am often disappointed at what I see when I enter the food lines. I must, however, give the din­ing hall credit for not serving meat on Lenten Fridays and Ash Wednesday. As a practicing Catholic, I am also a practicing student who keeps quite busy and has a lot of work to do on a daily basis. Often the first thing on my mind is not "Oh shoot! I cannot have meat today." I'd like to thank the dining hall for reminding me that it is, in fact, the season of Lent. Yes, I know that eat­ing meat on a Friday will not kill me or condemn me to eternal damna­tion, but I do remember that Lent is a time in which we remember Christ's sacrifice. For the majority of students here who practice the faith that this University builds itself on, I see the dining hall's no meat policy as helpful, and I extend my gratitude to food services for upholding the beliefs our university is founded upon. 
Another student wrote on Feb. 26 that he was "offended and angry" at the dining hall for not serving meat. He accused our administration of fascism for not offering meat in the dining hall: To him I say, if you are offended by a religion that preaches salvation and forgiveness for all ­which last time I checked weren't major tenets of fascism -then per­haps you should be more accepting of the environment that you are in. Next time my Jewish friends at home invite me to a Seder meal, I won't get offended that I have to eat bitter herbs and unleavened bread rather than prime rib and a baked potato. I will be mindful of the sacrifices that their ancestors made thousands of years ago and the traditions that their religion carries today. 
Stop being so "offended" by Catholic traditions. If you must eat meat, go to Burger King. A cheese­burger costs less than $1 there, so it won't destroy your flex points either. 
Chris Baughman sen tor Keenan Hall Feb. 25 
Lent equals sacrifice, not fascism 
They even took the bacon bits? Those fascist pigs. How dare they try to impose a belief system that only 85 percent of the student pop­ulation believes in? How dare those who claim to run the University in the best interests of the students deny their Atkins-happy charges of all that protein in favor of promot­ing the very values upon which the University was founded? It's forced religion, oppression and the begin­ning of a neo-fascist movement spearheaded by the Pope himself­or maybe just Bill Kirk. 
Or maybe it's Lent and another freshman class got the surprise of their college careers when they walked into the dining halls on Wednesday. First of all, Notre Dame didn't continue down any slippery slope or cross any line by removing meat from the dining halls in observance of the Lenten season ­this isn't a n~w tactic they're using to ruin the best four years of your life. And second, they're not forcing anyone to practice Catholicism -if they wanted to do that they would drag you to Mass, kicking and screaming, and shove the Eucharist down your throat. 
The Lenten season was not creat­ed to promote a vegetarian lifestyle. Nor was it conceived to force Catholic beliefs upon unsus­pecting freshmen. Most people associate the words reflection, penance, prayer, preparation, humility and sacrifice with Lent. not fascism. Notre Dame is a highly spiritual community. Over 150 
Masses a week, chapels in every 
dorm and a tradition rooted in the 
Christian faith. You knew that com­ing in. Accepting the invitation to 
attend Notre Dame is accepting an 
education that stems from that faith. And that doesn't stay in the 
classroom. 
Chris Vierig "was offended and angry" when he walked into the dining hall on Ash Wednesday. I was offended and angry when I read his letter on Thursday because I don't know if he appreci­ates where he is. Whether you're a Catholic who doesn't like sacrificing your chicken patties or a non­Catholic student, please realize that the University does what it does to promote its values and teachings, and in this case, try and remind you what sacrifice truly means. If you're not up for all that, fine. No one is going to force you. Go over to LaFortune and partake of the many fine eateries that will gladly serve you all the meat you want on any given Friday between now and Easter. But don't write letters criti­cizing Notre Dame administrators. Instead of complaining about what the University is taking away from you this Lenten season, look · around and realize what they're giving you. 
Jeremy Sony alumni Class of 200 1 Feb. 25 
• 

page 12 Friday, February 27, 2004 Friday, Febn 


Fine dining for the Oscars 
Be the host of a memorable themed Oscar party with these fun recipes 
What better way to celebrate the glitz and glamour of the Academy Awards than with a themed cocktail party? Toss aside the unfinished homework, dress yourself up and gather all your movie-loving friends for a night of celebrities and these fun hors 
d'ouvres that celebrate this year's best movie nominees.  
- 
Lord of the Pineapple Rings Mini Pizzas  Maureen  
Layer-halved English muffins with tomato sauce, mozzarella  Malloy  
cheese, ham slices and p~neapple rings. Add spices to your taste  
and bake on 350°F for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the cheese is melted and slightly browned.  Scene Writer  
Master and Commander ­Salmon Spread  

Make this yummy appetizer to pay homage to this Russell Crowe sea adventure. 
Pair with toasted pita chips or crackers. 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened 2 ounces flaked or chopped smoked salmon (try to snag some from the dining hall!) 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 
1/4 teaspoon onion powder 
1/4 teaspoon seafood seasoning 
1 dash ground blac~ pepper 

In a medium bowl, mix together cream cheese, salmon, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, garlic, onion powder, seafood seasoning and ground black pepper. Chill in the refrigerator until serving. · 
Courtesy of Toni. Copyright © 2004. www.allrecipes.com. All Rights ReserU£d 
Chocolate Cinnamon "Sea" Biscuit Bites 
.Separatecan Pillsbury® Golden Layers® Refrigerated cmnamon and sugar biscuits dough into eight biscuits and then further separate each biscuit into quarters. Lightly brush biscuits with melted butter and bake for seven to nine minutes at 400°F. Drizzle melted chocolate on top and serve warm. 
Lost In Translation • 
Serve some sushi (you can get it at the Huddle now!) to celebrate this Bill Murray drama set in Tokyo. 


Mystic River -Boston Creme Cupcakes 
Whip up these tasty treats named after the setting of this thriller featuring Sean Penn and Kevin Bacon. 
1 1/4 cups cold whole milk 

1 (3.4-ounce) box vanilla instant pudding and pie filling mix 
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract 

12 pre-made cupcakes baked from a cake mix 
1 cup heavy cream 

1 (12-ounce) package semisweet chocolate morsels 
1/4 cup powdered sugar, sifted 

~ombine mil~. instant pudding mix and vanilla extract in a large bowl. Beat mixture with a h~nd mixer for tw? m~nutes, or until it thickens. Place mixture in refrigerator for 15 mmutes. Spoon filhng mto a pastry bag fitted with a medium-size plain tip. Fill ~upcakes with vanilla pudding filling by inserting tip into top of cupcake and squeez­mg a couple of tablespoons of filling into each cupcake. Heat cream in a small heavy saucepan over medium heat until bubbles appear around the edges. Remove from heat. Add chocolate morsels to pan, and whisk until smooth. Spoon or drizzle glaze over cupca~es, or ~unk the tops into the glaze. Refrigerate until set, at least 1 hour, before servmg. Sprmkle with powdered sugar. 
Courtesy ofSandra Dee; Copyright © 2003 TV Food Network, All Rights Reserved 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl@nd.edu. 

Tragedy sho-wi11 Saint Mary'~ 
Shakespeare's Othello is brought to O'Laughlin Auditori 
By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
Scene Writer 
The tragic story of "Othello" comes to Saint Mary's this weekend as the Guthrie Theater presents its production of one of Shakespeare's most well-known plays. "Othello" tells the story of a Venetian general who has just wed the daughter of a wealthy senator, Barbantio. Barbantio strongly objects to his daughter Desdemona's mar­riage to a minority. War calls Othello away to the island of Cyprus to battle the Turks forc­ing Othello and Desdemona leave. One of Othello's soldiers, Iago, is bitterly angry with Othello for naming another soldier, Cassio, to the position of lieutenant instead of him. He devises a plan to get Cassio fired and to have Desdemona plead for his job. In the process, Iago plants the seed of jealousy in Othello's mind and the moor beings a vengeful tirade to uncover the truth. 
The feature role of the play is obviously that of Othello, the general who is driven mad with jealously. The role of Othello prob­ably boasts the largest record of A-list actors in all of Shakespeare. Acting greats such as Laurence Fishburne, Patrick Stewart and 


Photo courtesy ofT Charles Erickson 
Laurence Olivier have left their mark on the 

Othelto, presented by the Guthrie Theater, Is the
role throughout the decades, and Lester 

story of a love story torn by deceit and revenge. 
Purry does not disappoint in the Guthrie pro­duction. 

Purry brings a fury and frailty that is often marily from the fact he has already received missed by actors in the role. Many actors simply such hostility all his life due to being a minority. play the moor as stout and angry throughout the ·Purry truly breaks down under the weight of his play, but Purry offers just the right touch of wife's supposed infidelity, and his anger comes emotional weakness to show that Othello's seem­more out of desperation than from pride. ingly o'ver-the-top rage is simply a cover for his It would be easy to identify Purry's timing and weak emotional state. delivery as being derived from the acting of 
At the onset of the play, he is completely smit­Samuel L. Jackson, but most likely it is the case 
ten by his love, and Desdemona's will often that Jackson has taken a few tips from clouds his judgment. Shakespeare wrote the Shakespeare in his approach to his movie roles. character of Othello in a similar fashion to the Bill McCallum plays Iago, the evil conspirator character of Hamlet. Both contemplate and drive who seeks revenge on Othello for denying him themselves mad on the inside. his position as lieutenant. McCallum has a large 
The difference with Othello is that he has less task in bringing to life Iago's several long solilo­control over his emotions. and acts much more quies He adds great depth to his asides and rashly on them. This lack of control stems pri-monologues that not only clearly inform the 
audience of what Ia·go is thinking, 
but also keep their attention 
throughout. 

McCallum uses timing to clearly 
identify both the humorous and the 
ironic lines that are so prevalent in 
"Othello." He is evil to the audi­
ence but saintly to the characters, 
and he does not fall into the trap of 



Jazz Festival-returns to Notre Datne 
46th annual event held on campus this weekend 



uary 27,.2004 page 13 
tg at 

um by the Guthrie Theater 
letting his evil side seep through in his inter­actions with other characters. 
Cheyenne Casebier plays Desdemona, the wife of Othello. While her initial scenes tend to be a little weak, she shows tremendous chemistry with Purry. The two really seem to be in love -another trait missing from many other productions where Othello is played as cold and stubborn. 
Kris L. Nelson has a strong supporting role in that of Roderigo, companion to Iago. He plays the role as slightly goofy, but always offers tremendous balance when having to compete with the vivid portrayal of Iago. It is certainly a role that can be overpowered by Iago, but Nelson holds his own beautifully. 
Virginia S. Burke plays Emilia, wife to Iago and caretaker of Desdemona. While her role is very small for the majority of the play, she erupts as the source of moral truth during the death scene. Shakespeare always enjoyed putting the source of morality in the most common character, and Burke commands the stage during the climax of the play. 
"Othello" is being produced by the Guthrie Theater, a company originating in Minneapolis and St. Paul that has brought stage productions to the upper midwest for 40 years. It has a season of 11 plays, playing on their main stage, second stage and on tour. They also work very closely with area stu­dents in the locations they tour to, and help in commissioning high school productions and 
B.F.A. actor training programs. Their recent tour is funded by the National Endowment for the Arts, a program to bring Shakespeare to small cities around the United States. The pro­gram was started by Jack Valenti, CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America, and first lady Laura Bush to help spread Shakespeare's works to over 100 cities across the country. 
"Othello" is a stirring work ofjealousy, lies and murder. The Guthrie Theater offers a tremen... dously professional production highlighting fan­tastic actors with Broadway caliber sets, lighting and music. It is truly the best Shakespeare expe­rience to come to South Bend all year. 
"Othello" plays at the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College tonight at 7 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets are $25.50 for adults. $23.50 for seniors. $20.50 for the Notre Dame and 'saint Mary's community and $12 for students and family at the 2 p.m. matinees. For tickets, call the Saint Mary's Box Office at 574-284-4626. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of T. Chanes Erickson ldes In this most trusted advisor, lago, played by s a cruel plan of revenge In action. 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Writer 
Those of you looking to for a treat .this week­end should not miss the yearly opportunity to hear sounds and melodies that unfortunately suffer from a lack of exposure on campus. 
The Notre Dame Music Department presents the 46th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival, Clayton, trumpeter Jon Faddis, pianist Alan Pasqua, bassist Dave Carpenter and drummer Peter Erskine. The judges will give awards to individual soloists for their outstanding merit over the weekend. it is also not uncommon for these soloists to go on and have outstanding careers in music, sometimes based upon the recommendations of the judges. 
Mr. Dwyer remarks how the judges jam 
tonight is truly a sight to 
behold. 
that started Wednesday ["It's] always a spectac­and runs through the ular moment a_.t CJF," he weekend. The weekend's said. "These internation­concerts feature not only ally acclaimed musicians Notre Dame but also get on stage, with no groups from Michigan rehea1·sal, and jam for State, Western Michigan, about 45 minutes. The Indiana, Marshall and result is always incredi­Texas State. All events ble." are free and open to the Students attending the public. festival should expect a 
"Each group will per­wide variety of style in form its very best jazz as well, ranging music," said Larry from more traditional, Dwyer, the director of big band-type arrange­jazz bands at Notre ments, to the avant­Dame. "Most of the garde works, to the heav­groups will include a ily Latin-influenced beats 
variety of jazz styles in 
their programs, to demonstrate to the judges their mastery of both old and new music, and to give the audience an interesting sample of the . best of both old and new music, with different tempos and easy-to-listen-to music alternating 
with chalhmging pieces. 
"By its nature, jazz includes a lot of improvi­
sation, and each group will feature its best 
improvising soloists." 
Lauren Fowler, who, along with Greg Salazar, 
directs the festival, also notes the importance of 
holding the event without charge. "Thus there's 
no reason to see one of the best musical shows 
on campus this year," Fowler said. · 
Besides great music, the Collegiate Jazz 
Festival will be judged by a world-class group 
of musicians, including saxophonist Jeff 
produced by Salsa del Rio, one of the two groups representing Texas State. 
Regardless of whatever showcase students may choose to attend, the event should already prove a winner due to its exclusivity in the music world at Notre Dame. We all know how much fun it is to sing along with the glee club, and we've all experienced the rush of the marching band. 
But jazz -what an opportunity to learn something new. 
The concerts tonight and Saturday night will be held in Washington Hall and start at 6:45 p.m. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 


., 
Friday, February 27, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Lightning continue hot streak, beat Leafs 4-3 
for NHL points lead with 74. 
Associated Press Kubina put the Lightning up TAMPA, Fla. -The Tampa 1-0 from the low slot midway Bay Lightning are proving they in the first period. Richards belong among the NHL's elite. gave Tampa Bay a two-goal Brad Richards had two goals advantage on a short-handed and an assist and the breakaway. The Lightning Lightning beat the Toronto have 13 short-handed goals Maple Leafs Thursday night. this season. Pavel Kubina and Vincent Mogilny made it 2-1 on a Lecavalier had the other goals blast from the slot during a for the Southeast Division­power-play 16 seconds after leading Lightning, who have Richards' goal. It was an 18-point lead over second Mogilny's first goal -coming place Florida. in his fifth game -since Tampa Bay, 13-1-1-4 over returning from a hip injury the past 19 games, is just that sidelined him 40 games. three points behind His previous goal came Nov. Philadelphia for the top .spot in 15 at San Jose. ­the Eastern Conference. Richards, on a power play, Toronto also has 80 points, and Sundin traded goals dur­while Ottawa has 82. ing the opening 2:02 of the "We're on a little roll," second period. Lightning captain Dave Tellqvist later in the period Andreychuk said. "We're play­stopped Lecavalier and Martin ing pretty well. We have some Cihak on breakaways. He fin­confidence. It wasn't our best ished with 22 saves. game, but still came up with "We need to get our heads the win." back in the game and pay Lightning goalie Nikolai attention to the defensive part Khabibulin made 19 saves for of this game, or we're just his 200th career win (200-going to screw up everything it," Henney said of the distant wasn't enough to extend the see his team win in overtime. 183-57). we've worked for all year playoff hopes with 19 games Islanders' home unbeaten Craig Rivet scored with one Alex Mogilny, Mats Sundin long," Quinn said. "We've got a remaining. streak to 10. minute left in overtime and and Joe Nieuwendyk scored lot of guys not doing very good In the rematch of last week's The Islanders hadn't lost at Theodore made 37 saves to lift for Toronto, which has ·lost jobs." slugfest, Dale Purinton didn't home since .Jan. 10, the last the Montreal Canadiens to a three straight. The Maple Lecavalier scored his fourth take the bait from Islanders time the Rangers visited. victory over the Bruins on Leafs have dropped five of goal in the past three games in enforcer Eric Cairns. Instead, "We're not worried about the Thursday night. eight. the third period, then he took the punches but didn't Rangers," Islanders defense­"Teams that have success "Generally when you go on a Nieuwendyk got the Maple retaliate and earned a lengthy man Adrian Aucoin said. "I have a great goaltender," Rivet swoon, it's because you don't Leafs within 4-3 on a power­power play fo'r the Rangers. don't think the Rangers are said. "Theo kept us in the want t<> work at the checking play with 2:44 left. "You have to be smart about going to catch anybody. They game and gave us a chance to part of the game," Toronto "It was a tough game," keeping your emotions in have our number." win." coach Pat Quinn said. "Some Richards said. "Every time we check," Purinton said. "I don't Just like last Thursday, the Montreal is 4-1 in its last five guys right now are probably went up two goals, they scored think that was the time to do Rangers jumped to a big lead games. thinking this game is about right away. It just shows you it." and then fought the Islanders. "We let other teams get back them for points and not about. when you play a team like that The Rangers completed their Cairns matched up again in the hunt after the All-Star the team for points." howtough it is." second six-game sweep over with Purinton, who absorbed break when we lost four Leafs goalie Ed Belfour the Islanders in a campaign four punches while on the ice straight," Koivu said. "But now missed his eighth consecutive Rangers 6, Islanders 3 that will likely see them miss with his head down. When he we are gaining some confi­game because of a sprained Tom Henney preached the playoffs for a seventh got back to his skates, he dence against quality teams." back. Rookie Mikael Tellqvist restraint in his first game straight season. They are 8-0-waved Cairns off and the Rivet scored the winner made his fifth straight start. behind the New York Rangers' 2 in their last 10 against the Rangers were rewarded. when he skated past the Belfour took part in the bench, and the disappointing Islanders. Last week, Purinton had the Boston defense and put a shot morning skate, but it was team listened to its new coach. Jaromir Jagr had two goals upper· hand after coming to from the slot past goalie .determined he was not ready A night after Henney took and an assist, and Chris Simon the defense of forward Martin Andrew Raycraft. to play. He has played just over from Glen Sather, he led added two goals. Brian Leetch Rucinsky -punched twice by Travis Green tied the game once -Feb. 12 against his club to a victory Thursday had a goal and two assists, Cairns. He claimed Purinton when he knocked down Nick Columbus -in the past 12 that completed a six-game, and Bobby Holik had a goal suckered him then, and still Boynton's shot from the point games. His status is day to season sweep of the New York and an assist as the Rangers wasn't happy after Purinton and backhanded a shot past day. Islanders. swept their area rival for the didn't fight him in a rematch. Theodore early in the second The Lightning snapped a 10-Sather stepped down third time. "I've lost a lot of respect for period. Boynton assisted on game winless streak against Wednesday to concentrate on The Islanders, outscored 27-him," Cairns said. "For what­both Boston goals. Toronto (0-9-1). his president and general 13 by the Rangers this season, ever reason, he decided to go "We had our chances, but we "It's a real confidence manager duties with the team almost got back in it after into a turtle position. He has gave them chances," Raycraft builder," Lightning right wing that is in 11th place in' the falling behind 6-0 6:49 into the no respect. Stand up and be a said. "You get a little more Martin St. Louis said. "We Eastern Conference, 12 points second period. Janne Niinimaa man." fired up when you are trying came out and played well behind the Islanders and the and Mariusz Czerkawski to catch another team." against a team ahead of us." playoff cutoff. scored in the second, and Sven Canadiens 3, Bruins 2 Raycraft made 23 saves for St. Louis had two assists to "It's a vision. It's a ways out Butenschon added his second Jose Theodore frustrated the Boston, which is 0-1-2-1 in its tie Washington's Robert Lang there, but we have our eye on NHL goal early in the third. It Boston Bruins long enough to last four. 
~· 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 


NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
Get the "bleep" out of the cold! Mexico/Caribeean only $125 each way all taxes included. Other world· wide destinations cheap. 
Book on·line www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Part of a necklace in Hayes-Healy Friday morning 2/20. 
Call 631-6375 to identify. 
WANTED 
Wanted· Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame 
(574) 286·9359 
HIRING AT BOOKMAKERS PUB, SERVERS AND BARTENDERS. 
EXP. GOOD BUT WILL TRAIN. 
APPLY IN PERSON 2046 SOUTH BEND AVE. SHELLY, MISSY, OR PAT. 
Summer Camp counselor for chil­dren w/disabilities. 
$7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. 
Visit www.akroncyo.org • download an application. EOE Tired of no money? Looking for part·time work for full-time pay? Champion, the nations #1 Home Improvement Company is looking for energetic. self-motivated students for our Marketing Dept. Work Mon-Thur; 4hrs a day in the early evening; will not interfere with school work; earn up to $20/hr. No experience necessary. Will train right person. Apply at 715 W. 
Edison Rd., Mishawaka 
FoR SALE 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2004-2005 Academic year­Available June 1, 2 Bdrm -2 Bath ­Fully Furnished -Security System. 
(626) 441-1275 or salvaty@earth­link.net 
FOR SALE-like new weights set with incline bench, leg lift. Will deliv­er. $150 277-1345 1995 Red Chevy Camaro V6. 33,290 actual miles. Original owner, excellent condition. 654-7439: 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM 
CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004·2005 SCHOOL YEAR .... WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL 
YEAR... 
CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS New 314 bdrm homes close to NO, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. 
Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038. 
NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND GREAT AREA FOR 5·6 STU· DENTS 2773097 
VERY NICE 3bdrm home in East Bank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system inci.Nice yard for volleyball etc-full bsmt. Walk to Corbys & St Joe Church. 
Call Joe Crimmins@574-514-0643 (cell) or 574-273-Q002 (home) 
E. Washington area, Last 4 BR House avail. for 04/05. WID. Furnished, B-Bail, V-Ball, 
Sec.Sys., 11 mo. lease, 109 N. St. Peter. 233-9947 920 Oak Ridge Drive Rental 3Bdrm/1 B Ranch, great area close to NO includes stove, new refrig. washer/dryer. $960/mo. 273-1717 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
CONTRATULATIONS ANDREW, SCOTT AND THE ENTIRE OBSERVER STAFF ON A JOB WELL DONE. THANKS, JACK & MARY 
WHERE IS THE BEST BLUES BAR? MIDWAY TAVERN 810 W4TH ST., MISHAWAKA CALL 255-0458. www.themidwaytavern.com 
page 15

Friday, February 27, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Apply Online (Deadline: March 19) www.nd.edu/.... teamwork 

orro 





OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 16 COJ\1Pl LED FROiVi Tl·f[ 0BSERVER~S \VIlli SERVlCES Friday, February 27, 2004 
.l
II 

around the dial 
TODAY 
NBA 

Toronto at Boston 7 p.m., ESPN Phoenix at Seattle 9:30p.m., ESPN BOXING Friday Night Fights 9 p.m., ESPN2 
SATURDAY 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL Memphis at Louisville 1 p.m., ABC Santa Clara at Gonzaga 9 p.m., ESPN2 Utah State at UC Irvine 11 p.m., ESPN2 GOLF WGC: Accenture Match Play Championships 3 p.m., ABC 

MLB 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO -In a flash, the ball that came to sym­bolize the Chicago Cubs' cursed history was blown up Thursday night, reduced to a pile of thread by a Hollywood special effects expert. 
Hundreds of fans sang "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" before the ball ­the foul fly touched by Steve Bartman in last October's playoffs -was obliterated. 
Bartman had not been expected to attend the event, held in a tent outside Harry Caray's Restaurant. Some fans were decked out in Cubs gear, others wore replicas of the famous broadcaster's signature glasses and one man was covered in ivy. 
"I feel it's finished, it's done and we're ready to move on and now I'm ready to play ball," fan Jessica Scroggin said. 
The stunt was designed by Oscar winner Michael Lantieri, who worked on "Jurassic Park" and "Back to the Future." 
"We're using a combina­tion of pressure, heat and explosives in this bullet­proof tank to destroy that ball so it will not resemble a ball at all when we're fin­ished," Lantieri said earlier. 
Because the explosive send-off came outside in a tent, some fans missed it. 
''I'm somewhat disap­pointed, it was a little anti­climactic for us," Adam Fluck said. 
Whether. the ball was pos­sessed by the curse that leg­end says afllicts the Cubs or not, fans were happy to see it go. To some, the destruc­tion is a sign of the good things to come this season. 
"I think it's very appropri­ate, it's symbolic of a new beginning," Rachel Cannon said. 
Claudette Dockery agreed. 
"The can cremate the ball for all I care or send it over Lake Michigan, the best I believe is yet to come," she said. 
Cubs fans are ready to move on from the infamous moment. 
With the Cubs leading the Florida Marlins 3-0 in Game 6 of the NL championship series and just five outs from their ftrst World Series appearance since 1945, Bartman reached for the ball hit by Luis Castillo. 
From his front-row seat at Wrigley Field, Bartman deflected the ball away from left fielder Moises Alou. The Cubs then gave up eight runs to the Marlins, and squandered another lead in Game 7 the next night. 
IN BRIEF  
Owens misses deadline to  that Northcutt's agent failed to void  four games, including consecutive  
void rest of contract  the ftnal three years of his contract.  career highs of 34 against UClA and  
SAN FRANCISCO-Terrell Owens is still under contract to the San Francisco 49ers after the star receiv­ Arizona guard Salim Stoudam1re suspended  37 against Oregon, before scoring 12 in the team's loss at Oregon State last Saturday.  
er apparently missed a deadline for voiding the rest of his contract. Owens, a four-time Pro Bowl selec­ TUCSON, Ariz. Salim Stoudamire, the leading scorer for No. 17 Arizona, was suspended  Yankees release Boone TAMPA, Fla. -Third baseman  
tion, didn't me the necessary paper­work quickly enough this week to become an unrestricted free agent, according to the NFL Management Council. Owens' agent, David Joseph,  indefinitely by coach Lute Olson "for failure to meet team responsibilities." The school announced the suspen­sion before Thursday night's game against Washington.  Aaron Boone was released Thursday by the New York Yankees, nearly six weeks after hurting his knee in a pickup basketball game. The injury, which could sideline  
will me a grievance.  Stoudamire, ftfth in the Pac-10 in  him the entire season, set the stage  
"We voided the contract. There's an  scoring at 16.8 points per game, was  for the Yankees to acquire Alex  
issue now as to whether or not the  on  the Arizona bench in  street  Rodriguez from Texas last' week.  
void was effective," Joseph said.  clothes for the game.  Boone, an NL All-Star last season,  
Owens was among several players  Stoudamire often has been criti­ becomes a free agent.  
required to file by  a new deadline,  cized by Olson for his moody attitude,  "It's a tough situation we're all in,"  
which recently was moved up 10  • but the junior from Portland, Ore.,  Yankees general manager Brian  
days for players who signed their  had vowed to improve his outlook  Cashman said. "You have to move on.  
contracts before the league's 2001  and become a team leader this sea­ We'd like to continue discussing the  
collective bargaining agreement went  son.  possibility of keeping him within the  
into effect.  Stoudamire was  named Pac-1 0  Yankees' fold in some form or fash­ 
Cleveland  receiver  Dennis  player of the week after Arizona's  ion that would manifest itself with  
Northcutt made a similar mistake.  home sweep of Southern California  him maybe being a player for us next  
The Browns announced Thursday  and UClA. He scored 117 points over  year."  


Friday, February 27, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 


STUDENTS LOVE US ! 
Now Leasing 1 & 2 bedroom apartments 
Starting at $466.00 per month 
Located on a bus line; 2.1 miles from Notre Dame 
Short term & 9 month leases available 
Stop in today or visit us on the web at www.parkjefferson.com 

3001 E. Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, IN 574-232-3333 


I..ovc tf) talk al1<Jut: Notre l)antc? Lo<.>k.ing t{)r a jolJ tcJr next year? 
"l11c C>ffitx.~ oflJndlTgraduat(.~ .A.dn1issions is ntnv hidng {n1ak: and fi~n1alc) tour~rtmkks~ 
F1nd the app.lh.:ation onlim: at http://J.<lml~"iion.'i~nd.~uu/tnurgukk.pdf ~ ~r pick one up in R~ K1m 'lZ>:) 1)(the 7\Ia1n Bu~kling. 
Pk:a:-Yt: r~xrum the'-'Omp:l~tt.>tl appllt:.ltion txJ zzn \'fain fiuHcling hy :\f.a:reh sth. 
Tr~in~og 'fVHl t<~eplact: the \\·t.~{;. 1~f\larcll ·:.yth~ h~Jt work \~'ill nnt lx.t;"1n until Fan :ux~+ 
Softball has tough weekend lineup 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
In arguably the most presti­gious tournament in college softball, the Irish hope that they can avoid the one thing that has plagued them early this season 
-rain.  
Last week­ 
end's  Palm  
Springs  
Classic  saw  
the  Irish  
endure three  
days of rain.  
Their  final  
game against  
No.  Booth11  
Tennessee  
was  cancelled  due  to  the  
inclement weather.  
Notre  Dame  travels  to  

Columbus, Ga., today to face some of the top teams in the nation in the National Fastpitch Coaches Association (NFCA) Leadoff Classic. In a tourna­ment that features five of the top seven teams in the NCFA top 25, the Irish hope to gain some quality wins, as they face two ranked opponents in the same number of days. 
The tournament, which is being held at South Commons Softball Complex, a former Olympic site, kicks off today with pool play. The Irish (5-3) start things off with Northwestern State (8-5) today at 2:30 p.m. In the nightcap, Notre Dame is set to square off with No. 6 Georgia (9-2) at 5 
p.m. Pool play concludes Saturday at 12:30 p.m., when the Irish face No. 24 Cal State Fullerton (3-6). 
The matchup with Georgia marks the first time these. two teams have met. After pool play, the teams are split up into bracket play, guaranteeing each team at least two more games during the weekend. 
The 24-team tournament fea­tures the top two teams from each NFCA region. This is Notre Dame's sixth overall appear­ance in the tournament, and third consecutive year. This year's field contains 13 top-25 teams along with the U.S. Olympic team. 

Notre Dame hopes that its early season experience will begin to pay dividends for a roster that only includes one .., senior, Nicole deFau. However, the young Irish have had some early season success. Just last weekend, the Irish defeated Utah 4-3 before losing to Pacific 12-1 and No. 8 Stanford 4-2. They ended the Palm Springs Classic with a 10-0 loss to the 
U.S. Olympic team, but held them to one run over four innings. 
The Irish have been led this early season by sophomore shortstop Sara Schoonaert. She posted the Irish's only hits of the game against the Olympic team and was perfect defen­sively. She will bat second this weekend -a jump from her nine spot last weekend. Megan Ciolli, named to the USA Softball Player of the Year to Watch list, added two hits against Utah to lead the Irish to their lone victory last weekend. 
Notre Dame has also received strong pitching performances from sophomore Heather Booth. Booth, last year's Big East Rookie of the Year, posted two consecutive complete game victories, her second coming against Utah. 
Defensively, the Irish outfield has been outstanding, especial­ly against Stanford last week­end. deFau made a home run­robbing catch to keep the Irish within striking distance. 
Following this weekend, the Irish have three more road tournaments. After this stretch, they will have played eight ranked teams. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

2046 South Bend Ave 
272-1766 
Open for lunch, dinner and late night fun There is always action at Bookmaker's 
watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens 
Mon  Specials a11 day long  
Tues  Every Thes. is ND Night, DJ, and  
specials starting at $1.00 all day long  
Wed  Karaoke 9-12 and all day specials,  
starting at $2.50  
Thurs  Lunch and daily specials  
Fri, Feb 27  Live music with Jason Sapen  
Sat, Feb 28  Live music with FBI (Funky Blues Inc)  
Sun  Sports all day and all you can eat  
Buffet $5.95  







-. 
I page 18 
l 
l t 
! I MEN'S lACROSSE 
i 
l 
I 
t { \ Season kicks off 
) 
) ) ) \ 
\ against Penn State
) I 
i 
) 
) 
l \ Irish open against 
) 
\ ) Nittany Lions for 
~ 
\ eighth straight year
I 
i 
By PAT LEONARD

l 
i \ 
Sports Writer 
Lions-versus-Irish has become a season-opening tra­

I l ) 
dition. The lacrosse team opens its 2004 season against Penn 

I 
State Sunday afternoon at Loftus Sports Center at 1 p.m. 
The match marks 

"'Every year this has 
tion gamesthe eighth con­

been a great game, have the Irish
secutive season 
in shape to

opener played often the most 
begin the sea­between the two 

exciting ofthe year., 
son. The team
squads. 
has not left

No. 11 Notre Dame has won six Kevin Corrigan home yet as it 
has defeated

of its ten all-time Irish coach 
Lions play that one match, though in the early season the Irish will not concentrate on containing a specific aspect of the Penn State attack. 
"We have to match up with their athleticism," Corrigan said. "Still, in any first game, you're really concentrating on yourself. You can't worry about anyone else. Having seen them play once, that's still only one game. Without a tremendous amount of scout­ing. we have to rely on our 
own team's 
play." 
Three exhibi­
meetings with No. 16 Penn State, including a 10-9 victory last year at State College, Penn., to open a 9-5 season. 
Attackman Dan Berger scored four goals, and attack­man Matt Howell had a goal and five assists in the game.

;_ 
Goalie Stewart Crosland made 18 saves. 
The teams have developed a rivalry with the consecutive early season matches. The games have become solid tests on schedules that have increased in difficulty for the Irish. 
"Every year this has been a great game, often the most exciting each year," head coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We've both got indoor facili­ties. This is an early weekend for either team to play unless we have indoor facilities, and both of us do. So we've devel­oped a sort of tradition. 
Penn State is 1-0 after beat­ing Ohio State 5-4. Notre Dame has seen the Nittany

:J·: 
. ' 
I ' 
Mercyhurst, the 
B o s t o n 

Cannons and Denison all at Loftus in exhibi­tion play. The Irish outscored its three opponents 
51-17. 

"Since the fall started, we have had a lot of different opportunities to get better," Corrigan said. "We had two different competitions in the fall and played number of good teams. We played the three exhibitions in the spring." 
Last season began with three straight Irish wins over Penn State, Pennsylvania and North Carolina. A win out of the gate against a talented squad like the Nittany Lions is what Notre Dame needs to jump­start its season. Corrigan and the players realize that. 
"We're more than ready," Corrigan said. "We're extremely anxious." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Spring Break Survivor Days Come to the University Health Center Monday. Tuesday, and Wednesday March 1~t -3'"0 9 am to 9 pm for 'healthy survival' kits, refreshments, raffles. and more! We want you to be a healthy, happy, safe... 

Sponsored by: University Heulth Services. University Counseling Center, RecSpon.s and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

) ' 
li_ )'
" 
~ 
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 27, 2004 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish prepare to host rival IU 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Coach Jay Louderback pre­dicts a tough match at every position when the Irish host No. 36 Indiana Sunday. 
"We always have a good rivalry with Indiana," Louderback said. "Even if one team is ranked a lot higher than the other, it's still a close, tight match." 
Traditionally, the Hoosiers have won past matches against the Irish, leading the series 12-7. However, Indiana has not won a match against Notre Dame since the 2001-02 
Unlversftv Loc.a.tlon~ 
season. Last year's bout between the two resulted in a 6-1 Irish victory. 
The No. 26 Irish (6-1) are on a five-match winning streak after a 6-1 win over No. 20 Brigham Young University 6-1. 
The Hoosiers (5-2) are com­ing off of an upset of No. 12 Kentucky 5-2. nearly sweeping the singles. Kentucky claimed the doubles point, despite Indiana having what Louderback calls "an ofT year." 
"Indiana probably could have won the doubles point last weekend," Louderback said. "Their doubles play last week isn't an accurate depic­tion of how good they really 
S.R". 23 ft Ironwood 
Corne!' ofGrape & McKinley~ Mistlawaka Corner of lretaod & lroowOOd, Sootll Bend Granges· Statk:Kl, Gr&)gcr (OperAftJ!f MUidt-1001) 
are. 
''I'd be surprised if the dou­bles matches aren't close this weekend." 
The Irish are set to face sev­eral ranked players on Indiana's team, including the No. 24 nationally ranked dou­bles team of Karie Schlukebir and Linda Tran and No. 50 Grim and Sarah Batty. In addi­tion, No. 40 Dora Vastag and No. 82 Tran will present a challenge for the Irish in sin­gles. Assistant coach Michelle Dasso is confident the Irish will be ready this challenge 
Contact Ann Loughery at aloughery@nd.edu 
272-7653 
256·9656 291-2000 
271-7900 

GreatService • Student Discounts • Gift <:ertlfkates • Guaranteed SatJsfua:fon . 
The Office ofStudent Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence.in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination f01114 please visit our website 
at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by March 16J 2004. 

Friday, February 27, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish hope for success on California road trip 

NO TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish elect to skip U.S. Championships 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame indoor track and field teams will be able to go outside and enjoy the beautiful weather this weekend. After both teams finished second in last week's Big East Conference Championships, they will take this weekend off to rest. 
The USA Track and Field indoor Championships are being held today and Sattrrday in Boston, but Irish assistant coach Tom Connelly said Notre Dame will not be sending any participants. 
"The kids ran so hard last week at the Big East," he said. "We decided it would be best to ease our way back into training and risk having too much recovery instead of too little." 
The Irish ran well last week as a number of athletes took horne individual awards. Selirn Nurudeen won the conference championship and set a Big East record by running the men's 60­meter dash in 7. 78 seconds. Lauren King won her second straight conference title in the mile run in a time of 4:53.95. Sophomore Molly Huddle also made her mark last week as she was one of three runners to break the conference record in the 31,000 meters. 
Connelly, the women's distance coach, was thrilled with these performances. 
"Kerry Meagher, Lauren King and Molly Huddle were otrr work­horses," he said. "Kerry was in a lot of races and Molly ran very hard all weekend. They have a lot of experience, and they knew what they had to do." 
Connelly mentioned that the teams as a whole were pleased with their performances at the Big East. 
"Our kids competed really hard," he said. "Miami finished ahead of our women but Miami is one of the top teams in the nation. Our kids just kept lining up and running and did about every+Jling they could." 
The Alex Wilson Invitational will be held at Notre Dame next weekend. Connelly wants to use that meet to get some more team members qualified for the NCAA Championships, to be held March 12-13 in Fayetteville, Ark. 
"There are a lot of kids on our team who we want to get quali­fied next week," Connelly said~ "We also want to fine tune the rest ofthe people who are already set to go to nationals." 
Connelly believes the team is still confident as it heads into the horne stretch of the indoor sea­son. 
"The only way for runners to gain confidence in themselves is to run fast," he said. "Our kids ran very fast last weekend." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

--. 
I 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
. I I I 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The No. 17 Irish look to start the season on the right foot when they head west to lock horns with a pair of California squads this weekend. 
After facing the University of California at Berkeley today at 3:30p.m., the Irish head some 50 miles south to Stanford to take on the No. 14 Cardinal at 12 p.m. Sunday. 
Due to a number of factors, coach Tracy Coyne isn't exactly sure what to expect from the Golden Bears. 
"We've never played them 
team can successfully weather the storm. 
"We're going to do the best we can to balance everything out," Coyne said. "It will be a chal­lenge, but I feel confident in our ability to face that challenge head on and perform well." 
Following a 17-9 thrashing of Team Canada in exhibition play Feb. 14, the Irish finished up a short preseason at the presti­gious Princeton Invitational Saturday. 
The team competed in a unique arrangement that allowed the Irish to compete against defend­ing champion and No. 1 Princeton, No. 7 Dartmouth and No. 9 Ohio State -the
'Tm really pleased 
before, and Irish sandwiched because it's so with where we are half-games with the early and all their Buckeyes and
right now.·· 
games have been Tigers around a in conference, it's full-length match difficult to get a Tracy Coyne with the Big Green. scouting report," Irish coach Notre Dame

VISIT THE STEIN ROOM IN THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 
SERVING SNACKS &SANDWICHES ALL DAY LONG 11:30AM-9PM 
BAR OPEN MONDAY·FRIDAY UNTIL10PM -SATURDAY UNTIL 11PM 
JAZZ AND MORE .....WEDNESDAYS 8p 
Come in for aquick bite, or relax and enjoy... 
. :-.~ 


ND ATHLETICS ... BE THERE. 





Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality 
houses close to campus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 




Coyne said. ''I'm expecting them to be pretty good, but in all honestly I'm expecting to win." 
The Irish, on the other hand, are more than familiar with the Cardinal. After a number of squandered opportunities led to a 14-13 double overtime heart­breaker against Stanford's last season, Notre Dame is eager for a little payback. 
"I definitely think this is one of the games on our schedule that we're really looking forward to playing," Coyne said. "We know they're going to be a good team, and we're looking forward to [the game]. It's a revenge type ofsitu­ation." 
In addition to the level of com­petition, the Irish will be forced to battle the fatigue involved with both playing and traveling. Nevertheless, Coyne believes the shutout of Ohio State. However, the Irish ran into trouble with the pair of Ivy League squads. Dartmouth held off Notre Dame for a 12-8 victory, and Princeton made short work of the Irish to the tune of a 7-0 shut out. 
kicked  off  the  
Invitational  by  
recording a  10-0  

Despite the setbacks, Coyne is content with the squad's status heading into regular season play. 
''I'm really pleased with where we are right now," Coyne said. "It's early and there's obviously a lot still to be done, but I'm happy with the progress and the atti­tudes. It gets monotonous when you're [training] inside for six weeks, but we got through it, and we're looking forward to getting started." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

-------------------------------------------------------------~ 

page 20 Friday, February 27, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

BASEBALL 
~ 
! Irish travel to Florida to face 3 top 25 teams 
pitching staff. Irish turn around quickly for a 7 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
'Tm happy we got a chance to p.m. matchup with host Florida 
Sporrs Wrirer 

schedule Florida Memorial this Atlantic. The Owls are 10-0 this 
weekend. because we were very year and boast the nation's 
upset about the rainout against longest current winning streak. 
After a successful opening Louisville last Sunday," Mainieri They are ranked in the top 25 in weekend that saw Notre Dame go said. "But now with this game, all four major college baseball 2-0 against San Diego State and we'll have to use a bunch of polls and are ranked as highly as Southern California, the Irish pitchers this weekend in the four 12th by Collegiate Baseball travel to Boca Raton, Fla., for the games. The younger guys really Newspaper. Florida Atlantic University need to get some experience on The Owls have a trio of batters Classic. the mound in a real game situa­in centerfielder Tim Mascia 

The Irish have their work cut tion, and these games should pro­(.486), infielder Derek Hutton out for them as they will play four vide that." (.435) and outfielder Rob Horst games in three days and face The Irish begin play today at 1 (.429) with batting averages that three teams -Winthrop, Florida p.m. against Winthrop (4-1), who surpass the .400 mark. As a Atlantic and Minnesota -ranked moved into the latest National team, Florida Atlantic is batting in the top 25 in various national Collegiate Baseball Writers .338, while opponents are only polls. Association poll this week at No. hitting .215 against them. 
"We're really excited about 25. Sophomore left hander Tom going down to Florida," Irish The Eagles are led offensively Thornton, who was named Big coach Paul Mainieri said. "I think by second baseman Matt East Pitcher of the Week last a lot of people underestimate the Matkovich, who boasts a .450 week for his performance in teams we'll be playing down batting average and seven RBI. allowing no earned runs in six there this weekend. Teams like As a team, the Eagles are hitting innings against the USC Saturday, Winthrop and Florida Atlantic -.314 this season, while holding will likely be the starter for the people don't recognize them opponents to just a .209 batting Irish. He will face senior left ban­because they don't have big foot­average. der Randy Beam, who is 2-0 for ball programs -but these are Junior right hander Chris the Owls with a 2.57 ERA this some very excellent baseball Niesel, who opened the season season. teams we'll be playing." for the Irish last weekend with a The Irish conclude play Sunday 

Notre Dame will also play an nine-strikeout performance in a against Minnesota, who will be extra game with Florida 7-1 win over San Diego State, will playing its first game of the sea­After the two good wins against pitched well, and we never mis­Memorial Saturday afternoon to likely get the start for Notre son today in the tournament. The the Aztecs and Trojans last week­handled balls in the field or made make up for last weekend's Dame. His counterpart on the Golden Gophers are ranked 25th end, Mainieri is hoping his team bad throws. The [opening] week­rained-out contest with Louisville. mound for Winthrop should be by Collegiate Baseball can carry that momentum into end provided two really good out­
Mainieri was excited about the lefty Chase Edwards, who is 1-0 Newspaper. the Florida Atlantic Tournament. ings for us to get a springboard opportunity to schedule the extra on the year and did not allow a In that contest, Irish freshman "To see how we played in our into the season." game with the Lions over the run in 5.2 innings pitched. Derik Olvey will likely get his rrrst rrrst game on the field was really weekend because it gives him a After a 2 p.m. meeting with career start and will face junior encouraging," Mainieri said. "We Contact Chris Federico at chance to test the depth of his Florida Memorial Saturday, the Matt Loberg. hit the ball well, our pitchers cfederic@nd.edu 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rutgers next test for Irish after victory over Miami 
Dame players scored in the "It's a must-win game for the Wooden Award, given to the We've struggled the past couple 
By JOE HETTLER 

Irish highest-scoring game of them, and I think that puts a lit­nation's best player. of years there," McGraw said. 
Sports Editor 

the season. tle bit of pressure on them in Besides Pondexter, Notre "But we're playing really great But coach Muffet McGraw that way." Dame must deal with another basketball right now." 
How do you improve after 

knows her team better be ready Rutgers is coming off an 80-road environment. The Irish are With its win over Miami,
beating a top 20 team by 35 
for a battle against Rutgers (16-71 loss to West Virginia 5-8 on the road this year and Notre Dame locked one of thepoints? 
10, 8-6). Wednesday night. The Scarlet have struggled in many of those four first round byes in the Big
That's the question Notre 
"Rutgers is playing really well Knights had won two straight wins. Notre Dame nearly lost its East Tournament. They are now Dame will try to answer when at home," McGraw said. games before falling to the last road game, to conference trying to secure a second-placethey face Rutgers this weekend 

"They're in a position now Mountaineers. Guard Cappie doormat Pittsburgh Feb. 21, finish in the conference. The in New Jersey. where they're in must-win Pondexter, who averages 17.4 slipping by the Panthers 72-68. Irish are a game in front of 
The Irish {18-8, 11-3) are game situations. They really points per game and was an The Scarlet Knights have lost Villanova and West Virginia.fresh off a 93-58 victory against need to beat a·team with an RPI honorable mention All­to just Connecticut on their The Irish finish the regular sea­Miami at the Joyce Center as high as ours both for the Big American last season, leads the home floor at the RACC and son against Syracuse March 2. Wednesday night. Jacqueline East tournament, for their con­Scarlet Knights. She is arguably hold opponents to a mere 50.6 Batteast scored 23 points to fidence and the NCAA one of the best guards in the points per game there. Contact Joe Hettler at lead the Irish. All 12 Notre Tournament." country and is nominated for "It's a tough place to play. jhettler@nd.edu 

I. 

I~ ' 
I). 
I~ 
Unli1nited Ti . ,
11ne. 
MISHAWAK.A SOUTH BEND 51-1 W. McKin:le·~ 117 North Main Corn~~ McKink·.,--& G~ a~~ .1 blk. ~Jttt~~h vr C(."M01x !:d4.ZD2;b6.~0 b/4.£00..94tiJ 
46lt> Mi-ilmi fh.);;d M~;;mi & bc·l;;nd bl4.29920f(l 
y.t.:<:..~::'11J ~~~ s->Jhh.::: ic:.-c-;..,~::t '..:-...;:...~:=t: ~,:6:-:i': ~.:::t!C~::~::t. :i :X:~i~:s:::-J =~~!tS::. f~-.~}j~:~~x=::~M~~ ::::...{:!~}. ~..: :l::::=~:t! ~t)t~l·: :<r~~~ ~1:~n$ .~ t~~ r.:: :~ >· ~..:::.~-r: :3~">;:'..~:· ~::. :-:-~::-::~~:::: ~~.; .s~ ·:.:~:::: t:-.s...:-x r~:1;:::::i .¥":·.::x-:'!':~::::·.·.~~t: ~r-:: -::::;: ;~ lH~!~~ !f..:~;H~~-~~~h-4:~>n'O::!~ r:>.'f' ~n*"::f$< ~~~;.:;:-;. :»~{-~:--~~ f~ k:ol d~~ ;;g.:;,~~~: ~~z~~l :~d :,:,::;<:i::'!l-.i 
m~$i .$-; ,,~~ M-1 h~;l.li~S;.::fll !Stld J~!'-~'1!~~! l:Bi~~~~~1.'$:~ ~~~~lH:'i.<:<v~':'~<':!~'ii~~l ~.:~=:;: ~=h~.; lf:~ ;;o~. 'h9.~t ~ Z<.'W !'i:S$!6. ~~·:",\t;t1;l:,;i ~,\<::.~. W<~: :::; ~~i .~;!~:Of !. %:..! l>~>}l;.~: ;J~ ;:-,<;~,\~;.~;ti ~:t:"":~~--r.:.rl~~~=~~~·f B:~~:~~~ ~-:::fx~n·..;:w, ~~"':' ~:~~~~~~"= <-~~ '!".'®"'~ ~>-·~; ~~~· :":::!-:·=-~~~>·~.;·:-~ t-;,~~ :":~ J.~~·
~PREMIER 

b· ;,;;~-:~~;:-:t.; ·<~hH~:.$j m-l~ =~i<:ITl~:tJ ft<: ·{j~£1 :·::·;!;~~ffi.: ~t>l\'.:l;:,.~ ~~~ ~~:3>>.~ =H1h !r.i~~: l~s:· rih .AUTHB.IZ~D ACIEIT * lOC.ATlCN.:S" r~Trn r.;oor~. rrnrtu=\rN iN. ll::t!~ 
f<us.Cellular. 
Friday, February 27, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

Bouts 
continued from page 24 
siun was between senior James "The Warden" Ward and fresh­man Stephan Humphrey. Ward defeated Humphrey and will go on to face John "Yaz Wojo Yaz" Wahoske. Wahoske won his preliminary fight against law student Jeff Robinson in a unanimous decision. 
In the sixth fight, law student Brian Nicholson came out to be the victor over senior Nick "The Silent Assassin" Nanovic. Nicholson will face senior Matt Knust in the quarterfinals. Knust defeated freshman Alex Harty in what proved to be an all-out brawl. Harty dominated the fight during the first round, but cpuld not hold on. Knust's endurance proved to be a key advantage in the unanimous win. 
180 pounds 
The first fight in the 180­pound weight division was a split decision victory for fresh­man Adam "Alpha Fox" Frisch. Frisch defeated Zahm sopho­more Pat Brown. Frisch had several key headshots to give him the advantage in the fight. Frisch will fight junior Jim Christoforetti in the quarterfi­nals. 
Senior Denis Sullivan defeat­ed freshman Nick Curcio in a unanimous decision. Sullivan will face senior Brent "Total Eclipse of the Heart" Burish in the quarterfinals. Burish defeated sophomore Nick "Brooklyn" Klein in a split decision after a relentless sec­ond round. 
Graduate student Josh "The Garden" Noem and Patrick "Me Wants Honeycombs" Merrell. Noem defeated Merrell in a split decision. Merrell began the fight with a fall and was unable to main­tain balance throughout most of the fight. Despite a slow start, Noem picked up the tempo of the fight in the sec­ond round and continued until the finish. Noem will fight sen­ior Eric Callahan in the quar­terfinals who received a first round bye. 
The final fight in the 180­pound weight division was between sophomore Robert 
Lochridge and Siegfried junior Chris Henschen. This fight proved to be one of the most intense fights of the night. Both fighters fell during the fight and Lochridge received a bloody nose during the second round that continued to bleed throughout the fight. Henschen defeated Lochrige in a unanimous decision. 
Light heavyweights 
Stanford junior Mike Abel defeated senior Michael Denkelwalter in the first fight of light heavyweight competi­tion. Abel opened up the fight with a series of headshots to Denkelwater that caused him to bleed. Abel won in a split decision. 
In the final fight of the night, freshman Eric "The Red" Retter came out as the victor over senior Mike Ragsdale. Retter came out strong with a series of headshots that caused Ragsdale to lose his balance. Retter will face Johnny Griffin in the quarterfinals. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

NFL ... 
LeWis indicted on drug charges 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -One of Jamal Lewis' lawyers believes the evi­dence prosecutors used to obtain an indictment may actually clear the Baltimore Ravens running back of federal drug charges. 
Lewis was released Thursday on $500,000 bond after he pleaded innocent to charges that he tried to help a childhood 
friend buy cocaine in the sum­
mer of2000. 
After a brief hearing, defense 
attorney Ed Garland said that a 
recorded telephone conversation 
cited by federal prosecutors is . open to interpretation. 
"They may have omitted things 
that should have been in there," 
Garland said. "We believe it will show he is innocent." 
Lewis stood outside the federal courthouse in the rain and made a brief statement. 
"I just want to say it's extreme­ly important to me that my fami­ly, my friends, my fans and the 
· Ravens organization know that I am innocent and I thank every­one for their continued support," Lewis said. 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
for real." 
The Irish have been plagued by nagging injuries, and senior tri-captain Luis Haddock and sophomore Eric Langenkamp were sidelined for Thursday's contest. 
"They [Illinois] played well enough that it wouldn't have mattered if we had everybody," 
came closest to putting the Irish on the board, taking the first set of the No. 2 match against Michael Calkins into a tiebreak­er. The junior, who is recover­ing from shin splints, eventually lost to the nation's No. 54 play­er7-5,6-1. 
At No. 1, senior Matthew Scott lost to No. 20 Phil Stolt 6­3, 6-3, and freshman Stephen Bass dropped a 6-2, 6-1 deci­sion to No. 100 Ryler DeHeart at the third spot . 
King lost to No. 64 Chris Martin 6-3, 6-2 at No. 4, and Ryan Keckley was defeated by G.D. Jones 6-2, 6-1 at No. 5. Patrick Buchanan rounded out the top six with a 6-3. 6-2 loss to Pramod Dabir. 
''I think Brent played pretty well, and Barry [King] extracted himself from a 4-0 deficit and played well from that point on," Bayliss said. "But you could just see the confidence in the Illinois players' eyes .... 
At doubles, D'Amico and Keckley lost to No. 8 Brian Wilson and Stolt 8-5 at the top spot. No. 18 Michael Calkins and Martin defeated Scott and Bass 8-4 at two, and DeHeart and Jones topped King and Paul Hidaka 8-5. 
Illinois has won 43 consecu­tive matches and are two matches away from tying the record held by Stanford. Illinois has won the last 26 home con­tests. 
"We were a deer in the head­lights today, they were that good," Bayliss said. "I don't say that very often ... but I have never coached against a team 
Bayliss said. "It "We were a deer in that played as didn't affect the the headlights well as this team 
outcome, and it played, and I've
today, they wre
probably wouldn't done this for a have affected the that good.·· few years -35, 
to be exact." 
score." 
The Irish pre­Junior tri-cap­
Bobby Bayliss 
pare to take on
tain Brent D'Amico 
Irish coach 
No. 12 Ohio State Saturday at 2 
p.m. and No. 33 Miami Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"It's a matter of getting back on the right foot and being posi­tive," said Bayliss, who expects 

..._ ,.
to practice lightly today in 
preparation for the weekend. NOTRE DAME 0, ILLINOIS 7 at ATKINS TENNIS CENTER 
SINGLES No. 1: Phil Stolt (ILL) d. Matthew Scott (ND) 6-3, 6-3. No. 2: Michael Calkins (ILL) d. Brent D'Amico (ND) 7-6, 6-1. No. 3: Hyler DeHeart (ILL) d. Stephen Bass (ND) 6-2, 6-1. No. 4: Chris Martin (ILL) d. Barry King 
(ND) 6-3, 6-2. No. 5: GD Jones (ILL) d. Ryan Keckley (ND) 6-2,6-1. No. 6: Pramod Dabir (ILL) d. Patrick Buchanan (ND) 6-3, 6-2. 
DOUBLES No. 1: Wilson/Stolt (ILL) d. D'Amicc:v'Keckley (ND) 8-5. No. 2: Calkins/Martin (ILL) d. Scott/Bass 
(ND) 8-4. No. 3: DeHeart/Jones (ILL) d. Hidaka/King (ND) 8-5. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

There's an extra day in the year. .. Why not celebrate With us? 
Badin Hall Presents ... 
Leap Day Study Break 

' s 


...--c: 

I 


~ 
Gall1e5 ~~ 
Sunday, February 29th 8-tOpm, LaFortune Ballroom 
, 



I 
I 
I 
\ 
1r 
) l 
: t 
I 
I
I 


...:;: 
..... 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
.. 


Chris Thomas tries to split two defenders against Seton Hall Feb. 14. The Irish face the posslbll­
ty of missing the NCAA Tournament ths year. 
organize t-he bring· in choose the pilan campus build your 
join the 
CONCERTS S.P'EAKE:RS MOVIES EVENTS 
, 
RES.. ••··.· .. ·.·•·· .·E
............. UM ....... 
Rivalry 
continued from page 24 
and see where things will go," Notre Dame co-captain Torrian Jones said. 
Mired in a two-game losing streak where a win in just one of those games would have solidified this team's claim for a NCAA Tournament berth, Jones knows as a captain he has to work. with Irish coach Mike Brey to keep the team positive. 
"We have to make sure every­body's mood is up as we have done for the whole season up until this point," Jones said. 
With the injuries suffered by almost every Irish player mak­ing significant contributions this season, Brey's squad has had to deal with more adversity this year than any other season of his in South Bend. According to Brey, overcoming all of the injuries and getting into the national spotlight as a possible NCAA Tournament t.eam is something more than anyone could have hoped for. 
"Quite frankly it's amazing that we even got to the bubble at one point given the bodies 

• .,;a. 
ST'UD,E!NiT UN·ION BO.ARD 


A.PPL,ICA'TIO,NS N,OW AVAILAB,LE f,or executive and general· positions stop by 201 Iafortune or visit www.nd~.edut---sub 
applications DUE MARCH 3 contact sub@nd.edu for more info 

brought to you by the Student Union Board. 201 Lafortune 1 nd.eduf-sub 
Friday, February 27, 2004 
available to us," Brey said. 

After dropping a tough game to Pittsburgh and winning three straight to gain some momen­tum, the Irish stopped making their shots. Whether that's a credit to the opponents' defense or just going cold, Brey knows his team relies on the outside shot and it has to go in for the Irish to win. 
"We've got to make some shots outside, whether it's against a zone or a man-to­man, because of who we are now with the personnel avail­able," Brey said. "A couple of those things have to go in. When a couple go in, we are a little more confident." 
"Hopefully a couple will go in [when we are] in Los Angeles because we are _going to keep firing them." 

The Bruins (11-13, 7-9 in the Pac-10) lost 78-77 to cross­town rival USC Wednesday in · overtime. UCLA has now lost 10 of its last 12 games after start­ing the Pac-10 season 5-0. 
Saturday's game is schedule for a 4 p.m. tip-off and will be shown on CBS. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Bengal 
continued from page 24 

A third consecutive fight W?S stopped early after soph­omore Daniel Moriarty of Stanford Hall got knocked down twice a minute into the first round by junior Justin Alanis of O'Neill Hall. 
In the next match, sopho­more Patrick Flaherty of Sarin Hall won in a unani­mous decision over freshman Bryan Marek of Knott Hall. 
In a bloody last fight in the 160-pound division, senior Peter Doldin was defeated by senior William Phillip. The fight was stopped late into the second round. 
165 pounds 
The first of six fights in the 165-pound weight division opened with a match between sophomore Andrew "Party Boy" Breslin of Alumni Hall and senior Jesus Bravo. Bravo defeated Breslin in a split decision. 
In the second fight, fresh­man Parfait "Powerhouse" Mwez of Zahm Hall won in a split decision over freshman Preston Carter of Carroll Hall. 
Senior Ross "Pipe Cleaner Arms" Bartels defeated Billy "Killa Bee" Hederman in a unanimous decision in an emotionally charged fight. 
Two juniors from Keenan Hall faced off in the next fight. Chase Heaton emerged with the victory over Craig Thompson. 
Sophomore Tony Schlachter of Morrissey Hall won the next fight with a victory over sophomore Alex Borowiecki of Keough Hall in a split deci­sion. 
In the final fight of the 165­pound division Daniel "Black Eye For The Straight Guy" Liem of Morrissey Hall gained the victory against junior Patrick McMorrow of O'Neill Hall in a unanimous decision. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyec@nd.edu 


Friday, February 27, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE ACROSS 27 Middle ear bone 51 Portion of an 1 Isn't nice to 29 Bob and shag editor's mail 8 Reception 30 Photo finish? 53 London's Old 
WILLSHORTZ 
Sharing your birthday: Elizabeth Taylor, Mary Frann, Joanne Woodward,

amenity 31 Butcher's hang­
Ralph Nader, James Farrell, James Leo Herlihy, Adam Baldwin, Chelsea 

15 Rumless er 54 Like some trials 
Clinton 

daiquiri 33 Shoot 56 "Soup's on!" 
Happy Birthday: You've got all the right moves this year. You're sure of

16 Author of 34 Lulu in "Lulu," 58 Superhuman 
yourself and your ideas. You'll be able to reach your goals. Set your course and 

"Miracle e.g. 59 Learned 
don't deviate even if someone does try to sidetrack you. This is your time to forge ahead. If you don't make headway, you'll have no one to blame but Their Methods" 
yourself. So set your mind on what it is you want most out of life. 
Mongers and 36 Not one-track 60 Dropped off 
39 When to get 61 Charged 
Your numbers: 10, 17, 20, 24, 32, 38 

17 Cooler 
revenge, 18 Take the blame proverbially DOWN ARIES (March 21-April 19): You must complete unfinished projects if you for 43 Many an wish to keep everyone around you happy. Disruptions in your home will
1 Lock-picking tool 
surface if you have not spent enough time with family. *****

19 It's seen off­e-mailer 
2 "Attaboy!" TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can expect to see fireworks at home if you 
shore in France 44 Army E-3 
3 Song with the have been spending too much time with your friends or on the road. Delays in 20 One of the fami­45 Proctor-_ shipments are likely. Make your claims quickly. ** 
lyric "My heart 
ly (small appli­GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be the life of the party. Your quick retorts 
-with rapture 
will keep everyone in stitches. Be careful not to be careless with your wallet or

22 Kit and caboo­ance maker) 
thrills" 
your possessions. Theft or losses are evident. **** 

dle 46 Santa Marla 
4 Wrestler's rip­CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will take things the wrong way today.23 Make one Maggiore locale Extravagance will be a key issue. Refrain from trying to buy someone's
pler 
25 Opposite of 47 Nesters friendship. You're the one who needs to change, not your partner. *** 
5 _Centre, 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your colorful way of exaggerating will bring you

sluggish 49 End notes 
Minn. (Sinc:air popularity; however, it may be at the expense of someone's feelings. Think 26 Tennis star 50 Big Ten power­Lewis's birth­twice before you make someone the brunt of your good fun. *** Mandlikova house, for short place) VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Too much too fast will be the issue. Don't expect anyone to come to the rescue. You will have to solve your problems alone.
6 Mad Ave. pro­
Financial changes will be favorable if you have budgeted wisely. *** 

fession
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can count on others to help you achieve your 7 YM covef sub­goals. Your ability to be persuasive in a tactful manner will ensure that you ject 30 Fancy embell-40 "Wonderful!" 52 Check mate? get the backing you require to follow through on your ideas. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be in a highly creative cycle. Get busy 
ishments

8 Kayos 41 Help settle 
and work on ideas or hobbies that you had put aside. You can really express9 Rodgers & 32 Ear: Prefix 42 Took by force yourself well when dealing with those close to your heart today. * * Hammerstein's SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your desire to travel will lead you to your
33 Henhouse threat 
44 Victimized, with 

"Alii Owe " 55 Best-selling travel agent. Don't hesitate to plan your vacation early. Just the thought of 35 Opposite of "upon" going away should improve your emotional well-being. ***** 
~.,....,+=+-~ 10 Ex-Senator from 
charged CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can get involved in financial ventures,
47 "A Vindication of 

Georgia album of 2001 
but you must not overextend yourself. Be sure that you put some extra cash
36 Some beach­Natural Society" 

11 Internet address aside in case of an emergency. Older family members may need help. *** 
wear writer, 1756

ender AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can expect an emotional push-and-pull 37 Prematurely 48 Tractor handle? with your lover. Try not to be too cool in your actions. Try to put your
12 Red Baron's 
differences aside and get back to being affectionate with one another. *** 

~=+::-4 transport 38 Madrid daily 51 Memory jogger 57 Military inits. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can ask co-workers to help you finish up 13 Willa Cather your work. Don't allow anyone to goad you into spending more than you can ~=+-:+:-:-t heroine afford. Children may be emotionally draining. *** 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 14 What gets read credit card, 1 -800-814-5554. 
Birthday Baby: You know how to work within the confines of a group. Your 

~..,.+:-+=~ to rabble-
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday ability to contribute worthwhile ideas will enable you to gain popularity rousers crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. throughout your life. You are friendly, versatile and giving. Your success and 21 Reserved satisfaction will come through your empathy for others. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 24 Hazel, for one past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Visit Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com

26 Doctrine doubter Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 28 Less forward nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
DILBERT 
I THINK MY 
EMPLOYEES ARE 
TRYING TO KILL 
ME. AM I 
PARANOID? 

FIVES 
The irony of Lenten Fr• 
Can you believe this? Well....it's a fasting 
am STUFFED! Shrimp, fish, crab.. friday during Lent, Hey...did you guys know the D-hall has GREAT so we don't eat meat No complaints 
that "fasting" actually food today. What's as a personal fast. from me, I 

means NOT eating???... the occasion? love seafood! 
Who knew? 
\__ 

PUT YOUR ANSWER IN AN E-MAIL. I DON'T WANT TO BE PAYING FOR THE PAUSES BE11.JEEN YOUR WORDS. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Me too....and I 


SCOTT ADAMS 
If  I'VE RULED OUT  
~  PARANOIA.  
& i5 .....  

~L-~""--PHEW! THAT'S 
A. RELIEF. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

WHE:N HE: BROKE: TI-E SPeED READING ~RD, IT WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RANOB 
rJ
tKHEELS 
1 j
IJ r 
www.jumble.com
tRERROT t 
A: 
(I I) FOR (II)"( I I I I)" (Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: BROOD NOBLE FORKED GRATIS Answer: What the poultry thief did at the goose pond -TOOK A "GANDER" 

10 mistakes: Unsymmetrical grid; two 2-letter answers; LORE in the grid twice; ACROSS head­ing instead of DOWN; PUZLE misspelled (56A); SOA clue out of order; two 130 clues; phony 37D clue; 47D answer repeated as its clue; Will 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
l 
~
Make checks payable to: The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. Box Q ~ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
'l 
l
D Enclosed is $100 for one acade1nic year 

l
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 1 
Na~ne ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 


~--~ 
i : ,, 
: i . 
' 
i 
THE 
OBSERVER

L p
Friday, February 27, 2004 page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL }, 
f; ' Rivalry renewed against UCLA 
I -­
I lI ·• • 
I I·'' Struggling Irish head to California, square off against Bruins s after nine-year hiatus 
' ~ ·\ l
I ; )-,
l ,, 
By MATT LOZAR '! Sports Writer 
l It's been nine years since one of college basketball's top rival­ries took place. ) -Saturday, the rivalry is renewed. 
Notre Dame travels· to the Pauley Pavilion to face UCLA Saturday. The last contest betw~en these teams was an 83-58 UCLA win at the Joyce Center Dec. 20, 1995. The Irish (13-11, 7-7 in the Big East) are coming off a diffi­
li' 
J 
K-cult 73-59 loss to Providence and seeing their NCAA Tournament hopes greatly diminished. Saturday's game : t-gives the Irish a different
_,· opportunity -to play a late season non-conference game and try to get back in the win
I. 
I ·. ~ column looking to build 
I . ~ momentum to close the season strong.
~-·! ~ 
. ' 
·'The main thing we are look­ing to do now is play one game at a time, to finish above .500 in the league, with the things we've been through this year, injuries, guys in and out of the lineup, guys playing hurt, it would be a big accomplishment for this team to go into the Big East Tournament above .500 
see RIVALY/page 22 

MEN'S TENNIS 

BENGAL BOUTS 160-POUNDS -165-POUNDS 
Knockdowns dominate 
BENGAL BoUTS 170-PoUNDS LIGHT 
SHEAVYWEfIGHT 
e ton defeats Baker 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Wrirer 

During the second night of the 74th annual Bengal Bouts, the 170-pound weight division began its preliminary rounds. 
The weight class began with freshman Brian Sefton defeat­ing junior John "The Undertaker" Baker. Sefton will go on to face No. 1 seed Tommy Demko in the quarterfinals., Demko received a bye in the preliminaries. 
The second •fight was between Morrissey junior Jeff "Headshot" Schaal and Zahm senior Patrick ··The Irish Curse" McGarry. McGarry won in a unanimous decision despite a receiving a hard blow to the face that caused him to bleed. McGarry will face Matthew ··Touch me, I'll sue" Smith in the quarterfinals. Smith, an off campus law stu­dent defeated St. Ed's sopho­more Bill Bordogna. 
The fourth fight in the divi­
see BOUTS/page 21 

ll r; ! 
~. 
l:r 
By KATE GALES 

i ':! . Sports Writer 

•'There were times," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said, "I thought I was in the middle of a bad dream." 
The Irish were swept 7-0 yesterday by No. 1 Illinois, the defending NCAA champions and a team that Bayliss will always remem­ber. 
.. This was the greatest display of offensive tennis I have ever been a witness to in a col­lege setting," Bayliss said. ..They are 
see TENNIS/page 21 


NO WOMEN'S HOOPS 
Notre Dame at Rutgers 
BASEBALL MEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame vs. Penn State 
Notre Dame travels to

Saturday, 12 p.m. 
Sunday, 1 p.m.
Florida to face three top-25 teams. 

Notre Dame to face 
The Irish open the sea­Big-East rival Rutgers. 
son against PennState. 

page 20 page 20 page 18 
first round matchups 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
After an intense first day of fights, Bengal Bouts resumed preliminaries Thursday with the 160-pound weight divi­sion. 
The Bouts started with a match between Fisher junior Colin Kerrigan and Gregory Tome, a freshman from Dillon Hall. The more experienced Kerrigan won easily in a unanimous decision. 
In the next fight, Chris "Pants" Calderone of Morrissey Hall defeated jun­ior Chris "Speedy" Segura of Keenan Hall in a unanimous decision. 
Nathan Dyer of Siegfried 

Hall gained a quick win over Greg "The Pit Bull" Schaefer of Keough Hall after Schaefer suffered a shoulder injury in the first round. 
The first technical knockout of the night happened in a match between Steve "The Hellcat" Hoeplinger of Stanford Hall and senior Alex Roodhouse. Roodhouse won the match after Hoeplinger was knocked down in the sec­ond round. 
The next match was stopped early as sophomore Charlie Gough of Alumni Hall defeated freshman Zachary Jara of Zahm Hall with a technical knockout in the third round. 
see BENGAL/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS NHL 
Notre Dame vs. Indiana 
The Irish travel to 

The Tampa Bay Columbus, Ga., for the
Sunday, 10 a.m. 

Lightning defeated the National Faspitch 
Toronto Maple Leafs 4­
Notre Dame prepares Coaches Association 
3.
to host rival Indiana. Leadoff Classic. 
page 18 page 14page 17 

.... ----------------------~-----------~-------------------;,----­

Photo Illustration by CHIP MARKS and MIKE HARKINS 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 27, 2004 
Irish take on first-place Michigan this weekend 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associa£e Spons Ediwr 
In what has sounded like a broken record this season, the Irish again will take on a ranked team this weekend. The difference is that this series is at home, where the Irish have a 12-game unbeat­en streak (10-0-2). 
Notre Dame (15-11-4, 11-10­3 in the CCHA) will put that impressive streak on the line when they face the CCI-IA's first-place team No. 4 Michigan (21-8-1, 16-5-1) tonight and Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish have played nine games so far this season against ranked teams, collect­ing a 4-4-1 record in those games-including a 1-0 win over then-No. 1 Boston College Oct. 
by one point and fifth-place Alaska Fairbanks by two points. One advantage Notre Dame has over these teams is that the Irish have games in hand (one game in hand on WMU and two games in hand on UAF). 
''I've been in situations near the end of a season where you have to hope that another team loses games, and it's lousy," Poulin said. "It's terri­ble watching the scoreboard and hoping that somebody else does something. I would rather have it in our hands, I would rather have Notre Dame play to decide where Notre Dame is going to go in the postseason." 
Although Michigan has had a distinct advantage in the series (55-39-5), the record is much closer in games played at the Joyce C e n t e r (Michigan leads 
24.  That  "/really think we·ve  18-17-2). The  
record is even  got a real advantage  Irish have  cer­ 
more impres­sive consider­ [at the Joyce Center].··  tainly taken· advantage of  
ing  that  all  their home ice  
nine of those  Dave Poulin  and  have  not  
games  have .  Irish coach  lost  at  the  

come away from the Joyce Center. 
"[Our difficult schedule] has really prepared us for games like this," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "It really does prepare you to go out and play a game like this -there's nothing that can compare to playing a Boston College at Boston College or a game against Maine. 
"Those kinds of games really prepare you for the big confer­ence weekends like this one." 
The Irish enter the weekend in seventh place in the CCHA with 25 points. They trail sixth-place Western Michigan 
Joyce Center 
this season 

since a 5-3 loss to Bowling Green Oct. 17. 
"I really think we've got a real advantage [at the Joyce Center]." Poulin said. "We've just created a great atmos­phere here -the band's been tremendous, the students, the fans, the energy, the horn ­every part of it has added to the atmosphere." 
This weekend's matchup is a contest between the No. 1 scoring defense in the CCHA in Notre Dame and the No. 2 scoring defense in the confer­ence in Michigan. One big rea­son for each team's defensive 

Irish goaltender David Brown makes a kick save in Notre Dame's 1-0 victory over Boston College Oct. 24. Brown and the rest of the Irish defense face No. 4 Michigan this weekend. 
game has been the play of its goalies -sophomore Alvaro Montoya for the Wolverines and junior Morgan Cey and freshman David Brown for the Irish. 
In a recently-released NHL Central Scouting rankings·, Montoya was ranked the No. 1 collegiate goaltender eligible for this year's NHL draft, wit4 Brown ranked No. 2. 
"I think these are probably three of the top goalies in the country, and there will be a lot of focus on them, but I also think their teams play great defense in front of them," Poulin said. "There's a lot of components that make up a 
good goalie, but it certainly helps to have defensively­sound players in front." 
Michigan has one of the best offenses in the conference, with an average of 3.84 goals per game. A large percentage of that offense comes from the Wolverines' power play, which scores at a 21.8 percent rate and an average of 1.28 power play goals per game. 
Notre Dame's penalty kill has been just as impressive. The Irish have killed 33 con­secutive penalties and have killed 89 percent overall (121 of 136) to lead the CCHA and rank third in the nation. 
"The special teams will be 
enormous," Poulin said. "You're getting the No~ 1 penalty kill against the No. 1 power play this weekend, and it's huge. Part of our success on the kill has been because we've been taking fewer penalties -it's a lot easier to kill three or four penalties than six or seven." 
Notre Dame faces Michigan at 8:05 p.m. tonight at the Joyce Center. That game will be broadcast nationally on College Sports Television. Face-off Saturday is scheduled for 7:05p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Announcing the Year 2004 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2004 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nom1ally be in Italian; will involve the study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Reconunended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
l)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow  
4)  a budget indicating the costs ipvolved  
5)  the names oftwo references.  
Application Deadline:  Thursday. March 4 1h, 2004  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
·  Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University ofNotre Dame  

The Colonial 
Pancake House 
Family Restaurant 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 6:30-2:30 PM 
• 
Gourmet coffee • Daily lunch specials 

• 
Batters made from • Come see our NO room scratch •OPENFOROVER35YEARS 

• 
Famous apple pancake • Call us for all occasions ­& jumbo omelettes ask for Dave 


THANK YOU FOR 
r--------------..
IEnjoy one complimentary 1 YOUR BUSINESS 1Entree when a second 1 
I I 508 N. Dixie Way 
1Entree of equal or greater
.. ______________.1 SB, IN 46637
1Value is purchased Exp 2005 1 
(574) 272-7433 
Solf Lessons 
Open to Faculty. Staff and Students 
Starting March 16th 

Learn the proper Swing technique. Short game and putting skills 


Friday, February 27, 2004 
.-The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Notre Dame's senior defensemen have made a major irnpact this season 
-
ey at an early age and alwaysBy JUSTIN SCHUVER tried to push himself to be the Associate Sports Editor best player he could be. 
"Hockey has always just been 
An offensive-minded defense­something I've loved to do, ever man. A player who plays at a since I was too young to remem­level far above his stature. A ber," he said. tough guy on the ice but a good As a 16-year-old, Lebda was citizen ofT the ice. A player who extended an invitation to join the is the definition of a hard-work­U.S. National Team ing student-athlete. Development Program (NTDP). 
Like the pieces of a jigsaw During his two seasons with the puzzle, the four senior Irish U.S. NTDP, Lebda became defensemen -Brett Lebda, friends with current Irish team­Tom Galvin, Neil Komadoski and mate Neil Komadoski. 
T.J. Mathieson -have each "Neil has always been one of played a role in the team's my best friends," Lebda said. impressive defense this year. "Coming here, it really help~d to 
Notre Dame is ranked first have someone I knew coming overall in the CCHA and ninth with me, and we've been able to nationally in scoring defense, grow. with a goals against average of "We've really been able to 
2.37 goals per game. While part help each other on and ofT the of that success has been due to ice." the play of the team's goalies, Lebda leads all Irish defense­having four defensemen on the men so far this year with five backline has also paid great div­goals and is second in overall idends for the Irish. scoring with 16 points. In addi­
"It's the most critical position, tion to contributing on the offen­when you have a sound sive and defensive sides of the In Notre Dame's last home team with 45 penalty infractions. points (one goal, two assists) in defense," Irish coach Dave puck, he considers his physical series against Ferris State, Komadoski's play attracted the 43 career games so far in his Poulin said. "There's just so play to be a major part of his Galvin pitched in a goal and eyes on NHL scouts, and the career. much experience back on our overall game. three assists while also going +3 Ottawa Senators selected him in "The role that T.J. plays every blue line, and you just can't fmd "I really just like to get in there on the weekend. For his efforts, the third round of the 2001 NHL single day for four years on this a replacement for that. and throw the body around Galvin was named the defensive Entry League Draft. He is one of team has just been enormous," 
"I think it also helps that every once and a while," Lebda player of the week in the CCHA. two Irish seniors who have been Poulin said. they're all good friends. They said. "I'm not really the biggest "I like [playing an offensive drafted by NHL teams, along In addition to being a full-time play off each other and really guy ever, but I'm not afraid to role] a lot," he said. "I actually with forward Rob Globke who varsity athlete, Mathieson has help each other out there." shy away from anything." started playing forward when I was a second-round draft pick of also found a way to juggle an 
started playing hockey, and then the Florida Panthers. impressive academic schedule. The offensive-minded The small guy with big game I moved back to defense because He went into his senior season defenseman Galvin's biography doesn't that's where I needed to be-so The hard-working student-athlete with a 3.812 grade point aver­
Watching him on the ice, it's really leap out at you on first every time I score a point or get Mathieson has never had any­age-in Aerospace Engineering sometimes hard to believe that glance. At 5-foot-10, 190 an assist, it's always a plus." thing come easy. His hometown and a candidate for the Rhodes, Lebda is a defenseman. The pounds, the senior defenseman The Miller Place, N.Y., native of Clarksville, Md., was certainly Mitchell and Marshall scholar­speedy senior constantly uses is one of the smallest players on has found a niche on the point not one of the premier hockey ships for undergraduate studies. his skating ability to take the the Irish roster -a far cry from position with linemate hotbeds in the United States and "It's tough at times [to stay on puck up the ice and does not shy giants like 6-foot-4 freshman Komadoski in the Irish power it was difficult to get noticed by top of my studies]," he said. "I away from contributing to the defenseman Wes O'Neill. play. Special teams have been a some of the major college hock­have to say that it's probably Irish offense. "I guess I probably don't have large part of Notre Dame's suc­ey schools. easier, though, because it keeps 
"(The offensive side] is proba­the typical image of a defense­cess this year, and the power Following a visit to Notre me on schedule. bly the biggest part of my man, that 6-3 or 6-4 kind of play unit is no exception with an Dame, Mathieson was told that "As it gets later in the semes­game," Lebda said. "In the four guy," Galvin said. "I think I'm 18.1 percent conversion rate so the coaches couldn't guarantee ter it's tough, cause you have a years I've been here, it's been kind of different from most far this season. him a position on the team, but lot of late nights and practices good for me to learn more of the because I'm strong, small and would instead leave it up to with little sleep, but you get used defensive side of my game can move the puck pretty well." The good citizen Mathieson to impress. to it. I think it's been a reward­because it's helped me to Despite his short stature, Komadoski may be a hard-hit­He impressed the Irish coach­ing experience." become a more-rounded play­Galvin has blossomed this sea­ting defenseman on the ice, but es enough that they allowed him er." son on all sides of the puck, once the final horn has sounded, to walk on to the team, and he 
Growing up in Buffalo Grove, adding an offensive flair to his he becomes a great citizen. has played a role for the Irish Contact Justin Schuver at 
Ill., Lebda fell in love with hock-sound defensive game. Komadoski was named a nomi­ever since, collecting three jschuver@nd.edu nee for the College Hockey Humanitarian Award, one of only 14 nominees in the nation. ­
"It's a great honor," Komadoski said. "A lot of people think that hockey players are these big, mean, tough guys, but off the ice I don't think you'll find a better person than a hock­ey player. 
"I have to give a lot of credit to 

-~_.,...., 
my teammates, too. We've all done a lot of eommunity service through the year." 
Komadoski has had hockey in his blood since as far baek as he can remember, and a big reason for that is his father Neil, who played eight seasons as a defenseman for the Los Angeles Kings and the St. Louis Blues. 
"He had a tremendous influ­ence on me wanting to play hoekey,'' Komadoski said. "lie coached me all the way up until my freshman year in high school and really taught me a lot of the things that I know now. 

"lie still helps me to this day; he comes to all the games and ­really helps me out when I need it." 
Following a two-year stint with the U.S. NTDP and current teammatP Lt-bd<~. Komadoski madn an immediatP impact on ­
SOFIA BALLON!The Observer ttw Irish as a freshman, collPct­Irish defenseman Brett Lebda looks to shoot the puck in Notre ing sevPn points (two goals, five Dame's 5-3 victory over lake Superior State Nov. 21. assists) while also leading tlw 
• 





--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-----------­
r 
' 
' ' 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 27, 2004 
Irish have chance of a lifetime this weekend 

Notre Dame and Michigan. At the Joyce Center. With home-ice advantage for the first round of the CCHA playoffs on the line. It just doesn't get any bigger than this. 
Michigan is, and has always been, "the" team in the CCHA. Th.ey've won numerous national champi­onships and conference champi­onships, and go into each season expecting to win another. 
This is a team that helped sell 74,554 seats at the Michigan State football sta­dium when they played the Spartans in college hockey's first ever outdoor game in 2001. This is a team that has not had a losing season since 1986­

Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 
"I think the team is pret­ty pumped right now," Irish senior defenseman Neil Komadoski said. ''I'm going to go ahead and say that this is the biggest weekend of my college career. 
"They're top-five national­ly. and first in the confer­ence, and I mean -just the fact that it's Michigan-Notre Dame. I think everyone's 
COACHING 
LLI 
~ 
c 
Q 
LLI
a: 
.... 
0 
z 
going to be up for it, and hopefully we can come away with a win or two." 
The Irish will have a great opportunity this weekend to silence their doubters and to make a statement in front of a national audience. Tonight's game will be nationally broadcast on College Sports Television and the college hockey world will be watching to see how the Irish compete against "the" team in the CCHA. 
In their last series against a top-ranked team in the CCI-lA, back on Feb. 6 and 7 against Miami (Ohio) the Irish simply did not look like they could com pete with the Redllawks, falling by scores of 5-2 and 2-0. 
Things have changed in the conference since then, with No. 4 Michigan sweep­ing Miami in a series two weeks ago to move up to first place in the standings. Notre Dame was able to 
bounce back 
from their 
defeats in 

87. ·Tm going to go Oxford, Ohio, to And this is ahead and say that collect a much­
the team the needed four
this is the biggest 
Irish will points at home face at home weekend ofmy against Ferris for the last college career. ., State on Feb. 13 regular-sea­and 14, defeat­son home ing the Bulldogs
Neil Komadoski
weekend of 4-2 Friday and 
Irish defenseman
the season. 4-1 Saturday. 
Notre Dame 

was off last weekend, and has spent the last two weeks of practice preparing for these key games in its schedule. 
"This off week allowed us to get healthy and rest up our minds going into this big series," Poulin said. "The energy's been high all week in practice and hope­fully that will carry over to 
OFFENSE 
this weekend." 
The Irish have certainly shown they are capable of beating the best teams in the country already this season. Notre Dame defeat­ed then-No. 1 Boston College 1-0 on the road back on Oct. 24, ruining the Golden Eagles' home open­er. 
The team has also defeat­ed then-ranked teams No. 3 Maine, No. 4 Wisconsin and No_. 15 Ohio State this sea­son, with all those victories coming away from the Joyce Center. Notre Dame is cur­rently ranked No. 17 in RPI and has three quality wins, tied for nrst overall. 
With a successful outing against Michigan and a few wins in postseason play, it would not be presumptuous to assume that the Irish would have quite an attrac­tive resume for the NCAA Tournament selection com­mittee. 
The Irish have never advanced to the 16-team NCAA Tournament in the school's history. 
"From good to great doesn't happen overnight," Poulin said. "It happens over a period of time, but there are significant points that can give you the chance to go to that next level. We're a good team, 
we're in the top 20 in the 
countryand rank high in 
several statistical cate­
gories. 
"We're a good hockey 
team, but the chance to be 
great is ahead of us. There 
are certain points along the 
way that are magnified, and 
I think this weekend is one 
of them." · 
When the puck drops 
tonight, Notre Dame will get 
that chance. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Justin Schuver at jschu v er@n d. edu. 
DEFENSE SPECIAL TEAMS GOALTENDING INTANGIBLES 

Poulin has taken the Irish to the Super Six Championship three of his last four years. He has made the most of his recruiting, with stalwarts such as Wes O'Neill and David Brown already making major contributions this year.  The Irish offense has been the team's Achilles heel at times. The team does not get much offense outside of the trio of Rob Globke, Aaron Gill and Mike Walsh. Notre Dame scores a lot of its goals as the result of going hard to the net.  Notre Dame's defense is one of the best in the country, ranked ninth overall in scoring defense with a goals against average of 2.37. The Irish win a lot of games by close margins as a result of a defense that keeps the team in nearly every game.  The Irish penalty kill has successfully staved off 33 consecutive penalties coming into this weekend. Notre Dame's penalty kill is ranked third in the country with an 89 per­cent rate.  This might be Notre Dame's biggest strength this season. The tandem of Morgan Cey and David Brown have combined for six shutouts this season. Brown is tied for third nationally in save percentage.  The Irish have only lost one game at home this season and cur­rently have a 12 game unbeaten streak. Despite playing in a makeshift hockey rink, Notre Dame's students and fans have helped create a true home-ice advantage.  
Rod Berensen is entering his 20th sea­son behind the Michigan bench. There is little he hasn't done, having already won two NCAA championships. The Wolverines have advanced to the NCAA Tournament 13 straight years.  The Wolverines score lots of goals, with an average of 3.84 goals per game. Michigan has one of the most balanced offenses in the country, with 13 players with at least 10 points so far this sea­son.  Defensively the Wolverines are strong, only giving up 2.37 goals per game. The defense ean hold leads, with the team holding a 16-2-0 record leading after one period.  The Wolverines have the top power play in the CCHA, collecting at a 21.8 percent clip so far this season. Their penalty kill is not quite as impressive, at 84.7 percent. That can be a problem, as the team takes a lot of penalties.  AI Montoya has qui­etly had an impressive season in net for the Wolverines. With so much offense around him, he has been over­looked at times but has solid stats with a .907 save percentage and a 2.41 GAA.  Michigan is used to being one of the power­house hockey programs in the country, and this year is no exception. The Wolverines know they only need three points to clinch the CCIIA regular season championship.  
Poulin has helped Notre Dame to beci)mea competjpve tea.fftdn the CfMA/'f)ut h~&i ,to~ake:Jhe l~·~ifvt+. lt~s hard fo discount B~r~n·s ctftt~nt success and national championships.  Notre Dame's offense has sputtered, while Michigan's has been at a .tl!g.P verfo.nnange level. a.ll se~o~ The rrisli ddthave afe\V players ~ can tak~ over a game in Globke and Gill, howev­er, and they still have the No. 1 defensn in the CCHA.  Notre Dame and Michigan are nearly mirror images on defense. The Irish allow 2.33 'goals pet gam~ while1he Wolverines j ..· :' . : ., :allow ~Ml7. Each team has a depth of experi­ence on the blue line and goalies who can make the big saves.  Notre Dame's penalty kill has been almost P~tJhis se~.{1t)n th~-,-. -;.-·'.•'-·.•. h . _..~_·._­' k ' ~ dff~ >.:,: Q~,uer:t.-,·­J,t8n , Mte!l~~ p·nww-;~plal is.SIIccess(ul.uua~aili....af evecy'~ve'ii ru,ii~e lrislr;:-WOJ need m·tnnit the penalties they take this weekend to have a chance.  Notre Dame has two of the best goalies in the country in Cey and Brown. Michigan has Montoya. who is also very good, but the Wolverines cannot match Notre Dame''s depth. Brown's save perd~llta.ge and GAA are better than Montoya's.  The Irish have a chance to show that they can mmpete against the top team in their confer­ence, and a chance to make a case for an NCAA tournament bid. It's the Ja."t home WPPk­end for tlw Irish thb sea­son and the Joyce Center will be rocking.  






