,......-------------------------------~--­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Dorm energy-saving competition to aid efficiency 
simply because it doesn't seem campus, we don't pay for utili-ByJOE TROMBELLO to be that big of ties or electricity; Assistant News Editor an issue," said therefore, there is
"Energy
club secretary no economical rea­To encourage students to Sarah Liu. "We conservation is son for us to worry increase their awareness of_ hope to bring about energy con-,
definitely not 
energy usage and conservation, awareness on the _ servation ... the
something that 
members of the Students for importance of only way to Environmental Action will conserving ener­many college improve this lack of award $100 to the dorm that gy and resources concern from stu­
students think 
has the greatest reduction in its while they are dents is to educate
about ... it doesn't 
per capita energy usage. still available to them," she said. According to club co-president us." seem to be that big Kelly said that Virginia Kelly, the Notre Dame Liu said that students can con­
ofan issue. " 
power plant records the amount many college stu­serve energy in a of energy used in each building dents who live in number of ways.
Sarah Llu 
monthly. The energy used by dorms do not including turning each of Notre Dame's 27 dorms consider the club secretary off lights, turning this month will be compared necessity of using their heat down a with their usage in Feb. 2003. less energy few degrees or put­"Energy conservation is defi­because they do not directly pay ting their computer in standby 
nitely not something that many for its use. 
college students think about "When we live in dorms on see ENERGY/page 4 



New tickets bring fresh perspective 

r 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Though their platforms differ, three of the four tickets in next week's student body presidential election have one thing in com­mon -their lack of experience with student government at Notre Dame. 
The youngest ticket in the race, freshmen Mark Healy and Mike Healy are using their inexpe­"It is important not president, the 

rience a selling to place too much Adam Istvan and point for their Karla Bell ticket is
emphasis on age ...

campaign. relatively new to 
"I believe our the arena of stu­standing as fresh­Mark Healy dent government men is one of our student government -a fact that, like greatest strengths Healy-Healy, they 
vice-president 

... The fact that we see as an advan­
candidate 

are freshmen means that we will be as affected by our own policies as anyone, see­ing as we will not be able to institute change and then gradu­ate and be on our merry way before any of our programs assert their actual effects," said Mike Healy. 
"It is important not to place too much emphasis on age," added Mark Healy. "Rather than sim­ply writing us off because we are young.... We· are not running as freshmen, but instead we are running as a voice for seniors, juniors and sophomores as well as freshmen." 
Though neither has been directly involved in student gov­ernment at Notre Dame, Mark Healy was briefly involved with the communications division of the office of the student body president and has worked on the national level in political cam­
paigns in Florida. 
· Despite boasting 
a current dorm 
tage. 
"Perhaps the 
problem with stu­dent government is that it con­sists of the same people over and over again each year. We can introduce new ideas or even new strategies to reach certain goals. Student government has been concentrating more on restruc­turing itself than on the students directly, and we feel that needs to change," said Bell, Walsh Hall president. 
Istvan compared his experi­ence mediating with administra­tors as a Huddle manager to that of governing. 
Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch's most recent involvement in stu­dent government was in high school, yet both consider their two-and-a-half year experience as students training enough. 
"Early in our freshman year, we became friends with an alumnus, Dave Bender, who served as Student Body President in the mid 70's without holding any prior student government expe­rience," said Craft, explaining the reasoning behind their desire to run. "He made us realize that it is possible for two students such as ourselves to make a pos­itive and noticeable impact on this school." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Upward Bound gets grant 
By LAURA VILIM 

News Writer 
Notre Dame's Upward Bound 

program, which prepares high 
school students for a college 
degree, recently received a 
$19,000 grant from the 
Moody's Foundation to estab­
lish a mathematical project­
based learning component in 
this summer's program. 
The grant will be used to introduce college-bound high school graduates to new meth­ods of analyzing real world problems through the use of math, accounting, economics, research, literature, technology and marketing principles. Students will have to decide where to build their business, what materials they will need to begin and how to manage it once it has been created. According to Upward Bound director Alyssia Coates, the greatest asset of the new pro­gram is that it requires each participant to fulfill both indi­vidual and collective roles. 
"[The program] provides hands on experience where students think critically alone and in a group," Coates said. 
The Moody's Foundation was established by the Moody's Corporation, the parent compa­ny of Moody's KVM, a credit risk management_ technology firm serving the South Bend community. Upward Bound was chosen out of ten organi­zations that applied for th_e grant because of its unique and carefully planned programs, Coates said. 
In addition to the mathemati­cal component of the six-week Upward Bound Residential Summer Program held at Notre 
see UPWARD/page 4 
Wednesday, February 4, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

One of those days 
Yesterday was one of those days. You know, the kind of day where you wake up and from the instant your feet hit the floor, it's a contin­ual downward spiral. Angela Saoud 
I spent the morning in classes, the News Writer afternoon teach­ing English to students at Penn High School and the evening on the phone doing interviews for my internship. In the midst of all this, I found out that, alas, my roommates and I did not receive an on-campus apartment for next year. Twenty seconds after that, I got in a fight with my mom. And when I returned after my night class, I was asked to write this col­umn. Not even my yoga class would help subside the stress right now. Yesterday, the glass was half empty. So folks, you're going to have to bear with me. 
I don't mean to complain, honest­ly. This semester is teaching me that, yes, in fact, it is possible to juggle 18 credit hours, an intern­ship, extra-curricular activities and a social life, however pathetic it may be. Most of my time spent doing these activities is during the hours when I should be sleeping, but nevertheless, they all get fin­ished. 
In addition to everything else, this whole Valentine's Day thing is weighing heavily on me. I never liked Valentine's Day when I had a significant other, so I'm surely not going to start liking it now that I'm living the single life. With the can­cellation of Saint Mary's All School Formal, basically any chance of romance this month has gone out the window. Most likely, this month will include watching a lot of Lifetime original movies with my roommates. February is already turning into a hurdle I have to jump over in order to get to Spring Break, and I hate to wish away · time like that. 
Yesterday was one of those days where you say, "It can't get any worse." And then 30 minutes later, something else goes wrong. After today, that phrase is stricken from my vocabulary. It's like karma is trying to pull one more over on you before the day is out. 
I'm a big believer in the idea that things happen for a reason. Whatever the reason for mv bad day yesterday, it's going to ·have to get better from here. Maybe I'll get lucky today and have time for a nap. Maybe there won't be any snow on my car when I try to leave campus. And if I'm really lucky, maybe today will be ravioli day at the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
If not, there's always tomorrow. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CLASS WOULD YOU ADD TO THE NOTRE DAME CURRICULUM? 







Katherine Sloan Diana Robinson Laura Maclean Peter Johnson Luis Arredondo Shannon Cassel 
Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Freshman Sophomore Freshman Lewis Lewis Farley .Dillon Morrissey PE 
'"My friend at '"Social Skills '"Mattress '"Bartending. , '"Trafficking '"History ofIowa University of for Engineers.·· Testing 101. •• 101: Importing class., Oklahoma is in and Exporting.,, 
a Harry Potter literature class.·· 

SOFIA BALLON/The Observer 
After loosing a bet, an unidenti.fied male student was forced to "sun tan" wearing a bikini on south quad Monday afternoon. He holds a sign reading "Never bet a Peruvian." 
OFFBEAT 
Cockroaches suggested as Valentine's gifts 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. ­Looking for a little some­thing special for your valentine? How about a hissing cockroach? That's the suggestion from the folks at the Ross Park Zoo in Binghamton, N.Y. 
The zoo is running a Valentine's Day adoption program called "Give Your Beauty a Beast." 
For ten bucks, you can adopt a hissing cockroach for your sweetheart. The adoption includes a photo, cockroach fact sheet and a free pass for your spe­cial friend to visit the lit­tle hisser. 
If a roach doesn't say "I love you," the zoo has some romantic alterna­tives. There's a bearded 
· dragon,  a  black vulture  
and  a  bleeding  heart  
dove.  

Satirical exhibit takes aim at Bush 
BETHLEHEM, Pa. ­The photograph confronts anyone walking through the lobby of Lehigh University's humanities building: A man who could be President Bush's identical twin smirks for the camera, his left hand cupping the breast of a leering woman in a negli­gee. 
The 4-foot-by-4-foot image -part of a satiri­cal exhibit called "The Forbidden Pictures, A Political Tableau," by internationally renowned photographer Larry Fink -has upset student con­servatives who see it as further evidence of a lib­eral bias on campus. 
"My first impression was tasteless, absolutely tasteless. The picture of the president borders on slanderous," said David Hauptmann, 22, a senior international relations major. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 
Ul 
::c 
!;( 
Ul 
3: 
.... 
~ 
(.) 

_,0 HIGH 27 HIGH 19 HIGH 28 HIGH 31 LOW 21 LOW 15 LOW 26 LOW 19 IN BRIEF 
Come cheer on the women's basketball team as they take on Georgetown. The game will take place in the Joyce Center Arena tonight at 7 p.m. 

Come enjoy the next installa­tion of Theology on Tap enti­tled "Does God Really Listen?" with Lawrence Cunningham tonight from 9:30 to 11:30 p.m. · at Legends. The night consists of a short presentation fol­lowed by plenty of time for questions and honest, straight­up conversation. 
Auditions for King Lear will take place tonight and Thursday from 6 to 10 p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Auditions will consist of cold 

readings  from  the  script.  
Prepared  monologues  are  
optional.  

The Pasquerilla East Musical Company presents West Side Story Thursday through Saturday in Washington Hall from 7:30 to 10 p.m. 

Attend "Globalization and the Inequality Between Nations," a lecture presented by Amitava Dutt, a Kellogg Fellow in the Department of. Economics and Policy Studies. The lecture will be held Thursday from 4:15 to 5:30 
p.m. in the llesburgh Center, room C-103. The event is spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute. 
.Laugh with your friends at Student Stand-Up Comedy Night on Thursday at Legends. The events take place from 10 
p.m. to midnight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 24 HIGH 
23 

LOW 17 LOW 
12 

Atlanta 53/ 37 Boston 47 I 26 Chicago 22 I 14 Denver 29 I 13 Houston 65 I 52 Los Angeles 62 I 47 Minneapolis 10 I 4 New York 451 25 Philadelphll 44 125 Phoenix 57 I 40 Seattle 44 I 37 St. Louis 28 I 24 Tampa 75 160 Washirrgton 39 I 25 
Wednesday, February 4, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
History center shoWcases Notre Dame's past 
By MERYL GUYER 
News Writer 
As Notre Dame students, it is 

difficult to imagine that there 
was once a time when the cam­
pus saw "midday recreation" 
written into University regula­
tions. This anecdote is one of 
many on a list of rules that 
applied to the University during 
its frontier days between 1842 
and 1893 and is now displayed 
as a component of an exhibit at 
the Northern Indiana Center for 
Ilistory. 
The exhibit, entitled "Notre Dame: A Place in History," opened in the Center's Ernestine M. Radin Gallery of Notre Dame . History on Aug. 20, and will remain there for two to three years while undergoing minor changes, said Dave Bainbridge, 
senior curator at the Center. 
"[Notre Dame: A Place in 

History] portrays the transforma­
tion of the University of Notre 
Dame from a frontier school to a 
modern American Catholic uni­
versity," Bainbridge said. 
The exhibit showcases a life­size mural of University founder Father Ed ward Sorin, which dominates the entrance to the gallery. The portrait was painted in 1882 and discovered on the third floor of the Main Building during restoration between 1995 and 1997. Specially restored for the exhibit, the plaster mural was well preserved for over 100 years, Bainbridge said. Other artifacts iqcluded in the exhibit are a crucifix and a Bible Sorin brought to Notre Dame from France and an altar stone he used when giving mass at St. 
Peter's. The walls in the gallery are replete with past architectur­al drawings of the campus, shown in a photograph of President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh taken in the 1960s while he examined a plan for a modern chapel with high­rise dorms surrounding it. Photos and documents span the 150-year timeline represented in the exhibit, highlighting various aspects of campus life. The time­line begins with a description of boarding school life and follows the evolution of the institution through the World Wars, Vietnam, the growth of the foot­ball legacy and the admission of women to campus. 
The exhibit itself is divided into the following three time periods: 1842-1893, the inception of the University until the death of Sorin; 1894-1951, the two World Wars as well as the establish­ment of the graduate studies program; and 1952-1987, the shift from control by the clergy to lay governance and also the admission ofwomen in 1972. 
In documents presented from the first period, visitors fmd ves­tiges of early campus life. The following are examples of rules that came from a list signed by former University President William Corby: Students will write home to parents or guardians each month and all mail can be opened by adminis­trators; Students will be reviewed Wednesdays and Sundays with regard to their per­sonal neatness; Intoxicating liquors are absolutely prohibited; No publications will be permitted on campus without being exam­ined by the administration. This heightened surveillance comes from the French practice under which Sorin established the University, but in other docu­ments, it is explained that Sorin stressed a more moderate approach because he didn't want to drive students away, according to exhibit documentation. 
Visitors can also see the devel­opment of buildings on campus such as the log cabin, a main building that contained lodging areas, two dining halls, a bakery and the power plant. 
"One of the things people love is pictures . . . [in this exhibit] no matter where you look there is something that is different visu­ally," Bainbridge said referring to the changes in layout, buildings and general landscape of the campus. 

A report card from the period lists a range of materials includ­ing penmanship, music and behavior and diligence. In a time when 80 percent of schools founded before the Civil War ended in failure, Notre Dame survived multiple catastrophes and saw its admission jump from five students in the first year to 250 a decade later. Nearly every state was represented in the campus population by 1868~ 
The later periods discuss the growth of football as an impor­tant source of funding for the school when an endowment did not exist. Revenues from the sportjumped from $3,508 during the 1919-1920 season to $529,400 a decade later. 
Also detailed is the creation of the "Touchdown Jesus" mural and Hesburgh Library, which opened in September 1963. The mural contains 5,714 separate pieces of materials collected from all over the world. 
"Notre Dame: A Place in History" is a collaborative effort of the Archives of Notre Dame and the Center for History. 
The Northern Indiana Center for History is located in the West Washington district of South Bend at the corner of Washington and Chapin Streets. 
The exhibit can be viewed between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday and from noon to 5 p.m. on Sunday. 
Admission ranges from $3 to $8. 
Contact Meryl Guyer at mguyer@nd.edu 
THE 


is currently accepting applications for the 2004-2005 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR ASST. MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Applications for Managing Editor and Any sophomore or junior business major Assistant Managing Editor should interested in gaining valuable work demonstrate strong journalistic and experience is encouraged to apply for Business management skills. An in-depth Manager. Applicants should be comfortable understanding of newspaper production, in a management position, demonstrate 
including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark strong organizational skills XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience and have a solid understanding of with Macintosh computers is helpful. accounting principles. 
An application for any of the above positions should be at least five pages and explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and Business Manager applications are due by Thursday, Feb. 6 at 5 p.m. Subntit all applications to Matt Lozar in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall base-
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Matt Lozar and Andrew Soukup at 631-4542 or Business Manager Lori Lewalski at 631-5313. 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February 4, 2004 


Upward 
continued from page 1 
Dame, high school graduates take credit courses in math and literature, live in the residence halls and attend workshops and cultural activities. All of these components focus on preparing students for the changes that come with college life. 
Since Upward Bound was ini­tially established at Notre Dame in 1966 by Robert Christin, it has become the national prototype for Upward Bound Programs across the country. It is one of seven pro­grams of the federally funded TRIO organization, which is dedicated to helping disadvan­taged high school students enter and graduate from col­lege. In concert with the U.S. Department of Education, Notre Dame's Upward Bound works with high school stu­dents who come from families with low-incomes or families where no member has received their four year degree. 
Upward Bound has programs established in four South Bend Community High Schools where faculty and college students work with 90 participants. Students usually apply to the program their freshman year so they can have four years to be immersed in the college preparatory process. 
Applicants must meet certain academic criteria, but Coates emphasizes that it is more important for participants to be willing to devote their time and energy toward the college process than it is to have out­standing grades. 

"We are not only interested in our students having a great grade point average, but that they know how to write well, communicate effectively, and think critically," she said. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have played a crucial role in Upward Bound by serv­ing as tutors and counselors during the academic year com­ponent of the program. In addi­tion to providing help in sub-· jects ranging from science to foreign language, the college students have offered valuable insights on preparing for col­lege admission tests such as the SAT. 
Although the . academic preparations for college are a central focus of Upward Bound, the administrators of the pro­gram face the more important task of changing the mindsets of low-income high school stu­dents who have never been exposed to the idea that going to college can be a reality. Coates believes that the combi­nation of real life and academ­ics made possible by the new project-based mathematics ini­tiative will provide yet another way of proving to students that they are capable of succeeding in college and outside of the classroom setting. 
"[I tell the students] you have untapped potential. You were born for a purpose," she said. "[Upward Bound] establishes real relationships with stu­dents, and it is out of this rela­tionship that we see them respond.'' 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

Energy 
continued from page 1 
mode when not in use. 
"Students can take really simple steps to reduce their energy consumption," she said. "Hopefully, the $100 prize will encourage many students to participate in [conservation]." 
To coincide with the energy conservation contest, Kelly said that associate professor of geo­logical scienceio Clive Neal will present a lecture Feb. 17. Neal said that his lecture provides an opportunity to increase the amount of environmental awaren~ss that occurs on-cam­pus. positions of the 2004 presiden­"I think it is important to tial candidates. She also said 
realize just how  that the club sub­ 
much we take for granted," he  "I think it is  mitted a Freedom of Information  
said. "Being extravagant [with energy usage] means our children and our children's  important to realize just how much we take for granted."  Act request last month to the Environmental Protection Agency to deter­mine the emis­ 
children will have less of these  Virginia Kelley  sion record of Notre Dame's  
important  club co-president  power plant in  

resources." 

Kelly said that the club has other activities planned for the semester, including a clean-up of a sec­tion of Saint Joseph River and a panel discussion to inform stu­dents about the environmental 
the last five 

years. This will help evaluate the extent to which the University uses ener­gy effectively. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

Trial begins for man in activist slaying 
Associated Press 

RAPID CITY, S.D. -An American Indian activist who participated in the Wounded Knee takeover felt her life was in danger when rumors began circulating that she was a gov­ernment informant, federal prosecutors said Tuesday at the trial of a man charged in her 197 5 slaying. 
U.S. Attorney Jim McMahon said Anna Mae Pictou-Aquash, the mother of two and a mem­ber of the Mi'kmaq Jribe of Canada, became involved in the American Indian Movement in 1973 -and the focus of false rumors just before she was abducted and killed execution-style. 
In his opening statement at the trial of Arlo Looking Cloud, McMahon said some of the people the 50-year-old defendant allegedly talked to about his involvement in the killing will testify. 
But Looking Cloud's lawyer argued the defendant was a victim of fate. 
"What Arlo Looking Cloud became embroiled in was 
being at the wrong place at the wrong time," said defense attorney Tim Rensch. 
Opening statements came after a jury -including one American Indian -was selected from 91 potential panelists. 
"She was very scared while she was there," McMahon said of Aquash, who was living in Denver in December 1975. 
The Office of Student Activities is currently accepting .ne\v club proposals. If you ha:ve ~n idea tor a club, whose p~~se is not currently served by an existing club, the Clu~ C:~rdmat10n Com1cil encourages the submission ofa new club proposal to the Student Acttv.ltlcs Office for review. More information can be found at: ..,..•v·\\'.nd.edul-sao/clubs/~ewc1uh ..htm . . . All requirements must be completed before the new club proposal will be rcv1e_w~~· mcludmg. 
Budget List ofplanned events/actlvlttes Advisor List ofofficers Bylaws and purpose statement 



Submit the required information to ..o\my Geist, 314 LaFortune•. by 5pm Friday 
Februarv 13, 2004 for review this year. The next new club ~ev1ew wtll n?t occur 
until Ja~uary 2005. Contact the Student Activities Office w1th any questmns! 



1-800-648-4849/ www.ststravel.com 


Wednesday, February 4, 2004 COJ\1PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
I 0 I dead in suicide bombings 
IRBIL, Iraq -The number of dead rose to 101 Tuesday in the twin suicide bombings of two Kurdish political offices, the highest con­firmed toll in any terrorist attack since the 
U.S. invasion of Iraq. Kurds blamed Ansar al-Islam, a militant group allegedly linked to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida. 
The string of insurgent attacks killed another American soldier Tuesday and came as U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan met with President Bush and announced he'll send a team to Iraq to break an impasse between the U.S.-led coalition and the Shiite Muslim clergy over how to transfer power to Iraqis. 
In Baghdad, the U.. S.-led Coalition Provisional Authority put the death toll from Sunday's attacks against the offices of the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union of Kurd istan at 101, with 133 people still hospitalized. 
Former French PM will appeal 
PARIS -Former Prime Minister Alain Juppe, despite a conviction in party financing scandal, said Tuesday that he will not resign from political office while he appeals his sen­tence. 
The surprise announcement on prime-time national television came amid pleas from Presid€nt Jacques Chirac and others in his conservative camp for Juppe to stay on in politics. 
A court on Friday handed the 58-year-old legislator, mayor of Bordeaux and head of Chirac's governing party an 18-month sus­pended prison sentence and barred him from holding office for 10 years, which would end his political career if upheld on appeal. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
State law to define marriage 
BOSTON -Massachusetts' House delega­tion has sent state lawmakers a letter urging them to defeat a constitutional amendment that would define marriage as a union between a man and a woman. 
The all-Democratic delegation argued that changing the constitution is not the appropri­ate way to resolve differing opinions about gay marriage, which the state's highest court appeared to endorse in a historic November ruling. 
"We are firmly committed to protecting the rights of religions to recognize only such marriage or other unions that they deem legitimate," said the three-paragraph letter,. which was signed by all 10 members of the delegation. "But it has long been the case that states recognize marriages between people that would not meet various religious tests." 
Lieberman calls end to campaign 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Joe Lieberman, unable to inspire Democratic voters who embraced his 2000 vice presidential cam­paign, ended his presidential bid Tuesday night after a string of disappointing defeats, The Associated Press has learned. 
Lieberman skipped Iowa, finished fifth in New Hampshire and had no chance of win­ning any of the seven contests Tuesday night. A senior Democratic official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Lieberman planned to announce his departure Tuesday night. 
STATE NEWS 
Medicaid helps emotional health 
INDIANAPOLIS -Some Indiana children with serious emotional problems soon will get the cross-section of ser.vices they and their caregivers need at home instead of only at hospitals. 
Indiana this week became only the fourth state granted a waiver from federal Medicaid rules so these children -which include about 10 percent of all those between the ages of 9 and 17 in Indiana -can remain in their home communities. 


Kerry wins five states inprimaries 
Edwards wins home state of South Carolina, but loses to Clark in Oklahoma 
Associated Press 
Democratic presidential front-runner John Kerry rolled up big victories and a pile of delegates in five states Tuesday night, while rivals John Edwards and Wesley Clark kept their candidacies alive with sin­gular triumphs in a dra­matic cross-country con­test. 
Edwards easily won his native South Carolina and Clark, a retired Army gen­eral from Arkansas, eked out victory in neighboring Oklahoma. Howard Dean earned no wins and per­haps no delegates, his can­didacy in peril. Joe Lieberman was shut out, too, and dropped out of the race. .. 
"It's a huge night," Kerry told The Associated Press, even as rivals denied him a coveted sweep. 
Racking up victories in Missouri, Arizona, North Dakota, New Mexico and Delaware, Kerry suggested that his rivals were region­al candidates. 
"I compliment John Edwards, but I think you have to run a national campaign, and I think that's what we've shown tonight," the four-term Massachusetts senator said. "You can't cherry-pick the presidency." 
With Iowa. and New Hampshire already in his pocket, Kerry boasts a record of 7-2 in primary season contests, the undis­puted front-runner who had a chance to put twc major rivals away but 


An AP analysis showed ly half of the 269 at stake. Kerry winning 65 pledged Tuesday's results pushed delegates, Edwards 43, Kerry close to 200 dele-Clark five and AI Sharpton gates out of 2,162 needed one, with 155 yet to be for the nomination, includ­allocated. Kerry's wins in ing the superdelegates of Missouri and Arizona were lawmakers and party tradi­the night's biggest prizes, tionalists. Dean trailed by 
I I 
I I
Ricin powder mailed to Sen. Frist 
I 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A jittery Senate faced its second attack with a deadly toxin in 28 months on Tuesday, this time in the form of ricin powder sent to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist. Another letter containing ricin and bound for the White House had been intercepted in November, a law enforcement official disclosed. 
No illnesses were reported in either case, but dozens of Senate workers were being monitored and work in the Senate slowed to a crawl. 
Health experts expressed optimism that casualties would be averted in the new attack. None of the dozens of congressional employees who were near the Tennessee Republican's office on Monday when the white powder was discovered was believed to be sick. 
"As each minute ticks by, we are less and less concerned about the health effects," said Dr. Julie Gerberding, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The ricin-laced letter addressed to the White House had been detected at an offsite mail processing facility, the law enforcement official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The investigation into that letter continues, and there have been no arrests, the official said. Authorities determined the letter posed no threat to health because of the ricin's low potency and granular form. 
On Capitol Hill, all three Senate office buildings were shut Tuesday and were to be closed Wednesday, too. They could be closed the rest of the week. 
That included the Dirksen Senate Office Building, where the substance was found Monday afternoon by a you~g worker in Frist's fourth-floor mailroom. A sign stating "Closed" hung from one of Dirksen's main doors. Yellow sheets cordoned off areas inside. 
The Capitol building -where heavy security and a persistent case of nerves have reigned since the ter­rorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 ­was closed to tourists. . 
Frist and others said tests overnight shov;ed the substance was ricin, a natural and potent poison made by refining castor beans. Frist said the ricin was active, or capable of causing illness, but tests measur­ing its potency were incomplete. 
Health officials urged Senate staff to watch for swiftly developing fever, coughs or fluid in the lungs over the next two or three days. When inhaled nearly 100. 

Democrats award dele­gates based on a candi­dates' showing in congres­sional districts, giving Kerry's rivals a chance to ~ 
I 
, grab a few delegates even 

' 
in contests they lost. I I I I I I I I 
I I I 
in sufficient quantities or injected, I I 
ricin can be fatal -and there is no 
l 
known vaccine or cure. I Frist's offices in Tennessee were I 
' I
also closed as investigators checked I mail there, said Frist spokesman Nick I 
1
Smith. 
In Washington, senators gave many aides the day off and brought others to work in small Capitol offices the lawmakers normally use as private hideaways. 
The FBI and other agencies were conducting other tests. At Fort Detrick, Md., Army scientists were using electron microscopes to deter­mine the size of the ricin's particles -crucial to determining whether any of it may have been inhaled. 
Senate leaders made a show of calm and control. They said they had refined their ability to respond to emergencies since the anthrax attacks of late 2001 with better com­munications and coordination. 
··Things are going very well, not perfectly, but very, well," said Frist, a medical doctor who has advised Capitol colleagues about potential terror attacks through the mail ever since the anthrax letters of late 2001. 
Frist said 16 potentially exposed staff workers had been quarantined Monday night and decontaminated. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February, 4, 2004 

-----~--·-----------­

Wednesday, February 4, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

1,213.53 2,066.21 6,574.82 1,136.03 


NIKJ<E.l(Tokyo) 10,536.92 · •105.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,390.60 +9.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0.80  +0.21  26.41  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.36  -0.0 I  2.78  
JDS UNIPHASE OSDU)  +3.56  +1.08  31.40  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.40  -0.11  27.29  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.98  -0.05  5.05  
.  Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.58  -0.29  49.56  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.23  -0.51  41.00  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.96  -0.62  30.97  
3-MONTH BILL  +I. II  +0.15  9.12  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.)  -0.88  34.10  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +0.60  399.90  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  + 1.275  86.125  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  105.5  
EURO  0.7979  
POUND  0.5444  
CANADIAN$  1.338  

IN BRIEF 
Security firm charged with bribery 
BNEWARK, N.J. -A security company with contracts to protect New York-area airports, bridges and tunnels has been charged with paying bribes to get work and hiring dozens of employees with criminal records. 
Haynes Security Inc. and its president, John D'Agostino, were charged with theft, bribery and conspiracy in an indictment announced Tuesday. 
Among the allegations: Haynes paid more than $1,000 in August 2001 for repairs at the home of a Continental Airlines manager in return for consideration for a contract at the Newark airport. No charges were brought against any Continental employees. 
The security company was also accused of failing to submit employee fingerprints to police as required by law. 
Since 1999, Haynes has held $12 million in annual contracts to provide security at Newark, Kennedy and LaGuardia airports in New York, as well as the Holland and Lincoln tunnels and the George Washington Bridge. 
Gateway to buy eMachines, Inc. 
SAN DIEGO -In its latest attempt to find profits in the notoriously low-margin personal computer business, Gateway Inc .. will buy pri­vately held eMachines Inc. in a deal valued at $235 million. 
The combined company would still trail Dell Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co., but executives hope the increased volume will give it more leverage in negotiating with suppliers. A simi­lar argument was made when BP announced it was buying Compaq Computer Corp. in 2001. 
"There's an element of last man standing here," said Roger Kay, an analyst at· the research firm IDC. "The PC industry is defi­nitely consolidating and, at this stage, bulk counts." 
Gateway and eMachines each had about 3.4 percent of the total U.S. market in the fourth quarter of last year, according to IDC. By com­parison, Dell and HP commanded more than half. 
The agreement announced Friday came a day after Gateway posted itS 12th loss in 13 quarters. 
CORPORATE SCANDAL . 

Testimony damages Stewart 
Former Merrill Lynch assistan{ takes stand, strengthens government's case 
A.ssodated Press 
NEW YOHK -The gov­
ernment's star witness 
against Martha Stewart 
testified Tuesday that 
Stewart's stockbroker 
ordered him to pass an 
ImClone Systems stock tip 
to Stewart just before she 
dumped her shares in the 
company. 
Douglas Faneuil, a for­
mer ass istan t at Merrill 
Lynch & Co., testified that 
broker Peter Bacanovic 
ordered him on Dec. 27. 
2001. to alert Stewart that 
the family of ImClone · 
Systems founder Sam 
Waksal was trying to sell 
its shares. 
Faneuil. 28, said he 
expressed concern and 
asked Bacanovic whether 
passing such a tip would 
be appropriate. 
"Of course. You must. That's the whole point," he said Bacanovic replied. 
Faneuil described a hec­tic morning in which he fielded calls from Waksal's accountant and both of Waksal's daughters, all ordering him to sell the family's lmClone shares immediately. 

Waksal later admitted he had advance word of a decision to be released the next day -a negative gov­ernment report on an ImClone cancer drug -to be sold. government says impli­Faneuil said. "It was a that would send the stock The government claims cates Stewart. great working relationship. tumbling. Stewart and Bacanovic Martha Stewart was one He was demanding yet 
Faneuil said he called then cooked up a false of Bacanovic's two most appreciative." Bacanovic, who was on story and repeatedly lied to valuable clients, Faneuil Earlier Tuesday, a vacation in Florida, to dis­investigators, saying they testified. Bacanovic was defense attorney sought to cuss the flurry of selling by had a pre-existing close enough to the style undermine the credibility the Waksals. He said arrangement to sell maven that he got some of Faneuil by getting a for­Bacanovic blurted: "Oh my ImClone when it fell to $60 shares in Stewart's own mer supervisor to admit God, get Martha on the per share. company when it went she once reprimanded him phone." Faneuil's testimony, public, he said. for cursing on company e­
Stewart was unavailable delayed by five days after Faneuil was steady in his mail. Judy Monaghan, an and on her way to her own the judge penalized prose­answers to prosecutor administrator at Merrill vacation in Mexico. But she cutors. for being too slow in Karen Patton Seymour, and Lynch & Co., also said she called later in the day and turning over an FBI docu­he praised his ex-boss. told Faneuil to stop using ordered her entire stable ment, is the most critical "Peter [Bacanovic] was company e-mail for per­of 3,928 shares of ImClone piece of the puzzle that the the best boss I ever had," sonal messages. 



Higher tax on cigarettes proposed 
smoking," Thompson said. Richmond, the nation's top public
Associated Press 

The 10-point plan endorsed by the health official under President Carter 
WASHINGTON -Four former sur­former surgeons general and other from 1977 to 1981. geons general on Tuesday unveiled a health advocates seeks additional About three out of four smokers plan to reduce smoking that included tobacco research, better doctor train­seek to quit, but fewer than 5 percent a $2-per-pack tax they predicted ing and an extensive media campaign who quit for a day are able to sustain would prompt at least 5 million smok­explaining the dangers of smoking. that for longer periods. ers to quit. It also urges that the cigarette excise "If we act now, we can prevent 
They also called for a nationwide tax be raised from the current 39 tomorrow's cancer, emphysema and counseling and support line for smok­cents to $2.39, of which 50 percent of health disease," said David Satcher, ers trying to quit, an idea that immedi­the proceeds -or $14 billion -who served under Presidents Clinton ately was put into practice by Health would go toward paying for the vari­and George W. Bush from 1998-2002. and Human Services Secretary Tommy ous aspects of the plan. Jennifer Golisch, a spokeswoman for Thompson. About 50 million Americans smoke, tobacco giant Philip Morris USA Inc., 
Thompson said more than $25 mil­with many of them concentrated in said that while the company supports lion would be dedicated for the toll­poor neighborhoods where treatment government efforts to educate the free, national "quitline" that will be is not widely available. Health officials public about smoking, a $2 per pack established by year's end. States also have estimated that smoking causes excise tax could promote tax evasion. would receive additional funding to about 440,000 premature deaths per "We are opposed to the proposed either supplement or create their own year and costs the nation $75 billion in federal excise tax increases because quitline services. direct health care expenses. cigarette excise taxes could have unin­
"The benefit of this network is that it "It is the equivalent of another 9-11 tended consequences," she said. "For provides a single access point for World Trade Center, Pentagon and example, smokers may purchase from smokers so that every smoker can get Pennsylvania disaster occurring about the Internet and Native American ter­the tools that he or she needs to stop every two days," said Dr. Julius ritories." 


p 
THE OBSER\'ER 
page 8 
Wednesday, February 4, 2004 
lHt·. d1l:s:E:itVE'R]i:!:i: 
rr,.J.......,, ~~&n,;,.zN.m ~>-• •.J.s.o.t~•. 




Helping friends in need 
EO. &x Q, Nl}{tc lilitp~ 1N 4li5'Yl· 014 $0tith.DiningHalliN@f l)airitdN46)%< EDITOR IN CHIEF Andrew Soukup 


proves a Catch-22 
MANAGING EDITOR . . > BUSlNESS MANAGER 
Scott Bt()dfudu-~ · Loci ~ki · 
Am: MANActNo-Emroa 
Sheila Flynn 
NEWS Emro.a: Meghanne Downes·..· · · V~OlNT EDtroR:. s.it~h va.b~la!i .. 
. , ..-.-.....•....... -. 

·SCiiN£ . EDITQll{M~i;~. __ __ Sfutilf . . 
.. _. ._. ·-·-·.'. ' . 
SAJNr MARY's EorroR: A.J:Ih~liese Woolford PHoro EDITOR: Tirtl. Kacmar •.. · CRAJ>}:IICS EDrroR: ' . Mike . Harkins 
. ' 
AoVEKmiNGMANAGER:•.• Maura. CeA~della AD DESIGN MANAGER: T6ni Haight SYSTEMS AoMINISTitATOR: J'hl Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATORi Todd Nie:fu .·. 
I -• • , • ' , • , • • • -• 
·Co~TRoll.Ea; P~~~~ Gar~ia . 
· CoN'TAtrtUs . ·/ < 

(574': ;~~y,i'! 
(574Y6J16917
ADVERST~I~G) 
(~74}631~69®•••·•·•.9l:i&¢i'Vad~rid.edu 
•. 
· ····· · EonollilfCHtEF·• ··· · . . . (S74)63b4544 . .· .. . . . MANAGINGEonofi &AsSiSTANt MANAGING EilllOR (5.{4)..6,3I.~454l••·•..·•·· oh~fll~nd;edu ··· ·. 80SINIS~f0FFICE >>>> . 
·•·•••··••·.·••••········•···•· ·<~f4).~M4n.3 ····•···· ...··•·· ··••·• ...
••· > •··. ....... ·. ·• ·.·NEvis DESK. < ...... •.· <.· ..·• ..·.<574) 9-3.t;$3~$·•·····•••9W#~.l@h4.edu 
......· \ > <Jfi£Wptui'rrp£si< >.·. 
(i}4)6Jl-5~~rsv~iifi&t·tzosd.e~u 
< (?74) §31'"~5.~? < sp()#~.J@#!:f.#44 \ . 

·················(5j4)···~~.1·~45~~:•·f~~e.·l~J1#.~11····················· .·· 
...·.~=.4.7•).~
~.~7.p.•.·.: ..•...•.'ro'.•.·.•.•·.·.•,.~.l~.·.•··m········~... m.•8.. ~
' jj; ~~~~~~~s~i(:.<.&.. .. .•.•.. '...........~8..•.:.:l.·.·.'.:.•.•. .•,...••.d.~!~~~~~~ ;lC:ii[... w 

.\>)<?\::~~;(~{\(// ~ ~ u~. ~::~ .·. :::::::::::::::~t:... :~:{{):::::::·:···· 
..•• <) l O~~~RVERONL/NE {:\·. ··.· · ·. ·. ····· .·.·.·.· ·.·.·.· ·· WW\V.ndsnKobseri&r~conf < :: ...... · 


··························•••:···················
•···············Tfi~.Ob~o/er ..is•·~he maerenAAn.t·•~w~J;~J*·•••·••••••········
.·. puhli#led in ptint iilid oruif)e by the iit~ts Of dk ..•.·.. ·. . 
.···•·eou~lil\#~itrEd.~fN?a1.t~IJ~!tU_~llli~~·?fM~~ >.>·.·• .•• 
.•..··...·ege. . UOrJ ..•• COnlellf.lnqualng au~nsements;tS ·not governed.by<polkic:s Qf)he ~dminisliatiohOfeithei <••···· 
.:!~Jlnr:b~~~~··tbe.iight••to.•r~e••··•·• 
. .· The tie-Ws is rep(irtdtas ~ratdy md 9h}ictivelyas ···· possib.I~.··••\J~d~~o~#p~~~t.·t$~.•9PW~•of•····
.t.e ·:l·. •.... ••~L":~t:e•t:•;s:•· •... ••' •/.,t::~c ..M·•. •••• .•,....... ·c;t:r . . •
<~l. ID. )Qflt}'.t» UJ... ~tl)flfl '•c-4"%.. ··• aMgUlg ~ Qt:, · 
Assisrlfur Managing &tiro!:ana l;kpaitineht t'dlrors. ···· 
Commentaries, lettersand ¢0l!linrupre5entthe views 
<i the :u,uh()r~ and no( n~~y dl<»e ~fThe .·· 
Obsemr, ·•·· ............·.· ..· ....... 
..VIeWpoint!~ is aWilabl¢ tci all reader$. Thefree> • expression ofallopinions thro(igh letters ·is. ~cooraged. ·. ·.· letters to the Editor mUst ~ signed and mUSt ifldud~: . contact information,. 
·Qr«!tiQnJ rtgarding ()Qs(nlrrpolicit'S shou/4 b~ dirrctd w Editor in CJii4AndrrwSOtikup. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
n.Oh<c<~ (tJSI>S S9ij 1.46llo) u p<J>I~hd M<m<tar <bmu~ friday <1<1'1'• d•ring <..Ill....! """'li•A PI''~ 1\..~ipt~~ Ill Th<~root i$ $.1WJ<ir.-~ y...:mlor<mc~r.> · ·.. : i.> ..•·.·.•·· .••. 
·~~:r;::,·;r~~ ~· ·.· · ~1~!,;(~m w. 
· Nd'" o~~itN46.s~m• · . ·t!U:~rv<:r ··.·. · ·· · · l'=ri<>&alj><li'Oj!t p:.id >< Nom: D:....C: · 00, lli>x Q •·••• •..• •• ·. ·• •· ""d •d.lltX>oal roal~o, Rffio:i:,.. • · ~24 Sour~ IJih~.IlaU • •· . • Ntx.., Damt; IN '!6~51\..Sm 
. ' .. 
n.~ O!ucr~ .... *'=~ .;,~ ~~ ~ N! 'T'oi.c.ia~ <ill>"~ 
««tV«!. •..... . . .•• •............. ... •:. :•. ·.< ... .. .... .. .. . •. . .. •••.•. ·.. . 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Anneliese Woolford Joe Hettler 
Will Puckett Megan Hawley Kate Gales Ann Loughery Viewpoint Scene, 
Alyssa Rama Brauweiler Gottumukkala Graphics Illustrator Paul Ronc·al Pat Quill 

It's dark, the wind is howling, and the snow that is spiraling sideways into your face has a sting to it that only leaves your skin red and chapped. It piles onto the foot and a half that is already on the ground and sup­
Adam Cahill

presses the hope of any indication of spring in the near future. A Domer's 
It really doesn't Outlook matter too much to you though; this temporary hell that you're going through on your way to work is the fur­thest thing from your mind these days. School has even taken a back seat to what seems like an anvil on your chest, choking off your once-strong br:eaths of oxygen. There's never more of a des­perately helpless feeling than being a friend of a loved one who is going through hell, and not being able to do anything about it. 
You could drive five hours to the hos­pital and listen to the doctor say the same thing that he has told 50 other people and try to convince the nurses that the initials I.C.U. have no bearing on your visitation rights. Or. you could pick your moment to be the less over~ bearing but nonetheless caring friend that they know you are. Clearly, it is your decision and it would seem that either choice would be suitable -or so one would think. 
The second-most important thing about college, if not the first, is the peo­ple that we spend it with. But yet, even with the great times that are sure to become some of the best moments of your life, there are just as surely going to be those times that try the person you are attempting to become. The most difficult part of being a college student is becoming close enough to those around you that the terms "broth~ er" and "sister" aren't just terms used 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
for blood relations, and then see them struggle in different aspects of life. And to tell you the truth, it's a hard thing to talk about, these real problems among people who seemingly just yesterday learned how to drive or had their first kiss. 
College is hard on everyone. It's hard on the mind, body and souL And when you see a sister of yours lose incredible amounts of weight in little or no time or a friend whose drinking week starts on Monday and ends Sunday night 
to the point of being two completely different peo-to do, do the opposite. ple -it tries on you. Don't do anything out Not because it is of the ordinary embarrassing to be except be yourself. their friend or And if random acts because you've lost of kindness aren't any amount of in your plethora of respect for them things to do for -but because friends, now you care. wouldn't be such 
And in attempt­a bad time to ing to help them start. Because we may come to they wouldn't be find that the help your friends we do try to give is unless they didn't not wanted, or even like you for whom appreciated. But as you are. Be yourself. a friend we still want Things will only get to stand firm and hope worse if you try to that the loneliness and force yourself on some­desperate behaviorisms that scream for us to stay out. It is the world's original Catch-22 -ifyou try to help, then he ends up getting angry because he doesn't want your pity, and if you don't try and help, then you aren't a caring friend. So you keep looking for ways out for the both of you and then hours, days or weeks later when you still can't put yourself into his position, you feel like a failure as a friend. There is no means to the end and you wander aimlessly in the desert of friendship, looking for a way 
out. 
away are really whispers for help. 
How do we respond to these signs as friends? Is there a right way to handle it without alienating a good friend that will eventually shut us out if we keep trying to help him? Racking your brain day in and day out, you try and try and try again to put yourself in his shoes to figure out his situation so you can understand and eventually do some­thing to help him; and when it comes down to it, you can't. You can't figure it 
So as you walk back to·your dorm into a brutal wind you smile for the first time in weeks -all they have to know is that you care. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American studies major. His column appears every other Wednesday, He can be contacted at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What new residence hall options would you like to see at Notre Dame? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at ww\v.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..True friendship is a plant ofslow grow. and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity before it is entitled to the appelation.., 
George Washington 
U.S. President 
• 
p
Wednesday, February 4, 2004 page 9 



Subway, soup and South Beach: Sampling fad diets 
It's no secret. America is fatter than the would-be diabetic love child of Kathy Bates and Luciano Pavarotti. We lead notoriously sedentary lifestyles that make Christopher Reeve seem like an Olympic athlete, 
Joey Falco 

and we comple­
ment that with the 
eating habits of 
Forty Ounces 

Shamu. It's also no 
for Falco

secret, though, that 
Americans are 
always on the look­
out for the quickest, easiest way to 
solve any problem. 
Enter the weird, wild world of instant gratification diets. From the fairly popular, carbohydrate-loathing Atkins Diet to the absolutely prepos­terous Cabbage Soup Diet, nutrition­ists, dieticians and crackpots alike have spent the past several years forc­ing just about anything down the throats of innocent, obese Americans in the hope that it might help them lose a few chins. 
Now maybe it's just me, but I simply cannot comprehend what could drive a person to subject himself to several weeks of eating nothing but cabbage soup, vegetable juice, grapefruit or Subway sandwiches. 
However, my mother taught me never to be a bigot, so I felt deter­mined to at least attempt to under­stand tbe culture. ,of this peculiar species of human. In the process, I hoped to even serve all of humanity by determining once and for all which diet deserves the coveted title of "Still Stupid, But At Least A Little Better Than The Other Ones." 
Day One -The Atkins Diet: I figured I'd start things off simple, because, honestly, how hard could it be to play Fred Flintstone and stuff myself with red meat and cheese all day? Unfortunately, while passing through the lower level of LaFortune, I was strangely entranced by the sweet­smelling fumes wafting from Sbarro's. So, with a symbolic stomp on the grave of Dr. Atkins himself, I helped myself to a slice of Sicilian. Ruling: About as college-friendly as meningitis. 
Day Two-The South Beach Diet: While perusing the general guidelines to this increas­ingly popular regimen, my eye was instantly drawn to the fact that alcohol was forbid­den during the first two months. I instantly pulled a Fahrenheit 451 on this book and continued my divine quest. Ruling: So not worth it. 
Day Three­The Grapefruit · Diet: Voluntarily consume less than 800 calories per day while including half a grapefruit with each pathetic meal. Where can I sign up? But though it might work well at first, but it's not very smart, and you'll eventually realize that you are probably better off without it. Ruling: This diet is 
• 
abaut as straight as a hobbit. Day Four-The Carbohydrate­Addict's Diet: Just glancing at the name of this miracle meal plan sent shivers down my spine. However, upon experi­menting with its strict routine, which essen­tially consisted of starving oneself all day in prepara­tion for a "Reward Meal" that would 
include one serving of carbohy­
drates, I found myself gnawing on 
my own arm for nourish­ment throughout the day. Ruling: Promotes 
cannibal­
ism. 
Day Five -The Hollywood 
48-Hour Diet: If it was 
endorsed by Hollywood, it had to be good, 

so I purchased this 32-ounce plas­tic bottle of juice · that was intended to feed me for two days. The plan only provided for an intake of 400 calories per day, and all of it came from this 
so-called miracle juice, a pale orange 
concoction that tasted remarkably 
similar to swan droppings. Ruling: 
After two days on this diet, even Rosie 
O'Donnell will bear a striking resem­
blance to Kerri Strug. 
Sadly, as my arduous and noble quest came to an end, I still had yet to uncover the miracle diet that might one day deliver the human race to sal­vation. In fact, I had actually gained three pounds and an unexpected pho­bia of sliced citrus. I did, however, learn some valuable information that could quite possibly save the Notre Dame student body from an imminent future of obesity. 
First, a bit of eating etiquette. Just because campus-wide theology discus­sions might desperately offer free pizza in the hopes of luring students does not mean that God wants you to eat it. Even He knows it will make you fat. Also, cut back on the soda. And the pop, for that matter. It offers absolutely no health benefits, and as far as I'm concerned, it fails miserably at even quenching the slightest bit of thirst. Try water. It actually tastes a lot like Keystone Light. 
Finally, do your best to limit your trips to the pasta bar. A single serving of the majority of what you'll find there contains well over the total number of calories that an active male should consume in an entire day, and it no doubt plays a crucial role in the fostering of the Freshman Fifteen. Because of this, I ask that all of you join me in tonight's protest of the din­ing hall's nutrition standards. 
There will be free pizza for all who attend. 
Joey Falco is a freshman double­majoring in political science and Spanish. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Whathappenedto divine providence? 
Salutations to my friend and fellow Glee Club member on hiatus, Bill Rinner. Mr. Rinner has been offering The Observer his loquacious and abundant views since the fall, and it is high time someone acknowl­edged his generosity. 
Indeed, Mr. Rinner's latest offering, his Feb. 2 columri entitled "Don't appeal to Catholicism in election," is indicative of his literary altruism: a simple critic is confront­ed with such a copious wealth of beliefs that one hardly knows where and how to begin. Would a discussion of divine fate amply con­vey Mr. Rinner's basal magnanimity? He opines that "those who seek divine inspira­tion will likely end up at the polling booth trumpeting a skewed notion of God's will." 
Not only am I thankful to be informed that the voting booth has ceased to be an exclu­sively private operation and now serves as a public fanfare of opinion, but more impor­tantly, Mr. Rinner reveals that seeking divine inspiration is a sure way to contravene God's will. This is news to a misinformed per~on such as -myself, who until now has mistaken­ly practiced the outdated methods of "prayer" and "firm reliance on divine provi­dence" that characterize obsolete entities such as the United States Congress and the Declaration of Independence. I thank God, or rather Mr. Rinner, that his philanthropic nature prompts such underlying truths as "We don't ask God to run our country, nor does He influence any election." 
Perhaps nothing better captures Mr. Rinner's surplus as his profligate use of sec­ond-person pronouns, utilizing "you" or "your" 25 times throughout his article. In the hands of a lesser being, such prose would be considered an offense to grammar and post­secondary education, much less an exercise in both absurdity and intellectual insecurity. However, Mr. Rinner deftly negotiates such concerns with the air of a demigod: "You couldn't decide if you preferred Bush or Gore so you looked at your 'WWJD?' wristband 
. for some sign of inspiration. Oh, the folly of man." Since Mr. Rinner so ably divines mor­tal thoughts and motivations, he no doubt has already sensed my fervent wish that he might continue to bless us with his bounty. 
Mario Bird senior $[anford Hall Feb. 3 


Americans are overreacting to halftime show 
In response to Michael Derocher's Feb. 3 letter regard­ing the Superbowl and Janet Jackson's breast -get over it already. It's just a breast. I find it hard to believe that the rest of the· world hates America because a woman shows her breast on television, because, somehow, somewhere, it's been acknowledged that, yes, "geni­talia" exists in America. Just as I find it hard to believe that to show or not show a breast has anything to do with fighting a war in Iraq. Blessed nation? In whose eyes? And what does that sort ofjockeying of this most holy, sacred position do to our perceptions of other nations, which, in case we've forgotten, make up the rest of the world? 
Make them "unblessed?" By 
whom? I think we have to be very careful with trying to keep a structure of a tight, rigid "morality," which today is more based on ideas of making sure that we as a nation don't lose any of those creature comforts we have convinced ourselves that we need, having lost sight ages ago of the diffe.rence between need and desire. To "defend" these, no matter what the costs, and no matter to whom, is a very dangerous basis by which to live one's life. That's the Disney version that got us into this mess in the first place. 
Emily Phillips assis[am professor scenic design Feb. 3 


page 10 Wednesday, February 4, 2004 




Controversial film about Irish Catholic history comes to Notre Dame 
isolated by the Church 
By KATIE WAGNER and 

(Eileen Walsh) is sexually
MARIA SMITH 
abused by a priest.
Scene Movie Critic and Scene Editor 

The film is set in the 1960s, but the Magdalene 
When Peter Mullen's drama about Laundries were still widely the Magdalene Laundries run by the used until the 1970s. The Sisters of Mercy in Ireland came out in last laundry closed only in 2002, the Catholic League for 1996. Religious and Civil Rights condemned . Although the Catholic the movie as anti-Catholic propagan­Leauge acknowledged the da. historical accuracy and 
The Magdalene Sisters portrays the importance of the film, they lives of girls who still objected to the were sent into de portrayal of Church facto slave labor in authorities in the
"As an academic, I 
the laundries, sup­film. posedly in payment think this is the "[The directors] for various sins. place to bring this have focused on cruel 
The Magdalene nuns, who were sure­
film. Even ifpeople
Laundries removed ly atypical, and pre­
think that this film 
women from their sented them as being homes and placed is anti-Catholic, typical." Louis them into prisons Giovino, director of
that's fine, but the 
run by the Catholic Communications for Church for· being point is to get the Catholic League, 
Photo courtesy of www.imdl>.com

accused of partici­people to think said in a 2003 press 
Rose (Dorothy Duffy), an unwed mother, Is forced to participate In unpaid labor for her
pating in behavior release when the film
about these things" 
"sins," while also being sexually abused by priests and nuns In "The Magdalene Sisters." 
that was considered was released in the-sexually immoral. atres. Ironically, not only Daniel Mattern "This is a game that can be Institute professor Daniel Mattern tory acts against women took so long were these women Professor played with any demographic said. "Even if people think that this to be exposed is shocking. forced to partici­group and with any institution. film is anti-Catholic, that's fine, but "Not the least of the alarming pate in unpaid Just gather all the dirty laun­the point is to get people to think aspects of The Magdalene Sisters and labor for their dry, pack it tightly and present about these things." wider controversies is why we had to "sins," but some were sexually abused it as if it were reality." In order to provide context for the wait until the 1990s and 2000s for by priests and nuns. The directors film the Institute these· grievances to be aired," Gibbons 
Rape victim Margaret (Ann Marie of the Women in has asked English said.
"The Magdalene Sisters" 
Duff), the merely flirtatious European Film and Irish Studies "Silence itself is part of the suffer­
Director: Peter Mullan
Bernadette (Nora Jane Noone) and series sponsored professor Luke ing, just as cover-ups are parts of 
Writer: Peter Mullan
unwed mother Rose (Dorothy DufO are by the Nanovic Gibbons to· intro­crime, and the sustained secrecy over 
Starring: Geraldine McEwan, Anne-Marie
all taken away from the families to be Institute felt this duce the histori­decades reveals the extent of the veil
Duff, Nora-Jane Noone and Eileen Walsh
punished with the permission of their was not only an cal context of the of silence thrown over abuse." fathers. appropriate but February s, 2004 at 7 p.m. film and lead a Another striking aspect of this scan­
One particularly humiliating part of a Iso an imPor-Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Ubrary discussion after­dal was that no Catholic men were this film is the stripping of these tant film to bring wards. given equivalent punishments for women by nuns. Margaret, Bernadette to campus. Mattern is engaging in sexual behavior or for and Rose's breast, butts and pubic "As an academic, I think this is the pleased that the presentation of this being accused for doing so. hair are evaluated. Another woman place to bring this film," Nanovic film is being paired with an academic "The Magdalene Laundries became a 
look at the issues particularly dis­and said that is turbing example important the sig­of how the patri­nificance of this "It's a particularly archal structure 
film be explained disturbing element of Irish society, 
and the film be the overwhelming
ofthe history ofthe
"contextualized." in s·t it uti on a I The treatment of Catholic Church. power of the women during the {It] is particularly Catholic hierar­
Magdalene chy, and the Irish
relevant now
Laundries sounds Catholic Church's all too familiar to because the very strong focus the Church's recent Catholic Church in on sexual morality problems with and especially
America is under 
pedophilia in the female chastity 
priesthood. fire after some of essentially made "It's a particularly its own secrets Irish women sec­disturbing element ond-class citi­
have come to light" 
of the history of the zens," said Harris. Catholic Church," Notre Dame's English and Irish Susan Harris screening of this Studies professor Professor film is part of the Susan Harris said. Nanovic Institute's "The Magdalene Women in Sisters is particu-European Film larly relevant now series. It will be shown in the Carey because the Catholic Auditorium, on Thursday Feb. 5, at 7 Church in America is p.m. under fire after some of 


Photo courtesy of.www.imdb.com its own secrets have Contact Katie Wagner at Sister Bridget (Geraldine McEwan) leads Rose (Dorothy Duffy), Bernadette (Nora-Jane come to light." kwagner@nd.edu and Maria Smith at Noone) and Margaret (Anne-Marie Duff) to their new life of "atonement" for their sins. That these discrimina-msmith4@nd.edu 
·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
--------------------------------------------~--------­

THE 0BSER\'ER 
E

Wednesday, February 4, 2004 


page 11 
DVD REVIEW 

1Say hello to nty little friend' 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Scene DVD Critic 
The chainsaw is a rather unappreci­ated instrument in cinema history. It has made appearances in many genre-defining films, such as Texas Chainsaw Massacre, as well as sever­al cult hits such as the Evil Dead tril­ogy. A chainsaw adds a very visceral element to a film for obvious reasons, and it is used in the superior film, Scarface, directed by Brian De Palma, once again to great effect. 
Many people are reading this arti­cle, and quietly saying to themselves, "Chainsaw... Scarface.... wtf?". Those would be the people who have not seen the. movie. The chainsaw scene is one of the most infamous scenes in the entire movie, and I will not spoil it for those who have not yet watched it. However, I will say that the portion of the film in which it was used was the turning point for the protagonist, Tony Montana, and the movie would not have been the same with its 

absence. 

Scarface is a dark, violent movie chronicling the rise and fall of Tony Montana, played by AI Pacino in an over-the-top performance. It is a grim portrayal of the 1980s underworld with violent dealings and double crosses. And it is a great movie. 
The main character, Tony Montana, is an interesting man, but a shallow character. Always wanting what he doesn't have, and then ignoring what he does, Tony Montana goes through the movie constantly pushing himself and the people around him, always trying to gain more power and drugs. Of course, this usually results in vio­lence. 
So far, this review has been painting a fairly inaccurate portrayal of the movie. Although it is a violent movie, the violence portrayed makes up a small portion of the actual screen time. The movie runs almost three hours long, and it is filmed in a slow, deliberate manner that is often rare in these current times. 
The film quality, as well as the sound, is not of the highest quality. The video is often grainy, with some discoloration and blurring. The sound is also of rather mediocre quality. For all of you out there with surround sound, (don't all raise your hands at once) the sound only comes from the center channel. All things considered 

though, this is the best version you will find on DVD, as the previous one, released in 1998, was one of the worst DVDs ever released. 
The special features are almost make up for the quality however, as it features discussions by Oliver Stone, Brian De Palma and AI Pacino. A com­mentary track is noticeably absent, however, as well as any input by Michelle Pfeiffer. 
As an interesting note, the makers of this DVD also decided to toss in a little thing called "Def Jam Presents: Origins of a Hip Hop Classic." It runs 
--· 
about 30 mintues long, and features rappers praising Scarface. Interesting ... almost makes up for a lack of com­mentary, or not. 
Scarface has a couple of flaws as a DVD, but as a movie it i6 almost flaw­less. If you haven't seen it yet, and didn't think that the Lord of the Rings trilogy took too long to watch, then do yourself a favor, and check this movie out. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Cast charms in fun family comedy 
Cheaper by the Dozen. This update adjusting to their new surroundings miserably. Not only do his kids begin
By TREVOR GASS 
from 1950 is the story of a family cop­proves to be an uneasy task, finding loathing their once loveable father but Scene Movie Critic 
ing with their move from their long that they don't quite fit in with this also the university finds that Tom's time home in Illinois when Tom gets new "urban culture." The story takes attention to his family is having Imagine what it would be like to be his dream job working as the head a twist when the mom, Kate (Bonnie adverse effects on their team's per­taking 12 classes this semester. Now. football coach for his alma mater, Hunt), is swept away from the family formance. It comes to everybody's instead of them being divvied up M-W­Northwestern. to New York. Her book, based on the attention that though Tom can be a F or T-Th, what if they were every sin­The movie follows the family's tran­memoirs of her family of 12, has final­great coach and a great father, in this gle day? Throw in a fvll time job on sition from easy country living to life ly been published and her public rela­case, he cannot do both. The choice top of all that, and welcome to Tom in Chicago and the hilarious conflict tions manager tells her that it will sell comes down to work or family, a ques­Baker's (Steve Martin} world in that ensues. For the Baker children, only if she goes on a publicity tour for tion that many still face in today's 
two weeks. The lifelong dreams of world. both Tom and Kate have now been If you broke up this movie's main answered, but they soon find that concepts into three categories, you when . some would end up dreams become with family, fami­
reality, a night­"Cheaper by the Dozen" ly and family. Not mare ensues. 
surprisingly, Each child in that's what this this baker's movie is about. dozen has their Overall Cheaper own set distinct Director: Shawn levy by the Dozen is a characteristics Writer: Craig Tltley light comedy with and personali­Starring: Steve Martin, Bonnie Hunt, Piper a wholesome fam­ties, and the Perabo, Tom Welling, Hilary Duff, Kevin ily feel, if some­directors made a Schmidt and Ashton Kutcher what unoriginal good effort in due to the obvious 
having each one personality contribute to the story. There's the stereotypes that were assigned to each jock, the troublemaker, the prep, the of the children. skater, etc. Each has their own role in Go into this movie ready to laugh, the movie, whether it be to add more but don't expect to get any inspira­conflict to the plot or to simply make tionally groundbreaking ideas on how the audience laugh, which is a fre­to raise twelve kids. This movie won't quent occasion when Kate leaves Tom be seen at the Oscars at any rate, but alone with the kids. there's nothfng saying that it's not a 
Balancing his fulltime coaching job good choice to go out and see with at Northwestern and-the lives of friends (or family). twelve other people, Tom attempts to develop a winning team while keeping the family he -loves intact. He fails Contact Trevor Gass at tgass@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 4, 2004 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Xavier upsets No. 10 Cincinnati 71-69 at home 
head with 4. 9 seconds left,
Chalmers scores 20 
Cincinnati's 18th turnover. points in Musketeers Cincinnati initially tried to get the ball inside to Jason Maxiell,11th win ofseason who was covered. 
"We knew they wanted to go to Maxiell," Xavier forward 
Associated Press 
Anthony Hicks said. "I wanted to 
CINCINNATI -No profane force him higher, because he's taunts, no technical fouls, no on­no threat from the outside. court tussles. The city's basket­When we did that, they didn't ball rivalry was more civil this know what to do." time around. Florida State 81, No. 15 
Until Xavier got 'em again, Georgia Tech 65 that is. For the third straight home 
Lionel Chalmers scored 20 game, Florida State's Tim Pickett points and hit a fadeaway came on after halftime to lead jumper with 27 seconds left the Seminoles to a victory over a Tuesday night, leading Xavier to ranked team. a 71-69 victory over No. 10 Pickett scored 25 of his career­Cincinnati. high 33 points in the second half 
The Musketeers (11-9) pulled and the Seminoles beat No. 15 off another stun-Georgia Tech. ' ning upset of their "He's a tremen­crosstown rival by dous scorer, a
"Our fans were
getting big games tough shot maker," 
amazing. That had 
from their two Georgia Tech 
senior guards. a lot to do with the coach Paul Hewitt 
• JJ
Chalmers said of Pickett. "If repeatedly drove wzn. you've seen him to the basket and before you know 
made floating Lionel Chalmers he's more than jumpers over the Xavier guard capable of knock­outstretched arms ing down those of the Bearcats' shots." brawnier front line. Romain Sato Pickett was 7 -of-8 from the added 18 points with a game­field, including 4-of-5 from 3­high 11 rebounds for the home point range, and made seven the chancellor, No. 19 Texas despite tying a season-low for The Cowboys took a 53-39 team. free throws without a miss in the Tech beat Baylor. points. Illinois scored 20 points lead early in the second half on a Cincinnati (15-3) has lost six of second half despite Hewitt Andre Emmett scored 25 in the first half Jan. 10 against 3-pointer by Lucas. The Aggies its last eight games against switching defenders in hopes of points for the Red Raiders, who Purdue and had 51 points in a went on an 11-2 run to get with­Xavier, which usually plays its slowing him down. snapped a two-game losing loss to Providence on Dec. 9. in 55-51, but Oklahoma State best against its crosstown rival. "Everybody had a try," Hewitt streak. No. 13 Oklahoma State 91, answered with a run that includ­That eight-year stretch includes said. Illinois 51, Indiana 49 TexasA&M 79 ed consecutive baskets by two upsets when Cincinnati was Pickett wasn't taking any indi­Deron Williams scored all 12 Texas A&M kept pushing to Janavo Weatherspoon to make it 
.. 
64-53. '...·..... :~.l
ranked No. 1. vidual credit. of his points in the second half the end. No. 13 Oklahoma State 
Cincinnati coach Bob Huggins "We just tried to make them do and Nick Smith hit two long pushed harder. Lucas scored the Cowboys' criticized Xavier fans leading up things they don't want to do," he jumpers late in the game, help­John Lucas scored 27 points final six points. . to the game, and Bearcats play­said. ''I'm just trying to do what­ing Illinois rally for a 51-49 vic­and Tony Allen had 13 of his 21 "It's a pretty big win for us," ers said the game was more ever it takes to win." tory Tuesday over Indiana. in the second half for the Allen said. ··we have some tough important to the Musketeers -a Florida State point guard Nate The Illini (14-5, 5-3 Big Ten) Cowboys, who held off Texas games coming up and this was way of belittling the small Jesuit Johnson, who had nine assists, entered the game as the Big A&M for their sixth straight vic­important for us to carry that school. acknowledged what Pickett does Ten's highest-scoring team but tory. momentum down the stretch to 
Chalmers would have none of for the Seminoles. hardly resembled it against the The Cowboys shot 69 percent Iowa State. This was a credit to it. "When he gets going there's Hoosiers. Illinois shot just 39 in the second half. our practicing hard." 
"Our fans were amazing," he not too much anybody can do," percent from the field and was "We ran some special scoring Jesse King led the Aggies with said. "That had a lot to do with Johnson said. "He can get his just 2-of-16 from 3-point range. plays and we executed those 19 points and Antoine Wright the win. Those guys talk trash." shot off against anybody. When Roger Powell led the Illini with well," Oklahoma State coach had 13. Andy Slocum got his sev­
After a pause, Chalmers we need a bucket, we'll run 15 points. Eddie Sutton said. "Something enth double-double with 10 added, "By the way, we've still something to get him the ball." A.J. Moye had 14 points and we need to work on is our points and 15 rebounds. got the trophy." The second-half heroics are Marshall Strickland 12 for defense." "We didn't play very good 
They do, thanks to Chalmers. becoming almost second nature Indiana (11-8, 5-3), which shot a The Cowboys (16-2, 6-1 Big defense," Slocum said. "But He made a 3-pointer that tied for Pickett. dismal 15 percent from the field 12) never trailed after the open­we're going to get it fixed the it for the third and fmal time in He scored 22 points after half­in the second half and lost its ing minutes of the game but the next game and get it done." 
( the second half. Two minutes time in an overtime win over second straight game. Aggies (7-11, 0-7) got within 73-The Cowboys closed out a tight later, he stepped back from a North Carolina on Jan. 22 and Indiana still had two chances 68 with 5:51 to play before going first half with an 11-2 run that double-team and made an 18-18 more in the second half in a to win in the final seconds, but on to their seventh straight loss. ended with a 3-pointer at the foot jumper for a 70-69 lead victory over Wake Forest on Jan. Bracey Wright's first 3-pointer "We just didn't play defense at buzzer by Lucas that made it 43­with 27 seconds left. 25. was blocked and his heave from all, that's about all you can say," 34. J 
Cincinnati then threw away a Texas Tech 83, Baylor 63 near mid court was off the mark. Aggies forward Nick Anderson The Cowboys have won 12 of chance for the last shot. Nick Just hours after coach Bob The Illini overcame a 20-point said. "It's tough when you turn their last 13 games and beat the Williams' crosscourt pass for Knight was reprimanded by the first half, which tied their worst the ball over and they run a play Aggies for the eighth straight Armein Kirkland flew over his school for his public outburst at total of the season, and won and make it work." time. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
2-6  DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8  #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun,  You can get free trips to events and  
NOTICES COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click!  WANTED Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame  BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525  BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM HOUSE.2BEDROOM DUPLEX..AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR ..  Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Book Now! 800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com  it looks good on resumes. Did you say "Yeah, sure?" or "Yes sir?"  
S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  (574) 286-9359  WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO  I'd like a pie--apple..  
I i  large 1 Bedroom Condo 10 min from Univ. All App.Pool Low taxes less than rent 574-299-4997 LOST AND FOUND LOST: 2 Keys --one a Mercury key · and the other a Honda key -on a round ring Friday night between the parking lot in back of the band build­ing and the Joyce Center hockey entrance. Please call Gary at 247­0560.  WANTED ARCHITECT STUDENT TO HELP WITH CREATIVE IDEAS FOR AREMOLDELING PRO­JECT.NO DETAILED PLANS. SMALL $. NANCY 273-0322. FoR RENT B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to NO, email domercondo@yahoo.com  Rental House, · 2004-QS@ 911 Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd firs, new windows, AC,washldry & alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is NDAium. Contact Lisa@ theemurphs@ hotmail. com/ 619·804-3359  LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315·5032 FOR SHOWINGS PERSONALS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY BRODERICK! LeBron should have made the All-star team The Cavs will make the playoffs-i'm claling it right now Good luck Nancy and Kara I'm not in a creative enough mood to fill all this extra space Wanna work for the sports depart­ment?  What about that Iii' fella? Oh, that Iii guy? I wouldn't worry about that Iii' guy. What would you do with 10 million bucks? And you can't say buy the Cleveland Cavaliers. How 'bout I punchisize your face for free? Well Super Troopers made that task a lot easier  

Wednesday, February 4, 2004 page 13
The Observer+ SPORTS 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
St. Joe's eyes perfect regular season record 
Hawks face just two teams with winning records to close year 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -They've won 19 straight and face only two more winning teams before the Atlantic 10 tourna­ment. And if Saint Joseph's can win out, they'd become the first this team is the best the school's had since his 1 965-66 squad, and he pegged the Hawks' chances to make it to the NCAA tournament unde­feated at "good." 
"I wouldn't say it's a lock by' any means. Tough games remain," Ramsay, 78, said Tuesday. "All these teams are going to rise to the challenge of being the team that knocked Saint Joe's off and kept them from having an undefeated 
season." 
Undefeated 

team since UNLV "But I'll tell you seasons are in1991togoto incredibly diffi­
this, I think it's
the NCAA tourna­cult to pull off. ment undefeated. going to take a It's happened Can they do it? really good team to only 12 times, "I have no beat us., and not since idea," Phil Indiana went 32­Martelli, coach of 0 in 1975-76. No. 3 Saint Joe's, Phil Martelli Indiana State's said Tuesday. St. Joe's coach 33-1 record in 
"But I'll tell you this, I think it's going to take a really good team to beat us." 
The Hawks beat crosstown rival Villanova 7 4-67 Monday in a game they led by only four points down the stretch. They play La Salle -another Philadelphia Big 5 rival ­Saturday. They have eight reg­ular-season games left. 
Jack Ramsay, the coach of the 1964-65 Saint Joe's team that set the school's previous winning streak record at 16 games, said the kind of intensi­ty Saint Joe's saw at Villanova is what the Hawks can expect the rest of the season. 
But Ramsay said he thinks 
1978-79 (the 

Sycamores and Larry Bird lost to Michigan State and Magic Johnson in the national championship game) and UNLV's 34-1 mark in 1990­91 (the Runnin' Rebels lost to Duke in the national semifinals) are the closest anyone's come. 
The only remaining unbeat­ens this year are No. 2 Stanford and Saint Joe's. Of the two teams' remaining schedules, the Hawks appear to have the easier road. 
Saint Joe's faces only two more teams in the regular sea­son with winning records: Dayton (17 -3} and Rhode Island (13-8) which it plays twice. 
.. 
NBA 

James left off All-Star roster 

Associated Press for the surprising Milwaukee Bucks, 
NEW YORK -LeBron James Pierce is the missed the cut Tuesday in vot­league's sixth-lead­ing for All-Star reserves, finish­ing scorer (22.9) ing behind Eastern Conference for Boston, Davis guards Paul Pierce, Michael of New Orleans Redd, Baron Davis and Jason had the league's Kidd. fifth-highest aver­
"Being selected to the All-Star age (23.2), and team, it wouldn't be nothing Kidd has led New new to me," James said Jersey to first Tuesday before the 14 reserves place in the were announced. ''I've been on Atlantic Division. All-Star teams my whole life. Starters for the That's just how I play the game league's 53rd All­of basket-Star game, ball." selected in 
T h e fan ballot­
"I'd be very excited 
league's 29 ing, are
about it. but ifit
coaches Vince Carter selected doesn't happen it's of Toronto, t h e T r a c y
not the end ofthe 
reserves. McGrady of
world."

Shaquille Orlando, O'Neal of Ben Wallace the Los LeBron James of Detroit, 
Angeles Cavs guard Jermaine Lakers was O'Neal of among the Indiana, Western Conference reserves Allen Iverson of for the league's showcase event Philadelphia for Feb. 15 in Los Angeles. the East: Yao Ming Other All-Star reserves for the of Houston, Kobe West are Dirk Nowitzki of Bryant of the Dallas, Peja Stojakovic and Lakers, Kevin Brad Miller of Sacramento, Sam Garnett of Cassell of Minnesota, Andrei Minnesota, Steve Kirilenko of Utah and Ray Allen Francis of Houston of Seattle. and Tim Duncan of 
The other East reserves are San Antonio for the Jamaal Magloire of New West. Orleans, Ron Artest of Indiana Minnesota's Flip and Kenyon Martin of New Saunders will coach the West, Jersey. and Rick Carlisle of the Pacers 
"Not a bad thing to be on your will coach the East. resume, All-Star in front of your James is averaging 20.8 name," said Martin, one of six points. 5.9 assists and 5.9 players making their first All­rebounds for the Cleveland Star appearance. Cavaliers, whose surge of six 
Redd is averaging 22.1 points victories in eight games has moved them into contention for a playoff spot in the East. 
The 19-year-old rookie is 13th in the NBA in scoring and 12th in assists, averaging 24.1 points since Cleveland traded Ricky Davis to Boston in mid­December. James, Pierce, Allen and McGrady are the only play­ers averaging at least 20 points, five rebounds and five assists. 
Coaches had to choose a cen­ter, two forwards, two guards and two others regardless of position. They could not vote for their own players. 
''I'd be very excited about it, but if it [doesn't] happen it's not the end of the world," James said after the Cavs' morning shootaround in Auburn Hills, Mich. 
There will be six All-Stars with international root'S -Kirilenko (Russia). Stojakovic (Serbia and Montenegro). Magloire (Canada) Nowitzki (Germany), Yao (China) and Duncan (U.S. Virgin Islands} ­which ties the record set a year ago. 
Cleveland coach Paul Silas said he had expected James to make the Eastern team. 
"He's put up the kind of num­bers that warrants that. We're beginning to win and that's also a major factor," Silas said. 


2003-04 
THE BEST OF NOTRE DAME THEATRE 
i\ttors t~,rOill rl1hP l.J.HlCiotl Sla~~re Romeo and Juliet -­
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, Februcuy t 1....... 7:30 p.rn. Friday, February 13............ 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 12 ............ 7:30p.m. Saturday, February 14 ....7:30 p.m. 
. . . Playing at Washington Hall • Resel'\led Seats$ t 6 · Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
• .. Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631·8128. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by tho Henkels Lecture Series. 
Wednesday, February 4, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 

Defense wants evidence barred 
Byranfs attorney's urge judge to remove several items 
Associated Press 
EAGLE, Colo.-Hammering at the work of police inter­rogators, defense attorneys urged a judge Tuesday to bar Kobe Bryant's secretly record­ed police statement and physi­cal evidence, including a bloodstained T-shirt, from the NBA star's upcoming rape trial. 
Prosecutors fought back, saying sheriff's investigators did nothing without Bryant's consent. 
The clash was one of the fiercest yet in the series of pretrial hearings that will help determine what evidence is admitted when the Los Angeles Lakers star is tried on felony sexual assault. 
Bryant, 25, says he had con­sensual sex with the woman. He faces four years to life in prison or 20 years to tife on probation if he is convicted. 
Under sharp questions from the defense, lead investigator Doug Winters acknowledged Bryant was subjected to a hos­pital examination in violation of state law. 
Defense attorney -Hal Haddon said the law calls for hair, fibers and other "non­testimonial evidence" to be obtained during daylight hours. Bryant's hospital exam was performed before dawn July 2, little more than 24 hours after he allegedly assaulted a 19-year-old resort employee in his room. 
Winters said he didn't know about the daylight rule. He also admitted a judge had to remind him he needed two separate court orders to gath­er evidence: one for hair and similar evidence, and another for Bryant's clothing, including the T-shirt. 
Winters' testimony covered what happened before and after Bryant's 75-minute inter­view with investigators in his room at the Lodge & Spa at Cordillera. State District Judge Terry Ruckriegle said the interview itself will be dis­cussed behind closed doors because the material could harm Bryant's right to a fair trial and may not even be admitted as evidence. 
Haddon said the evidence and Bryant's statement should be off-limits because investiga­tors violated key rules. He said Bryant was effectively in cus­tody and was being questioned without having been read his Miranda rights. He also ridiculed authorities' use of a small audiotape recorder in the shirt pocket of a detective. 
But under questioning by prosecutor Dana Easter, Winters said Bryant was coop­erative and always understood he was not in custody. 
It was Bryant who approached the detectives in a resort parking lot, Winters 



NDPRESENTS: OPERAAT THE MORRIS 
DIRECT FROM EASTERN EUROPE OPERAVERDI EUROPA 

PERF0 RMING PUCCI NI'S LA B 0 HEME 
Wednesday, February 11 7:30PM 
Morris Performing Arts Center For tickets, call 574-235-91 90 or toll free at 800-537-64 15 or you may order tickets at www.MorrisCenter.org 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
said. He said Bryant casually walked with them to his room, talked with them for more than an hour, offered them clothing that was not men­tioned in a search warrant and agreed to go to the hospi­tal for a sexual assault exami­nation. 
Bryant, Winters and Detective Dan Loya rode in silence during an hour-long drive to a Glenwood Springs hospital. But after the exam, Winters said, Bryant turned to the detectives and said, "Do the best investigation that you can." They shook hands and he left with his bodyguards. 
Legal experts said the judge will probably not throw out Bryant's statements and the physical evidence. 
To suppress evidence, a judge has to determine there was a clear violation of a con­stitutional right or an inten­tional violation of a rule or law, said attorney David Lugert, a former prosecutor. He said a technical violation of a rule is not enough. 
A company of 100 performers, includtng singers, chorus, and orchestra 
~ Sponsored by "us.Cellular 

---*IDVTII-.11 
NFL 






Patriots celebrate Super Bowl win 
players did, and that's why
Associated Press 

they're champions," Belichick 
BOSTON -The New England said. Patriots held high their second In a repeat of the 2002 Super Super Bowl trophy in three sea­Bowl celebration, Kraft, Brady sons before a raucous down­and Belichick did a victory town crowd Tuesday, celebrat­dance for the crowd, egged on ing a champi-by All-Pro corner­onship that was back Ty Law. as thrilling as the No starting 
first one. quarterback has 
"We're "We're baaack!" ever won two baaack!" Brady Super Bowls told a shoulder­faster than the
Tom Brady
to-shoulder 26-year-old
Patriots quarterback 
Brady, who saidcrowd in City Hall Plaza, stand­ing with team owner Robert Kraft, coach Bill Belichick and dozens of teammates amid a hail of red, white and blue con­fetti. 
Brady and Kraft hoisted the twin Super Bowl trophies as they led a parade to City Hall before hundreds of thousands of fans. 
Kraft and Belichick praised the players' "no-stars" work ethic that led to a season-end­ing streak of 15 straight wins and Sunday's 32-29 victory over the Carolina Panthers. 
··For a team to accomplish their goals, everybody's got to give up a little of their individu­ality, and that's what these 
he's looking for 
more. 

"One was nice, two's a lot nicer, but I need number three," said Brady, a two-time Super Bowl MVP. 
Fans weren't shy about pre­dicting more success Tuesday. Chris Cashen, a painter from Rockland, said he's already asked his boss for time off for next year's celebration. 
"This team was a joke for so long," he said. "[Now] we're frustrating the rest of the league. I think we'll see anoth­er parade next year. That's my plan." 
Boston police estimated a total crowd ·of 1.5 million. Police made seven arrests, most for disorderly conduct. 

Wednesday, February 4, 2004 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Marino resigns as senior vice president 
Associated Press  the team's senior vice president  cussed the notion of the fran­ Marino's home was not immedi­ come  back to the Dolphins.  
of football operations," Marino  chise favorite's return to the  ·ately returned. A woman who  Marino is scheduled to tape  a  
MIAMI  Dan  Marino  said in a statement released by  Dolphins. and the  answered  the  Super Bowl wrapup show for  
resigned as senior vice presi­dent of the Miami Dolphins on  the team. Marino  played  for  the  marquee move of an offseason front­ "/am disappointed  phone refused  to  and give  HBO's "Inside the NFL" in New York on Wednesday. The show  
Tuesday, only three weeks after  Dolphins from 1983-99 and  office  shake-up  in Dan ·s decision,  her  name  said  was to be his last as a network  
accepting a job that brought him back to the team he quar­terbacked for 17 seasons.  took them to the 1985 Super Bowl, which they lost to San Francisco. He holds NFL  seemed to be Marino's hiring. "I am disappoint­ espcially since I think he would  Marino was of town could not  out and be  commentator before joining the Dolphins. Huizenga said the Dolphins  
"I have decided that it would  records with 61,361 yards pass­ ed in Dan's deci­ have made an  r  e  a  c  h  e  d  ,  will begin searching for "a sen­ 
not be in the best interests of either my family or the Dolphins to assume the role as  ing and 420 touchdown passes. Marino and team owner Wayne Huizenga had often dis­ sion, especially since I think he would have made  outstanding football executive."  although Huizenga said he and Marino met  ior executive who has an exten­sive football background" to join Miami's management team  
an  outstanding  Tuesday  after­ and oversee football operations.  


ECDC Registration 
The Eady Childhood Development Center (J3CDC) is currently registering children for the Z004--05 School" Year and the 2004 Summer Day Camp. ECDC a£ Saint Matyts College enrolls children.··· ages 3 through 5 during the sehool year and 3 through 9 during the.. summers. ECDC at Notre Dame enrr>Ils children ages 2 through · 
. kindergarten during the school year and 2.5 thrrmgh 9 duting the · · summer-For rriore infonnation and ECOC Paretit Toms, please.call one of the numbers below. . . . · ··. . · · · . . 
Earlv Childhood· Developtnent Center, Inc. 
574~284-4693 (ECDC..SMC)

4; 
$~~ 
574-631-3344
~NAEVC Ac~reditad-Pmll)oiirig Excellenre (ECDC.;ND)
. V in Early Childhood Educa11on . · 
football executive," Wayne Huizenga noon in his South It has not been determined if Huizenga said. Dolphins owner Florida office. that person would have the "But I understand The Dolphins same title Marino was given in his reasons, and I created a new his short stiht as an executive. support his decision to reorder position for Marino, who had The organizational reshuf­the priorities in his life." planned to leave his analyst fling came after Huizenga 
A telephone message left at jobs at CBS Sports and HBO to stripped head coach Dave Wannstedt of final say in per­sonnel matters, a move prompted by two straight sea­
Erin 

sons without a playoff appear­ance. After a lengthy search for a

Happy 21st 

general manager, during which at least seven candidates were

Birthday! 

interviewed, the team chose to promote Rick Spielman from senior vice president to GM.

Go Cwca1zy 

Spielman. though, would report to Marino, who was placed
and have a 

behind only Huizenga and team president Eddie Jones in the Dolphins' executive hierarchy. 
i Glr! 

Marino said at that same
•.·· Love 

news conference that it had "been a dream" to return to the Dolphins, and that he felt like 
' 
& the Lewis 

he was returning home. Chicks 

. ' 


p 
) 

ATION 
Wednesday, February 4, 2004 Page 16 

-
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL St. John's at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., ESPN Minnesota at Wisconsin 8 p.m., ESPN Wake Forest at N.C. State 9 p.m., ESPN Louisville at Memphis 10 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

LA Clippers at Boston 7 p.m., FOX Dallas at New Orleans 8 p.m., FOX LA Lakers at Cleveland 8 p.m., ESPN 
.,. Chicago at Utah 9 p.m., FOX 
NCAA 


Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas -Bob Knight was reprimanded, but not suspended, on Tuesday for his loud public outburst at Texas Tech chancellor David Smith. 
Tech athletic director Gerald Myers said in a statement that "appropri­ate personnel action" was taken regarding Monday's verbal spat involving the coach at an upscale gro­cery store. 
"I regret that the situa­tion turned out the way it did," Knight said in a four­paragraph news release. "I look forward to finishing this season in a strong fashion and I am glad the situation is behind me so that I can return to the business of coaching." 
Knight guided the No. 19 Red Raiders against Baylor at home on Tuesday night. He received a rousing ova­tion when he came onto the court a couple of min­utes earlier than usual. 
Even a Baylor assistant, standing under the basket during warmups, applaud­ed as Knight walked out and shook hands with the coach. 
A row of students near the Tech bench wore red T­shirts with white lettering that read, "Lettuce Support Coach Knight" -a refer­ence to rumors that lettuce had been thrown during the spat. 
Armen Williams, a 20­year-old sophomore, paint­ed his bare chest and arms in red acrylic and put in black: I (Heart} Coach Knight. 
"There's been so many rumors it's hard to say if he got the right punishment," Williams said. "We'll defi­nitely let coach Knight know we support him, so he'll stay and he can con­tinue to work his magic." 
Knight spent much of the day meeting with school officials. 
This is the first time Tech has punished Knight in his three seasons at the school. 
He was hired in _March 2001, six months after he was fired by Indiana for what then-school president Myles Brand called his "pattern of unacceptable behavior." 
Myers, the only one of the three people most instrumental in hiring Knight who still works for the university, was with Knight on Monday when the spat occurred. Myers is a former basketball coach who has been friends with Knight for roughly three decades. 
·'This is a misunderstand­ing and has now been rec­tified," Myers said in the statement. 

IN BRIEF  
CBS initiates video delaysystem NEW YORK -Following Janet Jackson's surprise breast-baring on the Super Bowl halftime show, CBS said Tuesday it would institute a video delay system to avoid any recurrence at Sunday's Grammy Awards.  remained about the intent. Timberlake, who is nominated for five Grammy Awards, is scheduled to perform on Sunday's telecast. Jackson is supposed to present an award. CBS faces an investigation by the Federal Communications Commission into whether the Super  little broader than just that inci­dent," Powell said on ABC's "Good Morning America." "I personally was offended by the entire production," he said. Dodgers pursue Maddux LOS ANGELES -The Dodgers have expressed interest in free agent Greg Maddux, with pitching  
CBS technicians were scrambling to invent the software ­something more than five-second audio delay the network has used to bleep out swear words, as when Eminem per­formed on the Grammys two years ago. At the end of their duet Sunday, Justin Timberlake snatched off part' of Jackson's bustier on stage, revealing a breast clad only in a sun-shaped ··nipple shield" to some  Bowl show violated decency laws, with potential fines of up to $27,500. If applied to each CBS sta­tion, the fine could reach into the millions. FCC chief Michael Powell said he wasn't happy with the halftime show in general, which featured performances by Nelly and Kid Rock before the bump-and-grind duet with Jackson and Timberlake. Nelly gestured toward his crotch, while  coach Jim Colborn speaking with the future Hall of Farner and man­ager Jim Tracy talking to the right­hander's brother. The conversations were confirmed Tuesday by a baseball source who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Maddux, who turns 38 in April, has won 289 major league games, including 15 or more in a record 16 straight seasons. He was 16-11 with a 3.96 ERA for the Atlanta Braves  
89 million viewers.  Kid  Rock draped himself in  an  last year, then became a free agent.  
Jackson's spokeswoman, Jennifer  American flag-designed poncho.  Tracy and Colborn made the calls  
Holiner, said a red lace garment  "I think everybody's focusing on  at the behest of general manager  
was  supposed  to  remain  when  the finale, but a  lot of what we've  Dan Evans to gauge Maddux's inter­ 
Timberlake tore off the outer cover­ heard in terms of complaints and  est in pitching for the Dodgers, the  
ing.  But  widespread questions  the breadth of the investigation is a  source said.  

Wednesday, February 4, 2004 page 17 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Quinn 
continued from page 20 
a win against Miami last week to a smattering of boos. Brey chastised those who had turned on Thomas in his Monday press conference, say­ing Thomas is integral to Notre Dame's success. 
"It's one of those things where both of us is comfort­able with the ball," Quinn said. "It'II give him some chances to come off screens and score." 
Thomas,_ who is just seven assists away from setting the school record for career assists, will probably still run the point at times against Boston College. But Brey hopes the change of pace will relieve some of the pressure Thomas faces game after game. 
The shift isn't a dramatic ranked third in the Big East in one, either. For most of the scoring with 21 points a game season, Quinn and Thomas since league play started. But have run the it also marks point inter­the beginning changeably. "To me, it seems like of a difficult Brey simply stretch that
all year we've been 
wants Quinn to sees the Irish
playing with two point
start tonight's play seven 
game as the guards. It doesn't straight games primary ball matter who they call against teams 
handler. whose RPI is
out in the starting ­
"We give among the
lineup.··
teams differ­nation's top 30. ent looks in Notre Dame that they can has beaten no
Jordan Cornette 
both run the team ranked
Irish forward 
point for us," that highly this J o r d a n season. Cornette said. "To me, it "We gotta get a few," Brey seems like all year we've been said. "This is the toughest playing with two point guards. February ever in this pro­It doesn't matter who they call gram's history. out in the starting lineup." "We don't have to go 8-0, 
Tonight's game against but we do have to win a few." Boston College (13-4, 2-5 in the Big East). brings the Irish Contact Andrew Soukup at face-to-face with Craig Smith, asoukup@nd.edu. 

Hoyas 
continued from page 20 
six points with 55 seconds left, but Georgetown went on an 11-;. game-ending run, and scored the final seven points of the game to win 76-73. In that game, Notre Dame committed 24 turnovers, while Georgetown had only 13. 
That loss is one of only two for the Irish in the Big East, the other coming at West Virginia Jan. 17, 64-51. 
But the Irish hope tonight's game will be different, as Georgetown has never won at the Joyce Center, and Notre Dame holds an all-time 17-2 record versus the Hoyas. 
To win, the Irish must con­tain the Big East's leading scorer and rebounder, Rebekkah Brunson, who aver­ages a double double (18. 2 points, 11.3 rebounds per game). Brunson has been dom­inating this season, earning five Big East Player of the 
HOUSING CONTRACTS ARE DUE SOON... 
DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOU WILL BE LIVING NEXT YEAR? 
How about 
TURTLE CREEK APARTl\fENTS? 
-

Spaces are filling up fast...SO APPLY TODAY! 
• 
For alimited time you only need $200 per person to reserve your spot. 

• 
GUARANTEED APARTMENT PLACEMENT the day you apply; we'll even let you pick your location!! 


Don't miss your chance to experience off-campus housing at 
TURTLE CREEK APARTM:ENTS. 
Call us at 574·272·8124 or you can visit us on the web at mvw.turtlecreeknd.com 
-
Week awards. 
The Irish also have to worry about 3-point threat Mary Lisicky, who averages 12.8 points per game. Lisicky scored 17 points the last time these teams met, and Brunson dropped 20 points to go along with 10 rebounds. 
On the Notre Dame side, Jacqueline Batteast has been a force both inside and outside the key. She averages 14.8 points per game and 8.3 rebounds per game. Batteast and sophomore guard Megan Duffy (11.5 points, 4.6 assists), have led the Irish to a tie for second-place in the Big East. Another sophomore, Courtney LaVere, has been solid off the bench for the Irish, averaging 
8.9 points and 4.8 rebounds per game. 
Notre Dame is 9-0 at the Joyce Center this season and looks to improve that mark when the teams tip off at 7 
p.m. tonight. · 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu.

Sign-up NOW 
LTR 

Learning To Talk About Race Retreat for the Notre Dame Community 
Friday-Saturday, February 13-14 Fatima Retreat Center 
LTR, established in the fall of 1992, brings students, faculty and staff of various racial and ethnic background together to promote intelligent and respectful dialogues on the issue of race. The hope is that we build a more compassionate and caring commu­nity that is reflective and worthy of our faith and beliefs. 
To sign up, please email Wong.12@ nd.edu or Outlaw.2@ nd.edu by Wednesday, February 4. Space is limited. 
LTR is sponsored by Campus Ministry, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, and Student Affairs. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 



Wednesday, February 4, 2004 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
! , 
I 
I I
\ 
they must recruit early and become more aggressive at
Recruiting 

the end of the year." . continued from page 20 Ash, a six-foot-five, 258­pound offensive lineman, was 
Lemming had Chicago safety the only player to visit on the prospect Nate Lyles ranked final weekend for recruiting 23rd at his position, but chose visits. He will choose between 
t h e University of Virginia over Notre Dame. 
W i d e receiver B o b b y McCoy can­celed his Jan. 30 visit to South Bend and committed to Arizona. 
Unranked defensive back Darcel McBath chose Texas Tech. 

Players have slipped through the fingers of Willingham and his staff throughout the recruiting process. Rival teams such as Southern California and other programs have cleaned up, while the Irish struggle to attract more top talent. 
. Still, Lemming has the Irish class ranked 27th among Division-[ recruiting classes. He believes they could sneak into the top 25 if they secure their three remaining targets: Ell Ash, Terrail Lambert and Christopher Vaughn. 
"Last year's class was out­standing, one of the best in the country," Lemming said. "Notre Dame learned a lot of lessons this year. They learned · 
"Last year·s class was outstanding. one ofthe best in the country. Notre Dame learned a lot of lessons this year. They learn·ed they must recruit early and become more aggressive at the end of the year.·· 
Tom Lemming ESPN recruiting analyst 
night, ESPN were not been able to confirm the report. 
Lambert is a top­rated cor­nerback w h 0 Lemming rated 3rd a m o n g defensive backs and 75th in his top-100 prospects. 

The cousin of Florida State prospect of the Irish class. running back Lorenzo Booker, Lambert stands at 5-foot-11 Contact Pat Leonard at and weighs 187 pounds and pleonard@nd.edu. 
North Carolina S t a t e , Tennessee and Notre Dame, though a report from one recruiting w·eb site, Irishtoday.com, quotes Ash's high school coach as con­firming ·that Ash enjoyed his Notre Dame visit but 
will not  com­ 
mit  to  the  
school.  

On Tuesday and IrishEyes 
"If [Notre Dame] gets him. receiver." 
As of
Chris Vaughn might be the 
right now,
best player in their class. Lemming He's big. fast, physical. strong shares the 
belief with
and productive. He has all the 
experts
tools to be a very productive like Frank
. ,, 
recezver. t h a t Georgia 
... 

running
Tom Lemming 
b a c k ESPN recruiting analyst Darius Walker is the prime 
draws comparisons from Frank of present Irish defen­sive back Freddie Parish. Ohio State, Oregon St., USC and Washington St. all expressed interest in Lambert, though he will decide between Florida State and the Irish this after­noon. 
Booker was famous for shocking Notre Dame by tak­ing off an Irish hat and don­ning a Florida State cap two years ago during a live press conference televised by ESPN. 
The top of the remaining prospects, however, may be the wide receiver Vaughn. 
Willingham visited Vaughn in Oakdale, Conn. Saturday to help solidify the Irish chances, though Vaughn still sees Iowa as a legitimate possibility. 
"If [Notre Dame] gets him, Chris Vaughn might be the best player in their class," Lemming said. "He's big, fast, physical, strong and produc­tive. He has all the tools to be a very pro­ductive 
Across: 
3. 
Thursday night margarita price 

4. 
Night · Legends after 12om 


6. 
A comedian tells these 

7. 
Cupid's ammo 


10. Lovers' Day 
12. 
This person makes you laugh 

13. 
Plays music in the club 

14. 
Sing along (Japanese word) 


Down: 
1. 
You need this to drink at Legends 

2. 
Rocked Legends 80s style last weekend Legends Senior Night 




5. This rarely happens at ND 
8. 
Performer's platform 

9. 
Formerly known as Senior Bar 


11 . Color of club walls · 






*Check the schedule on the right for clues! 

Belles 
continued from page 20 

all year by Emily Creachbaum. Her continued leadership and solid play will be important for the Belles in order to establish their inside presence. 
In the Monday night win over Olivet, the Belles outscored their opponent 49­45 in the second half. A solid second half of play will also be important if the Belles are going to defeat Calvin. 
In the Olivet game, Katie Miller had 15. points on 5-of­7 shooting to lead the Belles on the offensive end. She. shot 3-of-5 from 3-point range. Creachbaum added 10 points and five rebounds in the win. 
This week at Legends... 
·Gtr lOpm Tlllrsday.February5 Student Stand-Up Comedy Night 
Laugh it up \vith ND's O\Vn comics! 
.,#_.,. ·~"', lOp F.d Fbr 6
t ·iifu~

<t~,:~;/.. . mrt ay, e uary 
Karaoke Night 
You asked for it, now \Ve're bringing it to you! Come early to reserve yorir turn in the spotlight! 
~e6.10 

More details are on the way so stay tuned. Email Legends®nd.edu to take part in the best dating night of your life . 
One negative from the Olivet game was Saint Mary's inability to stop center Amanda Johnston, who cruised to 32 points on 9-of­15 shooting and 14-of-15 from the line. Johnston grabbed 12 rebounds and had four assists. Part of the reason the Belles were domi­nated by Olivet's center was the absence of Creachbaum. who was in foul trouble throughout the game. 

A win would be crucial for the Belles as they continue their attempt to turn around their season, as they will face · a very talented Hope team this weekend. 
Tip-off tonight will be at 7:30pm at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at bgriffin@nd.edu. 

• 

Wednesday, February 4, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r-----------------------~Er-----------------------~ur-------------------------. 


~ WE'LL CLAIM WE'RE ~ WHENEVER I TALK TO 2 THE FASTEST. IF ANY-::;) YOU, I FEEL LIKE I 
OUR NEW CHIP IS 
SLOWER THAN OUR 
COMPETITION·s 

1 ONE DOES BENCHMARK ! SHOULD BE WEARING PRODUCTS. 
~ TESTS, WE'LL SAY THEY i5 A WIRE.
I 
USED OLD DRIVERS. 


i 
f 
~ 
i 
0 
7'" 
j' 
7 

~----~~~~~~------~~~--­
FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

FOX realized that the ND version of "Eiimidate'· ust wouldn•t work: S 4rn~ hut.. We.ll ... r~~ whH~ vpru--miadle.. u~m .. rnt +oo. ) So tell m~
, 
. cla.ss ~r\d I o.bo vt yourse lve..s. 
"' 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

-

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CENEF 

[J [] 
C!004 Trilune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights ReaetVed. 
UN HAM 

( J I [] 
UNGATH 
A NOVICE &AR­DENE£< IS SURE: TO HAVe THIS. 

j []
1 

www.jumble.com
tPERMUB ri 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

) ( J [] 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ms: A 

"( I I I I J" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: DANDY ARMOR JOYFUL ENGULFYesterday's 
Answer: When he was acquitted, the defendant said he had -A"GRAND" JURY 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 At any time 63 Moneyed one 
1 Marijuana 33 couture 64 Mount of Moses source 
35 Where the Ob 65 Revealed, in 5 Portugue1.e and Indus flow modern lingo explorer 
37 Thumbs-up/ 66 Lawn mowerBartolomeu 
·thumbs-down site 9 TV exec Arledge guy 
67 Recognized 14 Foot problem 40 Montenegrin, e.g.
15 So 
DOWN
41 Spaghetti west­

16 Hiked 
ern director 1 Red 17 TV show digitiz­Sergio 
2 Do some cut­er 43 Hospital wear ting, maybe 18 Urban dwelling, 45 See 
3 QxQ, e.g., infor short chess46 Features of 

19 Thomas some antique 4 Drive forward Jefferson, reli­autos 5 Not wishy­
giously 50 Handily, after washy
20 Means of "with" 6 Press advancement 51 Make fast 7 Bug-eyed 23 Aurora's Greek 
52 Troop directive$ 
counterpart 

8 Absorbs, as 59 "See?" gravy
24 WWW address­es 60 Enter 9 Track great Wilma
25 Pink slip 61 "American " 10 Where pirates 
31 Chart type 62 Cooling down operate 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Miss Crump's pupil, on TV 
13 Boston summer -:-+::+:::-1 hrs. 
21 Test by touching 
22 _-Ia-Ia 

~=+~:-t 25 Better informed 
26 You'll find them ~":"'t-=-t all in a tenni~ -=t'rl--:-court 
27 Cornhusker's -=+-:-+:=+::-1 state: Abbr. 
-=+-:-:+:=+:::-1 28 Shorthand sys­tem 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


-:-:-:+-=+:=+::-1 12 Loch 

29 Like composi­ 42 Passed  53 Battling  
tion paper 30 Doesn't go 31 Pard 34 Night before  44 Neet rival 47 Suffix with bull 48 Paddock sounds  54 Genesis skipper 55 "Had enough?" 56 Tree of life site  
36 "Queen of the Damned" author 38 Knock over 39 Black and blue?  49 Debts, symboli­cally 52 Computer screen offering  57 Choir attire 58 Not very busy 59 Bit of baby talk  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puz;zle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learn ing/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-~ 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _____________ State -...----Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Clint Black, Alice Cooper, Chogyam Trungpa, John Schuck, Pamela Franklin, Lisa Eichhorn, Natalie lmbruglia, Oscar De La Hoya, Gabrielle Anwar 
Happy Birthday: Go after your goals. You have added discipline as well as luck, so don't hold back. It's time to pull out all the stops and go full tilt. You can get the help and support that will enable you to find the success that you're 
looking for. This is not the year to take it easy. If you snooze, you'll lose. Your numbers: 15, 18, 27, 34, 39,44 · 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will have to watch your budget closely. Don't buy expensive items from friends or acquaintances. Channel your thoughts into your job. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It will be hard to contain your feelings. Poor drivers will push you to the limit. Don't take your frustrations out on the ones you love. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will need to examine your motives. Be sure that you are getting involved in new projects because you believe in them and not because someone else is joining. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can express yourself well at 

group fum;tions. Don't be afraid to promote your beliefs. You will inspire those you talk to. This is the time to take a position of leadership. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be care.ful not to ruffle the feathers of the heavyweights at work. This is the time to work hard and make yourself 
indispensable, not to push your needs and desires. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You just want to enjoy life. Don't hesitate to join groups or get involved in social activities that include colleagues. You need to 
be around other people who can stimulate your creative imagination and contribute to your new directions.-*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't want to deal with other people's problems today, but it would be a good idea not to refuse. Rewards can be yours if you give a little of your time. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social activities will be a must. Combine work with pleasure. Put your best foot forward and show your worth. There is much you can accomplish if you put your mind to it. *"'** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put your efforts into moneymaking ventures. You can earn recognition at work if you present your 
ideas. Be sure to talk to those in higher positions about your goals and directions. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take some time out to do ... things with children. They need your love and support more than you think. Your ability to work with your hands should be put to good use. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Renovations to your home will be costly but pay off in the long run. Try to enlist the help of friends and family to keep the overhead down. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let problems while traveling or dealing with relatives cause stress. Your health will suffer if you don't relax. Past acquaintances are likely to come back into your life. Assess what they can do for you before you proceed. ** Birthday Baby: You are quick, inquisitive and independent. You need a creative outlet in order to feel satisfied, such as taking things apart and putting them back together. You will always follow that small voice within you even if you. 
Need OOvice?Try Eugenia's Web site :t v.ww.rugeniala.<tcom 

THE OBSER\'ER 
p
Wednesday, February 4, 2004 

page 20 
RECRUITING 

Holding their breath 
Coaching staff to announce fruits of recruiting effort in press conference 
I 
I 
By PAT LEONARD SportS Writer 

Head coach Tyrone Willingham and the Notre Dame coaching staff will pres­ent an official, final product of their recruiting efforts today at a press conference at 3:30 p.m. 
On the eve of National Signing Day, the Irish had 16 verbal commitments from high school prospects, five less than the 21 players who signed last February. The most recent players to commit are defen­sive end Justin Baker and defensive back Leo Ferrine. 
Both players committed over a week ago on Jan. 25. 
In the past week, the Irish have been unable to secure additional commitments in large part because of the lack of remaining players. 
Last year, coaches closed recruiting season with a strong push and finished with a top-five recruiting class. 
This year, the players who remained for Willingham to snag as signing day neared were disappointments for the Irish. 
Offensive guard Allen Smith of Tucson, Arizona is the 12th­rated guard according to ESPN recruiting analyst Tom 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish to present new face to Georgetown 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Writer 

When Georgetown plays at the Joyce Center tonight, they will face a very different Notre Dame team than the one they beat Jan. 7 in the Big East opener. 
The No. 23 Irish, {13-7, 6-2 Big East) have beaten ranked foes Virginia Tech, Connecticut, Villanova, Miami and Boston College since the loss at Georgetown. Meanwhile, the Hoyas {10-9, 4­5 Big East) come off a stretch in which they have beaten Virginia Tech, St. John's and Villanova, but have also lost four games including a double overtime loss to Miami Jan. 14. 

The last time these two teams met, the Hoyas earned their first win over Notre Dame since 1988, and only their second win ever against the Irish. Notre Dame led by 
see HOYAS/page 17 
l "!"' 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

! Quinn to run point more against Eagles 
( 

'I 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

a change of position, is designed to keep the junior fresh as the Irish head into a difficult February slate of games. And even though Thomas will work more from the shooting guard position. he 
·will still handle the ball during the game. "The thing is, you have to put your best player in a posi­
'tion to get some easy looks," Brey said. "Letting Thomas handle it the whole time is tough." 
Brey attributed some of Thomas' struggles to the fact that, as Notre Dame's best player, he faces the brunt of the opposing defense. And Thomas has played at least 38 minutes a game 12 times this season and is averaging a team-high 18 points a game. 
But Thomas has often strug­gled offensively at times, too. He is recording career lows in 3-point percentage (29 per­cent) and field goal percentage (36 percent) and in his last three games, has recorded 13 assists to 12 turnovers. 

"It's going to help," Torrian Jones said. "Chris is an asset who has been doing a lot for us. He took some questionable . shots [against Rutgers]. but that was because he was try­ing to help us out." 
No member of the Notre Dame team has publicly criti­cized Thomas, who entered the lineup in the second half of 
see QUINN/page 17 

Lemming. Lemming and other analysts such as IrishEyes columnist Mike Frank believed Smith would commit to Notre Dame as early as Jan. 28. 
Smith surprised everyone with a commitment to Stanford. 
see RECRUITING/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look for second league win 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 

Fresh off their first league win of the season against Olivet, Saint Mary's will look to steal their second win tonight when the Belles play host to Calvin. 
But to put it in perspective, C:alvin has as many league losses as the Belles have league wins. Their 8-1 record in the MIAA puts them in sec­ond place, only behind Hope for the best league record. Calvin is 15-3 overall on the year and is coming into Saint Mary's. on a 13 game-winning streak. 
Saint Mary's, on the other hand, is holding onto a 6-13 overall record and a 1-7 mark in the MIAA. The Belles have. however, won two of the'ir last three games. 
Stopping Calvin will be a challenge for the Belles .,.despite their recent success. Calvin averages 13.3 more points than its opponents, and in the first meeting between 
Saint  Mary's  and  Calvin,  
Calvin won 60-38.  
Calvin  is  led  by  Kristen  

McDonald, averaging 14.6 points and 4.2 assists per game, and Lisa Winkle, who scores 12.9 points and grabs 
7.3 rebounds per game. McDonald is deadly from 3­point range, shooting 42 per­cent on the year. Stopping McDonald and Winkle will be important if the Belles are going to pull off this MIAA upset. 
The Belles have been lead 
see BELLES/page 18 
I ~ 
! 
:~I
{ 
~: 
I 

With his team mired in a variety of offensive problems, Irish coach Mike Brey said he expected Chris Thomas to relinquish his point guard responsibilities to Chris Quinn in the early minutes of tonight's game at Boston College. 
The move, not a demotion for Thomas as much as it just 
en 
NCAA 
NBA 
NCAA 
NFL
NFL 

NCAA 
w 
Patriots celebrate

Ia-
f.) Xavier upsets No. 
James left off all 
St. Joes eyes 

Marino resigns from 
Bob Kn~ht not 
victory

z 10 Cincmnati 
star team 
undefeated 

top management 
suspen ed 
Over a million fans
regular season 

position
= 
::5 
turned up to help the
Team only faces two

Lionel Chalmers 
Rookie averages over 
Knight remains 
team celebrate in Boston. 

20 points a game but 
opponents with win­

= < scores 20 points to lead 
despite confrontation
Marino leaves post after 
did not make the team. 
the M usketteers. 
ning records. 

with the University
two weeks. 
= 
D. ti 
Chancellor. 

en 
page 13 
page 14

page 12 
page 13 
page 16
page 15 



FRI DE 

6/VV\ 
~A Call to Solidarity with Africa 


African Population
"A new study of more than 
(year 2000): 
65 countries published in the UK's New Scientist 
-804,048,826 Total
magazine suggests that 
-393,000,000 Christians
the happiest people in the 
-175,000,000 Catholics
world live in Nigeria." 
-339,000,000 Muslims
(BBC News) 
*source: Adherents 

-----·------­
-~------------~---~,
',... _......... " --,...,....,.._~ 
.• ... ·. . " .. 


.··:,:;:,_::,~~ ..:,.,"·.:. ::'tt;:i.\::~_· 



THE 
"You are welcome. You are welcome. You are welcome." These words escorted the 42 Americans who traveled to Nigeria during the first two weeks of January, 2004. This American contingent-which included nearly 30 members of the Notre Dame community -found the voices of the African people welcoming them into a new solidarity, a relation­ship based on understanding, caring, and mutual respect for one another. Under the leadership of Notre Dame's Institute for Church Life, and in coopera­tion with the Church and peoples ofAfrica, an exciting initiative has begun-an initiative the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) beckoned for in its 2001 document entitled A Call to Solidarity with Africa. An initial forum held at Notre Dame in October of 2002 proposed a two-part conference, giving participants the chance to respond to the bishops' document and prarnote a "re­imaging" of Africa for both its own peoples and the West. The first conference, which the Institute for Church Life hosted, took place at Notre Dame from September 21-24, 2003. The second conference in Enugu, Nigeria from January 6-8, 2004 included mem­bers of the Notre Dame community representing the Institute for Church Life, Student Affairs, the Kroc In­stitute, the Center for Social Concerns, Student Gov­ernment, the Program of Liberal Studies, the Psychol­ogy Department, the Department of Political Science, the History Department, African and African-Ameri­can Studies, and the Department ofTheology. Accom­panying the faculty and staff who traveled to the con­ference were both graduate and undergraduate stu­dents. The task of re-imaging Africa is an essential one. As Archbishop John Onaiyekan of Ahuja, Nige­ria pointed out at the Notre Dame conference, Ameri-.., cans never hear about Africa except when the media reports something terrible or something embarrassing happening in Africa.. The USCCB, recognizing the need to reveal the good news in Africa, including the strength of her Church and people as well as her chal­lenges and struggles, produced its A Call to Solidarity with Africa document. According to the USCCB document, "The urgency of our attention to the Church and the peoples of Africa is prompted by two conflicting convictions: hope and concern. We write in hope, recognizing the history, strength, spirituality, courage, and capacity of the Church and peoples of Africa. We write with deep concern, witnessing the proliferation of armed conflict, deterioration in heath care and education infrastruc­tures, the weakening of social and community structures, and an increasing spread of disease and other threats to the lives of our African brothers and sisters. Our fear is that Africa's hopes could be destroyed by indifference and inaction in Africa and around the world. For these reasons, we raise our voices and echo the plea made by the Holy See at the U.N. Millennium Summit, 'that Africa be given special attention, and that efforts be made which are really capable of meeting its needs."' Africa is indeed a complex continent, filled with both hopes and struggles. The Church in Africa is a dynamic source of spirituality and goodwill. Through centuries of missionary effort and now largely through the lives ofAfricans themselves, the message ofChrist is spreading and the Church is acting as the driving force behind education and healthcare initiatives. Many African nations have also made steps toward poverty eradication, fair elections, and economic development. Africa possesses a wealth of human and natural resources, from their exports Qf oil and precious metals, to their advances in scientific research, to the success of African athletes and musicians. Yet there are also many destructive forces that plague Africa. Corruption and 
CALL 
poor governance, ethnic and religious conflict, poverty, debt, and disease-incluqing the alarming HIV IAIDS pandemic-are among the tremendous challenges facing the continent. 
In the USCCB document, immense attention is given to the mutual bonds of solidarity that should be forged between the Catholic Church in the U.S. and in Africa. American Catholics are urged to witness this bond in tangible ways. The donation of money alone does not suffice. The USCCB calls the American people to take action through prayer, responsible investment, self-education and involvement in public ad­vocacy, the exchange of Church resources, and concerted efforts toward solidarity between the governments and corporations of the U.S. and Africa. Native Nigerian and 
Notre Dame facul.ty member, Fr. Paulinus Odozor, identi­fies the aim of this collective effort being "not only to help Africa survive but also to learn the invaluable les­sons Africa can teach the rest of the world. " 
Numerous organizations from the United States, in­cluding the Institute for Church Life and others from Notre Dame, took the bishops' call to heart when outlin­ing their expectations for the Notre Dame and Nigeria conferences. According to the organizers of the confer­ence, "We hope to tap into the considerable goodwill as well as the ecclesial, national, and international stand­ing of the University of Notre Dame to help bring Africa, its peoples, its problems, and its promise into greater prominence." 
The specific goals of the conferences, according to the Institute for Church Life, were as follows: to raise · the profile of Africa on American campuses and in the American Church, to increase understanding ofAfrica's contemporary promise and challenges, to develop pro­posals to answer those challenges in solidarity with the African church, and to harness energy to follow through on these proposals. 
Nigeria was an ideal location for the second confer­
ence due to its size, complexity, and importance in Af­
rica. Since Nigeria's population consists of over one­
fifth of all sub-Saharan Africans, the country in many ways serves as a microcosm of Africa. The Nigerian leg of the conference, in particular, sought to build on the insights generated from the Notre Dame segment by finding creative ways to further the friend­ships already begun, especially between the younger generations. The emphasis re­mains always on mutually determined paths for better relationships based on respect and understanding. As Theology Department chair and Institute for Church Life direc­tor Dr. John Cavadini stated, "The intent here is not to replace the voice ofAfrica with ours, but to make theirs more audible." 
Partially quoting from Pope John Paul II's letter entitled The Church in Africa, the USCCB's document proclaims that, "As members of the universal Church, we 'must continue to exercise [the Church's] prophetic role and be the voice ofthe voiceless,' so · that everywhere the human dignity of every individual will be acknowledged." 
The University of Notre Dame has responded to A Call to Solidarity with Africa in a committed way by hosting one conference and sending nearly 30 members of the Notre Dame community to Nigeria for a second, in and around which the travelers met, worked, shared, and prayed with the African people. This initiative is an effort to not only be the voice of the voiceless, but to give an attentive ear to those who have previously been ignored. 
We hope that what is written here will give you a glimpse into what proved to be 
a transforming experience for so many of us. We hope that we in some way echo the 
voice of the unheard. 
Notre Dame Students with Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, President, Federal Republic of Nigeria. 

Top: Children at Bigard Memorial Seminary in Enugu with John Paul II prayer cards. 
Middle: ND student Laura Feeney with a child. 
pARTICIPANTS 
Notre Dame Students 

Peter Cavadini Emily Chin Laura Feeney Shawtina Ferguson Erin Fitzpatrick Jennifer Gaisser-Sadler Susannah Longenbaker Tara McKinney ·(grad. student) Noemi Morones Njideka Motanya Marita Murphy Jean Ann Sekerak 
Michael Sena Jane Cors-Smith (grad. student) Fr. Thomas Tusingwire (grad. student) 
Notre Dame Faculty and StaU' 
Mr. Leonard DeLorenzo, 

Institute for Church Life Fr. Bob Dowd, Political Science Prof. Michael Foley, Theology Prof. Catherine Kavanagh, Theology Fr. Paul Kollman, Theology Prof. Tom McDermott, Kroc Institute Prof. G David Moss, 
Student Affairs/Pschology Fr. Paulin us Odozor, Theology Prof. Margie Pfeil, Theology/CSC Prof. Richard Pierce, 

A Reflection from Professor Richard Pierce: 
"Despite the host ofunfamiliar sights, smells, and sounds · 
that I encountered in Nigeria, the most memorable im­age that I take from my visit : was one that occurred dUring something very fa-' miliar-a Sunday Mass. Unlike churches with which I was familiar, Saint . Anthony's inAbuja, Nige­ria, employed a remark­able seating pattern. All of · the children in attendance at Mass occupied the tirst pews in the center ofthe church. There were enough children that they . occupied seven rows of 
the simple benches that served as pews. Some were near their parents, but the majority ofchildren sat near other children and shared in the service. I learned that it was the normal practice ofthe parish to· seat the chil­dren in the front-in a place ofhonor. 
Iam fap1iliarwith families with children sitting near­the back ofthe church in order not disturb those parish­ioners with the occasional noise that children frequently make. In Abuja, the children were central to the ser­vice. The children learned that the ser-
Janumy Jrd, 2004

vice was for them and that they were not 
* Trip to Kaduna (3 hours north) 
appendages awaiting their turn to be ac­
* Welcomed by Catholic Women's Organization 
tive members. 

* Visit to the new Good Shepherd Seminary We found much beauty and hard­
*Visit to St. Gerard's Hospital-a local Catholic hospital 
ship in Nigeria, but I am hopeful for the * Welcomed at the Kaduna Catholic Social Services Center *Lunch at the Kaduna State Governor's residence 
future of the country. What I found at 
January 4th, 2004

SaintAnthony's fuels my hope. Their chil­
* Attend various local Masses in small groups 
dren are their future, and those beautiful 
* Tour ofAbuja, including the zoo! children are securely within the womb of *Cocktail party at Archbishop's residence the Church and interwoven into their January 5, 2004 
society's fabric. Those ~hildren will lead them. That is my prayer." 
A Reflection from Erin Fitzpatrick: 
History/ African & Af. American Studies "Our first stop in Kaduna was at the Good Shepherd 
Ms. Nicole Shirilla, 

ICL/Notre Dame Vocation Initiative Sr. Pat Thomas, Walsh Hall Prof. Fabian Udoh, PLS 
Prof. Matt Zyniewicz, Theology 
Other American Delegates 

Mr. Ray Almeida, Bread for the World Sr. Mary Paul Asoegwu, USCCB Mr. John Baynes, Diocese ofBrooklyn 
Ms. Beverly Carroll, USCCB Prof. Shawn Copeland, Boston College Mr. Gerry Flood, USCCB ~r. ~en Hac~ett, Catholic Relie~·se~ices 
I rot. Brad Hmzc, Marquette Umverstty 
f. J Ok 

r. ames oye, Catholic Theological Union Ms. Kathleen O'Toole, Bread for the World Fr. Michael Perry, USCCB Bishop John Ricard, USCCB-Bishop of Pensacola-Tallahassee 
Ms. Valerie Washington, National Black Catholic Congress 
Seminary. The Seminary is new and developing day 
by day. They are in need ofmany things, but they do 
. . . not let ~heir need s~nd m~he wa.y ofthe Important role ofclencal formatiOn. This semmary also plays a spe­cial role in addressing Muslim/Christian dialogue. Kaduna is located in an area ofNigeria that is heavily populated with both Muslims and Christians living har­
moniously togethermost ofthe time. The seminary right now is small and still developing. However, while we were there, Fr. Paulinus reminded our group that once, not so many years ago, Notre Dame, not unlike this place, was itself merely a small collection ofbuildings 
· l · h 'ddl f' h ur t'
seemmg y m t e mt eo now ere. vve orget some­
. . . . . . . . times, hvmg m a place where everythmg IS readily avml­able, that just because it is 2004 does not mean that there are not new places ofleaming and faith being born every day." 
"The children had a certain innocence and young reverence to them. When the Creed was recited, the choir led the congre­gation in a creedal hymn. The words I believe were empha­sized in the often repeated refrain. When it was recited, all I could hear were the children surrounding me singing very clearly and beautifully those words: I believe .. .The wonders ofsimple faith!" 
"I believe t~eir Mass can be likened to great poetry: it adheres to the rules oftradition (the glory ofdiscipline), but finds great expression within (the glory ofimagination)." 
"When Jesus was asked where He lived, He said, 'Come and see.' When they saw, they didn't want to leave. I have seen the way Jesus dwells in and among the African people-I never want to leave that way, even when I leave this place. I have 
·lived on others' reports ofAfrica before, but now I have seen and know the truth for myself:" 
"A boy named Bobby-about 5 or 6 ... asked, 'When will I see you again?' I pointed to his head and then to his heart while saying: 'Think ofme and pray for me and we will see each other that way.'" 
January 1st, 2004 

* Departed from Chicago to Ahuja via Amsterdam and Lagos 
January 2nd, 2004 

*Arrival at the John Paul II Retreat Center, Abuja 
* Breakfast with Olusegun Obasanjo, President ofNigeria 
*Visit to Abuja street market 
* Afternoon flight to Enugu *Arrive at the Divine Love Retreat and Conference Center (DRACC) 
January 6, 2004 *A Call to Solidarity with Africa conference begins at DRACC 
* Mass at outdoor Cathedral of Enugu January 7, 2004 
* Conference continues 
January 8, 2084 

* 
Conclusion to the conference *Visit to Bigard Memorial Seminary -the world's largest seminary 

* 
Mass at the Spiritan International School of Theology (SIST) 


*Closing banquet at DRACC with food, music, and dancing January 9, 2004 . 
* 
Visit to Annunciation Hospital, close to DRACC 

* 
Three-hour drive to Port Harcourt 

* 
Check-in at Hotel Presidential-one ofthe finest in Nigeria 


*Courtesy Call to the governor ofRivers State, Dr. Peter Odili 
* Evening reception at Catholic Institute of West Africa (CIWA) 
January 10, 2004 

* 
Morning Mass at CIWA *Visit to the Sisters ofCharity convent outside of Port Harcourt 

* 
Visit to lands and traditional villages outside of Port Harcourt 

* 
Evening ofcultural entertainment at governor's residence 


January 11, 2004 

*Mass at Corpus Christi Cathedral 
* Received by bishop and Catholic Women's Organization 
*Depanure from Port Harcourt to Chicago, via Lagos, Abuja, Kano, and Amsterdam 
January 12, 2004 

*Arrival in Chicago O'Hare 
* Bus trip to Notre Dame 



-

L 
;~'Y?'~:;·:.:~-;:.~-~rfA~ :~if. _. 
·­
-·.· · · -~ ·--~~--.-~ . ·'-'J..";"-;,'~•••co· 

THE _CONFERENCE 


A Parable for Our Times 
Sometimes a simple story can make the most complex situation surprisingly clear. At the Call to Solidarity with Africa conference in Enugu, Nigeria, it was Sylvia Bawa, a wise college senior from Ghana, who captured a central truth of the work towards solidarity by using an African story of a great flood that fell on the animal kingdom. In her words: 
"Unaffected by the flood, the monkeys were happily jumping about in the treetops when they noticed the fish 'trapped' down in the waters. Deciding to save the fish, the monkeys climbed down, picked them up and placed them on dry land. Seeing the fish jump about, the monkeys thought they had done a great thing, and that the fish were happy to be saved. In a few minutes, though, the fish lay motionless. Surprised, the monkeys said, 'These people must be very, very ungrateful. For all we have done to save them, they cannot even utter a word of thank you."' 
The monkeys did not understand the fish on the fish's terms, but rather in their o"vn terms as monkeys. In order to understand Africa, Ameri­cans must acknowledge and respect the culture and uniqueness of the Afri­cans, and vice-versa. The alternative is disastrous. 
Walter Cronkite once said, "In seeking truth you have to get both sides ofa story." Built on the solidification of right relationships, solidarity is a dynamic process of exchange allowing for the expansion of both the mind and the heart. Experiencing the culture and reality of another is the starting point -the foundation of realizing truth. This recognition of truth builds constructive dialogue, and constructive dialogue becomes the foun­dation of solidarity itself. Whether speaking of the person in the next room or on the next continent, one must be willing to open oneself up-even if only in their imagination -to the reality of another if solidarity is to be achieved. 
As Bawa explained, "An analogy can be drawn between this story of the monkeys and some of the help poor countries receive from the outside .. .Indeed everybody, even the poor and the neglected, are experts in their ovm personal situations, and it is important that you consult them when you are trying to otler them any particular type of help." 
1t is not a new relationship that the conference aimed to strengthen ­indeed, the United States and Africa have long been connected. Professor Shawn Copeland of Boston College spoke of both the conne_ctedness and separation between Africans and African-Americans. As she shared moving insights about both the immediate and lasting effects of the slave trade, the need to recognize the sins of the past along with the circumstances of the present became ever more apparent. The past has already written a story that cannot be forgotten in the present work for solidarity. 
As Bawa put it, "We cannot rewrite history. I think that our respon­sibility is to safeguard what is to come, and to make our own history using the past as a guide." In order to establish justice and build solidarity, we must often confront histories and current situations that can be overWhelm­ing and confusing. And yet, there remains a story to guide us -the story of the Cross. In Sylvia's words, "By dying on the Cross, Jesus Himself estab­lished solidarity for us. He removed all barriers to heaven, and ... with a little bit ofsacrifice, we can do the same." It is this hope for sacrifice and sharing that began the conference -it was the same hope that shone through it. 
During a conference where the topics jumped from the genocide in Rwanda, to the vibrancy of faith in Africa, to the exploitation by foreign countries and corporations, to the re-membering of Africans and African-Americans, to strong models offamily, to economic insta­bility, to incredible hospitality-all was shared so that light'may be cast 
upon the shadows, trans­


forming ignorance into un­derstanding. This under­standing serves· as the en­vironment wherein the work towards solidarity ­towards bringing people into communion with one another may be achieved. 
The fish and the monkeys have started to see one another as they each truly are, so that, to­gether, they may build to­wards a future of harrnony 

Top: Conference participants sharing a laugh. 
Bottom Riglzt: Youth from Notre Dame and Africa in front of the conference stage. 
Bottom Left: Notre Dame Professor Michael "Chief" Foley at the closing banquet. 
A Reflection from Jean Ann Sekerak: 
i'At the end ofthe first day ofthe conference, we 
drove to celebrate Mass at the Cathedral in 
Enugu. As I sat there, I started to feel over­whelmed by everything. It only took one day at the conference tor so many issues to confront all ofus, and their presence was quite daunting. I justremember feeling somewhat discouraged sit­ting in my pew, waiting for Mass to start. But then I looked around me. The Mass procession was moving towards the altar, full ofpriests from not only all over Nigeria and Africa, but also from the United States. Every pew was full ofAmeri­cans and Africans. While I observed this, it hit me like a ton ofbricks. The issues might be com­plicated and fierce, but at the end ofthe day, we can all still gather together as one and celebrate what we believe. It was only then that I truly believed that the purpose behind this conference was undoubtedly going to be a success." 
-

Fr. Michael Perry 
"I hope your mirror has been shattered, or at least cracked. Africa will help us put the mir­ror back together again." 
Pro_( Brad Hinze 
"The level ofsuffering is enough to break your heart not once, not twice, but again and again. And yet the heart of the Church hopes and strives." 
Mrs. Kathryn Hoomkwap 
"I don't want to be the Pope; I don't want to be a priest; I don't want to be a man. I want to be a woman, because it is beautiful." 
"'The world does not end with the U.S. and Europe-there is something more." 

"Don't be di!i,Pouraged. Don't be afraid. It started with twelve. It 
and life. started in Jerusalem with twelve. And in this century, in 2004, we've had the work oftwelve people propagated to the ends ofthe world. " --Mrs. Kathryn Hoon1kwap 
' . 'r 




Now & THE WAY fORWARD 

LEARN MORE 

Ifyou would like to learn more, these organizations have programs on behalf ofAfrica: 
Africa Faith and Justice Network http://afjn.cua.edu 
Bread for the World www.bread.org 

Catholic ReliefServices www.catholicrelief.org 
Washington Office on Africa www.woaafrica.org 
Bottom Left: Sr. Pat Thomas of Walsh Hall with Children dancers. POSSIBILITIES Bottom Center: Construction of St. Peter & Paul Parish in Abuja 
Ideas for service: 
Bottom Rigltt: Leonard Delorenzo & Mike Sena in Abuja market with new friend and new clothes. 
St. Gerard's Hospital in Kaduna, Nigeria: St. Gerard's is a hospital run by nuns who do a wonderful job with the materials available. Despite great efforts, the help they can give to the sick is limited because of their basic supplies. Any supplies/ donations would help them tremendously: 
St. Peter and Paul Parish in Ahuja, Nigeria: The members of this parish are mostly lower income and working class people. They are in need of a new church because of their growing congregation, and have already raised 20 million naira (approxi­mately $143,000 US) on their own. They would very much appreciate donations of any size. 
Good Shepherd Seminary in Kaduna: This recently founded seminary is in desperate need of theology and philosophy books. A book drive may be planned for the end ofthis semes­ter. Instead ofselling back their used books, Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross students could donate them for these 
· seminarians to continue their study. As one member ofour trip mentioned, this seminary in its infancy could be compared to Children at St. Peter & Paul Parish in Abuja. Notre Dame in its beginnings. · 

For previous generations ofNotre Dame/St. Mary's/Holy Cross students, chances to learn about Africa in the classroom were limited-Prof. Peter Walshe taught African politics, Prof. James Bellis, ofthe Anthropology de­partment, offered students an overview ofcertain aspects ofAfrican cul­tures, Rita Cassidy brought her love ofAfrica to the history classes she offered at St. Mary's. Holy Cross Brothers, back from the mission in Ghana, shared their experiences at Holy Cross College. 
In recent years opportunities to study and experience Africa have seen slow but persistent growth on our campuses. Faculty hires in a number ofdepartments, as well as the research concerns offaculty in others, have opened the eyes ofmany students and focused their energy on African ques­tions. The Mendoza College ofBusiness, through its Gigot Center for En­trepreneurial Studies, has placed graduate students in South Africa, sharing and learning in a real dialogue about grass roots business skills. 
Other possibilities for actual hands-on experience ofAfrica have also increased. For over a decade, a few fortunate Anthropology students every year have spent their summer months in Western Kenya. Recently, grants from the Kellog Institute have been used by several students to support their personal investigations ofAfrican issues. The International Summer Service Learning Program through the Center for Social Concerns has itself placed students in Ghana and Uganda for eight weeks ofwork in collaboration with local Holy Cross religious on mission in those countries. 
For a number ofyears, there has been ':talk" about the possibility ofa Notre Dame undergraduate program in sub-Saharan Africa. Presently, there 
•

is a program in Egypt, which is on African soil, but no such program on the rest of the continent. In the first two weeks of this year, as seen in this Observer supplement, a large group from Notre Dame went to Nigeria to complete the two-part Call to Solidarity with Africa conference, spon­sored by the Institute for Church Life. Perhaps these various tours have helped create the sense ofmomentum found th~se days on our campuses, calling for more structured focus on Africa and its concerns. 
Notre Dame'sAfrican and African American Studies Program is due for a major external evaluation later this semester and the hope ofmany is that this will lead to a larger commitment ofUniversity resources for African 
These are just a few ofthe causes you could support. For more information, attend the call out meeting in article below! studies. The most concrete hope ofmany is for a substantial increase in the number ofprofessors who can teach about African issues and who have African concerns as the focus oftheir personal research. Only in this way will most students have a chance for a clearer appreciation of the African story. Greater attention to Africa also has the promise ofcreating a synergy between the quest to enhance diverstiy on campus and our programming, and the quest to enhance our Catholic identity, since Africa is the place where Catholicism is growing fastest worldwide. The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, as part of its strategic expansion, expects to establish a presence in East Africa by the summer of2005, so as to be ready to receive, orient, and support the gradu­ate students it will place for six month internships in local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and peace related activities. Perhaps this will be an­other "footprint" ofthe University on the continent and a locus for future expanded engagement The Institute for Church Life has committed itself to an ongoing part­nership with the USCCB committee on international affairs (which produced the document A Call to Solidarity with Africa) and to work together on two issues ofmutual interest arising from our work on the conference. ICL will be seeking ways to enhance partnerships between local churches in Af-. rica and local churches in the US, and, in conjunction with the Department of Theology, will initiate programs ofexchange and theological education and publishing. In order to serve the interests ofthe entire Notre Dame community and to share ideas about our relationship with Africa, a meeting has been scheduled for Sunday. February 8. 2004 at 5:30PM at the Center for Social Concerns. Participants in the Nigeria trip will offer reflections on their e~perience and their hopes for the future ofAfrica on this campus. All interested students, faculty and staff are invited to participate in this conver­sation. Please join us. Great African food, music, and dance will accom­pany the discussion. As the people ofNigeria always said to us: You are most welcome! 


:'It is dangerous to receive a vtston because then you take responsibility for its fulfilltnent. Let us not be too small for the vision." (Fr. Paul Kollman) 





