
Locks of Love yields 118 feet ofhair 
~ ~~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students use -weekend for service 
800 participate in annual "Christmas in Ap~il" 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 

The LaFortune Ballroom was transformed into a hair salon Sunday afternoon as members of the Notre Dame community said goodbye to their hair for Locks of Love and Shaved Heads Against Cancer. 
Locks of Love makes wigs for financially disadvantaged children with long-term med­ical hair loss. People can donate 10 or more inches of their hair to be used for the wigs; shorter lengths can also be donated to help to offset costs of the program. Junior Lindsay Schirack said she wanted to coordinate an on­campus event for donations to Locks of Love and asked the Class of 2005 to sponsor it. 
Schirack said she was quite pleased with the turnout of 
136 participants, who donated a total of 1,411 inches of hair,. just under 118 feet. 
"I thought 20 [people com­ing] would be successful," she said. "But there were 20 peo­ple lined up before noon. It's absolutely overwhelming." 
Stylists from Atria 2 salon straightened, cut and pack­aged ponytails as a line wrapped around the ballroom. Participants were then given a card to come back to the salon to get a free styling. 
Donators had various rea­sons for giving up their long hair. But nearly everyone agreed they were donating because the hair goes to those in need. 
"It's just a really good cause," freshman Meredith Laux said. "I have a lot of hair and there are little kids who don't have any." 
see HAIR/page 6 
By KATE GALES News Writer 

Despite the warm weather, the Christmas spirit prevailed for around 800 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who volunteered to do home improvement in a low-income neighborhood for the service project Christmas in April/Rebuilding Together Saturday. 
"It turned out to be a great day," said Darrell Paulsen, the faculty adviser for Christmas in ApriVRebuilding Together. "We had more students than we expected." 
According to Paulsen, a major probllml in the past has been students not showing up for the 7 a.m. departure time. Although the 900 students who signed up was down from pre­vious years. the percentage of students who signed up and actually participated was much higher. 
"We needed 650 [students to fill the sites]," Paulsen said. "We had 900 sign up, and we had 800 show up so that was very, very good. · 
"The weather couldn't have hurt either," he said. 
Paulsen also noted that groups such as the Notre Dame Fire Department and various athletic teams participated in the event. Of the 800 students, around 100 were from Saint Mary's, and faculty and staff members also worked on-site. 
Additionally, Notre Dame Food Services donated meals for the volunteers. 
"By all accounts it was a very successful day," Paulsen said. 
Pub owner cites video evidence 
Tape shows police pushing patrons into bar before raid 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Videotape evidence of patrons being forced into The Library Irish Pub during a police raid early Friday morn­ing may mean lesser penalties for the bar but will not change patrons' citations or punish­ments, police confirmed. 

Lt. Greg Deitchley, spokesman for the District 1 office of the Indiana State Excise Police. said the video would have no bearing on the approximately 27 citations issued to 17 minors, as those tickets were confirmed based on evidence police compiled as patrons exited the scene. 
Pub owner Chuck Hammons, however, said he will submit the video -used to track all patrons' presentation of iden­tification -to his attorneys to support his claim that several of the minors were actually pushed inside by police before his employees could verify their proof of legal age. 
Hammons "may have a defense" based on that evi­dence, Deitchley said, but maintained that excise police were not at fault. 
Since The Library's premises start where the sidewalk meets the front door -lead­ing to a vestibule where patrons wait before showing 
I. D. -excise police deter­mined that all patrons in the waiting area would be includ­ed in the sweep. Deitchley said that police will present a case report explaining these 
see LIBRARY/page 8 "Everyone was very pleased at what happened." 


On April 3, skilled laborers such as carpenters and electri­cians did preliminary work on the houses. The students and other volunteers provided unskilled labor such as paint­ing, repairing windows, work­ing on flooring and yard work. 
"The things we did were kind of like extreme home makeover goes South Bend style," said Sara Woolf, a fresh­man who participated in the project for the first time. "All the volunteers worked on dif­ferent jobs. At our house we did a lot of painting, yard work and built the family a sand­box." 
The large number of volun­
sec CHRISTMAS/page 6 

Ne-w leprechauns chosen fro111 field of 17 applicants 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
As the era of Leprechaun Mike comes to an end, the famous green suit has been passed into the hands of a new owner -Leprechaun Eddie. 
Keenan sophomore Edward Lerum was chosen Saturday night as the new Gold squad Leprechaun mascot, who per­forms at the football and men's basketball games, among other events. 
"I feel extremely excited, I don't think I understand yet about the commitment and everything that goes along with being the Leprechaun ­it just hasn't sunk it. But it's a great opportunity," said Lerum, who has wanted to be Leprechaun since his friends suggested it during their freshman year of high school. 
Dillon sophomore Kyle Chamberlin will serve as the Blue squad Leprechaun at soccer, volleyball and women's basketball games and various community events. 
The selection process start­ed months ago with a series of eight different clinics designed to prepare Leprechaun candidates for the rigors of auditions and beyond. Not all clinics were mandatory, as some trained students for the possibility of joining the cheerleading squad if they were not chosen as mascot, and applicants were not evaluated during this time. 
Seventeen candidates stayed for the audition process -a number that wa~ 
see SELECTION/page ( 
-~-~~---­


Monday, April 19, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 


The bust 
l think that deep down it is the dream of every college student who has turned 21 to be in a bar when it gets busted. Not to see people get in trouble, of course, but just to see what exactly what goes down without fear of getting into trouble. 
Thursday night, I and many other students got to experience this as Finnegan's (okay The Library) got busted for the sec­ond time in a year. The music stopped and people started saying they thought the bar was getting bust­ed. I figured that it was impossible ­I thought Excise would be more likely to bust a bar with more underage stu­dents (like a certain Finnegan's neigh­bor on Wednesday nights). 
But as police officers began to swarm through the bar and there were numerous announcements that no one could hear, the reality of the evening began to set in. And it was cool. For about five minutes. 
But then there is everything else associated with the bar bust that has to be dealt with, like the excruciating process of getting out of a busted bar. This involved a 45-minute wait before an officer from the Indiana State Police reviewed my two forms of identifica­tion and asked me several questions to prove my identity. My roommate even got asked what his sign was. 
And then there was process of notify­ing my friends here at The Observer that the bar was being busted and that they needed to send a reporter and a photographer. 
Contrary to popular belief, The Observer is not tipped off before a bar is busted (and many staffers have the Boat Club citations to prove it). Instead, there is a network of carefully placed informants in bars across South Bend every night, waiting for a bar bust. After all, us retired top staff members still have an important role to play in this newsgathering organization. 
But the editor working Thursday night thought that my bust report was a test of his gullibility and didn't believe me. It took repeated calls and getting another Observer staffer at the bar to call him before he agreed to send a reporter. 
But there are some benefits -or at least interesting things that happen when you are in a bar that busted. I ran into some familiar faces at Excise Police. One officer who busted the tail­gate party I was attending at Purdue and busted the tailgate party I was at for the Florida State here at Notre Dame was in attendance at the Finnegan's bust. Apparently he finds the busts in Gary more fun because they involve "dope." 
So after this third encounter with Excise, I think I can pretty much pick out any member of the Michigan City division and forewarn minors of their presence. And I have a cool story to tell my kids some days down the road to warn them about' the dangers of underage drinking. Wink, wink. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DID ROOM PICKS WORK OUT FOR YOU? 

Christina Munoz Tessa O'Connor Josle Patane Mike Tesfay Meagan Fitzpatrick John Burke 
Freshman Freshman Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Junior 
Cavanaugh Breen-Phillips Breen-Phillips Morrissey McGlinn O'Neill 
''361's gonna be "Stuck with "We got a bad "This time I "Mi casa es tu "Pretty well: I 



,, 

casa. got a double with my girlfriend. " 
IN BRIEF 
Third period registration begins today on lrishlink and continues through Wednesday. 
Assistant professor of political science Dan Philpott will moder­ate a panel of professors, which includes Charles Rice, Michael Baxter and David Campbell, on "Faithful Citizenship:" Catholics and the 2004 Election at 3 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Marianne Schulze of the Notre Dame Law School will present a lecture on "Restitution After the Holocaust: the Limits of Legal Reparations" at 7 p.m. tonight in the Law School, room 120. 
Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, will address the question "The War in Iraq: Justified as Humanitarian Intervention?" at 12:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The students of History 401 will lead a Haunted Campus procession at 7 p.m. Tuesday from O'Shaughnessy Great Hall. Members ofthe Potawatomi and Miami tribes will be in atten­dance and a reception and bon­fire will follow. 
Political commentator Mo Rocca, a comedian who has been featured on The Daily Show, at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in Debartolo Hall room 131. 
The season finale of Notre Dame Television will air at 11 
p.m. Tuesday night on cable channel3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 62 HIGH 59 LOW 44 LOW 46 
the place to be!" her. " number so we didn't get got stuck with a screwed over. ,, fire hose. ,. 

Ford upset by ad showing decapitation 
DEARBORN, Mich. ­Ford Motor Co. is upset by the release of an Internet advertisement that depicts the decapitation of a com­puter-animated cat by a power moonroof hatch, saying it didn't authorize the clip. 
The ad for the Sportka, a hatchback sold in Europe, shows the realistic-looking orange cat climbing on top of the car and poking its head into the open moon­roof, The Detroit News reported Sunday. The hatch slides closed, the cat struggles briefly and its headless body slides to the ground. 
Ford says the clip was conceived without its approval by ad agency Ogilvy & Mather as part of a "viral marketing" cam­paign for the Sportka. "Viral marketing," a type of e-mail marketing, is the electronic version of word of mouth, usually inviting recipients to forward an e­mail to others. Pet food fire destroys office 
LIBERTY. N.C. -Bags of decomposing pet food apparently spontaneously combusted, causing a fire that destroyed the office of an animal rescue group last weekend, investigators said. 
Water had apparently leaked into bags of stock­piled dog and cat food at the Happy Hills Animal Foundation, causing the food to begin rotting, fire inspector Wendell Whatley said. The decomposition process generated heat that could not escape from the stacked bags. 
Investigators said some bags lower in the stacks had burned from the inside out, suggesting sponta­neous combustion. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::z:: 
ti 
LLI 

3: 
..I 
<
(,) 


....0 HIGH 76 HIGH 54 HIGH 62 HIGH 64 LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 47 LOW 47 

Atlanta 82 I 58 Boston 87 I 57 Chicago 73 I 43 Denver 65 I 40 Houston 82 I 65 Los Angeles 71 I 52 Minneapolis 57 I 40 New York 86/61 Philadelphia 83 I 62 Phoenix 84/ 59 Seattle 60 I 47 St. Louis 79 I 58 Tampa 83 /60 Washington 86/ 62 

.....------------------------------------~-----~--~~-~-----~ 
Monday, April 19, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Taco Bell to respond to NO letter 
Company says original letter was not delivered correctly 
the contract, which has come She said that after "monthsBy CLAIRE HEININGER under fire of late from mem­and months" of meeting with 
News Editor 
bers of the Progressive Student the general counsel, the PSA 
Alliance. 1\venty-one students decided to accelerate their 
A spokesperson for Yum! in PSA declared efforts, including Brands Inc., owner of Taco a three-day a mass-deliveryBell -the restaurant chain hunger strike of letters to whose marketing relationship Tuesday night, "Everyone's in a Malloy's office with Notre Dame's athletic demanding a 
position to realize Wednesday that 
department has prompted 126 public statement led to a meeting
this is serious. , 
students to go on a hunger from University with Counselor to strike -promised Friday that President Father the President the University's general coun­Edward Malloy Brigitte Gynther Father Peter sel would receive a prompt that Notre Dame Jarret.
PSA Member 
response to its inquiries about would not renew the fairness of Taco Bell's its contract with labor practices. . Taco Bell and 
According to vice president that the University would and general counsel Carol begin providing only Fair Kaesebier, the company Trade coffee in both dining spokesperson said the letter halls. While that group ended initially sent to Yum! Brands their fasts on Friday evening at on March 5 never reached its a protest outside the Taco Bell intended recipient, said . After at Lafayette Boulevard and learning of the confusion, LaSalle Street, 126 students in 
Kaesebier e­mailed another copy of the letter and was told to expect a reply Monday or Tuesday.  "If there was some miscommunication, I think we·re back on track now. ,,  total have pledged to fast for 1-, 2-, and 3-day incre­ments. Brigitte Gynther, a PSA member whose  
"If there was some miscom­munication, I think we're back on track now," Kaesebier said.  Carol Kaesebler Notre Dame General Counsel  hunger strike began Sunday night, said she was encouraged by the exchange between  
Holding to the  Kaesebier  and  

general counsel's initial com­Yum! Brands. mitment, Kaesebier said the "It seems like all of the infor­University will await Taco mation is better assimilated," Bell's response before making she said. "Everyone's in a posi­any judgments about renewing tion to realize this is serious." 
Jarret, now the 
group's official 
liaison to Malloy, is also scheduled to meet with Gynther and four to five more of the students today. 
Melody Gonzalez, another PSA member who has been vocal throughout the exchange, said the group had prepared responses to Taco Bell's previous arguments in the event that Taco Bell responds to the University by the time the students meet with Jarret. 
"We're just hoping to take them as much information as they need," Gonzalez said, adding that the students plan to stick to the original terms for ending the hunger strike. 
"We feel like [Kaesebier] has done her job," she said. "The ultimate power to make the decision lies with Father Malloy." 

Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 



Applications are now being 
" 

accepted for comics in The Observer next year. 
Send five strips to Editor in Chief Matt Lazar's mailbox in The Observer office by Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
NDPI students attend air show 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Pilot Initiative Senior Bryce Harward and a classmate from the Notre Dame Pilot Initiative look at a single engine Cessna training aircraft at an alrshow for the Initiative at the South Bend Regional 
Airport Thursday. 
By MATI BRAMANTI Senior SraffWrirer 

After months in the class­room, student aviators from the Notre Dame Pilot Initiative were treated to an air show all their own Thursday. Held on the tarmac at the South Bend Regional Airport, the event brought 11 aircraft and their pilots to the field. 
The Initiative is the parent organization that hosts a course entitled "Introduction to Principles of Flight," num­bered AS398. 
The three-credit course is open to all students and pre­pares them -many of whom 
are pursuing a private pilot's license to enter primary flight training. 
The concept behind the flight course has a 30­year history at the University, but due to liabili­ty concerns, had been on hiatus for many years. The course was resurrected in fall 2003, and has taught 90 young aviators in two semesters. 
While the course is taught 

..It was a unique opportunity for students to gain exposure to general aviation aircraft. The air show is the first opportunity for the students to sit in the cockpit. •• 
Jeff Newcamp Instructor and senior aerospace engineering major 

in a classroom, a great deal of the real learning happens at the airport, said instructor and licensed pilot Jeff Newcamp, a senior aerospace engineering major. 
"It was a unique opportunity for students to gain exposure to general aviation aircraft," Newcamp said. "The air show is the first opportunity for the students to sit in the cockpit." 
Clad in yellow T-shirts bear­ing the slogan "Fly Like a Champion Today," the 50 stu­dents spent Thursday's class time chatting with pilots and looking at airplanes. 
While the course's content focuses on the theory and knowledge underlying pow­ered flight, the annual air show provides some hands-on education on actual aircraft. While safely on the ground, students sat in cockpits and gained familiarity with aircraft controls and instrumentation. 
Instructor Joe Friel, a senior electrical engineering major, said the show provides experi­ences that cannot be replicat­ed in the classroom. 

"It gives the students time to look at the flight instruments and understand what it is like to be [the] pilot in command," Friel said. 
Support for the air show ­as well as the number of air­craft on display -has grown since the inception of the course last fall. 
Special guests included WNDU pilot Rich Voigt and his Bell nanger helicopter ­known to Michiana residents as "NewsChopper 16." 
In addition, Family Viqeo provided a twin-engine Cessna 
Citation business jet. Bob Dunn, a professional spe­cialist in the College of Engineering, had his powered para­chute on display, and members of the Wings Flying Club brought two single-engine Cessna training aircraft. Rounding out the list of aircraft were a Piper Saratoga, Piper Archer, Mooney Mite, F35 Bonanza and a Bell 222 medical 

airlift helicopter. 
Sophomore Rob Schrimpf said the show complemented the course's formal work and gave many students an inti­mate look at general aviation. 
''I'm not sure students in the class have been close to light airplanes before," Schrimpf said. "The air show was the best class of the semester." 
By May, the course's stu­dents will be qualified to take the FAA written exam, the first step in becoming a pri­vate pilot. 
Newcamp said Notre Dame is no stranger to aeronautical training. 
"These students are continu­ing a rich tradition of aviation at Notre Dame," Newcamp said. "[It] stems back to the early days of [Father] Albert Zahm and his glider experi­ments atop LaFortune. " 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


Monday, April 19, 2004
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Spring Day on Campus draws 130 prospectives 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's annual Spring Day on Campus brought 130 prospective students and their families to the College Sunday. 
The event is geared toward high school juniors, or those students who are just begin­ning their college search, and is designed to familiarize stu­dents with the College. This year's event attracted mostly juniors, and a few sopho­mores, who came from 11 dif­ferent states including Florida and Texas. 
It was the largest turnout for the event in the past several years. as only 92 attended last year, 120 in 2002 and 100 in 2001, admissions counselor Kate Coulston said. 
The event kicked off at 9:30 
a.m. with an opening prayer service and formal welcome. The families then attended forums regarding the general admissions process, require­ments for acceptance into the College and financial planning. 
The prospective students were invited to attend a stu­dent panel discussion to have an opportunity to get some of 
OPENING 
.•• over$10 

their questions answered about Saint Mary's and college life. Instead of the student panel discussion, parents were encouraged to attend a session designed to address their questions about sending their child to college. 
In the afternoon, the stu­dents and their families were taken on an extensive tour of the campus. having an oppor­tunity to see residence halls and academic buildings. At the conclusion of the tour every­one was invited to a compli­mentar.y lunch in the dining hall. 
Spring Day on Campus con­cluded in the Angela Athletic Facility where prospective stu­dents had the opportunity to meet with professors, adminis­tration and faculty to discuss their academic interests and goals. They also had a chance to speak with coaches about varsity athletics and represen­tatives from campus clubs and organizations. 
This is the 23rd year that Saint Mary's has conducted the Spring Day on Campus event. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 





Thank you 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Students College Appreciation 

SPECIAL 

$4.95 for 3 hours 
times: every night from 9 to midnight 

Beacon 8owl 
234-4167 
(By the Airport) 



Nuns open discernment house 
Sister Josepha Cullen said Sunday during  "Ifwe can help any woman in following  basement was also newly fur­nished. Rooms  
the inaugural open house for the new discern­ her life in the way ofChrist, that  for retreat partic­ipants are also available. The  
ment center. Her  would be our  building contains  
peaceful thought  desire.,  a  chapel and  a  
is the attitude  meeting place for  
that Mary's Solitude tries to  Sister Mlchaeleen  retreatants as well small luxu­ 
allude to.  Frleders  ries, such  as an  
Mary's Solitude was for­ Holy Cross Sister  elevator. The Holy Cross  
merly a retreat  sisters' ministry  

center in which all types of usually centers on education groups, men, women and stu­and health. While these will dents would gather in order to continue, the center will also take the sometimes necessary provide spiritual direction of "retreats" from daily life. Now, sorts. · it aims to provide spiritual "We're like other religious direction for women who are orders. [We] don't have the having difficulties in discern­numbers we used to have," ing their life's choices. Frieders said. "But this pro­Two Holy Cross sisters, Sister gram [at Mary's Solitude] was Michaeleen Fr.ieders and not set up because of that." Sister Gladys Marie Martin The sisters are inviting all traveled from Maryland in women in the community to order to give a new face to the explore opportunities that retreat center and start offer­help them to get to know the ing their discernment min­sisters on a personal basis, istry. The group they work learn about living a Christ 

-shirts -food -soda -admission 
oin us Wednesday, April 21st@ Legends for 
with Frs. j Steele, CSC & Kevin Russeau, CSC 
Bring all of your unanswered questions about Catholicism! 
Doors open at 9:30 p.m. 
visit us online at camptlsininistry.nd.edu C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Free stuHI 

centered life and share their goals and dreams of how they can live a spiritual life. 
Women from all walks of life are encouraged to contact the Holy Cross sisters at Mary's Solitude no matter what they hope to find. 
"If we can help any woman in following her life in the way of Christ, that would be our desire," Frieders said. 
Those women who are strictly discerning a religious life can visit the sisters to decide what paths they poten­tially can take within the dif­ferent religious communities. 
"Those women who are not looking for a religious voca­tion can come and share their dreams and goals for a more fulfilling life in Christ," said Sr. Gladys Marie. 
Visitors to the open house Sunday praised both the idea of a discernment center and the facility itself. 
"As a non-Catholic, it's very lovely," said visitor Helen Rudolph. 
"You don't even have to be a religious to come here," said Betty Strantz, another open house visitor. 
Giving the center a new face now allows the sisters to "pro­vide a place for someone to see what [the sister's] life is like," Frieders said. 
Mary's Solitude is simply a place where a woman, through journaling, prayer, reflection and retreat can explore the religious life or whatever career or vocation God may be calling her to. 
Contact Teresa Nowakowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Wrirer 

Over two years ago, a meta­morphosis began on the Saint Mary's campus as Holy Cross Sisters worked to transform the Mary's Solitude retreat center into a place of discern­ment for· women. 
Nestled behind the convent at Mary's Solitude, there is a long cement porch that over­looks a cluster of trees and a beautiful sunset. 
"Look at that sunset. I love this porch," 
for. entitled Mary's Song, is named as an imitation of the Virgin Mother's "fiat" or yes, and how that yes praised God. 
"We have always done our ministry under our Lady's pro­tection," Frieders said. "We hoped somehow our lives could be songs of praise to God." 
The nuns began their work with the renovation of the cen­ter itself. It is now a brighter environment with lighter walls than the previous dark wood­en paneling. The first floor has rooms for five sisters to 
reside, and the 
i • < : I ! i ) l J " I• I t I [ ( l , ) i Ci I, I I .. [ : 
,--:. l• I. 9 1 : I J I. I ·. I I. t J I : H fCI[II .
• 



Monday, Aprill9, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sudan war displaces 50,000 
NAIROBI, Kenya -At least 50,000 people have fled their homes in recent weeks because of militia attacks and fighting between Sudanese government and rebel forces in southern Sudan, the United Nations said Sunday. 
The clashes between the government forces and the Sudan People's Liberation Army rebels occurred despite a cease fire between the warring parties, which are involved in talks to end the country's 21-year civil war. 
The cease-fire, signed in October 2002, is supposed to remain in force as long as talks continue. But there were no immediate indi­cations that the fighting would derail the negotiations. 
U.N. police die in prison shooting 
KOSOVSKA. MITROVICA, Serbia-Montenegro -A Jordanian policeman fired on a group of fellow U.N. police officers in a prison compound in Kosovo, killing two Americans before being shot and killed in the ensuing gunbattle. Eleven others, includ­ing 10 Americans, were wounded. 
A group of 21 American correctional offi­cers, along with two Turks and an Austrian officer, were leaving the detention center after a day of training in northern Kosovo on Saturday when they came under fire from at least one member of a group of Jordanians on guard at the prison, said Neeraj Singh, a 
U.N. spokesman. 
The officers shot back. In the 10-minute gunbattle, the attacker and two American officers were killed, while 10 more Americans and one Austrian were wounded. It was not clear what touched off the via-
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fatal fire was personal vendetta 
NEW YORK -Police said a man accused of starting an apartment fire that killed five peo­ple was trying to settle a score with a tenant he believed had assaulted a neighborhood woman. 
Rodney Williams, 28, admitted buying a 99­cent bottle of rubbing alcohol on Friday night and leaving it in the Brooklyn building's lobby, police Commissioner Ray Kelly said Sunday. Early Saturday morning, Williams re-entered the building, soaked advertising circulars he found in the lobby with the rubbing alcohol and set them on fire, Kelly said. 
Student's community awaits justice 
PEQUOT lAKES, Minn. -Residents of this tiny northern Minnesota city felt a sense of relief Sunday, a day after the discovery of University of North Dakota student Dru Sjodin's body, but they have yet to find the clo­sure they seek. 
That won't happen, several residents said, , until Sjodin's killer is brought to justice. 
"It kind of brought some closure, but it rekindled a little fire under it," said Chris Melberg, 22, who graduated from high school here with Sjodin. Melberg said anger at Alfonso Rodriguez Jr., the man charged with kidnapping Sjodin, is fueling the fire. 
Searchers found Sjodin's body Saturday morning in a ravine near a county road north­west of Crookston after a five-month search. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ten accused in theft of $91,000 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Marion County pros­ecutor filed dozens of felony charges against a former state employee and nine others accused of taking part in the theft of more than $91,000 in child support money. 
Prosecutor Carl Brizzi said Kathleen Crumpton, who worked for the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration from 1998 until last year, used her authority to redirect and steal child support checks. Crumpton, 38, is charged with two felonies. 


Bremer says Iraq security not ready 
Administration questions future presence of U.S. troops in Iraq after June 30 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraqi security forces will not be ready to protect the country against insurgents by the June 30 handover of power, the top U.S. administrator said Sunday -an assess­ment aimed at defending the continued heavy pres­ence of U.S. troops here even after an Iraqi govern­ment takes over. 
The unusually blunt com­ments from L. Paul Bremer came amid a weekend of new fighting that pushed the death toll for U.S. troops in April to 99, already the record for a single-month in Iraq and approaching the number killed during the invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein last year. 
The military had always planned to remain after June 30, when the U.S. is to handover sovereignty to Iraq. In recent months coali­tion officials acknowledged the transfer of security will be significantly slower than hoped because Iraqi forces were not prepared. 
But Bremer said the fight­ing across the country this month exposed the depth of the problems inside the security forces. 

"Events of the past two weeks show that Iraq still faces security threats and needs outside help to deal with them. Early this month, the foes of democra­Saturday. terrorist bombings that al­mer general in the Iraqi cy overran Iraqi police sta­A total of 115 U.S. service Qaida militants said were infantry until he retired in tions and seized public members were killed in reprisal for Spain's support 1997. buildings in several part..:; of combat from the start of the of the war. U.S. officials have been the country," he said. "Iraqi U.S.-led invasion in March Iraq's defense minister -rebuilding the military from forces were unable to stop 2003 until May 1, when Ali Allawi, a Shiite Muslim scratch, arrangihg the train­them." President Bush declared -appointed by U.S. officials ing of recruits and naming 
"It is clear that Iraqi major combat over. Until two weeks ago, announced Allawi as its civilian head. forces will not be able, on now, the single-month his two top generals, a But the recent violence their own, to deal with these record for U.S. troops killed Sunni and a Kurd, establish­has shown the weaknesses thr~ats by June 30 when an was 82, in November. ing representatives of the and conflicted feelings of the Iraqi government assumes Around 700 U.S. servicemen country's three main com­armed forces. An army bat­sovereignty," Bremer said in have died in Iraq. munities in the senior talion refused to join the a statement issued by the Over the weekend, at least defense positions. Marines in the siege of 
U.S. coalition. 40 Iraqis were killed, bring­The army's top general Fallujah, saying they did not 
With, U.S.-led forces fight­ing the Iraqi death toll in will be Gen. Babakir Zebari, intend to f~ght fellow Iraqis. ing on two fronts and insur­April to more than 1 ,050. who commanded Kurdish During the Shiite militia gent violence flaring else­Also Sunday, Spain's militiamen in the north for uprising in the south, many where, at least 99 U.S. prime minister ordered the decades and fought along­police abandoned their sta­troops have been killed in withdrawal of Spanish side coalition troops during tions, realizing they were combat since April 1. In the troops from Iraq as soon as last year's invasion. The badly outgunned or sympa­latest violence, five Marines possible, fulfilling a cam­chief of staff will be Amer thizing with the militia's and five soldiers were killed paign promise made after al-Hashimi, a Sunni and for-cause. 



Revenge sworn for Rantisi's death 
Yassin. that he would forge ahead with his Associated Press 
Hamas chose a replacement for plan and continue to "hit the terror GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Hamas Rantisi on Sunday, but did not dis­organizations and their leaders." close his name -a clear sign at Cabinet minister Gideon Ezra said
threatened "100 unique reprisals" against Israel for killing its leader, least that the group is on the defen­the overall Hamas leader, 
Abdel Aziz Rantisi, as hundreds of sive in the face of Israeli attacks Damascus-based Khaled Mashaal, ahead of Prime Minister Ariel was also a target. Rantisi was in
thousands of mourners flooded the· 

Sharon's planned withdrawal from charge of the Palestinian areas andstreets Sunday in a show of strength the Gaza Strip. reported to Mashaal.
and fury. It wasn't clear if the Islamic mili­Sharon on Sunday picked up the The killing of Rantisi set off 
tant group was strong enough to support of key Cabinet ministers for demonstrations -some of them violent -across Gaza and the West
carry out large-scale attacks after a his unilateral disengagement plan, Bank, as well as in Arab countries.
sustained two-year Israeli campaign including the Gaza withdrawal, 
against it. Despite promises of assuring him of a Cabinet majority In the West Bank, Israeli troops revenge, Hamas still has not struck ahead of a hard-fought referendum shot and critically wounded a 14­
among the 200,000 members of his year-old Palestinian boy in a clash
in the three weeks since Israel 

Likud Party. between stone throwers and sol­
assassinated Rantisi's predecessor, 

Hamas founder Sheik Ahmed Sharon told the Cabinet on Sunday diers. 
~ 
. . 
\ I f I I l -, I "' I 
Monday, April 19, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Christmas 
continued from page 1 
teers. did a significant amount of work and finished earlier than the projected end time, according to Paulsen. 
"We had about 26 houses and also cleaned up the whole neighborhood," Paulsen said. 
Students participated to take part in a service event, meet new people, spend time with friends and fulfill ResLife serv­ice hours. 
"You see a lot of students working for the South Bend community," he said. "But you see a lot of students having a good time doing it." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 



Selection 
continued from page 1 
cut down to nine last Monday. The nine remaining were sub­jected to a panel judging of their performance in various situations, including opening a football pep rally, appearing at an event and being questioned on numerous subjects by a media personality. 
"Auditions were extremely competitive ... I felt mine went pretty well, but you could hear the crowd reaction for all the other candidates, and they were great for everyone," said Lerum. 
The top five scores were 
brought in for a one-on-one interview to see, as cheerlead­ing coach Janette Minton said, "which one [had] the right heart." Lerum said the inter­views were relaxed and cov­ered topics such as social and family life. 
The winners were announced that night, so those who were not selected had the opportunity to attend cheer­leading try-outs the next day. 
"We choose someone that has a magnetic charisma, that would be able to communicate without words; someone gen­uine and honest, with a high level of integrity," Minton said. "A lot of people might want to be Leprechaun for self-notori­ety, instead of doing it to build spirit for the teams." 
Lerum said that he plans to keep in contact with current Gold squad Leprechaun Michael Macaluso for advice, and will spend the summer thinking up ideas for the fall's pep rallies and football games. 
Though there are no physi­cal requirements -not even gender -Minton said she did encourage the Leprechauns to try to grow a beard. 
"I already have a beard," Lerum said. ''I'm about 5-foot­6, and though I'm blond, my facial hair is actually red, strangely enough. I'm Irish, so I guess I have that look." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Shaved .Heads Against Cancer was simultaneously at

Hair 
work. It was started by a group of students at Notre
continued from page 1 
Dame to benefit the Dana­
Many donators were joined Farber Cancer Institute, a by friends, including Laux, cancer center in Boston. whose friend Nicole Gonsalves Sophomore Matt Goulet did not have long helped run the . 
enough hair to event as part of donate, but said "My cousin had a challenge in she was "definite­his entrepre­
cancer, and she
!y 'h e r e for the neurship class. 
moral support." decided to shave He was joined in 
Many donors offher hair before sponsoring it feared how they with other stu­
it fell out andjust
would look with­dents, including
donate it. So I cut 
out their long ·sophomore hair. my hair too. , Kathryn Finn "I'm kind of and freshman afraid of what I'll Nick Duda. 
Meleah Ladd 
look like with Participants in 
Notre Dame librarian
short hair," fresh­Shaved Heads man Erin Housing Against Cancer said. "But it doesn't seem to collected pledges for the shav­be going bad." ing of their heads. Goulet esti­
Students were not the only mated approximately 20 men ones to donate. Notre Dame collected pledges for Dana-librarian Meleah Farber and Ladd said she has shaved their been donating for "I'm kind ofafraid hair. years. "It's sponsor­
ofwhat I'll look 
"Every three or ship for the act
like with short 
five years I. will of shaving your donate about 18 hair., head. It is to inches," she said. show support "My cousin had for cancer vic­
Erin Housing 
cancer, and she tims and raise 
freshman
decided to shave morale," Finn off her hair before explained. it fell out and just ·"We've had a donate it. So I cut my hair great response." too." Duda also had his head 
Schirack said she would like shaved. "A go-od friend of to see the event happen on mine had cancer," Duda said. campus again. "So I sort of did it for him." 
"We will be· advertising again to grow your hair," she Contact Anna Gelhaus at said. agelhaus@nd.edu 

IRISH STUDIES -UNDERGRADUATE COURSES FALL 2004 
For a full list ofcourses and course descriptions, see '~vvv.nd.edu/ -irishstud/ 
LANGUAGE Beginning Irish I 4450 IRST 101:01 MWF 10:40-11:30: McKibben Beginning Irish I 4578 IRST 101:02 :t\1WF 1:55-2:45:0 Conchubhair Beginning Irish II 4614 IRST 102:01 TH 9:30-10:45: McQuillan Beginning Irish II 4319 IRST 102:02 MWF 4:05-4:55: 0 Conchubhair Intermediate Irish 4453 IRST 103:01 M\VF 1:55-2:45: McKibben Intermediate Irish 6009 IRST 103:02 T H 12:30-1:45: McQuillan 
DANCE Irish and American Dance 4319 IRST 228:01 MW 4:30-5:45: McKenna 
LITERATURE Women in Irish Oral Tradition 6012 IRST 304:01 TH 2:00-3:15: Bourke Anglo-Irish Literature 6461 IRST 372E:Ol MWF 1:55-2:45: Witek Irish Gothic From Union to Troubles 6465 IRST 379C:01 M\VF 11:45-12:35: Wurtz 20th Century Irish Literature 5134 IRST 382:01 TH 11:00-12:15: O'Brien Modern Irish Drama 5093 IRST 4710:01 MW 11:45-1:00: Harris Culture and Politics in Northern Ireland 6493 IRST 476A TH 9:30-10:45: Burgess Versions ofGothic, 1750-1900 6490 IRST 477:01 TH 3:30-4:45: McMinn 
HISTORY The Irish American Experience 4525 IRST 235:0 MW 10:40-11:30: Dolan Irish History I 4626 IRST 326B:Ol MWF 9:35-10:25: Smyth The Fighting Irish Since 1534 6690 IRST 374:01 TH 3:30-4:45: 0 Ciardha The VIkings 5676 IRST 441:01 TH 2:00-3:15 O'Leary 



1\llnnri-Jlf Anril 1 (.) '700.1 ----.. 

Monday, April 19, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 




Investors ponder Microsoft's future 
Dow 10 45197 
+54.51 

Technology giant loses status as growth stock, but maintains steady development
}ones ' · 
.Same: 

Composite Volume 
Associated Press 




l:ali 

JiK4.EX.·•·· '"'r·· 
NASIJAQ 
NVSE. S&P 500 NI~(Tokyo) 
140 1,487,908,736 
·· '"''' l~239.68'''W::;:+6.80 
1,995.74 -6.43 6,616.93 "i-47.47 1,134.61 +5.77 
,}1,824.56 0.00 

FTSE. IOO(London) 4,537.30 +31.80 
behind it, investors are wondering what's ahead for 

COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE the computing powerhouse. 
NEW YORK-Microsoft Corp.'s successes over the last three decades have made it the third-largest company in the stock mar­ket and its founder the rich­est man in the world. But with its peak growth years 

INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.79 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.49 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.22 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) -3.13 SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) -3.64 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.56 10-YEAA NOTE -1.14 5-YEAANOTE -2.11 3-MONTH BILL -1.08 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) 
Excha e Rates 

YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$ 
For years, investors have
-0.21 26.45 
classified Microsoft as a 
-0.34 22.48 
growth stock, and certainly it has been a bellwether for the high-tech sector. But the 
-0.055 25.16 
-0.671 20.799 
upstart that helped lead the 
-0.161 4.26 tech revolution has become more mature, and with its products dominating the 
-0.29 5 I. 76 
software market, its stock price no longer loops upward as it did in the com­
-0.50 43.52 
-0.73 33.79 
pany's youth. 
-0.10 9.17 
"It seems like their share­holder base is really turning over from a lot of the
-0.11 36.99 
growth funds to a value 
+3.30 401.60 
base," said John Rudy, an analyst with Standard & Poor's. "The big question is, what is the catalyst to get 
+0.95 102.45 
107.9 
the shares going?" 
0.8322 
Microsoft is among more than 170 companies in the
0.5561 
Standard & Poor's 500 
I HI> 
reporting quarterly earn­
ings in the coming week. It's expected to post profits Thursday of 29 cents a

IN BRIEF 
share and revenues of $8.66 billion, according to

Ernst & Young faces new ban 
analysts surveyed by

WASHINGTON -Ernst & Young was Thomson First Call. 
barred from accepting new corporate audit Results are also expectedclients for six months Friday for failing to from such bellwethers as 
maintain its independence from a company 
Pfizer Inc., American 

whose books it audited. 
International Group Inc.,

The administrative law judge at the 
Altria Group Inc. and Coca­Securities and Exchange Commission said Cola Co. Though most com­

the evidence showed that Ernst & Young 
panies have either matched "has an utter disdain" for the SEC's regula­

or beaten Wall Street's 

tions on auditors' independence. It was the 
expectations so far this 

first time the SEC had sought the suspension earnings season, the mar­of a major accounting firm since 1975. 
ket's reaction has been 

Administrative law judge Brenda Murray 
muted. The prospect of 

also ordered the nation's third-largest 
higher interest rates has 

accounting firm to pay $1.7 million in resti­been an unwelcome distrac­
tution, plus interest, in a case involving soft­tion for investors, who are ware maker PeopleSoft Inc. 
struggling through a cor­New York-based Ernst & Young said Friday 

rection that started in 

it did not plan to appeal the ruling, though it February.
had previously argued that its conduct was 
Investors searching for 

appropriate and met professional standards. 
further evidence that the 

The company said it is "fully committed" to economy is improving will working with the SEC-approved independent be listening closely to fore­
consultant it must hire under the judge's casts for the rest of the 
order to oversee its policies and internal 
Microsoft Chairman and Chief Software Architect Bill Gates pauses during his keynote speech at the Microsoft Mobile Developer Conference 2004. 
year, including Microsoft's. The company may not make any surprise announcements, but investors are looking to it to find ways to increase its profits since the next ver­sion of its Windows operat­ing system isn't due until 2006. 
With almost $53 billion in cash and short term invest­ments, Microsoft could go acquisition hunting, though its wrangling with regula­tors makes anything beyond a strategic niche purchase unlikely. It also could share more of its wealth with investors, either with a one­time special dividend or by raising its payout on an annual basis. 
Now that it has dealt with a series of legal issues in the United States and abroad, the company may be willing to do just that, though probably not next week, Rudy said. 
It recently settled patent and antitrust suits with Sun-Microsystems Inc., InterTrust Technologies and AT&T Corp., and last year it put to rest claims by Time Warner Inc. involving Netscape Communications. And most of the uncertainty surrounding its European Union antitrust case was dispelled last month, when EU regulators ruled against it, ordering sanctions and a big fine. Microsoft is appealing the decision. 
Even without something to jog the stock in the near future, Microsoft's stock is likely to rise ahead of the much-anticipated launch of the new version of Windows. But that doesn't seem to be inspiring buyers now. 
"Everyone believes the stock is stuck in neutral. That really seems to be the expectation, and that's real­ly not the case," said Rudy, noting that the company produced steady growth throughout the recent downturn. 
A lethargic stock price ­now at $25.16, Microsoft hasn't traded near $40 since mid-2000-and the prospect of a higher divi­dend make the stock ever more appealing to value managers, such as Carl 
Peterson,  president  of  
Parkway  Advisors  in  
Abilene, Texas.  


controls. 
Uberal radio station pulled off air NEW YORK -A new radio network aimed 
Qwest leaders acquitted of fraud
at liberal audiences expects to be back on 
the air in Chicago on Friday, but its signal problems in Los Angeles -and a business dispute with a partner -have yet to be resolved. 
Air America Radio's signal was pulled Wednesday from two stations in both cities by MultiCultural Radio Broadcasting Inc. fol­lowing a disagreement over payments. 
Air America said Thursday it had obtained a temporary restraining order against Multicultural "forcing them to put us back on the air." The order, which was filed in New York where Multicultural is based, does not apply to Los Angeles, however. 
Air America chairman Evan Cohen said the company had not asked the court to act in Los Angeles, and was pursuing other options there, including finding a new "more respon­sible and mature" business partner. 
Efforts to contact MultiCultural for com­ment were not successful. 
Associated Press 
DENVER -A federal jury acquit­
ted two former Qwest executives 
Friday of improperly booking nearly 
$34 million in revenue and then 
lying to auditors and the FBI about 
it. The jury issued a partial acquit­
tal for a third executive and dead­
locked in the case against a fourth. 
The men were charged with fraud and conspiracy in a $100 million deal in 2001 to link Arizona schools to the Internet. Prosecutors said the four conspired to declare the rev­enue before the purchases were made and then lied to accountants and investigators. 
After nearly two weeks of deliber­ations, thy jury cleared John Walker and Bryan Treadway of all charges. 

Grant Graham, a former chief financial officer at Qwest, was acquitted of three charges and a mistrial was declared when the jury failed to agree on eight remaining charges. The jury could agree on any of the 11 charges against Thomas Hall, a former senior vice president. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney William Leone said a decision on whether to retry the case would be made with­in two weeks. 
"They lumped me in," Walker said after the verdict. "The FBI and U.S. Attorney's Office never spoke to me before they indicted me." 
A lawyer for Treadway, who declined comment, said his client was grateful to the jury for exoner­ating him. 
"We've said all along these charges were baseless," said the lawyer, Stephen Cowen. 
It was the first criminal trial stemming from investigations that prompted former the Qwest chief executive Joseph Nacchio to quit in 2002 and ultimately led the Denver­based telecommunications giant to remove $2.5 billion in revenue from its books. 
Qwest provides telephone services in 14 states in the West and Midwest. 
• • Q • • 4 • e I • & t ~ • 4 • I • t • ~ • • -. . -. ' . .. .. . . .. J . • ••• , •••• .. ~ ... .: •••• i_-• • e • • • .. e : • It. • • C> • • • e • ..,.·. e-• c • ~ .;,· e II 6 a e • • •• • • • • • • • • ­

j I' '-,--~ ". _I .l • • • I 0 ' "' ' ' • ' ..-I . I ' • •
~-\-I ;:. I ' .J J I ' ' ' '; • t' j i: ' l I I ' I • • I • ' < \ J )':' •• ( . \ 
--. ---~-.----~------.--·· ~-------~-----·--·-~--~-­
--. -· ....... ---------------------------------------.. :-. 
page 8 Monday, April 19, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 

Duke tries to aid sleepy students 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -Duke University is eliminating 8 
a.m. classes and trying to come up with other ways 
help its sleep­..They begin to get classes before 
9. ..

deprived stu­into a pattern of 
dents, who too "We're going
sleeping four to

often are strug­to have a lot of gling to survive five hours. They grumbling next on a mix of caf­really think it fall when the feine, adrenaline reality sets in,"
doesn't bother 

and ambition. Ruderman said.
them. but that

The school is "But you know also considering really isn't the what? They're 
,

new orientation resourceful and
case. 

programs this they'll man­
James Clark 

fall that would age."help freshmen director of counseling Ruderman's 
understand the 
importance of 
sleep. 
"Generally, the people I 
know, we don't see sleep as 
that important compared to 
what school and the curricu­
lum have to offer," said 
Marcel Yang, a Duke fresh­
man from Chapel Hill. 
Lack of sleep among college 
students is an old problem, 
but one that appears to be 
getting worse, according to 
some national surveys. 
College students sleep an 
average of six to seven hours 
a night, down from seven to 
seven and a half in the 1980s. 
Last month, the University of 
Michigan held a national con­
ference on sleep, stress, 
depression and college stu­
dents. Sleep deprivation can 
hurt academic performance 
and increase stress levels. 
James Clack, Duke's direc­
tor of counseling and psycho­
logical services, said the lat­
est research shows that col­
lege-age people should be 
getting nine hours of sleep a 
night. 
"They begin to get into a pattern of sleeping four to five hours," he said. "They really think it doesn't bother them, but that really isn't the case." 
Duke wants students to consider adequate sleep a part of overall wellness. One idea is to do individual health assessments for each student and set goals for good nutri­tion, exercise and plenty of shuteye. 
"They're coming in to see us, and they're ragged," said Ryan Lombardi, assistant dean of students. "We get e­mails and calls in the middle of the night at ungodly hours." 
Those schedules have even affected Duke's class times. Students have shunned 8 
a.m. classes to the point that many departments stopped offering them. When campus planners looked over the schedule, they realized that, over the years, most classes had been squeezed into the hours between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. 
"That suits many students just fine," said Judith Ruderman, vice provost. "But we couldn't exist like that." 
Duke was running out of classroom space, and stu­dents were beginning to com­plain about the availability of courses. So administrators worked out a new schedule for the fall, spreading classes more evenly throughout the day and week. 
The result: no more 8 a.m. classes, but plenty starting at 
8:30 a.m. That will still be a shock to some students who have never had 
advice to sleep­walking stu­dents? Take an afternoon nap. 


Library 
continued from page 1 

conditions to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor and the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission, who will use this information and Hammons' video evidence to determine if 
the  bar  should  be  held  
accountable.  
"That's  a  part  of  

[Hammons') premises and underagers shouldn't be in the vestibule," 
called to the bust as backup, said Hammons fulfilled his obligations. 
"He's doing everything he's supposed to do, but we have to investigate complaints," Mersich said. 
Police have been investigat­ing The Library for several months now, Deitchley con­firmed. He said that three additional bars were also tar­geted Thursday night, based on information that excise had compiled about the establish­ments' regular activity. 
Hammons 
Deitchley said. "That's not an error on our  '"[The pub owner is] doing everything  claimed that offi­cers on the scene told him that one  
part." Hammons did accept partial responsibility for the raid. "It's my fault as  he's supposed to do, but we have to investigate complaints. ··  of the locations, the Oyster Bar, was their initial target. "They decided to raid us as an  
much as theirs I guess," he said. "As a college bar,  Lt. Marc Merslch South Bend Pollee  afterthought," he said. Though The  
all you can do is  Library  was  

the best you can do to keep forced to close for a 30-day underage people out." suspension of its liquor license Lt. Marc Mersich of the following a raid April 25, South Bend Police, who was Hammons said that since the 
number of minors cited dropped from 51 to 17 he doubted a similar outcome this year. 
"Seventeen is collateral damage," he said. "I don't think anything will come of it." 
Hammons said he spent over $4,000 on the camera equip­ment after the first raid in order to thwart the possibility of another, and expressed con­fidence in his bouncers to turn minors away. 
"It slows down the line but it is a thorough process," he said. "This is a good system and obviously it did help some from last year to this year." 
And while Boat Club owner­ship Millennium Enterprises sought damages of $3,000 each from 200 of the 2 31 patrons busted at the bar on Jan. 24, 2003, Hammons said he would "never" file lawsuits against The Library's cited customers. 
"As far as retaliating against the 17 students, no," he said. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


,
Monday, Apn1 19, 2004 page~
The Observer + INTERNAflUNAL NEW~ 
KAZAKHSTAN 

Three astronauts blast off for space station 
Associated Press 
BAIKONUR -A Russian rock­
et roared into space Monday 
carrying an American, a Russian 
and a Dutch man to the interna­
tional space station on the third 
manned mission since the halt of 
the U.S. shuttle program. 
American Michael Fincke, Russian Gennady Padalka and Andre Kuipers of the Netherlands, representing the European Space Agency, were to spend two days. en route to the ISS aboard the Soyuz TMA-4 spacecraft. The Russian-built capsule is the only means to get to the orbital outpost since the suspension of U.S. space shuttle flights following the February 2003 Columbia disaster. 
"Our Russian partners are picking up the ball," Fincke, 37. said. "It's very symbolic what we can do when people all over the world work together." 
Just before boarding the spacecraft, the trio paused to wave farewell to relatives.. space officials and others who had traveled to the desolate Baikonur cosmodrome, in the steppes of Kazakhstan. Padalka held up two fingers in a victory sign, Fincke gave a thumbs-up and Kuipers brandished a clenched fist. 
Russian, U.S. and European 
=-r/?.6'./&~
Carryout & FREE Delivery 
space officials watched the crew on a monitor from Russian Mission. Control outside Moscow. The three astronauts waved and blew kisses from inside the cap­sule before blasting off. They shook hands after the spacecraft entered orbit approximately nine minutes after the 7:19a.m. 
(11:19 p.m. EDT Sunday) lift-off, having shed its boosters along the way. 
Applause rippled through Mission Control as the space­craft reached orbit and its solar panels unfolded. 
Padalka and Fincke, who were initially trained to fly on a U.S. shuttle, will spend 183 days on the space station. Kuipers will return after nine days with the station's current crew, U.S. astronaut Michael Foale and Russian cosmonaut Alexander Kaleri, who have been in orbit since October. 
The mission fulfills a lifelong dream for Fincke, a Pittsburgh native who as a child donned cardboard wings and made his siblings play Star Trek. 
"He always knew that he would fly," Fincke's father Edward said before the launch. ''I'm so happy. I want to cry." 
Fincke became the only one of his four brothers to follow their father's path and join the U.S. Air Force. 

~ CIICI~I ACCEPTED HERE Muslprovide aedUcard iiDIRl31iln when or~r11g or deliVery_ 
Some Ma~eo's Ptzza stores ao:EPI chErts for payment 8y payirg with a cl1€cl, you gi1.te us He rght, wthout further notiCe, to elajroni:aly coiB:;t your cha:;k and the amount cl abad ciMci tQllfthe cteck IS returned to us. 
(!; 
E~ 
c'!t. 
~g
8<'> 
~ . 
er of lronwood& McKinlev Ill 
111 il ~~ 
SPAIN 

~eader orders troops home 
Associated Press 

MADHID -Spain's prime 
minister on Sunday ordered 
Spanish troops pulled out of 
Iraq as soon as possible, ful­
filling a campaign pledge to a 
nation recovering from terror­
ist bombings that al-Qaida 
militants said were reprisal 
for Spain's support of the war. 
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero issued the abrupt recall just hours after his gov­ernment was sworn in, saying there was no sign the United States would meet his demand for United Nations control of the postwar occupation -his ultimatum for keeping troops there. 
Zapatero's Socialist party won the March 14 general election amid allegations that outgoing Prime Miqister Jose Maria Aznar, by backing the war in Iraq, had provoked dommuter-train terrorist bombings that killed 191 peo­ple three days before the vote. 
Though Zapatero had prom­ised to remove Spanish troops, his immediate action was a bombshell, and a set­back for the United States as Spain's new foreign minister prepared to travel to Washington to discuss the dis­pute. 
The Bush administration has been eager to maintain an international veneer on the increasingly besieged coali­tion force in Iraq, which is dominated by its 130,000 American troops. 
In a five-minute address at the Moncloa Palace, Zapatero 
said he had ordered Defense 
Minister Jose Bono to "do 
what is necessary for the 
Spanish troops stationed in 
Iraq to return home in the 
shortest time possible." 
He cited his campaign 
pledge to bring the 1,300 
troops in Iraq home by June 
30, when their mandate 
expires, if the United Nations 

failed to take political and 
military control. 
"With the information we 

have, and which we have 
gathered over the past few 
weeks, it is not foreseeable 
that the United Nations will 
adopt a resolution" that satis­
fies Spain's terms by its dead­
line, Zapatero said. 
The latest polls show 72 percent of Spaniards want the troops withdrawn. 
The gov~rnment did not say when it would start removing its forces. but officials in Cairo said Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher was told by his Spanish counter­part, Miguel Angel Moratinos, that Spain would pull out of Iraq in 15 days. The officials spoke on condition pf anonymity. 
Egypt's foreign ministry later backtracked from that in a statement, however, saying the Spanish leader said "the date will be announced in Iraq and has not yet been fixed." 
In Washington, U.S. officials said Zapatero's announce­ment was not a surprise. 
"We knew from the recent Spanish election that it was the new prime minister's intention to withdraw Spanish 
troops from the coalition in 
Iraq," said a White House 
spokesman, Ken Lisaius. "We 
will work with our coalition 
partners in Iraq and the 
Spanish government and 
expect they will implement 
their decision in a coordinat­
ed, responsible anO. orderly 
manner." 

Mariano Rajoy, who ran 
against Zapatero in the elec­
tion after Aznar decided not 
to seek another term, said the 
decision made Spain "much 
more vulnerable and weak in 
the face of terrorism in the 
face of terrorism." 

Zapatero has "thrown in the 
towel" rather than try to 
exhaust all possibilities of get­
ting a U.N. resolution to meet 
his demands, Rajoy said. 

But many other politicians praised Zapatero, including Jose Antonio Labordeta, a congressman from a small party based in Aragon in the northeast. 
"What Zapatero did is keep his word, which is rare in this country. For the first time, we have come across a politician who keeps his word," Labordeta told the news agency Efe. 
Bono, the defense secretary. is reported· to have met secretly in Washington with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld on April 5. 
Moratinos, the foreign sec­retary, said he will travel Tuesday to Washington to dis­cuss Spain's plans with Secretary of State Colin Powell and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice. 
American Foreign Policy in Iraq and Bey9nd: 
A debate between conservative radio talk-show host 
Dennis Prager 
and Political Science Professor 

George Lopez 
Monday, April 19th 138 DeBartolo 
7:30PM 
Sponsored in part by Keough Hall 

Monday, April19, 2004 

page lU The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.';''· ·"'l •'1'l''>-,~l.."~~·'"·'' • ,; • ., ·-.----~~,·r··. "'~rr~-~ .... ,, ··.·
----~~~~~~----------------~--------------------------------------------------------~~
l • . .~_._l, .• -' ·'··-._t.-. • .. • ··• ~ r.~.~.v 1.. ~ 
-·---~ ~---·--------------------------------------A-----• • ----•• 4 •• -•• • -• • --• • • • • --------• • •.-·---------------------------• • ... • -• • 
--------------------------------... -------.... --.... ~ --------------. . -----------. ~ -.----.. -----· ---------------------­Monday, April19, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADvERTISEMENT page 11 





DO YOU HAVE WHAT IT TAKES? 




Saint MatsCollegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 

Semester Around the World Program 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 6:00p.m. Mon., April19 in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's OR 6:00p.m., Wed., April21 in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Japan, China, Tibet, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, all of India and Nepal; optional travel through Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM 
(574) 284-4468 OR 4473 • FAX (574) 284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 


p 

THE ()BSER\'ER 


Monday, April 19, 2004
page 12 

THE OBSERVER 

Defending the PSA's tactics 
News Scott Brodfuehrer Meryl Guyer Viewpoint Eileen Duffy Graphics Mike Harkins 
Sports Chris Federico Ann Loughery Eric Retter Scene KC Kenney IUustrator Pat Quill 
OBSERVER POLL 

How many games do you think the Notre Dame football team will win during the 2004 season? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46~~ 024 South Dining H:UI. Notre Dame, IN 46~~ . · 
EDlroR lN OUH Matt Lour. 
MANAGING EDITOR. .. BUSINl!SS MANA<>.Ell Meghannc Downes 1.4ti u-.v.-Mti . 

AsST. MANA.CING ElllTOit Joe Hettler 
NEWS EDITOIU Claire Heirunger VIEWPOINT EDimR: ·SarahVahulas 
Sl'OIITS EDITOR: H~ather Van Hoegarde11 ScENE EDITOlt: ·Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Chuy Benitez 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 

ADvERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly-Nds~>n 
WEB ADMINISTRATORt Todd Nieto 
CoNTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
CoNTACT Us OFRCE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsel'V'.Jd@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR & AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574)631~4541 obsme@ndedti . . BUSINESS OFRCE (574} 631~5313 NEWS DESK. 
(574) 6Jl-53;B< ()h$!l<Wi.l @t)d.ed~ .·.•• •.•. ·. ·••. ·• ·•••••·.• · VIEWPOINT DESK .· •· .· •.. ·.· •.. (574) 631•53()J ···.• viewpoii)t.t@nd.~;du •····.• 
. •.• . . . ·••. •. SPORTS DESk ·.• .··.• ·.· (574) 631;;454.3 spor(SJ@nd.edu 
• · SCENE DESK (574) 631"-4540 scene.l@ncl.edu SAINT MARY'~ DESK (574) 631-4324 smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574).631-8767 .· photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS {574). 631 ..8839 
THE . ·.. ··· . 
0BSERVERONL/N£
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publishoo in print and online by the students ofthe UniVct$ity ofNotre Dame dula( and Saine Mary's·. College. Editorial content;including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither imtituri<)n;TheObserter reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news isreported as accurately and objectively as possible. Umigned editoriah represent the oplnii:,n of rhe majority ofthe Editot in Chid;MaMglng Ediw,. A>sistant ManagingEdiror arid d.epanrnet'lr edirors~ · Commentaries, letters and columns present the view~ cJ the. ~uthor$ anti oot n~ily thok· ofThe 
0~.·· 
Viewpoint sp;eels a~lable to rail readers. The &c!e c::xptessron "fall opinkiril through letters is encouraged. le«ell ~9 the Editormustbe. $igned and num include 
conracr infarnutrion. . · · 
~om rrgarding Obs"""policm thau/J b~ dirtctNi to F.Jitor in Chi4fMalt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11r0\t.cr...,. (U$1>S S'l9 i-41100~ ~ p..loli<h<d Mondlp tbNJuglt hld.p ~qtt ~urQ>g c....., onJ •>Ciri<tA po:ri<><l<./\ """"'ip<Wtl ·~ 1"1tc Ob..<oor ,, ~(oil r..,. """aa:..l=i< )'COr. $)~ fot<tiK: ....,..,.,..... 
'fftc (lb~m~or i> polt~•!.c<l•~: lil4 S<toth lJiniAI tM~ 
S.n<l :tddms ""''"'Oo"' w. Noc~ ~J ..••· tN 46~*urn Til< (:>h.crm l~t~>t&.ol J">'l~ paid .. N.>tte: u..... 1~). llo< Q 
...~ ..dJitl<>n.ol m;illib~ nfA.u. 014 Soo<h llihit41 H•P N.xro ll•om:, IN 46S5r,on9 
ll<c Ol..a..-r.u • "'""'""' o(U... "-'<i.u.!l'm,./\U ""f'P><I""oio" rilhn •"" 
.......vco~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
The April 16 editorial in this paper went to curious lengths to defend the administration on the issue of Taco Bell contracts and Fair Trade coffee. It likewise made a special effort to condemn the aggressiveness of the Progressive Roque Strew Student Alliance's tactics. The edito­rial presented a Straight, thoroughly flawed No Chaser and misleading take on both past history and present progress. 
I'll attempt here. by examining the claims and contradictions of the edi­torial, to add a sense of balance. First, to sum up why the PSA is cam­paigning-although many of you already know-I'll briefly relate the issues. A major tomato supplier to Taco Bell pays pickers starvation wages, unchanged since 1978. Taco Bell's advertising contract with Notre Dame athletics expires this semt)Stcr; the PSA wants the business relation­ship between Notre Dame and Taco Bell concluded, with a public state­ment affirming this. Fair Trade cof­fee is the other issue. The PSI\ would like to see Fair Trade coffee in the dining halls, assuring just wages to coffee growers in developing coun­tries. 
This two-pronged campaign has been a long one, with only fitful cooperation from the administration. Calling the "dialogue" between the administration and the PSI\ "produc­tive" is one of the editorial's mysteri­ous presuppositions. By what meas­ure was it productive? For example, let's turn to Claire Heininger's article in Thursday's Observer. Heininger reports that PSA members have met with Carol Kaesebicr since last fall. A letter went to Taco Bell on March 5. This succinctly illustrates tht~ com­mitment of the administration. Father Peter Jarret claims that it's merely "out of fairness and pru-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Support women's soccer 
On Friday at 7 p.m., the Mexican national team will take Team the past three seasons, and over 1,800 Mexican sup­on the Notre Dame women's soccer team at porters have come to Alumni and made us the Alumni Stadium. 
The Mexican national team recently qualified for the sum­Mexican llags flying high, so mer Olympics in Athens, we really could usc the and they are bringing "Leprechaun Legion" at 
their full Olympic Team this game to campus. Monica All Notre Dame stu­Gonzalez, a former dents get in free with Notre Dame player, will their student IDs, so I'm 
be playing with Mexico. personally asking for The reason that I'm your support for our writing, however, is to ask spring season finale. 
· that all of you paint your faces, put on your Irish colors (Mexico's Randy Waldrum colors are green), and come support the Hc:ad coach, Notre Dame: women's soccer Irish in this big event. We've played the Mexican Aprill6 dence" that the administration won't likely make a statement any time soon, until hearing both sides. Why did it take months simply to get this minor letter out? Also, the editorial notes that a follow-up call was made. Guess why. Yes, because of the walk­in. Heininger reported this, too. This is the sum of the productiveness lauded by the editorial. 
Besides, the administration's dedi­cation to "fairness and prudence" is dubious. The PSA's meetings with Kaesebier ineludcd the presentation of a damning array of materials, including articles by the New Yorker and National Geographic on modern human slavery, detailing the working conditions of Immokalee tomato pick­ers. In December, the Hobert F. Kennedy Memorial Center for Human Hights urged Kacsebier to cancel Notre Dame's Taco Bell contract. The injustice is well-documented and unambiguous. 
It was ambitious, trying to mold Martin Luther King, Jr.'s quote­"Justice too long delayed is justice denied" -into an awkward, fatherly dictum. The editorial valiantly con­cluded with the quaint "Justice forced may disrupt justice forthcom­ing." I can't make heads or tails of this. It looks nice though, if you squint your eyes. Is it saying that "forcing" justice deserves reproach? More so than allowing injustice to endure? How something that hasn't yet arrived can be disrupted is beyond me. Ditto even for how justice can "disrupt" justice. Is there some innovative multi-tiered conception or justice hidden here? 
What the editorial is trying too hard to say, I'm guessing, is basically this: justice is on its way, so don't rush it. It urges patience. Looking deeper, it's really saying this: the administration will act when it deems it fiscally (not morally) prudent to do so-or when·'it fears its sterling image will be tarnished. They decide when "forthcoming" is; they can stall and forestall at their leisure. Humbly contending with the "slow-moving" 
Kafkaesque process is the dissident's 
proper task, suggests the editorial, while justice is hindered indefinitely. Justice has to wait its turn, appar­ently. 
Civil disobedience, the concept itself. seems totally alien to the writ­ers of the editorial. This explains in part the editorial's sheer incoher­ence. While mentioning civil disobe­dience at the beginning, the crux of their point is that we need to meekly acquiesce, that students who don't serenely accept the system's.indefi­nite delay of justice arc in the wrong. The PS/\'s "confrontational approach" follows only after the exhaustion of other approaches, after progress slowed to standstill. The "willingness to address students' concerns" was displayed in response to the PS/\'s tactics. Civil disobedience isn't as inC!Tcctivc at Notre Dame as the edi­torial believes. 
As well-intentioned as the editorial was, it only erected another obstacle in front of the PS/\'s campaign for justice. It did so by twisting and veil­ing the facts. It portrayed a fake dichotomy: the irrational dissidents versus the rational administration. But the most cursory glance over the history of the PSA's campaign reveals that immense patience was exercised only to go wholly unrewarded. Justice was trapped in a labyrinth of bureaucracy. Delays followed delays into dead ends. The PSI\ and the hunger strikers want only to speed justice out of the maze-and civil disobedience is helping. 
• 

Roque Strew is ajunior political science major. /lis column appears every other Monday. lie can be con­tacted at wstrew@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Disobedience, in the eyes ofanyone who has read history, is man's original virtue. It is through disobedience that progress has been made, through disobedience and through rebellion.,, 
Oscar Wilde author 

U-WIRE 
FCC wages 

war on First 
Amendment 
The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution states unequivocally the position of our forefathers regarding mat­ters of speech: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; 
or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the govern­ment for a redress of grievances." 
Recently, the Federal Communications Commission levied almost $500,000 in "proposed forfei­ture" against Clear Channel Communications for ··indecent" broad­casts of Howati:l Stern's crude but popu­lar syndicated radio show. 
Josh Kaufman 
The News 
Record 

According to MTV.com, the FCC received a complaint from 
a listener in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., about several comments 
that were made on the show. The FCC ruled that there were 
three "indecency violations" committed during the broadcast 
in question and proceeded to fine Clear Channel $27,500 for 
each violation in each of the six markets the show aired. 
That adds up to a whopping $495,000 for a single broad­
cast. 
As a result, Clear Channel decided to permanently end its 
relationship with Stern and has pulled all broadcasts from 
the -airwaves, losing millions of dollars in revenue. 
"Mr. Stern's show has created a great liability for us and other broadcasters who air it," said John Hogan, president and CEO of Clear Channel Radio. "The Congress and the FCC are even beginning to look at revoking station licenses. That's a risk we're just not willing to take," 
Let's step back and think about this for a moment in its full context. Stern pushes the envelope of good taste and intends the content of his show to offend the listener. 
He succeeds in shocking someone, who calls up the gov­ernment. A regulatory agency, acting as sole judge, jury and executioner, labels Stern's show "indecent" and fines it out of existence. 
The proper question to ask in this case is: Indecent by what standard? 
What makes something indecent? Who gets to decide what is decent and what is not? If people's definitions of decency differ, how do you decide which has the greater validity? Is it possible to define decency in any objective way? 
No, it is not. 
Decency is in the eye of the beholder, as the concept relates to material that either corresponds to or offends that individual's sense of propriety. 
Any attempt to arbitrarily restrict what an individual can legally say smacks of totalitarianism, not a free society. 
Here is my honest appraisal of Stern's show: It is disgust­ing, crude, annoying, uneducated and oftentimes downright nasty. That is why I am glad I live in a society in which I am not forced to listen to him, and neither is anyone else. 
If you find Stern's material offensive, exercise your free­dom not to listen. The last time I checked, it was still possi­ble to change the station on a radio. 
It is intolerable to allow a bureaucrat to arbitrarily deter­mine what the remainder of the population can and cannot legally say (or listen to) by force of law. 
Aren't the airwaves public property? That's the probl~a1. As long as the gov~rnment controls the airwaves, under the alibi that it is for "the public good," we'll continue to have the same issue. 
To put the issue in perspective: What if the government retained legal control of the printing presses and burned every book that it found to be "indecent?" 
It's the same principal applied to a different medium. For reference, consider Nazi Germany and the burning of "degenerate" books by Jewish authors. 
In the words of Supreme Court Justice William 0. Douglas, "Restriction of free thought and free speech is the most dan­gerous of all subversions. It is the one un-American act that could most easily defeat us." 
Stern, no matter how lewd or disgusting his conversations, should not be silenced. 
Regardless of your personal opinion of his work, curtailing Stern's freedom of speech, and the freedom of others to lis­ten, damages us all. 
This article originally appeared on April 15 in The News Record, the daily publication at the University f!f Connecticut. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe· author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Formulate political opinions based on reality 
I am writing in response to Heather Phillips' April 16 letter. 
I am a member of the Class of 2000, writing from Chicago, where I have consistently been able to look beyond the liberal spin in the past year to formulate political opinions based on real­ity, not animus, spite and one man's career aspi­rations. 
It's laudable that Ms. Philips has decided to re­enter the political debate. In the last presidential election, barely over 50 percent of registered vot­ers participated. The apathy towards exercising this most fundamental right is simply abhorrent. 
Yet, with the right to vote comes responsibility -a term most often loosely affiliated with the liberal agenda. By this I mean a responsibility to weigh both sides of the argument, to cut through the left-leaning media spin and to take responsi­bility for the consequences of your vote. To accept the "ads on the Metro" or the agenda-laden mus­ings of MoveOn.org at face value is doing your­self, and the country as a whole, a grave diser­vice. 
If the Leninites at MoveOn.org really had the altruistic goals of rengaging the disenchanted many in the political process, they would be bet­ter served not to force those same people to choose one side over the other. Furthermore, if their intent was to create a more open, involved democratic process, they would be loathe to dis­regard Clinton's impeachment as a "waste of our nation's focus." You can label Bush a liar and call for his censure, but Clinton gets a pass? That's one for inclusion. 
And, for the record, the real "man of the peo­ple," John Kerry (estimated worth: $500 million) and his Democratic party have raised $100 mil­lion to this point. 
That's a lot of bake sales. 
Adam Tracy 
Class of 2000 
.April 16 

Commend, don't mock, the hunger strike 

I was appalled the other day when I was walking down South Quad and saw a "We love Taco Bell" sign hanging from a dorm window. This attempt at a joke is not funny; it is actually quite offensive. 
Not only does it show ignorance and uncaring for poor workers who suffer to produce products we buy, but it also is a slap in the face of our fellow stu­dents who are taking a stand against social injustices through protesting and hunger strikes. We should be proud of them, because on a campus that does not embrace much activism they are willing to work to have their demands heard. 
Whether or not you agree with their cause or motive, we ought to commend them for their devo­tion to it. A hunger strike is a serious thing and should not be turned into the joke of campus. Thank you to those students who are brave enough to take a stand and force the rest of us to come face to face with important issues outside our narrow world. 
Anne Shreiner freshman Breen-Phillips Hall April16 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


• 


Monday, April 19, 2004
page 14 Monday, April l 




God. Country. Rock 'n' Roll? 
New revenues revitalize the music scene both on and off campus 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Senior StaffWriter 
Notre Dame rocks ... at least it used to. Believe it or not, the Dome used to be a hotspot for some of the biggest music acts in the country when the JACC was still considered a large perform­ance venue and campus bands used to routinely play concerts on and off campus. While Notre Dame still pulls in an occasional big-name act, there. has been a remarkable decline in the stu­dent music scene. But a number of campus music enthusiasts see a silver lining with emerging venues and new talent. . 
WVFI Station Manager Emily Ear~man said that the campus music scene has struggled with a lack of appropriate venues and band name recognition in the past few years. 
"When I first got here there were these flagship bands, Umphrey's McGee had just grad­uated; now there're not really any big flagship Notre Dame bands. There are a couple bigger names but nothing that has been really consistent over the years," Earthman said. 
Other setbacks have included the Student Union Board's dis­continuation of NAZZ, the annual battle of the bands, after Station One was awarded the top prize in 2002. SUB Manager sopho­more Jimmy Flaherty said that the festival had run a deficit for three years before it was can­celed when SUB reviewed its budget and decided that it was too expensive to support. SUB's idea was to try to incorporate student bands into other pro­gramming. In addition, Flaherty proposed that interest in student bands would increase if Student Government brought more big­name acts to campus. 
"I think a lot of it has to do with stirring up interest in music on campus. In a year when we don't have any big concerts, the music scene is kind of dead," Flaherty said. "I think across the board you look at ND compared to other schools and we don't have big-name concerts, so I think Student Government needs to work with the Board of Trustees to develop a bank account or an endowment to bankroll bigger concerts." 
But a growing number of on­and off-campus venues for stu­dent bands have provided stu­dent bands with more venues. Earthman hopes that the grow­ing presence of Legends, the all­age campus club, pub and restaurant, will provide aspiring musicians with a good base to get momentum for their bands. 
"Legends is a really nice place to play; from the band standpoint I've heard a lot of really positive things about the sound equip­ment and space. From the stu­dent standpoint I think that word definitely gets around and they have a really good venue to play at that's [accessible] to students," Earthman said. 
Venues for student bands have been opening off campus as well. The State has featured campus band Station One and Club 23 has st?rted featuring a student band every Friday night at its apropos-named "Friday Night Bands at Club 23." 
Senior Adel Hanash, who works as a bouncer at Club 23, started the concert series after one of his roommates, a member of the campus band Kitsch, com­plained of the lack of off-campus venues. 
"Right now it seems that bands tend to play at parties and a cou­ple other venues around campus, but once there's a venue dedicat­ed to college music, it will help the music scene grow off-campus too," Hanash said. 
Even though Friday Night Bands got started late in the year, Hanash said that there had been a lot of enthusiasm for the series and has drawn large crowds to the diminutive Club 23 each week. 
"Club 23 is a really interesting music venue -it's pretty small, there's no stage but it's very inti­mate," Hanash said. "It's a lot of fun because the bands are right there." 

Hanash was initially concerned that the series wouldn't be suc­cessful because of the 21-year­old age limit on going to see a band play in a bar, but said that has not been the case because it features bands made up of most­ly upperclassmen like Station One, The Royal They and Kitsch, which tend to draw an older crowd. 
Senior Lawrence Santiago, lead singer of Station One, said that the campus music scene was beginning to be rekindled by bands that are starting to active­ly lead the way. 
''I'd say it's revitalizing. There's been an absence of quality bands and they're starting to resurface again," Santiago said. 
Santiago thinks that the music scene at Notre Dame will improve if bands work together to find new venues and help each other get gigs. Station One plays regularly on-and off-campus, though Santiago and his band mates remember when they began as freshmen playing for free at Higher Grounds. The band now gets paid for its per­formances at Club 23 and The State. Santiago said he hopes that Station One and other more established bands can help new talent emerge. 
"It take a solid band to step off­campus and promote themselves and open doors," Santiago said. "It also takes some unification among the bands to help each other and help promote the music scene." 
Earthman said that bands should make an effort to pro­mote themselves through cam­pus media to get the word out and to not get discouraged. 
"We've had great bands come out of Notre Dame -Chisel and Ted Leo, Sweep the Leg Johnny -and we have had great music in years past," Earthman said. "I think we can again in the future if people don't give up." 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 

Photo counesy of C. Spencer Beggs 
The Royal They, with singer Nick Williams and Bucket on bass, are one of a handful of groups that have taken advantage of Club 23's newly-developed Friday Night Bands concert series. 

The triumphc Notre Darr 
The Student Union Boar a week-long schedule 
By PATRICK VASSEL 
Scene Wri[er 

Finals are approaching. Teachers have conspired to hit the student body with papers and projects all at the same time. Everything seems to be happening as part of a giant plan to stress you out. Wouldn't it be great if there were just a week of free events designed to reduce stress and let everyone just get out and have some fun? That's the question Notre Dame students decided to answer in 1967 with AnTostal, a tradition this year's Student Union Board is hoping to restore to its former glory. 
anTostal, which is Gaelic for "the festival," was a spring extravaganza that ran strong for thirty years before declining in the late 1990s. Other campus events of this time of year, such as the Fisher Regatta and the Bookstore Basketball finals, histori­cally took place as part of AnTostal week. Essentially a series of concerts, contests and events, many of which were out doors, defined anTostal dur­ing its most popular years. 
A glance through past yearbooks reveals the importance of the event to the student body with big name bands coming through, mud wrestling on 
the quads and free giveaways 
.throughout the week. New Student Union Board manager Jimmy Flaherty is excited about the week's events and hopes this year will solidi­fy the tradition for years to come. 
"It's a way to lift the stress on the student body, a last hurrah for the seniors, and hopefully it will get everyone pumped about the events we're planning for next year," Flaherty said. 
Officially beginning Sunday with a trip to Chicago for a Cubs game, anTostal features events every day of the week. On Tuesday, "The Daily Show" regular Mo Rocca will be speaking in DeBartolo 101. His smart and hilarious commentary on politics and current events is sure to be a great time. 
If students are unsure of what AnTostal is all about, Wednesday is sure to clear up their confusion. With free laundry in LaFortune, free pizza delivered to classes, tie-dying shirts on South Quad, free Boracho Burrito, a special concert featuring Zane Williams, and a quarter dog eating contest at the Huddle, Wednesday is just an average day during AnTostal week; but an outstanding day for the student body. 
Free pizza delivery continues on Thursday, which most students recognize as AcoustiCafe night. AnTostal AcoustiCafe is even better, though, featuring the best of Notre Dame's live per­formers at Legends, followed by a concert with one of the hottest new singer/song­writers in the country, Ari Hest. Hest is a native of New York and has toured col­lege campuses and small venues for the last sever­al years while writing songs and sharing stages with acts such as Maroon 5, Jason 
Mraz and O.A.R. 
"All the per­forming and tour­ing fits me. "I want to sing and play for people every night," Hest says on his Web site. 
llest, who recently signed with Columbia Records, is soon to release albums nationwide. Thursday is a great chance to see an amazing 

THE OBSER\'ER 

19,2004 




Page 15 
1nt return of a 1e tradition 
·d revitalizes AnTostal for 'of fun and relaxation 
artist live "before 
he was big." 
Friday's big event 
is a Carnival 
throughout the day 
on North Quad. 
With free give­
aways, contests and 
entertainment, it's 
a great way to get 
out in the sun and 
have a good time 
celebrating the end 
of the last full week 
of classes. 
Continuing the con­
certs of the week, 
Jason Lavasseur 
will perform; Friday 
is also the day of 
the Battle of the 
Bands competition. 
In addition to the 
outstanding events 
and concerts, SUB 
is also sponsoring 
special giveaways 
throughout the 
week, with the 
chance to win a 
brand new Ipod, 
Xbox and Notre 
Dame apparel. 
Past alumni have 
often looked back 
with great memo­
ries of their experi­
ences at anTostal, 
and Flaherty is 
hoping that this is something current jobs and other responsibilities. April 
and future students will feel the same is a busy month for everyone. This 
way about. year, however, anTostal should be 
"The new board and programmers able to relieve a lot of stress and at have really been great in getting this least provide some great distractions together and it should be not only a from the everyday worries. Only eight lot of fun, but a preview of what SUB class days are left, and these five is working on for next year," Flaherty shouldn't be quite as bad with this re­
said. established Notre Dame tradition. 
Being a Notre Dame student seems to come with a requisite amount of Contact Patrick Vassel stress, between classes, activities, at pvassel@nd.edu 



Dude, where's my scene? 
The University of Texas is in Austin; so is Emo's. 
Lawrence has the University of Kansas and The 
Bottleneck. Both the University of Georgia and the 40 
Watt Club are in Athens, GA. And South Bend has 
Notre Dame and, well, we have a few houses where 
indie rock bands play. Sometimes. 
There must be something more to it, Cole Smith yes? South Bend wasn't just passed.by when the powers-that-be assigned clubs to the country's best college 
Scene Writer 
towns, was it? 
Maybe that's the first part of the problem--we don't live in a college town. We live in South Bend, Ind. College towns have bookstores and literary festivals. They have jazz clubs and theatres that show indie films. They have culture; we have the College Football Hall of Fame. 
College towns are peculiar organisms. The space between those two words forms a definite a barrier as the imaginary fence that seems to surround our cam­pus. This fence exists in neither Iowa City nor Berkeley. In Columbia, Miss., a small sign marks the corner of campus at the University of Missouri, but few notice it. There, campus breathes in the city with every green light. Streets don't dead-end as they approach the class­room buildings; letters arrive in campus mailboxes with the same zip code as the vintage shop two blocks down. Students are encouraged to be a part of the community, not merely to serve it for two hours on Saturday after­noons like some do here, as admirable as this work is, and their community is encouraged to participate in campus life. It's incredible, really. 
Things are different at Notre Dame. There's no place like it. In the latter parts of the 19th-century, students weren't allowed to leave campus without permission. South Bend, Notre Dame's urban sibling, must have been considered a dangerous place of crime. We're so much more sophisticated now -at least we respect our big brother's bars. 
No, something's still missing-there must be more to our lacking music scene than our absent college town. Something else must be the real key. Something like our taste in music. 
Notre Dame kids don't want to listen to indie rock. Seriously, it's not our fault. It's just not our style. We have dorm parties and laptop playlists varying from Dave Matthews to Outkast, and nothing in-between. We have football, and we run in our spare time. We dress like catalog models. And we don't embrace anything lo­
fi. 

Since we don't like it, we don't expect to hear it. Since artistic expression isn't central to campus life-once I heard someone call Notre Dame a 'jock school'-we sacrifice our expectations of student art. In a MINDSET (http://www.nd.edu/-mindset) feature on campus cover­band Bebop & Rocksteady, Paul Steinle writes "artistic vision is not a prerogative -Radiohead, they are not ­but hey, [Notre Dame] isn't N.Y.U." And he's absolutely right. However, this begs the inevitable 'why not?' Why are our expectations higher for students at New York University than Notre Dame -if these expectations may, and should, be seen as a central reason to our lacking creativity? Students here are arguably as tal­ented as our counterparts on the east coast. Is it simply because they've performed more, and flat out better, in the past? Probably -but that's our fault, not theirs. 
Its going to start when a few more music lovers not only perpetuate, but extend current events. We have empty garages on Bulla Road; we have The Mondays and Station One; we have kids that flat out love the music; and we've had one before. Ted Leo did it in the early nineties. If the name sounds familiar it's because he's a member of the class of 1993 -and was featured in both Rolling Stone and Spin last year. A handful of WVFI-sponsored compilations from the mid-nineties are hiding on a shelf at the station, waiting for someone to remember how brilliant music used to be at Notre Dame, to remember how people used to notice. The scene is still waiting out there for us, we just have to decide we want it. 
So start with college radio (http://wvfi.nd.edu). Start with campus bands (http://www.nd.edu/-mindset) and Legends shows (http://www.legendsofnotredame.org). Pay attention the next time a band picks up at a house party. So maybe South Bend isn't Austin or Lawrence or Iowa City-maybe we don't have their music scenes. But nobody is saying we can't. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Cole Smith at nsmith@nd.edu. 

Monday, April 19, 2004

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
~-MLB 

Dodgers complete series sweep against Giants 
tand to give him seven on the "The wind was blowing out,

Bonds' two homers 
season and 665 for his career but it was also doing some not enough, Dodgers -50 from passing Babe Ruth crazy, crazy stuff," Dunn said. for second place at: d 90 shy of "When I hit it (his second hang on to win 7-6 Hank Aaron's all-ti1ne record. homer). I was mad because that Bonds is 11-for-15 with six was a pretty good pitch to hit . Associated Press homers and 13 RBis on the and I thought I just popped it 
homestand, raising his average up. 

SAN FRANCISCO -The Los to .500 this season. "So, thanks wind." Angeles Dodgers got a big effort Reds 11, Cubs 10 With the score tied at 9, Freel from almost every player dur­Sammy Sosa is the Cubs' singled off Joe Borowski (1-1) ing the weekend. The San career home run leader. Greg in the 10th on a fly to right that Francisco Giants had Barry Maddux is still looking for his Sosa lost in the sun. Freel stole Bonds. first win since returning to second, Javier Valentin walked As well as Bonds played, it Chicago. and Castro tripled off the cen­
".:.... still wasn't enough. Adam Dunn hit two homers ter-field wall. Bonds homered twice and and Juan Castro had a two-run "Today was a tough day, espe­drove in five runs. giving him triple in the 1Oth inning that cially the last inning. I lost one four home runs in the series, sent the Cincinnati Reds to a in the sun," Sosa said. "That but the Dodgers completed a victory over the Cubs, another cost us a lot of runs right there. three-game sweep with a 7-6 wild and wacky day at Wrigley It happened. It was a crazy victory. Field. game." 
"What I saw over the week­"It was windy, no question," Todd Jones (1-0) pitched 2 1­end was reminiscent of a lot of Maddux said. "It was tough. It 3 innings for the win and Danny what I saw when he had that was probably tougher on the Graves earned his sixth save, rampage in 2001," Dodgers outfielders and even the infield­giving up an unearned run in manager Jim Tracy said. ''He ers than anybody. It was blow­the 10th after Jason LaRue's doesn't get many pitches to hit ing pretty good." passed ball on a third strike. and when he does he's not foul­Maddux gave up three Phlllles 5, Expos 4 ing the ball off. He's either hit­homers in six innings, failing Doug Glan\\flle knows his role ting a vicious line drive or hit­for the third time to get his first in his second stint with ting a home run." win with the Cubs since 1992. Philadelphia: Spot starts in cen­
While Bonds hit a record 73 Sosa homered twice and ter field, late-inning defense home runs that season, it was passed Ernie Banks for the and some pinch hitting. also the only year of the last Cubs' record, but also lost a fly And some dramatic hits, too. four that the Giants failed to ball in the sun in the 1Oth that Glanville homered leading off make the playoffs. If he doesn't sparked the Reds' winning the ninth inning to lift the get more help soon, San rally. Phillies over the Montreal Francisco could be in trouble It's certainly not been the Expos for a three-game sweep. again. return Maddux envisioned. He's Glanville hit a 3-1 pitch off 
"In baseball, no one man car­been hit hard -by batters and Rocky Biddle (0-1) over the left­ries the team," Bonds said. the weather -in both of his field wall to give the Phillies "We're just not doing it when home starts. their fourth straight win in we need to." In his first Wrigley Field their new ballpark following a and had 204 hits in 1999 -the behind guys like that." 
After getting timely hits and appearance last Monday, he loss in the opener. He was last time he came out for a cur­Klesko got just the pitch he making productive outs to win was knocked out after 3 2-3 crushed by his teammates at tain call in front of the Philly wanted for only the third homer the first two games, Los innings by Pittsburgh on a cold home plate as the Phillies fans.· by the Padres in nine games at Angeles used the longball in the day. danced off the field. Padres 6, Diamondbacks 5 spacious new Petco Park. finale. On Sunday, the wind was "He's got to pay the price Ryan Klesko's first home run "That guy throws so hard," 
Adrian Beltre, Juan gusting out of the park at 30 when he does something good," of the season came just in time Klesko said. "He's a closer who Encarnacion and David Ross mph. Maddux took an 0-2 a smiling Jim Thome said. for the San Diego Padres. throws good stuff. I got a good homered in a four-pitch span of record into the game and The park is turning into a Klesko hit a three-run shot off fastball over the plate to drive the fifth inning against Brett emerged with a no-decision home-run haven, with four Matt Mantei in the ninth inning, somewhere. That's the whole Tomko (0-1) to lead Los Angeles after giving up eight hits and more hit Sunday. Glanville saw giving San Diego a victory over situation -me getting a good to its first sweep in San seven runs. His ERA is 8.62. how well the ball carried in the Arizona Diamondbacks. pitch to hit and being quick." Francisco since April 2000. Dunn hit a three-run shot in batting practice and was just The Padres rallied against the Mark Loretta led off the ninth 
"Every year we come up here the first off Maddux, who also waiting for his chance. hard-throwing Mantei after with his third single of the and they always beat us," allowed homers to Ryan Freel "I got it up in the air and I beginning the game facing game, Brian Giles walked and Beltre said. "It's good to get the and Austin Kearns. was thinking if it carried like it knuckleballer Steve Sparks. Phil Nevin singled to drive in first series out of the way. "It just didn't work out. They did in batting practice, I have a "It was kind of a frustrating the first run of the inning. Hopefully, we can keep doing hit a couple of balls good and good shot," he said. "It's a great day to start out," Klesko said. Eddie Oropesa (2-1) won it." they hit a couple in the wind," feeling. I learned last year with "We left a lot of runners on despite allowing a ninth-inning 
Jeff Weaver (1-1) allowed five Maddux said. the Cubs that you may not get a base and Sparksy pitched out of homer to Luis Gonzalez, his runs in five-plus innings for his "It's one of those things where lot of opportunities, but when a lot of situations where we had fourth of the season. Richie first win with the Dodgers, who I don't think I'm pitching as bad you do, you shine." some opportunities to score. So Sexson hit a three-run shot in have won five straight and nine it looks and I don't think some­Glanville's pinch-hit triple it's big, real big." the first inning for Arizona, and of 12 for their best start since times I've pitched as good as it drove in the go-ahead runs for Mantei (0-2) relieved to start Bobby Estalella also connected. 1983. looks, too." Chicago last year in Game 3 of the ninth with a 5-3 lead, faced "Especially after Gonzalez, it 
Eric Gagne struck out three in Maddux lost his chance for a the NL championship series. In four batters and didn't get any was pretty deflating," Loretta the ninth for his fifth save of the win when Dunn hit his second the offseason, he signed a one­out. He fell behind 2-0 in the said. "We were going against a season and record 68th straight homer of the game -a two-run year deal with the Phillies and count before Klesko sent a tough closer. It's not that we since Aug. 28, 2002. shot off Kent Mercker in the returned to the organization he drive over the left-field fence. had given up, but we were 
Bonds has homered in all five seventh that put the Reds played for from 1998 to 2002. "I just had no command," deflated a little bit. This should games he's started this homes-ahead 9-8. Glanville was a starter then Mantei said. "You can't fall give us a good push." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for eontent without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 LARGE 3 BEDROOM house for HOUSE, Only 3 Blocks from ND, Beck face-plants BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM rent. Very close toND, Z baths, 2 3BR, A/C, Garage, Basement, 
WANTED FoR SALE HOUSE...2 BEDROOM car garage, WID, just redone two Fenced Yard, Pets OK. $800.00/mo. Here you go Zach ... DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BED-years ago. Call 283-0901 Go Blue! 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Why pay a landlords mortgage? ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR $1,050/mo available 5/1. 
Indiana and Notre Dame Duplex 4 sale. THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL Call 312-375-8220 were they hot physics equations? 
(574) 286-9359 Live in one, let the other pay your YEAR... .WE ARE ALSO STARTING PERSONAL. 
mortgage. TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 Furnished studio apartment for rent is English the official language of Catholic family offering fulltime sum-Close to NO and downtown. SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT summer and or school year $419 a UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do indiana? get off my plane! mer childcare opportunity to care for Call Kim at 574-245-5040. KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR month includes all utilities cable tv not go it alone. If you or someone i love the educ people! 4 school age children. ages 5 to 11, CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS high speed internet call 574-339-you love needsconfidential support Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to House and land for sale. 0582 or assistance, please c~ll Sr. Mary goodbye bye 
5 OOPM, wages negotiable, non-Few feet shy of 1 acre, 512&524 Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.For smoker preferred, own transporta-Superior Niles. bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail. now more information, see our bi-weekly wayside school is falling down lion a plus, Call Miss Owens or fall. 235-3655. or fall $1200/mo 288-9673 ad in THE OBSERVER. contact Maureen @ (612) 870-4737 They are called muppets because 
(574) 231-8126. New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, 3 VERY NICE 3bdrm home near ATIENTION MARKETING they are not quite puppets and 
full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky-Corbys(East Bank MAJORS Combine your interest in they're not quite mops. M or F roommate in D.C. (specifical-lights. $1640/mo. Call 57 4-232-area).Washer&Dryer-Aiarm-Marketing/Sales and your Catholic 
FoR RENT

ly Arlington, VA) starting June or 4527 or 269-683-5038 Basement-H20 sottner-large yard-Faith. Earn money during the sum-There is just something about twins. July for 1 yr lease. Pis contact off street parking. mer and continue to receive checks Nicole at 574.621.8515 or 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO Stay at Homestead Bed and Call Joe Crimmins: throughout the next school year. Not Weeeet nwykoff@nd.edu. Preferably ·fun CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM Breakfast for football games. 574-cell#514-0643 an MLM. Visit us and apply at & willing to go out! mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 277-9834 home#273-Q002. www.connectingcatholics.com No, it's definitely wha! 
Monday, April 19, 2004 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

MLB 

Yankees earn first win against Red Sox since World Series 
Associated Prc;ss 
BOSTON -The New York Yankees turned themselves around -except for Alex Hodriguez and Jose Contreras. 
Derek Jeter went 2-for-4 with two walks and an RBI single in the six-run third inning, leading the Yankees to a 7-3 victory over the Red Sox. It was New York's first win against its archrival since turning Boston back just five outs from the World Series. 
"We got a good win today," said Rodriguez, who walked twice but was 0-for-4 on the day, dropping to 0-for-12 in the series and .156 on the year. "I'm going to be there offensively, there's no question in my mind. But it feels good to contribute in some other way." 
Contreras was spotted a six­run lead in the third, but Boston 

NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

A comedy by George Bernard Shaw 
Directed by Ann Marie Stewart Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April 21 7:30p.m. Thursday, April22 7:30p.m. Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 25 2:30 p.m. 
Reserved Seats $10 • Senior Citizens 89 All Students $7 > • 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. MasterCard/Visa orders, call 574-631-8128. 




e 
en~or 
ass~ 
It's time for Senior week registration on Wednesday, April 21 and Thursday, April 22. Unless there is a system malfunction, registration will be online starting early morning on Wednesday, so watch for e-mails from the. Class of 2004 for the website. It's going to be a great senior week so don't forget to sign up! 

Pineiro (1-1) allowed two runs, six hits and four walks in 6 2-3 innings and struck out five, a strong recovery after he was roughed up in his first two starts after signing a $14.5 mil­lion. three-year contract.. 
"You get rewarded for what you've done and for what you'll hopefully do, so that's in the past," said Pineiro, a 16-game winner last year. "I don't worry about contracts. I just want to be myself, be aggressive." 
Pitching coach Bryan Price cautioned against expecting Pineiro to turn into an ace because he signed a new deal. 
"It says we really like this guy. We really think he can do a super job," Price said. "But you can't always attach the dollar figure with the performance. He's still a young guy. He's going to have periods of greatness and times of struggle." 
Pineiro blew a 4-0 lead by allowing a pair of two-run homers in a no-decision at Anaheim last week and gave up eight runs in an April 7 loss to the Angels. The Mariners never worried, though, about their No. 2 starter. 
Twins 8, Royals 3 
When Minnesota lost Torii Hunter and Joe Mauer to InJUries, manager Ron Gardenhire asked his players to come together as team. 
They have responded with five straight victories. 
Jacque Jones had two dou· bles, a triple and four RBis, and the Twins beat the Kansas City Royals 8-3 Sunday to complete a three-game sweep. 
"Nothing surprises me in this clubhouse, these guys can play," Gardenhire said. "They're into it, pulling for each other and we're· having some fun out there." 
"We just want to keep putting pressure on the other team," Jones said. 
Lew Ford, playing in place of Hunter, made three great plays in center field while driving in his seventh run in five games. 
"You know its contagious and when some people are hitting good others follow," Ford said. ''I'm just doing whatever they need me to do." 
Minnesota's unselfish team play extended beyond the field. In the pregame ceremonies, Hunter gave his 2003 Gold Glove award to Jerry White, thanking the first-base coach for helping him throughout his major league career. 
Indians 9, Tigers 7 ,. 
Matt Lawton got Cleveland off to a good start and David Riske finally finished off a win. 
Lawton hit two homers, scored four runs and drove in four, and Riske earned the Indians' first save this season in a win over the Detroit Tigers. 
Cleveland's bullpen entered last in the AL with a 6.69 ERA, three blown saves and 58 hits allowed in 40 1-3 innings. 
"Riske was fantastic and 'Law' had a great day," Indians man· ager Eric Wedge said. "That's the David Riske we know." 
Carlos Guillen homered and had four RBls for Detroit, which lost center fielder Alex Sanchez to a strained left groin in the seventh inning. 
Sanchez barely made it to sec­ond on an RBI double -hop­ping the final 40 feet on his right leg and falling on the base. He was helped to his feet by trainers, who assisted him to the dugout. 
' . 
scored twice in the bottom half and knocked him out after 2 1-3 innings, the shortest of his 11 major league starts. With Paul Quantrill (1-0) pitching, Rodriguez threw out Manny Ramirez on a close play at the plate and Travis Lee made a diving stop on Jason Varitek's grounder, throwing back to the pitcher to barely beat the run­ner to first base. 
"That probably decided the 
0 

game," Boston's Kevin Millar said. 
Mariners 4, Rangers 2 
Joel Pineiro knew he would regain command of his curve­ball, and that victories would follow. 
Raul Ibanez hit a two-run homer, Bret Boone and Scott Spiezio added solo shots, and the Seattle Mariners beat the Texas Rangers for their first series victory this season. 

. . . ----. 
-' , ! ·· I t-~ . I · J I I CJ .I \ I# f ~. I t 1 f\ '-I 

. \,,' ).tJ:(. ' ·J ~ I ,., .:.H .. :t.•'· .• , "'"''\'--'" ... I t :\:·\.o (:,}_~·~ '\•\ •. 
~ 

------_____ ..,. ...-..--~a .. ••·-·•·-----·-'"'---------~ __--~ _--:----~~~~-~-::-::~~:-=.:_=:-==---=~---_-_-_-_-:...-_-_-_-_-_--_-_-:_-_-_ -:_-_-...,--~-------_­
---. -----------·-• 
---------------~ 


-. --­

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
~ -PGA 
Cink wins MCI Heritage 
Associated Press 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. -Stewart Cink wants people to remember his nine-stroke comeback and gutty victory in five playoff holes at the MCI Heritage, not whether he broke a rule on his most criti­cal shot. 
"What I was afraid of is somehow I win this tourna­ment and there may be ques­tion marks about it or an asterisk," he said. "And if that's the case, I'm really sorry." 
Cink birdied No. 16 Sunday
K ( ! to beat Ted Purdy after knock­ing a shot from a waste bunker about 6 feet from the hole. . Television viewers called in saying Cink broke a rule by removing loose stones and impediments before his clutch bunker shot and PGA officials watched about 10 replays of the shot with Cink before rul­ing it legal. Cink and Purdy had asked PGA Tour tournament director Slugger White at the tee what he could clean up around his ball. TV cameras showed Cink crouched down picking up debris around his ball, and what looked like a line visible in the crushed shell surface. Then Cink struck a mar­velous shot into the sun that set up a birdie putt. After Purdy made par, Cink rolled in it for first victory since he won his tournament 
in 2000. 
Cink raised his putter in tri­umph, was given the tartan winner's coat and posed smil­ing. with his trophy. Then the drama began. 
"I didn't see a sand line," White said. "It looked like what he removed he was legally able to." 
"I knew I had done nothing wrong," Cink said. 
Purdy didn't see Cink's set up. Even if he did, he certain­ly didn't want his first PGA Tour win handed to him on a technicality. 
"I didn't bring it up," Purdy said. "But it was some shot." 
Cink and Purdy shook hands as White explained the ruling, finally ending a long tourna­ment day. 
"Honestly, it was a little stressful because you play and you win and you play great and you're proud and then all of a sudden you've got some­thing you need to address," Cink said. "So I'm not quite as happy as I was." 
Cink had six birdies and an eagle to catch Purdy at 10­under 274. Purdy started the round with a four shot lead, but struggled to a 2-over 73. 
Ernie Els shot a 69 to finish in a tie for third at 8-under, his same score of a week ago when he lost by a stroke to Phil Mickelson at the Masters. 
Cink's winning birdie came after he and Purdy matched pars for four holes. It also was the second-biggest comeback 
on the PGA Tour since Paul 
Lawrie rallied from 10 strokes 
down to win the 1999 British 
Open. 
It was the third career victo­
ry for a player remembered 
most before now for missing 
an 18-inch putt at the U.S. 
Open in 2001 that would've 
gotten him into a playoff. 
"I've worked really hard on 
my game. I've been through 
some really tough stuff," Cink 
said. "And mentally, I've been 
to the bottom of the barrel and 
back." 
Cink was so far back he teed 
off nearly two hours before 
Purdy, the 54-hole leader bid­
ding for his first PGA win. 
Then again, Cink's got a 
knack for charging late at 
Harbour Town Golf Links. In 
2000, Cink trailed Els by five 
shots here before a closing 65 
got him the victory. 
"I've been around here long 
enough to know that rarely 
does it finish that way," Cink 
said. 
Purdy had a chance to win in regulation with a birdie putt inside of 10 feet on No. 18, but he slipped it left to lead to the ..tournament's third playoff in 
four years. 
"That was the easiest putt 
you can have, pretty straight 
putt," he said. "And I guess I 
was a little jumpy and I pulled 
it." 
Purdy also missed a 15-foot 
try on the first extra hole that 
would have given him a victo­
ry. 
• 
Your parents have already converted your room into a 

wall<-in closet. 

! ~ 
t 
Where will you go after graduation? Fortunately, you have 
MonsterTRAK to help you land your first job. It's the #I 
college recruitment solution for students and alumni. Search 
a wide range ofjob postings, get job hunting tips, check out 
employer information and more. So you can find the perfect 
job,· and get an apartment with your own walk-in closet. 

monsterTRAK~ 
today's the day·· 

Monster. the Monster logo, and the Trumpasaurus character are trademarks of Monster (California). Inc. 
! •-; J. 

Monday, April 19, 2004 
SENIOR PGA 


Jenkins claims Blue Angels Classic title 
Associated Press 

MILTON, Fla. -As six Navy jets roared overhead in tight for­mation, Tom Jenkins' latest Champions Tour victory didn't seem as important to him. 
"It's hard not to think about the military and all the men and woman that are serving our country r:i.ght now," he said. "Here we are playing a little golf tournament. It gets you to think about that, and how much we all should appreciate they're fighting for our freedoms." 
Jenkins' victory in the Blue Angels Classic was his frrst on the over-50 circuit this year and the fifth of his career. He fmished five strokes ahead of Rodger Davis with an 7-under 63 fmal round. 
The eighth winner in as many tour events this year, Jenkins fin­ished with a 14-under 196. Davis was at 201 while Gil Morgan, Jim Ahern and Wayne Levi tied for third another stroke back at 202. 
The Blue Angels precision fly­ing team, based at nearby Pensacola Naval Air Station, made two passes over the Moors Golf Club. 
Jenkins' winnings include a tro­phy depicting a Blue Angels jet, $225,000 in prize money and an invitation to ride in the back seat of the one of the team's F/A-18 Hornets in February. 
"Oh man, I tell you what, I hope I can muster up enough courage," Jenkins said. "That will be a thrill of a lifetime." 
Morgan was the second-round leader and started the day a stroke ahead of Jenkins, who immediately caught up with a birdie on the par-4, 406-yard frrst hole. Morgan bogeyed the next hole to cede a one-stroke lead to Jenkins, who made par. 
Jenkins never gave up the lead. He birdied four of the next seven holes while Morgan continued to shoot par. Only a bogey on the par-4, 426-yard 6th hole marred Jenkins' surge. He took a four­stroke lead over Morgan going into the back nine. 
In town for the game? Why 
~----. 
not stay with family? Grammaps House B&B. Now taking reservations 
or the 2004 football season and 2005 Graduation . 
2 miles north ofthe Notre Dame Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for parties of6. Phone 574-272-3999 







The UPS Store 
11 May Move Out '04" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 

LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS 
Wednesday, May 5th.-Saturday, May 8th 

Monday, ~pril 19, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

r"'f)rY1Q~~r'A \/Qi l(
'I.J ., ~ l f" !_... v ·..,# } ....., .•• 
c>tflers. expJc1r{3 \/\!h£1t rT1Ettte·rs 
""'d:· "''"' t ... tr r.... ...y rr·~ 1~ """ o· k$n' er·e ·
...

ct ~~ ~) iJ \. VJ ,;. ··..~· ~.} ~ ~~ ~ t~. ,.__j '. • ·,.# ~. 
ana two toucnaowns. 




Associated Press 
MIAMI -Thanks to rookie Dwyane Wade's he~:oics, the Miami Heat started the playoffs the same way they ended the regular season: by winning. 
Wade sank a 7-foot jumper with 1.3 seconds left, and the Heat stayed hot by beating the New Orleans Hornets 81-79 in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference series. 

The Heat earned their first playoff berth in three years with a 17-4 finish, and they closed strong against the Hornets after some shaky moments in the fourth quarter. 
New Orleans trailed 77-65 midway through the period, but rallied to tie the game on P.J. Brown's jumper with 54 seconds left. 

Miami's third consecutive turnover gave the Hornets a chance to take the lead, but Lamar Odom stymied J?aron Davis on a drive, leading to a shot clock violation with 11 sec­onds to go. 
Following a timeout, Wade went to work from the point. He drove past Davis into the lane, then threw up a shot over 6-foot­11 Jamaal Magloire that put the Heat ahead. 
Caron Butler tipped the Hornets' ensuing inbounds pass to seal the win. Game 2 in the best-of-seven series will be Wednesday in Miami, where the Heat have 13 wins in a row. 
The opener drew a Miami playoff-record crowd of 20,102, with most fans clad in black. The Heat made the mood festive

'' 
rather than funereal, even though they missed 14 consecu­tive shots in the second quarter to fall behind by 10 points, then struggled again down the stretch. 
The Heat cranked up their fast break in the second half to take the lead, and managed to match the bigger Hornets in rebounds with 51. Defense helped too, with Miami limiting All-Star cen­ter Magloire to 14 points on 5­for-14 shooting. 
Wade had 21 points· and five assists. Odom. a five-year veter­an making his postseason debut, added 17 points and 11 rebounds. 
Pistons 108, Bucks 82 
Detroit's defense completely shut down the Milwaukee Bucks. 

,? 
Richard Hamilton scored 21 points and the Pistons set a team playoff record with 14 steals in a victory over the Bucks in Game 1 of their first-round series. 
"This is fun," Hamilton said. One of the best defenses in NBA history stopped the highest 
scoring team in the Eastern Conference. 
Detroit gave up just 84.3 points a game this year, the third-low­est scoring average since the NBA began using a shot clock during the 1954-55 season. It set a league record by holding 11 opponents -including five straight -under 70 points, and 36 in a row to less than 100. 
"I'm real pleased with the way we played," Pistons coach Larry Brown said after leading his NBA-record seventh team into the playoffs. "We rebounded the ball, we shared the ball and we forced them to turn the ball over, which gives us a chance for some easy baskets. We had a lot of guys playing great basketball." 
The Bucks, who averaged 98 points a game, also ranked fourth in the league in scoring. They played four close regular­season games against Detroit, losing three of them. 
But they didn't play Detroit with Rasheed Wallace, who has made the Pistons' stingy defense suffocating since being acquired Feb. 19 in a three-team trade. The Pistons won 20 of 24 games before the playoffs. 
Detroit forced 25 turnovers ­turning them into 28 points ­and had eight blocks. The con­stant defensive pressure had the Bucks scrambling just to get their shots ofT. 
When the Pistons led 68-51 midway through the third, they had more points off turnovers 
(10) than Milwaukee had points (eight) in the quarter. 
"The game was all about our turnovers and the points we gave them ofT turnovers," Milwaukee coach Terry Porter said. 
Game 2 in the best-of-seven series is Wednes':iay in Detroit. 
Desmond Mason led the Bucks with 16 points. Their leading scorer, Michael Redd, scored just 11 points -nearly 11 below his average -and went more than 18 minutes without scoring in the second and third quarters. Joe Smith set a career playoff high with 11 rebounds, and scored six points. 
"We were rushing things, try­ing to get the lead down and they took advantage by doing a lot of trapping," Redd said. "We didn't handle it and we've got to find an adjustment for the next game." 
Detroit didn't excel on defense alone. 
Rasheed Wallace had 17 points, 10 rebounds and three blocks, Ben Wallace had 17 points, 14 rebounds, and Tayshaun Prince added 14 points, 11 rebounds and four blocks. 

"When you have three guys with double-doubles, and two of them are Ben and Rasheed, who can cover the paint like that, you know you have a chance to dic­tate the game," Prince said. Kings 116, Mavericks 105 
After several tough practices and a few emotional speeches. from their leaders. the Sacramento Kings opened the playoffs with a rush of energy ­enough to outrun and outscore the Dallas Mavericks. 
Peja Stojakovic scored 28 points and Chris Webber added 26 points and 12 rebounds, pro­pelling the Kings to a victory in the O'pener of their first-round playoff series. 
Shaking ofT the uncertainty of a late-season collapse that cost them the Pacific Division title, the Kings were flying from the opening ti.p. They made a fran­chise-record 11 of 21 3-pointers, including five by Stojakovic to tie Sacramento's individual playoff best. 
The Kings also claim they've got a new focus on defense and inside play -though it wasn't obvious until the fourth quarter, when not even Dirk Nowitzki could keep 'Dallas close in a fit­ting start for a series between the NBA's two highest-scoring teams. 
"Playing them, I can imagine how defensively tough it is to play us," Webber said. "We don't panic as much as I think the out­side panics. We just kept it together and played all four quarters the same way." 
Webber addressed his team­mates during practice Saturday, saying the Kings were out of time to reverse their late-season 
Monday, April 19, 2004
page The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 

-~ Heat starts the playoffs by defeating Hornets 81-79 
offee and Conversat_ion 
ForGay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, April 20th 
(and every third Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 

316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshmentS will be served* 

slide. In the postseason, Webber said. all slates are wiped clean ­and the Kings wrote down a big number in the opener. 
Nowitzki had 32 points and 13 rebounds but battled foul trouble for the Mavericks, who have never won a playoff series open­er on the road. These Mavs struggled away from Dallas all season, going 16-25, and the Kings were just as inhospitable as their cowbell-ringing fans. 
"They don't play much better than this·," Dallas coach Don Nelson said. "This is one of their best games of the season, or at least since Webber has been back." 
Game 2 is Tuesday night in Sacramento, with Game 3 on Saturday in Dallas. 

, . r .• _. 
~ . ~ " 
. . . . 

--= .. -----~ ~ .. -----~ ~ -:-: : : : ...... -• -_ _:_.~---~---::-_-:_::.;_-_-:..-_ -_ ~:.-_ 
Monday, Aprill9, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Jones finishes fourth in Mt. SAC Relays 
Tim Montgomery -her 23.02 seconds. Connie her speed. July 9-18 {in the Olympic 
Associated Press 
boyfriend and world­Moore won in 22.71, "Fourth place obvious­trials) and then when 
record holder -ran Crystal Cox was second ly is a huge disappoint­Athens comes around ­
WALNUT, Calif. -The third in the 100, losing in 22.91 and Tonette ment for me, but looking that's what I want to do. world's fastest couple to winner Maurice Dyer third in 22.99. at the scheme of things, I'm confident that come got ofT to a slow start to Greene. The 28-year-old Jones it's very small in what the trials, I'll be ready." the 2004 season. "It wasn't a good day had mixed feelings about ultimately I want to do," Jones ran and won the 
Marion Jones finished for the family," placing fourth in th~ ~aid Jones, a five-time 400 last year at Mt. SAC fourth in the 200 meters Montgomery said. meet at Mount San Olympic medalist. to work on her at the Mt. SAC Relays on Jones, back after giv­Antonio College. She was "There will be a number endurance, but decided Sunday, her first race ing birth to Tim frustrated with the loss, of challenging tasks for she would concentrate outdoors since 2002. Montgomery Jr. last but now knows she me this year. on her speed at the meet 
Some two hours later, ·June, finished the 200 in needs to work more on "I want to run well this year. 
She won gold medals 
in the 100, 200 and 
1,600-meter relay at the 2000 Olympics, while 

taking bronze medals in the long jump and 400­meter relay. 
Jones hasn't said 
whether she will try for five medals again at the 
Athens Olympics in August. 
Greene. running into a headwind, won the men's sprint in 10.02. 
Proudly Presents 


The RecSpys 
Montgomery was caught rocking back in the box at the start and ran a 
10.27. Dwight Phillips

Vote onlineApril 19th-23rd @www.recsports.nd.edu/recspyl 
finished second in 10.26. Montgomery's world record is 9.78, breaking
0rac~uate Male of fh
~ractuate Fe~~~~tle or "'• ~ 
the mark Greene held by

:,<'1;.8' • ~, 

just one-hundredth of a Kasey Farrell-PW 
~ Anne Marie Fayen-McGlinn ' 

second. The two have Kathryn Woloh<m-Welsh F<m1 
Matt Sarbanis-Stanford Hall 
Bill Bingle-Siegfried Hall 

jockeyed for the title of Sean MacCready -Fisher Hall 
world's fastest man over the last two years. It was their first race against each other since

Graci/Fac/Staff 
Grad/Fac/Staff 
2002, when Greene won 
female of the y._. 
Male of the Yea-

the U.S. outdoor title in Christina Risatti 
scott Gaglio 

9.88, 0.01 faster than Susan Scube 
Ben O'Donnell 
Montgomery.
Cate Harmeyer 
Scott Stolpa 
Montgomery said he got distracted after Jones lost her race, and he didn't really have a
Game of the Year 

chance to talk with her. Maggie's Mullet vs. We Don't Go Behind the Back-CoRee Basketball Finals 
"Mter seeing the 200, I DVDA and the Rufies vs. Droopy Goughes-CoRee Flag Football Finals 
went to the role of rela­
Morrissey vs. Zahm -Ice Hockey Finals 
tionship. I kind of want­ed to be there for her and see how she was doing because I know
tans of the Yea,. 
the road she's been down," Montgomery 
~ealft of the ~• .._ 
Alumni Hockey
Stanford Soccer 
said.
PW Basketball 
Siegfried Football 
"I couldn't really get to 
Lewis Football 
Lambasted 
her, so it kind of threw my mind in a whirl­wind." 

Calvert has been offering mutual funds that invest in socially and environmentally responsible companies for years. For more complete information on Calvert funds including a prospectus, call: 
Mark Unwin Vice President-Investments Smith Barney, Citigroup 211 W. Washington Suite 2200 South Bend IN 46601 Phone: 574.251.9108 Phone: 800.322.2425 Fax: 574.234.2484 E-mail: mark.unwin@smithbamey.com 
prospectus carefully before you invest. 
J: 
filirUIIA 



·····_·.:Calvert 
AFL 
VooDoo wins 64-46 
Team puts gris-gris on the Destroyers 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -John Fitzgerald threw four touch­down passes and ran for anoth­er score to lead the New Orleans VooDoo past the Columbus Destroyers 64-46. 
New Orleans (8-2) also got two defensive touchdowns, including a 22-yard intercep­tion return for a score by Denario Smalls. Monty Montgomery added a 42-yard fumble return for a touchdown. 
Sedrick Robinson caught 14 passes for 164 yards and three touchdowns for Columbus (3-7). 
Storm 58, Wranglers 52 
Lawrence Samuels returned a fumble 28 yards for a touch­down on the game's final play to give the Tampa Bay Storm an overtime win over the Austin Wranglers. 
Tampa Bay's Nyle Wiren stripped the ball from Austin quarterback John Kaleo along the sideline, allowing Samuels to scoop it up and run for the winning score. 
The play ruined Kaleo 's return to Tampa Bay, where he played for four seasons and led the Storm to last season's ArenaBowl championship. 
He completed 23 of 43 passes for 252 yards and five touch­downs and an interception. He also ran for a six-yard score for Austin (6-4). 
The Storm (4-7) trailed 52-42 with 28 seconds left in regula­tion when Shane Stafford threw an 11-yard touchdown pass to Freddie Solomon. After holding the Wranglers on downs. Tampa Bay got the ball back and sent the game into over­
time with a  36-yard field goal  
by Ignacio  Brache  as  time  
expired.  

T.T. Toliver had two kickoff returns for touchdowns for Tampa Bay, and forced a fum­ble and had an interception on defense. 

Dragons 52, Crush 49 
Aaron Garcia threw six touchdown passes, including the 600th of his career, to help the New York Dragons beat the Colorado Crush 52-49 Sunday. 
Garcia connected on a 9-yard scoring pass to Lincoln Dupree for the milestone TD, and went 16-of-30 for 180 yards. Dupree finished with five receptions for 72 yards and three touchdowns for the Dragons (6-4). 
John Dutton led the Crush (7­4), going 23-of-40 for 281 yards and three touchdowns. 


Rattlers 71, Desperados 48 
Arizona quarterback Sherdick Bonner was 20-for-34 for 272 yards and eight touch­downs to lead the Rattlers to a win over the Dallas Desperados. 
Bonner has thrown 17 touch­downs in his last two games for Arizona (6-5). Randy Gatewood caught three touchdowns pass­es for the Rattlers and finished with five catches for 76 yards. Siaha Burley added six catches, including two for scores. 
Glen Gauntt completed 23 of 29 passes for 314 yards, six touchdowns and an intercep­tion for Dallas (6-4). 
Will Pettis led the Desperados with nine catches for 110 yards and two touchdowns. 


\ I A ·1 1n '\nf\1.
--------------------~~~~--------------------------------------------~~~~-­

page 22 

'' 

I 
( 









! ! ! 
r 
I
~ 
t r 
f 
' 
around the dial 
MLB 
Reds at Cubs, 1:10 p.m., WGN 
NHL PLAYOFFS Canadiens at Bruins, 7 p.m., ESPN2 Flames at Canucks, 9:30p.m., ESPN2 
NBA PLAYOFFS Grizzlies at Spurs, 7 p.m., TNT Rockets at Lakers, 9:30 p.m., TNT 

COMPILED FRO.~\ THE 0BSERVEr~.:s \.YB~E SERVtCES Monday, Aprill9, 2004 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON Even Tommy Haas is surprised by how well his comeback from shoulder surgery is going. 
Haas beat Andy Roddick 6-3. 6-4 at the U.S. Clay Court Championship on Sunday for his first title in more than two years. 
Haas was once ranked as high as No. 2, but he missed all of last season while recovering from the surgery. The German hadn't been in a final since 2002 and last won a tournament at Stuttgart in October 2001. 
He was the steadier 

player from the start, ending the reigning U.S. Open champion's 12­match winning streak. 
"It means a lot to win my first clay court title but obviously it means a lot more to me to after my injuries to come back and win a title again," Haas said. "To be honest, I did­n't expect to win a tour­nament this quick but all you can do is prepare for each tournament and do your best and see what's possible." 
Roddick dropped to 18­2 at Westside Tennis Club -he was the runner-up to Andre Agassi in this tournament last year ­and 32-6 overall this sea­son. He was trying for his third title of 2004. 
"The shoulder feels pretty good which is important, I just hope it keeps up this well," Haas said. 
Haas plans to play Monte Carlo on Tuesday while Roddick headed for his home in Austin, three­hours away. Roddick is expected to skip Monte Carlo to rest up after a heavy playing schedule. 
Haas, who started his comeback from rotator cuff surgery in February, improved to 4-0 against Roddick and took a big step toward regaining his status among elite tennis players. 
"Personally, I wish he'd go away, because I don't have a very good record against him," Roddick said. "But the people seem to love you, so wel­come back." 
Haas broke Roddick in the fourth game of the match and rode that to a first-set victory when Roddick's forehand sailed wide. 
Roddick was upset by a line call in the fourth game of the second set when Haas held. He was still complaining after the next game, when Haas broke his serve. 
IN BRIEF 

Devils' coach Burns fights "The last month or so I have not doubt that made him wonder colon cancer been feeling well," he said. "There whether his days as a star might be 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Pat were signs that something was not ending. Burns vows to battle colon cancer right, but I was reluctant to do any­"I questioned myself a little bit. I with the same intensity that helped thing because the playoffs were com­was like, 'Man, this schedule is wear­
the New Jersey Devils win the Stanley ing up." ing me out and these bad perform­Cup last season. A three-time NHL Coach of the ances are wearing me out,"' he said. The coach will begin treatment Year, Burns led the Devils to their "I questioned a lot of things for a immediately, he announced Sunday, a third Stanley Cup title in nine years long time during that dry spell. It day after his team was eliminated last season. his first with the team. feels good to finally get back in from the playoffs. New Jersey lost to Philadelphia 3-1 Victory Lane." "For those who know me well, I've Saturday, ending their best-of-seven The race was halted for more than 
never backed down from any fight," first-round series after five games. an hour with 210 laps to go after a Burns said. block of concrete came lose in the "And I'm not going to back down Wallace ends drought third turn, leaving a hole a foot long from this one." MARTINSVILLE, Va. --Rusty and a foot wide that damaged Jeff 
Burns, 52, said his status with the Wallace can stop doubting himself. Gordon's car and had to be filled. Devils will be determined in six to Wallace ended his 1 05-race winless Repairs took an hour and 17 min­eight weeks, when the treatment streak Sunday, outrunning Bobby utes, but when the race finally ends. He will have treatment five Labonte over the final 30 laps to win restarted, a refreshed Wallace started days a week, beginning this week. the Advance Auto Parts 500 at making his move. He came out of the Burns spoke to reporters at Martinsville Speedway, a race that pits third after a caution with 120 
Continental Airlines Arena, with his took more than five hours to com­laps to go, passed teammate Ryan wife and Devils general manager Lou plete. Newman for second with 55 laps to Lamoriello nearby. Burns read from a "Finally," Wallace said after emerg­go and then ran down Jimmie prepared statement and did not ing from his car in Victory Lane, sud­Johnson, who was stuck on older answer questions. denly able to push aside the self tires after failing to pit with the lead . 
• il' •• 

....
• .. • • • • • • .. .. .. .. • • • ••• It 


I t--,.. ' • ' ~ I 

Monday, April 19, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish on the brink of success 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Writer 
In their quest to secure the program's first NCAA tourna­ment berth, the Irish remain defmitively on the bubble. 
In what was supposed to be a make or break tournament this weekend at the Lady Boilermaker Invitational,_ the Irish neither gained nor lost ground. The two major compo­nents that influence teams' chances for securing NCAA bids are tournament placement (head-to head competition) and average score per round. The Irish definitely beat some good teams on their way to finishing seventh out of a very strong field of 12, but unusually high scores will hurt their scoring average, 
"It's really tough to say how we did [with regards to procuring an NCAA bid]," Irish coach Debby King said. "We beat some good teams, but because of high winds, scores were high. I think the two probably canceled each other out." 
The Irish were in ninth place Saturday after shooting first-day rounds of 314 and 321. However, a strong Sunday per­formance in which the Irish were one of only three teams to shoot below a 320, with an overall 319, helped propel the Irish two spots ahead to finish in seventh place with a 90-over-par 954. 
"I was definitely pleased with our Sunday performance, espe­cially after a disappointing sec­ond round," King said. 
In what is becoming routine, freshman Noriko Nakazaki led the Irish in scoring, shooting rounds of 75, 81 and 79 to finish tied for 18th with a 235. Junior Karen Lotta fmished 27th with a score of 238 after shooting a 76 and two consecutive 81s. 
Senior co-captain Rebecca Rogers came in third for the Irish and tied for 31st place overall, shooting rounds of 83, 80, and 80 to close out the weekend with a 243, a season-low score. Rogers, who struggled through­out the fall season, has played in both of the Irish's last two tour­naments and has earned the praise of her coach. 
"It's nice to see her peak at the right time, and I'm just so happy for her," King said. 
Katie Brophy made up for a rough Saturday, where she shot rounds of 87 and 83, by shooting a third round 79, tying Nakazaki for the low round Sunday and finishing with an overall 249. Sophomore Sarah Bassett and senior co-captain Shannon Byrne rounded out the Irish lineup this weekend. Bassett shot rounds of 85, 79 and 87 to finish with a 251, and Byrne shot a 252 with rounds of 80, 85 and 87. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu. 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles fall to Olivet and Saint Xavier 
series against Olivet Nazarene
Belles view weekend 
and then splitting the second as preparation for with Saint Xavier, the team's mentality has not changed. 
MIAA tournament "Playing four games within 48 hours against top teams, it definitely prepared us for our
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
last conference game and the
Sporrs Writer 
conference tournament," Saint Mary's coach Anna Welsh said. 
The Belles went into this Olivet ·weekend with Nazarene the idea that "... it definitely prepared defeated the 
win or lose, Belles 2-1
us for our last conference. 
the non­and 14-6 
league games game and the conference Saturday, against Olivet tournament.'' proving its Nazarene and 34-11 record Saint Xavier was not a
Anna Welsh ·.•
would be joke.important in coach In the first 
preparation for the MIAA tournament. After getting swept in the first 

DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS FALL 2004 COURSES 

Classical Antiquity 
CLAS 121 ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME Wood (MWF 3:00-3:50) 
"lbe history and culture of ancient Greece and Rome. Students study texts central to the classical Greek and Roman traditions, including works by Homer, Plato, Cicero and Virgil. Topics considered include concepts of divinity and humanity; heroism and virtue; ideas of gender~ democracy, empire, and civic identity, and how these concepts changed over time. Provides a deep appreciation for the Greek and Roman roots of their own social, political, intellectual, and religious lives. 
CLAS 305 GREEK HISTORY Ladouceur (ffi 9:30-10:45) . Provides a basic narrative history of ancient Greece from the beginnings of the classical period through the Roman conquest, and an intensive examination of certain important features of Greek cultural development: the origin of the polis (city-state) as the characteristic form of Greek social 'organization; the Athenian democracy and empire; and the Greek enlightenment-the origins of philosophy and science. Readings include Herodotus, Thucydides, and Xenophon, as well as contemporary scholarship. 
CLAS 310 LATIN LITERATURE IN TRANSLATION Bloomer (TR 2:00-3:15) Offers a wide reading of Latin texts in English translations from Plautus to Augustine, and a few later moments of revival. Emphasizes connections between literature and art, politics, and society, as well as imitators and translators of Latin classics in literature, music, film, and art 
CLAS 315 ROMANS AND CHRISTIANS Bradley (TR 3:30-4:45) Examines the early development of the Christian religion in its historical Roman context. Surveys the political, social, and administrative structures of the Roman Empire, studies the complexity and diversity of Roman religious life and culture, and examines the development of the Jesus movement and Rome's reaction to it. Concentrates on how and why a new religious system came to have such appeal that Constantine chose to make himself the first Christian emperor of Rome. .. 
CLAS 450 GREEK AND ROMAN MYTHOLOGY McLaren (MWF 9:35-10:25) Examines source texts and artistic products of ancient Greece and Rome from which derive modern ideas of classical western mythology. Focuses on how texts and the visual arts presented mythic material to their ancient audiences, and modern interpretations arise. The practical aim is to acquaint students with the characters and narratives of classical myth, and the theoretical aim is to contemplate the broader implications of the nature and function of mythic storytelling. 
Greek and Latin Language ~nd Literature 
CLLA 101-102 BEGINNING LA TIN I ANI> BEGINNING LATIN II Staff (several options offered, please check Irish Link) A two-semester sequence designed to introduce Latin, the language of the ancient Romans, for the first time. Emphasizes the fundamentals of Latin grammar and vocabulary, and prepares students to read original Latin texts. An appreciation for ancient Roman culture is fostered through class discussi~n. Latm 101 offered in the fall, 102 in the spring. 
CLLA 2011503 INTERMEDIATE LATIN Staff (several options offered, please check lrish Link) A second-year language course building on Latin 101-102. Combines granunar review with studied reading of classical Latin authors. Introduces methods for studying Latin literature in its historical and cultural contexts: 
CLLA 332 LATIN LYRIC Schlegel (M'.W 1:55-2:45) Examines the lyric poetry of Catullns and Horace, with the goal of giving training in the language, preoccupations, and meter of Roman Lyric. Some examples of Roman Elegy (Propertius, Ovid, and Sulpicia) for purposes of comparison. 
CLLA 451 LIVY Krostenk:o em. 12:30-1:45) Selections from Livy's history, including the foundation legends ,Hannibal's attack on Rome, and the suppression of the Bacchanalian cult. Considers Roman military techniques and tactics, Roman expansionism, Livy's relation to the literary and social agenda of the emperor Augusts, his place in the history of Latin prose. 
CLLA 475 INTRO TO CHRISTIAN LATIN TEXTS Sheerin (M"DIF 8:30-9:20) Aims to improve all-around facility in dealing with Latin texts and to introduce the varieties of Christian Latin. Study of syntax and vocabulary is facilitated by exercises :.0 Latin composition. Latin translations of Scripture, exegesis, homiletic texts dealing with religious life, forn1al theological texts, and Christian Latin poetry. 
CLGR 101-102 BEGINNING GREEK I ANI> BEGINNING GREEK II McLaren (~1\VF 12:50-1:40 and T 12:30-1:20) A two-semester sequence designed to introduce the language of the ancient Greeks for the first time. Emphasizes the fundamentals of ancient Greek grammar and vocabulary, and prepares students to read original Greek texts. An appreciation for ancient Greek culture is fostered through class discussion. 
CLGR 2011NTERMEDIATE GREEK Mazurek (m 11:00-12:15) A second-year language course building on Greek 101-102. Combines grammar review with studied reading of classical Greek authors. Introduces methods for studying Greek literature in its historical and cultural contexts. 
CLGR 370 SOCRATIC LITERATURE Vacca em 11:00-12: 15) "lbe character and philosophical significance of Socrates within the context of the intellectual ferment of late fifth-century Athens. Readings include Plato's Laches and Lysis and sections of Xenophon's Memorabilia. Issues such as the ideal of rational character and Socrates' great interest in Eros provide opportunities for research and discussion. 
CLGR 465 GREEK TRAGEDY Wood (:\IW 1:30-2:45) Introduces fifth-century Greek tragedy. FocusFs on the workings of the Greek language, the artistic conventions of tragedy, and techniques of translation. Presents Greek tragedy in cultural and political context. Readings from Euripides, Sophocles, and Aeschylus. • 
CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS AT l-7195 http://classics.nd.edu 
game, the 

Belles fought hard, led by Libby 
Wilhelmy, who tossed four solid 
innings for Saint Mary's, giving 
up one run on five hits. She also 
struck out five but did not fac­
tor in the decision. 
Kate Sajewich took the loss 

for the Belles, giving up a lead­
off double in the sixth, followed 
by a single later in the inning 
that allowed the go ahead run 
to score. 
Bridget Grall went 1-for-3 for 

the Belles with an RBI. Erin 
Sullivan was 1-for-3 at the plate 
with a run scored. 
The second game of 

Saturday's doubleheader was 
more offensively oriented, as 
Olivet Nazarene exploded for 
five runs in the first inning and 
never looked back. Olivet added 
two more in the second and 
three in the third and fourth, 
putting the Belles in a 13-1 
deficit heading into the fifth 
inning. 
Saint Mary's finally showed 

signs of life in the fifth, scoring 
five runs on five hits, but it 
proved too little too late. 
Sullivan went 2-for-3 in the 

game, with a run and an RBI. 
Katrina Tebbe was 1-for-3 with 
two RBI's for the Belles. 
Grall started for the Belles, 

only lasting one full inning 
before being pulled before the 
start of the second. She allowed 
five runs on five hits and 
walked three batters. 
Pitching for the second time in two days, Sajewich had trou­ble solving Olivet Nazarene as well, giving up eight runs on seven hits in three innings, although only two of the runs were earned. 
Things weren't much better defensively, either, as the Belles committed four errors in the game. 
After dropping the first game Sunday to Saint Xavier 4-1, the Belles battled back in the sec­ond with a 2-1 win in eight innings. 
Jean Downes led off the eighth with a double and advanced to third on a Laura Heline groundout. Angie Ellison then singled, driving in Downes. The Belles then retired Saint Xavier in order in the bottom of the eighth, secur­ing the win. 
Winning the last conference games are absolutely impera­tive for the Belles to advance to the MIAA tournament. The top four teams make it, and the Belles currently sit tied for fourth with Albion at 7-5. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

" 
h.. ~ 
"" 
II, 
' 
.... ..., 
~ ~ 
1\.. 
Monday, April 19, 2004
;.;_ ._ page 24 The Observer + SPORTS
"'~ 
>\ ~ 
~ 
i\ ~ ND SOFTBALL 
1\ 
" 
" 
~-­
1\ 
"' 
Irish sweep Friars, stay undefeated in Big East 
" ~ 
~ 
t'l 
.~<, what we play for." fighting out there . 
~ ByJUSTIN SCHUVER The Irish needed Heather "It's good to see because that's 
Associate Sports Editor 

Booth to come up big in game what she's capable of, and I'm one, and she delivered, outduel­excited to see what she does the 
For Notre Dame's Big East ing Providence's Cori Van Dusen rest of the season now." opponents this year, it's been a to pick up her 17th win of the Megan Ciolli continued her matter of pick your poison -season. Booth allowed three hits impressive offensive year, going pitching or hitting. The Irish and struck out five in seven 5-for-7 on the weekend. needed both Sunday as they innings to earn the complete­In game one, Notre Dame swept Providence by scores of 1-0 game victory. roughed up Van Dusen for six hits and 7-1 at Ivy Field. Steffany Stenglein pitched and collected four walks against 
"That first game we didn't hit equally well in game two, the Friars' pitcher, but could not 
.... the ball really well," Irish coach although her performance was get the clutch hit necessary to Deanna Gumpf said. "We hit a lot overshadowed somewhat by break the game open until the of pop-ups and groundballs and Notre Dame's offensive explosion. bottom ofthe sixth. didn't get those hard line drives Stenglein only allowed two hits, Mallorie Lenn began the inning we want. but one of those was a solo home with a single and was replaced at 
"Their pitcher threw a lot of run to Van Dusen. first base by Stenglein to pinch change-ups, and I think we fmally It was the first earned run in run. Liz Hartmann and Nicole adjusted some in the second conference play that Stenglein Wicks drew consecutive walks to game. We sat back and waited has allowed this year. load the bases. for our pitches and were able to "Providence is a good hitting Schoonaert came through with 
SOFIA BALLON/The Observer 
get some hits." · team," Gumpf said. "they're very a hard-hit ball to center. Wicks 
Notre Dame Infielder Meagan Ruthrauff hits the ball against
The wins over the Friars (25-similar to Illinois-Chicago, and I was thrown out trying to score 
Boston College in a Big East game April 4.
15-1. 5-7 in the Big East) were think you have to give a lot of from second on t-he play, after the seventh and eighth confer­credit to Heather and Steffany for Hartmann scored from third. ence victories so far for the Irish shutting them down." In game two, Providence again Notre Dame then exploded in Surosky looked toward third and (34-13, 8-0). No other team in the On the offensive side of the ball, started Van Dusen. Once again, the fifth, as Nicole deFau led off then tried to get Jaquish at frrst, conference has fewer than three Sara Schoonaert went 4-for-6 in she stymied the Irish offense for the inning with a double, and but she was~too slow on the Big East losses. the two games with four RBis, much of the game, until a five­Ciolli followed with an RBI single throw and all runners were safe 
"The girls take the Big East including the game-winning sin­run, fifth-inning broke open what to score deFau. to load the bases. very seriously," Gumpf said. "But gle in game one. Schoonaert was was a 2-1 Notre Dame lead. Lenn singled to center to score Schoonaert closed out the scor­all the other teams in the league a home run short of hitting for The Irish struck first in game Ciolli. Hartmann was then hit by ing with. a two-RBI single up the have played more games than we the cycle in game two and drove two, scoring the frrst two runs in a pitch to put runners on first and middle. have this season, so there's still in three RBis including the game­the bottom of the second. second, and Wicks followed with Notre Dame will be going on quite a ways to go. winner in that victory. Schoonaert collected with an RBI an RBI double. the· road Tuesday to face 
"Now matter how we do during "She hit out of her shoes double and then came home by At this point, Providence Northwestern in a non-confer­the 60 or so games we play each today," Gumpf said of taking advantage of two consecu­replaced Van Dusen with Sara ence doubleheader. season, I know that the girls want Schoonaert. "She's the kind of tive Friar errors. Van Dusen fol­Surosky, and Jaquish answered to win the Big East most of all. person who really loves this lowed in the third with her solo the pitching change with a Contact Justin Schuver·at That's what we want, and that's game, and she always keeps shot to cut the Irish lead to one. groundball back to the pitcher. ·jschuver@nd.edu 


f 
r 
r 
r 
I t 
r 
~ 
~ 
• 


'It 111,·,.~lllt0JHIIIII1
';;· ·:'>"·!·!~ .•..;.~: , ....?. .•.•;;;~ ··:·:·.··.·:<:·:·~ ~· •>:~ .,~ .·.;/~<.·A~· .,,~;: ,;;· .;.;:; ;.;.:~: .....;~::·.;;. ,:, .;;: ·.;:;.·./ ;.;.,} ...:;c.:;:.:}';:;..,; ......... ) 


Ira• 
Comedian Dave Attell has appeared on HBO, "The 
Late Show with David Letterman," ulate Night with 
Conan O'Brien," "The Daily Show w/Jon Stewart," 
and "Everybody Loves Raymond." Attell is the writer 
and host of "Insomniac w/Dave Attell." The LA 
Times says, "Quite simply, it's foul-mouthed, 
sophomoric, tawdry, and incredibly fun; combining 
the elements of travelogue, documentary and boys' 
or oirls' nioht out." YOU MUST BE 21 & 
HAVE VALID I.D. 
-or-ORDER ONLINE @ WWW.SBFUNNYBONE.COM 




Monday, Aprill9, 2004 page 25
The Observer+ SPORTS 

Burrell 
continued from page 28 
agrees. 
''I'm hoping that Quentin will take the leadership role and run with it and be that kind of player on and off the football field," Wilks said. 
Burrell hasn't participated in all the drills his secondary teammates have this spring because of off-season shoulder surgery. Burrell is still recover­ing from the surgery and is expected to be 100 percent by the fall. For now, he does indi­viduals drills in practice and works with the team trainer when the Irish do group drills. 
Burrell is likely the leading candidate to try and replace the loss of graduating seniors Vontez Duff and Glenn Earl. While Notre Dame has talented players at the defensive back positions, the team is still rela­tively inexperienced. 
"I think it's hard to truly make up for experience because experience needs to be made up with experience," Wilks said. "Those guys need to be able to get more reps and practice at different things so they can get the looks and recognition they need." 
Besides Burrell, Preston Jackson and Dwight Ellick return to Irish secondary after significant playing time in 2003. Those three, along with a crowd of younger players will be fighting for starting positions and playing time in the fall. Jackson saw action in every Irish game and had 24 tackles and one interception, while Ellick participated in 10 games and had 21 tackles. 
Wilks said two players in par­ticular -rising sophomore Tom Zbikowski and rising senior Carlos Campbell -have stood out in the spring. 

"Without a doubt Zbikowski has definitely impressed me," · Wilks said. "He's stepped up and he's leading by example. 
"You look at some of the older guys like Carlos Campbell ­he's definitely standing out. He's being vocal and making plays and doing the things he should be doing heading into his final year." 
After playing on offense last season, Chinedum Ndukwe and Isaiah Gardner switched posi­tions for a chance at more play­ing time. Ndukwe said the change has been a challenge, but he's adjusting more each day. 
"It's going well. Right now I'm just trying to get all the mental stuff down and just trying to adjust on the fly," he said. ''I'm really just learning by experi­ence now." 
Despite the inexperience and new faces in the secondary, Wilks said the group is playing well and coming together as a unit thus far in spring practice. 
"We're improving each and every day," Wilks said. "I don't think anyone has separated themselves enough to say they're a true starter. Guys are still playing hard and still com­peting, which in the long run will make everyone better." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Sweep 
continued from page 28 
improved team in the confer­ence. They were as scrappy as they could be. Don't be misled by Saturday's scores -we had to play hard. They wouldn't go away, [it was] a battle. 
"To get three wins was a real accomplishment." 
Mainieri switched his starting rotation and threw lefty Tom Thornton in Saturday's opener and Chris Niese} in the night­cap. To his surprise, Niese! pitched better than Thornton, who was roughed up for seven runs, four earned, in his 4 1/3 innings of work. 
But Thornton (5-1) kept his team in it until the offense could just explode to earn the win. 
In the fifth, the Irish scored seven and tacked on six more in the sixth inning. All nine Irish starters collected at least one hit and scored at least one run while eight of the starters drove in at least one run. 
Niesel battled throughout his eight innings of work allowing 11 hits but yielding no walks to improve to 5-0. 
"I thought Chris [Niesel] pitched better than Tom [Thornton]." Mainieri said. "Tom had a tough time, leaving pitches up in the strike zone. That was a tough game, we won big, but we were down 7­4. 
"Chris pitched courageously, and he gave up 11 hits. He really competed hard, and it wasn't exactly the way we would map it out since it didn't work out for Tom Thornton going six or seven." 
The Irish fell behind early again, down 2-0 heading into the third. Then, designated hit­ter Matt Bransfield hit his first of two two-run home runs in the game. 
Notre Dame's offense woke up in the fourth, scoring five runs and breaking the game open for Niesel. The Irish tacked on two more in the fifth behind Bransfield's other home run. 
Bransfield finished Saturday with seven RBis, and the Irish batted around four times on the day. 
On Sunday, Mainieri sent right-hander Grant Johnson to the hill. but the junior could only go three innings -not because of shoulder problems, which Johnson has been recov­ering from, but because of Johnson battling a stomach virus. 
Mainieri then inserted fresh­man Jeff Samardzija, who joined the team late Saturday night after practicing with the football team Saturday after­noon. 
Samardzija did what he's been doing all year -shut down the opposition. The freshman went 4 2/3 innings in relief and kept the Irish in the game long enough for the offense to wake up. 
"Jeff was tremendous today. It was so badly needed," Mainieri said. "Grant wasn't feeling well, but he battled through three innings. Jeff pitched into the eighth and that was a big thing for us." 
The Hoyas were ahead 5-4 going into the seventh, but the Irish offense scored five in the bottom of the inning -on only one hit -to build a 9-5 lead. That one hit came from Zach Sisko -a grand slam with two outs. Sisko was in the game at second base in place of senior Steve Sollmann, who broke his jaw against Villanova April 3. 
Samardzija improved to 2-1 with the victory and closer Ryan Doherty recorded four outs to pick up his sixth save. 
All three days the Irish had to battle a scrappy home Georgetown team, but the Irish did enough each time to pick up the win and stay tied for the Big East lead. 
"It was a great total team effort," Mainieri said. "When one guy didn't do well, one guy would pick up the slack. 
"That's what great teams do." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 



page 26 Monday, April 19, 2004 
The Obserz,er + SPORTS 

Loss 
continued from page 28 
continued as a bright spot, pac­ing the Irish with a pair of goals and an assist on the afternoon. 
Both midfielder Meghan Murphy and attack Jackie Bowers recorded a goal and an assist, while attack Mary McGrath picked up a pair of goals, defender Kassen Delano tallied two assists and midfield­er/attack Crysti Foote netted a goal to round out the Irish scor­
-ing. The contest began on a rather ominous note for Notre Dame. Attack Anouk Peters drew first blood for the Hoyas with 
22:46 left on a free position shot and not five minutes later, the lead had grown to 3-0 in favor of Georgetown. 
Foote put the Irish on the board with 11 minutes remain­ing in the half, kicking off a streak of four consecutive goals for the Irish. 
Murphy, Bowers and Simon, respectively, followed suit to give the Irish their first lead of the game. ~ 
The Hoyas fired back, knot­ting the score at 4-4 as Gloria Lozano found the back of the net with only three seconds left in the half. 
"We were [upset] about [the late goal], but I don't think it hurt the momentum, because we were down, 3-0," Coyne said. "I was happy with how we were playing at that point. We went in tied, but we were feeling very confident." 
Georgetown jumped back in front not two minutes into the second half, yet once again the Irish responded. 
After Simon provided the equalizer a little less than eight minutes into the half, Murphy tallied the first of her two goals with 20:45 remaining, and the Irish were temporarily back on top, 6-5. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it was mostly Georgetown from that point, at least on the scorecard. 
The Hoyas tied the score a minute and a half later, before registering each of the next two goals, leaving the Irish trailing, 8-6, with 7:27 left. 
Murphy managed to bring the Irish within one, 8-7, at the 
5:11 mark, but Notre Dame couldn't scratch across the tying goal. 
Peters dashed any last-ditch comeback aspirations, netting her second goal of the after­noon nine seconds before the final whistle. 
"It's a good wake-up call in a way," Coyne said. "We wanted to win the Big East, and we're very disappointed about that. I think the chances [of winning Big East] are severely dimin­ished now. 
"We're still going to focus on winning the rest of our games, and preparing for the NCAA tournament." 
The Irish take the field again Tuesday when they journey to Evanston, Ill., to challenge No. 11 Northwestern. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
Howell 
continued from page 26 

"After the Loyola loss, every­one realized the predicament we were in," Polk said. "It was our Colorado trip that gave us the 'pick-me-up' we needed because it has set the tone for the most recent games." 
Since the Air Force contest, the Irish have built an early lead in each match, and Sunday was not any different. 
Howell opened the contest with an unassisted goal at 1 :08 into the match. The Irish got out to a 2-0 lead, but this advantage was quickly erased as Fairfield scored three times within three minutes to take their only lead of the game. 
Notre Dame went on to score five of the next seven goals with 6:45 remaining in the first half to make the score 7-5. The Irish then took control of the match holding Fairfield was scoreless for 25:42 and scoring eight consecutive goals for their biggest lead of the game 15-5. 
Fairfield managed to score two of the last three goals of the game that resulted in a 16­7 victory for the Irish. 
This is the fourth straight game Notre Dame has scored 12 or more goals. The Irish are currently first in the GWLL and third in the nation for scoring. 
In the win, Notre Dame was without its entire starting mid­field. Nonetheless, a strong performance was given by Polk, who finished with two goals and one assist for the Polk said. "In addition to being second game in a row. a great ball handler, he is one 

All-American Pat Walsh who of the smartest on the field and is first in the GWLL and sixth he makes our jobs a lot easier." nationally in scoring and Notre Dame will play its last assists did not score for the game of the season against No. first time this season. Walsh 3 Maryland on May 1 at 1 p.m. however finished with three assists. Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
"His skills are priceless," jtapetil@nd.edu 
Third Annual UniverSity of Notre Da~e Social Venture Plan Competition 
, ·, . F·/l•:r_·.ist 5·--'0;'.... · l ~·/ .
*Free. ·. .. '-1::.r-,~f--'t· to··j t·h·:.;~e··.. :.r ····. ,: ,,/ s··'_f e·C'·t'a·t···o·y .J ,"' ./:·r'S... ~ *
,' ,J 
Come watch 5 teams ofND students and alumni battle it out for $10,000 in prize money to build their dream! 
Thursday, April 22 2004 1:OOpm-A:OOpm Hesburgh Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Join us for a special celebration of the spirit ofentrepreneurship at Notre Dame. Help celebrate the vision of creativity offellow students as they present their social venture business plan, field questions from a panel ofjudges and compete for prize money totaling $10,000! 
. 

Sponsored by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, Mendoza College ofBusiness Co-sponsored by the Master of Science in Administration Program 

. . . .. . . . . 
0 
0 
0
0 

-• ,• _.,_ • • • •W ° • -\ \ '• • -f ''I' ~ .. .. : • , •
~ ~· 
0 0
0 0 

0 0 0
0 

Monday, April 19, 2004 page 27
The Observer + TODAY . 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN THINGS ARE MOVING
MAYBE I SHOULD SELL 
I SAID TOO FAST! I'VE LOSTTHIS HOUSE AND GET A GOOD REAL

MAYBE. CONTROL OF THEA NEWER ONE. 

ESTATE AGENT PROCESS!
DOESN'T KNOW 
\\I
THE MEANING PACK YOUR
I'LL BE THE 

STUFF, LJAFFLER.
REAL ESTATE OF THAT WORD. 

l 
ESCROW CLOSESAGENT. 
IN TEN DAYS. 
\... 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

~[E.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each s1uare, to form four ordinary words. 
RIPEV 
j

I I ( (] 
C2004 Tri>une Media SeiVicea, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SELOU 
j

I I r [] 
HERLAW WHAT ?HE 
CON'?IDEI<ED
1 
rJ 
www.jumble.com 
1-ER FIR?T 'ThKEOFF
t
TEICED I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I ( J 
suggested by the above cartoon 
Answer: 

A "( I I I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Salurday's I Jumbles: HONEY LOVER SULTRY VORTEX Answer: The carpenter was highly recommended because he was strictly-ON THE "LEVEL" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 January in Juarez
1 Fed. food inspectors 42 "-delighted!" 
5 Raindrop sound 43 Brouhahas 
9 Songwriters' grp. 45 Co-star of 36-Down
14 Lecherous look 47 Knock over
15 Cleveland 49 Fencing blade 
cagers, briefly 50 The "Y" of
16 Weigher B.Y.O.B. 
17 Co-star of 52 Barge's route
36-Down 57 1 00% incorrect 
19 Jabs 20 It's heard on the 62 Whooping ­63 50's candidate 
grapevine Stevenson
21 I. M. Pei, for one 64 Setting for 23 Red flag, e.g. 
36-Down 24 Lyricist Lorenz 66 _ breath 
(flower) 25 See 41-Down 67 "Guilty" or "not 29 Online film guilty" 
maker 68 Flex 33 Star of 36-Down 69 Boffo show 38 Stallone title 70 Gardener's bag-
role ful 
39 Out of port 71 Counts up 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~~~'""'""~ 
~~~ 
~~~ 
~.:,;..~-:;:.+;;+;;..! 
-=+~=+,..._,_..,........,,...r 
~~.,;,..a,;;;.L,;;..&..;;;;,~,;;;..r 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the -more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
DOWN 1 Part of UHF 2 Capital of South 
Korea 3 Film director 
Jonathan 4 Shady spot 5 Alternatives to 
Macs 6 Syllables in 
"Deck the Halls" 7 Finished 8 Intimidate, with 
"out" 9 Person with goals 1oCo-star of 36-Down 11 Wedding recep­
tion centerpiece 12 Writer Waugh 13 Exterminator's 
target 18 Garden prod­ucts name 
22 "Hee " 26 _-inspiring 27 Lois of "Superman" 28 "_Jacques" (children's song) 30 Naval leader: Abbr. 31 "Dancing Queen" quartet 32 Big name in water faucets 33 Makeshift river conveyance 34 Norway's capital 35 Certain tide 

WILLSHORTZ 

36 TV series that 48 Where Switz. is 57 Applies lightly premiered in 
51 Easy wins 58 Dutch cheese 
1974 53 Popular 59 "Duchess of 
37 Cause for a Caribbean _"(Goyaplumber 
island work)41 With 25-Across, 
50% . 54 Sans clothing 60 Cairo's river 
44 Molasseslike 55 Put _ to (halt) 61 Elation 
46 Muhammad's 56 English city NE 65 Mouthful of birthplace of Manchester gum • 

For answers, call 1-900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. • 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q ... Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
..> 
Name __________________________________________ __ Address ________________________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Paloma Picasso, Dudley Moore, 
Jayne Mansfield, Tim Curry 

Happy Birthday: The challenge will be to present yourself and your ideas in -­the best possible forum. You will have plenty of opportunities but if you choose to move in the wrong circles you will fall short of your expectations. You will have to ferret out information regarding others and what they have to offer before you trust them to help you achieve your goals. Your numbers: 6, 15,24,33,42,46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put your money into your house, not a risky venture that someone is trying to talk you into. You need to get back to conservative investments and forget about becoming an overnight millionaire. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romantic connections can be made through intellectual pursuits. Take time to get to know one another as friends before you move into a physical liaison.***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be highly sensitive to comments made by your peers. Hold your temper and refrain from taking risks that might cause injury.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be emotional regarding hardships that someone close to you is facing. Help by taking care of some of their responsibilities and paperwork. *** . LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your mate may not be content. Don't push yourself on them. You may need to give them a little space. They are probably having problems with the way you are running things at home. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get out and do some socializing and get into the swing of things. Personal changes will enhance your appearance and confidence. You can attract a suitable mate using your intelligence. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your ideas to work. Your insightful, trend­setting way of putting things together wiii be admired by others. Get down to doing the things you enjoy. Creative outlets will ease tension. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A female member of your family will cause problems. Ignore this inexcusable behavior and carry on with your own plans. You have to stop trying to please everyone else. *"'** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your need to be a part of something will lead you to join clubs or groups that interest )IOU. You will have a need to get away and enjoy new surroundings.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be worrying about money again. Try to curb the spending habits of family members for whom you're responsible. You have to make them pay for their own debts. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your emotions will be up and down if your future looks unpredictable. Move with the times and let things happen as they're supposed to. Follow your instincts when it comes to business decisions. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Rely on your intuition to make the right decision regarding your friends. Reevaluate their motives before you put yourself on the line for someone who may not be worthy. **** 
Birthday Baby: You have what it takes to be great. You are eager to learn and quick to respond to a challenge. You're strong, determined and willing to bend if necessary in order to achieve your goals. You're a hard child to keep up with, but one that will certainly make loved ones proud. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
• • • : • -•• • -~. • ' • ~. • ~ • w <' • • • • • .!. . • . . ' .· ' ::: .. -• .. . {_,. ---. • . ' ­
. . -. . . . . . ' . . . ... ·'
\ ~ 
\ 
THE 0BSER\'ER 
p

Monday, April 19, 2004 

Page 28 
Hoyas bite, Irish bite back 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
No 5. Georgetown serves No.2 Notre Dame its 1st loss of the season in 9-7 victory 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Sports Writer 
All good things must come to an end. 
After a school record 14 con­secutive wins, including a 10-0 start that propelled the Irish to No. 2 in the most recent Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Association (IWLCA) and Inside Lacrosse Magazine polls, Notre Dame was unable to protect an early 6-5 seco"nd half lead as No. 5 Georgetown rallied to post four of the game's last five goals en route to 9-7 victory over the Irish. 
Notre Dame (10-1, 3-1 in Big East) fell to 0-5 all-time against the Hoyas (9-2, 5-0 in Big East). 
"We had our chances, we just didn't capitalize on them, but we're goin-g to use [the game] as inspiration," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "If there was anybody that doubted that we were a top-five team, I think we put those critics to rest, It was clearly a very evenly played game, and one of those types of games where if you do a couple things differently, you could have come out on the winning side of it." 
Midfielder Meredith Simon 
see LOSS/page 26 


MEN'S lACROSSE 
Howell proves Irish scoring force in win 

By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
In his final home game at Moose Krause Stadium, senior Matt Howell turned in the best performance of his career Sunday. 
Howell finished with five goals and three assists for a total of eight points as the Irish went on to defeat Fairfield 16­7. 
Howell finished one point short of the school record of nine in one game, which has been done eight times. Howell was also one short of the six­goal record of most goals scored in a home game. 
"Although he is a great play­er, one of the most notable qualities about him is how much of a leader he is on the field," Irish midfielder Lucius Polk said. 
Howell's leadership has proven to be beneficial for the team as No. 14 Notre Dame has rebounded from a slow start earlier this season. 
After beginning 1-4, Notre Dame is currently on a five­game winning streak, the longest since 2001 when the Irish won a school-record of nine. 
see HOWELL/page 26 

BASEBALL 

Three-game sweep keeps Irish tied atop Big East Standings 
winning 18-7, 11-4 and 9-6 at
By MATT LOZAR 
Georgetown over the weekend. 
Sports Writer 
The three conference road wins allowed the Irish to keep 
The three-game sweep may pace with Rutgers, who is also have come by a combined score 11-2 after sweeping Connecticut of 38-17, but Irish coach Paul in Piscataway, N.J. Mainieri knows it wasn't as easy "We needed these three. These as the scores indicate. were must-wins for us," Mainieri 
No. 5 Notre Dame improved to said. "Georgetown is the most 30-5 overall and more impor­tantly 11-2 in the Big East by see SWEEPIpage 25 
FOOTBALL 

Burrell leads defensive backs 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

. Quentin Burrell knows people question the ability of Notre Dame's secondary heading into the 2004 season. 
Burrell has an answer for those critics. "The secondary is not going to be a question mark-trust me," he said. 
Burrell is the most experienced defensive back returning to the Irish this season. He played in all 12 games in 2003 and led the team with four interceptions. 
With the experience from his junior season, Burrell said he knows he'll be looked upon even more this season. 
"Me being a senior, I have to lead by exam­ple," Burrell said. "So I have to try and get the young guys to follow me, which means I have to be perfect in everything I do." 
Notre Dame secondary coach Steven Wilks 
see BURRELL/page 25 


ND SOFTBAll 
SMC SOFTBAll 
ND WOMEN'S GOlf 
MlB

NBA 
PGA 
The Irish remained 
The Belles took a 
The Irish remained a 

Barry Bonds had two
The Heat edged the 
Stewart Cink needed 
undefeated in Big East 
weekend off from 
bubble team for the 

home runs, but they
Hornets by two points 
five playoff holes but 
play with a sweep of 
MIAA play, and were 
NCAA Tournament pool 

were not enough to lift
in the first round of the 
managed to overcome a 
Providence. Notre 
swept by Olivet 
with a 7th-place finish 

the Giants over the
NBA playoffs Sunday. 
nine-shot deficit and 
Dame beat the Friars 1-0 
Nazarene, but salvaged 
out of 12 teams at the 

potential rules violation 
Dodgers. The Yankees 
and 7-1 at Ivy Field 
a sweep from Saint 
Boilermaker Invitational. 

to win the MCI Heritage 
beat the Red Sox in 
Sunday. 
Xavier Sunday. 
Tournament. 
other action Sunday. 
page 23 
page 23 
page 23 

page 18 
pages 17,16
page 20 






