--------------------------------------------------. 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 56 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18,2004 

Rice nominated as secretary of state 

'75 graduate keeps Notre Dame ties strong 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
ller legacy lies ahead in the White House, but Condoleezza Rice's roots are at Notre Dame. 
President Bush's nominee for the next Secretary of State ­who earned her master's degree from the University, served on the Board of Trustees and received an honorary doctorate when she delivered the com­mencement address in 1995 ­first visited the school at the urg­ing of University President­Emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh. 
Rice, a star pupil at the University of Denver, "was going to look at colleges out east ­Harvard, Yale," Hesburgh said. "So I said, 'Well, you can't get there without going by Notre Dame s~.you've got to [come] see us first. 
Rice obliged, touring the cam­pus with her father -who at the time was the University of Denver's president -and with Hesburgh, who gladly answered her questions about Notre Dame's political science and international studies programs. 
She never made it out east. 
see RICE/ page 6 
BOR!'-J: Nov. 14, 1954, Birmingham, Ala. 
HoMETOWN: 
Birmingham, Ala. 
EDUCATION: 
St. Mary's Academy, Denver; 
B.A.. University of Denver; M.A., University of Notre Dame; Ph.D., Graduate School of International Studies at the University of Denver 

CAREER HiGHLIGHTS: Specialist on Soviet and East European affairs. National Security Council, 1989-91; affiliated with Stanford University since 1981, serving as provost from 1993 until June 1999; national security advisor, Jan. 200 I to the present 
HOBBIES: -~. 
Fitness training, piano, sports 
MIKE HARK INS/Observer Graphic 

SENATE 

Group discusses courses, election reforn1 
posal calls for faculiy mem­bers to "communicate a vision of their courses in advance of the DART regis­tration period," according to the resolution. This would include loading information about course times, descriptions, goals, syllabi and evaluation methods onto a web-based platform accessible by stu­dents. 
The second part allows students to voice their opin­
ion  in  a  questionnaire  
handed  out at the  same  
time  as  traditional TCEs,  

and to view the results of 
see SENATE/pageS 


By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate unan­imously approved two reso­lutions concerning Teacher Course Evaluations and a student discount at the bookstore and discussed a third regarding election reform at its last meeting for two weeks. 
Three years in the mak­ing, the resolution on TCEs sets forth a comprehensive outline for a two-pronged system of course evaluation for stude'nts. 
The first part of the pro-
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Can1pus connects to VoiP 
ND makes 5 year deal with SBC for network 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associare News Editor 

SBC Communications announced plans Tuesday for a multi-million dollar, five-year deal with Notre Dame that will make the campus home to one of the largest, state-of-the-art Voice over Internet Protocol (VoiP) networks in the country. 
The VoiP system will replace the current phone network with an Internet-based system that will link users to advanced fea­tures like a single inbox for voice and e-mail messages, "click-to-call" functionality from computers and "find me, follow me" call routing options, according to an SBC press release. Additionally, a "plug­and-play" service allows for the addition of new phones and service and location changes. 
Accessible campus-wide and via the internet, the network makes users reachable outside the office -a problem with the current, Centrex-based system. 
"We're not just replacing phones, we're outfitting the University with a completely new network which enables to bring together voice and data systems into single network," SBC representative Sarah Silva said. 
Though a press release from 
see NETWORK/page 3 

Catnpus supports 'Gay? Fine By Me' demonstration 
Students wear orange shirts, show solidarity 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
The color orange, spotted yesterday on students sport­ing "Gay? Pine by Me" T­shirts and on a large spray­painted closet in front of South Dining Ilall, helped pro­mote awareness of gay, les­bian. bisexual, transgendered and queer issues at No'he Dame Thursday. 
Studfmts were wPicomed to "come out of the closet," which did not necessarily mean as a gay or lesbian. For example, onf1 girl came out as "one hungry anal-retontive accounting major." 
"This isn't about a particu­lar issue, but showing this campus is not homophobic, a 
see SHIRTS/page9 


Thayer speaks about gay, lesbian rights 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 

Andy Thayer, founder of the Chicago Anti-Bashing Network, spoke about inequality and dis­crimination directed at gays and lesbians members of the South Bend community Wednesday night at the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns. 
"If we're going to combat the problem of anti-gay violence, we need to go to the root of the problem. The question is, what gives rise to this hatred of gay people?" Thayer asked. 
In answering that question, Thayer blamed the government. 
"If the government says it's okay to dehumanize humans, it sends a message to society at large," he said. "The fact of the 
see SPEAKER/page 4 

Thursday, November 18, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

ND 111eans 
hibernating 
all w-inter 

Wlwn applying to Notrn Damn, my high school counsnlor onen said, "Wnll, it's a bnautif'ul place, just gorgpous-but the wintnrs t.lwrn an~ eold as snot!" Now, lwsidn thn fact that thn actual Dustin Mennella tnmpnrature of' snot n~ally has nothing to do Photographer with cold win-t1~rs, I assumed lw mnant the wnatlwr over here gnts prntty dang eold and went from thoro. This comnHmt, though strangn, did cause me to reflect upon the situation as well as what I would do when wintnr finally did come. 
Last Friday, departing from my 4 to 6 p.m. elass to almost cl)mplete darkness I recalled the words of my counselor and rnalized the time for dorm room hibernation is almost upon us. Soon, lntnrnet lncture notes will become essential, and don't forget to restock those vital food itnrns before it's too late. You know tlw type -Cheez-its, granola bars, that huge bear shaped tub of animal crackers. nilla waf'nrs ... tlw list gons on and 011. 
Though we may bn confinml to our dorm when wintnr hits, there are still plnnty of things to do­!wing from rainy Snattle, I am used to not s1wing the sun for .weeks at a timn and staving ofT cabin fevnr whiln trappnd insidn on particular­ly wnt days. 
Catching up on that list of movins-to-see is a good a1~tivity. h1r thos1~ who need a bit morn physical activity, hallway soccnr or football is always a hit. And who could f'orgnt-llalo 2 is now out. Hngardlnss of the wnathnr, that alonn will keep many students indoors for quite a while and I get the sinking snnsation that GPA's will SIHIIl be dropping. But not all indoor activities have to be elec­tronic. Sometimes a night spnnt with a deck of cards, whether the gamn is poker or hearts, can be quito entnrtaining. And we can always look to nature for examples as wnll; lwars hibernatn all winter. why can't we'! Slnep is dnfinitely a good thing, and I nover seem to be able to get enough of it. 
Time marches on as it always dons. llowtwer, what it means for us now is simply freezing noses and fingnrs, and a fond farnwell to grass for tlw rwxt ft~w months. l'rndictions of snow, though as of yet unfutrilled, exist nonetheless, and thn chilly nights are a constant rnmindnr of how nxtrnmely difl'icult making it to those H:30 a.m. classes will soon lw. 
Contact /Justin Menella at dmen­nell(SJJnd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside (o[umrz are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU HAVE A SECRET CRUSH ON ANYONE? 





Hall." anymore. 
Woman sentenced in split­personality case 
FREEHOLD, N.J. -Nira Nevins said only one of her many porsonalities robbed a bank, but they're all going to jail. Nevins, 55, woman maintains that an alternate, childlike personality came over her the day she robbed the bank. 
"I am so ashamed of our actions," she told Superior Court Judge Edward M. Nea[<;ey on Tuesday. 
The judgn ordered Nevins to serve 18 years in prison for kidnapping the bank's head teller and forcing her to drive from the scene. He also imposed a concurrent 13­
TODAY a:: 


IN BRIEF  
The lecture Rational? The Miscalculation  "Is Extent  War of and  

Misperception as Causes of War," will be given by Daniel Lindley today at 12:30 p.m. in C-103 llesburgh Center. 
The Nanovic Institute will present a screnning of the Italian film "I Cento Passi (The Hundred Steps)" at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. tonight in the Browning Cinema. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor a screening of "The Bourne Supremacy" at 10 
p.m. Thursday in DeBartolo Hall. 
Malac:hy McCourt will bn in the llammes Notre Dame Bookstore on Friday at 4 p.m. signing his book "Malachy McCourt's History of Ireland." 
Saint Mary's Basketball Tip on· Classic game will be Friday at 6 p.m. at Angola Athletic Facility against Hanover College. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will face off against Harvard Friday at 7 
p.m. at the Joyee Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will perform Friday at H p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in thP DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The Notre Dame Percussion Ensemble will perform on Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Band Building. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH LOW 

45 HIGH 40 40 LOW 25 
Heather Booth  Chris Brown  Tommy Wang  Phil Hicks  Justin Rug by  
junior McGlinn  freshman Keenan  sophomore Alumni  freshman Dillon  senior Alumni  
"No, but my friend Sarah does."  "There's this girl Carrie and she works in South Dining  "There is this girl at my high school, but I don't see her  "Yes. she is vicious and she is in the military."  "No, I don' t. "  


report. shown Monday on the 11 p.m. newscast on WOIO­TV, showed far away angles of her nude and some doser seminude shots, as well as other participants. 
The report comes in the midst of increased attnntion to the airwaves, following Janet Jackson's breast-bar­ing performance during the Super Bowl halftime show. The Federal Communkations Commission proposed a record fine of $550,000 against CBS, WOIO's parent network. The network is protesting. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
year prison term for the armed robbery of the bank in 2002. 
Nevins must serve 15 years and three months before becoming eli!-,rible for parole. 
Cleveland anchor appears nude in TV report 
CLEVELAND -A televi­sion news anchor appeared on the air nude in a first-per­son report about an artist's photographs, drawing a record number of viewers for the time slot, the station said. 
Sharon Heed was one of hundreds of people who par­ticipated in Spencer Tunick's nude photo installation in Cleveland in June. Her 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
<1: 
CJ 
0 
HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW LOW LOW LOW 





Atlanta 72 I 52 Boston 54 I 46 Chicago 60 I 46 Denver 51 I 31 Houston 76 I 62 Los Angeles 71 I 52 Minneapolis 51 I 32 New York 60 I 52 Philadelphia 62 I 49 Phoenix 76 I 55 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 60 I 51 Tampa 80 I 60 Washington 55 I 43 
Thursday, November 18, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Giri advocates gender justice 
By APRIL THOMAS 
News Writer 
World-renowned women's social activist Dr. V. Mohini Giri brought her message of gender justice to Saint Mary's College Wednesday. 
No stranger to the spotlight, Giri is the daughter-in-law of the former president of India, the late Shri. V. V. Giri. She is also the founding president of the War Widows Association, a for­mer chairperson for the National Commission for Women, and author of "Kanya-Exploitation of Little Angels" and several other gender-based works. 
Giri casually noted that her preferred lecture audience is men. 
"Women don't need to hear they're subjugated," Giri said. "They already know they are." 
Giri's lil'e in India has given her inspiration to change the culture of female submission, which she feels is upheld both by patri­archy and social norms. Giri said that in India it is common for a woman to be tortured for her dowry debt. Some women may be expected to throw themselves on their husbands' funeral pyres, or are confined to a dark room for forty days of isolation follow­ing their spouse's death. 
"My job as a social activist is to stop these harmful norms," Giri said. 
Violence against women also emerges as a social normalcy. "Alcohol is a great curse in India," Giri said. 
Many men spend their incomes on alcohol, leaving their wives and children undernourished. Giri noted that female infanticide and poverty also specifically tar­gets Indian women. Most women have no land rights or means of individual e·conomic survival. 
"Women are the poorest of the poor," Giri said. "We must mobi­lize women toward self-sufficien­cy." 
Giri explained that her work strives to spread this self-suffi­ciency through three modes of empowerment -women must be informed of their legal and social rights, women must be· given leadership training and they must have access to micro­credits, or pooled community financial resources, enabling women to pursue entrepreneur­ship. 
"Only 80 percent of Indian women can read and write," Giri said. "Just 1 percent can enter college." 
Thus, to encourage wide­spread delivery messages of empowerment, Giri's organiza­tions create dramas, street plays and songs to reach women from all walks of education, not mere­ly the literate. 
Giri addressed the political arena as a crucial position for women to establish a voice in policymaking. Giri asserted that she will push for 33 percent female representation in Indian parliament, a step of affirmative action. 
"The situation of women in politics is very sad. India has only 8 percent women represen­
tatives," Giri said. "In the United States, it is only 14 percent." Giri's activism resonated with Saint Mary's junior Katie Kelly. 
"She's a visionary," Kelly said. "She is very passionate about women obtaining political posi­tions. It's not about power, but social change." 
Anita Houck of the Saint Mary's religious education department organized Giri's visit. 
"I knew she was a perfect fit for what we're doing here with justice education, women's stud­ies and religious studies," Houck said. 
Giri's adamancy of peace addressed both India's three wars with Pakistan, and the United States' current war with Iraq. Speaking from her experi­ence collectively reaching out to Pakistani women during war, Giri called for dialogue and insisted that women play a vital role in establishing harmony. 
"Peace and women are inter­connected," Giri said. "And with­out peace there is no develop­ment." 
Though conditions now are far from favorable, Giri insists that education is vital in establishing gender equality -especially developing courses in men's studies. Female submission is not merely "women's problem." 
"We need to help teach men to be responsible husbands, sons, brothers and friends of the women in their lives," said Giri. 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 


Network 
continued from page 1 
the Office of Information Technologies indicates other­wise, the service is only for the approximate 7,000 admin­istrators, faculty and staff at the University and at offices across the country, said Silva. 
"The student body is not 
part of the transition, though includ­ing them is in review and considera­tion," Silva said. "As of now, students will not be affected by the change, only staff and facul­ty and admin­istration." 
The OIT 
across the coun­try'. Technologically­speaking, the VoiP

"This is not like an 
system works by

all-at-once, grand 
converting voice restructuring. It's a calls into data packets and treat­
gradual phased 
ing them with the

migration. " 
same protocol used to transmit Sarah Silva data on computer networks.
SBC representative 
release puts the number at 16,000 users and includes students. Silva could not speak to the discrepancies between the two plans and said she did not know where OIT's numbers came from. OIT officials were not avail­able for comment. 
Implementation of the sys­tem will begin in 2005 and continue over the next two to three years, according to Silva. 
"This is not like an all-at­once, grand restructuring," Silva said. "It's a gradual phased migration." 
Silva also said that SBC expects the transition process to be relatively hassle-free. 
"Because they're both SBC systems, we can integrate the systems as you move from wireline into VoiP infrastruc­ture to make the transition smooth," Silva said. 
The VoiP network -techni­cally called SBC PremierSERV Hosted Internet Protocol Communications Service ­was introduced by SBC in November 2003 and is in use in 69 metropolitan areas 
"We are excited 
to work with the 
University of Notre Dame in implementing one of the largest migrations to hosted VoiP to date," Cathy Coughlin, president of Business Communications Services, SBC Global Services, Inc. said in a press release. "We have provided reliable solutions to educational insti­tutions of all sizes for more than a century, and we believe the University of Notre Dame's forward-thinking approach will serve as a model for other customers with large, com­plex campus environments that are looking to migrate to a hosted IP solution." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


DArviE 
Thursday 18th 





10pm 
\l~et 


s Senior Night 
Free Quesadillas &Wings c/o SUB & Senior Class 
Brew&View: 
Super




Troopers
midnight 

....
------------------------------------------------------~~~~-~~~~~­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, November 18, 2004 
-----~~-__:=_====-====-:-::-==============----===================================================================-========== 



Speaker 
continued from page 1 
matter is, when the govern­ment says, 'We're going to call out this whole dass of people, who don't have the same rights as other folks' -that dehu­manizes you, makes you a tar­get." 
Thayer said that the Joss of constitutional rights for gays would endanger the rights of all Americans. 
"You allow the far right in this country to pick on, to vilify any group of Americans -you allow them to get away with that. and it sets a horrible precedent for other people," Thayer said. 
Swit1:hing to the topic of gay marriage, Thayer said that 1,1:~8 federal rights are obtained by marriage. They inelude access to pension and Social Security survivors' bene­lits, immigration rights, medical care,\ and the ability to adopt childrnn, among many others. 
"Many gay and lesbian cou­ples are forced to immigrate from this country because they can't get their partner natural­ized," Thaynr said. 
H111:alling one woman's com­plaint about the immigration laws, Thayer said, ..She told me, 'I can bring my dog into this country, but I can't bring my wife."' 
Thayer said that 52 percent of heterosexual couples are currently raising kids. llowever, what many people don't know is that a full 33 percent of gay eouples and 42 percent of les­bian couples arc also bringing up children, Thayer said. . 
"Marriage is a survival issue for many people in the gay and lesbian community," Thayer said. "The issue here is civil marriage. The government, which all of us pay taxes to -is it going to treat us as human beings?" 
Thayer also referring to the ability of gays to marry in Canada and the Netherlands. 
"There are truly equal mar­riage rights, and you can't say the sky is falling in [because of them I," he said. "Maybe the Netherlands lhasl something up on the U.S. The U.S. is a world leader in family dysfunction." 
Thayer also talked about for­mer Speaker of the House Next Gingrich's criticism of the gay community. 
"Those who vilify us are some of the best destroyers of the family. For example, take Nnwt Cingrieh," he said. 
Pointing out Cingrich's flawed history as a family man, Thayer rnferrnd to the former Speaker of the House's multiple divorces. 
"Thny [critics of gay mar­riageI can never seem to map it out how our marriages affect theirs. They must bn truly inse­cure in their own marriages," he said. 
Thaynr criticized former presidential candidate John K11rry and the Democrats for not taking a dear stand on gay righL'> in this month's election. 
"Civil rights and equality is likn a light switch -it's either im or oil'. Equality or discrimi­nation'?" he said. 
Thaynr also said that gays and lesbians should not settle f'or dvilunions, but stand up f'or themsnlves. 
"Things can change in some of' the worst circumstances if people are willing to get out into the stnmL'> and work for it. This is why wn do what we do," ThayN said. 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


ND students focus on graduate conference 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Writer 
Attendance at the National Association of Graduate and Professional Students confer­ence and upcoming legislation in the U.S. congress concern­ing graduate students were the main concerns at Tuesday's Graduate Student Union meeting. 
President John Young and eo-vice president Amanda 
Matthews talked with the other GSU members about the recent conference by the National Association of Graduate and Professional Students in Pittsburgh. "NAGPS serves two functions. The first is to meet the needs of International Graduate stu­tant for graduate student interests in the future. 
The first would make all future graduate student stipends tax exempt. The sec­ond, which will be addressed later in the U.S. Congress' agenda, is the renewal of the lligher Education Act. 
"Title IV of the Higher Education Act states that stu­dents can consolidate loans at a fixed interest rate. If that title isn't renewed, it will make it much more difficult for stu­
"Our objective was 
to seek out and make contacts with those organizations, and we were able to achieve that." 
Amanda Matthews · co-vice president 
dents on campuses across the nation, and the second func­tion is to act as a lobbying group for graduate student interests in Congress," Young said. 
Matthews said she felt that the'conference helped to foster good working relationships with other graduate students and contacts from other schools. 
"Our objective was to seek out and make contacts with those organizations, and we were able to achieve that," she said. 
After the overview of NAGPS' main functions, Young also discussed two pieces of leg­islation up for consideration in the coming year that the NAGPS will focus on. The outcome of both pieces of legislation, Young said, would be extremely impor-


Tonight! DJ & Specials ALLDAY 272-1766 2046 South Bend Ave. 


fg'j2~~~
only at --=--~ 
Sminutes~ 
{!om OUTPOST 

Campus :1•1•1ii-­
co/d Weather Experts 
Coll259·1ooo for more details 
dents to pay off their loans." 
Young said . ..-----------------------...., 
He proposed that 
Notre Dame send graduate students to Congress later in the year to help the NAGPS with their lobbying efforts. 
"I think we [The GSU] ~ have the funds to send a few graduate stu­dents from Notre Dame to help 
lobby" Young said. "[This leg­islation] is something that has been in the works for 4 or 5 years, and it would behoove us to be involved in this." 
Matthews said the NAGPS conference provided a way for graduate students to help pro­mote their needs in a setting where they can be effective. 
"We think that Graduate stu­dents have a very strong voice, we just need that to be repre­sented within our national government." Matthews said. "We think that if we give our students an opportunity to speak we feel that they can voice our concerns clearly and strongly. We're just trying to 


Want 
provide the means and mode of communication." 
In other GSU news: 

+ The initial details of this year's annual GSU blood drive were discussed in the meeting. A tentative date of Feb. 3 was proposed for the blood drive. Erica Pirnie, llealth Care Committee Chair, said the GSU blood drive was an excellent way to promote Graduate Student eivie participation. 
"I(s something that helps get Graduate Students involved in [aiding] their country," she said. 
+ The GSU Social committee has begun planning events for the Spring semester. Some of the events that the GSU is con­sidering for the graduate stu­dents are an Easter brunch, Mardi Gras party, wine tasting and attnndance at various the­ater events around South Bend. Social chair Krupa llegde nneouraged the council to submit other ideas. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 


Educational Technologies & Services is looking for qualified students to work on our 
Classroom Support Staff. 
Students must have some AN and computer trouble shooting experience. 
Job duties include set-up of AN equipment, assisting professors with equipment malfunctions and troubleshooting. 
Time slots most needed: M-F am, M-Th evenings, Sundays 
Interested students should contact: Jason A. Railton, Supervisor of Classroom Support, jrailton@nd.edu 
to start 

a new club? 
-Didn't find what you we~e looking for at Activities Night -Hoping for ways to perfect your talent Passionate about something you think others would enjoy 
?
• 

Stop pondering the questions and get 
some answers! 

New Club Proposals are being accepted now 1 Deadline: December 1 @ 5:00 PM. 
Academic o Athletic Cultural o Performing Arts Social Serviceo Special Interest 
Still have questions? Email Amy Geist 
:0: 
ageist@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 18, 2004 CoMPILED FROA,1 THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pacific Rim ministers convene 
SANTIAGO, Chile-Top ministers from 21 Pacific Rim nations convened high-level talks on free trade and global security Wednesday, while police battled university students protesting the summit and a weekend visit by President Bush. 
Several hundred demonstrators who tried to gather in downtown Santiago were con­fronted by riot police, who doused them with toar gas from fast-movin~ jeeps and knocked them to thn ground with blasts from water cannon trucks. 
There was no-im1hndiate report of injuries and the protnst occurred miles away from the suburban Santiago venue for the annual Asia­Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. 
Accusations made against Iran 
VIENNA, Austria -Iran bought blueprints of a nuclear bomb from the same black-mar­ket network that gave Libya such diagrams and continues to enrich uranium despite a commitrnnnt to suspend the technology that can be usnd for "atomic weapons, an Iranian opposition group said Wednesday. 
Farid Soleirnani. a senior official for the National Council for Hesistance in Iran, said the diagram was provided by Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani head of the nuclear net­work linked to clandestine programs in both Iran and Libya. 
"lie gave them the same weapons design he gave the Libyans as well as more in terms of weapons design," Soleimani told reporters in Vienna. lin said the diagram and related material on how to make nuclear weapons was handed to the Iranians between 1994 and 19<)(,. 
Mark Gwozdecky, spc•kesman for the International Atomic Energy Agency said, "we follow up every solid lead," but added the U.N. nuclear watchdog would have no further comment. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush names Miers to counsel 
WASHINGTON -President Bush on Wednesday named Harriet Miers, a long­time Texas associate, as White House coun­sel. 
Miers succeeds Alberto Gonzales, nomi­nated by Bush to be attorney general, said White House spokesman Scott McClellan. 
"Harriet Miers is a trusted adviser on whom I have long relied for straightfor­ward advice," Bush said in a statement. 
"Jiarriet has the keen judgment and dis­cerning intellect necessary to be an out­standing counsel," the president said. "She is a talented lawyer whose great integrity, legal scholarship an.d grace have long marked her as one of America's finest lawyers." 
Miers eame with the president to the White Ilousn as his staff secretary, the per­son in charge of all the paperwork that crosses the prnsident's desk. 
GOP seeks to repeal labeling law 
WASHINGTON -Telling consumers where their meat. fruit and vegetables came from seemed such a good idea to U.S. ranchers and farmers in competition with imports that Congress two years ago ordered the food industry to do it. But meatpackers and food processors fought the law from the start, and newly embold­ened Hepublicans now plan to repeal it before Thanksgiving. 


LOCAL NEWS 
State says dam needs repairs 
NEVADA MILLS -A dam that regu­lates water levels in five northeastern Indiana lakes popular with tourists will likely need immediate repairs to leaks that could cause it to fail, a state offi­cial said. 
Private consultants are studying the Nevada Mills dam to pinpoint the leaks and recommend repairs. 
Causes of church dissent cited 
Catholic Cardinal condemns media, partisan forces for attacking U.S. bishops 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Washington Cardinal Theodore McCarrick blamed the media and partisan activists for unjustly attacking U.S. Roman Catholic bishops who spoke out this elec­tion year on whether dis­senting Catholic politi­cians should receive Communion. He accused them of spreading inter­nal dissension among church leaders. 
In a speech delivered behind closed doors and released Wednesday, McCarrick pleaded for unity among his col­leagues. 
"The media or partisan forces. sometimes tried to pit one bishop against another. I look around the room and see bishops who have been unfairly attacked as partisan, oth­ers who have been called cowards," he said during a private session of the 
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. "That is not who we are. We are united in our defense of life and the dignity of the human person." 

The bishops wound up at the center of a nasty national debate over reli­gion and politics after St. Louis Archbishop bishops' task force on and peace are competing denied Communion. A Raymond Burke said he Catholics in public life, causes," he said. "While dozen or so other would deny the Eucharist became a target of critics we do not believe that all prelates said the politi­to Democratic presiden­himself after saying he issues have equal moral cians should voluntarily tial nominee John Kerry, opposed using claims, we will work to abstain from the sacra­a Catholic who supports Communion as a sanc­protect those whose lives ment, but would not be abortion rights. tion. The American Life are destroyed by abortion denied if they sought 
Anti-abortion advocates League, a group of out­and those who are dying Communion. pressured more bishops spoken abortion oppo­of hunger. We will strive Most bishops took the to follow Burke's lead. nents, took out ads to protect human life same position as Other Catholics lobbied denouncing his stance. from the moment of con­McCarrick. the prelates to highlight a The cardinal said it has ception until the moment "The vast majority of broader range of moral been a difficult year. God calls us home and we bishops are in the center issues in the election, Bishops were accused of will strive to pursue and the center is hold­such as war and poverty. being "single issue" if peace ... This is who we ing,'.' he said. Last June, 
Kerry supporters joined they spoke out on abor­are and what we believe." the bishops issued a the fight, accusing tion, and if they didn't, In an interview, statement in Denver say­Catholic leaders of trying they were derided as McCarrick said that the ing politicians who sup­to help re-elect President indifferent to the bishops' position on ported abortion rights Bush, a Methodist whose "destruction of unborn Communion has been were "cooperating in position on abortion is I1uman life," he said. widely misunderstood. evil,"'but also affirmed more in line with Catholic "We do not believe that Only a few of the more church law that individ­teaching. Bush won the our commitment to than 250 American bish­ual pishops can deter­Catholic vote. human life and dignity ops said that dissenting mine how to respond to 
McCarrick, head of a and our pursuit of justice lawmakers should be those politicians. 

Iraqi suicide bomber blasts convoy 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A suicide car bomber blasted an American con­voy north of Baghdad and U.S. troops battled insurgents west of the capital Wednesday as a wave of violence across Iraq's Sunni Muslim heartland killed at least 27 people. 
American forces pursued their search-and-destroy mission against the remaining holdouts in the for­mer insurgent bastion of Fallujah, and to the north, American forces pressed an offensive to reclaim part of the city of Mosul from mili­tants. 
November became one of Iraq's bloodiest months as the U.S. death toll in the war in Iraq reached 1,206 with new Defense Department identifications Tuesday night and Wednesday, according to an Associated Press tally. 

On Wednesday, a suicide attacker drove his bomb-laden car into a 
U.S. convoy during fierce fighting in the town of Beiji, 155 miles north of the Baghdad, killing 10 people and wounding 12, including three American soldiers. Another attack on a convoy of civilian con­tractors in Beiji caused no casual­ties. 
Elsewhere, a three-hour gunbat­tle between militants and U.S. forces after nightfall left seven peo­ple dead and 13 hurt in Ramadi, a city west of Fallujah. 
Insurgents fired rocket-propelled grenades, mortar and Kalashnikov rifles at American forces in the city center, Zayout district and along the main highway in town, said Abele!. Karim al-Hiti of Ramadi General Hospital. 
Ramadi, about 70 miles west of Baghdad, falls within the restive Sunni Triangle area north and west of the capital where the bulk of insurgent attacks have erupted. 
Although fighting has ebbed in Fal)ujah, it has not ceased. The 
U.S. military said pockets of insur­gents remain even though the city is fully occupied by American troops. 
Thursday, November 18, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Rice's selflessness, said Irish "We're not seeing new blood, hopefully she'll grow into the ship abilities," he said. football coach Tyrone we're not seeing new points of job." Hice's abilities and instin<:ts are
Rice 

Willingham, who worked side by view," he said. Hice won't have much time to impressive, Arnold said, but may 

continued from page 1 
"Shn said, 'Daddy we don't havn to go any further -I want to comn hen~ .... llesburgh said. 
Though she graduated in 1975 allm· a two-ynar stint of concen­tration in Russian studies and Soviot affairs -boginning her trajoctory to government posi­tions in fon~ign relations -Hice is still passionato about her Notrn Dame tins. 
This .July, Bien hostnd about 30 administrators, donors and trustnns in the West Wing oiTice that she occupied for tho last four side with her at Stanford University when he coached and she served as provost for six years in the 1990s. 

"What I saw of Dr. Hice prima­rily is a woman that is well-bal­anced, that is intelligent, that has the best interest of hnr organiza­tion at heart and does not ask for anything herself," Willingham said. adding that Hice has domonstrated a "team in front of self" mentality in the White !louse as well as in academia. 
"I think she's shown that she can do that," he said, "and do it 
in an intelligent 
manner and have 

ynars as tlw presi­ "She [is} somebody  the best interests  
dent's national socurity advisor, where blue and  who just by her persona commands  of the president and the country at heart."  
gold mmnorabilia  respect."  Rice's close rela­ 
is  proudly  dis­ tionship with the  
playod on the walls, said Lou Nanni, vice presi­ Lou Nanni vice president for  president -who she has counseled since his father's  
dont for University  University Relations  term in office - 

ltelations. 
"She's a huge f(mtball fan," Nanni said, recall­ing tho "candid" Q&A session that ensuod. with topics ranging from the war in Iraq to Hice's biggest surprises in the White I louse to her pnrsonal recollec­tions of Sept. 11. 2001. 
"She [is[ somnbody who just by her porsona commands respect," Nanni said. "Obviously people of goodwill are going to differ about polidns stw would advoeatn as a part of the Bush administration, but nobody would question her integrity. her commitment to snrvico and her high ideals." 
Groatt~st among these ideals is 
has been called 

her biggest asset and her biggest liability as she moves to the State Department. 
"One of the strengths she brings to the job is having the president's ear," said Dan 
Lindley, an assistant professor of political science at Notre Dame. "In that way she'll be better off than Colin Powell," her prede­cessor who often appeared to be a lone voice of dissent alienated from the rest of Bush's cabinet. 
In !Uce, Lindley said, Bush sees a trusted confidante who fits the pattern of his second-term cabi­net appointments -friendly faces and familiar voices. 
Is protecting tlie environment wortli tlie cost? 
Jmn usfor: 

The Costs and Benefits of Environmental Protection: Economic and Environmental Concerns in Conversation 
7:00pm, Thursday, November 18th Room 141, Debartolo Hall 
A Panel Discussion Featuring: 
Political science eolleague Peri adjust, as she faces immediate Arnold agreed. challenges in the Iraq war, the 
"I think the president is mak­Israeli-Palestinian connict, the ing a choice to guarantee that developing nuclear programs of there will be more unanimity in Iran and North Korea, HIV/AIDS 
the foreign policy  initiatives  in  
establishment," he  Africa and dam­ 
said.  "Condi  has  "! think we're  aged  relation­ 
demonstrated that she's happy going along ... she's per­ proud ofour association with  ships with U.S. allies, said Gerard Powers,  
sonally so close to  her, as I think she  director of policy  
Bush that it's difficult to imagine how she could play an opposi­ is proud to be a part ofthe Notre  studies at the Kroc Institute for International  
tional or counterbal­ Dame Family."  Peace Studies.  
ancing role."  ·Overseeing  
And State could  while the Depart,ment gain clout  Lou Nanni vice president for  S t a t e Department operations as a  
within the adminis­ University Relations  visible manage­ 
tration due to Rice's  ment presence  
influence with Bush,  - rather than  

it could also lose ground to the individually advising the presi­Defense Department because she dent from the background ­lacks Powell's penchant for inter­presents another test, Powers agency battles, Lindley said. added. 
"She has a reputation for not "As former national security taking the strongest positions, advisor, she is well-versed in the for being more of a sounding major substantive issues she will board," he said. "If she main­have to address, but taking over tains the quiet pressure she the helm of State's large bureau­won't be taking full advantage of cracy will present new chal­the State Department pulpit ... lenges that will test her leader-not be enough. 


"She's a woman with many tal­ents, but this is going to be demanding," he said. "She really becomes the face of the adminis­tration's foreign policy ... One wonders, is she up for that?" 
Nanni thinks so. 

"Clearly the Secretary of State role is going to call for a great more diplomacy," he said. "But she is about as articulate and persuasive a person as I have met. She's also someone who's not easily dauntnd." 
These traits were a welcome contribution on the Board of Trustees, Nanni said, and may eventu"ally become an asset to the University again. 
"Our hope is that when she chooses to step down from her role in public service is that she'll be able to resume her role with Notre Dame in one capacity or another," he said. "I think we're proud of our association with her, as I think she is proud to be a part of the Notre Dame family." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Alexander Blachly, Director 



2004 Fall Concert 
Bach's "German Magnificat," BWV 10 Excerpts from Haydn's Harmoniemesse Renaissance Motets 
8:00 Friday, November 19, 2004 Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
Free and Open to the Public 
llarbara Connolly, Assistant Professor of Political Science .1(jii·: 'liF 
;! ~~ Ji~ut;~ ·,

lP ,,,, ,. Jessica HeUmann, Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences 
·.·. IFiMI~Ih'Fiii!ll ~j,: Richard Jensen, Chair, Department of Economics and Econometrics 
t
THE PRf.JoGRAM IN CATHOLJC SOC:At TRAtlfTION 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 




HLETIC WEEKEND 
7:351101 .... USA D&VIIIDIIDI&.U: T&8DI 
•FirsL so<.."> f'<.lns receive an N D seat: cushion 
@ •uvea Caii'IBr Fieldhouse
+one lucky N D student:: will have a chance t::o hit:: a half-court:: shot:: t::o win tuit::ion for +chevy Trading Card Night: #2­a year sponsored by Hacienda F!''t' -SophorTlore Class -· +Ear·fy <:H-riving fans vvill receive"""i':'T":'e 04--05 +Postgame auLograr:.h s":~.ssi<~n vvit·h n"lagnet sponsored by Papa John's~ the Irish Sophornore Players 
:::::rijiiiiiiiijiijiiijiiiiiiiiiil......-........­


Thursday, November 18, 2004 

Dow 

10,549.57 +61.92

}ones 
.{-f.?~. 
up: Same: : Composite Volume: 2,299 158 1,688,005,248 

AMEX 1,351.25 ~0.01 NASDAQ 2,099.68 +21.06 NYSE 7,013.46 +5"4.16 S&PSOO 1' 181.94 +6.51 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,131.29 +0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,795.90 +25.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +7.86 +0)9 5.35 
SIRIUS SAt RADI (SIRI) +5.10 +0.24 4.95 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.01 +0.48 24.32 
CHARTER COMMSA (CHTR) -3.70 -0.08 2.08 
APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +3.46 +0.58 17.34 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.18 -0.58 48.44 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.52 -0.64 41 .44 
5-YEAR NOTE -2.14 -0.76 34.81 
3-MONTH BILL -0.53 -0.1 I 20.80 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.92 47.12 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.60 445.1 0 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.00 99.65 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 04.0600 
EURO 0.7671 
POUND 0.5379 
CANADIAN$ 1.1938 
IN BRIEF 
Utility holding company pays up 
CINCINNATI -A Cinergy Corp. affiliate agreed to pay a $3 million fine to settle feder­al regulatory charges that two traders in the energy company's Houston-based natural gas trading operation falsely reported information on gas deals. 
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission announced the fine Tuesday, say­ing two traders with Cinergy Marketing & Trading knowingly reported inaccurate infor­mation from August 2000 to July 2002 to two McGraw-Hill publications that compile prices used to settle trades in natural gas markets. 
The wmpany admitted no wrongdoing but agreed to the finfl to end the case, Cinergy spohsman Steve Brash said Wednesday. Cinergy fired one of the traders and trans­ferred the other to another job off the trading floor. he said. 
An number of false trades were submitted by e-mail and telephone, the commission said. 
Kohl's sued over look~alike shoes 
GHAND HAPIDS, Mich. -Wolverine World Wide Inc. has filed a patent-infringement law­suit against Harbor Footwear Group Ltd. and Kohl's Corp., claiming the companies copied and sold popular styles of Wolverine's Merrell brand of shoes. 
The lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in Grand Hapids and seeks an unspecified amount of money. It also asks that the defen­dants be prohibited from making and selling specific styles of Harbor's GBX brand of adult and children's shoes. 
"While the footwear community typically respeets the ereative rights and the intellectu­al property developed by other eompanies, some in our industry find it easier to copy suc­cessful patterns rather than develop their own styles," said Jacques Lavertue, president of Wolverine's Outdoor Group. "Merrell will not tolerate the violation of our innovative and proprietary designs and will aggressively defend our intellectual property through the courts." 
A man who answered the telephone Tuesday at Port Washington, N.Y.-based Harbor said the company would not publiely comment about the lawsuit. 

Tt..IE 0HSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Kmart-Sears deal raises stocks 
Market soars as investors welcome $11 billion merger of U.S. retailers 
~Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks 
surged Wednesday as 
investors shrugged off a 
fresh indicator of rising 
inflation and welcomed an 
$11 billion deal that com­
hines retailers Kmart 
Holding Corp. and Sears, 
Roebuek and Co. 
The merger, the largest such transaction involving 
U.S. retailers, and strong data on industrial produc­tion overshadowed a wor­risome reading of the Consumer Price lndex, the government's most elosely watched inflation barome­ter. 
"It's quite obvious that the merger itself is good ·news, and of course the fact that we had industrial produetion taking off has helped strengthen the market," said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist with S.W. Bach & Co. "On the inflation front, that's not such good news, but the effects of $50-plus oil prices are beginning to show up in the numbers, and going forward, that could make the Fed (Federal Reserve) more aggressive" in raising interest rates. 

In afternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial aver­age was up 60.37, or 0.58 percent, at 10,548.02. retail stores, meaning it Department's latest snap­the line, corporate earn­
The broader gauges will trail only Wal-Mart shot of the inflation cli­ings may not get squeezed were also higher. The Stores Inc. and Target mate makes it more likely as much by rising inflation. Standard & Poor's 500 Corp. Wal-Mart shed 48 that the Fed will raise "Obviously higher prices index rose 6.89, or 0.59 cents to $56.41 on the interest rates when policy are a concern, but the fact percent, to 1,182.32. The news, while Target was up makers next meet, on Dec. that they're able to pass a Nasdaq composite index 11 cents at $51.49. 14. lot of these eosts along was up 17.60, or 0.85 per­Martha Stewarf Living Excluding volatile energy makes it less of a eoncern, eent, at 2,096.22. Omnimedia rose $1.68, or and food prices, "core" and not as big a negative 
Discount chain operator 9.7 percent, to $19.08, as inflation increased by a as investors feared yester­Kmart soared $15.63, or investors bet the merger more modest 0.2 percent day when they saw that 15 percent, to $116.85, on would lead to a broader in Octo.ber. Both readings whopping PPl number," its plan to merge with merchandising agreement. were higher than econo­said Jack A. Ahlin, chief Sears. a deal that will cre­Kmart sells Martha mists had foreeast. investment officer at ate the nation's third­Stewart products in the Coming after a sharp Harris Private Bank. largest retailer. Sears stock United States, while Sears increase in the Producer Separately, industrial skyrocketed after the deal sells the company's prod­Price Index on Tuesday, production shot up 0. 7 was announced, rising ucts in its stores in analysts said the market percent, a reading that $9.97, or 22 percent, to Canada. was pleased with the CPI suggests the sector is gain­$55.17. Hising costs for energy reading because it sug­ing momentum. Home 
The combined company and food sent the gests it may be easier than buildings showed strength is expected to have $55 Consumer Price Index up previously believed for after the Commeree billion in annual revenues, 0.6 percent in October, the companies to pass along Department reported a 6.4 2,350 full-line and off-mall biggest advance in five rising costs to consumers. percent jump in housing stores, and 1,100 specialty months. The Labor That suggests that down construction last month. 


Consumer prices in Europe surveyed 
consumer price comparison Web site France, where a Sony region-free
Associated Press 

owned by ValueClick lne., looked at player can be had for $121.81. The 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden prices paid by consumers in 18 same player goes for $160.69 in Norwegians pay the most for Big European countries for goods as var­Finland. Macs, while Estonians, Latvians and ied as a McDonald's Big Mac meal to In the market for a 32-inch Sony Lithuanians pay the least, a compari­ticket prices for an evening showing TV? Head for Greece and pay $972, son of consumer prices among 18 of "The Bourne Supremacy." but avoid buying it in Sweden, where European eountries found Wednesday. "Particularly with new countries the same model goes for $1,283. 
While the fin_dings for Norway and joining the EU, this year's survey has The Swiss have the best price on neighboring Sweden and Denmark revealed even greater gaps, but it has Apple's iPod mini, which retails for an weren't surprising the also highlighted some interesting average of $311, but the same device Scandinavian countries are consid­facts," said Pricerunner spokesman will set you baek more than $425 in ered some of the most expensive Patrie' Blixt. Finland. places to live in the world -other Britons, for example, pay the most That Big Mac? Depends on where Europeans are getting good bargains to see a movie at a cinema, on aver~ you are. on everything from plasma screen age about $18.55. Lithuanians pay an A Big Mac meal from McDonald's, TVs to movie tickets. average of $5 for a ticket. including medium fries and a Coke, 
The survey, conducted in October by Those who prefer to see their films ranged from $3.50 in Estonia to $11 Pricerunner AB, a Stockholm-based on DVD would do well to buy them in in Norway. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, November 18, 2004 
could not be used in faculty response. granting senators the power lems with the removal of the reappointment, tenure, pro­There were no objections to to vote against the will of option to abstain on run-off
Senate 
continued from page 1 
thn survey online. Qunstions for the survey would be draft­ed by a committee composed of students, faculty represen­l<Liives and a staff member l'rom·lnstitutional Hcseareh. Dirnctions would note the purpose of the questionnaire, and unlike tlw TCEs, results motion or salary decision's. 

"We need collaborative sup­port with the faculty ... and we want everyone to be a part of this process," former student body president Jeremy Lao said. 
Committee for Academic Affairs chair Vijay Hamanan said they will be meeting with representatives from the Faculty Senate today to gauge 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 12-22, 2004 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from 
O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection 
of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDC! Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 
approval of the resolution. 
Sarah Bates, chair of the committee for Hesident Life, presented a resolution recom­mending that the bookstore implement a student discount on merchandise. 
"This is a step we have taken based on unresponsive­ness from the bookstore in my previous attempts to con~ tact them," Bates said. "We're hoping to pass this resolution and be able to take it to the boo.k'store and show them exactly what we want." 
The resolution reasons that faculty and staff currently receive a 20 percent discount on everything 

"We use elections
except class Bongiovanni said textbooks -for to elect a leader, the decision to which they give senators the
not to gauge the 
receive a 10 power was based
popularity of
percent discount on the idea their -and that stu­student dorm puts faith in dents should be a senator's deci­
government."
given the same sion-making abili­consideration. ties when they "If you give us Suja_l Pandya elect them. a discount, more senator Director of 

students will shop there and off-set any loss in profit from the discount," Siegfried sena­tor James Lei to said. 
Again, the resolution passed without objection. 
Finally, in a continuation of discussion from last week's meeting, senators debated their dorms in the event a tie, and removing the option for abstention on the run-off election ballots. 

Hamanan spoke out against allowing senators to "vote by their conscience," even if odds are against an exact vote tie putting the election in Senate's hands. 
"I know we're trying to remove the wheeling and dealing that happens when the-vote comes to Senate, but this isn't going to help," Hamanan said. "I trust 99.5 percent of the senators elect­ed, but it's that .5 percent 
that scares me." 
Cavanaugh sen­
ator Jordan 
Student Activities 
Brian Coughlin issued a word of warning. 
"Senate should be careful what they wish for when granting this power," Coughlin said. "In the event that an election comes down between a presidential candi­date that's a senator and one election ballots (abstention would still be available in the primary). 
"Abstention makes discon­tent public," McGinley said. "Even if it doesn't make a dif­ferent in who is elected, it's a matter of political expres­sion." 
Fisher senator Sujal Pandya disagreed. 
"We use elections to elect a leader, not to gauge the popu­larity of student government," he said. 
Senate came to no definite conclusions, but the amend­ment must pass on the Dec. 1 meeting if changes are to be implemented for this year's election. 
In other Senate news: 
+Meghan I-Ianzlick spoke to the Senate regarding a letter­writing campaign to U2 front­man Bono, asking him to return to campus for a con­ference to raise awareness of AIDS in Africa. 
She encouraged senators to get students from their dorm to sign and mail a form letter she provided to Bono to try to convince him to come back to Notre Dame. 
"We don't want him just for the concert, but for aware­ness of AIDS and other African issues, which is what Bono and his involvement in 

~~~~~~~~------~--------~-~-~---~~----~~--~-------~----------------­
Thursday, N~vember 18, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

12 filtns cotnpete for Oscar 
·Academy documentary nominees announced 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES --The fast-food indictment "Super Size Me" is among 12 films competing for best documentary at the Academy Awards. 
Other documentaries on the list of contenders released Tuesday by the Academy of Motion Picture Arl<; and Sciences include "Tupac: Resurrection," an examination of the life of slain rapper Tupac Shakur; the surfing chronicle "Riding Giants," the first docu­mentary ever to open the Sundance Film Festival; and "Born Into Brothels," a look at the harsh lives of children of Calcutta prostitutes, which won Sundance's audience award for favorite documentary last January. 
"Super Size Me" hilariously traees director Morgan Spurlock's physical and emotional deteriora­tion during a month he spent on an all-McDonald's diet. 
The film is one of the highest­grossing documentaries ever with $11.5 million at the domestic box ol'fiee. "Super Size Me" ranked behind "Fahrenheit 9/11," which grossPd $120 million, as the No. 2 documentary of 2004. 

Shirts 
continued from page 1 
safe space for people who live alternative lifestyles," Anna Gomberg, graduate stu­dent and co-coordinator of the unrecognized student group AllianceND, said. 
She said this is the second year the orange T-shirt demonstration has occurred. Sponsored by the Notre Dame department of sociology, the Graduate Student Union and other student groups, yester­day's events had no official connection to AllianceND. 
'Although Gomberg said there had been some nega­tive feedback to the events, overall, she was very pleased with the reaction and the "positive energy" she had witnessed. 
"I think Notre Dame has a long ways to go in terms of becoming a eomfortable place for people of all sexual orientations, but I think that it has come very far," she said. 
Gomberg also said that around 500 shirts had been sold already this year. 
Students choose the date for the demonstrations and events to coincide with the opening of the play "Angels in America" in Washington Hall. 
Freshman Scott Dilts expressed regret that these events were even necessary. 
"It's sad that we need to have a day like this. There shouldn't be any question that homosexuals deserve our respect, or that any other 
group of people does," Dilts said. 
However, Dilts also said he didn't think the shirts would be effective in changing peo­ple's opinions. 
"You wear it if you support gays and don't wear it if you don't. It's just a declaration of the position you already hold," he said. 
Eugene Walls, graduate student, fully supported yes­terday's events, saying, 
"It's a good way to keep the dialogue going. We feel that on campus, it's really a monologue," he said. 
According to Walls, the campus culture is ready to 
support a Gay Straight Alliance. 
"Six hundred plus people wearing this shirt is probably the largest show of solidarity on this campus. The administration, that's the only culture here that's not ready," Walls said. 
Sophomore Monica Nanda said also consid­ered the day's events very effective. 

shirts and putting closets on the quad and trying to force our opinions on people." 
Jones said that he thought the shirt demonstration was unnecessary. 
"If you're going to be gay, that's fine, but you don't need to broadcast it to everyone. Besides, there's plenty of other things people get excluded for that nobody parades around," he said. 
Like Jones, sophomore Tommy Forr criticized the shirts and. closet, saying both events went too far as pubic demonstrations. 
"The closet's a little over­board," Forr said. "[The 
'7 think Notre Dame has a long way to go in terms ofbecoming a comfortable place for people ofall s..exual orientations.'' 
Anna Gomberg Gay? Fine by Me organizer 

shirt] is just too ambiguous for me to wear. I think we need to accept them [gays and les­bians] as peo­ple, but the shirts imply we should accept a lifestyle, and I'm not going to do that." 
Senior Chris Christensen organized a counter demon­stration for stu­dents to dress 
up instead of wearing the 
see stealing or lying," Christensen said. 
He said that dressing up could even show respect for gay students. 
"At the prompting of a friend, I think it's a very good idea for us to dress up as a show of respect and even honor for those who struggle with homosexual tendencies," he said. 
Senior Monica Kolf also dressed up for the occasion. 
"It's not that we're focusing on homosexuality, but on marriage," she said. 
Even with the presence of these negative opinions, some thought the Princeton Review's ranking of Notre Dame as number one for "Alternative Lifestyles not an Alternative" was largely inac­curate. 
"I don't think we deserve the number one ranking on Princeton Review at all. I think students in general are pretty accepting -it's more of the administration not accepting AllianceND," Stagl said. 
Sister Mary Louise Gude, advisor to the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, said that she did not consider the stereotype perpetuated by the Princeton Review to be valid. 
"I don't think it's the case, and I don't think the gay and 
·lesbian students would say that either. If you're out on this campus, you're well treated -that's what the gay and lesbian students would say," she said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
"I think this is awesome. It's a bigger success than last year, which is saying a lot," she said. 
However, some students commented negatively on the shirts and closet. 
"It's pretty anti-Catholic," freshman Blake Jones said. "It seems to me that we can be accepting without wearing orange shirts. 

"First, it does not insult. But, it gives us the opportuni­ty to explain what we really think about the gay and les­bian issue -that we don't hate gays and lesbians, but we simply disagree with their choices and see those choic­es, not the individuals, as objectively immoral, like we 

Epiphanies~ 

' 
~ 
THE ARTS IN A POST-CHRISTIAN CULTURE 
NOVEIV'IBER 2004 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAtviE SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAtviE CENTER FOR ETHICS & CULTURE 
"Even beyond its typically religious expressions, true art has a close affinity vvith the vvorld of faith, so that, even in situations vvhere culture and the Church are far apart, art remains a kind of bridge to religious experience." • -Pope .John Paul IL Letter to Artists 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's fifth annual fall conf$3-rence vvill examine the variety of vvays in vvhich the fine arts can help build a more genuinely Christian civilization in an era that is ever more deeply post­Christian in its character. Our first triennial series culminated in proposals on hovv to build a genuine culture of life, and last year's conference reflected on the renevve:~l and formation at the heart of such a culture. This conference vvill focus our reflection on the fine arts and their place in a culture of life. 
Thursday, November 1B McKenna Hall Auditorium 7:30-9:00 p.m. Keynote Address 
"Shouts or VVhispers? Faith and Doubt in Contemporary American Literature'' -Gregory VVolfe, Image 

Friday, November 19 8:00-9:10 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Sessie>n 1: Examining the VVe>rks c:>f Flannery O'Ce>nne>r Sessie>n 2: Art and Nature Session 3: Architecture and Urban Planning Session 4: The Visual Arts and the Imagination 
Session 5: Theology and the Arts Session 6: Philosophy and Literature Session 7: Ccrse Studies in Film 

9:40-10:50 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : tv\edicine and the Arts Session 2: Case Studies In Literature Session 3: Sacred Architecture Session 4: Philosophical Perspectives on the Arts Session 5: The Arts in fv'\odern Society Session 6: Case Studies in Pointing Session 7: Depicting the Human Face 
1 1 :20 a.m.-1 2:30p.m. Invited Papers Session 1: "VVhot /V'\okes a Pointing a Religious Pointing?"-Alosdoir lv\aclntyre, University of Notre Dome Session 2: "Isolation, community and the Artistic:· Life" -Barbara Nicolosi, Act One: Writing for Hollywood Session 3: "J.R.R. Tolkien: Our Post-/V'\odern Contemporary"-Rolph Wood, Baylor University 
2:00-3:10 p.m. Invited Papers Session 1 : "The Passion and Reaction"-Jorge Garcia, Boston College "Chance or Providence? KieslovvskL God, and Contemporary Film"-Thomas Hibbs, Baylor University Session 2: "Poetry and Evangelizing" -Kevin Hart, University of Notre Dome "The Epiphany of Fiction"-Ralph lv'\clnerny, University of Notre Dame Session 3: "First, Kill All the Lawyers: Intellectual Property and the Re-Feudalization of Culture" -Leo Linbec::k Ill, Rice University/Unbeck Corporation 
3:40-4:50 p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : fv'\usicol Performances Session 2: Art and Politics Sessic:>n 3: Relating Art and Religion Session 4: The Soul of the Artist Session .q: VVorking Artists Oiscuss Their tv\ethods Session 6: The Place of Art in Philosophy SeSsic:>n 7: Tour of the Snite tv\useurn: Christian Images in History (Snite Museum o_f Art) 
7:30-9:00 p.m. Lecture-Concert: Olivier lv\essioen's Visfons de I'Amen (Annenberg Auditorium} Pianists: Hyesook Kim, Colvin College Stephana Lerr"lelin, University of Ottawa Lecturer: Stephen SchloesSer. Boston College 
9:30 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. lv\usical Performance: /V'\ork Long and Nodine Be,-r-abic {LaFortune Ballroom) 
SaTurday, November 20 8:00:..9:10 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1: tv\usic: and Culture Session 2: Conversion Narratives Session 3: Expressing Cothc:>licity through Culture Session 4: Relating Beauty to Truth and Goodness S~ssion 5: Educating Young People through the Arts Session 6: Appreciating Religious Themes in the Arts 
Session 7: Art as Cultural Expressic:>n, P-art I Session 8: Philosophy, Faith and Fiction (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) 
9:40-10:50 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Educating the lmc::sginotion Session 2: The Arts ond Languc:tge Session 3: Christian Aesthetics and Literature Session 4: Image and \Ncorct Session 5: Goc:>dness and Beauty in Secular Films Session 6: Panel: The 20th Century Catholic Novel and Christian fv'\orolity in a Post-Christian Culture: 
Three Studies (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) Session 7: Art as Cultural Expression, Port II Session 8: Panel: The tv\oral and the Aesthetic 

11:20 o.rn.-12:30 p.rn. Invited Papers Session 1: "VVorship as High Art: The Liturgy as the Epiphany of Beauty and Truth"-H. Tristram En-gelhardt, Jr., Rice University Session 2: "Creating Epiphanies of Beauty" -VVilliam Schickel, Schickel Studios "VVilliom Schic::kel: lv\etophysicol Realist" ­Gregory VVolfe, Seattle PaCific University/ Image Session 3: "The Strength, Function, and Beauty of Catholic:: Architecture"-Thomas Gordon Smith, University of Notre Dome "Pilgrimage and Transcendence: Towards an Epiphonic Architecture"-Duncan Stroik, University of Notre parne 
2:00-3:10 p.m. Invited Papers Session 1: "The City is-Also an Aesthetic Object"-Philip Bess, University of Notre Dome Session 2: "Love's Labor: The Poetry of John Paul II" -Lauro GorciO, Boston College Session 3: "Epiphanies, Beauty, .and a Father's Love"-David Lyle Jeffrey, Baylor University 
3:40-4:50 p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Developing Artistic: Sensibilities Session 2: Renewal through Literature Session 3: Images, Ideas and Imagination Session 4: Placing VVorks of Art in Historical Context Session 5: The Arts and the Absurd Session 6: The Arts and Spiritual Formation Session 7: The Arts in the Protestant Tradition Session 8: Tour of the Snite tv\useum: Christian Images in History (Snite tv\useum of Art) 
All sessions are open to the public. Conference events will be held in McKenna Hall unless otherwise noted. A full program and registration information may be found at our website: http·//e-thjcscen-ter nd edu. 




THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday November 18, 2004 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Teresa Fralish Dan Tapetillo Angela Saoud Heather Van Nicole Zook Hoegarden 
Do you think TCE results should be 
Katie Perry Eric Retter 
accessible?
Viewpoint Steve Coyer Lauren Galgano Scene Graphics Kenyatta Storin 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
Kelly MacDonald Illustrator 

www.ndsmcobserver.com
Katie Knorr 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt ofin your philosophy " 
William Shakespeare from "Hamlet" playwrite 

THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lazar 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINI\SS MANAGER  
Mcghannc Downes  Mikt• Flanagan  
AsS'I: MANA{;ING EDITOR  
Joe fletdcr  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire !Ieininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegardcn SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Sauud PHOTo EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHIC.S EI>IH)I(: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63!-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@)nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63!-4541 obsmc@lnd.cdu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.!@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-454.3 sports.! @nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phuro@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Ob.o;erver reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repre.sem the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and departrnem editors. Cornmemarit'S, letters and columns presem the views ofthe autho" and not necessarily those ofThe 
·Observer. 

Viewpoint spa<·e is available to all readers. The free cxpre!>,ion ofall opinions through k·uers is encuumged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include CCJnra<.:r int(,nnation. 
(ju~stiotu n-garding Obm'verpolici~ should b~ rlirrcted to f:ditor in Chi ifMatt LtJzar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

fhr CU~rvC'r (USPS ~·)'} 1 1Ulllll j, puhlid1cd Mundo~y rhruuKil t:riday n:"pt durinK t'Um md v.u:ariun pctlo(k. A •u~nprion w Th<' llh!tCI'Ver h S tno lilt n•K .u:Jdt'mil ycu; S~'S tur one \C'mct.u:r. Tiu.• {)()km.:t I' ol IUC'In~fl)j the: t\swc:IJit'(( f'tCS~. AIJ tcptntfUCUIIfl ll~llh iltC 
r<:!!('IVC:d. 
'lltt· Clh~rvc:r 11 puhl•ihc.J ,u: P.l.l BnxQ 11!-1 \.1uth Dming !!.all OH Snmh Dinin~ Ho~ll Nnuc l J.unc, IN 1(,';'i(a 1177') Nutrc Do~mc, IN 'lt..5i6-nn~> Pcri1H.iical P'"c.t~~o•'p.llll,u Nmrc D.um: .m,l .illdllloiiJI ru.1ilin~ oHi~c). 
POSI'MASTFR Xnd ;uldrr-.~:orrcctiun!i 10: 
I he<lh.~..:rv<r 
Ih< Ohac:rvc:r 1' ~ mrml~t ,,1 1hc Al.!io.:!.Ucd l'rM. All rl"llltK!U~Iinn n~lu~ .ul' 
rt:llll:f\lnl. 

"I think Jesus probably existed," said the man in the pub, before proceeding to explain that his message had been corrupted by the Church. Having only met the man that evening it felt a bit 
early to gel into a  
debate about  Peter Wicks  
Jesus. but in hind­ 
sight I brought it  Englishman  
on myself by mak­ Abroad  
ing it dear that I  

had no interest in soccer. Upon meeting 
a countryman who doesn't follow soc­
cer, an Englishman is liable to go 
through a process somewhat akin t<i 
grie!', quickly cyeling through stages of 
denial, confusion, anger and negotia­
tion, before finally reaching a resigned 
acceptance. Then he is likely to panic 
and start talking about.something that 
matters. 

Jesus' true message, the man opined with some conviction, had been about Jovfl (Jesus was for it) and tolerance (he was in favor of that tool. But the Church had twisted that message and made it about rules and, while we were on the subject, Christians are hypocrites too. 
Although the man dearly took some pride in his insight, there was nothing particularly original about his idea; it was the view of John Lennon, and it could fairly be described as orthodoxy amongst those who are always explain­ing that while they have no time for organized religion, they are nevflrthe­Iess very spiritual people. 
Jesus has a strong claim to be the most influential person who ever lived; Napolean, Lincoln and Mao are foot­notes by comparison. Students of histo­ry, believers and nonbelievers alike, must sooner or later confront the fact that a Jew from an obscure province of the Homan Empire shaped the course of history and changed the way we see the world in ways too profound to fathom. "How should we feel if we had never heard of Christ?" Wittgenstein once 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Ecce Homo 
asked, fully knowing that the question 
was unanswerable. 

The first systematic attempt by schol­ars to get behind the gospels to the Jesus of history began in Germany in the 19th century, at more or less the same lime that Leopold von Hanke, the father of modern historical scholarship, offered the novel suggestion that the 
·historian should limit himself' to describing the events of the past as they had happened. Scholars wrote widely­read and controversial tomes offering to revnal the man behind the myths. When George Elliot translated one of these works, David Strauss' "Life of Jesus," the publie was scandalized. 
The common flaw of these 19th cen­tury lives of Jesus was diagnosed by Albert Schweitzer, a missionary doctor and musicologist who himself has a fair claim to being one of the most remark­able men to have ever lived. Schweitzer surveyed the work of these historians and conducted that the authors had all constructed an image of Jesus which corresponded with their own moral convictions. The historical Jesus was a mirror in which people saw, not their own reflection, but the personification of their ideals. 
Schweitzer was only concerned with the historians, but his lesson applies more generally: tell me what you make of Jesus and I'll tell you who you are. 

When we read William Blake calling Christ an artist it tells us a lot about Blake but nothing about Jesus. Oscar Wilde had the talent to be a professor of Greek, thought not the temperament, and when he was a prisoner in Heading Gaol he sustained himself through a dose reading of the Gospels in the origi­nal Greek. And yet even those of us who have to rely upon a translation can see that the conclusion he drew, that Christ was a supreme poet, was largely a result of his wishful thinking. 
In the Gospels we find what we are 

looking for, and nothing else. To some Jesus is nothing more than a font of ''I'm OK, you're OK" banalities, a YMCA camp counselor who somehow got mis­taken for the Messiah. 
To others he appears to be a mar­tyred advoeatn for their favorite cause. Jesus said "Blessed are the peacemak­ers," which has a nice ring to it, and is just vague enough to sncure the nod­ding of heads from almost any audi­ence. lie also said "I have not come to bring peaee, but a sword," although I don't expeet you '11 see that chalked onto a sidnwalk any tin~e soon. 
Some are as interested in Jesus' silence as in his teaching. As far as we know, Jesus never explieitly eondemned same-sex intercourse, although that seems like slim evidence for the conclu­sion that he was the only rabbi in the first century who saw nothing wrong with it. But he was not silent about het­erosexual lust or the love of wealth, and taught that both were serious spiritual dangers. We should not b(~ surprised if those who disagree with the Catholic position on homosexuality have little patience with those who quote scripture only when it forbids that for which they have never felt desire. 
In preparation fi>r writing this artiele I resolved to reread the Gospels. It proved harder than I expoeted. W.Il. Auden once said that a real book is not one that we read, but one that reads us. The Jesus of the Gospels is rather like that. Whereas the Jesus we know is a comfortable figure; the Jesus who knows us is altogether more frighten­ing. But if that wasn't the case, what could his forgiveness mean'? 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. l/e can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


TI-iE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 18, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame football: bringing back the glory days 
Enough about football 

In response to all the writers who Dame has received for its amazing fac­have contributed their valuable opin­ulty, curriculums, social service, stu­ions of the Notre Dame football pro­dents, golden domes and the like, but I gram, I would like to pose a simple do way too much research as it is, and question: Why? we all know that Notre Dame is the 
This is a real (read: fake) conversa­best college in the country. tion I had with an alumnus: While most of us enjoy football, we Alumnus: The world is going to end came to Notre Dame, first and fore­
if we keep losing. most, for an education. We came to Me: No. it won't. -learn about ourselves, each other and Alumnus: Huh, I never thought of it the world around us. The Notre Dame 
like that. experience is about the people here, 
Every day, I read the words of an who quickly become our friends and outraged letter to the editor, bemoan­"family." Notre Dame is about accept­ing our "mediocre" football program. ance, love and learning. Thus, our And every day, I lose a little respect for football record of late is almost a my fellow Domers. Football is just a blessing in disguise, forcing Notre game, but it has become an obsession; Dame to achieve as a thriving students and alumni alike have been University and a unified community brainwashed to believe that a universi­instead of seeking a foundation in its ty is only as good as its football team. football team. 
I would expect that kind of obsession I greatly appreciate Notre Dame from state schools like Florida, football. It is entertaining to watch and Tennessee, Oklahoma and whomever it brings the students together; I else is good these days because that's believe that is the point for us. It all they have. And that's all they will brings publicity and millions of dollars ever have. But I don't expect that from to the University; ·I believe that is the us. By getting sucked into the hype, we point for them. And when the season merely bring ourselves down to their is over, whether we had a winning level. Personally, I wouldn't care if we record or a losing one, the heart of lost every game during my four-year Notre Dame beats on. Because in the experience. I would still be proud to end, we are left with a single, simple call Notre Dame my alma mater. truth: "We are ND." 
I know this is controversial, but I'll take a risk in saying it: I believe Notre Stephen Dick Dame is more than its football pro­senior gram. I could do all sorts of research Keenan Hall on the awards and honors that Notre Nov. 17 
Responsibility and accountability 

The saying that "Whatever needs to the University of Notre Dame has been be done eventually should be done built and sustained is being allowed to immediately" has never been as appli­slewly slip into insignificance. It has cable as it is today with regards to the been going on for many years. This is state of the Notre Dame football pro­not a time for weakness or indecision. gram. The effort requires a clear sense of pur­
As others have outlined, there is more pose unencumbered by extraneous than enough evidence that major pressures or perceived negative reac­changes are required at the head tions. It may require strengta and coaching position. Who is responsible courage to confront internal forces for this decision, and how accountable opposed to change. However, this is should he or they be? I believe thaf White's job. He must act or make room these are important questions to ask for someone who will. and discuss. I believe that accountability is a fun­
When Kevin White accepted the job of damental quality that ensures integrity Notre Dame athletic director, he had to within any organization, and not only at know that his number one responsibili­the head coaching level. It carries on to ty was to enhance and protect the the athletic director, the administrative tremendous legacy of the University's leaders and ultimately the Board of football program. If he did not, he Trustees. All of these individuals have a should never have accepted the job. If responsibility to the athletes who repre­he feels incapable of or inhibited from sent the Notre Dame football team, the doing so, he should relinquish his posi­students, alumni and to the well being tion. White's successes in other athletic of the University itself to do without areas should not provide an excuse or delay what they all know in their hearts pardon for failure with the football pro­is correct. Will they act responsibly? gram. White has a lot of soul searching to do. It is always easier to acquiesce, Tim Kelley avoid making the tough decision or alumnus rationalize inaction. class of'64 
One of the three pillars upon which Nov. 17 

Let the light of '# 1' shine again 
I remember the light that used to shine down upon us from the "#1" high above campus during the 1988 and 1989 sea­sons and the sense of spirit and confi­dence that accompanied it. I imagine that the students on campus today must look up at its darkened framework and wonder about the magic of a not-too-dis­tant yesteryear. 
I fondly recall traveling from New York to watch the Irish do battle during the late '70s under coach Dan Devine, a few fleeting moments of glory under coach Gerry Faust during the early '80s and, of course, my years as a student under coach Lou Holtz. I arrived at Notre Dame during the fall of 1989 on the heels of the national championship. Our team was number one in the land and the prevailing thought that year was not whether we would win but rather if the opposition would score. The campus was disappointed by narrow victories, some­what sated by blowouts and devastated by that awful defeat at the callous hands of our archrival, the Miami Hurricanes. Ah yes, Catholics v. Convicts. 
Much has changed. The landscape of college football has been altered and the 24 hours a day, seven days a week ban­ter of cable television has enabled a multitude of schools to achieve some­what comparable exposure. Granted, scholarships have been lessened 
and perhaps the playing field has been leveled but Notre 
and a diehard fan who was Dame is not a University born and bred in the that has made a habit of 

stereotypical Notre Dame relying on advantage. family with a father who Just the opposite. Our earned a degree in the school is one that has '50s and two sisters separated itself and who attended the risen to the top University before me. despite the fact that My love for the we are always at University and my somewhat of a disad­somewhat fanatical vantage. devotion to the football 
In regard to football, program would make it we cannot attract players easy for me to criticize who yearn for warmer cli­this coaching staff. But I mates and athletic dorms -
cannot. I find myself backing 
we cannot accept the individual whose main goal is the pursuit of sport at the absolute expense of academ­ics -and we Gannot assume that the nature of Notre Dame's campus life is for everyone. Since its founding by Father Sorin, Notre Dame's glory has been born from the seeds of adversity, and that adversity has led directly to our unique and welcoming grandeur. Our nickname, the Fighting Irish, is just one not so gen­
tle reminder ofthat. 
I am a committed alumnus 

them and supporting them in the face of all the Notre Dame naysayers that I encounter everyday. 
Although I have rarely been as frus­trated with a Notre Dame team, perhaps that frustration is an initial spark signal­ing our bright future. I did not experi­ence that level of frustration very often over the course of the last 10 years. But this current team is different, and they evoke those troubling emotions because they are capable of doing and achieving so much good. Perhaps the coaching staff must be heJd accountable for failing to realize this potential on the playing field but the potential is there, and we must attribute a portion of that to the efforts of coach Tyrone Willingham and his staff. 
I truly believe that there is a light at the end of the tunnel and that Willingham will guide our University toward that light if he is given the chance. Better yet, maybe that light is not at the end of the tunnel but high above campus, festering in that all too dormant "#1," which waits to shine down on the current student body once again. Then they will know that the old "#1" it is not mere legend, that the light did shine and can and will shine again. 
Peter Bevacqua alumnus class of'93 Nov. 17 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 Thursday, November 18, 2004 

ALBUM REVIEWS 

Eminem coasts in cruise control 
"Encore." Yes, this new Eminem still says 
By.KENYATTA STORIN whatever he wants, pokes fun at celebri­
Assisranr Scene Ediwr ties, makes the usual references to his 
daughter, ex-wife and Dr. Ore, and makes 
Simply put, "Eneom" is hands down the obscene, juvenile jokes -but that is worst album of Eminem's career. lie exactly the problem. Eminem uses the showed signs of a slight dedine on his last same old tricks, but like an aging basket­rPlnasP, "The Eminem Show," since it ball player, he fails to execute them with lacknd tlw originality of his previous the same gracn and finesse as he once did. nfl'orts. hut it was still a solid rap album One cannot help but get the impression and hotter than most of its competition. that Eminem did not put a whole lot of UnfortunatPiy. if his latest album is the thought into "Encore." Most of choruses long antidpated "Encore"' to that show, am too silly to be funny, with lines like t.lwn f'ans might be better oil' heading to "You're n~ally just a big weenie, big wce­tlwir cars early to beat the traflk. nie" or "you make my pee pee go I da 
Lislt~n to either "The Slim Shady I.P" or doing doing doing." Even worse, Eminem "The Marshall Mathers LP" and you will sings on a number of the choruses, which hoar an emc~ee distinctly dif'f'erent f'rom is about as pleasant as listening to the thn one on "Encore." Love him or hate various farting, burping and puking sound him, the old Eminem was funny and clips littered throughout the album. or funny, but one has to wonder what was you're the air I breathe, I believe if you dover, and would spout crnative rhymes Furthermore, even the targets of going through Eminem's mind when he ever leave me I'd probably have no reason and images that other rappers would Eminem's jokes are questionable. The decided to spend an entire song insulting to be." nover evcm think of. lie was a brilliant sto­album's first single, "Just Lose It," is dedi­a puppet. Eminem and Dr. Dre split production ryteller, and never afraid to speak his cated to poking fun at Michael Jackson, Despite these problems, Eminem is too duties on the album. Although the beats mind no matter how many people he which is rather cliche considering that talented to let the entire album drag. He have their moments, they are not up the oflimdnd. Even if you eould not stand him, Jackson has been the brunt of jokes for still has his humorous moments, like the level of Eminem's pnwious works. Dr. Drc~ you had to rnsped his talents. years. He also devotes "A--Like That" to track "Rain Man," where he admits at the is particularly disappointing because he is 
But that Eminem left the building a long insulting Triumph the Insult Comic Dog end, "I just did a whole song and I didn't often looked upon as one of the best in the time ago, and left a cardboard cutout of (from "Late Nite with Conan O'Brien"). say [expletive]." But most of his best business. In fact, the best beat on the his former self to do the duties for Not only is this song not particularly witty moments actually come when he is seri­album turns out to be Eminem's simple 
ous and honest. For instance, although piano and snare beat of "Like Toy 


"Mosh" has a dull beat and repetitive Soldiers." rhyme patterns, Eminem spouts some It is dillicult to ask any artist with the clever rhymes attacking President Bush: fame and track record of Eminom to "Strap [Bush] with an AK-47 I Let him go maintain the same high level of quality light his own war let him impress daddy with every release. llowever, he falters that way." Eminem also speaks from the much more than he should on "Encore." heart on "Like Toy Soldiers," expressing This album is simply not in tlw same his regrets over the Ja Hule I 50 Cent feud: league as his pnwious full-length releases, ''I'm just willing to be the bigger man if and shows an Eminem who is just going y'all can quit poppin' I ... I I'm not gonna through the motions, rather than trying to let someone else's collin rest on my con­change the game. Fans can only hopn he science." gets the fire back that he once had, or else 
Like on his other albums, he sheds more Eminem will disappnar into obscurity like light on his relationship with his ex-wife many popular rappnrs bnforn him. on "Crazy for Love," but he gives a frnsh, honest perspective on it, admitting he Contact Kenyatta Storin at needs her: "But your essential to me, kstorin@nd.edu 
Second Sanctus Real album a success 
as Sanctus Heal that fall into the both musically and lyrically. With God, the song works to nithnr nnd as By BECCA SAUNDERS "Christian Hock" genre. catchy beats and lyrics, "Fight the llammit sings, "Two hnarts entwined, Assisranr Scene Editor "Fight the Tide," Sanctus Heal's Tide" showcases Sanetus Heal as a yes, you are mine I 1\nd I'll be yours second album released on a label is a serious band with a strong message. forever I I've done thn math, I'm less perfnct example of an album co·m­The message is no coincidence, than half I we're better ofT together." 
Wlwn most people hear anything posed of consistently solid rock "'Fight the Tide' is about maintain­It is a catchy song with endearing about Christian music they irnmedi­songs. The only major difference is ing spiritual integrity," lead singer and memorable lyrics that does not atnly think of the commercials adver­found in the lyrics, which are gener­Matt llammit said. "It's about what leave mHch to ask for. "The Fight tising praise and worship songs being ally provocative and challenging we do in the face of struggles, fears Song" and "The Show" are another sung to a crowd with their arms throughout "Fight the Tide." and temptations. We have a choice to couple of great rock songs on "Fight raised in praise. Is this an entirely Sanctus Heal first came onto the whether we will throw in or towel the Tide." accuratn assumption? Not really, Christian rock scene with "Say it and accept defeat, or accept God's Sanctus Heal shows a slower and 
since llwre is much more to Christian Loud" in 2002. Since then the four­music than praise and worship piece rock band has come far in bands. This is shown in bands such terms of the substance of its songs, 
Fight the Tide Sanctus Real 
Sparrow 



;~~==··:.;.:. :::·:=~: 
strength and do the right thing." more reflective side on "Fight the 
The message is one that comes Tide" very successfully in "Change through clearly on "Fight the Tide," Me." Still maintaining heavy guitar but does not overtake the album, and drums, the song is slower and a which conveys solid messages with­bit more reflective than most of the out being overly overt in doing so. other tracks asking, "Would you 
The first single of the album, change me from I who I've been late­"Everything About You," is a rock ly? I 'Cause I know I'm nothing I song with a hint of praise, making it without you." With a bit more of a a generally memorable song. The ballad feel to it "Change Me" is one of "Christian-ness" of the song is a bit the few slow songs on the album. heavy-handed, with a chorus cen­Overall, Sanctus Heal shows tered around singing "Hallelujah." Christian Rock is more than people Even so, the melody of the strong is give it credit for in "Fight the Tide." very catchy and promises to be stuck As a great album with terrific and in listeners' heads for days. memorable songs, "Fight the Tide" 
The strongest songs of the album deserves the chance to be in any roek are a bit softer in their lyrical nature, fan's musie collection. and in such convey more complicated messages. "Alone" is one such song. Contact Becca Saunders at Seemingly more about a girl than rsaunder@nd.edu 
.'\W 

WSND 88. 9FM TOP 5 SPINS OF THE WEEK! 1)J~~i,L• "bertines 2) Elliot Smith -From a Base 
.·.:.: :;;'~' ··: ;,., =~ 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, November 18, 2004 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
John Mayer hits his stride 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
The best version of John Mayer is him in concert. Live, Mayer often extends his songs to upwards of 10 minutes, feeling every chord he pJays as he grooves across the stage. -Mayer's talent exceeds what any listener can grasp from his studio albums, and as such the "As/Is" album is a little piece of soulful heaven for any Mayer fan, and is at least an interesting album for others. For any­one who wants to belt along to many of Mayer's hits over the entire span of his career, "As/Is" is a good album. But for anyone who wants to hear a spectacular guitar player and musician hit his stride, "As/Is" is the album. 
The "As/Is" collection has only recent­ly been released by Mayer on iTunes. 

comes in the form of "Blues Intro" and "Inner City Blues (Make Me Wanna Holler)." Both tracks feature Mayer playing a bluesy beat, with a little funk twist in "Inner City Blues," which fea­tures a OJ and shows a different side of Mayer's musical prowess. 
For the most part the songs sound similar to their studio recordings. They are just extended and expounded upon by Mayer musically and vocally. With only seven tracks on the first album and eight on the second, it is obvious the songs are extended in length quite a bit. Generally the songs are all between five and 10 minutes, often doubling, and sometimes almost tripling, the time of the studio recorded versions. This gives Mayer time to play music related to the song, and at times seemingly completely unrelated to the song, but even the improvisation is better than what many people release after months in the stu­dio. 
"As/Is" is a must for any Mayer fan who has never seen him in concert. Live Mayer cuts loose and lets the music con­trol the show and thus the pure music is very obviously the driving force on "As/Is." There is only a slight bit of irri­tating crowd background noise and par­ticipation, but when it exists, it is not extremely distracting. "As/Is" is Mayer at his best. The album may not be easy to get a hold of (it is chiefly only avail­able online). but it is well worth the trouble. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

As/Is John Mayer 
Aware/Columbia 


For sale as an album only, Mayer's live performances from his tour this past summer in Houston, Cleveland, Philadelphia and Mountain View, Calif. are each on a separate album titled "As/Is: Houston," etc. However, avail­able on an actual album is a collection of live performances, from a larger vari­ety of venues. Recordings from Ohio, New Jersey, Texas, California and even a Kansas show compose the two-disc set of 15 songs. 
The majority of the songs are ones nearly anyone remotely familiar with Mayer will recognize. The hits are there, "No Such Thing," "Your Body is a Wonderland," "Come Back to Bed," along with others. However, there are also a couple of tracks that are a bit harder to find, such as the most suc­cessful song from his first independent release, "Comfortable." The real novelty 



Brooks and Dunn do it again 

up to the No. 1 spot on the "Hot Country Singles" Billboard chart. The song must be a parental favorite with lyrics that include, "Well, they won't go to bed I or do what you said or eat their food I They cry and they fuzz and you can't I even cuss 'cause they'll say it, too I You're tired and you're numb I and you're stressed and you're mad I and she smiles and says 'I love you, Dad." 
The other new tracks are "Independent Trucker," and "A Man. This Lonely." Both are excellent addi­tions to the ever popular collection. 
The group has come a long way since the-release of its debut album "Brand New Moon,'' which propelled it to almost instantaneous fame. The song "Boot Scootin' Boogie," from the album is considered a country music classic. With Dunn leading vocals, and Brooks working the guitar, the viva­cious twosoiT,le has established a hefty collection of awards and accolades. This year marks the 1Oth year Brooks and Dunn has taken home the much­esteemed "Vocal Duet of the Year" Country Music Award. The two have also received the "Top Vocal Duet" American Country Music Award for a 
total of seven years. 
Their compilation of smash hit records and animated songs are no doubt proof this record will be hang­ing out at the top of the Billboards charts for a reasonably long time. Finishing up its third week on the charts since its Oct. 19 release, "The Greatest Hits Collection, Vol. 2," comes in at an impressive No. 6 posi­tion. New listeners and long-time fanatics alike can easily enjoy this CD, which is jam-packed with the group's best hits since 1998. 
Contact CourtneyWt.lson at cwilson6@nd.edu 

By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Music Critic 
Picking up where they left off in 1998, Brooks and Dunn's ""The Greatest Hits Collection, Vol. 2" oozes chart-topping hits. With many records under its cowboy hats, this dynamic duo knows exactly what to do to satis­l'y its fans and pick some new ones up along the way. 
Consistently at the top of their game, Leon "Kix" Brooks and Ronnie Dunn have created a style of music now referred to as "New Traditionalist Country." Still maintaining its honky­tonk image, the vocal duo has effec­tively added the influences of pop and rock, and pushed its fan base beyond the limits of country enthusiasts. 
"The Greatest Hits Collection, Vol. 2" is basically a guaranteed favorite for 
The Greatest Hits Collection, Vol.2 Brooks and Dunn 
BMG 


Brooks and Dunn fans, since it includes all of the duo's most recent radio frontrunners. The reminiscent and romantic songs, "Red Dirt Road," and "My Heart is Lost to you," are two of the more mellow ballads the duo have chosen to present. Also brought in are foot tapping songs "You Can't Take the Hooky-Tonk" and "Ain't Nothing 'Bout You." Naturally the hit "Only in America" is included, with lyrics that shout, "Only in America I Dreaming in red, white and blue I Only in America I Where we dream as big as we want to I We all get a chance I Everybody gets to dance." It was an uplifting patriotic broadcast following the September 11 terrorist attacks. 
Along with previously released favorites, three new songs are also thrown into the inix. "That's What its All About," has already reached air waves, and made its way all the way 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 18, 2004 

NBA 

Hornets only atte111pt two foul shots in a loss to Suns 
Grant Hill scores most points in over 4-and-a-half years as the Orlando Magic cruise to victory over the Utah Jazz 
Associated Press trip. doing," Carlisle said. "He's Hiehard Jefferson had 20 capable of being a top-level, 
NEW OHLEANS -Amaro points, and Travis Best scored big-time player and he showed Stoudemire seored a earner­all 13 of his points in the fourth that tonight." high 38 points, leading the quarter for the Nets as they Harrington, who spent his Phoenix Suns to a 95-84 victory lost their fourth in a row. first six seasons in Indiana over the winlf1SS New Orleans Seattle began the night lead­before being traded in the off­llornets on Wndnesday night. ing the NBA in 3-point accura­season for Stephen Jackson, 
Thn llornnts attempted only cy and ranked third in scoring, scored 30 points on 12-of-19 two foul shots, tying an NBA but those attributes were shooting. That was nearly low and breaking tho team largely absent in the Sonics' enough. mark they sPt in Milwaukee on second game in two nights. Austin Croshere added 13 Saturday night when they took Magic 107, Jazz 92 points, 13 rebounds and two only three free throws. Grant Hill scored 32 points, electrifying dunks in the fourth Cleveland also went to the line his most in 4 1/2 years, and quarter to help the Pacers just twien against Golden State Steve Francis had 33 points ward off the pesky Hawks. on Nov. 26, 1994. and 11 assists, both season Harrington dropped a pretty 
Stoudmnirn shot 16 more free highs, to lead the Orlando 18-foot fadeaway over Ron throws (10-of-18) than the Magie over the Utah Jazz on Artest to give the Hawks a 74­entire New Orlnans team. Wednesday night. 71 lead with 6:28 to play, but 
One night after he scored 34 Mostly shooting jumpers over the Pacers responded with a in a victory at Dallas, Andrei Kirilenko, usually a 16-4" run to take control. Stoudernirn was too strong dependable defensive stopper, Croshere had two dunks and undnrneath for any of the llill shot 13-for-18 in his best O'Neal hit a nifty turnaround in llornnts who tried defPnding offensive performance since the lane during the spurt. him -be it Jamaal Magloire, scoring 36 points against "It was the best-case sce­l'.J. Brown or David West. Minnesota on April 10, 2000. nario," Croshere said. "AI had Stoudemire constantly received Playing a season-high 41 a big game and we won." the ball in tho low post and minutes, Hill added five Wizards 110, Celtics 105 turned it into easy points, rebounds and five assists. It It was a collapse so familiar remaining. entering the game shooting 69 many of them on dunks. lie was the kind of all-around dis­to Washington Wizards fans. A Detroit 93, Timberwolves 85 percent from the foul line. also bennfited again from the play that had become a distant decent halftime lead disinte­Larry Brown was coaching Andre Miller had 14 points and play of Steve Nash, who had 12 memory for Ilill because of his grated in a third quarter again, Ben Wallace and seven assists, and Bryon assists to go with his 16 points. repeated ankle woes since he marred by nine turnovers, Chauncey Billups were in the Russell added 12 points. 
Shitwn Marion scored 23, signed with Orlando before the three technical fouls and a lineup again, and the Detroit The Raptors didn't shoot well ineluding consecutive 3-point­2000-01 season. whopping 42 points for the Pistons defense showed up, after a sizzling end to the first ers aftnr thn llornets nibbled a At one point, shortly after the opposition. too. quarter, but spread the scoring 12-point deficit down to five Magie's fifth fast-break basket Yet, surprise! The Wizards After allowing more than 100 ·around with six players in dou­early in tho fourth quarter. of the third quarter, Hill told didn't tank this one. A fourth­points in back-to-back losses, ble figures. Jalen Hose had 30 
David Wesley's 19 points led Kirilenko, ''I'm not tired." quarter rally and a near Detroit shut down the points-going 15-for-16 on tho llornnts, who are 0-7 under Francis scored 23 ·points shutout performance in over­Minnesota Timberwolves down free-throw attempts -and new coach Byron Scott, the after halftime, 14 in the final time Wednesday night made the stretch en route to a victory Chris Bosh had 15. Vince worst start in franchise history. eight minutes as the Magic ran for a victory over the Boston Wednesday night. Carter added 14 for Toronto, Brown had 12 points and 10 away from the Jazz. He also Celtics. "Having Chauncey and Ben which has lost live of six since rebounds. had nine rebounas. "We lost our composure a lit­back was more important than a 3-0 start. Sonlcs 79, Nets 68 !Iedo Turkoglu added 12 tle bit," said Larry Hughes, me, that's for sure," Brown Earl Boykins put Denver up 
A night of ugly basketball points offthe bench. who nearly cornered the stats said. "Losing those two has a with 2 112 minutes left with failed to blemish the Seattle Dwight Howard grabbed 11 market with 21 points, 12 big effect on your team." two free throws, then made it a SuperSonics' surprisingly good­rebounds, giving him double rebounds, seven assists, six Billups, who missed the four-point game with 1 :07 to go looking record. figures in his lirst eight games. steals and five turnovers. Pistons' loss in Utah with a on a left-handed runner after 
Desptte starting the first half That's the longest streak to "That's normal to say 'Here we sprained ankle, had 15 of his Anthony blocked Jerome 0-for-1 0 and the second half 0-begin an NBA career since go again,' but we're not the 21 points in the third quarter. Moiso's shot in the post. for-8, the Sonics got some time­Shaquille O'Neal went 12 same. We don't feel like we're "I just wanted to be aggres­Heat 113, Bucks 106 ly offnnse from Hashard Lewis games with at least 10 the same old Wizards. We feel sive out there," he said. "We Shaquille O'Neal scored a and improved the NBA's best rebounds. like we can slow it down, take played the way we play -good season-high 26 points and record to 8-1 WP-dnesday night Carlos Boozer led Utah with a step back, get our compo­defense and we took stuff away Eddie Jones had 27 to help the with a victory over the New 27 points and eight rebounds. sure, come out, get some stops, from Minnesota." Miami Heat defeat Milwaukee Jersey Nets. Mehmet Okur scored 13 points, put the ball in the buckets, and Wallace was out two games Wednesday night for their sec­
Seattle's eighth straight win and Kirilenko added 12. come out on top." because of a death in his fami­ond victory over the Bucks in eame against a Nets team that Pacers 93, Hawks 86 Antawn Jamison added 27 ly, but returned to help Detroit four days. had more fouls (29) than lield Hick Carlisle knew AI points and 10 rebounds, and hold Minnesota scoreless-dur­Dwyane Wade added 18 
goals (26) and committed 23 Harrington would be pumped Gilbert Arenas had 25 points ing a key six-minute stretch of points and seven assists, but turnovers. up for his first game against for the Wizards, but the true the fourth. just missed extending his 
Though the Sonics have been his former team. hero of the night was probably "That's our game," he said. streak of six consecutive games a pieturn of sueeess since los­Carlisle watched as the Jared Jeffries. "Our legs were fresh and we with at least 20 points. Jle ing their opener by 30 points to Atlanta forward almost beat In his first start of the sea­were able to play tight fouled out with 1:11 to play the Clippers, their latest victory the Indiana Pacers all by him­son, Jeffries scored a career­defense." and was called for a technical was anything but a work of art. self Wednesday night. high 15 points and helped limit Nuggets 112, Raptors 106 foul. 
In a sloppy ganw that featurnd Almost. Paul Pierce to 8-for-25 shoot­Carmelo Anthony scored 30 Michael Hedd scored a sea­poor shooting and careless Jermaine O'Neal's big game ing. Jeffries blocked a jumper points and Kenyon Martin son-high 33 points, Keith Van ballhandling, Seattle was still spoiled an otherwise happy by Pierce in overtime and later added 24 points and 16 Ilorn 23 and Desmond Mason 
good enough to get past the homeeoming for his good drew a crucial charge on the rebounds, helping the Denver 18 for the Bucks. Mike James, leagun's worst offensivn team. friend llarriiigton. O'Neal had Boston star forward. Pierce led Nuggets hold off the Toronto activated from the injured list Lnwis scored 17 points and 25 points and 13 rebounds to the Celties with a season-high Haptors Wednesday night. before the game, added 11. 
Hay Allen, Danny Fortson and offset a dazzling performance 37 points, but 18 of the points Denver overcame a sluggish Damon Jones had 17 points, Vladimir ltadrnanovie added 14 by Harrington in the Pacers' came on free throws and he first half by making 14 of 23 including eight free throws in naeh as Seattle improved to 2-0 victory over the llawks. didn't score in overtime until a shots in third quarter and 30 of the final minute to keep the on a six-game, 10-day road "This is what Al's capable of 3-pointer with seven seconds 34 free throws overall after Heat in control. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classiflcds must be prepaid. • 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Lafayette Square is the best and LEASING FOR 2005-2006 Walking distance from ND Party Cruise! most affordable off-campus housing WANTED SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-MMMRentals.com PERSONAL 5 Days $299! for students. Call now! 234-9923. 
ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED 532-1408 Includes Meals. Parties! WANTED Female to share great HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. Spring break 2005 Challenge ... Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Harpoonie Dolphins. Oakhill condo. start Jan. Grad pre!. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STU-6-7 BDRM HOME find a better price! Jamaica From $459! 625/m incl. utilities. 238-2368. DENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECU-CLOSE TO ND. WID. Lowest price specials! Panama City & Daytona $159! Where is Heather? 
RITY SYSTEMS, ON-SITE PARKING. Free Meals! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 
FoR SALE 
MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom,2.5 WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR AVAIL. NOW. earn free trips Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. bath. 1,200 sq.ft +full basement+ CONTACT: CALL JOE CRIMMINS: and cash! Hiring campus reps. Call for group Be quiet, you're snoring too loud 2-car garage. $875/mo. 574-273-KRAMER (574)234-2436 574-22g·3659 www.sunsplashtours.com discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1-600­9000. OR (574)315-5032. OR 679-2010. 1600-426-771 0 646-4649 www.ststravel.com I assume they are loud people MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 November 6th 1-800-678-6386 I don't want to see white or purple WASHER. DRYERS. VISIT OUR BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR COR-deadline! marshmallows WEBSITE BYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. Hiring reps-Spring Break 2005 with STS, walking around campus 


------------, 
Thursday, November 18, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Coleman-Morse Center 
574-631-7800




Campus Ministry 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
Solemnity of Christ the King 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Around Campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday, November 20 Sunday, November 21 5:00pm Vigil Mass 10:00 am Sunday Mass 
1:30pm 5:00pm 7:00pm
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, esc Rev. Edward A. Malloy, esc Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass 
St. Edward's Law School Chapel Mendoza COB
11 :45 am Sunday Mass 

Hall Chapel Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Paul F. Doyle, esc 

thursday 11.1s -~--~---~--1 monday11.2"""'"2__ 
Prayer from i Eucharistic Adoration 
Around the World Series 1I 12:00 noon-7:00pm Muslim Prayer 1 Every Monday-Thursday 7:00pm-I Coleman-Morse Chapel Coleman-Morse 330 
I tuesday 11.23 
friday 11. 19 I Advent Bible Study 1 Tuesdays thru Dec 7 
Freshman Retreat #55 
7:00 -8:00pm

Friday-Saturday Drop-Ins Welcome! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Coleman-Morse 114 Notre Dame Encounter #83 Friday-Sunday Halaqa: A Qur'an Discussion 
Fatima Retreat Center 

and Conversation Circle 7:00 -8:00pm Sign Up for Retreats! 
Coleman-Morse Meditation Rm Freshman Retreat #56 (Dec. 3-4) 
Weekly Trip to the Grotto Applications are available 
Sponsored by the Asian in 114 CoMo or online at 
American Association campusministry.nd.edu! 
11:00pm Meet at Bond Hall 


saturday 11.20 
wednesday 11.24 

Solemn Mass of the Notre Dame Book of Prayers
Blessed Virgin Mary LAST DAY FOR PICK-UPS!! 
Every Saturday -9:00am Sophs, JRs, & SRs
Alumni Hall Chapel Coleman-Morse Welcome Cntr Asian Allure 
Have a blessedandSide

7:00pm Washington Hall Thanksgiving holiday, from allolus at Campus Ministry! 
words of wisdom... 

Qod tJradss OH tAs eross, HOt tAs e"-1'111... 
,,

/3ut mag I never boast except in the cross ofour •nt --·· LordJesus Chrisf; through which the world has been crucihed to me1 and I to the world 
-Galatians 6: 14 



mass schedule 
considerations ... The Reason(s) Why We Sing 
by Karen Schneider-Kirner Director, Handbefl and Celebration Choirs Assistant Director, Folk Choir Assistant Organist, BasiUca of the Sacred Heart 
This coming Monday, November 22, we mark the feast day of Saint Cecilia, patroness of church music, virgin and martyr. This is an important feast day for the hundreds of students who serve weekly in hall chapels and in the Basilica as ministers of music. Members of Campus Ministry choirs will gather at the 5:15pm Basilica Mass tomorrow to celebrate the saint's upcoming feast and gather in fellowship. 
~aint <!Cecilia, l9rap for Ws! 
Who exactly was St. Cecilia? Many details of her life will forever remain unknown, but appearing around the middle of the fifth century was a document entitled "Acts of the Martyrdom of St. Cecilia," which related the story of her life. A Christian by birth to an upper class family, Cecilia was given in marriage by her family to a noble pagan youth, Valerianus. She, however, was determined to uphold her virginity, having dedicated herself to God. On her wedding day, while musical instruments we_re playing, she appeared to be "singing in her heart alone to God." She was said to have professed, "Make my heart and body pure that I may not be confounded." 
At a time when Christianity was illegal in Rome, she ended up converting her husband and his brother to the faith. Not long after, they were beheaded for this. Cecilia was discovered not long after and was ordered to meet a similar fate. The first attempts at execution were miraculously unsuccessful, and during this time of suffering she saw to it that her assets were given to the poor and that her house would be used as a church. 
There are many medieval portraits of the saint from the 14th and 15th centuries where Cecilia is represented playing the organ. W~en the Academy of Music was founded in Rome in 1584, she was named patroness of this institution, at which time her veneration as the patroness of church music became more universal. 
Musicians have a very important role in the Church, and we musicians on the staff of Campus Ministry are very indebted to the generosity and talents that our students share sowillinglyweekafterweek. As the U.S. Catholic bishops' document "Music in Catholic Worship" states, "Among the many signs and symbols used by the Church to celebrate its faith, music is of preeminent importance." Why might this be true? 
As the document continues, "Music should assist the assembled believers to express and share the gift of faith that is within them and to nourish and strengthen their interior commitment of faith. It shquld heighten the texts so that they speak more fully and more effectively. The quality of joy and enthusiasm which music adds to community worship cannot be gained in any other way." This is a huge responsibility, and this is why musicians train so long and hard to perfect their craft. 
Music is unquestionably a great gift from God. Music lifts us up when we feel downtrodden, helps us express what is in the depths of our hearts, deepens our prayer when words can go no further, and unifies many disparate voices into one great voice of praise. While styles of music and choices of instruments may vary from Mass to Mass, when all strive to make Mass a prayer, the end result is that men and women of faith are proclaiming and sharing their faith in prayer, so that Christ may grow among us all. We are so blessed to be at Notre Dame, which celebrates the intertwining of faith and intellect, with so many opportunities for spiritual development. Soli Deo Gloria! 




page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 2004 
NFL 
Dolphins looking for motivation with 7 games left 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. Hicky Williams rntin~d in July, Dave Wannstndt resi!{nnd last week, and tho rest of tho Miami Dolphins would probably pre­for to call it quits on a season gonn sour. 
Snvnn ganw~rnmain, howev­er. So oven though tho Dolphins have a lousy roeord and no shot at tlw pl.ayoffs, they dutifully practiced Wmlrwsday, with intnrim coach .lim Bates senking to motivate his tnam. 
"Most of tho time when you make a mistake in practice, you just go back to tho hud­dle," tight end Handy McMichael said. "Now..he's making you sit out a play and run to tho fmH~e and hack and think about what you did. It's funny." 
Thn Dolphins (~ertainly mwd a fnw laughs -and all the motivation they ran muster. They shan~ the NFL's worst record at 1-8, and a defeat Sunday at Snattlo would ensure their first losing season since 11JS8. 
Wannstedt's resignation like­ly was just the start of an organizational housecleaning. Fan and media focus over the next eou pie of months will be on changes to come, rendering the remaining games a foot­note. 
"They may he meaningless to people who aren't playing," defensive end David Bowens said. "To us-the people play­ing and tho coaches -the games matter." 
Although little has gone right since tho ill-timed departure of Williams, the Dolphins' effort came into question only once this season under Wannstedt -in a lopsided Monday night loss to the New York Jets on Nov. 1. They staged a late rally in their most recent game, only to blow tho lead and lose to Arizona. 
Both defeats were embar-

Associ a ted Press 
1>1\NTON, Tnxas-North Texas tailback .lamario Thomas has alrPady matched Barry Sanders and Marcus Allen. Now he has Hon Daync and Marshall Faulk in his sights. 
Tho nation's loading rusher at I X<J.IJ yards per game, Thomas rwnds 155 yards to surpass Dayrw 's NCAA Division 1-A record for most yards rushing as a freshman. 
With four more touch­downs. he'll tin Fa,ulk's mark for most TI>s by a freshman. Faulk's f"rnshrnan rneord of 15X.S yards pnr game is des• tirwd to fall to Thomas, too. 
And if Super Jamario can rnach his season high of 291 yards Thursday night against Arkansas Statn, he'd do something that no freshman has ever done in Division I ­run for 2,000 yards in fhe regular season. 
"lie's oblivious to a lot of th11 things around him," North Texas coach Darrell Dickey said. "lie knows about the records, but he's not obsessed with them. It just hasn't sunk in yet for him." 
In fact, the shy and unas­suming Thomas disliked foot­ball while growing up in Longview. 
"I really don't think about it," he said. "I guess when I got really old I can tell my grandkids about it." 
Thomas has an NCAA­record six 200-yard games this y11ar. including five straight to tie another mark held by Allen and Sanders. 
The only thing that might be able to slow him down is a hamstring injury he suffered 




UPPER DECK 
ovarlooking 
rnm~rn~rnrn~ ~umwmJ[[] 
Book your GRADUATION PARTY now DANCESI DINNERSI 
rassing in different ways, and there's a desire to avoid fur­ther humiliation. 
"We don't want to be the laughingstock of the league," Bowens said. "We want to lin­ish with a bettor record than people predict." 
There are individual incen­tives, too. For A.J. Feeley, the remaining schedule offers a chance to prove he's Miami's quarterback of the future. Bates decided to bench fifth­year starter Jay Fiedler in favor of Feeley, who said the coaching change provides "a breath of fresh air" for the Dolphins. 
"Our motivation is to forget about what happened the past 1 0 weeks and make this a new season for ourselves," Feeley said. "W(~ want to come out of this thing strong so that going into next year, we're feeling pretty good about ourselves and have an idea as to what the identity of our team is going to be." 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Thomas ru~hing past football greats 
while leading North Texas to its fourth consecutive Sun Belt Conference champi­onship in a win over Idaho. The win was the Mean Green's 24th straight in con­ference win. 
If he doesn't get to Dayne's mark against Arkansas State, he'll get another chance Dec. 14 in North Texas' fourth straight New Orleans Bowl. 



Low Rate Auto Loans! 

The same rate on new or used-leaves our competition in the dust. 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 



Thursday, November 18, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Head home for the holidays this year with Greyhound® and save 15°/o with your Student Advantage Card. 
Just present your Card at any Greyhound station or book online at greyhound.com. 
GREYHOUND 
Don't have your Student Advantage Card yet? Enroll today and start saving up to 50°/o on music, food, clothing, travel and more. 
Get your Card at www.ndsmcobserver.com/studentresources 
Student Advantage® Card is a registered trademark and product of Student Advantage, Inc. Discounts based on current offers and are subject to change. See studentadvantage.com for offer details. 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­





AROUNDTHE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FR<JM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, November 18, 2004 

Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc (51)  10·0  1,608  
2  Auburn (6)  10·0  1,536  
2  Oklahoma (8)  10-0  1,536  
4  California  8·1  1.409  
5  Utah  10·0  1,316  
6  Texas  9-1  1,301  
7  Michigan  9-1  1,279  
8  Louisville  7-1  1,279  
9  Wisconsin  9-1  1,012  
10  Florida State  8-2  1,004  
11  Georgia  8-2  979  
12  Miami  7-2  834  
13  Boise State  9-0  797  
14  LSU  7-2  786  
15  Tennessee  7-2  733  
15  Virginia Tech  7-2  733  
17  Iowa  8-2  626  
18  Virginia  7-2  541  
19  Boston College  7-2  490  
20  Arizona State  8-2  442  
21  West Virginia  8-2  330  
22  Texas A&M  7-3  274  
23  Oklahoma State  7-3  223  
24  UTEP  7-2  152  
25  Bowling Green  8·2  42  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
learn record ppints 
1 usc (51) 10·0 1,514 2 Oklahoma (6) 10·0 1,435 3 Auburn (4) 10·0 1,433 4 California 8·1 1,311 5 Texas 9·1 1,222 
6 Utah 10·0 1,203 7 Michigan 9-1 1'191 8 Florida State 8·2 999 9 Wisconsin 9-1 948 10 Georgia 8-2 947 11 Louisville 7-1 880 12 Boise State 9-0 827 13 Miami 7-2 774 14 LSU 7-2 771 15 VIrginia Tech 7-2 688 16 Tennessee 7-2 580 17 Iowa 8-2 519 18 Virginia 7-2 501 19 Boston .College 7-2 433 20 West Virginia 8-2 419 21 Arizona State 8-2 411 22 Texas A&M 7-3' 272 23 Oklahoma State 7-3 229 24 Bowling Green 8-2 117 25 UTEP 7-2 87 
Women's Volleyball Top 20 
team record 
1 Washington 22-0 2 Hawaii 23-0 3 Nebraska 23-1 4 Penn State 23-2 5 Minnesota 24-4 6 Southern Cal 16-4 7 Ohio Stale 24-2 8 Colorado State 22-3 9 Stanford 19-6 10 Florida 23-3 11 Texas 21-3 12 Tennessee 26-2 13 Texas A&M 16-6 14 California 14-9 15 San Diego 19-4 16 Saint Mary's (CA) 22-3 17 UCLA 15-9 18 UC Santa Barbara 21·3 19 Utah 21-4 20 Kansas Stale 17-8 

around the dial 
NBA 

San Antonio at Philadelphia 7 p.m., TNT NY Knicks at Houston 9:30 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Maryland at Virginia Tech 7:30 , ESPN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

DENVEH -Prosecutors 
dropped  a  marijuana pos­ 
session  charge against  
Denver  Nugget  star  

Carmelo Anthony on Wediwsday, saying it would be tough to get a conviction after a friend claimed the drug was his, not Anthony's. 
Anthony was charged with possessing less than I ounco of marijuana on Oct. 15 after a bag with the drug was found in his backpack as the team wait­ed to board a l"light to Milwaukee for a preseason game. 
Anthony said the drug 
belonged to a friend, James Cunningham. Cunningham signed an al"lidavit saying it was his. 
Cunningham, who often stays with Anthony when he is in town on business, said he borrowed the back­pack without Anthony's knowledge and aceidental­ly left the marijuana in it. 
"Carmelo is happy to huvn been vindieatod by the casn being dismissed," said Anthony's attornoy, Daniel Hecht. "From the boginning, lw has said ho was innocent and rwver intended to possess the marijuana." 
Shortly after Anthony was charged, Nuggets gen-
IN BRIEF 

Colts could be missing both 
starting guards 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts could be playing the Chicago Boars Sunday without their starting guards. 
Tupe Poko didn't practice Wednesday boeause he hurt his right foot in last week's 49-14 victory over llouston. 
Guard Hiek DeMulling has be1m limited in practice because of a bruised chest. He was replaced in the starting lineup last week by rookie Jake Scott. 
But the Colts were dealt another blow Wednesday when backup guard Makoa Freitas could not practice bocause he hurt his back lifting weights Monday. If Freitas can't play, coach Tony Dungy said rookie Ryan Lilja would likely make his first NFL start. 
The Colts also put offensivn line­man Trevor Hutton on the active ros­ter, signed offensive lineman Joe. Iorio to the practicn squad and eral manager Kiki Vandeweghe sent Co.le a letter saying Anthony had passed four random drug tests last season and that his tests from the U.S. Olympic Committee at the Athens Games this summer were also negativn. 
"lin has passed evnry drug test with tho Nuggets because hn does not take ill1~gal drugs," Hncht said. "ThP case has upsnt Carmelo a great deal because he dons not want his fans, especially the kids, to get the wrong impression of him." 
An t.hony faced a fine of $100 and no jail time for the petty offense, but tlw hit to his imag1~ would have bonn much more diiTicult to take. 
But thorn also have bem1 some growing pains for the 20-year-old. 
Anthony refused to go back into a game last sea­son after his tnammatl~s eomplainod about his shot selection, and hn was min­gated to the bench in Atlwns after Tnam USA 1:oarh Larry Brown called him a selfish player. 
Anthony also was involved in a sc.uff"le at a New York bar aftnr somP­one reportedly spit on his girlfrinnd. MTV host La La Vasqunz. 

released tight end Bryan Fletcher. Thompson to step down at 
end ofseason 
RALEIGII, N.C. -East Carolina football coach John Thompson will step down at the end of the season, a school source told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
Thompson, 3-18 in two seasons, was to announce his resignation Wednesday at an afternoon news conference on the school's campus in Greenville, according to the source, who spoke on condition of' anonymity. 
Thompson will coach the Pirates in their last two games, the source said. 
The Pirates (2-7, 2-5 Conference USA) play Memphis on Saturday, then finish their season Nov. 27 against North Carolina Stahl. 
The move comes about two months after Terry 1lolland was hired as ath­letic director at East Carolina. 
Thompson was the defensive coor­dinator at Florida when he was hired to take over from Steve Logan in December 2002. The East Carolina job was his f'irst lwad coaching assignment arter 20 years as an assistant at eight schools. Percival aS!rees to two-year
deal with Tigers 
DETIWIT -Fren agent Troy Percival and Detroit agreed Wednesday on a $12 million, two­year contract, giving the Tignrs two dosers for their bullpen. 
Percival. 35, was 2-3 with a 2.90 EHA and 33 saves last season with the Anaheim Angnls, who made no attempt to rn-sign him. lie was fourth in the AL in savns, reaching 30 for the soventh straight season, the longnst streak by an aetive pitcher. 
"We're extremely pleased to have a person of his makeup and his ability to bolster the bullpen." Tigers prnsi­dent Dave Dombrowski said. 
On Nov. 5, Detroit exercised a $4 million option on Ugueth Urbina, who was 4-h with a 4.50 EHA and 21 saves in his first season with Detroit. lie left the team after his mother was kidnappnd Sept. I in Venezuela. 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Thursday, November 18, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
HOCKEY 

Irish sign 7 players to national letters of intent 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Spores Editor 
Irish coach Dave Poulin recently announced the signing of seven players to national letters of intent to play for Notre Dame. Four of the seven players will join the team in the 2005-06 season, while the remaining three will defer for until the 2006-07 season. 
Forwards Eric Condra (Livonia, Mich.) and Christian Hanson (Venetia, Pa.) along with goalie Jordan Pearce· (Anchorage, Alaska) and defenseman Jamie Silverson (Thunder Bay, Ont.) are the four who signed to play next season immediately. Defenseman Kyle Lawson (New Hudson, Mich.) and forwards Kevin Deeth (Gig Harbor, Wash.) and Ryan Thang (Edina, Minn.) will defer and play one more year of junior hockey before coming to the Irish. 
Condra, Hanson, Pearce and Silverson will step in next season to help fill the void left by the graduating class of 2005 that will include current senior forward Cory McLean, goalie Morgan Cey and defenseman Joe Zurenko. 
Pearce will especially be a big part of the future of the Irish, and should continue the line of impres­sive Notre Dame netminders, join­ing current sophomore David Brown and junior Rory Walsh in the mix for goaltending next sea­son. 
The 6-foot-1, 195-pound goalie is currently one of the best goal­tenders in the United States Hockey League, playing for the Lincoln Stars. Pearce is already familiar with the Joyce Center ice, after playing with the U.S. National Team Development Program Under-18 hockey team in an exhibition last year. 
Pearce started the game against the Irish, making 25 saves in Notre Dame's 4-0 victory over the Under-18 team. 
"This might be the best goalie recruit in the country," Poulin said. "Y<'m're looking at a kid who is excelling in Lincoln and who continues the tradition we're mak­ing of being a program for out­standing goalies." 
Silverson could be another play­er in the mold of current sopho­more defenseman Wes O'Neill -a big tall defenseman with skills. The 6-foot-4, 225-pound defense­man is currently a member of the British Columbia Hockey League's Salmon Arm Silverbacks. 
He was a teammate of O'Neill and current Irish freshman for­ward Victor Oreskovich on Ontario's Under-17 team at the 2002 Canadian Championships in Nova Scotia. 
"[Silverson] is probably even bigger than Wes," Poulin said. "[Silverson] was Wes' defensive partner on that U-17 team and they complimented each other real well." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

WoRLD CuP QuALIFYING  
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 4-BED= $267.50/STUDENT 5-BED= $254/STUDENT SIGN YOUR LEASE BEFORE NOV. 24TH AND RECEIVE ONE MONTH FREE! OPEN HOUSE THlJRSDAY, NOV. 18. 4-6 PM. UNIT 1. CALL NICOLE AT 234-9923 FOR A PRIVATE SHOWING.  Associated Press COLUMBUS, Ohio Jamaica failed to advance in World Cup qualifying, tying the United States 1-1 Wednesday in a game the Reggae Boyz needed to win. For the Americans, the match was merely a tuneup and a chance to give several young players World Cup qualifying experience. The Americans, who got a goal from Eddie Johnson, won a spot in next year's six-team regional finals with a 6-0 win over Panama last month. Panama advanced to the regional finals with a 3-0 win over El Salvador on Wednesday. Johnson scored in the 15th minute for the Americans on a lofting pass from Pablo Mastroeni. Andy Williams tied the score in the 27th minute on a penalty kick. The Jamaicans played with the ferocity of a team that had everything to lose, win­ning the ball in the air and challenging the U.S. defense in the second half by pulling all of their players up the field. Wet grass ­there had been heavy rain all day -con- 
SEEHIIIG Jllll'riiESSES to an incident outside the Joyce Center and Notre Dame Stadium before the Notre Dame v. Pittsburgh football game Saturday, November 13, 2004 involving a NOTRE DAME SECURITY OFFICER, a blonde female student, and an injured male student. Please call 800-328-7171 and ask for Brad or Glen. Possible rewards offered.  

Jan1aica plays United States to a 1-1 dravv 
tributed to the physical play 
that dominated throughout. 
There were 38 fouls -13 for 
the Americans and 26 for ·Jamaica. 
Jamaica would have 
advanced with a win, or a tie 
coupled with a Panama tie or 
loss. The Reggae Boyz were 
seeking to return to the World 
Cup after qualifying in 1998 
and falling short in 2002. 
Up-and-comer Johnson 
scored for the fifth time in 
three games. Mastroeni lofted 
a pass over the Jamaican 
defense line, and Johnsob 
gave the ball a quick tap with 
his right foot then knocked it 
past diving goalkeeper 
Donovan Ricketts with his 
left. 
Johnson, 20, a forward on­
the MLS' Dallas Burn, has 
scored five goals in only 61 
minutes of play on the U.S. 
team. 
The Jamaicans evened the 
score after a defensive miscue 
by an American player mak­
ing his first World Cup quali­
fying appearance. 
Ramiro Corrales threw him­
self in front of Ricardo Fuller 
to break up a run to the goal. 
Williams' penalty kick sailed 
low,_ past a diving Kasey 
Keller. 
The Americans went a man 
down in the 73rd minute 
when defender Oguchi 
Onyewu collected his second 
yellow card for a hand ball 
and was ejected. 
The Reggae Boyz were 
unable to capitalize. Their 
best scoring chance in the 
second half came in the 84th 
minute when substitute 
Marlon King broke free near 
the goal. He could only man­
age a weak shot that went 
directly into the hands of 
Keller. 
The Americans began the 
game conservatively, focusing 
on short passes in the mid­
field. In the fourth minute, 
Johnson collected the ball in 
front of the goal after Ricketts 
tried to clear but only got a 
piece of it.· Instead of taking 
the shot from 10 yards out, 
Johnson passed it back. 
The Americans came back 
in the second half with two 
forwards instead of three, 
and bunkered in front of the 
goal to prevent a loss. 
The U.S. extended its 
unbeaten streak to 13 games, 
the longest in team history. 
Their only loss in 2004 was to 
the Netherlands in February. 


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 2004 
FooTBALL 


Irish believe they can take down the top-ranked Trojans 

has been eonsistent this year is Boilermakers 41-16. And in its By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
the team's ability to stop an oppo­most recent game against
A.sociatc Sports Editor 

nont's rushing game. Pittsburgh, Notre Dame held the The Irish are averaging allow­Panthers to 98 yards rushing but 
Despite their role as huge ing just 95.5 yards rushing to still allowed the Panthers to score underdogs against Southern their opponents during the 2004 41 points. Calil'ornia in Notre Dame's last season, and have only allowed So why does the team think game ol' the season, the Irish still live rushing touchdowns. Goolsby stopping USC's run will make a bPlinvn they ean hang with the and his two fellow senior lino­largo dilleronce? Tn\i<tns. baekers, Brandon lloyte and "Look at Lenl>ale White," Irish 
They really don't have a ehoke. Derek Curry, have bnen the eor­coach Tyrone Willingham said of 
"Everybody that gets on that nnrstone o( that imprnssive run­USC's number-one running back. plane to go to California had bnt­stopping defense. "When he toudms that ball, some­ter he eonvincml WI' ean win this "One of the biggest things we body is going to pay. It's that atti­game," Irish senior linebacker pride ourselves on going into tude, not the play of the quarter­Mikn (;oolsby said. "You ean't go every game lis to stop the runJ," back, but it's his play that gives into an atmosphnn• like that and Goolsby said. "Even against a that toam spirit, gives them heart, he suc:epsst'ul if you don't totally Purdue team that's going to throw and makns them the good team l)('linvn you have a shot to win." the ball a lot, your first goal and t)lat they are. 
For thn Irish to piek up that rnindset is to stop the run. ''II' you can take that aspHct of upset victory, Goolsby says it all "I think with our front seven we the ommse away fi·om them, you c:omes down to orw sim pin goal -have the ability to do that; we've <:an really take the heart or that stop tlw run. got a lot orolder guys up front and team." have to factor in Bush. lie's going bn one of' thn biggest keys to stop­
"First step for any defense at rnally have the ability to do that." Tho Trojans have a varied to have his six to 1 0 plays and on ping tho potent Trojan om~nse. any levnl of' liu1tball is to stop the Yet <wen with their suecess oiTense that makes use of both any one of those he can go the . "If onn guy makes a mistake ­run." hn said. "Work on that. and against the run, the Irish haw not their running backs' unique abili­distance. So we've got to do a and when you have gnmt players thnn you can liwus in on !quarter­been abiP to perform consistently ties. White is a bruising power !,>Teat job of team dlllimso against on tlw other side they'ro going to back Matti Leinart and their in the secondary, and tho rnsults back, while sophomore phenom the run and team dofense about make you miss sometimes -them ren~ivnrs." show in the final scorns. Heggie Bush is a quiek shifty back just putting ourselves in the right that's when his teammates need 
NotrP l>anw's defims<~ has bn<~n Against Brigham Young, Notrn who is also a threat out of' the position to make a play." to bo then~ to make the nnxt tack­ratlwr inconsistPnt this season -Dame allowPd just 22 yards rush­baeklinld eatching the ball. There's little doubt that USC has In," Willingham said. six times the Irish have allowed ing, but lost 20-17. The Irish "That will bo a major job ofours some talented and athl<ltie play­20 poinLo.; or morP to an opponent. allowed 99 yards against PurdLHl, to sen if' we ean eontain [WhitHI," ers, and tho Irish coaching stall' Contact Justin Schuver at But tlw <HlP asp<wl of' ddimsn that but were blown out by the Willingham said. "But you also acknowledges that discipline will jschuver@nd.edu 
WATER POLO 

No.9 Irish host, open national chatnpionships Friday 

shut down the countnr attack and midficlder in soecer, said the outscorod opponents 2:~8-134. lion tournament, but losing teamsBy PAT LEONARD slowod down tho paen of the tnam's mcord is deceiving. And the Irish were dose to a eon­still play throughout the weekend 
Associa1c Spons Editor 

gamo, we wore able to eomo "Don't be fooled by our reeord," l'erence championship before to fill out the sdwdule and corn­back." McNicholas said. "We're 13-8, but Grand Valley State seornd a last pete fi11· eonsolation. If Notre Dame 
Finishing second in tho Great Notrn Dame (13-8) playnd most live of' those losses were by two second goal to win. wins Friday morning, the Irish Lakes Confnrencn hut penciled in of its regular season games in goals or less. Four of them were "We feel like we ean play with play their next match Saturday. during Uw preseason as the host tournament mode, traveling to by one goal against teams ranked anybody," Szewczyk said. of' this year's ehampionships, the compete at Miami (Ohio), Toledo, in the top live nationally." The CWPA National Contact Pat Leonard at No. <) nationally ranked Notre Michigan State, Western Michigan Meanwhile, Notre Dame has Championships is a single-elirnina-pleonard@nd.edu Danw nwn's wat<~r polo team and Northwestern already this nweived an automatk hid into tho snason. CWI'A national r.hampionship Fil'tnnn eonferonces make the tournanwnt and will play No. 3 trip to nationals, with the host Mkhigan at 9 a.m. Friday to begin team getting the final bid. Teams the weekmul. aw sm~dnd by whnrn their respec­
Tlw No. 16-sm~d Irish will look to tivn eonlimmee linislu~d at nation­hand thn one-seed Wolvllrinos als the pnwious season. revenge for an 11-9 defeat in a Eight losses is a hefty amount tournament at Miami (Ohio). for a team in tho tournament, and 
"Tlwy've got a very fast tmtm," the Irish only qualified because junior captain (;rq{ ~nwczyk said. thny an~ this year's host. But bole­"Thny jurnp<'d out narly with the man Matt MeNirholas, who plays a <·,ounterattaek on us. But once we position comparable to center 

LUNKER'S 
HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION OF 

NORTH FACE 
JACKETS, COATS, HATS, CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER's AND RECEIVE 10/'o OFF NORTH FACE ITEMS. 
LUNKER's APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 
269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 17 North Main 4615 Miami Road Corner McKinley & 1 blk. south of Colfax Miami & Ireland

y_U~S. c:elllllar 
Grape 574.288.9450 574.299.2860

h#l .. (lf<lltil ,tfl(i\lf 
574.252.5820 

"Airtime offer valid on two-year consumer service agreements of $49.95 or higher. Offer Includes first hne at $49.95 with 50% access discount plus $15 ShareTalk. 50% access discount valid lor the first three months of a two-year commitment. Airtime and Share Talk phone offers require a new two-year consumer service agreement. Limit three ShareTalk hnes per primary line. Access lee per Share Talk line is $15/mo. Primary line must be on a price plan of $39.95 and higher. Promotional phone subject to change. Customer is responsible for all sales taxes. Night and Weekend Minutes are valid M-F 7 pm to 5:59 am and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weekend minutes are available In local calling area only. Customers placing and receiving calls must be U.S. Cellular customers and on the Mobile-to-Mobile feature. Mobile-to-Mobile minutes apply to calls placed to or received from another U.S. Cellular subscriber's phone. For your call to qualify for Mobile-to-Mobile minutes, you must place or receive the call from within your Mobile-to-Mobile Calling Area, and the roaming indicator on your phone must be off. Calls to/from out­side the Mobile-to-Mobile calling area will apply toward your regular plan minutes. May not be available with certain offers. This feature does not Include calls to Votce Services or 4~ 1. Roaming charges, lees, surcharges and taxes may apply, Including' a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.96. Activation fee $30. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. 02004 U.S. Cellular Corporation 


Thursday, November 18, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Riley 
continued from page 24 
while Stires does the play-by­play. 
''I'm just trying it out," Riley said of the radio broadcasting. "''m just excited I got to catch the first two games. and broad­casting is something I'm inter­estf~d in. So when I am in town, Sean lets me be his sidekick. He does his job and lets me talk a little bit. And I'm calling Notre Dame games, so it makes it a lit­tle easier for me." 
Hiley, a member of the 2001 Notre Dame national champi­onship team, returned to Notre Dame with yet another award. as 
she was part of "It was amazing to said it was an the U.S. women's be {in Athens for amazing feeling. 
basketball team "It's hard to put
the Olympics]" 
that won the gold it into words," medal in Athens. she said. "You're I Iowever, she was Ruth Riley standing up not originally there, seeing
former Irish center 
represent your country is such an honor -to be over there and wearing a jersey that says 'USA."' 
For the girl from small-town Macy, Ind., being an Olympian has been a life-long dream. 
"Since I was little [I wanted to play in the Olympics!," Hiley said. "The WNBA wasn't around, so that wasn't a goal when I was growing up. So when you're sitting there, a lit­tle girl watching the Olympics, that's what you dream of, that's the ultimate level of accomplish­ment. So I'm blessed to be able to do that." 
And when Riley stood on the gold medal stand with her teammates, listening to the national anthem being played, she 
selected to the team. But when DeLisha Milton-Jones went down with an injury, Riley was asked to join the team. And as a result, she won gold. 
The women defeated Australia for the gold medal by a score of 73-63 on Hiley's 25th birthday in August. Riley aver­aged 3.4 points and 2.4 rebounds in seven games for the United States. 
"It was amazing to be there," Hiley said of her trip to Athens. "[In theI Opening Ceremonies, you're with so many different countries, athletes from all over the world, playing different sports, and you're all there together, competing trying to get the same goal. Being able to 
your flag being 

raised, you're lis­tening to the national anthem and knowing that so many peo­ple back home are supporting what you do, and knowing that you put so much hard work into getting to that point -it's just awesome." 
For Riley, the gold medal is just another accomplishment to add to her laundry list of acco­lades. Riley was named the Most Outstanding Player of the 2001 Final Four, where she scored 46 points and grabbed 20 rebounds to lead the Irish to the championship with wins over Connecticut and Purdue. 
From there, Riley went on to the WNBA's Detroit Shock, where she picked up where she left off. With Notre Dame grad Bill Laimbeer as her coach, she led the Shock to its first-ever WNBA title in 2003, and was named the Most Valuable Player of the Finals. She remains the only_ athlete in Notre Dame his­tory to be named the MVP of both the NCAA tournament and a professional championship. 
In the WNBA, she has been outstanding, much like her tenure at Notre Dame. Hiley averaged 9.6 points and 5.9 rebounds per game in 2003, including her inspirational 27­point performance in last year's title game. 
Riley said that all three of her championships are equally spe­cial to her. 
"It's kind of hard to compare the three because they're so uniquely different," Riley said. "All are just awesome experi­ences for me." 
But regardless of what she has accomplished, Riley main­tains the humble attitude that she had in 2001 when Notre Dame won the national champi­onship. 
''I'm just blessed," she said of her success. ''I've put in a lot of hard work, and I've had a lot of great coaches along the way, good teammates who've helped me and sometimes made me look like a better player then I probably was at that point. But it's just amazing. And I'm just excited about what I've been able to accomplish and hoping to do more in the future." 
And with a NCAA Championship, WNBA Championship and a gold medal under her belt, who knows what Riley will find to win next. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Boxing 
continued from page 24 
Bouts tonight at 7 p.m. in aux­iliary gym 1 of the Joyce Center. 
Modeled after the Bengal Bouts, the Baraka Bouts will raise money for Holy Cross mis­sion schools in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Admission is $2 and T-shirts featuring the Baraka Bouts logo and a quote from Muhammad Ali will be sold for $15. 
"This year is the first year we're actually having a tourna­ment," club president Amanda Borys said. "So we're really excited about it." 
There isn:t a specific dollar amount the club wants to raise but Borys believes a figure around $10,000 would satisfy her. 
"It would be a nice, round number to shoot for," Borys· said. "I think it can be done but it's going to take a lot of hard work and a lot of people coming." 
The club has been around for nine years. However, the women were not allowed to fight in pub­lic until spring 2003 when. a number of club members fought on the under card to the Bengal Bouts. Last fall the club held its first independent event, featur­ing 19 exhibition matches. 
Tonight there will be 11 brack­ets with boxers seeded according to experience and ability. Champions will be crowned in each four-person bracket. 
"The more experienced boxers are obviously seeded higher than some of the less experienced boxers," Kwiatt said. "But pretty much everyone is around the same area of skill level so we should see some good, clean fights." 
The club has been practicing since the first week of school under the assistance of first-year coach Stefan Borovina, a 2004 Notre Dame graduate and two­time Bengal Bout heavyweight champion. Since most of the girls have no boxing experience prior to college, they must rely on Borovina's knowledge and their own skills acquired playing other sports. 
Borys played basketball, vol­leyball and soccer in high school and likes the competitive atmos­phere the boxing club provides for her at Notre Dame. 
"I think that in the club there's people that want to do it for fun, people that want to learn how to box and then there's people that have that really competitive, killer instinct," she said. "I might be one of those people." 
The competitive nature of the sport was one of the draws for Kwiatt, but there were also other aspects that drew her to the club. 
"Probably the best part of box­ing is really getting to know a great bunch of girls who are out to challenge themselves mental­ly, emotionally and physically," she said. "But, at the same time, doing it all for a good cause." 
Senior Melanie Irvine joined the women's boxing club three years ago when a friend of hers was competing in the Bengal Bouts. 
"I saw that there were women involved [in boxing] and I was really interested because it seemed like a unique thing to be doing," she said. "So I went out the next year and loved it so much I never turned back." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgi11oon@nd.edu 



r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 2004 

................___., 
:
.





Go here 
.......,_.,!I ~"' 


vvvvvv. to rdve h ic les. corn/collegeg rad 
L_______________ to get there 
Here's the deal: one prlce, no haggling. 
This "student di:<>c.ount" offers substantial savings on new Ford Motor Company vehicle~ b.a.sed on set pt"ices established by Ford's Employee Purchase Plan, 
There's no catch-It's a unique otter, exclusive to ~schools likP yours. Save even more when you apply the <:urrent ndtional Incentives available on the vehicle you sele<t. 
The best part? You get what you expect. The :style and features you want. No-hassle dealer experience. A P<1Yment that's easy on your wallet and lifestyie. 
Duke 
continued from page 24 
But for the Irish. it wasn't just Battnast. Shn was joined by tlm~e other Irish playnrs in dou­ble-figures. Fresh man ChareI Allen playPd the best game of her young c.aret~r. linishing with 16 points, thrPn assists, three steals, two blocks and three rebounds. Slw was a spark for tlw Irish olT the bench, playing :~2 minutes. Allen also played solid dnftmsn on Dukn's star, Moniqun Currin, limiting her to 14 points on 6-for-1 !J shooting. 
"I thought the story of the gamn was Chand Allen," McGraw said. "To have to guard Monique Currie, who's one of the best players in the country, and..she did an excellent job on her. 
The game started with the Irish being down most of the first half. Duke dominated the ofTnnsive boards, pulling down 14 in just the lirst half. But even without Batteast, the Irish hung in tlwrn, with the help of a solid defensive efl'ort that limited the Blue D1wils to 28 first-half points, while countering with 26 of their own. 
To start the second half, the Irish found themselves down 39­32 with 16:08 to play, the biggnst lnad for either team at that point. Batteast was on the lwnch with three fouls, and McGraw decided to bring her back in, despite the fouls. 

"I thought if the game is going to get out of hand, we need to get her back in there," McGraw said. 
Batteast responded with a steal, a 3-pointer and two assists, and the lead was cut to 44-41 with 13:48 to play. 
Then with eight minutes to play, the senior took over, scor­ing 10 straight to put the Irish up 65-58, and NotJ-n Dame never looked back. 
"I thought down the stretch, we got great shots from Jackie and big rebounds from every­body," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame switched to play a 2-3 zone, and the Duke offense was shut down. The Blue Devils were outrebounded by the Irish 42-39, despite playing no player shorter than 5-foot-10. 
"I was really pleased with our defensive effort overall," McGraw said. "I thought we did a really good job of playing the zone. I think that changed the game. We switched from man to zone, and that broke the game open for us." 
Megan Dully hit <J-for-1 0 from the free throw line, all in the second half, to iee the game, and the Irish defense held strong. 
"I was really pleased with the way we handled ourselves with poise dow11 the stretch," McGraw said. 
Duffy finished with 15 points and seven assists. Also in dou­ble-figures was Courtney La Yore, who scored 13 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. 
For the Blue Devils, Currie was joined in double-figures by Mistie Williams ( 10 points, eight rebounds) and Alison Bales (11 points, seven blocks). 
With the win. Notre Dame advances to the !huLls of the pre­season WNIT, where it will faen No. 10 Ohio State at home Saturday at 7 p.m. 
Notes: 
+ Irish guard Tulyah (;aines was not drossed for Wednesday's game. She sum~red a nnek injury Friday night against Illinois State. McGraw said shn dons not expnet Gaines back until next week. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Allen 
continued from page 24 
With the BluP Devils desperate­ly tryin~ to stop hot-handed Jacqunlirw Battnast in the seeond half, Allen slipped into the enwicns of Duke's zone dnlimsn. Twice Allen knocked down criti­cal 3-pointers that brou~ht the Irish within tlm~n points at the I:~:4X mark of tlw second half and tiedtlw ganw at 9:37. 
"Siw ("amn of age today--shn's no longer a fmshman." Irish coach Mufl(•t McGraw said. "She just played a spectacular ganw." 
!\lien finishml with 1(, points, thrne assists. tlm~e reb(·Jtrnds and two stPals in :~2 minutes. When Notrn Damn rw«'dnd a turnover, a basknt or anythin~ in .bntwnnn, Allen snenwd to bP there. 
"Siw killed us." l>uke I wad coarh Gail GonstPnkors said. 
Aside from Allnn 's outstanding play, NotrP Danw won beeause it learnPd quirkly that h~tting the physical Blun I>Pvils do as thny pleasmf wasn't going to work. 
Erwin deddml to do somethin~ about it. Down thrne poinL'i with about 14 minutes Jell. MeGraw put in 

Erwin to give the team a lift. The 
(,-foot-1 sophomorn entangled 
hersolf with the ag).,'Tnssive Williams on several possessions 
bPI'ore finally getting into the 
Blue Dnvil li>rward's face. Even 
though Erwin picked up a ques­
tionable tnehnical f(ml fi>r the c:qnfrontation, she did mueh 
more for the Irish by sparkin~ 
tlw Joyce Center erowd, and her teammates. 
Aller Duke star Monique Currie madn one-of-two free throws, Notre Dame took over the game. Trailing by four at the time, the Irish ended the game with a 35­20 run. 
"I rnally think Crystal Erwin lwlpnd us Ibn aggressive]," MeCraw said. "She gave us ennr­gy and changed the whole tone and ~ave us a positive, upbeat attitude eoming into the game. That was really big." 
Notn~ Dame was a good team last season, but it took them 13 games and a mediocre 7-6 start, to rnalize just how good. This season's squad has shown the ability to not only establish itself as a contender, but as a team to bn fimrnd. The Irish have the tal­ent--that's not a surprise to anyone. But what else they lnarrwd Wednesday is how to play with a swagger. They 
weren't intimidated by the No.6 
team in the nation coming to 
South Bend for an early-season 
matehup. 
When the Blue Dnvils thmw a 
punch, the Irish eame baek with 
a combination. When Duke tried 
to get physical under the glass, 
Notre Dame didn't shy away. And 
when one of the nation's best 
teams --a team with a legitimate 
shot at a national title --wanted 
to rwnble, it was McGraw's 
squad who said "Bring it on." 
The 2004-05 Irish have proved in the bnginning stages of the season that they will be in the national spotlight for thn lon~­haul. This is a team that has all the parts to advanen much far­tlwr than last season's Sweet 16 group did. 
McGraw put it best in the post­
~ame press conference: 
"We're light-years away from 
last year at this point," she said. 
That's scary fi>r anyone in 
Notre Dame's way this season. 
Just ask No. 6 Duke. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe 1/etller at jhettler@nd. edu 
THEa
NORTH 
.®FACEI 
NEVER STOP EXPLORINGTM 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 
DUTPDST Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm
~ 
Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 



It's how you 
get there! 

t. 
lick. Save. 



Thursday, November 18, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------­

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

PEANUTS 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
r,,~,~~~r I~ J 
©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
I YNOFLE ± 




rJ r J 
www.jumble.com
tZOLENZ t
I J I J I 
A: 

sv( I I I I JITJ( I I XJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: AWASH TYPED WHOLLY WAITER Answer: When the surfers saw the big waves, they said it was-WORTH THE "WADE" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
-by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

VVHAT THe: FIRE:­MAN INHe:RITED FROM HI? RICH UNC-LE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:T--:--r.:-r:,.., 
~=+;:..+..;:-! 
-:-:-:+-:-+.=+::-i -::t.;:::.t,:-+.=-t 
7:+-:::+::;.+-::-1 
llll!"t'!'!'t--:':+7+::+.::+.'':-1 
-=+=+:-:+:-:-! 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
.63 Uniform shade e r:--,.--,,--..,..,...­
64 Number 10 on a table 
65 "Ode to the Confederate Dead" poet Allen 
66 TV's warrior princess 
DOWN 1 Sun, to skin 2 Spy_Hari 3 Undeveloped 
expanse 4 With 37-Across and 38-Down, -step taken after an airline accident 5 Kenyan 
tribesman 6 Atty.'s title 7 Out of business 8 Hot spots 9 One in the pole 

position? 10 Thin part 11 Sticker 12 Founded: Abbr. 13 Air. country 18 Sitarist Shankar 20 Bagel shop 
order 

23 Brightly colored pullover garment 
25 Squinting Mr. 26 Have in the conversation 27 Like most 
bathrooms 29 Bee chasers 30 Man with Stan, 
familiarly 31 Rare trick takers 

32 Things useful  45 Nightly TV star  52 Langston  
when put in a  beginning  Hughes poem  
box  5/25/92  53 "To Live and  
34 Ear-related  46 Berke1ey  Die  
38 See 4-Down 39 Cabin brightener 41 Plant plight  campus, for short 49 Start court proceedings? 50 Masked critter  55 Opposin' 56 Racehorse Ridge 57 It gives support in sport  
44 Source of hope?  51 Journalist Brit  59 Clean a plate  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _____________ State _______ Zip_______ 
... 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Clarke Isaac Hanson, Daisy Fuentes, RuPaul, Danny DeVito 
Happy Birthday: You will be a little ahead of your time this year. That doesn't mean you should abandon what you are working toward, but you should give others a chance to catch up. Take the time to double-check all the ins and outs so that your work is flawless. Your numbers are 5, 19, 26, 30. 43. 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Form alliances with people in your industry or peer group. Travel, group discussions and partnerships will all lead to a better future.**** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take notice of what your competition is up to. If you lose sight of your goals it will be difficult to get back on track. Rely on family and close friends.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Plan to socialize and you will enrich your life. Take part in activities that will make you think and test your endurance. Your creative ideas will be worth developing.***** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Take a moment to figure out how to make your home life better. Change is in order and must be canied out. Once you make your move. your stress will be lifted.***' LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love should be on your mind. You will attract attention if you get involved in community activities. Short trips will give you a new perspective.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't Jet the little things get to you. Focus on your work and doing a good job. The people around you will respect you for your efforts. Advancement or a new position is likely.*** · LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Luck is in your comer so take advantage of everything that is going on around you. Let your ideas be known and focus on getting what you want.***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Not everything will be out in the open. You will have a hard time making the right decision. Protect yourself from someone who wants to lead you astray.** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't give up on someone you care about. This person will come around if you show your support. Love can be confusing but you will be hard to resist in the end.**** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Work and money will be highlighted today. The more you can do to get ahead, the better. Follow your gut instinct and you will capture interest.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You'll have plenty of opportunity to pick up information that will lead you in a new and exciting direction. Someone will show qn interest in what you are doing as well as in you.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be interested in a unique offer. Money can be made, but it will require changes to your current lifestyle. Follow the path that beckons you.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are inventive, curious and interested in what everyone else is doing. You are a crusader with a strong will. You are not likely to let anything or anyone push you around or hold you back. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Subject for Ovid 5 Go well together 9 "Splendor in the 
Grass" screenwriter 13 Obviously surprised 
14 North Carolina county named for an early governor 
15 Hand-colored · frames 
16 "I'm not gonna stand in their way" 
17 Like some diamonds 19 Crunchy bowlful 21 Followed 22 Skirt 24 New Deal inits. 25 Grid 
28 With 37-and 43-Across, one who takes after dad 
33 Faraway 34 Sugar suffixes 35 Piniella of the 
Yankees 36 Bygone prison 37 See 28-Across 
or 4-Down 38 Just below 90 40 Tauromachian 
chant 41 Jacob_ Park, 
in Queens 42 River of Orleans 43 See 28-Across 46 Dove competitor 47 Fair-hiring inits. 48 "All I gotta do 
_naturally" (Beatles lyric) 50 Certain red 54 City near South Bend 58 Beat around the bend? 60 Bacall's love 61 184 7 novel set on Tahiti 62 Norwegian saint 

··············~···············-···,·····························································-····~~-····································· 

THE OBSERVER 








PORTS

Thursday, November 18, 2004 page 24 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big game, big performances 
Batteast scores 10 straight to put away No. 6 Duke 76-65 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Ediwr 

Notre DamP knpt itsnll' in thn game just long enough for Jacqueline Battnast to eomn back in tlw game after two early lilllls. Then slw took over, as No. 1 I Notrn Dame knocked olr No. (J Duke 76-65 WedJH~sday night at tho Joycn Center in the semifinals of the presea­son Wonwn's National Invitation Tournament. 
Bat.lnast scored 10 straight points to give the Irish a (J5-5H lead with 4:50 n~maining. 
,... Battnast had only played 10 minutns in the first half dun to foul trouble, and she picked up lwr thin! foul just over two minutes into thn seeond half. llowever, she eame back strong on ollimse. dnspitn the faet that two of her linlls were offensive fouls. "I just tried to be aggressive," Battnast said, who finished with 17 points, seven assists and liw rnbounds. "I know that I had a cou­ple of charges bPfon~. hut the coadws told me to keep taking it. And onen a eouple start­ed falling, I thought it was better if I shot." It was the most physieal game the Irish have played this seasor1, as pressure delimsn was played from start to finish. But Notn~ Danw's 50-point seeond half was too mud1 fi1r Duke. "I thought it was a very hard fought game, and I thought they playnd an (1Xcnptional see­ond half. hit some big shots, some big 3s and just really wore us down," Duke eoaeh Gail Goestnnkors said. 
see DUKE/page 22 

RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Observer Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast shoots over Duke's Wynter Wintley in Notre Dame's 76-65 win. Batteast finished with 17 points. 
Irish see freshman Allen grow up, Erwin fight back 
Notre Damn got pushed around fi1r the first two minutes of il<> game against No. 6 Duke Wednesday night. After that, the Irish puslwd back -and did so with surprising toughness 
and aggression. 
Fmshman Charnl Allfln hustled aftnr every loose ball, evflry Duke pass that eame within 10 feet of her slim 5-foot-11 body and then made every big shot all night, despite playing with an appanmt injury for 

much of the game. Joe Hettler 
Crystal Erwin bullied and bumped her way around in Sports Writer the paint, and, at one point, got face to face with her counterpart, Duke's Mistie Williams. Teresa Borton and Courtney LaVere battlnd for offensive and defensive mbounds with Duke's 6-liJOt-7 tower, Alison 
Bales. 
And Notre Dame displayed some intestinal fortitude in its 7(,-65 win against the Bhw Devils in the semifinals of the prnseason Women's National Invitation Tournament that last season's team simply never had. 
A big reason for that change was Allen. The thin guard from Monessen, Pnnn. rarely shows emotion on the rourt. Allen simply does any­thing her team needs, all the while keeping that same stonn-hard, unassuming stare on her face. 
Wednesday evening, Notre Dame fans got to see just how good this rapidly rising star will beeome in an Irish uniform. 
see ALLENIpage 22 

WOMEN'S BOXING 

Women to hold first tournament 

golfer and current member of By MIKE GILLOON the Notre Dame women's boxing Sports Writer duh said. "It's really morn of a 
shock." Anne Kwiatt. shrugged at tlw Whethnr it hurts or not.. Kwiatt thought of getting pundwd in Uw and 40 othPr wonwn will partiei­l~u~n. patP in t.hP rirst-evPr Baraka "It d01~sn't hurt as nntdl as it looks," Uw fornwr high school see BOXING/page 21 

L~
Rl: lHEl t4ov~? ~ 

Riley continues basketball success 
Former Irish center won gold in Athens 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Sunday al'tnrnoon at the Joyce Center, she took oil' her headset and was swarmed by 10 people. They just kept eoming. 
"Huth, will you sign my shirt." "Ruth, will you take a pieture with me." 
Huth Hiley returned to Notre Dame as even more of a celebri­ty than she was to begin with after winning a gold medal in Athens, Greeee. 
"I get a great reception when I eome back," Riley said. "Not only am I an obvious figure pie have appreciation for what by fans of all shapes and sizns walking aeross eampus, but so you do." for autographs and pietures. many people support and love The 6-l'oot-5 eenter was Hiley is just enjoying the nxpnri­and still support me, whether broadcasting with ESPN Hadio's enee of lwing on thn sidelines. I'm at Detroit, or at the Sean Stires during the Irish bas­doing the eolor commentary Olympics. It's niee to know that ketball games Friday and when you eomn baek here, peo-Sunday when shn was mobbnd see RILEYIpage 21 



FOOTBALL MEN'S WATER POLO HOCKEY WORLD CUP SOCCER NBA NBA 
Irish focus on USC No. 9 men's water Irish coach Dave United States tied Denver's Carmelo Sonics 79, Nets rushing game in prepa-polo team will play No. Poulin recently announ-Jamaica 1-1 in a World Anthony had charges 68 ration for Saturday's 3 Michigan in the first ced the signing of seven Cup qualifying match. dropped against him for game. round of the CWPA players to letters of possession of marijuana Magic 107, Jazz 
tournament. intent. on Oct. 15. 92 
page 20 page 20 page 19 page 19 page 18 page 14 





