
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 89 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
One year later, ND remembers Chad Sharon 
By CLAIRE HEININGER Assistant News Editor 
I lis rector remembers him as 
"Smiling Chad." 
The Notre Dame community . remembers him as the mysteri­
ous disappearance that became 
a tragic loss. 
But his father just remembers 
him as a boy with a dream. 
A year after the body of fresh­
man Chad Sharon was found 
floating in the St. Joseph River, 
his father Steve wanted the 
campus his son had loved so 
much to remember him the 
same way. In a letter addressed to "all our dear friends at Notre Dame," Steve and his wife Jane, of Pelican Lake, Wis., wrote to express their gratitude to Mass the University 
The memorial
community that offered mass for Chad their son a 
Sharon will be 
world of 
celebrated today
opportunities -and now at 5:15p.m. in offers them a 
the Fisher
world  of  
strength.  chapel.  
"We  just  

wrote it to thank everyone ... we've sure gotten a lot of sup­port," Steve Sharon said. "That was [Chad's] dream in life. to continue his education, to go to Notre Dame, and he got to real­ize it for a short time." 
The Sharons' letter will be read at a Memorial Mass in the Fisher Hall chapel at 5:15 tonight. Father Mark Poorman, vice president for student affairs, will join Sharon's former rector Father Robert Moss as the celebrants. 
"I think the Notre Dame fami­ly feels his loss very keenly," Poorman said. "At the same time, on a Christian campus, we have to remember that he's at 
see CHAD/page 8 



Campaigns continue before runoffs 

MEG DAVISSONfThe Observer 
Members of the final two tickets for student body president talk to students as part of their campaign effort. The Ebersoi-Lelto ticket and the Istvan-Bell ticket used the two days following Monday's elections to campaign. 
Ebersol, Istvan .spend last day in dornis talking with students 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 

The final two tickets in the stu­dent body presidential race faced two final days of campaigning after Monday's elections. Both the Charlie Ebersol-James Leito ticket and the Adam Istvan-Karla Bell ticket took a proactive approach as they approached the final elec­tion. 
Ebersol credits his strategy of dorm visits and receiving student feedback with giving him his top placement after Monday's elec­tion. 
He said in these final days, he and Leito have been "going around to the dorms, giving stu-
Student Body Presidential Elections Voting begins at 8 a.m. at http://apps.nd.edu/elections 
dents an opportunity to talk to us and meet us. . . . I think that's the single biggest reason that we were able to garner the type of support that we were on the first round." 
Istvan also said he and Bell have been visiting dorms these last two days. 
''I've been going dorm-to-dorm reminding people that the elec­tion is [today] and asking them if they have any questions about Karla or [me] or our platform," he said. 
Both tickets also believe that getting students to vote in today's election is important. 
Istvan made it a point in. his dorm visits to make sure that people knew about the election. 
"If people were there, I talked to them, otherwise I left a flyer with our platform and reminding them to vote," he said. 
Ebersol also said that making sure students vote is one of his top priorities. 
"We've really been trying to focus on reminding students to ... vote," he said. "It's not about gaining more votes between two days ago and now, but making sure people vote. There was a staggering number of people that voted, and I want to make sure we maintain that number." 
Candidates are not allowed to campaign on the day of the elec­tion, and both tickets acknowl­edge that they face a long day of waiting for results. 
''I'm working a six-hour shift tomorrow, so I'll have plenty to distract me there," said Istvan. "It seems like there's a lot of support out there for me. At this point, it's in the voters hands." 
Ebersol also remains confident about student interest. 
"Hopefully I'll be able to concentrate in my classes," Ebersol said of having to wait for the results. "I feel good in the sense that we'll see a 
see CAMPAIGN/page 3 
Low attendance shortens, almost cancels run-off debates 
each ticket's supporters, their time might better be spent campaigning or tying up loose ends," judicial board presi­dent Elliot Poindexter said. 
The debates continued in spite of concerns, with each ticket allowed to give an opening statement, answer two questions posed by the other candidates and respond to pre-screened questions 
see DEBATES/page 11 

STUDENT SENATE 


Group discusses diversity 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate received 
a presentation Wednesday from 
Diversity Council representa­
tives Leah McGee and Andrea 
De Vries requesting a mandato­
ry academic course for all stu­
dents to examine diversity on 
campus. 

McGee and De Vries intro­
duced a letter to the Senate 
from the Diversity Council, ask­
ing for the Senate's support in 
an endeavor to, as the letter 
states, "[create] a task force to 
propose a mandatory semester 
requirement to address issues 
of ethnic diversity." 

· The Diversity Council wrote the letter in response to what it called "an underlying current of racism" in The Observer. The letter and other materials pro­vided to the Senate by the Diversity Council specifically cited a Viewpoint article, a photo poll and a "Fives" comic strip as offensive to blacks on campus. 
The letter continued, " ... we would argue that a newspaper should represent its communi­ty, and should not publish arti­cles that are disrespectful to any group within that commu­nity." 
While the letter calls for spe­cific action to be taken by The Observer, McGee said they were seeking support from the Senate specifically regarding the addition of a diversity class to the University's mandatory curriculum, and a task force to investigate such an addition. 
"What we're directly seeking from you is support for the institution of a class require­ment," McGee told the sena­
see SENATE/page 8 

By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writer 
Wednesday night's run-off election debates between Ebersol-Leito and Istvan-Bell took place in a shortened for­mat, after a low attendance rate made organizers rethink the event altogether. 
"The debates are supposed to benefit the candidates, and with no attendance besides 
Thursday, February 12, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Coffee talk 

I didn't know I had an accent until I came to Indiana. 
The reality hit me hard and fast, though, at Freshman Orientation. I made the unfortunate mistake of 
inquiring about study abroad options during one of the mass infor­mation sessions ­and, as soon as the words left my mouth, several hun­dred heads turned in my direction. 

Astounded, I Sheila Flynn ignored the administrator's answer and spent News Writer the rest of the meeting 'mulling over my question to determine what I possibly could have said to draw such attention. 
I found out as soon as the meeting ended, when several people.asked where I grew up in New York. 
"How did you know I'm from New York?" I asked, stunned. 
They explained that "abroad," to most people, is not pronounced "abrawd." "Long Island" is not "Lawng Island." This shocked me. I have no 
· idea how I had never before noticed that people on television and from other parts of the country spoke differ­ently from myself and everyone I knew. But I hadn't. Very soon, people were showing up outside my door and insisting that I speak. Hallway. Water. Coffee talk ­the universal favorite. These were all phrases I spoke on demand, to the wonder and delight of my eager audi­ences. My cultural education continued as I was introduced to other regional dialects. I learned to differentiate Minnesotans from Wisconsinites, Chicagoans from Pittsburgh natives. I've roomed with a Texan and a Southern Belle from the Alabama/Georgia border. Granted, my accent was often more noticeable than their linguistic idiosyncracies (it does­n't help that I am inclined to shout, talk quickly and screech in a high­pitched, hyper sort of stereotypical New York way). but their distinctive speech patterns were there, all the same. And I was fascinated. That is one reason why. amidst all the grief Notre Dame gets for its reput­ed homogeneity, I maintain that the geographic diversity, at least, is unri­valed. Almost everyone from my high school went to college on the East Coast, and 90 percent of the people they know are from Long Island or New York. Half of them think the world ends at the Hudson. No one can ever remember if I attend college in Iowa, Indiana, Illinois or Idaho, because -to them -"all those states" are the same. Yet while they drive five minutes to visit college friends, I fly five hours. My best friends and I cover the major U.S. geographical regions, hailing from L.A., Chicago, Georgia and N.Y. Since starting at ND, rve seen more of the country than anyone else at horne. I love New York and know I'll end up there, but ifI hadn't left to come here I would never have learned so much about the rest of the country-states, people, accents, etc. And that experi­ence, to me, is invaluable. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sheila Flynn at sjlynn2@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error, Grant Johnson was report­ed as having "Tommy John" surgery in a Feb. 11, 2004 article. Johnson actually missed the 2003 sea­
-son while rehabilitating from a shoulder injury. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF NOTRE DAME HOSTING A QUEER FILM FESTIVAL? 


different kinds about people things we aren't ofpeople ... other than used to. •• themselves.·· 


Alyssa Brauweller Rachel Meeks June Barco Kiley Elfrlng Jimmy Costanzo Annie Tilton 
Freshman Freshman Freshman Freshman Junior Freshman Pasquerilla East McGlinn McGlinn McGlinn Fisher McGlinn 
"/ haven't seen "I think it's a ..I don't have a ..I support them ..It shows the ..Go for it! Let it yet. but I say good idea problem with it hosting it university can them do their go for it... because it personally because I think still be thing!, opens people's because people it's good open-minded 
minds to need to learn exposure to about things. •• 
Typo changes ad to 'Brother for Sale' 

VANCOUVER, Wash. Barbara Bennett wanted to sell her Brother brand sewing machine, so she bought a classified adver­tisement under "Miscellaneous" and "Items under $50" in The Columbian newspaper. 
Instead, the words "sewing machine" were accidentally dropped, leaving a "Brother" for sale ad. 
One caller wanted to know if the price was negotiable. Another, upon hearing what was really and lined with bedding that resists dampness. The houses also must be equipped with self-closing doors or flaps. 
for sale,  said  merely,  
TODAY  
a:  


Removed from the final law was a provision that required dog· owners to bring their pets inside if the temperature dips below 20 degrees. 
Violators of the law, which will take effect within 10 days, can lose their dogs and face maxi­mum penalties of 90 days in jail and a $700 fine. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
"Thank you," and hung up. 
Bennett, 41, a customer service representative. said Tuesday she has two brothers in California and is not putting either on the block. Newspaper offi­cials agreed to run a cor­rected ad. 
Ohio town requires waterproof doghouses 
. OLMSTED FALLS, Ohio -Dogs in this Cleveland suburb have something to bark about. 
City Council unanimous­ly approved a law Tuesday requiring dog­houses to be waterproof 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

IN BRIEF 

Remember to vote online in the student body president and vice president runoff election. Online polls are open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
"To Walk Humbly With God­Our Life With the L'Arche Community" will be presented by Holly Arends and Stacie Swanson as part of Disabilities Awareness Week. Their presen­tation will be at 7:30 p.m. tonight in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
Come join Valentine card making in the Dooley Room of LaFortune tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight. The cost is $2, and the event is sponsored by the Class of 2006. 
AcoustiCafe will feature stu­dent artists and authors reading from their own works tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight in the basement of LaFortune. 
The Student Union Board is sponsoring a showing of Disney's "Brother Bear" tonight, Friday and Saturday at 10 p.m. The movie will be shown in 101 DeBartolo, and the cost is $3. 
Come talk about current events in world politics with political science professor Dan Lindley at the Kroc Institute Current Events Roundtable in the South Dining Hall Friday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Look for the Kroc Institute sign in the northwest area of the Hall or the northeast if NW is closed. No readings or preparation neces­sary, just come and exchange news and views. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


18 6 


HIGH LOW 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
.... 
c:r: 
(,) 0 



HIGH 29 HIGH 33 HIGH 31
...I LOW 16 LOW 22 LOW 11 

20 12 
Atlanta 47/33 Boston 34/25 Chicago 30/17 Denver 27/14 Houston 55/ 36 Los Angeles 74146 Minneapolis 14/9 New York 38/31 Philadelphia 40/29 Phoenix 65/41 Seattle 56 I 38 St. Louis 33 I 19 Tampa 77/60 Washington 42 I 29 
Thursday, February 12, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
SMC begins Phone-a-thon month 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's annual Phone-a­thon kicked off last week, begin­ning a month of phone calls made by students asking for donations from sponsors that can be used all throughout campus. 
JudeAnne Wilson, assistant director of the Annual Fund, said the drive is going well so far. 
"We started making calls on Feb. 2," Wilson said. ··Already, we've gotten a lot of positive reactions, and we usually find that this is a good way to make contact with and let alumnae, parents of students and friends of Saint Mary's know what's going on throughout our cam­pus." 
The Phone-a-thon, which has been held consistently for the past 15 years, uses paid student workers to call alumnae, former and current parents of Saint Mary's students and people who have donated to Saint Mary's in the past. After the students 
explain the latest happenings on 
campus, they proceed to ask for 
a donation, which can be allocat­
ed wherever the donator choos­
es. 
Junior Kendall Krische is one 
of the 84 student workers mak­
ing phone calls Sunday through 
Thursday from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
"It was hard at first, and I was 
really nervous the first time I 
called someone," Krische said. 
"But the more you do it, the easi­
er it gets. Let's just say I have a 
newfound respect for people who 
do this for a living." 
Last year, the Phone-a-thon 
campaign raised nearly 
$143,000, donated by 1,621 peo­
ple. In 2002, the campaign 
raised almost $200,000. 
"Our goal this year is to raise 
$150,000," Wilson said. "This is 
a great fundraiser for us, and 
most people are happy to hear 
from the students and get their 
perspective on what is happen­
ing at Saint Mary's." 
The money donated becomes part of the Annual Fund, which ·covers various expenses on cam­
pus. Within that fund, donators can choose to send their money to such causes as student schol­arships, the technology depart­ment, financial aid and other areas needing financial assis­tance on campus. 
"Most people who donate real­ly want to help out the students," Wilson said. "We see a majority of the money being allocated into the financial aid department or into scholarship funds." 
Wilson stresses that students do not make these phone calls only to ask for money. 
"When I train the students, I tell them that they are not only fund-raisers, but they are friend­raisers, as well," Wilson said. "Part of the goal of this drive is to raise awareness of happenings on campus. I encourage the ladies to become friends with the people they call." 
The Phone-a-thon will continue until March 3. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Presidents elected to 
Saint Mary's SOB, RHA 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Presidential elections held Tuesday for Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board and Residence Hall Association left. Ashley Doughty and Adriana Puente and Martha Hottenstein and Jill Funnell to fill their respective administrative posi­tions on April 1. 
Both tickets ran unopposed. In each of the elections, students could choose to vote in favor of the candidates, against the can­didates or abstain. 
Hottenstein and Funnell received 79 percent of the vote in the RHA election. Abstentions accounted for 14 percent and seven percent of students voted in opposition. 
The ticket initially plans to stick to those ideas listed on its platform, but Hottenstein said that more ideas would be dis­cussed once a new board is established. 
"We want to establish a good 
[rapport] with the board and 
make sure everyone is on the 
same page," she said. 

Transitioning Opus Hall, Saint 
Mary's new on-campus apart­
ments, into the RHA is the tick­
et's top priority for the year. It is 
also what Hottenstein and 
Funnell see as their biggest 
challenge, yet one they say they 
are ready to face. 

Doughty and Puente received 
79 percent of the vote in the 
SDB electi(}n. Abstentions 
accounted for 16 percent and 
five percent of students voted 
against the ticket. 

Doughty said she and Puente's 
first priority upon entering 
office is to reach out to accepted 
Saint Mary's students who have 
yet to make their fmal commit­
ment. As specified on the ticket's 
platform, board members will 
include a letter with personal 
contact information in packets 
sent by the admissions office to 
accepted students. The process 
of drafting a letter is already in 
progress, Doughty said. 

In addition to selecting a new 
12-member board, Doughty and 
Puente hope to work toward 
increasing student, faculty and 
staff participation at Student 
Diversity Board events. They 
also intend to broaden aspects 
of diversity beyond those associ­
ated with race and ethnicity. 

"Overall, we just want to keep up with what SDB has done so far," Doughty said. "I think that our platform ideas are feasible to start, ifnot fully achieve." 
Although only 21 percent of students voted in Tuesday's election, neither of the tickets nor elections commissioner Nicole Haeberle was surprised at the turnout. 
"[Voter turnout] seems much lower compared to the student body election we just had, because that was abnormally high," she said. 
She credits the interest in the recent student body election to the fact that opposition existed among tickets for the first time in three years. The three tickets that ran executed successful campaigns and heightened stu­dent interest, Haeberle said. 
"I was happy that students came out considering both the RHA and SDB elections had only one ticket, but I still would liked to have seen a higher voter turnout," she said. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 


Campaign 
continued from page 1 

good voter turnout, and for me, the more people that vote, the better off we are because it shows that people are really interested in stu­dent government." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 



page 4 Thursday, February 12, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
California water-rights ruling could threaten species 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -An effort to save two rare fish more than a decade ago could come back to haunt environmentalists after a recent court decision awarded millions of dollars in compensation to farm­ers who lost water in the process. 
If the December ruling by a fed­eral judge survives expected legal challenges, the government could find itself forced to pay much more for efforts to protect endan­gered fish, draining resources away from conservation. 
The eventual result would have implications across the West, where the federal government often clashes with property own­ers in attempts to save species on the brink of extinction. 
"There may be implications for how the Endangered Species Act is implemented," said Alf W. Brandt, the Interior Department lawyer who argued the govern­ment's case. "There may be impli­cations for how water diversions are made." 
The case stemmed from the government's efforts to protect erty without fair payment. 
Wiese's Dec. 31 ruling, which awarded $26 million to a group of California farmers for the water diversion, is a clear victory for champions of property rights, who have sought to rein in what they see as regulatory excesses com­mitted in the name of the environ­ment. 
"What the court found is that the government is certainly free to protect the fish under the Endangered Species Act, but it must pay for the water that it takes to do so," said Roger J. Marzulla, the attorney represent­ing the water districts that brought the claim. 
Environmentalists called the ru]­ing a stealth attack on the Endangered Species Act that could gut efforts to preserve species in the future by making them too costly to enforce. 
"The purpose of these suits is simply a backdoor attack on envi­ronmental laws," said Barry Nelson, a senior policy analyst with the National Resources Defense Council. "And frankly, it's to bust the federal budget as the price tag for complying with envi­ronmental-protection laws." 
Along the California-Oregon line, for example, a similar comt case could leave the government with a $100 million bill for \\ater diverted from farmers in 2001 for species protection. 

endangered winter-run chinook salmon and threatened delta smelt between 1992 and 1994 by withholding billions of gallons from farmers in California's Kern and Tulare counties. 
Court of Federal Claims Senior Judge John Wiese ruled that the government's halting of water constituted a "taking" or intrusion on the farmers' private property rights. The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution prohibits the gov­ernment from taking private prop-

The Office ofStudent Activities is currently accepting new club proposals. Ifyou have an idea for a club, whose pu'(pose is not currently served by an existing club, the Club Coordination Council encourages the submission of a new club proposal to the Student Activities Office for review. More infom1ation can be found at: w~vw.nd.eduJ-sao/clubsin~·club.htm All requirements must be completed before the new dub proposal will be reviewed, including: 
Budget List ofplanned events/activities Advisor List ofofficers Bylaws and purpose statement 



10 p.m. 2 a.m. La Fortune Ballroom 

Thursday, February 12, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Haiti death toll reaches 4 7 
GONAIVES, Haiti -To cheers of approval, rebels set ablaze an accused gov­ernment hit man and shot another man Wednesday, raising the death toll to 46 in a popular uprising that began in this tradition­al hotbed of revolutionary fervor. President Jean-Bertrand Aristide said he would not resign. 
South of Gonaives, police attacked rebels holed up in a slum in the port city of St. Marc, and witnesses said gunmen loyal to Aristide torched homes, killing two people, as looting and reprisals raged. 
In northern Cap-Haitien, Haiti's second­largest city, sporadic gunshots crackled overnight, attackers looted a food warehouse and Aristide militants set up blazing barri­cades to prevent a possible rebel incursion. 
The armed revolt has spread to several of the nation's towns and cities since beginning last Thursday in Gonaives, about 60 miles north of the capital, Port-au-Prince. But the weeklong rebellion has become somewhat of a stalemate, and much of the country remains quiet. 
Russian candidate resurfaces 
MOSCOW -A Russian presidential candi­date who disappeared for five days gave a rambling account of his absence Wednesday, suggesting in a radio interview that he spent part of it hiding out in Ukraine from shadowy operatives tailing him for two years. 
But Ivan Rybkin also lashed out at authori­ties for not informing Russians about his whereabouts, saying they easily could have tracked his movements across the Ukraine border through a border control computer. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Mass. govt. rejects compromise 
BOSTON-The Massachusetts Legislature narrowly rejected a compromise proposal Wednesday that sought to legalize civil unions but ban same-sex marriages, deliver­ing a setback to lawmakers who wanted to avoid taking the divisive issue head-on. 
The defeat of the compromise means that lawmakers will return to the Statehouse on Thursday to consider either an outright ban on gay marriage or letting the state's consti­tution remain intact. 
The joint House and Senate session adjourned for the evening about 8:30 p.m. after about six hours of debate. 
The bipartisan proposal was crafted by Senate leaders who wished to overturn a high court decision legalizing gay marriage while still extending equal benefits to gay couples. It was rejected 104-94. 
Texas murderer executed 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas -Maintaining his innocence, a convicted killer was executed Wednesday for a 1991 triple slaying in which one victim was a 10-year-old girl pregnant with his child. 
"I just want to say I am not sad or bitter ' with anybody," Edward Lagrone said in a brief final statement. "Like I've said from Day One, I didn't kill them. But I'm no better than the people that did." 
He concluded by saying: "Jesus is Lord. That's all I have to say." 
STATE NEWS 

House examines Kernan's request 
INDIANAPOLIS -House Republicans filed a formal records request Tuesday seeking more details about an effort backed by Gov. Joe Kernan to have an absent Democratic lawmaker vote for part of his full-day kinder­garten plan from home. 
"There are still a lot of questions out there that shouldn't be dropped," House Minority Leader Brian Bosma, R-Indianapolis, said during a Statehouse news conference. 
Hours later, Indiana State Police Superintendent Mel Carraway issued a for­mal response that provided few new details, including those about Carraway's own involvement. 
IRAQ 

Civilians woundedin Baghdad 
Second suicide bombing in two days leaves up to 47 dead; total count nears 100 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A second suicide bombing in as many days killed up to 4 7 people Wednesday, pushing the toll in the back-to-hack attacks to 
100. Again, Iraqis were the targets -this time, a crowd of volunteers for Iraq's new army -in an apparent campaign to wreck U.S. plans to trans­fer power by summer. 
The U.S. military posted 
a $10 million bounty on a 
Jordanian militant sus­
pected of organizing vio­
lence by foreign fighters 
and plotting an accelera­
tion in attacks aimed at 
sparking a Sunni-Shiite 
civil war in Iraq. 
The United States made 
public a letter to al-Qaida 
leaders thought to be sent 
by the militant, Abu 
Musab al-Zarqawi. In it, 
he warns that militants 
are in a "race against 
time" to stop the June 30 
handover of power, when 
Iraqi security forces will 
take a stronger role in 
battling the insurgency. 
The military announced 
Monday that it intercept­
ed the document. 
In Wednesday's attack in Baghdad, an 
A U.S. Army soldier stands In the rain ori Tuesday in Baghdad, directing Iraqi citi­
Oldsmobile packed with 
zens away from the scene of the second suicide bombing In two days.
300 to 500 pounds of 
explosives drove up to a because the crowd was Division, said he saw a Hussein. "They · view 
crowd of Iraqis waiting likely a mix of Sunnis and connection between al-· police in training to be 
outside an army recruit­Shiites. Zarqawi-and his memo collaborators with the 
ment center -only a few But the suicide bombing -and the recent bomb-U.S.," the official said, 
blocks from the heavily Tuesday targeted a mostly ings. speaking on condition of 
fortified Green Zone, Shiite town, lskandariyah, "Iskandariyah is right anonymity. 
headquarters of the U.S. south of the capital. A on the line between Sunni A prominent Sunni 
administration. truck carrying a similar and Shiite, so the attack Muslim cleric, Hareth at­
The driver detonated amount of explosives blew there might be trying to Darri, called al-Zarqawi 
the explosives, killing 4 7 up outside a police sta-foment some kind of civil "an imaginary character" 
people and wounding 55, tion, killing 53 Iraqis, war," said Swannack, and expressed doubt that 
the U.S.-led coalition said. including would-be whose division is based in he was playing a central 
The Iraqi Interior recruits lined up to apply the town. role in the insurgency. 
Ministry put the toll at 46 for jobs. A U.S. official in "Our position on resist-
dead. There was no claim of Washington said al-ance in Iraq is that of any 
The aim Wednesday was responsibility for the rare Zarqawi's involvement Muslim whose land is clearly to kill Iraqis work­consecutive attacks, but could not be ruled out, occupied," al-Darri, head ing with the U.S. -led Maj. Gen. Charles H. but that tlfe blasts were of the Muslims' Scholars coalition, rather than a Swannack Jr., commander more likely the work of Committee of Iraq, said in particular religious group, of the 82nd Airborne supporters of Saddam an interview Wednesday. 


Kerry looks at campaign strategies 
Senator Kerry," said Democratic back down." 
Associated Press 

strategist Michael Feldman. Thus, he's already begun to build 
WASHINGTON -The nomination "Going toe-to-toe with President up his general election campaign. within reach, John Kerry's advis­Bush is also the best way to secure It starts, as with much in ers are discussing strategies for the Democratic nomination," American politics, with money. sharpening his message, spending Feldman said. His former boss, AI Kerry plans to tap $15 million in his money, airing TV ads and col­Gore, polished off the 2000 the Democratic National lecting a winner's share of the 538 Democratic nominating struggle Committee coffers to respond to a electoral votes in November's gen­while at the same time eying Bush. multimillion-dollar TV ad cam­eral election. With each of his 12 primary sea­paign Bush is poised to unleash 
While the candidate focuses on son victories, Kerry has stepped up once Democrats select a nominee. defeating John Edwards and his criticism of Bush. He calls In addition, Democratic interest Howard Dean to sew up the White House foreign policy feck­groups are raising tens of millions Democratic race, parts of his less, Iraq policy reckless, domestic of dollars that can be spent to crit­mushrooming political team have policy ruthless and distortions of icize Bush, though not in coordina­put President Bush firmly in their his own record baseless. tion with Kerry. sights. "George Bush and the Campaign aides are just begin­
"In a cycle that has been this Republican smear machine has ning to develop a budget for the 
unpredictable, the Kerry campaign begun trotting out the same old period between when the nomina­is wise to stay focused on the task tired lines of attack," Kerry said tion is· settled -as early as March at hand. But engaging the adminis­recently, adding that he has news 2 -and the nominee officially tration serves a dual purpose for for Republicans: "I am not going to accepts it in early August. 

Thursday, February 12, 2004 

page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING WELCOMES EARLY ADMITTED ENGINEERING INTENTS 
William Andrews Adam Hipp Erin Mulholland 
William ~hibald Erin Johnson Katelyn Mulwiney Ryan Bailey Owen Jones Eric Natke Andrew Bauer Daniel JUI'tice Robert Neal Brett Belock Neha Kamat Patrick Nolan 

Steven Bennett Danielle Kamel Justin Ochsenbein Chri~pherBenPnan Nichola Kluesner Mepn o•eonnell Michael Brosnan Caitlin Kopf Peter o•Malley Andrew Carter Jeff Kusch Rocco Panella Sara Carter Nichola LaMott Michael Paolicchi Philip Catania Jarrett Llintz JOieph Pescatore Brian Caven Jeaica Lawtea Timothy Peterson Michael Clarke Grqorylim Matlhew Pl'ftOiki Joanna Cumminp Robert Lindley Jr. Nicholas Ransom Clinton Cyr Evan Lintz JOihua Raycraft Andrew Deck Derek Upp Colin Roach Laura ED Michelle LDmaco James Samilo William Fotleh Christine Lou Jeffrey Simmer Philip Gonnan Mike Mack Nichola• Stephens Ryan Groa Thomas Martin Ryan Sydlik Joshua Hammack Jesse McGannon Dome~~ic Tauoni 
· Herbert Hanna Andrew McMorrow Patrick Tennant Michael Hltke Erin Meyer Richelle Thomas Rob Heinen Marpret Miazp Christina Timmi111 Brendan Hennessy James Miller John Wloch Mark Herman Matthew Morris Laurel Wucherer Robert Herzoc Caitlin Motsinaer Alexander Wu lz Phillip Hicks Dan ZibtDn · 
CDL.L..EII:iE t:l F 

ENI:iiNI!SRINf:i 
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU IN OUR CLASS OF 2008. 
March 23, 2004 at 6:00 PM 
Dinner in the Notre Dame Stadium Press Box 
Father Bill Miscamble, CSC , will reflect on Fear in the Christian Life to open a faith-based discussion with professors and fellow students. 


If interested, e--mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give your name, local phone number and address. Spaces are limited to the first eighty students who respond. We welcome all students regardless oftheir faith commitment. It's free dinner at the press box -what do you have to lose? DON'T BE AFRAID, and sign up today! 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture For more infonnation, please visit our website at www.nd.edu/,-~ndethics 


----~ 
Thursday, February 12, 2004 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 737.70 +123.85
jones ' 


~~.~~ 
~,.,,i]]:~;:~;.&.1;:i!iili·!r{l..i%1:~246.:~.o·· ... '.t•l.o.·s~••·,,.;,i 

.66 +14.33 ..•.. •• .• •. .•.• :r~m,£±Z:.4,tQ1illi~;; , S&P~oo ...............··.· 1,ls7~76 +12.22 ~R,~('[Oilf9J''··:fo';365~4o·•···· 'J!i.i;i o'~oO''~I~Ir. 
FTSE. IOO(London) 4,396.00 -8.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
COMCAST SSPCL (CMCSK)  -8.62  -2.84  30.10  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -2.18  -0.54  24.24  
COMCAST CORPA (CMCSA)  -7.96  -2.70  31.23  
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -0.33  -0.0 I  3.01  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +3.61  +0.20  5.74  
Treasuries  
30.YEAR BOND  +0.65  -0.44  48.97  
I()..YEAR NOTE  +0.91  -0.81  40.21  
5-YEAR NOTE  +1.44  -1.10  29.94  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.99  -0.11  9.10  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.13  34.00  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +3.70  410.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.35  94.45  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I05.4  
EURO  0.7789  
POUND  0.5283  

IN BRIEF 
Oracle, PeopleSoft merger blocked 
SAN FRANCISCO -Business software maker Oracle Corp. lost an important round when the Justice Department recommended blocking its proposed $9.4 billion takeover of rival PeopleSoft Inc., but the fierce fight still isn't over. 
Just how badly Oracle has been hurt by Tuesday's recommendation will hinge on how much clout the advice carries with Assistant Attorney General R. Hewitt Pate, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust depart­ment. He will make the final decision, due by March 2, on whether there's ample reason to stand in the way of Oracle's $26-per-share bid for PeopleSoft. 
Until Pate decides, Pleasanton, Calif.-based PeopleSoft appears to have regained the upper hand in its eight-month slugfest with Oracle. 
The momentum shift comes less than a week after Redwood Shores, Calif.-based Oracle stepped up the pressure on PeopleSoft by rais­ing its all-cash bid by 33 percent in a move many analysts predicted would seal the deal. 
SEC adopts fund changes 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators are moving closer to banning payments by mutual fund companies to induce brokers to sell cer­tain funds -a practice that critics say creates conflicts of interest and hurts investors. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission also voted Wednesday to adopt new rules requiring funds to provide investors a twice­yearly "shareholder report" with fuller infor­mation on fees and expenses. The report will include the dollar amount of fund expenses paid by shareholders on a $1,000 investment. 
The SEC, which has been making a series of changes in rules governing the mutual fund industry, is promising that dramatic reforms protecting investors from abuses will be in place by early summer. 
The agency has been under pressure from investor advocates and lawmakers who are pushing legislation to overhaul the fund indus­try amid growing evidence that ordinary shareholders are hurt by trading and market­ing abuses. 
• _..,,_._. ... ,..,._,.,,. • ., a'Mo
' ......... .. 





Comcast makes bid for Disney 
Cable television company offers over $50 billion for Walt Disney Company 
Associated Press 
ORlANDO, Fla. -Cable television giant Comcast Corp. made a surprise bid Wednesday to buy The Walt Disney Co. for more than $54 billion, a deal that would take advantage of Disney's growing vulner­ability to create the world's biggest media conglomer­ate. 
Disney's board released a statement saying it would "carefully evaluate" Comcast's unsolicited offer. 
If approved, the deal would drastically alter the nation's media landscape by bringing together two companies that have enor­mous interests in the film, television and cable TV industries.-
Comcast is the nation's largest cable company with 21 million subscribers, and has a stake in several cable networks, while Disney owns the ABC and ESPN television networks, in addition to movie stu­dios and theme parks. 
Comcast CEO Brian Robellts said the combina­tion "would create one of the world's premier enter­tainment and communica­tions companies, and, we believe, restore the Disney brand to prominence and the company to growth." 

A Disney-Comcast combi­Disney, the nephew of first-quarter earnings. respond appropriately." nation would eclipse Time Disney founder Walt As if to answer the bid, Analysts said the Disney­Warner as the world's Disney, and Stanley E. Gold Disney released its first­Comcast combination biggest media company. about his performance and quarter earnings hours made sense, but ques­
The offer comes at a vul­lack of a succession plan. sooner than originally tioned whether Comcast 
nerable time for Disney. Comcast said Eisner planned. would be able to sufficient­The boardroom has been declined earlier this week The earnings easily beat ly sweeten the pot. in turmoil over Disney to discuss a possible merg­analysts' expectations and They also were not sur­chief Michael Eisner's lead­er. showed the company was prised that Comcast, which ership and the collapse of The bid was initially val­firmly on a turnaround has access to cable sub­talks to extend the compa­ued at $54 billion, but that would see 30 percent scribers, would be interest­ny's lucrative deal with investors bid up the price earnings growth this year ed in Disney, with its visi­
Pixar Animation Studios, of Disney stock beyond the and double digit growth ble brand and roster of which created such block­Comcast offer -a signal until at least 2007, Eisner top-rated cable channels. buster hits as "Toy Story" that Comcast would have said. But they were taken off and "Finding Nemo." to sweeten its offer to be Eisner made a brief ref­guard by the timing. Disney is also suffering successful. erence to the bid at the Disney's stock, which has from lagging performances Comcast made the beginning of a conference lagged over the past six at key businesses such as announcement just as call to discuss the earn­years or so, has risen ABC. Disney was to start two ings, saying the board had sharply over the past year 
The deal could mean the days of meetings with ana­asked Disney's manage­and earnings have also end of the 20-year career lysts at its flagship Walt ment and advisers to "to climbed on the strength of of Eisner, who is fending Disney World theme park provide an in-depth analy­Disney's film slate and a off criticism from former and hours before Disney sis of· the proposal to turnaround at its theme board members Roy E. was to announce strong enable the board to parks. 



Greenspan cautions about deficit 
sible increases in short-term interest "Federal budget deficits could 

Associated Press 
rates, which now are at a 45-year cause difficulties even in the rela­

WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve low of 1 percent. The comment tively near term," Greenspan told Chairman Alan Greenspan warned pleased Wall Street. The Dow Jones the House Financial Services on Wednesday that mushrooming industrials jumped 123.85 points to Committee. federal budget deficits eventually close at 10,737.70-the highest "Should investors become signifi­could threaten the national economy, level in more than 2 1/2 years. cantly more doubtful that the which he said had shown "impres­Still, he said low interest rates Congress will take the necessary fis­sive gains." "will not be compatible indefinitely" cal measures, an appreciable back­
Greenspan, delivering the central with the Fed's orimary job of fighting up in long-term interest rates is pos­bank's twice-a-year economic report inflation. Some private economists sible," Greenspan said. • card to Congress, offered a fairly believe the Fed could start nudging That view is at odds with the upbeat assessment and expressed up rates this year. Others predict administration, which has argued hope companies would step up hir­rates will not change until 2005. that the deficits pose no immediate ing. Hiring has been painfully slow Greenspan tempered his optimism threat of pushing interest rates high­and become a political sore spot for with a dose of caution about the er. President Bush. dangers of budget deficits. The administration has pledged to 
Against that backdrop, Greenspan Last week, the Bush administra­cut the deficit in half over the next reaffirmed the Fed's stance that it tion projected that this year's deficit five years. Rep. Jay Inslee, D-Wash., would be patient in considering pos-will reach a record $521 billion. said that pledge was a "fantasy." 
page 8 Thursday, February 12, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
tion employee working near the letter, which will be pub­
Campus Life Council to form a the site. lished in The Observer on 
task force to investigate the possi­

Senate

Chad 
bility of such a requirement. isolated tragedy, Poorman "We sure would've liked to 
While he described it as an Friday. 
"We're going to make as few
continued from page 1

continued from page 1 
expressed hope that Sharon's have been there with every­
demands as possible and as many home with God. I encourage situation would strike a chord body," Steve Sharon said, but 
tors. "What we're asking from you suggestions as possible to get the everyone to come out to Mass with students who venture off he and Jane both faced time 
is support to investigate ... how best response," Feeney said. [tonight] and celebrate Chad's campus into what can often be constraints from their full-time 
we can work with the various life." dangerous territory. jobs. Sharon said that he and 
bodies of this institution so that we 
In other Senate news: 
can get a better understanding of

Moss said that he planned to "Chad's death was a tragic his wife had decided to cele­
+ Judicial Board president Elliot 

call the Sharons after the accident that reminds us how brate their son's dream by cre­
diversity on campus." 
Poindexter updated senators on 

Mass's reception, which will fragile life truly is," he said. "It ating a scholarship fund for a 
The letter also addressed the 
the student body presidential elec­

include the dedication of a is difficult to know how to pre­student from Merrill to attend 
options available to students if this 
tions. Poindexter reminded sena­

plaque and the announcement vent a similar situation. It just the University. 
proposition became mandatory. 
tors of the debates between the 

of a tree to be planted in the reminds us to be as mindful as "We wanted to pass it on in 
"There are currently many 
last two tickets, Charlie Ebersol­

spring to honor Chad Sharon's possible in looking out for each his name," Steve Sharon said. 
classes available which would ful­
James Leito and Adam Istvan­

memory. other, especially when students "He just loved Notre Dame." 
fill this need," the letter said, "for 
Karla Bell, which took place

"His RA put it so well last find themselves in unfamiliar Kirk encouraged students 
example, 'Race, Ethnicity and 
Wednesday night. He also 

year at the funeral -he was surroundings off campus." feeling intense loss to respond 
American Politics,' taught by 
informed senators that the runoff 

'Smiling Chad,"' Moss said. He added that he and other to the positivity of the Sharons' 
[assistant professor of political sci­
election takes place today from 8 

"He was so anxious, so happy University officials had kept in wishes. 
ence] Alvin Tillery, as well as 
a.m. to 8 p.m.

about being here, so glad to be contact with the Sharons since "We gather so often in 
'Whiteness Studies,' which is 
+ Student body president Jeremy 

a part of ND -just a wonder­their son's death. prayer to celebrate life, and 
taught by [assistant professor of 
Lao informed senators about the 

ful spirit." "Steve and Jane are wonder­we plan to do that [tonight,]" 
American Studies] Thomas 
survey that will soon be put out by

Sharon's close friends at ful people, and I've grown Kirk said. "We want to cele­
Guglielmo ... " 
the Office of Residence Life and 
"As an institution of higher edu­

Notre Dame praised that spirit, close to them in the course of brate the time he was with 
Housing. Lao encouraged the sen­

saying that the sincerity and this whole ordeal," Poorman us." 
cation, the University of Notre 
ators to participate in the survey.
Dame has an obligation to deal

contentment they remembered said. Altfillisch echoed these 
"(The survey] has lots of implica­

in Sharon was still a part of Bill Kirk, associate vice pres­thoughts. 
with the racial tension existing on 
tions on the future of ResLife," he

their everyday lives. ident of residence life, said "For those that knew him, 
this campus," it continued. 
said. "I encourage you, and

"We don't ever forget him. that he speaks with the don't mourn," she said. "Just 
Badin senator and chair of the 
encourage all of your constituents, 

He was a great guy," said jun­Sharons "about once a remember him, remember his 
Senate's diversity committee 
to take that survey." 

ior Danita Altfillisch, who month," and that he had invit­smile, remember his spirit." 
Laura Feeney said that her com­attended high school with ed them to the Mass. When 
mittee will so<m present a resolu­Contact Maureen Reynolds at Sharon in Merrill, Wis. "His they could not attend, Kirk Contact Claire Heininger at 
tion to the Senate asking the mreynold@nd.edu 

dad is always saying how Chad said, they proposed the idea of cheining@nd.edu wouldn't have wanted us to be sad and mourn, just to be happy, because that's how Chad was." Tom Gorman, who lived on the third floor of Fisher across from Sharon last fall, agreed that Sharon would not have wanted his friends to dwell on the negative. "He would want us to go out and have a normal day," Gorman said. "He was just that kind of person -he never did anything for himself. It \\as always for everyone else. That's how we remember him in Fisher." Fisher freshmen have had this memory passed along, as well, through the efforts of upperclassmen. Gorman said that during Freshman Orientation, several new resi­dents saw Sharon's portrait hanging in the hallway and asked him who it was. Gorman told them, and then cautioned them about their own actions. "We've been pushing it on the freshmen -it's a tough learning tool, but you have to learn from it," Gorman said. "It becomes subconscious. Always jump in cabs. When people leave, leave with them." Sharon's death occurred after he left a Corby Street party alone at around 2 a.m. on Dec. 12, 2002. He was reported missing by Fisher Hall staff on Dec. 13, prompt­ing a comprehensive investiga­tion by both Notre Dame Security Police and state authorities. Notre Dame and local businesses offered a $50,000 reward for informa­tion leading to Sharon's safe return as helicopter and dog searches were conducted throughout the local area for the next two months. On the afternoon of Feb. 12, his body was discovered partially sub­merged underneath the river's Angela Bridge by a construe­
1-800·648-4849/ WWYI.stslravel.com 



~----------------------------------­
Thursday, February 12, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 


Lawmakers cite halftime show in demands to end indecency 
Associated Press t h e t a l k o f C a p i t o l H i ll o n latest example of all that's WASHINGTON -Janet Wednesday, with lawmakers wrong with TV and should Jackson's exposed breast was and regulators saying it's the serve as the impetus for gov-

Auditions Mar. 1~2, 3 8:30-10:30 P.M.-­-_-_ Crolvley Hall ofMttsic -­
"lVatclt fill! sig;nnps in La:Ftt:tland both_ di••inghalls or email Illftu•man@nd.edu 
SP()nso~etl bytbe Class of2005 

.: '11ie Career Center 
TU ~ ~ 
f./1!£M.wr 4N6trt llt~e fh Li4· 

Looking 'for a job or internship? 
ImmediateApplication DeadlinesforTop Notch Campaniesl 
Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
Travelers Ins. -F/T FPL-F/T 2/13 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 2/15 ENG 
21 applicants to date Group One Trading -F/T 2/14 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG, Grad Nestle USA-F/T Only 13 applicants 2/15 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 
ONLY 1 0 applicantsStarcom Media -F/T 2/14 A&L Menlo Worldwide -F/T 
2/16 BUS Tucker Alan -Intern 15 applicants to date 2/14 BUS 
National City Corp -F/TMotorola -F/T 2/21 A&L, BUS 2/14 BUS Just posted! Caremark -F/T 2/21 ENG Stryker Instruments -F/T 
ONLY 2 applicants2/15 ENG 18 applicants to date ACNielsen -F/T 
2/21 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG Ritchie Capital -Intern 
ONLY 8 applicants 2/15 BUS 23 applicants to date Technology Service-F/T 
2/21 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG Maxim lntegr. Prod.-F/T Just Posted! 2/15 A&L, BUS, ENG ONLY 7 applicants 
Shell Oil-F/T 2/15 ENG ONLY 7 applicants 
ernment to get tough with broadcasters. 
At a pair of hearings, law­makers excoriated Mel Karmazin, president of Viacom Inc. His company owns CBS, which broadcast the raunchy Super Bowl half­
time  show  that  included  
Jackson.  
Members  of  the  House  

Te I e communications Committee spent more than two hours grilling Karmazin, who again apologized for the show that ended with singer Justin Timberlake tearing off part of Jackson's top and exposing her right breast to 90 million TV viewers. 
"You knew what you were doing," said Rep. Heather Wilson, R-N .M .. her voice cracking. "You wanted us to be all abuzz. It lines your pockets." 
Karmazin insisted that CBS and MTV did not know about plans to rip off Jackson's top, nor the crotch-grabbing dance steps that were also included in the halftime show. He said none of those actions took place during rehearsals. 

"Everyone at Viacom and everyone at CBS and everyone at MTV was shocked and appalled and embarrassed at what had happened," Karmazin said. 
To prevent a repeat, he said CBS will air live programming on a five-minute delay, which was done for the Grammy awards this week. He said the network-owned stations would also buy equipment so that locally televised live programs would also be time-delayed. And he said the network was reviewing its standards for commercials in response to criticism over a movie trailer for a horror film and Super Bowl ads showing a flatulent horse and a crotch-biting dog. 
The halftime show, pro­duced by CBS' corporate cousin MTV, drew more than 200,000 complaints to the Federal Communications Commission. 

le *Herve-Chapeli . t * Seven Jeans * Fren 
312 \V. Cleveland Ave. Granger> IN 46530 
(574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfa-x: Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 
2003-04 


Actors From The Lo11don Sta.ge Romeo and Juliet 
bv William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, February 11 .......7:30 p.m. Friday, February 13 ............ 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 12 ............7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 14 .... 7:30 p.m. 
• 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 



Thursday, February 12, 2004 

page 10 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

What's next for our relationship after graduation? 




at's 

I 
' 
•, ' 

~ 
Please join us for an afternoon of reflection and discussion designed I for dating couples who are discerning the next stage of a relationship I, commitment. 
Sunday, Feb 29, 2:00 -5:00 p.111. 
in room 330 of the Coleman-Morse Center --Pre-registration is required by Friday, Feb 27, at noon. 
• 

•• --Applications are available in 114 Coleman-Morse Center or 319 • 
• 

. • • Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk • • (there is no cost for this program) 
•
•
. 

• C-M 
•

• Campus Ministry
. •• • Questions: call John or Sylvia Dillon at 1-7163 •
•

···············•••••••··•·····································································•·························································································· 

..~----­
Thursday, February 12, 2004 page 11
The Observer + NEWS 
Ebersol and Leito fielded
SOUTH KOREA 
questions from Istvan and




Debates 
Bell about their policies of placing a student on the

continued from page 1
Researchers cull stem cells from clone 
Board of Trustees and creat­
Associated Press 
SEOUL -Researchers in South Korea for the first time have cloned a human embryo and then culled stem cells from it, marking an important step toward one day growing patients' own replacement tis­sue to treat diseases. 
The experiment is sure to revive controversy over human cloning, both in the United States and internationally. 
This is not cloning to make babies. Instead it's called ther­apeutic cloning, in which embryos that are the genetic twins of a particular patient are grown in a test-tube to supply master stem cells that can grow into any tissue ­without being rejected by that patient's immune system. 
The technique offers the potential of breakthrough treatments for diabetes, Parkinson's and other dis­eases, but any therapy is years away from being tested in peo­ple. 

Scientists have used thera­peutic cloning to partially cure laboratory mice with an immune svstem disease. And they kno~ how to cull stem cells from human embryos left over in fertility clinics, offering the potential of cell therapy but not patient-specific treat­ment. 
But attempts at cloning a human embryo in the stem-cell quest have failed until now. 
Scientists from Seoul National University report they succeeded -thanks, they say, to using extremely fresh eggs donated by South Korean vol­unteers and finding a gentler way of handling the genetic material inside them. 
The report appears in Friday's edition of Science magazine. 
It's elegant work that pro­vides long-anticipated proof that the technique is possible using human cells, said stem­cell researcher Dr. Rudolf Jaenisch of the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, Mass. 
"That's an important point to prove," he said. 
Still, "it's not of practical use at this point," Jaenisch said, stressing that years of addi­tional research are required. 
For one thing. the cloning technique still doesn't work well: The Seoul team collected 242 eggs, from which they suc­ceeded in cloning 30 blasto­cysts -early-stage embryos containing a mere 100 cells. From those, they harvested just one colony of stem cells. 
Still, it's likely to renew debate over whether all forms of human cloning should be banned. In Congress, the House last year voted to do that, but the Senate stalled over whether there should be an exception for research of this type. 
from the audience. 
"Most of the press sur­rounding this election has been experience, and incor­rectly so. We have the expe­rience we need ... and it's not like they're going to stick us in the president's office and say 'Go.' Besides, we have more Notre Dame experi­ence, and still live on cam­pus," said presidential candi­date Adam Istvan, opening the evening's debate. 
Presidential candidate Charlie Ebersol countered, defending the value of expe­rience for next year's student body president. 
"This election is essentially all about experience. The restructuring of the student government is something you had to have been involved with to be able to take advantage of," said E}?ersol. "It's not about being on cam­pus the longest; it's about being involved with campus government longer." 


MEDIA 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A panel ofalumni and alumnae reflect on the integration offaith and Jocial concer!'M into life heyond Notre Da1ne. 
Sunday,Februa~l5 
4:00 -5:30 pm Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
Speakert:~ 
Tara Dix '98 
-. 

Assistant Editor, 
U.S. Catholic Magazine, Chicago 
Mike Schmiedeler '94 Vice President of Production, Towers Productions, Inc., Chicago 
Don Wycliff '69 City Editor, Chicago Tribune 


ndvi 
NOTRE DAME VOCATION INITIATIVE 
. . ... 
. . . . .. . . 
ing an endowment for speak­
ers and concerts. 
"The votes for [getting a 
student on the Board of 
Trustees] exist because of 
relationships I developed, 
and they won't be there for 
another president ... This 
needs to be the president's 
main priority," said Ebersol 
of his ability to get a student 
on the Board of Trustees. 
Vice presidential candidate 
James Leito went on to 
defend their plan for a 
speaker endowment. 
"The endowment allows 
student organizations not to 
worry about losing money 
when they bring in speakers 
or concerts ... Charlie's writ­
ing the report on this and 
knows where the money is," 
Leito said. 
Istvan responded by citing 
the controversy surrounding 
the David Spade event last 
semester, calling it a "mis­
management of funds that 
showed [Ebersol] missed 
what student involvement 
would be." 
Bell spoke on the issue of 
gender relations on campus, 
and the lack of diversity 
involving sexual-orientation. 
"We will continue to work 
on getting a Gender Resource 
Center, and recognizing the 
Gay/Straight Alliance on 
campus," Bell said. 
During the portion of the 
debate when the candidates 
took questions from the audi­
ence, each ticket was able to 
speak on a variety of topics, 
including their plans to 
reduce student apathy on 
campus. 
"Our greatest asset is being able to use senators and dorm presidents to get opin­ions from the students who speak up in hall councils, or those that talk to the repre­sentatives around the dorms," Bell said. 
Ebersol agreed with the benefits of placing a greater emphasis on residence life representation in student government, but also added his own opinion. 
"Apathy is something you want to combat by getting feedback, and we plan on creating as many means of getting feedback as possible," said Ebersol. 
Istvan and Bell also detailed their "pledge sys­tem," which would aim at getting SYRs back in the dorms by having students sign a pledge not to abuse alcohol during the dance, and Ebersol and Leito explained their new TCE pol­icy, which would require that TCEs be taken mid-semester rather than at the end of the course so as to receive more valuable feedback. 
"Everything on our plat­form has been well­researched," said Leito dur­ing the debate's closing state­ments. "Not only are we looking to solve short-term problems, but we want to improve upon the University for future generations." 
In his final argument, Istvan said, "We can relate to every student on this cam­pus.... In all of our policy, we're looking out for the stu­dents." 
Online voting for the elec­tion will take place today from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.cdu 




){ The Obse~ ~ ~he .ifu:iere~clen.t, dailY newspaper ...... 
...•.:::·r,':~~!~}Zr-~b.~~~~·~th~tu~~~············•··•···· 
:;:f5¥lleg~; F4inmai c:9nr~i.iitC:hlding #J~u. w.• 
... :: not governedwpolicies Ofdie: admitUStiition Ofdthei ·.;.:.··· 
<insti(ufioQ.Th(~{~~ th#ii~r~J:e.f&c < ? ad~~ b:&qt#<;,c#~r,·· \·.·....·.....•.•..·. ···•··•·••····• •.. ···•:::••••·poslJbkir=~i~~a;r~(~o~~ras••·····••·••• 

! 1·······~~:::l-~\e;~elli~··········
•>Commen~ letters anaeulUIJlns F"<:SCilt tlt~e yiews •••...· 4f the auth.On andM( ~ily cllQ5e ~< 


ItaraE~~•:
::: •conract il1f0111'1iiti0n. ·.·.·' ·.· · · · · · · · · · · · 

···-~~~=~~~~1!'~?···
~:~)~.19,~~. 
ThOI>i<r<i:<#p&lie.t~i •. 1!l{Sc!~ib P~AJ w.J~,•.· :, .=::. NOcoe-banic;.lN<I65~ .... ··, .· 
l't~~poi.t#~l:l~·.·
-.otl :iidalitlP""' itlallilli ~-. . . . 

It is more than half a century since Orwell warned that the English lan­guage was in a bad way and that this fact had political consequences. 
"Politics and the English Language" was a timely essay, and it will continue to be timely for as long as the English 
Peter Wicks 
language is in dan­ger, Which is to say: It will continue to be 

Englishman
timely for as long as the English lan­Abroad guage exists. 
1\vo decades after Orwell's essay was published, W. H. Auden estimated that nine-tenths of the population of England did not know what 30 percent of the words they used actually meant. I suspect that matters are even worse now, on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Consider, for example, the phrase "one of a kind," which means-as a moment's thought will show -the opposite of what it is commonly used to mean. Now, it might be replied that there is really no problem here. Since the phrase is never used literally, to denote membership of a group, the col­loquial usage creates no confusion. But note that the literal meaning of the words is much more precise than the new meaning, which is indeterminate between "exceptional" and "unique." 
We cannot stop our language from changing, but the process is not totally outside of our control. A healthy linguis­tic conservatism is based upon the observation that the colloquial use of language is almost always less precise than its literal usage and thus involves a waste of meaning. 
Words are precision instruments and like other such instruments, they are easy to break and hard to repair. You can use a microscope to knock a nail into a wall, but it won't be any use as a microscope afterwards. Words often lose meaning through pretentious usage, and we should regard the man who uses "decimate" to mean destroy much as we would regard a carpenter who thinks he is displaying a superior intellect by using a microscope instead 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

For dictionaries, against thesauri 
.·:····· 

of a hammer. 
In schools, teachers often encourage carelessness by advising their students to use a thesaurus to avoid repetition. This gives the false impression that words are interchangeable, when in fact there are no perfect synonyms. No words have exactly the same connota­tions and a thesaurus should only ever be used in conjunction with a diction­ary, to discern which word best expresses what the writer wishes to say. 
Cliches and dead metaphors are 
The term cliche was origi­the reader to fully update nally a metaphor itself, Auden's list, but any mod­derived from printing ern version would surely techniques. To say that include "dialogue" and someone's language is "unilateral." cliched is to say that it The word dialogue, is full of the sort of once perfectly mean­stock phrases which ingful, has long since are used so frequent­turned cancerous and ly that a printer should be removed would make a single from the language stereotype {also a before it does any printing term) for the more damage. A whole phrase. series of letters about 
And, just as the a controversial play in cliche saves the printer which the writers effort, so our cliches exchange charges of big­save us effort, but only otry is not a "dialogue" because they free us from any more than the Civil War the laborious task of thinking. 
As Orwell put it, the speaker who uses cliched phrases "has gone some distance towards turning himself into a machine. The appropriate sounds are coming out of his larynx, but his brain is not involved as it would be if he were choosing the words for himself." 
The perfect speaker, an unattainable but necessary ideal, would be one who chose every word he spoke out of all the options his language presented to him. When you have something precise to say, speaking in stock phrases is like trying to practice surgery when the joints of your fingers are fused. 
The evisceration of the meaning of words is particularly advanced in advertising and politics. When I buy· the "ultimate edition" of a favorite film on DVD, I know that within a year or so it will have become ·the penultimate edi­tion because "ultimate" no longer means ultimate, it just means "very, very good." In newspeak: doubleplus­good. · 
Political debate requires fine distinc­tions, but as Auden saw, for millions of people, "words like communism, capi­talism, imperialism, peace, freedom, democracy have ceased to be words, the meaning of which can be inquired into and discussed and have become right or wrong noises to which the response is 
as involuntary as a knee reflex." 
I'll leave it as an exercise to 

exchange of ideas. The invasion 
of Iraq is an issue about which thoughtful people can, and did, dis­agree, but to say, as many did, that the United States acted unilaterally is not simply wrong; it is illiterate. 
This is not pedantry. Unless we speak and write as if the meaning of our words mattered, we will never think clearly and as Orwe11 saw, "to think clearly is a necessary first step towards political regeneration." 
Peter Wlcks is a graduate student in philosophy. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

Do you think Notre Dame should host the "Queer Film Festival" and "The Vagina Monologues?" 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Men are born ignorant, not stupid. They are made stupid by education." 
Bertrand Russell philosopher 
News MaureenReynolds Mike: Chambliss Kate Gales Viewpoint Lauren Galgano . Graphics Mike Harkins 
.·... ·.··. 

Sports Pat Leonard Heather Van Hoegarden· Katie Wagner Scene KC Kenney Illustrator Pat Quill 


U-WIRE LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Progress in American justice 
Race, economic status and geogra­that certain precincts or judges are phy are all important and discrimi­notorious for handing down lethal nating factors in determining which sentences, while others in other 
criminals receive the death penalty states or cities are less likely to do in the United so, even though the crime might be States, Diann the same.
Liz Yepsen
Rust Tierny said Tierny cited education and on Friday in her involvement as steps towards aboli­speech "Justice tion of the death penalty. Many vot­Denied: The The ers support the death penalty Implementation Dartmouth because they believe it should be of the Death reserved for the "worst of the Penalty in the worst," but this careful application U.S." is not a realistic one. 
Tierny, the director of the "The basic reason people support American Civil Liberties Union's the death penalty is a gut-feeling Capital Punishment Project, is work­about justice and fairness. Whatever ing toward a nationwide abolition of abstract justice they think the death the death penalty. The process is not penalty has, this death penalty isn't a quick one, however. anywhere near what you think it 
"The way we get there, to aboli­ought to be," Tierny said. tion, is to take people through the Tierny de-scribed the movement very exercise, which is to actually toward abolition of the death penal­get your hands dirty, to see that ty as a journey and exalted the there are problems and to transition from an abstract see that we can fix them,'' discussion of ethics to a Tierny said. concrete debate over 
The primary factor law as evidence of that unfairly deter­progress. mines whether a "When you get to defendant will get the point that you the death penalty, are making laws, according to then people real-' Tierny, is race. ly have to grap­The racial ple with these makeup of the issues," she jury is key in said. determining Progress is whether a being made defendant in New will get the Hampshire death penal­to restrict ty, and the the types of selection of cases to a jury based which the on race is death even a penalty can strategy be applied, taught in New some Hampshire defense state sena­attorney tor Clifton training Below said. classes. A bill to 
The race of abolish the the victim of juvenile the crime is death penal­also an influ­ty, now appli­ential factor. cable to crimi­Defendants in nals 17 and cases in which older, will be the victim is presented to white are statis­·lawmakers tically more likely Monday. The bill to receive the proposes to death penalty than restrict the age to if the victim were those 18 and older. black. Tierny and Below 
"We have a system spoke as part of that is supposed to be Friday's Death Penalty vindicating the lives of the Symposium sponsored by victims and it is vindicating Dartmouth Civil Liberties some more than others. We have a Union, Amnesty International at system that values some people Dartmouth College, Dartmouth more than others," Tierny said. College Greens, The Dartmouth Free­
Economic status is yet another Press, the Tucker Foundation, influential factor. Defendants living Panarchy undergraduate Society in poverty are not able to afford the and the Rockefeller Center. better defense attorneys. Public defenders are less experienced with This article originally appeared death penalty cases and the quality on Feb. 9 in The Dartmouth, the of service provided is in keeping daily publication at Dartmouth with their small salary. College. 
Geography. too, plays a role in the The views expressed in this col­handing down of a death penalty umn are those of the author and not sentence, Tierny said. It is unfair necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Dating potential at Notre Dame 
As l perused the paper on revoked. However, it is very likely Wednesday, Feb. 11, I couldn't help that changing your own attitudes but notice the multiple references and actions toward dating at Notre to the dating scene on the Notre Dame will change the dating scene. Dame campus. I'm just as guilty as everyone 
Let's recap. The question of the else. I've made the comments ­day was,"How would you describe "Ooohhhh, they had lunch together. ND's dating scene?" What's going on there?"-but I 
This question elicited responses pose a challenge to myself and to such as "nonexistent," "what dat­every student here to hold a more ing scene?" "you have a better mature attitude toward gender chance with ~heep," and so on. You relations on this campus. get the point. The common view of I would like to live in an environ­dating at Notre Dame is that it ment where I don't raise my eye­really doesn't exist. brows when I hear that two people 
On a campus where so many indi­are going out to eat. What's the big viduals put their energy and efforts deal about simply trying to get to into fruitless endeavors -such as know someone of the opposite sex trying to change the alcohol policy, better by spending time together? abolishing parietals, protesting the It's not a big deal. So, let's all act Vagina Monologues, etc. -I don't that way. understand why the vast majority If we change our attitudes toward of people complain about the dat­dating and maybe even go out on a ing scene, yet do nothing to change limb and actually ask that cute it. guy/girl from class out on a date 
I'm not saying that it's not worth­(heaven forbid), I think we'll see a while to fight for things you're pas­change in the dating scene. I, for sionate about-i.e. pro/con Vagina one, am ready to make the effort. If Monologues -but it seems strange anyone else agrees, then give me a to me that students are willing to call. put so much effort toward those issues, and then casually complain about the dating scene without Joe Schuster doing anything to change it. JUnior 
It's unlikely that protesting pari­Keough Hall etals will actually get parietals Feb. 11 



Don't be puzzled 
This Friday's crossword puzzle was created by two Notre Dame alumni: James M. Jenista ('79, '81) and James C. Jenista ('03). New York Times cross­word puzzle editor, Will Shortz, called it the hardest puzzle he has run in a decade. I encourage everyone to try out this extremely challenging puzzle. 
Michael Jenista 
JUniOr Knott Hall Feb. 11 

Confronting the 'Monologues' 
I was a little confused about Christina Dehan's letter to the editor yesterday, mainly because I couldn't figure out what she was talking about. The "Monologues" ... hmmm ... I've never heard of this play. 
Perhaps Ms. Dehan was referring to the more popular play, "The Vagina Monologues." With all the recent controversy over "The Vagina Monologues," I wouldn't be surprised. 
It just doesn't make sense, though. How can a person write a six paragraph letter denouncing a play without ever mentioning the name of it? 
I'm not attacking or defending the performance of "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame. I don't have the time and my efforts would be in vain; my non-Catholic opinions would never win here. All I'm say­ing is that if you're going to attack something, at least recognize what it is, instead of softening it because it offends you. 
Danielle LaFramboise 
JUniOr Farley Hall Feb. 11 

page 14 Thursday, February 12, 2004 Thurs1 


Rolling o~t the Red Carpet for Notre Dame band 
Ca·mpus band brings home-grown music talent back into the spotlight at Legends 
Here on campus, music usually doesn't take center stage. When you're competing with a nationally recognized football team and a basketball team that just beat fifth-ranked Connecticut, it's no wonder why. A look beneath the surface layer of buff and bronzed athletes, however, reveals an oft­overlooked area of Notre Dame talent. Although athletic prowess may not be their forte, there is a self-described "hefty and awkward" group of guys who can hold their own when it comes to guitars and drums. The band, The Royal They, consists of four members from Fisher and Alumni Halls -Drew Baumgartner on guitar, Bucket Cullen on bass, Phil Hewett on drums and Nick "Husky" Williams, the token sex idol in the group and occasional lead vocalist. The Observer recently got to sit down with these guys to shed some light on the mysterious campus music scene: 
Q. Your band has an interesting name, Scene Writer The Royal They. How did you guys decide upon this name for the group? 
Bucket: It was a long process. It doesn't actually mean anything, but it took months to decide on a name. A bunch of ideas were thrown around-Optimus Prime Time, Push for Green-that sounded to political. 
Husky: The Royal They was the name nobody hated. (laughs) The name I would have picked, though, is still St. Nick and the Baby Shakers. 
Q. As far as musicians go, the Beatles were self-taught, and Moby is classically trained. Where on the spectrum do you guys fall with your musical backgrounds? . . 
Bucket: I've been playing bass for a couple years now. I took a few lessons to get started, but now I mostly just play what I hear on COs. 
Drew: When I was starting out on guitar I took lessons, but now I've started to give lessons to other people. Phil: (Counting on his fingers) I've been drumming for 12 years. I started taking lessons when I was in fourth grade. 
Husky: Well, I'm classically trained in opera singing (laughs). Nah, I sang in choirs in high school, just amateur things like that. I would like to point out, however, the rest of these guys are incredible on their instruments -enormously talented. 
Q. How would you describe the type of music you play? Bucket: I would describe it like a good mixed tape -you know, songs that are recognizable, but not overplayed. 
Husky: Yeah, it's a lot of classic rock stuff mixed with songs recognizable from our middle school days. 
Q. Do you write your own music at all? If so, how would you describe those songs? Bucket: We've got a handful of originals and more on the 
way. It's got a different sound to it, but it's enjoyable. Husky: It's eclectic, to say the least. I'd even say there are some blues overtones in it. 


Q. Who are your musical influences? Bucket: My big three are Primus, Bela Fleck and the Red Hot 
Chili Peppers Drew: Dickey Betts and David Gilmore Phil: Carter Beauford of DMB, Chad Smith of the Red Hot 
Chili Peppers and Tony Williams from Miles Davis' band. That guy invented fusion-he's awesome. Husky: Mine would be Ella Fitzgerald, Britney Spears and X­tina. 
· Q. So, what music are you guys listening to now? What's on your turntable? Phil: Red Hot Chili Peppers, the new Incubus and the new 
Perfect Circle with Danny Carey on drums. Bucket: I've been listening to a lot of Van Morrison lately. Husky: Nick Drake and The Junior Varsity Drew: Bread (momentary silence, then whole group laughs.) 
Q. You're playing at Legends tonight, but where else have 
you played gigs before? ' Bucket: Mostly ofT-campus parties and stuff like that. Drew: We played at Stepan Center for the Relay For Life. Phil: Also, last semester we did a show at Legends playing 
with NO Professor Don Savoie. It was a cool experience. He's a great musician. 
Q. What do you think of the Notre Dame music scene? 
Drew: Pretty bad. Personally, I saw people more interested in music and more talented in high school than-here. What I like to say about Notre Dame is that people don't know what they like, they like what they know. 
Bucket: It's not as big of a scene as some other schools but there are some groups doing some pretty cool stuff here. 
Husky: It's tough, because the n~ture of the school isn't con­ducive to bands. It's tough scheduling and finding time to prac­tice. You do find some good campus bands, though, like Sudsberry Shore. They're really good. 
Q. Are you guys serious about the future of the band? Do 
you think you'll stay together for the long haul? · Bucket: Well, we haven't even been together for a year yet ... Drew: Yeah, our equipment was locked in a closet for a few 
months there. 
Bucket: We have discussed possibly putting together a demo tape and seeing what the response would be. We're open about it. 
Husky: I'm graduating this year. but I'll be living in South Bend or Chicago, so I'll still be in the area to keep playing with these guys. This summer we may try to get together for Summerfest in Milwaukee. Three of us will be around here, but unfortunately Phil will be back in Arizona. (Smiling) We can replace him pretty easily though. 
Phil: Hey! 
Q. If you guys made it big and became rich and famous, what would be the first thing you'd do? Bucket: (instantaneously) Kick Sting's [butt]. 
Husky: And buy a Wendy's frosty machine. (everyone nods in agreement) 
Q. Just for kicks, what are your thoughts on the Super Bowl halftime show? Planned or accident? 
Bucket: Well, you know, I called my buddy JT up on the phone. He was hesitant with the details, but he confided that it was defi­nitely planned. 
Husky: (straightens up, clears throat) I'm pretty tight with CBS, and I know from my sources that it was planned. (a cell phone rings ... Husky gets a sheepish expression) 'Hi Mom ... I've got to call you back. I'm in an interview right now ...' 
The Royal They play tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. Come show your support for a real, live Notre Dame band. (And no, you cannot pet them.) 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu. 



celE 
By JON RETARTHA Scene Writer 

What would Valentine's Day weekend be without the greatest love story of all time? The famous tale of two star-crossed lovers comes to Washington Hall this weekend as The Actors from the London Stage perform William Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet.'' 
The plot is the basis for the thousands of roman­tic comedies and dramas that have followed it. Two families in Verona, Italy, the Montagues and Capulets, are in constant dispute. From the two families come two young children -Romeo, a Montague, &nd Juliet, a Capulet. The two fall in love and must hide their romance from their feud­ing parents. It is a tale of violence, hatred and death. But above all these things, it is a story of love's ability to conquer all and heal the wounds of hatred. 
The company, comprised of Actors from the London Stage, is made up of five players who take on several different roles each. The company 


Thursday, February 12, 2004 page 15 

T-wo star-crossed lovers elebrate St. Valentine's Day 
prides itself in using Shakespeare's words to illuminate the tale, a ladder is the lone set piece used against the black backdrop. The ladder also doubles as a prop, and several other small. items are used to delineate one role from another. The company works together in develop­ing the production with no directors. They also take pride in involving several FTT students in the mar­keting and production of the play. 
Because of the lack of sets and props, a heavy burden is placed on the act­ing abilities of the players. For the most part, they deliver. Peter Lindford takes on the roles of Lord Capulet and Mercutio, one of Romeo's 



be without amous tale lashington he London ~omeo and 
of roman­ved it. Two tgues and m the two Romeo, a two fall in their feud­latred and a story of wounds of 
. from the s who take company 
friends. It is difficult to ask an actor to play both a Capulet and a Montague with­out causing much confusion among the audience, but Lindford plays each of the roles distinctly and effectively. As Mercutio, he is a jovial swinger who is always ready for a party and very protective of those he loves. As Lord Capulet, Lindford displays both affection for his daughter Juliet, and a concealed rage that erupts wildly whenever someone acts against his will. It would be easy for Lindford to simply choose one side for both Mercutio and Lord Capulet, but he succeeds in bring­ing several facets to both characters. 
David Acton, a-long with Lindford, domi­nates in every scene. His task as an actor is arguably the toughest, as he plays four main characters and is able to make a distinction between each. As Friar Lawrence, he pro­vides a stern wisdom but also plays on the Friar's r.ole as a kind of father figure to Romeo. As Lord Montague, he provides stern anger but also patience and contemplation. 
As Tybalt, another 

from a girl into a woman. As a male, she plays Benvolio, Romeo's good friend, and displays a care­free. happy and masculine disposi­tion which sets 

her far apart from her Juliet character. 
Francesca Ryan primarily plays Nurse, who is the caretaker of Juliet. It appears Ryan spent too much time focusing on her main role without giving much attention to her other roles. As Nurse, she is the perfect lov­ing mother figure to Juliet. Her chemistry with Duarri is unmistakable. However, her roles as Paris (Juliet's suitor) and Prince (the chief lawgiver in Verona) fall terribly flat. If it were not for the yellow flower Ryan wears when she is in the role of Paris, it would be difficult to separate the two characters because they both have no distinction at all. 
Nevertheless, most of these shortcomings among the cast are in more minor roles, and the delivery from the actors in their main roles more than make up for the faults. The biggest disappointment lies in the play's most becoming a joke with Lindford. His portrayal actually drew laughter from the audience in even the most dramatic scenes. 
Victoria Duarri also has the task of taking on an opposite sex role, along with playing tra­ditional female roles. Primarily, Duarri is Juliet, the heroine of the tale. She does a beauti­ful job of playing the love-smitten daydream­er and the angry, des­perate woman who seeks to evade her father's wishes. In a role demanding so much because of its fame, Duarri exudes a co.nfidence that only adds to Juliet's transformation 

Iwuji's strong revival after the intermission was mirrored amongst all the actors, who gave every­thing they had for the climactic final scenes. It was truly a joy to watch the actors grow deeper and deeper into their characters as the play went on, and it provides for a big payoff at the end. Some of the most beautiful language ~n all of Shakespeare illuminates "Romeo and Juliet's" simple story. People always talk about how love can never be truly explained, but Juliet's musings about love are perhaps the only true record we have of the emo­tion expressed fully in words. Shakespeare's beau­tiful text, along with the solid performances of the actors makes "Romeo and Juliet" a great way to spend the weekend with the one you love. 
"'Romeo and Juliet" plays at Washington Hall today. Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m.. Tickets are $12 for students. $14 for senior citizens and $16 for adults and can be purchased at the LaFortune box office. 
Conta£t Jon Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 

Montague who swears death on Romeo, he plays a wild. anger driven maniac who possess­es all of his Lord's anger, but none of his control or wis­dom. It is remark­able to watch him perfectly foil his own 
character  in  the  
roles  of  Lord  
Montague  and  
Tybalt.  

Acton's one short­coming is his por­trayal of Lady Capulet. Instead of playing the firm mother of Juliet. and the submissive wife of Lord Capulet, Acton chooses instead to play a man who plays a woman. His feminin­ity is overdone, and even drifts into important character. Chuk Iwuji is less than perfect in the role of Romeo, a part that demands perfection. He has little chemistry with Duarri, and often thinks too much and overdelivers his lines to little or no effect. He tries hard to be multifaceted, but in 
-the process detracts from every side .he has. It was hard to distinguish his happy persona from his love-stricken one, and his sadness and pain rang strangely hollow. However, he did make a strong come­back in the second half, however, and the all-important death scene turns out very powerful and impressive. 

Thursday, February 12, 2004 
page 16 The Observer+ CIASSIFIEDS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Barnett faces university investigation of recruting 
Associated Press 
BOULDER, Colo. -When Gary Barnett was hired to coach Colorado's football team five years ago, he was embraced as a disciplinarian who would end an era of loose recruiting practices and return the team to national promi­nence. 
Now the coach is at the center of the school's biggest scandal in decades, perhaps ever. 
Amid accusations that a boozy round of recruiting visits by high school prospects in 2001 ended in gang rape, Barnett faces a university inves­tigation that was all but ordered by Colorado's governor. 
The latest blow came th.is week when a striptease opera­tor said he regularly sends lap­dancers to perform for Colorado athletes. The most recent performances were booked two weeks ago .-well after the rape allegations became public and just days after Barnett promised to step down if it was shown his staff had anything to do with what he called "tawdry" behavior by student-athletes. 
To top it otT, a former athlet­ics official said Barnett seemed reluctant to crack down on entertaining recruits because it could give an advantage to other schools. 
Barnett denies it all, telling The Associated Press he will be cleared by the investigation and disputes accusations in a feder­al lawsuit that the Boulder campus is a hostile place for women. 
"I expect them to find that we have an exemplary program in every aspect," Barnett said. 

The coach blames the players and students for the December 2001 party that led to the rape allegations and says he can't watch players and recruits 24 hours a day. 
"No coach or any member of my staff had anything to do with that night," he said. "At no time did any coach take part in arranging, creating or encour­aging a party of any sort. You just don't do that." 
At 57. Barnett has led Colorado to a Big 12 Conference title and a BCS bowl game in his five seasons as head coach (his contract runs through 2006). When he took over from Rick Neuheisel in January 1999, his former players at Northwestern said Colorado was getting a new sheriff. 
During the last two seasons, nine players were suspended for various violations of team rules, including curfew and behavior standards. 
"Coach Barnett is such a stickler," receiver D .J. Hackett said. "He's really strict on rules and stuff." 
Still, Barnett had his share of controversy even before becom­ing head coach at Colorado. 
He led Northwestern to a pair of Big Ten titles and a Rose Bowl berth after the 1995 sea­son. He was also there during a betting scandal in which four football players were indicted and accused of lying about gambling and point-shaving activities. 
Their coach was not implicat­ed. Barnett later called the scandal a "tremendous betray-

Colorado coach Gary Barnett speaks at Big 12 media day on July 31. Barnett and the Buffaloes are under Investigation by the university for possible recruiting violations. Colorado players are accused of taking recruits to parties with underage drinking and other violations. 
al" by the players.  Neuheisel. The problems  charged. But Boulder County's  
Barnett was also with the  included illegal contact with  top prosecutor accused the uni­ 
Colorado program as an assis­ recruits and excessive reim­ versity in a deposition of using  
tant coach during some if its  bursement for recruits' travel  sex as a recruiting tool. The  
darkest days. Between 1986  and entertainment expenses.  school is appointing a panel to  
and 1988, players were accused  Barnett was cited for two minor  investigate, and the criminal  
of crimes ranging from drunken  violations.  investigation has been  
driving to serial rape, and the  Much more serious are the  reopened.  
school was featured in a Sports  accusations leveled in federal  The party took place during  
Illustrated cover story that still  lawsuits filed by three women  what Barnett calls a brief peri­ 
brings bitter memories.  who say they were raped dur­ od of free time that recruits  
Barnett himself wasn't criti­ ing or after the 2001 off-cam­ spend with their student ·Spon­ 
cized during that mess, which  pus recruiting party. The suit  sors.  
tarnished the tenure of head  accuses the program and uni­ "Their day is packed," he  
coach Bill McCartney but didn't  versity of fostering an environ- said. "As coaches, we're  
stop the Buffs from winning a  · ment in which women are rou­ involved with them all but 3 1/2  
national championship in 1990.  tinely sexually harassed, which  hours every day. And for those  
Since then, the program has  would violate federal bans on  3 1/2 hours they're with one of  
been slapped with two years of  gender discrimination in col- our players, one-on-one. You  
NCAA probation for violations  leges.  try to eliminate as much risk as  
that occurred mostly under  No players or recruits were  you can."  

NBA 


Blazers' Allen claims Wallace wanted out 
Associated Press conference at halftime of "Anytime you trade an other cities in this country," seven games for threatening 
Portland's game against Utah extremely talented player who Allen said. an official on the loading dock 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Portland on Tuesday. is a big part of your success as Wallace gained notoriety of Portland's Rose Garden Trail Blazers owner Paul Allen "We got three great guys and a franchise, those are difficult during the 2000-01 season, arena after a game. said Rasheed Wallace wanted two guys who have been All­decisions," Allen said. when he compiled an NBA It was the longest suspension to play elsewhere, and that Stars, so given those parame­Allen acknowledged that record 41 technical fouls. ever imposed by the NBA for was the deciding factor in the ters I think we came out in a Wallace's unpopularity with Last season, Wallace and something that didn't involve Blazers' decision to trade the pretty great place." fans meant that he and the teammate Damon Stoudamire physical contact or substance embattled star. Wallace, a 6-foot-11 forward team would have eventually were cited in Washington state · abuse. 
"We talked about taking the who was in his eighth season parted ways. on marijuana charges while Player misbehavior on and team in different directions in Portland. was dealt Monday "I think it's about the expec­returning from a game in off the court partly led Allen to and Rasheed wanted to play along with Wesley Person to. tations that the community Seattle against the release a 25-point code of con­somewhere else next year, and Atlanta for Shareef Abdur­and the fans have of the play­SuperSonics. duct last summer in an effort we (took) all those factors into Rahim, Theo Ratliff and Dan ers here in Portland, which I His troubles continued when to try and win back the com­account," Allen said in a news Dickau. think is at a higher level that the NBA suspended him for munity. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righ_r to edit 
all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  MOVING TO CHICAGO?  #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun,.  
NOTICES  WANTED  CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  Condo for sale by 2ND 1995 grads.  TICKETS  Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & Florida! Best  
Bright 1 -bedroom condo on  Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  Wanted-Old paintings, especially  Rental House, 2004-05@ 911  24th floor in secure building steps  Need one GA ticket for the Seton  Book Now! 800-234-7007  
Search 24 bookstores with 1 click!  Indiana and Notre Dame  Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd  from lake & public transportation.  Hall game on Saturday. Please call  endlesssummertours.com  
S&H calculated.  (574) 286-9359  firs, new windows,AC,wash/dry &  1 0-15 minute walk to grocery &  Troy at  
www.bookhq.com  alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is  Wrigley Field.  1-7983 or 361-9054.  Save $5 from FTD.com this  
ATIN: BUSINESS OR COMPUTER  NO Alum. Contact Lisa  May 2004 closing.  Valentines Day! Shop online at  
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 10 min  '  MAJORS. Inventory analyst.  @ theemurphs@ hotmail.com/  773-929-3178 or  www.ftd.com/dailycollegian or Call  
from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent  $7.50/hr. Flex hrs. Strong  619-804·3359  nasserweiss@ hot mail. com  PERSONAL  1-800-SEND-FTD and give promo code 9182.  
574-299-4997  background with computers & able  DOMUS PROPERTIES... HAS A 8  New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3  See our display ad in this issue  
to manage projects. Call Mark at  BEDROOM HOUSE. .. 2 BEDROOM  full baths. 2-car garage, frpl, sky- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Freshmen check out  252-5300.  HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM  lights.  Do not go it alone.  Just because you got one didn't  
www.nd2007.com  DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ $1640/mo.  If you or someone you love needs  mean you had to take about 5.  
FOOSBALL-Looking 4·high level players. Play at a tournament level  FoR RENT  ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR....WE ARE ALSO STARTING  Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038.  confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at  Happy Valentine's Day!  
but will teach also.  TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF  1-7819.  Big expectations for Saturday.  
Want top action or  B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to  SCHOOL YEAR. ..CONTACT  NO GREAT AREA FOR  For more information, see our bi- 
would like to team  12 people, 112 mile to ND, email  KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR  5-6 STUDENTS  weekly ad in  Happy early Valentine's Day Baby  
call D 2574441  domercondo @yahoo. com  CELL 315·5032 FOR SHOWINGS  2773097  THE OBSERVER.  Momma.  

..----------------------------....................................-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, February 12, 2004 page 17 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

'. 


Associated Press 
BOSTON -Vin Baker is expected to miss his 10th con­secutive game Thursday night, a mark that could allow the Boston Celtics to terminate a contract that was to pay him $35 million more over the next 2 1/2 years. 
Baker missed two months 
and the playoffs last season 
after he checked into a rehab 
center to treat 
alcoholism. He

The Fisher Hall Cotumun:ity and tke Notre 
. ·"'Dame Sophontore Class h1vite the Notre Dame fanilly to celebrate the ttlen"Iot-y of Chad. Sharon '06.on lhursday,·· February 12, the first anniversary of the·. anno-uncement. of his death.. · Chad will be 1~emembereJ especially irt·a.lviass. in 

The carnpus comtnunity is invited to a.tfend. this ~lass. 
NBA 
Baker's absence risks contract termination 
agreed at the time "We continue to again. He to follow an after­wish him the best., totaled just 12 
care program this points in four season and submit games before to frequent testing. Bill Bonslewlcz being suspend­
But Baker failed Celtlcs spokesman ed for three 
to comply with the terms of the agree­ment at least three times, and was suspended indefinitely on Jan. 23. The team has not disclosed the nature of the violations, which could include a positive test or refusal to take a test. 
Only the doctor overseeing Baker's care, approved by the team and player, can deter­mine if he's ready to return. But the agreement said that if Baker wasn't back within 10 games, the Celtics have the right to terminate his contract. 
"We continue to wish him the best, but other than that we're not commenting," Celtics spokesman Bill Bonsiewicz said Wednesday from Chicago, where the 
Celtics were preparing to play the Bulls. 
Baker, who said he began binge drinking during the 1998-99 lockout, was suspend­ed Feb. 27, 2003, and didn't play again last season. But after treatment he returned in better shape and determined to make it up to his team­mates. 
He scored in double figures in 21 of his first 35 games, but 
then his produc­
tion dropped off 
games, then 
played in just 

two of the next five games before being sus­pended again. 
The 6-foot-11 Baker was the eighth overall pick by the Milwaukee Bucks in the 1993 draft. He averaged 21 points and 10 rebounds over his last two seasons in Milwaukee before he was traded to Seattle for the 1997-98 sea­son. 
His first season in Seattle showed only slight dropoff, and he was good enough to be picked for the 2000 U.S. Olympic team. But by the time the Sydney games came around, his play had deterio­rated to the point where he was rarely used. 

The Notre Dame Medieval Institute presents 

8:00 pm, BasUic9 .of the Sacred Heart · ·· ·FREE and open to the public 

..•.• ( ... •·••·• . ...•.•.....••••••••• ••·•·•··•····•••·· ••••··••• ··•·••·•···••·••·•••··•· •••·•••••••••. ····•·•··••· .•..•....• •....•..•••.•..•••.•••.•••.••.•.•
.· 

~~ffofrtiitt~ n tdrtttft rtf dr~fd rtnb ~~fltt ttrttsic 

MISHAWAKA  SOUTH BEND  
514 W. McKinley  117 North Main  
Corner Me Kin ley & Grape  1 blk. south of Colfax  
574.252.5820  574.288.9450  
4615 Miami Road  
Miami & Ireland  
574.299.2860  

"Art1me offer ~a lid on two-year consuner serv1ce agreements of $39 95 and higher Promotrnal phone subJect to change Fhone r11eirg ~nckJdes a$30 ma1l·111 rebate Customer IS responsible foc all sales taxes Reduced access fee valid fOf f1rst 3 roonths of 24-month Service Agreement Free lncomng Mrutes available 111 local callirg area on~ N11J1t and weekend mnutes are valid M-F 9pm to 559 ern and all day Sati.Jday and SuOOay N~ght and weekend mnJies are available mlocal calling area onty Option of 3000 NIQhts and Weekend M~nutes, w1th a 7 pm start trne. IS ONLY good on the promotional rate plan of $39 95 fo' 1(XX) mnutes Roam1ng charges. fees, stJcharges and taxes may apply Act1~at1on fee $30 All serv·
f< US.Cellular. ~PREMIER 1ce agreements subJect to an early termllation fee Other restnct1ons may appty See store !Of details L1m1ted t1me offer
* LOCATIONS"

AUTHORIZED AGENT OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 28. 2004 
page 18 The Obstrver + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 12, 2004 
Coleman-Morse Center" 631-78oo ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 
51• 
toda 
Get involved, go on a retreat More info & applications in Room114 Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 

...... 
t_...;.. 
today 02.12 RCIA Community and Study Hour 6:oo-7:oo p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse friday_ o2.1J  sunday o2.15 RCIA Session 1o:oo a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge Schola Antiqua Concert 8:oo p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart tuesday_ 02. 11  
Mass for Peace First Friday dinner & discussion follows at esc 5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Women •s Liturgical Choir Tour  
Campus Bible Study 7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Confirmation Session #to  

7:00-8:45 p.m.
Marriage Preparation 
Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Retreat 
wednesdalf. o2.1B
Fatima Retreat Center 
Interfaith Christian 
Learning to Talk 
Night Prayer
About Race Retreat 
1o:oo p.m. 
Fatima Retreat Center Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap


saturday_ 02. 14 

Giving to Christ, Giving to Caesar
Encuentro Chicago 
Fr. Tom Doyle, escTrip to Pi/sen, Chicago's Latino 
1o:oo p.m. · 11:30 p.m.
community 
Legends
Co-sponsored with Center for Social Concerns 

Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, mass schedules and special campus events at campusministry.nd.edu 


QraJter [or end to violence 
Please join us for prayer in solidarity with women who have been victims of violence. 
Saturday, February 14 
7:00 p.m. Rosary outside Stepan Center. Procession to Coleman-Morse chapel. 
7:45 p.m. Prayer Service at Coleman-Morse. 
Co-sponsored with ND Right to Life 


mass schedule 

Sign up deadline: April 2-3 February 20 
Sign up deadline: March 26 
-~~-:offic; (C-o~-;~;f-~ Ret~a~;~mceCCoMo 114)~ M~nday ·throt;Jgh Friday· 9 a.m. to s:p.m.:· j CM ~elcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. J 

considerations... 
' 


Living in the Eye, 
Forecast: Hurricanes Ahead 
by john Glynn Intern, Campus Ministry 
Seniors, it's that time of year again. Reechoing through dorms and classrooms on campus seem to be the same question: what am I going to do next year? As much as we'd like to have someone tell us what we should do, the choice is ultimately up to us. The decision is ours alone, but how do we make it? When we are constantly fighting the daily grind of classes, papers, labs, homework, etc, while simultaneously applying for jobs and grad schools, how do we find the time and space to gain some insight into what to do with our lives? 
Allow me to give a shameless plug for retreats. Retreats help to remove us from the everyday routine of life to quiet us down, share reflections, and help us get some per­spective. Retreats can be wonderful tools for getting some peace and quiet in which to reflect on the course of our lives. Most last only one or two nights, and qm be a welcome sigh of relief in a stressful semester. 
For us as Christians, the 
However, we can individually "retreat" every day, that is, we can find peace, solitude, and one who calms the storm, clarity in the midst of the business of life. By 
who brings peace in our
finding a little time every day to meditate and reflect, we can bring out the fruits of an inter­hearts, is Christ, but nal process in external ways. Ifwe lack clarity 
following Him does not
of mind, how can we break through our own confusion; if we lack clear vision of our lives, 
mean our lives will not be 
how can we overcome our sense of being lost; if we do not have peace in our hearts, how can chaotic or painless. we let go of our emotional burdens? Our duties therefore extend not only to passing our courses or getting our applications in, but to the personal cultivation of the individual life of faith as well. 
However, the more we come to the silence and peaceful places in our hearts, the more we need to constantly deepen and enrich our meditative experiences in order to be consistently built up by them. Fr. John Dunne uses the metaphor of an eye of a hurri­cane to describe this process of movement in a place ofstillness. The light and peace of the eye exists in the midst of the swirling dark clouds of the hurricane, but finding it is not enough in and of itsel£ For ifwe find the eye and remain still, the hurricane pushes the eye elsewhere and swallows us up again. To remain therefore in that center of stillness requires movement with the storm, to be still without being stagnant, to con­stantly return to the eye in order to never lose it. For us as Christians, the one who calms the storm, who brings peace in our hearts, is Christ, but following Him does not mean our lives will not be chaotic or painless. Living in the eye, living in Christ, means enduring the unpredictability of the world while in our hearts flow a current of peace and stillness. Let us take a moment to "retreat" every day and find our centers of stillness, to find Jesus waiting in our hearts, and walk one more day with Him. 
Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basiliea of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 
s:oo p.m. to:oo a.m. 
Rev. John Coughlin, c.s.c Rev. John Coughlin, c.s.c 
tt:45 p.m. 
Rev. Tom Gaughan, c.s.c 

1st:Jeremiah 17:5-8 
around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:00 p.m. 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass 
St. Edward•s Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 
2nd: 1 Corinthians 15:12,16-20 Gospel: Luke 6:17,20-26 
T! ;ursday, February 12, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
OLYMPICS 

Eliminated U.S. team hears chants of "Osama!" 
Associated Press 
GUADALAJARA. Mexico-The boos nearly drowned out "The Star-Spangled Banner," and a few dozen fans chanted "Osama! Osama!" as the United States was eliminated by Mexico in Olympic men's soccer qualifying. 
A loud anti-American crowd hollered as Mexico beat the United States 4-0 Tuesday night 
BOXING 
in the under-23 tournament, claiming a berth in the Athens Olympics. 
A'i U.S. players left the stadium for their bus, several fans ­some clutching beers -chanted "Osama! Osama!" in reference to al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. 
"It's better than having things thrown at you," U.S. Soccer Federation president Bob Contiguglia said Wednesday after returning to Colorado Springs, Colo. "I was bothered by the whistling during the national anthem. It's just the way it is. You accept it. Our kids showed a lot of dignity. They didn't do silly things on the field." 
Police in riot gear held back the crowd and urged people to calm down. 
"I think the fans here in Mexico are terrific; I think their patriot­ism and support of their team is terrific," U.S. coach Glenn Myernick said. "But unless I missed something, not one of them came down on the field and kicked the ball. We were beaten by a better football team tonight, not by the fans." 
For Mexico, the game partly avenged a 2-0 loss to the United States in the second round of the 2002 World Cup. The U.S. men will miss the Olympics for the first time since 1980 -when the entire American delegation boy­cotted the Moscow Games. Mexico also ended the United States' 19-tournament streak of qualifying for every FIFA men's outdoor event, including the World Cup, the Olympics and the World Youth Championship for players under 20. 
-·-.

~.:,-~••• '!" -~:!!· 
;._-..·

With Levvis gone, WBC title at stake 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Less than a week after heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis retired, Corrie Sanders and Vitali Klitschko have begun talks for a bout for the vacant WBC title. 
Promoter Vernon Smith said Wednesday he hopes for an April 24 fight date, preferably in New York or Las Vegas, with HBO the broadcaster. Discussions with the Klitschko camp started Tuesday night, he added. 
The title was vacated Friday when Lewis left boxing rather than defend his crown in a rematch with Klitschko. 
· Lewis said he will help pro­mote Sanders and the Klitschko fight. Lewis is director of the management company repre­senting Sanders. 
"I know they are very scared of (Sanders) because of his unorthodox style," Lewis said at Wednesday's news confer­ence. "Corrie Sanders is the next champion. Corrie has been working very hard for a long time and deserves this opportu­nity. I think he'll make a fine champion." 
Sanders, the former WBO champion from South Africa, knocked out Klitschko's broth­er, Wladimir, in the second round last March in Hanover, Germany. The 38-year-old Sanders is 39-2 with 29 knock-· outs. 
"When I beat Vitali, I'm sure I'll be the only person that can beat two brothers in the same division," Sanders said Wednesday. 

Vitali Klitschko, a Ukrainian based in Germany, was leading Lewis on all three scorecards after six round before being stopped on cuts last June in Los Angeles. 
''I'm going to whack Klitschko 
• Includes Nationwide Long O'istance
("-d\• fn1!. 6 IIIOS... $.44• die~¥) .or' ­

. ' . .

like he's never been whacked 
• Unlimited Nights and Weekends
before," Sanders said. "Nobody gave me a chance against 
• Free Roadside Assistance for 1 month* Wladimir. That was a good fight and this one will be even bet­ter." 
Sanders said he wasn't wor­
• Free Motorota T73t
ried about fighting the 32-year­
(after $30 mail-in rebate)
old Klitschko. 
"I still feel like a 31-, 32-year-· old," he said. "I still believe I have a year or two in me." 
*U.S.Cellular
Sanders said if he beats Klitschko he would give a rematch to his brother. 
"I believe he wants me again and I think it would be great 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM
for the whole world to see 
again because everybody thought it was a lucky punch," he said. 

lol -.-,. ..._ ,_•• , •• -•••• ,, ... ,,. •••••• ~·······"·--··· .. ····-·· .. 
• 

Thursday, February 12, 2004
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 


Colts players wait on Manning's new contract 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning's new contract likely will determine whether some key teammates start looking for new jobs. 
Less than two weeks before the deadline for placing an expensive franchise tag on Manning, the NFL's co-MVP, the Indianapolis Colts have made little progress on re-signing five other starters. and a key backup before they become..free agents March 3. 
The players' agents don't expect much to happen until Manning's situation is resolved. 
"I talked to Chris Polian about a month before the season ended and he made it clear nothing would be done until 18 is done," agent Cliff Brady said Wednesday, referring to the uni­form number Manning wears and the team's assistant director 

Author Reading, Discussion & Signing · 
Meet 

Kevin Coyne author of Domers: A Year At Notre Dame 
Friday 

February 13th 
7:00pm 
in the 
Hammes 

Notre Dame 


Bookstore 

HAMMES 





NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSriORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
ph a ne: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndboakstore.com 
Open to the public • Convenient parking 
• 

of football operations. 
Brady represents starting right tackle Ryan Diem, a restricted free agent. If the Colts make a low offer to Diem and he signs with another team, the Colts might only get a fourth-round pick in April's NFL draft as com­pensation. 
The question now is how quickly and how affordably the Colts can get a deal done with Manning so they can start work­ing to give him a better support­ing cast. 
Team owner Jim Irsay has promised to make Manning the NFL's highest-paid player, but if the Colts and their four-time Pro Bowl quarterback don't reach a deal by Feb. 23, Irsay said he would give Manning the team's franchise designation. That means Manning would count about $18 million against next year's salary cap, expected to be about $79 million. 
Colts spokesman Craig Kelley said the team would not com­ment on the negotiations. Manning and his agent, Tom Condon, also declined comment. 
Meanwhile, about 15 other players remain in limbo. 
Brady said the Colts haven't indicated whether they will make a high offer of about $1.3 million, which would cost other teams a first-round pick to sign Diem, or a low offer, which Brady believes would make Diem an attractive free agent. 
Other players who are still waiting to work out deals include starting linebacker Marcus Washington and cornerback David Macklin, who moved into the starting lineup late in the season. Both are unrestricted free agents. 
The Colts also have three other key restricted free agents ­starting guard Rick DeMulling, backup running back Dominic Rhodes and cornerback Nick Harper, who led the Colts with four interceptions last year. 
Other players could be released because of their high salary cap numbers. They include offensive lineman Adam Meadows, quarterback Brock Huard and defensive lineman Chad Bratzke 
Brooks Henderson, who repre­sents Meadows, said they have not been granted permission by the Colts to begin negotiating with other teams. He expects Meadows to be released and said several unidentified teams are interested in his client. 

By cutting Meadows, the Colts would save about $5 million. Meadows was a second-round pick in 1997 and started all but four games in his first six sea­sons with the Colts before losing his job to Diem last year. 
"It does look like they will release him," Henderson said. "They have not said anything that direct to us, but we realize that's probably going to happen." 
Bratzke's cap number is even higher, about $10 million next year, and Huard, Manning's backup, is scheduled to make a base salary of $5 million next year. 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web sitefor student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their :friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at La.fferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/"'sci"lsn/ 

Lynn E. Turner 
Former ChiefAccountant, Securities and Exchange Commission 

Lessons Learned­Changes Needed 
Monday, February 16, 2004 3 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: Department of Accountancy Mendoza College of Business 
Free and open to the public For information: (574) 631-7324 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
QtJMendoza College ofBusiness 
(' 
,.. . 

Thursday, February 12, 2004 Co~\1PTLED FRO!v\ THE ()BSF.RVER'S \YJRE SERVICES page 21 


~:::::===~ ·t.~' u :::::::t =::::: t::= · i41 u m:::: :::;:=~ ;;;:: ====::::. ; 
b\i :;~ ~~ r: ~>,::::;:: :;::: ::;:;:: :::::: i'i ~t :t=: ? ~;::= ;:::::;:: :::;: :::: [: :{('~ ~~~' "'' ~) ;:;::: ::::;::~ :=::;=: i'i6 :;::: ::::=;:: g::; :i:=:: . .::: 
r; r;;=::: c;~ rr :::=;:::: =::=:: :::::::: i;:;;;:: :::::;: :; a:: ;::;:;:: . =:t r::,::=: ~<:=: y::::=:= :::==== 2.:::: nzw:= .''"'' t< ~< ,,,,,,,, ~::=:= ::: 
mIt: ,,, ''" , " IM:' w rn: ""' , ,,
:~::: ~!!!.. !!? ~if :;~? ()) =:=: :;::;:: ·:~it:: ::::::: ~~:: : :;::
[I{~ .~ \"r: :::::: E ::::: ~~, ~::;:: =:::: 
=::: L'>' ~:::z b =:::::: =::: =:::: [!:(:;: ::~;~:~' ,,,,,, ~:::::: . ,,,,,
r:: t:':<' =~ · =~ · 
'f! (}}i:'i' ::::<X ~:::: .:=;::~ t? :::::~ Ft :::::~ :"/ (' ?:= ,:=::::r::: :::::: ~xm IT\.;;: ··::··:::.::·. :~::1::::::::·:: ,,,,,,, :=}=t=m: :::::·= :::: ~:::::: :~t:~I:~::::::::: :_:;:: 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wake Forest at Clemson 7 p.m., ESPN2 
HocKEY Flyers at Rangers 7:30p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Celtics at Bulls 8:30p.m., FOXCH 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Maurice Clarett is ready to enter the NFL draft, clearing another legal obstacle Wednesday when a federal judge rejected the league's request to suspend her ruling. 
U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin concluded the Ohio State running back could face "very detrimen­tal" harm if excluded from the draft. She said the NFL would not be irreparably harmed if Clarett and other underclassmen are eligible. 
"Maurice Clarett's going to be in the draft," the player's lawyer, Alan Mil::;tein, said after the decision. 
NFL lawyer Gregg Levy said the league will ask the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to stay Scheindlin's ruling while it appeals. 
Scheindlin ruled last week that an NFL rule barring eligibility to Clarett and other young players from April's draft violates antitrust law. 
"Contrary to the NFL's argument, most of the rules governing this case were established decades ago," she said. 
"Indeed, the legal frame­work for that decision was 
laid  in  a  long  line  of  
Supreme  Court  prece­ 
dent," she added.  

Scheindlin said "it would be perverse indeed" to grant a delay of her ruling. 
"If a stay is granted, Clarett will miss the 2004 draft," she said. "He will not be eligible to play in the NFL until the 2005 draft, when he would have been eligible under the current rule. If the stay is granted, Clarett will have effectively lost his lawsuit." 
The judge said the NFL's concern that younger play­ers may over-train or resort to steroid use to bet­ter qualify for the draft "makes no sense." Players 
.-• 
must announce they are entering the draft by March 1. 
She predicted few younger players would enter the draft. 
"At worst, the NFL will be forced to tolerate the handful of younger players who are selected in the 2004 draft," she said. "What would amount to a one-year suspension of the league's eligibility rule scarcely imposes any great hardship on the NFL or its teams." 
Levy, the NFL lawyer, was not surprised by this latest ruling and insisted the league is confident about its coming appeal. 
IN BRIEF 

Big Ten to experiment with 
instant replay for football 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The NCAA Football Rules Committee has recom­mended that instant replay be used on an experimental basis during Big Ten conference games in 2004. 
The proposal must still be approved by the NCAA championships/competi­tion cabinet for Division I. A date for the cabinet to consider the matter has not been set, the NCAA said in a release Wednesday. 
The Big Ten proposed the use of instant replay to the rules committee, spokeswoman Sue Lister said. 
The conference collected data on conference officiating during the 2003 season and presented it to league coaches, who unanimously endorsed the experiment last month, Lister said. 
Under the proposal, all games between Big Ten schools will be played with the experimental rule. 
Non-conference opponents who play televised games in Big Ten stadi­urns would have the option to play with replay. 
The experimental system would use only those replays provided by the league's broadcast partners. Not all Big Ten games are televised. 
A technical adviser assigned to each game by the conference's officiating department would be the only person able to request a replay and render a judgment. However. they will be pro­hibited from requesting replays of specific plays or shots from specific camera angles. 
If approved, other proposed com­mittee rules could be recommended for implementation nationwide in 2005. 
Those changes include having ref­erees announce player fouls and stop­ping play immediately if the offensive team prevents the defense from mak­ing timely substitutions. Basketball coaches marry 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. -The oppos­ing coaches returned to the court for a celebration after a high school bas­ketball game Tuesday night, but nobody was cutting down any nets. With their players and fans looking on, the coaches had something more meaningful to celebrate as they began their new life together as husband and wife. 
Aletha Penn, coach of the Center High School girls team, was married to Steve Cassity, just after his Hickman Mills team beat her team 65-60. 
"Basketball brought us together," said the bride. "I don't know. It just seemed natural for us." 
She and Cassity met at a basketball camp, and kept in touch through the sport. She spent some time in New York working in fashion design. while he was in Wichita as an assistant coach at Wichita State University. 
Eventually, Penn came back to Kansas City to coach at Center, and Cassity said he called her "to ask about a couple of her players." 
"Let's be honest here," said Penn. "I don't think he was interested in my players." 
page 22 Thursday, February 12, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
t
FENCING 

Idle Irish practice during three-week break 
.--­
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 
After spending the last three dual meets battling top-ranked foes like Ohio State and Penn State, the Notre Dame fencing team is in the midst of a well­deserved three-week rest. Both the men and women knocked off the second-ranked Buckeyes at the Notre Dame Duals on Jan. 31, but neither team will compete until the West vs. Central Dual Meet on Feb. 21. 
For fifth-year foilist Forest Walton, the break is a welcome one. "We were traveling so much that we were just getting ahead of ourselves, and maybe that's why we lost to St. John's," he said. "We've been training and everyone's well-rested now. We're back on the top of our game." 
The West vs. Central Duals will be held in West Lafayette, Ind., but the competition should pose little challenge for a team with only one combined loss between both the men and women. The duals may allow the walk-on fencers to see actual competition. "All of these are teams we need to beat," senior epeeist Kerry Walton said. "[But] if we can get all our walk-ons in so everybody on the team [gets] monograms, that's what we're going to try and d0." 
Additionally, in the last dual meet of the regular season, the Irish hope to use the experience to keep the rust away in prepara­tion for their postseason run. "Our team is smart enough to 

,, know they get this [tournament] 
I, to practice a lot of things," Kerry Walton said. "They're not going to slack because their recruits haven't been fencing as long as us." The Midwest Fencing Conference Championships, which begin March 6, mark the first of the postseason tests the Irish will face. The event will be held in South Bend at the Joyce Center, giving the Irish home­floor advantage. Forest Walton 
and the rest of the Irish already have their sights focused on play­off preparation. 
"The coaches are really push­ing us hard and that's what we all need," Forest Walton said. "That's what is going to give us 
an NCAA title this year.  That's  
what's going  to  allow  us  to  
repeat."  

For the next week and a half, however, the fencers are stuck facing their own teammates in practice. While competing against the same people repeat­edly can become monotonous, the Irish do have an advantage. Those same people are among the best in the country. 
"Every day people can try new stuff, and just fencing each other makes you ready for the competi­tion we're going to face," Forest Walton said. 
The non-scholarship fencers contribute as well. They provide the challenge of unfamiliar fenc­ing styles to the more experi­enced fencers like Kerry Walton. 
"Walk-ons are awesome because you've never fenced these people before and it's some­thing new," Kerry Walton said. 
But the coaches are also work­ing hard to keep practices lively to avoid repetition of the same routines. 
"We played a little game of ulti­mate Frisbee for 20 minutes dur­ing practice," Kerry Walton said. "[The coaches] throw in different things and they keep us enter­tained." 
Even though he does try to mix up his practices, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski remains focused on the task at hand ­improvement. 
"We will try to improve what mistakes we made," Bednarski said. "In our victories, it was not easy to win. Our team is very young, so for them, work is a must." 
Additionally, the break gives the injured fencers a chance to rest. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

l I l 
li· 
I Ji 
,) 
I 
I li 
f 
i,, 
{' ( 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer Fencer Aaron Adjemlan lunges at an opponent at a recent match. The men's and women's teams will not participate In a match until the West vs. Central Dual Meet on Feb. 21. 
·First tOOO fans will receive Pot Holder from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union • The Amazing Christopher returns to the Joyce Center for a brand new halftime performance. 
· Students don't forget to wear your Leprechaun Legion T-shirts. 
r-------------------~-----.----~
Men's Lacrosse vs. 
Team Canada (exhibition) 
12:oo PM@ Loftus Sports Center 
~--------------------------------~ 

Thursday, February 12, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
AM. improve the school's "financial, long without communicating with ball," he said. "We don't want to 
Instead of criticizing the coach­administrative and athletic pur­Tyrone, and at the end of the day, hear a thing about the [NACDA] ing, Kelley said, the letter is a suits". That would leave the I'm not sure what else you can Cup." 
Letter 
,

continued from page 28 plea to the University's highest University president, who must d0. The recent struggles of the body to re-organize certain be a Holy Cross priest, free to Heisler also pointed out that football team show why the. 
perceived the letter as a "serious 
aspects of the University. focus on academic and spiritual White was responsible for provid­alumni are frustrated, Kelleysubstantive message", since the Notable in the letter is that only matters. Currently. Malloy han­ing the recommendation to hire said. Notre Dame has endured letter was addressed to the Board 
Willingham is mentioned by dles the duties of the executive George O'Leary and Willingham three losing seasons in five years,
ofTrustees, "it would be up to the name, which Kelley said was a vice president. to a committee during the 2001 was placed on NCAA probationtrustees to give an answer." deliberate move. Kelley said the But associate athletic director coaching search. The associate for the frrst time in school history 
Kelley said the letter writers 

authors wanted to shed light on John Heisler said that many of athletic director suggested that in 1999 and endured an embar­had received no response from their criticism of structural prob­the concerns in the letter are some of the sentiment for more rassing coaching search in 2001. board members, and Storin said lems instead of attacking athletic already in place in some form in power given to the athletic direc­Kelley said the letter writers that he did not know if athletics director Kevin White or the athletic department. tor comes from Gene Corrigan's were initially reluctant to release were discussed at the trustees' University President Father "I think it's ludicrous to think relative ease in hiring Lou Holtz the letter to the media, but the meeting. Attempts to contact Edward Malloy. that football wouldn't be impor­in 1985. That decision was made lack of response from the Board Board of Trustees chairman The letter suggests three pro­tant in any scheme of things," he after a four-hour conversation of Trustees convinced the authors Patrick McCartan were unsuc­posals to fix what the letter writ­said. between the two friends, Heisler to make the letter public. cessful. ers see as fundamental problems Many of White's duties in terms said, and isn't possible in today's And although just over 400 
The authors explicitly say that with the football program. First, of overseeing other sports are complex coaching environment. alumni signed the letter -a the letter does not represent a the authors suggest that the ath­already delegated, a departmen­Heisler pointed to Notre Dame's small percentage of the call to fire Notre Dame coach letic director delegate more tal structure he inherited he was commitment to improving its University's more than 100,000 Tyrone Willingham, who won his authority to focus more attention hired in 2000. And while the ath­facilities, the increased scholar­alumni -Kelley said the feed­first eight games as an Irish on football. Second, the letter letic director has direct oversight ship Notre Dame provides to back he received has been posi­coach but has since gone 7-10. says the athletic director should of football and both basketball Olympic sports and the height­tive. 
"The issues aren't with Tyrone have more control -and subse­programs, Heisler said a variety ened competitiveness of the non­"We're being inundated with Willingham," Kelley said. "The quently be judged by -football of athletic department staff major programs as significant people who support this," he said. jury is still out on him, but we coaching hires. Third, the writers assists in the administration of improvements that occurred in "The reception to this by alumni wish him all the luck and are call for the appointment of a lay the football program. White's tenure. has been fabulous. If we ever behind him." person to the University's execu­"Some of the suggestions could Kelley also praised those have to do something like this 
Willingham. in comments made tive vice president, the third­be that Kevin doesn't pay atten­improvements, but said the suc­again, I expect the number to be to a Chicago radio station ranking administrative spot at tion to football," Heisler said. "I cess of the athletic dJrector much bigger." Tuesday, said the letter didn't the school that has remained don't know how anybody could should be based primarily on the surprise him. "Our alumni are vacant since Father Timothy say that who is around here success of the football program. Contact Andrew Soukup at very passionate," he told WSCR-Scully resigned in June 2002, to every day. He doesn't go very "It's got to be 95 percent foot-asoukup@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL 
Eight 
Irish to combine 
Special to The Observer Eight former Irish football players are invited to the 2004 National Football League Combine schedule for Feb. 28 to Mar. 4, at the RCA Dome in Indianapolis. Receiving invita­tions are defensive tackle Darrell Campbell, cornerback Vontez Duff, free safety Glenn Earl. nose guard Cedric Hilliard, running back Julius Jones, offensive tackle Jim Molinaro, kicker/punter Nicholas Setta and inside linebacker Courtney Watson. Campbell was the leader of the Notre Dame defensive line in 2003, recording 25 tackles, 6.5 for loss and three sacks. For his career, the 6-foot-4, 300­pounder finished with 87 tack­les, including 23 for loss and 11 sacks. A team capte.in, Campbell was the 2003 winner of the Nick Pietrosante Award presented each year to the Notre Dame player who best exemplifies the courage, loyalty, teamwork, ded­ication and pride of the late Irish All-America fullback Nick Pietrosante. Campbell, who played in the 2004 Senior Bowl, graduated in December with degrees in English and computer applications. Duff was a third-team Associated Press All-American in 2002 and led the Irish secondary in 2003. He finished the year with 33 tackles, two intercep­tions, four pass breakups and two fumble recoveries. A team captain, he also was one of Notre Dame's leading special teams players, finishing his career with the all-time record for number of kicks returned (120), while ranking third on the all-time Notre Dame total kick return list with 1,955 yards and fourth in all-time kickoff return yards at 1,230. Duff, who played in the East-West Shrine Game, is a sociology major in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Thursday, February 12, 2004 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Diverse freshman class represents promising Irish future 
doubles and No. 4 and 5 singles, ferent," he said. each other a whole lot. With so such a class. He also thinks they By KATE GALES respectively. Keckley has seen King hails from Ireland and many freshmen playing right off have the ability to play profes­Sports Writer time at No. 6 singles and is believes the system's differences the spot, we get a little more sional tennis after graduation. 
teamed with senior tri-captain are positive ones, a foreign sys­respect from the upperclassmen. "[Bass] is one tough out, an 
They compose a diverse group Luis Haddock on the No. 1 dou­tem that not only encourages It makes things a whole lot easi­absolute nightmare to play -hailing from New York to bles team which is ranked 18th team play but a team mindset. er." against because he gets every­Miami to South Bend, with an nationally. "The competition level has Bass was recruited by other top thing back, and he would cut off Irish junior champion and the "The biggest transition is that gone up a huge amount," said schools and programs and has his arm to win a point," Bayliss "Georgian Juggernaut" rounding [college tennis) is an individual King of his move to the United actual family on the team, as said. out the quintet. sport with a team aspect to it. States. "Having coaches on the well; his junior brother, Jimmy, King brings similar intensity to 
Some made an immediate You have to care more about the court and being on a team is dif­also plays varsity tennis. the court. impact in the Irish lineup, while team than yourself," Bass said. "I ferent. Playing Since the "He's a big shaggy dog; every­others complete one of the deep­think it's such a good sport in col­for the team, I'm beginning of the body likes him," Bayliss said of est teams Bobby Bayliss has lege because people learn to act trying to win for year, Bayliss has King. "He has no trouble making
"The five freshmen,./ 
coached. individually as well as on a them more than compared this friends. He's a lot of fun, and he 
They are the freshmen on the team." myself. The think we're so close class to the fresh­has an enormous upside and a Irish men's tennis team, who, The team has gelled as a team camaraderie for it's probably strange men of 1989, huge serve." despite their differences, have over the early spring while play­the team is really who developed Keckley, who could not be
to see.,,
brought together experience, grit ing indoors, a huge change for strong, and into a finely­reached for comment, is home­and raw talent to pl;J.t points on many of the freshmen. something I did­tuned, title-con­grown for the Irish and has suc­the board for the team this year. "I've never played indoors in n't have before. I Bobby McNally tending power­ceeded so far despite injury and They are Irackli Akhvlediani of my entire life," Florida native want to go out Irish freshman house. the considerable handicap of Vienna, Austria; Stephen Bass of McNally said. "It's the craziest there and give "We had a very playing tennis against a lack of Bronxville, N.Y.; Ryan Keckley of thing ever -it took me three 100 percent for large and talent­strong opponents. South Bend, Ind.; Barry. King of weeks just to get used to the team and for coaches." ed class," Bayliss said. "All play­"He has tons of upside," Bayliss Dublin, Ireland and Bobby sound of balls and lack of heat. "It's unusual for me," Bayliss ers were among the top 100 said, "and [he] can become a McNally of Miami, Fla. It's a different world, indoor ten-said of his two foreign players prospect'i in country, which gave really tremendously gifted college 
They are the future of men's nis." arriving this year. "[Though] most us a chance to really make an player." tennis at Notre Dame. Don't tell Akhvlediani and King [college tennis] teams have a pre­impact next year." The Irish, who "[McNally has] a big forehand, ) "These guys are going to do about different worlds. Both play­ponderance of foreign talent." had not been ranked since the good left-handed serve and great
i ', some great things," Bayliss said. ers have had to make the bigger, Both Akhvlediani and King, polls began in the early 1970s, doubles instincts," Bayliss said.
I 
"And they're all different -real­international transition. however, set goals of playing col­were the new kid on the tennis Also left-handed, Akhvlediani
; l I '.'
I , ly, really different. "It's a big difference, and it's an lege tennis in the United States, block. struggled with the changes at the 
1 r1 
"Irackli is in his own little world experience for me," Akhvlediani and Notre Dame was a top Although the Irish didn't make beginning of the year, but Bayliss 
t) 
I 
sometimes, and Barry is the big, said. "I played in a lot of single choice. the NCAA tournament that year, pointed out that he is "doing real­
I I 
lumbering Irish guy, everybody's tournaments [in Austria]. I didn't Now, both foreign players and they committed themselves to ly well this semester, which
I I 
buddy," Bayliss said. "Stephen is have a lot of experience playing the other three freshmen are a being the best, Bayliss said. The reflects in his tennis." 
I 
the New York kid who talks too with a team. It's something I want tight-knit family. next year, they appeared in the There are big shoes for these
11 
\
' 
I 
' ·' fast -nobody can understand to explore further and something "The five freshmen, I trhink final 16 and reached the NCAA freshmen to fill. From their 
I :I him-and Ryan's the real dark that can help me in my game and we're so close it's probably fmal in 1992. As seniors, despite record so far, however, one thing
II\ 
J' horse. No one has begun to real­overall tennis performance." strange to see," McNally said. the loss of their No. 1 singles is certain -they will step up to 

•l ' ize how good he's going to be. For Akhvlediani, the challenge "We hang out on weekends and player, the team finished in the the task this season and in sea­Bobby is also a really strong play-of change was magnified by the eat dinner all together. It's great top 10 and was among the final sons to come.Jl er." move from Austria to the United having four guys just like you, eight in the NCAA tournament. 
The class is transitioning well, States. who go through the same things Bayliss believes the current Contact Kate Gales at I ,I. )I with Bass and King playing No. 3 "The system here is really dif-just Jike you ... Everyone likes freshmen have the ability to be kgales@nd.edu 
,, 
I \ 
,, ''
I, 
~ I 
I 
I j 
i 
h 
! 
f 
l 
I \ 
I 
f.' 
f~ 
II 
I 
~) 
1r 
I! 
/i.
ll((
,, 
il 
i': 
~ '· 



Thursday, February 12, 2004 page 25 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Unplanned :Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. Co11jidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: ~ Sr. Jean Lenz. O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 ~ Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affair~, 1-7819 > Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 » John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 > Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, ColUlseling Center, 1-7336 » Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, l-8286 · South Bend Co1nntunity Resources: ? \Vomen's Care Center: 234-0363 :.> Catholic Charities: 234-3111  

class -was the only second­bumped the sophomore every year player capable of play­time he made a big play -
Cornett 
ing. Francis had left early in which was often. 
continued from page 28 the first half with back "Everyone on this team has spasms, and doctors were their own role," Cornett said. him, and I have to try to be examining Chris Quinn's ''I'm just glad I was able to 
better than him." ankle in the locker room. help." At one point Monday, But all four of Notre Dame's ..Cornett -the least heralded captains were on the floor, Contact Andrew Soukup at of Notre Dame's sophomore and each captain chest-asoukup@nd.edu 
Student Body R.un-Offs Student Body Presidential Elections 

Seniors and 5th year students are eligible to vote.. 
Run-off elections are today. They once again will be held online, and can be accessed through the secure site listed above using you afs id and password. Voting will be opened from 8 am to 8 pm. If you have any problems trying to vote through the site please contact us at jcouncif@nd.edu or at 631-7668. 
Candidates: CharHe Ebersol & James Leito Adam Istvan & Karla Bell 


Voice o/our Clioice '04 
www.nd.eduf-jcouncil 
Pitchers 
continued from page 28 
Dame. 

"I don't feel any added pres­
sure," Niesel said "With the loss­
es of [Axford] and [Manship], 
that will give opportunities to 
other guys on our staff. I think 
we have a great staff. I think 
we'll do a good job." 
After going 4-0 with a 3. 36 
ERA his freshman year, Niese} 
earned All-American and Big 
East Pitcher of the Year status as 
a sophomore. He was 9-1 with a 
2.65 ERA and led the Irish staff in numerous categories including wins, strikeouts, innings pitched and starts. He regularly throws three pitches -a low-90s fast­ball, a hard-breaking curveball and a changeup. This summer, he even worked with coach Terry Rooney to develop a slider. 
After the end of last season, Niese} had won 31 of his last 33 decisions, dating back to his sen­ior year of high school. That stretch also included his two sea­sons at Notre Dame, summer ball in the Cape Cod league and two Blue-Gold game scrim­mages. 
Joining Niesel in the rotation will be sophomore Tom Thornton, who went 5-1 with a 
1.81 ERA against mostly mid­week competition last season. Mainieri believes Thornton is ready to face better teams this year and has slated him to pitch against USC in Notre Dame's sec­ond game next weekend. 
"There's no question in my mind that Tom Thornton has good enough stuff to win against good teams," Mainieri said. "He's got a lively fastball, his curveball can be very nasty and his changeup is improving -and he throws the ball in the strike zone." 
Mainieri also expects to use several freshman pitchers in the rotation or out of the bullpen. Derik Olvey is expected to start in Notre Dame's third game against Louisville. The Los Angeles Dodgers drafted Olvey out of high school in the 13th round, but the Alabama native honored his commitment to Notre Dame and could make an immediate impact for the Irish staff. Olvey was an All-American after going 9-1 with a 1.49 ERA as a high school senior. 
Mainieri said fellow freshman Dan Kapala and Jess Stewart will be integral parts of the bullpen. 
Kapala went 11-4 with a 1.05 
ERA as a senior, while Stewart 
was 6-3 with a 1.41 ERA during 
his last season in high school. 
"(Kapala and Stewart] are two 
freshmen that I think are going 
to shoulder a big load on our 
staff this year," Mainieri said. 
"Quite frankly, our team is going 
to go about as well as those guys 
pitch for us out of the bullpen 
because we're going to desper­
ately need them to do some great 
things for us." 
Notre Dame will also use sev­
eral returning players like Joe 
Thaman, Tyler Jones and Ryan 
Doherty in the bullpen. Mainieri 
expects to use a variety of pitch­
ers in different roles during the 
first part ofthe season. 
Thaman played first base dur­
ing his first three years at Notre 
-· 
Dame but converted to pitcher 
after last season. Thaman 
pitched in high school, and 
Mainieri said the senior will have 
a chance to throw significant 
innings in 2004. 
"[Thaman] pitched as well as 
anybody during fall practice," 
Mainieri said. 
Jones will assume a more 
prominent role this season, as 
the coach said he could pitch in 
upwards of 25-30 games after 
going 2-1 with 12 innings of 
work in 2003. Rooney changed 
Jones' pitching style from throw­
ing overhand to sidearm, which 
gives him more movement on his 
fastball and off-speed pitches. 
The 7-foot-1 Doherty has the best chance to be the Irish closer this season after posting a 2.20 ERA in 44 innings of work last season. Mainieri said Doherty will be the "main guy coming out of the bullpen this year" for the Irish. 
"He has a chance to be a domi­nating relief pitcher for us," Mainieri said. "He's going to throw the ball really hard." 
Rooney worked with Doherty on improving his two-seam fast­ball. This pitch, which Doherty now throws consistently, cuts in on right-handed hitters and tails away from left-handed hitters. Doherty also throws a good changeup. 
Mainieri said the Irish need the entire staff to improve to make up for the limitations of Johnson and the losses of two pitchers. 
"With the loss of Axford and Manship, we're going to need all those guys to step forward," Mainieri said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
/ 
If 
'I 
page 26 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles falter, lose lead in second half 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles took a solid lead into halftime Wednesday night, but Adrian College dominated the second half and Saint Mary's suffered a disappoint­ing 67-51loss. 
At the end of the first half, the Belles (6-16) had a 30-26 lead, but an quick start to the second half by Adrian (8-13) quickly shifted the momentum. 
The fast pace of the game favored Adrian. The Belles gave up 41 points in the sec­ond half, while their offense was held to 21 points. 
The loss gives the Belles a 1­10 record in the MIAA and puts them in last place in the league. With the loss, the Belles now have a three-game losing streak. 
The leading scorer for the Belles was forward Emily Creachbaum, who dropped in 17 points on 8-of-15 shooting. Guard Bridget Boyce was the second-leading scorer for the Belles with 12 points. Boyce also added three steals. 
In last week's games against Olivet and Calvin,•the Belles relied heavily on their bench to provide a strong effort. Against Adrian, the bench proved not to be a factor. 
Justine Mullen scored eight 

points to account for all of the Belles' bench points. In last Monday's home victory over Olivet, the Belles had six dif­ferent players come off the bench to score a combined 32 points. 
Four different Adrian play­ers reached double figures. 
Guard Corrie Helldobler led Adrian with 15 points and six rebounds. Mandi Lemmons also put in a strong effort with 12 points and five assists in the comeback. 
Both teams had trouble from the free throw line with the Belles shooting 8-for-20 and Adrian making only 13-of-25. 
In the end, the two teams were even in most statistics, but Adrian capitalized on a rebounding advantage and superior shooting to open up a big lead. 
This is not the first time the Belles have had trouble main­taining their stamina in the second half. In previous games this season, the Belles have lost their edge after a strong first half. 
The Belles have only three games left this season and only one more home game. On Saturday, the team goes on the road to face Alma College. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 12, 2004 

Irish 
continued from page 28 
Notre Dame scored four goals or more in a game -Jan. 9 against Bowling Green -the result was a loss, 5-4. Notre Dame's highest offensive out­put this season, six goals against Western Michigan on Dec. 5, was also a loss (8-6). 
It's hard to tell where the Irish would be right now if they had a powerful offense as well as the stellar goal­tending of freshman David Brown and junior Morgan Cey. Michigan currently sits in second place in the CCHA and has the best defense in the league with only 65 goals against. 
Pretty similar to the Irish, right? But the Wolverines have 
scored 99 goals this season in just 20 games. It's not hard to see that even with all the defense in the world, there still needs to be some offense to pick up the slack. 
Poulin has often said that his team sometimes relies on the goalies too often to bail them out of a difficult situa­tion. While Brown and Cey have certainly stolen their share of games in which the Irish were badly outplayed but still got a point or two, there's only so much a net­minder can do. 
Earlier this season, the Irish were as high as first place overall in the CCHA. The team currently has a sub-.500 con­ference record (9-10-3) and sits in eighth place in the 12­team league. 
The conference awards home ice at the end of the season to the top six teams. If Notre Dame wants to host the first round of the CCHA play­
offs at the Joyce Center, some 
of those pucks are going to 

have to go in the net, starting 
with this weekend against 
Ferris State. 

It's not as bleak as it sounds. With the CCHA as competitive as it has ever been, Notre Dame's 21 points is currently only three points behind Ohio State and Western Michigan, who are tied for the sixth place posi­tion. 
But if the Irish are to make any real jump up the stand­ings over their last six confer­ence games, their sleeping giant of an offense is going to have to wake up. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd. edu. 

-
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  31 Sexy person  67 See eye to eye  
1 Second in a  37 Scream or be  68 Sour fruit  
series  rowdy, as a  DOWN  
5 Ship to remem­ child  1 Seckel's cousin  
ber 10 Saudi citizen  38 Strapped 39 Signature tune  2 Single-named singer  
14 Singular person 15 Spirit  44 Spill conse­quence  3 Soothing, weatherwise  
16 Showroom sam­ple 17 s  45 Solo for Renata Scotto 46 Sort of cuisine  4 Site where trees are displayed 5 Start to func­ 
20 Squab alterna­tive  47 Snaps again 52 Select  tion? 6 Sandy's sound  
21 Shortstop of fame  53 Skirt style 54 Schaffhausen's  7 Swearing-in words  
22 Significant peri­ river  8 Scand. land  
od  57's  9 Sounds of hesi­ 
23 Started moving  63 Sporting blade  tation  
27 Sea or way end­64 Stockpile ing 65 Scoreboard 29 Screenwriter postings James 66 Series of legis. 30 Sister of Thalia meetings ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -:-:-r~,.,..,.'""'  10 Stella who founded an acting conser­vatory 11 Send for infer­mation 12 Slay, in a way 13 Sick and tired 18 Soap may be found like this  32 Still woolly 33 Similes' rela­tives 34 Stunning 35 Shorten, in a way  42 "Seduction of the Minotaur" author 43 Station ration 47 Sprints 48 Split to unite  55 Spanish boy 56 Seneca's being 58 "So that's it!" 59 Slot filler in a gearwheel  
19 Spoon7,bender Geller  36 Sandberg of baseball  49 Speeders' penalties  60 Seaman  
..;,..+.;.,;+~.;..4  23 Scrooge's cry  40 Stood no more  50 Stud fees  61 Spleen  
..;..J~~.;..+;;.~  24 Sense of self  41 Smeltery input  51 Sun. talk  62 Shelley work  
~~~ 27 Skillful act 



Thursday, February 12, 2004 page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 

OILBERT 
I'M A WRITER FOR "MORONS ON PARADE H 
E 
0 
~ 
0 
Cl 
® 

OKAY ... BUT ONLY IF YOU PROMISE TO NOT 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 


re 
~ 

COVER 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

LINTE 

I I I 
Cl2004 Trimna Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reaerved. 
SAYGS 

ITJ
tURIADS j
J ri . I I 
www.jumble.com 
~ SLUDOH 
IJ I tJ 
ms=[ I I I JTo "[I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: SNARL ERUPT MADMAN JIGGER ­Yesterday's 
Answer: What a photographer needs when shooting a sports event-"SNAP" JUDGMENT 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 


SH!: THREW AWAY 
n-E~BE­
CAUSE: IT WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

25 Salon offering 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 26 Scale's top, cfedit card, 1~800-814-5554. sometimes Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ...;;...&...;..&.,;~.;...~ 28 St. Louis sight past puzzles, nytimes.corrv'crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ____________________________________ ___ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip________ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Chynna Phillips, Arsenio Hall, Judy Blume, Abraham Lincoln, Franco Zeffirelli, Arlen Specter, Christina Ricci 
Happy Birthday: You have what it takes to dazzle the world this year. Put your heart and soul into your desired accomplishments, and you will find yourself in a leadership position. You have plenty to offer if you stand tall and present your ideas in a confident manner. Don't hesitate or second-guess yourself, and you will reach your goals. Your numbers: 6, 14, 20, 23, 34, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Partnerships will be strained if one of you has been disagreeable. Try to be understanding and sort the situation out before things get out of hand. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't waste your time trying to get others to understand why you are doing things the way you are. Work diligently on your own and avoid being dragged into conversations that will lead to disagreements.
*** . GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should be involved in activities 
that include children. Your creative input will be welcomed at any group gathering. Go shopping for that special outfit you've been wanting. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your temper will be pushed to the limit if you 
allow family members to take you for granted. Disillusionment regarding your partnership will lead to moodiness. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep your thoughts to yourself. You may have been given false infonnation that could damage someone's reputation. Find out the facts before you take action. You can excel if you are diplomatic. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Unforeseen expenses will cause worry. Talk to someone who can advise you of ways to improve your financial situation. You need attention-today. Spend time with someone you love. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Dishannony will lead to anguish and minor illness. Don't let others force you to do or say things that will be upsetting. You need to pamper yourself for a change.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 2."·Nov. 21): Pick your friends and acquaintances carefully. You mustn't let anyone talk you into spending your money on something you don't fully believe in. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have a problem with colleagues. Try not to back yourself into a corner. You need to allow others to do their own thing. If you focus on your own goals, you will get ahead. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should look into seminars that will help you obtain a more positive outlook. Be prepared to adjust your attitude for a more upbeat approach to life. ** . AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have to be careful not to go over your budget. Take the time to help a friend in need, but don't go overboard. You can find solutions to existing problems, but you must act upon them if you wish to turn things around. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): You need some time alone with your lover. Take the lead and let your mate know how much you care. It's time you were getting serious and making a commitment. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have spunk. Your extraordinary view of life will always lead you in interesting directions. You are curious, inventive and well-spoken. You are always a little ahead of your time. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSER\'ER 
p


Thursday, February 12, 2004 


Page 28 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Stepping up 
Cornett makes most of opportunity to play against Connecticut 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Faced with the possibility that Torin Francis wouldn't be healthy enough to play against Connecticut, Irish coach Mike Brey turned to Rick Cornett and told him to be ready. · "He shrugged me off," Brey said Monday night. "He said, 'Coach, don't worry about me. I'll be OK."' 
Those were strong words coming from a player who had played just nine minutes in Notre Dame's previous seven games. 
But the sophomore proved his coach had little to worry about, and Cornett's gritty 15­minute stint Monday was a big reason why Notre Dame upset No. 5 Connecticut. 
"Once I knew Torin wasn't at full health, I knew someone was going to have to step up," said Cornett, who fini-shed with six points and seven rebounds while defending pre­season national player of the year Emeka Okafor for most of the night. 
Brey hoped Monday's win would be a turning point for the player he said improved the most over the summer. And while Cornett came off the bench early in the season when Tom Timmermans was injured, he hadn't made the impact the Irish coaching staff expected. 
That changed in a win against DePaul, where Cornett scored 10 points and grabbed five rebounds in 16 minutes of action. At that point, Brey believed his sophomore had turned the corner and was ready to as'>ume a regular spot in the Irish rotation. 
But then a healthy Timmermans returned to the Irish lineup and Cornett was back on the bench. Until the Connecticut game, he didn't see any significant playing time. 
Now Brey believes the Connecticut game can be a turning point for the sopho­more forward, especially with Francis' health in doubt: 
"Fearless," was how Jordan Cornette described Cornett's performance Monday. 
Cornett insisted Okafor did not intimidate him, and his play reflected that. His scrap­pi~ess underneath the basket helped the Irish outscore the Huskies 14-11 on second­chance points. 
"He puts his pants on the same way that I do," Cornett said. "He's a great player, but I have to go out there with the mentality that I'm better than 
see CORNETT/page 25 


FOOTBALL 

Letter expresses 
.alumni discontent 
f 
i 
By ANDREW SOUKUP

! 
Sports Writer 

·Several hundred Notre Dame alumni have signed a letter sent to the University's Board of Trustees harshly criticizing the way the football program is man­aged, a move the letter writers hope will spark a reorganization at Notre Dame they believe will lead to football success. 

The letter, which was signed by 412 alumni who graduated between 1949 and 2003 and live in 41 states, was delivered to the trustees before their winter meetings began Feb. 5~ It charges that current administrators have "proven incapable" of running the football program at champi­onship-caliber levels. 
"What motivated us is our feel­ing of how important champi­onship football is to the environ­ment of kids and education and the bonding of people who go through that institution," said Tim Kelley, who graduated in 1964 and was one of the letter's principal authors. He added that the letter grew out of alumni dis­content with the fact that the Irish haven't seriously challenged for a national championship since 1993, not because the Irish finished 5-7 in 2002. 
University spokesman Matt Storin said it was "unusual" for the University to receive a letter signed by hundreds of people. While Storin said Notre Dame 
see LETTER/ page 23 
HOCKEY 

Irish have struggled on offense 
After a 2-0 loss at Miami of Ohio last Saturday, a game in which the Irish played well enough to win but were best­ed by a freshman goaltender 
making his Justin Schuver 
first career 
shutout, 

Associate
Irish head 

Sports Editor 
coach Dave Poulin had some positive words. 

"There were tremendous chances all game," he said. "Those are going to go in eventually, and they're not going in right now for us, but we're going to have a great finish this year and have a great finish down the stretch." 
Notre Dame has played on the edge all season, but its lack of offensive output may be the team's Achilles heel. The Irish have scored just 73 goals in 28 games. 
An average offensive pro­duction is fine when you have great goaltending and defense like the Irish do this year. The team is second overall in the CCHA in goals against with 
68. Still, there will be games 
when that defense will falter. Ironically, the last time 
see IRISH/page 26 
BASEBALL 
Rotation to lead the way 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
As the baseball season draws near, Chris Niesel is in a famil­iar position. 
Last y·ear at this time, Niesel was expected to become the ace of Notre Dame's pitching staff after freshman All-American Grant Johnson had season-end­ing shoulder surgery in late December 2002. Niesel and Johnson were supposed to be a dominating No. 1 and No. 2 in the Irish rotation, but when Johnson went down, the pres­sure to perform well increased for Niesel. The same will be asked of Niesel this season as Johnson rehabilitates and two other projected starters -John Axford and Jeff Manship -are out with season-ending elbow problems. 
"Niese) is our bulldog out there," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said. "Last. year when [Johnson) went dowtl with the injury, the onus was on [Niesel] to lead the staff, and he did a tremendous job all year last year. When [Johnson's] back to full strength, I'm going to feel like we have co-aces like I did their freshman year. But until then, [Niesel) is really going to have to shoulder the load again, and I believe he's up to that task." 
. While Johnson is on track to return to the starting rotation at some point in the first half of the season, he will be on a pitch count and will come out of the bullpen for the initial part of the year. The limitations on Johnson -he will be limited to 50 pitch­es at first -as well as the injuries to Axford and Manship, mean other Irish pitchers must 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Chris Niesel pitches last year for Notre Dame. 
step up against stiff competition. 
Niese) will be the only truly experienced starter returning, and he hopes to continue his impressive career at Notre 
see PITCHERS/ page 2 5 
Cl) SMC BASKETBAll 
MEl\fS TENNIS 

NFL
FOOTBALL 
NCAA fOOTBAll
FENCING
u.l 
t-c.:» Adrian 67, 

Eight former Irish 
The University of
z Saint Mary's 51 
The Irish freshmen 

Notre Dame has a 
NFL co-MVP Peyton 
standouts were invited 
Colorado is under
come from different 

three week break until 
Manning attempts to
cc ::5 

to the NFL Combine 
investigation for possi-
The Belles cannot 
the West vs. Central
backgrounds, but the 

sign a new contract with 
from Feb. 28 to Mar. 4.
Q = 

ble recruiting violations. 
hold a halftime lead in a -future for Notre Dame 
Dual Meet Feb. 21. 
the Colts. 
c:c 
loss to Adrian. 
is bright. 
a. ti 

Cl) page 26 
page 24 

page 16
page 20

pag.e 23 
page 23 







