
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 76 MONDAY, JANUARY 26,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND presidential candidates announced 
Four tickets vie for student body leadership 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
As election year begins across the coun­try, so it begins on the Notre Dame campus as candidates begin campaigning for the top spots in the Student Union -student body president and vice president. 
This year, four tickets -Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch, Charlie Ebersol and James Leito, Mark Healy and Mike Healy and Adam Istvan and Carla Bell -will compete for election compared to last year's seven tickets. This drop in numbers is most likely due to the number of student signatures the candidates had to obtain on petitions before being accepted to run. Last year, candidates were required to obtain 300 signatures, but the number was raised to 700 during a December Council of Representatives meet­ing. 
The approval process for each ticket comes from having the required number of signatures, and each candidate must be in good academic standing and good standing with the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Judicial Board President Elliot 
see CANDIDATES/page 8 

Students march on Washington 
ND Right to Life Club participates in March for Life 

Photo courtesy of Andrew McElhinney 
Members of the Notre Dame Right to Life Club march In front of the Supreme Court last week. 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
Notre Dame students often have a reputation for being apathetic to current events, but don't tell that to members of the Notre Dame Right to Life Club. 
The pro-life organization took about 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to Washington, D.C., last week to participate in the March for Life. The march, now in its 31st year, commemorates the Supreme Court's decision in l,loe v. Wade, which legalized abortion in the United States. 
Janel Daufenbach, club president, said the march pro­vided a unique opportunity to meet with pro-life activists from colleges across the nation. 
"It was really inspiring to be there with so many college students," she said. 
Daufenbach said about 250,000 abortion opponents took part in the march, which led from the Washington Monument to the Supreme Court. 
Several students who attended the march said they were motivated by love for the unborn. Andrew McElhinney, a seminarian at Moreau Seminary, said he had a desire to defend the unborn. 

"It's a really powerful expe­rience," McElhinney said. "It's a great opportunity to show support for the most unpro­tected people in our society." 
Senior Meg Hunter-Kilmer echoed that sentiment, calling the march "powerful." 
Hunter-KHmer said the mas­sive gathering was a chance to build unity among pro-life students from different col­leges. She said the Notre 
see MARCH/page 6 

MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 

Incumbents Lao, Chin will not run for re-election 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
Two names will be notably missing from the list of candidates in the upcom­ing Notre Dame elections. Student body president Jeremy Lao and student body vice president Emily Chin have each chosen not to run for office next term. 
Lao and Chin both cited different rea­sons for their decisions. 
Although Lao said his student govern­ment experience has been a good one, he said he would like to find other activ­ities in which to be involved during his senior year. 
"Being involved with student govern­ment for the past three years has been a really fulfilling experience," said Lao. ''I'd like to use my final year to pursue different interests and to find new expe­riences for myself." 
As an example, Lao said that he had been accepted into an applied invest­ment management course, but was unable to take the class due to his com­mitments as student body president. 
see LAO/page 8 


Three tickets compete for SMC presidency 
By ANGElA SAOUD News Writer 
Three tickets will vie for student body president and vice president in tomorrow's election, the largest pool of candidates in three years. 
The three sets of running mates are Sarah Brown and Michelle Fitzgerald, Shay Jolly and Veronica Saavedra and S a r a h See Also Catherine 
"Meet the 
White and 
Candidates"
Mary Pauline 
page4
Moran,. 
White and Moran, both juniors, are running with the campaign slogan "Belles ring in change." 
"With Dr. Carol Mooney as our new president, the new apart­ments and a new student center coming to campus, we want to embrace the change, and we feel it's time for new student govern­ment representation," White said. "We've had a wonderful experi­ence working together this year and would like to carry that on into next year as well. We know we are ready to take our involve­ment with student government to the next level." 
As the current junior class presi­dent and vice president, White and Moran said they have big plans for the future of Saint Mary's. 
"Our platform really centers around the students," said White. "We want to work to energize stu­dent life, approach student's needs 
see SMC/page 6 


MIKE HARKINS/Observer GraphiC 
Monday, January 26, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Rock the vote 

During Winter Break, gathered at a friend's house over dinner, the con­versation quickly turned to politics. She, a Stanford sophomore, told us of the circus-like atmosphere to which California had fallen as a result of the recent gov­ernor's recall and spoke of her excitement at finally being able to vote as a Californian. She proudly men­tioned how she, like so many other Palo Alto resi­dents, bucked the state-wide trend to recall Gray Davis. 
Her vote meant something, even though she voted for a losing proposi­tion, and she was excited at getting to do it. 
During a short break in the conver­sation, another friend quietly asked, 
. "Guys, I'm sorry, but, what recall?" Polite laughter ensued -my friend, the loveable screw-up, smiled sheep­ishly. I laughed too, later finding this emotion replaced by one of slight sad­ness and even embarrassment. So much has been said about the political apathy in today's youth. Eighteen-to 24-year-olds simply don't care enough, or are too lazy, to get out and vote, the argument goes. College students would rather drink and watch sports than a political debate. It's much sexier to send off that sub­scription in the mail for Maxim or Sports Illustrated than the voter's reg­istration card or an absentee ballot, more enjoyable to surf the Web in search of music downloads (perhaps, even, the new remixes of Dean's ''I have a scream" speech) than a candi­date's personal Web page. It's fairly easy to understand why people refuse to vote. To some, poli­tics is a complicated and frustrating game, too partisan and bitter. Candidates on both sides often seem flawed. College students especially seem pessimistic about government -we complain about the ineffectiveness of student government, for example, at how the administration seems non­chalant about our concerns, how little change actually gets accomplished. Why should we expect politics at the national level to mean something? That notion is false -or at least it should be so. Politics should matter to us, and politicians do get things done. It's time to buck that stereotype about America's youth. We should watch the evening news or read newspapers to keep informed of the campaign trail happenings (or to watch Dean's latest concession/motivational speech). We should discuss issues and platforms with friends and faculty members alike. Above all, we should mark that ballot on election day (watch those hanging chads). We should realize that we've earned that right and are capable of fulfilling it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd. edu. 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How ARE YOU STAYING WARM IN THE BITTER COLD? 




Ama Nussbaum  Brian Hedges  Dan McSwain  
Sophomore Farley  Freshman Siegfried  Junior O'Neill  
ncuddling with  "Wearing my  "Fm going to  
my roommate. "  Jagermeister  Australia.  
jacket."  seriously!"  




Dan Greiwe  Kristina Drzlac  Sarah Schneider  
Freshman Siegfried  Junior P.E.  Senior Off-Campus  
"Lots and lots oflayers.··  "Strapping live squirrels to my  ..Vegetarian Chicken Noodle  

body for Soup." warmth." 

ANDY KENNAfThe Observer 

A student participates In ping-pong, one of the over 15 events In Friday's Late Night Olympics. The event pitted teams of dorms against each other In athletic competi­tions and raised money for Special Olympics. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 
The English Department will present a lecture given by Vanderbilt professor Jonathan Lamb titled. "The Crying ·of Lost Things: Advertisements for Lost Property ·and the Beggar's Opera." The event will take place from 4:30 to 5:45 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The final showing of the Student Film Festival runs in the Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium from 7:30 to 9:45 
p.m. tonight. Tickets are $5. 
"The Thief," a 1997 Russian movie that received an Oscar nomination for Best Foreign Language Film. will play tonight from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 120. 
Representatives from over 100 companies will speak with stu­dents about employment oppor­tunities in the Winter Career and Internship Fair tomorrow. The fair will occur from 4 to 8 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Students of all levels are encouraged to attend. · 
Amante House, a post-gradu­ate service opportunity in Chicago, will hold an information session for interested students. The session will be held from 8 to 9 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Lounge. 
Fred Adams, a professor at the University of Michigan and Associate Chair for Graduate Studies, will present a lecture "Into the Dark: The Long Term Future of Our Dying Universe" tomorrow from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in DeBartolo 102. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


,> !
*'*:.· *** 

HIGH 29 HIGH 
21 

LOW 21 LOW 
13 
Bloomberg offers Mrs. Atkins steak dinner 
NEW YORK -Mayor Michael Bloomberg, embroiled in a battle over remarks he made about Dr. Robert Atkins, offered the diet guru's widow a low­carb mea culpa Saturday -an invitation to a steak dinner. 
Richard Rothstein, a spokesman for Veronica Atkins, said Saturday evening that the dinner invi­tation had been accepted. 
The mayor, who a day earlier advised an angry Atkins to "lighten up," didn't deliver an apology himself. Instead, mayoral spokesman Ed Skyler issued a three-sentence statement about the food fight. 

"While talking to rtrefight­ers about the challenges of losing weight, the mayor made a joke which upset Veronica Atkins," Skyler ·said. "He never intended to insult her late husband or offend her, and is sorry that has been the result." 
Pot fumes cause cops to leave work 
JERUSALEM The fumes from several tons of marijuana stored in an Israeli police station were so strong that officers had to leave their work place. 
The police station in the town of Dimona in the southern Negev Desert is used to store all the mari­juana confiScated along the Israeli-Egyptian border, a busy smuggling route. Between three and four tons were seized in the past two months. 
"The smell was overpow­ering," police spokesman Gil Kleiman said Friday. 
Finally, it was too much for the officers working next door to the storage room, and they had to leave their offices. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
11.1 
if
let 
11.1 
~ 
_, 
ct 



•)It;
(.) 

...I 0 HIGH 31 HIGH 28 HIGH 31 HIGH 21 LOW 17 LOW 13 LOW 17 LOW 21 
Atlanta 39 I 33 Bos~on 22 1.14 Chicago 27 I 19 Denver 32 I 18 Houston 66 I 35 Los Angeles 64 1 46 Minneapolis 16 1 1 New York 25 I 21 Phtladelphta 31 I 27 Phoenix 61 I 40 Seattle 43 I 37 St. Louis 33 118 Tampa 751 61 washington 31 1 29 
Monday, January 26, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Groups discuss Keenan Revue 
SMC students, Keenan rector to talk about avoiding controversy 
in particular or the Revue

By NATALIE BAILEY 
in general.

News Writer 
Bailey said she present­ed her specific concerns In an attempt to elimi­about the Revue's use of nate the controversy sur­potentially offensive rounding the Keenan stereotypes, and she said Revue, Keenan Hall rector the show's material often Father Mark Thesing and focuses on racism, sexism two Saint Mary's student and social issues. officials met Friday to dis­Mahoney said she asked cuss their concerns that Keenan consider the regarding the College's upcoming mission in annual variety ..We want to keep preparing show. its materi­
things civil and

Sarah Bailey, al. Both 
Women's enjoyable. " women Issues commis­said theysion cr for the 
Sarah Bailey felt that 

Board of Thesing lis­
Women's Issues 

Governance, tened to
commissioner

represented 
the Saint Mary's Keenan Revue Committee in the meeting and was accom­panied by Student Trustee Sarah Mahoney. 
"This meeting was groundbreaking and will influence the future [because] we have laid the groundwork for talk­ing to Keenan before the Revue," Bailey said. "The same issues come up every year and Saint Mary's and Keenan have never met before the show. We want to keep things civil and enjoy­able." 
Thesing declined to comment on the meeting 
their con­cerns and suggested 
practical ways to address issues. 
"Some things guys just don't get," Mahoney said. "It may not be offensive to them, but if they think in a broader sense and talk 
about  all  the  possible  
ways  people  can  be  
offended, it is  our hope  

they will weed those things out before they get into the show." 
Mahoney said Thesing screened the skits Friday night. Each evening, the show will start with a dis­claimer stating that the Revue is self-mocking and has no intention of offend­ing the audience. 
Mahoney said that, as a result of the discussion, she hopes that planning for the show will start earlier in future years and avoid many offensive jokes. 
"The success of our efforts will depend [on] how much the producers and rector push the men of Keenan to do this," Mahoney said. "This has to be something they value and want to do." 
The Saint Mary's Keenan Revue Committee will screen the variety show Wednesday. The committee consists of Saint Mary's student body president and vice presi­dent, two members of Holy Cross College's stu­dent government and may include two Notre Dame representatives. The com­mittee also plans to meet with Keenan residents after the show to review how jokes worked, whether people were offended and how the Revue can improve. 
"This was a good first step," Bailey said. "[Thesing] was very nice to come over to meet with us, but, in the future, we need to do more before the event." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill407@saintmarys.edu 

ARTISTIC AWARENESS 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Artist Malaqulas Montoya spoke about his "PreMeditated: Meditations on Capital Punishment" exhibit at the Snlte Museum on Sunday. Montoya, a California native, Is a prominent figure In the Chicano graphic arts move­ment. His works Include paintings, murals, washes, and silk screens. 


Write for News. Call 1-5323. 

Marketing Human Resources Internships 
nternational Business Council 
www.nd.edu/.-.wsibc 
Finance Accounting 
Business Consulting ·Gio.bal Development Information '"fechnology 
WEDNESDAY AT ST. MARY'S 
Informational Meeting January 28th at 7:00pm Haggar CoiJege Center 2nd Floor Parlor Room 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, January 26, 2004 


Sarah Brown 
Who are they? 
Sarah Brown is a junior philosophy and political science major. She is currently serving as the Saint Mary's student body vice president. Michelle Fitzgerald is a sophomore political science and reli­gious studies major. She is currently the sophomore class president. 
+ 
Fun Facts: If elected, Fitzgerald would become vice-president after serving as sophomore class president, as did current Saint Mary's president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and Brown. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "We are not past administra­tions. We have different leadership styles," Brown said. 



In their words ... 
+ 
Top Priority: Expanding the backgrounds of students involved in student government leadership positions. 

+ 
First Priority: Drawing a large applicant pool for positions on the Board of Governance. 



In our words... 
+ 
Best Idea: Building upon efforts by the current administration to continue making student govern­ment leaders visible and available to students. 

+ 
Worst Idea: Increasing the use of the student government logo as a marketing tool for the student body president. 

+ 
Bottom Line: Brown and Fitzgerald are the most experienced ticket. They have both served in top leadership positions and Brown's experience in the Office of the Student Body President means she is very familiar with the workings of the office and what is feasible. Students should view their proposed expansions of current initiatives favorably as this year's student government was successful in both improving itself and working with the administration to achieve goals for students, such as the implemen­tation of the reading day. This ticket wants to build upon what already has been done and follows the edict that if isn't broke, it shouldn't be ftxed. 





Shay Jolly 

Who are they? 

Shay Jolly is a junior communications major. She currently serves as the president of the Resident Hall Association. Veronica Saavedra is a junior busi­ness major. She currently serves as the president of the Student Diversity Board. 
+ 
Fun Facts: Jolly is passionate about sports and is considering being a sports broadcaster. Saavedra likes to play racquetball. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "[Student government] needs more of a support system.... We are all Belles in our own right and we should support each other," Jolly said. 



In their words... 

+ 
Top Priority: Increase relationships between faculty and students and Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 

+ 
First Priority: Determine and analyze problems within student government to help eliminate these hierarchical issues within the structure 



In our words... 

+ 
Best Idea: Improving communication within stu­dent government and between Saint Mary's and the community 

+ 
Worst Idea: Focusing too much on equalizing power between the five boards and the Board of Governance 

+ 
Bottom Line: These women decided to run together after a night of discussion about how their respective boards did not have power and were lost in the student government structure. It is no surprise their main priority is to fix the problems \\-ithin student government -namely equalizing power between the five boards and decreasing the power of the Board of Governance. They praised the current administation's effort to bring organization to and publicize student government, but think that more can be done by build­ing support for all aspects of the organization. This ticket has too narrow of a focus and appears to be running solely to make a statement about increasing power for other branches as opposed to focusing on what student government can do for students. 




Sarah Catherine White 
Who are they? 
Sarah Catherine White is a business major and ltalian minor. Mary Pauline Moran. the junior class vice president, is majoring in business administra­tion. White and Moran currently serve as the junior class president and vice president, respectively. 
+ 
Fun Facts: White studied in Rome for a semester. Moran is an Irish dancer. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "We have a very realistic sense and a fresh outlook on student government and the student needs ...We're not afraid to stop something if it's not working," White said. 



In their words... 
+ 
Top Priority: Emphasize simple events and enliven attitude in daily campus life. 

+ 
First Priority: Welcome new College President Carol Mooney with an all school dinner or gather­ing. 



In our words... 
+Best Idea: Establish procedure manual that lists names. numbers an processes, which can be utilized by students who wish to institute events or other types of action on campus. 
+Worst Idea: Strengthen ties with South Bend com­munity primarily by encouraging Mass participation. 
+ Bottom Line: White and Moran exude an admirable enthusiasm and desire to enliven the gen­eral attitude on the Saint Mary's campus. However, their platform lacks specific goals and they are rela­tively inexperienced on the executive level. particu­larly when compared to other candidates. While White and Moran are eager and dedicated. their abil­ity to achieve concrete accomplishments is doubtful. While they kno"v the "ins and outs" of student gov­ernment, in their words, their ideas are narrow and somewhat hackneyed, failing to put this inside knowledge to good use. The candidates are rightly concerned with working closely \Vith new College president Carol Mooney, and they want to introduce her to the atmosphere of the school and their own attitudes. Again. though, their concern with attitude overshadows their concern with action. 

Monday, January 26, 2004 CoMPILED FROtv'\ T1··IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexico admits Peace Corps volm1teers 
MEXICO CITY -Mexico has broken a decades-old tradition of rejecting U.S. aid workers. granting permission for the first group of U.S. Peace Corps volunteers ever to work here. 
Mindful of national sensitivity over U.S. influence, though, the government plans to keep the group out of public view. 
Still, for a country that has kicked out or criticized U.S. experts in the past -and for one touchy about being viewed as underde­veloped -it's a big change. 
The decision was made in November. The first 15 volunteers, scheduled to arrive this summer, won't be performing the Peace Corps' usual tasks in construction, rural schools, clinics or farmer training. They will be tucked away in research centers to work on information technology, science and busi­ness development. 
Asian bird flu outbreaks continue 
BANGKOK, Thailand -Indonesia became the seventh country in Asia to confirm an outbreak of deadly bird flu, as the World Health Organization warned Sunday the virus could be resistant to basic human influenza drugs. 
The disease has already affected millions of chickens in Indonesia, said Sofjan Sudardjat, a senior agriculture official. But the virus has not yet crossed over to humans, he said. 
Indonesian officials had earlier denied the diseases' presence, but the Indonesian Veterinarians Association said several inde­pendent investigations had revealed that bird flu had already killed millions of chickens over the past several months. Asia is on a region-wide health alert, with governments slaughtering millions of chickens to contain outbreaks in Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ex-inspector blasts WMD intelligence 
WASHINGTON-U.S. intelligence agencies need to explain why their research indicated Iraq possessed banned weapons before the American-led invasion, says the outgoing top 
U.S. inspector, who now believes Saddam Hussein had no such arms. 
"I don't think they exist," David Kay said Sunday. "The fact that we found so far the weapons do not exist -we've got to deal with that difference and understand why." 
Hostage takers "more compliant" 
BUCKEYE, Ariz. -As a prison standoff began its second week Sunday, negotiators were getting "increasingly more compliant responses" from two inmates holding a cor­rectional officer hostage in a prison watch tower, a prison official said. 
The change in the inmates is "a sign that negotiations have been effective," said the Arizona Department of Corrections official, Ivan Bartos. He did not elaborate about the change. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Majority dislike split time zone 
INDIANAPOLIS -A majority of Indiana residents believe the state's time-zone split should be ended, but are divided over which zone that should be, a new statewide survey said. 
The poll, sponsored by The Indianapolis Star and WTHR, found that 58 percent of Indiana residents thought the entire state should be on the same time, while 38 per­cent were satisfied with the current time divide. 
The poll also found 48 percent preferring to have the entire state in the Central time zone, which Chicago follows, with 40 percent preferring Eastern, or New York time. Twelve percent were in the poll were not sure. 





Opportunity sends 'astonishlng' photos 
Second rover lands safely, transmits dozens of images to NASA scientists 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. -
NASA's Opportunity rover 
sent its first pictures of 
Mars to Earth on Sunday, 
delighting and puzzling 
scientists just hours after 
the spacecraft bounced to 
a landing. 
The pictures show a sur­
face smooth and dark red 
in some places, and strewn 
with fragmented slabs of 
light bedrock in others. 
Bounce marks left by the 
rover's air bags when it 
landed were clearly visible. 
"I am flabbergasted. I am astonished. I am blown away. Opportunity has touched down in an alien and bizarre landscape," said Steven Squyres, of Cornell University and the mission's main scientist. "I still don't know what we're looking at." 
NASA began receiving the first of dozens of black­and-white and color images from Opportunity about four hours after its flawless landing. Mars at the time was 124 million miles from Earth. 

Mission members hooted and hollered as the images splashed on a screen in mission control at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger was there three times that of Earth's hobbled it. structed, unlike that of the with his wife, Maria gravity. Engineers had Initial analysis of the Spirit rover, said Matt Shriver, to watch the designed it to withstand as images suggested Wallace, another of the drama unfold, and walked much as 40 G's, said Chris Opportunity landed in a mission managers. Spirit through mission control Jones, director of flight shallow crater roughly 66 had to use an alternate shaking hands with the sci­projects at JPL. feet across. Its low rim ramp because a deflated entists. The six-wheeled rover shouldn't block the rolling air bag blocked its safest 
"The pictures just blow landed at 12:05 a.m. EST robot once it gets going, route to the martian sur­me away. We've certainly in Meridiani Planurn, Squyres said. face. not been to this place believed to be the Opportunity could roll off Together, the twin 384­before," deputy project smoothest, flattest spot on its lander in 10 to 14 days, pound rovers make up a manager Richard Cook Mars. Opportunity lies mission manager Arthur $8 20 million mission to said. 6,600 miles and halfway Amador said. Opportunity's seek out geologic evidence 
Opportunity plunged into around the planet from possible targets include a that Mars was once a wet­the martian atmosphere at where its twin, Spirit, larger crater, perhaps 500 ter world possibly capable more than 12,000 mph and landed Jan. 3. feet across, that lies an of sustaining life. NASA bounced down on Mars On Sunday, NASA said estimated half-mile from launched Spirit on June 10 just six minutes later, Opportunity was in excel­where the spacecraft land­and Opportunity on July 7. swaddled in protective air lent health and Spirit was ed. Each carries nine cameras bags. It hit with a force on the mend after serious The rover's ramp off its and six scientific instru­estimated to be just two to software problems had lander appeared unob-ments. 

IRAN 



Elections threatened by veto of bill 
islation on the grounds that it contra­"Iranians never allow dictators to
Associated Press 

dicted the constitution and Sharia decide for them," she said. 
TEHRAN -Iran's hard-line [Islamic] law," Mohsen Mirdamadi Members of President Mohammad Guardian Council vetoed a bill on told The Associated Press. Mirdamadi Khatami's government have said they Sunday that would have curbed its heads the National Security and will not hold what would be "sham power, throwing elections into doubt Foreign Policy Committee of the par­elections" if the disqualifications are in a historic confrontation between liament and is one of the lawmakers upheld. reformers and conservatives. disqualified from running again. In a session broadcast live on state 
The Guardian Council rejected a bill Members of the Guardian Council radio, legislators voted Sunday to reinstating thousands of candidates could not immediately reached for approve the bill. They categorized it that it disqualified earlier. The veto is comment. as "triple-urgent," meaning highest likely to provoke a boycott of the Feb. Another reformist legislator who priority. It was the first time since 20 legislative elections by reformers. has been disqualified, Fatemeh Iran's 1979 Islamic revolution that 
The bill that parliament passed ear­Haqiqatjou, told the AP that with its parliament has approved a triple­lier Sunday sought to overturn the veto, "the Guardian Council effectively urgency bill. disqualifications. Reformists have pushes the country towards greater The bill would have amended the condemned the disqualifications as an political chaos. National Elections law to force the attempt by the hard-liners to skew "The rejection brings reformers and Guardian Council, which oversees the elections in their favor. all those who want free and fair elec­elections, to reinstate all candidates 
"We've been informed that the tions closer to boycotting the elec­unless there is legal documentation to Guardian Council has vetoed the leg-tions," Haqiqatjou said. prove them unfit for parliament. 
page 6 Monday, January 26, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
and concerns realistically, provide an approachable and welcoming student government and evaluate campus academics and relations between departments. We also believe we should recognize and integrate campus talent and ath­letics and enliven and recognize student's spiritual needs on cam­pus." 
White has been involved in the Board of Governance Academic Standards committee, as well as serving as the Abroad chair her sophomore year and the Social Co-chair of the first-year board. She is majoring in Business, with a concentration in International Business and a minor in Italian. 
Moran has also held many posi­tions in Saint Mary's politics. She is the current junior class vice president, and she was on the Student Government Association's constitution committee. Moran was the BOG Technology commis­sioner as a sophomore and worked on the first-year board to help design the Oass of 2005 Web page. Moran is an MIS major with a concentration in Accounting. 
White and Moran said that the reasons to run for president and vice president are countless. 
"We have a passion for this school," said White. "We feel we represent a wide variety of stu­dents here, and people have enjoyed what we've done so far. We are always up for a challenge, and this certainly is one, an excit­ing one." 
White also said she and Moran feel all students are a part of stu­dent government. 
"All students at Saint Mary's play a role as a leader, whether silent or for all to see," said White. It would be an honor to represent the talent and energy of all the students that lead us. This is something that is in our gut, that gets us energized, and it's some­thing we would love to do." 
Brown, a junior and the current student body vice president, and Fitzgerald, a sophomore, said they would be qualified candi­dates. 
"I think Michelle and I have a good combination of experience and fresh ideas," said Brown. "We're not opposed to new ideas, and we're not stuck in an old sys­tem. We have good relationships with the faculty, staff and students at Saint Mary's, and we also have a good feel for what is current." 
Brown and Fitzgerald's plat­form places much emphasis on improvements both in and out of student government. 
"We would really like to contin­ue to spread out the leadership roles in student government and have the committees take on more responsibility to keep the leadership balanced and fair," said Brown. "We would also like to continue to expand student government and look for new ways to involve more students. Reaching out to a broader base of students is also important to us because we want everyone to feel as though they are a part of gov­ernment at Saint Mary's." 
Brown has served this year as 
Daufenbach said the speak­ers focused on helping pro-life 

March 
advocates argue their case. In addition, the club purchased a
continued from page 1 

taped series of lectures on the Dame contingent met students subject. from Florida State, and each Lauren Galgano, vice presi­delegation took turns singing dent of the Right to Life club. its school's fight song as they said the wide representation marched. at the conference was encour­
While the students may have aging. . been ready to "It was great to 
reconcile with see schools with
"It's a great 
gridiron rivals, brand-new pro­they were opportunity to life groups," she unyielding in said.
show support for 
their stance She went on to
the most
against abor­say that the pro­tion. unprotected people life movement "Life begins at ~an create unity
in our society. ·•
conception," among groups Hunter-Kilmer with otherwise said. "I think Andrew McElhinney differing views. abortion is Moreau Seminary Catholic and genocide." Protestant 
In addition to groups, for exam­the march, eight Notre Dame ple, were represented at the students attended a leader­march, as were members of ship conference at the the Republican Party, Catholic University of America Democrats for Life and sponsored by American Feminists for Life. Collegiates for Life, a college "It shows it's not a partisan pro-life umbrella organiza­issue," Galgano said. "It's a tion. The conference included matter of life and death." delegates from more than 50 colleges and universities Contact Matt Bramanti at nationwide. mbramant@nd.edu 

the student body vice president. She is a philosophy and political science double-major. Fitzgerald is currently serving as the sopho­more class president. She is majoring in political science and religious studies. 
"We've seen ourselves doing this for a long time, and we like that as the president and vice president, we get to be involved in all aspects of student govern­ment," said Brown. "Both of us really enjoy the policy-making aspect of student government, and we're excited to expand on that." 
Jolly and Saavedra, both jun­iors, believe they have fresh ideas for the future of Saint Mary's. 
"We want to work to incorpo­rate all aspects of Saint Mary's life like sports and clubs into one community where we can all share it," said Jolly. "We want to continue our connections with Notre Dame and Holy Cross and extend it further to the entire community of South Bend .... And with the new administration com­ing in, we'd love to be there to both students and to Mooney and her administration to make the transition as smooth as possible." 
Serving as the current Residence Hall Association presi­dent, Jolly also serves as a BOG executive. She served as class treasurer her sophomore year and has been the welcome com­mittee chairwoman. Recently, she served on the apartment commit­tee, helping to make decisions about the campus apartments. Jolly is a communications major. 

Saavedra is the Student Diversity Board president and also serves as a BOG executive. She is majoring in business. 
"We've both been very involved in BOG this year, and we're seen the behind-the-scenes work that goes into it," said Jolly. "We've really enjoyed our time and the large role we played in student government this year. Veronica and I have a lot of the same ideas, and we're ready to make Saint Mary's a place for today and the future." 
Jolly said that she and Saavedra are capable for the job. 
"Together with the students, we want to make Saint Mary's into a wonderful community that every­one, everywhere, knows about and loves," said Jolly. "We want to make this a place where the stu­dents know that this is our school. and this is the place we can call our home." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
The future relies on 
inventions from GE. 
GE's future relies 
on people like you. 
Winter Career &Internship Fair 
January 27th, 4-8 pm 
Joyce Center Field House -North Dome 
Come visit the GE booth to learn 
more about GE's full-time and 
internship opportunities. 
Detai Is at: gecareers.com/notredame 
Communications Leadership Oeve 
Program Information Sessic:>ri 
tonight, Jan. 26th at 
7:30pm in DeBarto ....·....·.·· 
· Advanced 
Mater~als 
:-·-·.·.·.·.•.-.·.·····-···-·--.·.···-·-·.·-....-...·.·.·.·.•.·.·.·.·.·-: 
: lnfr~tructure 
. s 
:S~::~p:: 
: :
•,•,y,•,•,...-.-.-.•,•...•,•,-.-.•.•,v.·.•,-.•,•,•,-.v,•,•,•,•,•,v 

Is it the medical information system that 
helps save lives? Or is it the idea that led to 
such a device? At GE, we believe in the 
power of ideas. Ideas 
that not only help doctors treat their 
patients more effectively, but any idea that 
makes the world better than it was the day 
before. If you have those kinds of ideas, we 
hope you contact us. 
GECareers gecareers.com/notredame 
imagination at work .... ·
•
..•·· 

------------------------------------~----­
Monday, January 26, 2004 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 568.29 -54.89
}ones ' 
~~.~;~r" 

AMEX -1;220~27 "'-+i:~r:e~;~j;: 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.68 +0.47 28.48 JDS UNIPHASE ODSU) -2.42 -0.12 4.83 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.15 -0.89 27.33 INTEL CORP (INTq +0.38 +0.12 31.75 SUN MICROS~S (SUNW) -1.27 -0.07 5.45 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.75 +0.85 49.40 I0-YEAR NOTE +2.44 +0.97 40.66 5-YEAR NOTE +3.42 +1.01 30.57 3-MONTH BILL +1.76 +0.15 8.67 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.0 I 34.94 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -2.1 0 408.00 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +0.625 83.00 
Excha e Rates 

YEN I 06.4 EURO 0.7952 POUND 0.5481 CANADIAN$ 1.314 
IN BRIEF 
Halliburton to pay back overcharge 
WASHINGTON -Halliburton will pay the Pentagon $6.3 million for possible over­charges by a subcontractor that is accused of giving kickbacks to supply U.S. soldiers in Iraq, a spokeswoman said Friday in new trou­ble for Vice President Dick Cheney's former company. A spokesman said the company was paying the $6.3 million to the Army Materiel Command to cover any possible overcharges while the Pentagon investigates. 
The Pentagon already has in progress a criminal inquiry into possible overcharging involving another Halliburton contract to sup­ply gasoline to Iraqi civilians. Democrats have criticized the contracts and demanded further investigations; the company has denied wrongdoing. Meanwhile, Halliburton has begun an advertising campaign to improve its image. 
Weyerhaeuser Q4 profits fall 
SEATTLE -Profits at timber giant Weyerhaeuser Co. fell 27 percent in the fourth quarter, as the company took a series of one­time charges and recorded a large one-time gain on the sale of timberlands. 
Federal Way, Wash.-based Weyerhaeuser said Friday it earned $92 million, or 41 cents per share, for the three-month period ended Dec. 
28. That was down from earnings of $126 mil­lion, or 57 cents per share, in the same period a year earlier. 
Revenue rose 9 percent to nearly $5.15 billion from revenues nearly $4.72 billion a year ago. 
Toyota passes Ford, takes second 
TOKYO -Toyota Motor Corp. outsold Ford Motor Co. last year to become the world's No. 2 automaker behind General Motors Corp., pre­liminary sales data released by the Jap.anese company showed Friday. 
A Toyota spokesman said estimated unit sales for 2003 reached 6.78 million vehicles, up 9.9 percent from 6.17 million the previous year. 
On Thursday, Ford reported its 2003 sales slipped to 6.72 million vehicles, down 3.6 per­cent from 6.97 million. 
Toyota spokesman Shinya Matsumoto charac­terized his company's sales as an "indicator" of rising customer satisfaction but played down the comparison with Ford. 
FREE TRADE 




Costa Rica fifth to join CAFTA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 
Bush administration 
reached an agreement with 
Costa Rica on Sunday that 
will allow that nation to join 
four of its neighbors in cre­
ating a Central American 
Free Trade Area with the 
United States, officials of the 
two countries announced. 
The deal must be 
approved by Congress. 
The agreement came 
after two weeks of intense 
negotiations aimed at over­
coming differences in such 
areas as telecommunica­
tions and insurance that 
had prompted Costa Rica to 
back out at the last minute 
from completing the CAFTA 
talks last month with the 
four other nations, 
Guatemala, El Salvador, 
Nicaragua and Honduras. 
Administration officials 
said they were pleased with 
the market-opening lan­
guage finally reached with 
Costa Rica, which had 
sought to protect its monop­
oly operations in telephones 
and insurance. 

Costa Rica agreed to fully open its insurance market to foreign competition by 2011. It also agreed to open three key sectors of its tele­phone market to competi­tion -wireless services, private network services and Internet services. Zoellick and Costa Rican lower-priced Central continue a trend of exposing 
While the country will Trade Minister Alberto American sugar and from U.S. workers to increased maintain bans against for­Trejos. the U.S. textile industry, competition from low-wage eign competition in other Senior U.S. trade officials, which is concerned that the nations with lax labor and areas of telecommunica­who briefed reporters deal will open their belea­environmental laws. tions, U.S. negotiators said Sunday on condition of guered industry to even For its part, the adminis­they were satisfied that they anonymity, said that they more foreign competition. tration hopes to use con­
had torn down barriers in hoped to publish the full U.S. officials on Sunday gressional passage of the areas of most interest to text of the CAFTA agree­refused to speculate on CAFTA as a stepping stone 
U.S. companies. ment by the end of the when the CAFTA would be to achieving an even bigger 
"Costa Rica needed a little week. presented to Congress for a goal, creation of a Free more time to· complete its They said the next step vote. Supporters hope that Trade Area of the Americas, participation in CAFTA, and would be to add a sixth the addition of the covering all 34 democracies we're very pleased it has country, the island nation of Dominican Republic will in the Western hemisphere. joined its Central American the Dominican Republic, to pick up critical House votes In 2003, U.S. goods neighbors in this cutting­the trade deal before sub­among Democrats whose exports to Costa Rica edge, modern free trade mitting it to Congress. districts include large num­totaled $3.5 billion, up agreement," U.S. Trade The free trade deal cover­bers of Dominican immi­about 13 percent from the Representative Robert ing Central America has grant populations. previous year, while the Zoellick said in a statement. stirred strong opposition However, U.S. labor United States imported $3.4 
The negotiating break­among U.S. sugar cane and unions are vowing to billion in goods from Costa through was announced sugar beet farmers, who strongly oppose the pact, Rica, an increase of 9. 7 per­jointly in Washington by fear competition from which they believe would cent from 2002. 

Meijer cuts in-store management 
spokesman John Zimmerman said. Mart Stores Inc., Target Corp. and
Associated Press 

"As a result, we have determined we Kmart Holding Corp. have adapted the 
WALKER, Mich. -Meijer Inc. has need to streamline our stores' super­superstore concept that Meijer devel­eliminated about 1,900 management visory structure in each store." oped during the 1960s. Dutch immi­positions in the latest step of a reor­Zimmerman said Meijer will create grant Hendrik Meijer opened the first ganization effort, the retailer said on about 6,500 new jobs with the Meijer store, a grocery, in Greenville Saturday. planned opening of five stores this in 1934. 
Meijer is reducing the number of its year and eight in 2005. Meijer Inc. started experimenting in managers from about 42 to 30 per Meijer has said its restructuring October with a new cost-cutting bag­store. The family-owned and operated effort, which started five months ago, ging system at a store in the Grand grocery and general merchandise is necessary to remain competitive. Rapids suburb of Wyoming. If the retailer has 158 stores in Illinois, Before the latest round of cuts, the ring-and-bag system, as it is known, is Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan and Ohio. company said it employed about installed in all Meijer stores, nearly 
Some team leaders will be offered 75,000 people. 8,000 mostly part-time bagging jobs non-supervisory positions. Those who "You make these moves when would be lost, the retailer said. leave Meijer will receive a severance you're strong and when you know that A month earlier, Meijer announced package, health care continuation you're not a unique format and you've the immediate elimination of about options and assistance finding new got competitors coming into your mar­350 white-collar jobs. Officials also jobs, the company said. ket with this same format that you said future stores will be constructed 
"As part of our continual transfor­have to compete against," at less expense and include more effi­mation, we have been studying the Zimmerman said. cient store formats and operating pro­industry's best practices," Meijer Multistate retail chains such as Wal-cedures. 
Monday, January 26, 2004

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Lao 
continued from page 1 
''I'm really interested in pursuing my interest in finance ... I plan to take that class next semester," he said. ''I'm not abandon­ing student government in any way. I want to find something new for myself but keep committed to stu­dent government on a dif­ferent level." 
Chin said her decision not to run was based on her hopes for going abroad in the fall. 
"I am hoping to go abroad next fall, and I've always wanted to go abroad since I came to this institution," she said. "It was a personal goal." 
Chin has applied to the will ultimately love the stu­Shanghai program and will dents." 
hear  about  Chin said she  
her accept- believes  the  
ance status in February.  "I'm not abandoning  true president will be the one  
Both Lao and Chin offered advice to the  student government in any way. I want to find something  who can chal­lenge the stu­dents. She said students  
student body regarding what quali­ties they should look  new for myselfbut keep committed to student government on a different level.,  should find "someone who will challenge their potential ... Whomever  
for in their  takes over next  
next dent.  presi­ Jeremy Lao  year has an opportunity to  
Lao  said  student body president  take initiative  
that  stu­ ...  and  make  
dents should  this University  

"look for someone they the best that it can be." know will work hard for them and that will work to represent their needs and Contact Maureen Reynolds at interests ... someone who mreynold@nd.edu 

Student body president Jeremy Lao and vice president Emily Chin go over plans Sunday. They have decided not to run for a second term. 
run student government. " ... We have worked the last

Candidates 
eight months to get a group that continued from page 1 represents every body of student government ... " he said. "You Poindexter said. have to be able to show you can 
According to Poindexter, the produce." ticket of Charlie Ebersol and Leito, Ebersol's candidate for James Leito has been approved, vice president, is currently the but the tickets of Mark Healy and sophomore class president and Mike Healy, Adam Istvan and was the freshman class treasurer Karla Bell and Ryan Craft and last year. Steve Lynch are still in the The Healy-Healy ticket_-the process of being approved. two are not related -promise to 
Each pair of candidates has focus on things that students issues on which they will focus want and need. during the next two weeks before "I think the biggest problem is the elections. that [student government is] not 
Ebersol said that student really getting the job done on involvement is on the top of his things that we can actually do list of how to better student gov­something about," Mark Healy ernment. said. ''I'm here because I want to 
"We really need to focus on stu­break the cycle of having a few dent involvement in administra­people decide what the school tive stuff," he said. should be." 
Ebersol said one of his objec­Mark Healy expressed a need tives will be to have the student for student government to work body president sit on the Board of on things that will improve stu­Trustees, if not as a voting mem­dent life. ber, then as simply the voice of "We have been looking into the students in the administra­putting some type of Blockbuster tion. on campus," he said. 
"They just need our voice These candidates will also there," he said. focus on student feedback and 
In line with their focus on stu­involvement. dent involvement, Ebersol and "We're suggesting that right Leito have vowed to visit each where they have the TCE boxes dorm before the election and ... we put in boxes [for sugges­again during the year if they are tions.r said Mark Healy. "There elected. would be forms that people can 
"I think the first thing you have fill out and we'll directly get them to do is give students more of an and we can contact [the stu­opportunity to be a part of your dents.] ... We want to be able to campaign," said Ebersol. "I want take what people want to get to have students look at my cam­done and make that our top pri­paign and [give me feedback.)" ority." 
Ebersol is currently the head of Mark Healy has sat on the com­the Student Union Board, and he munications board of the Office of said he is focused on returning a the Student Body President and good product to the students in he has also worked on campaigns terms of a more efficient, well-for congressmen and the mayor 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 30 
/WitI VALLEY 

BUS LEAVES liBRARY CIRCLE AT 5;00 PM COST: $35.00 INCLUDES UFT TICKET, RENTAl AND TRANSPORT $25,.00 LIFT TJCKfT AND TRANSPORT ONLY 
of his hometown, Orlando. 
Mark Healy said he chose Mike Healy for his running mate because he "can tell that Mike has the right intuition to be able to lead." 
Istavan said his ticket's main approach is to get SYRs back in the dorms. 
"The class of juniors now is the last class that has had an SYR in the dorms," said Istvan, "and when we graduate, there "'ill be no one who can say, 'I remember when it was better."' 
Istvan cited the lack of this issue in the past two reports to the Board of Trustees, given by former student body presidents Libby Bishop and Pat Hallahan. 
"This is the kind of personality we can't perpetuate in student government ... we need to get more effective people in the office," he said. "We need to have SYRs back in the dorms. It's bet­ter for community building, and it's just more fun." 
Istvan also commented on other issues in his campaign, which include transportation for students to and from downtown South Bend. 
"I would like to bring back ... the bus that takes students from campus to the downtown distlict where people can go out and not have to worry about drivers," he said. "It would make it easier for people to go out." 
Istvan cited another institution, Xavier University in Cincinnati, which has a program like this. 
Istvan was formerly the dance commissioner for Morrissey Hall, and Bell is the current president of Walsh Hall. She also worked for former student body president Brooke Norton. 
Craft and Lynch also want to focus on changes to better stu­dent life. 
"We're not looking to rearrange the setup and intricacies of stu­dent government, but to make changes that affect the every day lives of the students," Craft said. 
Craft cited several ideas that his ticket wishes to implement that they believe would improve the lives of students. 
"Our two prime objectives 
would be that we're trying to get a printer in every dorm that [stu­dents] can use their printing quota for," he said. "And we're trying to get a shuttle bus from the Joyce Center parking lot to DeBartolo [for off-campus stu­dents]. and Grab 'n Go in DeBartolo Hall." 
Craft and Lynch also want to institute an inexpensive movie rental program on campus and design better off-campus trans­portation. 
"We feel that we can bring a fresh outlook to [student govern­ment]," Craft said. "We feel if we can succeed in meeting these objectives that the students will notice a difference in what their student government is doing for them." 
The two do not have experi­ence with student government on campus, but they feel that it is this inexperience that will help them bring a fresh perspective to the office. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 


page 9

Monday, January 26, 2003 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

TH_E ()BSER\1ER 
p
page 10 


Monday, January 26, 2004 
-THE ... OBSER\lER-
P.O. BQx_ Q~-~. lN 40556 024 South Dfnin~ f.liill, NotteDame;JN 46;i56 
EDJToRJN CHI£1' 
__ _ _ _ Andrew Soukup MANAGJNc EQll'Oll BusiNESS MANAGER •.-_--•····· -­Scott Brodfuehrer 
.. ·.. · '._ .._ ... _. -.---··.·.-·. Lori Lcwa!ski 
...····-._._. '' ·. 
ASST. MANAcu# EorroJt ­
Sheila Flynn > _ _-. •. ~tDiro[t: Meghanne "'...,........,._ .vimoooEnrrcilb .smllv~&ul:ts --_ 
sfiJ1n~ EbrruR: ]Qt Hettlef 
-SeEN~ Eont.llll MariaSrniw·· · 
PHOTO EOJTOl\:-Tt:m Kacrnar 
~ .-·-. :-.....· .·.' : . ·.-.·. 
GRAPttiCs EbtT()R: -Mik¢ Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Ceneqella ­
AD DESIGN MANAGER:T-omHaight 
SYSTEMS ADMINlSTRAT(>Il! .Ted Bangert ­WEB ADMtNIS'I:R.\TO.R:_Tod.dNiero -· CONTROlLER: Paula-Garcia. 
CONTACT US OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO -----­
(574) :631~7471.-. -. > 
-:_ ':: .>• •F.AX : -• ­
-----_(~14.> Mh~QZZ } · --­
(574) 6.Jlj~~~~;::~va4~nd.ed~··· ._.·---___ _ ··•·•••-EottllJt ,,. C@:F. << • __ ---• __ ---•·•-··--··
>>-.• >• (n4u;at-454t .. <··--<..._--­MANAGING EnitOfll ASSISTANT MANAGING EinTi:JR (W4} 63..14541-obsrric@nd.edu·. · 
..·. ·. ... QusmESi OFFICE (574}6Jh53l3 . 
·. · NEws DEsk< . . .· . ·•·· ··..·•·•• ··.······ · 
{5741631:-534~ < obs~ews, l~rid.edl.l: .•••..•.... .. > VIEWM)INT 0£$1( ......•...•.·. ·.·...·.....··••··· ••••• 
.<1x4l.••6o(l-5~~~Rts~fri~int:.I7nf·~~··;•••• ···~·.·········· 
($.f:':4:)~:}~+~?4~. )..• Sp9r#.Tcr.ll#;;_e<it.l·• •. •:•······· . ) 
. . S~BIE DESK: >< • ><·············· ............... 
.···•·)?~'Y6.j~~~t~nJ~~r~?-·c~~••••·•··· :••····••••········· }
(514)6.Mf:~Q4 ..~;l~M;equ... :·:::> ··: 
> PHOTO DESK···< <············ 
\W§~s~~~8i~~ X:,:~:r~~i 
(574}()3t~8ll39 . 
··-· .. ' ' . 
· ...·.. . .. 
THE ·••.---.-. . -­
00ERVER0NLJN£. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
PoUCIES ·. T~ O~rveri~ Weinclependenr, dtnly.newsp.aper > ·.· . p11hl#h¢d mp~itlf;Joci @liM bythe 5tucki1a ofdie .··.· 

.·······~--~,!}
···········adf~~:.:r:;~G~~f·arul·dbj~i~elf:~··········•·
··.. ··.possible, Unsignededirorials I"Cprcsent ~opinion of the majority ()fthe Edii:ofiri Chid~ M<lriaging Editor~ ..... Assisrant Managing Editor and dcpaitment editors, .· •··· · Commentarles,le~t:rs and columns present rhe.views'·.· ofthe authots and not ne~sarily thQ$e ofThe 
Observer. · 
·Viewpoint space i$ ~vrutabl~ ro allrea&rs. The free cxpressioii Ofall opinions through letters is encouraged.. Letters to the Edirot must-be Signed and must include 
cont;ac.t infornutiofl, · ·· · 
~tiQnstegarding•ObsertJer.p~s$/muld·!x 
directed w:piit(rfi# C.hi{Aniirtw Sl)u~p.> .· 
. . . ''. 
-·-:-___ -:.· . ·. ·.:_:_ ': -: .::-· .:. 
>Post OFFICE [NFORMATIIJN . 
i~~~f~~~~;~;t~;~rzt~s··••••••· 
Th• bb.Crm it pubbs!id "" l>OS'tWftt:~ 
024 S<>ucb Dini<>g •H41l · S<:r..i Ndr-<Oi co(,..,,;.,. IU: 
N<xtt I);W(.IN 46~~6-0179 . Th:. Obli<n<ti­
l'ctiadK-al P"'"'S¢ p>id ac ~m.l)>mc P.O. So. Q• 
and •d.E•i<in.l o>wilillg affico. 1)14 S:.ruclll)i~ing H.U _ Na<~E_Doomc; IN 46S56-llm 
ll~ OI>~CrV« .jo • manbet oi.J.o ~io...J !...,..• Nl "P'U<l""c.fu tiel><>.,.
r<sc:r...!. --------­

. ··-.. ·­

.· TODAY~SSTAF'f' .................... : 

Observer endorses Brown-Fitzgerald 
Please excuse the students of Saint Mary's if they are confused increasing the amount of student input in student participation. ht;Jading into Tuesday's student body presidential elections. But While the other candidates lack Brown's high-level leadership that's what happens when, after a three-year stretch of one-tick­experience, they have all served as BOG commissioners at one et elections, three sets of candidates run for the highest student point. Shay Jolly and Veronica Saavedra propose notable ideas, position at Saint Mary's. It's about time Saint Mary's students such as increased communication within and outside of the 
have a choice in electing their top student leaders. · Saint Mary's community, yet narrowly and unnecessarily focus 
Ironically. however, the best ticket is the one that promises the on balancing power between student government branches. And greatest commitment to the status quo. Based on while Sarah Catherine White and Mary Pauline interviews with The Observer, Sarah Brown and OJhe Moran demonstrate the most enthusiasm of the 
userver
Michelle Fitzgerald present the best qualified tick­presidential tickets, they had difficulty clearly et for student body president and vice president. articulating concrete proposals. Still, their cam­Brown and Fitzgerald demonstrate ideal leader­paign proposes a new focus and represents a
Editorial
ship abilities that would ensure a smooth and new attitude that some Saint Mary's students, effective transition into the positions they pursue. especially those who are disillusioned with the Brown, currently student body vice president, shows the ability current student government, may be attracted to. to step forward and continue many of the policies she developed But the truth is, the Saint Mary's student government-of this year with current student body president Elizabeth which Brown has been an integral member -has performed so Jablonski-DiehL But experience alone does not necessarily make admirably this year that there is little need for a new focus in a ticket the best choice. this election. Brown and Fitzgerald have the most experience in 
That is why Saint Mary's voters should be attracted to Brown student government and know what needs to be done aside and Fitzgerald's commitment to developing a solid relationship from promoting special events. They will work on the larger vvith incoming College President Carol Mooney. The beginning of issues when needed, and, judging from the strides made by stu­Mooney's tenure at Saint Mary's will undoubtedly be a whirlwind dent government this year, it won't be needed that much. They for the new College president, and having consistency among the will also maintain consistency at a time when it is crucial in the student leaders -consistency Brown provides by moving from introduction of Mooney as Saint Mary's president. vice president to president-will make Mooney's transition eas­The Observer endorses Sarah Brown and Michelle ier. Brown and Fitzgerald also promise to continue to delegate Fitzgerald for 2004-05 Saint Mary's student body president authority to Board of Governance commissioners, thereby and vice president. 
Doctor Dean quacks up 
It must be tough to be Howard Dean. From the looks of things, even Howard Dean is having a hard time being Howard Dean. 
Last Monday, in Mike Marchard the Iowa caucus, he was beaten soundly, by 20 and 14 points Undistinguishedby John Kerry and 
Alumnus
John Edwards, 
respectively, two 
guys whose cam­paigns were roadkill as little as four weeks ago. Up until the Hawkeye State, 
Dean had never lost an election in his 20­year political career. Initially, he seemed like he was handling his defeat well, smil­ing and waving an American flag before supporters in Des Moines. 
"If you had told us one year ago that we were going to come in third in Iowa," Dean said, "we would have given anything for that." This is quite true: Dean's revolu­tionary campaign has been nothing short of spectacular. 
He then went on: "Not only are we going to New Hampshire ...."At this point, the little Jiminey Cricket inside Howard's head should have thrown the kill switch and made him stop. But the fervor of the crowd increased, and he lost himself in the moment: "We're going to South Carolina. and Oklahoma, and Arizona, and North Dakota, and New Mexico ..." and he listed just about every other state in the Union, two Canadian provinces and American Samoa. 
Shortly thereafter, Dean came complete­ly uncorked: "And then we're going to Washington, D.C., to take back the White House!" And then he let loose with ... well, nobody's quite sure what exactly it was, but it made dogs cover their ears and sheep in Dubuque bleat inconsolably. 
Clever wordsmiths noticed that the Iowa caucus was held on Martin Luther King Day and therefore called Dean's outburst the "I Have A Scream" speech. It's a fun little pun, and I hate splitting synonymic hairs, but that was most definitely not a scream. It was ... a yelp, really, a minia­ture little shriek that sounds like some­thing someone would blurt when momen­tarily frightened at a haunted house on Halloween. 

Other, far more generous observers thought that it was some sort of cathartic therapy, a venting of the energy that had amassed from shouting out states like a rock star who's trying to pry applause out of a crowd. But it was less Walt Whitman's "barbaric yawp" and more like, to be hon­est, Yosemite Sam experiencing an orgasm. And with that in mind, as I scan a thesaurus, I think I've found the precise word to describe Dean's "Yaahhhh!": an ejaculation. O'm not lying. Look it up.) 
If I may say so myself, it's perfect: it was at the end of the night and came following a rapid buildup to a climactic release. And the next day, he regretted that it ever hap­pened. Psychoanalysts of all stripes have made instant diagnoses of the speech ("He really lost it," "Over the top ... childlike"), but it's hard to believe none of them con­sidered this more Freudian angle. 
And, like a sexual expression, it's all over the Internet. Quirky amateur musi­cians have set it to music, meaning Dean, who's an idol to thousands of hip young people who normally don't vote, is quite possibly the first politician whose words (and other utterances) have been trans­formed into a dance remix. One Web site's version was downloaded so often that they pulled it due to bandwidth con­straints. 
Some analysts think that Dean's candi­dacy spontaneously combusted with the ... uh. eruption. Depending on which New Hampshire tracking poll you favor, he has lost between one-third and one-half of his support since Iowa Night. But that's more likely due to the damage "Mad How" wrought upon himself before Iowa ("The capture of Saddam has not made America safer") and the deeper context of his vis­ceral howL 
Voters may be a fickle bunch, but nobody's going to turn away from a candi­date because he made a gurgling noise, no matter how ridiculous it sounded or how much it's mocked on TV. Dean's los­ing support because of the impression ­which he himself has admitted -that he's impulsive, or as Dean put it, "I lead with my heart and not my head." This is a decidedly unpresidential characteristic. 
So Dean's fire and passion, which are what helped him lead the Democratic pack, may prove to be his undoing. According to a USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll, only half of New Hampshire Democrats think he has "the kind of per­sonality that a president should have." Forty-six percent think he does not. 
Dean has already slipped behind Kerry in New Hampshire, where the primary takes place Tuesday. If he falls to third behind Wesley Clark, who's an even flaki­er candidate than Dean is, then you might as well stick a fork in him. 
But not too hard; he's prone to wail. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, is the proud author of "the single most obnox­ious thing ever committed to.print by any pundit ever" and the winner ofa contest by Chicago Sun-Times columnist Mark Steyn. For correctly guessing who would be the first Democratic presidential candi­date to withdraw (Carol Moseley-Braun}, he received a signed copy ofSteyn 's book, which he already owns. Contact him at Marchand.3@ alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

·News 
O~eHeinillger 
Joe Trombefio Matthew Smedberg Viewpoint Eileen Duffy Lauren Beck Graphics Mike Harkins 
. :.::;._:-:<>.::_..;_::::_:;:::--:::<.·::.. 
sports.•·.····•·.·...•·.··.··. <.-··· 
OBSERVER POLL
Chris-Fedaflco: / = Dan Tapetillo Kevin O'Neill 

Scene Should Saint Mary's continue to host 
Maria Smith the Keenan Revue? 
Illustrator Pat ,Quill 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Half ofthe American people have never read a newspaper. Half never voted for President. One hopes it is the same half., 
Gore Vidal writer 


Acting out against affirmative action 
Affirmative action has been a touchy subject for many Americans for a long time. Last year, Notre Dame was affected directly when our University officially sided with the University of Michigan's admissions policy, which awards "bonus" points to applicants from minority groups. Greg Parnell 
I am from a public school in the Washington, D.C. area, which has a much 
Ideas. Issues 
higher minority population 
and Ideologues
than this University. Therefore, I know how important diversity is to a holistic education and believe our school must always take all possible strides to recruit stu­dents rrom varied backgrounds. However, I have also witnessed less-qualified minority students get into prestigious colleges, while more quali­fied white students were refused admission. Seeing both sides first-hand, I have long strug­gled to find my own position. 
My views became solidified when I read "What's So Great About America?" by Dinesh D'Souza. An Indian immigrant who has served as a White House policy analyst, D'Souza argues vehemently against affirmative action. I found his arguments quite com­pelling and think that many other students with reserva­tions similar to my own may find D'Souza's perspective helpful. 
The main thrust of D'Souza's anti-affir­mative action argu­ment is a contrast between the pre­vailing sentiments of two groups: the African-American population and the non-white immigrant pop­ulation. 

According to D'Souza, immi­grants often compare America to conditions in their home countries, amazed that what would be considered "luxuries" in their homes are oftentimes seen 
as basic necessi­ties here. In fact, the minimum wage rate in America is higher than the average income in many coun­tries. 
Conversely, many African-Americans com­pare their troubles to the lives of the American elite. For example, "If rich white kids can go to college, then my children should have the same opportunity." Using this standard for comparison is completely irrational, as it assumes that every citizen has the right to what­ever anyone else has, regardless of other differ­ences, usually based on merit. 
African-Americans sometimes counter that 

p
Monday, January 26, 2004 page 11 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Building a ·new Berlin Wall? 
This letter concerns John Infranca's column of 
Jan. 23 regarding immigration. I sympathize with 
his concerns and regret that the haphazard 
approach taken by the United States to immigration 
has cost many lives. 
Immigration has positive and negative effects. I know from personal observation in Chicago that many employers will hire Mexican immigrants before they will hire blacks. I don't think that is fair. Nor is it fair to assume that no one else will perform the jobs that Hispanic immigrants take. 
Ironically, the real answer to the problem is to mimic the Soviet reaction to the exodus of Germans through East Berlin to the west in the early '60s. Spend $40 billion or whatever it takes to build a wall -a big one -from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific. This will make it clear to Mexicans that the only way they can enter the United States is through legal channels. It will also save lives. 
Finally, it is worth pointing out that real source of the problem is the corrupt and abusive Mexican government. It exploits its populace while operating what is in effect a socialist one-party system and demands the United States provide a safety valve. The more we appease that government, the more harm we do to Mexicans. 
Peter Zavodnyik Chicago class of 1992 Jan. 23 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
bering for "bonus points" because of their obsta­cles. Immigrants do not demand that the United States somehow change to eliminate their disad­vantages-they simply work even harder to overcome them. 
Another defense for affirmative action is that many minorities. especially inner-city blac~s. simply are not exposed -to the same opportunities as whites. This suggestion is false as well. Evidence from a 1999 study by the College Entrance Examination Board entitled "Group Differences in Standardized Testing and Social Satisfaction," shows that whites from families making less than $20,000 annually actually score higher than blacks from families earning over $60,000 a year. · 
Such disparity proves that "opportunity" alone cannot be responsible for differences in test scores. 
The most famous civil rights leader of all time, Martin Luther King .Jr., pleaded that all men be judged by merit, not by the color of their skin. Unfortunately, our current affirmative action policies do exactly what King argued against ­they are in place to award positions in jobs and universities to those of a different race, in such 
cases that those individuals would not be 
accepted on merit alone. Blacks compose only 12 percent of the population, but 7 5 percent 
of NBA players are black. Is it sensible then to place a quota on the number of blacks who can play in the NBA, so that the races 
are more evenly distrib­uted? Surely not; those players earned their 
places on merit. D'Souza concludes 
with the idea that the root of the problem for 
African-Americans 
(and other minori­ties) is that they are so focused on the crimes of the past that they are unable to see that there is in fact a clear path to a more successful future, if they 
would simply choose it. Instead of 
demanding that society lower the merit-bar so that they can compete, these groups should raise themselves and 
meet the current cri­teria. Instead of agitat­ing the system, demand­
ing reparations and rely­ing on pity in order to achieve, they should work within a system that is in fact unbiased to find the success that other minority groups have found. Racial minorities are not less quali­fied, t~l~nt~d or capable than the majority. 
T.h~refore, It IS time to stop treating them so by 
givmg them special privileges. which effectively 
des_troys the merit-based system Dr. King 
valiantly sought. Affirmative action does not 
they would be much more successful were it not that they are automatically at an insurmountable dis~dvantage because of their skin color. They beheve they are treated differently because they
look different. 
This may be true, D'Souza argues, but new immigran!s coming to America usually face even har~.her di~ad~~ntages. In addition to not fitting 
the American standard physically, immigrants must overcome a lack of credit, a lack of familial ~elations in the country and most importantly, an Immense language barrier. · 
However, one rarely hears of immigrants clam-solve the problems of the races, but sweeps an embarrassing reality under the rug and allows minor_itie~ t? retain the tragic notion that they are still VICtims of oppression. Minority groups can only advance after accepting that the means to progress is by increasing their own merit not robbing it from others. ' 
Greg Parnell is a sophomore political science and economics major. Contact him at gparnell@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


page 12 Monday, January 26, 2004 
Welsh Family Hall offers talented students a rare chance to dance 

By SHIELA FLYNN 
Scene Writer 
Before coming to Notre Dame last year, sophomore Mary Duhon spent her life on stage, dancing and performing. 
Then she enrolled in the University, and that stage was pulled out from under her. 
"As a freshman, I had come to the campus and, since I was a dancer, was looking for an outlet to dance," Duhon said. "There wasn't really anything that wasstrictly dance, as far as per­formance goes." 
So she took matters into her own hands and created some­thing that filled Washington Hall Saturday night with an enthusi­astic, cheering crowd and a litany of talented, excited dancers. 
The Welsh Family Hall Dance Show took the stage nearly nine months after Duhon initially sug­gested the idea to Welsh's hall council. Working through the dorm and Student Activities, Duhon. with show business man­ager Catherine Mulhern, obtained funding for advertising and booked Washington Hall. She took on the role of director and held auditions during the fall and selected 12 acts, reflect­ing a wide range of styles and abilities. 
"We wanted diversity," Duhon said. 
And the show achieved that, featuring everything from mem­bers of the Irish Step Dancers and Ballet Folklorico to routines of jazz, ballet, tap and swing. 
The dancers performed to a variety of tunes -ranging from Janet Jackson's "If' to Coldplay's "Politik" to the musical Chicago's "All That Jazz" -and the music, along with the energetic and skillful dancing, sparked the enthusiasm of the audience, whose clapping and cheering unquestionably pumped up the atmosphere of the already excit­ed dancers. 
"It was great -I could hear all my friends scream," said sophomore Meghan Winger, who has been dancing since she was two years old and whose family flew in from Florida to see her perform in the TroopND and bal­let routines. 
"The turnout was surprising ­there were so many more people there than I thought would be there," Winger said. 
Senior Luke Slonkosky, presi­dent of Notre Dame's Swing Club and one of the few male partici­pants in the show, agreed. Performing to Michael Buble's "Moondance," Slonkosky and dance partner Meg Dominick drew quite an energetic response from the audience. 
"They were a loud crowd, which was terrific," he said, adding that "there were so many more people" than he had ini­tially expected. 
The other acts were extremely well received, as well. The show opened with a routine to "Footloose," and the first act fol­lowed with Irish step dancing, a lyrical number, the swing dance, a solo performance, Ballet Folklorico and a spirited routine choreographed and presented by TroopND. After a brief intermis­sion, the second act opened with a jazz number to "If' and contin­ued with a ballet performance, another solo act, and a tap per­formance, finishing with another jazz number. 

"I was elated," Duhon said, adding that the show went "bet­
ter  than  I  could  have  ever  
expected.  
"Everyone  was very plea sed,"  
she said.  

That success, combined with the overwhelming turnout, has increased desire to present the show again next year. 
"It was a beautifully orches­trated dance show," Welsh rec­tor Candace Carson said. "We hope that next year the Welsh Family Dance Show will even attract more performers." 
And, in the opinions of this year's dancers, that won't be a problem. They said there is a great enthusiasm for perform­ance among dancers on campus, and those dancers not affiliated with groups such as the Porn Squad would love the chance to showcase their talents. 
"There's a pretty big empti­ness," Winger said, explaining the plight of those dancers not affiliated with the Porn Squad or not interested in hip-hop per­formance groups. "There's kind of nothing else for a dancer." 
Slonkosky voiced similar senti­ments. 
"You often see voice and act­ing," he said, "but dancing, I think, is the lost art." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Saturday night's Welsh Family Hall Dance Show featured different styles of dance including jazz, Irish, swing dancing, and many others. Students from all parts of campus performed in the show. 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
The films in the Race and Culture film series opening this 
Critically j student 
week, and the Women in European Film series continu­ing from last semester, weren't box office hits, didn't win MTV movie awards and didn't get their stars on the cover of 


Monday, January 26, 2004 Page 13 


acclaimedfilms from Europe, America and Australia offer ~sa chance to learn about issues from around the world 
"People". 
Like many of the most insight­ful and best-directed movies from any year, some of them never even made it to Movies 14 on Edison. But thanks to NO Cinema. students live in places besides L.A. or New York have a chance to see these critically acclaimed films. 
Women in European Film 
When the Nanovic Institute for European Studies organized this year's European film exhi­bition, they decided to focus not just on films by women, but on films about women and issues they have faced. The Institute will sponsor one film every month for the rest of the semes­ter. 
Professor Daniel Mattern was one member of the committee responsible for deciding the theme and choosing the films. 
"We hoped to get a little more precise at some point," said. "But we were dealing with so many different countries, we just decided to choose seven films." 
The films sched­uled for this 
sion afterward. 
"One thing we're trying to do is to bring someone who can talk about a film, bring a context to it," Mattern said. "Sometimes it's hard to think about an issue while you're watching, but you can usually get more out of a film." 
"Chaos," scheduled for this Thursday. tells the story of a woman who becomes involved in the life of an Algerian prosti­tute after she sees her being sexually abused in an alley by men who turn out to be her pimps. 
"It describes the way that two people find each other through crimes by men," Mattern said. "It's kind of a drama and a comedy -I'd call it a drame­dy." 
Algerian playwright Alek Baylee Toumi \Vill introduce the film. Toumi teaches film, cul­ture studies. and francophone literatures at the University of Wisconsin Stevens Point. An Algerian refugee who lias not been able to return home for ten years. Toumi will offer unique insight into the issues involved in the film. 
In early February, the Institute will show the contro­versial Irish film "The Magdalene Sisters" by Scottish director Peter Mullan, who is also known for his 1996 film "Trainspotting." "The Magdalene Sisters" prompted apologies from the Catholic Church for the poor treatment 
of hundreds of women who were forced to work under inhumane conditions in the Magdalene laun­dries in Ireland. 
"Respiro," an Italian film released last year, tells the story of a young mother liv­ing on an island called Lampedusa off the coast of Sicily. Her free-
said. 
The Nanovic Institute plans to bring a European Union representa­tive to campus to introduce the film. The Institute also hopes to organize a workshop on women trafficking in conjunction with the visit to help students learn what they can do about an important issue. 

issues, and the series was a special project of the race issues section. 
"We wanted to get together and do some things on cam­pus," race issues committee member David Hachen said. "The series was our way of 
addressing some issues." 

After the films the group will provide pizza, and a few stu­
"We wanted to get together and do some thing on campus. The series was our way of dealing with some 
issues.,, 
David Hachen PFSA 
spirited attitude provokes the suspicions of her fellow vil­lagers, and eventually even of her husband. 
"Lilja 4-ever" is perhaps the darkest of the four films. Lilja. a 

semester are far "Sometimes u·s young girl living from optimistic 
hard to think about in Soviet Russia. 

and deal with is abandoned by issues like sexual an issue while her mother, and abuse and prosti­you ·re watching. ends up drifting tution. In order to around the tene­
but you can

help students ments of the city. 
understand the usually get more Eventually she issues involved in out ofa film.,, makes her way to the films, guest Sweden. where speakers will she finds herself
Daniel Mattern

introduce the films forced into prosti­
Nanovic Institute

and lead discus­tution. 
"It shows her decline in living situation and in life·," Mattern 
increasingly 
''I'm glad someone is coming to give this some context," Mattern said. "It will be good to have someone here to tell us what we can do about this." 
Race and Culture 
The Progressive Faculty and Staff Alliance, a new group started only last semester. cre­ated the Race and Culture film series. The Alliance is divided into subcommittees for different dents and faculty members will be asked to present a few questions about the film for anyone who wants to stay. eat and discuss. 

"It's meant to be short," Hachen said. "They've been asked to talk for only one or two minutes." 
The first film will be John Sales' 
"Lone Star," a film which deal with border issues in Southern Texas through the legend of Sheriff Buddy Deeds, who is supposed to have saved the town from corruption. When a 40-year-old rr.urder is discov­ered. it drags up a net of other issues as well. 
On Feb. 24, the group is bringing in director Paul Kell for the Midwest premier of his hip-hop documentary"5 Sides of a Coin." The documentary explores the five major ele­ments of hip-hop, including graffiti and brake dancing. Kell interviews some of the most respected hip-hop figures about the history of a genre that is having an increasingly large impact on many levels of American society. 
"This is going to 
be really exciting," 
"We·re trying to bring in people from the community as well as students.,, 
David Hachen PFSA 

Hachen said. "We're trying to bring in people from the commu­nity as well as stu­dents." 
"Rabbit-Proof Fence," showing on March 23, briefly came to 
Movies 16 in 
South Bend after 
it came out, but was never shown at most movie theatres. The Australian film follows the journey of three Aboriginal girls across the out­back. The girls are part of the stolen generation, when large group {)f Aboriginal children were taken from their parents and resettled in government camps during the early 1900s. 
"Smoke Signals," the last film in the series, is a comedy about two Native American boys. Victor's father saves Thomas from a fire that kills both his 
the Carrey Auditorium in Hesburgh Library. Admission is free and open to all students. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
parents. As the boys grow up they turn out to be complete opposites. The film is set on the Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation in Idaho. 
All the films will be shown in 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 26, 2004 
NBA 

Cassell leads T-wolves to first place in the West 
Associated Press tied it at 85. But Cassell coun­the field tered with a clutch 3-pointer 

MINNEAPOLIS -For Sam from the top of the arc to give Grizzlies 106, Nuggets 88 Cassell. the first quarter and Minnesota an 88-85 lead with The Memphis Grizzlies are fourth quarter of a basketball 2:12 left. on the best run in franchise game are the same. Maybe history. and they want to keep that's why he's able to come Nets 110, Celtlcs 91 going. through in the clutch so often. With the work of moving the Bonzi Wells scored 17 points 
Cassell scored 14 of his 32 franchise to Brooklyn, N.Y., and the Grizzlies extended points in the fourth quarter to now beginning despite a small their franchise-record winning lead the Minnesota group of protests, the New streak to eight games with a Timberwolves to their fourth Jersey Nets finally got back to victory over the Denver straight win over the Phoenix playing well again. Nuggets. Suns. Richard Jefferson scored 25 "I think we might be turning 
"It's no different," answered points and the Nets ended some eyes," Memphis point Cassell when asked to compare their longest losing streak guard Jason Williams said. crunch time to the first quar­since Jason Kidd joined the "But I think we've got a long ter. "It's just basketball, shoot­team more than two years ago way to go." ing the ball. That's it." with a win over the Boston Memphis shot 70 percent 
Over the last 29 games Celtics before a near sellout (26-for-37) in the second half Cassell is shooting 57.5 per­crowd of 17,533. when they outscored Denver cent (7 3 -for-12 7) from the "It's great for New Jersey to 64-39 on the way to their sev­floor in the fourth quarter. He come out and still support us," enth straight home win. has hit a clutch 3-pointer near­Kidd said after the Nets' first Pau Gasol and Stromile Swift ly every game, and on Sunday home game since the sale of each scored 15 for Memphis, he went 2-for-3 from behind the team was announced. "We and Lorenzen Wright and Mike the 3-point line and 8-for-8 have nothing to do with the Miller finished with 12. from the foul line down the business side. All we can do is "They outhustled us, outde­stretch. go out there and play good fended us, outcoached us and 
"Sam is so focussed in the basketball. We tried to do that outplayed us in the second fourth quarter, he gets more . this afternoon. The crowd was half," Denver coach Jeff and more aggressive" said great." Bzdelik. "We just played the Kevin Garnett, who finished Kenyon Martin added 20 hottest team in the league. with 19 points, 17 rebounds points and 15 rebounds and They are also the steadiest and eight assists. Kidd had 10 points, 11 assists team in the league." 
"I think that's why they and nine rebounds to help the Carmela Anthony shot 10­brought me he~e." Cassell said. two-time defending Eastern for-17 and scored 16 of his 25 ''I'm accustomed to doing what Conference champions snap a points in the second half for I've been doing." five-game slide. Denver. Andre Miller added 19 major Dec. 1 trade. league, currently.... It's a lot 
The Wolves moved into a tie Nets coach Byron Scott was­and Earl Boykins had 12 in a "You don't want to lose to better than being on the bot­with Sacramento for the best n't around for the final 14 min­reserve role. your friends and stuff like tom and looking up and that's record in the Western utes. He was ejected late in the "I don't think that we as a that," said Chicago's Antonio where I was in Chicago, for Conference at 30-12. The third· quarter by referee Luis team really wanted to win that Davis, a major figure in the sure." Kings lost 108-99 to Dallas on Grillo for saying something badly," Anthony said. "We sort six-player deal that sent Rose Rose denied the quote the Sunday. that earned a one-technical of gave up at the end when to the Raptors. way it was presented on the 
Minnesota has never been in ejection. they were making a run, and "It always presents a little board. first place in the conference "I guess I said enough," Scott that's not like us." something extra, but I thought "That's just typical media 
(. this late in the season -some­said. "I don't think I did, but The Nuggets' guards caused we handled it very well." play, that's typical something thing Cassell isn't worrying what the heck." problems for the Grizzlies in Rose, hounded by Crawford, that when your team is strug­about. Assistant coach Lawrence the first half. Andre Miller finished with 22 points for the gling, you want to do some­
"We just play ball and don't Frank, who has been rumored scored 10 in the first quarter, Raptors but shot just 5-for-12 thing to get them fired up," get into what the standings to be Scott's successor if the and Boykins used his quick­from the field in his return to Rose said. are." Cassell said. Nets falter this season, finished ness to outrun Memphis' Chicago "Hopefully it takes more than 
Trenton Hassell added a sea­as New Jersey beat the Celtics guards down the floor and "It felt a weird at first. He is the Raptors to come to town to son-high 15 points and six for the 12th time in 13 games, scored 10 first-half points. a guy I looked up to as a get those guys fired up than a rebounds for Minnesota, which including the playoffs. Andre Miller scored on a youngster. Once the game quote from Jalen Rose that he extended its home winning Ricky Davis had 26 points to drive with a second left in the started, I didn·'t think about it," ·didn't say." streak to 11 games. lead the Celtics, who had a first half to give the Nuggets a said Crawford, who embraced Vince Carter, in his second 
Shawn Marion had 31 points two-game winning streak 49-42 lead. He finished with 12 Rose after the game. game back since missing three and 13 rebounds for the Suns, snapped. first-half points. Toronto has lost five straight with a quadriceps injury, shot who have lost three straight "I guess it is fair to say they Meanwhile. the Nuggets' and Rose was unhappy on sev­just 6-of-23 while scoring 14 and fell to 16-29. the worst do have our number," said a defense held Memphis to 41 eral fronts afterward. points. Chris Bosh led the record in the West. Joe foul-plagued Paul Pierce, who percent shooting and forced 10 "It's a game we wanted to Raptors with 23 points and had Johnson had 22 points, five had 13 points on 3-of-15 turnovers. win because we had a big 10 rebounds. rebounds and six assists. and shooting from the field. "Right "Our big guys were rotating trade against this team and it's Carter, guarded by develop­Jake Voskuhl added 10 points. now, they do have a better but not stopping their guys get­a game we're disappointed we mental league signee Ronald 
"We're playing like cats and team than us." ting layins," Memphis coach didn't get," Rose said. Dupree, said the losing streak dogs out there," Marion said. Scott had to be happy with Hubie Brown said. "It's one that's going to stick is getting to everyone. "We're trying like crazy to what he saw in the opening with us for a minute." "We can play with anybody close these games out. three quarters, even though Bulls 96, Raptors 89 Before the game, a grease­in the league. We know that Minnesota has that veteran the Nets had 29 turnovers. The hugs and handshakes board in the Bulls' locker room and we've shown that. But team [and] that makes a differ­Besides getting big games came following the game, after contained this quote attributed right now ... It's not fun," ence." from his big three, Scott also the Chicago Bulls played tough to Rose: "The Chicago Bulls Carter said. 
Garnett hit a turnaround got some good production from and rough while showing for­are the worst team in the Toronto is now 12-14 since jumper at 5:13 to tie the score Rodney Rogers and Lucious mer teammate Jalen Rose they league!" Lower down was this: the trade that sent Rose, at 80. The lead then changed Harris off his much maligned can win without him. Translation: With the worst Donyell Marshall and Lonny hands twice before Cassell hit bench. Jamal Crawford scored 27 players! Baxter from Chicago to a 3-pointer to make it 85-83 New Jersey also stepped up points and the Bulls beat Rose What Rose really said to Toronto for Davis, Jerome with 2:40 left. its defense, holding the Celtics and the Toronto Raptors in the Toronto writers was this: Williams and Chris Jefferies. Johnson's two free throws to 35.6 percent shooting from teams' first meeting since a "They're the worst team in the The Raptors are 20-22 overall. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Large 1 Bedroom Condo  Babysitter wanted. 2 kids. Tue &  LIVE IN A GOOD AREA JUST  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  Why do horses smell so badly?  
NOTICES  10 min from Univ. All App. Pool Low  Thurs 1-4 pm. Call Susan.  NORTH OF NO IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS  CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  Thanks Christian  
taxes less than rent  271-9634  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  2773097  What is with the milkshake song?  
Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  574-299-4997  FoR RENT  New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2­car garage, fireplace, sky lights,  PERSONAL  Lies! Lies! Lies!  
FREE MONEY Between the Buns restaurant is offering clubs and  WANTED  3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON  close to campus $1640 monthly,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone  Street Smarts  
organizations the opportunity to  MO.,FURN.272-6306  call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038  you love needs confidential support  The Phoenix Suns still have a  
earn free money. Hold a 'Kickback'  Avon/Mark 50/•W% Earnings  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  chance.  
night at the 'Buns• and receive a  4 bedroom house. AC, garage,great  B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  
15% donation from what is spent  Call Karen 1-866-780-2866  location. ample space, negotiable  12 people, 1/2 mile to NO,  Starbuck823  
that evening. Call Phil for more  rent. Contact Mike 216-408-0780 or  For more information, see our bi- 
details. 247-9293  Independent Sales Rep.  Matt 216-408-4744 if interested  email domercondo@yahbo.com  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  Amanda is not an athlete  

Monday, January 26, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NHL 
Sabres earn rare comeback win over Hurricanes 

Associated Press 

RALEIGH, N.C.-Jochen Hecht and Martin Biron showed the Buffalo Sabres how to rally from a deficit. 
Hecht had two goals and Biron made 37 saves, helping the Sabres erase a two-goal deficit and beat the Carolina Hurricanes 4-2 Sunday for a rare comeback win. 
Derek Roy's third-period goal put the Sabres ahead to stay, and Milan Bartovic added a goal and an assist. 
Entering the game. the Sabres were 4-18-2 when they allowed the first goal, and 1­12-1 when trailing after the first period. But none of that mattered Sunday as the Sabres took advantage of mis­takes by Carolina goaltender Jamie Storr. 
"It doesn't happen very often," Buffalo coach Lindy Ruff said. "It would've been an easy game to go the other way, but we came back." 
Erik Cole and Kevyn Adams scored for the Hurricanes, who had a 39-21 advantage in shots. 
Roy's second goal of the sea­son gave the Sabres the lead and sent Carolina to its fourth straight home loss. 
After a turnover by defense­man Bruno St. Jacques in the Carolina zone, Bartovic shot on Storr, who made the save but failed to control the puck. Roy pushed the rebound into the left side of the net at 5:15 for a 3-2 lead. 
It was just one of three goals that came off miscues by Storr. 
The Sabres scored twice off rebounds. Bartovic scored Buffalo's first goal off a shot by Andy Delmore, poking the puck past Storr at 3:55 of the second period. 
Hecht scored an insurance goal when he stole Storr's pass along the boards and beat the goaltender back to the net at 
18:31 of the third. Storr, the backup to Kevin Weekes, took responsibility for the loss. 

Devils 3, Thrashers 2 
Jeff Friesen has been a 
streaky goal scorer since com­
ing to the New Jersey Devils, 
and it appears he's on another 
run. 
After going 10 games with­
out a goal, Friesen scored his 
third in four games early in 
the third period to lead the 
Devils to a victory over the 
Atlanta Thrashers. 
"Sometimes you get in 
slumps and, for whatever rea­
son, guys don't get on the 
same page," Friesen said. 
"Sometimes it's a frustrating 
rut to get out of, but I feel I'm 
out of the rut now and I'm 
starting to contribute offen­
sively." 
Friesen scored his third 
game-winning goal of the sea­
son by taking advantage of a 
bad play by Thrashers super­
star Ilya Kovalchuk, whose 
first career short-handed goal 
minutes earlier had tied the 
game at 2. 
Kovalchuk had just been 
stopped on a three-on-one 
break, when the Devils then 
counterattacked. 
Kovalchuk eventually got the 
puck along the side boards, 
but he made an ill advised 
pass across the middle of his 
own zone. 
Friesen read the play. 
"I just went to the lane where I saw he was trying to throw it," Friesen said. "Obviously, you're a little sur­prised. It just came right on my stick. It was a big goal because this is a big win for the team." 
It was a big disappointment for Kovalchuk. 
"I can't give chances like this," Kovalchuk said. "If I want to be a leader on this team I have to play smarter." 
Flyers 4, Capitals 1 
Mark Recchi and John LeClair took full advantage of the short-handed Washington Capitals. 
Recchi and LeClair each had a goal and three assists in leading the Philadelphia Flyers to a victory. 
"What, are you surprised that we played a good game?" LeClair asked. "I think we're all feeling pretty comfortable. It's a good mix and it definitely worked well for us tonight." 
Michal Handzus and Kim Johnsson also scored to help the Flyers win for the fifth time in their last six games. 
Washington played with just five defensemen. Sergei Gonchar injured a shoulder Friday night in a loss in Florida, and Josef Boumedienne was scratched because of food poisoning 
"It's huge, we really only have two defense that have a lot of NHL experience," Washington's Mike Grier said about Gonchar. "He's the lead­ing point-getter for defense­men in the league and to lose him is a nuge blow." 
Recchi opened the scoring at 
5:30 of the first period, beat­ing goalie Rastislav Stana with a wrist shot after LeClair's strong play to keep the puck in offensive zone. 
LeClair made it 2-0 less than three minutes later, tipping a shot behind Stana, who start­ed in place of Olaf Kolzig for the first time since being recalled from Portland on Jan. 6. 




page 16 


J 
l,I 

around the dial 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL Texas at Texas Tech 7 p.m., ESPN Georgetown at Providence 7:30 p.m., ESPN Full Court UNLV at Colorado State 9 p.m., ESPN Full Court BVU at New Mexico 12 a.m.., ESPN 
NBA 
Orlando at Cleveland 7 p.m., FSN San Antonio at Milwaukee 8 p.m., NBA TV Minnesota at Denver 9 p.m., NBA TV LA Clippers at Utah 9 p.m., FSN 
NHL Florida at NV Rangers 7 p.m., MSG Detroit at Dallas 8 p.m., ESPN2 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, January 26, 2004 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Wearing their finest evening clothes, Alex Rodriguez and the Texas Rangers tried to put a formal end to their troubled offseason filled with trade talk and tension. 
At an unusual news con­ference in which everyone wore tuxedos, the Rangers appointed Rodriguez their captain on Sunday night. 
In town to accept the American League MVP award, Rodriguez met for five hours in the hotel suite of Rangers owner Tom Hicks, with gener.al 

manager John Hart and manager Buck Showalter joining in. Afterward, the quartet proclaimed the start of a new era that they hoped would culmi­nate in Texas' first World Series title. 
"I definitely think I'm going to be here for a long time," Rodriguez said. ''I'm probably pretty sure it will work out for the best." 
Texas wanted to get out from the burden of the record $252 million, 10­year contract it signed Rodriguez to after the 2000 season, and the seven-time All-Star short­stop was frustrated follow­ing three last-place finish­es with the Rangers. Texas then agreed last month to a tentative trade that would have sent the seven-time All-Star short­stop to Boston for outfield­er Manny Ramirez. 
"It looked like there might be a situation that would be win, win, win," Hicks said. 
But the deal was contin­gent on A-Rod agreeing to restructure his contract, and the players' associa­tion vetoed the proposal made by Boston, saying it would have reduced the deal's value by $28 million to $30 million. The union made a counteroffer that would have cut $12 million to $13 million, a proposal Boston found unaccept­able. The trade then col­lapsed. 
"This was an unpleasant experience but probably a necessary one," Hart said. 
Showalter said he had been thinking of making Rodriguez captain for the past year, but Hicks wasn't aware of the plan until halfway through Sunday's meeting. 
"I feel a grand responsi­bility not only to the Texas Rangers but to our fans," Rodriguez said, adding that he was touched by the gesture, especially given that he's only 28 years old. 
IN BRIEF 

Mickelson wins playoff to 
end victory drought 

LA QUINTA, Calif. -Phil Mickelson showed he's back on his game after a disappointing year, beating Skip Kendall on the first playoff hole Sunday in the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic. 
The victory ended an 18-month winless streak for Mickelson, who dropped from second to 16th in the world· rankings. 
He rolled a 3-foot birdie putt into the center of the cup to win the Hope, his second victory in the tournament in two years. 
Kendall was left still looking for his first tour win. He was runner-up for the fourth time in his career, losing three times in playoffs. 
Mickelson, making his 2004 debut, closed with a 4-under 68 to match Kendall (65) at 30-under 330 in the 90-hole tournament. 
After each birdied the final hole, they returned to the 18th tee to begin the playoff. Both hit their drives down the center, then Kendall pulled his second shot into the left rough beside the green on the 543-yard par 
5. Mickelson's second shot went into the rough on the other side, but con­siderably closer to the hole. 
Kendall chipped onto the putting surface, then missed his 20-foot birdie try. Mickelson's chip left him the short putt, and he confidently stroked it in to wrap up a day when he had some problems on the green. 
Jay Haas, 50, the 1988 tournament champion and runner-up to Mike Weir a year ago, finished third with a 6 7 that left him one shot behind Mickelson and Kendall. NASCAR's new tires and rules to be tested 
lAS VEGAS, Nev.-New tires and some new aerodynamics rules have turned the annual preseason test at Las Vegas Motor Speedway into a must for most of the top NASCAR teams. 
"It's going to be important for everybody," said Ryan Pemberton, crew chief for Joe Nemechek. 
"We're going to learn a lot about the new rules, the bodies, where we're at and what direction we need to go in -if we need to make more downforce or take some downforce off the front or what." 
The four days of testing on the 1 1/2-mile LVMS oval, beginning Monday, will be different than the work that has been going on the last two weeks at Daytona International Speedway, where the new rules, cut­ting three-quarters of an inch ofT the rear spoilers -do not come into play because of the use of carburetor restrictor plates to slow the cars on the big track. 
The majority of the races on the 36­race schedule are run on the so­called intermediate tracks -1 1/2­or 2-mile ovals -like Las Vegas, and everyone wants to know what the combination of softer tires, the short­er rear spoilers to cut downforce and several new templates to make the cars less aerodynamic will do. 
-
page 17

Monday, January 26, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS 
n I s;;;.n ~ VVLLI:.\:11 C. UJ\~f\11:.1 t:SALL 
Seminoles top Deacons 75-70 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Tim 
Pickett's second strong finish 
made some history for Florida 
State. · The Seminoles, with Pickett again having a big second half, beat No. 10 Wake Forest 75-70, giving them consecu­tive wins over Top Ten teams for the first time in school his­tory. 
He scored all of his 18 points 
after halftime Sunday and 
Florida State made six straight 
free throws over the final 45 
seconds to hand the Demon 
Deacons' their fourth straight 
loss. 
Last Thursday, Pickett 
scored 22 points after halftime 
to spark the Seminoles to a 
90-81 overtime victory over 
No. 7 North Carolina. 
Up next is No. 1 Duke on Thursday. 
"In all my years of coaching I've never been part of a sce­nario where your team is on the rise and you play the 10th, the seventh, then have a chance to go play the No. 1­ranked team," Florida State coach Leonard Hamilton said. "You have to be realistic where we are. We're still a team that's developing, that's trying to move our program to a program of significance in the ACC as well as on a national basis." 
Wake Forest (11-4, 2-3 Atlantic Coast Conference), has reached those levels, but the Demon Deacons added a loss to the list that included Texas, Duke and Georgia Tech. 
No. 5 Louisville 65, Tennessee 62 
Louisville needed a spark, and got it from the full-court press. 
Francisco Garcia scored 24 
points and the fifth-ranked 
Cardinals rallied in the second 
half for their 15th straight vic­
tory in a win over Tennessee. 
Louisville (15-1) regained 
the lead for the first time since 
the opening minutes and took 
control with a 12-0 run mid­
way through the second half. 
No. 14 Arizona 90, Oregon 
66 
Arizona's big first half was 
no accident. The Wildcats 
went up against Oregon hop­
ing for a quick start. 
"We wanted a game where 
we could come out and jump 
on them," said Hassan Adams, 
who had 20 points in the 14th­
ranked Wildcats' victory over 
the Ducks. "We felt this would 
be a great opportunity to work 
on that." 
Channing Frye had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Ivan Radenovic had a season-high 19 points, 15 in the first half when the Wildcats (13-3, 5-2 Pac-10) had an 18-0 run on the way to a 25-point halftime lead. 
"The first half was just spec­tacular," Arizona coach Lute Olson said. "Defensively, we created a lot of problems for Oregon, and it was very hard for them to get many good looks." 
Radenovic, a freshman from Serbia playing in his ninth col­lege game, also had eight rebounds, and Arizona had a 42-30 edge on the boards against a team that had outre­bounded nine of 13 previous opponents. 
Andre Iguodala added 14 points for the Wildcats, who won their third straight since a two-game skid knocked them out of the Top Ten. 

Luke Jackson had 20 points, 
six rebounds and six assists 
for Oregon (9-5, 4-3), while 
Ian Crosswhite scored 11 
points and Mitch Platt had 10. 
No. 23 Purdue 76, Michigan 
St. 70, OT 

As Brandon McKnight rose 
to take the biggest shot of the 
game in overtime, Purdue 
coach Gene Keady already 
knew what was going to hap­
pen. 

"I saw the determination in 
his face when he took that 
jumper," Keady said. "It said, 
'Hey we're going to win this 
thing.'" 

Keady's intuition was right. 
McKnight's jumper gave No. 
23 Purdue the lead for good in 
its win over Michigan State. 

It also capped a brilliant final 25 minutes for McKnight, who finished with 10 points, seven assists and three steals. He got Purdue into the over­time, then made sure his effort wasn't wasted. 
McKnight drove the length of the floor for a layup with 8 seconds to go that forced over­time, then hit his jumper that propelled Purdue to its fourth straight win. 
"All I was thinking was just attack," McKnight said of his game-tying drive. "I didn't see anybody in front of me, so I just went with it." 
The victory moved Purdue (14-4, 4-1) into a three-way tie with Wisconsin and Indiana for first place in the Big Ten and set up a showdown with the rival Hoosiers on Tuesday in Bloomington. 
Kenneth Lowe led the Boilermakers with 18 points and Brett Buscher sr,ored 13 of his 17 after halftime. 
Back By De1nand••• 

Do 
usually avoid retreatS? Do small groups . •ake'ff::yo.q£':,:;·~14it.lft? I 
I 
Are you a 

: '1,111~ 
I I I I I I I 
I I ~ 
I 
~ 
I I I I I I I I I
·=···>:·:<···---a man, 
I
;~::x.;@~!:'ii@<'( ·sign up today. 
I I I I I I I 
~ I 
~ 

1.•••••••••••• 
Jan 30-Feb 1 

hog roast I game watch I feats of strength J prayer I brotherhood 
Deadline Jan 27th. Applications available at: 
www.nd.edu/'""krusseau 

C-M 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Longhorns hold off instate rival Aggies 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas ­
Texas had to overcome 22 
turnovers and guard Toccara 
Williams to beat Texas A&M. 
Tiffany Jackson had 15 points 
and 11 rebounds, and Heather 
Schreiber made the go-ahead 
free throw and a 3-pointer in the 
closing minutes, helping the 
Longhorns hold off Texas A&M. 
Texas (17-2, 5-1 Big 12) got off 
to a slow start and need a 
charge to take a 32-30 halftime 
lead over the Aggies (7-10, 0-6), 
who tied the game at 56 with 4 
minutes to ptay. 
Schreiber's free throw with 
3:59 left put the Longhorns ahead to stay at 57-56 and her 3-pointrer 30 seconds later made it 60-56. 
"Heather hit some really clutch shots for us," Texas coach Jody Conradt said. "She strug­gled early and we depend on her so much. Our opponents try to keep her out of the game. A lot of energy was extended doing that, but she hit some big shots down the stretch and that gave us some energy and momen­tum." 
No. 20 Michigan State 72, No. 
9 Minnesota 69 
Lindsay Whalen's record-set­ting game wasn't enough to lead No. 9 Minnesota past No. 20 Michigan State. 
Lindsay Bowen scored 18 points, and Kelli Roehrig made the go-ahead basket with 19 sec­onds left, leading Michigan State past Minnesota. 
The loss spoiled a big game for Whalen, who scored a game­high 27 points to become the school's career scoring leader with 2,123. 
The Gophers lost their third straight game, all against ranked opponents, and slipped to fourth place in the Big Ten after a 4-0 start. 
"You can't let one week in 

January affect your whole sea­
son," said Whalen, who hit a 
personal-best seven 3-pointers. 
"We have to move on, put it out 
of our heads and play the 
game." 
Minnesota (15-3, 4-3 Big Ten) 

took a 69-68 lead on Whalen's 
basket with just over a minute 
left. She was fouled on the play 
but missed the free throw. 
USC 59, No. 6 Stanford 56 
Southern California wasn't 

about to let Stanford run away 
with the Pac-10 title. 
Ebony Hoffman scored 16 

points, including two free throws 
with 21 seconds remaining, to 
help USC rally past No. 6 
Stanford, handing the Cardinal 
their first conference loss of the 
season. 
Trojans coach Chris Gobrecht 

called it an "ugly" victory. 
"But we feel we're in the con­

ference race now," Gobrecht 
said. "A loss would have put us 
three games out." 
USC (10-7, 7-2 Pac-10) over­came a 12-point deficit and outscored the Cardinal 23-8 in the final 8:41. Hoffman was the only Trojans player who scored in double figures, including a perfect 7-for-7 from the foul line. 
"It's not good for the confer­ence if one team sails through undefeated," Stanford coach Tara VanDerveer said. 
Nicole Powell led the Cardinal {15-3, 8-1) with 29 points, including 22 in the second half, and 12 rebounds. She sustained a slightly sprained right ankle but returned after sitting out for · about a minute. 
Both teams shot poorly from the field in the first half, which ended with the Cardinal leading 24-23 on a 3-pointer from the baseline by Susan King Borchardt at the buzzer. The Trojans went nine minutes with­out a field goal in the half. 
lurtte·Creek 
.. For aJimited time take ad~antage ofour down payment · special. 
All you need is $200to secure your spot atTurtle Creek for 2004-2005! 
Here are some reasons to choose TC! 
+ 
We're dose to campus 

+ 
FULLY STUDENT OCCUPIED! 

+ 
We haveremodeled units available +We have short term summer leases available 


• .We have speciallease terms for students-We won't makeyou sign a 12 month lease when you'H only be here for 1 0! 
+We letyou choose your apartment location 
+24 hour LOCK OUT service, along with an on-site maintenance tech ifyou have any problems in the middle ofthe night 
+ \VE NO\:V HAVE 24 hour patrolled security. 
You can have all of this and more...all it takes is $200 from 
you and each or your roommates to secure your spot. Call ·for details ... 2 72-8124. 
tOt

Or visit us at ww~\'·.TurtleCreekND.cOin ·~ 
! 
page 18 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish dominate at home meet 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Sophomore Molly Huddle blew away the competition in the mile run as she and her Irish track and field teammates turned in a solid performance Friday night at the Loftus Sports Center. The men's and women's indoor teams hosted Western Michigan, Ball State, Loyola of Chicago and Depaul and came away with firsts in 16 events. 
run. Junior Eric Morrison came in first with a time of 1:52.21, while teammates Thomas Chamney, Kurt Benninger, Kevin Somok and Vincent Ambrico rounded out the top five spots. 
Morrison was happy with how the race turned out. 
"It was our first race this year, and it was good to see where everyone's at," he said. "It was a great confidence-booster for us." 
Senior Godwin Mbagwu was 
victorious in both the 
long jump and triple 
jump with distances of 

.. .... ... . . ' 
Monday, January 26, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 

' 

Lafayette Square Townhomes · 


+ . Only 9 Blocks from Campus 
..It was a great
Huddle, a 6.73 meters and 15.06 returning All­confidence­meters, respectively. American in the The Irish weight
booster for us." 
3,000-meter run, throw tandem of Juan posted a first­Alba and Chip Roberts place time of 4 Eric Morrison came away with solid minutes, 49.21 Irish runner performances. Alba 
seconds in the mile as junior teammate Kerry Meagher fin­ished second in 4:52.32. 
Also on the women's side, Stacy Cowan continued her suc­cess in the high jump, winning it with a height of 1.75 meters, nearly topping the school record of 1.80 meters. 
Senior Tiffany Gunn was a double winner. securing both the 500-meter dash and the 60­meter hurdles with times of 
1:13.41 and 8.83, respectively. 
Sophomore Petra Dankova was a winner in the triple jump with a distance of 11.46 meters. 
Ayesha Boyd triumphed in the 200-meter run while fellow sen­ior Jill Van Weelden won the pole vault. 
On the men's side, the Irish were dominant in the 800-meter took first place with a 
throw of 17.16 meters, while Roberts placed third with a distance of 16.18 meters. 
Junior Selim Nurudeen was a winner in the 60-meter hurdles in a time of 7.96 while freshman Tommie Lee won the 60-meter dash in 7.09. 
Freshman Dave Viken qualified for the Big East Championships with a second place fmish in the pole vault. clearing a height of 
4.65 meters. 
Other winners were sopho­more Ryan Postel in the 400­meter run as well as juniors Trevor McClain-Duer in the 500­meter race and Ryan Mineburg in the high jump. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Interested in Teaching after Graduation? 
Do you have the desire to Serve Others while earning aMasters of Education degree? 
WE WANT YOU! 

J 
1J
. 
The Providence Alliance for Catholic Teachers -PACT is looking for graduating Seniors with majors in: 

• Biology 
• 
Chemistry 

• 
Education 

• 
English 

• 
History 

• 
Math 



i ' 
• 
Spanish 

• 
Theology/Religious Studies 



1 
Take the first step in embarking on the experience of alife time! You will grow

' ! 
professionally and spiritually as you further your education and touch the lives of others 

I 
during your time in PACT. 
Application and more information: 
www.providence.edu/pact

i 
l 
Contact the PACT office at: pact@providence.edu or 401-865-2657 
I j
I 1 
COME AND MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 

1 
to teach in Catholic Schools in the New England area whil earning amasters degree in education. 

PROVIDENCE 
COLL F.GE 
Providence, Rl 

Come join the fun at the "Blue Zoo" 
Starting at just $120.00 per month per person 
+ 
Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer 

+ 
Fully Equipped Kitchen Including Dishwasher and Garbage 


Disposal 
+ Private Patio 

• ADT AIann System (Optional Monitoring) . + Cenu~al Air Conditioning 
+ Assigned Parking 

• Energy Efficient Gas Heating 
·.. + Professionally Managed ; + 24 -Hour Emergency On~Call Maintenance 
ForMore lnforination: Real Estate Management Corporation 


P.0. Box 540 • 
. South Bend, lN 46624 Telephone: 574-234~9923 Facsimile: 574-234~9925 Jbla.d@cbresb.com 
• 
Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus 
Still 100% 
Student 
Housing! 

• . ·Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue • Current 1-year & 10-month Leases Available • On-Site Laundry Facility • 2 Closets and lDesk in Each Bedroom • Private Parking Lots • 24 ... hour On·Call Emergency Maintenance Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment
• 

PorMore Infonnation: Real Estate Management Corporation . . P.O. Box 540 South Bend, lN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Jblad(a)cbresb.gmt 
Winter Career & Internship Fair Employer Presentations 
Sponsored by The Career Center Monday, .January 26 5:30pm 
American Legislative Exchange Council (public policy), DeBartolo 118 Organon Pharmaceuticals, DeBartolo 116 Smithsonian, Museum of American History, DeBartolo 129 
6:30pm Associated Press, DeBartolo 138 .John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts, DeBartolo 126 MTV, DeBartolo 129 Office of the Corporation Counsel (law), DeBartolo 116 Ruder Finn (public relations), DeBartolo 118 7:00pm WPS Resources (accounting, IT), McKenna Hall 112 7:30pm Camp Sweeney, Southwestern Diabetic Foundation, DeBartolo 126 Careers in Actuarial Science, DeBartolo 1,18 General Electric Communications Leadership Development Program Internships, DeBartolo 116 NFL, DeBartolo 129 
Wednesday, January 28 
6:30pm Peace Corps, Teach for America, Holy Cross Associates, ACE, and Inner City Teaching Corps 
Diversity in Service Panel, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 151 Floor 

Monday, January 26, 2004 
NO SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish nearly knock 
off Northwestern 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Sports Writer 
The men's swimming and 
diving team just missed pulling 
off a big upset in Evanston, Ill., 
Saturday afternoon, narrowly 
falling to No. 15 Northwestern, 
155-133. 
"[Northwestern] is a pretty 
highly-ranked team, but we 
hung in there with them the 
whole way," sophomore Tyler 
Grenda said. "We wanted to 
finish out the road season real­
ly well, and this was a good 
conclusion to all our road .meets this year." 
While Notre Dame's impres­sive depth allowed the squad to claim two of the top three spots in 10 of the 12 races and at least three of the top five spots in 13 of the 14 swimming events, the Irish (5-7) managed only a trio of first place finish­es in the 16 overall competi­tions. 
Three freshmen -Ted Brown (200-yard freestyle), Louis Cavadini (100-yard freestyle) and Scott Coyle (1­meter board) -were the lone victors for the Irish. Also, each recorded runner-up finishes as Brown, Cavadini and Coyle took second in the 500-vard freestyle, 50-yard freestyle and 3-meter board, respectively. 
In addition to the trio of freshmen, a number of Notre Dame swimmers turned in strong meets, including fresh­men Tim Kegelman (second in both 100-and 200-yard but­terfly, third in 200-yard indi­vidual medley) and Alan Carter (second in 200-yard back­stroke, fourth in 200-yard 
backstroke), sopQ.omores Tim 
Randolph (second in 1 00-yard 
breaststroke, third in 100-yard 
freestyle). Grenda (second in 
200-yard breaststroke, third in 
100-yard breaststroke) and 
Steve Shamberger (second in 
200-yard backstroke, third in 
100-yard backstroke). 
Several upperclassmen got in on the scoring as well, as junior Frank Krakowski took third in 100-yard butterfly and 50-yard freestyle and senior co-captain Matt Obringer placed second in 200-yard freestyle. 
Although the Irish were suc­cessful in gobbling a majority of the second, third, fourth and fifth place spots, their inability to keep the Wildcats out of first in the individual races ulti­mately brought about their downfall. 
The loss to Northwestern marks the end of a long road trip that saw Notre Dame go 4­2, falling only to No. 17 Pittsburgh and the No. 15 Wildcats. 
"With the past couple weeks, we've pretty much spent it all on the road, from being in California for a little more than a week and a half, coming back for a couple days, then going to Pittsburgh and then to Northwestern [Saturday]," Grenda said. "But, we've done really well week after week on the road." 
After hosting St. Bonaventure Saturday, the Irish will challenge Cleveland State Feb. 6 and Oakland Feb. 7. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS page 19 HOCitEY 
Irish suffer a pair of heartbreakers 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Writer 

Close, but no cigar. No 
points, either. 

The Irish (12-9-3, 8-8-2 in 
CCHA) dropped a pair of one 
goal games to Northern 
Michigan (12-11-1, 10-10-0) 
this weekend, falling 4-3 in 
overtime Friday night and 1-0 
Saturday. The Wildcats exact­
ed a bit of revenge on Notre 
Dame, who defeated Northern 
Michigan in a home sweep 
earlier this season at the Joyce 
Center. 

For the third consecutive 
week, the Irish opened a road 
series with a game that went 
into overtime, with the previ­
ous two a 5-4 overtime loss to 
Bowling Green Jan. 9 and a 2­
2 tie against Wisconsin Jan. 
17. 

Wildcat forward Daren Olver 
scored the winning goal Friday 
with just 45 seconds left in the 
extra frame. 

Notre Dame has struggled with consistency this year, defeating several ranked teams but having difficulty making any major strides in the conference standings. They are 1-5 in their last six CCHA contests. 
The Irish were unable to take advantage of quality play from senior forward Rob Globke, who had two goals on the weekend. Senior captain Aaron Gill also scored two points in Friday's game, pick­ing up a goal and an assist. 
The combination of Gill and Globke scored seven of the eight goals the Irish have scored in their past four games. 
Junior Morgan Cey started in net Friday for the Irish, mak­ing 28 saves. Freshman David 

..... 
SaintM$-s Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
Til" Nallen's Premittr Catholic Wcmen'$ College 
31st ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 
MAY 19 -JUNE 15, 2004 

Courses offered in.History, International Business, Education, and Social Work. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (574) 284-4462 e-mail: dstcfanc@saintmarys.cdu 

We J)o Mondays Like No J>lace Else! double order 
jus± •11!* 

MJSIIAWAKA 4810 Grape Rd. 


Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Brown allowed only one goal 
Saturday, collecting 22 saves, 
but was bested by senior Craig 
Kowalski's shutout. 
Kowalski made a combined 
48 saves in the two Northern 
Michigan victories. 
Friday, Northern Michigan got on the scoreboard first as Jamie Milan scored a power play goal just a little over halfway into the first period. The second period was full of end-to-end action, as both teams scored two goals in the frame. 
Notre Dame scored the first two goals of the second, giving the Irish a 2-1 lead. Gill col­lected his ninth goal of the year nine minutes into the period, and Globke followed a little more than three minutes later. 
That lead was short lived, as Northern Michigan tied the game just 19 seconds later, with Nathan Oystrick collect­ing a rebound of a Alan Swanson shot and flipping it past Cey. 
Bobby Selden regained the lead for Northern Michigan with less than two minutes left in the second. flipping a shot past a screened Cey for the goal. 
The Irish tied the game back up at 6:29 of the third period, 
with Globke scoring his second 
goal of the game. It was his 
team-best 15th goal of the sea­
son. 
Olver's overtime goal dropped Notre Dame to 0-2-3 in overtime this season. The Irish have not won in the extra frame since a win against Miami {Ohio) Jan. 25, 2002. 
Saturday, the Irish put a lot of pressure on Kowalski, out­shooting the Wildcats 27-23. They were unable to solve the Wildcat goalie, however, who collected his fourth shutout of the season. 
Oystrick scored the only goal in the game for Northern Michigan, scoring on a slap shot that deflected past Brown with a little less than four min­utes left in the first period. 
Oystrick, the CCHA's leading scoring defenseman, collected three points on the weekend {two goals, one assist) and played a part in both game­winning goals for the Wildcats. 
The Irish return home for the first time in 2004 this weekend, facing fourth-place Alaska-Fairbanks. Face-off Friday is 7:35 p.m., and Saturday's face-off is sched­uled for 7:05 p.m. 
Fax: European Summer Study Program (574) 284-4866 574-271-1330 
*Offer val~el every l1onday 11 a.m io dose 
I, 
' 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 26, 2004 
mit to Notre Dame after Tennessee signal caller David
Recruits 
Wolke gave his word last continued from page 24 week. 
Brown and J abbie visited on Dame is doing well given the Jan. 16 and decided Sunday. situation. According to Lemming, Brown 
"The coaches are out work­needed help to get past Notre ing hard," he said. "[Director Dame admissions after previ­of personnel Jimmy] Gonzales ously being denied. is doing a great job of making "None of these guys [Bragg, the players happy on their vis-Brown and Jabbie] were first its." . options, but the coaches obvi­
One weekend of visits ously see some potential," remains before signing day. Lemming said. 
On Sunday during his visit, Bragg became the second Contact Pat Leonard at quarterback to verbally com-pleonard@nd.edu 
Halaga: AOur'an Discussion and Conversation Circle Every other Tuesdays starting Tuesday, January 27, 7-8:30 pm Meditation Room, 102 Coleman-Morse Center 
Introduction on the basics: What is the Qur'an? How was it put together? How is it read by Muslims all over the world? How is it similar to and different from the Judaeo-Christian scriptures? 
And....... How does a Muslim go about extracting information from the Qur'an and · applying it to hisJife? 
Presented by the ND Muslim Students Association and Campus Ministry. 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans
C-M 
Campus Miniltry 

(visit the program at http:://www.nd.edu/-mcnair/) 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
momentum.  
Villanova had one last  
chance to tie or win the  
game, but guard Courtney  
Mix missed an off-balance  
jumper and Duffy grabbed  
the rebound to secure the  
win.  
Notre Dame's defense  
continued its impressive  
play of late, holding  
Villanova to 25.6 percent  
shooting from the field and  
forcing 14 Wildcat  
turnovers. Villanova was  
averaging just nine  
turnovers a game.  
"I think we've been doing  
a fantastic job defensively  
since the Big East season  
began, and that's some­ 
thing we're taking a lot of  
pride in," Irish coach  
Muffet McGraw said.  
There were eight lead  
changes and nine ties as  
neither team led by more  
than six points at any time.  
CHIP MARKS/The Observer The Irish used an 8-0 run  
Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast attempts a free throwto take a 32-26 lead with  
against the Wildcats. She was 10-for-10 from the line.8:29 left, before Villanova  
answered with its own 8-0  
spurt. The Irish held  "With Jeneka out. that  pleased with how her team  
Villanova scoreless for the  really limits our three's,"  is playing in late January,  
final 7:05 of the game.  McGraw said. "I thought  especially after Notre  
Villanova's defense also  [Villanova] did a pretty  Dame's third straight home  
played well, holding the  good job finding [Duffy].  win against a ranked foe.  
Irish to 31.7 percent shoot­ They were leaving Breona  The Irish are 4-3 against  
ing for the game. Besides  [Gray]. Monique  top 25 teams this season.  
Batteast and Duffy, no  [Hernandez] and Le 'Tania  ''I think we're right on  
other Irish player scored  [Severe] open for three's,  track," she said. "We've  
more than four points.  but they are not our best 3­ won four of our last five.  
"They force you to take  point shooters."  We've got to win some road  
the kind of shot they want  With the win, Notre Dame  games ... and you have to  
you to take," McGraw said.  improves to 11-7 on the  defend your home court.  
McGraw said the absence  season and 4-2 in the Big  We need to stay focused on  
of 3-point threat Jeneka  East. The Irish are now tied  what were doing and keep  
Joyce hindered Notre  for third-place with West  taking it one game at a  
Dame's offense. Joyce  Virginia, one game behind  time."  
sprained her ankle in prac­ leaders Miami and  
tice Thursday and did not  Connecticut.  Contact Joe Hettler at  
dress for the game.  McGraw said she is  jhettler@nd.edu  

MCNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2003 -2004 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND Ms:MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2004 
. 7:30 -8:30 IM 

(Hors d'oeuvres will be served) 
IN ROOM 119 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
FORALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHOARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

' 
, 
~ 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Defense steps up in Irish win over Wildcats 

~ : ; 
home Saturday 

t .l to do the same to Villanova, hold­
f ,., 
ing the Wildcats to 36 points in a

I ~ \ 
38-36 win. 
"I was really pleased with our defense," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think we've been 

lI. I 
I 
doing a fantastic job defensively since the Big East season began. That's something that we're tak­ing a lot of pride in." 


The 35 points Syracuse scored was the least allowed by the Irish in a Big East road game. Notre Dame only gave up 16 points in the first half, setting the tone for the rest of the game. 
Saturday, Notre Dame was able to come away with the victory because of their stifling defensive effort. Villanova, who entered the day leading the nation in 

' ~ ' 
turnovers with only 9.2 a game, 
committed 10 in the first half 
alone. 
The Irish held the Wildcats scoreless over the last 7:05 of the game to preserve the win. But it 

l 
; 
I 
wasn't easy. 

I 
The Wildcats sported a lineup with no true post players. Instead, they had five guards in ) the game at all times. Every play­I er on the court could shoot the { . three, which made it difficult for 
the bigger Irish to matchup. I ; ' However, Notre Dame was up to 


To say that the Irish defense ) ) has been dominating of late I would be an understatement. 
After holding Syracuse to 35 points on 23 percent shoot­Heather Van ing Wednesday 
Hoegarden

night on the road, the Irish Sports Writer I came back 
the challenge. They employed a switching defense that didn't allow the Wildcats to get good looks at the hoop. 
"Their defense was very good, they switched the screens real well," Villanova coach Harry Perretta said. 
Notre Dame found success in its team defense, as the Irish were able to guard anyone on the court interchangeably, making the switches on screens very effec­tive. 
"I thought it was a great team effort defensively because every­body had to guard a lot of differ­ent people," McGraw said. "I thought we handled their offense about as well as we can." 
Villanova was held to 25.6 per­cent shooting, and went 0-for-7 from beyond the arc in the sec­ond half. The Irish held the Wildcats to 18 points in both halves, making it four consecu­tive halves that the Notre Dame defense has held its opponent to 20 points or less. Villanova came into the game averaging 61.7 points per game on 41.6 percent shooting. 
Against the Wildcats, who like to control the tempo of a game, the defense of the Irish made all the difference in the end result. 
"They run the offense to perfec­tion," McGraw said. "We feel good about the defense because we know how good their offense is." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu. 


Monday, January 26, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
to make a move for the NCAA 

shredded an Irish defense with 
Tournament. 

transition baskets and easy
Growth 
Loss
The Irish need to come out the 

layups. On the other end, 
continued from page 24 way they played in the second 
Notre Dame settled for 3­
continued from page 24
half Sunday when the sense of 

pointers too quickly and had 
away the Irish appeared to have urgency finally appears and over­
some more balls to bounce our trouble establishing Torin 
finally grasped that concept, takes them. The Irish need to 
way," Irish guard Chris Francis amidst a double-team­
jumping out quickly to a 5-2 lead. play more mature and better 
Thomas said. "But that's been ing defense. 
Kentucky wasn't rattled and team basketball. They need to 
our luck at home. "When we play men. we 
went on an 11-0 run that was start doing the little things neces­
We don't have any." have had trouble playing older 
part of a much-larger 30-12 run. sary to compete with the top 
Few could have predicted guys," Brey said. "We've been 
The rest of the afternoon, the teams in the country. 
the outcome would have the younger group. I think it's 
Irish had to battle back. The Irish need to start making 
remained in doubt until the been very glaring. 
That's something a team, espe­the extra pass, boxing out, com­
final minute, especially when But unlike their perform­
cially one like the Irish, can't do mitting hard fouls, getting after 
the Wildcats jumped out to a ance against Syracuse a week 
against teams like Syracuse and loose balls and playing within 
32-17 lead in the first half. ago, the Irish battled back. 
Kentucky. themselves. 
And with 3:53 left in the game, Even when Kentucky scored to 
"You can't dig that deep a hole In the first half of games this 
Kentucky held onto what ini­give itself a 15-point lead with 
against some men. Now, they are season, they have looked like an 
tially appeared to be a com­7:33, the Irish didn't give up.
men," Brey said. "When we play immature team that has its main 
fortable nine-point margin. Slowly, they chipped away at 
men, we have had trouble play­scoring coming mainly from 
Then the Irish went to work. the Wildcat lead and set the 
ing older guys. We've been the underclassmen. In the second 
Torrian Jones and Jordan stage for the game's thrilling 
TIM KACMAA!The Observer 

younger group. I think it's been half, they look like a mature 
Cornette both tipped in missed final minutes. 
Irish forward Torln Francis

very glaring." team that has been to three 
Irish shots to cut the Kentucky When the final horn sound­
tries to avoid a Kentucky

Against both of those teams, straight NCAA Tournaments and 
lead to five with 1 :46 left, and ed, however, it was painfully 
defender under the basket

the Irish came out, and for what­knows how to win basketball 
39 seconds later, Chris Quinn apparent that the Irish come­
In the Joy"e Center Sunday.

ever reason, just laid a goose egg games against good teams. 
made two free-throws pull back -marked by a physical
early in the game. They are mak­If the Irish want to get where 
Notre Dame to within three. defense and a patient offense 
ing the home-court advantage they talked about in the presea­
But that was as close as the -was too little, too late. With the loss, Notre Dame 
more of a disadvantage right son, they need to become men 
Irish would get. After a "Our will to win was there. It dropped its fourth game of the 
now. quickly. 
Kentucky timeout, Cornette just wasn't there the entire season against ranked teams 
They aren't coming out with Men know how to go into a hos­
fouled Chuck Hayes, who time," Cornette said. "When and has won just six of its 10 
the energy and focus necessary tile environment on the road, 
made the front end of a one­we play like [we did at the games at the Joyce Center this 
to compete with top 25 teams. take the crowd out of it and dic­
and-one. Quinn missed an off­end], we're the No. 1 team in season. And although the Irish 
They have to remember it's not tate the pace of the game. 
balance jumper, Cornette the country." comeback had the Irish more 
that easy. Men know how to withstand a 
missed a chance to tip the ball Notre Dame, despite getting encouraged in the locker room 
"I think guys are a little spoiled late run when everyone was 
in, and the Irish missed their 16 points apiece from Thomas than they were after the 
by success," forward Jordan thinking about the miraculous 
chance for an upset. and Jones and 10 points from demoralizing loss to Syracuse, 
Cornette said. "This team is off comeback made 30 years ago by 
"[We were] immature in the Tom Timmermans, shot a mis­the loss still showed them how 
the radar in terms of teams being the team honored at halftime. 
first half, mature in the second erable 3-of-17 from 3-point far this year's crop of the Irish 
targeted across the country." To become men like Kentucky, 
half," said Irish coach Mike range. And although the Irish are behind the nation's elite 
The Irish are 0-4 against they have to figure out how to 
Brey. "They played mature for grabbed 10 more offensive programs.
ranked teams this season, 11-11 play for 40 minutes like they did 
all 40 minutes. rebounds than the smaller "I don't think we're as good
in their last 22 games dating in the second half. 
"That's why they won." Wildcats, Kentucky's quick 6-a team as them," Thomas said. 
back to last season, and haven't That's when the Irish will have 
Notre Dame only led for the foot-8 forward Hayes scored a "We have the talent, the per­
won a home game in front of the learned their lesson. 
first 2:23 of the game before game-high 21 points com­sonnel and the basketball IQ. 
students since Thanksgiving. 
withering under a red-hot pared to just eight points from "But we haven't put it all 
Fifteen games into the season, The opinions ofthis column are 
Kentucky offense that Notre Dame's 6-foot-11 together."
the Irish don't have a good win those ofthe author and not nec­
outscored the Irish 30-12 over Francis, who called the consis­
and have one very bad loss. The essarily The Observer. Contact 
a 12-minute stretch in the first tent double-teams he endured Contact Andrew Soukup at 
chances are running out for them Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
half. In that span, the Wildcats "frustrating." asoukup@nd.edu 


START HERE. [3i CJ PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and Indiana CPA S()Ciety . 
I, 
I' I' 
f 
\ I ' I 
i 
I I 
:·,I, 
\I I 
I 
~ I. I ~ l I ~ 
~ l' ! 
:
:). .It· 
I.\) I' 
I , 
II i 
') \ 
'I I 
I<\ ' 
I I'
I 
~ 
l 
I I 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 26, 2004 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish experience both ends of the spectrum 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 

Irish coach Bob Bayliss had an analogy to sum up his squad's weekend performance. 
"Sometimes you're the bug," Bayliss observed wryly, "and sometimes you're the wind­shield." 
The men's tennis team had a taste of both roles this weekend, as a disappointing loss to No. 9 Texas A&M was offset by decisive wins against St. John's and Illinois State. 
"We played almost well enough to win this match," Bayliss said of the 5-2 loss to the Aggies. "We had enough windows of opportu­nity -if we had capitalized on all of them, it would have been a different [outcome]." 
Irish No. 4 Stephen Bass and No.6 Eric Langencamp were the only players to post points against the Aggies. Bass won 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 (7 -5) over Khaled El Dorry, and Langencamp beat Bryan Wooten 6-4, 6-3. 
Notre Dame's No. 1 Luis Haddock lost 6-1, 6-3 to Lester Cook, ranked No. 17 nationally in singles play. At No. 2, Matthew Scott fell 6-1, 6-1 to Ante Matijevic, ranked No. 19. 
At three, Mohamed Dakki beat Notre Dame's Brent D'Amico by a score of 7-5, 6-4 to clinch the match for Texas A&M, and fresh­man Barry King was defeated by Brett Joelson 6-2, 7-5 at six. 
"We let them off the hook in doubles," Bayliss said. "We just didn't have enough first serves. In singles, they were so dominant at one and two, they jumped out 3-0, which took a lot of pressure ofT [the bottom three]." 
In doubles, Cook and Matijevic, ranked No. 1 in the nation, defeated Haddock and Ryan Keckley, ranked No. 18, by a score of 8-6. At two, Dakki and Joelsom beat D'Amico and Scott 8-4, while Bass·and King fell to Ell Dorry and Zack Malmgren 8­6. 
"Friday was a tough match," Scott said, "against a good Texas A&M team." 
Sunday was a different story, however, as Notre Dame swept St. John's 6-0, winning all singles matches in two sets. 
"These were matches we expected to win," Bayliss said. "St. John's will [probably] qualify for the Big East Tournament, and it's important to win decisively over Big East opponents." 
The Irish lost only 27 games to St. Johns, an average of 4.5 per match. At the No. 1 spot, Haddock clinched the match for Notre Dame, defeating David Nylen 6-3, 6-1. At two, Scott posted a 6-3, 6-4 win over Aurelio Di Zazzo and Brent D'Amico topped Louis Desmerteaux 6-4, 6-1 at three. 
At four, Bass defeated Nick Stocker 6-1, 6-3, and King beat Morgan Bauer 6-1, 6-2. Langenkamp remained consis­tent by topping Boris Chiporukha 6-1,6-3 at No.6. 

Doubles were not played. Bayliss had hoped to clinch the match in singles and "substitute liberally in the doubles matches," he said Friday. The team's solid singles play, however, meant the players had a longer break before facing Illinois State at 2 pm. 
"We expected to win," Haddock said of the match against the Red Storm. "The good thing was that we won every set. It's hard to come out fired up against a lower level team, especially after not playing [for a day]." 
It was Haddock's first match victory of the spring season. 
Despite the quick turnaround, the Irish came out strong against Illinois State, posting a 6-1 win over the Redbirds. 
Notre Dame took all six singles matches, allowing the team to showcase its depth in doubles. 
"It was the best I've played this season," Haddock said of his 6-3, 6-1 win over Ben Cappuccitti at No. 1. "He's not as good as other players I've played, but I felt good about [my performance)." 
At No. 2, Scott defeated Benjamin Pettinari, also by a score of 6-3, 6-1. An arm injury kept D'Amico on the sidelines for the Illinois State match, moving Bass, a freshman, to the third spot. Bass rose to the challenge, winning over Djordje Uskokovic 3-6, 6-3, 6-1. 
At four, King defeated Nogrobat 3-6, 6-2, 6-1, and Langenkamp beat Alban Renard 6-0, 6-1 in the first match to fin­ish. No.6 Pat Buchanan won 5-7, 6-3, 6-1 over Alfredo Lagarda. 
In doubles, Paul Hidaka and Ryan Keckley defeated Chris Cozad and Pettinari 8-3. However, Guillermo Gomez and Renard beat Notre Dame's Ben Hatten and Bobby McNally 8-6 to clinch the match, with Cappucciti and Tim Link winning over Jimmy Bass and Nick Chimerakis 8-3 to get the point for St. John's. 
"This win is significant because we have three players unavail­able," Bayliss said. D'Amico's 


o, 

w·ha.t: N:ationa:l A.ssociatio:n for Caanpus Acti·vities National Confe:rence 
Wh C--t·'· OH
.. er·e: 1nc1nna ••, · . : When:, Feb 14-1B 
shoulder injury, Keckley's recent recovery from an ankle injury and Irackli Akhvendiani's case of the flu forced the Irish to rely on a deep roster. 
"It speaks well of the depth of our team," Bayliss said. ''I'm dis­appointed we didn't come out faster -three guys lost in first sets-but came back to win." 
Scott is also coming off a leg injury, and did not play a full doubles match from October 2003 until last Saturday's victory at Indiana. 
"We're really deep," Scott said of Sunday's contest. "When guys like Pat [Buchanan] come up, their role is to be ready if called upon, and Pat did a great job stepping up at the last minute." 
) . 
I 
~ 
I
t 
1
'I, 
'1. 
) 
., 
~ ~ 
I I 
I 
' 
..,
-: 
' 
{ '· 
\ 
' 
( ( 'l ·{ I 
)1 
(''II 
.,
) ,I 
I 
:t 
I:t 
l :i 
'\ 
l 
~~ 
I 
I 

Hiow: email sub@nd.edu by Friday if you're interested in attendi:ng (there is li1nited space) 
brought to you by the student union board. nd.edul...sub 

Monday, January 26, 2004 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLD 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

.· 
' ' 
_,··. 
.:... ·.·; 
--~-, .1' 
.~: 
·' 
:, ;. 
2 
THE NAME SHOULD BE 
11 

MAYBE SOMETHING LIKE 
HI-TECH SOUNDING 
$ 

''DUHFLUSHTECH, INC.­
WITH A HINT OF 
0
ONOMATOPOEIA THAT 
... ~ 
SIGNALS YOUR TOTAL 
~ 

I LIKE 
~----------~------~ 
FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

M4fll r h~ -+he.fe cold s;c.~oo!clay t')'IOn')i~jS ..• 5e~¥t~ vp e~rly +o q(iv~ o~ C.t:J.rn(>VS' ~ ~ir.&i,~ <?, P"-1"ki}'1~ C4.rtd ~\ehri"'-' ~ -t{,~f ic.y wi~. I+ 
(\_.-::::::::::::t:JI~ WAS SC mvc'k €-A-sie(' +ojv~+ wAlk +v c.\~ss ..from tY~ y d/!) rm • 

·'·_:~-· 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Missing DOWN 1 Coffee with 1 1300 on a
companionship body 37 Droop cornerstone 
6 Greta who said, 38 Cope with 2 Spoken "I vant to be 40 Write quickly 3 Nightclub in a alone" 41 More reliable Manilow song 
11 Relaxing resort 
44 Abstract visual 4 Ballpark 14 Sing like Crosby images vendors' offerings
15 Ancient Greek 46 Efficient marketplace manufacturing 5 Actress process 
Alicia
16 President Coolidge 49 Dwarfed tree 6 The Father of India
17 "Peter Pan" 52 Ascent 7 Turkish leader
villain 53 Less cordial 8 Down Under
19 Assayer's 54 Fiendish hoppersmaterial 56 Artist Salvador 9 Friend in the20 Dressed 60 Comic's bit 'hood 
21 Suggestions on 61 Water locator 10 Yellow ribbon food labels: 64 Encouragement siteAbbr. 
at the bullring 
11 Listerine22 Three·toed 
65 Big ape 
alternativeanimal 
66 Christopher 
12 Plaster of 
24 "There's a who played the 13 Warnproblem!" Man of Steel 18 Multivitamin26 Flock leader 67 and feather supplement27 Country dance 68 Horse features 23 Is not well 
32 Demean 69 Horse relatives 
25 Hasten _A_N_S_W_E_R_T_O_P_R_E_V-IO_U_S_P_U_Z_Z-LE• 26 Remain 
unsettled 
36 Suffix with disk or novel 


WILLSHORTZ 
• 

38 Answer to a 47 Fetches 55 Climber senor 
48 Title role for 
57 Son of Hera 39 Golfer's gadget Leslie Caron 
58 Honey

42 Business letter 49 Intolerant one encl. 59 Fateful day in 
50 City between 
March
43 Russian ruler's Gainesville and domain Orlando 62 A Gershwin brother
44 Pained cries 51 West African river

45 Fraternity 83 Gun owners' candidates 54 Novelist Hunter grp. 
·For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
•past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes .com/learning/xwords. 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.coin 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon

~~Jl:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SCOUF 
1 

rJ rJ 
Cl2004 Trt>une Media Se111ices, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LALIV 
j

I I r (J
tSTYLUS j
J r
1 www jumble.com • 
I:CHOPON±

I I r J I ~here: ( I I I JOF rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: DEITY POWER OBLIGE TURTLE Answer: How the napkin salesman felt at the end of the day-'WIPED" OUT 

~TIT CAN 
COST ID 00 
AFT'ER BIG BUCKS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Wayne Gretzky, Anita Baker, Paul Newman, Eddie Van Halen, Scott Glenn, Angela Davis, Jules Feiffer, Andrew Ridgeley, Ellen DeGeneres 
Happy Birthday: Your vision will be broad this year. You can offer great suggestions, but don't waste your time if others don't want to follow your lead. Go it alone if necessary and you'll be the one who accomplishes the most. Overdoing it can be your greatest downfall. Know your limits, know when to say no, and do for yourself first. Your numbers: 4, 17, 19, 23, 28, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't let anyone talk you into doing things that you'd prefer not to do. You need to please yourself for a change instead of everyone else. It's time to follow your own beliefs and not someone else's. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are beginning to see things through different eyes. Your awareness is growing, and your motives are changing. Don't be afraid to follow a new direction. You must take control of your future.**** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Financial failures are likely if you expanded your interests too quickly. Look into ways of helping children or relatives solve their problems without donating your own funds. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have regrets if you allow a dispute to get out of hand. Be cautious how you handle both your business and emotional partnerships. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look into career opportunities that will lead to a higher earning potential. You need to use your ingenuity if you want to get ahead. Believe in yourself and so will others.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Words of love will be dancing through your head. Get out with that special person in your life. You need to spend time enjoying the finer things in life. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Uncertainties on the home front should not be cause for alarm. A move is evident, and the problems that exist will be eliminated. Just bide your time and let things unfold as they may. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Clear up that overdue correspondence. Don't get intimate with colleagues or involved in gossip at work. Pleasure trips will break your budget. Be prepared to make cutbacks.** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You would be wise not to be tempted to take part in joint financial ventures. You may have difficulties with your stomach if you overindulge or eat spicy foods. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your emotions are likely to take over today. It is best to work by yourself. Don't let anyone goad you into a debate. You really need your peace and quiet. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Making changes to your home, particularly in your rec room or home-entertainment center, will help ensure that your family will spend more time together. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your need to interact with others can be satisfied if you sign up to help worthy organizations. You have a knack for putting things together well, and for paying close attention to small but important details. Your services will be valued. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have a fascinating way of looking at life. You are ingenious, outgoing and forever trying to help others. You have a great desire to do something worthwhile. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web sire at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the 1nore than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The OI?server in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address _____________________________________~ 
City _______ State ____ Zip_______ ­


Monday, January 26, 2004 Page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
History doesn't repeat itself 
Irish comeback bid falls short against No. 9 Kentucky in 30-year reunion of 71-70 upset of No. 1 UCLA 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

For the fleetest moment, histo­ry seemed on the verge of repeating itself. 
Notre Dame had fought back from a double-digit deficit at home with a furious rally at the end of the second half. The Joyce Center crowd stood on its feet. trying to will the Irish to a spectacular come-from-behind win against a highly ranked foe. Even the members of the Notre Dame team that knocked off No. 1 UCLA 30 years ago, who returned for a halftime reunion but had spent the rest of the game in their seats, arose with a yell. 
But 2004 isn't 1974. 
And the upset the majority of the Joyce Center wanted never happened. 
So this year's version of the Irish, despite cutting a 15-point deficit to three, couldn't com­plete the rally as its home strug­gles continued in a 71-63 loss to No.9 Kentucky. 
"We felt some more calls could have gone our way, and we need 
see LOSS/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Defense rules the day for Irish 
Batteast sinks pair offree throws for 2-point victory 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Harry Perretta wanted to apologize to the 7,014 fans that witnessed the ugly game between Notre Dame See Also and No. 23 
"Defense steps
Villanova Saturday. up in Irish win Instead he 
over Wildcats"
made a sug­gestion. page 20 
"I worked for a three at the end to try and relieve the fans and watching public of having to watch the game any­more," Perretta said. "If we made it, the game was over. If we missed it, the game ·was over so nobody had to watch anymore of it." 
In a game where neither team scored more than 20 points in a half. Jacqueline Batteast sank two free throws with 17.5 seconds left to give the Irish a 38-36 victory. The 38 points were Notre Dame's lowest total ever at the Joyce Center and the second lowest by an Irish team in a game anywhere. 
Batteast, who played with a sprained right wrist, shot just 2-for-14 from the field but hit all 10 of her free throws to fin­ish the game with 14 points and nine rebounds. Guard Megan Duffy added 10 points including a clutch 3-pointer with 2:02 left to tie the game at 36-36 and give the Irish 
see DEFENSE/page 20 


FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Three commit, none A-list players 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Tyrone Willingham and the 
Irish are waiting on word from 
a few A-list players -includ­
ing defensive end Darryl 
Richard and defensive back 
Cortney Grixby. 

In the meantime, coaches 
are working to lure the best 
remaining talent to South 
Bend in the late stages of a 
tough recruiting season. 

Notre Dame received three 
more verbal commitments this 
weekend from defensive end 
Justin Brown. cornerback 
Junior Jabbie and quarterback 
Darrin Bragg, ESPN recruiting 
analyst Tom Lemming said. 

The number of commitments 
has reached 14, and Lemming 
believes that number could 
increase soon. 

"It looks like [offensive line­
man] Allen Smith is coming [to 
Notre Darnel." Lemming said. 

Smith stands 6-foot-5, 325 
pounds and was heavily 
recruited by Pac-1 0 schools 
and Miami. He attended 
Corona del Sol High School in 
Tempe, Ariz. 

Lemming also said he 
believes New Jersey defensive 
back Leo Ferrine has made his 
decision to join the Irish. 

But there is a problem lying 
within this weekend's commit­
ments, however, even if the 
Ferrine rumors are true. 

"Smith is the only heavily 
recruited one," Lemming said. 
Darius Walker's verbal com­
mitment to Notre Dame 
Thursday afternoon was a 
huge step for the Irish recruit­
ing staff. as Walker is an A-list 
running back -a player that 
coaches had pegged as a pri­
ority from the beginning. 

The problem now -just 'over a week from signing day, 
Feb. 4 -is that not many A­
list players remain on the 
board. 

Brown, a 6-foot-4, 225­
pound defensive end who 
could play linebacker. and 
Jabbie -5-foot-11, 175 
pounds -were not the first or 
perhaps second options for 
Notre Dame coaches, but the 
success of other schools' 
recruiting staffs has left the 
Irish in a desperate situation 
to scramble last-minute. 

Lemming believes Notre 
see RECRUITS/page 20 

Inexperienced Irish have much to learn 
Just over a week later, the Irish haven't learned their les­son. 
One of the premier pro­grams in college basketball came to the Joyce Center on national television and gave the Irish a chance to get a much­needed win over a ranked team. 
But once again, this young and immature team let a golden opportunity to improve its postseason resume slip through its hands. 
Leading up to this game, Irish coach Mike Brey and his team talked about staying within itself in front of the energized home crowd. Right 

see GROWTH/page 21 

NBA 
NHl 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
MEffS TENNIS

TRACK &FiELD 
Roundups of play 
A recap of Sunday's 

Notre Dame finished
A wrapup from 
The Irish men's and 
Northwestern 155,
from the NBA, includ­

Sunday's men's and 
its home weekend 2-1
play from around the 

women's squads com­
Notre Dame 133 
ing Minnesota's win 
National Hockey 

women's collegiate 
after a 5-2 loss to No. 9
bined to win 16 events 
The Irish fell just short 
over Phoenix. 
League, including 

hoops action from 
Texas A&M and a 6-0
over the weekend, led 
of an upset of the 15th­
around the nation. 

victory over St. John's
Buffalo's 4-2 comeback 

by the performances of 
ranked Wildcats. Notre 
and a 6-1 win over
victory over Carolina. 

Molly Huddle and Eric 
Dame's three event vic­
Morrison. 
Illinois State. 

tories were not enough. 
page 14 
page 15 

page 17 
page 22
page 18 
page 19 






