
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Travelers enjoy ND win, southern hospitality 

thanks for hurting our quarter­By TRICIA de GROOT back."' 
News Writer 
Students felt the Tennessee fans were very welcoming over­
Notre Dame fans everywhere all and many of them congratu­were surprisingly pleased with lated the opponents for their the football team's performance attitude throughout the entire in Knoxville on Saturday. weekend. 
The victory over No. 9 "I was surprised by how 
Tennessee was celebrated by respectful the fans were before students both in South Bend and and after the game," said sopho­by those who traveled the eight more Kathryn Schuessler. and a half hours to Tennessee to 
Other students were satisfied see the game. with being able to watch their 
Unlike some more volatile team, the underdog, make an away games of the past, Irish unexpected win in Neyland sta­fans felt the southern hospitality dium. 
of the Volunteers. Sophomore Rick King was 
"I was surprised at how nice among them. all of the Tennessee fans were to "It was just one of the best us, especially after we beat football games I've ever been them down," said sophomore to," King said. "Watching Notre 
Tom Bradley who drove to Dame beat Tennessee in Tennessee for the game. Neyland was awesome." "Although, one lady came up to In addition to miraculously us after the game and said, 'I hope you enjoyed your stay and see GAME/ page 6 

Alllll1riifrom ND, SMC re-elected to Congress 
Graduates to serve new terms in House 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were well represented on ballots on Election Day with seven gradu­ates between the two institutions
i 
,. being re-elected to Congress. 
Four Notre Dame alumni and three Saint Mary's alumnae held onto their House seats and will return to Washington, D.C. as members of the 109th Congress. 
Among the vic­


torious Notre Souder Dame alumni were two of Indiana's nine congressional representatives. Represent-ative to Indiana's 1st district Peter Visclosky won a 10 term. A D e m o c r a t , Northup Visclosky gradu­ated from Notre Dame Law School in 1973. Republican Mark Souder, who earned an MBA from Notre Dame in 1974, was elected for a 



sixth time as Vlscloskyrepresentative to Indiana's 3rd Distriet. 
Another Notre Dame alumnus, 1968 Law Sehool graduate and Hepublican Peter King, was re­
elected to his eighth term in New York's 3rd District. Fellow Republican Michael Ferguson was voted into New Jersey's 7th dis­trict for a third time. Ferguson received a bachelor's degree in political science from Notre Dame in 1992. 
Among the Saint Mary's gradu­ates re-elected was Anne Meagher Northup of Kentucky's 3rd District. Northup earned degrees in business and economics from Saint Mary's in 1970. She was eas­ily re-elected over her democratic opponent for a sixth term. When elected for the first time in 1996, Northup WBS the first woman in Kentucky to have been elected to Congress since 1926. 
Nineteen sixty-six Saint Mary's graduate Donna Christensen was elected to her fifth term as con­gressional delegate from the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Democratic congresswoman is the first female physician in the history of the U.S. Congress, the first woman to rep­resent an offshore Territory and the first woman delegate from the Virgin Islands. Christensen chairs the Congressional Black Caucus' Health Braintrust, which oversees and advocatf~s minority health issues nationally and intPrnation­ally. 
Eddie Bernice Johnson, a Democrat from the 30th district of Texas, won re-election for a sev­enth term. Congresswoman Johnson received her nursing preparation degree from Saint Mary's in 1955. She became the first woman and the first black to ever represent the Dallas area in Congress when she was elected to 
see ELECTION/page 6 
Talabani fights for Iraqi Women 
Women's Council member tells ofexperiences 
By JEANNINE PRIVAT 
News Writer 
Addressing issues rang­ing from her personal life to the United States' involvement in the Iraq reconstruction process to the role 
of women in Iraqi society, A l a Talabani of the I r a q i Women's II i g h 

Co u n c i I Tala bani 
a n d Women for a Free Iraq spoke at Notre Dame Friday. 
Talabani, on campus by 

invitation from the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies in conjunc­tion with Women Waging Pe.ace, stressed the need for women to be involved in the reconstruction process and ultimately the new Iraqi state. In a society where women have tradi­tionally been oppressed, she emphasized the need for both genders to realize the importance of women. 
"Women need to believe they have a role to play in the society," she said. 
Talabani and other women decided "a real women's movement in the country" was needed, she said. They began the slow process of opening women's centers, applying for grants from USAID and nongovernmental organiza­tions and forming their own groups, like the Iraqi Women's High Council and Women for a Free Iraq. Talabani has also been involved with the hosting of women's conferences throughout Iraq, and in promoting the women's movement in Iraq across religious, ethnic and geo­graphic lines. 
"Violence against women is the same in Baghdad, Basra and Fallujah," she said. 
And with women making up a 60-percent majority of the population, their role in society is something that female activists think should be taken seriously, 
see IRAQ/page 6 

Student CPAs work for charity 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
N(~arly 370 certified pub­lic aceountants, including 52 from Notre Dame, gath­Pred Friday to take part in the statewide CPA Day of Service. 
The event, planned by the Indiana CPA Soeiety (INCPAS), gathered CPAs at 39 locations in 18 cities throughout Indiana for a day of community serviee. 
"We believe it was very successful and we haven't even received mueh feed­back yet," said Dave Shatkowski of the Indiana CPA Society. "I'm sure we will get positive comments from our members who partieipated as well as some notes and letters of appreeiation from the organizations we served. That would just add to the success of the event." 

The number of volunteer CPAs nearly doubled from last year. 
"Our ultimate goal is 1,000 participants," said Shatkowski. "I don't know if that will be reached next year, but we hope to keep moving in that direction." 
The charity day was cre­ated in 2002 to recognize Indiana CPAs' dedication to charity. The Day of Service has also proven a good way for accounting students to network with local CPAs. 
"We thought that volun­teerism is a good activity for any profession to encourage, and we already knew that many of our CPA members individually par­ticipated in local volunteer projects," said Shatkowski. 
see CPA/page 6 page 2 The Observer +PAGE 2 Monday, November 8, 2004 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Madder than a wet hen 
Upon arriving in South Bend, the first thing college freshmen discuss is the dif­ferent dialect<> heard around campus. llowever by sophomore year, arguing over the correct term for a earbonated beverage is like beating a dead 
Maggie Oldham 

horse. Hegional dialectal differ­
Sports Wire

ences fall by the 
Editor

wayside. 
Although my friends no longer notice my "accent," there are certain phrases I use that evoke a "huh'?" from even my closest friends. These phrases are unique and powerful. They define life moments, both simple and complex, spoken by good ol' Mom and Dad, and now spoken by me. These phrases have serious meanings and when used in the proper context, put sophisticated words into one's mouth when one is searching for the perfect expression. I will now defme and clarifY these complex axioms. 
Madder than a wet hen. A thoughtful­ly complex metaphor describing some­one who is raging mad. When hens are wet, they are mad. In fact, they are livid. Use this phrase to express the intensity of another's anger. For example, when "Drinker Dave" outfoxed Oflicer "Bob" at the Michigan tailgate, Officer "Bob" was madder than a wet hen. 
In a rabbit stew. Another clever metaphor describing someone who is in quite the predicament and quite worked up about it. If one were a rabbit and in a stew, or ifone were put in a boiling pot of rabbit stew, one would be in a stress­ful jam. For example, when Tennessee's head coach realized after Saturday's game that the Volunteers' ranking was about to go down the toilet, Coach Fulmer was in a rabbit stew. 
Making a mountain out of a molehill. This phrase means that one is overana­lyzing a situation. Mountains are bigger and more in1port.ant than molehills. When one makes a mountain out of a molehill, one is not looking at the triviali­ty of the situation. For example, when a few students made a fuss about some Saint Mary's T-shirts, they were making a mountain out of a molehill. 
Six of one, half dozen of another. My friends swear only my mom and I use this phrase. This is a very good phrase meaning that two different routes are the san1e in length and destination. For example, when walking from the 06 parking lot to SOH, one must choose which steps of the Rockne to take. Either the north steps or the south steps will get one to SOH in the same amount of time. Therefore, it is six of one, half dozen of another. 
Stinkin' thinkin'. Another term I have learned from my mom providing great self-esteem advice. Stinkin' thinkin' gets one nowhere. For example, ifyou believe that you have not been poked on The Facebook because you are not cool, that is stinkin' thinkin' because, come on, if you are on The Facebook, you are cool. 
And thus this portion of my philosophi­cal dictionary concludes. I have picked up from Mom and Dad many phrases that will continue to provide life lessons and eloquence. Try one of these phrases sometime. You will be surprised at how clearly and articulately you will be able to deseribe a situation. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl'er. Contact Maggie Oldham at mold­haO1 @sain tmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Ob~erver regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correc.r our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S GAME? 



r······ , 
. ·--~t;~-;i·'~~,,

' ··-" 


Frankie Bontempo Jennifer Thomas Matt Wopperer Patricia Varraveto Ryan Curley Dana Santiago 
sophomore freshman sophomore JUnwr sophomore junior Siegfried Lewis· Siegfried Walsh Siegfried Walsh 
..Brady, can you ../ think it was ··rm pretty sure ..It makes me ..This game ··1 was too busy be my lady?, awesome. Mike we should be wonder what showed that our listening to Goolsby is the ranked No. 1 by happened with team can beat Britney 
, , 

man. now. the Boston anybody on any Spears.,, 
College game.,, Saturday. .. 

Bank under construction sees robbery bid 
KENNESAW, Ga. -There is little money to be gained from attempting to rob a bank that is still under con­struction, police say a Marietta man learned on Wednesday. 
Michael Donald Marshall, 39, entered the Bank of America and demanded $500 from the tellers while threatening that he had a 
gun,  according  to  the  
Kennesaw  Police  
Department.  

The employees then told him the bank wasn't open for business and there was no money. Kennesaw Police arrived as Marshall exited the building empty-handed, officers said. 
The suspect is charged with armed robbery. 
Tanker spills liquid chocolate on highway 
GROVELAND, N.Y. -Part of a highway in the Finger Lakes region was closed for five hours Thursday evening after a tanker truck crashed, spilling 45,000 pounds of slippery liquid chocolate that hardened. 
State Police said there were no serious injuries in the crash shortly after 5 
p.m. A road grader was used to scrape the north­

bound lanes of Interstate 390. 
Truck driver Bert Nestlrode, 46, of Ephrata, Pa., swerved to avoid a deer, the truck rolled over and the tanker split, police said. He was treated at a hospital for cuts and bruis­es and no tickets were issued. 
The syrup also covered a bridge and a car on another road below. The truck, from M&M Mars. Co. in Elizabethtown, Pa., carried liquid used to make milk chocolate. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
c:: 
LLI 

ti ~ 
LLI 

3: 
...I 
<
(.) 



HIGH LOW 


HIGH LOW 


55 40 
0 

HIGH 45
..I 
LOW 37 
IN BRIEF 

The Career Center will hold an information session Tuesday from 6 until 7 p.m. in 114 Flanner on ..The Job & Internship Search: Beyond Campus Interviews." 
Professors Daniel Lindley, George Lopez and Gary Masapollo will be part of a fae­ulty panel on "Iraq: What Now?" Tuesday from 4:15 until 
5:30 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The International Film S~ries will show Liv Ullman's adapta­tion of "Kristin Lavransdatter" Tuesday from 7 until 1 0 p.m. in 117 DeBartolo. 
The lecture "Lies My Teacher Told Me About the Presidency" will take place on Wednesday from 8 to 10 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo. 
The Mr. ND Pageant, present­ed by Walsh Hall, will be held on Wednesday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
A LEAD-ND information ses­sion will take place on Wednesday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the CSC office. The group ·offers after school opportunities for youth to lean about leader­ship, community service and 
active citizenship. 

A special screening of "The Grudge" with screenwriter Stephen Susco and actor William Mapother will be shown on Thursday from 7 to 11:30 
p.m. at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 



page 3

Monday, November 8, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

~Merrill Lynch 
ml.com/careers/americas 
SHARE OUR PASSION MERRILL LYNCH PRESENTATION 
NOTRE DAME juniors and sophomores are invited to attend: Wednesday, November 10, 2004 6:00-8:00 pm Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 210 
Whether you look at us in terms of people, culture, products or our virtually limitless possibilities, Merrill Lynch defines "exceptional" in every sense of the word. It's a source of pride for all of us who work here. And a source of exceptional careers for those eager to share in our passion for doing great things. 
,,

Attend our presentation. And let's explore the possibilities together. 
Summer opportunities: Investment Banking 
EXCEPTIONAL WITHOUT EXCEPTION 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 


Catholic Charities meet at Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
Senior members of Catholic Charities offices nationwide will gathered starting Sunday and will meet until Wednesday for the first ses­sion of a new educational program designed to enhance the administration and strengthen the leadership of their organization. 
"From Mission to Service: A Program on Mission-based Leadership and Organization Development" is underwrit­ten by Notre Dame and designed by the Mendoza College of Business specifical­ly for officers and board members of Catholic Charities offices. The pro­gram's instructors include members. of Notre Dame's theology and business faculty as well as other national fig­ures. Among those teaching in the first session are Lawrence Cunningham, John 
A. O'Brien professor of theol­ogy, Joseph Holt, director of executive education program­ming for the executive MBA program, Gerard Baumbach, director of the Center for Catechetical Initiatives, and Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, president and treasurer of Catholic Charities for the Archdiocese of Boston and this year's recipient of Notre Dame's highest honor, the Laetare Medal. 
One of the designers of the program, father Hehir observed that Catholic Charities organizations are in transition. Forty years ago, nearly all of the Catholic Charities organizations were headed by priests, and 
now 75 percent of the execu­tive directors are laypeople. "This shift will require us to attend to Catholic identity in new ways," said Carolyn Woo, Martin J. Gillen -Dean of the Mendoza College of Business. 
"This program results from the collaboration of lay and clerical leaders, and between business faculty and theolo­gians. It is an innovation with spiritual and social signifi­cance." 
The program is intended to help those who work in Catholic Charities to "develop a leadership vision for their organization that reflects a faith-based mission, under­stand how the rich heritage of Catholic social teaching anchors their work today, incorporate the principle of faith-based mission as their. organization's strategic driv­er, develop awareness and skills regarding values-based decision-making, develop a framework for linking mis­sion-based values to organi­zational systems and prac­tices, and build a strong, national network of col­leagues with similar inter­ests." 
The second program ses­sion will take place in March. 
The Catholic Charities net­work consists of more than 1,400 local agencies and institutions nationwide. They annually assist nearly 7 mil­lion people in need of emer­gency aid, counseling, adop­tion assistance, housing, and numerous other services. They also coordinate the efforts of more than 220,000 volunteers. 
Voters desire stability in Iraq 
Poll shows top priority is a resolution as fighting intensifies 
Associated Press 
. 

WASHINGTON As President Bush mulls what to do after winning re-election, voters say his first priority should be resolving the situa­tion in Iraq, where the fight­ing is growing more intense. 
They also want Bush to cut the deficit, which ballooned under his watch, rather than pushing for more tax cuts, according to an Associated Press poll taken right after the election. 
The voters' concerns stood in contrast to the priorities Bush cited after he defeated Democrat John Kerry. Bush pledged to aggressively pur­sue major changes in Social Security, tax laws and med­ical malpractice awards. Terrorism was a chief con­cern both for Bush and many voters in the poll. 
"I earned capital in the campaign, political capital, and now I intend to spend it," Bush said a day after becoming the first president in 68 years to win re-election and gain seats in both the House and Senate. 
Some 27 percent of respon­dents named Iraq as the top priority for the president's second term, ahead of issues such as terrorism, the econo­my and health care. 
Only 2 percent named taxes as a priority. By more than a 2-1 margin, voters said they preferred that the president balance the budget rather than reduce taxes further. 
After a campaign dominat­ed by discussion of Iraq and terrorism, national security issues are at the top of vot­
ers' concerns along with the forces. economy. Voters were asked "There has got to be some to pick from a list of issues in kind of resolution in Iraq," the AP poll that included said Erwin Neighbors, a 
. Iraq, terrorism, the economy, Republican and a community unemployment, health care, college teacher from education and taxes. Moberly, Mo. "We can't fold 
Many voters on Election our tent without accomplish­Day indicated they were also ing our goals." concerned about "moral val-On the domestic front, ues" a Bush says his broader con­plans to over­
..There has got to be haul the tax laws
cern than specific issues some kind of would be "rev­such as e n u e
resolution in Iraq. We
health care neutral"and 
can ,t fold our tent
and educa­would not cut tion. without t a x e s Republicans Throughout the
accomplishing our
ranked ter­past year, how­rorism first goals. •· ever, he has on the list, urged Congress followed by Erwin Neighbors to make earlier 
Iraq and the tax cuts perma­
Missouri resident 
economy as 
priorities for 
Bush. Democrats were most 
likely to name Iraq, followed 
by the economy and health 
care while independents 
picked Iraq and then terror­
ism, according to the poll 
conducted for the AP by 
Ipsos-Public Affairs. 
"He has to go 500 percent 
in Iraq," said Ruth 
Shoemaker, an independent 
and a retiree from Chula 
Vista, Calif. "That's why I .voted for the president." 
Seven in 10 voters, includ­
ing a majority of Democrats, 
would prefer that U.S. troops 
to stay in Iraq until the coun­
try is stable, instead of hav­
ing them leave immediately. 
U.S. troops are preparing for assaults on insurgent strongholds used as havens for those mounting increased attacks against coalition 
nent. 

The nonparti­san Congressional Budget Office now sees $2.3 trillion in accumulated deficits over the next 10 years. That does not include the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Given the choice between balancing the budget and cutting taxes, voters chose balancing the budget by 66 percent to 31 percent. Just over half of Republicans as well as most Democrats and ind~pendents felt that way. 
When the choice is between balancing the budget and spending more on education, health care and economic development, voters were divided. Slightly more want­ed the additional domestic spending, 55 percent, than chose balancing the budget, 44 percent. 
page 4 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Day, Month, Year 

M U S C 
Bach's Lunch Concert 
Friday, November 12 at 12:10 p.m. Free Admission 

ND Glee Club and ND Bands 
Friday, November 12 at 8 p.m. Free Admission 


ND Symphonic Band and Winds 
Wednesday, November 17 at 8 p.m. Free Admission 


ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra 
Friday, November 19 at 8 p.m. Free Admission 


Student Chamber Music Concert 
Saturday, November 20 at 8 p.m. Free Admission 


ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra 
Handel's Messiah 

Thursday, December 2, 2004 at 8 p.m. Friday, December 3, 2004 at 8 p.m. Judd & Mary Lou leighton Concert Hall Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 
THEATRE 



Victoria 

www.dulci-langfelder.org/English/engframe.html November 11 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Decio Theatre ·• Matinee price is $15 Evening Performance $30, $25 faculty/staff, $ 1 5 all students 
A humorous, warm and loving play about aging based on an original idea and texts by Charles Fariala, staged and performed by Dulcinea langfelder. 
Dulcinea langfelder recaptures the comic tradition of Chaplin, with an original and a very contempo­rary twist, through clever use of technology and multiple disciplines. The heroine, Victoria, has lost her memory; she's lost her pussycat, she's lost control over her life. A shadow of her former self; Victoria adapts and adopts comic and dramatic situations as her imagination dictates. Her wheel­chair is also her rocking chair, her prison, her tango partner and her flying chariot. 

ND Glee Club Christmas Concert 
Saturday, December 4, 2004 at 6:00pm 
Saturday, December 4, 2004 at 8:30pm Judd and Mary lou Leighton Concert Hall Tickets $6, $5 facultyI staff, $3 all students All proceeds benefit the Center for the Homeless 

Empire Brass -Christmas Concert 
Friday, December 1 0 at 8 p.m. http://www.empirebrass.com/ 
North America's finest brass ensemble, The Empire Brass, share their brilliant virtuosity and unparal­leled diversity with us for a Christmas Concert. When Carnegie Hall was remodeled, Empire Brass won the honor to perform there first, so it's only fitting that they should be a part of our inaugural season. They have won many awards and have played in every major performing venue in this country and the world. 
Ticket~ $44, $35 faculty/staff, $15 all students 
D A N C E 


NDPresents: Momix at the Morris 
www.momix.com November 13 Performed at the Morris Performing Arts Center Tickets range from $12 to $30 Order tickets on line at www.MorrisCenter.org or call574.235.9190 
Momix may change your definition of dance. Known internationally for work of exceptional inventiveness and physical beautiful, Momix is a company of dancer-illusionists. Under the direction of Moses Pendleton, the company has conjured a world of surreal images for more than 20 years. For Notre Dame Momix will perform their critically acclaimed Opus Cactus. Choreographed by Moses Pendleton, Opus Cactus, is a celebration of the deserts of the American Southwest. Drawing from other art forms-gymnast.ics, acrobatics, body surfing, pole vaulting, ballet and puppetry-and aided by designers whose imaginations are as large as the desert sky, Pendleton has sculpted nineteen desert scenes to make you forget the cooling temperatures of Michiana November. Prepare to be delighted. 

The Chieftains 

Sunday, January 30 at 8 p.m. Leighton Concert Hall 
The first word in Irish Music is the Chieftains. In 1989 the Republic of Ireland appointed them the official musical ambassadors for Ireland. They have 
·exported Irish music to every corner of the world and finally they come to Notre Dame. Their appearance is far overdue. There are a lot of groups who play traditional Celtic music, but they all owe a great debt to the Chieftains who paved the way for them. There are few concert experi­ences as completely fulfilling as an evening spent in their company. 
Tickets $48, $38 faculty/staff, $15 all students 
F l M 


THE GRUDGE: From Notre Dame To Hollywood 
Thursday, November 11 at 10 p.m. Browning Cinema 
Sony Pictures' newly released THE GRUDGE, an American remake of a Japanese horror film, was written by Stephen Susco (ND '95), starring Sarah Michelle Gellar, and co-starring William Mapother (ND '87). This is a FREE promotional screening, however, you will need to pick-up tickets at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Ticket Office. Seating is limited. 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. sign up for updates at 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:// performingarts.nd.edu 

Call 574-631-2800 

Monday, November 8, 2004 Co~1PI LED FR0~1 THE OBSERVER's w1 RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
French and Ivory Coast troops clash 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast -French troops clashed with soldiers and angry mobs Saturday after Ivory Coast warplanes killed at least nine French peacekeepers and an American civilian in an airstrike _ mayhem that threatened to draw foreign troops deeper into the West African country's escalating civil war. 
Mob violence broke out in Ivory Coast's largest city after France retaliated for the airstrike by destroying two government warplanes at an airport outside the capital. 
Thousands of pro-government youths, some armed with machetes, axes or chunks of wood, took to the streets of the country's commercial capital, Abidjan. 
Crowds went door to door looking for French citizens and set fire to two French schools, sending a pall of smoke over the city. 
Saudi scholars urge holy war 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Prominent Saudi religious scholars urged Iraqis to support militants waging holy war against the 
U.S. -led coalition forces as American troops prepared Saturday for a major assault on the insurgent hotbed of Fallujah. 
The 26 Saudi scholars and preachers said in an open letter to the Iraqi people that their appeal was prompted by "the extraordinary situation through which the Iraqis are passing which calls for unity and exchange of views." The letter was posted on the Internet. 
"At no time in history has a whole peo­ple been violated ... by propaganda that's been proved false," Sheik Awad al-Qarni, one of the scholars, told Al-Arabiya TV. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush holdsstance on global wanning 
WASHINGTON -President Bush is hold­ing fast to his rejection of mandatory curbs on greenhouse gases that are blamed for global warming, despite a fresh report from 300 scientists in the United States and seven other nations that shows Arctic temperatures are rising. 
This week, a four-year study of the Arctic will document that the region is warming rapidly, affecting global cli­mates. 
Scientists project that industrial gases such as carbon dioxide will make the Arctic warmer still, which would raise the level of the seas and make the earth hot­ter. 
Spaceship designers earn I 0 million 
ST. LOUIS -The designers of the first privately manned rocket to burst into space were handed a $10 million check Saturday, a prize designed to encourage technology that will open the heavens to tourists. 
SpaceShipOne designer Burt Rutan accepted the Ansari X Prize money, along with a 150-pound trophy, as a chase plane flew over the ceremony in a field adjacent to the St. Louis Science Center. 
The rocket plane, financed with more than $20 million from Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen, qualified for the prize by blast­ing into space twice in five days in the last month. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana town kicks off Christmas 
MIDDLEBURY -A northern Indiana town has joined retailers in starting the Christmas season much earlier than its traditional post-Thanksgiving Day debut. 
More than 200 people gathered Friday night for the community's Christmas tree lighting in a downtown park. They sipped coffee and hot chocolate and ate cookies while listening to Christmas music per­formed by a brass ensemble and several vocalists. 
IRAQ 






Government declares emergency 
Country is initiating all-out assault on guerrilla sanctuary, Fallujah 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -The Iraqi government declared a 60­day state of emergency throughout most of the coun­try Sunday, paving the way for an all-out assault on the guerrilla sanctuary Fallujah. Militants dramatically esca­lated attacks, killing at least 30 people, including two Americans. 
American troops began final preparations for battle in Fallujah as commanders warned them to expect the most brutal urban fighting since the Vietnam War. The 
U.S. command announced it had sealed off Fallujah and was "finishing fmal prepara­tions for an assault" on the city. 
Underscoring the country's instability, several heavy explosions thundered through the capital even as government spokesman Thair Hassan al-Naqeeb was announcing the state of emergency, which applies throughout the country except for Kurdish-ruled areas in the north. 
Interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, who called a meeting Sunday with his defense minister, interior minister and provincial police commanders, said the state of emergency is a ..very powerful message that we are serious" about reining in insurgents before elections set for late January. 
"We want to secure the country so elections can be done in a peaceful way and the Iraqi people can partici­pate in the elections freely, without the intimidation by terrorists and by forces who are trying to wreck the politi­cal process in Iraq," he told reporters. 

Insurgents waged a second day of multiple attacks across the restive Sunni Triangle north and west of Baghdad, storming police stations, assassinating gov­
' -3rnment officials and setting off deadly car bombs. About 60 people have been killed and 7 5 injured in the two days of attacks. 

At dawn, armed rebels stormed three police stations in the towns of Haditha and Haqlaniyah, 137 miles north­west of Baghdad, killing 22 policemen. Some were lined up and shot execution-style, police and hospital officials. 
Assassins gunned down a Diyala governor's aide and two provincial council mem­bers south of Baghdad as they were on their way to a funeral in Karbala for a fourth colleague assassinat­ed earlier this week. 
Three attacks on U.S. con­voys in and around Baghdad killed two American soldiers and wounded five others Sunday, the military said. Residents reported grenades setting police cars aflame on Haifa Street in the heart of the capital. 
A car bomb also exploded near the Baghdad home of Iraq's finance minister, Adil Abdel-Mahdi, a leading Shiite politician. Abdel­Mahdi and his family were not home at the time but the 
U.S. military said the bomb killed one Iraqi bystander and wounded another. A U.S. patrol came under small­arms fire as it responded, wounding one soldier, a statement said. 
Two British soldiers were seriously injured by a suicide car bomber southwest of Baghdad, while a British contractor was killed in a roadside bombing. 
I I I 
·I I 
In Web postings, the al­Qaida affiliate group of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi claimed responsibility for the attacks in Samarra, Ramadi and Baghdad. The claims could not be verified, but U.S. offi­cials believe al-Zarqawi's group uses Fallujah as a base. 
The widespread insurgent attacks seemed aimed at relieving the pressure on Fallujah, where about 10,000 American _troops are massing for a major assault if Allawi gives the green light. 
Iraqi officials would not say whether the emergency law decree meant the deci­sion to storm Fallujah had been taken. 
Bush plans permanent tax cuts 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Buoyed by a clear-cut election victory, President Bush is pledging to make permanent the sweeping tax cuts of his first term and to simply the nation's tax laws. 
The price tag on making the tax cuts permanent is more than $1 tril­lion, a daunting number in an age of record budget deficits. 
At the same time, efl"orts to enact ambitious proposals to overhaul the tax system often fall victim to a fero­cious assault from Washington lob­byists determined to protect special breaks for their clients. 
While not discounting the chal­lenges ahead, Bush's supporters are betting that the president will end up getting much of what he wants with the help of bigger Republican majorities in both the House and the Senate. 
"Tax reform is a politically danger­ous road to travel with a lot of corpses," said Stephen Moore, head of the Club for Growth, which sup­ports an aggressive tax-cutting agen­da. 
"But the president is very serious about this. lie wants to make a major push for overhauling the tax system," Moore said. 
Moore and others expect Bush's 
model will be Ronald Heagan's suc­cessful effort to enact the 1986 tax overhaul, one of the broadest rewrite of tax Jaw in history. It dra­matically lowered tax rates and paid for those reductions by eliminating or scaling back tax deductions. 
So far, Bush has disclosed little about how he wants to simplify the current system, which he has called a "complicated mess." 
He first stated his tax overhaul goal in his August acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention. He promised that if re­elected, he would create a bipartisan advisory panel to come up with a "simpler, fairer, pro-growth system." 

Monday, November 8, 2004 
page 6 The Observer+ NEWS 
Fans also praised the per­formance of Notre Dame's

Game 

defense and expressed the continued from page 1 advantage the team gained with the injury to Tennessee's quar­
defeating the orange of terback. Tennessee, this win gave Notre "The Irish defense was so Dame six victories, making tough on Saturday that even the them eligible for a bowl game. Tennessee quarterback wanted 
"I was really excited about the win over Tennessee not only because they were ranked [No.] 11 and we lost to BC, but also because the win made us eli­gible for a bowl," junior Gretchen Byars said. 

Freshman Elizabeth Elliot said exceptional for the game. she thought it was nice to win "When Justin Tuck tackled after Boston College. people it was like phagoeytosis," 
"It gave us all confidence for freshman Joe Runde said. the next two games and shows Two weeks after the disap­that we are willing to rise to the pointing loss to Boston College, challenge," Elliot said. the whole team came out 
CPA 
continued from page 1 
"So we created the CPA Day of Service to try to unify and mobilize as many CPAs as pos­sible on a single day." 
The Indiana CPAs hope the event will excite those working at the 49 CPA firms involved and will encourage regular involvement in service proj­ects. 
"Although this event is just a single day, we still encourage our CPAs around the state to volunteer on other days and continue serving their commu­nities through both profession­al service and community service projects like these," Shatkowski said. "In fact, 

·----------------------------~ 
FOR YOUR ,\~'41. VOTEDt1 
BEST TAN EVER! 
~Y ptOtllt who kHw wni!IJI 

-.·•···:..··. 'l)llt,
...,.,. ·. ... "~--· ..~·.··=" ·$' . MUST HAVE COUPON
· 
3TANSFOR 

I. TO REDEEM!
1 0 
OHLY$101 

3tans .or 
Statt Rol4 Z3 &lttftWOOd uum • Corntr o1 Grapr &McKJaloy ~sa Camraf lte!Mtl &~ 291_. • Gt•1!¥fsttllo• 271·'790G 


~----------------------------~ 

out, and that's what the Irish did ­they took him out,"

"The defense really 
Holobowski said. 

stepped it up and 
Not only was we came out with a Tennessee playing huge win., with their third­string quarterback, the Notre Dame
Sam Pandolfo 
defense, including

junior Justin Tuck and Brandon Boyte to name a few, looked 
some who participated in last. key element of the Day of year's day of service estab­Service, Shatkowski said. lished relationships with the "It promotes awareness organizations they worked at, through the organizations we 
and continued going back there on a monthly or "We created the occasional basis." CPA Day ofService 
The six work­
to try to unify and 
sites in South 
mobilize as many
Bend, which had help from 81 non­CPAs as possible on CPA volunteers, 
a single day.,, 
included the Food Bank of Northern Indiana, the Dave Shatkowski 
YMCA of St. Indiana CPA Society 
Joseph's County, St. Margaret's House, Habitat for Humanity, the Hope Rescue Mission­Family Life Center ~nd Real Services. 
Helping local charities is a 
focused to go into a hostile Southeastern Conference envi­ronment and come out with a win. 
"The defense really stepped it up and we came out with a huge win," junior Sam Pandolfo said. "It really says a lot about the determination of our team and send the message that no one at Notre Dame is ready to give up on this season." 
With a shot at a bowl game and newfound hope in the team for the next two games, students rejoiced in the weekend's victo­ry. 
"Even though I love the south, I'm even happier the Fighting Irish lived up to their name," sophomore Caroline Murphy said. "We proved once again that excellence on the field and in the classroom arc not mutu­ally exclusive." 
Contact Tricia deGroot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
in which they live and work." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


TEACHER TOlD ME: 



but ·~nl;''J~torian can alter the past, " -Ambrose Bierce 

._:::i. ·. :,;-. : •.'._:::)\~;:;~f])~~~~~;i@ftA 
"History i.v -~ or less bunk. " 
-Henry Ford 
bur historia:I/;IJMJ; 
-Samuel Butler 


'7will be kin4J!~~i.;':.1o~o;~::.:~~;~
0 

"The past does not it?flue. :~r1n.e~~ ~~~~~1~~~~~~;·:;'< 

"Histq.1fY:fetJChes everything ~ing the future. " . :${,; : ,,..;;:,;-": "'' ' ~Lamartine 
ABOUT THE AMERICAN PRESIDENCY 
Find out what your history teachers never told you! 
Dr. James 'W'. Loewen 
129 DeBartolo November 10, 2004 
8:oopm 

Sponsored by: ND History Club & The Department of History, SMC History Club, 
Undergraduate Intellectual Initiatives, Alumni Hall, First Year ofStudies, College 
Seminar, The Program in American Democracy, Keenan Hall, Program in Education, 
Schooling and Societyand the Institute for Educational Initiatives, The Department of 
Sociology, Keenan Hall 
served via the people they each serve," he said. "The coverage we receive from the media is a great way to show the public and business owners that CPAs are com­mitted to serving the public inter­est and serving the communities 



Iraq 
continued from page 1 
Talabani said. 
Talabani was critical of two areas concerning the election process in Iraq. First, she expressed concern that Iraqis would vote for parties based on ethnic and 

religious  fac­ "Women need to  society.  
tors, than  rather political  believe they have  "We believe  don't in dia­ 
issues. She also  a role to play in  logue,  we  believe  
was apprehen­ society.,,  in violence," she  
sive  of  the  said, adding that  
process itself, stating that a  Ala Talabani  the culture of peaee needs to be  
successful elec­ of Iraqi Women High  taught to younger  
tion depended  Council and Women  generations  to  
greatly on  the  for a Free Iraq  create  a  truly  

United Nations, and that while 600 U.N. work­ers were needed, only ~0 were currently in Iraq. 
Talabani cited the law as an area that needed to incor­porate women's rights. She 

Election 
continued from page 1 

the United States House of Representatives in 1992. 
Two other Notre Dame graduates lost in their bids fur public office. 1968 gradu­ate and Indiana governor Joe 
Want to write for newS? Call Claire at 1-5323. 
said the country's new con­stitution and legal framework needed to incorporate laws protecting and incorporating women into Iraqi society. 
She also defended her reli­gion against stereotypical Western views. 
"Islam is not as bad as we think for women," she said. 
However, she 
did offer some 
criticisms of Iraqi 
peaceful Iraq. Talabani cur­

rently lives in Iraq with her husband and chil­dren. 
ContactJeannine Privat at jprivat@nd.edu 
Kernan lost to republican challenger Mitch Daniels. Kernan had taken office last year after the death of Frank O'Bannon. Indiana 2nd District Democratic candi­date and double Domer Joe Domi.elly lost to Republican incumbent Chris Chocola. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Monday, November 8, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


fo~~s 10,314.76 +177.71 
Down.·.... ·.· ...· :
.•...· 

r~....,. "-'uII1E .2,595 131 .• 1,786,713,728 ~ 
tt;fii•"""'J'ii Some: _.••,_.... ""''
... ..... 
AMEX 1,305.26 +0.23 NASDAQ 2,023.63 +19.30 NYSE. 6,885.20 +97.80 S&PSOO 1,161.67 +18.47 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,059.33 +113.06 FTSE. IOO(London) 4,728.30 +9.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +1.86  +0.53  29.00  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +0.93  +Q.21  22.88  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +1.24  +0.24  19.52  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +3.13  +0.14  4.62  
QUALCOMM INC (QCOM)  -4.51  -1.80  38.07  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.29  -0.14  48.12  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.05  -0.02  40.68  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.52  +0.17  33.42  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.19  +0.19  19.37  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -2.06  48.82  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +5.40  430.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.85  98.00  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  I 06.0300  
EURO  0.7765  
POUND  0.5423  
CANADIAN$  1.2066  


IN BRIEF 
United Airlines seeking 725 million 
CHICAGO -United Airlines is moving to obtain another $725 million in labor conces­sions and eliminate employees' traditional pensions as it seeks the financing to come out of bankruptcy. 
A day after the troubled carrier notified employees that further steep reductions in pay and other benefits arc coming, union leaders met to analyze the proposed cuts and decide how to respond. United's largest unions declined comment until discussing the plan further. 
The nation's second-largest airline has been threatening to terminate its pensions since August. Last month, it said it would need to cut costs significantly more than anticipated because of the industry's deterio­rating financial outlook. 
Spokeswoman Jean Medina confirmed Friday that the carrier will ask a bankruptcy court judge to approve an extra $725 million in annual savings from workers, part of an effort to squeeze an additional $2 billion from the carrier's cost structure by next year. 
Indianapolis gains new tenant 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis Diversified Machining Inc. will become the second new tenant at the airport's Indianapolis Maintenance Center, city officials announced Thursday. 
The company plans to initially employ 50 mechanics, machinists and support staff at the facility, which was built to repair United Airlines' airplanes but closed last year. 
According to an airport news release, the company hopes to hire more people as busi­ness grows. IDM will lease the 216,000­square-foot shops area near the mainte­nance hangar bays. 
"Our announcement today marks another major step in our efforts to reactivate the Indianapolis Maintenance Center and pro­vide more job opportunities for our experi­enced work force," said Indianapolis Mayor Bart Peterson. 
IDM was formed in 2003 by a group of for­mer United Airlines employees and invest­ment banker Brent Waltz. 





Five executives convicted of ftaud 
Criminal trial finds Merrill Lynch and Enron employees guiltyfor company's collapse 
Associated Press 
JIOUSTON-A jury con­victed four one-time Merrill Lynch executives and a former midlevel Enron Corp. finance exec­utive of conspiracy and fraud Wednesday in the first criminal trial of Enron and Wall Street executives for their role in the energy company's 2001 collapse. 
The deal at the center of the charges involved a bogus sale of interest in power plants mounted on barges to the brokerage at the end of 1999 so the company could appear to have met earnings targets. 

The barge case marked the first time Wall Street bankers were charged with active participation in a criminal Enron scheme. While Enron's former auditor, Arthur Andersen LLP, was convicted more than two years ago of obstruction of justice for destroying Enron docu­ments before the collapse, the barge case was the first to involve former Enron employees as defendants. .., 
Among those convicted I of conspiracy and two counts of wire fraud was Merrill's former head of investment banking, Daniel Bayly. The others that began at the close of who also was convicted of pump up its appearance of were James A. Brown, for­six weeks of testimony. lying to investigators for a financial success. mer head of Merrill's asset The jury was instructed to Senate subcommittee for Witnesses said the lease and finance group; return Thursday to begin saying the same thing, defendants -and others William Fuhs, a vice presi­the sentencing phase of faces up to 20 years. not charged -agreed to dent who reported to the trial, which is compli­All five men declined to participate as a favor in Brown; Robert S. Furst, a cated by a challenge to comment. Most of their hopes of gaining more former manager of federal senteneing guide­lawyers also declined to business from Enron, then Merrill's relationship with lines that is before the comment, though some a lucrative client courted Enron; and Dan 0. Boyle, Supreme Court. said they would appeal the by banking titans. a former Enron finance The defendants are not verdicts. Merrill Lynch & Co. executive. set to be sentenced until The barge deal isn't avoided prosecution last 
A sixth defendant, a for­early next year. All remain among the numerous year by acknowledging mer in-house Enron free on .bond. alleged financial machina­that some employees may accountant, was acquitted. Bayly, Furst and Fuhs tions that pushed one-time have broken the law, coop­Sheila Kahanek testified face a few months to 15 Wall Street darling Enron erating with investigators she consistently opposed a years in prison. in to bankruptcy in and implementing reforms verbal promise that the Brown, who also was December 2001, as a web to prohibit dubious year­


government contended convicted of perjury and of accounting maneuvers end deals. In March 2003, made the deal a loan -obstructing a special to prop up its books Merrill paid the SEC $80 that Enron would resell or grand jury in Houston for unraveled. But the govern­million to settle civil alle­' buy back Merrill's interest testifying that he didn't ment contends the barge gations that involved the within six months. know of a verbal buyback deal was an example of barge deal without admit­The verdict came after promise, faces up to 30 many illegal accounting ting or denying wrongdo­
21 hours of deliberations years in prison. Boyle, schemes Enron used to ing. 
Disney and union agree on contract 
tions and mediation failed. But both breaker: raising the number of

Associated Press 
sides found common ground during hours that part-timers can work. 

ORLANDO, Fla. -After months of talks that lasted into Thursday Union leaders said the company was negotiations, Walt Disney World and evening. trying to reduce its need for full-time leaders of its largest union group "Neither side was totally pleased workers to save money on benefits. agreed Thursday to a tentative con­with the package," said Ed Earlier in the day, Disney spokes­tract that will likely avert a strike at Chambers, president of the United woman Jacquee Polak called the the theme park resort. Food and Commercial Workers contract proposal "fair and competi­
Most leaders of the Service Trades International Union, Local 1625. "In tive." Council, a six-union coalition that my experience, when neither side is Chambers said under the latest represents 40 percent of the compa­really happy, you got the best deal proposal, top-scale workers who ny's 53,000-person work force, will for everybody." currently earn $11.12 an hour will recommend that its members The contract covers hotel workers, get a 20-cent-an-hour increase and approve the three-year contract Nov. costumed characters, bus drivers, a lump sum bonus of between 
11. ticket takers, ride operators and $1,500 and $1,700 during the con­
Earlier this week, union leaders concession workers. Union members tract's first year. In the second year, advised members to reject the latest rejected two previous proposals. they will get another lump sum, and proposal and authorize union lead­Disney backed down from what in the third year they will get a 25­ers to call a strike if further negotia-union leaders considered a deal-cent-an-hour increase. 
.. 
p

page 8 Monday, November 8, 2004 



THE OBSERVER 



All the King's linemen 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall, None Dame, IN 46556· EDITOR IN CHIEF Mart Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mrghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hertler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYsn.Ms ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CoNTROLLER: ·Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ob~me@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1 @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK. 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's C..ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is no( governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorial'l represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A.<>Sisranr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtionf regarding Obsn-verpolicit!S should hr directed to F.ditor in Chief Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obs.:rver (USPS 599 2-1000) is publi>h<d :O.,kmd.ly 1hroogh Friday cxa:p1 during exam and v.acari~n pefio<U. A ~uhscrfption to The Observer is !100 fOr 00<" ac~emic year: $S> for one scm<>ra. 
Tht Obst:rver !:»a mcornbcr ofdu: A\SOC'iat<"d Prus. All rtpr<'Kiuction rights arc reserve-d 
The Obs.:rv<r ~ publi.hcd "" P.O. Box Q U24 Sou1h Dming 11.111 Ol4 South Dininf H.UI ~<>II< D•me, iN 1(>~';6-0779 1\otr< Dam<. IN 16556-0779 
P<riodi<.U P"""!(c paid •• Nom: Dame and additionaJ mailing offic~. 
POSTMA.\TER Send .uidr('s.\ corr«:dom 1c: The Obs.:rvcr 
T~ Of»ervu io; ;3: mcmhcr ofthe ASI>Oc.iar~ Proo.s. All reproductiori ri~~ 2rt: racrvcd. 

Politicians come and go, oftentimes leaving behind nothing more than wisps of what once were promising campaigns, but not football coaches. Football coaches leave so much more -an image, a record, a history, a legacy. Joey Falco Football coaches define who we as a Forty Ounces to society are, and Falco many loyalists go so far as to say that the coach at Notre Dame bears the distinguished second­ary title of leader of the free world. Certainly, then, this explains why such a commotion resulted from the recent football coach election that overtook the highly polarized Notre Dame cam­pus, engulfing the administration, alumni and student body in a civil war for gridiron supremacy. I remember it like it was yesterday. 
After finally becoming fed up with the mediocre record, disappointing losses, shaky secondary, poor special teams and fickle offense that had become characteristic of coach Ty Willingham, a group of angry alumni decided to nominate their own candidate to replace him. Although much delibera­tion ensued, this Alumni Party man­aged to narrow their choices for coach down to three individuals-Super Bowl champion and lifelong Notre Dame fan Jon Gruden, undefeated Utah coach and former Notre Dame wide receivers coach Urban Meyer; and sniveling Stanford coach Buddy Teevens, whose unimpressive career record and total lack of Notre Dame affiliation left many wondering how his name managed to sneak through the cracks. 
In order to select the best candidate for the job, the Alumni Party graciously permitted the student body to narrow down the field of three challengers through a primary election of sorts, in whieh various dorms voted in succes­sive weeks, allowing each candidate the opportunity to run a grassroots campaign in each residence hall. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

However, the poor decision to set aside the first two weeks of voting for small, uninformed girls dorms like Pangborn and Howard proved disastrous, because by foolishly refusing to cast their votes for two of the candidates based entirely on superficial things like a physical resemblance to the Chucky doll or an outlandish first name, the relatively unknown and unqualified Buddy Teevens ended up gaining a surge of momentum that carried him through victorious primaries in every dorm that followed. Sadly, Gruden and Meyer were forced to head home and resume their successful coaching careers elsewhere. 
Back on campus, the incumbent Administration Party immediately unleashed their attack dogs on the unsuspecting Stanford coach, leading one high ranking Willingham supporter to claim that voting for Teevens in the general campus election was equiva­lent to voting for allowing a rogue group of fundamentalist Michigan Wolverines to hijack an NDSP car and crash it into Notre Dame Stadium. In response, Teevens' team of Alumni shot back in defense that the heroic coach had once saved the lives of many of his Stanford players from drowning during a freak boating accident several years ago, and would therefore be able to protect Notre Dame from the terrors of opposing teams. 
This back and forth bickering contin­ued for months, with Administration­backing priests making claims that God had told them that He sided with Willingham, and Alumni-backing donors arguing that Teevens would not surround himself with an incompetent staff as Willingham had done. The most malignant attacks, though, did not emerge until the very end of the cam­paign season after Teevens had pum-· meled Willingham in a Blue-Gold game that tested the coaching expertise of the two men. In one statement, Willingham's top advisor attempted to spread fear throughout campus by referring to the Stanford coach as a heathen who, if elected coach, would replace Touchdown Jesus with a mural of George Michael. 
Finally, as election day rolled around and students turned out in droves to wait in line for hours to simultaneously cast their votes for coach and receive a limited number of basketball season tickets, exit poll surveys conducted by student-led group Hock the Coach dis­covered that a majority of students sharply disapproved of Willingham's past coaching record. However, despite these poll results, Teevens was over­whelmingly defeated, 15 dorms to 12 dorms, and the despondent Notre Dame students and Alumni Party were once again left with a coach who they had never really wanted in the first place. 
Thinking back, I still can't believe that we as a University willingly decid­ed to select our football coach and leader in such a silly, superficial, and corrupt manner. This so-called demo­cratic system really only served to leave the people angry, polarized and unwilling to provide the football team with the support that it desperately needed each weekend. Still, I guess we should just count our blessings and be happy that we don't make even more significant decisions that truly affect the way we live in such a foolish, juve­nile way. Actually, I don't think I would even want to live in a country that would force its citizens to choose between two relatively unpopular guys like Willingham and Teevens who come from the same school and divide the population more than they unite it. 
And that's why I'm proud to be an American. 
Joey Falco is a sophomore american studies major. !lis column appears every other Monday. lie can be contact­ed at .ifalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Angela Saoud Heather Van Kelly Meehan Hoegarden Jen Howling Kate Gales 
Do you think that academic cheating is a
Viewpoint Kate Seryak 
problem on campus?
Justin Spack Scene Graphics Christie Bolsen Desiree Zamora Illustrator 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Meg Dwyer 
www.ndsmeobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful. we must carry it with us or we find it not.., 
Ralph Waldo Emerson author 
p
Monday, November 8, 2004 page 9 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Election ends, but the issues march on 
With Election 2004 winding down, we are left in the wake to consider what the next four years will hold. Will the worJd turn against America? Will the terrorists continue their acts of evil? Will Iraq con­sume countless lives and costs beyond control? Will tensions erupt between Islam and Christianity? Will we be jobless once we graduate from college? Will the economy boom again? 
To be honest, I don't know. 
President George W. Bush doesn't know. 
No one knows. 
Now, I've read and heard my fair share of delight and bitterness at the Election 2004 results. Bush won and Sen. John Kerry lost. In retrospect, both candidates were imperfect, each with various strengths and flaws. On Tuesday, America made a decision for whom to vote. And the people have spoken. 
To those who supported Bush, you made a decision that is anything but inconsequential. You have a duty to ensure that Bush carries out what you consider to be good for the sake of the American people. If he does something right, commend him. If he screws up, crit­icize him. A President is elected with the trust that he will do what is in the best interest of the people. 
To those who are still bitter and mad, put aside your feelings on the matter. I voted for Kerry and I can empathize with the feelings of loss and disappointment. But now is not the time to grieve. You can wallow and sulk away, or you can hold your head high and do what you can to bring about change. If you are dissatisfied with how the last four years went, then do what you can to ensure that the next four years won't become worse. Democracy is at its worst when citizens remain inactive and apathetic. 
Even though the election is over, our duty as American citizens is far from over. We must not allow partisanship to win over unity. We can still do our part. We can go out, plant a tree and keep our environment clean. We can protect all forms of life. We can support our armed forces and hope for their safe return. We can teach and educate ourselves and oth­ers on the world of today. We can help the poor, the needy and the less fortunate. We can treat all human beings with dignity, respect and love, regardless of their race, sexual orientation, or beliefs. 
But it isn't so much that we can do all this but we must. 
In the m~xt four years, at least three Supreme Court justices will retire. The choices to replace the outgoing justices 
will determine whether the "culture of 
death" lying under the "justice" of capital 
punishment and Roe v. Wade will contin­
ue to take the natural right to life of 
humans and a generation of our children. 
The next four years will require a moral leadership so desperately needed to hold off the cultural revolutionaries from elim­inating marriage and family by applying it to homosexual and heterosexual relation­ships outside marriage and using the power of the State to do such. 
The next four years demand an embrace of all peoples, regardless of race, sexual orientation and faith. We must extend a hand of friendship, dia­logue and embrace to our human neigh­bor, regardless if they are white, black, Hispanic, Asian, gay, lesbian, Catholic, Muslim, Jewish or anything else. Tolerance is inadequate; acceptance is needed. 
The next four years are an opportunity to solve the health care crisis, restore economic confidence and opportunity and open up the market as a vehicle for free­dom in the service ofthe person, the fam­ily, and the common good. We must embrace the poor, the unfortunate, the disenfranchised and others. 
The next four years desperately need a foreign policy that embraces reconcilia­tion and cooperation from all nations and peoples across the world. Prudence and justice must trump over all else. Humility and forgiveness are the bridges that must be crossed to achieve the greater good of a united world. The people of Iraq need help in their hour of need, and we have a duty to help them. It is not only America that needs healing but the world as well~ 
The next four years requires initiatives taken to preserve and restore the health of the environment. The Kyoto Treaty and wildlife preservation must take precedent before the needs of the present. If we continue to hack away the throat of Nature for our own needs, then will our world even continue to breathe for our children, their children and their descen­dants? The life that we live is inexorably linked with the world that we walk. 
That is why we must do what American citizenship demands of us. Nay, not only citizenship but whatever higher power we believe in wants us to do. 
Thien-An Nguyen-Vu freshman Morrissey Manor Nov. 5 


In the past week, I have heard numerous students stating that Americans who voted to re-elect President George W. Bush must be stupid. While this comment is offensive in itself, I am writing because of my concern with the fictitious intelligence chart of America that has been circulating among stu­dents online since the election. This chart purports to correlate the average IQ of Americans in various states to a tendency to vote Democrat or Republican in the 2004 election. According to the chart, Democrat voters from the East Coast are unequivocally the smartest people in America, while Republican voters south of the Mason-Dixon line are intellectually inferior. The point is, of course, to show that those states that voted to re­elect ,Bush are comprised of "stupid Americans" who interfered with the will of "smart Americans" to choose the best president. 
Aside from the fact that such sweeping categorizations of the southern and rural areas of our country are unfounded, I find this chart most offen­sive because of its implication that the less educated and the poor do not deserve to vote, since these voters obviously lack the capacity to make an "intelligent" choice. This idea reveals the discrimination against rural America and the less privileged that has divided America over the course of its history. The South and other parts of rural America hold a distinct set of values and political beliefs that have been shaped by their experience. Although one may disagree with these beliefs, they are nonetheless logical and rooted in conviction. Sadly, if the IQ chart can be said to have any valid­ity at all, it only reflects the reality that Americans from the East Coast often have been privileged with opportunities that others have not had. If an intelligence gap exists for Southern and rural areas, this should be seen as ref1ecting a legacy of discrimination and lack of opportunity instead of one of incompetence. 
I shouldn't have to remind anyone that many of the states that voted Republican in this year's election are also disproportionately home to the men and women of the U.S. armed forces that are risking their lives daily to protect this country. I would think that the people most directly affected by war in losing friends and relatives in Iraq deserve a voice in politics. My intent is not to argue the merits of voting Hepublican, but I hope that those who passed on this affensive IQ chart to friends will realize that the political choice of 59,424,292 Americans can be disagreed with, but must be respected. Degrading the strong base of Southern and rural support that has propelled Bush to the presidency will do nothing to unite our nation for the struggles ahead. 
Melanie C. Vrable junior Lewis Hall Nov. 5 

Is the American Dream becoming a nightmare? 
Individualism and the opportunities given to the American people and immigrants from other countries are the great assets of this nation. These opportunities are what helped the United States in the past to become. one of the greatest and most powerful nations in the world today. The dream, from dishwasher to millionaire, has been lived in this society because of individualism and the opportunities America provides not only to the rich and powerful, but to the everyday per­son. The shock that went through Europe with the re-election of President George W. Bush reflects to a great extent the incomprehensibility as to why the American people would vote for someone that so clearly is not in the interest of the American people, from a European perspective. 
So let's think about what, consider­ing what the majority of the American people voted for on Tuesday. is in the interest of the American people and what Europeans, like me, tend to think about it. 
Abortion: Tuesday the majority of people voted pro-life and against a woman's right to choose. Europeans tend to support pro-choice, and con­sidering the nice phrases the policies of "pro-life" and "pro-choice" are packed in, it really seems to be a hard decision to choose either one of them without considering the realities. Killing of innocent life is simply wrong, I agree. 
But criminalizing abortion will not make the phenomenon go away; rather push it in a sphere not seen by society, making control even harder. 
Security: On Tuesday, the majority of the people approved the war in Iraq and Bush's handling of the war on ter­ror. It is hard to believe that an esti­mated 100,000 killed Iraqis, over 1,000 killed U.S. soldiers and numer­ous wounded and crippled human beings on either side have made the United States or the world a safer place or is going to win the hearts of those opposing the United States. 
Economy: On Tuesday, the majority of the people approved the jobs lost in the last four years, the budget deficits and corporate giveaways. Most inter­esting to me are the budgPt deficits, because those will have to be financed by someone, and if it i~ not you or your parents today. it will be America's children tomorrow. 
Healthcare: On Tuesday, the majori­ty of the people approved rising health care costs and rejected government initiated health care. From a European perspective, the health of a nation is one of its greatest assets as future generations will grow up in either a healthy or a sick society. which will in part be responsible for their productivity, and the future of the country. 
Denying healthcare to people who can't afford it raises social costs and increases the healthcare costs of those who can -right now still -afford it. 
Moral Values: On Tuesday, the majority of the American people in 11 states voted to ban gay marriage on the state level, and in some cases even included civil unions. but at the same time, it is not okay to amend the con­stitution when it comes to the right to bear weapons. 
In these terms, I can see why a shock of incomprehensibility went, and is still going, through Europe. Considering the policies supported by the majority in this country, I ask myself, is the American dream becorn­ing a nightmare? 
Guenther Huber graduare srudem Nov. 5 

--~~----~-­
page 10 Monday, November 8, 2004 Monday, November 8, 2004 

THEATER REVIEW 

PAC REVIEWS 
'Torn' musical 



AFTLShas a 
preaches the 
dream 
meaning of life 
By LAUREN WENDEL Scene Writer 
"What if we could tear back the veil between the coexistent physical and spiri­tual realms? What if we could witness firsthand the colossal battle that is fought for our souls on a daily basis?" 
This question has been pondered ad nauseam by 

climax. However, in "Torn," there was a short build up, boring climax and an entire act of filler scenes that felt preachy and repetitive. 
The lighting and costumes were well produced and aes­thetically pleasing, combin­ing everyday wear with almost alien accessories. With a minimal set design, the dancers were able to take center stage, displaying 
an array 
~of moves 
philosophers Should we live for our from sim­
them, and it requires deft act­

and scholars ple jazz to
jobs and making money 
ing skills in order to portray

alike, but martial 
shifts in character to the

rarely by col­to keep other people arts to 
audience with few visual aids

lege students happy through material m o r e 
at their disposal. The women

on a Saturday intense
things, or should we 
both wore striped pants, the

night. "Torn: hip-hop 
three men wore white slacks

the musical" live for ourselves? step. At 
provided the opportunity to do just this Saturday night at Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
This hip-hop musical, pro­duced by 3rd Dimension Performance group based in Chicago, presents a story familiar to many twen­tysomethings. Protagonist Jay Alexander, played by triple-threat Ted Williams, is a successful young profes­sional who has just started a 
new life with the woman of his dreams. Though Jay appears to have it all, he feels some­thing is miss­ing. 
After bump­ing into an old friend, he is forced to 

times the 
dancers seemed slightly out of step with each other, which was even more emphasized by the centrality of each piece on stage. It would have been more interesting if the dancers interacted more rather than dance parallel to one another. 
The music, largely written by Ted Williams, was simple and conveyed emotions suc­cessfully. However, the pat-
The dancers were able to take center stage, displaying an array of moves from simple jazz to martial arts to more intense hip-hop step. 
face the painful realities of his pseudo-perfect existence. What follows is a quest to fjnd eternal fulfillment and a battle to hold onto the one thing most precious to him, his soul. 
Primarily structured around interpretive and hip­hop inspired choreography, "Torn" takes one on a ride through the fundamental meaning of life. Should we live for our jobs and making money to keep other peoplf~ happy through material things, or should we live for ourselves? After seeing this supposedly earthshaking performance, people are forced to think about their spiritual lives and their sig­nificance in this world. 
Th(~ story and message, while new and often over­looked, was not very well structured and at times was lost in the chaos of a dance or song. The first act pre­sented the audirnce with a question, and rather quickly spt'lled out thn answer. In a typically dramatic perform­ance, there is a large build­up of emotion that leads to a will blend and inter­weave time. 

The highlight of the per­formance was the play-with­in-a-play that concludes the story's action. Each of the five actors appeared as-a charac­ter playing a part in the play, "Pyramus and Thisbe," and at the same time played mem­bers of the audience watching the work. The smooth and clear transition from one group in the scene to the other revealed the talents of the actors, as well as showed the effectiveness that simple props can have. It proved to be the funniest scene in a play that ereated a great deal of laughter as a whole. 
"A Midsummer Night's Dream"~was an apt choiee for the AFTLS format, particular­ly because there were few scenes where one actor had to play more than one char­acter, which can cause some confusion. The work's light and fanciful humor can often get bogged down in elaborate sets and costumes, so the pared-down staging made the carefully constructed charac­ters and settings stand on their own. 
Overall, the AFTLS per­formance of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" was a won­derful interpretation of the famous work that allowed the play's merits shine forth, and it brought the jokes in the play to life in such a way that reminded the audience why it is put in the "comedy" genre. 
I 

Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
'Fortinbras' lights up Philbin Theater 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assisram Scene Editor 
The Actors from the London Stage brought its interpreta­tion of Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" to the Leighton Concert Hall this weekend, and with mini­mal scenery, no real costumes and few props turned out an amazing performance of one of the Bard's great comedies. 
AFTLS is a group of five dif­ferent actors who take on all of the roles in one of Shakespeare's plays between 
and all of wore button-down shirts. That was the full extent of their costuming. Props included a few musieal instruments, a scarf, donkey's ears, a wooden sword and a brick. 
In many cases, Shakespearean comedies can be difficult because jokes written in the 16th century may be lost on modern audi­ences, but a good perform­ance can overcome such diffi­culties and make old jokes 


dialogue with sung verses. "Torn" did not flow, but was fraught with frequent end­ings and beginnings to repet­itive and predictable scenes. The dialogue was lengthy and unwitty, but could be easily improved with some careful editing. 
The message was frequent­ly portrayed with Christian overtones, which to a larger audience felt more like a Sunday school program rather than a musical drama. Overall, the performance was well-done, minus a nag­ging microphone problem and random slide shows which only eonfused rather than clarify. The entirely blaek cast was refreshing and naturally talented, and many members could sing, dance and act. However, if this production wishes to take its message to a larger­scale audience, major restructuring of the plot line and preachy overtones need to be addressed. 
CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer 

Contact Lauren Wendel at 
The five Actors from the London Stage perform 
wend8627@saintmarys.edu 
Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream." 
new again. This performance

tern of 
of "A Midsummer's Night

dialogue­
Dream" did a fantastic job of

full song­
using delivery and physical

dialogue 
actions to bring

was too 
Shakespeare's comedy to life

choppy 
and to elicit big laughs from

and overly 
the audience at the same

simplistic. 
M o s t 
musicals 
Photo courtesy of performingarts.nd.edu 

Most of the characters in "Fortinbras" are ghosts that harass the title character, 
played by Mike Dolson, left. 
ByKC KENNEY Scene Wrirer 
It's been a big year for theater at Notre Dame. When it came time to christen the Regis Philbin Studio Theater, the depart­ment of film, television and theatre went a little beyond Shakespeare and found Lee Blessing's comedy "Fortinbras." 
Directed by visiting professor Jay Skelton and featuring the talent-; of FTT majors and non-majors alike, the show is an excellent display of the versatility and need for the Performing Arts Center on campus. The doorway was opened to a myriad of artistic possibilities that Skelton took advantage of fully exercising a great deal of the theater's potential. 
Lee Blessing's show about Fortinbras, a secondary character in "Hamlet," is a clever and hilarious comedy about the state of afl"airs in Denmark after almost ev~ryone dies at the end of "Hamlet." Being dead did­n't stop Hamlet's father from talking to him in "Hamlet," an excellent job of maintaining the fickle character of Fortinbras as he wavers and flip-flops all over the stage. While the char­aeter lacks the depth of Hamlet, Dolson is able to illustrate the pseudo-transformation of Fortinbras into a stronger individual then when he first received the crown. Though his rhythms are at time somewhat uneven, his energy and strength allow him .to be comical as well.as emotionally deep. 
T.J. McNally seems to make the show legitimate as a Shakespearean spin-off. While his IIoratio works to share the truth of what happened in Denmark with the world, McNally shows a desperation and sincerity that allows Shakespeare's pres­ence to be felt throughout the show. From the beginning to the end, he is an honest arid real voice in a clever haunted comedy. 
Conor Woods as the apple-shining servant Osric adds color and life to this comedy. As a dynamically flamboyant addition to this comedy, his boundless spirited attitude keeps the audience laughing. His acting, 
however, only reaches true fruition in death, for 

so Blessing has taken this while his comedic timing
The cast is able to very

philosophy to the next level had the propensity to be by having the majority of the effectively bridge the over the top he is able to characters in "Fortinbras" gap between the retain a dramatic as ghosts. This concept is demeanor after an
classic implications of

simply yet poignantly untimely "mistake." Kaila
5'hakespeare's greatest 

brought to Ufe, so to speak, Crowley gives a new as the main characters of and most influential dimension to tempera­"Hamlet" return to harass mental Ophelia, giving her
drama with modern 

Fortinbras into fulfilling strength in her ambition
rhetorical and physical 

their wishes posthumously. and sexuality while at the Everyone has a different humor. same time vulnerability in 
agenda, making it w~ry dilli­cult for the new King Fortinbras to rule v<>ry efl"ectively. 
It is with these ghosts that Skelton's knowledge of the Philbin TheatPr is exposed. Stairs are revealed to show door­ways. Walls open into the Netherworld. Ghosts fall in from above and crawl out from under the audience. At one point. Hamlet is trappPd in a color television and, through the use of techno-media backstage, is able to interact \Vith everyone. That is, until someone finds tlw 1·emote control. 
The east is able to very effectively bridg<' the gap between the dassic implieations of Shakespeare's t-,JTeatest and most influential drama with modern rhetorical and physkal humor. Senior FTT major Mike Dolson does her desperation and fear 
of being f(wever viewed as the crazy girl from "Hamlet." Drew McElligott allows Blessings' Jl_amlet to share well-placed dramatic speeches that allow for the show to evolve beyond a mere come­dy. 
This show is hilarious to watch, with clever and well-developed characters, a solid use of the brand new facilities and even a moment of philosophical sentimen­tality at times. It is an exeelhmt start to the new era of theater on campus and you would do well to be a part of it this week. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 


page 11 

Simpsons and Shakespeare 
Mann to play the murderersBy MARIA SMITH sent after Banquo and his son 
Scene Ediror 
was also inspired. The dynam­ic trio was beautifully incom­The idea of the cartoon fami­petent and put a comprehensi­
ly the Simpsons performing 
ble face on some of the minor 
"MacBeth" might strike 
characters that often fall Shakespeare purists as a trav­between the cracks in readings 
esty of a great work. 
and performances of 
They should keep in mind Shakespeare. Miller's portrayal 
that part of the genius of of Otto might have come 
Shakespeare lay in entertain­directly from the show, and the ing the peanut gallery while dropout bus driver fit memo­still capturing the human spir­rably with the clueless doctor it. 
turned murder. Just like with 
"Macllomer" undoubtedly Barney, it will be hard to 
turned the great tragedy into a watch the escape of Banquo's comedy, but the performance son in any performance with­was far from being an insult to out picturing Otto saying, "Oh the play. The play has to be man, we lost the little dude." 
taken with a grain of salt, but Miller has had great success 
actor and author Rick Miller performing "Macllomer" for generally maintained a con­
high school students, and it is 
sciousness of the original 
easy to see way. Kings and 
words of Shakespeare. The 
lords and antiquated language interpretation even made the can seem pretty far removed characters seem more human from a modern-day classroom, by relating them to well-known but Marge and Homer are partcharacters closer to the mod­of everyday life. Miller tries to ern understanding. 
perform for a school at every"Shakespeare was pop cul­other stop on his annual spring ture back then," Miller said. "I and fall tours. 
don't think Shakespeare is "I ask the students who 
rolling over in his grave. I. 
doesn't get Shakespeare, and think he would have preferred 
usually about half of them this to a bloated, overacted 
raise their hands," Miller said. 
performance of 'MacBeth.'" 
"They don't get, they're afraid Since Miller played every in a way. But if the same words 
character in the fast-paced come through, say, Moe the 
rendition of "MacBeth" him­bartender, they get the same 
self. it is hard to judge his 
words." 
potential for more serious in­Miller has tentative plans to depth acting. He does have an open "MacHomer" as an off­astounding ability for imper­Broadway play in May 2005,
sonation. Homer and Marge 
which will be his 1Oth year were more than recognizable, performing the show. Although but not his best performances. 
he is pleased by the success of Other characters were spot-on. 
his show, it has taken him byBarney Gumble is Miller's surprise.
favorite character to perform "You start playing houses and probably his best imper­with 2,000 seats and sellingsonation. Barney as MacDuff is 
out, and it's strange to think,tragically human, especially wow, this is just my little trick," 
for devoted fans of the televi­Miller said. 
sion show. The biggest prob­But it's a well-done trick. and 
lem might be that after watch­a trick with a ready and enthu­ing "Macllomer," it will be dif­
siastic audience. It is also a 
ficult to watch a more tradi­unique trick in the never-end­tional performance and not be ing field of trying to find new reminded of Barney. 
ways to interpret Shakespeare.
"There's something very 
Miller is correct in sayingpathetie about Barney. He has Shakespeare himself very well the soul of an artist, but he's 
might have enjoyed
thwarted by alcohol and 
"MacHomer." And even if he 
Homer," Miller said. "He 
would not. Miller can fall back 
makes the role of MacDuff on the fact that thousands of 
have a pathos to it." 
audience members do. 
Miller's choice of Abe Simpson, Apu Contact Maria Smith at Nahasapeemapetilon and Otto msmith4@nd.edu 

King's Singers delight crowd with humor 
music from both the Beatles 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN and Hoagy Carmichael, as 
Scene Writer well as Rossini's overture to 
"The Barber of Seville" for the 
This year's concert series at finale. the Debartolo Performing Arts The audience was hardly a Center continues to be excep­sellout, but stiJJ cheered vigor­tional, as the King's Singers ously for the King's Singers performed last night to an after the completion of each enthusiastic ovation at the song. After the Rossini num­Leighton Concert Hall. ber, they gmeted the Singers 
Countertenors David Hurley with a huge ovation, giving and Robin Tyson, tenor Paul the performers no choice but Phoenix, baritones Philip to perform another hilarious Lawson and Christopher number for their encore: "Old Gabbitas and bass Stephen McDonald" in Greek. Connolly performed a variety The Leighton Concert of mostly English works. They Performance was one of sev­opened the program with eral performances the King's English madrigals from the Singers are giving in a U.S. Shakespearian era. As soon tour through the middle of as they finished their first November. number, Thomas Morley's "[The touring] is actually a "Hark, all ve Saint's Love," the lot harder on the feet than it audience ~as already excited is on the voice," said Hurley. with the dazzling sound they "We mostly drive ourselves produced. where possible or fly a plane, 
After finishing the madri­but you survive by looking gals. the King's Singers per­after yourself. One thing to formed "A Lover's Journey," a look out for is air conditioning set of four songs written by and plane conditions, and you contemporary composer need to drink a lot of water." Libby Larsen. Each song per­The type of singer required tained to the ideals of love, for the King's Singers is just particularly on St. Valentine's as crucial as the maintenance Day. The Singers closed out of one's vocal health. Said the first act with a set of Tyson: "You do have to have a enjoyable English folk songs, certain kind of voice -the providing a great deal of sound is what makes the onstage humor and vocal dex­group so special. Pavarotti, terity as they sang. for example, wouldn't be 
The second act opened with included in this kind of the contemporary work music.'' "Timepiece" by Paul The King's Singers perform Patterson, describing a sug­approximately 100 concerts gestion that it was the inven­around the world, and they do tion of the watch, and not the have an ample amount ·of apple or snake; that con­time for vacationing, or "holi­tributed to the downfall of day," as an Englishman might man in the Garden of Eden. put it. "It's much more fun to The Singers warned in be around the world than it is advance about how distorted to be stuck in an office all the piece would feel rhythmi­day," jokes Tyson. cally and vocally, and yet they The King's Singers continue synchronized these concepts to make their presence felt on perfectly into the music. They eampus. They will give a mas­also provided a great contrast ter class to the Collegium and in the feel of the music when Glee Club from 9:30 to 11:00 the watch incorporated itself this morning. into the story. Finally, the Singers closed the evening Contact Brandon Hollihan at with arrangements of popular bholliha@nd.edu 

TIM LUEBBERT !The Observer 
The King's Singers kept the audience laughing and cheer­ing during a performance at the PAC on Sunday night. 
Monday, November 8, 2004

page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
·­
Buck upsets No. 93-ranked player to end fall season 
Irish freshman finishes 10-3 with 
6-2, 6-3 victory 
Speical to The Observer Freshman Brook Buck reg­istered her second upset of a nationally-ranked player in three days to lead the Notre Dame women's tennis team on Sunday in the Indiana Invitational at the IU Tennis Center. The day, which saw the Irish win four of six sin­gles matches, marked the last of the fall portion of the 2004-05 schedule. Notre Dame will begin its spring dual-match slate on Saturday, Jan. 22 at Ohio State before opening at home on Sunday, Jan. 23 at Noon against Vanderbilt, which finished last season ranked No. 2 in the nation. The Irish won four of six against players from Purdue on the final day of the Indiana Invitational. Notre Dame. which was without its top two players this week, played hidden dual matches against the Boilermakers, DePaul, and the host school. In hidden dual action, no t~am scores are recorded, though the Irish would have beaten DePaul (6-1) and Purdue (4-3), while losing to Indiana (4-3). For the entire fall season, Notre Dame had the upper hand in nine of 10 hidden duals despite playing all but three without their top two competitors. The Irish also competed against Auburn, Colorado, Denver, Kansas, Michigan State, Ohio State and Virginia in hidden dual play this fall. Buck lost just five games en route to an upset of Purdue's No. 1 player, No. 93 Hala Suli by scores of 6-2, 6­
3. Buck defeated No. 37 Dora Vastag of Indiana in a match tiebreaker on Friday, and she finished her first col­legiate fall with a 10-3 record. She was 5-1 in com­bined singles and doubles play in the Indiana Invitational, dropping only a match in partnered action. 
Junior Liz Donohue also was unbeaten in singles action in the tournament, as she ended up with a perfect 6-0, 6-0 win against Shawna Zuccarini. Donohue also notched a 10-3 record this fall, including 8-1 against the Midwest Region. The Irish junior, who already has three more singles victories than her previous career-best sea­son total, now sports a 20-3 career mark' when winning the opening set. 
Junior Kristina Stastny fol­lowed up her first career win over a nationally-ranked foe by beating Brooke Beier in a match tiebreaker, 6-2, 1-6, 1-0 (11-9). She posted a 9-3 mark during fall action, including an upset of No. 124 Gergana Ganeva of DePaul on Saturday. 
Another junior, Lauren Connelly also won for the second day in a row. She beat Stephanie Wooten 6-1, 6-2 to end the first semester with a 9-2 ledger. 

Photo courtesy of und.com Irish freshman Brook Buck knocked off No. 93 Hala Sufi to end the fall. 
NFL 

McGahee leads Bills over Jets 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -The 
wind and Willis McGahee are 
providing the Buffalo Bills a 
formidable one-two punch. 
Negating the effects of 25­
plus mph winds blowing off 
Lake Erie, McGahee led 
Buffalo's ball-control offense 
with a career-high 132 yards 
rushing and a touchdown in the 
Bills 22-17 win over the New 
York Jets on Sunday. 
"He can run," left tackle 
Jonas Jennings said. "He's got 
vision. Our job is to get him 
past the first level. And he and 
the receivers do the rest." 
McGahee continued to down­play his string of ·strong per­formances, the starter in all three victories for Buffalo (3-5), ·in which he's had 100 or more 
yards each time. 
"We're all getting comfortable 
right now," said McGahee, who 
supplanted Travis Henry as the 
starter two weeks ago. "We 
know what it takes to win. And 
we know what we have to do." 
McGahee's 37 carries tied him 
for second most in a game in 
franchise history, and most 
since Thurman Thomas had 37 
on Nov. 8, 1992 against 
Pittsburgh; O.J. Simpson, with 
39, holds the record. That's 
impressive for Buffalo's 2003 
fi r s t-r o u n d draft pick w h o 
missed his entire rookie season 
recovering from reconstructive 
knee surgery. 
Buffalo won its third game in 
four outings, and third straight 
at home. And the weather has 
played a factor in all three, in 
which winds of 25 mph or 
stronger swirled around Halph 
Wilson Stadium. 
Tampa Bay 34, Kansas City 
31 
All week long, Jon Gruden 
kept telling his offense it could 
keep pace with the high-scoring 
Kansas City Chiefs. 
It turns out the Tampa Bay 
coach was right. 
"Nobody was talking about us 
as an offense. lt was just 
Kansas City's offense vs. our 
defense," running back Michael 
Pittman said after the 
Buccaneers held off the potent 
Chiefs Sunday. 
Pittman scored three touch­
downs, including one on a 
team-record 78-yard run, to 
give the Bucs {3-5) consecutive 
victories for just the second 
time since they won the Super Bowl two years ago. 

"Coach told us to keep quiet and just go in there and do what we've got to do and show everybody we're for real, too," Pittman said. 
The Chiefs (3-5) totaled 101 points and 1,130 yards in victo­ries over Atlanta and Indianapolis the previous two weeks, and put up another big day statistically despite playing much of the second half without star running back Priest Holmes. 
Trent Green threw for 369 yards and three touchdowns, but was intercepted by Jermaine Phillips in the end zone with under six minutes to go. Green was sacked on con­secutive plays to end Kansas City's last threat near midfield. 
Washington 17, Detroit 10 
Clinton Portis has run for more than 100 yards three times this season. Those are the only games Washington has won. 
Coincidence? "No, I wouldn't think so," Redskins coach Joe Gibbs said. 
The star running back not only beat Detroit with his legs, he also put his right arm to use. 
Portis ran for 14 7 yards on 34 carries and threw a tiebreaking touchdown pass to lead the Redskins to a victory over the Lions on Sunday. 
Detroit rallied late, but its hopes for a tying drive ended at the Washington 20 as time expired. 
"Too little. Too late," Lions coach Steve Mariucci said. 
With back-to-hack 21-yard gains to open the second half, Portis became the first player to run for 100 yards against Detroit this season. Those pow­erful runs with sharp cutbacks set up his 15-yard pass to Laveranues Coles that gave Washington a 10-3 lead. 
"It was a dream of mine, it started when I was 8," Portis said of the first pass he's eyer thrown. "I was in (Gibbs') ear all week about it. We ran sweeps, we ran tosses and they were expecting one of those. 
"I told (Coles) I needed this for my quarterback rating." 
Taylor Jacobs blocked a punt and Walt Harris scooped up the ball and returned it 13 yards to put the Hedskins ahead by 14 later in the third quarter. Oakland 27, Carolina 24 
Kerry Collins and Jarrod 
Cooper both had successful returns to Carolina. Yet one left town satisfied, while the other was downright sad he had to go. 
Emotions aside, things are going so wrong for the Panthers that even their castoffs are making them look bad. 
Collins led the game-winning scoring drive and Cooper notched the first sack of his career to lead the Oakland Raiders to a 27-24 victory over Carolina on Sunday. 
Collins, the first-ever draft pick in Carolina history, was vilified when he left -quitting the team midway through the 1998 season. 
Even though he was just aver­age in his first game against the Panthers, the win snapped a five-game losing streak for the Raiders (3-6) and was sweet satisfaction for Collins. 
Cincinnati 26, Dallas 3 
The only thing bold about this offense was the jerseys. 
Playing it close to the vest in their new orange threads, the Cincinnati Bengals pulled off the game's only big play -a 7 6-yard to,uchdown pass to Matt Schobel -and beat the bumbling Dallas Cowboys . 
It was fitting that a tight end who spent most of the season blocking broke open the game. Neither team wanted to open it up with their quarterbacks ­one about to turn 41, the other still a novice. 
"With a young quarterback, we've been staying in a lot and protecting," said Schobel, who had only 11 catches in the first seven games. "We always say that when we have a chance, let's make the most of it." San Diego 43, New Orleans 17 
These clearly are not the San Diego Chargers of the recent gloomy past. 
They can pass. They can catch. They can play defense. And even with LaDainian Tomlinson hurting, they can win big. 
In routing the New Orleans Saints on Sunday, they even showed a bit of a swagger. 
"We go on the field and say, 'We can beat these guys,"' quarterback Drew Brees said. "That's our attitude. It's such a dramatic difference from last year. We're almost disappointed that the bye's coming because we just want to keep going." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid, 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES- Apartment for rent 2 br, partially fur·  Wanted: ND football tix.  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity  
NOTICES  FoR SALE  NOW LEASING FOR 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEARS.  nished, desirable North Shore Triangle neighborhood, 1 .25 mi  Top$$$ 251·1570.  Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco,  
ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT.  from campus, second semester  Nassau, Jamaica From $459!  
WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES  special $400/mo plus electric, 233·  ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m.  Panama City & Day1ona $159!  
Moving to ~hicago?  Plan your next trip!  NEAR CAMPUS.  1604  232·2378 p.m.  www.SpringBreakTravel.com  
Sublease in 4br Lincoln Park apt  VW EUROVAN pop-top camper  2-3-5-7.BEDROOM HOUSES,  288-2726  1-800-678-6386  
w/3 ND grads.  1999 Sleeps 4  STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,  6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave across  
$575/mo,  273-9959  SECURITY SYSTEMS,  from radio tower available for 06-07.  NEED TICKETS  ADOPTION-Happily married couple  
open Dec. 1.  Leave a phone number.  MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL,  Completely renovated,large  Nov. 13 Pitt.  long to provide your newborn with a  
Call Andy@ 312-371·4415 ·  WASHER, DRYERS.  rooms,3 full baths.  ND Ave house  Call Amy 219-872-5932  happy home, warmth, security and  
Gentlywom  VISIT OUR WEBSITE  w/5bdrms available for 05-06. Will  unconditional love.  
ND winter hip length jacket.  WWW. DOMUSKRAMER.COM  lease to as few as 3 students,good  Expenses paid. Carolyn and Kevin  
WANTED  XL $60.  OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 OR  location & competitive rent. Email ndhouses@ yahoo. com  PERSONAL  1·866·206-3323 PIN#7774  
233-2431.  (574)315-5032.  Are the Cubs still playing?  
Tutor for high school student.  SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi  
Granger family sees tutor for 9th grade girl in algebra, physical sci· ence, and Spanish.  FoR RENT  6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL AFTER 611/05.  TICKETS  Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Break experience!  PW basketball what Talk about inconsistency  
Must be patient, organized, positive,  ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  The BEST Spring Break Under the  
focused and able to speak Englsh  2·6 Bedroom homes for 05-06  CORBYS ST.JOE CHURCH.  PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­ Sun!  So many insiders  
clearly.  AVAIL NOW.  3911  Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cacun  
One to two hours Monday, Tuesday  Walking distance from ND  CALL JOE CRIMMINS:  & Cabo Organize a group-Go Free!  Wanna date?  
and Thursday at 3:30. Email reply  MMMRentals.com  574-229·3659 OR  For Sale: ND football tix. Good  800·875·4525 or  
to: WrightHarmon@aol.com  532-1408  679-2010.  prices. 232-0964.  www.bianchi-rossi.com  One more home game  

1. 

Monday, November 8, 2004 Page 13
The Observer • SPORTS 

NFL 
Dolphins fall just short 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Eight seconds· into the game, the Arizona Cardinals lost a fumble. They sputtered on offense, com­mitted nine penalties and blew a late lead. 
The Miami Dolphins played even worse. 
Ending a 17-game road los­ing streak, the Cardinals met their match in ineptitud c. They benefited from two piv­otal second-half calls and drove 70 yards in the final 2 minutes for a touchdown to beat the Dolphins 24-23 Sunday. 
Larry Fitzgerald caught the winning score on a 2-yard pass from Josh McCown with 19 seconds left after a hold­ing penalty against Miami negated a sack and gave the. Cardinals first and goal. 
"That's how hard it is to win on the road," Cardinals first-year coach Dennis Green said. "You hope to have good fortune smile on you and catch lightning in a bottle, and today that hap­pened for us." 
The road win was the first since Oct. 6, 2002 for Arizona (3-5). Chicago 28, N.Y. Giants 21 
The Chicago Bears stole the New York Giants' early-sea­son formula for success ­again and again and ... 
The Bears forced five turnovers, including three consecutive plays in a 20­point explosion late in the first half, in beating the Giants on Sunday. 
Hookie Craig Krenzel threw a 35-yard touchdown pass to ignite the rally and Anthony Thomas scored on runs 4 and 41 yards as Chicago (3-5) won its second straight game and handed the Giants (5-3) their second straight embar­rassing home loss. 
What made the defeat more frustrating was NFC East leader Philadelphia (7 -1) lost earlier in the day. The Giants also have to worry about a pectoral injury to All-Pro defensive end Michael Strahan, who left in the third quarter. 
Seattle 42, San Francisco 
27 
Simplicity agrees with the Seattle Seahawks. Their stripped-down game plan was still too complicated for the San Francisco 49ers. 
Darrell Jackson caught two long touchdown passes from Matt Hasselbeck, and Shaun Alexander rushed for 160 yards and two scores in the Seahawks' victory. 
Jackson had five catches for 114 yards on a sprained ankle, and Koren Robinson also caught a TD pass for the Seahawks (5-3}, who stayed atop the NFC West with their second victory following three straight losses. 
Denver 31, Houston 13 
Rod Smith caught the histo­ry-making touchdown, turned to the stands and handed the ball to his sister. For the hard-working Broncos receiver, that was about as big as the celebra­tion would get. 
Smith became Denver's career leader in both recep­tions and touchdown catches Sunday and Jake Plummer threw for four scores to help the Broncos snap a two-game losing streak with a victory over the Houston Texans. 
"'It's a privilege to be on the same field as that guy," Plummer said of Smith, a 1 0­year veteran who started out as an undrafted rookie and spent his first year on Denver's practice squad. 
Smith, a man of few words who held a rare news confer­ence after. his landmark game, insisted the win was more important to him than the records, and maybe he was right. 
The Broncos (6-3) stayed tied with San Diego for the AFC West lead and, more importantly, they avoided heading into their bye next week on a three-game losing streak. 
New England 40, St. Louis 22 
Adam Vinatieri beat the St. Louis Rams with his leg in the 2002 Super Bowl. This time, he used his leg and his arm.· 
New England's placekicker hit a season-best four field goals, then threw his first career touchdown pass on a fake to Troy Brown to help the Patriots bounce back from their only loss with a victory Sunday. 
"You kind of hope to get these guys sleeping a little bit, and we did," Vinatieri said. "Troy kind of hid out on the side and we snapped the ball before they noticed him." 
Corey Dillon returned after a one-week absence with 112 yards rushing on 25 carries and a touchdown for the Patriots, whcse 21-game winning streak ended in a loss to Pittsburgh last week. 


Uni\'ersity of Notre l>ame Intcr·national Study Program ill 
Angers, France 
"Tying Up Loose Ends Before Packing Your Suitcase" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 7:30PM 119 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 Academic Year 2005-2006 Fall 2005 Spring 2006 Applications available: W\VW.nd.edu/-..-intlstud 
NBA 
Nuggets struggling to find their game 

Associated Press 
DENVER -In an elevator with his entourage just after halftime, Denver Broncos cornerback Champ Bailey was asked why he was leaving the Nuggets' game so early. 
"It's a bad show, man," he replied. Bailey isn't the only one who thinks so. 
The surprise of the NBA a year ago, the Denver Nuggets have been surprisingly bad this sea­son. With a stagnant offense and not much more movement on defense, the Nuggets arc 1-2 and hearing it from the hometown fans. 
"We're just not playing, plain and simple," point guard Earl Boykins said. 
The once-woeful Nuggets had a breakout season in 2003-04, fin­ishing 43-39 to reach the playoffs for the first time in nine years. This from a team that won 17 games the year before. The bar was raised even higher this sea­son because Denver added All­Star power forward Kenyon Martin and kept just about every­body else. 
But the Nuggets were woeful in an 11-point loss at the Los Angeles Lakers in the opener, eked out a sloppy victory against Minnesota on Thursday, then were booed off their home court following Saturday's 106-82 loss to Utah. 
And it doesn't get mu~h easier. Next up is another game against the Jazz, followed by Seattle, defending champion Detroit and a road game against Sacramento. 
Making matters worse, the Nuggets lost shooting guard Voshon Lenard for the season whnn he tore his Achilles' tnndon 

onlyat~ g 
Sminutes ;&
fi'om DUTPDST 
Camnus~ 
1:' Cold Weather Experts 

Col1259·jooo for more detolls 
against the Lakers. Outside shooting was already a weak point. 
Denver used DerMarr Johnson as Lenard's replacement against the Timberwolves, but he wasn't much of a factor, managing two points· in 15 minutes. The Nuggets switched to defensive­minded Greg Buckner against the Jazz and had similar results from him _four points in 17 minutes. 
With no one hitting shots from the perimeter for the Nuggets, opponents have been able to pack the paint against the Nugget.;;. 
One of the league's top-5 scor­ing teams a year ago, the Nuggets rank 27th at 84.6 points a game -13 fewer than last year. Denver also has failed to shoot 40 percent in all three games and is at 37.3 for the sea­son, third-worst in the league. 
"We've abandoned everything we worked on in the preseason in terms of sharing and moving. and playing together as a team with energy," coach Jeff Bzdelik said. 
Part of the problem is that the Nuggets have had a hard time getting into their offense, stand­ing around until someone is forced to create something one­on-one. 
Denver also hasn't been able to get out and run, a strong point last season, when it averaged 19 fast-break points. The Nuggets scored 28 against Minnesota but managed just 17 combined in the two losses. 
"Everyone understands this team is built to run, it's built to move," general manager Kiki Vandeweghe said. "It's a matter of 'OK, how do we get guys do that?"' 
Playing better defense might help. 

. ---------­
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------........................................... 
I 
\ I I . I 
) l 
I 
page 14 

Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc (52)  9-0  1,611  
2  Oklahoma (10)  9-0  1,555  
3  Auburn (3)  9-0  1,512  
4  Wisconsin  9-0  1,384  
5  California  7·1  1,341  
6  Texas  8·1  1,259  
1  Utah  9-0  1,245  
8  Georgia  8·1  1,210  
9  Michigan  8·1  1,133  
10  Virginia  7·1  971  
11  Florida State  1·2  887  
12  Louisville  6·1  866  
13  West Virginia  8·1  862  
14  Boise State  8·0  788  
15  Tennessee  7-2  654  
16  Virginia Tech  1·2  631  
17  LSU  6·2  628  
18  Miami  6-2  593  
19  Iowa  1·2  522  
20  Arizona State  7·2  345  
21  Boston College  6-2  254  
22  TexasA&M  6-3  160  
23  UTEP  6·2  148  
24  .  NOTRE DAME  6·3  143  
25  Oklahoma State  6·3  131  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team. record · points 1 usc (50) 9·0 1,514 2 Oklahoma (10) 9·0 1,452 3 Auburn (1) 9-0 1,416 4 Wisconsin 9·0 1,289 5 Georgia 8·1 1,233 6 California 7-1 1,203 1 Texas 3-1 1,169 8 Utah 9-0 1,124 9 Michigan 8·1 1,060 10 West Virginia 3·1 886 11 Virginia 7·1 877 12 Florida State 1·2 868 13 Boise State 8·0 782 13 Louisville 6·1 727 15 LSU 6·2 649 16 Virginia Tech 7·2 582 17 Miami 6·2 568 18 Tennessee 1·2 466 19 Iowa 7·2 450 20 Arizona State 7·2 331 21 Boston College 6·2 244 22 Northern ltlinois 7·2 205 23 TexasA&M 6·3 150 24 Oklahoma State 6·3 138 25 Texas Tech 6·3 112 
Men's Basketball Division I ESPN/USA Today Poll 
team points 
1 Kansas {8) 741 2 Wake Forest {12) 724 3 North carolina (6) 697 4 Georgia Tech (1) 604 5 IUinois (1} 598 6 Syracuse 557 7 Connecticut 541 8 Oklahoma State ~1) 511 9 Ken1ucky 480 10 Michigan State 476 11 Arizona (1) 475 12 Duke 403 13 Louisville (1) 374 14 Mississippi St. 365 15 Texas 334 16 Maryland 316 17 PIHsburgh 247 18 Alabama 224 19 N.C.State 218 20 Wisconsin 216 21 NOTRE DAME 214 22 Florida 160 23 Memphis 131 24 Washington 108 25 Stanford 64 
around the dial 
NFL Vikings at Colts 9 p.m., ABC 
NBA Pistons at Clippers 10:30 p.m., FSN 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES Monday, November 8, 2004 
NFL 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH --The Pittsburgh Steelers made certain there's nobody unbeaten now in the NFL, except for Ben Roethlis­berger. 
The Steelers combined their still-flawless new quarterback with a touch of the old -a Jerome Bettis of yesteryear and a defense that was Steel Curtain-tough -to domi­nate the Philadelphia Eagles 27-3 Sunday and leave the NFL without an undefeated team. 
The Steelers (7 -1) ended the Eagles' seven-game winning streak a week after halting New Eng­land's record 21-game win­ning streak with an equally impressive 34-20 victory. Pittsburgh is the only team in NFL history to stop unbeaten teams in consec­utive weeks after each had won at least six games. 
"Nobody ever thought we'd do this," said Hines Ward, who scored the first two touchdowns. "We're giving defensive coordina­tors heck trying to figure out what we're going to do, with weapons all over the field and a quarterback who just keeps getting bet­ter." 
How much better can Big Ben get than this? 
• 

Roeth1isberger is 6-0 as a starter -the first rookie since the 1970 merger to do that since Pittsburgh's Mike Kruczek filled in for an injured Terry Bradshaw in 1976. 
Here's the difference: Kruczek didn't throw a TD pass all season on a team that won behind the Steel Curtain; Hoethlisberger (11 of 18, 183 yards, two touchdowns) has thrown for 11 touchdowns while playing with the polish and growing confidence of a much more experienced player. 
"He's remarkable," Eag­les linebacker Mark Simon­eau said. "Look at him on 
the field and he doesn't 
look like a rookie, he looks 
like a guy who's been 
around four or five years. 
Give the guy credit, he 
made plays all day long." 
Roethlisberger drove the 
Steelers to a 21-0 lead on 
their. first three possessions 
with the help of Bettis' 149 
yards, his 55th career 1 00­
yard game. The 1978 
Steelers were the only 
other team in franchise 
history to start 7-1, en . 
route to a 14-2 record and ..a Super Bowl title. 
Ward scored on the first 
two drives, a 16-yard 
reverse and a 20-yard 
reception, then playfully 
mocked the Eagles ( 7-1) . 

IN BRIEF 
Chang tops NCAA career passinf! list 
HON01.ULU -Timmy Chang remPmbers all too well when he was booed and benched at I lawaii. 
Now he has not only cemented his legac~ at the school, but he has left his mark on all of college football. He moved to the top of the NCAA career list for yards passing, breaking the record of 15,031 set by BYU's Ty Detmer from 1988-91. 
The milestone came on a 7-yard scoring pass in the first quarter of Hawaii's 34-23 victory over Louisiana Tech on Saturday. He received a standing ovation for sev­eral minutes and was presented with the ball. 
"It was very special," Chang said. "I can remember not too long ago, I got booed." 
He finished the game with four touchdowns and 285 yards. The fifth-year senior from Honolulu has 15,303 yards with at least four games remaining. 
Bills Williams driven off 
field in ambulance 
OHCHAHD PARK. N.Y.-Bills right tackle Mike Williams suffered a neck injury and was driven ofT the field in an ambulance during the third quar­ter of Buffalo's 22-17 victory over the New York Jets on Sunday. 
Williams was walking around with a neck brace following the game. He also had X-rays taken that were neg­ative, but the Bills remained cau­tious. 
"He'll be looked at again after 24 hours," coach Mike Mularkey said. 
Williams appeared to be knocked cold when he and left tackle Jonas Jennings were protecting quarter­back Drew Bledsoe, double-teaming Jets defensive end Shaun Ellis. As Bledsoe released the pass, Ellis bowled over Jennings, knocking him into Williams, who awkwardly fell backward. 
Williams lay face down and motionless at the Bills 10 as team trainers and emergency officials tended to him. He· was lifted onto a stretcher and had his helmet strapped in place. The Bills announced that trainers were taking precautionary measures to proteet Williams' neck. Goosen overtakes Woods in 
Tour Championship 
ATLANTA -Retief Goosen defied the odds at every turn Sunday in the Tour Championship. 
No one makes birdie on the 481­yard 16th hole, especially not from the rough. Goosen smoked a 5-iron from 195 yards that dropped in front of the flag and stopped 3 feet away. 
And no one comes from four shots behind Tiger Woods in the final round to win. 
"We all thought he was going to be the guy to beat," Goosen said. 
In a fitting finale to the PGA Tour season, Goosen was unflappable as ever in closing with a bogey-free 64 to win the Tour Championship by four shots and become only the third player to overtake Woods in the final. 
Monday, November 8, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
ND dominates Iowa for first win ever against the Hawkeyes 
... 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports Writer 
This weekend, the Irish fin­ished the job. 
After coming one .relay win short on a bid to upset No. 22 Brigham Young last weekend, a team the Irish have never defeated, the Irish (3-1) domi­nated Iowa 176-118 Saturday. 
It was the first victory in a dual meet against a Big Ten opponent since 2002 and the its first ever against Iowa. Using commanding perform­ances in the freestyle events to set the tone, the Irish leapt to an early lead that they never relinquished. 


"It was a big win for us," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "Our distance freestyle lracesJ still continued to lead the way, but the difference in the meet was that all our freestyle races were strong." 
Sophomore Ted Brown led the way for the Irish with vic­tories in both the 200 and 500­yard freestyle races. Brown won the 200-meter freestyle for the third meet in a row, with a time of 1 minute, 42.30 seconds, and he later led a 1­2-3 finish for the Irish in the 500-meter freestyle, winning with a time of 4:35.46. 
"Our depth has been a key to our succe.ss this season, and it really showed this past week­end as we were able to dis­tance ourselves from Iowa in the freestyle events," Brown said. "Each meet, we've had different swimmers step up and help us get the job done." 
Notre Dame outscored Iowa 82-30 in the freestyle events as the 50-yard freestyle was the only freestyle race in which the Hawkeyes managed to snatch away a first-place finish from the Irish. The team took 1-2-3 finishes in the 200-meter freestyle, the 500-meter freestyle and took all four top spots in the 100 free. 
Sophomore Louis Cavadini won the 100 free with a time of 46.68, while senior Frank Krakowski took second in 
47.04. Sophomore Nick Fanslau took third with a time of 47.29 and.junior Tim Randolph completed the sweep with a time of 47.90. 
"One important feature that's emerging is that we're able to sustain our consistency across the full program of events," Welsh said. "We've been talk­we like that balance. The ing about being focused from divers, in particular, from last start to finish, and we're week at Utah to this week at improving in our ability to do Iowa lhad] a terrific improve­that." ment. All five of the divers had 

Notre Dame also received a very good meet." strong victories in the 200-• The win was the first victory meter butterfly and 200-meter for the Irish over a Big Ten individual medley. Sophomore opponent since a home win Tim Kegelman won the 200-against Michigan State on Nov. meter butterfly with a time of 8, 2002. In their first meeting 
1:52.42 and freshman Andrew with Iowa last season, the Irish MacKay took first in the 200-fell victim to the Ilawkeyes and meter individual lost by 55 
medley with a time of 1:53.83. "The key to us  "This will be our toughest competition of  points. "It was good for us," Welsh  
was that we've  the fall. We are a work  said. "But it's  
improved," Welsh said. "We've improved  in progress, and this is a season in progress so  been a while. We don't beat Big Ten teams  
from meet  our first against  nothing ends here . .,  on a very reg­ular basis."  
Evansville to our meet last Friday against Iowa.  Tim Welsh Irish coach  Notre Dame takes to the water again  
That's true for  friday with a  
the divers, and  tough  trian­ 

that's true for the swimmers." gular home meet against No. 
The Hawkeyes failed to enter 17 Pittsburgh, Big East any divers in the meet, and the Champions for the last eight Irish still took advantage as years, and Michigan State, a they picked up valuable points team that beat the Irish last in the 3-meter .and 1-meter year. diving events. Sophomore Scott "This will be our toughest Coyle took first in the 3-meter competition of the fall," Welsh competition with a career-best said. "We are a work in score of 321.45, and freshman progress, and this is a season Sam Stoner took second with a in progress so nothing ends score of 291.37. Stoner won here. It's part of the progres­the 1-meter competition with a sion. The most important thing score of 307.65. to us is that we've gotten faster 
"The good news for us was and that we're improving." that we were able to win the swimming events as well as the Contact Rama Gottumukkala at diving events," Welsh said. "So rgottumu@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles earn first win of season over Rose-Hulman 
freestyle, an especially strong vidual medl~y. Medlock's ability to come "We have a good group of
Medlock hits head on 
accomplishment considering Medlock, who has been a back and still compete in the 3-first-years, they have clicked that none of them had ever par­valuable addition to the diving meter competition gave Saint with the team really well.'' Nelis 
board, returns to 
ticipated in the event before. team, hit her head on the diving Mary's quite an edge. Medlock said. 
compete in 3-meter Budd also scored a first-place board on her fourth dive of the was able to take an The Belles finish in the 200-1-meter, but uncontested first "We have a good will need to yard butterfly, to still finished to place in the event. keep their
By ANNA FRICANO ·:4 diver hits the group offirst­
add to the total of take second Saturday was cer­momentum 
Sports Writer 
six first place board with her toes place in the tainly a good oppor­years. they have going for the spots that the event. tunity for the young challenge that
and she gets a little clicked with the 
Saint Mary's claimed its first Belles captured Belles coach Saint Mary's team to will come up
shaky; she hits it team really well. ,,
win of the season on Saturday on Saturday. Gregg Petcoff get a feel for compe­next week. against the Rosc-Hulman Sophomore with her head, and was impressed tition at the colle­Saint Mary's Institute of Technology. Nicole Korte took with Medlock's giate level. After a Kelly Neils will face,
she still dove in the 
Performers of the meet for the the top spot in mental recov­difficult meet last among other
Belles junior 
3-meter.,
Belles were freshmen Sara the 50-yard ery. week against Hope teams, the 2004 Matesevic, Megan Medlock and freestyle, and "A diver hits and Olivet, the team Division III Noreen Sherred, as well as junior Kelly Nelis Gregg Petcoff the board with proved itself capable of working national champions, Kenyon sophomore Sarah Budd. All finished first in her toes and she together and coming back in College, at the Maroon D-Ill
Belles coach 
four women brought in top fin­the 500-yard gets a little order to secure a victory Invitational hosted by the ishes for the 155-117 victory. freestyle. Sarah shaky," Petcoff against Rose-IIulman. University of Chicago. 
Sherred, Matesevic and Budd Nowak, also a junior, claimed said. "She hit it with her head, Nelis is pleased with the way finished first through third, first-place finishes, in both the and she still dove in the 3-that the mix of swimmers has Contact Anna Fricano at respectively, in the 1,000-yard 200-yard breaststroke and indi-meter." been able to work together. africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
I 
TONIGHT FROM 9 TO 11 PM 

AT LEGENDS OF NOTRE DAME 
(OME OUT AND YOU ARE ENTERED TO WIN •••• 
Every students is welcome 
• A Team Autograph Jersey to come out and mingle
,.. '(:..,en ~·ec·bau.n 
• 
A Notre Dame Chair .LEGION with Coach Brey to 

• 
Notre Dame Apparel discuss strategies for this 


y

FREE FOOD! ' 
season and much mo-re! 
(while supplies last) • Gift Certificates For Area Restaurants 

you have priorities. let them guide you as you build your career. define what's important to you and see 
.what's important to others. 
pwc.com/mypriorities 


Monday, November 8, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Defeat 
continued from page 20 
Offensively, the team hit for more than .400 throughout the game and had 18 kills on 326 hitting. 
Tlu~ Irish maintained the lead for much of the fourth game, securing the 30-20 win and were 21 kills on .:H7 on hitting. 
However, Sunday's game against Boston College (18-11, 4-4) featurnd an unsteady Irish team, which hit .080 on the match. Prior to the makh, the Irish were 58-0 in Big East play at home since 1995. Boston College hit .305 on attacks, making only 1 0 attaek errors. 
The loss put the Irish in a three-way tie in Big East Conference standings with Pittsburgh and Syracuse. 
Ellen Heintzman stepped in for the injured Kelbley at out­side hitter, garnering a team­high 11 kills. Brown had only words of praise for the fresh-· man. 
"She took some good swings," Brown said. "She did the job we needed her to do. We just didn't have enough support around her." 
Brewster matched lleintzman's efforts \\ith 11 kills and junior Carolyn Cooper led the team on hitting with .211 and seven kills. 
Defensively, llenican lnd the team with 15 digs, followed by Stasiuk with 12 and Tarutis with 10. Brewstrr led the team in blocks \\ith fbur. 
Bost(m College built oJl' of an early 12-4 lead for the win th1~ first game 30-14, collecting 14 kills and a .464 attack percent­age. During the second game, Boston College capitalized on its strong blocking game, causing nine of Notre Dame's 11 hitting errors. 
The Irish returned to the courts in game three with a sense of purpose, winning four of the first five points of the match. After the Irish took a 25­21 advantage, Boston College rallied to collect four straight points and went on to win the match 30-28. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish tie Bowling Green 4-4 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
It's not every day that a team 
is upset about tying a game in 
the last three seconds, yet 
that's exactly how Notre Dame 
{1-5-3, 0-4-2 in the CCI lA) felt 
after its 4-4 tie with Bowling 
Green (4-1-1, 2-1-1) Friday 
night at the Joyce Center. 
"Normally you would be happy with a tie that close to the end of the game, but we were disappointed with how the game ended since we'd played so well," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "I told our guys that when you're strug­gling as a team, sometimes you don't always win right away even when you're playing bet­ter." 
The Irish sent a season-high 54 shots on net Friday, but Falcon goalie Jordan Sigalet turned away 50 of them ­including 28 in the second peri­od. Notre Dame goalie Morgan Cey faced only 23 shots in the game. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 3-0 lead, and then saw the Falcons come back to make the score 4-3 late in the game. Sophomore defenseman Wes O'Neill picked up the equalizer with just three seconds remain­ing in the game, with Cey pulled for an extra attacker. 
It was O'Neill's second goal of the game, and came on a deflection of a Chris Trick shot from the right point. 
"I thought Friday night might have been Wcs' best game in an Irish uniform," Poulin said. "Wes doesn't take a shift off, he plays hard the entire game." 
The four goals scored by the Irish were a season high, with Cory McLean and Evan Rankin picking up the other tallies. McLean also picked up assists on one of O'Neill's goals and on Rankin's marker, giving the senior captain three points in the game. 


"Cory McLean really stepped up his game in a big way for us Friday," Poulin said. 
The Falcons got goals from James Unger, Ben Geelan, John Mazzei and Derek Whitmore. 
McLean's goal put the Irish ahead 1-0 at 3:07 of the first period, as the forward received a crisp pass from Mike Walsh and took a shot from the slot that deflected past Sigalet. 
O'Neill gave the Irish a two­goal lead just a little more than six minutes later, sending a hard slapshot past Sigalet. Both of Notre Dame's first two goals came on the power play, making the first time all season the Irish have scored two or more power-play goals in a game. 
Rankin scored his second goal of the season at_ 4:11 of the second period off assists from Walsh and McLean. The goal only riled up the Falcons, who then came back to score four unanswered goals -two off the power play. 
The Irish avoided their sec­ond loss to the Falcons, only because of O'Neill's late-game heroics. 
"It was a disappointing out­come for us," Poulin said. "We did so many things well. We had guys in front of the net and tons of chances all over the ice. There were definitely a lot of positives we can take from this game." 
The Irish travel to Western Michigan this weekend to take on the Broncos in a two-game series. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
,_ Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Thcanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge 




Eire 

''Irish-Not just forT-Shirts~' 
It;sh is the oldest vemacular literature in Europe and the living language of An Ghaeltadu in Ireland. \Videly spoken by Irish emigrants to the United States in the 18th• 19th ru1d 20th century, it is spoken in U.S. cities such as Boston, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. The Department of Irish Language & Literature/Roinn Theanga agus
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
Litriocht na Gaeilge offers courses for absolute beginners, intermediate and advanced students next term. *Discover your heritage *Learn about Ireland 
• Satisfy the Irish Studies Minor *Satisfy the Foreign Language Requirement 
A thick ~eece 

''h·ish has been taught at Notre Dame since 1868.
coat is perfect. 
Isn't it time you took a course'?'~
for winter. 

IRLL 101 A tun and· entertaining introduction to the modem Irish language. This course introduces the basic principles of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary. Emphasis is
Askanyyak. 

placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. IRLL 102 
300 Weight Polartec® 

A continuation of lRLL 101. Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts in Jrish and expanding 
fleece provides exceptional 
the student's linguistic, grammatical and cultural knowledge. The students grows in confidence 
and linguistic ability. IRLL 103 
warmth. Wear it on its own 
or zip it into a shell for 

A continuation of fRLL 102. Develops the student's existing language skills. Emphasis is on
wet-weather protection. 

expanding fluency. competency and reading literature in translation. 
Spring 2005 IRLL 101:01 T H lJ :00-12:15 Prof. Sarah l\fcKibbcn IRLL 101:02 1\1'\VF 10:40-11 :30 Prof. Peter McQuillan IRLL 101:03 T H 12:30-1:45 Prof. Brian 6 Conchuhhair
Hours: 
IRLL 102:01 T H 2:00-3:15 Prof. Sarah McKibben
Mon.-Fri.: 10:oo am-9:00pm 
IRLL 102:02 l\·1WF 9:30-10:25 Prof. Peter McQuillan
Sot: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oo pm 
IRLI.. 103:01 T H 11:00-12:15 Prof. Brian (> Conchubhair 


Monday, November 8, 2004 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
overtimes of 15 minutes before going to [penalty kicks]," Clark
Loss 

said. "Now you go to them fair continued from page 20 early, which is a little bit harsh because you're in them very 
and out of harm's way 11 quickly." minutes into the second half. Shooting second, Notre Dame 
While the Irish dominated matched Seton Hall shot-for­second half and overtime play shot through the first seven -they outshot the Pirates 14-8 rounds as forward John in the game's final 65 minutes, Mousinho, defender Kevin including 6-2 in overtime and Goldthwaite, defender 
22-16 overall ­ Christopher  
they failed to produce the  "Jt·s tough because I  High, Joe  forward Lapira,  
game-winner.  thought we played  -defender  Jack  
"It's disap­pointing," Clark said. "It's tough  well ­we controlled a lot ofthe game,  Stewart, mid­fielder Ian Etherington and  
because  I  especially in the  forward Justin  
thought we played well - second half"  McGeeney all beat Pirate goal­ 
we controlled a  keeper  Boris  
lot of the game,  Bobby Clark  Pardo.  
especially  in  Irish coach  However, after  

the second half.  
I thought in the  
second half and in overtime we  
looked very good."  
f ~  Penalty kicks were necessary to decide the quarterfinals con­ 
test after neither team was able  
t  to find the back of the net after  
t I I I I  90 minutes of regulation play and an additional 20 minutes of overtime.  
I I  "You used to have to play four  
I  

Exit 
continued from page 20 

"We were focused and knew they were a good team~" Buczkowski said. "We were ready to play." 
To open the second half, Notre Dame was able to break the deadlock after Jones scored her first goal of the season. 
Thorlakson kicked the ball to the left side of the box to set up Jones for the goal in the second minute of the second half. 
However, the Huskies were able to respond in the 73rd minute of the game to tie the score 1-1. 
"When the score was tied 1­1, we knew we had to keep playing and get the ball back 

and  move  it  around,"  
Buczkowski  said.  "But  we  
never did that."  

The Irish continued to strug­gle offensively and Connecticut took .advantage of this with three minutes left in regulation. The Huskies scored on Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn for the 2-1 lead. 
"We were in shock that it happened at the end of the game back-to-hack," Jones said. "We didn't have enough time in the game to come back." 
Despite the loss, the Irish are aware of the challenges each team will bring in the NCAA tournament. Notre Dame is hoping this loss will give the team inspiration for the remained of the postseason. 
"We had respect for Connecticut and knew they could beat us on any given day," Jones said. "It will give us a little fire for the NCAA cham­pionship." Notre Dame 2, Boston College 0 
Friday, Notre Dame had an imprl~ssive win over Boston College in the semifinals. 
Heading into the conference championship weekend, the Irish were aware of the poten­tial challenges from their con­ference rivals. 

"We knew this was going to be a big weekend," midfielder Ashley Jones said. "We came out hard against Boston College and wanted to control the game just in case anything hap­pened." 
Seton Hall's Matt 
Salotti put the Pirates in front, 8-7, in the eighth round, Norman was unable to answer for the Irish, blasting his attempt over the crossbar. 
While Clark and the Irish obviously would have preferred to move on in the Big East Championships and defend the conference tournament title they earned last season, the upset isn't without a silver lin­ing. 
The Irish now have additional time to prepare for the NCAA tournament, scheduled to begin in two weeks. 
"To be perfectly honest, I would liked·to have won," Clark said. "It would have been nice if we had gone [to Piscataway, 
N.J. for the Big East Championships s~mifinals], but it lets us catch up with studies and hopefully get ready to make a run in the NCAA tournament." 
In the end, while important, the conference tournament is just a stepping stone to the national tournament. 
"If you said to me which tour­nament would you rather progress in -the Big East or the NCAA's -that question doesn't even need to be answered," Clark said. "We've just got to move on an.d use the time at hand to get ready for the tournament." 
In excellent position for a first-round bye, the Irish will now wait for the NCAA Division I men's soccer selection show, slated for Nov. 15 at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

To begin the contest, the Irish To begin the second half of came out strong and dictated play, the Irish needed little time 
play throughout most of the first half. After sever­al missed oppor­tunities, Notre Dame finally con­verted off an assist from fresh­man Ashley Jones to sopho­more Jen Buczkowski. Senior Candace Chapman passed the ball to Jones, who quickly served the ball to 

"When the score was tied I-I, we knew we had to keep playing 
and get the ball back and move it around. But we never did that.,, _ 
Jen Buczkowski Irish midfielder 
to register another goal to put the Irish 2­0 during the 60th minute of play. 
Freshman Amanda Cinalli took a shot at goal, which hit the middle of the crossbar and deflected near the right end line. Chapman bat­tled for posses­

Buczkowski for the first goal of the match during the 28th minute of play. Buczkowski managed to knock the shot off her left foot into the far right side of the net after being tight­ly guarded. This goal was her fourth game-winner and eighth overall for the season. 
"She is very important to our success," Jones said_ ~·By her stepping up and scoring is how we are going to play games and make it to the national champi­onship." 
sion against Eagle goalkeeper Kate Taylor, but managed to send the ball back into the box to Thorlakson, who sent the ball to the net. This goal was Thorlakson's 19th of the sea­son. 
"We wanted to put them away so they didn't hang around and get a chance to bring themselves back into the game," HuczkowsRi said. 
ContactDan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 



Enjoy a double order of chicken, s±eak or combo faji±as (enouah for fwo} for jus± $111* 


ll a.m to dos~ 
the Irish ofT the bench late in the half.
Stars 
"I think [D'Amico's] exceeded our expectations,"
continued from page 20 
McGraw said. "I think we 

"I want to be a consistent expected her to contribute outside threat for the team," and she's done really well, said Duffy, last year's Big scoring on the block. She's East Most Improved Player. rebounding well. She's got a "Especially if they're going to lot to add." play zone, I D'Amico fin­want to be able ished with nine 
points and fourto knock down "I want to be a 

some outside rebounds, while
consistent threat 
shots." Allen had eight 
With the win, for the team. points and four the Irish Especially if steals. improved to 2-0 Notre Dame
they're going to
this season in struggled at
play zone, I want
exhibition play times against and for the sec­to be able to knock the Lady Stars, ond straight down some outside turning the ball 
time, scored 80 over 21 times.
shots.,,
points. However, they "I think for never trailed us, it's not the after a LaVe r e 
Megan Duffy 
numbers of layup made it 9­
Irish guard 
points we score, it's really the field goal per­centage and the shots we're getting," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Duffy, who also had four rebounds and four assists, was one of three Irish play­ers in double-figures. Courtney LaVere finished with 12 points on 4-for-1 0 shooting to go along with five rebounds. Jacqueline Batteast added 11 points and six rebounds. 
"I would like to see a few more people step up and get double figures," McGraw said. "That's what we have to have -those three [Duffy, Batteast and LaVere] every night." 
The Irish played well in the first half, moving the ball effectively against the Lady Stars' zone and playing solid man-to-man defense. They jumped out to a 42-29 half­time lead after freshmen Tulyah Gaines, Charel Allen and Melissa D'Amico sparked 
8 with 17:45 to 
play in the first 
half. The Irish defense took care of the rest, forcing 14 steals and block­ing four shots. 
"I think we learned a lot about our team after these two games," McGraw said. "I think we know we have a lot of strengths and we have a few things we need to work on. I think we know that our intensity. on defense is going to be a big factor. We've got to shut people down." 
Susie Powers led the Irish with five assists and also scored eight points on 3-for­6 shooting. 
Saturday's game wraps up exhibition play for Notre Dame. The Irish take to the court again Friday against Illinois State in the Preseason WNIT. They are set to tip off at 9 p.m., fol­lowing the Irish volleyball game and pep rally. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

TAKE INDY ·BY STORM 
Please Visit: www.SunlakeApartn1cntHomes.con1 888-414-9225 W\VW.SunblestApts.com 866"390-3823 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 11 -22, 2004 
Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC 
(ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hare Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) 
What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers ­through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. 
How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. 
Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 

--___ 

-------------------------------------------------_. 

Monday, November 8, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

DOGBERT CONSULTS 
ITS CALLED THE

... IT FREES YOUR 
ULTRA-DONUT: FORTY­

MIND TO INVENT
ONCE YOU EMBRACE THE 
THOUSAND CALORIES

SPLENDIDLY PROFIT­
IDEA THAT YOUR CUS­
AND FILLED WITH SHARP

ABLE PRODUCTS.
TOMERS DESERVE TO 
OBJECTS. 
DIE ... 

CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I have all 
my outfits
FETHY 
made 
[J I I I I 
02004 Tnbune Madia Serv•ces, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
OPYPP 
( J I I I 
MIDOWS 


A WaL-DRE:SSEO MAN Wln-4 SC.UFFE:O
CIJ 
SH0£:5 L.AC.KS TI-415. 
www.jumble.com 


FLOBIE 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

[ J I I 
Print ~ here: 

"[I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: OPIUM HONOR UPHELD TYRANTSaturday's 
Answer: What the politician did when he hosted the fund raiser-"POURED" IT ON 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
I 

ACROSS 42 Whom Ingrid 68 Stringed toy 
1 Leaf's support played in "Casablanca"

5 Knife DOWN 43 Pea container 
9 Wood for chests 1 Jet 
44 Many a John 
decommissioned

14 Like a lemon Wayne film in '0315 Medal of honor 
'· 45 Spanish cheer 
recipient 2 They may get 46 Most sore stepped on
16 "Stayin' _" (disco hit) 49 Tricky 3 Continental 50 Title car in a "dollar''
17 Prison sentence 1964 pop hit 4 1983 role 18 Therefore 51 Have to have reversal film19 Without a stitch 
on 53 Availability 5 The Ramones' extremes " Is a Punk
20 Eventually Rocker"59 Alaskan islander23 The "M" in MSG 60 Lifeguard's 6 Extreme fear 24 Calif.'s northern watch 7 Jason's ship, inneighbor 
61 "_honest myth
25 Ewe's mate 
with you ... " 8 Unmannered 28 Main school 
63 The vowel fellow 
team sound in "dude" 9 Bird in a cage31 Valedictorian's 
64 That girl, in 10 Gladdenpride, for short Paris 11 Dutch34 Make amends 65 Problem with a embankment(for) fishing line 
12 Swear to36 Ubiquitous bug 66 Excited, with Puule by Gregory Paul
13 Bloodshot37 QB Tarkenton "upn 37 Home loan agcy. 47 Wrap up 56 Play part 21 'The Catcher in 38 Daring bet 67 Funnyman Foxx 

the Rye," e.g. 39 Disney's _ 48 Made airtight 57 Talking on a cell 22 Game with a Center 50 Measuring tool phone during a 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
·'· 
drawing movie, e.g.
40 'That feels 52 Scatterbrained 25 The "R" of good!" 58 On-line auction
~~~~~ 53 Ice sheet 
.. N.P.R. house 
.....:..-~ 41 Carving on a 54 Start of a ~~~~#~~ 26 Polynesian pole counting-out 59 Chemical base: island 
rhyme Abbr.

46 Offered for27 Cat's quarry 
breeding, as a 55 0 on a phone: 62 Swellheaded­29 Noted New York thoroughbred Abbr. ness restaurateur· ~-..=4 30 A home away 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with afrom home credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
~~~~ 31 Southern Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaybreakfast dish 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ~~*::+-:+:-4 32 Discussion 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 group 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~~,:,..r::+,:,+:::-4 33 Incensed 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for·young ~=======~~====~~========:::1 35 Hoops grp. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason and Jeremy London, Dana Plato, Joni Mitchell, Todd McKee 
Happy Birthday: Don't let emotional matters stop you from getting ahead this year. Put all the negative things behind you while you strive to attain the goals ­you set. This may not be the easiest year, but it can be satisfying and 
self-rewarding. Your numbers are I 0, 14, 25, 31, 33, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look into new job prospects. See what's available outside your immediate district --it may open your eyes to new possibilities. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is the perfect day to do something nice fo r yourself. Attend an antique auction or flea market and you will find a superb item to purchase. Money matters are looking positive. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't be too quick to offer your help or services today. Someone may try to take advantage of you, causing you to miss an event you've been looking forward to. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Family or neighborhood get-togethers will turn out splendidly. The more time spent with others, the more you will learn about something that interests you. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes regarding your finances are likely. You will have greater concern with your future and how you can raise your standard of living. Tighten your budget to acquire your goals. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will tend to overreact and overdo today. Stay away from anyone who tries to pick a fight or push you around. Focus on your creative side. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may have a change of heart. Someone may be keeping you in the dark about how he or she really feels. Finances will improve. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone may be trying to pass you important information. Be receptive to what's being offered. It may be a puzzle at first, but once you put the pieces together, you will know what to do. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't try to push someone into doing what you want to do. Things are likely to backfire if you are overbearing. Emotional matters will not be easy to handle. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Travel or finding out information that will help you make a decision should be on your agenda. A new hobby will lead to a lucrative proposition. Love is in the picture. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Home improvement projects will turn out well. The time spent with family members will lead to a better understanding of yourself and your future direction. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sudden romantic encounters are likely to develop if you are single. If you are in a relationship, you can discuss future plans with optimism. Family matters can be resolved.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are relentless. emotional and very unpredictable. You are adaptable, engaging and don't back down. You are inventive and will always be able to find solutions-. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two can1puses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and n1ail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ -­Address _______________________________________ 
• City ____________ State ____ Zip_~---­
THE OBSERVER 
p

Monday, November 8, 2004 

page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 

I ~ . . 




Upsetting loss
~ 

Pirates send top-seeded Irish home in first round ofBig East Tournament 

By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 

They play the games for a reason. 
While all signs pointed to the Big East Championships with first-seeded Notre Dame (13-2-3) putting away vis­iting eighth-seeded Seton Hall (11-6-2} and moving onto the tournament's semifinals next weekend, the result didn't follow expectations as the Pirates upset No. 4 Notre Dame 8-7 on penalty kicks after battling to a 0-0 tie through regulation and a pair of over­times Saturday night at Alumni Field. 
"It's annoying when you tie a game but go out a game," Irish coach Bobby Clark said...It counts as a tie, but unfortunately you get eliminated with the penalty kicks." 
After having trouble generating scoring chances early -the Irish recorded only a single shot in the game's opening 20 minutes -mid­fielder Nate Norman nearly put Notre Dame in front with 16 minutes remaining in the first half, drilling the ball just over the crossbar from the top of the box. 
·. Seton Hall squandered perhaps the 
.1r• game's best opportunity when Pirate freshman Yomar Gonzalez's go-ahead­goal bid beat Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer, yet clanged off the crossbar 
see LOSS/ page 1 8 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish fall to Huskies in 
Eagles take conference win 
Notre Dame falls to Boston College in 3-0 defeat
championship finals 

By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 

This weekend's Big East con­
ference matches proved to be 
bittersweet for Notre Dame. 

The Irish (14-7, 7-1} regis­
tered a key conference win · against Connecticut on Friday 3­1, but fell to Boston College 0-3 in a heartbreaking loss on 
Sunday. 

"It was a huge letdown fbr us, 
losing to (Boston College]," Irish 
coach Debbie Brown said. 
..There wasn't any aspect of the 
game we did well in." 

In contrast to Sunday's Boston 
College match, Friday's home 
crowd saw a team poised for 
victory take the courts against 
Connecticut (16-8, 5-2). The 
Irish dominated the net with a 
.345 hitting percentage. 

Ashley Tarutis totaled 44 
assists, five kills, and racked up 
a . 714 hitting percentage. But Tarutis's contributions were not limited to offensive plays. The freshman also chipped in 11 digs for her seventh double-dou­ble. 
Juniors Lauren Kelbley and Lauren Brewster, freshman Adrianna Stasiuk, and senior Emily Loomis each finished with more than 10 kills to lead the Irish offensive effort. Kelblcy had a match-high 16 kills on .387 hitting although she sat out the first 30 points of the third game when Notre Dame's advantage in the matchup was apparent.· 
The team's defense kept Connecticut in check, limiting their opponents .162 on attack percentage. Stasiuk added a season-best 18 digs, while junior captain Meg Henican finished with 17. Sophomore Danielle Herndon and Brewster also notched nine digs each. 
On defense, the Irish finished with 12 blocks for the match. 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

Their first loss meant their first exit. 
After an impressive run in the Big East tournament, the Irish fell just short of achieving the championship title after losing 2-1 in the finals to Connecticut, their first loss of the season and second ever in Big East Championship play. 
After a dominating victory over Boston College Friday, the lrish (19-1-1) were hoping to follow up the performance in the Big East championship 
. game. 
' 
In the first half, the Irish struggled in converting eight opportunities into points. Despite their troubles, the team felt they were prepared for the strengths of Connecticut. 
see EXIT/page 18 
tn .....){ 1--u
~ 
~· z 
.. ~ a: ::5
" 
>~ ~ ~· 
f* c:c 
ff = 
~~: 
~ a.. ~
1•. 
~ 
It 
tnI,
ff 
INTERHAtl FOOTBALL 
Cavanaugh vs. 
Panforn; Walsh 
vs. elsh Family 
The women's inter-hall semifinals are scheduled for 9 and 10 p.m. 
TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer Midflelder lan Etherington dribbles through traffic against Seton Hall on Saturday. The Irish lost a heart-breaking tournament game in penalty kicks. 
HOCKEY 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

SMC SWIMMING 
NFL 
Irish 176

Notre Dame 4 
. Saint Mary's 155 
Steelers 27 

Bowling Green 4 
Hawkeyes 118 

Rose-Hulman 117 
Eagles 3 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Team continues preseason with second victory 

JEFF MATIESON!The Observer 

On Saturday, Susie Powers, right, and the Irish defeated the Hoosier Lady Stars for their second victory this preseason. 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Every player who played in the first half scored as No. 11 Notre Dame cruised to an 80-61 win over the Hoosier Lady Stars. 
A late first-half spurt put the game out of reach as the Irish pulled away from the Lady Stars in their final exhibition game Saturday afternoon. 
Megan Duffy led all scorers with 16 points on 5-for-7 shooting, including 4­for-5 from behind the are. 
see STARS/ page 1 8 
Brewster recorded two solo blocks and three block assists. Kelbley excelled defensively as well, recording a match-high 20 points, two solo blocks and two block assists. Cooper and Stasiuk added three bloeks each. 
Connecticut kept the first two games competitive, but Notre Dame quickly regained control of the matches. In the first game, the Irish hit .375 and fin­ished the game with a 1 0-point margin on their opponents for a 30-20 win. In the seeond game, the Irish built on a 20-7 en route to a 30-15 win in which the team had 16 kills on .419 hit­ting. 
Connecticut saw their first and only win of the match up, leading throughout the match and fin­ishing eight points ahead of the Irish 22-30. The Husky defense held thf~ Irish to .135 on hitting, notching 25 digs and five blocks. 
see DEFEAT/page_ 17 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish rookie Brook Buck upset 93rd-ranked 

The Irish scored with three seconds left to tie a strong Bowling Green squad. 
page 17 
Victories in the freestyle events led the Irish to a resound­ing win over Iowa. 
page 15 

The Belles took home the team's first victory by dominating the 1,000-yd freestyle. 
page 15 

The Eagles fell to 7-1 as the Steelers took the battle for Pennsyl­vania's best. 
page 14 
Hala Sufi in straight sets to finish the fall 10-3. 
page 12 

R 
r;, 
r. 
f: 

O
THE Monday, November 8, 2004 BSERVER Notre Dame 17, Tennessee 13 

Defense steps up in hardfought 17-13 win over No.9 Volunteers 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Tennessee made only one big mistake against Notre Dame Saturday. But it proved costly. 
With 6:46 left in the third quarter, Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby intercepted Tenn­essee quarterback Rick Clausen's desperation pass and returned it 26 yards for a touchdown to give Notre Dame a 14-10 lead. 
Goolsby's first career touch­down would prove the game­winning score, helping the Irish to a 17-13 win over the No. 9 Volunteers. 
"Our offense was struggling a little bit, and we really felt like the defense was going to have to score," Goolsby said. "If it wasn't me, it was going to be someone else. The guys really stepped up and made plays when they had to today." 
Tennessee collected 327 yards of total offense, com­pared to 216 yards for the Irish, but it was Notre Dame who proved victorious -with an opportunistic defense prov­ing a major factor in that win. The victory makes the Irish bowl-eligible for this season. 
"I've always said there's no better time than now," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said abou·t his team's goal to make the Irish eligible for postseason play. "We really felt a sense of urgency and knew we needed to get it done. 
"Now we can start to estab­lish the level of play we want heading into the bowl game." 
Among the players who made big plays was Irish defensive end Justin Tuck, whose sack of Tennessee quarterback Eric Ainge in the second quarter gave Tuck the Irish career record for sacks with 23.5 -he would add a second sack later in the quar­ter to increase his mark to 
24.5 sacks. 
Irish linebacker Brandon Hoyte sacked Ainge during the final play of the second quar­ter, and the true freshman landed awkwardly on his shoulder and had to be helped off the field at halftime. 
Ainge proved unable to fin­ish the game, and Clausen, Tennessee's third-string quar­

terback, came in to replace the starter. Alternate quarter­back Brent Schaeffer was unavailable for the game, after breaking his collarbone in the third quarter of Tenneessee's game against South Carolina on Oct. 30. 
Ainge will miss at least the 
Notre Dame got off to a sluggish start, punting after just five plays on its opening drive and then allowing Tennessee to march 57 yards down the field for a 30-yard field goal by James Wilhoit ­giving the Volunteers an ini­
tial 3-0 lead. 
Tight end 

remainder of the "Every win Anthony Fasano SEC season with continued his
against a top team
a separated impressive play shoulder. is big.,, this season, com­"Losing Erik ing down with was really disap­Notre Dame's
Tyrone Willingham 
pointing to us," only offensive

Irish head coach
Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer said. "But Rick came in and did a good job for us. I told our football team to walk away from this holding their head high." 
touchdown of the game. fasano's catch came with 

5:16 left in the first quarter. 
Notre Dame looked as if it 
would go into the half with a 
lead, but the Irish defense fell 
apart with 2:47 left in the sec­
ond quarter. 
Volunteer running back Cedric Houston caught a short screen pass from Ainge and then broke several tackles on his way to a 56-yard touch­down. 
"I was really disappointed in that screen play we allowed," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "We missed about four or five tackles. We said at halftime that we were going to go back and stay with our game plan and it worked out for us." 
Clausen's interception to Goolsby proved costly, but the junior did not quit and came back two drives later to com­plete a 39-yard pass to Robert Meachem on the way to a 33­yard Wilhoit field goal -cut­ting the Irish lead to 14-13 with 1 : 2 8 Ieft in the third quarter. 
The Irish made some breathing room in the fourth quarter, putting together a 11-play, 43-yard drive that culminated with D.J. Fitzpatrick's 39-yard field goal with 7:23 left. 
The Irish defense held strong, stopping the Tennessee offense the rest of the game and forcing the Volunteers into a fourth-and­18 situation with 1 :22 left in the game. Clausen's pass failed, and the Irish were able to kneel out the clock. 
"Every win against a top team is big," Willingham said. "We have played hard enough to win every game this year, but we need to learn to be more consistent." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

player of the game 


Mike Goolsby 

The senior linebacker led the team tDith 14 tackles. a new career-high. His interception return for a touchdown proved the game-winning score. 
stat of the game 
58 
Yards rushing allowed by the Notre Dame defense. Tennessee was forced into a one-dimensional offense that led to Goolsby s pick. 
play of the game 
Mike Goolsby's 26-yard interception return for a touchdown 
Goolsby's play proved to be the game­winner and helped the Irish win despite an anemic offense. 
quote of the game 
'Tm out there to hit somebody, and that's what I did. " 
Brandon Hoyte Irish linebacker on the hit that injured Tennessee quarterback Erik Ainge 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 8, 2004 
report card 

B­B B­B+ A A 
c c 
B+ 

for winning a tough game with a top-tier opponent
2.98 

after everyone counted them out before the kickoff. 
adding up the numbers 
Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer's record when leading at the half, before Notre 
94­
5

Dame's come-from-behind victory Saturday over the Volunteers 
number of sacks collected by Irish defensive end Justin Tuck in his career, breaking Kory
24 5

• Minor's previous career mark of 23 sacks 
Notre Dame's record in regularly­scheduled games following a bye week 
24-2

since 1984, including Saturday's victory over Tennessee 
216 
total offensive yards by Notre Dame Saturday, the fewest yards the Volunteers allowed to a winning opponent since a 21-17 loss to Memphis in 1996 
number of players this season who have caught at least one pass for the Irish­Marcus Wilson became the 20th after 
20 
an 18-yard reception Saturday 

1 
number of false start penalties the Irish committed in front of a deafening crowd of 
107,266 fans 

average yards per rush by Tennessee as it gained 58 net yards on the game 
1.5 

14 
number of tackles by Mike Goolsby, leading the team and giving the senior linebacker a 
new career high quarterbacks: Quinn wasn't flashy, 

completing 12-of-23 for 118 yards 
and one touchdown. But he got the job done and avoided throwing 
interceptions. 

running backs: Grant, Walker and Wilson combined for a good running game that helped the Irish put togeth­er a few scoring drives. Quinn's nega­tive 30 yards hurt the team's net total. 
receivers: Fasano scored a touchdown and Stovall had a nice 29-yard recep­tion. But Samardzija dropped two passes, and no receiver really stood out from the pack. 
offensive line: The line made several big holes against the Tennessee defensive line, but allowed Quinn to 
be sacked three times. 
defensive line: The defensive line played really well, with Tuck collect­ing two sacks and Landri providing the pressure that led to Goolsby's touchdown. Holding the Volunteers to 58 yards rushing isn't bad, either. 
linebackers: Goolsby scored and Hoyte knocked Ainge out of the game and stopped a key fourth-and-short conver­sion late in the game. The three starters collected 33 tackles total. 
defensive backs: The Volunteers collected 269 yards passing, with Ellick burned on several plays. Burrell and Zbikowski were practically invisible. 
special teams: Fitzpatrick made a big field goal late, but had one ofhis poor­er performances punting. The Irish kick return game is still pathetic. 
coaching: The coaches had a game plan 
and stuck with it. The team was obvi­ously up for this game, and it showed. 
Notre Dame's offense should have been more productive, though. 
overall: Give credit to the Irish 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.-In the next chapter of a college football novel that has defined inconsistency, Notre Dame beat its second top-10 opponent of the season Saturday. 
The Irish vic­
timized Michigan on Sept. 11, and Saturday they downed Tennessee. But as the Notre Dame players galloped off the 


sidelines and Pat Leonard onto the field in celebration, I 
Associate 

paused and 
Sports Editor 

thought: if only. 
If only this team had not fallen apart against a mediocre-at­best Boston College team. If only the Irish were prepared for their season-opener against BYU. If only Notre Dame had come into Neyland Stadium with a 7-1 record to beat the red-hot Volunteers. 
Because if all of those hypotheti­cal situations were true, Saturday's win over Tennessee arguably would have been the biggest victo­ry for Notre Dame since Lou Holtz beat Florida State in 1993. And coachr,s, players and fans every­where would be talking about tak­ing care of Pittsburgh, knocking No.1 USC off its pedestal and going to a BCS bowl. 
Students would be dusting off their "Return to Glory" T-shirts. Notre Dame, in every way, would be back. 
There would be no more cries for a coaching change, no references 
to Irish futility like the one in a Rick Reilly "Sports Illustrated" col­umn: "Against Notre Dame, I'd take us and the points. But that's just me." . 
But inconsistency has cost Notre Dame dearly this season, and even a 17-13 statement win over Tennessee cannot elevate the 2004 Irish to their traditional goal­greatness. 
Yes, Notre Dame is only one of two teams to have beaten two top­1 0 teams this season along with Auburn. 
Yes, the win makes Notre Dame bowl eligible. And a who converted the mistake into six points. 
All the same, the 2004 Notre Dame football team remains an enigma. 
The run defense has been consis­tent and superb. But the pass defense has been woeful [see Purdue]. The passing game has made not only strides but leaps, yet the offense sputters. The run­ning game has been inconsistent, congruent with the play of the offensive line. 
"I would hope our football team has the ability to be successful in all situations," 
split in the season's Irish coach Tyrone
··we have to work hard 
remaining two Willingham said. games against to get to that level of "We have to work Pittsburgh and USC consistency where we hard to get to that will have the Irish at level of consistency
have this kind of
7-4 in a position to, where we have this 
at worst, reverse energy in every game.·· kind of energy in their 2003 record of every game." 5-7. But the fact is Tyrone Willingham What Notre no Division-! NCAA Dame's defeat of
Irish coach 
football team should be able to beat Notre Dame with its third-string quarter­back. 
Make no mistake, though. That takes no credit away from what the Irish players have done. 
Notre Dame showed it had guts Saturday. 
Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer cost his team by running the final first half play out of shotgun, but it was Brandon Hoyte who made Fulmer pay by knocking his start­ing quarterback out of the game. 
Tennessee third-string quarter­back Rick Clausen made the wrong decision to force a pass in the third quarter, but it was Mike Goolsby 
Tennessee indieat­

ed was that the Irish are a good team with talented players on the field. 
What the win could have said, had the Irish taken care of busi­ness against Boston College and BYU, is that Notre Dame is great, again. 
But right now, that status belongs only to an Irish opponent now just three weeks away on the schedule. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Monday, November 8, 2004 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Goolsby leads defense by example 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.-Mike Goolsby's 
third-quarter touchdown did more 
than a·dd points. 
The score gave Notre Dame a lead it 
would hold the rest of the game to 
upset No. 9 Tennessee. It was 
Goolsby's first career touchdown. 
And with these factors and the 
adrenaline created by a capacity 
107 ,000-plus crowd, Goolsby didn't 
even think to shuffle his feet in the 
end zone? 
"I can't dance," Goolsby said. He may not dance, but he changes games. 
Goolsby led all tacklers in Saturday's game with 14 tackles, eight solo. His interception proved to be the differ­ence in earning Notre Dame's first road win over a top-1 0 opponent in eight years. 
"We were talking in the hotel last night about how this was going to be one of those games where it was going to be a big-time game coming down to big-time players,'! Goolsby said: "It's just great to be a part of it." . 
Goolsby was one of those great play­ers Saturday. 
On Sunday, the Walter Camp Football Foundation named Goolsby its National Defensive Player of the Week. Along with his 14 tackles, Goolsby had two tackles for a loss and one sack as the Irish beat their first top-1 0 team on the road since a 27-24 victory at No. 6 Texas on Sept. 21, 1996. 
But the interception loomed largest. 
"That was a huge play, because with that we had a chance to start to gain control of the football game," head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "What was really spectacular was that the pressure on the quarterback came with a three-man rush, and Mike was there to step up and make the play." 
The defensive line played particular­ly well Saturday. Justin Tuck made eight tackles and recorded two sacks. Nose guard Derek Landri finished with four tackles and one for a loss, and also provided the primary quarterback pressure that led to Goolsby's inter­ception. 
But Goolsby-joined by the tandem of linebackers Brandon Hoyte (11 tackles Saturday) and Derek Curry (eight) -has been arguably the most productive player on the defense this season. 
Coming into the Tennessee game, 
Tuck sets career sack record at ND 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -With his sack of Erik Ainge in the second quarter of Notre Dame's 17-13 victory over Tennessee on Saturday, Irish defensive end Justin Tuck made his ·mark in the record books. 
Tuck's sack gave him 23.5 for his career, breaking Kory Minor's record of 22.5 sacks. 
"That was a fun matchup," Tuck said. "We knew that their strength was the offen­sive line and that one of our strengths was the defensive line." 
The Kellyton, Ala. native would add another sack later in the game, allowing him to increase the record in front of over 20 family members and friends who made the trip up to Knoxville to watch Tuck play. Something to prove 
Notre Dame's two wins over ranked opponerrts in the 2004 season have both come immediately after losses to unranked opponents. 
The Irish defeated then-No. 7 Michigan Sept. 11, after losing to BYU the week before. Notre Dame fell 24­2 3 to Boston Gellege two weeks ago, but was able to bounce back with a big win over the No. 9 Volunteers Saturday. 
"It's always against human nature to want to prove peo­ple wrong, and to do some­thing they don't expect," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "I hope we have the ability to go with the grain as well as against it." 
Stopping the run 
Notre Dame's defense held Tennessee to 58 net yards rushing and a 1.5-yard aver­age per carry for the game. 
The win Saturday marked the sixth time this season that the Irish have held an opponent to fewer than 100 yards in game. Notre Dame is 3-3 in those games. 
"Shutting down their run­ning game was the main thing we wanted to do," Irish defensive baek Dwight Ellick said. "When you shut down a team's rushing abilities you make them one-dimensional. 
"We wanted to come in here and dominate the line or scrimmage and shut down the run, and we feel like we did that." 
Making a stand 
The Irish did not allow Tennessee to convert any of its three fourth-down conver­sion attempts in Saturday's game, a fact that proved a major difference in Notre Dame's defeat of the Volunteers. 
Notre Dame's first fourth­down stop came with 7:37 in the second quarter and the ball on the Ir:ish 35-yard line. Tennessee quarterback Erik Ainge threw an incomplete pass on fourth-and-7 and the Irish took over possession of the ball. 
The team's biggest stop might have come in the fourth quarter, with the score 14-13 in favor of Notre Dame and the Volunteers driving. On fourth-and-one from the Irish 34-yard line, Tennessee quarterback Hick Clausen handled off the ball to run­ning back Gerald Riggs, Jr., who was hit immediately by linebacker Brandon Boyte and ended up short of the first-down marker. 
"That might have been the game," Irish defensive coor­dinator Kent Baer said. "We had a pretty good idea what they were doing and !Brandon] really stepped and made a big play right there." 
The Irish immediately took over and drove down the field for a 39-yard field goal by D.J. fitzpatrick, giving Notre Dame a 17-13 lead. Notre Dame's final fourth­down stop came on the final Tennessee drive of the game, when Clausen's pass to Jayson Swain on fourth-and­18 fell incomplete with 1 :22 remaining. Game captains 
Captains Saturday for the Irish were Tuck, running back Ryan Grant, lineback~r Mike Goolsby and offensive lineman Mark LeVoir. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby rumbles toward the endzone after picking off Tennessee's Rick Clausen in the third quarter Saturday. 
Goolsby led Notre Dame in tackles with 70. The closest Irish defender behind him, free safety Quentin Burrell, had 52. 
Goolsby's third-quarter interception, then, satisfied a team frustrated by dominant offenses. 
"It feels good to be more aggressive on defense and not just sit back and let them take your defense apart," Goolsby said. 
The senior gave credit to his defen­sive coaches' aggressive game plan, as well, while defensive coordinator Kent Baer understood his leader's contribu­tion. 
"Goolsby did a nice job," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "We were in man coverage there, and he did a nice job of jumping the [running] back. The quarterback probably shouldn't have thrown the ball, but that's part of football." 
Opponents now know they should find the number 41 before any play ­run or pass. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
scoring ­summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 7 0 7 3 11 Tennessee 3 7 3 0 13 
First quarter Tennessee 3, Notre Dame 0 
James Wilhoit 30-yard field goal with 8:57 remaining Drive: 9plays, 57 yards, 4:14 elapsed Notre Dame 7, Tennessee 3 
Anthony Fasano 8-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 5:16 remaining (O.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 7 plays, 80 yards, 3:37 elapsed 
Second quarter Tennessee 10, Notre Dame 7 
Cedric Houston 56-yard reception from Erik Ainge with 2:47 remaining (Wilhoit kick) Drive: 6 plays, 78 yards, 2:39 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 14, Tennessee 10 
Mike Goolsby 26-yard interception return (Fitzpatrick kick) 
Drive: 1 play, 26 yards, 0:00 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Tennessee 13 
Wilhoil33-yard field goal with 1:28 remaining 
Drive: 5 plays, 44 yards, 1:28 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 17, Tennessee 13 
Fitzpatrick 39-yard field goal with 7:23 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 43 yards, 3:30 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

36-98 rushes-yards 39-58 12-23-0 comp-att-int 21-36-1 2-18 punt returns-yards 3-24 0-0 fumbles-lost 0-0 3-9 penalties-yards 2-20 13 first downs 17 
passing 
rushing 

Quinn 12-23-0 Ainge 11-18-0 Clausen 10-18-1 

Walker  9-70  Houston  18-65  
Grant  12-50  Riggs  9-37  
Wilson  2-12  Tinsley  1·3  
Holiday  1-3  Hannon  1-0  
Powers-Neal  1-1  Clausen  2-(-13)  
Thomas  1-(-2)  Ainge  6·(-17)  
receiving  
McKnight  4-35  Swain  5-68  
Stovall  2-41  Houston  4-78  
Fasano  2-16  Meachem  4-67  
Wilson  1-18  Smith  2-17  
Carlson  1-3  Brown  2-15  
Powers-Neal  1-3  Riggs  2-6  
tackling  
Goolsby  14  Burnett  11  
Hoyte  11  Allen  10  
Curry  B  Mahelona  6  
Tuck  8  Hefney  5  
Zbikowski  7  Boulware  4  
Jackson  6  Mitchell  4  
Burrell  4  Gaither  4  
Landri  4  Haralson  3  
Richardson  4  McBride  3  

-~----------------­

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 8, 2004 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 


SOUTHERN COOKIN' 
Notre Dame's defense held strong Saturday, makin~ up for an offensive 
attack that only collected 216 total yards -with 141 of those yards coming in the first quarter. Brady Quinn's touchdown pass to Anthony Fasano in the first quarter was the only Irish offensive touchdown, but Mike Goolsby's 26­yard interception return for a touchdown gave the Irish much-needed breathing room against the No.9 Volunteers. Tennessee's rushing game was stopped in its tracks, and Irish defenders picked up five sacks in the victory. 



Clockwise from top left to bottom left, Anthony Fasano catches the ball for a touchdown. Irish defensive end Justin Tuck shakes hands with Tennessee running back Gerald Riggs, Jr., after the game. Mike Goolsby and Derek Curry sack Tennessee quarterback Erik Ainge. Irish running back Darius Walker breaks free of the Tennessee defense for a big gain. Brandon Hoyte, Preston Jackson and Mike Goolsby take down Riggs. Irish quarterback Brady Quinn is hurried by Tennessee's Robert Boulware. 






