
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ROTC to hold ceremonial Pass in Review today 

By MATT BRAMANTI Senior Staff Writer 
The annual HOTC Pass in Review will be held today in Loftus Sports Center, despite a 1,000-signature petition calling for a South Quad location for the ceremony. 
The event, at which Notre Dame's Army. Navy and Air Force ROTC units present them­selves to University President Father Edward Malloy, is a tra­ditional year-end exercise for cadets and midshipmen. 
ROTC Tri-Military Commander Kevin Conley said the ceremo­ny's heritage dates back to the medieval era. In the middle ages, noblemen hosted parades of their armies in honor of visit­ing dignitaries. 
He said the modern iteration of the Pass in Review pays trib­ute to Notre Dame's traditional support of the military. 
"The real purpose of the cere­mony is to honor the University for the support they give us dur­ing the year," Conley said. 
During the event, ROTC cadet leaders will call their units to attention and present them to Malloy and their assembled offi­cers. The reviewers will then present several top cadets with ceremonial swords -tradition­al military awards for outstand­ing performance. Malloy is expected to give brief remarks about the cadets' responsibili­ties before the student-soldiers parade before the reviewing platform. 
The location of the ceremony was a controversial issue this year, as it has for the past three years. In 2001, administrators moved the event to Loftus from its prior location on South Quad, citing the potential for inclement weather. The Pass in Review has been held on the 
see ROTC/page 6 
College apologizes forco:medy show 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Senior Staff Writer 
In a campus-wide letter sent Monday. Saint Mary's vice president for student affairs Linda Timm apolo­gized for the content of a comedy act that recently appeared on campus. 
Several students. faculty and staff left the March 29 performance of "Alfred and Seymour" -an act booked last fall by the Student Activities Office to provide an educational perspective on racism and stereotypes ­feeling offended rather than educated. Timm responded to seven letters of concern citing the act's reinforcement of degrading racial stereotypes. 
"The educational message that we believed 'Alfred and Seymour' would deliver clear­ly did not come across as expected," stated Timm in her letter. 
Melanie McDonald, director of public relations at Saint Mary's, said that the group, 
sec COMEDY/page 8 

Retreat Center to close in December 
Facility to reopen as a retirement home for the congregation 
By ANDREW THAGARD Senior Staff Writer 
The Fatima Retreat Center, located on Saint Mary's Lake, will close as a retreat center in December and reopen as a retirement facility for Holy Cross priests and brothers in 2006, according to Jim Kavanaugh, the Center's inter­im director. 
The decision to close the Center after 48 years of opera­tions was made in September by the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. which owns and operates the property. Business at the Center was good, according to Kavanaugh, and he said usage was not a factor in the Province's decision. Last year, Fatima welcomed 37 sponsored retreats and 139 hosted groups. 
"I think [the Congregation of Holy Cross] wanted to pick a nice location for retirement," Kavanaugh said. "The location is ideal. It's a wonderful place for a retreat center but it will 
sec FATIMA/page 6 

Police investigating off-campus mailbox theft 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Sraff Writer 
The St. Joseph County Police Department is investigating the theft of a mailbox from the College Park Apartment Complex. 
The mailbox, which served 12 student apartments at 18063, 18065 and 18067 Bulla Road and was bolted to the sidewalk with masonry screws, was taken sometime between Thursday and Friday after­noon. Senior Crystal Prentice, a College Park resident. reported the theft to police Friday after­noon when she discovered that the mailbox was missing. 
"I went to get the mail, but the mail was not really there," Prentice said. 
Prentice also reported the theft to Paramount Management, who manages the complex. Property manager Patti Russwurm said that the mailbox will cost $1,500 to replace and that Paramount is offering a reward for the return of the mailbox or information that leads to an arrest. 
''I'm assuming that [the mail­box] is in somebody's apart-


Angela improvements underway 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Staff Writer 
The Indiana Department of Transportation is in the process of making lane changes and signal improve­ments at the intersection of Angela Ave. and Indiana 933, also known as U.S. 31, and predicts that construction at the high-traffic area will be completed within the next two Mike Mantei said that the work involves modifying the right­turn lane from westbound Angela onto northbound 31. Before the project began, the right turn lane merged onto 31 without stopping at the light and was the cause of numer­ous accidents. 
"There will still be a sepa­rate right turn lane. just in a different form," Mantei said. "Instead of having free flow. 
ment actually," Husswurm said. 
"Hopefully someone will turn it in willingly or give us a tip on where it is located." 
According to the Postal Service. mailboxes are consid­ered federal property and fed­eral law makes it a crime to vandalize them. Violators can be fined up to $250,000 or be 
see MAILBOX/page 6 
• 

look. We want them to pay more attention to where they're turning and look for oncoming traffic." 
While the right turn lane is presently closed, it will reopen when construction is complet­ed and there will be four lanes of traffic on westbound Angela through the intersection -a dedicated left turn lane, two dedicated through lanes and one dedicated right turn lane. 
Construction at the Intersection of Angela Road and U.S. 31 weeks. now [drivers] will have to come Includes changes In tum lanes and Improvements In traffic signals. INDOT project supervisor to the corner and stop and see ANGELA/ page 6 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Yo creo en los EE.UU. 
"I believe in America," the Italian­born undertaker says. "America has made my fortune." 
That's the first line from "The Godfather," and it's a poignant expression of a faith that it sadly lacking today. 
Why do hun­dreds of thou­sands of Mexican immigrants risk prison, even death, to sneak across our south­ern border every year? They're not on their way to Canada. They have seen, like generations of immigrants before them -from all corners of the earth -that this is a place where anyone can succeed. 
Immigrants exemplify the American Dream: starting from scratch in a new place, hoping to make a better life for their families. We shouldn't close our borders to these people. 
I've heard the arguments for restricting immigration. One of the most common is this: they'll take our jobs. 
I don't like that kind of thinking. The implication is that native-born Americans are entitled, that the rest of the world should bicker over the scraps from Uncle Sam's table. But what anti-immigration people tend to forget is that nearly all of us are descended from immigrants. 
Americans are mutts. We come from all over the world. We don't have a rigid class system, where birth or breeding is a guarantee of failure or success. If we work, we get to reap the fruits of that labor. If we don't, we fall behind. Ricardo and Juana should get the same shot at the American Dream that Dick and Jane get. 
I'm not some starry-eyed idealist, though. I realize that we need to pro­tect our borders, especially in this age of international terrorism. 
And we should keep an eye on peo­ple who come into this country. Some people come here and get in trouble with the law. Some of them exploit government handouts. Some refuse to submit to periodic checks. We should have no tolerance for people who won't play by the rules, because they only make it harder for those who do. 
Yes, an influx of cheap labor tends to reduce wages overall. But free enterprise -the cornerstone of the American economy -has led to mind-boggling prosperity all along the economic spectrum. 
A good deal of this prosperity is because people are willing to come here for a chance at success. I've seen it up close. As a Texan, I've seen the great contributions Hispanic immigrants have made. As the great­grandson of Italian immigrants, I hope to make tho~ contributions myself. 
Immigrants and this country will move upwards together, if we give them a chance to believe in America. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at braman­ti.l@nd. edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us" at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU GET IN YOUR EASTER BASKET? 



Julia Cunningham  Claire Hoffman  Mary Squillace  
Freshman  Freshman  Sophomore  
McGlinn  McGlinn  McGlinn  
"Peeps!"  "A brand new  "Chocolate  
Easter bonnet."  matzo balls. "  





Teresa Rlva Kevin Richards Marina Zavolock 
Freshman Senior Freshman McGlinn Off-Campus Lewis 
"Chocolate "I didn't get an "I didn't get a 
,

kisses. Easter basket. I basket, but I got got no love for chocolate. " 

Nudists concerned about proposed dorms 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -Beach bums here could receive far too much exposure if a proposed pair of high-rise dorms are built on the cliffs above a world-famous nude beach. 
If the University of British Columbia builds the 20-story residences, binoculars and Web cameras will soon be trained on Wreck Beach, ruining beachgoers' privacy, Wreck Beach Preservation Society protesters said. 
"It's mean for the universi­ty to do," said Stephanie Gibson, 12, who has been raised in the buff on the beach. "I know they need more residences for the stu­dents, but they have to think of us." 
University Vice President Dennis Pavlich said Monday that the university will keep the group's concerns in mind when designing the build­ings. 
"All that's been approved so far is the concept," he said. "We are going to run our own tests in June and they will influence design considerations." 
Man bets life savings, wins $270,600 lAS VEGAS -A man who put his life savings on the 
line took home $270,600 in a double-or-nothing roulette wheel gamble at the Plaza Hotel and Casino. 
Ashley Revell, 32, a London man who said he liq­uidated all his possessions to fund his leap of faith, put $135,300 on red at the roulette table Sunday as a film crew videotaped his wager. 
A crowd, including his mother and father, watched as the roulette wheel was spun. The ball bobbled into various slots before landing on Red 7. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
IJ.I 
::r::: 
~ 
IJ.I 


3: 
.... 

.~
~ 
<1: 
(,) 0 

...1 HIGH 57 HIGH 43 HIGH 65 HIGH 72 LOW 50 LOW 37 LOW 47 LOW 52 

Easter." 
IN BRIEF 

"Management Practices at the ServiceMaster Company and the Drucker Tradition" will be presented today by Joseph Maciariello, Horton Professor of Management at Claremont Graduate University. The lecture will take place from 4 to 6 p.m. at Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture is sponsored by the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide and the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
The Tri-Military Presidential Review honoring and recogniz­ing the cadets and midshipmen of the Army, Marines, Navy and Air Force ROTC programs will be held today at 4:30 p.m. at Loftus Sports Center. University President Father Edward Malloy will be the guest speaker and the public is invited. 
Come support the baseball team tonight as they face Oakland University at 5 p.m. in the Eck Stadium. 
Interfaith Christian Prayer Night will be held tonight from 10 to 11 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Lounge. 
Students interested in a career in film or television are encouraged to attend a work­shop tonight from 7 to 8:30p.m. in 312 DeBartolo Hall. The workshop will help students learn how to obtain internships. It will also help students with resume writing, interviewing, networking and getting experi­ence in the industry. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 71 HIGH 72 LOW 51 LOW 51 
Atlanta 60 I 43 Boston 58 I 46 Chicago 63 I 41 Denver 70 I 40 Houston 74 I 52 Los Angeles 67 I 52 Minneapolis 69 I 45 New York 63 I 45 P~iladelphia 62 I 44 Phoenix 92 I 63 Seattle 56 I 42 St. Louis 67 I 48 Tampa 70 I 51 Washington 62 1 44 
Wnlnt:sday, April 14, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Surgeon highlights increased problem of obesity 
bariatric surgery, he said. The first, called gastric re_striction, minimizes the size of the stomach so the patient will be forced to consume less. The second, called malabsorption shortens the 
APr~ 15 Danielle Rose 
M.1tre DtmlegrudiuJ1e n1~?il!s'ing Itt'¥ seca.tul' fllltum. ltJpm 
APrM 16 Bin Bushart 
Dttroit r:.~'ffnit ·wlw has wwh:d wltlt tht bf&~t'?!.·t r.ra~ irr rt~Jm~J)~ !Opnr 
APr~ 17 WVFJ present,s Sa~urday Looks ~1ood To h1e 
W1fh 1l"JN'.-"1ftlJ.."Ut~ Wha'te<wr h?u W:im.t J()pf-, 
APr~ 20 Business Drinking Etiquette 
APril 21 Theology on Tap 
APril 22Live at Legends .. The Very Best of Acoustic Cafe 
APril 23 Swing Night with Bopology 
APi'il 24 SUB presents Slaintc f\1hath (TBA) 


length of active small intestine to minimize the amount of nutrients that the body absorbs through digestion. Gastric bypass surgery is the most common form of bariatric surgery done today, he said. A new "lap band" or adjustable gastric band wrapped around the stomach is a proce­dure that is also gaining populari­ty. The "lap band" can be inllated or denated by a physician by adjusting a control pad located beneath the skin using a syringe. Even gastric bypass surg~ry has become less invasive when sever­al small incisions arc made to allow the passage of long instru­ments and cameras instead of a big incision. 
For the most part, the surgery is safe and effective, Gomez said as he showed those present videos of several of the proce­dures. Ninety percent of patients who undergo the procedure will lose at least 50 percent of their excess body weight and most obe­sity related problems either improve or become completely resolved. Generally, the effect<; of the surgery also change the patients' outlook on life, Gomez said, as they become more inter­ested in living a healthy lifestyle when they see the rapid weight loss. 
Complications, however, do exist, including intestinal leakage in the short term and anemia and deficiencies in B 12 and calcium in the long term. Long-term defi­ciencies are treated with vitamin supplements, Gomez said. The procedure is a diflicult one that is challenging for surgeons to mas­ter. On average, a facility must perform approximately 300 pro­cedures before it sees a dramatic drop in the rate of complications, he said. 
Gomez emphasized that bariatric surgery is not for every­one. Potential patients arc care­fully ~>Cr~nod;\Q:Ilnsurc that they ha~tr made. fl f:iQiiiUus ell'ort to diet in tho past and that they are psy­chologically stable. 
The process, Gomez said, is a team effort that involves the sur­geon, patient, nurses, dietitians and other patients through a sup­port group. 
"We have to be careful," he said. "The surgeon alone is not it. We need to have a commitment from dietitians and patients." 
Gomez is an associate professor for the Indiana University School of Medicine. 
The series will continue next week with a lecture by Dr. Keith Lillemoc titled "Surgery: Past, Present and Future." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

By ANDREW THAGARD 
Senior SrafTWriter 
In a nation where 55 percent of adults arc overweight and 1.5 million people arc morbidly obesr.. Dr. Gerardo Gomez. a sur­geon and medical director of the Indiana University Bariatric Surgery Program. lectured Tuesday on obesity and bariatric surgery. The prnsentation was the fourth in the 1Oth annual "Mini­Medical School Lecture Series," which is sponsored by the Medical Education Foundation and pn~sented by the South Bend Center for Medical Education. 
Ob«~sity is a serious problem in the United States, Gomez said. It rncently surpassed smoking as tho numb«1r one cause of prevent­able deaths in the United States. 1\ach year :~00.000 people die from obnsity-rnlated causes. 
Excess weight also puts a sig­nificant financial burden on the nation, according to Gomez. It cosl<; the United States $51.6 bil­lion directly and $47.6 billion indirectly annually. 
"It's a medical disease and there arc medical conditions directly related to obesity," he said. 
Gomez attributed the high rate of obesity to the large quantities of readily available food at low costs, particularly fast food and soft drinks, made more abundant in part due to labor saving tech­nology. 
"Everybody's eating more and more," he said. "We eat a lot more than we really need." 
Indeed, an average American will consume 30 pounds of cheese, 15 pounds of ice cream, 152 pounds of added sugar, 111 pounds of red meat and 28 gal­lons of beer each year. And while proper exercise can shed excess calories, the fatty diets that Americans consume arc so calo­ric-rich that it makes it increas­ingly difficult to do so, Gomez said. One hour on the treadmill might burn 100 calories. for example, but a Whopper from Burger King is packed with 800. 
Physicians and insurance com­panies measure obesity using the Body Mass Index (BMI), which is calculated by dividing weight (in kilograms) by height squared (in meters). Ideal people have a BMI in the range of 20-24.9. People arc considered overweight if their BMI lies between 25-30 and obese if it's between 35-40. People who are morbidly obese or super obese have BMis in the ranges of 40-49 and above 50, respectively. 
"What causes obesity? Too much 'in,' not enough 'out,"' Gomez said. "It's pretty simple." 
Obesity may be simple to understand, Gomez said, but not easy to treat. 
While the old fashioned method of maintaining a calorie deficien­cy by consuming moderate amounts of healthy foods and exercising is the preferred means of losing weight, bariatric surgery is often an alternative pursued by the morbidly obese if it fails. It's also the only means that ensures consistent and permanent weight loss for morbidly obese patients, according to the National Institute for I lealth. 
"At the present time it [bariatric surgery] is the only long-term effective means for patients with morbid obesity," Gomez said. 
There are two main forms of 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Committee members recap involvement, events 
By TRISH DeGROOT 
News Writer 
The final Graduate Student Union meeting of the year was held Tuesday and members provided final committee updates. 
President Martiqua Post began the meeting by thanking those who served as committee chairs and officers. 
Timothy Dale then spoke on behalf of the Academic Affairs committee and addressed the committee's involvement with travel grants and account funding. 
John Young, next year's pres­ident-elect, followed with a report on the Health Care Committee's activities. The report included the following: the lack of attendance at Health Care Orientation, the possibility of adding benefits in the future, the Committee's support of Megaplan and adjusted premium for students. Young said the largest obstacle facing the committee is student ignorance regarding their options and their healthcare plans. 
Crystal Blount, from the Quality of Life committee, dis­cussed Fall Orientation and its success along with suggestions for change. She then proposed the possibility of later limiting GSU's involvement in Spring Orientation. She added that a new e-survey would be sent out at the end of this week due to a low response to the origi­nal survey. 
Electronic Resource Administrator Yanto Go high­lighted some of the new and existing features that will be available due to the introduc­tion of the new server. 
Guanjun Zhang, from the Information Technology Committee, discussed the implementation of RES~ET in the Village, printing quota updates, improvement of clus­ter services, CTC meetings and GSU cluster upgrades. He then concluded with a schedule for their committee and an outline of the upgrade budget. 
Alison Dekoschak, chair of the Publicity and Procedures Committee, whose job is to "announce events and oversee the organization's professional image," gave a timeline of past events. She highlighted the tasks her committee performed during both the summer and winter seasons. · 
Sharon O'Neill was the last committee chair to present, 
representing the GSU Social Committee. She spoke of its summer, fall and spring activi­ties which, included tickets to the 23rd annual "Taste of Chicago," "A Midsummer Night's Dream," "Romeo and Juliet," the lOth annual Blues and Ribs Festival, ice skating, a Thanksgiving brunch, a Mardi Gras party and a Wine Tasting seminar. 
The meeting concluded with a brief of old business and new business. 
Contact Trish DeGroot at pdegroot@nd.edu 


AAA plans Asian Awareness Week activities 
By DUSTIN VON HANDORF 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Asian American Association will cel­ebrate its heritage and cul­ture this week with movies and a banquet as part of Asian Heritage Week. 
"This week was chosen because it was right after Easter, and there is time for students to step back before finals," said Sarah Liu, presi­dent of the AAA. 
Held through Friday at 8 

p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center, various student organ­izations will present an Asian film of their choice. The Saturday night movie will begin at 7 p.m. "Wind Rider," "My Sassy Girl," "Ju-On," 
"The Debut" and "In the Mood will host a "Taste of Asia" for Love" are films slated for banquet Saturday featuring 
presentation. 
The Chinese Culture Society, Korean Student Association, the Japan Club, the Filipino American Student Organization and the Chinese Friendship Association are showing the films. 
"[Movies are] the fastest and easiest way to 
"The event promotes awareness, appreciation and understanding ofAsian cultures and encourages mutual respect for all racial and ethnic groups.,, 
Sarah Liu president 
attract people," Liu said. Week, the 
chicken with 
mixed vegeta­
bles, veg­
etable fried 
rice, beef lo 
mein and 
lumpia. 

The ban­
quet will aim 
to "cover as 
much [Asian] 
culture as we 
can," Liu 
said. 

Also con­tributing to A s i a n Heritage Free Burma 
"FTT doesn't show movies Coalition will present an regarding Asian culture." informational fair entitled In addition to a movie, AAA "Burma's Forgotten War" in 
LaFortune Thursday from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. The fair seeks to educate on the political unrest and social injustices occurring in Burma. 
Although Heritage Week is typically recognized in May to honor Asian Heritage Month, the AAA opted to celebrate during the school year to increase awareness among Notre Dame's campus commu­nity. 
"[The event] promotes awareness, appreciation and understanding of Asian cul­tures and encourages mutual respect for all racial and eth­nic groups," Liu said. 
Contact Dustin Von Handorfat dvonhand@nd.edu 


__ .... ililil*._.~ ..... *---......... :11111 ... ~-----.... ---.---­



l(saveuso~~ · ··1 
I HOTPOO.TIS4 .LEANOOQ;.lffS*', I I C'ROISSAki f~1CK£I'S"'---.­~~w...o-);1ci:.~~ ~·~ ~~i.-s:.:c f<«..~·="~~":t«-»~=~«<·Jo· I
I ~~mw~ ~~· w~~"!ll'~=~~ ~ I I :=:::!::·:.~=~=::: I
I ::+:«'" 9:-c:::'t-»:-c+:··:-~-n-X ..,."'"' :·l'~!l'll •·«H<.:·~ lf-:>1-:· 111~~1-S·»~. I 
:IMp ~j).~y.»irt)~ ~-~ ~-·~"'i ~~~I:IU.-·Ifft ' I ~.. ~~~~...~~~~·~::-~~==~r~ : I 
("'1'.~>.....~,;--~3'>.!1:.~·~......,~. s . .· 
L---------------------~--J 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 COMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. troops prepare for battle 
NA.IAF. Iraq -A 2,500-strong U.S. force, backed by tanks and artillery, massed Tuesday on the outskirts of Najaf for a show­down with a radical cleric whose militia led a bloody uprising across the south, raising fears of an American assault on the holiest Shiite city. 
Iraqi· politicians and ayatollahs tried to negotiate a solution to avert a U.S. attack, which would outrage the nation's relatively pro-U.S. Shiite majority and could turn what has been a limited revolt by a single militia into an outright Shiite rebellion. A military advance could also in!lame Shiites in neigh­boring Iran. 
FBI to probe Iraq abductions 
BAGIIDAD. Iraq -The FBI has joined the investigation of a series of kidnappings that have targeted dozens of foreigners in Iraq in the past I 0 days. a coalition spokesman said Tuesday. 
The most recent reported abductions were of four Italian security guards working for a U.S.-based company and a French TV jour­nalist. 
The wave of kidnappings by Iraqi insur­gents has ten at least 22 foreigners held hostage, including Thomas Hamill, a 43­year-old truck driver from Macon, Miss .. and three Japancso whose captors threatened to burn them alive if Tokyo didn't withdraw its troops. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
9-11 commissioners blast FBI 
WASHINGTON -In a world "blinking red" with terrorist threats against the United States. the FBI missed a last-minute chance to detect a key al-Qaida cell and possibly dis­rupt the Sept. 11 attacks, the commission investigating the 20<H hijackings said Tuesday. 
Delays and missteps in linking terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui to al-Qaida in tlw weeks before the attacks were emblem­atic of chronic problems within the FBI, including limited intelligence and analysis capabilities, outdated technology, poor infor­mation-sharing and floundering attempts at reorganization, the commission said. 
Poll: U.S. wants balanced budget 
WASIIINGTON -By almost a 2-1 margin, Americans prefer balancing the nation's budget to cutting taxes, according to an Associated Press poll, even though many believe their overall tax burden has risen despite tax cuts over the past three years. 
About six in ten. 61 percent, chose balanc­ing the budget while 36 percent chose tax cuts when they were asked which was more important, according to a poll conducted for the AP by lpsos Public Affairs. 
As the nation's tax deadline of April 15 approaches, people's lukewarm feeling about tax cuts may be influenced by a belief that recent cuts haven't helped them personally. 
STATE NEWS 
Fry truck wrecks, killing driver 
GAHY -A trailer broke from the semi· tractor pulling it after a fatal collision Tuesday on Interstate 80/94, careening through a water-filled ditch and into a house, police said. 
The semitrailer hit another after the driver apparently swerved to avoid traffic stopped by a construction delay about 1 a.m., state police said. 
The crash ripped open the side of the trail­er, carrying a load of French fries, and detached it from the tractor. The trailer ran off the highway, through a ditch with three feet of water and into a nearby house. No one in the home was injured, and police said the house did not sustain major damage. 
The driver of the truck, 41-year-old Darrell Butcher Jr. of Delavan, Wis., was pro­nounced dead at the scene, state police said. 
The other truck driver was taken to a hos­pital complaining of pain. 
Bush: U.S. will finish job in Iraq 
In rare press conference, president says he will order 'decisive force if necessary' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush sought sup­port for his embattled Iraq policy Tuesday in the face of rising casualties and growing doubts, holding 
' his first prime-time news conference since before the · war. The president also faced questions about whether he ignored warning signs about the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and botched opportunities to eliminate the al-Qaida net­work. A memo given to Bush a month before the attacks said Osama bin Laden's supporters were in the United States planning attacks with explosives. Framing his views on Iraq, Bush planned to open the news conference in the East Room of the White House with a 12-minute statement -a minispeech -about the violence and what's at stake for the United States in holding its ground. "What we arc working to achieve in Iraq is vital to making the world better and making America more secure," White House press secretary Scott McClellan said. April has become the deadliest month for the United States in Iraq since the fall of Baghdad a year ago. At least 82 U.S. forces have been killed and more than 560 wounded this month, according to the 
U.S. military, as American troops fight on three fronts: against Sunni insur­gents in Fallujah, Shiite militiamen in the south and gunmen in Baghdad and on its outskirts. At least 678 U.S. troops have died since the war began in March 2003. 

Iraq figures in Bush's decline in public opinion polls in two areas that are critical for his re-election campaign. Approval of his handling of Iraq has declined to the mid-40 per­cent level. and approval for his handling of terrorism has dipped into the mid­50s. Growing numbers of people say the military action in Iraq has increased rather than decreased the threat of ter­rorism. 
"I think you have to keep in mind that there are always challenges and dif­ficulties when you're going from decades of oppression to a future of democracy," McClellan said. 
Sen. John Kerry, the pre­sumptive Democratic presi­dential nominee, says the United States should keep control of the military operation in Iraq but recruit other nations to stabilize and rebuild the country. 
"Because of the way the White House has run the war, we are left with the United· States bearing most of the costs and risks asso­ciated with every aspect of the Iraqi transition," Kerry said in a column written for Tuesday's Washington Post. 
Kerry also said, "We need more troops and more people who can train 
Iraqi troops and  assist  
Iraqi police."  
McClellan  said  Bush  

looks to military command­ers to decide whether they need more troops. He said the administration was working closely with the United Nations and with Iraqi leaders on an interim government to assume responsibility on June 30 for a transition period, before elections are held. 

It was Bush's first prime­time news conference since March 6, 2003, just days before the opening of the war to depose Saddam Hussein. Bush's only other evening news conference was on Oct. 11, 2001, a month after the terror attacks. 
In the hours leading up to Bush's appearance, the national commission inves­tigating Sept. 11 held a tel­evised hearing and issued a report that said a more alert FBI and CIA working together might have uncov­ered the terrorists' plot. The report detailed an ago­nizing series of missed opportunities, half-meas­ures and bureaucratic inertia. 
Commissioner Thomas H. Kean called it "an indict­ment of the FBI for over a long period of time." 
IRAQ 

Unidentified bodies may be civilians 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Four bodies have been found in Iraq, possibly the remains of private contractors missing since an assault on their convoy out­side Baghdad amid a wave of kidnap­pings of at least 22 foreigners. 
A State Department official on Tuesday confirmed the discovery of the bodies, but the private contractor Halliburton said it did not know whether the dead were its missing employees. Initial reports said the four bodies were mutilated, but those reports were not confirmed, the offi­cial said. 
NBC News reported that the four bodies were in a shallow grave between Fallujah and Abu Ghraib, scene of the convoy attack, and that 
U.S. officials were led to the grave by an Iraqi. 
1\vo U.S. soldiers and seven employ­ees of Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg, Brown and Root have been missing since their convoy was attacked Friday on the main highway west of Baghdad, between the district of Abu Ghraib and the central city of Fallujah. 
The roads west of Baghdad have been a site of many of the kidnappings since the bloody fighting broke out across Iraq this month. Some abduc­tions have also occurred in the south. 
The most recent reported abduc­tions were of four Italian security guards working for a U.S.-based com­pany and a French TV journalist. 
A U.S. spokesman said 40 foreigners from 12 countries were currently held by kidnappers -though an Associated Press count put the num­ber at 22. 
The State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the four bodies had not yet been identified. It was unclear when the bodies were found. 
A spokeswoman for Halliburton Co., the major U.S. contractor in Iraq, said 
the firm also was aware that remains 
had been recovered but said it was 
not confirmed that they were those of 
its employees. ~"'­
"We are not yet certain of the identi­fication of these brave individuals, and no matter who they are, we at Halliburton arc saddened to learn of these deaths," the firm said in a state­ment. 
One of the seven missing employees -Thomas Hamill, a 43-ycar-old truck driver from Macon, Miss. -is known to have been abducted. His captors have threatened to kill and mutilate him unless U.S. troops ended their assault on Fallujah. The deadline passed Sunday with no word on his fate. 
Halliburton would not say if the six others were U.S. citizens or from else­where. 
The FBI has joined the investigation of the kidnappings, coalition spokesman Dan Senor said in Baghdad on Tuesday. 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Notre Dame Encounter retreat were held at Fatima. To com­
Fatinta 

pensate for the change next continued from page 1 year, Campus Ministry plans to 
expand its use of the on-cam­also be a wonderful place for pus Sacred Heart Parish retirement." Center, along with off-campus 
Although the Province will retreat houses. Sacred Heart continue to be involved in the Parish Center features a newly 
retreat ministry, it has no plans to open a new center, he said. 
Mary Olen, who staffs Campus Ministry's Retreat and Vocations Office, said that Fatima's closing will not have a significant impact on 
renovated kitchen and

"It's a wonderful place community for a retreat center room that 
makes it an

but it will also be a 
attractive

wonderful place for place to hold retirement. " retreats, Olen said. "It's a beau­
Jim Kavanaugh 
tiful facility,"


Fatima Center Interim 
she said. 

director "We're very fortunate to have it." 
Campus Ministry's activities. The advance notice that her Last year, the organization office received helped to mini­hosted 46 retreats. Some of mize potential problems in these, including the two-night organizing retreats for next year, Olen said. 
"We've had a while to look into it," she said. "A lot of retreats are one night [and] we'd be able to accommodate more than one [at Sacred Heart Parish Center] by shar­ing a weekend." 
Fatima employs eight lay people and two religious. Kavanaugh said that he plans to continue working for the Center during the renovation and transition period. The remaining lay employees will have the opportunity to pursue openings at Notre Dame or through the Congregation of Holy Cross. Personnel who handled food services and maintenance were contracted out through the University and will not be affected by the Center's closing, Kavanaugh said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Fellowship, said she doesn't expect an organized protest this year, but her organization is still devoted to removing ROTC courses from Catholic campuses. 
"We're still ardently hoping that one day, the University will stop hosting the ROTC pro­gram," she said. 
In an effort to reinstate the event to South Quad, members of the Student Senate circulat­ed a petition among student residence halls last fall. The petitions drew over 1,000 sig­natures, according to former student body president Jeremy Lao. 
Lao said student government 


Mailbox 
continued from page 1 

imprisoned for up to three years. 
Until the mailbox is returned or a new one is installed, a process that Russwurm said would take three weeks after it was ordered, students must pick up their mail at the Edison Road post office. 
Prentice said that having to go to the post office to pick up mail is a "huge pain," as has been the loss of at least two days of mail that was in the mailbox when it was stolen. 
"I don't know who would have taken it," she said. 'Tm not sure it Wffild be that bene­ficial to have a bunch of college students' mail." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
leaders asked administrators to hold the event outdoors, but were rejected. 
''We got a letter from Student Affairs saying no," Lao said. 
He did not elaborate on administrators' reason for the denial. 
Student body vice president Karla Bell said she and presi­dent Adam Istvan are continu­ing student government's sup­port of an outdoors location for the Pass in Review. 
"It's something that's really important to us," Bell said. "We fully support it." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Astronaut alumnus to lecture Thursday 
Special to The Observer 
Astronaut and University of Notre Dame graduate James Wetherbee will deliver a lec­ture Thursday at 1:45 p.m. in the auditorium of the University's Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Wetherbee, who is currently technical assistant to the director, Safety and Mission Assurance Directorate, Johnson Space Center, will discuss high reliability organizations (HROs). He also will examine leader­ship's role and responsibility in creating and maintaining the conditions necessary to sustain a culture of high reli­ability. 
A veteran of six space flights, Wetherbee has logged over 1,592 hours in space and is the first American to command five space mis­sions. Prior to his most recent appointment, he served as director of the Flight Crew Operations Directorate and as deputy director of the Johnson Space Center. 
Wetherbee graduated-from Notre Dame in 1974 with a bachelor's degree in aero­space engineering. 


Angela 
continued from page 1 
The other part of the project entails installing new signaling hardware and updated inter­section control equipment. 
"It's something that you can't see, but it should improve the flow through [the intersection] no matter which direction you are going," Mantei saitl. 
Work on the intersection began earlier this month. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
AstroTurf of Loftus ever since, prompting some students to suggest that administrators are trying to avoid a public con­frontation between ROTC cadets and protesters. 
In years past, the Pass in Review has been the target of protests by members of Pax Christi and the Catholic Peace Fellowship. 
Sheila Payne, a 2003 Notre Dame graduate who works with the Catholic Peace 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies is pleased to announce that Angela Bourke will be the Naughton 
Fellow for 2004-2005. A Senior Lecturer in Modern Irish in University College Dublin, Angela has published widely on oral culture and literature, including two books Caoineadh na dTn' Muire ( 1983), a study ofthe Crucifixion in oral religious poetry, and The Burning of Bridget Cleary: A True Story ( 1999), a critically acclaimed cultural history of how a young Tipperary woman came to be burned to death by her relatives in 1895. Her next book Maeve Brennan: Homesick at The New Yorker will be published in London by Jonathan Cape in June 2004 and by Counterpoint, New York in October. A highly regarded teacher; she has previously been a visiting pro­fessor at Harvard University and the University of Minnesota; she was appointed a member of Royal Irish Academy .in spring 2004. 
6012 IRST 304:0 I T H 2:00-3: I 5 Angela Bourke Minors only thru 2nd period 
Women in Irish OraiTradition Oral storytelling, traditional singing and other verbal arts can offer ways of thinking and knowing that are independent of the linear modes of writing and print. Moreover, like other kinds of art, oral tradition offers individuals and communities ways of constructing and maintaining identity, often against considerable external pressure. This course will explore oral verbal art in Irish and English, through tran­scribed texts, sound recordings and film, paying particular attention to depictions of and performances by women, and offering gendered readings of the material studied. We will examine and discuss a number of genres of oral verbal art, including the International Folktale, Legends of the Supernatural, and Lament Poetry, and will also pay attention to the use of this material by twentieth-century writers. Translations of Irish-language texts will be available, so no prior knowledge 
of Irish is required. 
,. 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
MICROPROCESSORS 


Dow 
Intel Ql earnings soar to $1.73B
10,381.28 -134.28

}ones ,4 
~ 

AMEX NASDAQ... 
NYSf 
S&PSOO 
Same: Down: Cotnpo5ite Volume: 

Chipmaker records 89 percent EPS increase, affirms Q2 revenue predictions 
Ill • 1,419,185,408 
Associated Press 
1,244.65 ~16.66 
SAN JOSE, Calif. ­
2,030.08 -35.40 
Stronge·r demand from
6,583.63 -100.02 
businesses for computers
1,129.44 -15.76 
and other high-tech gear 
helped boost Intel Corp.'s first-quarter profits by 89 

NIKK£1(Tokyo) 12,127.82 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,515.80 +26.10 
percent as the chipmaker reported improved sales 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
from all areas of the 
world. Intel also said it expects 

INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.25 +0.07 27.67 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -4.81 -0.19 3.76 
the current quarter's rev­

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.62 -0.16 25.45 
enues to be between $7.6 billion and $8.2 billion. Though the midpoint is 

MACE SEC INTL (MACE) +26.87 +2.15 I 0.15 
AROTECH CORP (ARTX) +22.22 +0.70 3.85 
below analysts' consensus expectation of $8.09 bil­lion. it's above historical 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.76 +0.89 51.48 
declines in the second 

I0-YEAR NOTE +2.60 +1.10 43.40 
quarter, one of the weak­
est periods of the year. "Intel's first quarter 

5-YEAR NOTE +3.66 +1.19 33.73 
3-MONTH BILL +1.10 +0.10 9.22 
results showed healthy 
growth in both revenue
C4mmoditles 
and earnings compared to a year ago, led by 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbL) -0.56 36.68 
GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -13.20 407.70 
improvement in world­

PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 I 03.00 
wide [information technol­-ogy) spending," said Craig
Excha Rates 
Barrett. Intel's chief exec­

YEN I 06.9 
utive. 

EURO 0.8378 
For the three months ended March 27, Intel reported a profit of $1.73 

POUND 0.5501 
CANADIAN$ 1.335 
billion, or 26 cents per share, compared with a profit of $915 million, or 14 cents per share, in the

IN BRIEF 
same period a year ago. First-quarter sales rose

U.S. retail sales jumped in Q I 
to $8.09 billion, comparedWASHINGTON -America's shoppers, 
with $6.75 billion in the buoyc~d by an improved job climate and tax 
•first quarter of 2003. 

rnfunds, indulged themselves in March and The results include a 1.7 
boosted sales at the nation's retailers by the 
cent-per-share charge

largnst amount in a year. a promising sign the from Intel's $225 million 
economy is back in the groove. 
payment to IntergraphThe stunning 1.8 percent gain in retail sales 
Corp. to settle a long-run­reported Tuesday by the Commerce 
ning patent dispute. The Department added to evidence that the econo­
agreement was announced my has closed out the January-March quarter 
March 30. 

of this year on a strong note and was entering 
Analysts expected Intel the current quarter with good momentum, 
to earn a profit of 27 cents analysl'i said. 
per share on sales of 

Shoppers splurged on a wide range of goods 
$8.16 billion. according to in March, including cars. clothes. furniture 
a survey by Thomson First and building and garden supplies. 
Call. In January, the Santa Clara, Calif.-based compa-

SEC readies Time Warner charJ!es 
ny predicted first-quarter sales of between $7.9 bil­lion and $8.5 billion. 
In an interview. chief financial officer Andy Bryant said revenues grew in· every part of the world. 
"Everybody contributed to that 20 percent [sales] gro..yth. It's not just emerging markets any­more. It's Europe and the 
U.S. well," he said. 
In January, Intel said demand for microproces­sors was at the lower end of seasonal expectations. Analysts believed that was due to a temporary and unexpected buildup of notebook computer inven­tory. 
"We believe that's resolved itself." Bryant said. "We don't see any of the excess mobile invento­ry at this point." 
John Lau, an analyst at Bane of America Securities LLC, said it appears demand has picked up for notebooks and burned off any excess parts. 
"As a result, we see the next generation notebook processor remains on schedule for volume deliv­ery in May," he said. "That wouldn't occur if there was still excess inventory of older parts in the chan­nel." 
The company said ship­ments of microprocessors declined over the fourth quarter, as did chipsets and motherboards. Processors, however, had a slightly higher average selling price. 
Intel said shipments of flash memory, used in cell phones, improved over the fourth quarter. The com­pany's communications group posted sales of $1.07 billion in the first quarter. compared wit_h $1.04 billion in the fourth, though the operating loss increased to $219 million. 

"If you go back and look at 10 years of history, the first quarter [sales] is almost always down. That was a pleasant surprise," Bryant said. 
Intel is currently ramp­ing up production of its latest Pentium 4 chip, which was released in early February. It also is updating its Xeon server processors to support 64­bit memory extensions to better compete with Advanced Micro Devices Inc.'s 64-bit Opteron processors. 
Dismissing reports of trouble with the Pentium 4's new manufacturing processes, Bryant said yields were higher than anticipated. 
Lau said Intel's guidance downplayed concerns about demand. 
"There has been a lot of concern in the market­place on the demand for PC notebooks and desk­tops," he said. "We're very comforted by the fact Intel has given us guidance for Q2 that is a seasonally normal quarter." 

NEW YOHK -Federal regulators are cTose to accusing Time Warner Inc. of faulty accounting for $400 million in revenue it 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
booked in 2001, a newspaper reported Tuesday. The company declined to comment on the report in The Washington Post, saying only 
CalPERS to withhold board votes that it was continuing its efforts to cooperate with the investigations being done by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the 
Citigroup's Weill, Berkshire Hathaway's Buffett among those targeted by fund 
Department of Justice. 
Hegulators have been investigating Time Warner's accounting for two years, including a $400 million ad deal with the German media conglonwrate Bertelsmann. The investigations are still under way, and authorities have yet to announce a conclusion. 
Jury picks begin in Quattrone case 
NEW YOHK-Jury selection began Tuesday in the retrial of Frank Quattrone, the highly successful Silicon Valley investment banker accused of obstructing a fnderal stock probe in 2000. 
U.S. District Judge Hichard Owen asked prospective jurors whether they had heard of the case and whether they could be fair despite the recent rash of headlines about cor­porate scandals. Most said they had not heard of the case and could be fair. 
Quattrone's first trial lasted four weeks before ending in a hung jury last October. 
Associated Press 

SACRAMENTO. Calif.-The coun­try's largest public pension fund will vote against keeping Sanford Weill on the board of Citigroup because as chief executive officer he allegedly played a significant part in several scandals that hurt the financial institution. 
The influential California Public Employees Hetirement System, known as CaiPERS. also announced Monday it will vote against retaining billionaire investor Warren Buffett as a member of Coca-Cola Co.'s board. 
In addition, CalPERS, which has assets totaling $164.1 billion, planned to withhold votes from some directors of six other financial institutions, plus Sprint, Burlington Resources Inc. and PG&E Corp.. the parent of Pacific Gas and Electric Co. 
"Our vote against Weill is a sym­bolic vote expressing our belief that he is accountable for the huge scan­dal. improper practices and conflicts of interest between the investment research department. and the invest­ment banking unit within Citigroup," CalPEHS spokeswoman Pat Macht said. 
CalPEHS controls 26.7 million Citigroup shares, less than 0.5 per­cent of the total. 
Weill, the company's CEO from 1998 to 2003, played a "significant role in several scandals to negative­ly impact the company," according to a CalPERS statement. 
In April 2003, Citigroup paid the highest penalty of any Wall Street firm -$400 million -to settle charges that its Smith Barney unit issued fraudulent and misleading research. Citigroup was one of 10 firms that together paid a total of $1.4 billion to settle with securities regulators. 
Weill stepped down as chief exec­utive in October but retained the job of chairman. 
"CaiPERS' decision to withhold votes from certain Citigroup direc­tors is unwarranted," Citigroup spokeswoman Leah Johnson said. "Citigroup adheres to the highest standards of corporate governance, business practices, accuracy and transparency in its accounting and financial disclosure.'' 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
show that discussed race in "Diversity is on the agenda of invited members of the cam­an offensive manner and administration. I think we pus to attend a viewing of
Co01edy 

[that] it seems that Saint would like to see it now a "Ethic Notions," a film trac­continued from page 1 Mary's is not providing an part of the everyday deci­ing the "deep-rooted stereo­
conducive environment for sions made on this campus." types which have fueled anti­which has performed at over all students to live," she said. Timm complimented black prejudice." The film is 100 colleges and universities, In response, SDB and the Marquez, SDB and the Office tentatively scheduled for had positive intentions. Board of Governance held of Multicultural Affairs for April 20. 
'"Alfred and Seymour's' emergency executive meet­organizing the forum. "The Saint Mary's commu­intended message is that peo­ings to assess appropriate "I appreciate the respectful nity is committed to explor­ple need to take it upon action. A exchange ing, encouraging and themselves to learn about forum on of dialogue embracing diversity," Timm other cultures in order to racial stereo­and views said. "Through the dedicated
"Diversity is on the agenda 
eliminate pervasive stereo­types was that has work of the Diversity Task
ofadministration. I think 
types in society," McDonald deemed the t a k e n Force, numerous depart­said. most proac­we would like to see it now p I a c e ments on campus and many The act received endorse­tive solution. around individuals, we are making
a part ofthe everyday 
ment from the National About 50 this partic­progress with regard to
decisions made on this
Association of Campus participants u 1 a r awareness and understand­Activities, an organization attended the campus. event," she ing." with which the College works forum last said. McDonald agreed, but also to secure campus entertain­Tuesday to S i n c e recognized the inevitability
Annmarle Marquez 

ment. Both Timm and openly dis­contacting that controversial topics will
SOB representative

McDonald specified that cuss ques­"Alfred continue to cultivate in all NACA maintains articulated tions regard­\. a n d college settings -including statements of non-discrimi­ing stereo­Seymour's" Saint Mary's. nation, diversity advance­typing and its affect both on booking agent•to convey cam-"Controversy derived from ment and affirmative action. personal lifestyle and the pus concern, the Student differing points of view is a 
According to Annmarie campus as a whole. Activities Office has learned fact of life that is not, and Marquez, a representative of "I think a very important that Saint Mary's is the third should not be, foreign to Student Diversity Board, realization at the forum was institution to complain about higher education," she said. opposition to the act was also that Saint Mary's needs to publicity used for the per­"College campuses are are­voiced to Board members. take appropriate measures, formance. Timm plans to nas for growth. That growth 
"Some concerns heard were no matter how extensive, present a written summary of is borne of ideas, both ben!gn that the comedy act was very when concerns are brought concerns to both the agent similar to a minstrel show, to the table regarding diver­and NACA. Contact Anneliese Woolford at [that] this was not the first sity," Marquez said. Concluding her letter, Timm wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • Local & Long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes-& Packing Supplies  
• Packing Service  • Loading & Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

{574) 675-9700 
www.twomenondottuck.com 
Visit Out Box Store/ 
11590 McKinley, SuiteD • Osceola, IN 46561 


Ford recalls SUVswith engine faults 
Associated Press DETROIT -Ford Motor Co. is recalling more than 363,000 Escape compact sport utility vehicles from model years 2001­2003 because the engine may stall at certain speeds. Ford said some Escapes with a 3-liter, V-6 engine may experi­ence an intermittent stall when decelerating at speeds below 40 mph. Of the total recall of 363,440, about 322,000 of the vehicles are in the United States. The remain­der are elsewhere in North America and overseas. In most cases, the automaker said, the driver is able to restart immediately after the stall. Ford said its automotive safety office has identified eight minor accidents that may have occurred because of the engine condition, three of which involved minor injuries. 

.-------------------­
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Mob allegations thre~ten casino project 
Associattd l'rtss 
CHICAGO -It sounds like a can't-miss deal-a new casino within sight of one of the world's busiest airports. 
But gambling regulators' dndsion to allow the casino in a suburban town whose mayor may -or may not -have tins to organiznd crime has set ofT an investigation and a storm of criticism, with critics on both sides setting a record for use of the term "mobbed-up" in a public debate. 
At issu1~ is a plan to build a casino in Hosnmont, next to O'Hare Airport and its millions of travell~rs per year. 
I>nvelopnrs and politicians arc positively drooling over the prosp1~ct of billions in profits and tax nwenun. 
But now. tho only people who semn happy about the mess are gambling opporwnts. 
"I call it the briar patch," said Llw Hev. Tom Grey. an anti-gam­bling activist. "Everyone who touehns this gel<; stuck." 
The firestorm was touched off March 15 when the Illinois 
Gaming Board chose only one of the five board mem­Mississippi-based Isle of Capri hers. Casinos to build in Rosemont, In explaining the board's vote, arguing its bid of $518 million chairman Elzie Higginbottom and the site's potential to tap said the decision was about tax into the convention and travel revenue. He said that it is regu­market, and the Chicago popu-lators' job to keep organized lation were best for the state. crime out. 
But the board acted over the "If we move forward with this recommendation of its own • facility, it will not be mobbed­
staff, which was worried about accusations that Rosemont Mayor Don Stephens, a long­time political powerbroker, had mob tics. The staff also had concerns about Isle of Capri's finances. 
Company executives have insisted their finances are healthy and the mayor has denied he is a crook, but IIlinois' attorney general sug­gested Hosemont may be unsuitable for a casino and has threatened to kill the deal. 
Also, Gov. Rod Blagojevich has appointed a former deputy 
U.S. attorney general to investi­gate the deal. 
"To simply trust the Gaming Board, I think, is asking the tax­payers and all of us, too much," said Blagojevich, who appointed up," he said. "And if you put a facility anywhereand it is not appropriately and properly reg­ulated, the mob will move in. They are mobile, ladies and gentlemen. They do not just sit in one spot." 
Despite the back-and-forth between the governor and the Gaming Board, the board on Tuesday hired the same investi­gator Blagojevich picked to review the board's decision on Rosemont. Higginbottom and Blagojevich both insisted there was no conflict of interest, say­ing the only way Eric Holder Jr. could review confidential Gaming Board documents was for him to be hired directly by the board as a special investiga­tor rather than by another agency under the governor's control. 
Madigan spokeswoman Melissa Merz said the attorney general was confident Holder would do his job "thoroughly and professionally." He will be paid up to $300,000 from the Gaming Board's budget. 
The project would be Illinois' lOth casino. Regulators esti­mated it could bring in as much as $2.6 billion in revenue in its first five years, producing $1.1 billion in taxes for the state. 
Isle of Capri president Tim Hinkley said Rosemont is still the best location in the United States for a casino. He defended his company, which operates casinos in five states, and said it should not be tainted by ques­tions about Rosemont's mayor. 
"You don't get 17 licenses just by being good guys. You prove yourself every single time," Hinkley said. 
In 2001, the Gaming Board rejected a previous attempt to open a casino in Rosemont. The board said the Emerald Casino project was turned down, in part, because some sharehold­ers had ties to organized crime. 


Student charged w-ith Net terroris111 
Associated P=s 
BOISE, Idaho -A Saudi grad­

uate student accused of setting 
up Web sites to help Islamic mili­
tants recruit followers went on 
trial Tuesday in a key test of a 
Patriot Act provision that bars 
the giving of expert advice to ter­
rorist groups. 
A jury of eight women and four men was seated to hear the ease against Sami Omar Al-I Iussayen, a 34-year-old University of Idaho student working on his doctorate in computer science. lie. is charged with three counts of aid­ing terrorism. lie is also charged with visa fraud and making false statements. 
U.S. District Judge Edward Lodge questioned potential jurors earlier Tuesday about their knowledge of Islam and religious conflicts in the Middle East and Chechnya, as well as their feelings about tt~rrorism. 
Opening statements wen~ scheduled to begin Wednesday. 
Al-llussayen is accused of helping to run Wnb sites that supported tho militant Palestinian organization llamas and other groups allngedly pro­moting terrorism. 
Federal prosecutors said he provided "material support" to terrorists, a crime that was expanded under the Patriot Act -the federal terrorism law passed after Sept. II -to include "expert advice or assis­tance." 
Al-llussayen was arrested at his home on Feb. 2(>, 2003, and has gotten strong support from students and faculty on tlw Moscow campus, where he had a reputation as a positive l1~ader of the small Islamic community. After the Sept. 11 attacks, he marched in a peace rally, donat­ed blood and worked to educate local residenl'i about Islam. 
Al-llussayen's lawyer has said that while his client set up the Web sites, any statmnenL-; made on those sites supporting terror­ism were not his, and he has been unfairly blamed for the words of others. 
The ease has been s0en as a test of the portion of the Patriot Act that prohibits providing expert advice or assistance to terrorist groups _ a provision that critics say can snare people who may inadvertently provide assistance because of their spe­cial skills. 
"We have a law that is shaky at best, and my feeling is that Sami is going to be the test case in this," said Hand Lowis, director of the Martin Institute for Peace Studies and Conflict Hesolution and the Martin School of International Affairs at the University of Idaho. 
But federal prosecutors said that in addition to running Web sites and e-mail groups for would-be terrorisL-;, Al-llussayen maintained bank accounts to funnel cash to another group with terrorist connections. 
lie is also charged with 11 counts of visa fraud and four counts of making false state­ments to cover up his alleged links to terrorists. 
Al-Hussaynn has been jailed since his arrest. llis wifn and thn~n children rnturned to Saudi Arabia in .January rathnr than light d1~portation. 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

page 10 The Observer + NEWS 

Pakistan says it shares on probe, .no comment on bombs 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan ­Pakistan said it was sharing with other countries informa­tion divulged by disgraced top scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan, but refused comment on a report he had visited a: secret underground plant in commu­nist North Korea and seen nuclear devices. 
The New York Times report­ed Tuesday that Khan, the father of Pakistan's nuclear bomb, told interrogators he inspected the weapons briefly during a trip to North Korea five years ago. If true, it would be the first time that any foreigner has reported inspecting an actual North Korean nuclear weapon, the newspaper said. 
The report cited unnamed Asian and American officials who have been briefed by the Pakistanis. 
Khan, long regarded as a national hero for helping Pakistan obtain a nuclear deterrent against rival India, confessed in February to transferring sensitive techno!­
ogy to North Korea, Iran and Libya. 
He received a pardon from Pakistan's President Gen. Pervez Musharraf, a key U.S. ally, but remains under house arrest in Islamabad as investi­gators continue a probe into his illicit nuclear deals. 
Jon Wolfsthal, who served as a U.S. government monitor at North Korea's main plutoni­um site in the 1990s, said Washington has believed for more than a decade that North Korea had enough material for one or two bombs. 
Khan is not a credible source, however, Wolfsthal said. 
"A.Q. Khan is a liar, and he's doing whatever he feels nec­essary to protect his own interests and protect the gov­ernment that has pardoned him," said Wolfsthal, now with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. 
"One way of doing that is saying, 'It doesn't matter what we sold to North Korea because they had weapons already,"' he said. 
Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said Tuesday that Pakistan had shared information arising from its investigations of Khan to other countries, but he did not elaborate. 
"We have investigated scien­tists. We are in touch with the world," he told a press confer­ence in Islamabad. 
Pakistani officials have pre­viously said they have offered information on the investiga­tion to China, Japan, South Korea, as well as the United States and the U.N. nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
The Times said that Pakistan has begun to provide classified briefings to nations within reach of North Korea's missiles. 
The CIA believes that North Korea already has one or two nuclear bombs, although some 
U.S. intelligence analysts believe it may have more. 
A high-level South Korean official confirmed Tuesday its 

Arinenians protest against leader 
Associated Press 
YEREVAN, Armenia-Police broke up a protest of some 2,000 people outside Armenia's presidential palace on Tuesday, the latest in a series of demon­strations over last year's presi­dential election. 
Opposition leaders vowed to keep up their public protests against President Robert Kocharian, whose re-election a year ago spurred opposition charges of widespread ballot violations. 
"The fight against the unlaw­ful regime will be kept up," said an opposition leader, Vazgen Manoukian. 
Organizers said several demonstrators were injured, but their condition was not known. 
In Washington, the State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the United States is concerned about the sharp escalation in the confrontation between the government and the opposi­tion. 
"We call on both sides to enter into a dia!()gue that will lessen tension and focus the political process on the chal­lenges of continued political and economic reform," Boucher said. 
He said physical assaults, raids on political party offices and widespread arrests and detentions' of opposition activists by the police "do not contribute to creating an atmosphere conducive to politi­cal dialogue." Boucher added. 
Kocharian considers the protests "an act of political extremism," according to his spokesman Ashot Kocharian. 
Last April, Armenia's Constitutional Court confirmed the results of the presidential vote but suggested that a refer­endum be held within a year to gauge the public's confidence. 

New Jackson allegation surfaces 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Detectives are investigating a new allega­tion of child abuse .against pop star Michael Jackson involving a person who claims to have been victimized in the late 1980s, a police spokeswoman said Tuesday. 
Jackson has pleaded innocent to child molestation charges involving another alleged victim in Santa Barbara County. Jackson attorney Benjamin Brafman said he was unaware of the Los Angeles Police Department investigation[!· 
"We have never been informed by the LAPD of any investigation that they are con­ducting of Michael Jackson," he said. "I would point out that since I have been involved in this case I have addressed liter­ally dozens of completely base­less rumors on a daily basis, and this appears to be just another one of them." 
The Los Angeles County dis­trict attorney's office asked the LAPD to investigate the new allegation a month ago, said Mary Grady, commander of the department's public information office. 
"The victim alleges the acts took place in the city of Los Angeles in the late 1980s," she said. 
The allegations are being investigated by the Child Protective Section of the depart­ment's Juvenile Division. Grady declined to elaborate on such details as the age or sex of the alleged victim. 
Los Angeles district attorney's spokeswoman Sandi Gibbons declined comment. 
"This is a matter under inves­tigation by the LAPD," she said. "We are not the investigative agency." 
Santa Barbara County prose­cutors did not immediately return calls for comment Tuesday evening. 
Steve Cron, a defense attor­ney who has represented clients accused of molestation, said the new alleged abuse would be within the statute of limitations if it occurred in 1988 and later. He said the accuser could also help prosecutors in ~he Santa Barbara case show 1;1'pattern of abuse, though the amount of time since the .alleged acts could hurt the accuser's credi­bility. 
"The questions are asked: Why didn't this allegation sur­face earlier? Why didn't he report it to someone a long time ago? How accurate is his recol­lection? How accurate is his ability to relay the events to someone else?" Cron said. 
Also Tuesday, an appeals court rejected a request by sev­eral news agencies to lift a gag order placed on the parties by the judge in the Santa Barbara case. 
An attorney representing news organizations, including The Associated Press, said in a filing last week before the state Court of Appeals that the order imposed unconstitutional "prior restraint" on attorneys and potential witnesses. He asked that it be immediately lifted. 
Jackson and his attorneys also oppose the order on grounds that it blocks their abil­ity to address false rumors and news reports. 
At a hearing earlier this month, the judge made what he said was a final change to the policy: He said attorneys wish­ing to respond to news reports could submit to him in writing what they wanted to release, and that he would rule on whether the statements violated the gag order. 
Jackson was charged by the Santa Barbara district attorney late last year with committing lewd or lascivious acts upon a child and administering an intoxicating agent to the child. Jackson has pleaded innocent. A pretrial hearing is scheduled for April 30. 
government had received information linked to the Times report from Pakistan and "related countries." 
"But we are trying to further confirm it as there are many unclear points about its con­tents and circumstances," the official said on condition of anonymity in Seoul. 
A Japanese Foreign Ministry official, who also did not want to be named, said the govern­ment was aware of the report and was cooperating with other countries to gather information about North Korea's nuclear activities. He declined further comment. 
The Times reported that Vice President Dick Cheney was briefed on Khan's asser­tions before he left on a trip to Asia over the weekend. 
It said Cheney was expected to cite the intelligence to China's leaders on Tuesday to press the point that six-coun­try talks that have been held in Beijing over disarming North Korea are going too slowly and that the Bush administration may seek 
stronger action against Pyongyang, including sanc­tions. 
The report said Khan told Pakistani officials that he began dealing with North Korea on the sale of equip­ment for a uranium-based nuclear weapons program as early as the late 1980s but did not begin major shipments to North Korea until the late 1990s agreed with the United States to a moratorium on its plutonium-based program. North Korea has since renounced that agreement. 
Pakistan denies any official involvement in nuclear prolif­eration, although doubts remain over how top military and government officials remained in the dark for years over Khan's activities. 
Pakistani officials said Saturday they've released three men questioned about the nuclear black market led by Khan. Four others -two scientists and two administra­tors who worked at the same laboratory -are still being held for questioning. 


Researchers consider El Nino predictable 
Associated Press surface temperatures, but 
they have not looked as far 

El Nino, the periodic warm­back because they need other ing in the equatorial Pacific data, which is only available that can change weather for recent decades, Chen said. worldwide, is more pre­The ability to predict the dictable than previously warming and cooling of the thought, researchers report. Pacific is of immense impor­
While some forecasting tance. methods had limited success The 1997 El Nino, for exam­predicting the 1997 El Nino a ple, caused an estimated $20 few months in advance, the billion in damage worldwide, Columbia University offset by beneficial effects in researchers say their method other areas, said David can predict large Anderson, of El Nino events up the European to two years in Centre for 
advance. "This will probably Medium-Range 
That would be a convince others to Weather boon for govern­Forecasts in
search around 
ments, farmers Reading,
more for even
and others seek­England. The ing to plan for the better methods. " 1877 El Nino, droughts and meanwhile, heavy rainfall El coincided with
Bryan Weare 

Nino can produce a failure of the 
meteorologist
in various parts Indian mon­
of the world. 

Using a com­puter, the researchers matched sea-surface temper­atures to later El Nino occur­rences between 1980 and 2000 and were then able to anticipate El Nino events dat­ing back to 1857, using prior sea-surface temperatures. 
The results were reported in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
The researchers say their method is not perfect, but Bryan C. Weare, a meteorolo­gist at the University of California, Davis, who was not. involved in the work, said it "suggests El Nino is indeed predictable." 
"This will probably convince others to search around more for even better methods,"said Weare. 
The new method "makes it possible to predict El Nino at long lead times,"said lead · author Dake Chen of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. 
Other models also use sea-
soon and a 
famine that killed perhaps 40 million in India and China, prompting the development of seasonal forecasting, Anderson said. 
When El Nino hit in 1991 and 1997, 200 million people were affected by flooding in China alone, according to a 2002 United Nations report. 
While predicting smaller El Nino events remains tricky, the ability to predict larger ones should be increased to at least a year if the new method is confirmed, Anderson wrote in an accompanying commen­tary. 
El Nino tends to develop between April and June and reaches its peak between December and February. The warming tends to last between 9 and 12 months and occurs every two to seven years. 
Chen said the new forecast­ing method does not predict any major El Nino events in the next two years, although a weak warming toward the end of this year is possible. 
page 11

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ISRAEL 
Sharon's party delays referendum on withdrawal plan 
Anociated Press 
.JimUS/\LEM -The ruling l.ikud Party on Tuesday delayed its refnrnndum on a withdrawal from the Gaza Strip by three days to May 2, fearing a basket­ball championship game would have kept too many voters at home. 
The agonizing over logistics n~nected the difficulties Prime Minister Ariel Sharon faces in trying to sell the plan to his hawkish party. Backers of the plan were concerned that many of those who did not feel strong­ly would rather watch the game than vote "yes," while the ideo­logical core of tlw party would volt~ "no" in any case. 
Sharon has proposed uproot­ing all 21 Jewish settlements in (;aza, as well as four settle­ments in the West Bank. as part of his plan to separate Israelis and l'ah~stinians in the absence of progress toward a peace agn~enwnt. In return. Sharon hop!)S to expand live large blocs of Israeli settlements in the West Bank. 
Sharon traveled to the United States on Tuesday looking for an endorsement from President Bush. 
Ahead of a meeting with Sharon on Wednesday. Bush gave only qualified support. He said Monday the pullout must be part of a peace agreement that would establish an inde­pendent Palestinian state. 
The Palestinians have demanded that the Gaza pullout be accompanied by a much larger West Bank withdrawal. More than 230,000 Israelis live in some 140 settlements in the West Bank. The Palestinians want all of Gaza and the West Bank for their future state and demand that all the settlements be dismantled. 
Speaking at a West Bank set­tlement before leaving for Washington, Sharon said Israel would keep the five blocs where almost half the West Bank set­tlers live, and linked that to his Gaza pullout proposal. 
But Sharon's biggest immedi­ate challenge is persuading his own Likud Party to support him. Likud, like Sharon himself, has been a main backer of set­tlement construction for decades. 
Several leading Likud figures oppose the withdrawal plan and have begun campaigning against it. Former Defense Minister Moshe Arens joined the list of opponents Tuesday. 
Arens told Army Radio that the plan is a "real mistake," adding, "I shall do everything in my ability" to persuade mem­bers to vote no. 
Settler leaders met in Jerusalem to launch their cam­paign to defeat the proposal. "Our fear is this is just the first step of many," said settler leader Bentzi Lieberman. West Bank settlers fear a Gaza with­drawal will set a precedent for a pullout from their areas. 
Lieberman said the settlers plan an extensive public rela­tions campaign under the slo­gan, "Brothers don't disen­gage." 
Polls show that the Likud vote could be close, and party offi­cials decided to delay it from April 29 to May 2 to avoid a clash with a major sports event. 
Tel Aviv is hosting the "Final Four" European basketball championship, and one of the games is scheduled for April 29. The Israeli team Maccabi Tel Aviv is in the tournament. 
Party officials said they were concerned many Likud mem­bers would decide to watch the game rather than vote. "They [party officials] decided that the Final Four really does conflict," said Likud spokesman Shmuel Dahan. 
In other developments. Israeli troops backed by armored vehi­cles raided a five-story apart­ment building early Tuesday in the West Bank city of Nablus, ransacking every apartment in the building in a search for a wanted llamas militant, Palestinian witnesses said. 

The raid sparked a shootout with Palestinian militants, and windows were shot out by the gunfire. The army said it arrest­ed two wanted militants. No Cij.Sualties were reported on either side. 
In the Gaza Strip, a Palestinian court convicted three men of raping and killing a 16-year-old girl and sen­tenced them to death in a case that has generated a massive public outcry in the Gaza Strip. A fourth defendant was sen­tenced to life in prison. 
The death sentences would be carried out only if Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat gives his final approval. Arafat has com­muted some death penalties and approved others. 
Late Tuesday, Israeli tanks entered the Hafah refugee camp on the Gaza-Egypt border, resi­dents said. Military o!Ticials said the operation was to search for weapons smuggling tunnels. No casualties were reported. 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Voters of all races go to polls 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG -South Africans of all races voted Wednesday for a new govern­ment for the third time in a decade with the party credit­ed with ending apartheid poised for another sweeping victory. 
Braving an early morning chill, voters lined up from as early as 3 a.m. in some rural districts to cast their ballots for a new national parliament and provincial assemblies. 
While there is little doubt about the outcome, political leaders worry that the thrill of democracy is waning ten years after South Africa's first all-race vote ended close to half a century of oppres­sive white minority rule. 
In 1994, an unprecedented 
19.5 million of the estimated 

21.7 million eligible voters cast ballots. waiting in long, snaking lines up to a mile long. That number dropped to 15.9 million in 1999 -71 percent of eligible voters ­and analysts say turnout could be still lower this year. 
South Africa's lingering poverty and unemployment. along with crime, corruption and a devastating AIDS epi­demic, appear to be wearing away the sheen on its young democracy. 
The main concern is apathy among the new generation of voters, too young to remem­ber the brutality of apartheid. 
President Thabo Mbeki has highlighted his African National Congress' achieve­ments and asked supporters to be patient in an unusual door-to-door campaign that took him from squalid shacks to comfortable middle-class living rooms. 

Wednesday, April 14, 2004

page 12 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 






Congregation ofHoly Cross 
fRANCE Suspect conunits suicide before extradition to U.S. Man wanted for Philadelphia murder hangs himselfwith sheets in prison cell 
Associated Press 
PARIS -A New Jersey man who fled to France after allegedly killing his lover in the United States committed sui­cide by hanging himself with a bedsheet from a drainage pipe in his French jail cell, his lawyer said Tuesday. 
Paul Eduardovich Goldman, 39, a naturalized U.S. citizen, killed himself Sunday afternoon in a prison in the suburbs of Grenoble, in the French Alps, even though he was under sui­cide watch, said attorney Arnaud Levy-Soussan. 
"He hanged himself with a sheet in his cell," the lawyer said. "He already tried to com­mit suicide at the start of his incarceration in January. So he was classed among detainees under special surveillance." 
"I don't understand because he was not meant to be left alone and to be under constant surveillance. But that wasn't the case. I think French authorities made a big mistake. That is clear," said Levy­Soussan. 
Goldman was caught Jan. 20 in Grenoble, southern France, where his extradition hearing 
With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of· 

was taking place. He was expected to be extradited to Pennsylvania to face first­degree murder charges in the fatal stabbing of Faina Zonis, 42, a Philadelphia mortgage processor found dead in her office on Dec. 29. 
He also faced U.S. federal charges of unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. 
A postcard found at Goldman's Mount Laurel, New Jersey, town house ultimately led investigators to a residence in Grenoble, where he was caught. 
His lawyer said Goldman learned just last week of the deaths of his parents. 
Edward Goldman, 66, and his wife, Inessa Lemashova, 63, committed suicide in January by slitting their wrists. The couple left a note saying they were disgraced by their son's conduct and didn't want to live. 
"When he was told, I contact­ed the prison director to say, 'Be careful. Mr. Goldman must be watched because he's not doing well and, on top of that, this type of news is not likely to make him feel better,"' his attorney said in a telephone interview. 
SPAIN 

Threats from al-Qaida continue 
Tape surfaces pledging further destruction 
Associated Press 
MADRID -Suspected terror­ists, linked to the March 11 commuter train bombings and who blew themselves up in a police raid earlier this month. left behind a videotape threat­ening more attacks against Spain because of its plans to send more troops to Afghanistan, the interior min­istry said Tuesday. 
News of the threats came as officials said investigators had arrested three more suspects in 
the train bombings, "We will bring war more crusade bringing the total troops to
to your homes, and 

in custody to 24. Afghanistan," a 
you will not be able

The badly dam­man is quoted aged videotape was to sleep at night." as saying by the found in the rubble ministry. of a Madrid apart­The daily El
unidentified ai-Qaida 

ment where seven Mundo said
bombing suspect 

suspects in the investigators 
bombings blew themselves up on April 3 as police moved in to arrest them. 
In two previously unintelligi­ble sentences on the tape that have now been deciphered by investigators three men claim responsibility for the train bombings in the name of al­Qaida and threaten more blood­shed unless Spain withdrew its troops from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
"We will treat you brutally. We will kill you. We will bring 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reveren Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Bishop of Peoria: 
Saturday, April17, 2004 •1:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 

:·· :; :··>···· 
.•···;•.;:::::·.., ::::;:;::;::;:&(i./1"::··· 


www.nri.e~tiJ,-Vocation 

war to your homes, and you will not be able to sleep at night," one of the men says in Arabic, according to a statement from the interior ministry. 
Incoming Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, elect­ed days after the train bomb­ings, has pledged to withdraw Spanish troops from Iraq. But he intends to double to 250 the number of Spanish soldiers in Afghanistan. 
"Your new ruler has begun his mandate with more fighting 
against Muslims 
and sending 
also found evi­
dence at the apartment that the alleged ter­rorists planned to attack a Jewish cemetery outside Madrid. 
Officials at the National Court, however, said they had no knowledge of such a plot. 
Spain has focused its investi­gations into the train bombings on the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group, an organiza­tion linked to al-Qaida. 
The group is also thought to have ties to another Moroccan terrorist group that has been blamed for last year's suicide bombings in Casablanca, Morocco, that left 45 people dead. 
National Court officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that two men -Abdelghafour Abderrazzak and Mohamed El Barrouchi -were arrested Monday in the south­ern port of Malaga. 
The Interior Ministry said a third unidentified Moroccan was also arrested in Malaga. 
Eighteen people, 14 of them Moroccan, have been charged for their alleged roles the March 11 attacks in which 10 bombs ripped through four trains in Madrid during the morning rush hour commute, killing 191 people and injuring some 1,800. 
The six suspects who have not yet been charged were expected to appear before an investigat­ing magistrate later this week. 
Spanish authorities say they are still seeking another six sus­pects. 
But officials say the core members of the cell that carried out the bombings are either in jail or were among the seven suspected terrorists who blew themselves up April 3. 
Also Tuesday, U.S. intelligence agents spent a second day ques­tioning al-Qaida suspects arrested earlier this year in Spain, the interior ministry said. 

Wednesday, April I4, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page I3 
CHINA 
Cheney sweeps through Asia on diplomatic tour 
Auoci.rcd Press 
BI·:I.JING -Vice President Dick Cherwy praised China on Tuesday for recent cooperation on issuns such as counterter­rorism and North Korea's nuclear ambitions, but ten­sions rnrnained over Taiwan, !long Kong and nuclear prolif­eration. 
"We believe we can do good work togntlwr," Cheney said at a dinrwr hosted by Chinese Vice l'n~sid1~nt Zeng Qinghong at the (;n~at !Iall of the People. 
Cheney. on the second leg of a weeklong Asia trip, also was nweting with Jiang Zemin. for­mer president and still the Communist Party chairman, and Jiang's successor as presi­dent, llu .Jintao. 
Administration officials said Cheney was prepared to prod II u and other Chinese officials to intensify efforts to resume six-country talks over North Korea's nuclear program. lie also was likely to convey the increasing U.S. concerns about Chinese efforts to restrict democracy steps in Hong Kong, oflicials said. 
Iraq was high on the agenda, too, although tensions were eased somewhat with the release on Monday of seven Chinese who had been held hostage by Iraqi militants. 
Before arriving here from Tokyo, Bush promised Japanese leaders unspecified 
U.S. help in trying to return to safety three Japanese citizens still being held in Iraq. 
lie praised Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi for not bowing to demands from Iraqi militants that he with­draw Japanese forces from Iraq. 
"It's important that our gov­ernments not be intimidated by threat of violence, that we not allow terrorists to change or influence the policies of our governments," Cheney told a foreign-policy forum in Tokyo. 
At the dinner held in 

Cheney's honor, Zeng noted place in this country" since that the vice president had last then, Zeng told Cheney. "We visited China in 1995, when he place great importance to your headed the oil business, visit." Halliburton Co. Cheney also was to visit 
"Many changes have taken Shanghai before concluding 
PRESS RELEASE NOTRE DAME NAVY ROTC Thursday -April 8, 2004 
on April 14, 2004, the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units at the University of Note Dame will be conducting their annual Presidential Pass-In-Review in the Loftus Sports Complex. It will be held at 4:30pm with University President Father Edward Malloy pres1ding. Select cadets and midshipmen who have excelled during the school year will be recognized. 
The tradition of the Pass-In-Review dates back several hundred years and began as a way for a military commander to inspect his troops. Honored guests were also invited to speak and review the troops. Notre Dame ROTC units have conducted the 
Pass-In-Review since military instruction began at the university and is performed as a demonstration of thanks university for its support. The public is welcome and encouraged to attend. Come and show your support for the and midshipmen, including the graduating seniors who will be on active duty. Please direct inquiries to the Naval Unit at (574) 631-7274. 
MIDN 1/C Kevin Conley Naval ROTC Tri-Mil Commander 
Fall 2004 Course on the Irish Gothic 
6490 IRST 477:01 T H 3:30-4:45 Joseph McMinn 

to the 
cadets soon ROTC 

Joseph McMinn, Professor of Anglo-Irish Studies at the University of Ulster, will be a Visiting Professor in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies in Fall 2004. An authority on Irish Literature in English, McMinn's interests range from Jonathan Swift to John Banville. His many publications include Jonathan Swift: A Literary Life (1991 ), Jonathan's Travels: Swift and Ireland (1994), John Banville: A Critical Study (1991) and The Supreme Fictions of John Banville (1999). 
A popular teacher, McMinn will offer a course in Fall 2004 on Gothic fiction in Britain and Ireland from the mid­eighteenth to late nineteenth century. The emphasis will be on the distinctive features and forms of the Goth novel -"the tale of terror" -its early association with female authors and readers, and its later role in the emergence of Romanticism. Authors and texts to be studied include Austen's Northanger Abbey (1818), Shelley's Frankenstein (1818), Maturin's Melmoth the Wanderer (1820), Le Fanu's The House by the Church­yard (1863), and Stoker's Dracula (1897). While the course is essentially about a very distinctive and popular form of the novel, it will also have an interdisciplinary dimension, touching upon related and later versions of Gothic in art, architecture and cinema. 
KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 
his Asia tour later in the week 
in South Korea. 
Relations between the United States and China have improved as the two nations worked together to resolve the North Korean nuclear impasse. 
Still, differences remain over Taiwan, Hong Kong, exchange rate policy and human rights. 
If any of those issues are not raised by China, they will be raised by Cheney, U.S. officials said. 
The Bush administration has been increasingly critical of China for trying to restrict moves toward democracy by Hong Kong, a former British colony now considered a spe­cial administrative region of China. 
Taiwan and the rising tide of democratic sentiment there also remains contentious with­in U.S.-Chinese relations. 
China's official Xinhua News Agency reported Tuesday that Cheney had reassured Zeng that U.S. policy on Taiwan remains unchanged despite plans to sell the island advance-warning radars. 
The Chinese news agency said Cheney told Zeng that the United States does not support the island's moving toward independence and opposes any unilateral action by either Beijing or Taipei to change the status quo across the Taiwan Strait-a restatement of basic 
U.S. policy on China and Taiwan. 
The Bush administration has praised China for taking the lead in overseeing six-nation talks on North Korea's nuclear program, but officials have recently expressed hope that China would do more to prod the stalled talks. 
Cheney may present China's leaders with Intelligence infor­mation from a Pakistani scien­tist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, that he was taken to a secret underground nuclear plant in North Korea and shown three nuclear devices, The New York Times reported in its Tuesday editions. 
If Khan, known as the father of the Pakistani nuclear bomb, is accurate in his account, it would be the first time a for­eigner has reported inspecting actual North Korean nuclear weapons, the Times reported. 
All three nations on Cheney's itinerary have had civilians taken as hostages in Iraq, but those from South Korea and China have been released. The fate of three Japanese civilians remained uncertain as Cheney arrived here from Japan. 

THE 0BSER\1£R 


IEWPOINT
page 14 Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

CONTACT Us 


A new party steps up 
Fed up with both the Republicans and Democrats? Feel as if the 2004 election is another case of choosing between the lesser of two evils? Well, help is on the way. I, Joe Licandro, am officially declar­ing my candidacy 
Joe Licandro
for the 2004 presidential elec­tion as the first­ever nominee for The Licandro the Common Non-factor Sense Party, 
a.k.a. Get Your Head Out of Your Butt Party. 

Because of space restrictions, there is not enough room for me to provide detailed specifics, so, for brevity's sake, I will instead elaborate on a few key political issues certain to weigh heavily on the minds of voters this fall. This is the first article of a two-part series. Today's will outline the CSP's foreign policy goals in the Middle East, while the next will outline my domes­tic agenda and social platform. 
First and foremost, the United States should take the fight to terrorists everywhere around the world. This means working more closely with Europe to bring down Islamic terrorist cells operating there. This means staying in Afghanistan until AI Qaeda is destroyed. This also means bombing terrorist camps in countries like Iran, Saudi Arabia and Syria that are not only unwilling to stop them but active­ly encouraging them. And if we have to do it alone, so be it. When it comes to this nation's security, we should not have to consult the United Nations or ask France for permission before tak­ing pre-emptive action to protect our­selves. To describe our foreign policy platform in one statement, the CSP advocates proactive foreign policy as opposed to reactive. 
Moving along. Believe it or not, the United States is less dependent upon Middle Eastern oil than ever before, which is a step in the right direction. But let's take the ultimate step: Let's not buy a single drop of oil from the Middle East. OPEC has far too much influence on the U.S. economy, con­stantly manipulating output levels to disadvantage the American consumer. The Middle East has been a source of constant trouble for the United States No matter what we do to try and improve our image there, it will remain this way as long as dictatorial regimes remain in power, television stations like AI Jazeera and AI Arabiya rule the airwaves and radical Islamic clerics maintain a death grip on the populations of these countries. By buying oil from places like Saudi Arabia, we in effect are our own worst enemy, keeping in power the "human­rights-abusing, treat-women-like­dogs" royal family, who sits back liv­ing in incomparable luxury while the rest of their population suffers in abject poverty. To stay in power and deflect blame, the royal family allows their country's religious leaders to promote a vicious hatred of the United States and the very freedoms we espouse. It's little wonder that 15 of the 19 9-11 hijackers were Saudi Arabian citizens. 
To accomplish this goal, we need to pursue two courses of action. First, we need to develop environmentally friendly alternative forms of energy so that gas-powered cars become extinct, like dinosaurs. In the meantime, we can stop buying gas-guzzling SUVs and start buying more hybrids. Secondly, until we move away from gas-powered cars, we should start buying oil from other places in the world, like South America and Africa, where deposits of the "black gold" are just now being discovered. Will my plan hurt the U.S. economy in the short run? Possibly, but we'll survive. Consider this, though. Not buying oil from the Middle East will hurt them a lot more than it will hurt us. Here's why: Saudi Arabia and the rest rely on single-export economies. 
As for Iraq, it's easy to play Monday Morning Quarterback, criticizing the current adminis­tration for miscalcu­lating and under­estimating the time and toll of post-war rede­velopment and recovery, but it's also a monumental waste of time, just like the 9-11 Commission hearings. What's done is done. Undoubtedly, the United States will con­tinue to experi· ence pockets of hostility while we remain there. But we cannot cut and run. We must remain firm, working as quickly as possible to trans­fer power over to the Iraqis. Then if they fail to make democracy work, it's their fault, not ours. Provided security is restored following the July 30 scheduled date of power transference, the CSP will set a target date of pulling troops out of Iraq by January of 2008. Each year, the number of troops will decrease. 2008 will not mark a full-scale withdrawal, as the United States should maintain a mili­tary base in Iraq similar to ones cur­rently held in Germany, Japan and other parts around the world. This will serve as a fresh reminder to anti­American neighbors not to interfere with Iraqi affairs, or risk facing devas­tating consequences. 
Israel has always been a headache for the U.S. foreign policy makers. But I'd rather have a headache than the permanent migraine that would result if we were to completely abandon the only democracy in the Middle East. The United States should pressure Israel to abandon its new settlements on the West Bank, as it has pledged to. The United States will support a · Palestinian state, but only if it is dem­ocratic in nature and does not support violence against Israel. But the United States, unlike the Europeans, will not publicly condemn Israel for building a wall sealing its borders off from Palestinian suicide bombers. Along these same lines, the United States will not publicly or legally challenge Israel for carrying out targeted killings against known terrorist lead­ers of Hamas and Hezbollah like the recent one against Shiekh Ahmed Yassin. Surrounded by Arab neighbors who would love nothing more to wipe Jews off the face of the earth, Israel is left with no choice but to defend itself aggressively and decisively. Their very livelihood is at stake. 
While the United States will remain committed to Israel's security, the United States will not continue to pro­
vide it with such high levels of eco­nomic aid. Israel is the only first-world nation in the Middle East, yet it receives more monetary aid than.any other country in the world. 
nomic times, it is capa­
ble of support­ing itself. On this note, the 
United States, will completely. stop giving monetary assistance to Egypt-the second largest benefactor of American aid. Egypt receives roughly a bil­lion in aid per year from 

the United States only because it has not undertaken any military action against Israel since it signed the Camp David Accords in 1980. On principle alone, we should not have to pay a country not to attack another. But for the following reason above any other, we should not provide aid to a country led by "Dictator-Elect" Hosni Mubarak, who refuses to stop the Egyptian press from printing hate­filled lies about the United States in their national newspapers equivalent to The New York Times. 
The Middle East is only one area of the foreign policy, but it's the most prescient. Unfortunately, I don't have the space to touch on other regions of the world. But in case you have ques­tions, remember-it's all about prac­ticing a little common sense. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­ence major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at jlicandr@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Should the ROTC Presidential Pass in  "Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if  
Review be held inside or outside?  you want to test a man's character,  
give him power. "  
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at  Abraham Lincoln  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  U.S. President  

• 

THE 0BSERVIR 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 page 15 
Baseball is a microcosm of American life 
/\s the 2004 Major League Baseball season rolls into full swing, skeptics nverywhere are watching in horror as a batch of bigger, stronger and veinier players continue to overpower a play­ing field once domi­nated by hard­working, less gener­Joey Falco ously-proportioned individuals. They look on in disdain Forty Ounces as the legends of for falco "The /\rkansas Hummingbird," "Wee Willie," "The Kid," "Little Loney" and "Little Jon" are being tarnished by the escapades of "Big Mac," "The Big Unit," "The Big llurt" and "Barry Bonds." 
These distrustful cynics simply refuse to accept the physical impossibilities involved in a person who performs oth­erwise-standard human activities. like wearing pants, hitting a 637-foot home run. Consequently, they have launched a no-holds-barred McCarthyist witch hunt against everyone from a San Francisco slugger to a New York City owner. alleging every form of cheating imaginable, from steroid use to over­spending to conspiring with AI Qaeda. Now, thanks to their meddling, success in /\mcrica's greatest pastime has become taboo, and instead of doing whatever it takes to impress the thou­sands of devoted fans who still loyally attend each game, players must con­stantly tiptoe around the borderline between being "talented" and being "too good." 
It truly is a depressing situation. Not because several record-breaking ath­lettes' rna.y or may not choose to boost their performances by injecting the lat­est marvels of modern science into their bloodstreams. Not because cer­tain teams have the broad fan support and lucrative television contracts that medicine that were unavailable to the allow them to add nearly any player in sluggers of the early parts of the centu­baseball to their roster. On the con­ry, but that is no reason why his hitting trary. my shaking finger of discontent records should be eternally blemished points solely at the skeptical whiners. with an asterisk indicating this. losers and victims of the high 
After all, personal comput­school bully who accuse ers didn't exist 100 years 
these modern-day sul­tans of swat of cheat­ing. 
This is, after all, America -the land of the free and the home of the lazy, where life, liberty and the pursuit of winning while doing as little work as pos­sible have stood the test of time for centuries. Think Nagasaki, lliroshima. the space race and the so­called "Operation Iraqi Freedom." In each of these situ­ations, the United States either chose to 
go the way of Barry 
als to "buy" higher Bonds and use the latest scores didn't exist 30 technology to overpower the years ago, but a 1600 today 
opposition or the way of George Steinbrenner and simply outspend any competitors in order to assure victory. 
Similarly, domestic American life is based entirely on a corrupt system of laziness. cheating and spending the most money in order to guarantee suc­cess. Sure, Bonds may be able to implement certain wonders of modern 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Nuclear power is not the answer 
Hccent media attention has been focused almost exclusively on the Bush administration's stance regard~ ing the military actions in Iraq. but as educated taxpayers, it is up to us to be well-informed about all of the issues relevant to the upcoming elec­tion. /\s Bush seeks to grant the U.S. nuclear industry over $3 billion in energy subsidies. we must question if nuclear power is really the best means of securing a safe, reliable and affordable energy future. 
Unfortunately, nuclear power is none of the above things. First, the safety of nuclear power is question­able. The waste products created by these power plants arc extremely dangerous and highly toxic; in fact, no acceptable disposal method cur­rently exists for the waste products created by nuclear fission. U.S. Office of Technology /\ssessment analysis shows that approximately 90 percent of all cancers are pre­ventable and that by limiting our exposure to radioactive sources we can reduce our risk of premature cancer death. 
Additionally, as the accidents at Chernobyl (a catastrophe that will ultimately result in approximately 450,000 premature deaths and cost over $500 billion) and Three Mile Island demonstrate, nuclear power is not reliable. This is even more dis­turbing when we consider that the government has limited the liability of nuclear industries to approxi­mately one percent of such a cata­strophic disaster. Who would be left to foot the bill? 
Finally, it is not even certain that nuclear power is economically viable. When all of the taxpayer sub­sidies are taken into account, nuclear is actually the most expen­sive type of power available on the market. Furthermore, the largest expenses stemming from nuclear power will come in the future: it is estimated that the decommissioning of a plant actually costs more than the initial capital investment neces­sary to construct it. 
Despite all of this. the Bush admin­istration continues to rely on an energy policy based on radioactive nuclear power. It is time for us to demand more from our tax dollars. It is time for us to look beyond dan­gerous nuclear power to a cleaner and safer tomorrow. 
Michael Subialka sophomore Keenan Hall April 13 
ago, but journalists today can still earn the Pulitzer Prize without an asterisk indicating that they used Spell Check in Microsoft 
Word. Nuclear weapons did­n't exist dur­ing World War I, but America's victory in World War ll isn't marked with an asterisk sig­nifying the use of atom 
bombs as opposed to fighting like 
"real men." SAT tutors and prepa­ration courses that 
allow many individu­

is certainly not attached with an asterisk to distinguish it from a 1600 back then. 
In every facet of life, people today employ whatever technological means necessary in order to make their jobs easier, more productive and more indicative of the modern era. Spend five days penning a research paper by scratching charcoal cuneiform letters onto a piece of homemade papyrus. and not only will you have wasted five days, but your professor will most like­ly reward your allegiance to antiquity with a terrible grade. Why, then, should baseball players not be permit­ted to conform to modern practices and use any means necessary to perform at the highest possible level? 
Still, all moral and ethical debates aside, the unabashed use of technology isn't the only definition of modern America that can apply to the current baseball situation. We, as a people, share an eternal love affair with all that·is bigger and better and larger than life. Why get a wimpy small fry when you can Supersize it? Why pur­chase a scrawny, economy-sized sedan when you can get a Ford Expedition or a Hummer 1-12? Why settle for a puny dining hall burger when you can stuff your face with a pound-and-a-half Golden Domer at CJ's? 
The same philosophy should no doubt then apply to the greatest of American pastimes. After all. I'll take a 104 mph fastball over a 60 mph knuckleball any day. Likewise, a 550-foot home run that lands in McCovey Cove is a heck of a lot more exciting than a paltry Texas Leaguer that barely clears the infield. 
Consequently, baseball skeptics need to back off and allow players to put the balls back in Major League Baseball, because this is America, the land where, contrary to popular belief. size really does matter. 
Joey Falco is a freshman political sci­ence and Spanish major. /lis column appears every other Wednesday. lie can be contacted atjfalco@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily of The Observer. 
Keeping ceremony indoors will insult military officers 
Pass in Review is not only a ceremony that allows our BOTC cadets to honor our University's president, Father Edward Malloy, but also a commemoration of the sacrifice and commitment that our soldiers have to defending and fight­ing for our country. For the past few years, the Pass in Review has been held at an indoor location, Loftus. However, four years ago, it was held outside on South Quad, and many ROTC students speak nostalgically of the ceremony that year. . 
Given Loftus' out-of-tije-way location and the desire to· suppof!.tl our ROT<;:,,....... cadets. Student Government pushed extremely hard .Uillry~ar to rriove the'P'lls's· in Review ceremony from an inside location to South Quad. Despite our meet­ings with University officials, a unanimous resolution from the Student Senate to have the ceremony outside and obtaining over 1,000 signatures to show stu­dent support for the ceremony, the Pass in Review will once again be held in Loftus. 
I would call this an insult to our future military officers. Not only was this University saved from financial distress by grants from the Navy shortly after World War II, commemorated by the football game we play each year, but many members of our Notre Dame community may be deployed to fight in Iraq upon graduation. If our very own will be sent to Iraq to keep peace, rebuild the nation and put their lives at high risk, I feel that an outdoor ceremony would be the least the University can do to honor and commemorate their future sac­rifice. 
Even though an outdoor location would have given all of us immediate access to the ceremony, I encourage all of you to attend that Pass in Heview at Loftus today at 5 p.m. Show your support for your future troops and the members of our Notre Dame community. 
Jeremy Lao former student body president April 13 

THE OBSER\'ER 


CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEW 

1 Whole Ten Yards' fails to measure up 
By JACQUELINE PIMENTEL-GANNON Scene Movie Critic 
The much-anticipated sequel to "The Whole Nine Yards" opened this past Friday, and as often unfortunately happens with sequels, the anticipation was better than the actual film. Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry are back again to star in their old roles, but even they cannot save "The Whole Ten Yards" from being a big disappoint­ment. 
Willis plays hitman Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski. Jimmy and his wife, Jill (Amanda Peet), are living in peace in Mexico after Nicholas "Oz" Oseransky (Matthew Perry) faked den­tal records to make it look like Jimmy was dead in "Nine Yards." Oz is now married to Jimmy's ex-wife, Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge). 
Lazlo Gogolak (Kevin Pollak) -the Hungarian mob­
nancy. Also, the identity of Oz's new dental hygienist makes for a good sur­prise, as does the revelation of Lazlo's true identity. 
Eventually, Oz learns that the whole kidnapping had been part of a plan that his wife and Jimmy had devised. In the end, the main characters pre­dictably triumph and get everything they wanted. 
It would be great if it could at least be said that there is much tension and suspense leading up to the unsurpris­ing, fairytale ending. But this is not the case. 
The horrible, barely-existing plot means that the movie is forced to rely heavily on the acting and chemistry of the leads. Both Perry and Willis have some Jim Carrey-like scenes of over­acting that are simply not amusing. Neither of these good actors turns in an especially memorable performance. The accents of the mob, especially Lazlo, are so 

ster that Jimmy awful that they
"The Whole Ten Yards"
helped put away are funny, but in the first movie 
even they get -is now out of tiresome by the prison and look­end. Frank ing to get revenge Collison is an
Director: Howard Deutch
on Jimmy who unexpected
Writer: Mitchell Kapner and George Gallo
killed Lazlo's son source of humor
Starring: Bruce Willis, Matthew Perry,
Yanni. To find as Lazlo's son
Amanda Peet and Kevin Pollack
Jimmy, Lazlo kid­naps Cynthia. Oz is forced to go to Jimmy for help, and Jimmy, Jill and Oz set out to get Cynthia back. 
Making the search more interesting are the fights between Jill and Jimmy, Jimmy's new love for domestic work and the two couples issues with preg-
Strabo Gogolak. 
There is cer­tainly enough profanity, violence and sexual innuendos and situations in this film to warrant its PG-13 rating, but "Ten Yards" doesn't get the R rating of its predecessor. 
If "The Whole Ten Yards" has any redeeming qualities, it is that it does not take itself seriously at all. It has so many attempts at humor that it cannot help but be successful at some of them -resulting in audience members' get­ting at least a few laughs. 
It could be that "Ten Yards" would not seem like such a bad movie if such high expectations had not been set for it or had it not come after the hilarious "Nine Yards." Not taking "Ten Yards" in comparison to another movie, it is possible that one could find this film fun and entertaining. However, for anyone who has seen "Nine Yards," "Ten Yards" is sure to fail to measure up. 
So if wanting to see a good movie starring Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry, rent "The Whole Nine Yards" and wait until video to see the sequel if it must be seen at all. 
Contact Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon at jpimente@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Warm characters charm in new comedy 
By KATIE WAGNER Scene Movie Critic 

"Jersey Girl" is an extremely realistic PG-13 rated drama/romantic comedy that is overall creatively written, but still contains a predictable romance. This Kevin Smith movie has so many emotionally moving scenes that it requires a box of tissues. If you are in the mood for a feel-good film with excellent acting, you must see "Jersey Girl." Not only will you cry with the chara.cters, but you'll even get the pleasure of laughing with them. 
The actors and story combine to make for one of the most engaging films of the year. 
Big-shot publicist Ollie Trinke (Ben Affleck) suffers from depression after his wife Gertrude (Jennifer Lopez) dies giving birth to their daughter Gertie (Raquel Castro). Trinke's attempts to hide his emotions from his employees ultimately lead him to publicly insult several people in his industry and bash Will Smith. These actions force Trinke to leave New York City's business world and return to his father (George Carlin) and his home in New Jersey. Suddenly, Trinke struggles with dealing with his wife's death, learning how to be a par­ent, accepting his new less glamorous career and adjusting to living with his father (George Carlin) all at once. Trinke's father and a new girlfriend (Liv Tyler) help Trinke get through some of these changes in his life. 

However, the film focuses mainly on the development of Trinke's relation­ship with his daughter. 
This film's advertisements are its greatest weakness, in that they are very misleading. 
Trinke's distress is very convincing. Affleck's ability to convey a constant switching from seeming content to being on the verge of a mental break­down allow viewers to understand the complexity of Trinke's emotions. Affleck makes Trinke's confusion seem justifiable. He is able to arouse more emotion than any other actor in this film, with the moments in which he tearfully remembers his dead wife being the most moving. 
Gertie's "uncles" are the most consis­tently funny characters. Some humor­ous dialogue and Gertie's school musi­cal performance with her family 
enhances this 

While previews film's comic value. 


"Jersey Girl" 
present Maya Castro and (Liv Tyler) as the 
Carlin's acting embodiment of greatly contribute the film's title, to "Jersey Girl" in Gertie is actually several ways.
Director: Kevin Smith

the "Jersey girl." They bring humor
Writer: Kevin Smith

Although Maya and arouse lots of 
Starring: Ben Affleck, Liv Tyler, Raquel
also lives in New emotion through
Castro, George Carlin and Jennifer Lopez
Jersey, Gertie's their interactions 
relationship with Trinke is much more central to the film's plot. Gertie also expresses more love for New Jersey than any other character in this film. 
The previews also fail to address Gertrude's death and provide no hints of the serious issues dealt with by the characters in this film that make it so rich. The extent of character develop­ment that occurs in less than two hours is quite impressive. Maya is the least developed, but this seems to be done on purpose. 
with Trinke and each other. Their disagreements with Trinke make this film quite dramatic. 
Although both Gertie and her grand­father encourage some tears, these tears result from the beauty of the love that these characters give and receive. 
The warmth of all of the major char­acters' relationships with each other makes this film particularly satisfying. 
Contact Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 


THE 0BSER\'ER 






CENE
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 
page 17 


DVD REVIEW 

'House of Sand and Fog' is darkly compelling 

DVD REVIEW 

Reinvented villain invokes terror in remake 
the old was certainly crazy, he didn't have the evil persona the new one does. The new, improved Leatherface is huge, and can seemingly run faster than your average football running back. He chases the hapless teens with a vengeance, unrelenting in his task. Part of the twist­ed joy of the movie just defeated in the climactic showdown. The rules are practically common knowledge, and movies that follow them become a practice in tedium. 

However, what is surprising is how the lilm still manages to entertain the viewer, albeit in a sick and depraved way. The scares are hardly original, with the staple "startle" scare still used abundantly. The plot itself is old. However, the style and direction follow modern standards, which elevate the film into an enjoyable ride. Another thing that elevates the film is the icon of the film, Leatherface. 
People that saw the original probably remember the old Leatherface. Indeed, they probably find it hard to forget him. For those who don't know, Leatherface gets his name for his penchant of wearing human skin as a mask. No, Jlannibal Lecter wasn't the first to do it. Leatherface !irst donned his mask in 1974, and scared audiences with his chainsaw and piglike noises. llowever, the old one docsn 't hold a candle compared to the new. 
The new Lcathcrface has a quality that 
was lacking from the old 
one: malevolence. While By MARY SQUILlACE 
Scene DVD Critic 

Barely is tragedy manifested as beautifully as it appears in first-time director Vadim Perelman's "House of Sand and Fog." 
Based on Andre Dubus Ill's best-sell­ing novel comes a poignant tale of hope gone awry. After the county wrongly evicts Kathy Lazaro (Jennifer Connelly). a former alcoholic, from her tn~achfront bungalow, she vows to reclaim it by <lily means necessary. llowever. her task becomes exceeding­ly diflicult as Massaoud Amir Behrani (Ben Kingsley), a former Iranian colonel. and his family begin to make tlwrnselves at home. Deepening the story's complexities, Kathy embarks on an aff1air with a volatile and married deputy (Hon Eldard). As the drama escalates, the characters' lives become dangc rously and irreversibly en tan­glcd. 
Overall. Pore !man makes a com­nwndablc 11rst impression as a direc­tor. While the viewer will undou.btedly 

By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scrne DVD Critic 

According to your average horror movi1~. the teen has a lifespan of about 20 minutes, whicl, can either be shortened or h~n).,rthen1~d depending on the actions that they take. The horror movie genre has rules that must be followed, and only rarely arc they broken. When they are, it is usually a noteworthy event that heralds a nnw trend-setting film. 
The 2003 n~make of "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre," based loosely on the true story of Ed Gein, is not one of those films. While thn original was considered highly innovative and terrifying,· the remake rnllects the almost 30 years that passed between the two. What was inno­vative 30 years ago is now formulaic. 
Almost all of the usual movie rules are followed to the letter. Promiscuous behav­ior will get one killed, as will any drug usc or endorsnment. The killer has to appear unstoppable, but still manages to be detect disaster in the first minutes of the film, Perelman gracefully presents the unfortunate sequence of events in a manner that neither polarizes the audience's empathy nor sensational­izes the characters' plights. In this way, he remains true to Dubus' novel. 

This portrayal makes it impossible to discern between good and evil, a quali­ty that makes the film truly agonizing and the characters fully human. Each character is flawed but Perelman has designed each shot in a way that allows an array of three-dimensional personalities to emerge. 
In spite of Perelman's successful first hack at directing. the film's cast steals the show, so to speak. As expected, Connelly turns out another compelling performance. She convincingly por­trays a woman who has reached the innermost depths of despair, not unlike her role in "Requiem for a Dream." 
Although, even Connelly's signature flair for drama pales in comparison to the efforts of Ben Kingsley and Shohreh Aghdashloo, who plays Nadi, Behrani's wife. Both actors slide into their respective roles seamlessly, con­
veying a range of emo­tions with skill and sub­tlety. Appropriately, Kingsley and Aghdashloo each gar­nered an Oscar nomina­tion this winter. 
The only actor that really falls short is Hon Eldard, who plays Deputy Sheriff Lester Burdon. At times his portrayal lacks depth and is not fully believ­able. 

Roger Deakins ("A Beautiful Mind") plays an equally indispensable, but far more understated role as the Director of Photography. In addition to captur­ing the full aesthetics of the northern California coast and forests, he sets the entire tone of the film with the lighting. 
Many shots feature mere silhouettes of the characters, appropriately repre­senting the tragedy that continuously overshadows all of them. In this way, Deakins turns the most mundane shots into moving representations of the pro­tagonists. A single shot of Kathy sitting alone at a table becomes heart­wrenching; a scene between Behrani and his son, a telling tableau. 
The DVD includes a number of spe­cial features that are entirely worth watching. A "behind-the-scenes look" as well as the filmmakers' commentary offer plenty of "fun facts" and insights that draw attention to the remarkable effort and talent that exist behind the camera. Other extras include a partic­ularly striking photo gallery with nar­ration, and Shohreh Aghdashloo's moving audition. 
Although "House of Sand and Fog" is a profoundly sobering experience. it is a valuable one. The high cinematic quality resulting from this orchestra­tion of talents merits this film's place­ment into any cinephile's personal col­lection. At the very least it's worth the $4.79 rental fee at Blockbuster. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 
courtesy ol ,.,.,,..""'"·""''" 

Kemper (Eric Balfour), left, Morgan (Jonathan Tucker), Erin (Jessica Blel), Andy (Mike Vogel) and Pepper (Erica Leerhsen) try to avoid trouble In this remake. 
comes from watching Leatherface in action. · 
Thankfully, the video quality on this DVD is up to today's standards, and looks great. The sound is also nice, although there isn't much variety to the sounds in the movie. Mostly, there's just a lot of screaming, chainsaws and heavy breath­ing. Horror genre staples, in other words. 
There are two different versions of the DVD out though, a fact that needs to be taken into account. The special edition costs $10 more and is not carried by most video rentals, facts that prevented this viewer from reviewing that version. The special edition comes with deleted scenes, commentaries and everything you would expect from a special edition. 
The standard copy comes with limited extras -basically a music video and some TV spots. It is fairly bare when com­pared to the special edition. If you're curi­ous about the special version compared to the standard one, add a half a point to this DVD's rating for the special edition's added features. 
Overall, this is an enjoyable film. The formulaic nature, and the rather bare­bone extras drag the standard edition DVD down a little. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

Wednesday, Aprill4, 2004

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
GOLF 

Els, Mickelson satisfied with Masters performances 
Mickelson adjusting to new title and fame 
Associated Press SAN DIEGO -Back in his hometown. Phil Mickelson walked into an exclusive coun­try club looking a lot like he did at dusk two days earlier at Augusta National. "I said Sunday night that it was going to be hard to wipe away the smile and take away the jacket," said a beaming Mickelson, clad in green again Tuesday at La Jolla Country Club. "They tried to pry it away when I left, but I'd have none of it. So here it is," added Mickelson. who won the Masters with a thrilling 18-foot birdie putt on the last hole. Mickelson must have had the jacket pressed, because his wife, Amy, said he slept in it Sunday night. "It was me, Phil and the green jacket," she said. "We might be sleeping with that green jacket for a while." Lefty returned to the Left Coast on Monday, spending what he called a relaxing day with his family. On Tuesday, he held a news conference at La feel like the Masters owes him 
Jolla Country Club, where he's
Els comes to terms 

a member, before heading to with loss in Masters year Els has finished no worse 
one. This was the fifth straight 
Burbank to appear on "The month, which will give him "Because every time I would than sixth on a course so per­
Tonight Show with Jay Leno." time to take his three kids to get in contention, it was almost Associated Press fectly tailored to his game. 
Mickelson was reminded that the zoo, Sea World and as though it was an opportunity He was runner-up in 2000 
he went from being labeled as Legoland. not to succeed, but an opportu­AUGUSTA, Ga. -One bur­when he closed with a 68, 
the best player to have never Mickelson said it was special nity to fail. I never looked at it den was lifted when Phil unable to convert birdie 
won a major to being the only sharing the Masters victory like that, but at times. when Mickelson won the Masters. opportunities on the last three 
guy with a shot at the Grand with his family. things began to slide, it was Another got even weightier holes. Els sat in the locker 
Slam this year. "To have my children there harder for me to turn. it
...... 
"Yeah, hdw quickly it was awesome, to walk off the around." · Mickelson is no longer the his fist on the table in frustra­
when Ernie Els didn't. room that evening, pounding 
changes," said Mickelson, who 18th green there and to see my Mickelson also divulged what best player to have never won tion. 
had been 0-for-42 in majors as wife experiencing the whole President Bush told him in a a major. He got rid of that Two years later, he was 
a pro. "It's been such a nice thing with me and feeling the phone call shortly after his millstone with one of the making a charge at Tiger 
change. I'm certainly not think­same emotion that I felt," jump for joy on the 18th green. greatest back nines at Woods when his approach on 
ing that far in advance. I really Mickelson said. "It was awesome that he Augusta National, and an 18-No. 9 landed a few feet from 
just want to spend the next few ''I'm very lucky because of called," Mickelson said. "And foot putt he will replay in his the hole, then spun off the 
weeks enjoying this. that, to have such a wonderful he roughed me up. The mind as long as he lives. green and into the fairway. Els 
..But I can't wait to get out spouse, to have three wonder­President of the United States Els should have no regrets. self-destructed on the par-5 
and play," he quickly added. ful healthy kids. I'm just very roughed me up. He said, 'Now I He played the final 12 holes in 13th trying to catch up. 
''I'm enjoying playing the game lucky, especially given what we understand why last year you 6 under par on the strength of And now this. 
so much. I'm enjoying all my went through last year." tried to throw a baseball two eagles, two birdies and Els closed with a 67 and was 
practice sessions, I'm enjoying Amy Mickelson nearly died instead of a basketball.' I said, four pars that showed the on the putting green prepar­
my time off the course with my during the birth of their third 'What do you mean?' and he moxie of a three-time major ing for a playoff, unable to 
family. It's just been such a child, son Evan. said, 'I saw you try to jump.' champion. watch. 
wonderful year starting out, With his family OK. "So my seven-inch rise wasn't ''I'm going to look myself in Hearing was harder. 
and this just makes it special." Mickelson can concentrate on good enough for him, I guess.'' the mirror tonight and say, The first big roar told him 
Mickelson knows the next golf_ and, now, on trying to Last summer, Mickelson 'Well done.' It's one of those Mickelson hit an 8-iron close 
few weeks will be hectic, but win another major. threw batting practice to 18 things," Els said. ''I've had to the flag. Then came silence 
otherwise, he doesn't antici­"I do feel that the second will Toledo Mud Hens players. most some good wins and I've had followed by a crescendo of 
pate that his life or career will not be as difficult as the first," of them pitchers. hoping to some tough losses. And this is anticipation, then a thunder­
change. said Mickelson, who smiled all earn a chance to pitch in a real one of the tough losses." ous cheer that will ring in his 
He said Mondays and the way through his back nine game for Detroit's Triple-A Having one arm in the green ears for the next 12 months. 
Tuesdays will remain family Sunday, when he shot 31 with affiliate. But the Tigers didn't jacket is the toughest of all. 'Til get over this," Els said. 
days. He won't play again until birdies on five of the last seven offer him a minor league con­By now, the Big Easy must "I'll have another shot. I'm 
New Orleans at the end of the holes. tract. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

· ·1?.1 Gatekeeper at Bendix Woods Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 LARGE 3 BEDROOM house for VERY NICE 3bdrm home near Good luck Nancy and Kara! County Park, bdrms close to NO. rent CorbysWANTED Sats. & Suns., 1 May-31 Oct. Spring, summer or fall. Very close to NO, (East Bank area). I'm an educated fool with money on Approx. 14 hrs/wk, 235-3655. 2 baths, 2 car garage, W/0, Washer&Dryer-Aiarm-Basement-my mind. 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially call574-654-3155. just redone two years ago. H20 softner-large yard-off street 
Indiana and Notre Dame 2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near $1,050/mo parking. YEAH! OKAY! LET'S GO! WHAT? 
(574) 286-9359 campus. available 5/1 . Only a few left for next school year. Call 312-375-8220 Call Joe Crimmins: Got the ten in my hand and a gleam
FOR RENT
Catholic family offering fulltime sum-Call Justine, 234-9923. cell#514-0643 in my eye. 
mer childcare opportunity to care for Furnished Studio Apartment for rent home#273-0002. 
4 school age children, ages 5 to 11 , 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO New 3/4 bdrm homes graduation weekend holla 
Scottsdale Mall area, CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM close to NO, 3 full baths, walking distance to NO 
7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages nego-mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525 2-car garage, frpl, sky-lights. $150 a night Go out, just don't run into any walls. 
liable, non·smoker preferred, own $1640/mo. call574-339-0582 PERSONAL 
transportation a plus, DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 Call574-232-4527 or Peezie, Chiron PWNZ us 
contact Maureen @ (574) 231-BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM 269-683-5038 Furnished studio apartment for rent UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
8126. HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM summer and or school year $419 a Do not go it alone. yeah i was raised on the streets . . fo' DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED-NEED SUMMER HOUSING? month real! word to yo' mutha. 
Notre Dame faculty seeking sitter ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR House on E Washington St 6 bdrms includes all utilities cable tv high If you or someone you love needs 
for 2-yr-old. THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL available 2 full baths speed internet confidential support or assistance, erin, you looked so homeless! 
Ideally Mon/Wed/Fri 8-4. 2 mi south YEAR .... WE ARE ALSO STARTING Call Uz 574-298-0807 call574-339-0582 please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, 
of campus. TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 esc, at 1-7819. starburst are my favorite! Own car, Spanish-speaking a plus. SCHOOL YEAR. ..CONTACT Stay at Homestead Bed and Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail. now Through end of summer. KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR Breakfast for football games. or fall For more information, see our bi-This space is for you Zach. 
Contact snerenberg@sbcglobal.net CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 57 4-277-9834 $1200/mo 288-9673 weekly ad in THE OBSERVER Go Cubs Go! 

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 



Miller leads Athletics to 10-9 nail-biting win 

slow roller. After Patterson retired Vernon Wells, Steve Colyer relieved and walked Carlos Delgado. 
Phelps followed with a line s'ingle to left, scoring Catalanotto. Craig Monroe's throw home hit Catalanotto and went into the dugout, allowing a second run to score. 
Terry Adams (1-0) picked up the win in relief for Toronto, while Justin Speier pitched the ninth for his first save. Patterson (0-1) took the loss. 
Toronto trailed 5-4 after seven, but tied the game in the eighth with the help of some faulty defense by Detroit. 
Delgado and Phelps started the inning with singles and Eric Hinske reached to load the bases when second baseman Fernando Vina booted a groundball. It was Vina's sec­ond error in as many innings. ­
Orlando Hudson grounded into a force at the plate, and Patterson came in to replace Jamie Walker. Pinch-hitter Greg Myers struck out, but Kevin Cash hit an infield single that scored Delgado to make it 5-5. 
Cash was 4-for-4 with three doubles and two RB!s. 
do you think outside the box?... 
COWIE SLEEP IN ONE 
Habitat for Humanity presents 

Help us raise awareness about homelessness 
Associated Press 
AHLINGTON. Texas Damian Miller had three hits, inducting a three-run homer, and Oakland's big bats over­carne a poor start by Barry Zito in a 10-9 win over the Texas Hangers on Tuesday night. 
While Zito (1-1) never trailed in his five innings, he squan­dered a 6-0 lead and the Athletics led by only a run bnl'ore Miller's first homer made it 10-6 in the fourth. 
Miller. httting just .125 com­ing into the game, was 3-for-4 with a walk and a double. Eric Byrnes had thn~e hits in his first start of tho season and .fprrnainn Dye had a homer and an HBI double. 
The A's had 16 ·hits, seven of tlwm for extra bases, in their first road game. Every starter had a hit, and five players had morn than one. 
And all of that offense still almost wasn't enough for the A's and Zito, the 2002 AL Cy Young winner who is 12-1 in 19 earenr starts against Texas. The loss was in a 2-1 game last week. 
The Hangers, the top hitting· team in the majors. got within 10-IJ with a three-run seventh. Brad Fullmer led off with his lirst homer, Eric Young walked and scored on passed ball against Miller and Michael Young had his second HBI sin­gin. 
Texas had 16 hits off six Oakland pitchers. Arthur Bhodes pitched the ninth for his fourth save.. 
Zito threw 107 pitches over fiv1~ innings, and allowed six runs on 11 hits. Two of the runs were unearned, after his throw­ing error in Texas' three-run second. 
Still, he escaped with his 55th win since the start of the 2001 season. The only pitcher in the majors with more in that stretch is teammate Mark Mulder with 56. 
Oakland got ofT to a fast start against Mickey Callaway (0-1). who allowed 11 of the 13 bat­ters he faced to reach base. 
Six straight reached after a double play wiped out leadoff hitter Byrnes in a three-run first. Callaway walked four bat­ters around Dye's RBI double and a two-run single by Bobby Crosby, the new everyday short­stop who was hitting just .158. 
Marlins 5, Expos 0 
Miguel Cabrera swears he's not swinging for the fences. 
With four homers in his last 
nine at-bats. and five overall 
this season, it's hard to believe 
him. 

The 20-year-old slugger homered twice, and Brad Penny allowed only two hits in the Florida Marlins' 5-0 victory over the Montreal Expos on Tuesday night. 
''I'm taking good swings at the ball. But it's a long season, come talk to me after 70 or 80 games," Cabrera said. 
The second-year player does not want to get caught up in the talk of his hot streak, reminding everyone the Marlins have played only seven games ­winning six, for the best record in the league. 
''I'm a rookie this year, too," he said. 
Cabrera hit solo homers in the first and sixth innings, and had an HBI single in the third. lie linished 3-for-3 with three HBis and a walk. 
"lie's going to be a superstar," Penny said. "''m going to be watching TV oM day and say, 'I played with that guy'." 
Manager Jack McKeon agreed with his pitcher and said Cabrera is mature beyond his years. 
"lie's one of those unique guys who come by once in a while," McKeon said. 
Penny (1-1) retired the first 1 0 batters and did not allow a runner before walking Jose Vidro in the fourth. Cabrera followed with a bloop single to left, the Expos' first hit. 
After Penny retired the next six batters, Peter Bergeron sin­gled to left in the sixth. Jose Vidro struck out and Bergeron was caught stealing to end the inning. 
Penny pitched eight innings, striking out 10 and walking one. Tommy Phelps pitched the ninth. White Sox 12, Royals 5 
Basically, Ozzie Guillen wants his players to be like him. Have fun every time you pull on the uniform and play every game like it might be your last. 
The White Sox did just that Tuesday in Guillen's Chicago homecoming as manager when they beat the Kansas City Royals 12-5. 
"I think with Ozzie from day one, it's been great. It's been a party," said Paul Konerko, who hit a go-ahead, three-run homer. 
"It's been fun and we've also been getting after it, too. He played for so long and has everybody's respect." 
Guillen got a rousing ovation before the game, taking his cap off at home plate and waving to the crowd. The former short­stop spent 13 of his 16 major league seasons with the White Sox before he left after the 1997 season. His highlights played on the scoreboard before the game. 

He was touched and sur­prised by the pre-game appear­ance of fellow Venezuelan Chico Carrasquel and ex-teammate Carlton Fisk and greatly sad­dened by a picture on the scoreboard of another former teammate, Ivan Calderon, who was shot and killed last December. 
Then he was bolstered by his team's performance. 
"Enjoy every day and moment because you never know when it will end," Guillen said. "In the past, I don't think this team had fun playing the game. I watched a couple games and it was all business. 
"I want my team to play good, be aggressive and have fun. How many people want to play this game getting paid the way we are getting paid?" 
Konerko, who got off to a dis­mal start a year ago in a disap­pointing season, connected in the fifth off Darrell May (0-2) following walks to Frank Thomas and Carlos Lee to make it 7-4. Blue Jays 7, Tigers 5 
Josh Phelps broke a ninth­inning tie with an RBI single to give the Toronto Blue Jays a 7­5 comeback victory over the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday night. 
Frank Catalanotto started the ninth with an infield single when pitcher Danny Patterson and third baseman Omar Infante collided going after a 
TI.]Mr,~,.~ft,tJb~ir. F,lf~N-~t:~,IN Makea statement to our community. Come raid South Quad with your friends. Sleep out all night In a cardboard box. Have a blast. Games, Music, and more. 
interested?? you should be! visit www.nd.edu/-habitat for more Info 

questions? ask Ryan at riafigll@nd.edu 

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NBA 

Pistons' Wallace hits milestone in Detroit loss 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO Donyell Marshall had 27 points and 16 rebounds as the Toronto Haptors ended Detroit's eight­game winning streak with a 8 7-7 8 victory Tuesday night. 
Detroit's Ben Wallace became the first player in league history to have four consecutive seasons of at least 1,000 rebounds, 100 steals and 100 blocks. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Hakeem Olajuwon and Sam Lacey all did it three times. 
Wallace needed one rebound in DetroH's season finale to do it. He finished with seven rebounds and 15 points. 
At 54-28, Detroit finished third in the Eastern Conference. The Pistons won't know who they will face in the playoffs until Wednesday night. 
Vince Carter added 19 points for the lottery-bound Haptors, who end their season at Milwaukee on Wednesday night. The Haptors discontin­ued their tradition of having a front office person speak to the crowd on the final night of the season. The Haptors fired general manager Glen Grunwald on April 1. 
Earlier Tuesday, Toronto coach Kevin O'Neill acknowl­edged he has thought about what he'll do if he's fired. 
"If I end up getting fired I might just go ahead and watch my son play baseball for a year and do some broad­casting and just chill out a lit­tle bit," said O'Neill, whose 17-year-old son lives in Arizona. 
Mavericks 110, Grizzlies 
103 
Winning 50 games and mak­ing the playoffs was apparent­ly enough to satisfy the Memphis Grizzlies, who didn't put up much of a fight against the Dallas Mavericks with the Western Conference's fifth seed on the line. 
Rookie Marquis Daniels con­tinued his recent roll with 30 points, eight rebounds and seven assists, helping the Mavericks secure the No. 5 sput with a victory over the Grizzlies on Tuesday night. 
The Mavs finished 36-5 at home, tops in the league and the best in the franchise's 24­year history. However. by going 15-25 on the road, Dallas can't host a playoff series -a first for the league's best home team since Utah in 1990-91. 
Memphis, which lost its third straight and fifth in six games, trailed by 13 after one quarter and was down at least nine until the final minute. 
The Grizzlies will have the sixth seed. 
Either team could wind up playing Minnesota, the Lakers, San Antonio or Sacramento in the first round. 
It'll all be settled Wednesday night with the regular-season finales. The Grizzlies will be a player in how things work out because they play the Timberwolves at home. The

-
Mavs close at Houston, which already has locked up tbe sev­enth spot. Clippers 98, Phoenix 96 Chris Wilcox's rebound bas­ket at the buzzer snapped the Los Angeles Clippers' 13­game losing streak. Wilcox, who scored a career-high 24 points and grabbed 13 rebounds in 2 5 
minutes off the bench, put the Clippers up on a tip-in with 
16.2 seconds to play. 
Shawn Marion sank his fourth 3-pointer of the fourth quarter with 16.2 seconds left to tie it at 96-96. Quentin Richardson drove the lane but missed, and Wilcox kept the ball alive with several tips inside before getting one to fall. 
Elton Brand had 30 points and 11 rebounds for Los Angeles, which blew a 15­point second-half lead before pu!Hng it out. Lakers 109, Warriors 104 
Kobe Bryant bounced back from one of the least produc­tive games of his career to score a season-high 45 points. 
The victory was just the sec­ond in five games following an 11-game winning streak for the Lakers (55-26) and lifted them into a tie for the Pacific Division lead with Sacramento. 
Since the Kings hold the tiebreaker by virtue of win­ning the season series 3-1, the Lakers can win the division title only if they win at Portland and the Kings lose at Golden State in the regular­season finales Wednesday night. 
Bryant shot 14-of-29 and made 17 of 18 free throws in surpassing his previous sea­son-high by one. He scored seven points in the last 20 seconds, and also had seven rebounds and eight assists. 

DOw[J)[J)W ~ TI 0G ~®CDCPGw@}:7Q 
Now no more climbing trees pretending to be a squirrel 
M®M® 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

A comedy by George Bernard Shaw 
Directed by Ann Marie Stewart Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April21 7:30p.m. Thursday, April 22 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. Sunday; April 25 2:30 p.m. 
Reserved Seats $10 • Senior Citizens $9 All Students $7. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. MasterCard/Visa orders, call574-631-8128. 


Kelly, Kelly, Kelly... 
May your next 21 years be as entertaining as your first. 
xoxo 

Studying for MCATs? Need a designated deriver? Or just want to be 
Mathemagical? 
Come hear Dr. James P. Keener fuse math, biology and chemistry as he discusses diffusion Thursday, April15 from 8·9PM Room 127 of Hayes·Healy 

Come early for some free Pizza Pi 7t
1t 

*All majors, ages and genders invited. Lucky You! 
~ 
~ ~ 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 ~ 
~ 
----~ 

NHL 






Bruins beat Canadiens in double overtime 
Associated Press 
MONTHEAL-Glen Murray took advantage of Alex Kovalev's mistake to score on a breakaway 
9:27 into the second overtime Tunsday night. giving the Boston Bruins a 4-3 win over the Montmal Canadiens. • 
Boston, which took a 3-1'series lead, tied it wlwn Mike Knublc scored with 30.7 seconds rmnaining in regulation. 
Murray beat goalie Jose Tlwodore with a wrist shot after Montreal's Kovalev collided with teammate Sheldon Souray in the nc~utral zone. Kovalev was shak­ing his hand after appearing to be slaslwd on the glove and lost sight of the puck -and Souray and Murray. 
Bruins goalie Andrew Haycroft made 42 saves. Theodore stopped 40 shots. 
Michael Nylander and Jiri Slegr also scored for Boston, which won its second overtime game of the series. Bruins rookie Patrice Bergeron scored 1:26 into overtime Friday to give Boston a 2-1 home win. its sec­ond straight to open the first­round series. 
The Bruins can close out the series in Game 5 on Thursday in Boston. 
Knuble tied the game in the final minute of the third period, though he had to wait several anxious moments for a video rnview to award the goal. 
Knuble put a backhander past Theodore's left pad from the edge of the crease, though play continued for another eight sec­onds. 

Play was stopped with 22.1 seconds remaining and video replay ollicials reviewed the play. The replay showed Knuble put the puck just across the goal line inside the left post before it quickly rebounded out of the net. 
The Bruins' bench erupted in' cheers and the sellout Bell Centre crowd of 21,273 moaned its disappointment when referee Mick McGeough pointed to cen­ter ice to signal the goal. The clock was reset to 30.7 seconds remaining. 
Nashville 3, Detroit 0 
The Detroit Red Wings arc tak­ing most of the shots. The Nashville Predators are making theirs count. 
Tomas Vokoun continued his suffocating play by stopping 41 shots and shutting out the Red Wings 3-0 Tuesday night as the Predators evened their first­round series 2-2. 
Steve Sullivan, Vladimir Orszagh and Greg Johnson each scored and Dan llamhuis had two assists. The six-year fran­chise ensured a return visit to Music City for Game 6 on Saturday against the 10-time Stanley Cup winners. 
Game 5 will be in Detroit on Thursday night. 
Nobody scored more goals in the regular season than the Red Wings in winning the Presidents' 

Graduating soon? 

;: ;: . '•' :; 

Want to 

but d,,........~~:::~=iit:.::::.':,:.i.iiiiill.il teac 
The Franciscan Ambassadors for Community, Education & Service (FACES) teacher licensure program provides an opportunity to: 
•Eo. 
m o. Nast e r's degree in Ed..Jrot ion in two yeo.r:s 

•5e 
r;e os o. fu lit im e t eoche r • Reoz: i'Je t eo.ch e r lioz:~ure •Eo.m o. monthly stipend •Se f'Je os on Am e rico rp:s volunt ee r 



Trophy, but they haven't been able to crack Vokoun since the series shifted to Nashville. 
The 27 -yeaNJid goalie stopped 41 shots in a 3-1 victory Sunday. Vokoun was better Tuesday night in his 13th career shutout and first in the playoffs -even with the Hed Wings outshooting Nashville 41-20. 
San Jose 4, St. Louis 3 
After shining in defeat, Alexander Korolyuk helped the San Jose Sharks bounce back and regain control of their first­round series. 
Korolyuk, a 19-goal scorer in the regular season and one of the Sharks' most dangerous threats in the playoffs, got his first two goals of the postseason in a 4-3 victory Tuesday night that put the St. Louis Blues on the brink of elimination. 
"The guy who was our best player last night, Alexander Korolyuk, had another outstand­ing game," coach Hon Wilson said. "It's just kind of a message to the rest of the team that if you do the little things well and play like a warrior, you'll end up on top." 
Among Korolyuk's Game 3 con­tributions was a first-period hip check that knocked Blues for­ward Hyan Johnson out of the rest of that game and Game 4, as well. Korolyuk played some on the first line toward the end of Game 3. 
Unsung Scott Thornton also got his first two goals for San Jose, the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference. The Sharks have a 3-1 series lead and can close it out in Game 5 Thursday night at home. 

"A lot of guys had bounce-back games who might have been sur­prised by the intensity of a real playoff game," Wilson said. "They came up spades tonight." 
After losing the first two games, the Blues had a strong showing in Game 3, outshooting the Sharks 25-8 in the first two periods of a 4-1 victory. The 
Smith Barney invites you to their 
Notre Dame Financial Symposium 
Planning for the years ahead. 
R~~ tax la'ws. market untertainty, a chan9ing economy. Where 
du~~ \'QIJr fin;mr,i<ll plan '.l<md? JlJin ~ <lt QUr I"Wlrc Dmrl() Fim.mr.ial s:emiriar to hear from 15 professi>Onals or. fin.a.ndaf topia that oould be :impo:rtant to you and ;·our tamil!y. You can a'ttend up to 4 brca~otrt. s':sslo·us b·l"fcH<:'!' th>J> k"""ynfltt> :q:.~;~lc't'!'r b.foflll'l.~ ~t ll:'iO a,.mc 
Keynatec Specaker Dr. Kevin Elko 
0..~<)11.:: an:! :u~L'' 1-'i.!d'txrmJnt:e-tL'mul!.:ml 1!. Au lh!.:>r of "M:n~ o(.!>1>:.'01'" 
DATE:: Satmda~. April 17. 201).!1 TIME: 8:00 .a.m. to 11:3~ p.m.. LOCATION: Unive-nity ot Nut~ Dame 
Mc.Kmm.1 Hdll {w;ws~ hr.nn lhr.· Mc:mh !n:n) l~J"k.t.JN ~t H€!sbur>:.t!l (>!<nt€or \'.IS/t!)f:!. lot ,y, NIJ A~'l'l"h:t~ O!Cf'<:"~ fu~m ,')l'mr1'N)" 
RSV.:P: (574) 631-6691 

Rt.~nt-C yuur ~w.. Cw.:l: s:ro P'-~ pcn.on. R~fr~~i?sn:l~!1t~ .m:d hQht ltm.:h mdud~d. W·~ -....•rlromr· 'fl:'-'<lr fri.:::nri~ ,;m,t mllc~u~" ';r,.:rth'1•j >=-i=imitC'Id 
Your-e~ak:out Soesskm ~l!lkers (eadl speall:s twice): 
8:30 ~!11.-51:05 .uri. i110:00 .:tJI'Il~Ml'.JS o)J)l. 
lt"'¥ih· Ailkol'!, :P.c>gkW>1l= V!U: FH;I~:!{:f'lt, 1'1~r h~»:$mct'lts:. )ti:Jd: Mut.!:t i=li:.I}}'Kw;~nt hw~-el t'.h~,¥.r"'' 
lk>bm.Mii~ !>in!<J~ '>noil'h: F;,.,.,.i Mo.mio <i .,.1 ~..1~jl $,.1,.., fi\)J>l'J lllo~rtl'll~l S1r.II'I~!)IMICWreM .\1o~rtr?t 
Dl'l">'IA'>!.' w..cpn ~=. !.llrcd>:lf o!t ~mOlncf:.l .t.1d lJnr~~it•t of J~::M~ :Di!me: {;:odir~g C,~t!!-t-~ F.-1\n .,.,~~u·.~o.t\)-r.-.liC~o~~.JW' .#u~ Ji:t·.'.h, 
1-ar 'Yb')' 
n·~y ~. AAd~n. Jo.. U..M.. oo..:~, ~.;h, ~: <ft· IJK /o\'Oln.<l.!!'rQ.(\10 too~ th.-ti<;>Cl: 'l'DI:i ~v.'d lro<ll:':'ll>' 
k1f O<:m. hr:!<llTill:l':<e t:~rwll::mt.. h:NM"IItft-::..,. n~Y~·,r~n, ~J..·~~M" ..ii'i<-t:.fl.Y.~· ( ;)'~ lh-:·••H."r4rx..-)\:.K F.. it(.S..,n-f4:C Pl.trf.NP~_.,.,., 
!I: IS >).I~t...a!ill >l.lf(k & la.c!:i .UVI.,...H:ll} Ol,m, 
Boh ~lg., i'i:r:")~I"Kt.)l Vk":." Fm'>id:ot Amcr= kmds L'tt:>tnbutoa: i'll:lw.ts ilr.l.erTiltls'xni.lni'>!:'J.Iirw (rri!J<;t~!H 1.<.• 1'<•~>' llii§: ~-R~•-•udl Vk"-! Pr"!')iJ'!ns. me, fdd.... ""'""I Al:t:O.Iili•••, "'''"')"' l:'rty }\':o!if' i)'M:....rm.'l.tts ttl<tl'h 'iN!;tbk' .4BI11i1~~~ 

M..a ~'Rc'!)li'&•'ilu:r.1n~xJ:iiill!, Cl!f!l;.·~-.g;:: !tr.Jft"f)>'e. tw ~t.t IWilll:!Q'Cmcfl~rcwvlq liOOn-."1' 
~K~ :[lrl!ti~;~r lr~r-tU;...., Mdrk~u Smilh D<lrr~· l'l'f: f-{••MmJ ~i~t! J(~.c.l-t'.!l Vl:"rt· C'..::tJtt.tsJ}tolf 
1&111 V~r,a,.l'1:r:!1<"sr.al kt•1~t'il',, Ur•':l.">ln ~~r~ll'~l.ll: }tf'l~~cs fur f'J~mlf Lm.q I·:Ym .~'"l::~th (Jf'C Cast:!.' 
$:)1> ~.m.~OS 'JI.m. & 9':1~ a_m.~:50 ~ 
DOO wam. PI.MK: t>If4<n S!.~~~li!;l '«=• i.tl o;... '"·ll)' .ll.:.!m;..,;.,:,,.l~ •·• .'F...ry.!h~<!J ~hu l~~n~f .li~ klv,:-w l'li~u:J.J Stx ~W.,~ .~ U!iJJ• 
IGlOO .:l:.nl-11035·~= B. WAS .a.m..-11:2!D ~. 
Jtm Ci),w_~; F.•:!Jil(l.lli'! ltu~t s,:..-.~fili!ll~. Clb;Jro~;p l'm;:tc lr.wt W;l.\. i!:~o~ ;;m/ Y-m.: P!olh'Jrir.•g 3.:u!.~!1<i!<!i 
~O·~m;~l)5.~m ~ ·1~.AS ~m,-t1:2J) 8.m, J~t HW:i:tM, ~to&«jil: lt:vt~: \))t t&-r'T+&\ic~l~f. -~lij mrc'Jiitf..,. Fit~~ i..tl .ff.<H~J 1\-...cw' .fr>,. J1.t..w, lcf!<'l.M(ll"; ffct.¥ flrf$A Attt·..: 1": ~::,u 
'3':·!§.;Lm~lll'l5· .:..:m, !ON F""'llution oolyJ 
!..l!l'\' ~lllilf\ tlc!;t:4"<Yl Or'Cda( Irc ·:ier~<~~ v:miJ:<l!IYI' 'Y:Ni.7,1 '1'1.~'1" !1\&l.~ ~~w.. .~~.. .•~rJ fl-""v 
THI:5 1:5 WHO W~ ARt. THIS 15 HOW' WE: ~RN I'T.:" 
·~ .('F'(UD a.rn..~:r ~111~~~ 
atJQrouPt' 

:~V.\Jol! ru.....;.~ •.,,.j i.r.xC..,Mo-.; vm,~:J.Q-·::,,.,...,:.-~·P:.~·:b·,;t·~M~:v.l.'\\'· ~=,.,~-);J.::::;.k. ;,~Wfn..a; W.t,l,:i\ l::t.;·.:l·~~::·\:~:•. :M~-:-.i.~:\ -~:-:"·1<-S:l..c-~&:· ..,:~r..:~)t:.IIIHt.: Kt'MIJ:Mit~ t0.:,.W:~£trd i'w N~·1t;G"J':W1l ~~:::.~::-~ l~» :'Otlf' !M-~.:.If v.:~t· l'St-1J~I««16.~ ~~.,, :;n.., ~t11S"l! 'firtt'o-"1:~.,>-:;A:~ ~"~ M·l$.i!'~tn:.: "l~·~t!!i) fWI~.IJ~~m·:~ m.~ t'~,..;,~ ~;:·:~ !tM ~ ~~~-tn fJI'-'"~· 1V..O: f'J''ttl"'f":'Y-m f~lY1 ~~-co:-""-M::.-<r-:t. ( f:t»"~ ~':t, .,..... ~f~f-'"''nY., ..,x-;::ffl f~"m."l:~~ w • ..,f',"·<"~"''flt~'-_,.... ~:ffftm""'"Tit-».. ::r~·f:lO..~ ~ tl""'o..< v~~-= ~..~~Y~..·"'"·'~'·~t:: ~ "~v~.::t~ ,.;:~:is.:. :e:.:;!f':~u.l~N.. ~:.·q,J !Jt~ y:s,;--otVV:.u.r, w~~~'Jl~·l.M.=~llf·S 1~·=~r~.~~:~f:ai, ::b.:s-.; J>A).. ~t~ 
t£.r.•~ m~·-.v...x:.:.-cMj lt'\1l~.::t1(.w.l~illll:~~411 ~t~:. ~~UAI"rtlli~~~ tr~W..4~t,: 1r.~ ·~'-1:; 1M=~' llt'tw~'1.1~ ~~t~' Ult!'*{ M(fM Mt ~MM" ~"S ·:--.r ~· M<.b.-,. ~-l~"rM\f.l! ~'1"1:·.:&-T .~~ .~~ 't~t-: M~~c.rr·l'nc ~·.wm r;<Msn....,.. ..e.:=-;:~"'t..<::'"'tt!}l",\~~·::t&"'~•:-J f..t"'.e"i:f.~. fr.• U·:t-~t,.a,r ·.'d:Pf -e.r.•t-J1 A::o.r~·::,;:.,.,;,.~."\1'1 ·""¥t "'t-flt)'.'\ f\',"i" ·:t (~~:<-~~:·'":.!~~1::: :~,;·1~.~ ~to:... a~ il;, "\I~Ni~.-.~·c:t:xf ~ 'J-,.-..d ~>:'!11 r~·~~~~..~~=~~:Jwt;!9.'UC.. d~·9C(,)I'IJd.-=J,:n~...!iJI''I4~·d U~ IJ11:l•PJ~ S.:·..i·M.. ,...,.. ·~...-~-,..,b,rJ ;.w~t.::·11W~:a 1,2f <.:~.>'..18+' 1~ ·:'..rt •(f6•..._. ~v,=.,,. UW'i •'1!-U r~~~S~~Ww..! :J-r~·~,u·.:·l. t:C:tt'\~kf.1:::~:~ u. ~:~:;r, JM; ~:: 1'Hr. :~ ~ r:t~~i)}K" r.-HfJ ?!' •~.:!II.WA1oNI-mvk rt: O+f1~~;.~:~J ~Nt:~ ~'..:" ~An-")(\ ..~~1"~11 r'4R~ ~..t:..~,'lfll'.lro-:· ·,-M tw~:f'l."<·~rr lirt\:~....,<·{::;-;~~ ~(,... ,.,:::~ ...4tH"nn-:-~ .:-~~OJ~ w:-11.'1' ~.•~,P.'".J:"'In ~<~~ ·'*' t'"h~·!"(}l'; 11'1< 
Sharks regained control in the second period of Game 4, spend­ing most of the 20 minutes in the Blues' end and outshooting them 12-5 while scoring twice to snap a 1-1 tic. 
Calgary 4, Vancouver 0 
Miikka Kiprusoff made 20 saves for his first playoff shutout and Calgary used a scoring burst in the second period for a 4-0 victory over Vancouver to even the first-round series Tuesday night. 
The Flames, winning a home playoff game for the first time since 1995, scored two goals 27 seconds apart in the second period. Their special teams, silenced for the first 22 power plays of the series, came alive with one short-handed goal and one with the man advantage. 
It was Calgary's first win at home against the Canucks in 11 tries. The series resumes Thursday with Game 5 at Vancouver. 
Stephane Yelle, playing his first postseason game this year, scored the short-handed goal just one minute into the second period. The veteran helped clear the puck out of the Flames' zone and then took a pass from Chris Clark before burying the puck behind Vancouver goalie Johan Hedberg. 
Hedberg, who faced 31 shol'i, played his first full playofr game for Vancouver after replacing injured Dan Cloutier in Game 3 on Sunday night. 
Calgary's penalty killers had been roundly criticized after the first three games of the series, with Vancouver scoring on six of 15 power plays. But the addition of Yelle, who replaced injured power forward Chris Simon, appeared to stabilize the unit, which was fifth 'in the league for short-handed ·"goals during' the season. 
Calgary's second goal, on the power play. came on a right­wing blast by Clark. And 27 sec­onds later. Shean Donovan put the Flames ahead by three. 
In an attempt to generate some ofl'ensc, Vancouver pulled Hedberg with more than three minutes left in the third period. But Calgary responded with an empty-net goal by Jarome Jginla. 
Game 4 followed the same gritty, hard-hitting play of the first three. And the pace was set early when Iginla crashed Vancouver defenseman Mattias Ohlund hard into the boards twice on one shift. 


OUND THE NATION 
page 22 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERvuts WHU SERViCES Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

MLB 



around the dial 
NHL 

Philadelphia at New Jersey, 6 p.m., ESPN Colorado at Dallas, 6:30 p.m., ESPN2 
--NBA 
Dallas at Houston, 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Kansas City at Chicago, 1:05 p.m., WGN Los Angeles at San Diego, 9:05 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 
Barry Bonds made quite a splash with his latest home run into McCovey Cove. 
He matched his godfa­ther Willie Mays and moved into third place on the career home run list with No. 660, a three-run shot that helped the San Francisco Giants beat the Milwaukee Brewers 7-5 on Monday. 
"It was like a weight was just lifted off my shoul­ders," Bonds said. "I felt a sense of accomplishment in baseball. It's a relief now to be able to stand next to my godfather and finally feel like I've accom­plished something in the game of baseball. It was a big way of getting his approval that I've finally done something." 

Bonds connected in the fifth inning on a 3-1 pitch from Matt Kinney (0-1) for his second homer of the season. The estimated 442-foot blast put the Giants ahead 5-4. It was the 28th time Bonds has homered into the water. 
Mays, who turns 73 next month, hurried on to the field to congratulate Bonds, giving his godson a hug and a kiss outside the dugout. 
The sellout crowd of 42,548 cheered, "Barry! Barry!" and gave him a standing ovation. They seemed to forget about the steroid controversy sur­rounding their star slugger and his personal trainer. 
"I think this is probably the icing on the cake," Bonds said. "I really wish my dad could have been here to be part of it. ... I just really can't believe it, being 4 years old when my dad came up into the major leagues and having an idol like Willie Mays take me under his wing, and now being up in front of all of you people answering questions what it's like to tie the man you respected and honored your entire life." 
Mays has been a mentor to Bonds since the slug­ger's father, Bobby, died last August. 
Hank Aaron leads the career list with 755 home runs, followed by Babe Ruth with 714. 
IN BRIEF 
Roberts to take over as 
head coach at St. John's 
NEW YORK-Norm Roberts left New York City to start fulfilling his dream of becoming a Division I head basketball coach. Now he's back, facing the daunting task of turning around the St. John's program. 
The 38-year-old Kansas assistant was offered the St. John's job Tuesday morning. Five hours later, he was introduced as the school's 18th head coach and the fourth in the last 10 years. He received a five­year contract. 
Last December, Mike Jarvis became the first coach in Big East history to be fired during a season. Assistant Kevin Clark was appointed interim coach, and the Red Storm finished with a 6-21 record and just eight players, including four walk­ons, after a string of suspensions and expulsions. 
"The main thing is to change the mind-set within our program," said Roberts, who was an assist.ant to Bill Self the last eight years. "Then we'll have to change the mind-set in the community. People have to start feeling good again about St. John's. We are going to get people excited. St. John's is New York City." 

Many felt Jarvis lost the New York basketball community, especially the high school and AAU coaches, and the best of the local players weren't staying home to play college basketball. 
"It pains me to see guys from New York City wearing other uniforms. It pains me to see guys winning national championships that should be playing at St. John's," Roberts said. "We're not going to get them all, it's impossible to get them all, but there won't be one kid in New York City that will say St. John's didn't bust their tail recruiting." 
Hawks' Sura will not uet 
credit for triple doubfe 
ATLANTA -Bob Sura didn't make any pretense about it. 
Urged on by his teammates in a blowout game, the Atlanta Hawks' journeyman guard intentionally missed a layup just before the buzzer so he could get the rebound and make his small mark in history. 
Sura was trying to become the first NBA player in seven years with three straight triple-doubles. The game was essentially over. What the heck? 
The NBA didn't see it that way. Less than 24 hours after Sura's bit of self-gratification, the league ruled Tuesday that he wouldn't be reward­ed for intentionally missing a shot. 
The field goal attempt was taken away, which wiped out the rebound. Sura was left with 22 points, 11 assists and nine rebounds -not 10 -in the Hawks' 129-107 victory over the New Jersey Nets on Monday night. 
So much for having three straight games with double figures in scor­ing, rebounding and assists -a feat last accomplished by Grant Hill in 1997. 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
ROWING 
Spartans sweep weekend regatta 
No. 7 Notre Dame repeatedly finish second to No. 7 Michigan State 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Spum Writor 
Though No. 10 Michigan State dominated at this week­end's Indiana Classic in Indianapolis by winning all the varsity races, No. 7 Notre Dame's boats followed close behind, taking second place over and over. 
Thn Irish varsity A boat of Maurnnn Gibbons, Natalie l.adirw, Alice Bartek, Mcghan Boyln. Hache! Polinski, Melissa Felker, Katie C lw n o wet h , Da n ieII e l'rotascwich and Jacqueline llazen crossed the linish line in fd4.55, six seconds behind the Spartans. Indiana and Purdue also participated in the regatta and followed with times of 6:4f>.40 and 6:52.61, respectively. 
Overall. the crew has been pl(~ascd with their racing this season and attributes strong performances to dedication, aggressiveness and good com­munication between the coxswain and the rowers. The Irish arc working to cut times in practice as they will con­tinue to race against the nation's best. 
"W(~ need to work on racing when we arc behind and lin­ishing the end of the stroke tognther to send the boat," 
Polinski said. "There are O'Hara, Danielle Stealy, many fast teams in our Pamela Jefson and Kristen region, and it will be cut­Mizzi helped the first Irish 
throat until the end of the rac­ing season. Instead of just trying to hold off boats during 
races,  we  are  
going  out  and  
attacking  our  

competitors" 
Notre Dame's second varsity boat of Kacy McCaffrc, Kati Sed un, Kathleen Welsh, Elizabeth Specht. Jcnna 
"We are so close to being great. but we need to work really hard until regionals in order to reach our goals. " 
Maureen Gibbons Irish rower 
varsity four earn yet another sec­ond-place finish behind Michigan State. The Irish crossed the line in 7:19.17, less than five seconds short of the Spartan's win­ning time. Indiana took third in 7:4 7. 96. 
Two Irish boats competed in the second varsity four race. The 

Hcdgate,  Kathleen  Welsh,  
Elizabeth  Specht,  Jenna  
Hcdgate,  Jessica  Guzik  

Andrea Doud. Ashley St. Pierre and Megan Sanders, also finished second behind the Spartan boat. The Irish linished in 6:4 7 .38, seven sec­onds behind Michigan State. The first of two Boilermaker crews earned a third-place finish in 6:53.61, followed by the other Purdue boat in 
7:03.91 and Indiana in 7:05.74. 
"We are so close to being great, but we need to work really hard until regionals in order to reach our goals," Maureen Gibbons said. 
Kathryn Long, Katie 
first crew of Shannon Lettieri, Sarah Keefer, Tricia David, Courtney Quinn and Ann Mulligan finished in7:59.33, behind the Spartans first­place time of 7:50.2. Notre Dame's second boat, rowed by Caitlin Hackish, Meredith Thornburgh, Alyssa Close, Colleen Larson and Kristin Henkel finished in 8:00.91. 
The Irish will continue to face fierce competition and work towards an NCAA bid when they race in the Big East Rowing Challenge on April 24. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 

REC SPORTS 
Irish finish 2-4 in championship 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's men's volleyball club posted a 2-4 record at the national championships in Charlotte, N.C. last weekend. 
But the record isn't indicative of the high level of play, as the Irish dropped their two opening matches in overtime to the fourth-and eighth-ranked teams in the country. 
In the first round, the Irish fell to No. 4 Illinois, 18-25, 25-21, 16-14. In the second round, the Irish dropped a tight 25-19, 30­32, 17-15 contest to No.8 UNLV. Notre Dame lost to Central Florida, 25-21, 25-17 before rebounding with a pair of solid wins against USC (29-31, 28-26, 16-14) and San Jose State (25­21, 32-30) before dropping the final match to Utah (25-19, 25­15). 
Based on the strong showing at Nationals and the club's return­ing players, next season appears to be promising for the Irish. Salling 
Eight members of the Notre Dame sailing club traveled to the prestigious St. Francis Yacht Club in San Francisco to compete in the St. Francis Intersectional against 24 teams and close to 200 sailors. Most of the teams were varsity programs and many were highly ranked. 
The regatta, hosted by Stanford and SFYC, is one of the premier college sailing events in the country. The regatta was sailed in San Francisco Bay between the Golden Gate Bridge and 1\Icatraz in the heart of the Marina District. 
Notre Dame sailed two teams. one team in the varsity division and one in the junior varsity divi­sion. Mike Stephens and Meghann Finerghty sailed in the A division for the varsity team, while Katie Honey and Katie Thompson sailed in the varsity B division. 
For the JV team, Andrew Lappin and Seth O'Donnell sailed in the A division, while JH Garcia and Liz Ketterhagen sailed in the B division. Saturday's conditions were chal­lenging with 52-degree water, heavy current, 25-mph wind gusts and dense fog. 
Stephens/Finerghty finished the day in 18th in the A division, with Honey!fhompson in 21st in the B division. The sailors faced more forgiving conditions on Sunday with winds that got as high as 18 mph. 
The Irish finished with an overall varsity place of 20th out of 24, with the JV finishing a respectable 12th out of 21. 


CONG~ATULATJON$ ANP Bli:ST WJSHES TO ALL. THE NEWLY RECOGNIZED CLUBS .AS THEY BEGIN THEJR 
PROaATJONA.RY PEFUOD A.S AN OFFIClAL UNJVERSlTY STUDENT CLUB. 
EACH CLUB BRINGS A UNfQUENltS$ AND OPPORTUNITY F'OR ACHIEVEMENT WHJL£ .PROMOTlNG 
THE UNIVERStTY'S MlSSJON. 
The Student Activitiei Office anJ 
Club Coo,.,Jination Coundl 
ACTUARIAL SClJ:NC.£ Ct.UB EhP't'E<itH C L.U'D * MBA CHJ EPSILON HONOR SOClltTY DANCE COMPANY ECONOMICS Ct,.,ul!l Goo ANt> CoUNTRY HISTORY CLUB JEWISH CLUB'OF NOTRE ·DAME JEWISH LAW STUDENTS SOCIETY LEA.O«ND LEADERSHIP THROUGH SERVICE LEPRECHAUN LEGION PROJECT F.R£SH R•At.. £$"'tATE Ct.UB., MBA SVf.tPHONY ORCHESTRA SWIMMING CLUB UPslt.ON Pr EPsn..oN HoNoR S·OCJETY UNQtlAlNEO MELODlE5 
--IF INT£R£ST£D IN ORESTES BROWNSON COUNCIL INFOR.MATION REGARDI.NG ANY ON CAl'MOLICiSM AND AMERlCAN 
UNIVERSITY CLUBS, PLEAS£ POl.JTiC& 
CONTACT TH'£ STUDENT 

SPIE ,. STUDENT CHAl"'TER, 
ACTJVlTlES O~F'IC£ AT 

lN'fltRifATJOHAL SOCIETY FOR 
SAO<~,:YND. EDU 

0PTlCAl.;. ENGlN££RlNQ 
-

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
-
SMC GoLF 
Belles vvin at Hope Invitational 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The Belles took a step in the right direction at Monday's Hope College Invitational. 
A first-place finish made their dream of an NCAA championship birth that much closer. The team shot a collec­tive score of 343, besting host Hope by three strokes. 
"From top to bottom, we managed quite well, especial­ly considering the bad weath­er and the course. I think this is one of the most difficult golf courses we've played because there were lots of hazards," coach Mark Hamilton said. 
Olivet followed Hope with 364 strokes, Manchester was at 366 and Albion finished last with 372. 
Junior Julia Adams was the medalist, firing the tourna­ment's best score at 82. For the season, Adams has aver­aged 86 shots each round. Dunham said Adam's per­formance on Monday was truly representative of her golfing skills. 
"She went into yesterday's tournament focused and real­ly ready to perform up to her ability," Dunham said. 
Senior captain Liz Hanlon trailed Adams closely with 85 

,-strokes for fifth: Hamilton praised Hanlon, calling her the difference-maker for the team. 
"She really came up big for us, shooting 85 at the No. 4 slot," Hamilton said. "Her performance was pretty cru­cial to our win. Considering the conditions she had to play in, her performance was quite commendable." 
Dunham followed, shooting 87 for eighth, and junior Stefanie Simmerman finished with 89 for 12th. Although only the top four golfers were officially scored, freshman Helen Casey and sophomore Nicole Bellino further con­tributed to the team's success Monday with 92 and 94 shots respectively. Casey finished 14th. 
The team endured chilly and blustery conditions, which were cause for higher scores. Dunham attributed the team's ability to cope with the challenging conditions to their work ethic during prac­tices. More recently, the BeJJes have focused on their short game during much of practice. 
"Everyone has really been putting in the time during practice this season, especial­ly in preparation for [the Hope College Invitational]. It definitely made a difference in our games." 
The Belles travel to Tri­State University April 24 to compete in their next meet. 
"We've always liked playing

-
the course there," Dunham said. "Hopefully we'll be able to win and get an NCAA bid. Getting to the NCAA tourna­ment looks like a realistic goal as long as we play well at Tri-State." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Strong defense gives Irish back to back wins 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish rose above the freezing weather and pro­duced their best back-to-hack defensive performance in school history last weekend. 
On April 4, Notre Dame pounced on Dartmouth 10-3 and then collected its second consecutive win 12-2 against Air Force. 
"It was an important thing for us to only allow five goals because defensively we had been struggling," Pat Walsh said. "It was our focus that got us to produce those results; it was a big step for the team." 
To begin the match, Steve Clagett scored the first goal of the game. The lead, however, did not last long as Air Force came back to tie the game with nearly nine minutes remaining in the first quarter. 
It did not take the Irish defense long to rally, as Air Force was denied a goal for the next 48:14 left in the match until there was only 
5:47 left in the fourth quarter. 
Air Force only had 17 shots (10 on the goal) -and the lowest shot attempts by previ­ous Irish opponents was 31. 
Offensively, the Irish had three players produce four points, Matt Howell, Brian Giordano and Brian Hubschmann. Giordano recorded his third hat trick of the season and also con­tributed an assist. 
Dan Berger also contributed to the Irish win, finishing with two goals, improving his total to 20 multiple-goal outings in his career. 
Air Force allowed a season­high 12 goals during the match, which leq to its down­fall. 
However, the team led in ground balls, finishing with a 51-44 advantage. 
Brushing away Air Forces scoring attempts, Stewart Crosland was relentless in his goalkeeping for the second game in a row. He registered eight saves on 10 shots. Crosland set a career high in save percentage after he stopped 12 of 13 shots (.923) against Dartmouth. 
Crosland's latest perform­ances have greatly enhanced the team morale. 
"Anytime the team is strug­gling, you look for something to get you back on track and the way Stew has been play­ing; it has given everyone a boost of confidence," Walsh said. Notre Dame 14, Denver 12 
After trailing 9-6 in the third quarter, the Irish rallied to defeat Denver 14-12. 
This win gave Notre Dame its second consecutive GWLL victory. It also put the team at 2-1 for the season and second in the conference. 
With such a strong start, the Irish already have their sights set on the conference title and hope to clinch an automatic birth to the NCAA Championships. 
The late charge began with a goal scored by Berger. Offensively, the Irish were relentless as they scored three additional goals during the quarter to give them a 10­9 lead heading into the fourth period. 
After Denver tied the game with 10:46 remaining in the fourth quarter, the Irish net­ted three goals which proved to lock the 14-12 win. 
Walsh recorded four g.oals and three assists. This per­formance was just one off of his top collegiate performanc­es. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Hey Seniors! 
CITY TOURS \VORKSHOP 

Thursday, Aprill5, 2004 Room 141 DeBartolo 7:00 -8:00pm 


Are you relocating to one of these cities? 
• 
Atlanta • Indianapolis 

• 
Austin • Los Angeles 

• 
Boston • Ivlemphis 

• 
Chicago • Miami 

• 
Cleveland • Minneapolis 

• 
Dallas/ • Nashville Ft. Worth • New York City 

• 
Ft. Wayne • Philadelphia 

• 
Houston 


• 
Pittsburgh 

• 
San Diego 

• 
San Francisco 

• 
Seattle 

• 
South Bend 

• 
St. Louis 

• 
Tampa 

• 
Washington DC 


Get essential TIPS to conduct a SUCCESSFULjob search in your targeted city! AN.D... 
Sign up to receive job postings through e---mail on the city of your choice. 
The Career Center careercenter.nd.cdu 


--~ 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish crush No. 33 Seminoles 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

In physics, momentum is measured as the product of an object's mass and veloci­ty. 
In NCAA tennis, momen­tum is measured by the depth of a team and their record going into the play­
off's. 
It's hard to measure quan­titatively, but the No. 35 Irish are hurtling into a promising postseason with Monday's 6-1 demolition of No. 33 Florida State. 
The Seminoles finished the season with a 10-11 record, concluding their season with five consecutive losses. The Irish posted a final record of 13-8. 
"I think everyone's feeling pretty good right now," said tri-captain Brent D'Amico. "It was a tough time going through the match at Virginia Tech, we were hop­ing to win through the rest of the season and we kind of hit a bump in the road there." 
Doubles troubles have plagued the Irish intermit­tently this season, as the ever-11uid lineups undergo constant revision by coach Bobby Bayliss. 
Arter dropping the point in the last five matches, however, Notre Dame took two away from Florida State to win the doubles point Monday. 
"At No. 2, Ryan Keckley and I had been playing together," D'Amico said. "Coach figured it would be better to split us up and put one of us at two and one of us at three, to see if it would work ... it kind of paid off this weekend, I guess." 
The No. 2 D'Amico/Eric Langenkamp duo won 8-5 and Keckley and Paul I-Iidaka took the No. 3 match 8-6. 
The potent senior duo of Matthew Scott and Luis Haddock lost 9-7 to the nation's No. 19 pair of Jeff Groslimond and Chip Webb. Scott and Haddock have established a winning record together, but the Florida State No. 1 team set a school record of 26 wins on the season. 
"We wanted to leave Matt and Luis together because they've been doing so well lately," D'Amico said. 
The Irish won the first five singles matches to run away with the win. A number of singles players have won most or all of their recent matchups, giving the Irish conl'idence in the momen­tum at the six spots. 
Barry King posted his third straight win with a 6­2, 6-1 victory at No. 5. D'Amico then put away Webb at No.4 7-6(7-1), 6-0. 
Keckley clinched the match for the Irish with a 6­4, 6-4 score at No. 6. This is the third time in as many matches that Keckley has facea the clinching point, and has come away with two wins. He has won six of his last seven matches. 
No. 93 Haddock posted his fourth win over a ranked opponent as he defeated No. 18 Mat Cloer 6-1, 2-6, 6-4. He has won seven of his last eight matches. 
Playing at No. 3, Stephen Bass came back from a first-set loss to win the match 1-6, 6-1, 6-3. Bass improved to 15-5 in the dual match season and has won eight of his last 10 matches. The freshman phenom is undefeated in eight three­set contests this year. 
In a hard-fought match, Florida State's Chris Westerhof outlasted Matthew Scott 6-2, 3-6, 7-5 to score the Seminoles' only point. 
"Going into our final goal of winning the Big East, I think [Monday's win] helped a lot," said D'Amico. 
The Irish return to the courts April 29 in Coral Gables, Fla., for the Big East Tournament. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Tennis 
continued from page 32 
Connelly and Neighbours followed, posting a 8-2 triumph over Aslex de Guzman and Emily Mowery. 
No. 3 doubles has been an aspect of the lineup that continues to change as the season progresses. Louderback has mixed up the doubles teams at No. 3 in hopes of finding the perfect match as the NCAA championships approach. 
"[Sarah Jane Connelly and Neighbours[ meshed well together. We'll have to wait and see what we do at No. 3," Louderback said. "We're looking for a doubles team that is comfortable with each other and works as a team. We have quite a few doubles players on the team, so we have a lot of options." 
At No. 1 doubles, No. 57 freshmen 
-Catrina and Christian Thompson fell to No. 24 Megan Muth and Amy Wei 8-2. In singles, Christian Thompson was first to walk off the courts, upsetting No. 109 Shebakov 6-4, 6-0 at No. 1. Yang got the best of sophomore Kiki Stastny at No. 5 6-2, 6-1, recording William and Mary's first point of the meet. Lauren Connelly contributed a win at No. 4 to extend the Irish lead. However, William and Mary retali­ated, registering victories at Nos. 1, 3 and 6. No. 25 Megan Muth surprised No. 11 Salas 2-6, 6-3, 6-2 after Salas had won the first set. Wei defeated Catrina Thompson after their match was extended to three sets and a tiebreaker 6-2, 1-6, 7-6 (7-3). Kristen Dunbar clinched the win for William and Mary versus Sarah Jane Connelly 7-5, 5-7,6-3 at No.6. Louderback noted that although the Irish had a disappointing loss against William and Mary, he was glad that the team had the opportunity to play 
a tight match outside. 
"It's so different playing outside than inside," Louderback said. "The match against William and Mary was really good for us; we needed it. Playing a tight match outdoors condi­tioned the girls for meets later this season." 
On Sunday, Texas established its presence early in the meet, claiming the doubles point. At No. 2, Lauren Connelly and Alicia Salas garnered the only win for the Irish in doubles, besting Petra Dizdar and Mia Marovic 9-7. The two have won six of their last seven matches. 
Texas triumphed first at No. 1, with the duo of Katie Huckert and Kendra Strohm defeating Catrina and Christian Thompson 8-3. At No. 3, Kelly Baritot and Ristine Olson clinched the doubles point for Texas against Sarah Jane Connelly and Neighbours 8-3. 
Half of the singles matches were extended to three sets, with the Irish collecting a win in two of them. Texas maintained a 5-0 lead until Christian Thompson finished off Huckert's 6-4, 4-6, 6-0. Catrina Thompson matched Christian's win against Marovic 6-4, 4-6, 6-0 at No. 3. 
Olson was first to gain a point for Texas in singles, prevailing over Sarah Jane Connelly 6-1, 6-0 at No. 6. At No. 4, Strohm was close behind with a 6-4, 6-3 win against Lauren Connelly. Clinching the win for the Longhorns was No. 18 Dizdar, who upset Salas 7-6, 6-4 at No. 1. In a close contest at No. 5, Baritot edged out Stastny 6-1, 3-6. 6-1. 
"Even though we lost, we were right with Texas the whole meet. It showed the kids that we can really play with anyone, even teams ranked higher than us. Everyone we play is a tough match," Louderback said. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
•-,. 
Law& 

An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
April14, 2004 4:00p.m., Law School Courtroom 
"Liberally Clothing the Naked Public Square" 
Presenter 
hI "I .r;lJ ')()'\
David Yamane 
rJ df·r ).!!Iilii b '•l 
Assistant Professor Department ofSociology 
Commentator Julian Velasco 
Associate Professor Law School 
Wednesdav, April 14, 2004 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND SOFTBALL 

Inconsistent offense gives 3 -1 break record 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Saturday at home, the Irish couldn't miss the ball. Monday and Tuesday, one wondered if they had left their bats in South Bend. 
Notre Dame (32-12, 6-0 in the Big East) cruised to an easy sweep of Syracuse (15-17, 1-3) at Ivy Field on Saturday, beating them 11-3 and 8-0. Each game was called in the fifth inning on the eight-run mercy rule. 
Monday against No .. 18 Nebraska (30-12). the team could only muster one hit and fell to the Huskers, 1-0. Tuesday, the Irish were again outhit by Nebraska, but were able to muster enough offense to sal­vage a split by winning 2-0. 
"I wouldn't say our bats went cold," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "[Nebraska's first game starter] Peaches James came into that game averaging about 12 strikeouts a game and we only struck out three times. I think it was more a matter of us not making adjustments and attacking the ball." 
Nicole Wicks, who has strug­gled at times throughout the sea­son, was the team's offensive leader in the sweep. She went 4­for-5 over the weekend and col­lected four RBI while scoring three runs. 
Meghan Ruthrauff continued to show her power stroke by smashing her ninth home run of the season in game two. 
The offensive prowess of the Irish didn't shadow its pitching performance. Heather Booth started game one and allowed two earned runs and four hits over the five innings. Steffany Stenglein started game two, and allowed two hits in four innings before giving way to Carrie Wisen in the fifth. 
Booth and Stenglein continued to pitch well in the Nebraska series, but Brown was the victim of a fine performance by James, who outdueled Booth in game one by allowing only a single to Megan Ciolli. 

Stenglein was the starter in game two and pitched well before getting in trouble in the sixth inning after Notre Dame had taken a 2-0 lead. 
She loaded the bases with one out and was replaced by Wisen, who was able to work out of the jam for her first save of the sea­son. 
"That's kind of been Carrie's role all season," Gumpf said. "She came in a very difficult situ­ation and really showed com­plete poise on the mound. You could just tell that she was going to get the job done." . 
Notre Dame was stymied again by a Nebraska starter in game two, this time with Summer Tobias keeping the Irish off the scoreboard. But a pair of Cornhusker errors late allowed Notre Dame to take the victory. 
Carissa Jaquish led off the sixth inning with a bloop single and Sara Schoonaert attempted to move her over to second on a sacrifice bunt. Jaquish was thrown out at second and Schoonaert reached on the field­er's choice. 
Stephanie Brown followed with what appeared to be a harmless groundball to Tobias, but the Nebraska pitcher threw the ball into center field as she attempted to get Schoonaert out at second. The center fielder then attempt­ed to throw Schoonaert out at third: but the ball sailed into the Cornhuskers' dugout and the Irish got an automatic free base. 
Schoonaert crossed the plate with the free base advancement, and Brown moved over to third. Nicole deFau hit a sacrifice fly to score Brown and collect an insurance run for the Irish. 
"Nebraska is a very tough team and we knew both games would be close," Gumpf said. "The pitchers all got it done in that series and it really just came down to the team that played the best defense." 
The Irish return home to face Illinois-Chicago Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
....... 
TOLSTOY, DOSTOEVSKY, AKHMA.TOVA.., TCHAIKOVSKY, STRAVINSKY, PROKOFIEV, CHAGALL, PAVLOV, BARYSHNJKOV.u 
N.A.S.A. PAYLOAD SPECIAUST$ 
U.S. ARMS CONTR.OL LlAISON1 WORLD BANK INVESTMENT ADVISER••• 
··J.BnO:l. ·dn­
ub:~.:.-·nc 

~TFIAT D() TilEY HAVE IN COMl\·fON? 
RUSSIAN 
RlJSSJAN '10·1, FALL 2004 
NO PREREQUISITE http://www'.nd.edu/-grl 
TRACK 

Irish win Botts Invitational 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writer 

The Tigers couldn't keep up with the Irish this weekend. The Notre Dame track and 
-field team won 11 events at the University of Missouri's Tom Botts Invitational Friday and Saturday, while Missouri won 10 events to finish an unofficial second in the non-team scoring meet. Iowa State and Iowa were the other two schools compet­ing. Selim Nurudeen was the star for Notre Dame as he won the Outstanding Male Athlete of the Meet award with his meet­record tying time of 14.20 sec­onds in the 110-meter hurdles. The win was his third straight in the 110 hurdles this season. However, Nurudeen was not the only Irish athlete to have a record-setting weekend as Kate Duman hurled the javelin 43.07 meters to finish in first place and break her own school 
record. With her toss, Duman also qualified for the NCAA Regional Meet. 
Notre Dame had winners in both the men's and women's 400 meters as Ayesha Boyd and Ryan Postel finished first in times of 56.26 and 48.12 sec­onds respectively. 
The Irish also dominated the triple jump as Godwin Mbagwu and Petra Dankova won the men's and women's events. Mbagwu hopped, skipped and jumped for a length of 14.52 meters while Dankova covered a distance of 12.21 meters. 
Juan Alba continued his suc­cess in the hammer throw as he finished first with a season-best toss of 55.45 meters. The other male hammer throwers had season-best performances as well, as Chip Roberts finished in fourth place and Jason Davis placed fifth. 
Thomas Chamney and Napoleon Suarez both finished the meet with season-best times. Chamney won the 800 meters in only 1:52.52 and Suarez took first place in the 400-meter hurdles with a time of 53.92 seconds. 
Tommie Lee sprinted to the first outdoor win of his career, winning the 100-meter dash in 
11.13 seconds. 
A number of Irish competitors also qualified for the Big East Championships. Molly Huddle, who ran outdoors for the first time this season, took third place in the 1,500 meters in a qualifying time of 4:31.91. Eric Morrison also had a third-place finish as he ran the 800 meters in a conference qualifying time of 1:53.03. Other Big East quali­fiers were Ryan Johnson and Todd Ptacek who finished first and third in the 3,000 meter steeplechase with times of 
9:16.54 and 9:27.27, respective­ly. Alex Fortunato qualified with his 55.62 time and fifth-place finish in the 400 meter hurdles. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgillooo@nd.edu 

This Week in, th,e Department: o.,Music..... 
Eleon'O<re ..S.r:r-oong •. .-::J<rsr·an 1·:wr~:-s.i~~>:•.A!-:;.:rti 1 :i-~ :XH'l4i 8 ::~·m:.. .,.~.Jt~T~-ri H·r":ilrt M.a·~:;i~i·c-il 
Brandon. Hcntih;n.n.,. kn>(lllr 
~:..d,d,·r,.· K-€-ili-"'?'J!I', p:~,no TJ)~.m."So'.(jay,....~:~A'fl 1 '5,.:XlH4 5 ~·n_; r-...:..>flP-''!o• A~<-•·d:?to~~"~'strr<l, H;,:---:bl>,r.-g:h Libra.trf 
S~:ephen· .l..a:ncos:t:er.-,i)a~T.fo.n<£t· K,ui Mh·~-t;;:-i.:sn-~­
Fdd.i!>l)o', Apr'i'! :!6•. 20tYI ." pm_,·U'~f' .>"i.u-a::lWW.riiunn., H~bu,J"!,;ih Libi<lh>Y" 

L----------------------------·•-·•••H···········-·,·.w.w.w.·.·•.'.·•.••••••'"•••••·---'1 
··-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-------·-·-·-·-·-·---·-·-·-·-,-·-·-·-·-·-·---·---·---·-·-·-·-·-----·---·~ 
. Sexual Assault Awareness Week · ' 
AJ!ril 13-16, 2004 
};;> Are you or someone you know a victim/survivor of sexual 
assault-or rape? 

:.. Do you wonder how rape is perceived in our cult:ure? >-Are vncurious about rules. Dollcles. and IH'Ocadures dealing wilb sexual assault atIIUb'8 name~ ~ Are you concet'lled about rape and how men and women can stop it? 
If so. please join the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) in observing 
Sexual AssaultA.wareness Week, April 13-16 
The events for the week include: 
; Tuesday; Mass celebrated by Fr. Paul Kollman to commemorate t:hose people i affected by sexual assault at 8pm in the Dillon Hall Chapel.
t 

Wednesday & Thursday; look for our information table from i 1am to 3pm in Lafortune near the elevator. Free Take Back the Night t-shirts will be available as well as teal ribbons to show your commitment to end sexual violence. 
Wednesday: Panel Discussion with memoors of Notre Dame's Sexual Assautt Advisory Committee focusing on why rape occurs and the policies surrounding sexual assault on Notre Dame's campus at 7:30pm in Walsh Hall's South Lounge. Refreshments will be served. 
Thursday: TAKE BACK THE NIGHT MARCH in conjunction with SMC and 
HCC beginning at the Library Reflecting Pool at 6:30pm, concluding at , Dalloway's on SMC's campus. There will be transportation back. to ND ! follow1ng a speak-out at Dalloway's. 
. I 
t ______ M_o_4_o~~---·~J-·-~-~-~-~-~-¥-~-~---T-------·-·-----·---·---------·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-··-~-· 

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
the current incoming freshman good matches for Notre Dame." Tribune, the average SAT test 20, 30, 40, 60, I don't know. All ­class who signed letters-of­Both the admissions office scores for 15 members of this we know is we just need 20
Football 
intent in February. and athletic department are year's recruiting class -[recruits) each year who aca­continued from page 32 "No, I'm talking about the confident in their ability to excluding the scores of defen­demically can make it through [current) juniors," he said. recruit student-athletes who sive back Terrail Lambert and Notre Dame and athletically 
But University officials insist Standardized test scores of will be good fits for the school, wide receiver Christopher can help us." admissions standards have Notre Dame's overall appli­and vice versa. The qualifica­Vaughn. which were not pro­Still. out of that top 100 list of remained constant and are not cants have grown steadily over tions for the regular student vided -shows an average recruits, only three made it to tine! to grade point averages or the past 15 years, and the class who 'fits' at Notre Dame have football SAT score of 1024. the Irish this recruiting season standardized test scores. And of 2008 has a increased signifi­Still, University officials con­-Walker (No. 63). Lambert the school's director or admis­projected aver­cantly over the tinue to empha-(No. 85) and sions says that Notre Dame will age SAT score "Notre Dame has past decade. size the conti-outside line­overlook below-average num­of 1370-the According to nuity of football b a c k e r
standards that 

bers as long as it believes a highest in statistics com­admissions. "We have not been any Anthony pot1mtial recruit can survive in school history encourage that type piled by Lee The athletic 'tougher' on the admis­Vcrnaglia (No. Notre Damn's rigorous academ­and 11 points ofplayer, and for me, Sigelman in a and football 95).
sions offootball players 
ic environment. higher than the Social Science departments sift "We get
personally, they are in recent years as we
"''ve seen the profiles of the current fresh-Quarterly article through the beat, and athletes over the 40-plus man class. the type ofplayers I entitlpd "It's players' aca­have with the overall have gotten years," director of admissions Notre Dame would want on my Academic -or Is demic records beat [in foot­
applicants."
Dan Saracino said, "and the also has the It? Admissions before the ball) over
team ... " 

academic profiles of the classes fourth-highest Standards and admissions recent years of football players has not graduation rate Big-Time College office even sees Dan Saracino by young men changnd.... The 1984 recruits of its overall Darius Walker Football," Notre the players -assistant provost who we clear­lwho were seniors during the student popula­Irish recruit Dame's average tossing aside for admissions ly wanted to I 988 championship season] tion in the student SAT score ones it knows come here," were no different as a class country behind in 1993 -the will not be able Saracino said. than any other year." Harvard, Princeton and Yale at last year Notre Dame seriously to succeed aca-"Heggie Bush The standards 94 percent. contended for a national cham­demically at Notre Dame. was cleared by admissions. 
Saracino said the athletic But while Notre Dame's over­pionship -was 1220, while "The coaches are out there Allen Smith was and so was department and admissions all academic rankings place it the university's average SAT trying to assess athletic talent Lorenzo Booker." oiTice have a working relation­among the nation's elite. next score for football players was and then also trying to decide if Top running backs Bush and ship and a common under­year's incoming freshman foot­899. they have the academic back­Booker went to USC and standing of their expectations ball players were so lowly Echoing Saracino, University ground to be successful here," Florida State, respectively, in for athletes. regarded by recruiting experts President Father Edward Saracino said. "And the coach­recent years. Smith committed 
"We give a list [of required that the class of 2008 barely Malloy said that the profiles for es don't waste my time by pre­this winter to Stanford, also a course work] to the coaches," ranked in the nation's top 30. past football classes are consis­senting a young man who isn't school with a prestigious aca­Saracino said. "And it's a good The criticism tent with the profiles of current close to being a competitive demic reputation. statement of where we are ... Paul Hornung's recent com­recruiting classes. candidate for admission." So why are these players this is what our expectation is ments in a radio interview, "In the past 30 years, our So how do the football pro­choosing schools, even a school for someone who is an out­which were well-publicized standards for the 'special inter­gram and University define like Stanford that has rigorous standing athlete that they because of racial undertones, ests' have competitive? academic standards, over would bn interested in. addressed a concern that aca­remained Saracino Notre Dame'? 
"Especially with this group of demic demands of such a pres­constant," believes a "I don't really know. but I am
"It could be that our 
coaches now, we're really on tigious university could be the Malloy wrote competitive frustrated that we seem to be
current coaches just don't
the same page. We want young reason for the Irish recruiting in an April 4 student at having less success in recruit­men. wl.~o arc going to be suc­fewer top-rated players. letter to The understand Notre Dame ... Notre Dame ing [top players] compared to cessful. "I respond by really just kind New York well enough to convince is the student the past," Saracino said. "It Whether the football pro­of shrugging my shoulders," Times, "while who is inter­could be that our current
these young men that
gram's rccen t struggles arc due Saracino said. "Obviously the the academic ested in the coaches just don't understand to admissions policies, coaches people that would say that profile of the Notre Dame is the place school Notre Dame and its 'positives' in charge of recruiting confirm don't get it, the fact that the student body for them." because of its well enough to convince these that they stress academic suc­student-athlete who would be as a whole emphasis on young men that Notre Dame is CI1SS to their recruits-early. interested in Notre Dame is has grown the well­the place for them." 
Dan Saracino 
"We've been asking [for play­interested precisely because of e v e n rounded can­The goals ers' academic records) since the fact that we have student­stronger." assistant provost didate. Saracino insists that admis­February," play11r personnel athletes who want to exceed in The statis­for admissions "If you're sions and athletic ol'ficials will director Jimmy Gonzales said. academics. The ones who we tics not interested not recruit and admit a stu­But Gonzales does not mean don't want really wouldn't be But statis-in being a dent-athlete who they believe is 

NOTRE DAME ATHLETICS THIS WEEK 
8A...SEE3~LL 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
SC>FTE3A...LL 
VS. OAKLAND 
VS. NORTHWESTERN 
VS. ILLINOI&CHJCAGO 

-
APRIL 14@ 5:05PM 
APRIL 15 @ 4:00PM 
APRIL 15 @ 5:00PM 
==-•.. ~ 
---·~--­
• 

ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) is currently registering children for me 2004-05 School Year and the 2004 Summer Day Camp. ECDC at Saint Mary's College enrolls children ages 3through 5during the school year and 3through 9 during the summers. ECDC at Notre Dame enrolls children ages 2 through kinderg:men during the school year and 2.5 through 9 during the summer. For more inforo1ation and ECDC Parent Tours, please c<tll one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center; Inc. 
574.;284-4693 (ECDC;;SMC)
.f!. 
574~631~3344
T:NAEYC Accredited-Promoting Excellence (ECDC-ND) nEarly Childhood Education 
tics show that the average SAT student-athlete [after looking not serious about academics. scores for athletes have risen at the academic requirements). That is just fine with Walker. at almost the same rate as the then Notre Dame is not a good "I try to be well rounded and scores of the regular student. match for you," Saracino said. have the ability to do it all," 
The SAT scores· for footba.Jl "We are who we are, and we're Walker said. "Notre Dame has players jumped roughly 6.3 proud of it. [The academic standards that encourage that percent from 1993 to 2004, requirements are) not a hin­type of player. and for me. per­while the scores of the average drance to the program, it's to sonally, they arc the type of student rose 6. 7 'percent over want the young man not to be players I would want on my the same period of time. used for just his athletic abili-team, players who can be an 
Saracino, however, maintains ties." · overall person. not just some­that standards for football The mlsperceptlons one who has one thing but players have not toughened as News reports over the last doesn't have it all." the standards for regular stu­five years said that talented Walker represents the player dents have risen. players like Randy Moss, Notre Dame wants -a talent­
"The overall academic quality Carson Palmer and T.J. Duckett ed player who values academ­of the football players has not could not get into Notre Dame ics. But top-rated players like kept pace in terms of test for academic reasons, and Walker are increasingly turn­scores, AP courses, overall cur­Saracino admits that Notre ing down Notre Dame. riculum and grades with the Dame will not be able to admit Saracino doesn't know why. overall classes," Saracino said. every top athlete in the country But he's confident academics "We have not been any "Are there going to be young aren't to blame. 'tougher' on the admissions of men who are great athletes football players in recent years who we cannot admit? Sure," as we have with the overall Saracino said. " ... Of the top applicants." 100 [recruits), maybe there will 
Based on statistics originally be 50 that we can't sign. I don't Contact Pat Leonard at published by the South Bend know whether that number is pleonard@nd.edu 
-················· 
··"' 
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 

page 28 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 
Sollmann hopes he can return 
return to action when his jawBy CHRIS FEDERICO 
heals. Sonior Staff Writer 
"Right now, I'm drinking a bunch of shakes," he said. "They Injured second baseman Steve said I can get on a [stationary] Sollmann held a press conference bike whenever I feel up to it. As in bctwecn games Saturday to far as running and lifting, I just talk about the injury he sustained have to watch that I don't clench in a game against Villanova April my teeth or bounce them too 
3. The senior tri-captain frac­much. 
tun~d  his jaw aftcr  ''I've lost some  
colliding with right  weight so far,  so  
fielder Cody Hizzo while chasing a fly ball in shallow  "The Notre Dame community has  putting that weight back on is going to be pretty important  
right field.  been unbelievable  the next couple of  
"The rehab is going great so far," Sollmann said. "I  so far ... everybody has been amazing."  weeks." Sollmann said his memory before the  
had surgery [April  injury and durjng  
51  back  in  Steve Sollman  the time right after  
Cincinnati.  and  Injured Irish  it is blurry, and he  
everything  went  second baseman  doesn't remember  

gre11t. I have a great oral surgeon back there that did a wonderful job." 
The surgery did not require that Sollmann's jaw be wired shut, as is sometimes the case with broken jaws. The senior is able to talk and was mobile and active as he attended Notre Dame's games Saturday and Monday. Sollmann returned to classes today and is hopeful he will return to the Irish lineup by the end of the regular season. 
"We just have to play it by ear and see how it heals," he said. "llopefully, I can get back some­time towards the end of the sea­son." 
Sollmann has a meeting sched­uled Friday with his doctor in Cincinnati to further discuss a possible time frame to return to action this year. The senior says he will know more about how soon he could return after the meeting. 
Hight now a major concern for Sollmann is to keep his weight and conditioning up so that he would be physically ready to many details of the 
incident. 
But he said the support he's received from the Notre Dame community the past two weeks has been a major factor in his progress. 
"The Notre Dame community has been unbelievable so far ­coaches, players, friends, stu­dents, teachers -everybody has been amazing," Sollmann said. "They've been calling me, check­ing in on me and sending me all sorts of letters." 
You're outta here 
In the final game with the Red Storm Monday, Mainieri was tossed from the game while coaching third base by umpire Bruce Done. The Irish skipper was arguing a questionable call by Done at third base when Sanchez was called out trying to stretch a double into a triple. 
"It was my opinion that [Sanchez) was safe," Mainieri said. "I didn't even think it was that close of a play, and I was pretty shocked when I saw the out call." 
After the call, a shocked 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 IIURLEY BlJILDING T: 631-5882 F: 631-5771 


JOANNA PAXTONfThe Observer 
Paul Malnlerl storms off the field after being ejected In the second St. John's game. 
Mainieri threw his hands in the air and appeared to inadvertently knock his hat on·. prompting the ejection. 
"Unfortunately I just over­reacted there and threw my hat down, and [the umpire] had to throw me out when I did that," Mainieri said. "I deserved it. If you do something like that, you're supposed to get thrown out of the game." 
Mainieri expressed regret after the game for temporarily losing his composure on the call, mak­ing himself unavailable to man­age the Irish through the tough loss. 
"I lost my coal there for a minute, and I wasn't able to man­age my team through a tough ball game," he said. "So I felt kind of bad about that, that I let the guys gown doing that." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Anne Hayes Student Returnees 
Thor. AprillS, 2004 229 Hayes-Healy 5:00-6:00 pm 
Application Deadline: May 1, 2004 for Spring 2005 Nov. 15, 2004 for Fall '05 and Spring 2006 
Applications Available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ for Sp'05 
Baseball 
continued from page 32 
2. 
Notre Dame opened the week­end of Big East play as the right­hander Niese! struggled against the Eagles, yielding five runs (four earned) in 4 1/3 innings to fall to 4-2 on the season. Things looked bleak, as the Irish trailed 7-0 before a late-game rally in the bottom of the seventh of the scheduled seven-inning game made for a more respectable 7-4 loss. 
"Just like the old saying, I did­n't feel like we lost, time just ran out on us," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "In those seven­inning games, if you fall too far behind, you just run out of innings to rally. 
"I feel like in a nine-inning game, maybe we would have had enough time to rally." 
In the nightcap, the Irish came out early and claimed a 3-1 lead after three innings with a pair of runs in the first off a two-RBI sin­gle from senior Javi Sanchez and an HBI single from left fielder Steve Andres in the third. 
Notre Dame would not be able to put the Eagles away, however, as Boston College came back to tie the game 4-4 in the seventh inning. The Eagles looked like they could even steal a sweep on the road form the Irish with two on and two out in the eighth inning. 
But Mainieri brought in closer Ryan Doherty, who walked the first batter Eric Wright to load the bases. but then struck out third baseman Marco Albano to end the inning. 
In the bottom half of the inning, the Irish took the lead for good on a two-run double from first baseman Matt Edwards. The junior had gone 0-for-6 on the day before knocking the game-winning double down the left field line. 
"I went up there that last time 
OPENING 


-
up with confidence like I had gone 6-for-6 instead of 0-for-6 and got my hit," Edwards said. "It came at the best time it could have [Saturday). 
"The first pitch he threw me was an off-speed pitch, and I was really just sitting on a fastball on the next one. I thought he was going to come back with some­thing hard, and he left it a little bit over the plate, and I got a good swing on it." 

Notre Dame's best effort of the weekend came in its opener Monday with St. John's. The Irish used a dominating pitching per­formance from junior Grant Johnson, who worked five score­less innings and allowed only two hits, to beat the Red Storm 
7-1. 
The Irish committed no errors in the game and shortstop Greg Lopez was a perfect 3-for-3 with a pair of runs scored and an HBI. 
In the nightcap, the Irish spoiled a gem of a pitching per­formance from the freshman Samardzija, who took a no-hitter into the seventh inning. 

"We just had tremendous pitching all day (Monday]." Mainieri said. "It was really a shame that we couldn't finish off the two-game sweep." 
It was in that final game Monday that Mainieri was eject­ed by umpire Bruce Done for arguing an out call on Sanchez at third base in the third inning. 
Despite Samardzija's best efforts, things only got worse for the Irish. With a 1-0 lead in the seventh inning, Sanchez -play­ing second base for injured sen­ior Steve Sollmann -bobbled a one-out ground ball, allowing third baseman Jim Martin to reach first. 
The error proved crucial as· the next batter, Blake Hershelman hit a diving liner that was mis­played by leftfielder Chris Fournier, which allowed the tying run to score. First baseman Eddie Schultz then hit a bloop single to center field to score the winning run off Samardzija, who suffered the hard-luck loss. 
Despite the disappointing loss­es, Mainieri is still optimistic, as his club sits atop the Big East standings. 
"We're still in first place," Mainieri said. "I think we let a golden opportunity go by, but it's hard to sweep doubleheaders against good teams. There's still a lot of baseball to be played. We need to keep getting better." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
This summer, live and learn in WASHINGTON, D.C. 
D
uring our st~nlil,le.r ses.~ions: you'll.s~ak up individual attention from 
The:-Catholic Umversny of Amencas renowned professors and supportive sr:aJT, while you bask in Washing~~ D.C.'5lcgendary resources, attractions, culrure, diversity and hi$tory. 
CUA otfc:-rs more than 260 c01uses and programs in cl1c: summer months for undergraduate and graduate studcnts.Cuch up or get ahead in your degree program. Our offerings include: 
• Architecture  • Education  • Library  • Nursing  
•J\w&  • Engint-ering  Science  • Polil'ics  
Scie.nccs  • Religion  • ,\ledia Smdies  • Psychology  
• Business  • Music  • Social Work  

The sun may be blazing bur the opportunity to expand yoru academic horir.ons is even brighter. For information, visit the Summer Sessions Web sire at http://summer.cua.edu, callus at 202-319-52.57 or e-mail us at cua-summers@cua.edu. We look forward to welcoming you this summer! 
Offite of Summer Sessions • 202-319-5257 
[H\IQ THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA 
\:J!l9 Wusf1i11gtoll, L>C 10ll6./ 
. • I 

-
page 30 Wednesday, April 14, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles keep hold on last playoff spot after 3-1 stretch 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

' 
The Saint Mary's softball team showed Thursday why they belong in the upcoming MIAA tournament. Tuesday, they showed they can compete in it 
By winning both gantes against Hope Thursday in a crucial doubleheader to help determine who would clinch the final seed in the MIAA tourna­ment, the Belles believed they set the tone for the rest of the

'· 
season. After splitting the con­test last year, Saint Mary's did not let up as they won the first game, 7-1, and won the second one with a two-out two-run homer to win 3-2. 
Then Tuesday against Olivet, the Belles split the doublehead­er by winning the first game 8-6 but dropping the second 3-2. 
Saint Mary's came out swing­ing against Hope as they scored two in the first inning of the first game, led by an Erin Sullivan two-out single that 
·drove in both runs. In the top of the second, Audrey Gajor sin­gled to left and reached second after Bridget Grall's hit was misplayed. With both runners advancing to second and third on a Meghan Marenkovic sacri­fice, Marnie Walsh singled to center making the score 4-0. 
In the third, the Belles struck once again as they posted three more runs. Katrina Tebbe begin with a single, and Erin Sullivan was hit by a pitch giving Saint 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 32 
best team defense we've played all year. Our 2002 defense was a nationally ranked unit, and I think this defense is defmitely as good if not better than the 2002 team." 
Meredith Simon paced the Irish attack, recording six points (3 goals, 3 assists), and goalkeeper Carol Dixon recorded a career­high 14 saves in running her career-record to 10-0. 
Both Simon and Dixon were rewarded for their play over the past week against Ohio and Ohio State, earning the distinction of Big East Offensive Player of the Week arid Big East Defensive Player of the Week, respectively. In a testament to the season-long high performance play of the duo, Simon has now been hon­ored three times on the season, and Dixon has garnered a pair of acknowledgements. 
Simon had six goals and three assists in the week ending April 11, while Dixon won a pair of decisions and made 24 saves between the two games. 
"Carol had one of her best games of the season against Ohio State," Coyne said. "She was see­ing the ball really well and her positioning in the cage was really solid. " 
In addition to Simon, Lauren Fischer and Crysti Foote helped carry the offensive load as each posted four points (3 goals, 1 assist), and defender Kassen Delano and middle Abby Owen both tallied a pair of goals. 
Foote kicked off a season-best 10-goal unanswered scoring streak when she found the back of the net four minutes into the contest. The lead would grow to 10-0 when Fischer picked up her second of three goals with 3:36 Mary's two runners on with no outs. Then Grall's sacrifice fly scored one more, giving the Belles a 5-0 edge. Marenkovic knocked in the last two runs with a single. They finished the inning with three runs on two hits and a 7-0 lead. 

This was all they would need for the win, as Kate Sajewich pitched five great innings and allowed only one run in the bot­tom of the fourth. Tebbe led the Belles with three hits and Walsh, Sullivan, and Marenkovic all had two RB Is apiece. 
The second game of the after­noon started off as a defensive battle between two teams that were fighting for the fourth and final seed in the conference tournament. Both pitchers were superb as only five total hits were given up through four innings. 
That changed in the bottom of the fifth, when the Belles scored the first run of the game. Walsh scored on an RBI single from Sajewich. 
But Hope responded in the sixth with a run and added another in the seventh as they took the lead 2-1 heading into the bottom of the seventh. Saint Mary's chances of making the tournament looked glum, but in their final at bat Sajewich hit a game-ending home run with Sullivan on first. 
The win not only gave the Belles a sweep, but also increased their lead over Hope for the playoff spot. Jean 
left in the first half. 
"I was surprised, in all honesty, that we got up on them 10-0, because they're such a competi­tive team, and they're traditional­ly a top program," Coyne said. "We had no trouble breaking their press, and we were just moving the ball really well." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
Few people will ever this. But then, few to be a Marine. School (OCS) is for afuture beyond anything you could imagine. 
Downes and Erin Sullivan led the team with a pair of hits each, and Sajewich sealed the deal with her homer in the sev­enth. 
"In preparing for the game, our practices have been the same. We shook of the dust after the long break," said Tebbe. 
Last year, the Belles didn't face the Comets because of a late postponement that was never finished. However, Saint Mary's was focused and ready to secure a spot in the tourna­ment. 
"We didn't get a chance to see Olivet last year, but we ... pre­pared for them by using past games," Tebbe said. "Our defensive is ready and we feel we [had] the advantage with our hitting and pitching." 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

SUMMER DISTANCE LEARNING COURSES NOW 
Register online at 
learn.udayton.edu 
setfoot in an office like  At OCS you11 develop the qualities you need to become a Marine  
people have what it takes  Officer. Invaluable training that could lead to an exciting can~er in  
Officer Officer Candidates  aviation. Ifyou've got what it takes to be aleader of Marines, you  
the first step towards preparing you  could get an office with a spectacular view.  

SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SHECTION TEAM CAPTAIN JOHN WilLIAMS 
1-877-299-9397 OSOIAF@9MCD.USMC.MIL 
MARl N E OFFICER PROGRAMS 1\larineOfficer. com 

Wednesday, April 14, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
DILBERT 
1---J_O_B_A._P_P_L_I_CA._N_T__~ ~ 
0
.. 
®

HOW DO YOU 
~ 

REWARD YOUR 
j

TOP PERFORMERS? 
~ 

FIVES 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I KEEP INCREASING THEIR WORKLOADS UNTIL THEIR PER­FORMANCES BECOME AVERAGE. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE ­
MIKE ARGIRION 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  3 3" _as good as  57 Oktoberfest air  
1 Check, as the horizon  another'' 34 Symbol of stub- 58"When in "  
5Pick out  bornness  59 Clothing line  
9Home feature 1 4 Lotion additive  3 5 Race in an H. G. Wells story 36 Ending for a line  6 oHint of light 6 1 Parishioner's line  
1 5 Walk in water 1 6They may be spent in France  3 9 Curved lines 402%, maybe 41 Tolerate  62 One getting a decoration  
1 7Restaurant lines?  42 #26 of 26  DOWN  
1 8Atlas section  4 3 Up for some­thing  1 1950's-60's singer Cooke  
1 9Some trans­portation stocks 2 oEnd of a line 2 3Swamp goo  4 4 Film campo­nents 4 5 Quadrennial conventiongoer  2 Staff symbol 3 Top-of-the-line 4Ones getting "worry lines"?  
2 4 Charged particle 2 5Move with stealth  4 6 Sci-fi writer Frederik 47 Ending line  5 "Dirty Dancing" co-star 6Stickum  
2 8The Merry Men, e.g. 3 o Like a wall­flower  53 Bond before Dalton 54 Joint problem 55 Creep (along)  7 Garfield's pal 8Go lickety-split 9 Certain 36-Across  3oDone in 31 Bunch of people  4 3 Stadium cheer 44Tone down  4 9 Taj Mahal city 50 Weaving  
ANSWER  TO  PREVIOUS  PUZZLE .;,;.f,.;+;,;+,;+;~ -:-:+=+::::+:-+=!  1 oGreg Evans comic strip 11 Diva's lines 1 2 Car payment 1 3Curved line 2 1 Settle down for  32 "Omigosh!" 3 4 What to call a lady 35 Add frills to 37 Russian range  45 Winter wear 4 6 Feather in one's cap 47 Hammer or tongs 4 8 Doughnut's cen­ machine 5 1 Kind of pad 52 Operation memento 5 3 Auto ad stat.  
the night  3 8 Snack chip  ter  56 Med. care plan  
-:+=+-,;,.j  2 2 Sal of "Exodus"  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a2 5Shade of yellow 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 2 6Harden 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS.
-7+:+.:-1 2 7London coppers Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
..;+;.;+.;;+;,;! 2 8Montana city 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ..,;,.+;,;+,=+::=.! 2 9 "It's a Sin to Tell Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young _" (1936 hit) solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: 
• 
HOROSCOPE 
(Answers Monday) 

ACUTE BUSHY FONDLY TRUDGE This car is like a lengthy prison term because they're both -A LONG "STRETCH" 
EUGENIA LAST 
• 

Sharing this birthday: Thomas Jefferson, Garry Kasparov, Jack Casady, Dan Gurney, Ron Perlman 
Happy Birthday: Your determined nature to succeed at whatever it is you pursue will result in some extraordinary experiences this year. You will not relinquish your position to others regardless of the efforts they make. You will find your true talents will surface when needed, enabling you to reach the goals you set. Your numbers: 5, 12, 17, 28, 34,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Spend time with friends and family. You don't have to be extravagant to have a good time. Be innovative and come up with ideas that the whole family can enjoy. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be in a position to help others. Give advice, but hold back if they want to borrow cash. You should do things that involve family. Don't take risks when it comes to dealing with your mate. •••• ­GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emotional turmoil will result if you haven't been completely honest with your mate. Your dynamic nature will allract plenty of romantic opportunities. Don't make hasty decisions. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll get ahead if you share your ideas with your boss. Your estimated view of the situation at work will be amazingly accurate. You can impress others with your keen memory and awareness. 
·~··· 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do something special for your mate. This would be a good day to make a commitment. Get involved in activities involving children. You should consider taking an exotic trip for two. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have many good ideas, but before you decide to put any of them in motion, make sure you look at the cost factor involved. Someone will oppose you adamantly. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your ability to see both sides of an issue will enable you to keep things harmonious in group encounters. Changes and busy activities in your home will cause· fatigue and some discord. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money-making projects will develop. You will have to be ready to jump on the band wagon and take advantage of the opportunities as they arise. Your mate may not like you taking a risk. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Past partners may try to come back into your life. Be sure that you lay your cards on the table. Chances are you split up the last time because you didn't really want to make a commitment. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make those long-overdue changes to your home. You can please everyone in the household if you include them in your plans. If you all pitch in, you'll save time and money. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your contributions to worthwhile causes will enhance your reputation and introduce you to prominent people. Problems concerning inheritance taxes should be looked at carefully. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll find it difficult to relate to your partner. Listen to his or her concerns but don't voice your thoughts. You can't win regardless of what you say or do. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have much energy and arc active in your pursuits and eager t9 prove yourself. You have no fear and will not stand for any interference from others. You are forever looking for a challenge and will never be content to sit back and watch others. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.------­
THE OBSERVER 
-
PORTS
Wednesday, April 14, 2004 page 32 
FooTBALL 

It's not academic 
ND says standards aren't the reason top recruits won't wear gold helmets 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Darius Walker will attend Notre Dame 
• next fall. Walker also will play football . The Georgia running back was admitted to the University this winter after a typi­cal recruiting process, and on Feb. 4 he signed a national letter of intent to play at Notre Dame. But while other schools might have focused exclusively on Walker's athletic prowess, Notre Dame's regular recruiting process emphasized Walker's academic history and credentials. 
"It's one of the first things they do," said Walker, who will graduate this spring with a 4.0 GPA and a 1110 SAT score. "They find.out about the players' aca­demics before they even start [recruiting]. 


Since they have such high standards, they want to know whether they can recruit you or they can't." 
After the team's third losing season in five years, Notre Dame football fans are worried that rising admission standards for incoming students have caused the admission standards for football players to rise. The team's performance, some fans say, has suffered accordingly. 
In the early 1990's, the Knight Commission -chaired by University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh -led a charge to prevent Division I schools from lowering admis­sions standards to admit unqualified ath­letes. Ironically, today some Irish fans want Notre Dame to lower its standards to accommodate more athletes. 
see FOOTBALL/page 27 
BASEBALL 

Tough breaks cause Irish to crumble 
Mainieri's ejection, near no­hitter exemplify 2-2 weekend 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 

-
From a near no-hitter turning into a one-run loss to their usually-calm head coach being ejected from the game, the Irish experienced just about every­thing this weekend in a pair of split doubleheaders in Big East action. 
No. 4 Notre Dame See Also (26-5, 8-2 in the Big 

·"Solimann hopes to return"
East) saw its proven ace Chris Niese! page29continue to struggle in the first game of the break Saturday but watched freshman Jeff Sarnardzija continue to pitch as sharp as anyone on the staff with a near no-hitter Monday, in a weekend of ups-and-downs. 
In the end, Notre Dame split a pair, 4-7 and 6-4 with Boston College (12-17, 4-3) Saturday and again split with St. John's (16-13, 8-2) Monday, 7-1 and 1-JOANNA PAXTON/The Observer 
Cody Rizzo Is tagged out at second, the first out of a double play, during Notre see BASEBALL/page 29 Dame's 7-1 win against St. John's. Notre Dame went 2-2 over Easter break. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Two ranked foes topple Irish over weekend 
William and Mary outlasted Notre Dame 4-3 The Irish were off to a good start early in the
By ANN LOUGHERY 

in a nail-biting match that left the Tribe the meet, holding a 3-1 lead against William and 
Sports Writer 

victors in one doubles match and four singles Mary. The No. 2 doubles team of sophomore matches. Later this weekend, the Longhorns Lauren Connelly and senior Alicia Salas com­
Heading into this weekend's matches, the combined two wins in doubles and four in sin-. bined with No. 3 doubles junior Sarah Jane Irish anticipated that they would have to fight gles for a 5-2 defeat of the Irish. Connelly and senior Emily Neighbours to gain for every point. "We had tight matches the whole way," said the doubles point for the Irish. 
No. 43 William and Mary (13-12) and No. 14 coach Jay Louderback. "It was especially dis­Lauren Connelly and Salas beat Lena Texas (16-4) fulfilled their expectations, with appointing losing to William and Mary Sherbakov and Lingda Yang 8-2. Sarah Jane both teams edging out No. 23 Notre Dame in because I felt like we could have won that their respective matches. match." see TENNIS/page 25 
-
en 
ND SOFTBALL 
MEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

ROWING 
SMC GOlF
TRACK 
w 

Notre Dame won 11 
No. 7 Notre Dame's
1-
c.,) Nebraska 2 

Notre Dame 6 
First at the Hope
Notre Dame 12 

events in an invitational 
crew teams consistently
z Notre Dame 0 

Florida State 1 
Air Force 2 
coneae 

at the University of 
finished second to No. 
lnvita ional
a: ::5 

Missouri, the most of 
10 Michigan State at the
= Notre Dame 1 
Notre Dame 17

Against the No. 33 
any team competing in 
weekend regatta. 
Q Nebraska 0 

Seminoles, the Irish 
Denver 14 
The Belles beat sec-
cc 

the invitational. 
The Irish win despite 
rolled in their last dual 
Solid defense helped 
and-place Hope by a
Dam =getting outhit. 

meet before Big Easts. 
the Irish past Air Force. 
mere three strokes. 

en 
page 26 
page 23

page 26 
page 25 
page 24 
page 24 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish ascend to No.2 
Thrashing of Ohio State followed by highest national ranking in 8 years 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Put another one in the win 
column. 
Notre Dame moved to a 
and extended its overall win­
ning streak to a school-record 
14 games as the Irish ripped 
off the contest's first 10 goals 
en route to a 14-6 thrashing 
of Ohio State (3-7) in 
Columbus, Ohio, on Saturday 
afternoon. 
And on the heels of the vic­
tory, the Irish ascended to No. 
2 in both the Intercollegiate 
Women's Lacrosse Coaches 
Association (IWLCA) and 
Inside Lacrosse Magazine 
polls. 
The No. 2 spot is the highest 
ranking in eight years, top­
ping the No. 3 rank the Irish 
had carried since March 16. 
"We played unbeliilvable 
team defense against Ohio 
State," Irish coach Tracy 
Coyne said. "It's probably the 
see LACROSSE/page 30 





