~~~---~~~­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Malloy speaks out on Ramadan 
THE 


Government has not provided reasons for revoked visa 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
A week after the Notre Dame community learned that a revoked visa would prohibit Tariq Ramadan from teaching here this fall, University President Father Edward 
Malloy expressed growing frustration as he, Ramadan and Notre 
D a m e 
remain in the dark about specif­ic charges against the scholar. 
"The effort that we've b e e n involved in ever since has been to find out why," Malloy said Monday. 

"And it says in the regulations that if somebody's denied a visa, they 


have a right to know who denied it and what the grounds were." 
Ramadan has not received an 
Ramadan answer to 
either ques­tion, Malloy said. Neither the Department of Homeland Security, which requested that the Islamic scholar be barred, nor the State Department, which formally rescinded his visa, has provided a rationale or identified the agency that made the final decision. 
"It isn't that we haven't talked to different parts of the government -nobody is will­ing to step forward and say 'I was the one,' or 'Our agency was the one' responsible,'' Malloy said. "I honestly don't 
see MALLOYIpage 4 

Students fight fires, help the community 
Clay Fire program combines work and service 
At left, ND alumnus and Clay firefighter Cole Huth practices his skills. Above, ND alumnus Chris Martin stands in front of the Clay Fire Department.
•
PHOTOS COURTESY OF CLAY FIRE DEPARTMENT 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
Imagine the rush of interhall football combined with the compassion of a service project. On the surface it may seem like an oxymoron, but to Notre Dame students who partici­pate in the Clay Fire Territory Student Firefighter Program, the two make a perfect mix. 
Sponsored by the Clay Fire Territory, the program trains students to become volunteer firefighters in South Bend. After complet­ing an application and interview, interested stu­dents participate in a year­long training process. They meet every Wednesday and one Saturday a month to learn about first aid, equipment use, fire pre­vention and customer serv­ice. 
"I became more and 
see VOLUNTEER/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students tasered, arrested at Rally 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
The South Bend Police Department used Tasers to subdue two students during arrests made Friday evening and Saturday morning at the annual Rally in the Alley party located in the Turtle Creek Apartments. 
Capt. John Williams, public information officer for the South Bend Police Department, said that according to police reports a Notre Dame student and a Holy Cross student were taken into custody in two separate incidents on counts of disorderly conduct and resisting law enforcement. Williams declined to release the full text of the two police reports. 
Williams said Officer Jennifer Radican, an off-duty South Bend patrolwoman serving as Turtle Creek's security officer, and Capt. James Andrews approached the Notre Dame student about the volume level of the music coming from his apart­ment. 
The student became argu­mentative when he was called outside by police to the sidewalk to receive a citation and resisted Radican 's attempts to handcuff him Williams said. Police said Radican reported that she used the Taser to subdue the student and arrested him at 
see RALLY/page 4 

Shirt sales off to strong start 
By JEANNINE PRIVAT 
News Writer 
Despite some students' con­cerns about the design of this year's The Shirt, organizers said they are pleased with current sales. 

At present, 29,300 of the annual fundraising T-shirt have been sold, said The Shirt president Katie Crossin. 
"Sales are going very well," she said. 

Because sales totals are generally not compiled by this time, Crossin could not say whether this year's figures were typical. 
The 2004 version of The Shirt, unveiled last April, 

1990s. Fifteen years ago, The Shirt was created to build unity among students, and Crossin wanted to revisit that theme this year. 
"We wanted the design to appeal to the students above anyone else," Crossin said. 
This year's design differs from the more modern designs of past years. 
"I guess it's supposed to be vintage, if by vintage they mean Abercrombie & Fitch circa 1992," senior Chris Hale said. 
This year's T-shirt is kelly green, although the shade is slightly different from the past two years. 
Some students, like sopho­more Alyssa Close, said they 
been used for the past two years, as the University attempted to create a "Sea of Green" in Notre Dame Stadium. 
In fact, the new color of The Shirt is not new at all and dis­tinguishes it from previous designs. The green color closely resembles the original color used for The Shirt. 
"We wanted a different color green, to differentiate from the previous [two] years," Crossin said. 
A main focus in designer Brittany Becker's original theme was the cheer, "We are NO." 
That slogan remained a key component throughout the design process and now deco-

sports a vintage design hark­preferred last year's color. Shoppers In the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore check out this ing back to designs from the The kelly green color has see SHIRT/page 6 year's version of The Shirt Monday. 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Just popularity? 
As the elections of November draw nearer. we college students of Notre Dame have to make a very important decision and choose between two men. This choice will affect us. our families, our 
Becca Saunders 
country, and our 
world. A deci­
sion that carries 
Assistant 
so much weight 
Scene Editor 
is not one to be 
trivially decided. 
Therefore it is 
not surprising that students all over 
campus are doing whatever they 
can to prepare themselves to make 
an educated decision for the best 
candidate in the upcoming election. 
From reading books and columns 
on issues to watching Michael 
Moore movies, as students at Notre 
Dame there is a lot we can and 
probably will do to prepare our­
selves for the election of 2004, but 
what about the rest of the country? 
The "Rock the Vote" program is known across the country for encouraging their target audience of young adults to vote for anyone or anything thing, but just get out there and vote. This is terrific. Informed or not, the decisions being made by our government affect every person and all should have say in who is making those deci­sions. Therefore, if the general public should be voting based on the candidate that would improve their personal life, should "stars" and Hollywood in general be so vocal about their opinions regard­ing the election? 
The "Vote for Change Tour". including Dave Matthews Band, The Dixie Chicks, James Taylor, Bruce Springsteen, Pearl Jam and R.E.M. Uust to name a few). began this month and consists of a series of concerts in support of John Kerry. Sarah Jessica Parker is wearing a necklace that reads "Kerry." Natalie Portman shows her support for Kerry in her t-shirt logo. The Bush supporters do not seem to be so well known, the only "pop-star­status" supporter that I've heard about is Jessica Simpson and, well that is it. 

While these stars are entitled to their opinion, as any person in any profession would be, whether they are an accountant or a famous musician, is it right for them to publicly campaign their personal beliefs to very influential crowds of people? People emulate the stars in their hair styles and clothing choices -but in opinions regarding the future leader of our country? Voting is important for everyone to do, but does a candidate with more "popular" friends really deserve a better shot at the votes from the millions of Dave Matthews Band fans, just because Dave Matthews Band likes him better? I don't think so. I have not decided who I will vote for in the upcoming elec­tion, as I am sure many of you have not either, but whomever you choose, make it your choice -and do keep listening to Dave Matthews Band. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Becca Saunders at bsaunder@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Obsorver rogards itsdfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the high<St standards ofjournal­ism at all timos. We do, howev<r, r<cogniu that we will make mistak<S. Ifwe have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE SHIRT? 

Bridget Meacham 
McGlinn junior 
"It looks like Joe Montana is wearing a diaper., 


Mike Gigante 
Standford junior 
"It's really green!" 

Tom Ruskewlsz 
Knott 
junior 

"It looks like one ofthose cheapND knock-off shirts from K-Mart., 

Anson Fraser 
Keough freshman 
"I like the shirt. It's nice and colorful. It gets the job done. " better. 

IN BRIEF 
Attend the lecture "Misunderstanding, Incompetence, and Deception: An American History" today from 4 to 5 p.m. in 319 Debartolo Hall. The talk will be given by Stanford University professor Richard White and is part of the Dilenschneider Lecture Series in History. 
The Office of Human Resources will offer free blood pressure and body fat screen­ings to Notre Dame faculty and staff Wednesday from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. on the second floor of the Security Building. 
Come see Michael Moore's much-talked about documen­tary "Fahreinheit 9/11." It's being shown Friday at 7 and 10 p.m. in the Browning Cinema atthe DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Check out the No. 2 ranked Irish women's soccer team as they take on Stanford University Friday from 5 to 
9:30 p.m. in the Adidas Classic. 
Listen to a panel discussion on "Economic, Operational and Ethical Implications of Outsourcing/Offshoring," which takes place Wednesday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. The panel is part of the O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics. 
Come check out the European Studies program at an open house to be held Thursday from 4 to 6 p.m. in 211 Bronson Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 82 HIGH 83 LOW 63 LOW 64 

MICHELLE OTTO/The Observer 

Notre Dame students study while enjoying the late summer sunshine -that has finally arrived -under the arches near Fitzpatrick Hall and the Snlte Museum of Art Monday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 
Alleged bank robber seeks directions 
BOSTON Paul Michael Callahan was a bank robber in search of a bank, according to police. First thing Monday morning, he allegedly tried to rob a copy shop at Boston University think­ing it was a bank. 
Boston police said he walked into the shop and passed a note to a store employee asking for money. When he was told the shop wasn't a bank, Callahan asked for direc­tions to the nearest Fleet bank branch, police said. 
About 40 minutes later, he allegedly robbed a Fleet branch -but came away with less than $200. 
On Monday afternoon, Callahan allegedly held up a Citizen's Bank, mak­ing off with $2,500. But a bright red dye pack exploded as he fled in his truck, which got a flat tire not far away. 
More Than 80 Birds Found at Ind. Home 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. Animal control officers found more than 80 birds inside a home filled with bird droppings and have ordered the owner to find new homes for them. 

TODAY TONIGHT 

.·, ··~~::~;+:J~.-4·~+~:~~: 

.. ' 
. . " . ~ 
:~ . ', .. : . .,...:"', 
.~-r;.. ...<:,-;.~·.
...... 
' "· ~.-:.' .,, ,t.,•
c( 
~~ .~\tt·~~~·::<~~~. 
(,) 
.9 HIGH 75 HIGH 60 LOW 57 LOW 57 
Child Protective Services reported that the man's 11-year-old son was taken out of the home and placed with a relative. A building inspector ordered the home closed to human occupancy until it is cleaned. 
The stench inside the home was so foul that the first police officer to arrive reported he could­n't stomach it long enough to fully search the house. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

WEDNESDAY THURSDAY

(f (f 
HIGH 78 HIGH 80 LOW 59 LOW 62 

Noreen Sherred 
Regina freshman 

"I don't know, being a first-year student. I really didn 't like it when I saw it. I liked last year's 

Rae Smith 
North Dining Hall manager 
"I think they're attractive. It's good to see them on the students. It shows a loyalty to Notre Dame. 

Atlanta 85 I 69 Boston 81 I 65 Chicago 78 I 61 Denver 84 I 56 Houston 89 I 67 Los Angeles 86 I 64 Minneapolis 79 I 61 New York 82 I 67 Philadelphia 85 I 67 Phoenix 108 I 82 Seattle 75 I 58 St. Louis 86 I 65 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 87 I 68 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Students plan, prepare for year's activities 

In other BOG news: 

+ 
The game "Singled Out," based on the MTV show will be played at Dalloway's Wednesday. The event is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. 

+ 
BOG members also dis­cussed plans for the Twilight Tailgate and Blessed Union of Souls concert to be held Sept. 9. 

+ 
Sophomore class presi­dent, Claudia Toth, said fundraising sales of the "I Love SMC" shirts went well, and that the sophomore board is planning a Sophomore Sisters mentor 


program. 
"It is a great way to pair up a freshman with a sopho­more, who they can ask questions to," Toth said. "We sent out an e-mail to both classes, and so far we have had a great response." 
+ The Senior Class Kick-off will be held Wednesday at Opus Hall and will include food and music. The senior class has also planned Senior Dad's weekend for Nov. 5-7. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehanl@nd.edu 

By CAITY SCHNEEMAN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives held their kick-off meeting last night as all 12 members met to dis­
cuss their respective organizations' agendas for the year. 
Off-campus representative D a v e 
McGowan described his plan to more closely con­nect off-cam­pus Notre Dame students with the on-campus com­
"We want to do some good things for people off campus so they don't feel like the forgotten step child." 
Dave McGowan off-campus Representltlve 
as many voters as possible. Istvan said he will work with Rock the Vote to set up a Notre Dame Rock the Vote Web site. 
In other COR news: 
+Chief Executive Assistant Dave Baron described his analysis of the new student 

munity. Details included a possible Web site, which would be constantly updated with Notre Dame activities and community service opportunities. 
"We want to do some good things for people off campus so they don't feel like the for­gotten step child," said McGowan. 
Liz Cain, co-chair of the Hall Presidents Council, expressed her organization's concern that competition between residence halls is too high. Cain said HPC would 
encourage cooperation between hall presidents. 
Student body president Adam Istvan said he was recently contacted by Rock the Vote, an organization aims to bring youth into the political process and register 
government constitution and showed the group a flow chart of student-run organi­zations. "COR is the center­piece of the new constitu­tion," said Baron. 
+ Also mentioned was the possible consolidation of clubs around campus. JR Garcia, Club Coordination Council Representative, dis­cussed the possible consolida­tion of some of the over 200 campus clubs. 
Contact Caity Schneeman at cschneem@nd.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group discusses history, new year 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance held their first meeting of the year Monday. 
Student body president Sarah Catherine White wel­comed Saint Mary's new president Carol Mooney and talked about the history and background of the College. 
"These pictures remind us that we will lead this history together," White said. "We must show respect, and keep in mind that others have led us to guide here, for they see our ambition. We are called to lead with our tal­ents." 
White later discussed the first draft of the new BOG constitution. She asked board members to edit their contributions and be pre­pared to vote on the changes in the next few weeks. 
Treasurer Molly Welton said the excess money the board had expected would not be available since the enrollment decrease result­ed in a budget cut. 
Susan Mcllduff, chief of staff. also said freshmen elections would begin in the next few weeks. 
"Hopefully we can spread the word and get some real­ly great freshmen involved with BOG," Mcllduff said. 
IBM+NO  IBM Thinkhd ~Jl-s-~  IBH Thin~Pad T~l-srn1n  
•• -~ ... ~ .....l""'l  
·! :n: l"'lnJT.• 1.' :.~. "."t •:-:f.I x•I'T:  111 1 1 1 ~·... , I,", I I .1., ... I I  ~ I •1  1YK~ ... ~~~~-­·: ·.-.1­\",1 ............ J-1' ,...  ri"*'J·:•...,-:... ,.,..,, "."t I'll •lo1 t 11':'-:d f r  
&.1  I  • I  I  1•  I r" I Vl"t'\1'1  ......  I  •  II  
...OC[. I r: :r .,.  H  "'  rot r.~:  : 1·:-: H11111  ,,  :':"Jtrrr. ·~:  
:f.f'"Ai ·.""II~ -r."·"A  -....-..1 •("{t ··.II (  ~  .i:H :c· -:oo•N  -: ..w·:."lr.r-:  


-~~ ..~ h ;~~, .. ~ ~511~1 L:-:~ ~ z14iN '•I>!!I ;s:r. =!.rail ~ ~))J ;,~II tlll~· .~ .».:..11""1";::, $i~~ ~~:~·~ 
llo'l.._..... I ......... ~::.· ... -.. -.L..... «•-... I.LI-. .. , ....L.:IH& -+....... I 1.11 .. ~ .... ­<.a~& •• -o,,...., • J (,,_.,,..., •.._ ..... hl...lo. 1......... :).:lit "'.llL' ....~ ( • II. I .II::,, Y .L, lito I .........r-:-..,.r I ~.II.~ -• ·~ .... • • tlo. L'l _., ....-"' ...1•• • 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Williams said. He added that the training session. officer in pursuit was able to Williams said he was unaware
Rally 
apprehend and identify only the of any other citations that were arrested Holy Cross student, who issued at the Turtle Creek
continued from page I 
was tasered after fleeing to a Apartments or in relation to Rally approximately 11:10 p.m. Friday. vacant property near Turtle in the Alley. 
The second incident involved Creek. Turtle Creek property manager the arrest of the Holy Cross stu­"Officers use the Taser whenev­Tammy Michelbrink said she dent around 4 a.m. Saturday. A er it is necessary, and only when received no complaints about the group of three males, including it is necessary," said Williams. annual event from residents. the arrested Holy Cross student, He explained that 99 percent of vandalized the back door of an the uniformed South Bend police apartment located in Turtle Creek force carries a Taser, and added Contact Amanda Michaels at and fled when the police arrived that officers undergo a four-hour amichael@nd.edu 

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
know who was responsible. It's hard to say. I'll gladly admit there could have been good reasons for it, but we don't know what those rea­sons are and so we're doing the best we can in the face of the unknown." 
The unknown. as Malloy sees it, remains extensive. Not only did 'the decision drop "out of the blue" in July, he said, but speculation from both sides has overshadowed the facts in the weeks since. 
"Those are all legitimate expres­sions of opinion," he said, referring to the steady stream of Ramadan's supporters and enemies who have come forward since the scholar's situation became public Aug. 25. "But it's not clear who has the facts." 
And while Malloy made clear' that "the last thing we want to do is favor somebody who would be a threat to the well-being of the coun­try," he said proof of such accusa­tions had yet to emerge. 
Until Ramadan is allowed to hear and address these allegations, Malloy said, his rights have effec­tively been suspended. 
"Until he has the chance to do that, then it seems to me the law's not being fulfilled," Malloy said. "That seems to be our dilemma right now." 
Adding to the dilemma of Ramadan's defense, Malloy said, is the difficulty of dealing with poten­tially classified information. Since the visa was revoked under nation­al security-related sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act, restricted information could play a role in the agencies' decision-mak­ing process -a complication with which Malloy expressed frustration. 
"Somebody can always say, 'Well I know something you don't know. If you only knew what I knew,"' he said. "What are you going to say? There's nothing to say." 
When dealing with such a high­profile case, the University and the Kroc Institute must also perform a delicate balancing act, Malloy said. 
"We're just trying to be respectful of the prerogatives of the govern­ment but also supportive of the pro­fessor," he said. "All you can do if you're in his situation -or as peo­ple trying to assist a faculty mem­ber-is be frustrated." 
Ramadan may simply be caught in a bureaucratic web, Malloy said, along with others who have lost their visas and are in a similar situ­ation. But the University president expressed hope that the case would be resolved in the near future, both for the benefit of the Ramadan fam­ily, who remains at home in Switzerland, and for the University community that stands to benefit from his presence. 
"This is somebody we've hired, we thought was a good hire, we had good reason for it," Malloy said, while praising the professor as "a legitimate conversation partner" in the dialogue between religious ide­ologies. 
"I think it's an appropriate role for us to play," he said. "I hope we can be a part of that conversation. I hope it'll happen, we'll get govern­ment approval ... but right now, it's stalled." 
Contact Claire Heininger at chein­ing@nd.edu 

Volunteer 
continued from page I 
more excited about the volunteer job as I 
learned about the ins and outs of being a fire­
fighter," junior Bertram Koelsch said. "The 
program lets one become involved with the 
real world, which is a much needed step from 
the ND bubble." 
After the first year, the program requires firefighters to train two nights per month in addition to 24 hours a month spent in the sta­tion. At this point, the students don their uni­forms and respond to calls ranging from med­ical emergencies to car accidents and full­fledged fires. 
For a select number of juniors and seniors who are considering a career in firefighting, the Clay Fire station provides a place for them to live free of charge in exchange for working 10 12-hour shifts per month. The program has had a significant impact on its members. 
According to Captain Brian Kazmierzak, who is the training officer and manager in the pro­gram, "we have had many students in the past go through this program and end up pursuing careers in fire and emergency medicine." 
Kazmierzak said the program encourages both students with previous firefighting expe­rience and those who are new to the field and want to learn more. 
Koelsch was one of the students who had no previous experience and said he first learned of the program last year at Activities Night. 
"I decided to apply, never having previously given any thought to being a firefighter," he said. 
Of all the program's aspects, Koelsch said he best enjoys serving the community while learning job skills and appreciates the cama­raderie around the station. 
"I really enjoy working together with every­one at the department and am always amazed how much there is to learn and how much I can learn," he said. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 

FREE MOVIE • FREE FOOD • FREE GIVEAWAYS • FRANK THE TANK 
Act•anw • ...Ull alee 1m1e Wedeesdaw. wo-nt •oln• •• •• to ll•rth Qead. Yeah. u•• solD& P•llcarn. tnavDe wle ......-tzes. SlllftiiiLe diaL Mavlle .....ortuna, I dee-. ll.naw. 1 ll..rt Inlow • wa-.1 llawe eno••h U01e. 
HTTP:JIWWW.ND.EDU./-SUB./ FOR MORE INFO ON OTHER GREAT SUB EVENTS! 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE sERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
NATO troops detain suspect 
KABUL, Afghanistan-Investigators prob­ing a deadly car bombing in the Afghan capi­tal questioned a man detained at Kabul air­port with traces of explosives on his hands, officials said Monday, while U.S. authorities warned all Americans in the capital to be inconspicuous. 
Taliban rebels claimed responsibility for Sunday's blast at a U.S. security firm, but officials said they are not ruling out any sus­pects, including al-Qaida. 
Hospital officials said 10 people were killed, including three Americans. The com­pany confirmed that three of its American employees had been killed. 
NATO troops grew suspicious of a man on the grounds of Kabul airport on Sunday, spokesman Lt. Cdr. Ken Mackillop said. 
After finding explosives on his hands, NATO turned the man over to Afghan authorities on Monday. The man was not identified. 
Journalist held hostage in Iraq 
PARIS -A French journalist being held hostage along with a colleague in Iraq called on French President Jacques Chirac to give in to militants' demand to rescind a head­scarf ban to save their lives, according to a video shown late Monday on the Al-Jazeera television station. 
The video was broadcast hours after France insisted it would go ahead with the ban on Muslim head scarves in schools, standing firm against scrapping the law just hours before a deadline set by the captors. 
"I appeal to the French people to go to the streets ... because our lives are threatened," journalist Georges Malbrunot said in English on the video. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ex-Marine testifies on prison abuse 
CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. -A Marine accused of kicking a handcuffed Iraqi prisoner who later died said he beat prisoners "to establish who's in charge" and that he treated federal inmates at his civilian job the same way, a witness testified Monday. 
John Hennagin, a retired Marine, said he confronted Sgt. Gary Pittman about putting his knee in the stomachs of two Iraqi prisoners at Camp Whitehorse, a makeshift lockup outside Nasiriyah. 
'"You have to establish who's in charge,"' Hennagin said, quoting Pittman. Pittman also said prisoners were treated the same way at a federal prison in New York. Hennagin testified. 
Pittman's court-martial is believed to be the first stemming from the death of a U.S. mili­tary prisoner in Iraq. He faces up to two years in military prison if he is convicted of assault and dereliction of duty. 
Pittman, 40, is accused of karate-kicking Nagem Hatab, who was later found dead. Hennagin, who was a translator at the com­pound, testified he did not see Pittman kick Hatab. 

Air marshals hired despite offenses 
WASHINGTON -The government hired air marshals who had been involved in cases of misconduct and doesn't hold them to a high enough disciplinary standard, the Homeland Security Department's inspector general says. 
"Many federal air marshals were granted access to classified information after display­ing questionable judgment, irresponsibility and emotionally unstable behavior," Inspector General Clark Kent Ervin said in a report released Monday. 
Asa Hutchinson, the department's undersec­retary, disagreed with the report's conclusions. 
In a written response, Hutchinson said new standards and guidelines have been set for determining whether applicants are suitable to be air marshals, whose job is primarily guard­ing planes while ~hey are in flight. 
Thousands of air marshals were rushed into service after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The exact number is classified and the marshals travel undercover, but pilots say they guard only a small percentage of daily flights. 

GOP assails Kerry on first day 
Republicans open convention with attacks; praise Bush's leadership 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Republicans belittled Democratic Sen. John Kerry as a shift-in-the­wind campaigner unwor­thy of the White House on Monday at the opening of their national convention, lavishing praise on President Bush as a steady, decisive leader in an age of terrorism. 
"In this great struggle, we need a commander in chief who is a beacon, not a weather vane," said Rep. Heather Wilson of New Mexico in remarks pre­pared for delivery to dele­gates gathered four miles from the site where terror­ists struck on Sept. 11, 2001. "We have one in George W. Bush." 
"Kerry is weak on war and wrong on taxes," added House Speaker Dennis Hastert of Illinois. 
Bush campaigned in New Hampshire as the GOP opened its four-day gather­ing, and triggered an instant campaign stir when he told an interviewer he doubted victory is possible in the war on terror. 
"I don't think you can win it. But I think you can create the conditions that those who use terror as a tool are less acceptable in parts of the world," he told NBC. Kerry said the strug­gle was "absolutely" winnable and Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards said Bush's remark amounted to a concession of defeat in the war that terrorists launched in 2001. White House spokesman Scott McClellan hastened to clar­ify the president's remarks. 
Bush's high command scripted an opening night convention program that included a remembrance of the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks as well as a tribute to the men and women serving in the armed forces. Sen. John McCain of Arizona and for­mer New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani drew prime-time speaking assignments. Both men command politi­cal appeal outside the president's conservative base and are strong sup­porters of Bush's steward­ship in the war on terror. 

Not all the speakers mentioned Kerry by name, but the criticism was unmistakable. 
"This fight against ter­rorism takes decisiveness, not contradiction," said Bernard Kerik, a former New York police commis­sioner who worked for the Bush administration help­ing to rebuild the Iraqi police force. 
"Most importantly, it takes courage and inspira­tional leadership in the White House. There are two candidates in this race, but only one fills those needs," Kerik added. 
Hastert broadened the criticism beyond the war to encompass domestic issues. 
"He is on the wrong side of taxation, of litigation and of regulation," he said in prepared remarks. Refer-ring to the Democratic National Convention as a "Boston Tax Party," the House GOP leader said that instead of "throwing tea in the Boston Harbor, John Kerry wants to throw the taxpay­ers overboard." 
The delegates met twice during the day at Madison Square Garden, four miles from the scarred land­scape where the World Trade Center twin towers once stood. Officials mus­tered a security force of thousands in the area around the hall, part of an effort to thwart any attempt at a repeat attack. A helicopter circled the skies over the arena, while police barricades made an 18-square-block surround­ing the Garden off-limits to most vehicles. 
Inside the hall, Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife Lynne were ush­ered to their seats in late morning, in time to hear his name placed in nomi­nation for another term. "Four more years" the del­egates shouted in unison. 
IRAQ 

Rebel cleric calls for end to fighting 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Rebel cleric Muqtada al-Sadr wants his followers to end their uprising against U.S. and Iraqi forces while he considers forming a political movement, senior al-Sadr officials said Monday. 
Al-Sadr has backed off other com­mitments in the past, but a truce would be a major victory for interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi by removing a serious insurgency and potentially bringing many of the Shiite cleric's followers into the effort to build a peaceful democracy. 
The announcement came amid conflicting reports on Iraq's vital oil exports. Iraqi oil officials and the governor of Basra state said exports were shut down after a rash of pipeline attacks. However, world oil prices decreased as traders said other reports suggested some oil was still flowing. At the New York Mercantile Exchange, October con­tracts for light sweet crude fell 90 cents a barrel to $42.28 -well below peaks above $48 a barrel in mid-August. 
Also Monday, the U.S. military said a roadside bomb attack on a U.S. military convoy just outside Mosul, 225 miles northwest of Baghdad, killed a U.S. soldier and wounded two. A total of 974 U.S. service mem­bers have died Since military opera­tions began in March 2003, accord­ing to the U.S. Defense Department. 
Sheik Ali Smeisim, a political adviser to al-Sadr, announced the cease-fire decision in Najaf, calling on the cleric's Mahdi Army militia­men to "stop firing until the announcement of the political pro­gram adopted by the Sadrist move­ment." 

Tuesday, August 31 , 2004
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
SUDAN 


Country asks for UN reprise 
Associated Press 
AL-FASHER -As a U.N. 
deadline expires for Sudan to 
ease the crisis in Darfur, the 
situation on the ground 
remains bleak: Villagers 
forced from their homes by 
gunmen on horseback still 
cower in camps for the dis­
placed, and reports the 
Sudanese military is bombing 
villagers continue to surface. 
The Sudanese government, 
which was given 30 days by 
the United Nations to rein in 
Arab militiamen or face 
penalties, appealed Monday 
to the Security Council to 
make a "reasonable deci­
sion." 
"Of course, we are con­
cerned," Foreign Minister 
Mustafa Osman Ismail told 
Associated Press Television in 
Khartoum, the capital. "We 
wish ... the relationship with 
the Security Council will not 
be the way of confrontation. 
We hope it will be in the form 
of cooperation." 
llis remarks came as a U.S. 
State Department official 
assessed conditions for thou­
sands of displaced people in 
Darfur, and a contingent of 
155 Nigerian soldiers arrived, 
swelling the ranks of an 
African Union mission moni­
toring a shaky cease-fire 
between government troops 
and rebels. 
Three U.N. teams report 
Tuesday to U.N. Secretary 
General Kofi Annan on 
whether the government is 
doing all it can to disarm the 
Arab militia. 
Known as Janjaweed, the 
militiamen are blamed for 
killing and raping black 
African villagers and for driv­
ing more than 1 million peo­
ple from their homes, spark­
ing what the United Nations 
has called the world's worst 
humanitarian crisis. 
The Security Council will 
meet Thursday and consider 
whether to take action 
against Khartoum. The 
United States has advocated 
sanctions against the govern­
ment. 
"We hope the Security 
Council will come out with a 
reasonable decision that will 
help us to continue working 
together," Ismail said. 
Constance Berry Newman, 
U.S. assistant secretary of state for African affairs, touched down at Al-Fasher airport in a U.N. World Food Program twin-engine plane. She was briefed by aid agen­cies and U.N. officials before touring Abu Shouk camp, home to some 43,000 vil­lagers driven from their homes in 18 months of fight­ing between government troops and rebels. 
Ismail refused to meet with Newman in Khartoum, and the official Sudanese news agency quoted him as saying it was in protest of the State Department's failure to help Sudan keep its embassy open in Washington. Sudan announced Wednesday the embassy had closed because it was unable to find a bank that would handle its finan­cial matters. 
Children clamored around Newman as she visited a classroom in the camp, where students sat in the shade on mats to learn about basic sanitation and the impor­tance of clean drinking water. 

She later watched as aid 
workers inoculated babies 
against measles. 
Newman declined to speak with journalists during the visit. 
At Abu Shouk camp, on the outskirts of Al-Fasher, resi­dents have begun to build mud walls around their straw and tarpaulin shelters, and simple fences from scrub and thorn tree branches, replicat­ing conditions in their vil­lages. 
Some have planted vegeta­bles and corn outside their huts, and a small market thrives on the edge of the desert settlement. 
At Zam Zam camp, 12 miles away, local butchers sell freshly slaughtered goats. Some displaced still have enough cash from last year's harvest of crops, such as tobacco and sorghum, to buy better food than the wheat oil and salt rations provided monthly by the aid agencies. 
Some have their own don­keys and some children wear clean clothes and ride bicy­cles. The less fortunate wear tattered and dirty smocks. 
Although conditions in the camp are often no worse than in their own villages, many of the displaced are eager to return home. Unable to plant crops, they know they will rely on food aid until the fall harvest next year. 
"The land in Darfur is 
sacred," said Abu Shouk 
camp manager Abdel Aziz el­
Fateh. "People love their land 
and worship their land, and 
consider this camp a grave." 
Many say they are afraid to 
return home, fearing further 
attacks. 
"We are happy and living here securely but we still need more and we need them to give ~s more peace," said Kalthoum Mohammed Haroun. 
More than 30,000 people have been killed since two rebel factions took up arms against the government in February 2003 _ escalating years of low-level conflict between African farmers and Arab herders who competed for water and land. The rebels, drawn from African tribes, rose up against the Arab-dominated government, claiming discrimination and political marginalization. 
Human rights groups, the 
U.S. Congress and U.N. offi­cials accuse the government of trying to crush the rebel­lion by backing the Janjaweed _ allegations Khartoum has repeatedly denied. 
Dennis McNamara, a senior official in the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance, told reporters Monday in Nairobi, Kenya, that attacks on civilians have continued. 
Shirt 
continued from page I 
rates the front of The Shirt. 
"I like the front a lot," soph­omore Britta Zoeller said. "I really like the 'We are ND,"' 
According to Crossin, stu­dent unity is the focus of this year's fundraising campaign. 
"The vintage design has increased student support of 
The Shirt." she said. 

This year's Adworks posters will feature the phrase "Onward to Victory," which is also incorporated in this year's design. 
Proceeds from the sale of The Shirt are divided between student activities and The Shirt Charity Fund. 
Contact Jeanine Privat at jprivat@nd.edu 
CHINA 

Nation's wealth opens tnarket in pet products 
Ass?Ciated Press 
SHANGHAI-For the schnau­zer that has everything, how about a sequin-studded rain­coat? Would your Pekinese like some "chicken chip cookies?" Or earrings for your poodle? 
China loves its dogs. and with incomes rising, owners are spending up to $1,900 to buy breeds such as Pomeranians and pampering them with gour­met food, designer clothes and premium toys. 
"They even have backpacks, like baby ones. so you can carry the dog around!" said Li Shuifang. proud owner of a Pomeranian. "I thought about getting one. but I figured my husband would say I was silly." 
The world's major pet product suppliers are targeting China, betting on pet enthusiasm to drive big sales. 

"China is very much an emerging market," said Mike Cusack, a director at Hudducks an Australian maker of special~ ized pet shampoos, vitamins and other products. 
Cusack, who was in Shanghai for a pet goods exhibition, hap­pily pointed out products he thinks might be big hits in China: doggy breath freshener, sun screen and cat laxatives. 
Dogs and other pets are espe­cially popular with older Chinese empty-nesters in a soci­ety where life revolves around family but strict birth-control rules limit most couples to just one child. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Tuesday, August 31 , 2004 
·page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,122.52 -72.49

ones
J 
• '= • ~7";:;"' 
AMEX 1,224.3~i'2'::r''1:'!'!~i~~~,,:l~lll 
NASDAQ 1,836.49 -25.60 NYSE. 6,414.54 ·40~!~ S&PSOO 1,099.15 . . -8.~2 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 11,184;53 ·mv·'f~~,~0~00 FTSE. IOO(London) 4,490.10 +36.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.91  -0.42  21.60  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.58  -0.16  27.30  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -2.26  -0.44  19.03  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -1.75  -0.18  10.11  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.26  -0.01  3.81  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.58  -0.29  49.89  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.92  -0.39  41.88  
5-YEAR NOTE  -I. I I  -0.38  33.89  
3-MONTH BILL  + 1.31  +0.20  I 5.42  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.90  42.28  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +4.60  41 0.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.30  93.45  
E.xchan  Rates  
YEN  109.97  
EURO  0.8299  
POUND  0.5572  

IN BRIEF 
Bryant's marketing power in trouble 
LOS ANGELES -With a new $136 million NBA contract, Kobe Bryant will be making jump shots for years to come -provided, of course, he stays out of prison. Whether he will ever hoist a can of Sprite in front of a camera again is another question altogether. 
"If it's like O.J., he'll never have another endorsement contract again," said Bob Williams of Burns Sports and Celebrities Inc., a sports marketing agency. 
The Los Angeles Lakers star is accused of raping a 19-year-old woman last year in Colorado. Bryant, 26, has claimed the sex was consensual. Jury selection in the trial began Friday. 
If convicted, he could face years in prison. If he is exonerated or resolves the case without a trial, Bryant still must deal with a lawsuit by his accuser. 
The case of former Hertz spokesman O.J. Simpson could be instructive. Though Simpson was acquitted of killing his wife and a friend of hers, he was widely believed to have gotten away with murder, and he never regained his marketing power. 
Income report sends stocks lower 
NEW YORK -Stocks drifted lower in extremely light trading Monday as a disappoint­ing consumer income report prompted investors to collect profits after two weeks of gains. 
While investors were cheered by the Commerce Department's report of a strong rise in consumer spending for July, growth in incomes was nearly flat. 
Combined with oil prices that are still unusu­ally high, the data called into question whether the uptick in stocks of the last few weeks was sustainable. 
"There's not a lot of resistance here, and you're seeing a little bit of profit taking," said Todd Leone, managing director of equity trading at SG Cowen Securities. "There really isn't any news, and everybody seems to be on vacation." 
Trading volume was on pace for a new year­to-date low as many on Wall Street refused to make large moves until the Republican National Convention concluded without incident. Many investors also awaited a key employment report due Friday. 
Leadership suffers at Google 
Internet search engine's corporate governance is named shareholder unfriendly 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -All the hype over Google Inc.'s initial public offering allowed one important tidbit about the company to get lost in the shuffle: Its corporate governance is anything but share­holder friendly. 
Google may tout itself as being a company for the people, but such things as its two-tiered stock system and its board of directors largely packed with insiders tell a much different story. 
So much for its corpo­rate motto "Don't be evil." Its corporate ways may be a different story. 
Investors, however, don't seem to be focusing on its governance short­comings _ at least for now. Since the Internet search engine's much­awaited debut on the public markets on Aug. 19, the stock has mostly traded above $100, a gain of more than 17 percent from its IPO price. 
But ignoring this issue could be a mistake. 
"When evaluating a company, its fundamen­tals and valuations should be primary, but there is no question that they should also look at gives the online searcp the super-voting shares ist who was an early risk through a corporate firm a minuscule 0.2 per­are held by Google's two Google backer. ISS is governance prism, too," cent score on its corpo­founders, Larry Page and critical of his role said Scott Kessler, an rate governance quo­Sergey Brin, and its chief because of his business Internet equity analyst at tient. By its analysis; if executive Eric Schmidt, relationship with the Standard & Poor's. Google was part of the they have significant company, though he is 
That's just the way Standard & Poor's 500 influence over all mat­considered independent things have to go in the stock index, its gover­ters requiring sharehold­under the listing rules of wake of all the recent nance practices would er approval. That the Nasdaq Stock Market. business scandals. rank last. includes the election of Google also allows for Companies are now Among the most trou­directors, potential the repricing of its stock under intense pressure blesome areas: Its estab­mergers and asset sales. options. So if its stock to shore up their gover­lishment of a dual-class Also problematic is the price were to tumble, nance practices to ensure capital structure with independence of the those inside the company that their business deal­unequal voting rights. board. Only three of _ especially top manage­
ings aren't tainted by Shares held by its Google's six outside ment _ could still get conflicts of interest. founders, executives, directors have no link to rewarded, while common 
With so much attention directors and employees the company, which is shareholders are stuck on this issue, Google's represent about 83 per­smaller than the two­with diminished returns. decisions seem all the cent of the voting power, thirds that ISS likes to And Google, following more surprising. and carry 10 votes each see. In addition, the in the path of many 
Institutional vs. the one vote per nominating committee, Silicon Valley technology Shareholder Services, share given to common which chooses new direc­companies, won't deduct which advises big stockholders. tors, includes L. John the cost of stock options investors on governance, And since a majority of Doerr, a venture capital-from its earnings. 

Former Atlanta mayor indicted 
and illegal acts" that included seek­Campbell's staff, including top
Associated Press 

ing money from people doing busi­aides; others had business con­
ATLANTA -Former Atlanta ness with the city to line his own tracts with the city during his Mayor Bill Campbell was indicted pockets, in part to support his gam­tenure. on racketeering, bribery and wire bling habit, including repeated The indictment was handed down fraud charges following a five-year trips to casinos. by a grand jury Aug. 18, but was federal investigation into corrup­Campbell, who has called the fed­immediately sealed. Campbell's tion during his years at City Hall, eral probe a witch hunt, stood with mother died the next day, and officials said Monday. his hands clasped in front of him as authorities said they delayed 
Campbell, who was mayor from authorities listed the charges announcing the indictment out of 1994 to 2002, is accused of accept­against him at a news conference. respect for the family. ing. tens of thousands of dollars in "They're lies from beginning to The indictment describes a cozy 
illegal campaign contributions, end," he told reporters afterward, relationship between Campbell, 51, cash, travel and home improve­visibly angry. "The only thing that's and several contractors who paid ments in exchange for city con­correct in this indictment is the for gambling excursions, two air tracts. spelling of my name." conditioning units at his home and 
The indictment, unsealed Ten people who worked for airfare to Paris, New Orleans and Monday, accuses Campbell of "a Campbell have been convicted of Memphis, Tenn., among other pattern and practice of misconduct corruption. Some were members of places. 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 

page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
FBI continues inquiry into Pentagon analyst 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Two high­ranking Defense Department officials have been briefed by FBI agents investigating a Pentagon analyst suspected of passing U.S. secrets about Iran to the Israeli government, offi­cials said Monday. 
The recent briefings of Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz and 

crating with the FBI. He has not responded to telephone messages seeking comment. 
Investigators are trying to determine whether Franklin passed highly classified mate­rial about Bush administration policy on Iran to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the major Israeli lobbying group in Washington, and whether AIPAC in turn passed it to 
Douglas Feith, Israel.
'We've cooperated 
the undersecre­AIPAC has 
tary for policy, in this investigation. acknowledged 
could indicate We think there is that the FBI has that the yearlong interviewed
nothing to it,,
FBI probe is some of its nearing a conclu­employees but sion. No arrests Nathan Lewin strongly denies have be.en made AIPAC attorney any wrongdo­
or charges announced. 
Investigators were forced to accelerate activity in the case when news stories about it began appear­ing on Friday, according to two law enforcement officials speaking on condition of anonymity because the probe is ongoing. The publicity also may have hampered the abili­ty of investigators to follow key leads and provided warn­ing to potential targets, they said. 
The central figure in the investigation is Larry Franklin, a Middle East analyst who works in Feith's office. Franklin was described by law enforcement officials as coop­ing. 
"We've coop­

erated in this investigation. We think there is nothing to it," said AIPAC attorney Nathan Lewin. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom said Monday that meetings between Israeli embassy employees in Washington and U.S. govern­ment officials are common­place, and that the two gov­ernments routinely share secrets. 
"Israel and the United States have intimate ties ... and the information being exchanged is much more classified than any conversation that may have taken place," Shalom told reporters in Israel. 
Man kills wife, child, then himself 
Associated Press 
WATERFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich. -A suspended police officer under criminal investi­gation shot his wife and 9-year­old son, then killed himself. police said Monday. 
The bodies of Officer Michael Waleskowski, his wife and son were found in upstairs bed­rooms of their Waterford Township home following a fire Sunday morning, but Robert Gerds, administrator for the Oakland County medical exam­iner's office, said all three died from gunshot wounds to the head. 
Waterford Township Deputy Police Chief Dale LaCroiX said Waleskowski was under crimi­nal and internal investigation for allegations of theft. He said the officer had been suspended, but would not give any more details. 
"We believe that Officer 
Michael Waleskowski killed his wife, his son and then himself," LaCroix said. 
Officials would not say what role the fire played. Dennis Storrs, the township fire chief, said only that it was likely flam­mable liquids were in the home. 
Waleskowski was a five-year veteran of the police depart­ment in Waterford Township, about 35 miles northwest of Detroit. 

San Francisco lawyer goes on trial 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Russian emigre Nikolai Tehin put himself through law school and appar­ently obtained the American dream after three decades of lawyering: a 73-foot yacht, a seemingly endless fleet of luxury cars and an $8 million home. 
But the rags-to-riches saga could end in federal prison for the now-disgraced and disbarred attorney. Tehin's fraud trial began with jury selection Monday and he faces more than 20 years in prison if convicted. 
Federal prosecutors allege Tehin financed his lavish lifestyle by ripping off more than $2 mil­lion from his clients, who includ­ed low-income apartment ten­ants, disabled children and struggling immigrants. 
Tehin, 57, is charged him with 15 counts of mail fraud, money laundering and related felonies, all connected to accusations that he spent his clients' settlement money on himself and to pay off other clients in a Ponzi-type fraud scheme. 
"Lawyers owe a duty of loyalty to their clients," U.S. Attorney Kevin Ryan said after Tehin was arrested at his home last year. "Nikolai Tehin is accused not just of breaching that duty in the most egregious way, but of vio­lating federal law to enrich him­self at the expense of the people who trusted him." 
A spokeswoman for Ryan's office didn't return a telephone call placed late Friday. 
Harold Rosenthal, Tehin's lawyer, conceded Tehin grossly mismanaged his clients' money and caused a lot of suffering for his former clients and others. But Rosenthal said Tehin's con­duct was not criminal. 
"This was harmful, this was bad and it is something that he is ashamed of," Rosenthal said. "But it's not a mail fraud. It's not the crimes that they have charged." 
Rosenthal said Tehin was a tal­ented attorney who failed miser­ably with handling success and allowed his law practice's finances to spiral out of control. 
''This a cautionary tale on how to deal with money and talent," Rosenthal said. "It's a cautionary tale on how one must be careful when you go from being a very poor immigrant to a person who is dealing with sums of money which were incomprehensible to his parents." 
According to the U.S. Attorney's Office, Tehin began his alleged fraud in 2001 when he took about $1.3 million owed to dozens of low-income tenants he represented in Napa and squandered it on personal and professional expenses. The clients, many of them migrant farmworkers from Mexico, had sued their landlord for failing to keep rental units habitable. Public interest lawyers enlisted Tehin to win the landmark settle­ment. 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! Sign up on the Internet NOW @ www. LaurenStudios.co'm to ensure your place in your 2004 Dome Yearbook! Who: Class of 2004 When: Pictures taken Aug. 30-Sept. 17 Where: LaFortune 108 Why: To be in the 2004 Dome Remember to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com,  

,------------­
page 9 

Tuesday, August 31, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

ITuesdav, August 3151 ••• 1:00 PM -9:00 PM ••• JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE I 
GENERAl ClUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Academic Competition Club Accounting Association, Notre Dame Actuarial Science Club Adworks Advertising Agency American Cancer Society Club American Chemical Society American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Society of Civil Engineers American Society of Mechanical Engineers Amnesty International Anime Club, Notre Dame Arnold Air Society Asian American Association Asian International Society Association of Art History Students Bagpipe Band, Notre Dame Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Baptist Collegiate Ministry Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Biology Club Black Cultural Arts Council Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit Campus Girl Scouts, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Caribbean Student Organization Celebration Choir Children of Mary Children's Defense Fund Chinese Culture Society Chorale, Notre Dame Circle K Class of 2005 

Class of 2006 Class of 2007 College Democrats College Republicans Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Computer Club, Notre Dame Cora Primavera De Nuestra Senora Dance Company Debate Team Detachment 225 Flyin' Irish (AFROTC) Dome Designs Dome Yearbook Economics Club Entrepreneur Club Farley Hall Players Feminist Voice Filipino American Student Organization Financial Management Board First Aid Services Team First Class Steppers Flip Side Fly-Fishing Club, Notre Dame Folk Choir, Notre Dame Foodshare Forum on Biomedical Ethics Free Burma Coalition Gaelic Society, Notre Dame German Club Guitar Players' Association Habitat for Humanity Handball Choir, Notre Dame Harmonia Hawaii Club Health Occupations Students of America Helpful Undergraduate Students Hispanic Business Student Association History Club Hugh O'Brien Youth Foundation Alumni Association Humor Artists of Notre Dame Indian Association of Notre Dame Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Investment Club Irish Dance Club Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Iron Sharp~ns Iron Italian Club Japan Club 
Jewish Club of Notre Dame 
Joint Engineering Council 
Juggler, The 
Juggling Club, Notre Dame 
Junior Parents Weekend 
Knights of Columbus 
Knights of the Immaculata 
Korean Student Association 
La Alianza 
Le Circle Francais 
LEAD-nd 
Leprechaun Legion 
Life Uncommon, A 
Liturgical Choir, Women's 
Logan Recreation Club 
Management Club 
Marketing Club, Notre Dame 
Mexican-American Engineers and Scientists 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Minority Pre-med Society Mock Trial Association Ms. WIZard Day Mu Alpha Theta Muslim Student Association Mystery Science Theater 3000 Club NAACP National Society of Black Engineers Native American Student Association of Notre Dame ND for Animals . Neighborhood Study Help Program Operation Smile Orestes Brownson Council Othodox Christian Fellowship Pakistan Student Association Pasquerilla East Musical Company Peace Fellowship, Notre Dame Philosophy Club, Notre Dame Polish Club Pre-Dental Society Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Progressive Student Alliance Project Fresh Psychology Club Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) Real Estate Club Right to Life Scholastic Magazine Science-Business Club Shades of Ebony Shirt Project, The Silver Wing Sc•ciety Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Physics Students Society of Women Engineers Sociology Club Sarin Rifle Team Spanish Club Special Friends Club of Notre Dame St. Edward's Hall Players Student Alumni Relations Group Student Broadcasting -NDTV Student Government Student International Business Council Student Players, Notre Dame Student Union Board Students for Environmental Action Super Sibs Swing Club Teamwork for Tomorrow Texas Club Toastmasters International Trident Naval Society Troop Notre Dame Unchained Melodies Undergraduate Women in Business Vietnamese Student Organization Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Women's Resource Center WSND-FM WVFI 
lOCAl SERVICE AGENCIES 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist Logan Center 
American Red Cross Reins of Life 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters Robinson Community Learning Center 
Boys and Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County Salvation Army of St. Joseph County 
Center for Basic Learning Youth Programs 
Center for the Homeless S-0-S of Madison Center 
Children's Dispensary South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility 
Dismas House Southern Care Hospice 
Food Bank of Northern Indiana St Vincent de Paul Society 
I Believe I Can, Inc. Tolson Center 
Indiana Legal Services Twenty-first Century Scholars La Casa de Amistad West Side Neighborhood Partnership Center 
LaSalle Council Boy Scouts of America Women's Care Center 
Life Treatment Centers 

ClUB SPORTS TEAMS 
Bowling Club, Notre Dame Boxing Club, Men's Boxing Club, Women's Climbing Club Cycling Club, Notre Dame Equestrian Club Field Hockey Club Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame Gymnastics Club, ND/SMC Hurling and Carnegie Club Ice Hockey, Women's Japanese Martial Arts Club Martial Arts Institute, Notre Dame 
SPECIAl GUESTS 
ACE Admissions Office Athletics Department 
Campus Ministry Career Center Center for Social Concerns Club Coordination Council 
0 
· 
Porn Pon Squad Rodeo Team, Notre Dame Rowing Club, Notre Dame Running Club, Men's Running Club, Women's Sailing Club Ski Team Squash Club Swimming Club Ultimate Club Volleyball Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Women's World Taekwondo Federation Club 
Holy Cross Priests and Brothers Institute for Educational Initiatives Legends of Notre Dame RecSports Red Cross/First Aid Services Team 
Standing Committee on Gay 
and Lesbian Student Needs 

Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross Student Activities Office Educational Talent Search 
GET INVOLVED GET ACTIVE 
All current Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited to join us for our annual Notre Dame Activities Night. Hundreds of clubs and organizations will be represented to meet and sign-up new members, distribute information and share their plans for the year. Don't miss it. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT ClUB OFFICERS: 
If your club does not appear on this list and you would like to participate in Activities Night, please contact the Student Activities Office as soon as possible at 631.7308 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AND COSPONSORED BY RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION WITH THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AND CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 
THE OBSER\lER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, August 31, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

n.r~. A.JJy~s.,(.IJN."< ~w:WO*M~~ 
Blessed are the Republicans?
P.O. llooc Q, NQI-I'¢ Di!iil¢; .IN ~65:% . 
Oi4 South Dining Holt, Nil~Dl>m~lN 4(;5$!;• 

Eolrott lN ann 
Mattl.o#r MANAGING EDITO~ Meghanne Downes 
ASST. MAN.\cll'tc EOJroa Joe Hettler 

NEWS EDITOR! Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EorroRt Sarah Vabulas Sl'oars EDITOR: Heathet V~n Hoegatden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus EDrroRt Meghan Marrin SAINT MAAY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR! Mi~e Harkiru ADvEimSING MANAGERI Cal'rie Franklin At> DllSIGN MANAGER: KdlyNelson SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATORt MillyAllen 
CoNTROIJ.ERI Paula Gar.:ia 
0FRCE MANAGER & GENERALINFtl (574) 63V,1471FAX (574) 631-6927 AoV£RTISING 
(574) 631-6900 cbsemd@tld.~du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631·4$42 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu. 
AsSISTANT MANAGiNG EDITtiR (574) 631-43~4 8USIIU:SS OFRCE (574) 63.l-53L3 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 ob.lnfflS.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK . (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 $~ne. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
(574) 631-4324 smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO OESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB AollllliiSlHAlORS (574) 631-8839 
O~~tRVERONLiNE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POUCIE$ 


The Obsei'Vq' i.s the in<:k~dMt, ¢illyfleMpi>p¢( published in print and online by~e $~udents ohhe• University ofNorn: Dame du La¢ and Saint Mai:y'~ • . 
College. Ediwial content. Jnduding ad~d; 1~ ·· • · not governed by policiesofthe a4mlnistrarion ilfeither institution. The Observer r~ the rlght oo refuse · · advertisements based on ((Intent; 
The news is reporred as ~riitdy itnd ob}e.:tivcly a8 -sil•le. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of ,11 n .•jority ofthe Editor in Chid; Managing J:;ditor, 'nt Man~ging Editor and depattm¢~~t editOt$­r:uies, letters and columns present the vieWs . "d10rs and not necessarily thO&e ofThe Jl"~ cr. 
vpoint Sflllce is awil:lble oo lill ~ers, The f!t!e 'P ion ofrul opinions through let:reu is encouraged. et1cr to tit<: Editor must be signed and must include 
•JHact infotlllation. 
Questions rr:garding Obsm~n-polici~ simuld b~ dirm"' to EditQr in Chj,fMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1~ Ohv T (UlPli S'>9 2-~0J o j><lbluh<><l Mon.hy tb.,ujlh ~ti<bY.<"''>' dwtO>j~ ''ll.olm .nul •.u.:.tlno JEri:odL Asubs:aip<iou w 1hc E1ta:.:r'HI; ~~Jl0() far«ha.~ant.: •• 1 tune~. . . 
•m"f'is~mm~~:tftfk-Nwc~~t::d:rtc:tt .. :M~pr.,~~.f~~m 

·(;HtCf'Yl:'fl1p.,-t>~.•c~ 1\<>•llo>Q I )<>"~ Dinl•g 1·hll Ql~ $o>J<J(Omios t~.u . ·• • .. ·. '"' l'""'· IN 46~~ ·~.u...:. ~~4M~~n~ · 'die.! ~c! paid 'Olt Noctc~ IJaMt ..tdir:io!ll.l maiBRC olfKG. 
4.Wd~ Qfn~~tW~J.J "'' .~O!mtvct 
l'h• ~....'"""btt.r.................~ 1-.W~·<in rill>• ...
tttc.rv<%1. . .. 

You may have been skeptical before, clear teachings on his message to his tion to the appalling acts of 9/11, has but it is now certain: God wants George disciples then and now. The first been to build and utilize American mili­
W. Bush to be President of the United Beatitude reads, "Blessed are the poor in tary might to overthrow rogue regimes. States of America. At least that is what spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heav­Yet, these policies have contributed to a Dubya and his followers want you to en." Applying that to today, President less safe, more hostile world. Only believe. This week, Bush and his party would claim his through a comprehensive military, eco­Tom Ridge, Dick Peter administration has created a culture of nomic and political approach that unites Cheney and all the Quaranto responsibility and opportunity for the the world to address the roots of terror­good, ol' boys con­poor. Unfortunately, quite the opposite ism and enforce rule of law will we over­verge on New York A Call to has occurred as more than four million come terror. The Iraq war, a war of City to tout Dubya's Americans have fallen below the poverty choice that was sold to the American 
Action 

character. The line, creating a total of more than 35 people on completely false premises, has announced theme of million people in poverty. Even more only hurt America's image in the world this Republican National Convention is troubling, Bush has consistently sided and its ability to effectively defeat terror­"Fulfilling America's Promise: Building a with management over labor, resulting ism. Of course. the saddest part is the Safer World and a More Hopeful in a swelling of the "working poor." thousands dead from the war. America," however there is another In a country that cares a great 
This week throughout the theme that Karl Rove wants us to digest: deal about unemployment RNC, different speakers will "Blessed are the Republicans." rates, a job is no longer a attempt to persuade you 
In his term, President Bush has used guarantee to leave the 
and me to vote for Bush religious language more than any presi­ranks of poverty. because he possesses a
t. 

dent. When asked his favorite philoso­A second Beatitude :, strong character of pher in 1999, he answered Jesus. Bush reads, "Blessed are Lit\ faith. Yet if we have the has reportedly proclaimed that God those who mourn, for wants him to be president. Consequently, they shall be comfort­.l'It''}, ~~~r.~~~bt~l:.~~~~~~~~ he has become an instant favorite of ed." In this saying, ~-<~~""""' the realities, we may many "religious" people because he is Jesus speaks about .z:4Z~--.--;-?~ see that the last four perceived as a "man of faith." Now as all who suffer from _ ~~-~ ··--·---· ~ears. have ushered 
Bush and company. attempt to gain illness. Again, Bush .. •••l J-:--; iiiit: !"!••.1 m a time of greatanother four years, they have sent out proclaims that he has ·'·'.:!.;' . • -..'fi~"' l "\ , ~-, · • • .• ·, hopelessness for the letters to church leaders across the created a more effi­i~ _ r~ • 11 tf11 poor and marginal-country, listing duties, including "Send cient and more caring 'i!i ~~'\~ :: j~ ]flf ized of our society.your Church Directory to your State healthcare system, but ~~J;:. ; -~ . :.c:'~ ij ~~ So before the . Bush-Cheney '04 Headquarters" and the realities suggest ·-::...... _,__: ___~·--:_ .:::::;!'~.:-.=· · Republicans proclaim "Identify another conservative church in quite the opposite. Over their holiness before the your community who we can organize the last four years, the world, they should for Bush." number of Americans reread Jesus' teachings in 
While I certainly do not question the without health insurance the Sermon on the Mount. commitment of President Bush to his has increased by more than For if we dare to seriously faith. I wonder if that faith is often used four million to a horrific total of face Jesus' teachings, we see as a political tool. President Bush loves more than 45 million Americans. that we cannot become the disciples to wear his faith on his sleeve and focus According to Paul Krugman, a professor of a political party that does not live up on social issues -which he uses to of economics at Princeton, Bush's plan of to its holy preponderances. divide as opposed to really addressing creating policies that encourage individ­the problems -but he speaks not of uals to pay more for medical expenses Peter Quaranta is a junior political sci­many of the teachings of his favorite helps the wealthy, while increasing the ence and international peace studies philosopher, Jesus. Thus as he and his ranks of the uninsured. He writes that major. Quoting Talib Kweli, who rocked delegates congregate in New York City, I the "government must assume more of the JACC last weekend. "Ask Him why thought we might evaluate just how well the risk to reduce socially wasteful some people got to live in a trailer, cuss President Bush has read the teachings of spending and make employment-based like a sailor ... just to get by ... I let them his favorite philosopher, particularly insurance easier to get." In other words, know we missin you, the love is uncondi­Jesus' teachings at the Sermon on the Bush's policies will only create more tional; Even when the condition is criti­Mount. For at the end of the day, if people who mourn without resources to cal. when the livin is miserable. "Buy his President Bush wants to bring faith into comfort them. new record. "Beautiful Struggle. " the public sphere, we have to ask the Finally, a third Beatitude that is rele­Contact Peter at pquarant@nd.edu. question: Just how blessed are the vant proclaims: "Blessed are the peace­The views ofthis column are those of Republicans? makers, for they shall be called sons of the author and not necessarily those of 
In the Book of Matthew, Jesus provides God." The Bush foreign policy, in reac-The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Da1ne: True to its Inission 
As we left for the summer, the Muslim students of Notre understanding in the current global atmosphere of hatred and Dame were anxiously awaiting the coming of fall and the violence. arrival of Professor Tariq Ramadan, probably the foremost In continuing with these efforts, the Muslim Student moderate and progressive Muslim intellectual of our time. Association is drafting a letter to members of Congress and Though it is sad to learn the U.S. Department of Homeland Senate to petition against the DHS's decision to revoke Security's decision to clamp down on the freedom of expres­Professor Ramadan's visa. Thank you for all your support and sion enjoyed and cherished by American academics, it is also peace be upon you. heartening to see the manner in which the students, the facul­ty members and the administration of this University have Sarah Shafiq, united in opposing this undemocratic decision of the governJ Khalifa al-Hosani ment. We cannot thank the Notre Dame community enough for Nahyan Fancy all that it has done to hold true to its values of academic free­Officers of rhe Muslim Student Association ofNorre Dame dom and to foster a climate that encourages dialogue and Aug. 30 
TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
'Ieresa Fralish Heather Van Ken Walsh Hoegarden llicia Degroot Matt Puglisi 
Should Tariq Ramadan be allowed to teach
Viewpoint 
Eric Retter 

at Notre Dame? 
Sarah Vabulas Scene Katherine Rowley Ram a Graphics Gottumukkala 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at
Graham Ebetsch Illustrator 

www.ndsmcobserver.com
Katie Knorr 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Peace cannot be kept by force. It can only be achieved by understanding." 
Albert Einstein 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Opposing gay marriage 
As someone who opposes gay marriage, or gay "marriage," I would like to respond to the mischaracterizations offered by Michael Poffenberger. 
First of all, I have to admit I cannot speak for everyone who opposes gay marriage. However, I think I understand us as a group better than Michael Poffenberger does, though he seems to be quite willing to gener­alize us in the most uncharitable ways. So I would claim with some confi­dence that we are not trying to interefere in the lives of homosexuals. I could hardly care less what gays do for, with, or to each other. If they want to live together, terrific. If they want to share bank accounts, great. If they want to go before some Unitarian minister to be pronounced hus­band and husband, or wife and wife. super. If they want to perform foul acts on each other, fabulous -as long as it is not in public. People like Michael Poffenberger merely flatter themselves by believing that what they do in their private lives is of any concern to us. 
Gay marriage, however, if it were ever to become law, would not merely defme what gays may do, but what the rest of us would have to do as well. If gay marriage were the law of the land, I and everyone else, would be obligated to recognize their relationships as equivalent to the natural lifelong union of man and woman. By opposing gay marriage, I am not trying to deny any rights, real or perceived, to homosexuals. I am trying to preserve my own right to make a moral distinction between traditional marriage -which, however abused, is still holy -and something which is unspeakably perverse. Consider an example I came across recently. There is a couple out west somewhere who own and run a bed and breakfast. They are deeply religious, and will only offer rooms to married couples. They do not want fornication taking place on their property. This is not only their moral right, but their legal right, too. If gay marriage became law, though, they would be legally compelled to provide rooms for gay couples too. The article made no mention of what they think of sodomy, but if they are appalled by fornication, I think I could make a safe guess. 
Finally, I would just like to point out the hypocrisy of people like Michael Poffenberger, who claim to want respect and tolerance for all, but who have no problem leveling baseless judgments against others. According to him, if you oppose gay marriage, then you: are insensitive to the suffering of the poor; are guilty of hyperconsumption and celebrity worship; blame homosexuals for all the problems in the world; etc. Then there is his treatment of the Church, which, because a very small per­centage of its priests -many of whom, it turns out, were themselves homosexual -have abused children, may not perform a task it was com­missioned for, to condemn sin and call all to repentance. I wanted to point out this hypocrisy, because I saw it all the time as an undergradu­ate, and I am sure it will be repeated over and over in these pages and elsewhere. 
Peter Ramsey Class of 1996 Aug. 30 

Judging the Sophomore Class Council's effectiveness 
I have to question Christian Hoeffel's intent in his Aug. 27 letter. He begins his letter by questioning how the Sophomore Class Officers have handled their positions so far. However, he ignores anything that the Council has actually done and focuses completely on their choices for the rest of the Class Council. 
Hoeffel brings up how, after leading "one of the most active and successful committees in our class council," he was denied the opportunity to serve his class again. Worst of all, he was replaced by someone "without previous council experience." Well, if Hoeffel could have done such a wonderful job leading the Spiritual Council last year without any experience, I have the utmost confidence in this year's spiritual commissioner. It is possible that new members of the council possess the necessary abilities to be effective. 
Hoeffel also mentions how the representation of the dorms is uneven. First of all, I'm sure if someone from one of the dorms that is not represented had a concern, the council would listen to it. Furthermore, Hoeffel is assuming that to get a fair cross-section of students from Notre Dame's campus you need to have each dorm represented. That is simply not true; because dorm assignments are completely random, you could fill every Class Council position with people from a single dorm and still have a diverse group of quali­fied people. 
The final point of Hoeffel's letter is that, because the dorms are not evenly represented, the class officers must have filled the Council positions with their friends. Therefore, the Council is not objective enough to lead efficiently. The ticket he worked on, how­ever, would not have done this. I'm sure that, had the ticket Hoeffel worked on won, he would have refused a spot on the Council on the grounds that he is their friend and that would make their leader­ship inefficient. 
It is only one week into the new academic year. It is far too early to be judging the Sophomore Class Council's effectiveness. However, if the Late Night Grill is any indication, we are in for a great year. 
Ryan Bravo 
Fisher Hall 
sophomore 
Aug. 30 

Questioning integrity 
Although I agree with many of the points that Michael Poffenberger makes in his August 30 com­mentary, as well as with his general argument, I am bothered terribly by some of the things that he audaciously said. In some respects, I would have to argue that Poffenberger sacrifices his own cred­ibility in order to criticize those either whom he dislikes or with whose policies he disagrees. 
In criticizing the "right-wing ideologues" he makes statements that rely both on unconfirmed accusations and a blatant disregard for recent public speeches. Jack Ryan, so far as Mr. Poffenberger knows, never forced his wife to commit sex acts in public. Rather, Jeri Ryan accused her then-husband of this misdeed. He denies this. Whether or not the speech for sincere or simply a politically charged attempt at appeasing moderates and liberals within the Republican party, Vice President Cheney recently publicly broke rank with the administration on the subject of gay mar­riage. 
The point that Mr. Poffenberger makes about Church in its current state may hold some truth, but besides verging on cliched by now, it is a dangerous point, one that easily could lead to dramatic upheaval. Yes, the Church has been, in many cases, lax in its responsibilities regarding sex abuse scandals. Yes, the Church was wrong on slavery, and may be wrong about homosexuality. However, that the Church is right on this one is possible, too. Arguing that the Church may not have the authority to lecture on sexual responsibility because of its own problems sets a dangerous prece­dent: Would Mr. Poffenberger argue that because of various faults of the federal government, it is not fit to exercise any authority with regards to these particular matters? Such an argument easily could call for disorganized anarchy as the only remaining solution. 
In short, Mr. Poffenberger argues an important point on the whole; however, some of the state­ments that he makes threaten his credibility and cast a shadow of doubt on his integrity. 
Nathan Origer Fisher Hall junior Aug. 30 

Does Notre Datne really have a hotnophobic student body? 
Notre Dame is a beautiful place with "least accepting of alternative lifestyles" are beautiful people, who may, according to the Christian schools, eight of those schools most recent Princeton Review rankings, be appearing again on the "Students pray on a the most homophobic in the nation. It is an regular basis" top 20. This could be an indi­accusation that would give even the most cation that doctrinal influence in this case cynical domer some amount of pause. To should not be tossed aside as confidently as not get a little defensive would be to shoul­The Observer has done. "Catholic identity der an embarrassing burden, given to us by should never give the impression that the a representative-however fair-300 stu­University actively discriminates against any dents. individuals, regardless of what doctrine says 
The Observer's Editorial response to this about their sexual orientation, who choose ranking in Friday's paper challenged the to enter the Notre Dame community." Our students to prove the ranking wrong, to nation was founded upon certain doctrines treat all persons with respect regardless of of freedom and liberty, but we do not throw an adherence to any one Catholic doctrine. I these aside as mere words when we praise agree. However, The Observer also criti­our nation as a leader in freedoms and lib­cized the Princeton Review's polling erties, nor do we discard them when 
serious case against the Princeton Review's findings and at the same time to accept some responsibility for the sad fact -"Even though the survey sought opinions from a very small constituent of Notre Dame students," it writes, "the results have teeth." 
In its attempt to save the gay cake in the freezer -or the closet -for as long as pos­sible, The Observer and we students are absolving ourselves at the expense of what could lead to a thoughtful dialogue concern­ing gender relations-all gender relations, gay-straight, male-female-at Notre Dame. A couple patterns in the Princeton Review's rankings, for instance, could ultimately be helpful in achieving more harmonious cam­pus attitudes. 
1. Twelve of the top 20 schools listed as 
offer only single-sex housing to stu­dents living on campus. (The average for on-campus living at these schools is high at around 70 percent.) Single-sex dorms pre­suppose a number of things about gender, but heterosexual preference is often if not always a major underlying motivation for such segregation. 
Until the administration and students here think critically about how our "doctrines" ­Catholic or Bill Kirk-may shape our gen­dered lives. no amount of denouncing the Princeton Review will end our homophobia. 
Martha Patzer 
senior 
off-campus Aug. 30 


------~ ~­


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, August 31,2004 
MOVIE TRENDS 
Successful sequels headline summer season 

Martial arts epic tops weekend box office 
Photo courtesy of allmoviephotos.com Jet Li stars In the foreign-language, martial arts epic "Hero." The film earned $17.8 million over the weekend to debut in the top slot of the box office. 
Associated Press 
"Hero," Jet Li's acclaimed martial­arts epic, vanquished giant snakes, serial killers and a gang of superba­bies to debut as the top weekend film with $17.8 million US at the box office in Canada and the United States. 
"Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid," a sequel to 1997's monster­serpent flick, opened in second place with $13.2 million US, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
The weekend's other new movies debuted weakly. The serial killer tale "Suspect Zero," starring Aaron Eckhart, Ben Kingsley and Carrie­Anne Moss, came in at No. 10 with $3.4 million US. 
"Superbabies: Baby Geniuses 2," a follow-up to the 1999 kid flick, finished at No. 11 with $3.3 million US. 
The previous weekend's No. 1 movie, "Exorcist: The Beginning," tumbled to fifth-place with $6.7 million US, a steep 63 per cent drop from its $18.1 million debut. 
Overall, the top 12 movies grossed $84.7 million US, virtually unchanged over the same weekend a year ago. 
With Hollywood's summer season wrapping up over Labor Day weekend, the industry will finish slightly ahead of summer 2003's revenue record of $3.9 billion US. But factoring in higher admission prices, the number of tick­ets sold will lag a bit behind last sum­mer. 
"Hero," nominated for the foreign­language Academy Award for 2002, is director Zhang Yimou's saga of China some 2,000 years ago. The film stars Li. Maggie Cheung, Zhang Ziyi, Chen Dao Ming, Tony Leung Chiu-Wai and Donnie Yen, a lineup of Asian super­stars that distributor Miramax calls the "Ocean's Eleven of Chinese films." 
"It obviously hit a nerve and certain­ly bodes well for Chinese films and for­eign-language films," said Rick Sands, chief operating officer at Miramax, which opened Hero in 2,031 theatres, unusually wide for a foreign-language movie. "We believed in the movie and went for it." 
Presented in Mandarin with English subtitles, Hero twists through several retellings of an assassination plot against the ruthless leader of Qin, who seeks to subjugate China's other six kingdoms and became the land's first emperor. The stories, character moti­vations and even color schemes change with each retelling as the film weaves toward the ultimate truth of events. 
Critics raved over the cinematogra­phy, romance, lush imagery and glori­
.~ -'==­

By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 
Sequels 
Sometimes it seems that Hollywood's mantra is, "If something works once, keep doing it until it stops making money." Staying true to this philoso­phy, the defining feature of this sum­mer's movie lineup was cinematic deja vu, also known as the sequel. It wasn't just the usual gang of big-budget blockbusters that had sequels but instead was a trend that spread across all film genres. We had the expected sequels like "Spider-Man 2," "The Bourne Supremacy," "Shrek 2" and "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," and less-expected second installments of smaller films like "Before Sunrise" and "The Princess Diaries 2: Royal Engagement." There were also some interesting films like "The Exorcist: The Beginning" which is a prequel to the hugely successful "Exorcist" series and "Alien Vs. Predator," which was an interesting hybrid of characters from the "Alien" and "Predator" films. The fact that Hollywood recycled ideas and charac­ters again isn't surprising, but the fact that most of the sequels put out this summer were as good, if not better than the originals. was shocking. 
Disappointing Box Offices 
Some movies just seem like they can't fail. Whether they have a big­name cast, a huge marketing budget or a character that already has been successful, these movies just seem destined to top the box office. Unfortunately, even these seemingly perfect films can be unsuccessful, and like all tragedies, it is usually due to one fatal flaw. Failure in movies is often measured monetarily, but for the movie-going public, real failure is when a movie just isn't as good as you had anticipated. "The Stepford Wives" had an all-star cast, but it couldn't overcome the curse of being a remake. "Troy" had beefcakes Brad Pitt and Eric Barra fighting in skirts, a formula that would seem to appeal to everyone, but when you try to make an ancient Greek classic into a pop­corn movie, you usually don't please anyone. "King Arthur" ran into the same history against Hollywood prob­lems as "Troy," even with a half-naked Kiera Knightly. The empire that is the Olsen Twins began to show signs of instability with "New York Minute," proving that no one, not even the queens of teen, can keep adolescent girls happy. Tom Hanks plus Steven Spielberg plus Catherine Zeta-Jones should not equal failure, but "The Terminal" was just too schmaltzy and contrived to keep audiences happy. This summer, it seemed like the movies that appeared most likely to succeed were the most spectacular failures of all. 
Big lndie Movies 
This was the summer of the under­dog, and we're not just talking about Spider-Man again. Independent films had a huge summer at the box office, both critically and commercially. One of the most controversial films of the year, "Fahrenheit 9/11" became the most successful documentary in histo­ry, and the current underground favorite "Napoleon Dynamite" has proven that independent films not only can make back their cost in box office receipts, but can also beat out bigger movies at the box office. Other films such as "Saved!", "Garden State", the director's cut of "Donnie Darko" and the foreign film "Hero" have had major success this summer, and have changed the way the public looks at summer films. Hopefully, the success of these independent films will let us expect less "The Day after Tomorrow" and more "Super Size Me" in summers to come. 
The Demise of Teen Movies 
There was a stretch of time when teen movies could not fail. It produced the "American Pie" trilogy, launched Freddie Prinze Jr. into superstardom and made prom seem like the pinnacle of existence. The summer of 2004 revealed that the era of Jason Biggs and his kin was very much over. With the exception of "Mean Girls," it was a slow season for the teen genre. "Sieepover" barely made a blip at the box office; Hillary Duff's "A Cinderella Story" was forgettable, as was the Olsen Twins' "New York Minute." "White Chicks" aimed for the Adam Sandler audience and missed. The only effort at the bathroom-humor­driven teen comedy, "Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle," while not a failure, revealed an end of an era. 
What Happened to August? 
Throughout June and July, it seemed like the good movies coming out would never stop. Major films were duking it out for the top of the box office, and the general public was winning. Once August came, all of the movie sources seem to have dried up. Where we once had "Spider-Man 2" fighting "The Bourne Supremacy" and "Harry Potter" for the No. 1 spot in the box office, we now have "AVP" and "The Exorcist: The Beginning" beating everyone hands down. Maybe the stu­dios are afraid that school and work will suck off a lot of viewers, but when do we need new, good movies as an excuse not to do our work more than at the beginning of the school year? 
Contact Molly Griffin at 
mgriffin@nd.edu 

ous fight sequences, whose balletic grace rivals that of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, the 2000 martial arts hit. 
"We talk about the dog days of August, but maybe these are the days of opportunity for certain types of films to do well after the blockbuster onslaught of early summer," said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box office tracker Exhibitor Relations. "This is a time when competition is a lot less fierce, and a movie like "Hero" can take advantage of that." 
-~--------~~-----­


THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Exposure is key in 1 0pen Water' 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene Critic 
As soon as the closing credits of "Open Water" concluded and the house lights of the theater came up, a teenage girl immediately blurted, "That was the stu­pidest movie I have ever seen!" It's the only verbal audience response to a movie I had encountered during the entire summer, with the exception of people cheering at the end of "Fahrenheit 9/11" (and I could go on for­ever about those people). 
I'm sure many people felt the same way this girl did, and I blame the mar­keting techniques unleashed on "Open Water." The audience was made to think it would be the next "Jaws," or we could assume it would be similar in style to "The Blair Witch Project." This film, however, transcends Little do they know that while they are exploring the ocean's surface, their boat crew has miscalculated the number of people aboard. Upon surfacing they find the boat nowhere in sight, and both of them (as they remark at some point or other) are "stranded in the middle of the ocean." 
The strongest element of the film's design is the way it treats everything with harsh exposure. Many of the cam­era shots, both in and out of water, are close-ups, making it more uncomfortable for the audience to watch. At times the shooting, lighting and general staging even makes the audience feel like they're intruding on two people's per­sonal lives. One vital moment consists of a nude Susan lying on a hotel bed as Daniel lies down next to her. This isn't a lewd shot; it conveys the sense of expo­sure the audience gets throughout the film. Both Daniel and Susan are figuratively 

those two, "naked," as we watch
JJOpen Water''
first by their emotions, personal­implement­
ities and inner thinking ing fore­blow up in front of us, shadowing sometimes out of details, and nowhere.Director: Chris Kentis 
then build­The ocean filming
Writer: Chris Kentis 

ing in sus­must have been brutal
Starring: Blanchard Ryan, Daniel Travis 
for for Ryan and Travis, but
pense 
and Saul Stein Hoffman 

the majority of the plot. 
S us an (Blanchard Ryan) and Daniel (Daniel Travis) are a married couple so waylaid with their professional lives that they just need an island vacation, which hap­pens to include a scuba diving session. 
it's a director's dream. Director Chris Kentis and his wife, cinematog­rapher Laura Lau, essentially play gods of the ocean, harrowing the actors with jellyfish attacks, thunderstorms and, of course, those man-eating sharks. Although the movie is only 80 minutes 
long, there are some gut-wrenching moments that almost freeze time because of how powerful they are ­although they sometimes seem to be a little too much. Also of note are the numerous quick cuts back to the island, reminding the audience of what the ideal image of an island vacation is, before taking them back to Susan and Daniels' increasingly desperate situation. The music score, composed by Graeme Revell, is mostly beneficial, but much of it is nothing we haven't heard in other suspense/horror films. 
Above all else, give "Open Water" huge credit for fulfilling its goals of originality. This isn't "Jaws," where the characters eventually roll up their sleeves and face nature's obstacles head-on. This is a film that makes matters for its two leads so traumatic that you wonder how, with each new twist, they could possibly sur­vive. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Disappointments abound in creature brawl 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Critic 
Moviegoers were treated to films this summer covering the entire spectrum. The summer got off to a terrific start but unsuccessfully tried to match those initial movies. Between the movies that held huge potential and those that were hyped as the next blockbuster, there was a lot of disappointment, including "Alien Vs. Predator," directed by Paul 
W. S. Anderson. 
Hardly any movie came out this sum­mer that could have matched the amount of franchise history this film carried with it (the possible exception being "Spider-Man 2"). The Aliens/Predator films have managed to create a large culture within the cine­ma world, one large enough to have created numerous sequels, video games, comics and novels based on their respective worlds. The movies have had fantastic talent at the helm, such as directors James Cameron, Ridley Scott and John McTiernan. 

Between the two icons of the cinema world, there are over 30 years of com­bined history to delve. With all that to feed off, it would seem the next movie in the series would not be too hard to pull off. Apparently it was. 
"Alien Vs. Predator" is a very differ­ent film from the preceding ones. The xenomorphs (Aliens) have been changed and no longer adhere to rules established in the previous Alien films, as have the Predators. The result is angry fans. 
But it's not just the fans who will find this movie lacking. Much like the sum­mer's earlier movie "The Chronicles of Riddick," this movie does little to humanize the characters beyond the obligatory introduc­
near long enough nor is the rest of the movie as engaging. The normally oblig­atory scenes, which should have been used to make the audience more sym­pathetic with the human characters, seem to have been replaced with bits serving little function. They only seek to turn the movie from 25 minutes to 101. It doesn't bode well when a slasher like "Freddy Vs. Jason" turns out to be more interesting than a movie with as much franchise history as this one. 
For those that care little for either franchise series, there's nothing else to know. There are slightly entertaining fight scenes, but the rest of the movie is a bore. 
However, fans of the series should be 
happy, as there 

tion scene. Instead, will be a "direc­
JJAlien Vs. Predator''

the human charac­tor's cut" of the ters seem to be on 
film when the screen only for fod­DVD is released. der. The plot for The movie was this film is so negli­trimmed heavilyDirector: Paul W.S. Anderson
gible that it will dis­so that it would 
Writer: Paul W.S. Anderson
appoint both hard­get a PG-13 rat­
Starring: Sanaa Lathan, Raoul Bova, 
core fans and those ing, the first to 
Lance Henriksen and Ewen Bremner 
do so in either of the preceding movies in these 
series. 
The director's cut promises to restore many of those missing scenes, and hopefully the spark this movie missed will be found within the DVD. As it stands, this movie is a very poor way to end either franchise. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
who have never seen a single movie in either franchise. 

Of course, the average person proba­bly won't go see the movie for the human element. The two aliens are both represented well through comput­er graphic imaging and costumes. The fight scenes between the two, much like those seen last summer in "Freddy Vs. Jason," are the highlights of the movie. 
Sadly, the fight scenes are nowhere 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, August 31, 2004 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Chicago Cubs jwnp out to half-game lead in vvild-card race 
Associated Press losing two of three games at 
Florida June 22-24. They 
MONTREAL -Greg Maddux improved their record against 
threw seven shutout innings for the NL West this month to 13-4 
his 302nd career win and also after taking three of four from 
drove in a run, leading the the Giants. 
Chicago Cubs to a 5-2 win over Barry Bonds was not in the 
the Montreal Expos. starting lineup a day after he 
Maddux (13-8), who became hit two of the three longest 
the 22nd pitcher in major home runs in Turner Field his­
league history to reach 300 tory. He pinch hit in the ninth 
wins on Aug. 7, scattered five and grounded out against 
hits. struck out two and walked Homan Colon (1-0) to end the 
none. inning. 
LaTroy Hawkins got one out Chipper Jones began the day 
for his 20th save in 26 opportu­with his wife for the birth of 
nities. their third son, but he was in 
Chicago, swept by Houston in the dugout by the sixth inning. three straight at home over the He struck out as a pinch-hitter weekend. regained the NL wild­in the seventh inning. card lead, moving a half-game J.D. Drew. who went 3-for-4 ahead of idle San Diego. with a three-run homer, started 
Terrmel Sledge hit a two-run the ninth-inning rally with a homer off Jon Leicester in the single. Franco followed with ninth for the Expos, who lost another shot to right that rolled their third straight and fell to 3-past Ricky Ledee for a game­5 on their season-high 13-game tying triple. homestand. "Not bad for an old man," 
Sammy Sosa hit a two-run said the 46-year-old Franco double off Rocky Biddle (4-8) in after his second triple of the the Cubs' four-run third after season. "You might never see catching a break an inning ear­that again." lier when plate umpire Ted Marlins 6, Mets 4 Barrett called Montreal's Juan The Florida Marlins are trying Rivera out on a close play at to make their move in the NL 
home. wild-card race. 
With runners at second and Damion Easley, starting third and one out, Rivera broke because of an injury to Luis for home on Brian Schneider's Castillo, hit a go-ahead two-run grounder. First baseman Derrek homer in the seventh inning, Lee's throw home appeared to and the Marlins beat the New beat Rivera, who slid outside York Mets to extend their win­past catcher Paul Bako and ning streak to four. reached with his left hand to Florida overcame a shaky 
touch the plate as he slid by. outing by Dontrelle Willis, who Astros 11, Reds 3 Houston broke it open with a the American League. 
Rivera looked up at Barrett, allowed three homers for the Brad Ausmus hit a tiebreak­four-run seventh, including Josh Fogg (9-9) scattered five who made no sign until Bako first time in his career, includ­ing three-run homer in the sixth Berkman's two-run double and hits in 6 2-3 shutout innings for came over and tagged him for ing one to Mike Piazza in his inning and drove in a season­Ausmus's run-scoring single. his third win in his last four the second out. Expos manager return from the disabled list. high four runs, leading the Berkman scored when Dunn starts. Frank Robinson argued the call Miguel Cabrera also hit a two­surging Houston Astros to a vic­failed to catch Kent's drive to Ward hit a two-run homer in with Barrett, then crew chief Ed run homer and Juan Pierre had tory over the Cincinnati Reds. the warning track in left for a the first off Ben Hendrickson (0­Rapuano -the second base four hits for the Marlins. who Lance Berkman homered two-base error. 6) and a three-run shot in the umpire. to no avail. remained four games back of twice and drove in four runs for The Astros scored an seventh off reliever Mike Braves 7, Giants 6 the wild-card leading Chicago the Astros, who won for the unearned run in the first when Adams. He also walked twice 
Even with a big lead in the NL Cubs and also trail San Diego seventh time in eight games. Craig Biggio scored from third and was hit by a pitch.East, the Atlanta Braves aren't and San Francisco. Houston is just four games on third baseman Ryan Freel's Jack Wilson singled with one taking anything for granted. "It's a good position to be in," behind Chicago, which leads the two-out fielding error on Kent's out in the first and Ward fol­
Playing like a team fighting Marlins manager Jack McKeon NL wild-card race. sharp grounder. lowed with his 13th homer to for a playoff spot, the Braves said before the game. "We're Pete Munro (3-5) went five­Munro made it 2-0 in the sec­make it 2-0. rallied for two runs in the ninth fortunate enough to have six plus innings to win for the first ond, driving in Vizcaino with a With two outs in the seventh. inning Monday to defeat the games with one of the leaders, time in seven starts since July sacrifice fly for the third RBI of Jason Kendall singled, chasing San Francisco Giants. the Cubs. We've got our own 25. He gave up three runs and his five-year career -and first Hendrickson. Adams relieved 
Julio Franco tied the game destiny in our own hands." eight hits, and struck out a sea­since 2002. and allowed a single to Jack with an RBI triple and Andruw Florida (67-62) moved five son-high six. Pirates S, Brewers 1 Wilson before Ward hit his 14th Jones followed with a game­games over .500 for the first Adam Dunn hit his 40th Daryle Ward homered twice home run of the year to give winning single off Giants closer time since June 29. Last year, homer for the Reds. and Felipe and had five RBis and the Pittsburgh a 5-0 lead. Dustin Hermanson. the Marlins surged with an 18-8 Lopez added a two-run shot. Pittsburgh Pirates beat Bill Hall hit a sacrifice fly in 
"We take every game like it's record in September and went With the game tied at 3, Jeff Milwaukee 5-1 on Monday the ninth off of Jose Mesa for our last game," Jones said. on to win the wild card and Kent reached on a leadoff night, sending the Brewers to the only Milwaukee run. "Especially when they give us their second World Series title infield, Mike Lamb grounded their 12th straight loss. It was the best outing for opportunities like they gave us in seven seasons. into fielder's choice. Jose Milwaukee tied its NL record Hendrickson, a rookie who has today. Every opportunity we "I sure hope that we have the Vizcaino singled and Ausmus for consecutive losses, and has dominated at Triple-A. but has have to win games, we've got to same type of September we did homered to center on a 3-0 scored just seven runs in its last lost each of his six major league take advantage." last year," McKeon said. "If we pitch from Phil Norton (1-5). five games. The franchise mark appearances.
The Braves have lost only do, we'll be in pretty good It was Ausmus' first homer in for consecutive losses is 14 in He gave up three runs and one of their last 19 series since shape." 59 at-bats since July 25. 1994, when the team played in four hits in 6 2-3 innings. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

2 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF 3 bedroom house for rent. Wanted: Football season tix or ND.CLOSEIDEAL FOR 1203 E. LaSalle. $600/mo +deposit. Michigan tix. 233-3618 NOTICES FoR RENT 2-4 PEOPLE. Appliances incl. Call 243-5870. TICKETS 
VERY REASONABLE RENT WANTED: GA home footballtix. Got Highspeed? Want WIRELESS? APARTMENT FOR RENT IN .277-3097. A businessman needs season Call 276-8507. Aller 5 p.m. Networks installed and secured. MISHAWAKA WANTED tickets for clients. 277-1659 call 784-8638. Dan 243-1515 Furnish and all utilities included. No 2-bdrm house wlliving room, NDDan03@ yahoo.com smoking, No pets. Call 255-1738 for dining room, full bath. SOCCER REFEREES -BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX 
information.Single person, $575/mo+utilities. Cute country needed for south side elementary PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 
PERSONAL

no children. house. Lincolnway (Osceola). school located near Erskine Golf 273-3911 $400 mo.4 bed 2 bath Property Management Services Course on Miami Street. $30 per
FoR SALE 

925 No. Lawrence 233-4590. soccer game. For Sale: ND footballtix. Young ND alums need 
876-7339 or 288-3613 Call574-291-4200. Good prices. TURTLECREEK APT for HOUSE FOR SALE 1 bedroom Topsfield Condo for rent, 232-0964. MICHIGAN wknd.Will pay top$$$ 915 E. Washington-3 unit house. 1 0 minutes from Campus, Looking for child care for 2 great and finance party for you and close to campus; 3 bdrm 1 .5 bath & $550 per uniVmo. lncl water & elec. $550/mo + utiiHies, modern, hard-kids, 2-3 afternoons weekly. Wanted: ND foolballtix. Top $$$ friends. lots of closets/storage, Each unit has full kitchen,bath & wood floors, washer & dryer and Good pay. 251-1570. Will accept best proposal. 2 car garage Ph 289-5922 2 bdrms. Off street parking. community pool. 233-2921. Contact CPOEMD@AOL.COM 
Can walk to campus. Available immediately. ND llballtix bought & sold Oscilloscope Digital100 MHz Property Management Servi.::es, Will consider lease/purchase option. Need 4 GAs to Purdue a.m. 232-2378 Sister Locks by Phyllis $1 500. 273-2428. 233-4590 Call 255-5365. (313) 886-4189 p.m. 288-2726 269-683-4426 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Borchard's homer longest at U.S. Celluar, Sox win'. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Joe Borchard set a small crowd abuzz with the longest homer in the 14-year history of U.S. Cellular Field. 
But some small ball -a bunt and aggressive baserunning by Timo Perez -were just as big Monday in helping the Chicago White Sox beat the Philadelphia Phillies 9-8 in a wild inter­league makeup game. 
"I just put my head down and started running. I could feel it was going a long way. I didn't know how far it would go," Borchard said. .. The second-inning drive to right-center off Brett Myers cleared the bleachers and land­ed in the middle of a concourse -an estimated 504 feet from the plate. The previous longest homer at the ballpark that opened in 1991 as new Comiskey Park, was a 495-foot shot by Frank Thomas two years ago against the Twins. 
"Complete shock," Borchard said after learning of his feat. 
"He crushed it," Myers said. "It definitely was an impressive shot." 
The White Sox took a 7-6 lead with two runs in the sixth off Roberto Hernandez (2-5) to make a winner of Mark Buehrle (12-8). 
Aaron Rowand hit a two-out RBI single off Hernandez to tie it and scored the go-ahead run when third baseman David Bell and Hernandez collided trying to field Perez's bunt single. 
"I think Timo caught David Bell back and actually over a little bit in the hole. It was a good move on his part," Rowand said. "I had a feeling he might try it. We were think­ing along the same lines and it worked out." 
Rowand made it 9-6 in the eighth with his 20th homer, a two-run shot off Todd Jones. 
Jim Thome hit a two-out. two-run homer in the ninth off Shingo Takatsu, but the Chicago closer struck out Doug Glanville 
S~in:: 
Bellini 

Tuesdays 
S1z~}efl.e (Sizzlelini®)­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.951 A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;,-}efie (Bellini)­A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
for his 14th save in 15 chances. 
Earlier in the game, Perez got caught in a rundown but scored when he knocked the ball out of Bell's glove at third and then raced home. 
"I never had that happen before," Bell said. "I should have had two hands on it or got a better grip." 
So, Bell was in the center of two of the game's pivotal plays on a rather manic M9nday. 
"When games like that hap­pen and you win, it's OK. But you lose, it's kind of frustrating. You think of things you could have done differently," Bell said. 
"It was a good bunt and I yelled probably a little too late and he (Hernandez) already committed. I think either one of us would have had a chance to throw him out, but I think I just let him know too late." 
The game was a makeup of a June 10 rainout and the White Sox's victory clinched inter­league bragging rights for the 
TENNIS 
Williams in second round 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Dressed for a night on the town, Serena Williams was all business in her first match in 4 1/2 weeks. 
Williams strode into Arthur Ashe Stadium wearing knee­high black boots, a denim miniskirt, a studded black tank top and dangling earrings. A far cry from the tennis attire of days gone by, to be sure, but then again, Williams' powerful strokes bear little resemblance to the way the women's game used to be played. 
Showing little sign of her injury-induced layoff. the two­time U.S. Open champion advanced to the second round with ease, overwhelming Sandra Kleinova of the Czech Republic 6-1, 6-3 Monday night. 
"I performed at a decent level today. I'm finally getting to a AL this season, 127-125. 
"There was some weird stuff happening today, weird defen­sive plays, some on our part, some on their part," Myers said. 
After Borchard's homer put the White Sox up 3-2, the Phillies came right back with three runs in the third to take a 5-3 lead. Jason Michaels home­red, Bell had an RBI double, and Placido Polanco had a sac­rifice fly. 
Tigers 9, Royals 1 
Craig Monroe homered twice and drove in five runs, and Nate Robertson threw his first career complete game in the Detroit Tigers victory over the Kansas City Royals. 
Ivan Rodriguez added a two­run homer for the Tigers, who snapped a four-game losing streak and sent the Royals to their 1Oth loss in 12 games. 
Robertson (12-7) allowed one run and six hits in becoming the first Tigers left-bander to win 12 games in seven years. 

Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an 
Information Meeti with program returnees to hear about... 

Langllage
·t11g11ese 
an~ por.
spanish 
Abroad
5t11dY 
Fall, Spring, Summer, and 
Academic Year 2005-2006 Monterrey, Me:..::ico PUebla, Mexico RiodeJaneiroand Sao Paulo, Brazil Santiago, Chile Toledo, Spain 

point where I'm actually playing better and focusing better," Williams said. 
A few moments later, asked who her biggest threat in the tournament is, Williams replied: "Myself. I can make it or break it." 
She might have been dressed for a cocktail party or MTV's Video Music Awards, which she attended last year while skip­ping the Open shortly after left knee surgery. 
Her play Monday was defmite­ly Grand Slam-caliber, though, a step above what fellow major champions Jennifer Capriati, Roger Federer and Carlos Maya showed in shaky victories earli­er on Day 1. At night, 1999 Open runner-up Todd Martin lost the final match of his career, announcing his retirement after being beaten by No. 31 Fabrice Santoro 4-6, 6~4, 6-4, 7-5. 
prograll1s 
september 1, 2004 
spm 

155 DeBartolo 
UNJVF.JtSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME. 

lNTEII:.'NATIONAL !lTlJD"t" 
PRO(',JlA.MS

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2004 
He had seven strikeouts and no walks. 
Monroe gave the Tigers a 2:0. lead in the second with his sec­ond homer in two games, s.end-·. ing a 1-1 pitch from Mike Wood · (2-7) to left. 
Rodriguez, who missed the previous three games with flu­like symptoms, hit a two-run shot off Wood in the third to make it 4-0. It was Rodriguez's 17th homer and the l,OOOth run he has scored in his career. 
Facing Wood again in the fifth after Carlos Guillen and Carlos Pena walked, Monroe hit a 1-0 pitch 408 feet over the fence in left to make it 7-0. The left fielder has hit safely in 15 of his last 16 games with seven home runs, 18 RBis, seven dou­bles and 16 runs scored. He's hitting .379 in the stretch. 
Calvin Pickering hit a long home run -his fourth -off Robertson in the fifth. 
Guillen added a two-run dou­ble in the ninth off Matt Kinney to cap the scoring. 
N' 
Serena Williams hits a shot at the U.S. Open Monday. 
Only orte man in the draw is older than Martin, by a matter of months: Andre Agassi, 34, who followed Williams on center court to play Robby Ginepri. 
Williams said her choice of denim was inspired by Agassi, who wore shorts made of that material back in the early 1990s. 
"Her outfit? I tried not to look at it," said Kleinova. who wore a· navy skirt and white shirt. "It's her style. She always wears something special." 
Her play was special, too. Williams, seeded No. 3, finished with a remarkable 35-3 edge in winners and saved the only break point she faced with one of her seven aces. That serve was clocked at 108 mph, and she reached 123 mph with another. 
"Her serving was pretty good. If she places it really well, like she did tonight, it's hard to return -even for guys," Kleinova said. 
Williams said last week she's at 90 to 95 percent, working her way back since pulling out of a tournament at Carlsbad, Calif., in late July because of soreness in her left knee. Williams also missed the Olympics, deciding not to go only hours before the 
U.S. tennis team's flight to Greece. 

~·----------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, August 31,2004

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Miami's Rolle hopes ACC will be more challenging 
Associated Press reason. and will anchor No. 6 Miami's The 6-foot-1, 200-pound revamped defense. COHAL GABLES. Fla. -Miami defender has become one of the He thinks the decision, cou­
cornerback Antrel Holle hopes a nation's best cornerbacks. He pled with the Hurricanes' move 
new conference will bring new has the size and strength to jam to the Atlantic Coast Conference, 
challengers. receivers at the line and the could give him more opportuni­It would be a welcome change speed to run with them down ties to make plays. 
from the Big East, where teams the field. He could have left "Maybe teams will try me and 
rarely threw Holle's way the last school early for the NFL but feel they can get something my 
two seasons -and for good returned for his senior season way," said Holle, one of four returning starters on defense. "I hope so. Then I can prove them wrong." Miami begins the season next Monday night against No. 5 Florida State at the Orange Bowl. It's the teams' third meet­ing in 11 months, so the Seminoles are well aware of Rolle's ability. When they played in January, P.K. Sam caught a 10-yard pass against Rolle on the Seminoles' first offensive play, then didn't have a recep­tion the rest of the way. Holle was nearly as good against Pittsburgh's Larry Fitzgerald last season, helping hold the nation's top receiver to three catches for 26 yards and a meaningless late touchdown. Rolle wasn't covering Fitzgerald on the scoring play. "People not only can't throw against him, but they almost refuse to throw his way because he's such a terrific lock-down corner," Miami coach Larry Coker said. "He's been almost unbeatable the last two sea­sons." Rolle hasn't given up a touch­down since the 2002 opener against Florida A&M, a 25-game streak. The Hurricanes, meanwhile, haven't allowed a 100-yard receiver since Penn State's Bryant Johnson caught six pass­es for 149 yards and a touch­down in Miami's 3 3-7 opening 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist? 
Campus Ministry 
Ifyou can answer YES to any or all of these questions, come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. 
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, September 1, 2004 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 
victory in 2001. That's 37 games since a receiver eclipsed the century mark. 
They led the nation in passing defense in 2001, ranked second in 2002 and were back on top last season when they gave up 
143.5 yards a game. Some of that can be attributed to Rolle. 
"Once he gets his hands on you, it's pretty much over," teammate Kelly 
meanor charges of resisting arrest and disorderly conduct and on a felony charge of bat­tery on a law enforcement offi­cer. Not only was Holle suspend­ed from the team, but he had to face his father, the chief of police in Homestead. 
"There's not a single day that goes by that I don't think about it," Holle said. "To be arrested and be in handcuffs in front of 
my father, that 

Jennings said. "That's the key to  "Maybe teams will  was a terrible experience for  
him. This year, everybody will see what he can do."  try me and feel they can get something  me. That's some­thing I never want to face  
Rolle played the  my way.  again."  
last two seasons  Prosecutors  
in the shadow of safety Sean Taylor, an All­ Antrel Rolle Miami cornerback  chose not to file formal charges. The state attorney  
American who led  investigated the  
the nation in 2003  complaint  and  

with 10 interceptions, including decided that the physical con­three returned for touchdowns. tact between Holle and the offi­Holle had two interceptions and cer was "merely incidental." seven pass breakups. Coker reinstated Holle the same 
"I really don't know much day. about the ACC, but I'm looking "Someone's going to pay for it, for a tougher schedule and and I know it's going to be the more competition," he said. "''m opponents on the other side of looking for more balls coming the field," Rolle said. "They're my way. I love challenges." going to pay for what I felt every 
Holle was arrested in July in single day. Someone's going to the Miami neighborhood of feel my hurt, someone's going to Coconut Grove on two misde-feel my pain." 
~1 Sports ~ar it1 South ~et1d 2046 South ~et1d Ave -Across frotM Martit'ls Plaza 272-1766 
/ NU Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it~fo 

"C.reat Food, C.reat Futf Mot~: Mot~ day Night Football 8-Specials startit'lg at ~ 1. Tues: College Night -UJ 8-Specials Wed: T~IVIA Night -~rit1g your teatMs -Prizes Thurs: UJ -First Thursday every tttot1th: Jazzy C.rass Fri: Live Et~tertait'ltttet'lt 
Sat: NU gatttes 
Champzon water conditioning & Bottled Water Seroice 
208 E. Sample St. South Bend, IN 46601 288-7555 

9 0 PAYS FREE COOLER RENTAL 20 O.ALLONS OF WATER 
I
FREE I 
I 
I

*New customers only I *Deposit required expires 9/30/04 1 
I 

---------------------------· 
\()( . '· 

Tuesday, August 31, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Hurting Colts just looking for healthy bodies 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Dominic Rhodes and Gilbert Gardner watched Monday's practice at the Colts complex, but at least they were around. The same could not be said of Joseph Jefferson or James Mungro. 
Just two days after defeating Buffalo 30-17, Indianapolis' quickly expanding injury list was clouding the decisions Colts ,coach Tony Dungy must make this week. 
"It will be interesting," Dungy said of the team's cuts. "It's 'thrown some monkey wrenches in there." 
The Colts have to trim their 
roster to 65 by Tuesday after­
noon and have to be down to 53 
players by Sunday afternoon. 
With the mounting injuries, the Colts' aren't just evaluating their own players -they're also looking for replacements. 
The Colts have now lost their top three returners and two key backup running backs in the last two weeks. 
It started with Troy Walters' broken arm Aug. 21 against the New York Jets. Dungy said last week that Walters, the team's top punt returner and a key receiver, would miss at least three months. 
The Colts (2-1) left Saturday's game in far worse shape. 
Rhodes, Edgerrin James' backup, ran 15 times for 58 yards against Buffalo but sprained his left ankle. He showed up for Monday's prac­tice in a walking boot. Dungy said Rhodes may play Friday night at Cincinnati although he would be limited. 
James Mungro, Rhodes' back­up, left Saturday's game early with a wrist injury, and the team was still waiting Monday for MRI results before saying how much time he would miss. 
Wide receiver Brad Pyatt, the 
We--Lvo-»-t-0' 'B aviv NM"ve--V Ctl»-t-0' & 5 Ctli/vvt" MCt!Vy '}' 5t"~vvt"}'! ! ! ~Rwetfr~ c~ wcv V1£Mily ve-ttOVcU;~ 8,000 ~-ft. ~aid,~ l.ocat"~ tAt\; dowYlt"ow vv N~ At"~C~yOtVwal-~i-ttcr~ 
OUPS, SALADS, SANDWICHES & G<9URlv1ET PIZZAS, COFFEE 'BAR SERVING DELICIOUS ESPRESSO DRINKS, ITIALIAN SODAS, H.ERVAL TEAS, AND lv!ORE! 
A~wfA:Yv: 

*lvtA'R.TINI 'BAR* ART GALLERY* PATIO SEATING* 
*"OPEN lvtiC" NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY* *LIVE ENTERTAINlvtENT ON THE WEEKENDS* 
St"op hy! A Jlt.d, be,-~e.-"to-chedv out" 01.A.-Y w~e-Ct-t" w w w. N vwwilve-vfvont'~. co-wt; 
Talk It Out ... Walk It Out ... Wait It Out ... 
Please Contact: Kim Overdyck at takcten(ivnd.edu Or 
631-9424 Visit us on the web: www.nd.edu/-taketen 
~ 

ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
Colts kickoff returner last sea­son, sustained a deep thigh bruise that was so severe, he spent Saturday and Sunday night in a hospital. Dungy said he was released Monday and could miss up to six weeks. Rhodes replaced him on kick­offs Saturday night. 
Dungy said the spate of injuries will force him to look at the waiver wire for reinforce­ments before the season opener Sept. 9 at New England. 
"I would say anyone who has returned in the NFL and has ·explosiveness is a possibility," Dungy said. 
Dungy also has not decided which running back will start in Friday night's preseason finale. 
James is not scheduled to play, and if Rhodes or Mungro can't go, the Colts would be left with three undrafted free agents -Ran Carthon, Daniel 
Davis and Carey Davis  - and  
second-year  fullback  Tom  
Lopienski.  

But the injuries haven't just hurt the offense and special teams. 
Gardner, a linebacker taken in the third round, has a sprained right ankle and hasn't practiced since Aug. 20. 
The Colts are unsure when he'll return. 

Patriots have easier ride 
Associated Press 
New England's chances of winning the AFC East again cer­tainly improved when it acquired Corey Dillon to be the heavy-duty running back the Patriots haven't had since Curtis Martin left after the 1997 sea­son. 
They got even better when everything went wrong in Miami. 
After winning two Super Bowls in three seasons, New England was set to enter the season as the AFC East favorite in any case, probably a good bet to become only the second team 
We have an exciting opportunity for YOU to help prevent youth violence in South Bend! Learn ways to help reduce violence while having fun interacting with children in area schools. 
* 
Become a member of a Take Ten team and spend an hour a week in an area school *Various schools, age groups, and meeting times to fit your schedule 

* 
Multiple training opportunities to learn more about violence and how to work with children 



Come visit our table at activities night, Tuesday August 31st! 
to win three Super Bowls in four years. 
But it certainly didn't hurt when, in short order, Miami lost running back Ricky Williams to retirement, wide receiver David Boston to a knee injury and was forced to trade defensive end Adewale Ogunleye after failing to reach an agreement on a con­tract. That left the Dolphins, projected as the second-best team in the division, facing the prospect of their first losing sea­son since 1988. 
The New York Jets and Buffalo figure to be respectable, but aren't close to the Patriots. 
The last time it won the Super 
HELP MAKE OUR SCHOOLS VIOLENCE FREE ZONES 

Bowl, after the 2001 season, New England slumped to 9-7 and missed the playoffs. 
That's not likely this time ­coach Bill Belichick, who contin­ues to mix veteran role players and youngsters, just won't per­mit it. And Belichick and per­sonnel director Scott Pioli draft wonderfully, with six rookies playing a major role last season. There's no reason to think this year's class, led by 330-plus pound nose tackle Vince Wilfork won't be almost as good. 
It starts for the Patriots, of course, with Tom Brady, the sixth-round draft pick in 2000 who has been the MVP in New England's two Super Bowl victo­ries, both won on last-second field goals by Adam Vinatieri. Brady has become a facsimile of his boyhood idol, Joe Montana, a quarterback with seemingly unspectacular physical skills who does nothing but win. 

Brady went through eight home games last season without throwing an interception in a ­system so simple that it some­times looks like pitch and catch. 
"We don't really have many plays, other than a screen, where the ball has to go to a designated guy, for the most part," Belichick says. 'The quar­terback reads the coverage and tries to throw to the area of the coverage where it is the weak­est, and our receivers at that point have to do two things: get open and catch the ball." 
Sounds simple. But very few other teams can do it that way. 
And this season, they have Dillon, disgruntled in Cincinnati but happy to be with a winner, to put even more pressure on defenses. He was relegated to backup duty last year, but had never failed to gain more than 1,000 yards in his first six NFL seasons despite playing on one of the NFL's worst teams. 

-
page 18 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, August 31, 2004 
Do. Your ''To-Do'' List 
I 
..



Activities Night 2004 
Look for These Service &Social Action Tables 
Aids Ministries/Aids Assist American Cancer Society Club American Red Cross Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Big Brothers/Big Sisters of ND/SMC Boys and Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Campus Girl Scouts, ND/SMC Center for Basic Learning Skills Center for the Homeless Center for Social Concerns' programs and 
seminars. Children's Dispensary Circle K Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Dismas House Food Bank of Northern Indiana Foodshare Habitat for Humanity 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS 
Helpful Undergraduate Students HOBY Foundation Alumni Association I Believe I Can, Inc. Indiana Legal Services Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Knights of Columbus La Casa de Amistad LaSalle Council Boy Scouts of America LEAD-NO Life Treatment Centers Logan Center Logan Recreation Club Ms. Wizard Day Neighborhood Study Help Program Operation Smile Orestes Brownson Council Project Transformation Reins of Life Robinson Community Learning 
Center/Take Ten 
Salvation Army of St. Joseph County Youth Programs Silver Wing Society S-0-S of Madison Center South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility South Bend Community Tennis Association Southern Care Hospice Special Friends Club of Notre Dame St Vincent de Paul Society Students for Environmental Action Super Sibs Teamwork for Tomorrow Tolson Center Twenty-first Century Scholars West Side Neighborhood Partnership Center Women's Care Center Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition 
~UNIVERSITY OF
W NOTRE DAME 
--~ 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 COMPILED FROM TI-i£ OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES page 19 



around the dial 
MLB 
Cubs at Expos 6 p.m., FSN 
TENNIS 

U.S. 
Open Coverage 10 a.m., USA 

HOCKEY 


U.S. 
vs. Canada 6 p.m., ESPN2 Germany vs. Sweden noon, ESPN 


NASCAR 


Associated Press has won 55 races. He made after crashing at Bristol er to say 'I know when it's 
his NASCAR debut in 1980 Motor Speedway during the time for me to move on."' 
DAYfONA BEACH, Fla. -and has won almost every Hooters Pro Cup Race. Wallace became afull­NASCAR driver Rusty major race except the Rusty Wallace also owns time competitor on the cir­Wallace will retire after Daytona 500. a Busch team and recently cuit in 1984, when he was the 2005 season, saying he "This is my last shot at hired Jamie McMurray to rookie of the year. He is concerned about getting the Daytona 500," Wallace drive for him. McMurray is claimed the series national hurt and wants to leave at said. "The Daytona 500 is rumored to be the replace­driving title in 1989 and fin­the top of his game. His still the granddaddy of them ment for Wallace in 2006, ished runner-up for the decision was influenced by all. It's the race I haven't but currently drives for championship in 1988 and the death of rival Dale won and I'm going to try my Chip Ganassi. 1993. His most recent victo­Earnhardt in a Daytona darndest to win it." Wallace also plans to do ry was in April in 500 crash in 2001. Wallace, who drives for TV commercials tied to his Martinsville, Va. 
"It kind of got to me," Penske Racing South, corporate sponsorships "It's time. I feel it," Wallace said Monday at a intends to stay in racing as with Miller Brewing Co. and Wallace said, referring to news conference at the a team owner and mentor other companies. his retirement decision. "I Daytona International for younger drivers after he "It's hard for a great driv­know I'm doing the right Speedway complex. "It retires. Brothers Mike and er to say, 'Look, it's time,"' thing and I feel good about 
made me feel nervous. It Kenny and 17 -year-old son said Roger Penske, majority it." made me think hard about Stephen are drivers. owner of Penske Racing Wallace is the first veter­it." Stephen Wallace was hospi­South. "But I think that's an driver to announce such 
The 48-year-old Wallace talized overnight last week the position of a great driv-plans. 
IN BRIEF 

Colts' first pick finally signs to training_ camp. 10 feet out. On the other side, you contract Winds dommate U.S. Open couldn't get it past the service line." INDIANAPOLIS -Safety Bob NEW YORK -For good or bad, Indiana close to naming tennis players' fortunes change as new athletic director 
Sanders wants to show the 
quickly as the direction of the INDIANAPOLIS IndianaIndianapolis Colts what he can do. 
swirling wind at the U.S. Open. University President Adam HerbertHe's still waiting. 
Just ask major champions Jennifer has narrowed the search for a newSanders, the Colts' top draft pick, Capriati, Roger Federer and Carlos athletics director and could namefinally reported to practice Monday Moya, who all dealt with shaky starts someone within a week. 
after ending a month-long holdout by Monday before winning first-round Search committee chairman Ken 
signing what is believed to be a four­matches. Or ask Mario Ancic and Beckley said Monday that Herbert year deal. But Sanders did not par­Karolina Sprem, who marked them­was focusing on one person. ticipate in any drills and is likely to selves as stars-to-be at Wimbledon although he declined to identify the sit out even more practices. but were one-and-done at the next candidate. 
"We have to see where he is and Grand Slam. "As soon as we talk to them (refer­how he goes," coach Tony Dungy Frustrated by a strong breeze, her ences) and the president is sure he is opponent's superb play and her own satisfied with what he hears, I'm
said. "I think he's going to do some miscues, Capriati trailed 54th-ranked sure we'll have an announcement,"drill work with [strength coach] Jon Denise Chladkova by a set, then put Beckley said. "I think it will be within Torine and when Jon is happy with together a 2-6, 6-1, 6-2 victory. seven days."
that, he'll do some team work. Then "It was a little bit scary there in the Herbert announced in May that
when [secondary coach] Alan 
beginning," the eighth-seeded Terry Clapacs would return to his[Williams] is happy with that, it will Capriati said. "I had to make some primary role as vice president for be game work." 
adjustments, trying to find my range administration. Clapacs spent the 
Sanders had hoped to start making a little bit, and the wind was pretty last 21 months doing double duty impressions before Monday -four difficult. One side, you would hit the after being named interim athletics weeks after his teammates reported ball, and it seemed like it would go director in November 2002. 
P-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, August 31,2004 
NBA 
Kobe jurors fill out 82-itel!l questionnaire 
A..sociated Press  vacy and Bryant's right to  a  a fine of up to $750,000.  sionals.  back for  more  questioning,  
fair trial outweigh the First  Prospective  jurors  were  It also asks whether they  and 71  who  were  added  on  
EAGLE, Colo.  -Prospective  Amendment right of access.  asked about their impressions  have  been "affected  by  or  Monday.  
jurors in the Kobe Bryant rape  Bryant, 26, who appeared at  of pro basketball players, and  involved in" marital infidelity.  Jury selection will be private  
case were asked their feelings  the courthouse Monday, has  whether they believe wealthy  Bryant is a married father of  until at least Wednesday, when  
on racial prejudice, interracial  pleaded  people are  one. He is black; his accuser is  reporters will be able to watch  
relationships, marital infidelity and justice for the rich and  not guilty to felony  "It probably has more to do  treated bet­ter by the  white. Richard  Gabriel,  a  Los  through closed-circuit televi­sion. By then, the jury pool will  
famous in an 82-item ques­tionnaire released· Monday. The potential jurors filled out the surveys Friday, and  sexual assault, saying he had con­ with what one side anticipates the other side's themes and issues are going to be and  courts. The ques­tionnaire asks candi­ Angeles-based trial consultant with Decision Analysis, said the questionnaire probably does not provide an accurate  probably have been whittled down considerably. Opening statements are expected Sept. 7.  
lawyers began questioning them individually behind closed doors Monday after District Judge Terry Ruckriegle rejected a request  sensual sex with a then-19­year-old employee  wanting to clearly find out if people are going to be amenable to it."  dates how they feel a b o u t interracial relation­ glimpse of arguments that will come up at trial. "It probably has more to do with what one side anticipates the other side's themes and  Prosecutors and defense attorneys argued against open­ing the questioning to the media, saying potential jurors might be inhibited in answer­ 
to let the media listen in. Huckriegle said he wanted the prospective jurors to feel  at a Vail­a r e a resort last  Richard Gabriel Trial consultant  s h i p s ' whether they have  issues are going to be and wanting to clearly find out if people are going to be  ing questions. Media attorney Steve Zansberg noted Bryant's right  
they could  answer questions  summer. If  had  "any  amenable to it," he said.  to  a  fair trial but said the  
about potentially embarrassing topics without scrutiny from the media. He said the prospective jurors' right to pri­ convicted, the Los Angeles Lakers star could get four years to life in prison or 20 years to life on probation, and  negative experience with an African American" and whether they are biased against mental health profes- In all, the jury pool consists of 276 Eagle County residents -205 who fill.ed out question­naires Friday and were called  media and the public have a right to access under the First Amendment. The judge, how­ever, disagreed.  

'Ifyou enjoy ... 
Writing Athletics Designing graphics Photography 
Getting paid? 
Then visit The Observer's booth during Activities Night at the Joyce Center and find out more! The Observer is look­
ing for ,..  columnists, writers,  graphic designers, production  
workers  and photographers  for the 2004-05  school year.  

No experience is needed. Call 1-4542 for details. 
Come Cheer on the Irish for the HOME OPENER... #25 Notre Dame Volleyball vs. Loyola University Chicago Wednesday, September 1st at 7:00pm at Joyce Center (Gate to) 
*First 250 fans will receive a Notre Dame volleyball long-sleeve 
schedule T-shirt sponsored by !8 a 
Also have achance to win Btoo Birthday Party Tickets ~, { :.:, ·.. 
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

BYU 
continued from page 24 
lights during coach Tyrone Willingham's first two years at Notre Dame. 
With so much time before kickoff. Quinn said it's impor­tant to have a routine. 
"We make sure we're not sleeping in too late so you're not having a drowsy day," the second-year quarterback said. "Make sure you're getting up [and] moving around. Try to make it like any other day where you have to get up and maybe go to a practice later in the day. We just try to get up, get food in your system, get moving around and get ready for the game at night." 
Linebacker Mike Goolsby said it's critical for the Irish not to overlook BYU. with Michigan on the schedule for Sept. 11, and focus on playing well in the first game of the season. 
"I think one of the biggest things overall is that were tak­ing everything one step at a time," Goolsby said. "We [have to] get that first win under our belt then take it from there. The biggest message is not tak­ing anything for granted and taking everything one step at a time.... [Then] you can gauge where you're at." 
Contact Joe Hettler at 
jhettler@nd.edu 


CLEMENT SUHENDRNThe Observer Unebacker Mike Goolsby practices last week. Goolsby Is healthy after breaking his collarbone In a 2003 Bookstore Basketball game. 
Gl • II The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business • 111• and tJ • Ill The lnstilrlte for Ethical Business Worldwide 
~------------------------------------~ 
ProudJy Present 

Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
(Spoosorod by t1oe Joha A. lle<pl EadOWJDoal) 
"Economic, Operational and Ethical Implications of Outsourcing!Offshoring" 
Panelisls include: Jeffrey Bergstrood, Professor of Finance; 
Lee Krajew•ki, William and Ca81lo Daley Profeaonhip of 
Maoufactoring Strat~; Patrick E. Murphy, C.R. Smith fl 
Co-Director of tile Institute (or Ethical Business Worldwide, 
and Professor of Marketing; and Oliver F. Williams, 
Associate Prof01189r of Management, and the Director of the 
Center for Etblu and ReiJ&iona Values In Busloeao. 
All four are faculty memben ia the Mendoza Collqe ofBusinen at the Uaivenity of Notre Dame. 
Dean Carolyn Woo will oerve u moderator. 

Wednesday, September J, 2004 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
FOOTBALL 
Grant, Goolsby healthy for BYU 
one lift away from getting my Goolsby is also healthy and ByJOE HETTLER 100 percent strength back. ready to go for this weekend. 
Sports Writer 
I've pushed it. I've ran. I've He broke his collarbone during 
been doing the drills. I'm just a Bookstore Basketball game 
Ryan Grant and Mike ready to get back out there in the spring of 2003 and Goolsby are just thankful they and put the pads back on. I'm missed the entire season. are finally healthy in time for just excited." Goolsby is slated to start at Notre Dame's first game of the Grant also said he didn't one of the linebacker posi­season. want to rush back and reinjure tions. 
"It's been pretty frustrating. the hamstring and then miss "It feels good, it feels Anytime you got even more refreshing," Goolsby said. "I've out there and time. been waiting for this for a long watch the guys," "I've played time."
"/think I'm one lift
Grant said about football for a Goolsby didn't think he had his injured ham­away from getting my long time so I an exceptional spring camp, string. "But at know that but said he feels better after
IOO percent strength 
the same time, injuries are a fall practices. 
back. I've pushed it.
it's the nature of part of the "Going into camp, I kind of the game. It's I've ran. I've been game," he said. told myself to let the whole nice that it hap­doing the drills., "It's tough injury thing go and kind of pened at a time when there's start over," Goolsby said. "It's now, where I anything that been a much better [fall] camp
Ryan Grant
have a chance to stops you from compared to the spring. heal." running back playing the Personally, I feel a lot more 
Grant hurt the game, especial-comfortable with myself." hamstring on a ly because breakaway run during the we've been playing so well in Notes: early part of the second week camp and practice. I know that + Goolsby should be a key of practice. But Grant said he's I'm not helping the team play­component of Notre Dame's ready for Saturday. ing injured so I want to take defense this season. In 2002, 
''I'm probably like 95 per­care of myself before I get he started all 13 games and cent now," he said. "I think I'm back on the field." recorded 75 tackles and four sacks. Goolsby was also named 
The Salvation Army at 2009 South Bend Ave., has recently acquired the complete inventory. of a large art gallery. 
Sale Prices 
50-65% off listed price 
to the preseason Butkus Award List last year before his injury. 
+ Many forget that Grant had an outstanding sophomore season behind a very solid offense line. 
Grant rushed for 1,085 yards and nine touchdowns before seeing his carries limited in 2003. Grant still managed 510 yards on 143 carries last sea­son and had five scores. 
Travis Thomas and Marcus Wilson will back up Grant. Thomas was redshirted in 2003, while Wilson averaged 
2.6 yards per carry in limited carries. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

---------~-------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, August 31, 2004 
FreshiDen 
continued from page 24 
[Allen) and their athletic abili­ty," McGraw said. 
Gaines, a North Las Vegas, Nev., native, brings the Irish defense that they will miss with the departure of guard Monique Hernandez. The 5­foot-6 guard averaged 20.5 points, 4 assists, 3.8 steals and 
3.6 rebounds in her senior season. 
D'Amico will provide the already-deep Irish with another threat 
"We're really 

on the low already begun post. The 6-excited about Tulyah to adjust to the 
foot-5 for­[Gaines] and Charel college game. 
ward/center "The game's a
[Allen] and their
averaged 20.7 little more phys­points per athletic ability." ical and a little game in high faster, but I school. expect that
Muffet McGraw

D'Amico, who because going
Irish coach 

is the tallest player on the Irish roster, is a versatile post player, and McGraw is high on her talent. 
"I really think she will press for some playing time early," McGraw said of D'Amico. "She can sit back and learn from Courtney [LaVere) and Teresa [Borton). We're anxious for her to be ready. They really have been helping her. They're both very, very interested in helping Melissa learn the sys­tem." 
All three freshmen were on campus for the summer, and they got the chance to get to know their teammates. D'Amico said the senior Borton has been especially helpful. 
"I think the competition is really good," she said after the team picture. "I have to work really hard if I want to play. Teresa's helped me a lot. I work with her in individuals. 
It's been a great experience. They're a great group, they're really talented. I'm really happy with the choice I made." 
And while D'Amico is learn­ing by working with one sen­ior, Allen has been playing against another one -All­American Jacqueline Batteast. 
"She's everything I thought she was when I watched her on TV," Allen said of the for­ward she guarded frequently this summer. "I really like watching her, because she's just so quick and long. You play against better competi­
tion, that only 
helps you." 
And Allen has 
from high 
school to college 

is a different level," she said. 
But she doesn't know what she will bring to the team just yet. 
'Til let Coach decide that," she said with a smile. 
Meanwhile, Gaines has to wait a bit until she gets on the court again. She had arthro­scopic knee surgery Friday. 
"It supposed to be six weeks," she said of the recov­ery time. 
And while she's waiting to get back on the court, her teammates will be showing her the way. 
"I think the veterans of this team feel it's their team," McGraw said. "We are count­ing on the veterans to lead us. They see it as their job to get them oriented to the system." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Moran, Irish rout Earlha111 10-1 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's field hockey club traveled to Richmond, Ind., Saturday, for their sea­son opener against Earlham College, an NCAA Division III varsity program. 
After battling to a 1-1 tie at the end of the first peri­od, the Irish exploded for seven goals in the second period on their way to rout­ing Earlham 10-1. 
Kaitlin Moran's three goals spearheaded a balanced attack as Lauren Brinkman, Meredith Gluck and Rebecca Mosca each scored twice for the Irish. 
Molly Fox tallied another goal. Gluck, Eleanor Bradley, Mosca and Mary Davis were credited with assists, and goalie Leigh 
Madeira  registered  six  
saves.  
"I  was  really excited to  

play an NCAA recognized team to see how we measure up to a D-Ill school," said captain Katie Butler. "As a non-varsity sport, we've only 
Boland 
continued from page 24 
evident right away. 
"We thought as a freshman that she was the best player we had that se-ason," Waldrum said. "We were ranked No. 2 at that time and she scored the first goal of the season for us." 
After her early su<{cess, she quickly encountered trouble as 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Rec Sports 

Irish players battle for possession of the ball against Earlham In Richmond, Ind. In Saturday's 10-1 victory. 
played other clubs recently, knew what we had to change so this game was extremely and then did it. I'm very important to us. We started happy with our performance off a little slow because of and hope we can continue our lack of practice together, this success throughout the but after the first period we year." 
she tore her LCL with only 30 seconds remaining in her first game in an Irish jersey. The knee injury caused Boland to miss three-fourths of the sea­son. 
She returned in October only to suffer a season-ending ankle injury. While most would dwell on their misfortunes, Boland viewed the injury as a learning experience. 
"It was incredibly frustrating to suffer from that downfall. but it teaches you that you cannot give up, and it puts things into perspective," Boland said. "You still are apart of a great program and that there are other things you can bring to the team." 
This year Boland was voted a tri-cap_tain for her presence on and off the field. Waldrum praised Boland for her dedica­tion and team-oriented atti­tude. 
"She was chosen as captain because she has the support of the underclassman," Waldrum said. "She is great individually, can keep everybody on 

Mary Boland passes the ball In a game last season. 
throughout the past three sea­sons, they have not inhibited her style of play and passion 
for the sport. 
"She is just 

the  team  "She was chosen as  nonstop,  she  
focused and sets a great example with her work ethic," It is her  captain because she has the support ofthe underclassmen."  never stops chasing or put­ting pressure on the opposition," Waldrum said. "You can't fall  
intensity  in  asleep  as  a  
every  match  Randy Waldrum  defender or else  
that helps to distinguish  head coach  she will punish you for it." -- 
Boland, but it  Entering her  

is this characteristic that has final season as an Irish player, also been her AchilleS'' heel. Boland has already given her During her sophomore and team an impression that will 
junior years, Boland suffered 
two ankle "My love for the IDJ uries, both program and mycaused by tack­
teammates is what 

les during 
matches. pushes me." "No matter what the situa­
Mary Boland 

tion is, she 
forward

throws her body to fight for any be hard to forget -her love for soccer. 
"My love for the program and my teammates is what pushes me," Boland said. "I may not be the most skilled player, but I will give 

loose ball," Waldrum said. you my whole heart." "But at the same time we need her to stay healthy." 
Despite these injuries caus­Contact Dan Tapetillo at ing her to be sidelined jtapetil@nd.edu • 

~---­
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
29 Words after a 63 Bio stat 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andy Roddick, Rich CroninACROSS 
rude encounter, Cameron Diaz, Timothy Bottoms 
64 Gawks1 "60 Minutes" maybe 

65 Low-cal Happy Birthday: No challenge will be too great for you this year, although a1
airer 
33"_ extra cost!" times you will feel overwhelmed. You will have what it takes to make thing~
66 D.C. V.I.P.
4 Gator relative happen, so go after your dreams. Nothing will be easy, but nothing will be oul
34 Devious sorts 

67 Lecherous goat­of reach either. Your numbers are 2, 9, 17, 27, 36,48
8 Nyasaland, now 
35 One pointing, as men a gun ARIES (March 21-April 19): Avoid getting involved in other people'~
14 Stephen of "The 68 Divorces 
business. Focus on money and investing in yourself and you will be much
Crying Game" 39 Feel awful 
69 Sink trap's further ahead.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be in the right frame of mind tc
15 Quad building 41 Secret meeting shape 
impress whomever you deal with today. Your loyalty and desire to de 16 Readied for 42 Mazola com-something to help others will prove to onlookers you have what it takes tc petitor make things happen. ****
print DOWN 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen to advice you receive about professional 
44 Gets a gander 1 Shrink in fear 
17 Post-O.R. stop matters, but use your own discretion and don't buy into a pie-in-the-sky idea 
of 

Trust your own judgment.**
2 Act nonchalant 
18 Meat marking CANCER (June 21-July 22): Nothing should be too much trouble for you
46 F.B.I.'s prime 

3 Steamy spots today. You will have some wonderful ideas and the backing you need to ge1
19 Brings disgrace quarries 
things moving. ***** 
to 4 Water park slide 
48 Twofold LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can expect to experience a rather sudden turn o1 5 Most reckless events with your money matters. You will be given an opportunity you
20 Knowing no 52 Dr. who handles 
probably shouldn't turn down. ****
6 Shoppe sign more than otitis cases: 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will find it difficult to contain the way you
wordbefore 

Abbr. feel. Don't hold back --what you have to say is valid and will make a 7 Lobster portion difference to your current relationship. ***
23 Part of a 53 Neolithic 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone you work with will be moody 01
Vandyke 8 Snafus 
54 Where ldi Amin unpredictable. The more solid and responsible you remain, the better you will ruled 9 Followers look to superiors or clients. ***
24 Mangy mutt 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel for business or pleasure should be o~
10 Pants-on-fire56 Buffet deal 
25 Stitch up your mind today. Everything you learn today will help you understand yoursell 
guy 

and others better. * * * * 
59 Positive aspect 

28 Lanchester of 11 20's dispenser, 33 Metal joiner 43 Like a rowboat 51 Nears midnight SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get the go-ahead before followin~ film 62 Swarming pest for short that's adrift through with one of your ideas. Sudden changes at home may take you b)
35 Very top 55 Billionaire Bill 
surprise. ** 
12 Teeny 45 Teach 
56 Open-roofed CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't sell yourself short: You can handle
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 36 Mineral in 
13 Driver's lie. and far more today then you realize. You will attract someone who will influence
spinach 47 Dissenting vote 
57 Leer at 

your future. ****
others 

37 Atomizer's 48 Vice president AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have to look back in order to movE
58 Operating sys­

-::t-:+:-:+:*.:-1 21 Airport info: forward. Consider your aspirations and check out what it will take to get you
release Quayle tem on many
Abbr. where you want to go. *** 
Internet servers

38 N.Y. winter set­49 Apprehension PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): By being affectionate, understanding and
22 Convenience 
ting 59 Constitution compassionate you will discover it is easier to deal with the people in your lifE
store bagful 50 Almanac say­
today. Let the trivial things go and focus on what really counts. ••• 
1!!11-:+.+-~ 25 Neuter 40 General in gray ings 60 Sch. group 
Birthday Baby: You are caring, sensitive and always thinking of others. You
-=+±±~ 26 Part of B.P.O.E. 
are affectionate, and your strong intuition will guide you positively throughoul 1=1-:-trl::-' •11-:--1-:-t-:::+=-.r.:-:-t-:-t-:-:+::m:o~ 27 All-star game For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a your life. team, maybe credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 30 _roll (win-Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com ning) crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -:-:+-:+::+.::-! 31 Like tasty cake past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -=+:+:::-+:::':4 32 Anthem con-Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young traction solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
DILBERT 
I'M GOING INTO 
THE FALSE HOPE BUSINESS. 
) 

PEANUTS 
LOOK! I 60T A LETTER FROM PE66V 
JEAI-L S~E SAYS 
S~E MISSES ME.. 
S~E SA'lS 51-tE ALSO SAVS,''61VE 51-tEJ.lOPES A I-IU6 TO 'fOUR CUTE, MEETA6Aff'J WONDERFUL,C~ARMIN6, SOMETIME .. LITTLE DOG'' 
SCOTT ADAMS 

ALL I NEED IS A SEMI­PLAUSIBLE MESSAGE ABOUT HOW TO LOSE WEIGHT WHILE GETTING RICH.  DON'T EAT YOUR MONEY.  
)  

CHARLES SCHULTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
TILUO 
± 
C2004 Tribune Media Servtces,lnc. AU Rights Reserved. 
GLOIC 
± 
HOW THE: CHIL-DREN U:AI<Nt=P TO ADO Be:FO!<E: COM­PUTI:I<5. 


www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
I Jumbles: ENJOY AGENT BALLET WIZARDYesterday's Answer: 

What the teen said when his younger brother played his drums-"BEAT IT" 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _________ State _______ Zip__________ 
---------·----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, August 31, 2004 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 

Back under the lights 
Irish looking forward to starting season against BYU 
By JOE HETTLER Spor!s Writer 
Saturday can't come soon enough for Notre Dame. 
After three weeks of fall camp, which started Aug. 10, the Irish began their first game week practice schedule of the season See Also 
Monday with 
"Grant, Goolsby
the opener against healthy for BYU" Brigham 
Young  just  page21  
five  days  
away.  

The Irish did not practice Monday, which is usual during a game week. 
The team will practice today, Wednesday and Thursday before leaving Friday morning for Provo, Utah. Once out west, the Irish will have a walk­through Friday before Saturday night's 8:15 EST kickoff on ESPN. 
After practicing and scrim­maging against each other, Notre Dame's players are eager to face a real opponent. 
"The spring game was nice and all with the scrimmages and practices and whatnot but your working against the same team," Irish quarterback Brady Quinn said. "So it's going to be fun to get out there and play against another team and see how well you've improved since last season." 

Notre Dame also opens on the road for the first time since a 2001 27-10 loss against Nebraska. The Irish did beat Maryland at the neutral site of Giants Stadium 22-0 in 2002. 
"People kind of look at away games as a big disadvantage, but [I think] it's just more fun," Quinn said. "I like having more pressure put on you [and] hav­ing more odds against you." 
Quinn said his experience as a freshman -playing in road games against Michigan and Purdue-has prepared him for BYU's environment. 
"It's completely different playing an away game in col­lege than it was high school," Quinn said. "I know what to expect now. You get out there early, and [the fans] are heck­ling you a lot." 
The Irish are 97-13-5 all-time in opening games and have won 15 of their last 17 first games. Notre Dame is also 28­6-2 in their 36 road opening contests. 
Besides being on the road, the Irish also must deal with a nationally-televised night game. 
The Irish are 3-1 under the 
see BYU/page 21 


ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Boland healthy and ready to captain Irish 
Irish forward has suffered knee and ankle injuries through her career 


By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
Mary Boland's college career did not begin when she was recruited by the Irish four years ago. 
It began at the age of 16. 
Boland 
wore an Irish jer­sey during her sopho­more sea­son when she played in a high school all-


star game Boland at Alumni Field, and she knew there was no other future choice. 
"I got chills when I put on that jersey," Boland said. "It 
just represented something and Germany. that I knew J wanted to be a Boland credits the experi­part of. It is a program of ence with making her both a excellence." well-rounded person and 
To Boland, Notre Dame player. was the perfect school. "It was an incredible "It has the best of both opportunity that I got to 
worlds,  great  play,"  Boland  
academics and  said. "I would  
an unbelievable  "I got chills when  not  have had  
soccer gram," said.  pro­Boland  I put on that jersey."  the opportunity to see the world."  
She  got  her  After return­ 
start in soccer at the age of seven  Mary Boland Irish forward  ing from her soccer journey  

and had the opportunity to play for the U-19 women's national team. 
The program gave Boland the experience to play against international teams and allowed her to visit other countries such as Holland 
around the 

world, Boland quickly joined the Irish the summer prior to her fresh­man year. 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said her talent was 
see BOLAND/page 22 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshlllen w-illlllake impact on squad 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spores Editor 
One was the 2004 Gatorade Nevada Player of the Year, another scored 39 points in one game as a freshman in high school and the other roamed the courts of Long Island. N y According to coach Muffet McGraw. the freshman trio of Charel Allen, Tulyah 

Allen
Gaines and Melissa D'Amico could bring more than just depth to this year's Irish. 
"I think all three freshmen can con­tribute," McGraw said. ''I'm really excit­ed about this 

r 
class." 
It is a class that was ranked No. 13 in the D'Amico nation by Blue Star Index. Each player averaged over 20 points per game in her senior season. 
Allen. who hails from Monessen, Pa., aver­aged 26.1 points. 1 0. 5 rebounds, 5 assists and 
6.4 steals per game in her final sea­son. The 5­

f o o t -1 1 Gaines 
guard was named first-team all-state three years in a row, and Street & Smith honorable mention All-American all four years at Monessen High School. This included her freshman year, when Allen scored 39 points in a postsea­son game, a conference record. Allen, ranked No. 27 by Blue Star Index. should compete for playing time this season, along with fellow guard Gaines. 
"We're really excited about Tulyah !Gaines] and Charel 
see FRESHMEN/page 22 

FOOTBALL 
NBA 
NFL 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
TENNIS 
MLB 
Chicago Cubs grab

Running back Ryan 
Jurors in the Kobe 

Colts are battling 
Miami cornerback 
Serena Williams 
half-game lead in wild­

Grant and linebacker 
Bryant rape trial fill out 
injuries problems as the 
Antrel Rolle hopes ACC 
advances to the second 
card race in National

Mike Goolsby are ready 
season opener nears. 
will bring tougher com­
round of U.S. Open

an 82-item question­
naire.
to play after returning 
with a win over Sandra 
League action. 
petition. 
from injuries. 
Kleinova. 

page 21 
page 17 
page 16 
page 15 
page 14 
page 18 







