..' ' ' '..' 
' .. 

J ••
... 

The !'!:dependent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Willingham addresses firing with class 
Third-year coach disappointed he didn't meet own expectations 
By MATT LOZAR News Writer 
Tyrone Willingham walked to the microphone in the Joyce Center interview room Wednesday afternoon, with one thing standing out from his outfit of a gold blazer and black collarless shirt. 
Unlike past press confer­ences, Willingham wasn't wearing any Notre Dame apparel. 
In his standard calm and collected manner. Willingham talked with the media for more than 15 minutes only one day after being fired as Notre Dame football coach. 

University m_onitors donations 
Office of Stewardship keeps donors informed 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
University of Southern California has had one. Yale and Princeton have had a few. Notre Dame? Zero. 
/\nd for once, be glad. The aforementioned universities have dealt with a number of lawsuits in recent years from alumni contending their dona­tions were not being used for the designated purposes, according to an article in the New York Times Saturday. 
"In my 21 years here, the University has not had to deal with that," said Dan Reagan, associate vice president for uni­versity relations. "We try to be extremely careful in stewarding the contributions." 
Stewarding is the process of 
kc'eping the donor informed of 
the effects his or her contribu­
tion is having on the University 
-and Notre Dame has estab­
lished an Office of Stewardship 
within its Development Ollice for 
such purposes. 
"The Office of Stewardship works day in and day out," said Beagan. who served 13 years as the executive director of devel­opment. "With good steward­ship, fewer conf1icts arise over the usage of a contribution." 
Since alumni contribute nearly 
half of all yearly donations, the 
011ice of Stewardship has plenty 
of responsibility. /\11 involved in 
stewarding at the University are 
see DONATIONS/page 3 

"To say I am disappointed, I think that very much hits the mark, but at the same time, I understand that I didn't meet the expectations or standards that I set for myself in this program, and when you don't meet your own expectations, you make yourself vulnerable to the will of others," Willingham said. "My goals have always been to inspire people to be the best they could be, on and off the field. I believe that l have been true to that in my time here at Notre Dame and apprecia­tive of the opportunity and appreciative of what we have done, and I am disappointed with what I didn't do more 
than anything else." 
Willingham said he became aware of conversations about his job security occurring Sunday afternoon, but was surprised at the Tuesday fir­ing. 
Even though he was sur­prised, Willingham knows every coaching job doesn't come with a long-term guar­antee for holding that post. 
"Forgive me, but as a foot­ball coach -I think I said this at some point -there is no security," he said. "It doesn't exist. It's not there." 
Willingham also understood the expectations at Notre 
see TYIpage 6 


Catnpus addresses abortion, w-otnen's rights 

Feminists for Life of America vice president Sally Winn spoke Wednesday night on being a feminist while maintaining a pro-life stance on abortion. 
Winn speaks on being pro-life and fenzinist 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
With a sense of humor and the wisdom that comes from pPrson­al experience, Sally A. \\'inn spoke in Debartolo Wcd1wsday night about abortion's negatiw effect on the powe.r of feminism 
Winn. a graduate of Indiana University and vice president of Feminists for Life of America, was brought to the University by Notre Dame Right to Life. 
Winn recognized the dirticulty of being pro-life in today's cul­ture. 
"It is hard to stand up on cam­
pus and be pro-life," she said. 
"The environment is generally 
hostile altogether. But through 
dialogue, we can get something 
done." 
Winn spoke to her audit•ncP 
about the historical roots of tlw 
pro-life movement. Despite the 
common conception that frmi­
see LECTURE/page 6 

Lectu.re brings pros and cons of issue to light at Notre Dame 
By MICHAEL BUSK News Writer 
Long before a Quad strewn with broken white crosses, long before Catholics were a swing vote demographic, Notre Dame has been stirred up by the issue of abortion. 
Law Professor Emeritus Charles Rice was active on the pro-life legal team during the Roe vs. Wade trial that legal­ized abortion nationally, and after the Supreme Court hand­ed down its opinion on January 22, 1973, he was one 
of the most vocal supporters for a constitutional amend­ment banning abortion. 
Nor was Rice the lone Domer to fight against the Roe vs. Wade decision. Supported by other Law School faculty, Thomas Schaffer, then Dean of the Law School, sent a letter to University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, calling for an effort "to make every attempt to bring about a constitutional amendment overruling the decisions of the court." 
Although such an amend­ment was never passed, Notre 
Dame as an institution remained unquestionably pro­life, always having banned groups such as NARAL, the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League. 
In 1984, more tban a decade after the Roe v. Wade decision, Mario Cuomo, then governor of New York, came to Notre Dame and gave a now-famous speech defending the support of pro-choice legislation by Catholic politicians. Cuomo said a politician's private reli­gious beliefs should not influ­ence his or her decisions with regard to public policy. a posi­tion that has since beconw tlw default stance of ·pro-rhuirl' Catholic politicians, including. most recently, John Kerry. 

Perhaps the most dramatic campus event connected to thn abortion issue occurred in March 1993, sparked by a pro­life protest by CALL, Collngians Activated to Liberate Lifn. out­side a South Bend abortion clinic. 
In response, members of tlw National Organizatio·n for Women, joined by Saint t\lary's 
see ABORTION/page 4 

.. . 
..' 

' . , .. 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The rules of AIM 
We'm all addictPd to AIM. It's a given. It's an nasy way to make plans or take your mind olr honwwork. Away message checking is the root of so much procras­tination. The funny thing is that over half' the pnople on your 
buddy list you  Hillary Thornton  
never even talk to  
-they are solelythere so you can  Photographer  
check tlwir away  
nwssage. The idea  

of the away message is so ingenious that people arn starting to use their white boards in the dorm as away message boards. I don't really agree with this. 
The whit1~ board is neither the time nor the place. It is for other people to leave you messag1~s-a mailbox of sorts. Putting up an away message on a white board is like sending yourself mail. No one docs that. 
If' we follow certain etiquette when actually conversing with people don't you think that there should be some online etiquette as well? Me and my friends certainly do. 
The No. 1 rule people should follow is avoid AIM ADD. The most annoying thing a p<~rson can do is IM you and then just leave and not respond. I absolutely hate when people do this. Why even IM you in the first place'! Along with that, if you IM sonwone first, it's your responsi­bility to carry the conversation. There is no <~xeuse fiJI· saying, "IIey, what's up?" and nothing else. And one word respons­es are never polite. 
S<~cond, it's really rude to put up an away nwssage when you're having a conversation with someone without say­ing goodbye. It takes very little ell'ort to type the three letters: B-Y-E. 
It's pretty much a given that LOL and hahaha are overused. I hate that. People just use that because they are lazy and don 'i know what else to type. 
i\dditionally, I think everyone agrees that the AIM ha-ding sound is incredibly irritating. I don't even know why people keep the sound on. The absolute worst is when your roommate has the sound on. You wouldn't just talk on the phone wlwn sonwone is trying to concentrate or sleep, so why would you leave that annoying sound effect on? 
/\!so, if someone leaves you a message when you are away, it is only polite to IM them back when you get back, even if tlwy have an away message up. To not acknowledge their message is like not waving when somnone waves to you whih~ passing. And everyone knows how embarrassing that can be. 
Additionally, thnre are some things that an~ inappropriate away message content. I hate when people write their whole day's schedule on their away mes­sag<~. Nobody really cares thai you have "class, class. lunch, class. meeting. tutor. 1-,rym" and that you're going to be back around "llish." 
Also, it's annoying to road how much sonwone misses and loves their girl­friend/boyfriend. If that's the way you li~el tell the actual pnrson not the rest of llw world. It's Like AIM PDA. I also lind it kind of strange when p<~ople write "call me" and leave their cell phone number. I lonestly, the people you actually want to talk to probably already have your num­bPr. No nned to beg peopln to call you. 
No matter what though, nothing is worse than the default away messages. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact 1/illary Thornton at hthorntl@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards ltsdf as a professiOnal publica­lion .md strive.< for the highest standards of journal­ISm at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4 541 so we can 
correct our t·rror. 
.. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW MANY PAPERS AND TESTS DO YOU HAVE THIS WEEK? 

·­



Will Jourdan Diana Dolinsky Maggie Lero 
sophomore sophomore junior Siegfried Pangborn McGlinn 




"Four quizzes.  "More than I  ':4. history  "Three papers  "More than I've  "Less than this  
three papers,  want to think  paper, an  and zero tests."  had all  girl."  
two tests and a  about."  anthro paper  semester."  
partridge in a  and an argo  

pear tree." test.': 
New York hotel offers 
$10,000 martini 
NEW YORK -Drinkers might want to keep a clear head when ordering a mar­tini at New York's historic Algonquin Ilotel or they might pay $10,000 for that cold sip. 
The landmark hotel. where famed wit Dorothy Parker and fellow literary lights at the Hound Table imbibed, offers a $10,000 martini. complete with a loose diamond at the bot­tom. 
No one has ordered one yet, in the martini's first week on the menu, but the hotel hopes some romantic 
TODAY 

0:: 

CLEMENT SUHENDRNThe Observer 

Not wanting to miss out In the winter weather, a squirrel attempts to make a miniature snowball Tuesday on South Quad. Snowfall this season continues to be below normal averages in South Bend. As of Tuesday, only 6 Inches of snow has fallen compared to the average 10 Inches. 
OFFBEAT 
The message was: "The razor-toothed piranhas of the genera Serrasalmus and l'ygocentrus are the most ferocious freshwater fish in the world. In reality they seldom attack a human." 
Cook competed against a friend, Dave Stoddard. and others in a televised text­off. Cook improved on his early performances, which took him about four min­utes to type out the stan­dard Guinness World Hecord sentences. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
soul will buy one any day now. 
"We haven't had any buyers yet. but a lot of peo­ple are talking about it," said Anthony Melehiorri, the hotel's general manag­er, on Wednesday. 
Message man: Teen text­messaging king 
PHOVO, Utah -Ben Cook's lingers can commu­nicate at warp speed. 
Cook, 17. used his cellu­lar phone key pads to type a string of words with 1(>0 characters in 57.75 sec­onds Tuesday, bidding to become the world's text­messaging king. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

LLI 
::1: 
~ 
LLI 

J)3: 
-1 
oct 
(.) 0 


....I HIGH 40 HIGH 26 HIGH 38 HIGH 42 LOW 26 LOW 19 LOW 30 LOW 30 IN BRIEF 
The lecture "The Transition Process: A Closer Look at the Peruvian Truth Commission," will be given by 2004 Notre Dame Prize l{ecipieni Sofia Macher in C-103 llesburgh Center today at 4:15p.m. 
The Notre Dame wonH•n's basketball team will take on Michigan State tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyc1~ C<~nter Arena. 
The Notre Danw Chorale; and CharnbPr Orchestra will perform Handel's "Messiah" tonight and Friday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert llall in the DeBartolo Center f(H· the l'erlimning ArL<>. 
The film "Amen" will be shown tonight in the Browning Theatre of the DeBartolo Cnntl~r for the Performing Arts tonight at 7 and 10 p.m. 
AcoustiCafe and the Student Union Board will sponsor "AcoustiChristmas" today from 10 p.m. until 12 a.m. in the base­ment of the La.Fortune Student Center. 
The sophomore class will sponsor a dinner and 'The OC' watch tonight from 7 to<) p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center ballroom. 
The 32nd annual Christmas Madrigal Dinner will take place Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 7 p.m. in tlw Hngina North Lounge at Saint Mary's College. 
The Notre Dame hockey tl•am will take on Michigan Saturday at 7:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
To submit information to he included in this sec/ ion of 'fhe Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation ahoul an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 46 HIGH 47 LOW 35 LOW 36 
Atlanta 60 I 38 Boston 48 I 32 Chicago 39 I 26 Denver 36 I 17 Houston 64 I 42 Los Angeles 65 I 45 Minneapolis 32 I 20 New York 50 I 38 Philadelphia 50 I 34 Phoenix 64 I 40 Seattle 46 I 38 St. Louis 36 I 24 Tampa 74 I 56 Washington 53 I 36 

If 

.,
I \ 

l 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 l 
I 
! 

IndioROCkBands__  
Legends Nightclub w/Live OJ  
Friday & Saturday  
fRIOAI. OECEMBER 3 IOPM  
7HI5 F1&5TY R&OH&AO  
Witt HAV& Y0/.1  
tAI.IGHING Att NIGHT/  
SrANCJ-l/P COM/10/AN  
LEGENDS  
!"NOTRE  D.A.rv1E  
NO, SMC, HCC tO required INo Cover Iwww.legendsofnotredame.org  

SENATE 
Metnbers tnake decisions as setnester ends 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate passed a flurrv of' resolutions at V\'t'd r1 Psd ay night's meeting. quickening the pace as the semester draws to a close. and finally approved a constitutional anwndment regarding elections after three weeks of extended debate. 
Discussion of the amendment. first introduced at the group's Nov. 10 meeting, took almost an hour as senators worked against a deadline. Because the electoral process had to be solidified before the introductory candi­dates meeting held later 
Wednesday night.  "If the ideal  isfied both sides.  
the amendment had to pass if there was to be  situation is that everyone will  The run-off ballot will retain the abstention choice,  
any kind of reform  follow the vote of  but to ensure that  
for this year's election. The three main  their dorm ifgiven the choice, let's cut  one of the two candidates gains the mandate of a  
points of change  out the 'ideal'  majority,  the  
arc an increased petition signature  part."  abstentions will not be factoring  
requirement for write-in candidate  Josh Pasquesi  into total vote per­centage calcula­ 
approval.  the  Morrissey senator  tions.  
removal  of  the  The decision to  
abstention option  give the senators  

from the run-o!T election ballot the power to vote as they please and the inclusion of a free­and not by how the majority of choice vote for senators in the the dorm voted in the case of a case of an exact vote tie in the perfect run-off tie was reversed, run-on·. returning the original constitu­
On the first point there was no tional language. 
contention, but the other two sparked a debate. 
Student body president Adam Istvan supported the removal of the abstention option. citing research of election policies at seven of Notre Dame's peer insti" tutions that showed the majoritY of schools fail to provide the option to abstain even in the pri­mary. 
Those senators opposed to the change cited the principle behind abstaining, saying that students Jose the chance to make their opinion known if it is removed from the run-off ballot. 
Zahm senator Mike McGinley -a leading voice in the opposi­tion camp -proposed a change to the amendment wording that sat­
I Senate members continued discussion about the removal of the abstention option from the ballot at Wednesday's meeting. 
"If the ideal situation is that everyone will follow the vote of their dorm if given the choice, let's cut out the 'ideal' part," Morrissey senator Josh Pasquesi said. 
It was repeatedly noted that the chances of an exact-vote tie are extremely low, so odds are against this section of the consti­tution coming into play. 
A round of applause accompa­nied the amendment's approval. 
The Committee for Academic Affairs introduced a proposal to change the way the class regis­tration times are schedule. It suggests the Registrar's Office alternate students' times between the first and second day of their class' registration times, so that a person who gets a time on the first day one semester will automatically get a time on the second day the next semester. and vice versa. The proposal was approved and will be used as a negotiating position with the Registrar. 
The fmal two resolutions of the ev&ning created a new hall com­missioner position as liaison between the University Counseling Center and the dorm, and extending thanks to the sta­dium ushers for allowing seniors extra time to leave after the final home game. Both were passed unanimously. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Donations 
continued from page 1 
careful about balancing the University's needs with the bene­factor's wishes, said Katherine Rosswurm. senior director of development marketing, com­munication and stewardship. 
"We are absolutPly committed to accountability," she said. "We make sun~ that WI' an· honoring the intentiOnS Of thP bPill'far­tors." 
Rosswurm also touched on the importance of regional directors of Development. who work with benefactors one-on-one at the time of the donation, to lind the best fit. 
"If a benefactor wanted to donate a $100,000 scholarship fund," she said. "the University will go in with a general pur­pose, and maybe the benefactor will say, 'I'd like this to be for students from New Mexico.'" 
But there are times to draw 
the line, explained Bosswurm. 
"The benefactor couldn't spec­ify, 'The student must be from New Mexico and have one green eye,"' she said with a laugh. "We wouldn't want a restriction we wouldn't be able to follow through with." 
Notre Dame is meticulous in 
handling alumni donations. 
because they are so valuabh' to 
the University. 
"We have a fabulously loyal 
alumni constituency," Reagan 
said. "And as a result, Notre 
Dame has been able to make 
great progress through financial 
support." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 
THIS WEEKEND @LEGENDS Saturday
Thursdav 
December2 
SeHiOrHiSJ,f--Docombor4 
Bre\IV 






&Vie 2uraat 
rnidnig 
Up&


FIGHT CL 
Cominll. 


--~­

. 
--~--~------------------------------------­
. 
I

,.. 
..I 

f.' ' I 
page 4 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 2, 2004 
slavery, he said the most suc­cessful way to keep abortion rates low would be to keep a continued from page l Democratic "social safety net" under the nation's poor, those 

Abortion 

Applications for

students and faculty as well as statistically more likely to Notre Dame Law students, set obtain an abortion. up a pro-choice counter-demon­The day after Roche's article stration at the clinic. appeared in the Times, Law 
!\ few hours later, over a hun­Professor Gerald Bradley co­dred members of CALL, includ­wrote a response in National 




th~How

ing a number of Notre Dame Heview Online. Bradley said and Saint Mary's students, left that the 1.3 million abortions 
U1<J ·"""J.JI CiJrllplJ~·WJt1e concert lh.Jl kscks ofl the school year 

their protest at the clinic and that occur every year in the marched to University President United States demand a Father Edward Malloy's office response with a degree of in the Main Building, where urgency far outweighing that of they demanded to speak with the death penalty, health care, him and then knelt down and or the war in Iraq. began to pray the Hosary. Bradley agreed with Roche 
Finally, after more than seven that abortion was as grave an hours, Malloy agreed to meet evil as slavery, but then com­with the group's leaders on the pared Roche's argument that condition that their protesters abortion should be kept rare leave the building. rather than outlawed to that of 
In the meeting, the leaders of 19th-century abolitionists who 
Do you like ml.JSic? the group requested Malloy join recommended economic poli­them to pray at the clinic, but cies to reduce the demand for 
Are you a stucJent leader?

he declined, commending them slaves rather than work to ille­for their support of the pro-life galize slavery altogether. cause but telling them he would Less than a month after the 
Arc you Interested in 

express his views in his own two articles were printed, 
concert promotions? 

way. President Bush won re-election, 
The debate about abortion claiming more than half the continued at Notre Dame in this Catholic vote. Some political past election cycle. In October, commentators have said that Mark Roche, Dean of Arts and the President, who is already Letters, wrote an op-ed to the feeling pressure from conserva­New York Times defending tive Catholics and evangelicals, Catholics who would choose to might use the retirement of cer­vote for a Democratic, pro­tain Supreme Court Justices as choice candidate. He argued an opportunity _to populate the 
available In the Student Activities office (315 LaF0tune) 
that while the Hepublican posi­Court with conservatives eager 
available at www.nd.edu/rvtheshow

tion on abortion is more in line to overturn Roe v. Wade. with Church teaching than that Whether he does or not, there 
due Friday, December 3rd
of Democrats, "the Democrats will be no lack of passionate are closer to the Catholic posi­students and faculty at Notre tion on the death penalty, uni­Dame who will argue about 

-~ Have Questions? 
versal health care and environ­abortion for years to come. 
email theshow@nd.edu
mental protection." Although Roche declared Contact Michael Busk at abortion an evil comparable to mbusk@nd.edu 
::----~--,_..,.., 
Effective December 1st, college I university students can take advantage of the savings offered by TRANSPO's 31 Day Student Pass. 
Show your valid school !D when using the 31 Day Student Pass. Unlimited rides for 31 days, all for $25. Call for Pass sales locations, or visit us online at www.sbtranspo.com 

Convenient bus routes serving campus, taking you to the shopping, restaurants, and desintations you need go. For more information Monday-Saturday please call: 
' 
,.I 
.-. 
' ~ 
. . .. 
.. . . '
~ 
f...' 
f f • 






ORLD &NATION .' 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 Colv\PILED FROA-1 T11E OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Napoleon's anniversary marked 
PARIS -For France, those were the days. 
The French aren't pining for the return of their 19th-century empire, but the 200th anniversary Thursday of Napoleon Bonaparte's crowning as emperor is a reminder of their country's former glory. 
The Corsican. whose diminutive size belied his continental ambitions, is back in the news for the bicentennial -and the timing couldn't have been more telling for a country facing an identity crisis and searching for its role in a 25­member European Union and a wider world led by the United States. 
"llistory has been a little hard on the French lately," said Steven Englund, an American award-winning biographer of Napoleon. "And I think they're looking for reasons to celebrate their own history." 
The Napoleon nostalgia underscores France's obsession with retaining its influence as a self­appointed EU leader and creating a "multipo­lar" world -its buzzword for a counterweight to U.S. hegemony. 
Rwandan force suspected in Congo 
GOMA, Congo -U.N. observers encoun­tered what they believed to be about 100 Hwandan troops in eastern Congo, a U.N. official said Wednesday, marking the first reported U.N. sightings since Hwanda threatened to send in its forces against Hwanda Hutu rebels sheltering here. 
The renewed invasion warnings by Hwanda have raised fears of a reigniting of the devastating, five-year. six-nation war in Congo, Africa's third-largest nation. 
The suspected Hwandan forces withdrew toward Rwanda after Tuesday's encounter, said M'hand Ladjouzi, head of the U.N. mission at Goma. He spoke at a news con­ference in Goma, the largest city of the east. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Priest sentenced in child rape case 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. -A Roman Catholic priest was sentenced Wednesday to 4 1/2 to 5 years in prison for repeatedly raping an altar boy in the 1980s. 
The Hev. Robert Gale pleaded guilty Tuesday to four counts of raping a child just as jury selection was set to begin for his trial. 
Prosecutors had asked for a sentence of 10 to 12 years, but the judge settled on the shorter prison term. to be followed by 25 years of probation. 
The sexual assaults took place at St. Jude's parish in Waltham between 1980 and 1985 when the victim, now 34, was between 10 and 15 years old. Prosecutors said the boy was sexually abused by Gale about twice a month. 

Oklahoma introduces alcohol ban 
NOHMAN. Okla. -Drinking will be banned at University of Oklahoma fraternities and residence halls under new policies announced Wednesday, two months after a 19-year-old student died of alcohol poison­ing. 
University of Oklahoma President Dan Boren said the rules will go into effect Jan. 18 at the start of the new semester. Three violations will end in a student's suspension for one semester. 
The university also will set up a hot line for students to report violations, and will expand alcohol education programs. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Group askslegislature for change 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's governor and legislators must make bold changes if they want schools, universities and state government to operate smoother and cheaper, a government efficiency panel told lawmakers Wednesday. 
"There are going to be some hard choices -some very hard choices -to straighten things out. and these are going to be politi­cally unpopular," John Hillenbrand, co­chairman of the Government Efficiency Commission said. 

Ebersol speaks about plane crash 
Plane only lifted 20 feet offground before falling back to runway, NBC exec says 
Associated Press 
MONTHOSE, Colo. ­NBC Sports executive Dick Ebersol told investigators his chartered jet struggled just 20 feet into the air before it fell back to the runway and broke apart, aviation officials said Wednesday. 
Ebersol's 14-year-old son Edward "Teddy" and two crew members were killed when the twin· engine CL-601 Challenger crashed in light snow, fog and freezing tempera­tures at Montrose Hegional Airport on Sunday. 
National Transportation Safety Board investigators said the plane had not de­iced before attempting takeoff. 
"I would say right now we're looking at environ­mental factors and (air­craft) performance fac­tors," NTSB lead investi­gator Arnold Scott said Wednesday. 
Scott said investigators do not believe engine fail­ure was a factor because the roar of the jets can be heard on a cockpit voice recorder. He also said the plane did not break apart in the air. 
Ebersol, 57, and anoth­er son, Charlie, 21, remained hospitalized in Grand Junction but were Aeronautical University in said. positively identify the boy. expected to make a full Daytona Beach, Fla., said The pilot of the Ebersols Scott said there was no recovery, NBC said. Dick the evidence seems to plane, 50-year-old Luis indication Teddy was Ebersol reportedly suf­point toward ice on the Alberto Polanco of the wearing a seat belt. fered broken ribs, a bro­plane as a factor in the Dominican Republic, and Charlie was not wearing a ken sternum and had crash. flight attendant Warren T. seat belt, but Polanco fluid in his lungs, while "The behavior of the Richardson III, 36, of was, he said. Charlie suffered a broken aircraft makes it more Coral Gables, Fla., were Neither St. James. 58, hand and had a sore likely that de-icing is an also killed. The Federal nor another son was on back. issue," he said. Aviation Administration the plane. 
The co-pilot, identified NTSB spokesman Keith will conduct toxicology Scott's team wrapped up by Denver newspapers as Holloway said investiga­tests, Young said. its field investigation Eric Wicksell, 30, of tors want to compare Teddy Ebersol, the VVednesday and prepared Daytona Beach, Fla., was Sunday's crash with a youngest son of Ebersol to return to Washington. in critical condition at a deadly January 2002 and "Kate and Allie" The debris will be moved burn unit in Denver. crash in England of a actress Susan St. James, to a hangar in Greeley 
The NTSB had not inter­CL600 Challenger that died after being ejected where it may be examined viewed Wicksell. "We tried to take off in freez­from the plane and again, he said. don't interview people ing temperatures without crushed by the wreckage, Details of the cockpit who are fighting for their de-icing. Montrose County Coroner voice recording may not life," Scott said. "We will look at it and Mark Young said. Dental be available for months, 
Charles Eastlake, a pro­see if there are similari­records flown from after the recording is fessor at Embry-Riddle ties other than that," he Connecticut were used to transcribed, he said. 

HAITI 

Powell condemns political violence 
Associated Press Latortue and other political leaders. Haiti's chaotic power shifts over the 
Haiti is still beset with violence and past decade. Powell was once an 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -Heavy political infighting as the one-year Aristide supporter but helped gunfire rang out near Haiti's presi­anniversary of former President arrange Aristide's exile this year. dential palace Wednesday as Jean-Bertrand Aristide's ouster 'Tm deeply saddened the opportu­Secretary of State Colin Powell pre­approaches in February. The coun­nity that was given to Mr. Aristide a pared to meet with the country's try's caretaker government has decade ago was wasted," Powell said interim leaders. He denounced the pledged open elections next fall, a Wednesday. "But the Haitian people violence as the work of thugs. goal Powell said Haiti can meet with have a new opportunity." 
Powell said international peace­outside help. Aristide and others claim the Bush keeping troops need to come down "The only outcome that will satisfy administration coerced him to leave. hard on street toughs and those who the U.S. is an election next year that Aristide's followers say Powell signed carry out political violence in Haiti. is free and fair, ... that is not fraudu­onto a plan to remove Aristide 
"They have to forcefully take on lent and stolen," Powell said later in because he was viewed as a trouble­those armed individuals of the kind his one-day trip to shore up demo­maker whose unpopularity could who were firing this morning," Powell cratic efforts in the desperately poor destabilize Haiti and cause a tide of said after meetings at the National country. refugees to head for U.S. shores. Palace with President Boniface The United States, and Powell in The administration says Aristide Alexandre, Prime Minister Gerard particular, have been instrumental in departed voluntarily. 

..

',' ' \ 
' I I 

'' 0 0 
. ' ' .'.I 
page 6 Thursday, December 2, 2004
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Lecture 
continued from page 1 
nists are pro-choice advocates, a 
look into the history of the 
women's rights movement 
reveals otherwise. 
"Believe it or not, pro-life femi­
nism is not an oxymoron," Winn 
said. "It is entirely congruent with 
the fundamental feminist princi­
ples that brought about the 
women's rights movement." 
In fact, many early American 
feminisl'i were opposed to abor­
tion. Winn cited such famous fig­
ures as Susan B. Anthony and 
Elizabeth Blackwell as being 
highly vocal critics of abortion. 
Citing alarming statistics of the frequency of abortions, Winn challenged her audience to ques­tion why the procedures are so common in our culture. 
"Today, there are 1.3 million surgical abortions every year," she said. "Every 37 seconds, your sister. your girlfriend, your daughter, your best friend, is lay­ing down her body for an abor­tion. Why?" 
According to the research arm of Planned Parenthood, the top two reasons why women resort to abortion arc lack of financial resources and lack of emotional support. This is a telling fact according to Winn. 
"What it comes down to is that women arc being coerced by well-meaning friends and family to have abortions," Winn said. "Or by the boyfriend who says, 'Oh honey we can't afford a baby'. Oh. like he wasn't in the room?" 
In her speech, Winn focused on the need for society to provide resources and support for college women who arc pregnant. The lack of support, coupled with the social stigma of an unwed mother on a college campus, are respon­sible for the fact that one in five abortions arc performed on col­lege age women. 
"Women are not men. We have children so get over it, don't make us fit into a male model," Winn said. "Why should we have to sacrifice our bodies for our career goals?" 
As a woman who has had first­hand experience of being preg­nant in college, Winn referred to the overwhelming lack of support universities provide for pregnant women. 
"One in 10 women will become pregnant this year. Where do they go? They drop out or have abor­
Col1259·2ooo for more details 

Kathryn's 21! 
to Sociable British 
Love, Katie, Feeney, Lally and Amy 
tions because there is usually no 
place to live for undergraduates, 
no day care, and no maternal 
coverage in student health care." 
Since universities generally do not provide resources for preg­nant women, they leave many women with no choice but to have an abortion, she said. 
"Yale University will pay for three abortions in the student health care package," Winn said. "How much for prenatal care delivery? None. Tell me, where is my free choice?" 
Immensely grateful that she chose not to have an abortion as a junior at Indiana University, Winn described her experience as thoroughly challenging, but not in the least regrettable. 
"It is not an easy road, but it is so gratifying," she said. "My daughter is the love of my life." 
Still the need for change at col­lege campuses nationwide has never been greater. 
"It is so obvious that something needs to be done," she said. "Pro­life and Pro-choice advocates need to stop screaming at each other and be a catalyst for change." 
To do this, panels should be created on campuses, comprised of powerful decision makers who arc willing to ask themselves why they are not providing for their pregnant students, she said. 
Referring to the success of a new day care program at Georgetown University, Winn said if goals are set and people are willing to come together, women will benefit greatly. 
Winn closed her speech by emphasizing the need to maintain the power of being feminine. Pregnancy is part of womanhood, and a gift that must be treasured, she said. 
"We have spent the last 30 years proving we can make it in a man's world," Winn said. Now we have to concentrate on being our­selves." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone@nd.edu 

Offering 
6ltlf!riJxnrfJ6J!lo!JIJJ 
Hying lessons 
fr<>m S<lUth Omnl 
rt"!l'""''' i~i'l"'rl 
Tonight! DJ & Specials ALLDAY 272-1766 2046 South Bend Ave. 

Official clears up rrllsunderstancling 
By MATT LOZAR 
News Wrirer 
A University official clarified on Wednesday reports in many media publications that the decision to fire Tyrone Willingham was made at an emergency meeting involving Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. 
"The idea that there was an emergency meeting of the Board of Trustees on Monday night, I wanted to clarify that was not true," the official said. "There were seven people 
Ty 
continued from page 1 
Dame -realistic or not -arc as demanding as anywhere in col­lege football. 
"I don't get into what's fair and what's not fair. I am an optimist by nature, but I am also a realist, and that makes you deal with the events as they occur," he said, "So I will deal with the events." 
Throughout everything Willingham has done as head coach of the Irish -from talking in students' dorms to answering the media's questions about his goals -he always talked of one on-the-field goal. Willingham acknowledged Wednesday he didn't do that one thing enough. 
'There's only one thing. Win. That's it." he said. "That's the bottom line. Win." 
In the beginning, Willingham won at Notre Dame. He got off to an 8-0 start in 2002. The 13-15 record in the 28 games since that start, coupled with eight losses by more than three touch­downs. was a major factor in why Willingham was fired. 

Friday, Dec. 3rd 



Senior Night 
Must be 21 or older with valid I.D. to drink. 


DJ & Live Music from 10:30 pm to Close 99 cent Drafts & Wells 
$5 cover charge 


417 North Michigan 
574-233-5981 
involved in the decision process. They met on Monday night and met again Tuesday morning." 
The official went on to iden­tify the seven people as University President Father Edward Malloy, University President-elect Father John Jenkins, University Provost Nathan Hatch. executive vice president John Affleck-Graves, athletic director Kevin White, chairman of the Board of Trustees Patrick McCartan and Philip Purcell, the chair of the Board's athletic committee. 
"We have 58 trustees. There 
"We had some success. We Willingham didn't think it didn't have enough success," was necessary to discuss Willingham said. "That is, I whether or not he was asked to think, the bottom line. We didn't make any staff changes. reach the level that I wanted to As for his successor in South reach." Bend. Willingham paused for a 
When the topic of being given while when askl'd what Olll' 
three years was  piece of' advirP hP  
fair  or  not,  would  giv(~  to  tlw  
Willingham answered those  " There's only one  next Irish.  coach  of the  
questions quickly, even cutting off one  thing. Win. That's it. "  "It would be 'Be yourself',"' Willingham said.  
reporter who was asking  Tyrone Willingham  "That's always what's important."  
about that.  former Notre Dame  After  answering  
"I'm  not  football coach  the  questions,  
going there,"  Willingham closed  
Willingham  the press conference  
said.  by wishing whoever  

Later, he explained the abrupt takes over the program good answer. fortunes. 
"Forgive me, there is not any "My wish will be that this anger associated with that, it's program has great success in just that is the truth," the future, and that whoev(~r Willingham said. "Someone else the coach is that he comes in holds the answers." and does a great job because I 
On another controversial topic believe there's some great regarding Willingham's firing, he young men in this program," said plenty needs to be said Willingham said. about his feelings regarding the Black Coaches Association, but Contact Matt Lozar at not at this time. mlozar@nd.edu 
was no (~nwrgency meeting of' the Board of' TrustPes involved in this. It was just this group," the official said. "I wanted to clarify because it has gotten out in so many accounts that there was an emergency [meeting].... It's not our term. We never said anything about 
it... The Observer reported in Wednesday's edition that sources said a Board of Trustees meeting was held Monday night. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

·, .. ' '. 
-------------------------------~·~·--~--------~~--------------~--------------------~--~------~~--~,~·----~~--~~------• 
'' '
.. 


Thursday, December 2, 2004 
Dow 

jones 10,590.22 +162.20 
4 Same: ~ ,.."""""site Volume: 

AMEX 1,407.85 ;;~;~0.93NASDAQ 2,138.23 +41.42 
NYSE 
7,097.32 +91.60 S&PSOO 1,191.37 +17.55 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 10,949.27 
+165,02 FTSE IOO(London) 4,735.70 +32.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIR!) +5.28 +0.35 6.89 NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +2.04 +0.798 39.92 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.64 +0.44 27.25 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.22 +0.72 23.10 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.13 +0.40 19.15 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND 
+0.30 +0.15 50.27 10-YEAR NOTE +0.39 
+0.17 43.75 5-YEARNOTE 
+0.30 +0.11 37.12 3-MONTH BILL 
-0.46 -0.10 21.72 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.61 45.49 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +2.70 453.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.65 100.10 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
I 02.4000 EURO 
0.7484 POUND 
0.5170 CANADIAN$ 
1.1828 

IN BRIEF 

Southeast airlines ceases operations 
LARGO, Fla. -Southeast Airlines, a Florida­based discount airline serving seven destina­tions along the Atlantic seaboard and Midwest, announced that it has ceased operations. 
The company said in a statement posted on its Web site that it "has made its final landing and has ceased airline operations. We apologize for the inconvenience this will cause to our cus­tomers." 
The airline said the decision was due in part to high fuel costs. There was no answer at its Tampa Bay area corporate office early Wednesday and a company official could not immediately be reached for comment. 
WTSP-TV in Tampa/St. Petersburg reported on its Web site that employees were called to the airline's corporate headquarters Tuesday night, given their last paychecks and told they no longer had jobs. 
The airline served Allentown!Bethleham, Pa., Newburgh, N.Y., Gary, Ind., Columbus, Ohio, and three Florida locations: Fort Lauderdale, St. Petersburg/Clearwater, and Orlando. 

Dollar hits new low versus pound 
LONDON-The dollar fell to a 12-year low against the British pound Wednesday as signs of strength in the British economy raised expectations of interest rate rise. Gold prices rose. 
The British pound was quoted at $1.9270 in European trading, up from $1.9114 late Tuesday. Later, in midday trading in New York, the pound was worth $1.9290. 
Th·e last time the pound was that high was in September 1992, the year sterling was ejected from the European exchange rate mechanism -a system designed to maintain stability among European currencies -and tumbled sharply. 
A report Tuesday by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development forecast that the base interest rate in Britain could rise from the current 4. 7 5 percent to 
5.5 percent next year. 
The Bank of England, however, takes a contrary view. Bank officials told a Parliamentary committee Tuesday that there has been little sign of inflation being stoked by strong fourth-quarter economic data. 
' I 
'' 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Consumer spending boosts stocks 
Increased energy supply, purchases cited for rise in Dow Jones industrials 
2,336 136 • I;Ji4,ol9,840 

Associated Press  
NEW YORK -Stocks  
soared Wednesday, with  
the Dow Jones industrials  
rising more than 120  
points, as a large buildup in  
the nation's energy invento­ 
ries and increased con­ 
sumer spending sent buy­ 
ers back to the market.  
The Energy Department  
reported an increase in dis­ 
tillate reserves -heating  
oil and other derivative  
products -of 2.3 million  
barrels, far higher than  
Wall Street expected.  
Gasoline and crude inven­ 
tories also rose substantial­ 
ly.  
The impact on crude  
futures was immediate ­a  
barrel of light crude was  
quoted at $47.30, down  
$1.83, on the New York  
Mercantile Exchange.  
"Oil futures go d·own,  
stocks go up. I think that'll  
be a pattern for a long  
time, and the good news is  
that if we keep getting  
inventory reports like this,  
oil prices will be ready for a  
big correction downward,"  
said Brian Belski, market  
strategist at Piper Jaffray.  
"Overall, this market has  
clearly turned to a growth  
mode over the past few  
months, and should contin­ 
ue to grow." Shoppers sort through handbags at Macy's in San Francisco. On Wednesday, the  
At midday, the Dow Jones Commerce Department reported that the final quarter of 2004 is starting well.  
industrial average was up  
120.30, or 1.2 percent, at Wall Street was also 10,548.32. happy with the latest read­Broader stock indicators ing of the Institute for were sharply higher. The Supply Management's man­Standard & Poor's 500 ufacturing index for  Merger activity dominat­ed company news, with Wellpoint Health Networks Inc. successfully completing its $16.5 billion merger  Inc. climbed 54 cents to $28.31 after it said it would meet its 2004 profit targets, but stood to lose $14 billion in revenues over the next  
index was up 12.31, or 1 November, which measures percent, at 1,186.13, and the nation's industrial the Nasdaq composite activity. The index came in index gained 30.33, or 1.4 at 57.8, up from 56.8 in percent, to 2,127.14. October and better than the The good news on oil 57 reading Wall Street built on earlier economic expected. November  with Anthem Inc., creating the nation's largest health insurer. Shares of the merged company, which will go by the name Welipoint Inc. and trade under the ticker symbol  three years as patents on some of its products expire. Cigna Inc. also issued projections for future prof­its, saying better-than­expected results in its health care business  
reports, which showed an marked the 18th straight  WLP, were up $4.61 at  allowed the insurer to raise  
0.7 percent rise in con­month of growth for indus­sumer spending in October, trial activity. a better-than-expected The dollar was once  $105.94. Blockbuster Inc. rose 35 cents to $8.83 after it said  its profit targets for 2004 and 2005. Cigna surged $5.93 to $75.95.  
showing and welcome news again a concern, but was after a mediocre start to generally overlooked by  it was willing to raise its takeover bid for rival video  Advancing issues out­numbered decliners by  
the holiday shopping sea­investors in favor of the  rental chain Hollywood  more than 2 to 1 on the  
son. The Commerce strong economic data. The  Entertainment Corp. above  New York Stock Exchange,  
Department also reported dollar fell to a 12-year low  its original $11.50 per  where volume came to  
an 0.6 percent rise in con­against the British pound,  share offer. Hollywood  742.39 million shares, com­ 
sumer incomes -consid­while the euro continued its  gained 23 cents to $12.92  pared with 5 77.17 million  
ered a key barometer of record-setting gains against  on the news.  at the same point on  
future spending. the greenback.  Dow component Pfizer  Tuesday.  


Lag in health care spending 111ay be over 
Associated Press and could eventually lead to more only accomplish so much because 
employers dropping health coverage. employees will drop coverage if they 
NEW YORK -The slowdown in the "We have leveled off at a place that is can't bear the expense. growth of health care spending leveled problematic," said Ginsburg, president of Unlike other studies, this one meas­off earlier this year after two years of the Center for Studying Health System ures what is paid to providers such as declines, a new study found, with the Change, which conducted the study with hospitals and doctors instead of health cost of treating a privately insured the Employee Benefit Research Institute. care premiums paid by employers to American rising 7.5 percent in the first "There is just not much optimism that purchase coverage. Some studies meas­half of 2004 -virtually the same as the we know how to control costs." uring premiums have showed a contin­
7.6 increase in 2003. Health care spending growth slowed in ued decline in the growth rate. 
Paul B. Ginsburg, co-author of the both 2002 and 2003 after reaching 10 For instance, a study released last study, worries that the Oat spot could be percent in 2001. Ginsburg said the surge month by Mercer Human Resource a pause before the rate of spending in 2001 was partially a reflection of the Consulting found that this year the aver­increases will once again start to grow end of strident managed care policies age premium rose 7.5 percent. down as programs designed to contain costs which kept costs in check. Programs and from last year's 10.1 percent increase. are failing to have a significant impact. policies that shift a greater burden of the Employers expect premiums to rise 7 Even if the rate of increase doesn't jump health care costs to employees helped percent next year -if they make some dramatically, he said, it is still at a dan­moderate spending growth in 2002 and changes in the plans they offer. If not, gerous level which outpaces inflation 2003. But Ginsburg said cost shifting can they anticipate a 10 percent increase. 
.. 
"•. I 

' ...
r* ' (
.' ..'..., '' 
~ ' ' 

~fH E() BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Political authority comes from God 
1~0. Box Q, Nolte Dame, IN 46'i'i(> 024 Smuh Llining Hall, Notre llame, IN 46~S(, 
EIJIH>R IN CHII!f Matt Lo1.1r 
MANAt;INI; EDITOR BUSINf.\S MANAGER Mc:gh.mnc [ lowncs Mike !'lanagan 
A.\ST. MANAGINC; EDIH>R Joe Hcnk·r 

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Vu-:wl•orN·r f.mTol!: Sarah Vahula.< Srolln EDITOil: Hcarlwr Van Hoegarden Sn.N~ Eunoll: Maria Smith SAINI MAllY's EUJTOR: An~;da Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GI!AI'IIIC~ EI>ITOR: Mike Harkin.< AllVEiniSING MANAGER: Carrie hanklin 
AD 0F.\IGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS AllMINISTRATORz Mal y Allen CONTJIOI.I.Eit: Paula (;arc:ia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) (,JI-7471 
FAX 
('>74) (,JJ-(,<)27 
ADVERTISING ('i74) (,j I-o')(}() oh,t·aJC"'nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) (dl-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(S74) 631-4'>41 obsrnl'lttlnd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR ('574) 63 I -4324 BUSINESS OFFICE 
{574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK ('57 4) 6.~ 1-'i323 oJ,.news.l (n1nd.t·du VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 6:\1-SjO.~ viewpnint.Jvt>nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
('i74) (,~ l-4'i4.l sports.l ~11 nd.t·du 
SCENE DESK (574) (>~1-1'>40 sc:ene.l~tlnd.eJu SAINT MARY'S QESK 
.\111<.1 v11nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
('i74) It) I-K71>7 phnto~''nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS ('i74J 631-HK.\') 
THf 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Ohscrvcr is rlw indcp<'n<lenr, daily owwsp:tpcr puhlished in print anJ online hy the students of the l Jniwrsoty of Notre 1htne du I.K and Saint Mary's 

( :.,ll,-gc. FAiitorial wntcnt, induJin~; adwrtiscm<·nts, is not govemeol hy policies of the .toltnini,tration of either in~tituflon. The ( )h!'lcrvcr reserves rhc right to n.·fi1sc advcrtl!'lcmt.:nts h.a!'ocd on t.:nnrcnt. 
'l'he ll<'W.\ ;_, rt·portcd a.< :u:wratdy and ohjcLIivdy a.s pov~ihk. lJn..;i).!,nl'll,,:ditorials n:prcscnl thc opinion of rite no:ziority ol oh,· Editor in Chief, Managing Edi11>r, A'·"·'""" Managing !·<litor and dcp.mm,·nt ediwr.<. ( :ommc11r.1rics, k·ttns and t:olumns present du: vit.·ws of the author.s and not n,•ccssarily rhn.sc ufThe 
(>hscrvcr. 

Viewpoint 'I'"'" is av.oilablc 10 .oil n:atl<•rs. The free cxpres.<inn of all npinint" throu~;h letters is cnwura~;cd. l.cm·rs to tlw Editor naosr ht· .signnl .md must mdudt· lOIIt.Kt anfurm.atiun. 
f}:u·<tiom r,g,mliug ( Jlm·rorr poliol·s slmulrl (J,. diurt<d 111 Ftlitor iu (.1Ji~f'/>1,ut l.rmll: 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

lin lll,.,·,o·n\(1\l'\ 'o'l').! 1111101 llj•llhliol"'l Mumt,,. !luolll).:h h,,j_.y o'IU.l'j•l ohullll~ 
o\oOIII ,.,.,) '"'"'''''i)"'""h A"'''"'''!" .."' IU !!11. ( l\o"1\'t.'l ,, SIUU ),or,,,.,. .,...n\t·nll• \'•~• )'\o"i lou tlllt ~o<m•~••• 
I ht 11) ......,,.,., I• 1 mtml"' ..t 1ht> A\\llo lounl l'lt"-' Alln p•oulu.nnnntthl\ "'' 
H'UIIt'\l 
l~t1. n..,. Q
''" ( )lo\1'11\'1 j, 1'"'''"'"'''·11 
111) 'Muul• (luuu)! 11111 11~·1 ''"''h \)uuult 11~11 Nt•H• ll•m•·.IN 1h'i,f•-U77•J N"u" llo~m•·. IN 1t.'i'lh-1177'J 1\·nuJio .tl)l\hlo4JI;I' 1'~·1 .11 Nu!h'llJIIW 
,omi,..MH1•111.1llu.Uhu~"lli"'.., 
\'t.l..,IMA..,ITit 
~III)J<ltii<'"UIII'\... hlll"l" 
lhttllou'f\'1.'1 
Ill<"( )j,.,,~"' ".t nwml>~.r ul tl" A.o,.,,.joll~··ll'rt"'" All rt'j•rn•llklll>ll ri~hlll o~n· ,,.,,·nnl 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Angela Saoud .Justin Sch uver Nieol<~ Zoo k Erie Hetter Katie Perry Ken Fowler 
Viewpoint Scene 
Eil<wn Duffy Molly Grilin <~raphics Illustrator l>esiroe Zamora Katie Knorr 
Is Christmas a political (Wont? Yos. in two ways. First. /\rm~rican Civil Libortins Union lawyors can b(~ countod on to rush to court, at tlw lirst sign or Christmas, to ron:(~ communiti()S to rnmovo Nativity cn)chos rrom public placns. to silnncn Charles E. Rice Christmas carols in schools and to pn~­
/light or Wrong?
vnnl. pu 11J 1c. usn 
(Wf)n or tlw word, 
"Christmas," rrom corrupting tlw 
"lloliday Snason." Tht~y commonly argw~ 
that public rncognition or (:hristmas is 
politically divisivn, although llw contro­
vnrsins usually arisn only upon thn liling 
or llwir own lawsuiL<;. 
In a S(~COIHI and mon• basic way, Christmas is a political nvm1t. Wlwn tlw sncond p()rson or thn Trinity b()eamn man. lw nntnrnd tlw world as a subjnct or llw Boman l·:mpin~ which n~cogn~d no moral limit to tlu~ absolutn pow(~r of its law. Sonw philosoplwrs. such as llw Homan statosnmn. Cicnro, had arguml that law was "thn distinction b(~lwnnn things just and unjust, mad(~ in agn~n­mnnt with ... Naturn." But thn gn1wral rul(~ bd'on~ Christ was that objnctivo jus­lien had nothing to do with th(~ validity or law and thnrdi>n~ that tlwn~ was no moral limit to what tiH~ stat!~ could do. Tlw incarnation of thn divi1w p(~rson as man. manirnstnd at Christmas, allirnu~d instnad that tlw pownr or narthly rult~rs is sul~jnct to tlw law of (;od. /\s l'ntnr told tlw Sanlwdrin, "Wn must olwy Cod rat.lwr than mnn." /\ds ~:2'J. Tlw Christian (~ra bngan with civil disolwdit~ncn wlwn tlw Magi, at divi1w din~ction, disobnyml tlw statn in tlw pnrson or I h~rod and "wnnt back to tlwir country by ano!.lwr way." Mal.tlww 2: 12. /\nd .losnph and Mary n~jnctnd llw authority of thn statn wlwn tlwy llod into I (gypt with thn child to (~Scatw rrom llnrod. Mattlww 2:1 :{-I~­
With tlw nntry or thn diviiW pnrson, Christ. into tlw world. tlw absolutn claim or thn statn IIH~t a IWW kind or challnngn. (((~rod trind to kill tlw child lwcaUS(~ IH~ wrongly saw him as a contnndor lill' polit­ical pownr. Pontius Pilau~ could not undnrstand why Christ would not makn a dnal. lin ask(~d, "What is truth"," .lohn Il-l::{~, unawan~ that Truth, with a capital T, was tho p(~rson standing in rront or him. 

/\n~ th()f() moral limiL<; to what tlw statn can do'! Tlw <lf1SW(~r givnn by tho Sovint Union, Nazi <;nrrnany and many rnginH~s in history was: No. Thn qur~stion rnmains today. Tlw pnoplo or Calirornia voi.Pd last month to rund thn cn~ation or human !wings ror tlw purpOS() or killing tlwm and using tlwir parts for llw bmwlit or ollwrs. This was an nxl!)nsion or Bo(~ v. Wadn, in which tlw Supn~nw Court d(~cn~nd that unborn human bnings an~ nonpnrsons subj()Ct to ()X(~CUtion at tlw discrntion or othnrs. That pownr or tiH~ statt~ to dopnr­sonalizn tlw innocnnt had bnnn tlw ((~gal pn~llliS(~ or tlw Nazi d(~pnrsonalization and nxl!~rminalion of t.lw .lnws. It was also 
"Today. when politicians
tlw pn~misn or tlw with his law. That is Dn~d Scott casn which andjudgesfrom the why tlw statn can dnclan~d that slav(~S IH'VPr havt~ authority
f>ontius Pilate school of 
wnrn prop()rty rathnr to lngaliw murdnr, to
jurisprudence seek to
than pnrsons. wagn war unjustly, to Tlw n~igning liberate the stale from the sanction Pronomir, jurispnrdnnc(~ today is moral Law. they are trying mcial or ollwr lngal positivism, in oppn)ssion. or otlwr­
to relitiyate an issue that
which nonn or thOS(~ wisn to violatP J.lw dnadly d(~crnns can bn was explicitly settled {Jy higlwr law. said to b() unjust the hiylwst authority two Tlw courts this yPar lwcausr-no onn can will do tiH'ir lwst l.o
millennia ayo... 
know what is just. "Truth." said .lusl.ico Oliwr w(~nddl llolnH~S. "is tlw majority vol!~ or tlw nation that could lick all oth­(~rs." (o'or llolnws, "tlw sar.n~drwss or human lirn is a purdy municipal idnal or no validity outsidn thn jurisdiction." /\s ll;uis Kds(~fl, tlw ((~ading lngal positivist or LIH~ 20th cnntury, put it, "justicP is an irrational idnal." /\ny law is valid if nnact­nd according to tlw pn~scrilwd procn­dun~s. Kds(~n admitlPd that tlw Nazi PXtPrmination laws worn "valid law" aceording to positivist tlwory In tlw world or posilivistjurisprudnnn~, tlwn) is no room li1r Martin l.utiH~r King's conclu­sion. in accord with Thom<L<; Aquinas, that a law is unjust and void ir it "is not rooted in eternal law and natural law." This is not a lllnndy Christian concnpt. Hut tho natural law makos ullimatn st~nso only ir wt~ idnntil'y its Lawgivnr. Thn politi­cal impact or Christmas ariS()S from iL<; assnrtion that thn inrant Christ is that l.awgivnr and that his law controls. 
'I<>day, whr~n politicians and judgPs rrom tlw Pontius l'ilau~ school orjurispru­dnncn S()Pk to libt~ratn tlu~ statn rrom tlw moral law, tlwy arn trying to n~litigatn an issun that was (~xplicitly sdtlnd by tlw higlwst authority two miii()IJIJia ago. Evnry stat(~ IHL<; a god, an ultima~.<· authority it rncogniws. What Christmas tdls us is that, wlwthnr tlwy lik(~ it or not, politicallnackrs dnrivn tlwir rightrul authority rrom tho n~al Cod and tlwy 
must oxt~n:isn that authority in accord 
Pxtirpai.P Christmas 
rrom pul>lir lirP during liH~ "llappy llolidays." l;rorn tlw stand­point or tlw positivist stall' lhatmakr·s st•nsP. That baby in tlw crib is a thn~al. Mnrry Christmas. 
l'rt~{ l:!neritus Nit:r• is on !Ill' Utu• School Family /lis column appt•ars r•t>('ry other Thursday 1/e can lw r·onlacted a/ l'lauwr·ki.f({l>nd.cdu. 
The uiews expres:-wd in this column are those r~ftlw author and twtnr•n•ssarily those r!f"t'he Ohsen>r•t: 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Fans will support a -winning or losing tea111 
This is Notrt~ I>anH·. ll was morn than a slogan that attracted me to Notrt~ Danw. I was attradnd to what that slogan stood ror. Notn~ Damn was a plaw that rost(~rt~d int(~grity and chararlnr. llownvnr, ynsi.Prday's actions by thP administration indicatP that NotrP l>anw has lost SOilH' or its lustnr. 
WhPn I arrivnd on rampus as a stu­d!'nl in thP rail or I 'J!J'J. I was intro­ducPd to tlw Notrp l>anw l;amily. TlwrP was a common bond that linkPd (~V(~ryo1w associatnd with tiH~ llnivnrsity. /\s you walk(•d around. you could r(~(d thn cam;u·adl'rin and spirit that lillnd thn campus. /\nd whnn thn ('ootball [(~alll took tiH~ f'ip(d Oil Saturday al'l.nrnoons. tlwy had morn than XO,OOO f'amily mnmbnrs support­ing tlwm and dwPring tlwm on. 
That was Notn~ l>anw. Tlw adminis­!.ration ckcid(~d to takn action and rnstorn thr• football program to the glory or old. J(OWPVPr, in doing SO, tlw administration has risknd losing Notn~ Damn's ddining characlnristir.s: inl!~grity and charactnr. 

/\ n~rnnt study indiratPd that NotrP Danw is tho most popular rootball [(~am in tlw country. 01w would think that our lnss-than-stt~llar pPrrorrnanrn on tlw roolball l'iPid would turn rans away. y(~l tlwy knPp coming bark. What is it that draws rans all across tlw country to root ror Nol.rn Damn? It can't bn our winning rPcord lwcausn sun~ly tlwrP lwvn b(~Pn mon~ sur.cPss­rul l.!~ams OV(~r tlw last fnw y(~ars. So what is it" What mak(~S Nolr<' Dam<' diiTnrnnt" 
Boron~ ynstnrday it was Noll·n Dam(~·s intngrity and characi.Pr that S(~paral.!~d it from 1wnry otlwr pro­
gram. It was thai. rommo11 bond, tl11• NolrP ()amp (o'amily. Our actions toward Coach Willingham wnrP not actions or intngrity and rharartPr. Tl11•y WPn' actions or arroga IH'P and impali(~ncP. TIH~ administration rirt•d Oil(' or NotrP Danw's most ZPalous advora!PS ol' inlt•grity and charadPr. /\ppan·ntly thP chancP at Parning a 
BCS birth and Uw mo1H~,Y that coni<'S with it has swayPd tlw administration. 
I still lwliPVP ·Notn· DamP is a spPcial plan•, and could oncP again hProlllt' a l'oothall pow(~rhousP. llownvPr. ovPr !.hP coming WPPks, as tlw sPal-r.h ror " IH'W coach lwgins. lnt us not losP sight ol' what ma(k Notrp I>anw so gn•at. 
Michael Zingale 
.dUIIIIIll:o. 
cl."s of 20112 
lln 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should Notre Dame have accepted the Insight Bowl bid? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www. ndsmeobserver.eom 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Only those who dare to fail greatly can etwr achieve greatly .. 
Robert Francis Kennedy 
U.S. senator 
' • • o o I I p 
\'' ... ' 
. ' .. . ' .. 
I f • • 
THE ()HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, December 2, 2004 page 9 
Save the tunnels 

It is January at Saint Mary's. It's about 2S degrees outside, and you have just st!~pped out of the shower and your friends are waiting to go to dinner. Clearly it would not be smart to go to the dining hall with wet hair. Instead you Molly Acker compromise with the girls. throw on some Nobody likes a shorts and llip-11ops dumb blonde and take the tunnels to I Iaggar for dinner. Or let's say it is 1 a.m. on a snowy night in February. Your girlfriend in Le Mans has just gotten the ax from her boyfriend. and she needs a shoulder to cry on. You don't want to walk outside in the cold by yourself so late at night. and so you run over in the tunnels. 
If you go or went to Saint Mary's, I am sun~ that you have been in a similar prnclicanwnt. and have first-hand knowledge that our tunnels can really come through in a pinch. They arc a simple luxury that generations of Saint Mary's women have used and appreciat­ed. 
I recall that during freshman orienta­tion wn wnre taken on a complete tour of campus, and we were then shown how to navigate the tunnels. Little did I know how often they would come in handy over the next two years. Sure, they always feel like they arc about a hundred degrees. And, yes, the pipes are kind of old and often leaking. NcvP-rtheless, the tunnels of Saint Mary's are an institution of convenience that has been in place for nearly a cen­tury. 
On Nov. 22 we were informed that the tunnels would be shut down for pedes­trian use on Dec. 18. This has raised a lot of questions and many complaints among the students. Not only does it seem like an inopportune time to close the existing tunnels (what with the onset of winter and the inevitabln rash of pre­Valentine's Day break-ups that will require consoling). but the school has also just constructed a new tunnel to connect Lc Mans with the new student center. 
The letter addressed to the Saint Mary's community stated that the steam lines, electric power, water lines, com­munications and other systems that run through the tunnels are old and no longer meet restrictive code require­ments. They fear that the pipes are potentially hazardous to those using the tunnels, should something happen. 
It seems to me that ff these pipes are so dangerous. then they should be repaired rather than just shut off from pedestrian access. Judith Johns. CEO of the Holy Cross Services Corporation, also reported that Saint Mary's College does not own the pipes. Instead, they are owned by the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. While the Congregation may not have sufficient funds to pay for the necessary repairs. there are others who do. 
I spoke with Barbara Wade, the Director of Communications of the Order. about how much it would cost to make the necessary upgrades. She said, "The issue is not a matter of simply upgrading the existing utility tunnels but rather one of building a completely new and separate tunnel system designed for pedestrian usc. The logis­tics. not to mention the expense. of mapping out such a separate system amid present building and construction on campus, indicated the prohibitive nature of such a project. For this reason no estimates were solicited." This may be true, but after speaking with many alumni and current students I have learned that there are many members of the Saint Mary's community who would be willing to donate money to save the tunnels. 
The tunnels may not seem like they should be that important. but if you have ever been a student at Saint Mary's then you probably felt a little sad and maybe a bit angry when you heard they are to be closed. Ladies, let's not let them take our tunnels away from us or from future SMC Chicks. Even if it takes years before they are able re-open, let's pass the hat around and champion the cause of saving our tunnels! 
Molly Acker is a junior communica­tions and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be contacted at acke6785@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community responds to Willingham's departure 
Ty 'couldn't get it done;' deserved to be fired 
Unbelievable. 
Notre Dame realizes after three years of mediocrity that it docsnt have the coach that can get the program where it needs to bn so it fires him. All of a sudden, according to all the so-called NCAAF experts, Notre Dame "panicked," Notre Dame "didn't give him a chance," the firing was "racially motivated," Notre Dame was exposed as "no differenfthan all the other l'ootball factories." 
That's reflective of the number one issue in America today-no one wants anyone to be held accountable for their actions or results (much less themselves). Poor perl'ormancc is always someone else's fault, or can be blamed on one's abusive parents, broken home or eth­nieity. 
Coach Tyrone Willingham knew going in exactly what the job entailed and exactly what was expected ... put a consistent winner on the field. If he didn't think he could do it, he shouldn't have taken the job. Neither should Urban Meyer or anyone else take the job now and claim three, five or 20 years from now that the coaching environment at Notre· Dame is brutal. Brutal schedule, brutal academic requirements, crappy weath­er. demanding alumni, etc., etc.. blah. blah, blah. If you aren't up to the challenge. don't take the job. If you are going to whine about the situation, don't take the·job. 
Unfortunately, Willingham was not doing the things that needed to be done to achieve the abovementioned objective (put a consistent winner on the field). He was getting blown out of games at an unprecedented rate. He wasn't recruiting enough impact freshmen. He couldn't win over the hearts of the alumni, students. 

etc. He lost to teams he clearly should have beaten. Worst of all, there was no momentum in the program ... no success trajectory ... things were not obviously get­ting better. Willingham was fired for the same reasons everyday Americans in challenging jobs get fired -not because he is a bad person, not bec;ause he is black, not because he can't be successful somewhere else. Because he coulclnt get it done at Notre Dame and there was no convincing evidence that things were improving. 
Go Irish! 
Bill Lewis alumnus class of 1976 Dec. 1 

Nojre Dame's reputation tarnished 
As an alum who was often frustrated in her Notre Dame days by the apathy on cam­pus, I was thrilled to hear from a fellow alum and read on the internet that a large demonstration was being organized on the steps of the Dome for Tuesday night. My joy quickly turned to horror when I learned the demonstration was to call forTy Willingham's ouster as head football coach. 
When you think of all the campus protests that have occurred over the years-against wars, against violence, in support of civil rights, to name just a very few-the state of the school's football team starkly pales in comparison, and makes the University and those responsible for the planning look ridiculous. Maybe this stands out as such an embarassment because what these students were advocating, firing Willingham before his contract expired, stands out as one of the most shameful, classless acts ever prcpetrated by the University. Of course losing (especial­ly to Boston College) stinks, but having a team you can be proud of. who take academics and character as seriously as l'ootball. means something too. 
It also used to mean something to be different, to not just be another football factory school but one with pride and class to go with the wins. By sacrficing Willingham to the demands of some unrealistic and impatient alums ·and students, Notre Dame has forevered tarnished that reputation and cast itself among the Floridas, Alabamas and other schools where winning isn't the most important thing. it's the only thing. Congratulations, administration. I'm glad to see Father Malloy going out on such a high note. 
However. true congratulations to those students who later turned this "demonstration" into a show of support for Coach Willingham. You, and the players who remain silent; are the only class acts in this shameful episode. 
Values count more than football 
Mike Celezik of MSNBC's article regarding the firing of Ty Willingham sums up the situation well: "It may be a good day for Notre Dame football. But it's a bad day for Notre Dame." Shame on the administration for caving to alumni and student pres­
sures. When students demanded the return· of the SYR did they listen? Of course not. They told us it was the 
right thing to do to prevent alcohol abuse. Now that money is involved in the equation (and while I'm at it, shame on alumni who donate only to get tickets when the team is doing well). we see what the administration's real decision driver is. 
Don't let anyone tell you that Notre Dame is about football -because it's not. Notre Dame is about producing individuals with the highest of moral standards that know 
how to leave the safety of our campus and go out in this world and do what is right. Sadly it appears that the administration does not embody the same qualities it seeks to instill in its graduates. For the first time in history, Notre Dame has broken its bond with a coach. Ty Willingham may not have had a spectacular record, but he deserved a chance to finish out his contract. He is a class act that any university should be proud to call their coach, and I am proud of the way he represented my Alma Mater where it really counts-off the field. 
Erich Stuntebeck 
Megan McGrath 
alumnus
alumna 
Class of 2004
class of 1996 
Dec. I
Dec. 1 
• ..! ' 
f. 
• • t • f 'I
.. ' 

.'' t t 
.' 
-THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
U2 produces another classic 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
A~siswnt Sc,·n,· Editor 
ThPrl~ arP fpw newly-rell'aS!Hl albums that ran lw rall1~d "a dassk" in this l'ra of music. Often groups are "revolutionary" or "ground-brPaking" and an~ notPd for that. but few musi­t'al JJPrformPrs are able to takn the gnni'P of nwk and roll. rich in history' and inf'luPnrP. and make an album that is truly gn•at. Bono, tlw 1\dge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen .Jr. acromplish this feat in tlw latest U2 album "llow to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb." 
U2 has taken a genre that it has heavily inl'luenced and crnatP.d an album with a strong U2 character, yet lllle that is still nnw and distinct, and all this has been donn without letting a single bad song slip onto the album. 
1\arly rumors of "flow to Dismantle an Atomil: Bomb" had it donned by Bono himself as U2's first rock album. While the two truly rock songs on tlw album, "Vertigo" and "Lov1~ and Peace or Else," are great songs, they an~ tho only two songs that have a heavy rock beat behind thnm. Th11 rnst of tho album is com­posed of what U2 does bnst.: t.lw rock ballad. The remaining nine songs on "llow to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb" are all songs that arp, bntltlr than most rock bands' singles. Songs with terril'ic mnlodins, strong music com­position and moving lyrics seem to be average fair for U2 on this album. 
U2 has been around for awhile, and thus it is not entirely surprising that its songs are not composed of lyrics concerning anything less than enlightening. The song "Miracle Drug," which has been misinterpret­ed by many as a song about AIDS, is in fact about a man from the high school tho members or U2 attended. This boy was completely paralyzed, but his mother would still talk to him out of her love for him. Eventually he began taking <L drug that gave him the ability to blink his eye and through this ability he conveyed .mov­ing poems to his mother that had been stored up in his head. This man experienced a whole new world because of his mother's dndication to him. Bono sings of his newfound free-dom in one of the best lyrics on the album: "Freedom has a scent I Like the top of' a new born baby's head." The song is about the powerful love the mother had for her son, "I am you and you are mine I Love makes no sense of space I And time." This song covers much more than your average rock song. 


In that same spirit, "Sometimes You Can't Make it on Your Own" is a beautiful acoustic sounding slow song that sounds like a song about a cou­ple, but Bono wrote about it his father. Another terrific song, "One Step Closer," is also about Bono's father, who died a couple of years ago. It was inspired by a conversation with one of the Gallagher brothers of the band Oasis about Bono's father. Gallagher had asked if his father died a believer, and Bono told him that he was not sure, and Gallagher respond­ed that at least now he was one step closer to knowing. Bono claims to have known at that moment he was going to write that into a song. As the main lyricist throughout the majority of the album, Bono exercises his immense talent in writing songs that are powerfully pnrsonal, ynt at thn s a m e ti m ll i m rn e n s n I y u n i v e r s a I . Thore is hardly a line in the album that is not poignant and rnemorabiP.. 
While not all the songs on "flow to Dismantle an Atomie Bomb" are ter­rific, they are generally pretty dose. "City of' Blinding Lights," writt1~n about U2's l'irst visit to New York City has an introduetion rivaling the mov­ing intro to the elassic, "Where the Streets Have No Name." ThPre is something to be said for and about every song on the album, and that is a novel occurrence. 
"flow to l>ismantiP an Atomic Bomb" may very well turn out to be one of' U2's best albums in regards to almost every song being really spec­tacular. It definitely at least holds its own in the ranks among "Achtung Baby" and "All That You Can't LeavP. Behind." U2 fan or not, it would be hard not to at lnast appreeiate the pure experience and ingenuity that shines through on every track of "!low to Dismantle an Atomie Bomb." 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
Free Yourself winds up disappointing 
By BRODERICK HENRY 
Scmc Music Criric 
Fantasia Barrino proved to be an amaz­ing live pPI'fimnPr. Armed with the vocal stylings of a woman far greater in age and lifi~ nxpnrinncns, the American Idol winner dnlivmwl some of' the bnst musi1:al displays in thn t.hrne-ynar history of' the television mntest.. As a r!'sult of' such perlimnanees Fantasia has drawn a number of compar­isons to H&B soul diva Mary .1. Blige. Some havn evnn crowrwd her the nnw f'a<:e of H&B. Yet. thern still remains one question surrounding Barrino: are audiences really interested in lwaring her sing? 
If record sales of Fantasia's first single, "I Believe," are any indicator then the answer is no. In its first week of' release the song sold 142, 000 copies whieh is pale in eomparison to the sales of the first Idol winner Kelly Clarkson or even last year's Idol runner-up Clay Aiken. Many eritics assert the poor reception of "I Believe" can be direetly attributed to Fantasia's over singing. Both onstage and while recording she has the tendency to scream and shout notes rather than actually sing them. 

Although television audiences may have boon able to stomach and oven enjoy the two-minute outbursts, it remains to be seen whether record buyers have tho wherewithal to listen to the same out­bursts in heavy rotation. 
Yet, with her debut album. ''Free Yourself," Fantasia does little to quiet the critics. The 13-traek album, which is rela­tively short by H&B standards, suffers from a number of debilitating ailments. Most noticeably, Ban·ino, without fail, sings evnry song in the shrillest yet raspy octave ima1,rinable. But the shouting is often to the detriment of the songs. For the antics pro­vidP. neither soul nor inspiration, but rather distractions for listeners. 
In ordnr to compensate for Barrino's shortcomings, Clive Davis, the album's executive producer must have had one intention -appeal to as many segments of music buyers as possible. Therefon~ any producer who has made a hit rneord in the last fives years was invited to assist on the project. Missy Elliott, .Jermaine Dupri, and Hodney Jerkins all lend a helping hand to the album. Yet, with so many cooks preparing the meal, "Free Yourself," just ends up sounding like a compilation. I doubt the Gershwin Broadway classic "Summertime" juxtaposed to "Baby Mama", a song saluting young single mothers, will rest well with most listeners. 
For their sake the album should be rnnamed, "Now! Songs That Will Nnver Sound Good Togothor." 
Even with its many millisteps "Free Yoursnll" does have a couple of standout. tracks. One track in particular. "Good l.ovin '" finds Barrino praising the love slw receives daily from her "man": "What a sunny, sunny morning/ when my man is right by my sidnllleld me so elosely so dose I felt love inside." The aforenwn­tionod Elliot even finds a way to mildly contain the Idol star's wailing. Accompanied by a bass-heavy tra1:k, the song sounds like a 70s dassie. 
Overall, "Good Lovin"' illustrates the greatest disappointmnnt surrounding Fantasia. It is obvious she has a gnmt deal of talent. But it appnars she is more intent on roluying her voeal prowess rather than delivering beautiful occasionally well-writ­ten songs in the mannor in whieh they were intended. Luckily, much has been invested in the young star, and sho will dnlinitdy get the chanee to make another album. Let us hope Fantasia matures in the art of singing bol'oro she embarks on that endeavor. In tho meantime, free your­self from the disappointment and leave this album on the shdl'. . 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenry1@nd.edu 
I I 
.• .......
' ~ 
.

f. 


' , ' ' , , , -­
, , , ' . 
, , .. 
.'. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, December 2, 2004 
page 11 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Beatles' U.S. albums finally released 


Mos Def rusty after long hiatus 

Photo courtesy of mtv.com  
"The New Danger" is only Mos Def's second solo release.  He came out with  
. his solo debut, "Black on Both Sides," in 1999.  


By JULIE BENDER Scene Music Critic 
By 1%3 the Beath~s wen~ an established act in the United Kingdom, inciting hysteria wherewr il<> Beatie boots tread and selling records faster than hot cakes olf the griddle. Despite this phenmmmon, miles across the Atlantic, the band was a hard sell. Ingrained with the attitude that nothing "British" would sell in tlw U.S. -especially nothing noisy with long hair. Major American record labels systematically refused to sign the Beatles. Producer George Martin managed to eon­vince the tiny gospPI and R&B label, VeeJay, to take a chance on the band, but its first U.S. release, "Introducing The Beatles," was a llop, and the group was quickly dropped. Meanwhile, back in England, the Beatles eontinued to meet with astounding success, and Beatlemania hummed along in full force. 
The Capital 

Albums, Vol. 1 The Beatles 
Capitol 


After several more months, Capitol Records, a label who had rejected the Beatles four times prior, could no longer deny the band's potential and quickly snapped up its songs for release in early 1964. Capitol, however, did not release the same albums the British public had seen. lnst!md, the labf~l took the liberty of changing the song order and cutting the album length down by several songs. Instead of "Please Please Me" and "With the Beatles," American fans got "Meet the Beatles," "The Beatles' Second Album" and other U.S. releases like "Something New and Beatles '65" in place ofthe British counterparl'i. 
In 1988, things changed when the Beatles catalog was transferred to CD, and in this process the American albwn versions all but disappeared. Only the original British albwns were released on CD, leaving the U.S. albums almost a non-existent part ofhistory. 
Until now. 

Photo courtesy of mtv.com 

Capitol Records recently released the first four American Beatles albums in CD 
format for the first time ever. 
In what some call a natuqJ, albeit late, move and others a strategic moneymaking ploy, Capitol has finally released the first four American Beatie albums in box-set form, titled, 'The Capitol Albwns Volume 1." For the first time, Beatles fans can possess and listen to "Meet the Beatles," "The Beatles' Second Album," "Something New and Beatles '65" in CD format. For original U.S. fans, this is a chance to hear the Beatles exactly how they heard them the first time around in 1964. For fans a generation removed, this is a chance to own a bit of Beatles history. 
Some complaints have been aired about this release, and rightfully so. "The Capitol Albwns" is listed at close to $70, and, after all, these American releases contain no new music. For the fan that already has the British Beatie albwns, thi<> is money spent for songs already owned. 
For a real Beatie's fan, however, this pack­age is a dream come true. The quality of music is undeniable, and the four CD set comes with a 48-page booklet and tim origi­nal album cover art. Thern are the classic songs like "All My Loving" and "She Loves You," and the lesser known, but equally good songs like "No Heply," ''I'm A Loser" and "This Boy." Included is even the German ver­sion of "I Want to I I old Your I land," "Komm. Gib Mir Deine Hand." Even more, each albwn contains twice the amount of songs, with each song appearing in both the mono and stereo versions. A true Beatles ear will be able to detect the sound differences and delight in both variations. And, with several other U.S. albwns still unreleased, there is promise that these songs won't be the last notes heard from the band. 
Whether 'The Capitol Albums" is a money scam or enticing package, the Beatles unquestionably remain tl1e masters of rock 'n' roll. No matter how it is boxed up, wrapped up or sold, the band and its music will always be priceless. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Mos Del'fans bewarP-this is not the same Mos D<~f of live years ago. 
Back in the late 90s, Mos Def came out with "Black Star" (with Talib Kweli) and his solo debut "Black on Both Sides," and immediate­ly became one of hip-hop's top up-and-com­ing artists. A gifted and soeially conseious rapper, he provided an intellectual alternative to gangsta rap, much like rap !,'TOups De La Soul, Brand Nubian and A Tribe Called Quest. llowevnr, aftnr the rnlease of "Black on Both Sides," Mos Def decided to pursue other endeavors, acquiring several acting roles ("The Italian Job," "Monster's Ball"), appear­ing on Broadway ("Topdogtl!ndnrdog") and starting the rock band, Black Jack Johnson. After this long hiatus, Mos Dnf has fmally come out with his second solo release, "The New Danger," but unf()rtunately he has lost much ofthe magic that once made him great. 
On the album, Mos Def brings in a nwnber of music genr'es aside from hip-hop, including rock, soul and blues. Unfortunately, the result is a messy musical montage, with awkward transitions between tracks. Furthermore, Mos Defs attempts at some of these genres are pedestrian at best. On tracks like "The Panties" and "Modern Marvel'' he puts his singing at the forefront, and while he is a bet­ter singer than most rappers, he still is not good enough to carry songs with his voice. His attempt at blues on "Blue Black Jack" is also nothing special. 
Black Jack Johnson, is featured on several tracks, and aftnr one listen it becomes quickly appru·ent why the band does not have its own album yet. The group's guitar riffs and grooves are listenable, but ultimately basic and uninspiring. For the most part, the band seems out of place on the album, showing Mos Def likely included it for tl1e sole purpose of giving his band publicity. 
Not surprisingly, Mos Def is at his best when he sticks to rapping. Aside from Kanye West, the albwn has no big-name producers, but the beats, while not stellar, arc generally pretty efiective. If there is any track that would make a good single, it would be "Sex, Love & Money," which has a simple, but effec­tive flute and bass beat. "Sunshine" and "Grown Man Business" are also quality hip­hop tracks. 
But as one would expect from a five-year hiatus, Mos Defs flow is more flawed tl1an it was before the new millenniwn. For instance, there are several instances where Mos Def rhymes the same word twice: "Layin the cut like they not gon' know I 
Cuz if I gotta make a move dawg they not gonna know." Also, he often falls into repeti­tious rapping patterns, rhyming the same sounds over and over: "like, Hail Mary, fUll of grace I [people] come in and shoot up the 
· place I And make you pull up your face I The deck, I'm a pull out the ace." But his biggest area of decline is his song content. While there are glimpses of social 
commentary, it is a far cry from the provoca­tive lines he used to flow. This is exhibited best by one the album's worst cuts, "The Rape Over," an attack on the hip-hop industry that remakes Jay-Z's song, "Takeover." On it, he ends with the lame line, "Quasi-homosex­uals is running this rap s-," something he never would have said before. Even worse, the song abruptly ends shortly after this line, with Mos Def simply muttering, "that's it," which makes one wonder exactly how much effort Mos Def put into the album. 
For a man of Mos Defs talents, it is hard to call "The New Danger" anything but a disap­pointment. It still has its moments here and there, but it is nowhere near the quality of "Black on Both Sides" and "Black Star." Oearly, Mos Def has lost the drive he once had in his music. Hopefully, he finds some­thing to inspire him again for his next albwn, and will once again resemble the ground­breaking emcee he once was. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
Looks Good to Me-Every.Night,q1.•4) RiloKile 
-#\•• ····""'~~•·· 
'N••••••••• ; •••;,.. 

~  ' ''  . ' ' . \.... ' .'  
I I  ' .' '  
I  
I I I  page 12  The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS  Thursday, December 2, 2004  
I  
I  
I  
I  NCAA FOOTBALL  
!  

Cutcliffe fired after six seasons at Ole Miss 
As•ociatcd Press Hobert Khayat. vated, sometimes they're not." Micheal Spurlock was the fired by Notrn DamP on"We just couldn't come to an Cutcliffe was 44-29 in six 
starter at the beginning of the Tuesday.OXFOHD, Miss. -David agreement," CutClil'fe said. seasons at Ole Miss, 25-23 in season. but was benched mid­"We can make up a lot of
Cutelifl'e struggled to replace "We couldn't get everything on the SEC, and just a seas.on 
way through the second gariw ground if we get in tlw right
Eli Manning and refused to the same page." removed from going 10-3 and for Ethan Flatt. people." Boonn said.make major changes after his Boone said Cutcliffe refused finishing tied for first in the Flatt started the Hebels' rwxt Cuteli!Te was hired bvfirst losing season in six years to submit a written plan to fix 
West with Manning at quarter­

nine games. Midway through Boone 's precl e cesso r, . I o h i1 
as coach of 
problems within the program, back. 
the season. Cutcliffe switched Shafer. to replace TommyMississippi. including improving a defense 
But without Manning, the to a three-quarterback rota­Tubnrvill<' after lh<' I<)<)8 !"<'gu­Those two that consistently ranked first pick in the NFL draft, Ole tion with redshirt freshman 
lar season.

issues cost among the Southeastern 
Miss went just 4-7 this year. Hobert Lane entering ·the mix. Cutcliffn ml't with Khavathim his job. Conference's worst. The Hebels were 3-5 in the 
After a win over then-No. 25 and Boone earlier this wi~l'kCutcliffe "lie preferred the status quo, SEC and lost four games by a South Carolina, the Rebels lost after the Hebels !'ompletPd thl)
was !'ired keeping things how they arc," total of 19 points. four straight ~ three to season by beating rivalWednesday, Boone said. "I didn't IH~ar a Manning, now the starter for 
ranked teams. Mississippi State 20-3 last
following the 

plan to make that better." the New York Giants, said he "It's essential that the foot­Saturday.H e b <' I s ' Assistant coaches will was disappointed by the firing. ball program be competitive. "We had a di!Tnrcnt view ofworst season Cutcliffe remain employed until the new "Coach Cutcliffe and I had a It's not now-and-then competi­
what was required to movp tlw

in 10 years. coach decides whether to 
great run and great relation­tive. It's every-year competi­program up," Khayat said.The usually stoic Cutcliffe retain them, Boone said. ship, and I think he's a great tive," chancellor Hobert Cuteliffe was the only roachfought through tears several Boone and Khayat will lead coach and a great person," 
Khayat said. "We expect our in school history to win at !Past
times while speaking regretful­the search for a new coach. Manning said. "Ile definitely 
program to be outstanding, to seven games in his first fivp
ly about his final season in Boone is looking for a high­left Ole Miss a better place be moving forward. We will years.
Oxford. energy coach with previous than when he came in. I know not accept ... mediocrity." After last snason's success."Things just haven't been experience and reputations for 
·he'll be fine." Boone said he had live can­his contract was extend!•cl. lie•good in 2004," he said. having aggressive defenses Cutcliffe, the former offen­didates in mind, but declined has three years rnmaining on alie declined to discuss and creative offenses. 
sive coordinator and quarter­to identify them. SpPculation deal that pays about $1.2 mil­
specifics of his dismissal, 

Under Cutcliffe, "we had backs coach at Tennessee, had has already surfaced around lion annually, including pPrkswhich eame after two days of peaks and valleys of emotional been criticized for his handling Tommy West of Memphis, Dan and bon uses. meetings with athletic director levels by the players." Boone of the quarterbaek position Hawkins of Boise State and Khayat declined to discuss
Pete Boone and chancellor ·said. "Sometimes they're moti-this season: 
Tyrone Willingham, who was Cutcliffe's contract situation. 
Crowton resigns after third straight losing season at BYU 

AP 

Brigham Young head football coach Gary Crowton yells to his players in the first quarter on Nov. 13, in Provo, Utah. After a dismal season, Crowton said Wednesday he was stepping aside to pursue other job opportunities. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Associated Press 

PHOVO, Utah -BYU coach Gary Crowton agreed to resign Wednesday, ending a four-year stint with the Cougars that began with 12 victories and finished with three straight losing seasons. 
BYU finished 5-6 this season and went 14-21 over the last three, the school's worst three-year run since the early 1960s. 
BYU athletic director Tom I Iolmoe said at a news conference with Crowton that the coach was asked for his resignation. 
"At this time I feel like it's time for me to step down and let the footbali program move on in a different direction," Crowton said. 
lie replaced LaVell Edwards, who turned BYU into one of the most success­ful and entertaining programs in the country before retiring after 29 years as Cougars coach. 
"When I took the job, following LaVel! Edwards was the biggest challenge," Crowton said. 
Jlolmoe, a former NFL assistant and coach at California, said he is not a candi­date to take over as eoach. 
"There will be no coach who applies for this job who will think there will not be pressure," he said. 
Crowton is a former Cougars assistant who was working as offensive coordina­tor with the Chicago Bears, when he was tapped by BYU after the 2000 season. 
Crowton returned to Provo with a widP­open offense that was prolific his first season and brought back memories of 13YU at its best, with Edwards guiding quarterbacks such as Steve Young . .Jim McMahon and Ty Detmer. 
The Cougars started 12-0 under Crowton, making a run at breaking into the Bowl Championship Series before los­ing their !ina! two games. Crowton could never duplicate that success. 
The 2003 season was BYU's worst in 30 years. The Cougars went 4-8, won only one home game and ended tlw season with a 3-0 loss to rival Utah that snapped a 28-year run o!' not being shut out. 
This season started out well with BYU beating Notm Dame 20-17. The Cougars also came within a missed last-se(:ond field goal of beating Boise State. They were 5-4 going into their final two gan11~s. 
Trying to beeome bowl nligible, tlw Utes lost 21-14 at home to N!)\N Mexico and ended the season with a 52-21 loss to tlw Utes in Salt Lake City. 
Crowton lost a strong supportc~r in tlw program when athletic director Val llale, a former high school tnamplate or Crowton's in Orem, was fired Sept. 8. 
Crowton said he wants to get back into coaching and would pursue other job opportunities. 
"l wish I would had gotten more wins. In this business, that's what it's about ­getting wins," he said before) leaving the news cnnfcrence. 
The Obser~er accepts classifie.ds every business day. from8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ~t, the None Dame office. 024 South Dmmg Hall. Deadhne for next-day class1fieds IS 3 p.m. Al classli1eds must be prqlJld. . The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
,.  WANTED Work for Better World Books Earn $7·8/hr plus overtime from Dec. 8­Jan 31 Email paul@betterworld­books com Need responsible female with own transportation to stay with my teenage daughter in my home in Granger from Dec. 5 through Dec. 9. Live in but needed in home during evening hours and overnight. Fee negotiable. Call Patrick Parten 1-800-446-2574, ext. 3075 or at home 1-574-247-9220.  Interested in a lucrative career in Pharmaceutical Sales? www.beapharmarep.com FoR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY­ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032.  2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from ND MMMRentals.com 532-1408 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. W/D, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAIL NOW CALL JOE CRIMMINS:574-229­3659 OR 679-201 0. NEW 3-4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. SAFE,CLOSE TO CAMPUS,2-CAR GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY ROOM,LARGE DECK. $1,660/MO. CALL 1-574-232-4527, OR 1-269­683-5038  2 bdrm,1 bth house for rent. 425 Napoleon. Walk to campus $575 p/mo. 273­4682. MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom, 2.5 bath, 1 ,200 sq.ft + full basement + 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574·273-9000. COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms -2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@ earthlink. net  Large 4-bdrm,2.5 bath home, 1.2 miles north of ND. Lvg.room,dining room, large kitchen.fam room w/frplc. 3-season patio wlbuilt-in BBO & much more. Call Wayne 574-339-1638 PERSONAL Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­800-678-6386  ADOPTION: Help us complete our family, baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan 877-895-9790 Toll free. Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps Call for group discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1-800­648·4849 www ststravelcom ------­FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;lnternet connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd jobs@brainfuse.com Why are there so many songs about rainbows, and what's on the other side? 0. What's brown and sticky? A. Astick.  
. . . .  

-----~---~~--------------~--~----------------------------~------------------------------------~~--------~ 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NFL 
McNair considering retireinent after coinpleting season 
Titans quarterback cites health concerns, family responsibilities as reasons to potentially walk away from football 
Associated Press injured. That's kind of frustrat­after a 31-21 loss to the Houston one of the worse as far as me people how hard it is for me 
ing," McNair said. "That frus­Texans in which McNair turned not being on the field," he said. after a game to get out of my 
NASIIVILLE, Tenn. trates you mentally because you the ball over three times. Coach "I've been doing that for a long bed or go out and play toss with Tennessee Titans quarterback can't do things as a father that Jeff Fisher talked with his quar­time, and my body right now, it's my little boy," he said. "Ana Steve McNair isn't backing away you need to do. terback that night and again saying one thing and my mind is that's the frustrating part about from his talk that he will consid­"I want to be able to play Monday and said McNair was saying another." it -not being able to do the er retirement after this season, catch. I want to be able to go out frustrated over the loss. McNair aggravated his bruised things I normally would do if I and said Wednesday his health and do the things with my kids Given a chance to back off his sternum in last weekend's loss, was healthy." and spending more time with his that a normal father would do. I own comments, McNair refused an injury that put him in the McNair only watched practice childn~n are his top concerns. can't do it banged up. That's the on Wednesday. hospital for two nights in Wednesday, and Fisher said the 
"It's frustrating when you've biggest consideration right now." "It's nothing to do with this September and kept him out of quarterback likely won't do any­got a 6-year-old boy (who) asks The 2003 co-MVP originally football team or what position three games completely. Twice. thing on Thursday either. you to go play catch. and you've said Sunday he would evaluate we are in right now. It's all about he was knocked out of games. Titans owner Bud Adams told 
ot to tnll him no because ou're his football future immediately my health. This year has been That's the most playing time Houston television station KHIV he has missed since 1999, when on Monday that it's important he sat out five games because of that McNair keep playing. The surgery to repair a disc in his franchise is 77-48 when McNair
INSTITUTE for 

lower back. starts. but Adams said any deci­
But the man who has played sion McNair makes will not be through at least 24 separate based on money. injuries and six operations or "He is a real conservative guy. procedures before this season is He's hung on to his money and used to pain. His misery stems has a lot of it in the bank. If he from what he can't do at home. wanted to hang 'em up. he 
"Nobody understands but me would be fixed for the rest of h·is and probably a couple other life," Adams said. 
Latino studies 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 3 Illinois defeats No.1 Detnon Deacons 
The Institute for Latino Studies proudly presents: 
David Rivera 
Associated Press Assembly Hall. They beat then­No. 1 Michigan State 57-55 in 
CHAMPAIGN. Ill. -Top­1979 -though if it's any conso­ranked t.eams might want to
A Presentation on Chicago 
lation to the Demon Deacons, the 

think twice about visiting 
Spartans still went on to win the Assembly Hall. 

national championship that year.

Hoger Powell Jr. scored 19 Illinois (5-0) has now won 35
Matters Docutnentary 
points, Dee Brown and Luther 
straight at home against non­

Head added 16 each and No. 5 conference opponents, a streak Illinois made No. 1 Wake Forest that dates back to Nov. 17. 1998. 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 
look more like a nonconference The Illini are 67-3 overall at 
patsy in a 91-73 rout Wednesday 
Assembly Hall since the 2000-01 night. The Illini led by double­
season.

7:00-9:00 PM 
digits for the last 28-plus min­
Wake Forest (5-1) opened the utes of the game, and were up by 
season 5-0 and climbed to No. 1 as much as 32 in the second half. 
for the first time in school histo­

Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
With 8:34 still to play, the 
ry. Though the Demon Deacons "Orange Krush" student section

University of Notre Dame 
had impressive spurts on their broke into chants of "OVEHRAT­way to winning the preseasonED!" In the final minutes of the NIT last weekend at Madison 

game, there were chants of 
Square Garden, they also looked "WE'HE No.1." 

at times like a team still trying to The Illini have now beaten find its rhythm, getting tested byboth No. 1 teams that visited 

both Providence and then-No. 18 Arizona. But the lllini are a cut above Providence and Arizona, and the

Film Screening: 
Demon Deacons were no match for them. Especially not on "Paint the Hall Orange" night. when the 16,500-seat Assembly Hall was sold out with almost all of the fans in bright orange.

''The Terrorists are Among 
Even Illini coach Bruce Weber was sporting a dayglo orange blazer. so loud even Wake Forest
Us'' 
coach Skip Prosser had to chuck­le when they shook hands before the game. 

Jihad in America 
That was about all that made Prosser and the Deacons laugh. The Demon Deacons were held to 39 percent shooting, and two of their best players were never a factor. Chris Paul, the leading

Thursday, December 2nd 
vote-getter on the AP's presea­son All-America team, had just 
10 while Justin Gray, MVP of the preseason NIT. had 11. 
Eric Williams, the other mem­ber of Wake Forest's big three. had 18 on 7-of-13 shooting. 
Though the Demon Deacons 

7pm, Debartolo 118 
***FREE PIZZA PROVIDED*** 
had a definite size advantage inside, Illinois never let them use it. harassing and badgering them anytime they tried to get close to 

Sponsored by the Foundatio~ for the Defense of Democracies 
the basket. And Wake had no answer for Illinois' speed -or its smoothness. 


OUND THE NATION 
page 14 
CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WJRE SERVICES Tl d l) l .... 2 ~JcJ 4
, 1urs ay, ecem )t'l" .!.., , 
AP Women's Basketball Poll 
team record points 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

1 
2 
3 4 5 
6 7 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 
25 
lSU (42) 
North Carolina (1) NOTRE DAME Tennessee Stanford Georgia Texas (1) Connecticut Baylor Duke Ohio State Texas Tech Vanderbilt Purdue Michigan State Rutgers DePaul Minnesota Kansas State Boston College Louisiana Tech Maryland TCU Villanova UCLA 
7·0 5·0 6·0 4·1 5·0 4·1 
2-2 
H 
3·1 5·1 5·1 
H 4·0 3·0 4·1 4·0 4·0 4·1 3·1 
3-1 
2·0 3·1 5·1 
3·1 
3·1 
1,098 996 948 923 919 857 840 805 777 726 
669 
529 527 
496 493 395 
388 
364 
306 
294 
188 
169 147 
90 88 
College Football Polls 
Coaches 

team 1 usc {48) 2 Oklahoma {6) 3 Auburn (7) 4 California 5 Texas 6 Utah 7 Georgia 8 Louisville 9 Miami 10 Boise State 11 VIrginia Tech 12 LSU 13 Michigan 14 Iowa 15 Tennessee 16 florida Slate 17 Wisconsin 18 VIrginia 19 Florida 20 Texas Tech 21 Pittsburgh 22 Ohio State 23 Arizona Slate 24 West VIrginia 25 Texas A&M 
AP 
team 
usc 
Oklahoma Auburn California Utah Texas Louisville Georgia Miami VIrginia Tech Boise State Iowa LSU Michigan Tennessee florida Stale Wisconsin Virginia Pittsburgh Florida Arizona State TexasA&M Boston College Texas tech Ohio State 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

Associ a ted Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.­Gerry DiNardo is now the latest coach to have failed to reverse the fortunes of the long-ailing Indiana football program. 
DiNardo's firing was announced Wednesday, 11• days after the Hoosiers ended a 3-8 season with a 63-24 loss to Purdue, their seventh loss in eight years in the Old Oaken Bucket game. It was his third losing season. 
The firing is the first major coaching change by athletic director Rick Greenspan since he was hired in September as the school's fourth AD in a little more than three years. 
Greenspan said Wednesday there was a "sense of urgency" for turn­ing around a football pro­gram that has not had a winning season since going 7-4 in 1994 -the 11th of Bill Mallory's 13 seasons as coach. 
"The goal for us is to build a viable program," Greenspan said. "We're going to have some urgency." 
A telephone message seeking comment from DiNardo, who replaced Cam Cameron after the 2001 season, was left Wednesday at his home. 

DiNardo had an 8-27 record in three seasons. Freed Eichhorn, president of the school's Board of Trustees, said that record and declining attendance at games were factors in the decision to fire DiNardo. 
"If you've got a problem, you don't continue the prob· !em," Eichhorn said. 
The team will start next season with its third head coach in five seasons. 
Greenspan said none of DiNardo's assistant coaches have been fired and that he hoped some of them would be retained by the new coach. He said he planned to conduct a wide search for DiNardo's replacement, looking at both th1~ collcgP and professional ranks. 
Greenspan would not say. however, whether DiNardo's three-year tenure was a sign that the new coach needed to produce quick improvement') on the field. 
"I don't believe in quick fixes," he said. "I do believe in looking at trends and pat­terns." 
One of those patterns is declining attendance. Crowds averaged about 28,400 this season in Indiana's 52,000-scat Memorial Stadium -down from about 35,000 the year before and the 12th straight year attendance averaged less than 40,000. 
IN BRIEF 

Pistons ban two fans from 
Palace after brawl 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich.-Two men were banned from events at The Palace for what the Detroit Pistons say is their involvement in last month's brawl during an NBA game. 
John Green and Charlie Haddad have been sent letters informing them of the ban, which also includes events at DTE Energy Music Theatre in Clarkston, Pistons spokesman Matt Dobek said Wednesday. The Clarkston location is another holding of the Palace Sports and Entertainment organization. 
Green, of Oakland County's West Bloomfield Township, is accused of lobbing a cup at Indiana Pacers for­ward Ron Artest on Nov. 19, spark· ing the brawl. Haddad, of Burt, ran onto the court that night, Dobek said. 
The brawl spilled into the stands and led to three Indiana players being suspended for 25 or more games -including a season-long penalty for Artest. 

"That's ridiculous. Are they going to ban Artest and the other Pacers who ran into the stands and beat up nn our fans and the people that live in this community," Shawn Smith, Green's attorney, said Wednesday. "They're completely picking on the little guy .... It's not fair." Baker resigns as IHSAA sports information director 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jerry Baker, longtime broadcaster and member of the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame, is leaving the staff of the Indiana High School Athletic Association after three years as sports information director. 
Baker's resignation, announced Wednesday by IHSAA Commissioner Blake Ress, is effective Jan. 31. 
"During my tenure with the IHSAA, I have learned a great deal about the inner workings of the organization .... l had no concept of just how compli­cated it is for such an organization to facilitate the needs and demands of nearly 400 member schools," he said. 
Baker, former radio voic1~ of tlw Indiana Pacers and TV announcn for II-ISAA championship events since 1978, said he plans to continue his broadcasting career. lie currently is a part of the broadcast team for tlH~ Indy Racing League. Pace~ sign Haislip to helpreplemsh roster 
INDIANAPOLIS -The short-hand­ed Indiana Pacers signed former Milwaukee Bucks forward Marcus Haislip on Wednesday. 
Haislip, a 2002 draft pick out of Tennessee, was waived by the Bucks when they signed Marcus Fizer last month. In 70 games for the Bucks over the last two seasons, the 6-foot­1 0, 230-pound Haislip averaged 3.b points and 1.5 rebounds 
The Pacers' roster has been deplet­ed by injuries and suspensions. Hon Artest, Stephen Jackson, Jermainc O'Neal and Anthony Johnson wrre suspended for fighting with Detroit fans, and Jeff Foster. HnggiP Miller and Jonathan Bender are injun~d. 
CUSCHO Division I  
Hockey Poll  
team  record  points  
1  Minnesota  10·3·0  596  
2  Boston College  6·2·2  527  
3  Colorado College  10·2·0  512  
4  Wisconsin  10·4·0  503  
5  Michigan  9·4·1  440  
6  North Dakota  9·5·5  353  
7  Denver  8·5·0  309  
8  Now Hampshire  8·3·2  307  
9  Ohio Slate  9·4·1  282  
10  Maine  9·6·1  267  
11  Vermont  8·4·3  202  
12  Cornell  5·2·2  151  
13  Colgate  10·4-0  100  
14  Minnesota-Duluth  7·5·2  93  
15  Northern Michigan  6-4·2  56  

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Nebraska vs. UAB 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Duke vs. Tennessee 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Toledo vs. Miami (Ohio) 7:30 p.m. ESPN 
NBA 

Houston vs. Dallas 8 p.m., TNT Cleveland vs. Denver 10:30 p.m., TNT 
.. 
' I ' 

' ' ' Thurdsay, December 2, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles blovv halftim_e lead in loss 
post in the second half to finish themselves on the wrong endBy: CHRIS KHOREY with 14. of a 23-4 run and suddenly
Sports Writer 
The Belles looked sharp to faced a 10-point deficit. start the game, as Katie Boyce, Baskets by Bridget Boyce and 
At halftime, it looked as if St. Bridget's sister, scored two Bridget Lipke brought the Mary's would continue its win­quick fast break layups on game back to 63-56. but the ning streak. steals. Albion countered and Belles could not get any closer. 
The Belles led 37-32 and had the game swung back and forth ALBION 71, SAINT MARY'S 62 dominated much of the first for much of the first few min­
at the KRESGE GYMNASIUM half action, building a lead as utes. large as 11 points. However, Then, after a Babcock jump­SAINT MARY'S (3-3, 0-1) 
Boyce. K. 2-5 2-2 6, Lipke 3-5 1-2 8,

the team fell apart in the sec­shot brought the Britons to 
Kessler 2-5 0-1 4, Broderick 1-2 0-1 2.

ond half and lost to the Albion within 15-14, the Belles went 
Mullen 1-2 1-2 3, Boyc~. B 9-14 0-2 22, Britons 71-62 Wednesday night on a 13-5 run led by two 3-Bush 3-4 0-0 7. Creachbaum 5-8 0-0 10. at Kresge Gymnasium in pointers by Bridge Boyce. 
ALBION (4-1, 1-0) 

Albion, Mich. The Belles continued to 
Fornett 1-4 0-0 2, Matthew 1-1 0-0 3,

Bridget Boyce led the Belles extend their lead and led 37-26 
Glynn 0-5 0-0 0, Marcuz 2-3 2-4 7. with 22 points, 15 coming in with only two minutes left in Guimond 2-3 1-2 6, Thompson 3-10 0-0 the first half, but got little help the first half. However, a 3-8, Babcock 5-8 1-3 11, Caskey 6-12 7-9 
20 Meyer 0-2 0-0 4, Sventicus 6-11 2-2

from her teammates. The point shot by substitute 
14.

team's only other double figure Christine Mathew and an old­scorer was Emily Creachbaum, fashioned three-point play by 1st 2nd Total 
who chipped in 10 points down Caskey reduced the halftime SAINT MARY'S 37 25 62 
ALBION 32 39 71

low. lead to five. On the bright side for Saint In the second half, both 
3-point goals: Saint Mary's 6-14 (Boyce.Mary's, eight players scored at teams started cold but Saint. K. 0-1, Lipke. B. 1-2. Kessler 0-1. least two points, showing that Mary's was able to extend its Broderick 0-1. Boyce, B. 4-7, Bush 1-1. 
Creachbaum 0-1). Albion 7-20(Matthew

coach Suzanne Bellina has lead to 46-39. It was there, 
1-1, Glynn 0-3, Marcuz 1-1. Guimond 1­

however. that the game started
depth to bring off the bench. 2, Thomson 2-5, Babcock 1-5). Fouled Guard Sarah Caskey led the sliding away from the Belles. out: None. Rebounds: Saint Mary's 21 Britons with 20 points, includ­Guard Vanessa Thompson (Lipke. 5), Albion 39 (Caskey 9). Assists: Saint Mary's 18 (Lipke. Boyke, K. 5),
ing several key free throws to made two 3-pointers to pull the 
Albion 16 (Caskey, Thompson, Sventicus.

ice the game in the final min­Britons within one and 
3). Total fouls: Saint Mary's 17. Albion 

utes. Forward Jessica Babcock Sventicus scored inside to give 15. came off the bench to score 11 Albion its first lead since early points, and forward Ruth in the first half at 52-51. Contact Chris Khorey at SvPnticus dominated the low All in all, the Belles found ckhorey@nd.edu 
NO MEN'S SWIMMING 
Team to host Notre Dame Invitational 
Swimmers looks to improve race times 
Sophomore Tobin White fell
By: ANN LOUGHERY 
just short of breaking a pool
Sports Writer 

record, clocking 50.89 seconds 
in the 50 free behind Gered 
For the No. 21 Irish (6-1). Doherty's pool record of 50.7 this weekend's Notre Dame seconds. White also helped Invitational isn't solely a mat­bolster the 200 medley and ter of winning and losing. 200 free relays to victories. 
"This is the half-time While Truman State's last report," coach Tim Welsh competition featured impres­said. "Excellence of time and sive performances by junior excellence of Josh Otis and place is what sophomore Hobert we're looking "Excellence of time Fletcher, the for, but [placing Bulldogs (2-3) lost
and excellence of
high] without to Missouri-Rolla 
good times will place is what we're 124-81 on Nov. not be satisfy­looking for, but 13. Otis won the ing." 200 IM finishing
[placing high} with­
Ten men's with 1:56.92,
out good times will
teams and 12 while Fletcher women's teams not be satisfying. " cruised to first will travel from place in the 200­all over the yard backstroke
Tim Welsh 
country to com­with 1:55.99. 
Irish coach 
pete in the Notre Dame is three day invi-looking to surpass tational, which the team's season­begins this morning at 10 a.m. al best times and measure its Welsh said he expects to see progress after the Irish over­














impressive performances from whelmed Louisville on Nov. 21 
West Virginia, Columbia, and 242-117. Senior Frank 
Truman State Krakowski exem­
among others. plified the team's 
West Virginia "Everyone is clear talent and poten­
(3-3) is hoping tial, as he won 
on what the goals 
to redeem itself both the 100 fly after losing to are. and 100 free, Western while also helping Kentucky 102-the 200 medley
Tim Welsh 
138 on Nov. 13. relay to a first
Irish coach 
Freshman place finish. P a b 1 o Welsh said that Marmolejo he expects a simi­looks to be a tough competitor larly outstanding performance this weekend after leading the from the team this weekend. Mountaineers with wins in the "Everyone is clear on what 100 free (9:56.90) and 200 the goals are," Welsh said. free (1:54.34). "We just have to be focused 
After winning their home and intense from the moment opener Nov. 22. Columbia's the gun goes off." team will be looking to build on its success. Columbia (1-1) Contact Ann Loughery at defeated Fordham 168-131. alougher@nd.edu 
NEVER STOP EXPLORINGTM 
A thick ~eece 
coat is perfect for winter. 
Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 
DUTPDST Hours:
4746 N. Racine at Lawrence & Broadway 
--. Mon.-Fri.: 2o:oo am-9:00pm
~
TICKETS AT ALL TICKETMASTER OUTLETS 
Sat.: w:oo am -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 22:00 pm -6:oopm
ticketmaster.com or 574-272-7979 
www.Jamusa.com 

--------'-----------~------~-.:.__] 



' ' 
' 

page 16 Thursday, December 2, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Switntners and divers split up this weekend 
el with the team, staying in
By ERIC RETTER 

South Bend because of LSAT 
Sports Writer 

testing. 
"It will definitely take points 
Like couples in all long-term out of the meets, but that's how relationships. the No. 21 Irish it is right now," Weathers said. swimming and diving teams arc The team will also be missing taking a weekend apart to fol­a few swimmers because of low their own paths. injury. but Weathers declined to 
The swimmers will travel to comment on the nature of those Athens. Ga., to compete in the injuries. Georgia Invitation-al. The pres­On the other hand, the divers tigious event. which will feature will stay in South Bend and play top-ranked Georgia host to the Notre and top-10 power Dame Invitation­California, will be "It will go as the al, facing off the Irish's biggest. against Denver
culmination of
measuring stick to and Truman
what we've been
date. State, among 
"It will go as the doing this fall. " other teams. culmination of what While these we've been doing teams will bring
Bailey Weathers 
this fall." coach both swimmers 
Irish Coach
Bailey Weathers and divers, Rolfs said. Aquatic Center 
The tPam will be will only be led by freshman Caroline defended by the Irish divers. Johnson and sophomores Senior Meghan Perry-Eaton, Jessica Stephens and Ellen who is a 2004 All-American and .Johnson. all of whom have had owns 11 victories out of the 12 excellent seasons. Caroline events she has competed in, will .Johnson leads the swimmers lead the divers. with 12 overall victories. with Weathers is pleased she will Stephens and Ellen Johnson be able compete in a bigger close behind with I 0 and nine, event against more people. respectively. "The competition will be good 
While many of the team's top for her. the diving is as good or swimmers will be in the pool better than the swimming," he this weekend. however, the Irish said. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Alexander Blachly, Director 
George Frideric Handel's 
Messiah 
8:00 Thursday, December 2, 2004 Friday, December 3, 2004 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General admission $6; faculty Istaff $5; seniors $4; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 

Sign up early and save! 
Prices are changing in 2005, but sign up before January 1 and get this yearls prices plus save an additional $100!* 
Course: 2004 Price: 2005 Price: You save: Promo Code: GRE $949 $1049 $150! NAMQ404GRA 
In addition, alllSAT courses are $100 off if you enroll by the New Year! *You must use promo codesat time of registration to save. Offer not valid with other discounts. 
Short on cash before the holidays? 
Sign up for ourpaymentplan, which is completely interest free and same as cash! Mention this ad by December 31, 2004 and we can save you the $25 service charge. 
_..,-­

Seats are limited. Enroll today!
/I..I1e Princeton Review .com I soo:..2Review
l.::!inceton 
Review 
Better Scores. Better Schools. 
~~~t( ......., >J:<I,I,.Vl,>:ffi_._~!fi.,V 't'ff~>'.l''ft(:Jiil'·~ :IS~'IN'll ~.jf u'ftl~ ~;_'\$ ~~~«tl.d-u~'l-'\r.fll'·, iiWJ'N.,....,..,..._., (.-ftOt'.~li'i~lV.,._"46rr.,t~¥nT~I.. 
.' 

'.. ' 

------·~·-------­
..' ' 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish come home to face Mich. St. 
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 5 • 3:00 pm 
Gelt)e cgeleb~a,i;e t!;e 1:3erMe>1J wftb 1:3lk1J9 !leb!.,_....,7k7J4 raditional Christmas Songs and Carols ~~{.1/t/tics Terrific Choirs-Penn High School &South Bend Symphonic Choir """"""'NG"-""WI'IS<*""'.,.W<I>·"' 
Two Handbell Choirs from Sunnyside Presbyterian &First Presbyterian "The Snowman"-Astory for kids Top Christmas Tunes from Mannheim Steamroller The Many Moods of Christmas by Robert Shaw Tsanta Claus! 
Tickets Starting at: Adults $16 • Student/Child $8 
574-235-9190 
:.......-llht.CiG
...··.·~·

endsymphony.com 0 ~~rT~ =~~-:.... 
Concert Sponsor 
ic 

CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer Irish guard Meghan Duffy drives to the basket against USC on Nov. 26. Duffy and her teammates face Michigan State tonight. 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame returns to the Joyce Center tonight -where it has won 24 straight games -to face its third ranked opponent of the early-season schedule, this time against No. 15 Michigan State at 7 p.m. 
The Spartans (4-1) are look­ing to rebound after their first loss of the season -an 80-75 defeat to Texas Christian Sunday. Meanwhile, the No. 3 Irish (7 -0) haven't played at horne since facing Colorado State Nov. 22. 
"They're just a really good team," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said of Michigan State. "They have a great inside and outside game. They play great defense and they present a lot of match-up problems for us." 
Lindsay Bowen, a second­team All-Big Ten selection who poured in 33 points against TCU including 6-of-11 3-point­ers, is one of the leaders of the Spartans. 
Center Kellie Roehrig also 
gives Michigan State a strong 
inside presence, She was third 
all-time in career field goal per­
centage entering the 2004-05 
season. 

"They're very balanced," Irish 
guard Meghan Duffy said. 
"They have great guards that 
can score and they distribute 
the balL Their post players are 
very physical -a typical Big 
Ten team." 
igan . 
Last season, Michigan State pummeled Notre Dame 92-63 in East Lansing. The Irish hope to return the favor this season. 
"Just from watching the film from last year's game we were extremely disappointed with our effort," Duffy said. "That's the biggest key for [this year's game]. just to come out and have intensity and shut them down defensively." 
Duffy scored 20 points in Notre Dame's 69-59 victory against Valparaiso Tuesday. All­American forward Jacqueline Batteast scored 25 points and grabbed 10 rebounds. 
Batteast tweaked her ankle during practice Wednesday, but should be ready for tonight's game. 
The Irish may be without the services of forward Courtney LaVere, who injured herself during the second half of the Southern California game Frida:t-Assistant sports infor­mation director Chris Masters said LaVere is a game-time decision. 
After two straight road 
games, McGraw said Notre 
Dame is excited to be playing 
again at the Joyce Center. 
"We're just a lot more com­
fortable playing at home in 
front of our home fans," 
McGraw said. 
After tonight's game, the Irish 
have a much-needed week off 
before facing Dayton on 
December 9. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
~"'~(• 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 2004 
FOOTBALL 
Irish decide to attend Insight Bowl 
Bner 'Will serve as interim conch at game 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER A<soci.ttc Sports Editor 
Notre Dame players agreed Wednesday to continue with the team's commitment to partici­pate in the Insight Bowl in Tempe, Ariz .. on Dec. 28, despite thr firing or head coach Tyrone Willingham Tuesday. 
Kent Baer. Willingham's defensive coordinator, will take over interim head coaching duties for the game at Bank One Ballpark. 
White met with a group of seniors early Tuesday to dis­cuss the bowl situation, and then a smaller group or seniors met Tuesday night to discuss the matter as well. A full endorsement didn't come until Wednesday afternoon, when the team announced it would participate in the Insight Bowl with the understanding that Baer would be the coach. 
"I just look it as an opportuni­ty to go out there and perform. I think if you're a competitor and you really love this game, that's what you want to do," Irish linebacker Brandon lloyte said. 
Baer is in his third season as Irish defensive coordinator, after previously spending nine years on the football staff at Utah State, one at Idaho. five at California, three at Arizona State and seven at Stanford. 
"[Baerl was referred by the coaches. and he has said to us, he would be excited to take that challenge and coad1 us in the bowl game," Irish offensive lim•nHLn Hyan Harris said. 
The rest of the coaching staff is expPcted to continue in its roles through the preparation for the bowl game and the game itself. 
Notre Dame will race one of four Pac-1 0 teams -either Arizona State. Oregon State or UCLA. The official announce­ment will be made by the Insight Bowl on Dec. 5. 


Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Washington informally contacted Willinghatn 
Recently-fired coach isn't sure yet what his future plans will be 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Former Irish football coach Tyrone \Villingham. fired by the UnivPrsity Tuesday, said Wednesday he has had infor­mal contact with the University of Washington regarding that school's vacant head coaching posi­tion. 
When asked what his future plans were. Willingham said that he was planning think about things. 
"I will take a step back," Willingham said. "I will relax for a l110ment. I do f!Ot know how long that moment will be, but a moment could be a moment or it could be a week. Then I will reflect on what I need to do, and I will make that decision." 
The Washington position opened up after Keith Gilbertson resigned under pressure in early November after two years as Huskies' head coach. Washington fin­ished this season 1-10 and 0­8 in the Pac-10 Conference. including a 38-3 loss at Notre Dame. Gilbertson was 7-13 in his two years as Washington's head coach. It was Washington's first losing sea­son since 1976. 
Willingham addressed 
reports that he was interest­ed in the job Wednesday. 
"Of course, today there is much speculation. I think. what is already taking place. and I was somewhat sur­prised by what I saw." Willingham said. "Two weeks ago I was contacted by the University of Washington. There was unofficial contact with the University of Washington. lin! any contact with anyone. my position would have been very simply straightforward -'I am the Notre Dame football coach. I came to do this job and only this job."' 
Washington athletic direc­tor Todd Turner said after the announcement of Gilbertson's resignation the school was committed to finding the right coach for the Husky program. 
"Budget aside, I think it's most important that we have the right person in place and our leadership is committed to that and we'll figure it out," Turner said in a Nov. 1 press conference. 
Should Willingham be offered a job at Washington and accept, he would face the Irish in Notre Dame's fourth game of the season, Sept. 24 at Washington. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


84th annual ND football banquet cancelled 
Major event's absence could affect team's recruiting efforts 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Due to the firing of head coach Tyrone Willingham, Notre Dame cancelled its 84th annual football banquet scheduled for Friday night. 
Irish players agreed with the coaching staff and their families to modify the ban­quet to a private dinner. 
The banquet is normally open to the public, with tickets sold for a dinner and the ·presence of a prominent guest speak­er. 
Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White said as early as Tuesday's press conference that closing the ·banquet to the public was a distinct possibility. 
"The football banquet will proceed," White said. "We are in conversation about making the banquet a players, family and coaches banquet only. We'll have an announcement about that here shortly." 
The weekend of the banquet also serves as an important recruiting window for 
Irish coaches. 

On the weekend of Jan. 16, 2003, Willingham welcomed 10 recruits to a banquet that helped secure the coach's best recruiting class in his tenure as head coach. 
Last winter, Bryant Kramer, Ronald Talley and John Kadous were the only three recruits to visit on the weekend of the banquet. 
Kramer (who signed with Illinois) was the only player not to commit to Notre Dame. · 
"I've talked to a number of the guys that were supposed to be in," Mike Frank of IrishEyes.com said. "For the most part, most of these guys are taking a wait-and­see approach to what's going on with the coaching staff." 
Frank said two recruits in particular, Dan Doering (Barrington, Ill.) and Raymond Henderson (Oak Creek, Wise.), could slip out of Irish hands. 
"I think Notre Dame might be hurt on a couple guys because the players want to make an early decision," Frank said. 
"The problem is Notre Dame doesn't have an actual recruiting weekend until January." 
By then, Frank said, many recruits will have made verbal commitments. 
A number of players announce their intentions in early January at the U.S. Army All-Star game on national tel<~vi­sion. 
"In all reality, if they really want to go to Notre Dame. they're going to wait and see who the coach is. d!W!•lop a n~lation­ship and see if they still want to go," Frank said. 
Former Irish lleisman Trophy-winner Haghib "Hocket" Ismail was schedulPd to speak Friday. 
Pormer Notre Dame quarterback Joe Montana spoke at the 83rd annual ban­quet on Dec. 12. 2003. 
The Notre Dame ticket office staff is contacting members of the general public who bought tickets to provide automatic refunds via the initial payment mode. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Gruden officially states he has no interest in ND job 
"I love Notre Dame. I went to that job." about the recent ups and downs 
By MATT LOZAR 
high school there. My dad When asked about the situa­at Notre Dame," Gruden said. Spores Writer 
coached Joe tion in South Bend "But I'm here to talk about the Montana and concerning the Bucs, the Tampa Bay
"/guarantee I'm

The man who was on top of Vagas Ferguson recent struggles of Buccaneers." many people's wish lists in 2001 there," Gruden not a candidate for . the football pro­Gruden has a career 66-48 to replace departed coach Bob said. ''I'm not a gram. Gruden record and is in his third season
[the Notre Dame] 

Davie has said he isn't in the candidate for that deferred to the in Tampa Bay. He was a head
job."

running to replace recently job. I've got the former Notre coach for four seasons with the f'in)d Irish coach Tyrone best job in foot­Dame football Oakland Raiders. Willinp;ham. ball, and I've got Jon Gruden players on his cur­In his first year in Tampa Bay, 
Jon Gruden addressed the to work hard to rent Tampa Bay Gruden led the Buccaneers to a
Buccaneers coach 

media Wednesday afternoon keep it. I wish roster. Super Bowl title. after the Tampa Bay Notre Dame well, "You'd have to Buccaneers' practice about the I'll always be a big fan, but I ask Tim Brown or Sean Mahan. Contact Matt Lozar at Notre Dame coaching situation. guarantee I'm not candidate for They know a little bit more mlozar@nd.edu 


WILLSHORTZ  
56 Longest-running  
member  
57 Brass figure?  
58 First name in  
jazz  
59 Rolled items  
so Cheer starter  
61 Lodge resident  
62 Interior view  
DOWN  
1 Dispatch  
2  shirt  
(colorful  
garment)  
3 "Don't even  
bother trying"  
4 With 23-Down,  
travelin' fathers?  
5 Current amount  lc7-t--t---t­ 
6 Encircle  
7 Prefix with  
conscious  
8 Kind of spray 9 1989 Tom  28 Artist's name formed  33 Lackluster 36 Succeed in life  48 Cowboy's rope 49 Garden bloom  

' 
'' 

, , t ' 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r------------....... Er--------------...;r--------------.
EVERy Til"\E. WE. CUT ~ F R .5 
\ROLL

C05T5, OUR DI5TIUB-g THANK '(QU 0 ~ 
MAYBE 
IT5 ACCESSOR­

UTOR I WALGETCO I TAKE5 ~ SHOPPING AT ~ 
THE GAIN BY DEMANDING ~ e_ 
TOO 


LOWER PRICE5. 
PEANUTS 
1 1 

'{E5, MAAM, I D LIKE TO 6W A C~RISTMAS PRESENT FOR A &IRl 
1 KNOW.. 
LATE. l£5 ARE ON

8 WALGETCO! HAVE ~ 
w 0 
CHARLES SCHULZ  
1 WAS T~INKING MA'<BE A PAIR OF GLOVES...  WOULD IT ~ELP IF 1 DESCRIBED HER?  

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

rJ tJ
1 
©2U04 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ROPAN 

rJ 
1 


LEMDEY 
WHAT HE:R COL­U:GE-BOUNC/ ?ON

(l] 
C/IC/ WHEN MOM TAUGHT HIM TO C/0 LAUNC/RY. 

www.jumble.com 
tHOKOUN I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I t J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here=",..,..........(l1?""""'<"X,..,..........,l,..,..........,l~I~J" ITITJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: WOMEN OUEST ENSIGN ICEBOXYesterday's I 
Answer: She went on a diet because she was­"BIG" ON SWEETS 
CROSSWORD 
.ACROSS 32 Singing brother's
1 Locks 
surname 5 Cut taker 
34 1951 Peter 10 Knock off 
Ustinov role 

13 High in the 35 Olive genus Andes 
36 Scottish 14 Book before Highlanders Nahum 
37 Not fooled by 15 Like some lips 
38 Drops in the air 16 Sports 
39 Bones, to an Illustrated's anatomist 

1998 co­40 Cry from the
Sportsman of bench
the Year 41 An ecclesiastic
17 Case builder 43 Rap sheet data
19 Sought transport digitally 45 Earthen containers
21 Red-faced 47 Whiz kid's
22 Less taxing 
musical key? 23 Deeply piled 
50 Ranch 24 Take to one's alternative heart 
53 Land on the 26 Didn't just Gulf of Finland grumble 
54 Chance to 30 Applies powder explain 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
phonetically 
Hanks film  from his initials  40 "The Bells  50 March day  
10 Buzzi of "Laugh-In" 11 Penetrating reed  29 It may get into a jamb 30 Archaeological  Mary's" 42 Big corporation in copper alloys  51 Picker-upper 52 They're pros 53 Northwestern-most  
12 Polar-izing  site  44 Hunt time  Pennsylvania  
figure?  31 Others, to  46 Aimee of "La  county  
15 With 23-Down,  Octavius  Dolce Vita"  55 Where: Lat.  
hurryin' fathers?  

18 Julio's home 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 20 Flower sites credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
23 See 4-and 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
15-Down Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00025 Old Turkish 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).titles 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 27 Listens solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________~------------­
Address _____________________________________ 
City __________ State -~---Zip__________ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Carol A It, Brad Del son, Bette Midler, Woody Allen 
Happy Birthday: This is the time to lay your cards on the table and let everyone know what you intend to do. There is strength in numbers and, once you collect the support needed, it will be hard to hold you back. This year, get out there and do it. Your numbers are I, 5, 12, 20, 31, 37 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Your options are looking good. Jump at the chance to make the changes that will lead to your future success. The ball's in your cou11. 
***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Prepare to get the lowdown on how someone really feels about you and the way you've been treating him or her. You may have to make some changes. ** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Relationships are going through a high cycle. but that doesn't guarantee things will run smoothly. If you are interested in more than one person. make a choice before you lose out. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make money. but you appear 10 be spending it rapidly as well. You are usually such a spendthrift. lt"s t1me to set a stricter budget for you and your loved ones.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be on top of the world. but don"t let it go to your head. Trust a friend to keep you in line and lead you in the right direction. *** VffiGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone may be waiting for an opportunity to take you down or prove you wrong. Don't trust anyone with your personal thoughts or secrets. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Relationship opportunities are present, and achance to do something nice for someone will make you look good. Don"t let your generosity affect your job. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Think twice about how you are spending your money and in whom you are confiding. A trip planned or taken today will end up costing you emotionally and financially. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be sitting in a good position today. Whatever you do, you will impress others as well as attract interest in yourself and your ideas. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money matters must be cleared up before year-end and today is a perfect day to start. Don't let anyone talk you into a deal that you aren't convinced is right for you. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love is in the picture and if you haven't been telling your partner how much you care, it's time to do so. If you are single and looking for a relationship, now is the time to express yourself. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It may be hard to convince others that your ideas. though unusual, can work. Don't waste too much time on those who lack vision. Consider going it alone. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, cheery and always making people smile You have a strong will and a determined nature, but you also know how to get your way by using finesse and diplomacy. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
•, 
' 

... . ...... 
, , .
0 ' 
' I ' , 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Thursday, December 2, 2004 page 20 
< 
('I've never experienced anything like this in my l{fe. This is brand new to me, and I'm still trying to get used to the whole situation and deal with it., 
VIctor Ablamlrl Irish defensive lineman 
"/ was completely speechless. I'm not even sure how to react." 
Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
"It's just. unfortunate the situation he was in. We all loued playing for him. He Ll'as a great coach. I don't think a lot ofpeople knew whaJ kind ofguy he was. 
, I'm sorry to see him go." 
Anthony Fasano Irish tight end 

Players react 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
The e-mail was sent at 12:30 Tuesday afternoon -there was a meeting at 1 p.m. 
Most thought it was about the Insight Bowl. others weren't quite so sure. 
But according to Irish players Wednesday. none expected the announcement of the firing of head coach Tyronn Willingham at that meeting. 
"As players, we didn't know what was going to happen," oiT<msivn lineman Hyan Harris said. "We knew there would bfl some meas­ures taken. but I believe that if you would have asked any of the play­ers here, no one would havn thought that coach Willingham would not be the coach any longer." 
Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White told the team at Tuesday's meeting that Willingham would no longer be their head coach. 
Shortly after, the team was able to meet with Willingham to talk with him about thn decision their first eight games with Willingham at the helm, they fin­ished 13-150 
"Everybody on this team is responsible for our performance the last two years, and it's a shame he gets blamed for it," Fasano said. "It's really not him. It's our team, it's our coaches and that's really what it comes down to." 
Players commented on Willingham's character and leader­ship abilities. Most said they were sad to see him go. 
"First off, we're losing a great leader," Quinn said. "lie's someone who, without a doubt. leads a life that, I think as a person, many peo­ple should try to imitate. 
Also, as a leader and a coach, he's someone who I was always able to confide in, talk to and get a little extra something from." 
When asked if he thought Willingham had enough time to show what he could do at Notre Dame, Quinn said the coach should have been given more time. 
Willingham was the first Irish coach to be fired before his initial contract expired. 
"If you think about 
it, that's not even 
allowing one of his 
made. "For me [I would recruiting classes to "I was completely get· all the way
want} someone like

shocked," Irish quar­through," Quinn said. terback Brady Quinn coach Willingham. " Quinn also said that said. "It really Wf~nt if asked to look for a from talking about the new head coach, he'd
Brady Quinn 

bowl game to that. I want someonn similar
Irish quarterback 

had no idna. I had no 
idea that was coming. 
It was just shocking." 
Wednesday, Irish players expressed both shock and disap­pointment that Willingham would no longer coach them. 
"I just have a heavy head, a heavy hnart," Irish tight end Anthony Fasano· said. "There's whispers all the time around here about coaching f~hanges. Espeeially at the time it happened -no one on tlw team ever thought it would really happen. 
Irish linebacker Brandon lloyte, who said he wished hn had the character of Willingham, said the team was emotional upon hearing thP JWWS. 
"It was definitely very nmotion­al." lloyte said. "Anger was defi­nitely somnthing that played into it. It was hard, overall, just hard." 
Most of tlw playPrs blanwd their performance as a team for one of tlw reasons Willingham was fired. Tlwsn cornnwnts carne a day after White said Notre Damn wasn't get­ting it done on Saturdays. 
"We as players don't feel we did enough to help coach out," Harris said. "That's not for me to answer if' he got a fair shot. but there is a sentiment among players that we should have dorw more, we could have performed at a higher lnvnl for coaeh." 
Thn Irish f'inished thn r<~gular season with 6-5 reeord. and last S!~ason finished 5-7. They wen~ 21­15 during Willingham's three-year tenure. lloweVPI', after winning to Willingham. 
"For me, II would 
want! someone like coach Willingham," h<~ said. "So, if he's got a twin or someone out thorn he doesn't know about..." 
The Irish quarterback. who start­ed as a true freshman last season, also expressed his gratitude for Willingham's support throughout the past two years and tlw ups and downs. 
"I can't thank him enough just for tho opportunity he's given me, and for the man he's made me these past two years," Quinn said. 
The Irish team now turns to each othnr for support and to move on. But Quinn said it will bn no easy task to achiovn that g<ial 
"Anytime you don't have closure on an issue, especially one where a lot of emotions play a big part, it can be hard for a lot of people to gPt through somi~thing like this," Quinn said. "Hight now, I think what we need to do as a team is rally together and usn this time to get closer." 
So as the coaching search begins, tho Irish l'ind themselves unsure of what tho futuro holds, both for the team and the !wad coaching posi­tion. 
"It's a tough situation," Fasano said. "You think about a lot of things, and you really just worry about your teammates, yourself and tlw ..future of what is going to happen. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
-·----·---­

--. ---------------------------­
+Friday's banquet +Irish still going +Washington interested off to Insight Bowl in Willingham page 18 page 18 page 18 
. '.
0. 

1, •. 
INSIDE 
'There:.:.; a large discussion about African-Americans and what this means. But 
coach Willingham has never, ever, in any speech, , or in any statement to the team, brought race into the equation. " 
Ryan Harris Irish offensive lineman 
"/ think the bottom line is, unfortunately, to a certain extent, you gotta move ·on. And I think that one ofthe greatest things about playing for coaoh Wilingham is being able to face adversity and be able to come out ofit stronger. " 
Brandon Hoyte Irish linebacker 
"It was shocking. It wasn't really expected, to be completely honest. Going into the meeting, it was the farthest thing from my mind." 
Bob Morton Irish offensive lineman 

+Groden not interested +ND Women's hoops in Notre Dame job is home again page 18 page 17 
. ' . . .. . ' . 





