

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 125 FRIDAY, APRIL 16,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Police make another raid on The Library 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Indiana Stat(~ Exeise Police dt(~d 17 undnrage patrons and took thrm~ into eustody in a raid of The Library Irish Pub early Friday morning. 
Lt. c;rng Dnitehley, spokesman for the Distriel 1 exdse of'lice, said ollkers nntnrml the bar at approximately 12:50 a.m. al'ler n~ndving an alnrt from an underc~ovnr policeman inside. 
I>nitehlny confirmed that The Library was only one of several bars that had been targeted for a bust Friday. He said that excise heard reports from several other locations before deciding to raid The Library. 
Poliee dosed doors and asked patrons to present identification upon·exit, issuing minor in a tav­ern citations to eaeh of the 17 who were found to be underage. Some of"the patrons were also ticketed for l'alsn identification, Deitehley said. 
Three patrons were also taken to St. Joseph County Jail on charges of disorderly eonduet, resisting arrest and public intoxi­cation. One of the three, a 20­year old Notre Dame student, attempted to elude officers by hiding under the bar's refrigera­tor, said Lieutenant Marc Mersich of the South Bend Police. Another student of legal age verbally threatened oflicers and tried to foree his way out. South Bend officers wem alerted by exeise police and arrived at the scene as baekup. 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
Lt. Greg Deitchley, left, and bar owner Chuck Hammons, back 
see BUST/page 4 

center, watch excise officers check patrons' Identification. 

Faculty hiring push shrinks classes 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
A~'isram N~ws Editor 
A hiring push that began in IIJIJ3 has translatnd into a lower faeulty-studnnt ratio ­and fnwnr large, anonymous elasses -despite sizeable increases in student enroll­nwnt over the past decade. 
Suggested in Notre Dame's 1993 strategie plan, "A Colloquy for the Year 2000," the push to bring in more full-time instructional faeulty members has allowed the University to eompensate for tlw tmrollment jump -from 7,610 undergraduate stu­dents in 1992 to 8,261 stu­dents in 2002. 
Faculty hiring has more than knpt pace, rising from 608 in the 1990-91 academic year to 760 members in the 2002-03 academic year. As a result, Notre Dame showed the biggest reduction in the country in its faculty-student ratio over the same ten-year pnriod, said viee president and assoeiate provost .John 
see FACULTY/page 6 


Dorm. program. connects students and faculty 
Expanded Hall Fellows program promotes student-faculty interaction outside of classroom 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
For visiting assistant pro­fessor of anthropology Kimbra Smith, interaction between the students and faeulty is an essential part of the college experience ­which would explain why, at 6 p.m., she is in Welsh Family's soeial space, sur­roundnd by girls, bowls and raw fish. 
"It's so great, just spend­ing time with students, mak­ing sushi," she said while slw gently corrects one girl's 
rice-spreading technique. 
Such a scene, whether it be sushi around a table or discussion over a pizza, is not uncommon these days in the seven dorms participat­ing in the Hall Fellows Program. Started in January by the Student Senate's Committee on Student­Faculty Interaction and sup­ported by the Office of the Provost and the Office of Student Activities, the pro­gram aims to expose stu­dents to discussion in a more relaxed setting and to develop the professors' awareness of student resi­dence life. 
"In my experience, there weren't a lot of ways to start a strong student/faculty relationship," said Lauren Williams, academic commis­sioner for Welsh Family and chair of the Committee on Student-Faculty Interaction. "A lot of professors have never even walked into a dorm, so there's a gap that needs to be bridged." 
Academic commissioners from Lyons, Dillon, Keough, O'Neill, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Howard, Keenan and Welsh Family chose from a list of approxi­
mately 50 professors who earlier in the year expressed their interest in becoming Hall Fellows. 
"Exactly what each Hall Fellow does depends on the direction that each Hall Fellow and academic com­missioner decides to do," explained Williams. "The events can center around or be off-shoots of the expert­ise of the professor or sim­ply ideas that interest both the professor and the stu­dents." 
Welsh Family rector 
see FELLOWS/ page 4 

Students to help rebuild community 
By KATE GALES News Writer 

Despite the warm weather, Christmas is in the air for stu­dents, city leaders and mem­bers of the South Bend corn­munity. 
Christmas in April/Hebuil­difig Together, an annual coop­erative ef1'ort to improve a low­income neighborhood in South Bend, will take place Saturday. 
"It's a full day lof'l service where we go out and fix up people's houses," said Karsten Steinhauser, the student coor­dinator of the program. "!We dol the most interesting and oddest types of jobs to improve ... houses for people who are unable to afford it or are phys­ically unable to do it them­selves." 
According to faculty adviser Darrell Paulson, around 900 students have signed up for this year's program -down from previous years, where over 1,000 students would reserve spots. 
"We've had a little bit of a drop this year in student inter­est," Steinhauser said. "Wo'rn still trying to figure out if it's the way we publicized it ... or if it's bncause it's the same day as the MCATs." 
According to Paulsen, a number of students do not show up on the day of' the proj­ect, perhaps because of the 7 
a.m. start time. Nonetheless, he said the event becomes a community effort and is not exclusive to Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"We work with a whole com­munity in South Bend," Paulsen said. "There is a whole group -on April 3 all the skilled laborers lwentl to 26 houses in the South Bend community in one neighbor­hood that the city commission­er picked. (Saturday!, we're 
see CHRISTMAS/page 4 
Friday, April 16, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
The joys of spring 

Suddenly, it hits you. You're sit· ting in DeBartolo, listening to a professor drone on about the latest developments in some earth-shat­tering, life-saving technique that is probably infinite­ly more impor­Ram a tant than the Gottumukkala source of your current distrac­
Assistant

tion. 
Scene Editor 

You take a quick glance out the window and realize ... it's gor­geous outside! Per(ect, breezy, 67 degree weather with scattered white clouds set in a clear blue sky. The harsh winter of South Bend has finally broken and all that you love and loathe about the end of the school year is finally here. 
No matter where you walk these afternoons, Frisbees, footballs and happily frolicking students fill the various quads on campus. With a little luck, you might even be able to lean on your professor to take that discussion class outdoors (while of course insisting it's only in the best interest of holding the class' attention on such a beautiful day). 
Who would have thought that a usually tiring hour and 15-minute class could fly by with a little sun­shine and wind at your back? 
Once again, the spring semester has zoomed by and it is that time to say good-bye to the graduating seniors, who have been mentors, playful bullies and long-time friends. As hard as it is for us lowly underclassmen to concen­trate on upcoming finals and schoolwork, I could only imagine how hard it must be for our gradu­ating seniors to focus a mere month before graduation. 
Even those seniors who have been saying all semester how much they are going to enjoy leaving this wonderful town of South Bend (in perhaps more colorful language than the words I have used) and all the hassles of classes behind, will probably want to return the first chance they get next year. As they take their last few trips to the Grotto and enjoy their last month of walking on hallowed ground, these memories of friends and brothers will hopefully last much longer than their last few weeks among us. 
It seems like just th~ other day that spring semester arrived with that cold blast of harsh January weather. And now it is just a month until the end of the year. 
Three whole months of sitting around doing absolutely nothing (for the lucky few) and, even better still, only five more months until we are back on campus for the start of the new school year and, what is infinitely more important, football season. 
How anyone could concentrate at a time like this is beyond me. It takes someone much greater than me to focus at times like these. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, a headline, photo caption, and photo poll all incorrectly referred to yest~rday's Pass in Review as "Pass and Review." The Observer regrets the errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DID CLASS REGISTRATION GO? 


DeeDee Bryant  Jen Buczkowski  Katie Butler  
Sophomore Pangborn  Freshman Lyons  Sophomore Pangborn  
"I had an early DART time, so my schedule is pretty set. "  "Pretty good, being an athlete helps."  "I had an organic chemistry test during my DART time.''  

Elephant In Argentina treated for stress, 

SANTA FE, Argentina­Veterinarians said they treated a circus elephant for stress on Wednesday, saying the animal appeared "depressed" after spending several days away from her circus troupe. 
The elephant -named "Mesry" -is a leading attraction in a traveling show making appearances in the Argentine interior. 
Last week, Mesry was taken from the circus grounds after local author" ities said a city ordinance prevented such animals 

is awful, but my roommate keeps getting good DART. times." 


Marge Auer Marques Bolden Nicholas Tonozzi 
Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Lyons Siegfried Alumni 
"My DART time "I got my Intro "''m going 


to Jazz." abroad, but I got everything I wanted." 
IN BRIEF 

Flipside is sponsoring of evening of murder and intrigue, with an interactive mystery the­
. atre play. The play will occur tonight at 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company is presenting the tragedy King Lear tonight and Sunday evening at 7:30 p.m. at the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. Tickets cost $5 and may be pur­chased at the LaFortune Student Center box office. 
Student Union Board will spon­sor two showings of Kill Bill star­ing Uma Thurman tonight and Saturday evening at 8 and 10:30 
p.m. The movies will be shown in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Stand-up comedian Bill Bushart will perform tonight at Legends from 10 p.m. to midnight. 
Knott Hall will sponsor its annu­al Knott on the Knoll Saturday from 4 to 10 p.m. Come enjoy free food, music and fun. 
The Hawaii Club will hold a luau from 6:30 to 10 p.m. Saturday in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are currently on-sale at the LaFortune box office and may be purchased for $7. 
As part of Asian Heritage Week, the Chinese Friendship Association will sponsor free food and a film. In the Mood for Love. The dinner and movie will take place Saturday from 7 to 10 p.m. in the Coleman Morse student lounge. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

68 38 


60 38 


Thursday after failing to sur­render himself for booking on a misdemeanor citation for a suspended license charge. 
Authorities went to Gibson's residence to arrest him. With police inside his residence, Gibson began get­ting dressed, putting on a pair of blue jeans. He then suddenly took them off for another pair. 
The officers became suspi­cious and found plastic bags containing crack cocaine and a small amount of mari­juana in the pockets of the first pair. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
from participating in public shows. 
Mesry soon showed signs of distress, authorities said, after being transported to El Recreo, a town 300 miles north of Buenos Aires. 
Veterinarians from the nearby Santa Fe Zoo were called in and recommend­ed that the elephant be moved elsewhere. 
Pant change leads to arrest on drug charges 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -It was a case of being in the wrong pants at the wrong time. Kendrick Gibson, 26, was arrested by police 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: ::c 
"' 
~ 
1.1.1 

3: 
...1 
cC 
(.) 



HIGH LOW 

78 63 

80 58 

.s 
HIGH 73 
LOW 65 

Friday, April 16, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NO study abroad programs expand 
Students unite to 'Take Back the Night' 
Rally and march are part ofsexual assault awareness month 

By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
The University's popular study­abroad programs have expanded again. with students now offered participation in a cooperative Bologna, Italy program and a year­long option in London. 
The Bologna Cooperative Study Program, administrated through Indiana University in Bloomington, will have students from the Universities of Chicago, Illinois, Minnesota. North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin-Madison and Northwestt~rn University. 
"We're sending two students next year." said Tom Bogcnschild, direc­tor of the Notre Dame's International Studies Programs. 
lie said the pro­gram's students will likely be "people concentrating in Italian or something students to study abroad, said Bogenschild. 
"It's hard to tell" how many stu­dents apply, he said, "since we allow students to apply to more than one program at the same time." 
"The number of applications has definitely risen," he said. 
As the numbers increase, the application process has become more selective. 
"We look for academic potential and orientation, but it's not just sim­ply a matter of academics," Bogenschild said. "It's about aca­demic merit, academic potential, but above all, in my mind, it's moti­
vation." 
"The number of applications has definitely risen. " 
Tom Bogenschlld International Studies Programs director 
dosnly rnlated to Italian studies." 
Notn~ Dame's most popular study­abroad program in London has also been modified. 
"London is expanding this year with a year-long option," Bogenschild said. "We'll see how that goes but it's certainly some­thing we'd like to try." 
Notn1 Dame still ranks in the top five universities in its class that send 
The screening process is also designed to prevent students who simply are looking for a travel opportunity from being chosen. 
"It's an expensive way to travel," Bogenschild said. "If students are simply looking to travel 

around Europe or Southeast Asia, we try to screen those students or orient them in a different direction." 
According to Bogenschild, the programs are "constantly adapting." He does not, however, see any addi­tional programs opening in the immediate future. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
By LISA GALLAGHER 
News Writer 

As part of April being sexu­al assault awareness month, students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross united Thursday in a campus­sponsored Take Back the Night march and rally. 
Take Back the Night is an international event organized in local communities with the purpose of unifying women, men and children in a greater awareness of the violence that occurs against women, children and families. Students and community members who participate in or support this occasion are ready to take a stand against violence and make the night safe for everyone. 
Recent statistics point out that one in four women will be sexually assaulted during her college years. 
Groups such as Feminist Collective, Saint Mary's Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.), Notre Dame's C.A.R.E. team and the Sex Offense Services (SOS) of South Bend, helped make the rally possible. Holy Cross College also helped sponsor the event, and this year marks the first that all three campuses joined together for this cause. 
Student body presidents 
from all three schools were in attendance. 
Saint Mary's student body vice president Sarah Catherine White said the event is aimed at all campus­es and said she hopes more people will participate in next year's night. 
"The turnout for the event is inspiring in that we are try­
ing to change not only as Saint Mary's College, but as a tri-campus community," White said. "I can only hope that this event will grow in the future." 
The march began at Holy Cross College at 
4:30 p.m., pick­
ing up Saint Mary's women at 5:30 and meeting Notre Dame students women of Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross, as well as one male from Holy Cross College. Zins said the hardest part about her job was keep­ing in touch with each person involved and getting the nec­essary approval from Notre Dame for such necessities as T-shirts and advertising. Zins said she initially expected 

"The turnout for the event is inspiring in that we are trying to change not only as Saint Mary's College, but as a tri-campus commmunity. " 
Sarah Catherine White 
Saint Mary's student body vice president 
only about 30 Saint Mary's stu­dents to attend the rally; howev­er, the turnout was much greater. 
"There were about 115 stu­dents from all three campuses, with Holy Cross and Saint Mary's having a much 
larger turnout 
than expected," Zins said. "The event helps to raise awareness about sexual 

at 6:30 at the Grotto. The assault. With the tri-campus march ended at 7:30 back at involvement, more awareness Saint Mary's for a rally held can be raised than if each at Dalloway's. Food and T­campus participated in the shirts were provided for all event individually." the supporters. Both Zins and White said 
Jackie Zins, president of Take Back the Night creates a 
C.A.R.E. at Saint Mary's, over­supportive atmosphere and saw the events with planning helps educate the community. starting during the first semester. Meetings were held Contact Lisa Gallagher at each week between the lgallaOl@saintmarys.edu 
IRISH STUDIES -UNDERGRADUATE COURSES FALL 2004 
For a full list of courses and course descriptions, see www.nd.edu/,.., irishstud/ 
lANGUAGE Beginning Irish I 4450 IRST 101:01 MWF 10:40-11:30: McKibben Beginning Irish I 4578 IRST 101:02 MWF 1:55-2:45: 0 Conchubhair Beginning Irish II 4614 IRST 102:01 TH 9:30-10:45: McQuillan Beginning Irish II 4319 IRST 102:02 MWF 4:05-4:55: 0 Conchubhair Intermediate Irish 4453 IRST 103:01 MWF 1:55-2:45: McKibben Intermediate Irish 6009 IRST 103:02 TH 12:30-1:45: McQuillan 
DANCE Irish and American Dance 4319 IRST 228:01 MW 4:30-5:45: McKenna 
LITERATURE Women in Irish Oral Tradition 6012 IRST 304:01 TH 2:00-3:15: Bourke Anglo-Irish Literature 6461 IRST 372£:01 MWF 1:55-2:45: Witek Irish Gothic From Union to Troubles 6465 IRST 379C:01 MWF 11:45-12:35: Wurtz 20th Century Irish Literature 5134 IRST 382:01 TH 11:00-12.:15: O'Brien Modern Irish Drama 5093 IRST 4710:01 MW 11:45-1:00: Harris Culture and Politics in Northern Ireland 6493 IRST 476A TH 9:30-10:45: Burgess Versions of Gothic, 1750-1900 6490 IRST 477:01 TH 3:30-4:45: McMinn 
HISTORY The Irish American Experience 4525 IRST 235:0 MW 10:40-11:30: Dolan Irish History I 4626 IRST 326B:Ol MWF 9:35-10:25: Smyth The Fighting Irish Since 1534 6690 IRST 374:01 TH 3:30-4:45: 0 Ciardha The Vikings 5676 IRST 441:01 TH 2:00-3:15 O'Leary 






.. 

Friday, April 16, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 





Bust 
continued from page 1 
The bust came nearly a year to the date after another raid of the bar, as 51 patrons were cited at the Ubrary on April25. 
Pub owner Chuck Hammons 
said  the  bar  
responded  to the  
first  raid  by  

installing over $4,000 worth of camera equipment to prevent underage patrons from enter­ing. 
He claimed offi­cers pushed several people inside as they sealed off the entrance and said bouncers were 

"[Police] have a job to do and I respect that, but I think somewhere along the line rm being 
unfairly targeted. ,, 
Chuck Hammons The Library owner 
unable to check identification for those patrons. 
Deitchley said excise officials would note Hammons' concerns but added that his officers denied forcing anyone past the cameras. 
"I asked my people and they 


ChristiDas 
continued from page 1 
going to go with unskilled volun­teers [the students] and do things like paint, clean out hous­es, rake yards ... basically make it really nice." 
This year, students will travel to Rum Village in southwest South Bend to help the residents of the neighborhood. 
In addition to professionals who donate supplies, Notre Dame Food Services provides breakfast, a boxed lunch and a celebration dinner for the volun­teers. 
Paulsen praised the event 
because  it  is  a  community  
endeavor.  
"Most  people  do  it  just  

fERAs~Xu_s_8-oo_K_s1 
I I 
:• Used Books bought and sold 1• 2.5 Categories of Books :• 2.5,000 "Hardback and 1 Paperback books in stock :. Out-of-Print search service 
1• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

·--------------------------· 

said no," Deitchley said. 
Hammons also contested the choice to raid The Library over other larger downtown bars such as Heartland and the State Theatre. 
"[Police] have a job to do and I respect that, but I think some­where along the line I'm being unfairly targeted," he said. 
Dietchley was unable to confirm how many of the 17 cited were Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students, but said campus phone­books were used by officers to identify those who received the minor in a tav­ern charge. 
Police also cited 147 underage patrons at the 

establishment in October 2000, when it was named Finnegan's Irish Pub. Legal action forced owners to sell and rename the bar. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
because," Steinhauser said. "I think it's in the spirit of Notre Dame students to be very involved with service." 
However, he said, "I know for a fact that people do it for serv­ice hours too. 
"A lot of geople don't have the time to put in [to service] on a regular basis. They would really rather go for one big opportunity like this." 
Steinhauser himself has been involved in the program in an indispensable way. 
"He's been doing this for about three years, he's been great," Paulsen said. "He's very instru­mental in getting students involved and has taken a great leadership role." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Open Dail~ 'Jam-Rpm Sun.Nom1-8prn 
1813 South Bend Ave. 
Located in rh~ !;a.JIIC pi:Jce as Betwee-n the Bum;! 
574.993.0310 574.234.8730 





lWOMEN


--£i4
TRUEIt 
"Movers;Who Core®" 
:;f.:-:····  .  
• Residential • Commercial • Packing Servke • Insured &Bonded  • Local & Long Distance • Boxes & Pocking Supplies • Loading & Unloading of Rental lrucks Available  

(5711) 675-9790 
www.lwomenondattuck.com 
Visit Our Box Store/ 
11590 McKinley, Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
Bill chosen as 'The Apprentice' 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Kwame was fired. Bill is hired. 
"The Apprentice" came to its much-anticipated climax Thursday when Donald Trump chose Bill Rancic, the street-smart 32-year-old Internet entrepreneur from Chicago, to be his appren­tice for the next year. 
"Kwame, I think you have an amazing future," said Trump. "You're a brilliant guy, great education, and I have no doubt you're going to be a big success. But right now: Bill, you're hired." 
Rancic edged out fellow finalist Kwame Jackson, the laid-back 29-year-old New Yorker and Harvard MBA, for the Trump-described "dream job of a lifetime" and its $250,000 salary. 
Rancic will get to return home to Chicago to manage the construction of a hotel and residential tower as president of one of Trump's companies. 
"Don't worry, you're going to have plenty of supervision 



Fellows 
continued from page 1 
Candace Carson cites the enthusiasm that both the students and the profes­sors seem to have for the program as an indication 
of its success.  
"There's  such  great  
involvement froll).  every­ 
one,"  Carson  said.  

"Everyone is excited, 
of that building, I don't care Thanks to Bill's team, a if you're president or not," vital sponsor's sign went Trump told him. ''I'll be the missing. one supervising." Thanks to Omarosa on 
The decision closed out a Kwame's team, Jessica two-hour showdown for the Simpson went missing. Then hit NBC reality competition. she disappeared again, Billionaire developer Trump, while Trump tapped his the host, put 16 would-be foot. apprentices through numer­"Today is a great day for ous business tasks -then, entrepreneurs around the 
in the  board- country,"  the  
room, "fired" someone at the  "Don't worry, [Bill  victoriuus Rancic said at  
end  of  each  is] going to have  a news confer­ 
episode. For his final assignment,  plenty of supervision.  ence after the broadcast. T h e  
Bill was  put in  American  
charge  of  a  Donald Trump  Dream is still  
Trump golftournament,  'The Apprentice' host  alive out there, and hard work  
while  Kwame  will  get  you  

handled an appearance by there," he said. "You don't pop star Jessica Simpson at necessarily need to have an one of Trump's Atlantic City Ivy League education or to casino hotels. have millions' of dollars 
The two "bosses" were startup money. It can be each teamed with three done with an idea, hard "employees": previously work and determination." fired "Apprentice" candi­Asked when his job with dates who, possibly still Trump will begin, Rancic nursing grudges, sometimes grinned and replied, "I seemed as much a hin­believe I am on the clock, drance as a help. even as we speak." 
because how many times do professors actually get to come talk to you where you are?" 
Williams plans to contin­ue the program next year, and hopes that starting in September instead of January will encourage more dorms to participate. 
Though the position is unpaid, Smith -one of Welsh Family's two Hall Fellows -considers it invaluable for both the stu­dents and the faculty. 
"One of the problems with college is that most students are stuck with people within a four-year age range. When I was in college I liked interacting with different age groups, and I really appreciated those professors who spent time outside of the class­room getting to know stu­dents," Smith said. "Now it's my turn." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
American Foreign Policy in Iraq and Beyond: 
A debate between conservative radio talk-show host 
·Dennis Prager 
and Political Science Professor 

George Lopez 
Monday, April 19th 138 DeBartolo 7:30PM 
Sponsored in part by Keough Hall 








ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 16, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TliE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Militants free Japanese hostages 
BAGJII>AD. Iraq-Three Japanese were l'n~1~d by their captors Thursday, a day after other kidnappers executed an Italian -the first known killing of a hostage in Iraq's wave of kidnappings. One of the Japanese wept as Sunni clerics tried to comfort her after securing their release. Shocked Italians closed ranks as their prime minister insisted he would not withdraw Italian troops from Iraq aft1~r the slaying of Fabrizio Quattrocchi. 
!lis captors warned they would kill three more Italians in their custody unless U.S. troops hmve the country. Meanwhile, Hussia evacuatod 366 workers from Iraq on the first day of a withdrawal called after the abduc­tions of eight Hussian and Ukrainian work­ers. The eight were kidnapped Monday and freed the next day. Hussia plans to pull out a total of some 800 Hussians and citizens from fornwr Soviet republics. 
South Koreans choose liberal party 
SEOUL, South Korea -South Korean vot­l'rs broke the conservatives' four-decade grip on parlianwnt Thursday. bringing to power a lilwral party that opposed the president's impnachnwnt and may seek closer tics to North KorrHl. The election completes a momentous shirt in South Korean politics, when~ conservative-dominated legislatures haw checked its few progressive presidents, including l'rnsident Hoh Moo-hyun. 
The Uri Party, which had only 49 scats in the outgoing assembly, seized 152 of 299 scats with 99 percent of the vote counted early Friday morning, KBS news reported, eiting official tallies. Its main rival, the con­servative Grand National Party, took only 121 seats. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ventura considers presidency 
Ct\MBHIDGE. Mass. -Hefrcshed from a snnwster as a visiting professor at Harvard University. former pro wrestler and Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura says he's con­sidl~ring an independent run for the White !louse in 2008, although he acknowledges that being leader of the frne world might be too confining for him. 
"That's an issue with me. I love my free­dom," Ventura said in an interview with The Associated Press at his office at the John F. Kenrwdy School of Government. "The part that would bug me is I wouldn't be able to get up in the night and drive to the 7-11 for a Slurpee, not without them blocking off the roads, welding the manhole covers shut, and everything else that goes along with it." 
Terror alerts outpace Justice Dept. 
WASIIINGTON -The number of secret surveillance warrants sought by the FBI has increas1~d 85 percent in tho past three years, a pace that has outstripped the Justice Department's ability to quickly process tlwm. 
Even after warrants are approved, the FBI often docsn 't have enough agents or other personnel with the expertise to conduct the surveillance. And the FBI still is trying to build a cadre of translators-who can under­stand conversations that are intercepted in such languages as Arabic, Pashto and Farsi. 
STATE NEWS 
Priest asks for background checks 
Gt\HY -The top adviser on church law to Gary's Homan Catholic bishop has asked the Vatican to review a rule that requires the 150 priests in the diocese to undergo criminal background checks. 
The Hev. Michael Maginot said the rule is an invasion of privacy and goes beyond reforms ainwd at preventing sexual abuse, the Post­Tribune of Merrillville reported Thursday. 
· Maginot said he is one of three priests who have refused to consent to the background checks. "I told the bishop right out front I'm not complying," he said. 
EGYPT 

Bin Laden releases new audio 
CIA officials say. voice is authentic; tape offers truce with Europe, threatens U.S. 
Associated Press 

CAIRO -A man identify­ing himself as Osama bin Laden offered a "truce" to European countries that do not attack Muslims, saying it would begin when their soldiers leave Islamic nations, according to a recording broadcast Thursday on Arab satellite networks. 
Britain, Germany, Italy and Spain quickly spurned what appeared to be an attempt to drive a wedge between Europe and America. 
The tape, which ran in full at more than seven minutes, also vowed revenge against America for the Israeli assassination of llamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin and denounced the United States as using the Iraq war for corporate profiteering. 
"I announce a truce with the European countries that do not attack Muslim coun­tries," the taped message said as the stations showed an old, still picture of ai­Qaida leader. 
The message said "the door to a truce is open for three months," but the time frame could be extended. "The truce will begin when the last soldier leaves our countries," the speaker said without elaborating. 
A CIA official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the agency conducted a technical analysis of the recording and concluded it is probably authentic. The official said the tape was likely recorded in the past several weeks because of its reference to Israel's killing of Yassin last month. 
The tape made clear overtures to Europeans, calling them "our neighbors north of the Mediter­ranean," and tried to drive a wedge between Europe and the United States. 
Several audio and video­tapes of al-Qaida's No. 2, Ayman al-Zawahri, have been released in recent months, but Thursday's 

A muslim child holds a poster of Osama Bin Laden In New Delhi In response to news that the al-Qalda leader released a new audio tape. 
tape was the first purport­edly from bin Laden since September. Then, a video­tape showed bin Laden climbing down a craggy mountainside with al­Zawahri. 
Ayman Gaballah, editor of Al-Arabiya, said only that the pan-Arab television net­work received the tape from "our sources." He would not say if the tape was received at its head­
. quarters in the United Arab Emirates or in a bureau elsewhere, such as Pakistan or Afghanistan. "From the voice, it seems it is bin Laden, but we are not experts to confirm it," Gaballah said. Al-Jazeera, a Qatar-based 
satellite station, also aired the tape in full. Its chief edi­tor wasn't available for c.omment. 
Sen. Joseph Biden, senior Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Comm­ittee, said on NBC's 'Today" show that bin Laden was "trying to separate us from the Europeans, and Europeans from the U.S. It's an example of how oppor­tunistic he is." 
Sen. Richard Shelby, H­Ala., expressed skepticism about the offer made on the tape. 
"You cannot negotiate with terrorists, especially someone like Osama bin Laden," Shelby told "Today." 
In London, the Foreign Office ruled out any deal with al-Qaida. 
"Their attacks arc against the very idea of co-exis­tence," the Foreign Ofl1cc said. "The right response is to continue to confront ter­rorism, not give in to its demands." 
A British opposition spokesman said the pur­ported truce offered was a sign that the al-Qaida net­work is rattled. 
"It is obviously an attempt by al-Qaida or the associ­ates of al-Qaida, to try and drive a wedge between the coalition," said Michael Ancram, foreign affairs spokesman for the opposi­tion Conservative Party. 

EPA condemns air pollution levels 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Environmental Protection agency told oflicials in 31 states Thursday they must develop new pollution controls because the air in some of their counties, home to more than 150 million people, does not meet air quality standards. 
The EPA. acting under court order, identified all or part of 4 7 4 counties. The localities, mostly in the eastern third of the country and in California, do not meet the federal health stan­dard for smog-causing ozone. Oflicials have three years to develop plans to come into compliance. 
The new standards "are strong medicine" and "will require more actions on your part to achieve clean­er, healthier air," EPA Administrator Mike Leavitt said he told governors of the states. 
Ground-level ozone, a precursor to smog, has been found to be a serious health problems, causing respiratory illnesses. It can be especially damag­ing to the elderly, children and people with asthma. according to health advocates. 
The EPA said that the regions in noncompliance may have to impose new controls on industrial plants, restrict transportation and require 
tougher vehicle inspection programs to clean up their air. Some counties also may have to require tho use of special. cleaner-burning gasoline. 
The EPA already has said it will take actions to reduce pollution from power plants and announced Thursday, in a companion regulation, new requirements aimed at. curtailing air pollution over parks. 
"This isn't about the air getting dirti­er. The air is getting cleaner," said Leavitt. "These new rules arc about our new understanding of health threats, about our standards getting tougher and our national resolve to meet them." 
In the Mendoza College of economics see relatively high staff to teach the total num­ductory courses. Business, while many intro­enrollment in their introduc­ber of students in those three Affleck-Graves said that
Faculty 

ductory courses like account­tory courses. The four intro­[sections] in 'small' classes." because of the hiring push, he continued from page 1 ing or marketing are relative-. ductory political science Layna Mosley, assistant pro­does not anticipate the num­ly small with a courses often fessor of political science and ber of faculty members to Affleck-Graves. number of sec­average around the teacher of an introductory show much growth in the 
The 2002-03 U.S. News and tions offered, the "It's a trade-off. 70 -85 students, International Relations sec­next decade. World Report's student-to­Department of while one section tion this semester, said that "In general we feel that the
You have to have a
faculty ratio for Notre Dame Management of an introducto­the sizes of her next .decade is
couple ofclasses
was 12.74, in comparison offers only one ry Principles of introductory sec­not going to be a
"In general we feel
with the 1992-93 tally of section of its that are bigger and Microeconomics tions have rem­decade of signifi­
13.28. The ratio considers the introductory course has ained constant at that the next cant growth in
in return we'll give 
number of full-time students course that cur­approximately 85-95 students. the faculty," he
decade is not going you lots ofsmall
and the number of full-time reo tly errrolls 270 freshmen Although she said.
to be a decade of
faculty members. about 220 stu­classes and [some] and sophomores said the depart­However, he "We've made significant dents. enrolled this ment has made significant growth said the Univer­
one-on-one 
strides," Affleck-Graves said, Course instruc­semester. new hires, she in the faculty. ,, sity is striving to
opportunities.,,
but added that students tor Tim O'Leary David Russo, said more stu­create more opp­should not expect their entire said that despite the instructor for dents have cho­ortunities for 
John Afffleck-Graves 
experience to be one of small the large class John Affleck-Graves the large Prin­sen to major in undergraduates classes. size, there is still ciple of Micr­the discipline. vice president and to work on an
vice president and 
Departments and colleges plenty of oppor­oeconomics sec­"The size of my associate provost individual basis
associate provost 
differ on class size and num­tunity for stu­tion, said his introductory with faculty on ber of teaching faculty, and dents to have department sim­courses has research proj­some disciplines lend them­more individualized instruc­ply does not have the staff remained fairly constant over ects, and he said he antici­selves better to larger class­tion. necessary to create smaller the last few years ... the class pates a greater number of es, he said. To this end, he "The size ranges depending sections. However, he said he usually is full, or close to it," these opportunities to occur said that students should on the semester and it is hard believes that the class, in she said. in the next decade. expect a mix of mostly small, to tell if it is increasing or combining large lectures with Mosley noted her depart­"We'd like to move more but sone occasionally large, decreasing," he said. "We smaller discussion sections, ment intentionally keeps the toward [giving] more under­classes. haven't had any overcrowding still works. introductory courses below graduates the chance to work 
"It's a "trade-off," he said. issues that I am aware of and "The introductory courses 100 students by using multi­one-on-one with a professor," "You have to have a couple of we get plenty of time meeting in economics have, for many ple sections, but she said that he said. "We're trying to find classes that are bigger and in one-on-one." years, been large -large lec­this strategy also means that creative ways to do that." return we'll give you lots of Within the College of Arts tures, with small discussion fewer upper level courses can small classes and [some] one­and Letters, some depart­sections," he said. "I think it be offered as the faculty are Contact Joe Trombello at on-one opportunities." ments like political science or works. We don't have the deployed teaching the intra-jtrombel@nd.edu 
Affleck-Graves said that 


some departments often experience more teaching pressure in given years than others, based on the number of faculty available and the number of students who major in a particular disci­pline. However, he added that the process usually corrects itself with time. 
"Every year there is teach­ing pressure and teaching slack in some departments, but it usually corrects itself." he said. 
He noted that a rise in the number of faculty who teach at other universities on a vis­iting basis has meant that some departments have less faculty members to work with in a given year, and he also said that departments often using adjunct professors or graduate students to "correct temporary imbalances" in teaching loads. 
While Affleck-Graves said that the University has not had to rely more heavily on adjunct or graduate student teachers in recent years, he noted that more adjuncts than graduate students are used to teach courses in com­parison with a decade ago. 
Professors in several departments that have tradi­tionally housed large lecture courses said that they have seen varying degrees of decrease in class sizes over the last decade. 
Xavier Creary, a chemistry and biochemistry professor, said that he is currently teaching a 145-person section of general chemistry that averaged around 250 stu­dents six years ago. He noted the general chemistry class size was even larger 25 years ago-around 700 students­and that increased hiring and more sections have reduced class size. 
Creary said, however, more work needs to be done. 
"There is still a need for support for these sections in the form of small tutorials and recitation sections which are not offered to all stu­dents," he said. "The total number of faculty in our department has increased by only a few over the last 20 years. This means that other areas, such as graduate courses, receive less attention than in the ideal situation." 



-----------------------------------------~--~~---~~~ ------~ ­
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, April I(>, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,397.46 +19.51
jones • 
Up: Same: Dowp: Composite Volume: 749 119 • 1,562,336,000 
AMEX 1,232.88 -0.94 NASDAQ 2,002.17 -22.68 NYSf 6,569.46 +18.29 S&PSOO 1,128.84 +0.67 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,800.40 0.00 
FTSf IOO(London) 4,505.50 +20.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.59 -0.71 26.66 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.89 -0.44 22.82 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.16 -0.295 25.215 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.34 -0.29 12.08 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) -4.15 -0.93 21.47 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0. 70 +0.36 52.05 10-YEAR NOTE +0.46 +0.20 44.02 5-YEAR NOTE +0.49 +0.17 34.52 3-MONTH BILL -0.75 -0.07 9.27 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.68 37.10 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -2.20 398.3 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.). -2.375 101.5 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 108.2 EURO 0.8345 POUND 0.5584 CANADIAN$ 1.344 
IN BRIEF 
Retailers record strong March sales 
NEW YOHK -A llood of new fashions helped lift many of the nation's retailers to their fourth straight month of solid sales during March. rnsulLo; rdea.o;1~d Thursday show. 
Wal-Mart. Costco, Limited Brands, J.C. Penney and Nordstrom all topp1~d Wall Street forecasts. The n~sults cut across industry sectors, even some of the long-struggling department stores. 
"Tiw month will be the strongest of the year so far." said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist at The International Council of Shopping Centers. Th1~ few exceptions includ1~d Sears and Kohl's, whose sluggish results lagged analysts' expectations. 
Niernira said the International Council of Shopping Center-UBS sales tally should be up 
6.5 percent in March. compared with a 0.2 per­cent decline in the same period a year ago. 
The tally is based on what the industry calls same-store sales, those from stores open at least a year. They arc considered the best meas­ure of a retailer's health. 
Goldman Sachs insider sentenced 
NEW YOHK -A former Goldman Sachs econ­omist was sentenced Friday to nearly three years in prison for relaying an insider bond tip that allowed the firm to make millions of dollars in tainted profiL'i. 
John Youngdahl. 44, was sentenced to two years and nine months in prison -the lightest term possible under federal guidelines. lie pleaded guilty la.'it year to wire fraud, securities fraud and other charges. 
Before he was sentenced, Youngdahl said he was "deeply sorry" for hurting his family, friends and colleagues. 
"Let this be a reminder: We will be relentless in the investigation and prosecution of financial wrongdoing, whether in the boardroom. the back office or on the trading floor," U.S. Attorney David Kelley said. 
The government announced Oct. 31, 2001, that it was ending sales of its benchmark 30­year Trna.'iury bond. Ollicials set a strict 10 a.m. embargo. meaning no one could publicize the information until then. But at 9:35 a.m., a con­sultant hin~d by Goldman who had attended the Tn~asury news conference passed the informa­tion to Youngdahl, who relayed it to a Goldman trader. · 
UNEMPLOYMENT 

New jobless claims hit 360,000 
Claims for unemployment benefits reach highest mark since December 2002 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -New claims for unemployment benefits increased last week by 30,000. the biggest jump in 16 months. Still, analysts said Thursday they believe the labor market has turned a corner, pointing the way to a sus­tainable economic recov­ery. 
The Labor Department reported that there were 360,000 newly unem­ployed workers filing for jobless benefits last week. Only a week earlier, the number was 330.000, the lowest in more than three years. 
The increase was far above the 7,000 rise in nnw claims that analysts had expected. It was the largest one-week ,gain since December 2002. when the country was struggling to rebound from the 2001 recession. 
Analysts pointed to a number of factors that skewed last week's num­ber. For one, it was the first week in a new quar­ter, a time when claims often temporarily surge. 
The four-week moving average for claims, which smooths out some of the volatility, rose a smaller 6,750 to stand at 344,250, still below 350,000 -a level generally seen as raising, interest rates turning point in the econ­mortgag1~ refinancing denoting an improving job sooner than expected. The omy when the numbers begin to wane. market. Dow Jones industrial come in better than Bush. who is hoping for 
Also seen as encourag­average closed up 19.51 expected and revisions to a strong economy to aid ing was the dcclinr~ of points at 10,397.46. previous months arc his re-election chances, continuing claims by The best indication of made upward. told an audience in Iowa 22,000, to 2.98 million the job market's improve­"We have gone from a on Thursday that his tax last week. That was the ment was the report that recovery to a self-sustain­cuts have played an lowest since July 2001 payroll jobs rose by ing, self-reinforcing important role in boosting and an indication that 308,000 in March, the expansion," said Mark the economy. unemployed workers arc biggest one-month Zandi, chief economist at Presumptive Democratic having more luck getting advance in four years and Economy. com. presidential nominee .John work. far above analysts' expec­The rebound in job cre­Kerry said Thursday that 
Wall Street had a lack­tations. In addition, the ation is corning just in his own economic plan luster session Thursday as government revised time, many analysts would provide $225 bil­investors continued to upward the number of believe, because growing lion more in tax cuts for worry that stronger ceo­jobs created in the two employment is needed to the middle class than nomic growth and higher previous months. raise incomes as the Bush has provided while inflation will lead the Economists said that fit . impact of President Bush's scaling back Bush's tax Federal Reserve to start the typical pattern for a tax cuts and waves of cuts for the wealthy. 

AIRLINES 


JetBlue receives first place ranking 
Associated Press  the Transportation Department than  gaining market share because they  
all other airlines but Southwest.  perform well in ways that arc impor­ 
WASIIINGTON - JctBlue was No. 1  Southwest, with 0.14 complaints  tant to their passengers.  
in quality among U.S. airlines in  per 100,000 customers. consistently  It "adds further evidence to the  
2003, the first year that it carried  generates the lowest complaint rate  emerging performance gap between  
enough passengers to be ranked,  in the industry, was rated as the No.  the legacy carriers and the no-frills  
accord·ing  to  an  annual  study  3 carrier in the report.  network carriers," said Brent Bowen,  
released Monday.  Alaska Airlines carne in second,  director  of  the  University  of  
The budget carrier had the second­ America West fourth and US Airways,  Nebraska's aviation institute and  a  
best on-time performance, arriving  ranked No. 1 last year when it was  co-author of the study.  
punctually 86 percent of. the time. So  still in bankruptcy, was fifth.  Dean lleadlcy, the other co-author  
few JetBiue passengers were bumped  Northwest Airlines. which  carne in  and an associate professor of market­ 
that they did not register in the statis­tics used by researchers. Also,  sixth, was the most improved airline in 2003. It ranked ninth in 2002.  ing at Wichita State University, said most of the low-cost carriers were  
JctBlue customers also f'iled fewer·  The study's authors said the ratings  above the industry average on  four  
complaints  -0.31 per 100,000 ­ to  showed that low-cost airlines arc  performance indicators last year.  


Boston University to overhaul board 
Associated Press 
BOSTON Boston University's trustees voted Thursday to overhaul the board in a move likely to weaken for­mer President John Silber's iron grip on the school he headed for most of the past three decades. 
The overhaul includes term limits that would eventually remove many of Silber's long­time allies, some of whom have served for decades. 
Also, the board adopted a new conflict-of-interest policy in response to criticism of BU's payment of $30 million last year to companies and nonprofit organizations in which universi­ty trustees were involved. 
The board also named Alan Leventhal as chairman of the board. He replaces Christopher Barreca, who is stepping down for health reasons. 
"We are at an exciting junc­ture in Boston University's his­tory and I hope to work with my colleagues to continue to build upon our success as a world class university," said Leventhal, calling the board­approved changes a "mile­stone." 
The move follows last year's messy collapse of the school's presidential search, when the trustees hired former NASA chief Daniel S. Goldin as presi­dent, only to back out at the last moment amid rumors of a power struggle between Silber loyalists and Goldin. 
Trustees said the deal with Goldin broke down after he questioned· the financial rela­tionships some trustees had with the university, and sug­gested they amounted to con­flicts of interest. 
After the embarrassing spec­tacle, the trustees -who have long been criticized for their tight ties to Silber -formed a committee to review the board's operations and propose changes. The full board took up the panel's recommendations on Thursday. 
Silber, a hard-charging and often abrasive figure, served as president from 1971 to 1996 before becoming chancellor. He was widely cr.edited with help­ing transform BU from a sec­ond-tier regional university into the nation's fourth-largest pri­vate university. He stepped down as chancellor and a mem­ber of the board when the Goldin deal fell through. 
One expert said the changes by the board would reassure candidates who might other­wise be wary of taking the pres­ident's job. 
"This clears the way for the selection of a new president who will have limited to no con­cerns about the problems of yesteryear," said Sheldon Steinbach, general counsel for the American Council on Education.· 
Rita Bornstein, president of Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla., and author of the book "Legitimacy in the Academic Presidency: From Entrance to Exit," said: "I think what they're doing is excellent. They're cleaning up their act. They're telling the world they're going to play by com­monly accepted rules and they're going to be more than ethical in everything they do and that will help them attract a great president." 
'Divas' show to highlight Si111pson 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Even the folks at VHl admit they didn't really consider Jessica Simpson diva material when they put togeth­er their annual "Divas" extrav­aganza last year. 
"At that point, she was geared a little toward a teen audience," Rick Krim, a VHl executive vice president, said delicately. More bluntly, Simpson was widely regarded as a C-list Britney Spears or Christina Aguilera with dimin­ishing record sales and ques­tionable star power. 
One year later, Simpson's once dull star has not only brightened -it has exploded, ever since she and hubby Nick Lachey turned their marriage over to MTV for the hugely suc­cessful series "Newlyweds: Nick & Jessica." 
Simpson's latest album, "In This Skin," a dud when it was first released last summer. is now platinum and still climb­ing. The couple's April 11 TV special, "The Nick & Jessica Variety Hour," was so success­ful that ABC ordered another for Christmas. Simpson's shoot­ing her own ABC sitcom pilot about a not-so-bright blond celebrity named Jessica Sampson. And then there's her line of lickable perfumes debut­ing this month. 
'The best part about life right now is watching prayers being answered. That's so amazing," Simpson, 23, told The Associated Press in an inter­view. 
And she finally ranks as a diva -in VHl 's eyes, anyway. She's one of the headliners at Sunday's live broadcast from Las Vegas. 
''I've always watched 'Divas,' and I knew I could hang with them. I knew I could do it. And South and having blond hair I think more than anything, it's and having this image growing an honor to be finally respected up as a blonde, but it was just for my voice," Simpson said. something that I always adapt­
Her considerable vocal talent ed to. and made part of my life. is what first made her a teen and made part of my personali­pop starlet. Her 1999 major­ty." label debut, "Sweet Kisses," Now it's part of her shtick, sold almost 2 million copies too. In her new pilot. she plays (though 2001's follow-up, an airhead celebrity who's "Irresistible," wasn't a big sell­tapped by a news magazine to er). join their show in part to boost 
But it's Simpson's personality ratings: "It's kind of like playing 
- a  delightful  myself exagger­ 
mix of ditziness, petulance, whole­some Southern charm and sex appeal -that's now getting her  "The best part about life right now is watching prayers being  ated, so it's really not that much acting," she said. Lachey, the for­mer lead singer for the teen pop  
on magazine cov­ers.  answered."  group Degrees,  98 is  
"She had a moderately suc­ Jessica Simpson  developing own sitcom  his as  
cessful recording  singer  well. But his solo  

career, but as a personality, I don't think people got to see that other side of her, that cap­tivated people,'' said Krim. 
That "other side" happened to be her ditzy side. She's been widely lampooned for her bub­ble-head antics on the "Newlyweds" (like eschewing Buffalo wings because "I don't eat buffalo"). But she's not only accepted her doofus status, she's reveled in it. 
"I think that's what makes it funny, and that's what makes it endearing, is that I'm accepting of the fact that I know I don't think before I talk, and I have my ditzy moments. It's just who I am,'' Simpson said. 
For those who ask, "How can she be that dumb?" the answer is, she's not. She's just acting her hair color. 
"Ever since I was in junior high, I've played it up," the Texas native said. "I don't know whether it's being from the 
debut, also 
released last year, has not fared as well as his wife's, nor does he garner as much attention. It's led to tabloid speculation that her bright spotlight is causing mar­tial tensions. 
Simpson, who is quick to rave about her husband during a conversation ("Nick has a great sense of humor,'' she gushes). is also quick to shoot down rumors of jealousy. 
"I think in general, focus is always more on women because there's always a story in an outfit or in a purse,'' she said. "From 'Newlyweds,' peo­ple have seen what an amazing man of character Nick is, and I think most of the viewers would want to be married to him if! wasn't." 
Of course, if she wasn't mar­ried to Lachey, she might not have such amazing success ­she even jokes it was the best move of her career. 

Friday, April 16, 2004 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Families protest extensions 
National Guard unit's tour extended shortly after soldier's death 
Associated Press 
WAUSAU, Wis.-After wait­ing a year for their loved ones to come home, relatives of a Wisconsin National Guard unit received a double shock in the past week: One-of its soldiers was killed in Iraq, and the rest had their tour of duty extended four months. 
Some families of soldiers in the Guard's 32nd Military Police Company are responding with an Internet campaign to urge J>residcnt Bush and members of Congress to intervene to bring back the company's 160 sol­diers, who had been scheduled to return from Iraq by early next month. 
"We are not anti-war," said Linda Aber, whose 22-year-old daughter. Kelli. is in the unit. "We feel it is unfair at this point. Mentally, we feel they arc spent. ... We're trying to put some prcssun~ on politicians to help." 
1\bnr, 44, of Madison, helped create the Web site, which includes elected officials' phone numbers. 
The office of Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis., said he had received about 100 calls and 120 e-mails by Thursday regarding the Guard unit's extension. 
In a statement, Feingold said he wrote Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld about the fam­ilies' concerns and urged him to do "all he can to increase the predictability of deployments." 
The lack of predictable deployments has been a prob­lem since the start of the war and "can have a corrosive effect on morale," Feingold wrote. 
The Pentagon said Thursday it is extending by three months the tours of about 20,000 U.S. troops in Iraq, giving command­ers extra frrepower to confront an insurgency that is taking a mounting toll. About one-quar­ter of the troops are members of the National Guard or Heserve. 
The decision breaks a promise to soldiers who were assured when they arrived in Iraq that they would stay no more than a year. By extending their tours of duty by three months, the Pentagon is acknowledging the insurgency has ruined its plans to reduce the size of the U.S. military presence this spring. 
The news about the 32nd Police Company's extended tour of duty came as it mourned the death of Spc. Michelle Witmer, 20, who was killed April 9 when her Ilumvee came under attack in Baghdad. She was the first Wisconsin National Guard sol­dier to die in military combat since World War II and the first woman Guard member ever killed in combat. 
TWo of her sisters also served in Iraq, one in the same Guard unit and the other as a medic in another unit. They returned home on leave and haven't decided whether they will return to Iraq. 

All Utilities Including Electri:c Paid. 
...... .·.... 

PIIRK JEFFERSO:N 
~· 

F···"' .,.o... 
*2 Bedroom student specials for Park Jefferson 
Stop in today or visit us
3001 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
on the web at 
South Bend, IN 
www. parkjefferson.com 
574-232-3333 
www.castle-point.com 
Monday-Friday 9a-6p Saturday 1Oa-4p 
18011 Cleveland Rd South Bend, IN 574-272-8110 
Sunday 12p-4p 
FBI overwhelmed 



by warrant requests 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The num­
ber of secret surveillance war­
rants sought by the FBI has 
increased 85 percent in the 
past three years, a pace that 
has outstripped the Justice · 
Department's ability to quickly 
process them. 
Even after warrants are 

approved, the FBI often does 
not have enough agents or 
other personnel with the 
expertise to conduct the sur­
veillance. The FBI still is try­
ing to build a cadre of transla­
tors who can understand con­
versations that are intercepted 
in such languages as Arabic, 
Pashto and Farsi. 
These findings are among those (')f investigators for the commission -investigating the Sept. 11 attacks, which has harshly criticized the intelli­gence-gathering efforts of the CIA and FBI. 
FBI and Justice Department officials said Thursday they are working to address all three issues, which limit the government's ability to gather the kind of intelligence needed to head off another cata­strophic terrorist attack. 
The warrants, authorized by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, allow for wiretaps, video surveillance, property searches and other spying on people believed to be terrorists or spies. After the 2001 Patriot Act and a key 2002 court decision crumbled the legal wall separating the FBI's criminal and intelligence investigations, use of FISA warrants has soared as shar­ing of information has become easier. 
Since 2001, the number of warrants has risen from 934 to more than 1,700 in 2003, according to the FBI. The FBI adopted streamlined proce­dures to move the warrant requests quickly from the field offices to headquarters after Sept. 11. 
But a Sept. 11 commission report released this week found that the Justice Department approval process "continues to be long and 
Third Annual University of Notre Dame Social Venture Plan Competition 
Free Gift to the First 50 Spectators 
Come watch 5 teams of NO students and alumni battle it out for $10,000 in prize money to build their dream! 
Thursday, April 22 2004 1:00pm-4:00pm Hesburgh Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Join us for a special celebration of the spirit of entrepreneurship at l'Jotre D:me. Help celebrate tiE vision of crea.tivity of fellcw students as t::h::=_y-present their social venture h..l.siness plan, field questions fran a panel of judges and ccrcpete for prize money totaling $10,000! 
Co-sponsored by the Master of Science in Adminis=ation Program 
slow" and that the mounting 
requests "are overwhelming 
the ability of the system to 
process them." Although there 
are provisions for the attorney 
general to issue emergency 
FISA warrants, these are good 
for only 72 hours before they 
must be reviewed by a special 
court. 

The department and FBI are 
"attempting to address bottle­
necks" in the system, the com­
mission report found, but the 
difficulties suggest that some 
surveillance opportunities 
could be delayed or lost. 

Attorney General John 
Ashcroft is issuing new guide­
lines for the Justice 
Department's Office of 
Intelligence Policy and Heview, 
which handles FISA requests, 
spokesman Mark Corallo said. 
The changes are aimed at 
reducing and preventing back­
logs, he said. 

"We have been in a constant 
state of revising and stream­
lining the FISA process," 
Corallo said. More lawyers are 
being added to the unit so the 
warrant requests are more 
quickly reviewed and sent to 
the court for approval. 

The inability to gather enough evidence for a FIS/\ warrant caused the FBI prob­lems in the case of Zacarias Moussaoui, the only person charged in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks. He was taken into custody on immigration charges in August 2001 after his desire to learn to fly a Boeing 747 with little flight background aroused suspi­cions. 
The FBI turned to the CIA to help produce evidence needed to show that Moussaoui might be connected to a foreign ter­rorist group, which would enable agents to get a FISA warrant to search Moussaoui's computer. That led to an Aug. 23-24 briefing memo to CIA Director George Tenet head­lined "Islamic Extremist Learns to Fly," but nothing was done before the 19 hijack­ers completed the Sept. 11 plot that took nearly 3,000 lives. 
The commission said it is possible that if the government had acted more quickly on the inform a ti<fn involvi n g Moussaoui it could have led authorities to the hijackers. 
Some lawmakers and priva­cy activists worry that FISA remains ripe for abuse. Legislation introduced on Capitol I I ill would require the Justice Department to publicly account for the number of Americans subjected to FISA surveillance and how often it is used in criminal cases. 
"What it will do is go a long way toward assuaging grow­ing public mistrust of the gov­ernment," said Timothy Edgar, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union. 
Even if the FISA delays are solved, the FBI is struggling to provide the surveillance experts necessary to carry out the warrants. 
The commission staff found shortages at every FBI field office they visited and noted that some of these personnel "are not treated as part of an integrated intelligence pro­gram" and do not meet regu­larly with case agents working terrorism suspects. 
---------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday; Aprill6, 2004 

MAN.\(;lNo Emma BtiSl~ MANAGJ!a ,, Megb~ne··Q9W~~r{ :: ·:</:.:·~LQif~al~~ :):~jj >:::::::::} 
Jo~Bhd~{ 

NEWS EDrmR: ClaiteHeininger· VIEWPOclNT EDITOll.: S~bJiVllb\ili\s SroRTS·llDITOlti H<i.lrher V;ui Hoegaiden Sti!Nl! EDimll.: M~ria Sfu;ith ·• ·-•· • SMN'i' M,o\Rv's EmTORt Angela, Silc:iii(i .­PHOTO EDITOR: ChuyBeni~z GIU1'H1es EmmR: Milib Haddns 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD Dl!SIGN MANAGER: K~Uy Ndson 
WER Af>MIN!STRATOR: T<idd Nieto CoN'ri«>LLERl PauliGiircia 
CONTACT US OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO {'j74).631i(47f·-·.· ·-·· 
'fAX. 
(514) 6~H~9~7 

. ... ADVERTISING . -. {51:4) 631•6900· ·<lbsei:v'ad@_nd~e4Ji• 
. . EDITOR IN CHIEF . . . . {$.'(4) 63ld$42•••••. < · ...·. ·..•.: ..... MA!IAGING EDITOR &AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631~4541 ob~me@.ndi~du' 
. BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574} 631~ 5313. 

News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.ed\1 VIEWPOINT DESK . 
(574)631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(514) 631·4540 scene.l@nd.edu So\INT MAllY'S 01;81( (574) 631 ,4:}24 sirii:i;l@nd.edu · 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-&767 pho'9@ln&edu S'ISTEMS &WEB AllMI!illllf\AlQRS ($!4) ~~H!~}~> . 
...... ... .. . . . . .. 

... . 
. .. 
~~tltVERONLINE .. 
:: .~:~t~:~:~:~·.··<·
www.ndsnu:ooserver.com ··· · 
PouclE$ 


S8L~~181:~, :~;;;f~!1;Sit~i&t;•·•••·•···· 
ad~~=:~;6~&t:~~f~t~l~~~;~~j~iiJli#
possible. Unsigned eciirorials reprmntthe opinion of 
the majoril}' oft!¢ &frrodn Cliief;M~~ Edit?i•• • •. 
Msisrant MMaging l!4ifu~ ~d<l~pai~~ <m!ro~> ··• 
Coitiinentaries; letters ~md colwnns .presellt the views 
ofthe authO~s illid ~(Jt necessarily t!rose #The •·. 
O~er. · Viewp<ilru space is avail~ f.? all r.illd.ers. The &~ expression ofall opinions .through letrers ~ encour.iged. Letrers to the Editor m!lst be slgOed and musr include <onmct informacion. 
QJ«>tiom rq,arding ObserM"puliiies shuuld be directed to Editot it/ ChiifMattLw!tr; 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th<Oli~(US~~~·ciQ~~r~-i>obl.h;;l_~r•h~~&l\~i~,.;.:'li;4oM£ ~:~·¥~~i:I~.~~--~:~~.Ui<:-~x<:~:~.:~HJo-f«~~~: 1'~.s~~.f~~:#:~··.. · .. :. ·.. .. ·····:...:.:,::·:.:..·::::~:::' .·.· ... ·: ..·:··· 
r~po;,;,.,.l;i~~~ii i •-•®rt~El\i-·••···•-·> <••>•···•·· 
<ii4S."il\lt'"i~&fi;Jt . . <•.· > ismt~ion<iiiioo•""·•···· 
~1-i~~-~~!}~#.~~f.~mf::::::::.\:=-\.: :·: ::Tti~~~:<·: ::: ::>· -::..:·:..:::: :-: ··. P•O¥,..J~~~~~iN<!lidJ;l.,.., .••.• i%Jl#Q .... <•.•.··-•·• 
....~~<ll~<>>i;j;;;~s~w~· ·········• ~~~~~~~g~ u•·•· 
Th.o~~~·iii~~~~iif~~~"«i#¥,M~~~i~~J.¥f•.•·-->< <. 
~;··········-···-····.···.·· ......·.·....·.··.·.-·.-.·.·...··.·.·.·.·.-.. .-..·... ···.··.··.··•·· . .­

TODAY'S STAFF .. 

News Sports 
Joe Trombello Justin Schuver \WI Puckett Matt Puglisi Laura Vilim Eric Retter Viewpoint Scene 
Nicole Clery Ken Dineen Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Katie Knorr 


PSA needs to reconsider tactics 
Sustained civil disobedience poses two challenges for demon­strators to consider -not only how long to wait before taking a daring public stance, but how best to approach the audience their bold step will address. 
Members of the Progressive Student Alliance decided Wednesday that they had waited long enough for Notre Dame to make an official statement against renewing its contract with Taco Bell. After delivering letters to the office of University President Father Edward Malloy for the past two weeks, the students opted to further publicize their three-day hunger strike by making their presence felt in the Office of the President. OJhe 
While such initiative is admirable at Notre userver Dame -a campus traditionally rife with student • meetings in advance -an option the group did apathy -the PSA's choice of a confrontational not pursue -the PSA must realize that sponta-
Editon 
approach may have soured a productive, if slow­moving, dialogue with the administration. 
Students from the group have met since last fall with vice president and general counsel Carol Kaesebier to air their con­cerns. Kaesebier's office has been open both to ongoing discus­sion and to seeking Taco Bell's response, and should be praised for its performance in a mediating role between the students, the corporation and the administration -stressing fairness to all sides at every step in the process. 
The letter Kaesebier sent to Taco Bell March 5 and the fol­low-up call placed Wednesday exemplify a willingness to address the students' concerns. By delegating responsibility to the general counsel. the University provided an avenue for the PSA to seek answers from Taco Bell that specifically speak to its relationship with Notre Dame. The University's responsibili­ty to hear its sponsor's side and its responsibility to assist alarmed students have both been fulfilled. 
The PSA, however, questions Notre Dame's responsibility to be persistent. The University's cooperative assistance clearly is not as outspoken as the students' relentless efforts in the name of their cause. 
But passion, the PSA learned Wednesday, is not always pro­ductive. 
Arriving unannounced at Malloy's office was within their 
rights. Students who want to approach the presi­
dent should be able to do so. Yet out of respect al for his position and for his protocol of scheduling 
neously approaching Malloy will be ineffective. 
A statement from the administration will only come when they have heard from Taco Bell and evaluated the corporation's claims. Kaesebier. Counselor to the President Father Peter Jarret and others have made that clear. And while acts of civil disobedience like sit-ins and hunger strikes have proven historically successful in other contexts, with the Notre Dame administration they carry less weight than the more professional exchange the students had with Kaesebier. 
Though patience may be frustrating. continuing on the course begun with the general counsel is the wisest choice for the students. · 
Justice too long delayed is justice denied, says the PSA rally­ing cry. But justice forced may disrupt justice forthcoming. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Pass in Revie-w location not acceptable 
April 14 was a beautiful day to be outside. A warm breeze and clear skies marked the day of the annual Presidential Pass in Review Ceremony. That afternoon, I had to make my way through the maze of construction fences to find the Loftus Center where the ceremony was to take place indoors. · Earlier this year, my Senate committee recognized the stu­dent demand for an outdoor location for the ceremony. We col­lected 2,082 signatures in only one week. petitioning for its relocation. Student Activities denied the request and cited rea­sons such as convenience and previous low-student atten­dance. In response. my committee took the project further to create greater awareness of the ceremony among the student body. We made posters, flyers and table tents. With greater campus discussion, students realized their uniformed peers were leaving the Notre Dame bubble for active duty. When our country is in a time of war, it is important to realize many of the soldiers and sailors who fight toduy were only marching in Loftus last year. . 
I worked to move the ceremony outdoors because ROTC cadets and midshipmen want the ceremony outdoors. As we continued the project, I learned that many non-ROTC students want an outdoor ceremony equally, such as myself. We simply want a flagpole, real grass and the possibility of an aircraft fly­over. Contrary to popular rumor, the original relocation four years ago was neither in response to anti-ROTC protestors nor as a way of hiding the ROTC program. University President Father Edward Malloy spoke of the pride Notre Dame feels 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should the ROTC Presidential Pass in Review be held inside or outside? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Sunday at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
towards the ROTC program at Wednesday's ceremony. While the past four years in Loftus may have been for the planner's convenience, this year the ROTC department wanted an out­door location. The Student Activities department felt that an outdoor venue was not necessary and Loftus was fully ade­quate. They were mistaken. 
The ceremony attendance on Wednesday was the greatest in the past four years inside Loftus. Captain Shelton of the Navy Department told me the crowd size was four times larger than last year's. While the 2,082 petitioners did not all join me, I feel the large audience demonstrated the Notre Dame commu­nity's committed support for the cadets and midshipmen who marched before us. The crowd certainly fit inside Loftus, but the fieldhouse was not adequate for the ceremony. The Pass in Review deserves an outdoor location, to honor all those who attended, including active duty officers and veterans. I hope the ceremony will remain on people's minds and that next year the student body will once again encourage Student Activities to reconsider the ceremony's location. On a personal note. I want to thank the ROTC department and students for their continued assistance in the project. It has been an honor. Thank you. 
Jana Lamplota sophomore 2003-04 Pasquerilla West Senator April IS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is not fair to ask ofothers what you are not willing to do yourself" 
Eleanor Roosevelt American diplomat 


THE 0BSER\1£R 







IEWPOINT
Friday, April 16, 2004 page ll 
Diversity has its limits 
"Diversity" has been a buzzword at Notre Dame for the past few years. Diversity is lauded in terms of race, gender. socio-eco­nomic class and countless other classifica­tions. Sadly, there is one place at Notre Dame where diversity is slowly being elim­
John lnfranca

inated: diversity of thought. In 
particular. eco­nomic thought. Dissident 
This past year Poetry the College of Arts and Letters decided to split Notre Dame's Department of Economics in two: a Department of Economics and Econometrics and a Department of Economics and Policy Studies. Notre Dame's Economics department had long been one of the few departments in the nation committed to cultivating a variety of approaches to the study of economics. This includes scholarship and tnaching oul'iide of the mainstream or nco-classical approach. So-callrd heterodox economics often does not receive the same attention garnered by main­stream approaches. It does, however, fre­quently focus on broader issues of social con­cern: labor standards, income distribution, environmental quality, fair trade and poverty. Such approaches often resonate with Catholic social teaching on economics which, in the words of the U.S. Bishop's Pastoral Letter Economic Justice for All, "does not embrace 50 economics journal, and hence Jensen 
questioned their impact. The same logic 
might be used to argue that opinions which 
are not popular and already accepted are 
simply not worth expressing. So much for 
positive social change. 

Perhaps more ironic is the perspective 
ofTered by Mark Roche, the dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters. According to the 
National Catholic Reporter, Roche described 
the professors chosen for the Econometrics 
Department as "those persons who are 
actively contributing to mainstream econom­
ics." Roche said that they alone will be able to 
hire new faculty members "because ifyou 
have persons who aren't conversant with the . mainstream or people who arc opposed to 
the mainstream, you're not going to get the 
hires you need to advance the department in 
mainstream economics." 

This commitment to mainstream thought 
contrasts with Roche's thoughts in his recent 
booklet "The Intellectual Appeal of 
Catholicism and the Idea of a Catholic 
University." There he spoke admiringly of 
"The Catholic tradition, inspired by the con­
cept of the unity of knowledge." This commit­
ment to "the lost ideal of holistic knowledge 
provides, precisely in its foreignness, a valu­
able antidote to some of the weaknesses of 
the modern age and of the contemporary 
University. Not only does familiarity with a 
contrasting ideal ofTer the formal advantage 
of fostering critical distance toward the 
any particular theory of how the 
reigning ideals of one's own era, in economy works." this case the holistic model pres-· 
In contrast, the Economics and Econometrics Department is committed solely to neo­classical theory. It also focuses on a particular method of studying the economy known as econometrics. Econometrics empha­sizes the use of mathe­matics and statistical research to f(m~cast economic trends and make policy deci­sions. Unfortunately, not all of the econo­my's effects on indi­viduals can be meas­ured quantitatively. 1\s Economic Justice for All observes: "Our faith calls us to meas­ure this economy, not by what it produces but also by how it touches human life and whether it protects or undermines thn dignity of the human per­son." Econometrics docs not ofTcr a formula for measuring concern for human dignity. Like any single approach it has its limita­tions. 
The decision to split the Economics depart­ment has led many to worry that heterodox economic thought will eventually be eliminat­ed at Notre Dame. The new Economics and Econometrics Department is allowed to hire new faculty, while the Economics and Policy Studies Department is not. In addition, the graduate program will, when it is restarted, be located in and controlled by the smaller Econometrics Department. 
The National Catholic Hcporter's most rnccnt issue reporl<> on the split. The article was based in part on an interview with the Econometrics Department's chairperson, Hichard Jensen. Jensen stressed that the decision to split the department was due to a need to raL<>e the program's ranking, which is defined solely in terms of the number of arti­cles faculty members publish in leading peer­reviewed publications, most of which focus on neo-classical approaches. Hence conform­ity to this accepted paradigm of how econom­ic$ should be done trumped any desire to question the merits of this approach to judg­ing the quality of a program, or, for that mat­ter, any desire to critically evaluate the sup­positions of neo-classical economics. Most heterodox publications do not rank in the top 
ents us with a substantive alter­native, an ideal toward ~ich a Catholic University is obliged to strive." It appears that such "criti­cal distance form the reigning ideals" and the desire to ofTer a "sub­
stantive alternative" is useful only in so far as it does not afTect aca­
demic rankings, rankings determined by conformity to those very "reigning ideals." The distinct­ness of Catholic iden­tity is wonderful when it serves to 
attract students and faculty but should Catholicism's commit­ment to social and eco­nomic justice compel questions with regard to the assumptions of neo­classical economics tradi­
tion no longer serves its pur­pose. This is not to say that Notre 
Dame should not teach neo-classi­cal economics or econometrics; an 
understanding of both is crucial for anyone who hopes to engage in reflection and debate on economic matters. The decision, however, to focus on neo-classical approaches and eliminate graduate studies in heterodox eco­nomics, largely due to a desire to improve an academic ranking determined by allegiance to a single theoretical approach, is troubling. It was troubling enough to compel Robert Solow, a neo-classical economist and the 1987 Nobel Prize winner, to write a letter to University President Father Edward Malloy encouraging him to rethink the split. Solow declared the decision "a cruelly bad idea" and remarked that "Economics, like any dis­cipline, ought to welcome unorthodox ideas, and deal with them intellectually as best it can." Unfortunately Solow's opinions do not afTcct academic rankings. Until that changes, neither his opinions, nor those of heterodox economists, will receive much attention here at Notre Dame. Diversity has its limits. 
John lnfranca is a theology graduate stu­dent. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached atjinfranl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Bake sales promote , political activism 
I am a class of 2001 alumnus, writing from Washington, D.C., where I have con­sciously avoided the political scene (happy hours and marches) for two years. During the past week, however, I have found the following headlines and e-maiL<> too disturbing to ignore or delete. 
For example, in the city's metro there are ads saying, "lie knew. Congress must censure the President," with further information on how the country has been misinformed with distorted intelligence. In an e-mail I received from MoveOn.org, an organization dedicated to bringing ordinary people back into politics through online activism networking, I read the following: 
"President Bush presents himself as a man of the people, but a look at his fundraising shows otherwise. Over $95 million of his money has come in the form of bundles of $2000 checks from high-rolling CEOs and lobbyists." 
As someone who has felt powerless and struggled to even vote through absentee ballots over the years, I am urging you to consider taking baby steps toward action. Initially I was convinced our main recourse would be saying novenas at the grotto. Fortunately, the grassroots organization I mentioned above has suggested a thoughtful and empowering alternative, a bake sale. A "Bake Sale for Democracy" to raise money for Move On's campaign to "Take Back the White House." 
This weekend over 1,000 bake sales will be held across the country on April 17. Saddened by the fact that none of these were taking place in South Bend, a friend and I registered to hold our own -our original plan was to be in town for a reunion. If after reading information on www.moveon.org you feel motivated, or if you feel like this country is in need of a change, please consider bringing items to Field House Mall (Stonehenge) at 11 a.m. on Saturday, or simply supporting the sale between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. At the very least, I would urge you to make an efTort to vote this fall. Personally, I have decided that prayer and thought are not enough: the time has come to take an active role in making a difference. 
Heather Phillips 
alumna 
Class of200 I 
April IS 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Friday, April 16, 2004 


Above, King Lear (Mike Federico) disinherits his daughter Cordelia (Lena Caligiuri) for refusing to flat­ter him. Federico is a senior with a lot ofexperience in Shakespearian plays. At left, Edmund (Adel Hanash) reads a letter. Below, half-brothers Edgar (David Tull) and Edmund sword fight in a dual to the death.
•

Photos by 

SHAWN A MONSON 


By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 

The chance to perform Shakespeare is one of the greatest challenges, and the greatest joys, of professional and amateur actors alike. 
The language may be antiquat­ed, the lines may be complicated and the characters may take weeks to understand. But actors and directors with the passion and talent to get past these difficulties can find a world of possibilities in every one of Shakespeare's plays. 
Through the years the Not So Royal Shakespeare Company has taken a crack at the comedies, tragedies and histories with equal vigor and varying amounts of suc­cess. Last year the group took the stage with Taming of the Shrew and Hamlet. Fall semester featured many of the group's best old and new actors in the always popular Much Ado About Nothing. 

This weekend the com­pany will take on a greater challenge in its performance of King Lear. In addition to being widely acknowledged as one of Shakespeare's greatest tragedies, the story of King Lear's descent from his throne into gradually increasing mad­ness at the hands of his treacher­ous daughters is one of the most difficult to perform. The dark themes of the play and complicat­ed development of the characters place great demands on the actors. While the company's pres­entation of the play is not flaw­less, the cast of King Lear puts on an admirable performance. 
Hamlet may be the role every actor aspires to play, but in many ways King Lear may be a more difficult role to perform. Senior Mike Federico's performance in this show makes it clear why the computer science major has been cast in major roles in the compa­ny since he came to Notre Dame. In the past four years Federico has played Mercutio, Hoderigo, Falstaff and other coveted Shakespearean characters on the Notre Dame stage. 
"This role is, first, impossible," Federico said. "To have enough breath to say all the lines and scream them the way he does is really impossible." 
Federico certainly has a tough act to follow playing a role that has been filled with great actors such as Laurence Olivier and Orson Welles. 
"Most actors play this part when they are at least 60 years plus and have their careers behind them," Federico said. "But that's the beauty of college theatre." 
Senior Mario Bird also brings a personal slant to his role as the Earl of Kent with a carefully culti­vated 
Scottish a c c e n t drawn from a variety of popular entertainment. 

"[The accent] comes from an amalgamation of a number of dif­ferent sources," Bird said. 
The attempt may sound like a gimmick, but is surprisingly effec­tive in developing the character and bring­ing out Bird's nat-"King ural acting 
energy. 
The play also fea­t u r e s notable perform­ances by some of the University's younger actors. Freshman 


C o n o r w 0 0 d s plays the minor character of Oswald with distinctive character, and sophomore David Tull adapts well to the challenge of playing a character who masquerades as a madman for half the play. 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Friday, April 16, 2004 
page 13 

"It's b e e n draining," Tull said. "But it's been so rnwarding to go back !l.nd forth and try a couple differ­
j ent dlltractors." 
Junior Lfma Caligiuri, east in a double role, is good as Lear's youngnst daughter Cordelia. She is more striking as the Fool who accompa­nies Lear lear" on the later parts 

of his jour­ney · to remind the 
king of the reality of thn situa­

co, Caitlin Rohn, tion he has puri, Jeff Eyennan, created for ario Bird, Douglas himself. Conor Woods, Joe Director ndon McGirr, Jocelyn K a t y , Anne Kroeger Kertoz madn the decision to 
east tho samn actor for both rolns in an dfort to contribute to thn portrayal of Lear's psychologieal dnvnlopmnnt. 
"I wantnd to find a way to nxprnss Lnar's madness," KnrtPz 
said. "With the face of Cordelia 
the character of the Fool is a lot 
more powerful." 
One problem actors often 
encounter in performing 
Shakespeare is the tendency to 
get lost in the language. At times 
the actors or the company also 
run into diff1culty interpreting the 
subtleties of Shakespeare. While 
the plot and the characters are 
well developed and several of 
the actors live up to the chal­
lenge of performing 
Shakespeare as though he 
wrote for modern audi­
ences. some of the finer 
points of language and 
conversation get lost in 
the company's perform­
ance. 
The company also 
uses a mix of props and 
costumes from differ­
ent time periods, 
which may be done for 
efffJCt, but can feel dis­
jointed. The mix of 
swords, guns, fur 
capes and strapless 
dresses may be a func­
tion of the company's 
limited budget, but 
does not add to tho 
sense of reality on the 
stage. 
This weekend's per­formance will be the last time many of the most active performers or the senior elass will take the stage as Notre Dame under­graduates. Federico, Kertez, Adel llanash and Spencer Beggs have been part of the Notre Dame dramatic scene for four years. Bird only began acting onstage at Notre Dame last semestnr, but has rapidly become an important part of the company. 
"A lot of people who have been a huge part of NSR in the past are going to be gone," Tull ·said. "But a lot of what's fun about this show is leaving spots open for people to come in and fill the ranks. You can see the people getting ready to fill the seniors' spots." 
Even for those seniors not i,ntending to pursue a career in acting, the end of the Not So Hoyal Shakespeare Company does not mean the end of performing Shakespeare. Several of the actors including llanash, Tull and Kertez will perform in the Summer Shakespeare perform­ance of Homeo and Juliet this summer. Federico was east in the role of Paris. and graduate Jeff Eyerman, appearing as the Earl of Gloucester in King Lear, works as executive director of the Summer Shakespeare program. 
"I think that Shakespeare's every single word feels so special, so magical to perform," Tull said. "They say there's the acting bug, but there's also the Shakespeare bug. Once you get addieted to per­forming these works, which you do, you get hooked on it." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

_,.. 
Above, King Lear holds Cordelia's dead body after she is hanged. At right, the Duke of Cornwall (C. Spencer Beggs) with his wife. Cornwall's wife is Lear's second daughter Regan (Cricket Slattery). Below, the Duke of Cornwall threatens Earl of Gloucester (Jeff Eyerman) with a knife.
• 
Photos by 

SHAWNA MONSON 


NHL 
Theodore turns away 43 in Montreal's win 
Associated Press ice and passed to Koivu on his 
left. Koivu then made a cross­
BOSTON Montreal ice pass to Alex K0valev, who Canadiens goalie Jose Theodore scored his fourth g:>al of the was often overshadowed by series. Bruins counterpart Andrew Kovalev was the goat in Game Raycraft in the first four games 4, when after he was slashed in of their first-round playoff the second overtime he stopped series. playing and shook his injured 
Theodore, a former NHL MVP, wrist. He turned over the puck re-established himself on ·and then collided with team­Thursday night as a player to mate Sheldon Souray, which watch. allowed Glen Murray to skate in 
Theodore made 43 saves, and on a breakaway and score the Saku Koivu had a goal and two winning goal. assists in helping the Canadiens "I thought he played a really stay alive with 5-1 victory over strong game ex·cept for that last the Bruins. The Canadiens trail play," Koivu said of Kovalev's the best-of-seven series 3-2 and Game 4 performance. "To get host Game 6 on Saturday night. the winning goal tonight takes 
And Theodore is a big reason some of the pressure of him." why their season is still going as Kovalev seemed reluctant to he turned aside Boston's relent­talk about the Canadiens' previ­less pressure for the first 15 ous loss. minutes. "All I had to do was put in the 
"We all knew they were going same effort as the first four to come out really strong, and games and things would start they did that," Theodore said. happening for me," he said. "They had the momentum, they "One thing we wanted to do was were throwing the hits, and stay focused and keep the pres­fo-rce them to take chances," replaced Manny Legace. to make a save, and the they were getting a lot of sure on them after we went up said Brendan Shanahan, who When Dominik Hasek ended Predators didn't generate many shots." 2-0." gave Detroit a 3-0 lead in the his one-year retirement last scoring chances the rest of the 
But it was the Canadiens who The Canadiens almost made it first period. "In the other summer, the Red Wings tried to game. scored first, tallying on a quick 3-0 Thursday when Raycraft games, they had the lead and trade Joseph. Later, Hasek had With relentless pressure all counterattack at 14:17 of the was caught out of position. were able to just sit back and a season-ending groin injury over the ice, the pesky first period. Jason Ward sent Pierre Dagenais had a clean protect." and the team decided it wanted Predators had stymied Detroit's Yanic Perreault in alone, and shot at an empty net, but Bruins The home team has won each to keep Joseph, who then went talent-laden team for the most his shot deflected off of forward Sergei Samsonov threw game in the first-round, best-of­down with an ankle injury. par£-until Game 5. Raycraft's pads and inside the · himself in front of the puck and seven series and the Predators Legace, a career backup, then Sharks 3, Blues 1 far post. it deflected off his body. hope to keep up the trend in became the unlikely No. 1 goal­The San Jose Sharks' incredi­
"In the first 15 minutes of the Zednik eventually gave Game 6 on Saturday in tender. ble regular season was no mis­first period, Jose made some Montreal a three-goal advan­Nashville. "It has been a different year, take. They're deep, fast and a key saves and Yanic came up tage at 16:35 of the third peri­Henrik Zetterberg, Brett Hull no question," Joseph said. little bit lucky -and they're big," said Koivu, who had a od, just after the Bruins killed and Shanahan scored in the Tomas Vokoun made 27 moving ahead in the playoffs. hand in both of Montreal's off a four-minute power play. first period for the Red Wings, saves, but many came after Injury replacement Mark power-play goals. Zednik took advantage of a who are determined to avoid a Detroit took control. Smith scored his first NHL play­
He scored on a rebound at turnover in the Bruins zone, second straight first-round flop Vokoun stopped 82 of 83 shots off goal, and Evgeni Nabokov 
8:44 of the third period to make skated in alone -with following another successful in Games 3 and 4 as Nashville stopped 21 shots in the Sharks' it 4-1 when the Canadiens had Thornton clutching his jersey -regular season. evened the series with two wins series-clinching victory over St. a two-man advantage. Koivu and backhanded the puck past After Nicklas Lidstrom's at home. Louis. also assisted on Craig Rivet's Raycraft. power-play goal midway The Predators went nearly 78 Mike Ricci got an insurance power-play goal at 6:34 of the The Bruins finally broke through the second period minutes without giving up a goal with 3:38 left, and Brad third that made it 5-1. through at 11:37 of the third made it 4-0, Nashville's Sergei goal before Detroit's first-period Stuart also scored as the sec­
Rivet beat Raycraft with a when Nick Boynton found Zholtok scored on the power flurry. ond-seeded Sharks took the long slap shot. Murray to the right of the play with 37.2 seconds left in "If we try to play a skill game, series 4-1, winning three games "I don't think we were there Montreal net and Murray the period. they're going to beat us 10 out at the sold-out Shark Tank. mentally," Raycraft said. slapped a shot into the open That made Hull's goal the of 10 times," Vokoun said. They're the first team to 
The Bruins continued to net. game-winner, his 24th in the The Red Wings -playing advance to the conference semi­struggle with the man advan­Red Wings 4, Predators 1 playoffs, tying the NHL record with a sense of urgency -finals, which probably won't tage, going 0-for-4 on Thursday The Nashville Predators paid set by Wayne Gretzky. Hull scored on their first, fourth and begin for a week. and 2-for-22 for the series. the price for giving the Detroit turned down two interview ninth shots. They did not score A year after finishing 14th in 
"Our line had its chances, we Red Wings time and space to requests to comment on the in the first period in the first the Western Conference, the 
just weren't finding the net," make plays. milestone. four games. Sharks capped their franchise­said leadi.ng scorer Joe Pavel Datsyuk's dazzling pass­Detroit's Curtis Joseph made Mathieu Schneider said record 104-point regular sea_son Thornton, who doesn't have a es set up two goals before seven 19 saves in his first playoff start Detroit tried to start the game with their fifth trip to the sec­point in the series. minutes elapsed and the Red since the Red Wings were swept as if it was overtime. ond round. 
The Canadiens took a 2-0 lead Wings went on to beat the by Anaheim in the first round "Without a doubt, that was They've never reached the at 12:21 of the second period on Predators to take a 3-2 series last season. Joseph, who has the mentality we had," he said. conference finals -but they've a three-on-two break. Richard lead. been hobbled with an ankle It took nearly eight minutes never been on such a late-sea­Zednik won the puck at center "When you have the lead, you injury for much of the season, before Nashville forced Joseph son roll, either. 

The Obser':'e~ accepts classifieds every business day. from .8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ~t the Notre Dame office, · 024 South Dmmg HalL Deadlme for next-day classtfieds ts 3 p.m. AI classtfieds must be prepa1d. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Get the "bleep' out of the cold! Mexico/Caribeean only $125 each way all taxes included. Other world­wide destinations cheap. Book on­line www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 


WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
Catholic family offering fulltime summer childcare opportunity to care for 4 school age children, ages 5 to 11 , Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages nego­tiable, non-smoker preferred, own transportation a plus, contact Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. 

Notre Dame faculty seeking sitter for 2-yr-old. Ideally Mon!Wed/Fri 8­
4. 2 mi south of campus. Own car, Spanish·speaking a plus. Through end of summer. Contact snerenberg @sbcglobal. net. 
Gatekeeper at Bendix Woods County Park, Sats. & Suns., 1 May­31 Oct. Approx. 14 hrslwk, call574­654-3155. 
FoR SALE 
Why pay a landlords mortgage? Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the other pay your mortgage. Close to ND and downtown. 
Call Kim at 574-245-5040. 
AT&T Phone Cards. Cheap, Convenient! Only 6centslmin. Call283-0901 
House and land for sale. Few feet shy of 1 acre, 512&524 Superior Niles. Call Miss Owens (612) 870­4737 

FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX. .. AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. .. WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. ..CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near campus. Only a few left for next school year. Call Justine, 234-9923. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 
Faculty/Staff Rental Homes 600 feet to Campus 604 E. Angela 3 BR 2 Bath 2,000 sq. ft. $1 ,950 month 542 E. Angela 4 BR 1 -1 /2 Bath, 1,700 sq ft. $1,850 month. 
www.rentclicks.com or 272-4796. 
NEED SUMMER HOUSING? House on E Washington St 6 bdrms available 2 full baths 
Call Liz 574-298-0807 Stay at Homestead Bed and Breakfast for football games. 574­277-9834 
LARGE 3 BEDROOM house for rent. Very close to ND, 2 baths, 2 car garage, W/D, just redone two years ago. $1 ,050/mo available 5/1. 
Call312-375-8220 

Furnished Studio Apartment for rent graduation weekend walking dis­tance to ND $150 a night call 574­339-0582 
Furnished studio apartment for rent summer and or school year 
$419 a month includes all utilities cable tv high speed internet call 574-339-0582 
Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail. now or fall $1200/mo 
288-9673 VERY NICE 3bdrm home near Corbys(East Bank area). Washer&Dryer-Aiarm­Basement-H20 softner-large yard­off street parking.Call Joe Crimmins:cell#514-0643 home#273-0002. 

HOUSE, Only 3 Blocks from ND, 3BR, A/C, Garage, Basement, Fenced Yard, Pets OK. $800.00/mo. Call 283-0901 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, esc, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
--~--~­

------------------------.., Friday, April 16, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB 


Red Sox, Yankees renew their rivalry today 

Associated Pn:ss 
BOSTON -Thought base­ball's best rivalry couldn't get more intense? Think again. 
The Bed Sox and Yankees resume their feud Friday, sure to remember the nastiness and drama of last year's AL champi­onship series and the sniping over Alex Rodriguez in the off­season. 
Of course, Boston and New York didn't need more reasons to hate each other in a battle that began even before the Red Sox traded Babe Huth to the Yankees in 1920. 
Well, they got 'em, anyway. 
"It's the greatest rivalry in sports," Boston's Kevin Millar said. "With the whole A-Rod thing, it's going to be unbeliev­able. It's an exciting time. You've got two bulldog teams going at each other." 
The Red Sox and Yankees 
insist their focus will be on try­ing to win, not the bad blood between them. Still, the fans at Fenway, some of whom will be in new seats on the right-field roof, will make it clear this is no ordinary four-game series. 
''I'm not expecting too many cheers," said Rodriguez, who 
Calvert has been offering mu.tuaJ funds lha L il'"l'.•r:·sl in o;nci1<lf.ly ;:md t>nvirnnmr-nt;JIIy r.:>spcm·>iblr fDmp;:mif'o; tnr ~·f'rJr<:;. ror mnr.P cnmpl>t>tr-fnn1·T11l;)tfnn 0n r:N lv\""Tt tund '> inchJdtnq .rl pro';pr."d11'\.. Gill 
M;;ll'k Unwin V1ce Pl'M1dent-lnvertmms Smtth Ba.rney1 atlgroup 211 W. W:uhlng.tan Suite 2200 Soutn Bend IN 46601 Pbone~ 574.2519108 Phone: 800322.2425 fax: 574.2:34.2484 E-mail: mark.unwin@smitbbamey.com 
pm.'ipectu<; crHffiJB-t betme you 1m·--e~t. 
·­
-
·-·­
-
-

N-otre Dame Athletics 
donned pinstripes rather than red socks when the Yankees obtained him from Texas after Boston failed to get him. 
The series begins exactly six months after their last dramatic meeting -a Yankees victory in Game 7 of the AL championship series. Pedro Martinez blew a three-run lead in the eighth inning at Yankee Stadium and Aaron Boone gave New York a 6-5 win with a homer in the 11th inning off Tim Wakefield. 
Boston was five outs from clinching the series when man­ager Grady Little made a much­criticized decision to stick with Martinez. It backfired, and Little lost his job to Terry Francona. 
Wakefield will be back on the mound, throwing the first pitch of Friday's game. Martinez will twt pitch in the series. 
Boone is probably out for the season, sidelined with a knee injury that created an opening at third base. The Yankees filled that with Bodrigucz, considered baseball's best all-around play­cr. 
New York has won 26 World Series since Boston won its last in 1918. 
As if to give the team an addi­tional boost before the game, Boston will unveil a statue of the most beloved Bed Sox of all, Ted Williams. 
"llopefully, we can pick it up a notch, show them who the best team is," Boston's Johnny Damon said.""l'm convinced we are." 
Both teams added key play­ers. The Red Sox got Curt Schilling and Keith Foulke. Besides Hodriguez, the Yankees picked up Gary Shellield, Kevin Brown and Javier Vazquez, who pitches the opener. 
With Seattle and Texas, Rodriguez never had the chance to play in such a rivalry. 
"He's asked questions," Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter said, "but you can only say so much. You can only explain so much. Until you experience it firsthand, you have no idea." 
The signing of Hodriguez prompted Hed Sox owner John Henry to call for a salary cap. Yankees owner George Steinbrenner lired back, calling llcnry a whiner. 
The teams have baseball's highest payrolls, the Yankees at $183 million and the Bed Sox at $125 million. 
Seven of this year's 19 regu­lar-season meetings are in April with Boston's No mar Garciaparra and Trot Nixon on the disabled list. Against the Hcd Sox last year, the Yankees were 10-9 in the regular sea­son. 

#14 Men~' s Lacrosse Softball 
~ vs. Fairfield ~ vs. Providence ~ at Moose Krause Stadium at 12:00 PM ~ at Ivy fie1d •••• tJ: DOUBLE )lEADER! ! -'-l're-game tai1gate witlt Macro's Pizza (.,.Js.U~~v~Ju-.tJ 
ll~AMAND • 
~ N n I .ax Nalgcnc water bottles for fll'Sl150 fans 
.,._ 1:00 Pl\lf F!J!f"! Atipl<.:o,-t!ml Sponsored by rDorccfs t'lzlct 









OUND THE NATION 
page 16 Co~\WILED FROM THE 0BS:tRvrn:s wnu SERVtC:ts Friday, April 16, 2004 

around the dial 
MLB Reds at Cubs 2:10 p.m., WGN Marlins at Braves 6:30 p.m., TBS White Sox at Devil Rays 6 p.m., FSN Yankees at Red Sox 7:30 p.m., WGN 
NHL PLAYOFFS Senators at Maple Leafs 6 p.m., ESPN2 Islanders at Lightning 6:30 p.m., ESPN 
WOMEN'S TENNIS Family Circle Cup 1 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -As a boy, Bud Selig went to Wrigley Field to watch a rookie named Jackie Robinson. More than a half-century later, the memory still sticks with the commis­sioner. 
"We were the only white people in the upper deck," Selig said. "I never saw so much excitement." 
At ballparks all across the majors Thursday, fans and players got to see and hear about the Hall of Farner's legacy. Baseball paused for Jackie Robinson Day, with video tributes, speeches and commemorative No. 42 signs honoring the man who broke the sport's color barrier. 
"When you look back on the history of our game, Jackie Robinson coming into baseball -there's no question in my mind that April 15, 1947, was the most powerful moment in baseball history," Selig said at Shea Stadium. 
."It transcended baseball. It was a precursor to the civil rights movement by 15 or 16 years," he said. 
Robinson's widow, Rachel, was escorted onto the field by Selig and New York Mets center fielder Mike Cameron before the game against Atlanta. 
Rachel Robinson spoke to a sparse crowd and her daughter, Sharon, took part in a first-pitch cere­mony. 
Rachel recalled those early days after Robinson started his career with the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
"After the first few games, when black fans started to come to the games and rooted so hard and came up to him, he began to get the feeling of what his playing meant to people," she said. 
"Sharon and I know that a younger generation are beginning to discover Jackie Robinson. We're proud of all the progress," she said. "I also know in a very intense and passion­ate way that there's a lot that still needs to be done in baseball and in life." 
Starting this year, every April 15 will be celebrated as Jackie Robinson Day in the majors. 
His No. 42 was retired throughout baseball in 1997 when the sport paid tribute to the 50th anniver­sary of the day he debuted for Brooklyn. 
Players who wore No. 42 at the time were allowed to keep it. Mariano Rivera of the New York Yankees and injured Mo Vaughn of the Mets still have it. 
IN BRIEF 
Haas continues comeback 
HOUSTON -German Tommy Haas took another step in his comeback from shoulder surgery with a 6-4, 6-2 victory Thursday over Paul Goldstein in a second-round match at the U.S. Men's Clay Court championships. 
"The more you play, the more you get comfortable," Haas said. "I felt pretty comfortable in the second set, stepping it up with my strokes. But there's still always improvement to make." 
Haas, who missed all of last season and hasn't played on clay since the 2002 French Open, broke Goldstein in the 1Oth game of the first set. Haas ran away with the second set with breaks in the second and eighth games. 
"Obviously, I'm trying to do the best I can each week," Haas said. "Maybe to say winning a tournament right now would be a little much. I'm still trying to test my way back into the matches. You never know what can happen." 
Williams return cut short 
CHARLESTON, S.C. -Serena Williams' comeback was cut short. 
The six-time major champion with­drew from the Family Circle Cup on Thursday, saying her left knee is sore from practicing and playing too much after returning from an eight-month absence. 
The announcement comes a day after Williams pulled out of the U.S. Fed Cup team's first-round match at Slovenia and raises questions about Williams' fitness with the French Open less than six weeks away. 
She had knee surgery Aug. 1, then missed the U.S. Open and Australian Open, returning to the tour just last month. 
"The official diagnosis by the doctor was that he was shocked I was play­ing this many tournaments in the beginning," Williams said. 
"He said normally when you're coming back from a procedure like me, you should play one week and then maybe take a week or two weeks off." 
Red Sox and Yankees renew 
rivalry 

BOSTON -Thought baseball's best rivalry couldn't get more intense? Think again. 
The Red Sox and Yankees resume their feud Friday, sure to remember the nastiness and drama of last year's AL championship series and the snip­ing over Alex Rodriguez in the offsea­son. 
Of course, Boston and New York didn't need more reasons to hate each other in a battle that began even before the Red Sox traded Babe Ruth to the Yankees in 1920. 
Well, they got 'em, anyway. 

"It's the greatest rivalry in sports," Boston's Kevin Millar said. "With the whole A-Rod thing, it's going to be unbelievable. It's an exciting time. You've got two bulldog teams going at each other." 
The -Red Sox and Yankees insist their focus will be on trying to win, not the bad blood between them. 
Friday, April 16, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Ohio State ( 4-7) could find the Midfield Meredith Simon turned ing in the first half, yet were polls this spring. back of the net as the Irish in yet another stellar effort, regis­unable to mount a comeback "It's a Big East game; it's a huge
Hoyas 

continued from page 24 
underdog is, they wouldn't be saying it's Georgetown," Coyne said. "Outside of our team, every­one is looking at it as Georgetown is going to win. We haven't beaten them yet, so it would be prema­ture to say we're going in there expecting to be the favorite." 
Saturday, Notre Dame put 10 points on the board before host crushed the Buckeyes 14-6 to improve to a perfect 10-0 on the year. 
"We're obviously in a groove right now with how we're play­ing, and when we come out and we're on our game, we're tough to stop," Coyne said. 
"We could just find our spots against their defense with no problem, and I think it gives us confidence going into [the Georgetown game]." 
tering six points on the afternoon (three goals, three assists) in heading an Irish attack that fea­tured four additional multi-goal scorers, including midfield/attack Crysti Foote (three goals, one assist), attack Lauren Fischer (three goals, one assist), defender Kassen Delano (two goals) and midfield Abby Owen (two goals). 
The Buckeyes finally broke the 10-goal unanswered scoring streak with eight seconds remain-effort as the Irish netted three of the next four goals to start the second half. bumping their lead to 13-2 and effectively icing the game. 
While the showdown in the nation's capital is easily the biggest of the year for the Irish, Coyne and the Irish aren't fazed by the significance of the contest and plan to stick with the game plan that has facilitated Notre Dame in jumping 15 spots in the rivalry; it has all the ingredients you're looking for in a big game atmosphere," Coyne said. "But I don't feel any extra pressure, and we're approaching this game like we have every other game. 
"We've stayed very focused. and we're looking forward to the opportunity to go out and play a really good opponent." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

This Week in the Departrnent o£Music••• 
Eleanore Strong, organ 
Tuesday. April 1 3, 2004 8 pm, Sacred Heart Basilica 
Brandon Hollihan, tenor 
Kathy Keasey, piano Thursday, April 15, 2004 5 pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
Stephen Lancaster, baritone 
Kui Min, piano Friday, April 16, 2004 7 pn1, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
All recitals FREE andopen to the publici 
For more in£ormotlon call the Deportment ofMusic at631-6207. 
A THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
WWr'W:aL::. PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 


WHERE MEMBERSHIP PAYS FOR ITSELF WITH EVERY MEAL OR DRINK! 
Daily Lunch  Light lunch  Soup &1/2 Sandwich  
Soup or Salad  Special Entree  Soup &Half Sandwich  
Entree Coffee or Tea  Coffee or Tea  Coffee or Tea  
$6.95  $4.95  $3.95  

CHEAP AND CLOSE....YOUR UNIVERSITY CLUB.....MEMBERSHIP INFORMATION 1·4685 

Q_ualit¥ Diamonds John M. Marshall's h'lCorporated 196.5 lewelers I GemologistsGofdsmiths i Platinumsmiths Key Bank Building, Suite # 101 South Bend, Indiana 46601  
,  THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF presents "America's God: From Jonathan Edwards to Abrabam Lincoln" Mark A. Noll Wheaton College Saturday, April 17, 2004 9:00a.m. McKenna Hall Centerfor Continuing Education  
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PllESENTS A comedy by George Bernard Shaw Directed by Ann Marie Stewart Playing at Washington Hall Wednesday, April21 7:30p.m. Thursday, April 22 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 25 2:30 p.m. Reserved Seats $10 • Senior Citizens $9 All Students $7 Tickets are available at. t.he door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. Ma.sterCar'd/Visa O!'ders. crJ.l.l 57•1-631-8128.  

But Wisen's bullpen effort was­n't enough in the 10th and final
Upset 
continued from page 24 
a -lead they held for just one inning. 
In the third, the Flames came out with three singles off Heather Booth. They were good for one run that cut the Irish lead in half. 
Booth, the Irish ace, lasted just over one more inning, after throw­ing a lot of pitches. She gave up three earned runs, despite striking out six and walking three.' 
"She threw a lot of pitches," Gumpfsaid. 
"I think she got behind in a lot of the counts. They were hitting her change-up, and that's her game. If they hit her change-up, that changes things." 
In relief, Gumpf brought in Carrie Wisen. She gave up just one run in the final 5 2/3 innings, while striking out two. 
"Carrie came in and did a really nice job," Gumpf said. "She did just what I needed her to do." 
inning. 
Both coaches agreed to go to the international tiebreaker, in which the last out of the previous inning is put on second base to start the inning. In the top half of the inning, the Flames sacrificed Jessica Reusnow to third base, and then she was driven in by Alycia Creese's single through the right side. Creese also picked up the win for the Flames. 
The Irish had their chances in the bottom half of the inning, but they failed to sacrifice Carissa Jacquish over to third, and then Stephanie Brown popped out. With two outs, deFau hit a hot grounder to the shortstop, who bobbled the ball, and Gumpf waved Jacquish home. She was called out to end the game, good for the Flames' first win ever at Ivy Field. 
"I was trying to send her the whole way," Gumpf said. "It's a make or break play -it's going to happen or it's not. You've got to 

Jerome Bettis 
Former Notre Dame Fullback. 6th all-time lead in~ rusher in the NFL. 
Next Luncheon: Wednesday, May 5. Guest Speaker: Bobby Ross 
Ticket/Pricing Information: tickets by phone at 235-5715 or in person at 
the Hall of Fame ticket counter. :III Uibd1eons begin atll:30 a.m. at the Hall of Fame. tttttt Lulncheorls: $30 per person. $230 per table 
Series Pass: $170 ·Table Series Pass: $1350 
:\\'{'\\?fJ9·V.P. by 5 p.m. the day prior to each Luncheon. Space is limited. 
611tl 
~~IW.l~

m s. st. Joseph street . ~mwt~ 
South Bend, Indiana '+6601 ~ 5! www.collegefootball.org • 
Media Sponsors----­
South Bend Tribune 
Discover what's In It for you. 
give it a shot, especially when next few days at practice," Gumpf after Thursday's performance. we're not hitting well at all." said. "We have a couple days to "I don't know how they're going 
Now the Irish have a few days to get back and learn how to hit to respond," Gumpf said. ''I'm recover before returning to Big again." pretty disappointed right now." East action on Sunday against The doubleheader is set to start Providence. at 11 a.m. at Ivy Field, and the Contact Heather VanHoegarden 
"You have to work hard these Irish look to redeem themselves at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Clover RidgeApartments 


Don't miss it! 
Meet the author 
George Weigel 
Letters to a Young Catholic 
Weigel is Pope John Paul's biographer and a best-selling author. 
Friday, April16 4:00pm 
HAMMES 

NOTRE·DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
'  ,.  .  ....  
·.· :_:.  ·..  ..  · .  More than just textbooks.  .  ·. · .  .  ·.­ .:·:'··..··: :  
..:.,.  ..  .  . .;:  

-------------, 
Friday, April 16, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NO TRACK 
Irish journey to 46th annual Mt. SAC relays 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Spons Writer 
It's been said that tough compe­tition brings out the best in an athlete. The Irish hope this old adage holds true this weekend as seventeen Notre Dame competi­tors will travel to the 46th annual Mt. SAC relays in Walnut, Calif. The relays. held at Mt. San Antonio College, attract a first­class field of runners, jumpers and throwers. 
The athletes hail from colleges all around the country including powerhouses Arkansas, Oregon, Arizona and USC. There will also be international entrants on national teams from countries such a<; Canada, Kenya. Australia and Great Britain. 
"This is known as one of the best meets in the country," said Irish assistant coach Tim Connelly. "It will attract a lot of post-collegiate runners and many contenders for the Olympics." 
Among the group Notre Dame will bn sending are distance standouts Molly Huddle and Thomas Chamney. Chamney won hL<it week's men's 800 meters and looks to continue his success against the solid field. 
Huddle is coming off a third place finish in last week's Missouri Invitational. However she did manage to qualify for the Big ElL"it Championships and will be one of the top collegiate com­petitors in the 5000 meters. 
Huddle's teammate Stephanie Madia will also run in the 5000 meters. 
Some of the other team mem­bers going to the meet include Godwin Mbagwu and Stacey Cowan. Mbagwu won the triple jump last week at Missouri with a leap of 14.52 meters. Cowan has been a consistent threat in the women's high jump all season long. She placed firSt in her most recent outdoor appearance, a 1.68-meter leap earlier this month in the spring opener. Both the men's and women's 4-by-400 meter relay teams will also make the trip. 
Those not making the trek to California will stay closer to home and participate in the Indy Relays in Indianapolis. Teams from around the region such as Butler, DePauw, Louisville and Ball State are expected to compete. 
"We just want to get people ready to run fast," Connelly said when asked what his team focused on this week in practice. 
The mild weather the last cou­ple of days has made outdoor practice easier on the Irish. 
"The bad weather has affected everyone lately and we had been hoping at some point to get a break," Connelly said. "From what I hear it's supposed to be nice in both places this weekend." 

Contact Mike Gilloon at A trio of Notre Dame sprinters come out of the blocks In the mgilloon@nd.edu 60 meter dasli on Jan. 31 at the Loftus Sports Complex. 
Mom-
Welcome 
to Junior 
Mom's 
Weekend! 
Love, Courtney 

With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of· 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reveren Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Bishop of Peoria: 
Saturday, Aprill7, 2004 •1:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 


"We heard a sumnwns to give over our lives in a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 

www.n 
cation 
Friday, April 16, 2004 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish ready for Lady Boilermaker Invitational 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Wrirer 

The only way for a team to reach its ultimate goal is to strive for greater and greater challenges. 
Notre Dame women's golf coach Debby King certainly has a lot of faith in this philosophy, as her team gets set to play in the Lady Boilermaker Invitational at Purdue. In what has become a pattern this sea­son, the Irish will once again face freshman Noriko Nakazaki. and her team "haven't really 
At the Hoosier Invitational talked about a goal for place­two weekends ago, Brophy ment" in the high profile event. made the best individual effort "We're just keeping our goal of the spring as she tied for sec­of trying to shoot 300 [in a ond, citing King's decision to round]," King said. increase focus on the mental By being such a difficult tour-
aspects of the game. 
"Since it worked well at Indiana, we've practiced with the same kind of emphasis," King said. 
The Irish will need their con­fidence as they .move to uncharted territory this week­end, playing Purdue's highly 
what  King  "We're just keeping  acclaimed  
describes as "the toughest field yet." That field  our goal oftrying to shoot 300 [in a  Kampen Golf course for the first time since it  
includes the host  round]."  opened in 1998.  
Boilermakers,  "We talked to  
ranked in the top 50 in the Golfweek/Sagarin  Debby King women's golf coach  the guy's team, and they gave us a couple point­ 

I, Index. The tournament will last all day Saturday and Sunday, and will be played in the six-count-four format, where the top four scores out of six golfers gets counted towards the total team score. The Invitational marks the first time this spring that both senior co-captains Rebecca Rogers and Shannon Byrne have competed together in the same tournament. Joining them this weekend will be junior Karen Lotta, sophomores Katie Brophy and Sarah Bassett and 
ers," King said. "I think we'll be alright." 
Notwithstanding the unfamil­iarity, King relishes in under­taking this weekend's chal­lenge. · 
"In women's golf. tourna­ments are by invitation only, and we're finally getting good enough to be invited to tourna­ments like this," she said. 
Despite the team's recent improvements and her own optimism, King remains realis­tic about her expectations for the weekend. King said that she nament, the Lady Boilermaker explained. "As tournaments get Invitational has the ability to harder, we get more points for help the Irish realize their getting picked for NCAA region­ambitions of postseason play. als." 
"If you win a small event, you 
don't get as many points as get­Contact Eric Retter at 
ting fifth in a big one," King eretter@nd.edu 
The Notre Dame Department of Music Presents._. 
Notre Dame Associate Professor of Music 
Carolyn Plummer.. violin Scott Hol.shou.ser.. piano 
Works by Handel. Elqar and John Ireland 
Sunday. April 18, 2004 z:qo p.m. 
Annenberq Auditorium Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
$10 General Admission. $8 ND/SMC Faculty & Staff $6 Senior Citizens. $3 Students Call the LaFortune Box Office tor tickets 
(574) 631-8128 --Visa & MasterCard accepted 
ThiJ recitdl made poHible throuqh a qrant from the l1enXeh lecture Series. lmtitute for Scholarship in the Liberal ArtJ. Colleqe of Arts and LettP-r1, Un1vers1ty of Notre D~me. 
Unlimited llllin 
~PREMIER

-r.us.Cellulm: 
{"? LOCATIONS' 

AUTHORIZED AGENT 
Saint M$s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME • lNDlANA 
The Nat1on's Premil!r Cathoiic Women's Ccflcgc 
Semester Around the World Program 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 6:00p.m. Mon., April19 in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's OR 6:00p.m., Wed., April 21 in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Japan, China, Tibet, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, all of India and Nepal; optional travel through Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM 
(574) 284-4468 OR4473 • FAX (574) 284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 
UmitedTime! 
MISHAWAKA 514 W. McKinley Corner McKinley & Grape 574.252.5820 
SOUTH BEND 117 North Main 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.288.9450 
4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860 

'Mtime offer valid oo two-year coosumer service agreements of $39.~ and higher. Promotiooal ~one subject to change. Phooe pricing includes a$30 mail-in rebate. Cust001er is respoosible for all sales taxes. Reduced access fee valid for f1rst 3months of 24-month Service Agreement Free Incoming Minutes available in local calling area oo~. Night and weekend minutes are valid M-f 9rxn to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weeker1d minutes are available in local calling area only. Option of 3000 Nights and Weekend Minutes. with a 7 rxn start time. is ONLY good on the pr001otional rate plan of $39 95 fO" 1000 minutes Roaming charges. fees. surcharges and taxes may apply Activatioo fee $30. All serv­~e agreements subject to an early tennination fee. Other [estrictioos may apply. See store for details. limited time offer 

-~-----­
-------------------, 
Friday, April 16, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Lead squandered in loss to Northw-estern 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
It wasn't supposed to end this way. 
Notre Dame was ahead 2-0 early in Thursday's meet after sweeping doubles and a quick win at No. 6 courtesy 
of junior Sarah 
"We played well and
Jane Connelly. Grier and 
A win looked fought hard. but it was Jessica Rush promising for just a wasted 9-8 (7-5). the No. 24 At No. 2,
opportunity for us. " 
Irish. senior Alicia 
Their lead Salas and suddenly erod­Jay Louderback sophomore ed and No. 11 Lauren
Irish coach 
Northwestern went on to win four of the six singles match­es for a 4-3 victory. 
As the sun set, the remain­ing singles matches were moved inside. 
Northwestern held the lead at 3-2 and both teams' suc­cess 6epended on the out­comes of the Nos. 4 and 5 singles matches. 
The Irish came up short at No. 4, with sophomore Lauren Connelly falling to Jamie Peisel 7-6 (7 -2), 4-6, 7­6 (7 -4) to give the Wildcats a 4-2 lead. 
At No. 6 sophomore Kiki Stastny rebounded from a 1-4 del1cit in the third set to win 6-7, 7-5, 7-5, 
"They handled the pressure very well," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
"Because they were playing right next to each other, they knew exactly what was going on in the next court. That's tough because you really have to focus on your own match and putting the team away." 
In No. 1 doubles, freshmen Catrina and Christian Thompson upset the No. 2 nationally ranked team of Christelle 
Connelly tri­

umphed against Peisel and Alexis Prousis 8-5. 
Junior Sarah Jane Connelly and senior Emily Neighbours registered a win at No. 3 against Ruth Barnes and Andrea Yung 9-7. 
Singles victories came from No. 5 Stastny and No. 6 Sarah Jane Connelly, who defeated Connie Chiang 6-1, 6-3. Louderback said he expected a challenging meet at all positions on the court. 
"It was a fun meet to watch because they're such a good team," Louderback said. 
"We played well and fought hard, but it was just a wasted opportunity for us." 
The Irish travel to face Purdue on Wednesday. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Strong weekend key for Belles 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles have been clicking on all cylinders as of late, and they will look to continue that strong play this weekend when they visit Olivet Nazarene and Saint Xavier. 
Saint Mary's currently sits fifth in the MIAA with a 7-5 record. However, the two teams ahead of the Belles are 7-3 and 6-4, marks that Saint Mary's could feasibly pass in their last four contests. 
Coach Anna Walsh commented that the Belles are in a good position to make the postseason tournament for the first time ever, because of favorable league 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles top Kalamazoo, 6-3 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
Last year, Kalamazoo was the only team that could stop Saint Mary's. The Belles have continued to prove, howeve~ that a new year means a sec­ond chance, winning 6-3 Thursday for their second vic­tory over Kalamazoo in the past week. 
"They are always one of the better teams," Caitlin Cutler said. "We lost to them last year, and we wanted revenge. It's always a close match when we get together. It was a good win scheduling down the stretch, provided that they play well in their last four games. 
The Belles play their last remaining MIAA series against Kalamazoo, a team that current­ly sits at 0-8 in the league, while the other teams that Saint Mary's is competing with for positioning in the tournament have yet to play one another. 
This could open the door for Saint Mary's, provided that they can defeat Kalamazoo. 
Olivet Nazarene will present the Belles with their first non­league game since they dirtied their spikes on March 29 against Tri-State. The Belles had little trouble handling them, sweeping the doubleheader, but this week­end's games should present the 
for us because we improved from last weekend, and we were excited about that." 
No. 1 singles player Jeannie Knish agreed. 
"This was a really big win for us. We beat them 5-4 last weekend, then improved on that this time," she said. "We have two more conference matches to finish the season, but this was the big one. We have to keep the momentum up for the last two games to wrap up the conference." 
Saint Mary's currently stands undefeated in conference with a 5-0 record. 
"There were a lot of close 

Belles with much stiffer competi­tion. 
-Coach Welsh stated the week­end's games would allow the Belles to experiment with differ­ent pitching lineups because it is non-league play. While the Belles are confident that they can win provided they play as well as they did against Hope. Olivet Nazarene and Saint Xavier are top-level opponents, and coach Welsh commented that they could be the toughest two dou­bleheaders of the season. 
The Belles play Saturday against Olivet Nazarene at 1 p.m. and on Sunday against Saint Xavier at 12 p.m. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

matches today, and everyone fought hard," Knish said. "People managed to come through and put in their best effort. Hopefully, we can play this way the rest of the season and keep it up next week." 
Cutler also felt the team gave a stronger effort than usual. 
"We are all kind of burned out with one week left in the season, so when we play our toughest competition. we give a little stronger effort and have a little stronger motivation," she said. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 

offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, April 20th 
(and every third Tuesday of the month) 
7:30 -9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an informal.coffee at the Co-Mo. 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 

Rr:cm::\J'KINAL S!'(l!~rs ! lJNiVc'RSfTY or Nomr Dt\ME : 
RecSports has openings for this summer and the2004~2005 academic
..... ...... ., 
year in the fgdow,Jng. positions: 
stua.iri.f''')~rtisors 
........:.. .....:\,•,,.} \: .....0'.... 
Fro~t Desk SUpervisors 
a 1 ~-. .:: ·.·:::/:::/::::::·.:..:..::·v-:.... • 
F1tness.Room/SU~rv1sors 
Issue ~~:sprs 
Anyone whois interested lnc::lpptyfng for these positions should stop by the RSRC and fill out an application. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 23, 2004. 

..-------~·----~­
page 22 Friday, April 16, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
as passionate about basketball as they are about studying. 
In the first half, Team Zoidberg led most of the way but never by more than three points. Bosl's Fan Club closed the half with a surge to only trail by one, 11-10. 
But that was as close as they would get. Team Zoidberg, led by captain Kortny Hall, opened up an 18-14 lead before holding on to win. 
The two teams seemed equally matched, leaving Zoidberg team member Scott Stolpa confused as to how his team emerged victori­ous. 
"I still don't know how we won," he said. 
With a little more certainty, Hall pointed to his team's ability to get out and run the ball. "We had to keep running on them. I think we tired them out," he said. 
Varsity basketball player Greg Bosl did have some words of advice to his admiring grad school fans, even though not all team members were familiar with who their team's namesake actually is. 
"Stay in school," Bosl said, "because they're not gonna have fun next year." 
In a later game, The Danza Slaps had a rough time -literal­ly -with team Sex, Drugs, and House. During The Slaps' 21-10 loss to House, Kevin Fussner of the Slaps dove for a ball heading out of bounds. Unfortunately for Fussner, his team had opted to be "skins" and his dive left him with a glowing red scrape that covered the left half of his bare torso. 
An exasperated Fussner felt that his pectoral abrasion sig­naled a turning point in the game. 
"Five men, nine nipples -how do you expect to win a game like that?" he exclaimed. 
Meanwhile, Sex, Drugs, and House was busy winning the game to the tune of their favorite song, "Sex, Drugs, and House." A boombox sat on the sidelines and pumped out the tunes which House team member Griffin Eaton found both sophisticated and inspirational. 
"We just tried to class up this joint," he said, "[and] all our shots were money." 
In the realm of the ranked teams, No. 2 seed The Library had no problem closing the book on team Fisted Sister by a 21-5 margin. The Library, led by cap­tain Justin Funk, dominated the entire game from end to end. 
Sister team member John Bisanz felt that, all things being equal, the game just came down to talent. 
"Other than our lack of height and complete ineptness on the basketball court, [we lost] pretty much because we were deathly out of shape and they are just superior basketball players," he said. 
After the win, Funk said his team is looking forward with its eyes on a bigger prize. 
"We better [make the finals], we'll be pretty upset if we don't," he said. 
"We were No. 3 last year, and we lost in the Final Four so I want to make it one step farther.". 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
ND runs away with game against Butler 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
The Irish proved to be too much for Butler Thursday as they topped the Bulldogs 15-5. 
After getting off to a 1-3 start, the Irish have rebounded strongly -winning five of their last six games. 
No. 13 Notre Dame improved its record to 3-1 in the GWLL and 6-4 overall. 
"After our loss against Ohio State, we became determined to win," Irish attack Pat Walsh said. 
Butler could not stop Notre Dame from winning their third consecutive conference match after a strong offensive perform­ance. 
Notre Dame scored seven of the first eight goals of the match to take a commanding lead early in the contest. 
Brian Hubschmann led the 
Irish in scoring as he netted three goals for the team. 
"He is one of our best offensive players and it is important because he takes the attention away from our opponent's defense and it allows opportuni­ties for other players on our team to score," Walsh said. 
Walsh, Matt Karweck, Matt Howell and Lucious Polk each scored two goals apiece. 
A strong effort was made by the Irish defense, led by goalie Stewart Crosland. 
Crosland came away with another strong defensive per­formance after making 10 saves. He was relieved by Sean Quigley with just three minutes left in the match. 
Notre Dame took 53 shots and held a 40-35 advantage in ground balls. The team also won 12 of 24 face-off's. 
Butler was led by Phil Brauch who scored two goals, Anthony Crimmins who made a goal and an assist, and the team's leading scorer. Colin Joyce who netted one goal for the team. Goalie Sam Ashley made 19 saves. 
The loss drops Butler to 0-3 in the GWLL, 5-6 overall for the season. 
Despite impressive wins over their last three opponents, the Irish have not changed their goals from the beginning of the season. • 
"Our main focus is still to just go out and win," Walsh said. "We are just trying to play for 60 min­utes and just taking it one step at a time." • 
Notre Dame will wrap up its stretch of four games in 1 0 days by facing Fairfield Sunday at noon at Moose Krause Stadium. The match against Fairfield will be the team's final home game. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

the series Sunday for Notre Dame. The Irish pitchers have posted a staff ERA of 3.40 this year, good enough for first in the Big East 
The Irish and Hoyas kick off the three-game series with a double­headers starting at noon Saturday, followed by the series finale Sunday at 11:30 a.m. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

.~ 
DO yo·u .H.AVE ·wHAT IT TA:K:ES? 

To club a ..... I mean, to write the conti.c for the Obser,ter next }'ear? Ifso, send in 5 strips to Editor i11 ChiefMatt Lozar's mailbox in the Observer office by· ·wednesday, A·pril21st, at 4 p.m. 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
paces the Irish at the plate with a .381 batting average. He also ·ranks first on the team in hits (43), runs (38), RBis (33) and slugging percentage (.628). Notre Dame has a team batting average of .314, as eight Irish players have 
posted averages above .300 so far this year. Opponents have hit just .239 off Notre Dame this year. 
On the hill, the Irish will look to shake things up a little this week­end, as Irish coach Paul Mainieri said he may start lefty Tom Thornton in the seven-inning opener Saturday, followed by jun­ior righty Chris Niese! in the night­cap. Right-hander Grant Johnson will likely start the fmal game of 

Friday, April 16, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 4 oLow places 2 Electrolysis parti­cle
1 Some hotel 42 Vein site 
Sharing this birthday: Gabriela Sabatini, Henry Mancini, Ellen Barkin, Jon 
adjuncts 3 Three-time
4 3 La lead-in 

Cryer, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Bobby Vinton, Selena Quintanilla, Martin
Masters winner
16 Old plugboard 4 5Just Lawrence plug-ins 4 Canadian poet4 6 Stopping points Mandel Happy Birthday: Your practical way of approaching things will aid you in 170ne may be getting the support you need to be successful this year. You will be disciplined, 
4 7Bothers 5 Breaks down, in

decorated hard-working and to the point in all that you pursue. The more you put into a 4 9Race sponsor away project, the more interest you will get from powerful individuals.
1 8 Pea jacket? 
Your numbers: 4, 17, 23, 26, 31,38

5oAncient manu-6 Victorian out­1 91980's proposal: script burst 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Take time to visit a friend who hasn't been well. 
Abbr. 
5 1 They have tight 7 Save, and then Do not get into situations that will cause interactions with police or officials. 20 Bounce You should look into your career options. •••
headbands some 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Children should be on your mind. It will be
2 1 Kind of job 
5 5 Arrow alternative 8 Miniature easy for you to get pregnant. Do something about the little things you don't 2 3Makes fast like about yourself. Start a new diet or exercise, or maybe change your hair
5 7 Presidential 9''Ti 
color. •••

appointee: Abbr. (Pavarotti album) t:rn-+--+--+­
2 6 Home of Jorge GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is a great day to look into real estate. Buy,Luis Borges: 6 oWith 30-Down, 1oLike a free agent sell or just look at your options. People may not appreciate changes made to Abbr. zero your home, but they will grow to like your decisions. •••••
11 Patriot Putnam 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): New relationships will develop if you get out 
2 9Mad modifier of the American
6 1It may be eaten and do things with friends or relatives. You will be able to shed some light on 32 Purlieu with chopsticks Revolution someone you care about if you talk about past experiences. •• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This will be a great day to pick up that new pet. You
66 Browner 1 2 Poisonous Asian
3 3 San Joaquin are in a good position to make changes that will raise your status. Relax and
plant
Valley city 6 7 Home of the look at all the choices you have. ••••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your partner may be emotionally difficult to deal 
Cougars of col­1 3 Pit holder3 6 Cannes film fes­
with today. Try not to push him or her into a comer; you may find yourself all 
tival's Camera lege sports 14 Quarter of dodici 
alone if you do. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Focus on the necessary changes in your domestic 
1 5 Bygone pol. unit 
situation. You may not like what you have to do, but if it will bring harmony, 
3 7 Small inventions 
DOWN 2 2 Landings you should hesitate no longer. •••
4 1 Tannery sight 5 3 "Haystack at 
3 8 High place 1 Barracks sites 24 Fact follower? Giverny'' artist SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Ask for favors and go after your goals. You will find that people will listen to you with interest. You can take the position of
4 4 Tankard filler

2 5 before leadership in group functions. •••
54 About a quarter 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your home environment will be difficult 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P-::U-rZ"AZTL;-;-E-r=I'Al 27 Riot 
4 8 Precise, in of a cord 
if you get into debates with loved ones. Take time to visit a friend who hasn't -:-:+~;..t-::-+-7-f 28 Bloated Mejico been well. Try not to exaggerate about your personal life. ****
56 "Scrubs" co-star 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Travel or just go visit friends who stimulate 
..;:;.+:+i:+.=+:,.f 3oSee 60-Across Braff
5o"Rocky'' score your mind. You will be in the mood to learn, and what better way than to 3 1 Like New York composer communicate with those who have life experience. ••
58 Unstable particle outset 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look into some moneymaking opportunities. 
City's Sony 
You may be wise to consider changing some of the past investments that you
got involved in. Go over youl" personal documents today. •••••
Pointer Sisters er 6 5 Retired cruiser
3 2 Something origi­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have to control your emotions today. nal Your partner will easily push buttons that will make you upset. Put your energy into self-improvement rather than interaction. ••
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
3 3 Removes 
Birthday Baby: Not much will get by you. Your ability to ferret out secret
34 Something going 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday information from a very young age will give you an edge. You are determinedon crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. to achieve your goals and set your course of action throughout life. You are 3 5 Potential more intent on doing your own thing and not on following someone else.
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 sources of poi­past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com
soning 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 39Well-_ solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
6 1 Esther, notably 6 2Like 6 3 Milano Mr. 6 4 Outside, at the 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
THE VISIONARY
OUR PLAN IS TO
SALES ARE LEADERSHIP WORK
INVENT SOME SORT
DROPPING IS DONE. HOW LONG
OF DOOHICKEY THAT
LIKE A. ROCK. 
WILL YOUR PART
EVERYONE WANTS 
TAKE?
TO BUY. 
.; E 

E ~ 8 FUTURE ~ 
~ / i 
~--~~~~--------~i~~~~~----------~iL-~~ll_J~~~~~;j 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Due to an error in the 
MCAr s Quality Assurance 
Program, premedical student 
Jimmy realized he was a 
shoe-in for any medical school 
he wanted to attend... 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
UOUA 
I [X j 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~fftJ 
tTORICE j
J I [
'NWW.julri>le.com
tLARFOL I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
I've got to send out invltaUons, buy the food, setlhe table, do the cleaning... 
....-----.-~ 
WHAT Tl4E: HOSTESS FAC.EO BEFORE Tl4E: DINNER ~TY. 
Now arrartge the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q ­Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name __________________________________________ Address ______~~--------------------------­
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 




THE OBSERVER 
...
_ 
PORTS
Friday, April 16, 2004 
page 24 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

A capital opportunity 
No.2 Irish put"undefeated record on line at No.5 Georgetown 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 

A paj,r of lacrosse giants locks horns Saturday when 'the red hot No. 2 Irish travel to Washington to challenge rival No. 5 Georgetown (8-2, 4-0 in Big East) at 1 p.m. in a showdown with Big East Championship implications. 
"[Georgetown's] obviously very good," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
"It's a huge rivalry game. They're a strong team in every position on the field, and we're just going to have to go out and play the way we have been." · 
Several other factors are on the line Saturday, including Notre Dame's current undefeated 10-0 mark, school record 14-game winning streak stretching back to last season and a prime oppor­tunity for revenge after the Hoyas handed the Irish a 16-15 overtime heartbreaking loss at Moose Krause Stadium last year. Notre Dame was unable to protect a 13-10 lead with 2:22 left, allowing three goals in regulation before ulti­mately falling in overtime. 
"We all think we should have won that game last year, and I think that overtime loss last year is definitely motivation," Coyne said. "All we had to do was get one possession off the draw [to win]. When you break it down to something as simple as one possession, I think people realize that we can [beat Georgetown]." 
While a glance at the most recent poll might suggest the surging Irish are the favorite come Saturday, the opposite appears to be the case. 
"If you went down to D.C. and asked who the
-
see HOYAS/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Irish face Big East rival Hoyas in key m_atchup 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
With just one game separating the top four spots in the Big East standings, the No. 5 Irish (27 -5, 8­2 in the Big East) suddenly find themselves in the middle of a dog­fight for the conf~rence title. 
After splitting a pair of confer­ence doubleheaders last weekend with Boston College and St. John's, the Irish travel to Bethesda, Md., for a three-game Big East series with Georgetown (20-20, 5-8). 
Notre Dame currently sits tied with Rutgers atop the Big East standings. Right on their heels are Pittsburgh and St. John's with conference records of7-3. 
The Hoyas have fallen on rough times of late, dropping seven of

-their last 10 conference matchups, but they won their most recent game Thursday, 5-4 over cross­town rival George Washington. The Hoyas are led offensively by 
left fielder Ron Cano with a .346 batting average. The heart of the team however is 2003 Big East third-team catcher Michael Lombardi. The fourth-year starter currently is batting .310. He is also second on the team with 23 RBis. 
As a team, the Hoyas are bat­ting .249, while opponents have hit .268 off the Georgetown pitch­ers. 
On the mound, Georgetown has a pair of four-game winners in junior right-hander Eduardo Pena and freshman righty Erick Chandler, who have posted ERAs of 2.75 and 3.09, respectively, this year. The Hoyas have a staff ERA of4.42. 
The Irish, meanwhile, saw sub­stantial mid-week success with a 17-5 victory over Oakland Wednesday, in which the Irish bat­ters cranked out 14 hits. 
Third baseman Matt Macri 
see BASEBALL/ page 22 


NO SOFTBALL 
. 

UICburns Irish in 10 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 

Despite the fact that warm weather fmally arrived, the bats were cold at Ivy Field on Thursday evening. 
"It was a beautiful day," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "You couldn't ask for anything nicer than what we got. We just didn't get it done." 
Notre Dame (32-12) was unable to muster enough offense to over­come Illinois-Chicago (20-18) in a 10-inning marathon game won by the Flames 4-3. 
"We had five hits in the first four innings and then just three hits after that," Gumpf said. "You've got to hit to win, and we didn't make anything happen. [The team] just waited for someone else to do it." 
The Irish struck blood first, put­ting a run on the board in both the first and second innings. In the first, Meagan Ruthrauff drove in Nicole deFau with a RBI double to left-center to make it 1-0. 
The next inning was much of the same, as Liz Hartmann and Nicole Wicks hit back-to-hack doubles to put the Irish ahead 2-0, 
see UPSET/page 18 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIII 
Battles on the hardtop continue 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 

After two weeks of long sleeve shirts, tights and Spandex, the Barons of the Blacktop, otherwise known as the participants of Bookstore Basketball XXXIII, resumed second-round play on a balmy Thursday evening. The weather drew a large contingent of female spectators to the courts including senior Danielle Davis. 
"It's a great time for everyone to showcase their talent and for the girls to come out and scope some hot bodies," she said. 
But the games, not the bodies, proved to be the main attraction. 
Getting a jump on their assigned court time, two teams of graduate students met in one of the first games of the day in which Zoidberg and the Technicolour Express benched Bosl's Fan Oub by a 21-18 score. The competitiveness of the game proved these two teams are just 
see BOOKSTORE/page 22 

NO TRACK & FIELD 

NO WOMEN'S GOLf
MEN'S lACROSSE 
SMC SOFTBALL
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
SMC TENNIS
en ..... 
Northwestern 4, 
1-u Notre Dame 15, 
Irish travel to Mt. 

Saint Mary's 6,
Ladlc Boilermaker 
SAC Relays 

lnvi ational
z Butler 5 

Notre Dame 3 
Kalamazoo 3 

The Belles travel to
a: ::5 
Saturday-Sunday 
Olivet Nazarene and
The Irish won their 
Notre Dame visits 

The Irish squandered 
The Belles improved 
California to compete in 

The Irish compete in 
Saint Xavier this wee-
third straight conference 
a 2-0 lead to the 
their conference record
e»: 
the famous meet. 

the meet as a tune up 
Wildcats in the loss. 
keend.
match. 

to 5-0 with the win. 
for the NCAA's 
a.=: 

en 
page 22 
page 19 
page 20 
page 21 
page 21 

page 21 





