
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Candidates encourage students to vote 
Chocola, Donnelly visit Notre Dame and Saint Mary's during Congressional campaign 
knocking on doors in critical
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
neighborhoods urging people
News Writer 
to register to vote. The chore in the final few 
With only six days remain­days is to get those people to ing until the election, the show up at the polls. Indiana Congressional candi­"We are just working on dates from the 2nd district, getting out our vote," Chris Chocola and Joe Donnelly said. Donnelly, are remaining And for some, ifis working. steadfast in their campaign Saint Mary's junior and 2nd tactics and hopeful their cam­congressional district resi­pus visits made a difference dent Shelby Baughman said among the Notre Dame and the campus visits reminded Saint Mary's community. her of the importance of vot­
Representatives for both ing. men, who have made visits to "Both politicians have made Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, considerable efforts to come said there· would be no major to our campuses, encouraging changes in strategy during us to vote in the upcoming the final weekend of the race. election," Baughman said. "I 
"We're just sticking to what think that their appearances has been working well so will increase the newest far," said Donnelly's press voter's turnout come next secretary, Jonathan Diffley. Tuesday." 
For the Democratic chal­Democrats will extend eyery lenger that means an effort resource on Nov. 2 to get peo­largely waged on foot. ple to vote, making phone Donnelly and his campaign team have spent weeks see CANDIDATES/page 4 


Scholar delves deeper into Islam, Koran 

By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
After introducing the origins of Islam in his first lecture. Yale professor Gerhard Bi:iwering delved further into the Erasmus Lecture theme of "Islam and Christianity" Wednesday in his second lecture entitled "One God with Many Faces." 
Bowering touched on three main points: the role of God in the Koran. the role of God in Islamic theology and the Islamic perception of Christian ideas of God. · 
"When Mohammed was com­ing into his ideas of Islam," Bi:iwering explained. "he had to grapple with ideas of gods in prehistoric Arabia, especially tribal polytheism." 
Islam needed to emphasize the oneness of God, and thus .their ultimate profession of faith. "There is no god but God," appears 2,700 times throughout the Koran. 
Throughout the Koran, Bi:iwering noted. there are three different roles for God. First, God is recognized as creator of the universe, and He continual­ly maintains that creation. Second, God is written about as the creator of man -but Bi:iwering noted, in contrast to Christianity, that nowhere do we find in the Koran that man was created in God's image. 
"God is so totally other, so 

CLEMENT SUHENDRNThe Observer 
Yale professor Gerhard Bowerlng lectured Wednesday about Islam, specifically the role of the Koran . 
separate that anything making semblance to Him goes against the core of Islam's monothe­ism," he said. 
In that sense, the Christian view of man being cre'ated in God's image is not pure enough for Muslims; such ideas would in fact, he said, be "the ultimate insult to Islam." 
The third representation of God in the Koran is as the judge at the end of time. Muslims, 
see ISLAM/page 6 


Students donate coats to needy 
By' APRIL THOMAS News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are teaming up to help make this winter a little more comfortable for South Bend residents through the Project Warmth coat drive. 
The drive has included Saint Mary's campus for the first time in its decade-long histo­

-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---­
ry. 

Notre Dame organizers Colin Walsh and Kathryn Eisele have arranged a dorm­wide competition for coat donations. 
"Last year I believe Farley and Zahm tied for t~e most coats," Walsh said. 
However, Saint Mary's jun­ior class community service chairwoman Shannon McManus is optimistic, about Saint Mary's own efforts. 

"Even the staff is getting involved," McManus said. "It's great." 
Walsh is impressed and pleased with these efforts. 
"Shannon has done an amazing job with getting Saint Mary's involved," Walsh said. 
As in past years, Notre Dame's Hammes Bookstore offers a 25 percent discount coupon on any new coat with 
see COATS/page 4 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Costume changes 

This weekend many of us will ditch our usual weekend attire of jearis and T-shirts for the scariest; highly scandalous or most creative Halloween costume that produce 
through a few  
trips to Goodwill  Kelly Meehan  
or our friends'  
closets.  
Halloween is a  Wire Editor  
great holiday.  
Free candy. crazy  

costumes and great parties -what's not to like? I suppose the downside of Halloween would have to be sus­pected ghosts and spirits that are known to haunt on October 31st, but I try to ignore that side of Halloween. 
Granted this is not easy, consider­ing I live in LeMans Hall, known to be the most haunted building on Saint Mary's campus. I was actually informed two days ago that it is writ­ten in a book entitled Quiet Hours that the spirit of a former Saint Mary's student took ~er own life in my room continues to haunt it to this day. Thankfully there has yet to be any citings by my roommates or myself. perhaps due to my neighbor's genrrous gift of Holy Water to ward away the spirits. 
I have never taken the art of dress­ing up for Halloween lightly. As a child I was always trying to out do my friends, making sure I would be dressed as the Disney character of the season. In middle school. cos­tume making was particularly tense, sreing as though there was a school wide costume contest with the prize of a $50 gift certificate to Barnes & Noble. In 7th grade I strove to win and felt sn original in my Statue of Liberty costume. Unfortunately, the toga-like green sheet wrapped around my body, crown, torch, and green painted face just was not enough to win me that prize. 
In 8th grade. I decided I would be a scarecrow as I wore a plaid shirt, straw hat and overalls with pockets adorned with hay. When I got to school I was disappointed to see all of my friends dressed as "Renaissance Women." I knew I would never win. My luck changed. however, when my classmates voted me as having the best costume and I finally was awarded the $50 gift cer­tificate prize I had strived for the year before. I guess this goes to show that sometime the greatest cos­tumes are put together at the last minute. 
In high school and college, it seems that for girls the idea of a Halloween costume is to put a scandalous twist on a common costume. I tried to pull this off my senior year of high school. when my friends and I dressed as "school girls," only to be embarrassingly sent home by an overly aggressive secretary who was on a power trip. 
I am not exactly sure what I am going to be for Halloween this year. After dressing up for about nineteen years, I think I am out of new ideas and am up for suggestions. Whatever you lind your self dressing up as this weekend, or if you choose not to dress up at all, just make sure to have a "ghoulishly" good time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @sain tmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irsdf as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest 'randards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, howev~:r. recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can 
correC[ our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE FRUIT AND WHY? 





Florida., and good with everything., 
IN BRIEF 
Columbia University professor Ira Katznelson will give a talk on "When Affirmative Action Was White," today from 2 to 4 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Ilall. 
Rabbi David Saperstein, direc­tor of the Heligious Action Center of Reform Judaism. will speak today from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Ilesburgh Center Auditorium about "Rnligion and Politics in the 2004 Elections." 
A Blue Mass. for police ofTicers and firefighters will be held today at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of thn Sacred Heart. 
The History Department will host "CarcPrs for History Majors" today from 7 to 8 p.m. in G-20 Flariner !!all. Notre Dame history major alumni will speak about their careers and all Arts and Letters majors are welcome. 
. The Student Union Board will host Acousticafe from 10 to 11:45 
p.m. today in the LaFortune basement. Sign up in 203 LaFortune Student Center. 
The movie Spiderman 2 will be shown today from 10 p.m. to midnight in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
The freshmen and sophomore classes will sponsor a Halloween dance today from 10 p.m. to 1 
a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Rajmohan Gandhi. professor and grandson of Indian political activist Mohandas Gandhi will speak Friday at 11 a.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium about "The War on Terrorism and the Gandhian Ethic." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

63 46 

61 46 
Andy Pool sophomore Morrissey  Yaclntha Fanardy sophomore Welsh  Rick Hahn sophomore Keough  David Rhinehart senior Off campus  Erik Rocca junior Dillon  Katie Laing freshman Cavanaugh  
"Kiwi.,  "Rambutan­It's sweet and  "Kiwi because they're fuzzy. ,  "Apples because they're crisp,  "Oranges because I like  "Strawberries. They are sweet  

, 
sugary. clean and always delicious, never messy. 

Students and community members gather at an American Needs a Change rally held Wednesday on campus. With the upcoming election, political passions on campus and nationwide are running high. Many are taking action and speaking out with only a few campaigning days left. 
OFFBEAT 
Genetically modified cats for sale 
A California biotechnolo­gy company has started taking orders for a hypoal­lergenic cat 'for pet lovers prone to allergies. 
The ·genetically engi­neered feline, which is expected to be available from 2007, is the first in a planned series of lifestyle pets, Los Angeles-b~sed Allerca said in a press release. 
Allerca hopes to attract customers among the mil­lions of people worldwide who suffer from cat aller­gies. 
Up to 10 percent of the 
U.S. population alone arc believed to be prone to symptoms that can affect the eyes, nose, ears, throat, lungs and skin. 
Many cat lovers ignore medical advice and dis­comfort and choose to keep the animals as pets, or use expensive medications to cope with their allergies. 
VIsitors to British Parliament now called 'the public' 
LONDON -In a bid to modernize Britain's ancient Parliament, legislators have voted to scrap the 400-year-old tradition of strangers. Instead, they will be "the public" or "members of the public." 
"It is my view that our visitors, our voters and citi­zens, are entitled to come and view our debates and shouldn't be shunted into a pigeonhole labeled 'strangers,'" House of Commons leader Peter Hairr said Tuesday. 
"This is the last impres­sion we should be wanting to give to people who exer­cise their democratic right to visit us." 
Information compiled 
referring to visitors as from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

0:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 

LLI 
3: 
....I 
ct 
(.) 


60 55 

70 59 

65 
45 

0 
HIGH 64

..J 
LOW 60 

Thursday, October 28, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SENATE 
Group discusses 'Must Sex TV' 

By AMANDA MICHAELS 
fusociate News Editor 
The Student Senate met Wednesday to get updates on projects in progress within the individual committees. as no new business was on the lloor for a vote. 
"If you have things you need to discuss with the whole Senate, you can put together a resolution to present to the floor, which will hel.p get things going on your projecl'i," student body vice pres­ident Karla Bell said. 
Gender Relations committee chair Lizzi Shappell encouraged senators to speak with their hall presidents about participating in the campus-wide brother/sister dorm event called "Must Sex TV''. 
"Must Sex TV" would feature a 17-minute video made up of clips from the children's TV shows of the current generation up through shows now on the air. The clips were chosen to demon­strate how shows like "Beavis and Butthead," "Saved By the Bell," "Salute Your Shorts" and "The O.C." perpetuated gender stereotypes that could lead to unhealthy relationships, Shappell said. After the video is shown, there would be a mock debate with the female and male hall presidents about the subject mat­ter. 
"We're willing to work with hall presidents to find the best for­mat," Shappell said, emphasizing that full hall participation is desired. 
Residence Life committee chair. Sarah Bates gave each senator 25 surveys about the dining hall and the University's meal plans to give out to members of their dorm. Bates said the committee will take the results to the Office of Student Affairs to open up dis­cussion on the subject. 
Siegfried senator James Leito brought up the subject of "the enforcement of alcohol issues related to tailgating," and said that some students he knew felt the Notre Dame Security/Police were unfairly targeting Notre Dame students while letting oth­ers off. He suggested one of the Senate's committees look into the NDSP procedures in regards to tailgate citations. 
The University Affairs commit­tee accepted the issue for explo­ration. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Saint Mary's group initiates nevv·progra111s 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance has initiated two new programs to further unite the stu­dent body with each other and with the South Bend Community. 
Big Sister/Little Sister is a pro­gram pairing sophomores with first-year students to help ease their transition into college life. 
The second program, Service Sundays, is a monthly effort for students to spend a few hours on a Sunday afternoon volunteering at the local Christ Child Society. 
Student Body Vice President Mary Pauline Moran is overseeing the "Big Sister/Little Sister" pro­gram. Students will be paired up according to their residence halL Moran is planning a kick-off event, which will take place in the next few weeks. 
"Big Sister/Little Sister" was a program at Saint Mary's in the past but over time it was done away with. The sophomore board had plans to resurrect the idea. as did the leaders of BOG. The board, along with BOG, combined their ideas to reinstate this program at the College. 
"The ideas being tossed around are fantastic and I am very excited to see this program get off the ground," said Moran. 
Students are optimistic about the program's chances for success. 

"I believe that this program will really help so many first years adjust to the challenges of college," freshman Allie Greene said. "I am friends with some sophomores already, and it has really made a difference in my transition." 
In pursuing the importance of service at Saint Mary's, Service Sundays invite students to spend one Sunday afternoon each month volunteering at the Christ Child Society. The Society is usually only open during the week, which may prove an inconvenience to many working parents who wish to take advantage of its offerings. Student volunteers do what is necessary to keep the Society open on Sundays so that single women may have the chance to shop without taking time off of work. 
Student Body President Sarah Catherine White came up with the idea during the summer in hopes that it would encourage the stu­dent body to increase their volun­teer efforts around the community. Moran said that the first Service Sunday took place three weeks ago and had an impressive turnout. 
"For a short time on a Sunday, students can feel good about lend­ing time to perform service and still have plenty of time to study and do their work when they return," said Moran. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 28, 2004 
Coats 
continued from page 1 
each coat donation. 
"We've been involved from 
thn beginning," bookstore sen­
ior staff assistant Melanie 
Willarnowski said. 
Walsh pointed out that other areas of campus are also pitch­ing in. 
"Notre Dame Building SPrvicns donated the collection boxes and signs and Saint Michael's Laundry Service washt~s the coats for free," Walsh said. 
Notre Dame student govern­ment is helping with the Project's advertising costs. 
The warmth may even spread beyond South Bend. With many of the previous years' coats being distributed to South Bend organizations like the Center for the Homeless, Project Warmth also sends the coats to other areas. 
"Some coats in the past have been shipped to Appalachia, and even other countries," Walsh said. 
On Saint Mary's campus, Project Warmth is sponsored by the junior class and the stu­dent government association. 
And while McManus is not certain Saint Mary's participa­tion will help Project Warmth exceed last year's collection of 3,500 coats, the piles of filled donation bags in LeMans Hall are reassuring. 
"For our first year, we're doing great," McManus said. 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 
According to Diffley, the 
Tribune poll does not bear


Election 
much weight. 

continued from page 1 "We are not too concerned about the polls," Diffley 
calls, providing transporta­said. "What we are con­tion and monitoring polling cerned with is the numbers places, including one at the on Nov. 2." 
Diffley urged peop.le to

JACC. 
In contrast, Chocoia's cam­vote conscientiously. 
paign has been "Don't base your vote on characterized by the polls, base steady television them on the 
advertising and issues." Diffley reminding con­"/ am happy that said. "I think a stituents where lot of ·people
the two 

the incumbent vote for some­
candidates have 

stands on the one only 
most critical taken the time to because they issues, such as come and speak think they are the economy and going to win."
with the students. 

national securi­Saint Mary's ty. According to With more and junior Jocelyn 
Demeter said

his press secre­more young people 
tary Brooks regardless of
voting each year, it

Kachvar, what political Chocola fulfilled shows that they party people 
belong to, it is

2002 election have faith in our promises to cut always impor­
generation and

taxes and voters tant to take the responded posi­value what is time to be edu­tively. important. to us." cated on the 
"We are mak­·candidates run­ing sure that the ning and cast 
Jocelyn Demeter

voters know his an informed 

junior

voting record," vote. 
said Kachvar. In addition, In a poll con­Demeter said ducted by The the candidate 
South Bend Tribune and campus visits helped her WSBT-TV that was released realize her vote would in Wednesday, Chocola had 55 fact count. percent of the vote. Donnelly "l am happy that the two was 15 points behind with candidates have taken the 
40 percent. There is a five time to come and speak with percent margin for error. the students," Demeter said. Donnelly, however, con­"With more and more young tested the results. people voting each year, it "We have our own polls, shows that ·they have faith in 
and they show a statistical our generation and value dead heat," he said. what is important to us." 
Ads for both candidates skills training. are now running on all the The candidates' plan for major networks. -Tuesday is simple. 
One of the ads features Greet supporters, knock on former 2nd Indiana District doors and of course, voting Representative Tim Roemer themselves. endorsing Donnelly. Hoerner, Notre Dame senior Bob a close friend and fellow Masters said knowing how Notre Dame graduate, important this election is served as congressman for will be reason enough to 12 years before retiring and cast his ballot. being succeed-"''ve heard Joe ed by Chocola. Donnelly speak 
"One of the twice at both
"Both times he 
great things Notre Dame and 
about the 2nd stressed that, for Saint Mary's." district is that young people, this Masters said. " there is a close Both times he
elections is the 
connection stressed that. for 
most important
with Hoerner young people, and where he election ofour this election is stood," said the most impor­
lives, particularly 
Notre Dame tant election of
because ofissues
Democrats out­our lives. partic­reach coordi­such as the war in ularly because of nator Hele·n issues such as
Iraq and the
Adeonsun, who the war in Iraq
increasing
has volun-and the increas­teered for National Debt ing National Donnelly since which directly Debt which May. directly effect
effect our
While both our generation. l candidates generation. " definitely appre­have agreed ciate that a their political politician would
Bob Masters
differences are both try to see
senior
stark, the most things from a important plat-young person's form issue has perspective as been clear-jobs. well as take the time to meet 
As a congressman Chocola younger votes and gauge our sponsored a tax cut bill concerns." aimed to assist small busi­ness in hiring new workers. Angela Saoud contributed According to him the bill to this report. will result in 17,990 new jobs in Indiana. 
Donnelly has pledged that as a representative he will vote against the outsourcing Contact Megan O'Neil at of jobs and for increased job onei0907@saintmarys.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 CoMPILED FROM Tr·IE OnsERVEI~s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Boy rescued days after earthquake 
TOKYO -In a dramatic rescue shown on live TV, a 2-year-old boy was pulled out alive Wednesday after four days trapped inside his family's minivan, buried by an earthquake­induced landslide. 
The joy was muted, however, by news that rescuers were unable to save Yuta Minagawa's mother, and the fate of his 3­year-old sister looked increasingly grim. 
The family's white van was swept away Saturday in a wave of boulders and earth that pulverized the hillside road they were on when the 6.8-magnitude quake ripped across rural Niigata prefecture. 
The van was spotted Tuesday under hill­side rubble, and television cameras tracked rescuers painstakingly digging through to a voice they heard inside. Eventually, the tod­dler was shown being lifted out in the arms of an orange-clad rescue worker -covered in mud and looking weak, but conscious. He was airlifted by helicopter to a hospital. 
Heavy rains flood Ireland 
DUBLIN, Ireland -The city of Cork and several towns were severely flooded Wednesday as the year's strongest Atlantic storm arrived with heavy rain and wind gusts of more than 70 mph. No deaths or injuries were reported. 
The River Lee, which runs through Cork, burst its banks and flooded the southwestern city's main roads with up to 9.5 feet of water. Records indicated it was the worst such flood since 1962. 
The surging tide caught shop workers in Ireland's second-largest city and homeward­bound cummuters by surprise. Scores of cars, with water lapping at their windows, were abandoned on roads. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Report calls for airports to improve 
WASHINGTON -Airport screeners still don't have enough access to practice equipment, aren't properly trained to han­dle deadly weapons and aren't tested on passengers' rights, according to a Homeland Security Department report released Wednesday. . 
The department's inspector general, Clark Kent Ervin, said training and testing has improved since the days when screen­ers got an advance look at tests, some of which had laughably easy answers. 
Congress has been pressuring the Transportation Security Administration to improve screeners' ability to prevent weapons and bombs from getting on planes. In April, Ervin told lawmakers that screeners performed poorly. 
NY increases newborn screening 
ALBANY, N.Y.. -Babies born in New York will be tested for 44 genetic diseases -more than any other state -under an expansion of the state's newborn screening program announced Wednesday. 
Infants are currently screened for 11 inherited and sometimes life-threatening disorders including cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia and phenylketonuria. 
Under the expanded program, the num­ber of diseases tested in newborns would quadruple by 2005. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Pastrick defeated in special primary 
EAST CHICAGO -Mayor Robert Pastrick will not finish his ninth term in office after conceding defeat in a court-mandated special Democratic primary. 
Pastrick, 76, often described as America's last remaining political machine boss, was losing to George Pabey by a nearly 2-1 margin with about 70 percent of the vote counted late Thesday. Indiana Secretary of State Todd Rokita said Pastrick, who had been mayor since 1971, had conceded to Pabey.The doors for Lee's Theatrical Productions should open by Nov. 1, in time for the first play, "Ducktails and Bobby Socks." 
JERUSALEM 

Palestinians unprepared for leader's death 
Arafat's health crisis continues, chaos rips through West Bank and Gaza Strip 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Yasser Arafat's latest health cri­sis ·_ a severe flu, gall­stones, a battery of can­cer tests -has exposed how unprepared the Palestinians are for their leader's death, making a chaotic transition period all but inevitable. · Arafat, 7 5 and notice­ably weakened after more than two years of con­finement to a dank com­pound, still refuses to groom a successor; rival security chiefs are· already battling each other in the streets. 
No leader of Arafat's stature and popularity is waiting in the wings, said Palestinian legislator Hanan Ashrawi. "It's only natural to expect that there would be either a power struggle or there would be a loss of cohe­sion," she said. 
Analysts said it could take years for a leader to emerge, hurting prospects for an Israeli­Palestinian peace deal. 
Even with Arafat sti11 alive, chaos has gripped much of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Gunmen routinely commandeer government offices or hold employees hostage Bank and Gaza, fought speaker Rauhi Fattouh is especially moderate or to demand jobs or hous­Israel in two uprisings a bland backbencher compromise decisions," ing: In recent months, and now demand to be uncertain to hold on dur­Rubin said. "This means security agents loyal to rewarded with political ing a turbulent transition the chances of a negotiat­Gaza strongman power. period and timely elec­ed peace are close to Mohammed Dahlan, who Fatah also faces stiff tions appear unlikely. zero." has presidential ambi­competition from the mil­Arafat's other post, as Israel and the United tions, have clashed with itant Hamas group, which PLO chief, would be States, however, hold out supporters of another hopes to capitalize on filled, at least temporari­hope that a post-Arafat security chief, Arafat rel­massive frustration with ly, by his deputy in the Middle East will be more ative Moussa Arafat. Arafat's corrupt govern­organization, Mahmoud conducive to peace 
Without Arafat's unify­ment during local elec­Abbas, a former prime because of what they say ing presence, simmering tions in December. minister who resigned is Arafat's blind eye to political rivalries would On paper, at least, a last year after power terror and opposition to likely explode. In his path of succession has struggles with Arafat. reform. Fatah movement, the old been charted. Barry Rubin, an Israeli The autocratic Arafat guard -Arafat contem­The parliament speaker biographer of Arafat, pre­has refused to anoint a poraries who returned would replace Arafat as dicts it would take sever­successor, ior f.ear an with him from exile in the Palestinian Authority al years before a real impatient protege would 1990s -is trying to keep president for 60 days, ·leader emerges. "As long try to topple him. He has out younger activists who until elections are held. as the battle goes on, no also alienated many of his remained in the West However, current one can make decisions, peers. 

IOWA 


Death for drug dealer who killed five 
a methamphetamine ring was con­cution at a state prison. U.S.
Associated Press 

victed Oct. 14 on 17 counts, includ­Attorney General John Ashcroft 
SIOUX CITY, Iowa -A jury ing murder while engaged in drug apprqved seeking death in Hanken's Wednesday recommended the death trafficking, witness tampering and case, making it part of a trend of penalty for a drug dealer convicted soliciting the murder of a witness. federal prosecutors-seeking the of the execution-style slayings of In the trial's penalty phase, prose­death penalty in states without a five people, including two children. cutors argued the death penalty was statute of their own. 
Dustin Honken, already serving a appropriate because Honken hunted Honken's sister, Alyssa Nelson, 27-year term on a federal drug con­his victims, plotted the murders, bowed her head and wiped away viction, is the first person sentenced tortured the adults and killed the tears after the recommendation. to death in Iowa in more than 40 children in cold blood. Nelson, her husband and mother, years. "If not now, then when?" assistant Marvea Smidt, declined to speak as 
The recommendation came in the U.S. Attorney C.J. Williams asked they left the courthouse. deaths of the children; the panel the jury last week. Victims' relatives had been told to recommended life in prison for the Iowa is one of 12 states without withhold comment until after the three adults slain. A sentencing the death penalty, which was upcoming t_rial of Hanken's girl­hearing has not been set. repealed by Iowa lawmakers in friend and alleged accomplice, 
The 35-year-old former kingpin in 1965, two years after the last exe-Angela Johnson. 
... ' ... 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS ' Thursday, October 28, 2004 
Singer to stand trial for assault 
Courtney Love 
charged with felony for bottle throwing 
Associated Press LOS ANGELES -Singer Courtney Love was ordered Wednesday to stand trial on a felony charge of assault with a deadly weapon despite her attorney's claim the case had been "grossly overcharged." Superior Court Commissioner Sanjay Kumar listened to testi­mony from the alleged victim, Kristin King. and a neighbor in the area of the April 25 inci­dent. • "There is uncontroverted evi­dence that without provocation the defendant threw a bottle at the victim and chased her with a flashlight," he said. Love was ordered to appear for arraignment Nov. 10. She remained free on $150,000 bail. "We hope this will be resolved in a way to allow her to move on with her life," defense attor­ney lloward Weitzman said out­side court. The case is part of a long string of legal troubles for Love, former lead singer for the group Hole and widow of Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain. Despite the legal setback, Weitzman said Love's well-pub­licized drug problems were behind her. "She couldn't be in any better shape than she is now. Things are looking better and better for Courtney." he said. King testified Love came t.o the horne of former boyfriend Jim Barber and found King asleep on a sofa. She said Love grabbed a liquor bottle and threw it at her head, threw a lit candle and pinched her breasts. 

Tonight! DJ & Specials ALLDAY 272-1766 2046 South Bend Ave. 


IslaiD 
continued from page I 
Bowering explained, believe that death in Islam is a return to God, not a result of original sin -God determines a length of time for each person's life. 
Bowering then turned to the role of God in Islamic theolo­gy. He highlighted the struggle that occurred when early Muslims were forced to defend their. foundling religion against the established tradi­tions of Christianity and Judaism. In the end, they decided upon a quite literal interpretation of the Koran ­which in current times. Bi:iwering admitted, can be a hindrance in understanding between Christians and Muslims. 
Finally, Bi:iwering discussed Islamic perceptions of Christianity. The first ditliculty comes with Jesus' crucifixion -this story is left out of the Koran. 
"[Mohammed] could not understand how a prophet could go down in such an ignominious way. He also," Bowering added with a smile, "didn't want to suggest to his listeners that that was a way to .get rid of prophets." 
The other main issue that Muslims find in Christianity is the incarnation of God through Jesus and the notion of the triune God, Bi:iwering said. 
"Mohammed absolutely could not accept the divinity of Jesus. God 
In response to an audience member's question regarding the difficulty in Muslim­Christian scholarly discussion, Bowering suggested that rather than inviting Muslims into ones own backyard and forcing our beliefs upon them, we must listen to what they say and look for truth -albeit different truth than we are used to-behind their words. 
"Heligion 
become flesh? Inconceivable. It wen( against his  "Religion grows. It's not a blueprint  grows," Bowering said. "It's not a blue­ 
whole message." Because Muslims have embraced such a  set for eternity, it's a tree that changes, but still  print set for eternity, it's a tree that changes, but still  
literal interpre­tation of the Koran, they tend  brings fruit every, year.  brings fruit every year." So m i g h t  
to  be  close­ Christianity and  
minded  to  the  Gerhard Bowerlng  Islam  grow  in  
"When we say trinity, we mean  Yale professor  understanding of each other. he  
one God" pleas  said.  

of Christians, said Bi:iwering. Bi:iwering's will give his final '"My Koran says, don't say lecture on Friday at 4 p.m. in three," they say. 'Say one,'" the Hesburgh Center for Bowering said. International Studies. 
Yet incarnation makes up the central message of Christianity --and thus the Contact Eileen Duffy at struggle continues. eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

. 

Want to write for NEWS?? 
· Want to 
work for NEWS?? 

Call CLAIRE at 1-5323 

The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute Presents 
Epistemological Legalism or "Truth, Justice, and the American Way" 
Dr. Susan Haack 
Cooper Senior Scholar in Arts & Sciences Upcoming Lecture Professor of Philosophy Professor of Law 
Stephen Perry University of Miami November 9 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, October 28, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
fo~~s 10,002.03 +113.55 
..$-, Same: ~: Composite Volume: 
2,285 150 ~ 1,741,026,816 

AMEX 1,311.57 +3.57 NASDAQ 1,969.99 +41.20 NYSE 6,665.87 +67.42 S&PSOO 1,125.40 +14.31 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 10,691.95 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,630.10 +46.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
' 

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.90 +0.25 28.15 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -3.23. -0.13 3.89 INTEL CQRP (INTC) +2.80 +0.60 22.00 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.43 +0.44 18.55 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.75 +0.16 4.43 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.72 +0.82 48.44 I0-YEAR NOTE +2.46 +0.98 40.87 5-YEARNOTE +3.17 + 1.03 33.54 3-MONTH BILL +0.16 +0.03 18.77 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.67 52.46 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.20 425.60 PORK BElUES (cents/lb.) -0.48 94.05 
Exchan Rates 

YEN I 06.6300 EURO 0.7868 POUND 0.5469 CANADIAN$ 1.2260 
IN BRIEF 
GM to assemble new Hummer 
SHREVEPORT, La. -General Motors Corp. will assemble the Hummer H3, the auto giant's new midsize sport utility vehicle, at its Shreveport truck plant, the company announced Wednesday. 
GM said it would invest about $250 million in the plant to prepare for the Hummer H3. The 2006 model is expected to arrive in dealerships during the spring of 2005. 
"These types of investments happen when you combine a modern facility with the nation's most productive work force" Gov. Kathleen Blanco said during a news conference in Shreveport. 
By entering the midsize SUV segment, Hummer hopes to make itself a player in a vehi­cle category that accounts for 1.7 million sales annually. The brand's bread-and-butter vehicle, the larger H2, competes in a segment with about 160,000 annual sales. 
The H3 will join the H1 and H2 SUVs, both built at AM General's Mishawaka, Ind., plant and H2 SUT, which went on sale in June and has features of both a large pickup and an SUV. 
America West reports major loss 
PHOENIX -Hit hartf by rapidly rising fuel costs, the parent company of America West Airlines Inc. reported a third-quarter loss of $4 7.1 million on Wednesday. The airline also reduced its fourth quarter and full year results, and said it will scale back its 2005 expansion plans -despite interest in bidding for part of bankrupt ATA Airlines Inc. 
For the three months ending Sept. 30, America West Holdings Corp. lost $1.30 per share, its first quarterly shortfall in more than a year for the company that was just rebounding after the Sept. 11 attacks. A year ago, the company had reported a profit of $32.9 million, or 60 cents per share. 
Quarterly revenue was down 2.3 percent to $578.5 milllon.informal Inquiry from the SEC and was responding to it. Carey Hendrickson, Belo's vice president of investor relations, con­firmed that the inquiry was related to circula­tion but declined further comment. 
In trading Wednesday morning, America West shares were down 33, or 7. 5 percent,at $4.10 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Stocks surge on fuel inventory data 
Equities bounce back after poor opening, Dow Jones has second triple digit gain 
A.m~ciated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks rose sharply Wednesday, extending their rally for a second session as investors expressed relief over plum­meting oil prices following a government report that showed a build in crude inventories. The Dow Jones industrial average had its second straight triple-digit gain, pushing back above the 10,000 mark. 
Investors welcomed tho government's weekly supply report, although it showed a slide in distillate products. Nonetheless, the resulting plunge in crude futures helped equities bounc.e back from a lackluster open. The question for stock investors; however, is whether oil prices will con­tinue to fall. 
"The move in crude does­n't seem to be much on the surface other than pulling back to the lower end of a range on the way up," said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities. "If it were to prove to be a true break, then certainly it's a much better backdrop for equi­ties. I don't. know if that's the case, but two strong back-to-hack days on the market suggest two things: One, people are underin­vested in equities and two, a lot of people are short the point rise Tuesday. It was more years-rose 0.2 per­have weighed heavily on market." the first time since May 9 cent in September, pro­the markets in recent 
Wall Street has grown and May 12, 2003 that the pelled by higher demand weeks. increasingly anxious about blue chips have gained for communications equip· "It's nice to see some how soaring energy costs more.than 100 points In ment. That followed a more volume coming back 
·might dent consumer two consecutive sessions. decline of 0.6 percent In Into the market, which indi­spending ahead of what's The Index also rose above August. cates people are willing to expected to be a chillier 10,000 for the first time in Excluding the volatile make some commitments than normal winter. With two weeks. transportation sector, and look past some of the oil prices hovering near the The broader gauges were orders were up 1.7 percent shorter-term issues we see, $55-per-barrel level for also higher. The Standard & last month following a 2.8 including In earnings and several days, OPEC urged Poor"s 500 Index rose percent Increase in August. guidance," said Jack the Bush administration to 14.31, or 1.29 percent, to Analysts welcomed the Caffrey, equity strategist for release more oil from the 1,125.40. The Nasdaq com­two-day pop in share J.P. Morgan's private bank. 
U.S. strategic reserve to posite index surged 41.20, prices, saying It was partly "Earnings have been OK calm the market. But after or 2.14 percent, to the product of oversold con­this quarter, a little better the release of the inventory 1.969.99. ditions. Anxiety over lofty than expected, but not quite data, light, sweet crude for A jump in orders for big~ oil prices, rising interest as much better as we'd got· December delivery skidded ticket items offered further rates, decelerating corpo­ten used to. The (year-over­$2.71 to $52.46 on the New encouragement. The rate earnings and fear that year) comparisons are get­York Mercantile Exchange. Commerce Department said the upcoming presidential ting tougher ... and you're 
The Dow shot up 113.55, orders to U.S. factories for race could be targeted by seeing a larger percentage or 1.15 percent, to durable goods -items terrorists, or might not of companies missing 10,002.03, following a 138-expected to last three or result in a clear winner, expectations." 


Survey finds retirement top priority 
A.uociated Press 
NEW YORK -A recent survey found that mutual fund ownership is on the rise after two years of decline, an encouraging signal that Americans are starting to save more money. But although most Investors say retirement is their No. 1 priority, experts say the vast majority remain in danger of shortchanging this goal. 
According to a study by the Investment Company Institute, the lobbying group for the mutual fund industry, 48.1 percent of households own mutual funds, a slight Increase over last year but still below the peak of 52 percent in 2001. The median balance of $48,000 repre­sents about 47 percent of total household savings. . 
Retirement was the primary investment goal for 72 percent of fund owners surveyed, said SandY. West, the group's director of market policy research. Some 84 percent participate in some sort of defined contribution plan, such as a 401(k) or government thrift, and 69 percent said they own an Individual retire­ment account, up from 57 percent In 1998. For 58 percent of those sur­veyed, their first Investment in mutual funds was made through their employers' defined benefit plan. 
ICI doesn't evaluate whether peo­ple are saving enough for their goals. But financial planners say the data doesn't bode well for people who are planning on long, active retirements. Even people with sub­stantially higher levels of savings are often surprised to find they haven't set aside an adequate amount, said Marilyn R. Bergen, a financial planner who specializes In retirement and estate planning in Portland, Ore. 

"In general, people are not saving enough money. They are Jiving In Ia­la land," Bergen declared. "Unless you're talking about a portfolio of more than $3 million, I would say It's pretty common that financial planners are the bearer of bad news to a great many people." 
page 8 The Observer +.NATIONAL NEWS. Thursday, October 28 , 2004 

Colllpany caters to posh pets 
Halloween costumes for animals sell fast 
Associated Press 
IIAHTSDALE, N.Y. -Sure, 
any old dog can go out trick-or­
treating in a mass-produced 
costume. For less than $30, he 
can be a pumpkin, a devil, an 
astronaut, a cheerleader or ­
oh, the insult! -a cat. 
But what about that very spe­cial pooch, the dog whose fur should never touch vinyl and who wouldn't be caught dead in the same costume as the mutt down the block? 
Enter: E&E llallstrom Haute Couture. 
The high-end clothing compa­ny for dogs has added a line of elaborate costumes to its hand­made fashions. For $200 to $240. the llartsdale, N.Y.-based company. outside New York City. can turn Hover into Higoletto, Max into Merlin the Magician and Cleo into Cleopatra. 
"Dogs like to feel glamorous," says Eva Hallstrom. 41, who started the business with her sister Eleonor Hallstrom, 45, after. being laid ofT from a pub­lishing company last year. "You give them a nice haircut, a bath, you put on a beautiful outfit. and they are just so happy." 
The costumes are made from silk. velvet. leather and bto­cade. They feature collars. buckles. detailed embroidery, fringes, semiprecious stones and pearls. They arc fastened around the dog with snaps or handsome buttons. 
"Velcro sticks to fur," Eva Hallstrom said. "The dogs don't like it. and then it gets all hairy and stops working." 
Among the costumes are male and female versions of Chinese royalty and Henaissance nobili­ty, and a Henry Vlll outfit com­plete with a fancy black hat. 
The hat did not sit well with Suki. a miniature poodle who was among a half-dozen gener­ally well-behaved dogs model­ing the costumes for a r.eporter. 
She got the hat oil' with a cou­ple of violent shakes of her head. then joined her costumed colleagues in a romp around some Halloween decorations. 
At one point, Merlin, played by a llavanese named Oyuki, jumped into a pot of chrysan­themums and nearly disap­peared. Cleopatra was a minia­ture pinscher named Haley, performing nobly if gimpily on a broken leg. 
So far. the flallstroms have sold five of their costumes and expect to do better with a longer lead time next ye1;1.r. 
Ot' course, plenty of dogs all over the country will be wear­ing handmade costumes on Halloween, pieced together by their owners. But Cammy Cutler. a buyer for the exclusive Karens for People & Pets on Manhattan's Upper East Side, said she is unaware of any handmade dog costumes for sale that are as elaborate as Hallstrom's. 
She said she has bought some of the llallstroms' coats but not their costumes. 
"We sell well-made Halloween costumes. not the $5 kind. but they're not $200. either," she said. 


Governor reinstates. felons' voting rights 
214 criminals will participate in election 
Associated Press felonies. Former Gov. Paul Patton's FRANKFORT, Ky. -Since policy was to approve applica­Gov. Ernie Fletcher changed tions, provided that applicants 
requirements for felons to have completed their sentences and their voting rights restored, made full restitution. Felons 214 applications have been had to apply for reinstatement, approved, the governor's gen­then parole officers would veri­eral counsel said. fy the sentences were complet­However. a group opposing ed. Local pr9secutors also were 
Fletcher's changes said Wednesday that the adminis­tration was effec­tively suppressing votes with its new rules. 
Heather Roe Mahoney, of the Democracy Resource Center in Lexington. claimed the 
"This is an injustice. It is an assault on our democracy. " 
Heather Roe Mahoney Democracy Resource Center 
given an oppor­tunity to object. 
Now, appli­cants have to submit refer­ences and the written expla­nation after their initial applications. That informa-· tion is forward­ed to prosecu­

administration's new policy was preventing more than 700 felons from voting in next week's election. 
"This is an injustice," Mahoney said. "It is an assault on our democracy." 
Under the new requirements, implemented in June, Fletcher's administration requires felons to supply three character references and an explanation why their voting rights should be reinstated. 
Fletcher's general counsel, John Roach, said the new poli­
cy was not overly burdensome and ensures that only people who have fulfilled their sen­tences and paid restitution are allowed to vote. 
"This is a process that allows the people that truly deserve to have their civil rights restored restored," Roach 
"This is a process that allows the people that truly deserve to have their civil rights restored restored." 
John Roach general counsel 
said. "But it also allows us to actually make sure that they're worthy of having their civil rights restored." 
The state constitution leaves it up to the governor to rein­state people's voting rights after they are convicted of tors for their opinion. 
Since Fletcher took office, 1,082 people have filed initial applications for voting rein­statement, Hoach said. Of those, 319 have submitted explanations and references, and Fletcher has reinstated voting rights for 214 people, Roach said. 
So far, the administration has not heard back from 747 peo­ple after receiving an initial application, Roach said. Meanwhile, 28 requests have been held in abeyance for vari­
ous reasons, including some where felons had not paid full restitution or where local prosecutors raised con­cerns, Roach said. 
Mahoney, however, esti­mated 705 felons were not being allowed 

to vote because of the adminis­tration's policy. While some were reinstated by Oct. 4, the cutoff to register to vote for next week's election. others weren't reinstated weren't until after that date, Mahoney said. 


Michigan law1nakers benefit from vvindfall 
Drug companies contribute to campaigns 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Drug 
companies gave generously to many Michigan lawmakers this election, but those who oppose the reimportation of 'drugs from Canada got a much larger windfall than 
others. 

Fifteen drug companies 
gave a total of $134,744 to 
ten U.S. House and Senate 
members from Michigan as 
of Oct. 13, ·according to fed­
eral campaign finance 
records compiled by The 
Associated Press and the 
nonpartisan group 
PoliticaiMoneyLine. 
Ninety-five percent of that 
total-$128.189-went to 
five U.S. House members 
who oppose reimportation. 
The rest went to lawmakers 
who support reimportation, 
including four House mem­
bers and Democratic Sen. 
Debbie Stabenow. 
Drug companies, along 
with President Bush and the 
Food and Drug 
Administration. oppose reim­
porta,tion because they say 
there's no way to guarantee 
the safety of drugs coming in 
from other countries. 
Supporters say that's a scare 
tactic designed to protect .drug companies' profits. 
Abbott Laboratories 
spokeswoman Melissa Brotz 
said her company does con­
sider whether lawmakers 
will support the company's 
interests. But it also looks at 
other criteria, such as a law­
maker's influence and their 
chances for election. Brotz 
said Abbott gave a $4.000 
donation to GOP Hep. Fred 
Upton in part because it has 
a facility in his district. 
There is some popular sup­
port for laws that would 
enable U.S. citizens to import 
drugs from Canada, where 
U.S. brands often are cheap­er. Last month. more than 500 people participated in AARP rallies for reimporta­tion at three Michigan border crossings. 
The issue has divided 
Michigan's congressional del­
egation. Democratic Rep. 
John Dingell and Hepublican 
Reps. Upton, Dave Camp, Joe 
Knollenberg, Thaddeus 
McCotter and Mike Hogers 
voted against reimportation 
in July ?003. 
Four other Hepublicans ­Reps. Vernon Ehlers, Peter Hoekstra, Candice Miller and Nick Smith -voted to allow reimportation, along with Democratic Reps. John Conyers, Dal(~ Kilde(~. Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick. Sander Levin and Bart Stupak. 
Stabenow and Sen. Carl Levin. also a Democrat, both support reimportation. Despite leading busloads of seniors to Canada during her 2000 campaign, Stabenow received a $1,000 donation from Pfizer this election. Levin didn't get any money from drug companies. 
Dingell. a Democrat from Dearborn, got the rnost money from drug companies this election, with $43.500. llis largest donor was Pfizer Inc., which gave him $10,000. 
Heimportation isn't the only reason Dingell is collect­ing from drug companies. Pfizer employs 2,700 people in his district. lie also is the top Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, whieh has juris­diction over drug issues. 
Dingell spokeswoman .Jodi Seth said Dingell has opposed reimportation since the 1980s and only would support it if there was a way to guarantee the safety of medications. She added that he held his position long before Pfizer became part of his district in 2003. 
"His position wouldn't change. lie's going to keep that position regardless of what kinds of donations he's getting from the drug compa­nies," Seth said. 




,,yo 


Gra~d,Opening!
7:>e 
!(I ..•... 

~0~ 12980 ~..~ 23 Granger,. IN 4653Q O'Qe"'-~574-277-0441 .· f<}ee 0. . 

·t 1veaw. 
'!II;;Thursday 0 .m. o p.m. .
....· 

·.•··· . . ' ·•· t 7· il.Yst 
Enter to win ,tfree mass.....M,~, ...;,..~~,..,..~~ mani<;:q~~;mpedicure, haircut, or hi-lites. No purchase\hec~ssary. will be g away over 100 prize gift certificates. 
"':':':<::::·.'. 

10 minutes from··caJinpus 


-----------------------------------------------~-----­





ELECTION 2004· 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Both parties capitalize as early 
voters try to beat Election rush 
WASHINGTON -Early voters are casting ballots at a runaway pace in Arizona's biggest county. They've exhausted absentee ballots in some towns in Maine. They're far outpacing 2000 in Florida hot spots. 
With 32 states now offering some form of early voting, an AP/Ipsos poll taken· last weekend found 11 percent of voters across the United States already had cast ballots, and another 11 percent intended to beat the Election-Day rush as well. Coast to coast, including hotly contested states such as Iowa, Florida, Arizona and Nevada, anecdot­al evidence points to increased interest in early voting, a trend that both parties are tracking day by day and county by county as they try to turn it to their advantage. 
In Florida's Leon County, for example, the focus of intense litigation during the recount dispute of four years ago, nearly 31,000 peo­ple had cast absentee ballots by Tuesday, compared with a little more than 10,000 absentees cast throughout the 2000 race. As well, 8,000 people in the county have taken advantage of in-person early voting, an option that wasn't available four years ago. 
In Washington state, another battleground, 60 to 65 percent of the total vote is expected to come in early -in some cases simply because voters want to be left alone. 
"Lots of folks have made up their minds, and they figure that if they send in their bal­lots. the campaigns will stop pestering them," said Snohomish County Auditor Bob Terwilliger. 
The big question for George Bush and John Kerry, whose campaigns have worked tire­lessly to turn out early voters, was whether they were locking in new supporters or sim­ply getting the same old Voters out to the polls earlier than usual. 
Road to 270 electoral votes twists 
and turns in final days of campaign 
WASHINGTON -The road to the White House is taking some strange and sharp turns as tightening polls and pressure from party stalwarts force the presidential cam­paigns to adjust their strategies. 
In a flurry of homestretch activity, former President Clinton was giving satellite inter­views to television stations in reliably Democratic Hawaii to shore up Sen. John Kerry's campaign Wednesday, and President Bush poured last-minute money into the Northeast to keep Democrats at bay in New Hampshire. 
That's not all. Bowing to pressure from Clinton and two prominent senators, Democrats shifted resources to Arkansas and West Virginia despite doubts on Kerry's team about his ability to win there. 
Democrats were also adding money to Michigan, reflecting concerns that Kerry has failed to nail down the must-win state. 
And what's with the polls showing Arizona and New Jersey so close? 
"Both sides are playing everywhere they can, because it's a close race and because they can -money is no problem for either campaign so they're spreading it around," said Democratic consultant Dane Strother. "It's too close to leave anything to chance." 
In any close race, presidential campaigns focus their resources on states that could add up to the winning 270 Electoral College votes, a majority of the 538 available. 

Candidates attempt to sway voters 
Bush appeals to Democratic voters, Kerry says Republican i doesn't get it' 

AP Left, President Bush speaks to supporters Wednesday at the Sllverdome In Pontiac, Mich. Right, Sen. John Kerry speaks at the Mayo Civic Center In Rochester, Minn. Both candidates are trying to appeal to swing party voters. 
Associated Press 
LITITZ, Pa. -President Bush summoned support from Democrats whose "dreams and goals are not found in the far left wing" of their own party on Wednesday in a late-cam­paign appeal for crossover votes. Sen. John Kerry said that when it comes to Iraq, the man in the White House "doesn't get it, and he can't fix it." 
Bush has made a habit of "dodging and bobbing and weaving" when it comes to tons of missing explosives outside Baghdad, added the four-term Massachusetts senator, and Vice President Dick Cheney "is becoming the Chief Minister of Disinformation." 
The president accused his rival of "wild charges" unbe­coming a man with ambi­tions for the Oval Office. 
Six days before the elec­tion, the president and his Democratic challenger appeared before large late­October crowds as their aides and outside groups made strategic adjustments for the campaign's endgame. 
Bush's high command put extra money into television commercials in Portland, Maine -a bid to claim vic­tory in next-door New Hampshire, where recent county that includes polls show Kerry the narrow Cleveland. leader. The challenger as The presidential race well as groups supporting aside, 34 Senate races and him stepped up efforts in . 435 House contests dot the 

Hawaii, customarily a safe Democratic state, but too close for Kerry's comfort in recent surveys. 
With polls reporting a high level of interest in the race for the White House, an Associated Press-Ipsos sur­vey showed 11 percent of voters had already marked ballots in 32 states that per­mit early voting, and anoth­er 11 percent said they intended to do so. 
"Lots of folks have made up their minds, and they fig­ure that if they send in their ballots, the campaigns will stop pestering them," said Snohomish County Auditor Bob Terwilliger in Washington. 
Yet there were problems as millions tried to beat the Election Day rush, and thou­sands of lawyers were primed to catch them. Officials in Florida's Broward County said up to 58,000 absentee ballots may not have reached voters who requested them more than two weeks ago. In Ohio, a federal judge halted hear­ings on Republican chal­lenges of thousands of voter registrations, many of them from the Democrat-heavy 

INDIANA GOVERNOR'S RACE: ENDORSEMENT AFFECTS BOTH SIDES 
INDIANAPOLIS - President  tight, Bush has enjoyed a comfort­ history, and he supports Mitch,"  
Bush gives a glowing endorse­ able lead over Democrat John  said  Daniels  campaign  
ment of Republican Mitch Daniels  Kerry in Indiana.  spokesman Marc Lotter. "He is  
in a new television commercial  Daniels served as Bush's budget  very popular in this state, and  
that began airing statewide on  director from early 2001 until  Indiana will be one of the first  
Wednesday, saying Indiana "will  June 2003, when he stepped  states on the board for the presi­ 
love this guy as governor."  down to run for governor. Bush  dent."  
The Daniels campaign hoped  also  is  the  one  who  tagged  Kernan  campaign spokes­ 
the commercial would give their  Daniels  as  "My  man  Mitch,"  woman Tma Noel said, "Hoosiers  
candidate a boost heading into  which he turned into a campaign  have proven time and time again  
Tuesday's  general  election.  slogan.  that when it comes to choosing a  
Although recent polls have shown ·  "Mitch worked side by side with  governor, they're very independ­ 
the race between Daniels and  the president during some of the  ent-minded."  
Democratic Gov. Joe Kernan to be  most trying times in our nation's  Sen. Evan Bayh, a wildly popu-.  

ballot on Nov. 2, and candi­dates and parties alike strained for a late advan­tage. Republicans, heavily favored to retain their majority in the House, sought late upsets in races for Democratic seats in Missouri and California. But GOP officials also said Illinois Rep. Phil Crane was in a difficult struggle to win an 18th term. 
GOP strategists also fret­ted over Sen. Jim Bunning's recent dive in the polls in Kentucky and minority Democrats rooted for an upset. "We have a horse race in horse country," crowed Sen. Jon Corzine of New Jersey, head of the party's senatorial campaign committee. 
Half a world away, increased airstrikes and other military moves sug­gested U.S. forces were moving toward an assault against Sunni Muslim insur­gents in Fallujah and neigh­boring Ramadi. American officials have not confirmed a major assault is near, but Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad Allawi has warned Fallujah leaders that force will be used if they do not hand 
lar Democrat for years in Indiana, endorses Kernan in a commercial that has been airing for a few weeks. Bayh also is on the Nov. 2 ballot,· and polls have shown him a heavy favorite over Republican Marvin Scott. 
The 30-second Bush commer­cial starts with a written message that says, "When President Bush needed a tough business leader on his team, he called on Mitch Daniels." 
Bush says he gave Daniels sev­over extremists, including terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
Iraq has been a major focus of the presidential race, and a major military assault would have an unpredictable impact on the campaign in its final days. 
The polls made the presi­dential race out to be impos­sibly close as Bush and Kerry campaigned before large crowds in battle­ground states that will settle the election. 
Bush's first stop of the day was beside a small, wind­swept airfield in Lititz, Pa., where the late-October breeze bore the scent of cow manure from nearby farms. 
In remarks repeated near­ly word for word later in the day in Ohio, Bush devoted about a quarter of his speech to an appeal to Democrats -although he acknowledged "they are not going to agree with me on every issue." 
He invoked the names of Democrats Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman and John Kennedy by way of accusing Kerry of "taking a narrow, defensive view of the war on terror," then summoned memories of Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey to accuse his rival of shortchanging public education. 

era! tough jobs, and he did each of them with "great professional­ism and class." 
Noel, Kernan's spokeswoman, said it was "ironic" that Daniels was using Bush in a commercial. She said Daniels has refused to take any responsibility for the fed­eral deficit during his tenure as budget director, shifting it instead to the president. 
Libertarian Kenn Gividen also will be on the Nov. 2 ballot for governor. 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 

page 10 The Observer +NEWS 
Ne-w hutnan species discovered 
Anthropologists say finding rewrites history of human evolution 
Associated Press 
In an astonishing discovery that could rewrite the history of human evolution. scientists say they have found the skeleton of a new human species. a dwarf. marooned for eons in a tropical Lost World while modern man rapidly colonized the rest of the planet. 
The finding on a remote Indonesian island has stunned anthropologists like no other in recent memory. It is a funda­
. mentally new creature that bears more of a resemblance to fictional. barefooted hobbits than modern humans. 
Yet biologically speaking, it may have been closely related to us and perhaps even shared its caves with our ancestors. · 
The 3-foot-tall adult female skeleton found in a cave is believed 18,000 years old. It smashes the long-cherished sci­entific belief that our species. Homo sapiens, systematically crowded out other upright­walking human cousins begin­ning 160.000 years ago and that we've had Earth to our­selves for tens of thousands of years. 
Instead. it suggests recent evolution was more complex than previously thought. 
And it demonstrates that Africa, the acknowledged cradle of humanity. does not hold all the answers to persistent ques­tions of how -and where ­we came to be. 
"This finding really does rewrite our knowledge of 
human evolution," said Chris Stringer, who directs human origins studies at the Natural History Museum in London. "And to have them present less than 20,000 years ago is frankly astonishing." 
Scientists called the dwarf skeleton "the most extreme" figure to be included in the extended human family. Certainly. she is the shortest. 
She Is the best example of a trove of fragmented bones that account for as many as seven of these primitive individuals that lived on the equatorial island of Flores, located east of Java and northwest of Australia. The mostly intact female skeleton was found in September 2003. 
Scientists have named the extinct species Homo floresien­sis, or Flores Man, and details appear in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
The specimens' ages range from 95,000 to 12,000 years old. meaning they lived until the threshold of recorded human history and perhaps crossed paths with the ancestors of today's islanders. 
Flores Man was hardly formi­dable. His grapefru_it-sized brain was two-thirds smaller than ours, and closer to the brains of today's chimpanzees and transitional prehuman species in Africa than vanished 2 million years ago. 
Yet Flores Man made stone tools. lit fires and organized group hunts for meat. Bones of fish, birds and rodents found near the skeleton were charred, suggesting they were cooked. 
All this suggests Flores Man lived communally and commu­nicated effectively, perhaps even verbally. 
"It is arguably the most signif­icant discovery concerning our own genus in my lifetime," said anthropologist Bernard Wood of George Washington University, who reviewed the research independently. 
Discoveries simply "don't get any better than that," pro­claimed Robert Foley and Marta Mirazon ~ Lahr of Cambridge University in a writ­ten analysis. 
To others. the species' baffiing combination of slight dimen­sions and coarse features bears almost no meaningful compari­son either to modern humans or to .our larger, archaic cousins. 
They suggest that Flores Man doesn't belong in the genus Homo at all, even if it was a recent contemporary. But they are unsure where to classify it. 
"I don't think anybody can pigeonhole this into the very simple-minded theories of what is human," anthropologist Jeffrey Schwartz of the University of Pittsburgh. 'There is no biological reason to call it Homo. We have to rethink what it is." 
For now. most researchers have been limited to examining digital photographs of the speci­mens. The female partial skele­ton and other fragments are stored in a laboratory in Jakarta, Indonesia. 


Police shelve w-eapon -after a student's death 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -At least one big­city police department has sus­pended use of pepper-spray pel­let guns blamed for the death of a 21-year-old college student who was shot by police trying to break up a rowdy crowd of Red Sox fans last week. 
The Seattle Police Department said it has shelved the equipment until it can determine what happened in Boston. Department spokesman Scott Moss said that the guns are normally restricted to a few trained officers and have yet to be used. 
Other police departments around the country said they have found such crowd-control weapons to be effective and would keep using them. 
"We've used it on six occa­sions and haven't had any prob­lems with it," said Sgt. Carlos Rojas of the Santa Ana, Calif.. Police Department. 
Boston police, who acquired the weapons for last summer's Democratic National Convention, have put them aside at least temporarily and have gone back to using a pre­vious model since the death of Victoria Snelgrove, who was shot in the eye. 
The reassessment came as Boston police girded for anoth­er potential Sox-inspired frenzy, with the hometown team on the brink of a World Series victory · against the St. Lcuis Cardinals. The Red Sox had their first 
chance to clinch Wednesday night. 
Snelgrove was among an esti­mated 80,000 fans who swarmed the streets outside Fenway Park after the Red Sox beat the rival New York Yankees to advance to the World Series for their first since 1986. 
Officers fired into a crowd of fans, striking Snelgrove and at least two others. 
Within 24 hours of Snelgrove's death. Boston Police Commissioner Kathleen O'Toole suspended use ofthe pepper guns. Several days later. O'Toole tapped Massachusetts' former chief federal prosecutor. Donald K. Stern, to lead an investigation into the death. 
On Wednesday, the lawyer for the police commander in charge of crowd. control the night of Snelgrove's death said the officer fired four rounds from a pepper-spray pellet gun. but did not hit Snelgrove. 
Deputy ' Superintendent Robert O'Toole fired the weapon in an attempt to rein in out-of-control fans who were climbing on the rafters at Fenway Park and a sign at a nearby bar. 
he Boston Globe quoted two anonymous sources. including an officer involved with police weapons training and an indi­vidual briefed on the investiga­tion. as saying O'Toole fired at a group of students who were climbing the girders behind Fenway Park's left field wall. 

--------.,!Go here --..~!/'• vvvvvv.fordveh icles.corn/collegeg rad t_________________ to get there........................................... ,. '. ' ' ...... :,/' '•' Here's the deal: one prke, no haggling. This "student discount" offers substantial savings on new Ford Motor Company vehicles based on set prices established by Ford's Employee Purchase Plan. There's no catch ­it's a unique otter, exclusive to ~schools like yours. Save even more when you apply U1e current national incentives available on the vehicle you sele<:t. The best part? You get what you expect. The style and features you want. No-hassle dealer experience. A payment that's easy on your wallet and lifestyle. It's how you get there! Point. Click. Save.  


l.'' , \." ,, \ r" If I -·,··-''I-I
4 ~· ­

Thursday, October 28, 2004 page II
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

Accused attorney takes the stand 
Civil rights lawyer charged with aiding terrorists testifies in trial 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A civil rights lawyer accused of aiding ter­rorists became emotional Wednesday, her eyes filling with tears, when her lawyer asked her if she regretted the actions that led to her prosecution. 
Attorney Lynne Stewart, in her third day on the stand, was testifying about her deci­
sion in the sum­"! am diminished restriction of 
mer of 2000 to by the loss ofmy the · United publicly release States of
clientele. My family

statements by America." . her notorious As Stewart
has suffered client, blind tremendously." took off her Egyptian Sheik glasses to wipe Omar Abdei­her eyes, Tigar
Lynne Stewart

Rahman, who is asked that the 

attorney

serving a life jury be sent 
prison sentence. 
Prosecutors contend the statements about the sheik's opinion of a cease-fire by militant followers in Egypt violated prison rules designed to prevent him from communicating with anyone except his wife and lawyers. 
They said Stewart. in releasing the statements, provided material support to terrorists, defrauded the U.S. government and lied when she signed papers promising to abide by the prison rules for her client. 
"Looking back at the events of May, June, July, August 2000, if you had to do it over again would you do it the same way?" lawyer Michael Tigar asked of his client, who had been relaxed, and some­times jovial, during her pre­vious testimony. 
"Sitting here today, it's a very difficult question," Stewart replied, her voice cracking. "I am diminished by the loss of my clientele. My family has suffered tremendously. I don't know if I would." 
She then paused before adding: 
"''d like to think I would do it because it was a duty owed to the client. I do not believe I violate d any command, any 
home for the day and U.S. District Judge John Koeltl obliged. 
Earlier, Stewart said she dismissed a claim in August 2000 from then-Assistant to attack the United States by bombing five New York City landmarks, including the United Nations. The attacks never took place. 
Stewart said she believed issuing press releases in the sheik's name was within a "bubble" of latitude allowed by the special prison rules so his lawyers could vigorously defend him and pursue his rights. 
"We were not allowed to break the law as lawyers, and as lawyers we are not permitted to allow our clients to .attempt to break the law," she testified . 
Stewart also was asked about a key piece of govern­ment evidence -a video­taped prison visit with the sheik -in which she seemed pleased to hear the sheik's name was in a story about hostages seized in the Philippines. 
"I definitely disagreed with 
the taking of 
hostages, espe­
U.S. Attorney  "! do not believe I  cially since they  
Patrick Fitzgerald that the sheik's state­ violated any command, any restriction ofthe  wanted money, which made it all the more repre­hensible," she  
ments could get people killed or  United States of America."  said. But she said the fact that his name  
buildings  was raised in the  
blown up. "I thought that was a Pat  Lynne Stewart attorney  article was consis­tent with­"our effort to keep his  
Fitzgerald  name  out there,  

rhetorical flourish," Stewart alive in the Muslim world." said. Stewart, who could face up 
Fitzgerald, now U.S. attor­to 20 years in prison if con­ney in Chicago, was among victed, was to resume her prosecutors who won a con­testimony Thursday. The viction of the sheik in 1995 · trial is expected to last six on charges that he conspired months. 

Tribune Publishing president to retire at 58 
Pulitzer Prize winner Jack Fuller leaves office after scandal to focus on book writing 
numbers, to increase by $45 mil­
Associated Press 

lion to $60 million over the $35 
CHICAGO -Jack Fuller, a million already set aside. Pu'Jitzer Prize winner who rose "We have a new management from Chicago Tribune copyboy to team in place that's doing all the the executive suite, will retire as right things. We're feeling very president of Tribune Publishing comfortable about the way it's at the end of the year, the com­going, that it's going in the right pany announced Wednesday. direction now," Fuller said. 
His departure comes in the Newspaper industry analyst wake of a circulation scandal James Goss of Chicago-based involving two of Tribune's 14 Barrington Research Associates daily newspapers -Newsday said it was unclear whether and Spanish-language Hoy, both Fuller's retirement was tied to in New York. the scandal. He said naming 
In a telephone interview, Smith and Hiller, besides demon­Fuller, 58, said he started think­strating Tribune's "deep bench," ing about retiring at the end of shows its interest in ensuring last year to focus on writing company credibility since both books. He said his ~eparture have strong internal reputations didn't have anything to do with and have risen through the the circulation problems. ranks. 
''I'm feeling we have the "They've recognized, in a lot of Newsday (and Hoy) problem -if moves they've made, that it's not completely con­important to cluded, pretty much address the (cir­
''I'm feeling we
under control, and culation) situation that makes me feel have the Newsday directly in terms I can go out without problem -ifnot of the impact it abandoning any­has on corporate
completely
thing," he said. "It credibility and was a big mess and concluded, pretty stock price," he I didn't want to much under said. leave a big mess." Fuller was 16
control, and that
Fuller, who will years old when
makes me feel I
also step down he joined the from the company's can go out without Chicago Tribune board of directors, as a copyboy in
abandoning
will be replaced by the early 1960s.
anything."
Scott Smith, presi­After college and dent and publisher law school, and of the Chicago Jack Fuller time with other Tribune. David newspapers,

president
Hiller, senior vice including the

Tribune Publishing
president of the Pacific Stars and 
publishing group, will succeed Smith at the news­paper. 
The announcement of the management changes came after the close of trading Wednesday, a day before Tribune Co. was set to release its third quarter earnings report. 
Tribune Publishing is a divi­sion of Chicago-based Tribune Co., whose holdings also include more than two dozen television stations and the Chicago Cubs baseball team. 
The inflated circulation num­bers at the two newspapers were first revealed by the com­pany in June, and their publish­ers were replaced a month later. 
In September, Tribune Publishing again lowered circu­lation figures for Newsday and Hoy, saying Newsday's daily cir­culation had been misstated by as many as 100,000 copies. 
The company also said it expected the cost of settling with advertisers who claim they over­paid, based on the inaccurate 

Stripes in Vietnam, he returned to the Tribune in 1973. 
As editor of the newspaper's editorial page, he won the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writ­ing in 1986. In 1989, he became editor of the Tribune and was later named publisher and chief executive oflicer. 
Fuller said the Pulitzer and his work as a Vietnam correspon­dent were highlights of his career. Pressed to name a high­light tied to his career at Tribune Publishing, Fuller named its acquisition in 2000 of Times Mirror Co. 
"My default position is as a writer and a reporter," he said. "But the Times Mirror acquisi­tion was an enormously big deal for our company and the shape of newspapers, for that matter." 
Fuller, the author of six novels and one nonfiction book, said he has two new projects underway. 
"I don't know if I'll write better books, but I bet I'll write them faster," he said. 
IL 
THE CUSHWA CEN'IER 
F 
FOR THE STUDY OF A !viE RICAN CATHOLICISM

1.1 

presents 
"Jonathan Edwards: A Lif'e" 
By George Marsden 
S atu,rda y. October 30. 2 004 9:00a.m. 
McKenna Hall Q nte r for Continuing Education 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, October 28, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Not"' Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VmWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITORt Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLI.ER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinc.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in prim and online by the students of the • University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor musr be signed and musr include contact information. 
Q«ntions regarding Observerpolicies should be dirt!md to Editor in Chiif Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tbt Ohscrver {USPS ~99 2--4000) P publi1btd Mon~:by rtirougb Friday except during nam .nd viiCarion pc..ritMis. A Jubtctip«ton rol"hto Obaerver i• $100 foront' academic ~AI'. s~~ for 01\t' klneJtt'f. Tbt Observer i1.1 manbtr of the~ Prcu. AJJ «produ~tion righo a)'(: r~ervcd, 
Thr Qluervcr i• pubU.hed ar: P.O. Bo,C~ 024 South Dmina Hill OH ,X,uth Dining Hall Norrc D.ame, JN 46556-0779 No<r< Dam<. IN 46556-0779 !Tnodical posrasr p.Yd ac Nofrt Ovnc: and additional mailing offw:a. 
Send addft'~ .;:ortt"Criont ro: ThrObsc:rvct 
The Ob1erver i• a mtmbtt of~ Anociatcd Preslh AU rtptoducrion ripus act' .,...,,u. 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports Angela Saoud Matt Puglisi Nicole Zook Bobby Griffin Kelly Meehan Steve Coyer Viewpoint Scene Lauren Galgano Kenny Starin Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Katie Knorr 
More than a coach 
For those who attended Notre Dame or Saint Mary's during the '60s and '70s, Ara Parseghian was as much a part of their college experience as the Golden Dome, Touchdown Jesus and the Grotto. Perhaps 
Notre Dame's most  
charismatic coach  Molly Acker  
since Knute Rockne,  
Ara Parseghian led the  Nobody likes a  
Fighting Irish from  dumb blonde  
1964-75 and won two  

national championships. In retirement, he has remained a respected member of the South Bend community and is still one of Notre Dame's greatest ambassadors. 
During halftime of last Saturday's Notre Dame/Boston College game, NBC ran a profile on Parseghian and his courageous family. Parseghian, who recently turned 80, has taken up a crusade against Niemann-Pick Type C, a rare, neurode­generative disease. The disease, common­ly known as NP-C, has tragically taken the lives of his two grandchildren. Michael and Christa, and has affiicted their sister. Marcia. In 1994, Ara began the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation, a non-profit organization that funds research projects aimed at finding a treatment and cure for NP-C, as well as other neurodegenerative disor­ders. 
NP-C is a genetic, pediatric neurode­generative disorder which causes a build­up of cholesterol that affects the liver and spleen and causes the accumulation of gangliosides in the brain. This eventually results in damage to the nervous system and neurological problems that ultimately result in death. The scientific advisory board of Parseghian's foundation has already made great progress in their research efforts. They have come so far as to identify the gene that causes NP-C, and they are still tirelessly looking for a treatment and cure. 
I first learned about NP-C in the fall of 2001. shortly before Christa's death. When I came to visit Saint Mary's, I had an admissions interview with Jamie Humbert, Ara Parseghian's granddaugh­ter. She told me about the fatal disease that affiicted her cousins. Although it was a very difficult time for Jamie and her family, her strength was remarkable. Especially inspiring was the positive atti­tude she and her family was able to main­tain in the face of this deadly disease. She recognized that, because of her grandfa­ther's fame, her family has been able to initiate progress towards the cure. I have since kept her younger cousins and family in my thoughts and prayers. 

While we college students may not yet 
have the resources to donate to the Ara 
Parseghian Medical Hesearch Foundation 
and other organizations seeking to cure 
NP-C, it is important to remember Ara 
and his courageous family in our prayers. 
He has contributed so much to the Notre 
Dame community. God willing, NP-C will 
not personally affect us as it has the 
Parseghian family. I lowever, many of us 
have suffered a great loss or have a histo­
ry of family disease. Therefore. we under­
stand the importance of support and 
encouragement during difficult times. The 
next time you are at the Grotto, light a 
candle for the Parseghian family. 
For more information about NP-C, you 
can visit the Ara Parseghian Medical 
Research Foundation Website at pam­
seghian.org or the National Neimann-Pick 
Disease Foundation, Inc. at nnpdf.org. 
Molly Acker is a junior communications 
and humanistic studies double major at 
Saint Mary's. Her column appears every 
other Thursday. She can be contacted at ·acke6758@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. . 
Voting proportionally 
There may be a shortage of vocations to the priesthood. But, as someone said, there is no shortage of vocations to the Papacy. Suppose, however, that you are a· believing Catholic, which means, among other things, that you do not feel a voca­
~~~et.oi~:t~~~~ ;;;n  Charles Rice  
accept the teaching authority of the Church. That opens  Right or Wrong?  
the question: How  

should your faith affect your vote? Fortunately, we have clear guidance from the Church. We can summarize that guid­ance, as found in writings of the real Pope, in statements issued in 2002 and 2004, with approval of the Pope, by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and in statements by the United States Bishops and individual bishops. 
First, abortion, euthanasia and embry­onic stem-cell research are qualitatively different from any other issues. All three involve the intentional killing of an inno­cent human being, which the law is absolutely obliged to forbid. "[N]o one can, in any circumstance, claim ... the right to destroy directly an innocent human being." Evangelium Vitae, (EV). "[T]he law must provide appropriate penal sanctions for every deliberate viola­tion of the child's rights." Instruction on Bioethics. In his 2004 statement, Cardinal Ratzinger said, "Not all ... issues have the same moral weight as abortion and euthanasia ... There may be a legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about waging war and applying the death penalty, but not ... with regard to abortion and euthanasia." 
Second, Catholic lawmakers "have a grave and clear obligation to oppose any law that attacks human life. For them, as for every Catholic, it is impossible to pro­mote such laws or to vote for them." 
Ratzinger, 2002. Under very limited cir­cumstances, a legislator, whose absolute opposition to abortion is well known, could vote for an imperfect law to save lives where it is not possible to abrogate completely a pro-abortion law. EV, no. 73. 
Third, a Catholic voter may never for­mally cooperate in the wrong committed by a public official who favors legalization of the execution of the innocent. In formal cooperation, which is always wrong, you directly take part in the evil act of anoth­er, or you intend to assist that evil act. In his 2004 statement, Cardinal Ratzinger said, "A Catholic would be guilty of for­mal cooperation in evil, and so unworthy to present himself for Holy Communion, if he were to deliberately vote for a candi­date precisely because of the candidate's permissive stand on abortion and/or euthanasia. When a Catholic does not share a candidate's stand in favor of abortion and/or euthanasia, but votes for that candidate for other reasons, it is ... remote material cooperation, which can be permitted [for] proportionate rea­sons." 
In material cooperation, your act, which is not in itself wrong, helps another to commit sin although you do not intend for it to do so. Material cooperation in evil is not always wrong. Its morality depends on how proximate it is to the evil act and whether there is a proportionate reason for it. A voter who votes for a pro-abor­tion candidate cooperates in the evil that candidate would commit if elected. What could be a proportionate reason that could justify a vote for that candidate by a voter who does not approve of abortion? The only reason that would make sense would be if that candidate's opponent were even worse on abortion. An alterna­tive would be to vote for neither. 
Archbishop John Myers of Newark, in the Sept. 17 Wall Street Journal, explained this in terms that only an aca­demic could misunderstand. He called the toll of 1.3 million abortions each year in the United States "a tragedy of epic pro­portions." He noted that many abortion supporters would worsen the situation "by creating a publicly funded industry in which tens of thousands of human lives are produced each year for the purpose of being 'sacrificed' in biomedical research." He could have named Senators Kerry and Edwards in that respect. "Certainly," said Myers, "policies on welfare, national security. the war in Iraq, Social Security or taxes. taken singly or in any combination, do not provide a proportionate reason to vote for a pro­abortion candidate." 

As Archbishop Myers concluded. "Catholics may, in good conscience, sup­port the use of force in Iraq or oppose it. Abortion and embryo-destructive research are different. They are intrinsic and grave evils; no Catholic may legiti­mately support them ... Catholics are called ... to protect the victims of these human rights abuses. They may not ... abandon the victims by supporting those who would further their victimization." 
The premise of legalized abortion is the legal depersonalization of an innocent human being. That was the premise of the Nazi depersonalization and extermi­nation of the Jews and also of the Dred Scott decision which defined slaves as property rather than as persons. To vote for a candidate who endorses that prem­ise can be justified neither by hatred of George W. Bush nor by a subordination of the right to life to lesser concerns. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plawecki.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Who are you voting for? 

"People demand freedom ofspeech as a compensation for the freedom ofthought which they seldom use. " 
Vote today by 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Kierkegaard philosopher 

THE 0HSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Thursday, October 28, 2004 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Replacing Willingha.nt 'eventually' 
Reasoning against voting for Bush 
As the losses accumulate, Notre Dame continues its fall from the ranks of college football's elite. Saturday's meltdown serves as yet another piece of mounting evi­d!mce that our University's football team will be unable to achieve sustained success under Tyrone Willingham. 
Hegrettably, many of the decision makers within our University tend to dismiss criticisms of the current coaching staff as knee-jerk reactions to painful losses. They chide disgruntled alumni· for being impa­tient and insist that Willingham will win once he "gets his own players in." 
These defenses of Willingham's regime may have been appropriate when the team struggled last season, but with this season's disappointments, the administration's excuses have lost their credibility. After nearly three seasons under Willingham, signs of progress at Notre Dame Stadium are as elusive as weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. His teams have constantly exhibited the sort of inconsistent play that impedes success. Simply put, routine blowout losses, frequent "too many men on the field" penalties and playing down to inferior competition are not the signs of a competent coaching staff. 
The 2004 installment of the Irish is one of the most talented Notre Dame teams in recent memory. It boasts high school All­Americans at nearly every position. With the exception of the freshman class, every player on this team arrived at Notre Dame as part of a Top 10 recruiting class. Willingham has led a potent foot­ball team this season. Unfortunately, he and his staff have failed to develop this talent, as evidenced by his record up to this point. 
Willingham's record at Notre Dame currently stands at 20-13, which is slightly worse than Bob Davie's 21-12 mark at the same point. Even more alarming than the team's habit of losing is the way that the Irish have lost under Willingham. Gerry Faust and Bob Davie each patrolled the Notre Dame sideline for five seasons. They lost by 21 points or more a combined total of seven times. Meanwhile, it took Willingham only 30 games to lose his seventh game by three touchdowns or more. 
Willingham's winning pen;:entage at Notre Dame is currently .650. Compared to 
Knute Rockne (.881), Frank Leahy (.855), Ara Parseghian (.836), and Lou Holtz 
(.765), his marks look very mediocre. Although Willingham's winning percentage might be acceptable at Stanford or Northwestern, it is unacceptable at schools that are accustomed to competing for national championships. Just this week, the University of Florida fired its head coach, Hon Zook, whose 20-13 record is identical Willingham. Like his coun­terpart in South Bend, Zook was in his third season at a program with high expectations. However, Florida decided there would be no forth season for a coach with a mediocre record. Our administration should reach the same conclusion. It is important to remember that Tyrone Willingham is a good man. He occupies one of the most difficult jobs in all of sports, and he has conducted hims.elf with dignity and class in the face of intense scrutiny. When he steps off of the football field. he is a great representative of our University. and his dedication should be appreciated. 
However, three years after he first led the Fightin' Irish out of the tunnel, there are few signs that Willingham is capable of returning the University of Notre Dame to college football's upper echelon. Our problems on the gridiron will not go away through patience or by blindly allowing him to complete five seasons under the Golden Dome. If we are to return to the pinnacle of the college football world, Willingham will eventually need to be replaced. Prior to firing Zook, Florida's athletic director reminded reporters, "What needs to be done eventually should be done immediately." Hopefully, our beloved University subscribes to this philosophy. 
Laurence Acker alumni Class of 20D3 Ocr. 27 

We are about to elect a president to 
.lead the most powerful country in all of human history. A wrong choice could lead to horrific consequences. In my view as an observer of the American scene for more than half a century, giv­ing George W. Bush another four years would be a disastrous mistake. I want to share with you my reasons for holding that view. 
One reason for voting against Bush: Apart from the seeming need for any presidential campaign these days to deal in half-truths and illusion, the poli­cies and practices of the current Bush administration have been based on sys­tematic deception. One such deception is that Bush himself is a strong leader. He is instead a man with considerable personal charm, but modest intellectual abilities. who has been taken under the wings of professional image makers and given a public persona serviceable as a ligurehead for the ultraconservative wing of the Republican Party. In this capacity he functions as a mouthpiece for the real decision makers of the administration -Dick Cheney, Donald Humsfeld. Condolezza Rice and a shad­owy group of so-called "neo-conserva­tives" of whom Paul Wolfowitz is a key member. 
The neo-conservatives are political theorists trained in the thought of Machiavelli and in a conservative read­ing of Plato sponsored by the late Leo Strauss of the University of Chicago. Although it is hard to capture the gist of their views in a nutshell, they tend to think of themselves as having the kind of political knowledge attributed to the Philosopher-Kings of Plato's Republic. Thinking of themselves in this way as members of a very select political elite, they consider it part of their role to spread "noble lies" among the less gift­ed populace in the interests of achieving the "right" political goals. Among their long-standing goals -going back to the Reagan years-was to capture Iraq, to defuse its threat to Israel and to make it over into a "democracy" run by elite political theorists like themselves. 
A vote for Bush is a vote to keep this . group of ideologues in power. 
A second reason for voting against Bush.: George W. Bush's war in Iraq has been based on deception from the beginning. With key decision makers in his administration looking for an occa­sion to take over Iraq, the horrific attacks of'9/11 provided a perfect opportunity. Under the fabricated rationale of a connection between the perpetrators -most of whom came from Saudi Arabia -and Saddam Hussein, Bush attacked Iraq and quickly moved into Baghdad. He did so in arro­gant defiance of most of the civilized world, including our traditional European allies who had been cooperat­ing in diplomatic efforts to make sure Saddam posed no genuine threat beyond his own borders. 
Since Bush's infamous declaration of victory shortly thereafter, things have gone from bad to worse in the war with Iraq. One of the worst consequences has been a massive increase in the number of young people in Arab nations willing to give up their lives in what they view as intolerable military and economic bullying by Bush's America. Bush has not made the world safer for America. He has made it far more dangerous. 
Another dire consequence is that the United States is rio longer trusted by other major powers in the free world. (Forget about the paltry "coalition of the willing" who have supported this war primarily for economic reasons.) In the days immediately following 9/11, we had the opportunity to lead the free world in a genuine effort toward world peace and prosperity. Bush squandered that opportunity in favor of the ideologi­cal goals of his neo-conservative han­dlers. 
Yet another horrendous result is that Bush has precipitated a bloody clash between fundamentalists of Islam and fundamentalists of Christianity that may take decades to extinguish. Fundamentalism spreads distrust and hate, and all too often a willingness to kill other people with divergent reli­gious conceptions. A conflict of this sort is the last thing the civilized world needs at this perilous point in its histo­ry. 
A third reason for voting against 
Bush: The most immediate threat to 
world civilization is not the growing 
number of politically disaffected people 
chaffing under America's military and 
economic policies. Our greatest danger 
is the immanent collapse of the environ­
mental systems by which human society 
as we know it is supported, a danger recognized today by hundreds if not ·thousands of ecologists and environ­mental scientists. Since the mid-19th 
century, a growing environmental 
movement has been documenting the 
ecological destruction caused by the 
growth-driven economies of the First 
World. These economies, iri large part, 
are managed by people who have a 
stake in the up-coming election. Many of 
these managers have contributed large 
sums to Bush's election campaign. 
During the Clinton administration, 
substantial gains were made toward 
reducing the environmental devastation 
caused by incessant economic growth. 
When Bush took over, a clandestine 
effort was mounted to remove the envi­
ronmental restrictions primarily respon­
sible for these gains. For the most part, 
these actions have been taken under the 
cloak of bureaucratic deception. A 
notable exception, one of the most 
shameful public moments in Bush's 
presidency, was the announcement that 
the United States would not support the 
Kyoto Protocol-to reduce greenhouse 
gasses responsible for global warming 
-on the grounds that provisions of this 
protocol would be economic11lly disad­
vantageous for this country. 
Another four years of benighted disre­
gard for environmental problems would 
bring humankind even closer to a cata­
strophic loss of its environmental sup­
port systems. Even if in some sense we 
ultimately "win" Bush's war against ter­
rofism, the victory will be hollow if vic­
tor and vanquished alike are wiped 
from the face of the Earth by ecological 
catastrophe. 
Many of my fellow Catholics find it dif­
ficult to vote for Sen. John Kerry 
because of his support of legalized abor­
tion. Their hope is that by voting for 
Bush, they can hasten the day when abortion is made illegal. Like them, I am convinced that abortion is morally wrong and should be prevented. But we must realize that the Catholic view on the evils of abortion plays directly into the strategy of a thoroughly deceptive neo-conservative political campaign. Great evil that it is, abortion does not automatically "trump" all other issues. Destruction of countless millions of human lives by actions resulting in envi­ronmental collapse is arguably an even greater evil. 

We should realize. furthermore, that voting for Bush in hopes of stopping abortion may well turn out to be coun­terproductive. As pointed out so clearly in a recent letter to the New York Times by Mark Roche, dean of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters, social poli­cies under Clinton's administration resulted in a 11 percent drop in rate of actual abortions, with no appreciable drop during the prior Republican administration. For someone seriously concerned to prevent abortions, electing to do it the "Republican way" by unen­forceable legislation is simply the wrong choice (remember the futility of making alcohol illegal). 
Here, in summary, are three reasons I believe make it imperative that Bush be defeated in .the upcoming election. First, his administration is run by ideologues who believe democracy is based on deception. Second, the war he started in Iraq is proving increasingly contrary to American interests. And third, his administration is actively dismantling environmental safeguards aimed at cor­recting the damage caused by the prof­it-making practices of large corpora­tions. 
Any one of these in itself is sufficient reason for voting Bush out of office. Together, they add up to a moral imper­ative to take any ethically permissible steps necessary to remove his adminis­tration from power. If you can't vote for Kerry in good conscience, then simply refrain from voting. 
Kenneth Sayre philosophy professor Oct. 27 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 14 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 
Classic horror film comes to PAC 

By ELIZABETH LUDEMANN 
Scene Writer 
The first surv1vmg film adaptation of Bram Stoker's timeless horror talc "Dracula" is coming to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight, just in time for Halloween. "Nosferatu," a 1922 silent film by German director F.W. Murnau, will be presented with live musical accompaniment in the cinema. Besides its status as ooe of the greatest films of all time, "Nosferatu's" legend is due in part to the controversy it caused. .. · 
For legal reasons, Murnau changed the names of Stoker's classic characters, but the resemblance of the story was still enough to cause problems. In a 1923 lawsuit with Stoker's widow, all prints and negatives of the film were ordered to be destroyed. Years later, however. the film surfaced in a number of countries. and its popularity has not died. 
The story revolves around the mysterious Count Orlak and his involvement with realtor Thomas Hutton and his wife Ellen. When Hutton is sent to Orlak's iso­lated castle to close a deal, he ends up discovering that the count is, in fact. the undead night creature Nosferatu. 
Murnau and hfs cinematographer Fritz Wagner cre­ated a cinematic masterpiece with this film. Using innovative camera techniques, low angles, stop-motion effects and atmospheric sets, this film embodies the German Expressionist style. Count Orlak, rat-like and pallid, may be one of the most grotesque screen char­acters ever 
In the 1920s, live musicians almost always accompa­nied silent films, but when silent films are viewed now this part of the experience is usually missing. A recorded score usually suffices, but this month the University is bringing two musicians to offer the full performance as it was meant to be. 
The score will be performed live in the Browning Cinema by percussionist Carolyn Koebel and Aaron Kruziki on didgeridoo and ambience. Koebel has stud­ied percussion for over 20 years, and she has received degrees of distinction in percussion and music therapy from Western Michigan and a master's degree in music therapy from Michigan State University. She is cur­rently authoring a book on the therapeutic applica-


F.W. Murnau's "Nosferatu" Is the first surviving film adaptlon of Bram Stroker's "Dracula." 
tions of drumming. 

"Nosferatu" is playing in the Browning Cinema of the Performing Arts Center tonight at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Tickets are on sale at $6 for the general public. $5 for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross staff and $3 for all students. 
Contact Elizabeth Ludemann at Elizabeth.E.Ludemann.2@nd.edu 
WSND-FM 

88.9 FM Top 5 spins of the Week: 
I. Camper Van Beethoven: New Roman Times 
2. Tom Waits: Real Gone 
3· The Alutuinn: The Autumns 
4· Presidents of the USA: Love Everybody 
5· Kid Dakota: The West is the Future 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Wilson finally makes fans SMiLE 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
To fans of the Beach Boys and 60s music in general, "SMiLE" is a newly discovered treasure -a time capsule from another era of music. But for the fans of current hits, "SMiLE" will prob­ably just seem weird. 
Brian Wilson, former member of the Beach Boys released the long awaited album this fall after touring with the material in the beginning of this year. The album may have come out this year. but it sounds like it is from 1966. 
Called the American "Sgt. Pepper" by expectant fans, "SMiLE" was expected to be proof that American music could 
SMiLE 
Brian Wilson 
Nonesuch 

b.e just as unique and enlightened as the British musicians of the time. While this is probably not true, the style of "SMiLE" certainly is similar to that of the late work of the Beatles, but with a Beach Boys twist. 
"SMiLE" has received much acclaim upon its release. However, this critical acclaim is just that -the appreciation of music critics. While there is definite merit in that, for the average music fan who is not familiar with or neces­sarily a fan of much of the work of the late sixties, "SMiLE" may pass over with a ripple, not a riptide of apprecia­tion. Virtually all of the tracks are interesting musically, but as far as enjoyable listening, "SMiLE" lacks any really distinctly memorable songs for the average listener. 
Some tracks such as "Good Vibrations" and "Surf's Up" sound vaguely familiar and are tracks that actually feature a good deal of lyrics as opposed to instrumental experimenta­tion. The lyrics are often clever throughout the whole album. "Song for Children" asks, "Child the child, Father of the Son. Where is the Father, Son." This track is followed directly by "Child is the Father of the Man" which proclaims, "Child-the child, Father of the man." 
Definite play on words surface throughout the album. The only prob­lem for the modern listener will appear in that actual words arc not extremely com m o·n throughout "SMiLE." That said, the instrumental experimentation is fascinating and compelling at times, making it arguable words are not necessary for such sections. 

Another highlight of "SMiLE" is "In Blue Hawaii" which begins slowly with Wilson asking. "Is it hot as hell in here. or is it me? I It really is a mystery. If I die before I wake, I I pray the Lord my soul to take. my misery-I I could really a drop to drink. I Somewhere in the placid pool and sink. I Feel like I was really in the ... PINK!" This is then fol­lowed by a more upbeat me_Iody, with Wilson singing just as absurd lyrics. The overall tunc is relaxing and really docs convey a feeling of sitting on a beach in Hawaii. 
"SMiLE" has bnen anticipated for years as a milestone album in American music history, and it proba­bly is. However, unless one has a sea­soned appreciation for the late work of the Beatles, these "Good Vibrations" will not be viewed as grossly imprns­sive. Wilson is a terrifically talented musician. and the sheer novelty of the disappeared album being released is enough to allow the album success. Unless "SMiLE" has been a dream waiting to happen for the listener, the album is not altogether terrific. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, October 28, 2004 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Jimmy Eat World's bright "Futures" 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
Jimmy Eat World is not a young band. but "Futures," only its· second major release. proves the future of this band is not to be doubted. 
In its first album since 2001's "Bleed American" (the title changed to "Jimmy Eat World" after 9/11). Jimmy Eat World shows a greater maturity and depth in its music on "Futures." The Mesa, Ariz. based band has climbed to popularity through developing a strong follow­ing of fans that eventually catapult­ed it to fame. The band has put out many great songs, but it outdoes itself in "Futures." 
Jimmy Eat World, composed of Jim Adkins. Rick Burch. Zach Lind and Tom Linton, has a very unique sound, mixing elements of indie rock and modern rock, thus producing songs composed of catchy melodies with a harder edge. The rougher side of Jimmy Eat. World is miJ,de more apparent on "Futures" in thicker guitar parts and songs with a scratchier .tone. The approach works. "Futures" retains the distinc­tive sound of Jimmy Eat World but adds an enriching and mature ingre­dient to the mix, thus creating a ter­rific album with 11 out of 11 great songs. 
There are a lot of great songs to talk about on "Futures," but one that stands out above the rest is "Just Tonight..." It is an exciting and upbeat rock song dominated by fast percussion that can barely keep up with the guitars. Adkins voice car­ries along with the song in a ·perfect balance. neither dominating the 


song nor getting lost in it. Singing, 
"We'll never be the same I never feel 
this way again I I'd give you any; 
thing but you want pain," Adkins 
brings the listener along for the fast .ride that is "Just Tonight..." 
"Night Drive" is the strongest slow 
song on "Futures," which changes its 
tempo a lot, although it is dominated 
by songs with a faster pace. The gui­
tar playing slowly at the beginning 
of "Night Drive" pulls the listener in 
and engrosses him with a solid, emo­
tional sound. Again Adkins sings the 
perfect melody, allowing his voice to 
stretch into· a higher register at cer­
tain moments. 
"Night Drive" flows almost unno­
ticeably into "23" which is not listed 
as a track and is equal in beauty to 
"Night Drive." The songs are both of 
a more melancholy and serious 


nature, proposing ideas such as, "You'll sit alone forever if you wait for the right time I what are you hoping for?" in "23." "Night Drive" is of the same serious tone: "Kiss me with your cherry lipstick I never wash you off my face I hit me, I can take your cheap shot I leave you with the love we made." 
"Futures" hits the fast, slow, seri­ous and fun song solidly on each measure. Jimmy Eat World has been around for a long time, and appar­ently has just kept getting better and better. "Futures"· shows the bands continually growing potential and is an album that no Jimmy Eat World fan will be able to stop listening to for weeks. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
Slean shines on eclectic new record 
By MATTHEW L. SOLARSKI Scene Music Critic 
When Sarah Slean graced the stage at Legends last fall, few had heard of this charismatic chanteuse from the north. Slean's only U.S. release to date remains an out-of-print, seven-track EP compiling standout songs from her three previous Canadian records -yet more than a few were left dazzled and dizzy after her won­drous performance. 
Now Slean is back with the superb follow­up to 2002's Canadian chart-topper "Night Bugs" and is poised to become an interna­tional household name. "Day One" show­cases the multi-faceted Slean in top form. It glows with lush, ambitious arrangements. improved song-writing and melodies that lodgr themselves in the listener's head not unlike the best show tunes. 
Slean first gained notoriety with a haunt­ing cover of a most unlikely Radiohead track, the chilling and perplexing "Climbing Up The Walls," on her self-released debut EP "Universe." Listeners charmed by "Universe" and Slean's debut full-length "Blue Parade" snatched up copies of these records by the thousands -phenomenal sales by independent standards -and major labels took notice. Slean signed a deal with Warner in Canada and Atlantic in the United States. Although the latter fell through, the former provided Slean with the wherewithal to produce the lavish "Night Bugs" and tour extensively. "Night Bugs" entranced legions of new fans and even won Slean a Juno nomination (the Canadian equivalent to a Grammy nod), but only hint­ed at the talent exhibited on "Day One." 
Int€restingly, the first sound to emerge from "Day One" is not the expressive, Tori Amos-esque piano that dominates previous releases but rather a drumbeat followed by a brooding guitar. Then a line follows hard­ly typical of a songstress so keen on poetry and wonder: "A little blood and vomit on the car seat... " One is confronted with a songwriter who has shed much of the pris­tine sentimentality of her early work, opt­ing instead to tackle the world's darker truths with chutzpah and minor chords. 


The heavenly "California," on which Slean recounts a short-lived romance with a resident of that other sunshine state, stands out as one of "Day One's" crowning moments. It begins with a beat bearing a rather uncanny resemblance to that of Ludacris's "Southern Hospitality," but quickly sets off in a decidedly non-hip-hop direction with sparse, plaintive piano chords and sonorous vocals. "I know bet­ter," laments Slean, "still I Wish I was I by your side." 
Another highlight, title-track "Day One" kicks off with an infectious piano melody, as well as, some of Slean's most enigmatic lines to date. ''I'm spreading love like a ter­rorist now" coos the young torch singer, and it is anyone's guess just what Slean means by this. 
Listeners that are patient enough to linger a half-minute beyond the ostensible closing track "Wake Up" are treated to the delightful "Somebody's Arms," a radio-wor­thy pop ditty that caps "Day One" on an upswing. 
Sarah Slean's biography credits her as singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, producer, arranger and artist and "Day One" resonates with Slean's contributions in each of these realms. It is hardly surprising that the young muse is presently writing a full-length musical, set to debut sometime in 2005. The liner notes are adorned with Slean's gorgeous renderings. In one, she conducts a sunrise while haggard-looking, winged creatures clamber amount on a knoll. In another she nonchalantly ambles 


Photo counesy of www.sarahslean.com 

Sarah Slean's music takes a while to get used to, but Is well worth the effort. 
away from a burning cabin, a bag of books close at hand. Others feature the mysterious persons and ·surreal places that populate Slean's songs. 
Sarah Slean croons with a slight quaver. in a manner you might imagine a silent film star to sing. Her voice is a taste acquired with a bit of effort, and first-time listeners may not take to "Day One" until spin two or three. Those who take the effort, however, will delight in having found something new to love. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
page 16 Thursday, October 28, 2004
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 

PGA 
Players have final chance to qualify for tour 
Associated Press 
PALM HARBOR, Fla. -Rod Pampling has never been to the Tour Championship. 
Justin Leonard has never 

missed one. 
Jim Furyk has one last chance to extend his streak to seven years with at least one PGA Tour victory. Vijay Singh is jost as determined to win his ninth tournament of the season~ 
Joey Sindelar wants to get in the Masters. Craig Barlow wants to keep his PGA Tour card. 
"There are bubbles all over the place," Sindelar said Wednesday at the Chrysler Championship, the final full­field event on the PGA Tour. "It's fun to have that chance." 
The Chrysler Championship becomes a numbers game Sunday:
+ 
The top 30 on the money list get into the $6 million Tour Championship next week at East Lake. 

+ 
The top 40 get invited to the Masters. 

+ 
The top 70 get into all the invitationals. such as Bay Hill and the Memorial. 

+ 
The top 125 keep their PGA Tour cards for next year. 

+ 
The top 150 have limited sta­tus. meaning players can ask for exemptions or enter only 


tournaments that have room for them. usually spots like Tucson. Reno and the John Deere Classic. 
Anyone outside the top 150 has to go back to Q-school. unless they have some other safety net. 
"It definitely doesn't feel good being (No.) 126," said Barlow, who trails Olin Browne by $1,214. "The way I'm looking at this week, it's just another golf tournament. If you want to think about that it's the last tournament of the year, and I'm 126th on the money list. you're going to drive yourself crazy." 
Retief Goosen is the defending champion at Innisbrook, and he has no worries at No. 13 on the money list. Playing in the United States for the first time since he won the U.S. Open. Goosen is part of a strong field that has five other players from the top 10 in the world rankLng -Singh, Phil Mickelson, Davis Love III. Mike Weir and Stewart Cink. 
Still, most of the focus shifts down the money lists, the pres­sure increasing at each rung. 
Kenny Perry is $12.482 behind Pampling in his bid to get into the. top 30 and go to the Tour Championship. Behind him are guys like Jonathan Kaye. Charles Howell III and Tim Herron. Leonard is No. 41 
-and probably needs a third­place finish to continue his streak. Several players have never been to the Masters. and this might be their best chance. Ryan Palmer won Disney last week to move from No. 91 to No. 37 on the money list. His victory made him eligible for the Chrysler Championship, and now it's a matter of protecting his position. Sindelar is No. 39, and he got some good news when he arrived at' Innisbrook on Wednesday -Jeff Maggert at No. 40, who already is eligible for the Masters, decided not to play. That means Sindelar went from a $9,000 cushion to a $61,000 cushion. · "It helps for guys trying to pass me," Sindelar said. "So I'm kind of in the protect mode. If I could finish 25th or better, I should be OK." Sindelar has been on the bub­ble more times than he cares to remember. He finished 126th on the money list in 2000 and had to rely on sponsor's exemptions the next year. But he won the Wachovia Championship in May, so his goals changed from keep­ing a job to driving down Magnolia Lane. Still, he knows what it's like for those guys lower down the food chain -guys like Glen Day 
at No. l36. 

Day didn't know his ranking on the money list. only that he needs about $100,000 this week to keep his card, something he has ·done every year since he joined the PGA Tour in 1994. 
"''m beyond the bubble. I'm on the wrong side of every-

thing." Day said. "This is for­eign territory." 
Dangerous territory belongs to Steve Stricker, for a number of reasons. 
A three-time winner on the PGA 'Tour. he has struggled like never before and is No. 149 on the money list. 

NFL 
Boldin expected to return to lineup on Sunday 
Green said that if Boldin is body will let you know when you player back to your offense," debut, he caught 10 passes for
Associated Press 
active for Sunday's game, "he'll are and aren't ready." Fitzgerald said. "I can't tell you 217 yards. Boldin went on to set 
TEMPE, Ariz. -Arizona play a significant amount." The only rookie to play in the how excited I am because I an NFL rookie record with 101 Cardinals wide receiver Anquan Boldin has been sidelined Pro Bowl last season, Boldin know there are going to be ·a lot catches. Boldin went through a full since his right knee locked up expects to return to last year's of opportunities for myself. "Having Anquan on the field workout in pads Wednesday and during warmups at training form. There are going to be a lot of changes things," quarterback has no doubt he'll be able to camp Aug. 10. He underwent "The bar is still set high for opportunities for everybody on Josh McCown said. play at Buffalo against the Bills arthroscopic surgery to repair me," Boldin said. "I can't lower this offense." Green said the Cardinals' this weekend. torn cartilage. my expectations for my per­Boldin's return gives Green plans are predicated on moving 
"For the past couple of weeks, Boldin missed an entire sea­formance. I just have to come the three-receiver attack he the ball on the ground, then if my goal has been to get back on son at Florida State with an out and work hard in practice envisioned during preseason, the opponent has to put a sev­the field without any setbacks -injured left knee, and that and hopefully get back to that with Fitzgerald and second-year enth man up front to stop the any swelling or any pain." he helped him understand what it level." player Bryant Johnson. Tight run, it will open up the passing said. "I think I've reached that takes to come back. Rookie receiver Larry end Freddie Jones also should game. goal right now." "Just be patient. I think that's Fitzgerald was happy about benefit from the attention Boldin "We don't expect him to be a 
Boldin, last season's NFL the most important part -work Boldin's return because it will receives. savior," Green said, "because rookie of the year, will be hard and be patient," Boldin mean fewer double-coverages Asked the last time he wasn't one player can't do that, but we upgraded from que!?tionable to said. "You can't come back too for everyone else. double-teamed, Boldin smiled think he can add to that three­probable on Thursday, coach soon because you'll just end up "It's always great when you and said "the first game" of last receiver group that we talked Dennis Green said. getting hurt again. I think your can welcome a Pro Bowl:caliber season. In that memorable pro about." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The chatge is 5 cents per chatacter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds.for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
CHILD CARE WANTED: 23-month-Fum. 1-bdrm. apt tor 1-2 weekend For Sale: NO tootballtix. Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity old twins in our home. 1 or 2 week-visitors. 5 miles away in a sate ·Party Cruise! 5 Days $2991 Includes 
NOTICES PERSONAL 
provide own transportation. Call Nassau, Jamaica From $459! 
Kara at 574-621-1540. DOMUS PROPERTIES· NOW 232-0964. Spring break 2005 Challenge ...find Panama City &Daytona $159! 6-7 bdrm home close to ND. WID, LEASING FOR 2005-2006 a better price! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­on-site parking. Avail. after 6/1/05. Student seeking odd jobs SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-Wanted: ND football tix. 800-678-6386 ALSO: 3 bdrm.home,W/D, near painting,raking,cleaning,etc. Call ES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED Lowest price specials! Free Meals! Corbys/St.Joe Church Avail.now. 412-977-3092. HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 Top$$$ November 6th deadline! Cold Season is here Call Joe Crimmins:574-229-3659 or BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT Flu-shot alternative All Natural! 679·2010. NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY Hiring reps-earn tree trips and cash! Protect yourself from colds &flu. 
SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE 251-1570. www.sunsplashtours.com Contact Mandy Hosier 
FOR RENT

Lost &Found STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY-574-876-7525 AdvoCare.com or Lost, set of keys on silver key ring ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE NO ftball tix bought &sold a.m. 1800-426-7710 debtbusters@ ureach.com with etched letter A. If found please 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM OR 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 call Anikka at 634-1057 Walking distance from ND CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-SPRING BREAK with Cavanaugh Hall footbalL 
MMMRentals.com 2436 OR (574)315-5032. Buying and selling ND footballtix, leaving no doubt 532·1408 especially Boston College BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring Break Under the 58-17-25
WANTED 
LARGE 3 bd/2 ba. 4 blocks from 574-289-8048 Sunl Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan­
campus on Sarin with wid, garage TICKETS Cancun &Cabo. Book by Oct Pape Perry Loco has respect for PART-TIME WORK Great pay, flex and basement NEED TICKETS 31=FREE MEALS &FREE the 1-1-7 ... do you? sched.,saleslsvc.all ages18+,cond. Please contact Matt at BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX Nov. 13 Pitt. DRINKSI Orgranize a group-GO 
apply, 876-1456. PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273· FREE! 800-875-4525 or Sunday 10/31... John Searson 273-4878 $1,150/mo. 3911 Call Amy 219-872-5932 www.bianchi-rossi.com enters Decade Number Two 
days (5-6 hours each day). Must neighborhood. 574-286-9392. Good price&: Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco. 
~-­

Thursday, October 28, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Coleman-Morse Center 
574-631-7800
Campus Ministry 


friday 1o.29 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #82 Friday-Sunday Fatima Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #54 Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Notre Dame Book of Prayers Distribution continues for Sophs, JRs, & SRs Coleman-Morse Welcome Cntr 
sunday to.Jt 
RCIA Inquiry Session 1 0:00 -11 :30am Coleman-Morse 330 
Dia de los Muertos Mass & Celebration 1:30pm Mass St. Edward's Hall Chapel 
monday 11.01 
Solemnity of All Saints 11:30amAII Saints Day Mass 5:15pm Solemn Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
EucharisticAdoration 12:00 noon -7:00pm Every Monday-Thursday Coleman-Morse Chapel 
tuesday 11.02 
Advent Bible Study Tuesdays thru Dec 7 7:00-8:00 PM Drop-Ins Welcome! Coleman-Morse 114 
wednesday 11.oJ 
/Four: 7/ Contemporary 
Christian Prayer Service 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 10:00pm Legends "Ciubside" 

food tor thought ... 
Q:WAatS 14p witA 
T 
HO~NO·RIN6 TH£ SAINTS·1 

A: 
Saints play a great role in the faith of many Christians. The "official" saints named by the Catholic Church are those people who are honored for giving great glory to God and superb witness to their fellow believers. The Church lifts them up to us as models of holiness who now share eternal life with God in heaven. And since we believe that death has no power to cut us off from the Christian family, the Body of Christ, we can confidently ask the saints to pray for us in the same way that we might ask a friend to pray for a particular concern or need we might have. 
From the earliest centuries of Christianity, the celebration of the Solemnity ofAll Saints has been meant to honor not only the officially canonized saints of the Church, but all those who 

gone before us, whose faith is often known by God alone. 

What is more, this special day calls us Christians still alive on 
earth to recall all that we ARE (as St. Paul calls us all "saints'' and 
that we HOPE TO BE, forever living with God in the glory of 
mass schedule 
considerations ... 

Lives of Faith 
by Fr. Tom Eckert, CSC Director, Latino Student Ministry 
Over the next few days there are sure to be many trips to area stores in search of masks, wigs, outrageous vintage clothing, and anything else that is needed for the perfect Halloween costume. Ah yes, one of the few days of the year when even adults are given license to be kids again. 
Halloween, also known as All Hallows Eve, began centuries ago in response to the celebration of All Saints Day on November 1. Halloween was seen as a chance to get those devilish pranks and tricks out ofone's system before honoring the memory of the holy men and women whose lives are our models of virtue. You know who these holy men and women are. They're the ones in the stained glass windows of churches, Renaissance paintings, and reliquaries around the world. They are our predecessors in faith for whom monuments have been built, books written, and hymns composed. But how did these men and women come to be so revered? Did they campaign for their cause? Did they set out to be great and assure their place in history? No. They were simply called to holiness. 
I know you are not shocked or surprised by this. Saints are holy men and women, of course they are called to holiness! What we sometimes forget is that we are called to holiness in the same way that the saints who have gone before us were called. We are called to live out our faith wholeheartedly. That should not paralyze us with fear, rather it should give us hope in living our daily lives! Who are some of the examples that come to mind of people who live their faith wholeheartedly? Family, friends, colleagues, classmates? 
Two people that I know have lived their faith wholeheartedly are my-parents, who celebrate their fifty-fourth anniversary of marriage today. They raised fourteen children, have forty-nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. Their life together has been a witness to everyone around them of faith, patience, courage, trust, and compassion; a witness of love. They have lived out their call to holiness within the Sacrament of Marriage, and are truly saints among us! They don't view their lives as extraordinary; rather, this is simply how they have been called to live out their lives of faith. 
As you're getting ready this weekend, putting on your costumes and getting ready for the dances and Halloween parties, don't forget about the people that made this possible. No, not the manufacturers of the supplies and costumes, nor the hosts of the parties. Don't forget about the saints, past and present, whose lives we will celebrate November 1. We, just as they were, are all called to holiness. How will you live out your call? 
WUATDO 





Ul\'1 Dl tOMMOfll?? 
BasiUca of the Sacred Heart 
Thirty-First Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Saturday, October 23 5:00pm Vigil Mass Rev. Richard V. Warner, esc Sunday, October 24 
10:00 am Sunday Mass R~v. Richard V. Warner, esc 

Around Campus (every Sunday) 
1:30pm  5:00pm  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  
St. Edward's  Law School Commons  

-
7:00pm MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB 


~-------------------------~---------------­
' ' ' • T 

page 18 Thursday, October 28, :2004 ' 
The Observ~r + SPORTS 

NFL 
Eagles' Westbrook questionable with rib injury 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Brian Westbrook has a cracked rib, discomfort and trouble sleeping. 
Still, Philadelphia coach Andy Reid remained hopeful Westbrook, the Eagles' leading rusher, can play Sunday against Baltimore. Westbrook was listed as questionable and did not practice Wednesday. 
"He'll be fine as time goes on and hopefully he can make it this week," Reid said. "If he can't, then he'll be back the fol­lowing week." 
Eagles head trainer Rick Burkholder said the rib injury didn't show up on the first. X­ray, but more tests revealed a small crack of the first rib. The normal recovery time for that kind of injury is four to six weeks, but Westbrook won't necessarily be out that long, Burkholder said. 
Westbrook was hurt in the fourth quarter of the Eagles' 34-31 overtime victory against Cleveland. He leads the Eagles with 458 yards rushing. He also 

NFL 
Panthers continue to battle injuries 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Carolina coach John Fox has never wavered in his warning to the ailing Carolina Panthers: No one is coming to save them this sea­son. 
He was right. 

All hopes for Steve Smith play­ing again this year were lost when the receiver was placed on injured reserve Wednesday, the same day Fox said running back Stephen Davis would miss his fifth game when the Panthers play Seattle. 
"The show must go on," receiver Muhsin Muhammad said. "We believe we are a good enough team to rebound. But every week I say that, we prove we can't bounce back." 
That's because the defending NFC champions are extremely thin at critical positions. 
Davis, who ran for a career­best 1,444 yards last season. has been bothered by a knee injury all season. He's played just two games for Carolina (1-5) this sea­son. DeShaun Foster, his backup, was placed on the injured list Monday with a broken collar­bone, and third-stringer Rod Smart is out with a knee injury. 
The Panthers have fullback Brad Hoover starting at running back, and they signed Brandon Bennett this week in an attempt to add depth. 
"We're not only playing with backups, we're playing with backup backups," said defensive tackle Brentson Buckner. 
Davis is clearly getting frus­trated with his time off. Davis has played just one full 16-game schedule in nine seasons, and had set a goal this year of stay­ing injury-free. 
But he needed surgery Sept. 17 to repair torn cartilage in his knee, and has played just once since. His knee was swollen after that game two weeks ago, and at 30 years old, there has to be con­cern about his long-term produc­tivity. 
If there is, Davis said he hasn't noticed. 
"Am I concerned? Nah, not concerned," he said. ''I'm mad. Mad at not playing. Mad I'm ndt out there with my teammates, all of it." 
The Panthers will try to flll the hole with Bennett, who has appeared in 7 4 games, all with the Cincinnati Bengals. 
Bennett figures he's worked out for at least six teams this season. He's filled his time work­ing out and trying various other professions, from working at a mortgage company to mentoring children in the juvenile justice system and substitute teaching second grade in his South Carolina hometown. 
"You get aggravated," he said. "You are sitting there and games are going on, and people are calling and somebody went down and they ask 'Have you talked to this team or that team?' It was getting aggravating, but you have to keep on doing the things that you did to get you there." 
Meanwhile, the Panthers had hoped to get Smith back by the end of the season. He broke his leg in the opener and was due to begin rehabilitation within the next couple of weeks. 

u versity Hair Sty ISt 
All Licensed Hair Stylists

-

631-5144 PuUServlre 9AM •9PM M·llJR 
9AM·7PMP 9AM·4PMSAT 
LA FOrtune centet 

Notre 021me. lndana 46566 

We are afu».setvlte salon lhat otters ~· Colq · Perms· Eyebrow Nches 
has 31 catches for 249 yards. 
Burkholder said the Eagles ran more tests on Westbrook after he complained of discom­fort and trouble sleeping. Burkholder said he didn't know when Westbrook would play again. 
"He's got to be able to func­tion," Burkholder said. "He has a high tolerance for pain. He plays running back in the National Football League. But he has to be able to function. He has to be able to get comfort­able enough to get out and practice and then the coaches need to make a decision whether or not he can func­tion." 

The Eagles, already thin at running back after Correll Buckhalter went down with a season-ending injury in the pre­season, will start Dorsey Levens against the Ravens. Seldom­used Reno Mahe also will get some carries and rookie full­back Thomas Tapeh will likely be activated. 
"We're not going to change the offense," Reid said. "We'll keep doing what we do." 
Neither Levens nor Westbrook was available in the locker room for comment Wednesday. 
Burkholder said Westbrook also has a muscle strain, but would not compare the injury to a similar one suffered by Donovan McNabb in the NFC title game. 
Teams keyed in more on Westbrook after last year's breakout season when he scored 13 touchdowns. He has only one this season, with two 1 00-yard games. 
MLB 

Bonds, RaiTiirez avvard vvinners 
Associated Press 
St. LOUIS -Barry Bonds of the San Francisco Giants and Manny Hamirez of the Boston Red Sox were honored Wednesday with the Hank Aaron Award, which goes to the top offensive player in each league. 
The 40-year-old Bonds, who captured the award for the third time in four years, had another record-breaking offensive sea­son. He batted .362 with 45 homers and 101 RBI in 373 at­bats. He walked a major league­record 232 times -including 120 intentional passes. 
Bonds hit his 700th career home run during a season in which he struck out just 41 times and passed Rickey Henderson for the all-time lead in walks. 

"I am very honored to be here, very honored to be sitting next to who I feel is the greatest home run hitter of all-time," Bonds said of Aaron, who attended the ceremony. 
The 32-year-old Ramirez, who carried a 16-game postseason hitting streak into Wednesday's Game Four of the World Series, also won this award in 1999 -:­its first year of existence. 
Ramirez had another monster season, hitting .308 with 43 homers and 130 RBI in 152 games. In addition to winning his first home run title, Ramirez led the American League in on­base and slugging percentage. 
''I'm very proud to receive this award because Hank Aaron did such a great thing for this game," Ramirez said. ''I'm proud to be here. I never thought I would win this award." 
In 1999, winners were select­ed by assigning a predeter­mined number of points for each hit, home run and HBI. From 2000-2002, play-by-play broadcasters and color analysts from club radio and television rightsholders voted for the win­ners. Last season, it was combi­nation of fan and broadcaster voting. 
This year, fans voted for one player from each team to deter­mine the 30 finalists. A baseball panel whittled the field to 12 ­six in each league -and the fans voted again over the sea­son's final three weeks. 


*7:35 PM vs. #15 Northern Michigan First 500 fans receive a Notre Dame Hockey License Plate and Holder courtesy of Drive and Shine Car Care Center 
7:05PM vs. #15 Northern Michigan 
The first 500 fans receive an authentic NDFD T-shirt courtesy of the Notre Dome Fire Department 
7:30PM vs. Connecticut First 250 fans in costume get a Trick-or-Treat bag with candy 
courtesy of Meijer! Halftime costume contest! 
@ 1 PM vs. St. s BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 
~Jnals t'v& 
~~ 
--~---­
Thursday, October 28, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
Coach says Broncos aren't only cut blockers 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Angry that people around the league are calling his offensive line dirty, Mike Shanahan set out to prove the Broncos are really no different from anyone else. 
"We're taking a field trip," he told reporters Wednesday after his weekly news conference. 
And off they went to the video room. where the Denver coach showed a series of plays involv­ing other teams who have .used the same kind of cut blocks that Broncos linemen have been lam­basted for using over the years. 
''I've been talking about it for 10 years," Shanahan said. "It's one of those situations where the average football fan really doesn't understand that all teams do that." 
Denver is viewed as doing it the most, however, in part because of the success the Broncos have had in the running game since Shanahan became head coach in 1995. Denver has ranked in the top five in rushing. in all but two of those seasons. 
The Broncos came under withering criticism from coach­es, players and ABC announcers AI Michaels and John Madden after offensive lineman George Foster broke Cincinnati defen­sive lineman Tony Williams' ankle Monday night by diving at his lower legs. Williams had sur­gery Wednesday and is expected to take six months to recover. 
Technically. the cut block -a block below an opponent's waste -was legal because Foster's helmet was in front of Williams at contact. But it was vicious, too, in part because Williams didn't see it coming. It also looked unnecessary given that the play was moving away from the spot where the block was made. 
"Although people may say it's not illegal, it doesn;t necessarily have to be a part of the game," Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said. "There was no reason to block a man low like that when he has his back basically turned to you. There is no reason to chop the guy like that." 
Williams joined Jacksonville's Paul Spicer as the second player lost for the year after being cut­blocked by a Broncos lineman, and the fifth since 2001. 
"They have a history of it," said Bengals cornerback Deltha O'Neal. who played four years with the Broncos. "Everybody's trying to win, everybody's play­ing physical, but you do stuff like that, you're basically trying to hurt him.. take him out." 
The Bengals' angry reaction was to be expected. Critical comments from Steelers coach Bill Cowher certainly weren't. 
"A lot of it comes down to, in my mind, respect for the game and respect for the players," Cowher said Tuesday. "Do unto others as you want others to do unto you. It's a physical game that we play. It's a very competi-


Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Chad Henne acts nothing like a freshman. 
On the field, he's as calm as a seasoned senior. 
Off it, he handles with ease the spotlight that comes with playing quarterback for Michigan. 
"Of course, there's a lot of pressure upon you," he said.. "But I'm calm and laid back. 
"You just can't stand out there and be nervous and say, 'I don't know if I can do this.' I'm confident I can get the job done." 
Henne has looked more com­fortable and has been more effective each week since becoming the first freshman to 
i~~5eEII!BI~L~s~t;a~rt~an opener at Michigansince Rick Leach in 1975. 
tive game that we play, but with­in that there are certain lines that you don't go over." 

It came as little surprise, then, that Shanahan's video package · included a number of plays in which Steelers offensive linemen are seen making cut blocks. He also showed the Bengals doing it in Monday night's game. 
"I was a little offended with Bill Cowher's statementbecause they do it," Shanahan said. "So, those type things do occur, and you just have to deal with it." 
In fact, the Broncos will be dealing with it on Sunday when they play the Atlanta Falcons. Atlanta's offensive line coach is Alex Gibbs, who left Denver after last season. He spent the previous nine years helping mold Denver's running game. 
"You've got to know who you're playing against," Broncos defensive end Reggie Hay.ward said. "You have to defend your­self. We'll do a couple of drills in practice to get ready for this. 

You just have to be alert. You've got to get your knees and your ankles and everything out of the way and keep playing." 
Foster wasn't available in the locker room Wednesday. As Williams was carted off the field Monday, Foster went up to him and apologized. After the game, he said. "I don't think it was a cheap shot." 
Lots of other people did, though, and it only promoted the idea the Broncos use the tactic more often than anyone else. 
An NFL spokesman said the league had no comment "beyond confirming it was a legal block under the rules." 
Seahawks coach Mike Holmgren. who is on the NFL's competition committee, said the league looks at the blocking technique every year. Holmgren said the 49ers used the same technique when he was on their staff and "people were always kind of upset about it." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Henne not playing like freshman 
DO YOU WANT TO BE THE NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE SHIRT? 
Gain amazing business experience and 
leave your inark on .Notre Dame history! 
Responsibilities include: SELECTING THE DESIGN OF THE SHIRT 2005 COORDINATING THE UNVEILING CEREMONY DESIGNING THE MARKETING PLAN AND MUCH, MUCH MORE.•• 
APPLY ON-LINE AT: 
Lheshirl.nd.edll/2005 
Applications due Friday, November 5th 
hRp://thtJShirlDd.lldU/2005 · · 
When he drops back to pass, he stands tall, doesn't get happy feet and delivers crisp passes. 
Despite relying on Henne and fellow freshman running back Michael Hart. the 12th-ranked Wolverines (7 -1, 5-0 Big Ten) have a shot at repeating as conference champions and earning a spot in the Bowl Championship Series. 
But fir!it. they have to take care of Michigan State (4-3, 3­
1) on Saturday at Michigan Stadium. 
Spartans safety Eric Smith said the Wolverines look like they did last year on offense with John Navarre, a senior at 

• quarterback. 'Td say they're as good as· last year," Smith said. 
Michigan expected Matt Gutierrez would replace 

Navarre, but the redshirt soph­omore injured his shoulder soon after earning the job and Henne has taken advantage of the opportunity. 
Henne has completed 61 per­cent of his passes for 1,728 yards and 13 touchdowns -at least one in each game -and 10 interceptions. On third down, he's completed nearly 70 percent of his passes and in the fourth quarter, he's thrown three TDs and only one inter­ception. 
Michigan needed game-win­ning, fourth-quarter drives twice this month -against Purdue and Minnesota -and Henne delivered both times. 
"I think the confidence that he gained against Minnesota late in the game helped him last Saturday," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "And of course it was much more difficult because it was on the road. But, he struggled some at Illinois and that's all part of the process, too." 
Against the Golden Gophers. Henne completed 33 of 49 passes for 328 yards -all school records for a freshman -with two TDs, including the game-winning toss to Tyler Ecker with 1:57 remaining. 
"If you didn't know he was a freshman, you wouldn't know he's a freshman," Minnesota coach Glen Mason said. 
When Henne was a senior last year at Wilson High School in eastern Pennsylvania, he spent a week in Ann Arbor dur­ing the spring to watch Michigan practice. 
"He's got a ton of poise, and he· had that before he got here," Michigan quarterbacks coach Scot Loeffler said. "The thing I really like about him is, after each game, he's talking about the things he needs to do to improve. He's not talking about the plays he made." 
Henne also deflects credit to stellar guard David Baas and the offensive line and an elite receiving corps led by Braylon Edwards. 
page 20 

The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 28, 2004 
NFL NCAA FOOTBALL 

Griffin's season is over due to injury 
Associated Press 
DENVER-In the span of less than two months, Quentin Griffin went from a starter and a star to a backup limping out of the Broncos facility on crutches. 
The season ended for Denver's opening-day starting tailback Wednesday when the team placed him on injured reserve with a torn ligament in his right knee. 
''I'll be all right," Griffin said, as he limped out of the Broncos training facility on crutches. "I've just got to do a lot of rehab." 
Griffin tore his right anterior cruciate ligament Monday night against Cincinnati during a kick­ofT return. 
The Broncos signed Cecil Sapp off the practice squad to take Griffin's place on the roster. 
Griffin closed the season with 311 yards rushing, including 156 in the opener against Kansas City. 
After the opener, many thought Griffin would be the next great Broncos running back. 
But he also lost fumbles in Denver's first three games. One of them, against Jacksonville, ended a late-game drive in which the Broncos appeared set to kick the go-ahead field goal. They lost 7-6. Griffin took the loss hard and seemed to run more cautiously the next week against Tampa Bay. 
Griffin sprained· his ankle against the Bucs and was side­lined Oct. 10 against Carolina. Reuben Droughns took over and ran for 193 yards. 
Griffin returned to health for the next game against the Raiders. Coach Mike Shanahan kept his starter a secret, but Droughns wound up starting and gaining another 176 yards. By Monday -against CincinnMi ­Griffin had replaced Droughns as the team's primary kickoff returner and was relegated to backup tailback. 
He ran four times for 16 yards against Oakland and didn't have a carry against Cincinnati. 
With Griffin's season over, sec­ond-round draft pick Tatum Bell and veteran Garrison Hearst move up on the depth chart. Bell, however, was listed as doubtful with a hamstring injury. 
Sapp, meanwhile, gets a spot on the active roster for the sec­ond time. He signed as a free agent out of college last year and was elevated to the active roster for the fmale against Green Bay. He started this season on the practice squad again. 

Spurrier may return to Florida 
His legacy remains in Gainesville, but he won't say ifhe'll return to Gators yet 
Associated Press GAINESVILLE, Fla. -All the trophies Steve Spurrier brought to Florida still line the hallways inside Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Six Southeastern Conference championships, two Heismans and a national title. Spurrier's legacy remains ­and it always will. He gave the program its first Heisman Trophy in 1966, its first SEC title in 1991 and its only national championship in 1996. He coached the Gators to 122 victories over 12 sea­sons, tormented opponents with his offensive flair and witty one-liners, and left town with the best winning percent­age in league history. So if Spurrier wants to coach at Florida again, is there anything that would prevent his return? Maybe. "Everybody thinks it's a done deal. It's not a done deal. It's not a slam dunk," said Tommy Donahoo, president of Gators Boosters Inc., which raises money for the school's athletic programs. "Spurrier can't just ask for the job and 

get it. There's certainly a con­tingency out there that wants him back, but there also are people upset with some of the things he did before." 
For everything Spurrier would seemingly return to Gainesville -credibility, vic­tories and champion!ihips ­he also brings some baggage. 
Many fans are still upset over the way Spurrier left Florida. He called athletic director Jeremy Foley from h~ beach house and dropped the news in the middle of the recruiting season. 
His recruiting dropped the last few years -he admitted he left the "cupboard some­what bare" -and he wanted to limit the number of stops he made on the annual tour of "Gator Clubs." 
Speculation about his return has even prompted concerns about his age (is 59 older than ideal?) and his motivation (will he leave again for the NFL?}. 
Would players, fans, boost­ers, Foley and school presi­dent Bernie Machen be willing to trade potential problems for the chance to restore the Gators to the national elite? Would they be silly not to? 
"It was hard for coach Zook to replace 'The Legend,"' cen­ter Mike Degory said. "And if 'The Legend' wants to come back, it's going to answer a lot of questions." 
There's also Spurrier's rela­tionship with school adminis­trators to consider, and his lack of one with Machen. 
As for Spurrier and Foley, the AD says the relationship hasn't soured. 
"Steve Spurrier and I were friends before he was the head football coach at the University of Florida, we're friends today and we'll be friends forever," Foley said. "Did we always see eye to eye and stuff? No, but our friend­ship has never been better." 
Spurrier has met Machen only once, at an SEC basket­ball tournament a few years ago. 
Still, Machen knows all about Spurrier's accomplish­ments and has been reminded about them a lot lately through e-mails. 
He remains steadfast that a full-blown search-and-inter­view process be conducted after the season. 
Utah coach Urban Meyer has been mentioned as a pos­sible candidate because Machen hired him in December 2002. 
But Meyer has no ties to Florida and certainly can't match the hardware collection Spurrier accumulated during his tenure. 
"We have checks and bal­ances in place now that we haven't had in the past," Donahoo said. 

The Student Union Board brings you .. ~ 

THIS WEEKIs SUB MOVIE SPIDERMAN 2
AcoustiCafe 
PRESENTS 
I love the 8o·s 
THIS Thursday in Lafortune Basement 
1.0:00 PM-12:00 AM 
Listen to your favorite BO's covers feoh.xi'lg: anthony iannamaelli, tom sciTed:. jason wise free giveaways! dress in BO's gea and win prizes! 
Best of Acoustic 
Every thlr d Thursday of the month 
at legends 
10:00 PM-12:00 AM 

for other great SUB eventsl brought to you by the student union board. 



Thursday, October 28, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

574-234-4167 
near the airport 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Mississippi·State is placed on probation 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. Mississippi State's football pro­gram was placed on probation by the NCAA for four years, stripped of eight scholarships over the next two seasons and banned from postseason play this season because of recruit­ing violations. 
The NCAA announced Wednesday that its infractions committee found two former assistants and several boosters broke recruiting rules between 1998-2002. But allegations of unethical conduct against for­mer coach Jackie Sherrill were dismissed. 
Sherrill r:etired after the 2003 season and was replaced by Sylvester Croom. The Bulldogs (2-5) won their first Southeastern Conference game under Croom, the first black head football coach in SEC his­tory, last Saturday when they upset Florida. 
The NCAA's decision came 
two months after Mississippi 
State expected it. 
"The uncertainty is gone," 
Croom said. "We can move for­
ward and move our program 
in the direction we want it to 
go. We will not under my 
watch be in this situation 
again." 
Thomas Yeager, chairman 
and commissioner of the NCAA 
committee, said the historical 
significance of hiring Croom 
was "immaterial to our con­
clusion," but credited 
Mississippi State for creating 
"a new atmosphere surround-
Looking For Fun? 
ing rules compliance." 
"There is a new direction with the program. Simply changing coaches does not necessarily mitigate (that) the committee will look favorably on that kind of personnel action," Yeager said. "In this case, it was a positive evalua­tion." 
The Bulldogs are allowed just 81 football scholarships for the 2005 and 2006 sea­sons, and are limited to 45 expense-paid recruiting visits in each of the 2004-05 and 2005-06 academic years -11 per year fewer than the maxi­mum allowed by the NCAA. 
Mississippi State in April admitted to secondary rules violations within the football program, but denied the more serious NCAA allegations of offering to provide cash and other perks to recruits. 
The school had limited itself 
to 83 scholarships in the 2005­
06 acad~mic year as part of a 
self-imposed penalty -down 
from the NCAA maximum of 
85. 
The university received a let­
ter of allegations from the 
NCAA on Dec. 2, detailing 13 
possible rules violations, some 
by former assistants coaches 
Glenn Davis and Jerry Fremin. 
"The cloud that has been 
over the Mississippi State foot­
ball program for the last four 
years certainly has not been 
fair to this institution, and it 
certainly has not been fair to 
(Croom) and his first year of 
trying to put it together," ath­
letic director Larry Templeton 
NFL 

Colts examining Chiefs' D 
Manning looking to master Kansas City's scheme 
Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS -'-Peyton Manning is pulling every­thing out this week. Old notebooks, old tapes, anything that might give him a hint about how to beat the Kansas City Chiefs' revamped defense -again. "They're very aggressive, they get a lot of sacks," Manning said Wednesday. "They're an excellent, excel­lent football team." The last time Manning faced the Chiefs, he had one of the best days of his career. Manning completed 22 of 30 passes for 304 yards with three touchdowns in a 38-31 playoff victory. His quarter­back rating was 138.8 and the Colts never punted as they advan-ced to the AFC Championship game. Two days later, Kansas City defensive coordinator Greg Robinson resigned. The Chiefs replaced him with Gunther Cunningham, who served in the same capacity with the Chiefs from 1995-98 before taking over for two seasons as the Chiefs head coach in 1999. Kansas City made few other changes, but Cunningham's more aggres­sive approach has given the Chiefs (2-4) a different look and is forcing the Colts to adjust. "They're a lot different," coach Tony Dungy said. "So 
Monday 
College Nite 
9:30 pm to 1 am 
99¢ bowling, shoes, pizza slices, and soda 
(limited time offer) 
Dance Commissioners: 
Call Beacon Bowl to reserve your next dance! 
9 pm to 1 am 
2~ hours of Unlimited Bowling Just $6.9~ per Person 
Thursday 
College Dirt Cheap Nite 

today was more of a learning and recognition day." 
Manning and the Colts have other issues to resolve this week, too. 
The defense struggled to get off the field against Jacksonville, and the offense was set back by two turnovers and uncharacter­istic penalties. Even the special teams had an off-day last week, which resulted in consistently poor field position. 
In the final minute, Manning 
and wide receiver Reggie Wayne 
even got into a shouting match. 
Then Wayne shoved Manning. 
Afterward, Wayne denied the 
confrontation although it was 
shown on television. Wayne has 
not been available for questions 
since then. 

Manning, meanwhile, down­
played the incident Wednesday. 
"That's such a non-issue," he 
said. "Reggie is going to play a 
Notre Dame Opera 
AUDITIONS 
Audition dates: October 29, 2004 
3:00 pm to 5:30 pm 
SIGN UP IN CROWLEY HALL RM. 105 OR CONTACT JOHN RILEY-SCHOFIELD 631-5175 
Auditions will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, basement of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Please bring one prepared aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Opera performance dates are April 8-9, 2005 
ALL ARE I N.VITE D! . 
huge role in this game because they play a ton of man-to-man. They'll give you some looks that force you to throw and having Marvin and Reggie outside, that will be the challenge." 
The Colts also are dealing with a new round of injuries. 
Four .players, including start­ing cornerback Nick Harper and starting guard Tupe Peko, are listed as questionable. Harper played last week with a brace on his injured left elbow, but this week, the Colts have listed him on the injury report with a shoulder injury. Peko has had back spasms and didn't practice Wednesday. 
Indianapolis also could be 
without safety Cory Bird, who 
hasn't practiced since hurting 
his calf against Jacksonville, and 
kick returner Brad Pyatt, who 
sprained his right ankle in prac­
tice last week. 


OUND THE NATION 
page 22 COJ\1PIUD FROM THE 0BSERVUtS WJRE SERVICES Thursday, October 28, 2004 
team 
New England ~y Jets, Buffalo Miami 
team record Pittsburgh 5·1 Baltimore 4-2 Cleveland 3-4 Clnclnnall 2·4 
team Jac:konsvllle Indianapolis Houslon Tennessee 
team 
Denver 5an Diego 
Kansas Clly 
Oakland 

MLB 


wrapping up a Series in moon, and the rise and fall were, pitcher Curt 
Associated Press 

which they never trailed. of the Soviet Union. Schilling said. 
ST. LOUIS -The Boston Red Sox -yes, the Boston Red Sox! -are World Series champions at long, long last. No more curse and no doubt about it. 
They sure got you, Babe. 
Ridiculed and reviled through decades of defeat, the Red Sox didn't just beat the St. Louis Cardinals, owners of the best record in baseball, they swept them for their first crown since 1918. 
Johnny Damon homered on the fourth pitch of the game, Derek Lowe made it stand up and the Red Sox won 3-0 Wednesday night, 
Chants of "Let's go, Red Sox!" bounced all around Busch Stadium, with Boston fans as revved-up as they were relieved. Only 10 nights earlier, the Red Sox were just three outs from getting swept by the New York Yankees in the AL championship series before becoming the first team in baseball postsea­son history to overcome a 3-0 deficit. 
It was Boston's sixth championship, but the first after 86 years of frustra­tion and futility, after two world wars, the Great Depression, men on the 

After all that, on an eerie night when the moon went dark in a total eclipse, the Red Sox made it look easy. 
Gone was the heartbreak of four Game 7 losses since their last title, a drought­some insist it was a curse -that really began after they sold Babe Ruth to the Yankees in 1920. 
''I'm so happy. I'm happy for the fans in Boston, I'm happy for Johnny Pesky, for Bill Buckner, for (Bob) Stanley and (Calvin) Schiraldi and all the great Red Sox players who can now be remembered for the great players that they 
"We wanted to do it so bad for the city of Boston. To win a World Series with this on our chests -it has­n't been done since 1918," first baseman Kevin Millar said. "So rip up those '1918' posters right now." 
Damon's leadoff homer off starter Jason Marquis and Trot Nixon's two-out, two-run double on a 3-0 pitch were all that Lowe needed. Having won the first-round clincher against Anaheim in relief and then winning Game 7 at Yankee Stadium, Lowe blanked the Cards on a mere three hits for seven innings. 
'IN BRIEF 
Agassi wins opener in 
straight sets 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden-Andre 
Agassi won his first Stockholm Open 
match in a decade, beating Kristof 
Vliegen of Belgium 6-2, 6-4 
Wednesday. 
Agassi, 34, entered and exited the 
court to standing ovations. 
The eight-time major champion 
broke Vliegen twice in the first set 
and was never challenged in his own 
service games. In the second set, the 
top-seeded Agassi broke Vliegen for 
a 2-1 lead, then got broken back to 
4-4. But Agassi won the next game at 
love, then served out the match. 
"It got competitive in the second 
set," Agassi said. "He started playing 
much better and broke my serve. 
Then I played a really good game to 
break him. 
"It was a good match for me, a 
good way to get started. The first one 
you always worry about, especially if 
you've never played somebody 
before." 
Pacers' Anthony Johnson 
out with broken hand 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers backup point guard Anthony Johnson broke his right hand in Tuesday's preseason game against Memphis and is expected to miss four weeks. 
The eight-year veteran, the pri­mary backup to starter Jamaal Tinsley, had his hand placed in a splint on Wednesday -the same day center Jeff Foster had arthroscopic surgery to repair frayed cartilage in his right hip. He is expected to miss four to six weeks. 
Forwards Jermaine O'Neal (sprained left foot), Ron Artest (sore right knee) and Jonathan Bender (sore left knee) and center David Harrison (sprained left shoulder) have also been banged up this pre­season. 
Johnson's injury means Eddie Gill will be elevated to the No. 2 spot behind Tinsley, and rookie Rashad Wright could see more playing time as well. 

Northwestern coach Walker 
released from hospital 
EVANSTON, Ill. -Northwestern football coach Randy Walker was back at practice Wednesday after spending two days in the hospital because of an inflammation of the heart muscle. 
Walker, released from Evanston Northwestern Hospital early Wednesday afternoon, arrived on campus a short time later. He held a team meeting and performed limited duties at practice, spokesm~n Mike Wolf said. 
Walker, 50, checked himself into the hospital on Monday after experi­encing chest pains before his weekly news conference. Tests showed that his heart is fine, but they also revealed the inflammation, known as myocarditis. 
Doctors are still trying to deter­mine what caused the disease, Wolf said. Myocarditis is not a common ailment, and it's usually caused by a virus. 
' •. 

Thursday, October 28, 2004 page 23 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
Pass-oriented Vikings develop ground attack 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -Long known for their passing prowess, the Minnesota Vikings are beginning to look a little bit like the run-oriented Denver Broncos. 
Sure, quarterback Daunte Culpepper is enjoying wild suc­cess and threatening a handful of long-standing league records. But the Vikings' running game is right there with him -and it doesn't seem to matter who is carrying the balL 
"Certainly you can never have too much talent at a position," team owner Red McCombs said. "You could say it's a high-class problem." 
Rookie Mewelde Moore is the latest running back to shine. Given a chance when Michael Bennett reinjured his right knee and Onterrio Smith started serving a four-game substance­abuse suspension, Moore broke Chuck Foreman's three-game franchise record by gaining 610 total yards. He has rushed for more than 100 yards in each of the last two weeks. 
Drafted in the fourth round out of Tulane, Moore has impressed coaches and team­mates with his footwork, intelli­gence and preparation. 
"At any time you could have anybody else go in there and do the job that I'm dning," Moore said. 
He's obviously been paying attention. 
Bennett, the 2001 first-round pick with track-star speed, rushed for 1,296 yards in 2002 and played in the Pro Bowl, but he's been dogged by injuries to his foot, ankle and knee since. 
Veteran Moe Williams, more of a third-down and short­yardage specialist, was the fea­tured back for the first half of last season and finished with career highs in yards rushing 
(745) and receiving (644). 
Smith, last year's fourth­round draft choice, rushed for 294 yards over consecutive December games as a rookie and was Minnesota's leading rusher and receiver until his suspension kicked in Oct. 5. 
Then came Moore, who helped the Vikings hold off Houston in an overtime victory on Oct. 10 with 92 yards rush­ing and 90 yards receiving in his first NFL start. 
"I love playing with him," Culpepper said. "His approach to the game is like a veteran. He is so focused. He doesn't get rattled." 
Just like in Denver, where the succession of 100-yard backs has included Terrell Davis, Olandis Gary, Mike Anderson, Clinton Portis, Quentin Griffin and now Reuben Droughns over the past half-decade, these seamless transitions are an obvious source of pride for the offensive line. 
"To us, half the time we prob-· ably couldn't tell you who's back there running the ball," said center Matt Birk. "We just focus on our job. It's exciting for us, knowing that whoever they put back there is a good back. He's not just going to get the yards that are blocked for him ... They're going to break tack­les and get extra yards." 
It's also made things easier on coach Mike Tice and offensive coordinator Scott Linehan, especially without having All-Pro wide receiver Randy Moss as a weapon for the past six quarters. 


Moss, recovering from a strained right hamstring, is expected to play a more mean­ingful role on Sunday against the New York Giants. But he still won't be 100 percent, which means strong production on the ground will be critical toward another victory for Minnesota (5-1). 


"We're in a good rhythm right now," Linehan said. "It's a good problem to have. Now you're putting a great talent on the field in different situations." 
The question, at least in the world of fantasy football, is this: How will the carries be divided when Smith returns and now that Bennett is healthy? 
For now, it seems to be 
Moore's job to lose. Surprised 
he was given the ball just once 
in last week's win over 
Tennessee, Bennett might be 
used as a kickoff returner in 
the meantime. 

"You know the old adage, 'If it ain't broke, don't flx it?'" Tice said. "Well, I think that comes into play in this situation. The young man is playing very good football for us. We are winning, and we are very productive right now." 
Moore is trying to stay hum­ble. 
''I'm not here to create con­troversy," he said. ''I'm just out here doing my job. All I want to do is win. Whatever's asked of me, I just go out there and do it 100 percent." 
Bennett is also sticking with the company line. 
'Tm going to keep a smile on my face no matter what," he said. "It's just one of those things that I got injured, and I was on the back burner.... He's doing a great job, man." 
LUNKER'S 
HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION OF 
NORTH FACE 
JACKETS I COATS I HATS I CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER'S AND RECEIVE lOcro OFF NoRTH FAcE ITEMs. LUNKER's APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 
269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
page 24 Thursday, October 28, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 

Bonds' 700th home run ball bid tops $800,000 
Associated Press nicknamed "bomasterj," was not get the ball because he locked it from the ball's sale as damages. prompt more people to try to 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry immediately made public. behind his knees while at the Reached by phone Wednesday claim ownership. Bonds' 700th home run ball Steve Williams of Pacifica got bottom of a serum before after the winning bid was "All of the roaches are going to brought a top bid of $804,129 the ball after a scramble in the Williams swiped it. announced, Williams said he'll try to hang on to Mom's apple Wednesday after a 1 0-day online left-center field bleachers at SBC A San Francisco judge refused quit his job as a broker's assis­pie and we're going to squash auction. Park on Sept. 17 -a mad dash to hold up the sale, freeing tant in San Mateo, but has no them," Horowitz said. 
The ball had received 240 that has fattened his wallet but Williams to go to auction. idea what he'll do with the Bonds became the first mem­offers by the time Overstock.com also landed him in court. Lawyers for Murphy said they money. ber of the 700-homer club in 31 closed the bidding. Timothy Murphy has sued are continuing with their suit, His lawyer, Daniel Horowitz, years, joining Babe Ruth and 
The identity of the top bidder, Williams, contending he should and are seeking the proceeds speculated the ball's price will Hank Aaron. 
NFL 

Farve battling problems at home, on football field 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -More than ever, Brett Favre needs football as his escape. 
His wife, Deanna, is fighting breast cancer, the latest bad news for the star quarterback's family, which has dealt with two deaths in 11 months. 
"I enjoy playing the game," the Packers quarterback said Wednesday. "It's a way to take my mind off of, at least for a brief moment, some of the things in my personal life." 
There are many. 
Favre lost his father, Irv, to a heart attack last December. Deanna's brother, Casey Tynes, 24, was killed three weeks ago in an all-terrain vehicle acci­dent on Favre's property near his home in Mississippi. 
Deanna, 35, was diagnosed with cancer the following week and underwent a lumpectomy at Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. 
"Professional athletes are not immune from tragic circum­stances and cancer," Favre said. "Athletes sometimes think we are. I've never found myself saying 'Why me?' or 'Why us?' It takes too much time and it doesn't matter anyway. Because it is what it is., and you deal with the best way possible and that's what we're trying to do." 
Favre's wife found a lump during a self-exam, got it checked out right away and is expected to make a full recov­ery because it was detected early, he said. 
She needs months 'of chemotherapy and radiation treatments and will probably stay in Green Bay to get them. 
"We're both doing a lot better, but initially I was doing a lot worse than she was," Favre said. "She's a lot tougher than I am, but she's hanging in there." 
Favre, also 35, has dealt with a litany of health concerns him­self this season: a dislocated shoulder, a concussion, a bruised leg and a sprained right hand a year after playing with a broken thumb on his throwing hand. 
Through it all, Favre has kept playing-and sparkling. 
In his last two games, Favre has completed 48 of 67 passes for 515 yards; four touchdowns and no interceptions in back-to­hack routs of Detroit and Dallas. 
He extended his NFL quarter­back record to 215 straight starts, including playoffs. 
Favre said he doesn't consid­er himself a Superman. 
"Sometimes life is difficult and at some point we all have to go through -and have gone through -some difficult situa­tions, and I'm not the only per­son who's had to deal with them and rise to the occasion," Favre said. "So, I don't consider myself out of the ordinary." 
What's his explanation for his superb play through such adversity? 
"I have no idea. None whatso­ever," he said. "I take tremen­dous pride in what I do, always have. And I think in times like this, maybe I even take more." 
Many teammates and fans wonder if all these hardships will weigh on Favre and hasten his retirement. 
Favt:e missed practice the day they learned of the cancer, but he wasn't sure if he'd have to miss any time during her treat­ment. 
"Whatever I have to do to support her and the kids, I'll do," he said. "Because football is very important, but it's not the most important thing. But the last two weeks, she's been like, 'Hey, you go out and play and do your deal.' I would expect her to say that. I'd say the same thing. But I also want to be there for her." 


AP 
Green Bay Packers quarterback Brett Farve throws against the Detroit Lions in the Packers 38-10 win at Detroit Oct. 17. Favre has recently battled a number of problems both on and off the field. 
.Riddle: Where can you go to get the most inexpen­sive housing and STILL get your own bed­room?? 
Answer: 
At LAFAYETTE SQUARE!! Our 4 bed­room units are only $267.50/ student and our 5 bedroom units 
·n 


are $254/student. Think of how 
much money you can save and 
spend on more important things. 
Can you believe your luck?? 
OPEN HOUSE 

Wed., NOV. 3 from 4-6 PM 
Sign a lease for 05-06 and get a $100 gift 
certificate from the Bookstore! 
SENIORS: Return your yearbook proofs this week 9~5, LaFortune Dooley Room en~ur{l th{l po~{l you want i~ in th{l 2005 <fJom{Z 

Thursday, October 28, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Hope 
continued from page 28 
more offense. 
"The game was a battle in the middle of the field, so there wasn't much end-to-end action," Herdman said. "We didn't have as many opportu­nities around their goal." 
Saint Mary's switched from its standard flat-back four defense to a flat-back three to counter Hope's offense, but Hope was still able to manage 20 shots on goal. 
Laura Heline had 11 saves, but it proved to be not enough. The loss dropped the Belles to 8-5-1 in conference for the year and continued their trou­ble on the road. 
"A lot of our road record has to do with us being a lot more comfortable on our home field," Herdman said. "For some unknown reason that we can't pinpoint, we can't play well on the road." 
The Belles' troubles on the road have been the biggest dif­ference maker in the team's failure to win their conference. 
"The difference between any good team and any great team is that they can be consistent," Herdman said. "And the fact that we have not been able to pull off key wins on the road has hurt us a lot." 
The Belles beat Hope 2-0 in their first meeting this season, but had trouble completing the season sweep. 
"It would have been awe­some to go out on top, but we're not going to give up for the rest of the season," Herdman said. 
Despite the loss, the Belles still look to compete in their final two games. 
"We're still here to compete; we're not going to give up, and we're not hanging our heads," Herdman said. "We've got a big game Saturday against Calvin. There are lots of family and friends coming in. It's the last home game for us, and for the seven seniors, it's our last game at Saint Mary's." 
The Belles now look to Saturday, with their last big matchup of the season. 
"We're always out to win, that's our game," Herdman said. "We can't give up, and we can't back down. Calvin's 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rdu.ffy@nd.edu 


Saint Mary's Jen Herdman, left, battles for the ball in the Belles' 4-0 victory over Kalamazoo last October. The Belles lost their fifth consecutive road game Wednesday In a 3-2 loss to Hope College. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles lose fifth consecutive match, fall to Manchester 
Saint Mary's was victorious in Up one to nothing, the Belles fell games to Olivet College. Saint extremely difficult one for theBy JUSTIN STETZ the first game as they came out behind early in the second game Mary's officially finished in sev­team to win. 
ready to play. and eventually lost by a score of enth place in the league and "We have been very honest with 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team· They took an early lead in the 30-24. ended up with a record of 5-11. ourselves and we feel that every lost its fifth consecutive game yes­match by winning game one by a Things began to rapidly fall The Belles' recent loss to MIAA team we have played terday against Manchester score of 30-26. apart for Saint Mary's as they Manchester drops them to 5-15 against this year is heatable," College. This marked only the fifth time were upended 30-21 in the third overall on the season, and they Michelle Turley said. "In tourna­
The Spartans beat Saint Mary's all season that the Belles captured game and lost the fourth and final have yet to beat a non-conference ment scenarios, any team can win, in four games as they captured the the first game, and the first time contest by a score of 30-25. team. and our goal is to be that team." victory and received payment for they failed to win the match after The Belles concluded MIAA play Saint Mary's still has four more . Saint Mary's finishes up its regu­last year's loss to the Belles. taking game one. on Tuesday as they lost in four games to play over the weekend, lar season beginning this Friday 


giving them a chance to improve their overall record on the season. 
After that, the Belles must pre­pare themselves for the first round of the MIAA tournament. 
The tournament commences next Tuesday. Because the Belles are in sev­enth, the first round should be an 
as it plays four games in two days. 
Still winless outside of the MIAA, this is a great opportunity for the Belles to steal their first non­league match and halt their cur­rent losing streak. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's Michelle Gary prepares to serve the ball In a game last season. The Belles loss to Manchester dropped them to 5-15. 

You can't go straight from college to retirement. 
MonsterTRAK® will help you fill in those pesky middle years with a great career. It's the #I online career site for students and alumni looking for jobs and internships. Search a wide range of job postings, get job hunting tips, check out employer information and more. So you can find the perfect job, and make some friends your own age. Register now. It's free and easy. 

www.ndsmcobserver.com/career 

FoR RENT 
Spacious 4 bedroom 2.5 bath home 1 mile from ND CR/DR/Kitchen/3 season patio with built in Bar-B-Q $1SOO/month +deposit+ utilities 
574-339-1638 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 

Michigan 
continued from page 28 
Waldrum cited Jill Krivacek and Molly Iarocci as inspired players who have come to play crucial roles on the team. They are just a few of the players the team has counted on to carry the Irish to a ncar flawless season. 
I Iowever. despitP the novelty of an undefeated season. it is not a motivating factor as postseason play draws closer. 
"We are hoping to win to help our S!~eding in the NCAA Tournament and not to have an undefeatnd season." Waldrum said. "It leaves you empty if you have an undefeated season and losp, in thp, first round. This is why we as a coaching staff have not used this as a motivating tool." 
What is proving to inspire the team is the Big East Tournament and the opportunity to reclaim a title the Irish have failed to cap­ture the past couple seasons. 
"They are excited about it." Waldrum said. "But not having won it the past couple of sea­sons, I am beginning to see the excitement in the kids." 
Some of the excitement can be attributed to the team's honor of being No. 1 seed in the tourna­ment. 
But what has helped the team to becoming a contender for not only the Big East title. but the NCAA Championship this season, has been the emergence of sen­ior Candace Chapman. 
Chapman missed last season due to an ACL injury and her status for this year was unknown. 
Surprisingly, she managed to return not only as a consistent player, but as a legitimate force throughout the season. 
"She is that ace in the hole," Waldrum said. "She has so many tools like her speed and ability to strike a ball with both feet. But when you get her around the goal, she will find a way to score." 
Chapman scored two goals for the Irish in their 3-1 victory over Seton Hall Sunday. 
"It was nice to see her score a couple of goals on Sunday," Waldrum said. "I am hoping she is that one person that people didn't expect to help, but will actually be the one to help us win everything this year." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtatpetil@nd.edu 


CHUY BEN ITEZfThe Observer 

Irish forward Candace Chapman heads up-field In Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over Santa Clara In September. Chapman missed last season due to an ACL Injury, but has been a force this year. 
Upset· 
continued from page 28 
second half play, something Budinscak expects. 
"Everybody reacts after a loss like this." Budinscak said. "You're not going to hear too many people having good things to say, and you can't blame them. We've just got to keep our attitude right and make sure we get it done next woek." 
But the complaints did not stop there. 
One reporter Wednesday called what he sp,nsed around the fan base "panic." a feeling directed more at coaching and matters beyond what the players can do on the field. 
"I smile because that panic has always been around the Notre Dame nation," coach Tyrone Willingham said. "(But] this has a little deeper feel to it ... The way it ended it was like two years in a row somebody just stabbed you in the heart." 
Budinscak named nose tackle Derek Landri and defensive end Justin Tuck as two players who played well the whole game Saturday. But Budinscak also said the second half let down was due to player failure. not coaching failure. 
"A failure to execute was the problem in the second half," he said. "There !weren't] any adjust­ment<; that needed to be made, it was just failed execution." 
Boston College quarterback Paul Peterson credited coach Tom O'Brien with changing the game plan to let him roll out of the pocket, draw an extra defender and find open receivers. 
Notre Dame fans wondered if any adjustment on the Irish defense occurred. another ques­tioning of the leadership. 
"''ve seen it happen before," Budinseak said. 'The only way to respond to that is to not respond to it. is to go out there and keep playing hard. You've got to do everything you can to win football games. It's unfortunate that it ha6 to be the way it is. But it is the way it is. I understand the frustra­tion some people may have with us not winning games, but as far as any talk like that, that's not something I want to respond to." 
The team had a full scrimmage Wednesday. Going into the week-

CHUY BENITEZfThe Observer 
Running back Darius Walker points as he runs into the end zone In the second quarter against Boston College last Saturday. 
end, coaches will begin game "Coach says it all the time -we planning for Tennessee, trying to should be 7-1," defensive lineman finish the season with three Greg Pauly said. "I don't think we straight wins. should have lost to BYU. I don't 
"[Going] 3-0 from here on out is think we should have lost last the only way we can go out of week ... But we let it slip through here with our heads high," our hands." Budinscak said. 
But Wednesday, players still felt Contact Pat Leonard at the hurt. pleonard@nd.edu 

Cltoose ONJ' tb'O jtn'Orites on orte 
mm~th-wntering 
pllltt•. 
!f-:n.v:i ..yJit frnJ. n,').')."k~' tlYfff /f~to-Jo/ IIW\il!Y/ (·''"~~Ill!"! 
UveA Little At: 
Jfi!f..hfJWtlfitl 

Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 
Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
7:00PM 
•Bring your gear ready to practice • l?ractice will be run by 
Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
•Any questions please call 
Featuring Our Famous 
;'Get Stuffed At Giannettos" 
Offering Fine Italian Dishes, Sandwiches, Regular Style Pi:za & Appetizers 
~Dine In Old World Charm 
r 
f 

~ Dine In • Carry Out • Open Daily Tues.-Sat. at Spm 
i h/llil\' 1hl'ned & Of't''lf!(d-f',ll'l" l'vci!flics Se,u I. i• ''' 7< : 

l : l [:£] f:j 574.254.9177 JOO Center-Mishawaka : 
..._*"•------------------------.. 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
KNOW I KEEP ASKING YOU THIS BUT COULD YOU EXPLAIN THE ISSUE AGAIN? 
PEANUTS 
ll 
l 
I 
I 
G 
10/12/04 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, I reduced our debt to form four ordinary words. 
by 2 million drachmas 
MARFE 
j
I [l 

C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SHECS 
I (I j 

tLABERV I 
WHAT THE KING 
REDUC.ED WHEN
IJ I 
HE SOL-D THE 
www.jumble.com 
ROYAL. C.ROWNS.
tMINDOO I 
Now arrange tt]e circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I I I
...,_....:..~.:........,u.,_---'~~~~~,.........~su~g!,;gested by the above cartoon.
J. HIS "r I I I J rI I I J'
Answer: (Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday' I Jumbles: SHINY BERET ZINNIA PACKET s Answer: The last thing a teenager wants to be-NINETEEN 
WELL, SOMETHING THAT YOU COULD NEVER COMPREHEND COKIFLICTS WITH SOMETHING THAT YOU'D NEVER UNDER­
STAND. 


SCOTT ADAMS 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
NO,THANK VOU..I'M I~TERESTED IN AWMDIN6 TI-lE WINNING TROPI.N.. 
· EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kelly Osbourne, ScottWeiland, Carrie Snodgress, John Cleese 
Happy Birthday: Take a leap of faith and you will find yourself smack dab in the middle of something you have wanted for a long time. This is not the year to sit around pondering over what you should or shouldn't do. Take the 
initiative and turn your ideas into somethi_ng lucrative. Your numbers are 9, 15, 17, 21, 28,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Erratic behavior will not solve problems. Be careful not to put demands on others. You will face a challenge if you are difficult to get along with. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get everything out in the open so that a decision can be made. Stay on top of any dealings you have with institutions or government agencies. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You are in a good position today. 
Don't stop until you reach your goals. Personal changes can be made and romance is in a high cycle. ***'" CANCER (June 21-July 22): Not a lot will turn in your favor today. Take a breather and refrain from making a decision that could leave you in a 
precarious position. Protect your home and family. ** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You should be moving about today. Go to the source and find out the information required to move forward. Follow your heart when it comes to love and romance. ***** . VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Money matters can go awry if you aren't careful. Don't leave anything to chance or in someone else's hands. Do your best to help someone in need. *** . LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may find it hard to deal with others today. Take a backseat untiI you know where everyone stands. Observation will get you much further than confrontation. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone may not be as friendly as they appear. Don't reveal your secrets. Focus on what you can do to make your 
professional goals more attainable. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A social gathering will lead to romance. 
You can make personal changes that will bring you added confidence. Children may play an important role in your life today. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may find it hard to make ends meet if you have been too generous with someone you love. Family feuds are likely to 
develop if you don't take care of disagreements swiftly. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will know exactly what's needed to get things moving. Your ability to ·take over the show will impress others. Travel and learning should be high on your list. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Health issues may arise. Leave yourself time to rest. Finan~ial frustrations will escalate if you haven't set up a budget that is within your means. *** 
Birthday Baby: You can and will be great as long as you stick to your original game plan. You are courageous yet practical and will always find a way to get what you want without brute force. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Copacetic 58 Opposite of wild 
Israel 35 Large fishing 59 Laughing' nets fictional

5 Pink-slip detective?
36 Thieves' take 9 Title girl of a 61 Ivy Leaguer's1986 #1 37 "Dear" one homeStarship hit 38 Laugh_ing 62 Like a line,13 Indy winner comment when brieflyLuyendyk . something's all 63 "Such a pity ... " 

over?

14 Arthur of the court 39 Walletful 
64 A few 65 Not as much

15 Blemished, in a 40 Confronted way 66 Run
41 Crabbed 16 Laughing 
42 Overnight1970's singer? 

dance party DOWN 18 Parson's home 
43 Workplace 1 Mideast believer 19 Weather map watchdog, for 2 Slips line short 
3 Beginner: Var. 20 Total 44 Actor Joe of "Hill 
4 Alluring greeting Street Blues"22 Man in a garden 5 Oasis place 45 Kind of cake 24 Dominant 

6 Nile biter 46 Box, office take

25 Honey bunch? 
7 Tony 48 Boat with an

28 Tot's wheels 8 Bingo relative 
open hold 

31 Kung Fu-_ 9 Skull cap? 
50 Continental(alternative 10 Laughingways?

name for 32 Debonair 45 Actress 53 1953 Oscar-
literary wife? 

Confucius) 54 Up next Anderson nominated film 
11 What the 33 One sought for 
based on a47 Novelist Walker 
advice

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE defense may do novel by Jack 
49 Causes of 
35 Make a point, coughsDah" 
perhaps 55 Lover of ~':-+::+-::-! 15 Most plentiful Narcissus
50 Sales tag 38 Burrito notation-7+-::+=+::-f 17 Ratters 
· alternative 56 Boxing sobriquet 
51 Stick


~~=+=-..-.-:+=+:;..fl!lllllj.,:;;F.+:--~_;,;..f.=t 21 Get while the 
57 Trouser part 
getting's good 42 Short end of the 52 Forester's stick concern: Abbr. 60 Latin thing
23 In myth, home of the Cyclops 25 Girl For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . 
..-.'-:+:::+::..! 26 Steinbeck Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
characters crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
27 Laughing Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-=-t"'!"t--:-+:-+=+:::+:c+:,-1'!"!"1'!"1 choreographer? 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -=+:-:t::+:::-t':'i 29 up Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young --L...:....L;....L.;;;.L..;.J 30 Emcees' lines solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O-Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name Address _____________________________________ City ___________ State ______ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, October 28, 2004 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Gunning for perfection 

No. 2 Irish look to finish without loss for fourth time in program history 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Wrirer 
Thn Irish are on the verge of finishing the regular season undnfeated for the fourth time in program's history. 
The only challenge left for No. 2 Notre Dame (16-0-1, 9-0-1 BIG EAST) will come from Michigan. a diff'icult competitor for the Irish. 
"They are known for their work ethic and are very organ­ized dPfensivnly. But we are not going to try and change any­thing," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "The last two w1~eks WP played rPally well. and if we can play with that sanw level of intensity and offensive creativity, we will do well." 
The Irish are looking to capi­talize on their strengths to defeat the Wolverines. the team that upset the Irish 3-2 in their final regular season game last year. 
"Our situation right now was identical to last season. but I'm hoping our team has matured from last year in dealing with the pressure of having an unde­feated season." Waldrum said. "We are not playing for revenge, but it won't take a lot to moti­vatB us." 

Observer File Photo 
Mldflelder Jen Buczkowski makes a cut against Eastern Illinois In a 3-0 victory In August. If the see MICHIGAN/page 26 Irish beat Michigan today, It will mark the fourth time they have finished a season without a loss. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas first-teain selection 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior guard Chris Thomas was named to the first-team all-Big East preseason team Wednesday in a vote by the league's coaches. 
During the 2003-04 sea­son. Thomas averaged 19.7 points and 4. 7 assists per contest. A knee injury requiring offseason surgery hampered Thomas through­out the season. 
Joining Thomas on the first. team are unanimous selections Providenc1~ for­ward Hyan Gomes and Syracuse forward Hakim Warrick along with Boston College forward Craig Smith. Pittsburgh guard Carl Krauser. Pittsburgh center Chris Taft and Syracuse guard Gerry McNamara. 
Thomas was a member of the 2003-04 preseason first­team and 2002-03 second team. 
The coaches also named Gomes the conference's pre­season player of the year. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL 
Irish still feeling the hurt 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish practiced Wednesday beginning to look at a Nov. 6 date with Tennessee (No. 11 BCS). But Kyle Budinscak spoke for the players who know, even as the focus shifts to another opponj:lnt, how much the loss to Boston College meant. 
"I haven't slept a whole lot," Budinscak said. "I haven't slept real well the last four or five days. I haven't really not thought about the game for 10 consecu­tive minutes since it's happened. It's the hardest thing I've ever had to put away. It's awful." 
Fans showed distaste with the 
see UPSET/page 26 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles still battling road woes, lose 3-2 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 

As the season winds down, the road woes continue for the Belles. 
Saint Mary's lost its fifth straight game on the road, failing to play consistently in a 3-2 loss to Hope College Wednesday. 
"We came out strong, but Hope is a very physical team. and their aggressiveness became a challenge for us," senior captain Jen Herdman said. "They are a strong team, but we just did not get the opportunities today." 
The Belles got off to a quick start when Carolyn Logan scored off an assist from Jen Concannon to put Saint Mary's up 1-0. But the team could not carry on its early momentum, and Ilope answered with two more goals to put the score at 2-1 at the half. 
The second half was no better for the Belles. as !lope scored again to extend its lead. Ashley Hinton scored later in the half off Concannon's second assist to make it 3-2. but Saint Mary's was unable to muster any 
see HOPE/page 25 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
WORLD SERIES 
NFL NFL 
NFL

NFL 
Manchester 3 
Red Sox 3 
The Carolina Panthers 
The Vikings are start-Green Bay quarter-

The Indiannapolis
Saint Mary's 1 
Cardinals 0 
continue to deal with
ing to resemble a run-back Brett Favre battles 

Colts are spending extra 
ning team as ground adversity both on and 

time preparing for the 
injury woes.
After winning the first 
The Red Sox finally 
attack hits its stride. off the field. 

Kansas City Chiefs'
game, the Belles drop 
break an 86-year curse 
defense.
three in a row. 
with four-game sweep 
of the Cardinals. 
page 25 
page 24 
page 18

page 21
page 23 page 22 









