
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND alum fatally injured in car accident 
Observer staff report 
A Notre Dame graduate died a!'ter he was struck by a car early Sunday morning when he left a local bar. 
Hyan O'Connor, 24, a 2002 · graduate, died as a result of injuries sustained in the crash that occurred at approximately 3:30 a.m. in the 1800 block of South Bend Ave., South Bend police offi­cer William Kraus said in a news release. 
Police said O'Connor had left the bar with a group of friends to walk to a local 

Community reacts to Irish victory 
Above, ushers stand together before students begin rushing the field. At left, the leprechaun, Eddie Lerum, cheers on the team. 
• 
PHOTOS BY 
CLAIRE KELLEY 
Despitefield rush, damages are minimal 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
Despite the excitement caused by Saturday's victory over Michigan, many people at the game had something big­ger to worry about _ student safety and the condition of the field. 
For students, the victory win meant doing something they've always wanted to do. 
"Realistically, around half­time it became a serious thought, and I got goose bumps," O'Neill sophomore Chris Tarnacki said. '.'It's something you see on TV all the time and it's so special to be a part of." 
But for stadium employees and ushers, storming the field is not as excitifig of an idea, mainly because of safety rea­sons. 
Manager of Stadium Personnel Cappy Gagnon said rushing the field often causes safety issues. 
"The big problem with rush­ing the field is that the height of the wall to the asphalt is about 8 to 9 feet and that's a 
see DAMAGE/page 4 


Students impressed by Notre Dame's surprising victory 
Shelton or the fact that Notre Dame rebounded from last year's 38-0 loss, fans campus-wide were pleased with the win. 
But before the Michigan game, some students were skeptical of the outcome. 
Notre Dame junior Sam Richey was one of those students. "I don't think anyone expected us to do as well as we did because 
of what happened last week and what happened against Michigan last year," he said. 
Entering halftime down 9-0, students were happy with the defense's effort to kee.p the Irish in the game and impressed with the dominance the unit showed throughout the game. 
see REACTION/page 4· 

PAUL SPADAFORA!The Observer 
The Golden Knights para­chuted into the packed Stadium before Saturday's game. 

Soldiers fly into stadiun1 
By PAUL SPADAFORA News Writer 
The opening ceremony of the first home football game was highlighted by members of the U.S. Army Golden Knights parachute team, who landed in Notre Dame Stadium with the American Flag at the start of the game Saturday. 
The Golden Knights are the U.S. Army's official para­chute demonstration team. According to Sgt. Jeffrey Schaffer, a performer on the team, they serve a three-fold mission -to test parachute equipment and techniques, participate in parachuting competitions around the world and to promote the public relations and recruit­ment offices of the army. 
Founded in 1959, the Golden Knights have been called "the best parachute team in the world" by many organizations, Schaffer said. 
This year marks the 
see PARACHUTE/page 4 
restaurant. Several in the 
group had already crossed South Bend Avenue at Vaness Street when O'Connor and another person stopped at the intersec­tion. 
According to a police statement, a witness said that O'Connor began to run across South Bend Avenue for an unknown 

reason, running into the path of a northbound car that struck him. 
The car was driven by a 19­year-old South Bend resident who is a sophomore at Saint Mary's. 
O'Connor, a West Chester, Pa., resident, was taken to Saint Joseph's Regional Medical Center where he was later pronounced dead. 
Police said alcohol appears to be a factor in the accident. 
Several dorm ma.sses across Notre Dame's campus Sunday night prayed for both O'Connor and the driver. 

By DANIELL£ LERNER 
News Writer 

After a devastating loss last week to Brigham Young, the foot­ball team came back in full force Saturday, beating Michigan 28-20 and recapturing the title of the most winningest program in col­lege football. 
Notre Dame senior Andrew Nakamoto was happily surprised by the outcome. 
"I really didn't think we were going to do so well," Nakamoto said. "I just wanted the game to be a close one, and I was able to get that, and, even better, the win." 
Whether it was Brady Quinn's 46-yard touchdown pass to Matt 
Monday, September 13, 2004 

rage 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Genocide lllust end 
Last week, in our nation's capital, Secretary of State Colin Powell, sat in front of the Senate Committee of Foreign Relations and uttered the word "genocide." Not in reference to 

the Holocaust or  
Hwanda, but to  Jeannine Privat  
the mass slaugh­ 
ter of men,  
women and chi!­ Wire Editor  
dren today in  
Darfur, Sudan.  

This is not just torture, not just eth­nic cleansing and not just systematic rape, it is genocide. Yet again, the old cliche "Never again" has been ignored. The world faces the horror of genocide once more. Another holo­caust, except, instead of the use of systematic gases and shootings, these perpetrators in Dafur use fire, burn­ing people alive in their homes, use rape, sometimes raping women to death; and use machetes, hacking people apart until they are beaten or bled to death. Genocide is not a thing of the past. It will not go away. It is going on now. As you read this col­umn, it is likely an African from Darfur is being killed by the jan­jaweed militia, is dying from starva­tion or is suffering from one of the myriad diseases that quickly spread in the temporary refugee camps. 
Numbers vary. but current esti­mates place the number of Africans who have already been killed at 50,000, with up to a million and a half people ousted from their homes. Around 100,000 refugees have fled to neighboring Chad, with more trying to cross the border everyday. 
Imagine. for a second, that your life is completely different: Your life cen­ters on the day-to-day mundane trials <>f merely surviving. You take pleas­ure in the most simple of things: an extra piece of ripened fruit, good health. clean water and a beaten up half-inflated soccer ball. Now imag­ine, that the little that you have, the little that you live for has been taken away. 
One night. your village is stormed; your mother and sisters are brutally raped and your father beaten to death while you cower hidden behind one of the few pieces of furniture in your one-room home. The smell of smoke overwhelms you as the janjaweed sets fire to your entire village. You strug­gle to run out, and maybe if you're lucky, you escape. With absolutely nothing but your life and the little bit of clothing on your back. You're an innocent., you've done nothing. But, still people whom you have never even met hate you so much that they will stop at nothing to wipe you off the face of the earth. 
How many times must we come face to face with the perpetrators and vic­tims of genocide until we finally put an end to it? Do not discount the exis­tence of the people who have lost everything. Their homes, their fami­lies, their land, their crops and food, their livelihood. For those 50,000 who have perished, respect their memory and for those 1.5 million who have lit­tle more than the blood pumping through their veins. respect their humanity. Do what you can. Above all, Inform yourself. Do not be igno­rant to the fact that the Sudanese are being systematically slaughtered. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541.so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WERE THE BEST AND WORST MOMENTS OF THE MICHIGAN GAME? 


Kallnda Brown Dave Hartung Jana Wingo Dan Nickele Alyse Kinchen Julie Hynes 
senior sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Lyons Alumni Welsh Family Zahm off-campus 1/oward 
"The whole first 'The high point "The high point "The best "The worst "The first 
halfwas the was only letting was storming moment was moment was touchdown was worst moment, them get one the field. The storming the when I had to the best but sometimes touch down. The low point was field after the go to the first moment." 
you have to worst point was almost being win. The worst aid room during 




believe in the letting them get trampled when moment was all luck ofthe a touchdown." storming the our turnovers. " Irish." field." 

CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer 

Assistant Band Director Lane Weaver, left, stands with former Notre Dame women's basketball player Danielle Green Saturday as the National Anthem is played before the game's kickoff. Green, an army officer, lost her left hand and forearm on May 25 while stationed in Baghdad. 
OFFBEAT 

Dog pulls trigger on attacker 
PENSACOLA, Florida ­A Florida man who tried to shoot seven puppies was shot himself when one of the dogs put its paw on the revolver's tfigger. 
Jerry Allen Bradford, 37, was charged with felony animal cruelty, the Escambia County Sherifrs Office said Wednesday. He was being treated at a hos­pital for a gunshot wound to his wrist. 
Bradford said he decided to shoot the 3-month-old shepherd-mix dogs in the head because he couldn't find them a home, accord­ing to the sheriffs office. 
On Monday, Bradford was holding two puppies ­one in his arms and anoth­er in his left hand -when the dog in his hand wiggled and put its paw on the trig­ger of the .38-caliber revolver. The gun then dis-· charged, the sheriff's report said. 
Bradford was treated and released after receiv­ing care to a wrist wound. 
Fans try selling Britney's chewed gum on eBay 
NEW YORK -Britney Spears' fans don't think the pop star's chewed gum is "Toxic" -they're buying wads of it on eBay. 
There are over two dozen auctions of used chewing gum on eBay, each claim­ing their product has been spit out by the 22-year-old singer. Prices go as high as $14,000, but most are for significantly Jess. 
Though there is no way to verify the authenticity of the various wads, many postings include photos of a small piece of chewed gum, a copy of a ticket stub from the place of finding and a personal story of procurement. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 




85 HIGH HIGH 84 HIGH 64 LOW LOW 63 LOW 


the third quarter." 
IN BRIEF 
Come hear a vocal and piano concert by soprano Georgine Re'sick and pianist Doris Stevenson in the Annenburg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. 
There will be an Interdenominational Prayer Service on Tuesday at 9 p.m. at Sacred Heart Chapel in lloly Cross Hall at Saint Mary's. All faiths are welcome. 
The film "Rebel Frontier" will be shown Wednesday from 4 to 5:30 p.m. at the llesburgh Center Auditorium. 
On Friday. self-guided tours of Debartolo Performing Arts Center will be offered. Campus entertainers will provide con­tinuous entertainment in all five venues from 4:30 to 10 p.m. 
The Relay for Life: "Fighting Irish Fighting Cancer" will take place at the Stepan Center beginning Friday at 6 p.m. and continue until Saturday at 10 

a.m. For more ·information. call 631-6829. All proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. 
The Domer Run will take place on Saturday starting at 11 a.m. A 3-mile run. a 6-mile run and a 2-mile fun walk will take place with a pancake breakfast immediately follow­ing the race. Proceeds from Domer Run will benefit ovarian cancer research and education. Register in advance at Rolfs Sports Rec Center. For more information, call631-6100. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 
THURSDAY -FRIDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 


Atlanta 80 166 Boston 761 54 Chicago 84 166 Denver 831 52 Houston 95174 Los Angeles 82 164 Minneapolis 841 64 New York 82 I 64 Philadelphia 84 I 64 Phoenix 105 I 80 Seattle 64 I 52 St. Louis 84 I 63 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 73 143 

-~----~--­
Monday, September 13, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Lecture explores Mother Wars 
Hope College sociology professor speaks about female competition 
"It is unavoidable that we will all moms would fall somewhere in 
By MICHELLE EGGERS have to choose a side of the the middle. 
News Writer mother wars." "What we found was that 88 
The lecture was co-sponsored percent of the mothers were por­
More than 50 Saint Mary's by the department of sociology, trayed as at-home mothers, and community members crowded the Center for only 12 percent Stapleton Lounge Friday to hear Women's were depicted as Debra Swanson and Jenelle Intercultural 'There is a mother employed moth­Dame speak about the "mother Leadership and the ers," Swanson
war out there. The 
wars" being fought in communi­Women's Studies said. "That does 
women that choose 
ties across the nation. Program. The lec­not match statis­
Entitled "Undermining ture came in part to stay home and tics that say more . Mothers," the hour-long lecture from Swanson and the women that than half of all discussed the pitting of at-home another Hope women are in the
choose to go to
and employed moms against College professor's labor force." each other. research into the work often fight In addition to 
"There is a mother war out struggles women with each other.,, the misrepresen­there," Swanson, an associate face balancing tation, at-home professor of sociology at Hope work and children. moms were more
Janelle Swanson 
College, said. "The women that A mother of two, likely to be por­choose to stay home and the Swanson said the Hope College professor trayed as serving women that choose to go to work colleagues decided others, having often fight with each other." to "put their heads exaggerated 
Women define where their hearts needs of connections and failing what makes them are" with their proj­in the public sphere. a good mom based ect. Employed moms, on the other
"At-home moms 

on these choices, "We thought that if hand, were portrayed as having
are undermined

and consequently we are academics, an independent identity, being become defensive {in society], and why not look at this competent at work and home of their choices the employed transformation that and being natural mothers. 
and degrade the was happening to us "While we expect at-home
moms are lacking

choices of others. as we became moth­moms to be portrayed as natural "Mother wars" affirmation. ,, ers," she said. moms, in the magazines she is are fueled further The project was actually depicted as needing lots by society's contra­based on extended of help," Swanson said.
Jenelle Dame

dictory messages "Employed moms, who you
Hope College senior interviews with
that affirm a par­moms of preschool-would think would need more ticular mother role ers, as well as the help because they aren't at home and also condemn her for analysis of the representations of as mu«:;h, they are the more nat­achieving it. at-home and employed mothers ural mothers." 
Dame, a senior sociology major in five popular women's maga­Swanson calls employed at Hope College, said, "At-home zines. moms' positive portrayal and moms are undermined [in socie­The researchers predicted at­under representation in maga­tyJ. and the employed moms are home moms would be depicted zines the "double bind." lacking affirmation." as selfless, overly invoived, nur­"You have to chose one or the 
Jill Roberts, a senior sociology turing and failing in the public other," she said. "That is often major, felt the lecture resonated sphere, while employed moms where women struggle." well with the college community. would be depicted as selfish, 
'This is an issue pertinent to a uninvolved, neglectful and failing Contact Michelle Eggers at women's college," Roberts said. in the domestic sphere. Part-time egge2272@saintmarys.edu 

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Presents The 2004 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 
Seeking Peace Seeking Justice 
Tensions in World, Church, and Personal Life 
Peace With Jllstice: A' Blessed Tension Scott Appleby, Ph.D. Professor, History Director, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies University ofNotre Dame Tuesday, September 14, 12:15 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. 
The Psychology of Forgiveness: Implications for a Theology of Peace Rev. Carolyne Call, Ph.D. Director, Office ofCivic and Social Engagement Lecturer, Psychology Saint Mary's College Tuesday, September 21, 12:15 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. 
Can Catholics Be At Peace With Each Other? Seeking Common Ground Catherine Patten, RSHM, Ph.D.· National Coordinator Catholic Common Ground Initiative New York City Tuesday, October 5, 12:15 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. 
Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College 
Free and Open to the Public. For more information, contact Angela Strotman at 574-284-4636 
SMC updates e-m_ail security protocols 
which is up from 70 to 75
By LYNN SIKORA 
percent when I came here 
News Writer 
two years ago," McKeown 
said. 
Saint Mary's students and The server is currently faculty found themselves under the allotted informa­without e-mail access tion quota and is running on Thursday night due to system "pretty good hardware" maintenance that included a according to McKeown. thorough security audit. Many updates are not inva­
The scheduled outage went sive, and don't normally from 5 p.m. until 2 a.m. interrupt student, staff or fac­Friday morning. Standard ulty work. maintenance is When a matter performed is more press­
"We did a once-over a
every Thursday ing, notifica­night, but this on the systems to tion is sent in time the focus advance by e­
make sure they're
was on securi­mail, but not
secure."

ty. everyone Director of receives the Information Keith Fowlkes notice in time. T e ch n °10 g Y director of Information Sophomore 
Keith Fowlkes Helen Casey
said the securi-Technology believes e-mail ty updates outages have were necessary for combating become more frequent this viruses on the server. year. "We did a once over on the "It seems more professors systems to make sure they're are relying on students to e­secure," Fowlkes said. "The mail assignments, and you extended security outage will can't always bank on the e­prevent attempts by hackers." mail to be up and running," Before the security updates, Casey said. the system had been exposed Other times students are for a short amount of time to left confused when experienc­Internet hackers and viruses. ing problems outside of the The extended security audit hours specified in the e-mail. allowed Saint Mary's main Junior Jenny Parker said server to be brought up to the unplanned outages can date with protection against become frustrating. unwanted glitches. "They make it more incon­This is the first time the e­venient than it needs to be," mail has been down since a Parker said. "It's hard when power outage in July. we get an e-mail saying it will Network and system admin­be out during a certain time istrator Doug McKeown said and then it's out beyond those the server and e-mail are specified times. now running as was previous­"I know updates are impor­ly planned, and the conditions tant, but sometimes they just 
have improved over the past cause problems." few years. "E-mail is up and running Contact Lynn Sikora at above 95 percent of the time siko0495@saintmarys.edu 
Dress code im_posed 
Associated Press cargo pants with more than 
six zippers. Spandex and 
WHITING, Ind. -Baggy skirts three inches above pants and logo T-shirts are the knee also are off-limits. out and plain shirts and No logos are allowed khaki pants are in this fall except that of the Whiting at Whiting High School. Oilers. 
The 900-student district Instead of designer T­adopted the dress code as a shirts, students havP. a way of curbing gang activi­choice of three solid colors: ty, the Post-Tribune of white, yellow or dark green. Merrillville reported Teacher Pam Smith said Sunday. the change seems to have 
The Whiting eased disci­School Board pline problems earlier this year "The way they did in her English approved the dress was a big class. policy, which "The way
distractor and
requires a "uni­they did dress formity of color symbol ofwho was a big dis­in dress." they were." tractor and 
The policy symbol of who dictates specific they were," she
Pam Smith 
clothing colors said. "Now we 
teacher

and attire for don't have to all students, deal with that." grades kinder-The code garten through 12: Schools resulted from a series of in nearby East Chicago have meetings that began last a similar requirement. year. Some students and 
"We've had our share of parents did not accept the gang-related activity," said new rules willingly. Whiting High School "I had people screaming Principal Dirk Flick. "It's at me on the street," said more of a coordination of Judy Gresko, president of color than a dress code for the Whiting PTO. the safety of our kids." Parents seElm to have 
The code prohibits jeans, adjusted, however, said low-rise or baggy pants and Gresko. 
Monday, September 13, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Parachute 
continued from page 1 
Golden Knights second appear­ance at a Notre Dame game, but it hasn't dulled their enjoy­ment of the event. Cries of "Let's Go Irish!" were shared by the soldiers as they prepared for the jump, and Sgt. 1st class Michael Elliot, wearing the Notre Dame jersey later pre­sented during the game, per­formed the arm motions for the Celtic Chant. 
Excitement didn't reduce their sense of caution. Private first class Sean Sweeney said the safety procedures made sure they could control as many factors that could interfere with the jump as possible. 
"Stadiums are a very dillicult place to jump into," Sweeney said. 
Sweeney said the prepara­tions for the event included a dry run conducted with stream­ers designed to replicate a parachute in flight. 
"The streamers help us com­pensate for wind in the jump," Sweeney said. "They let us know when we need to get out." 
After reaching 4,100 feet and passing by Notre Dame Stadium twice, Schaffer announced it was time to jump, and the seven members flew out the plane doors. 
The jump  also  served  to  
honor  the  anniv ersary  of  
September 11.  

Sergeant 1st class Calvin Fredlake said they would assist in raising the flag, then lower it to half mast in honor of the anniversary. Fredlank said the anniversary was important, but it shouldn't overshadow the events of the day. 
"We respect and remember what happened on 9/11, but we also have a job to do," he said. 
Sweeney said he felt fortu­nate to be able to participate. 
"It's definitely an honor to represent the Army today, at such a big event." 
After the presentation of the flag, the team retired to the sidelines to watch the game. For some of the team, like Sweeney, the game was their first live Notre Dame football game. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 


Da01age 
continued from page 1 
little far to jump, but it's 
really far to jump if you have 
someone pushing," Gagnon 
said. 
However, once the student 
body started flooding out of 
the stands, Gagnon and his 
team changed their 
approach. 
"While our policy is that we will not permit a field rush, once we determine that we can't stop it, we move into our assist role," he said. "We're living in the real world. We use a term for what the ushers do -crowd management. We don't say crowd control. A crowd of 80,000 can't be controlled by a few hundred ushers." 
Problems also arose when students began taking up pieces of the field. 
"I saw and stopped two students who were digging up chunks of turf," Gagnon said. "What people didn't realize is that what in one sense is a souvenir is also a place of work for the football team. You can't grow turf in a few days, so you end up patching a few places." 
"You don't want to create a situation where a football player will sprain an ankle or something even worse." 
The last time the students stormed the field was Sept. 14, 2002, after a 25-23 victo­ry over, once again, the Michigan Wolverines. 
At Saturday's game, similar punishments were enforced for students who went over­board. 
"I took one ticket booklet away. I took a driver's license from a student who couldn't produce an ID," Gagnon said. "He was tearing up a piece of sod, and he was intoxicated. 
I would have taken his book­let, but he claimed not to have it or a student ID. There was one booklet taken from a student who was smoking on the field and wouldn't put it out." 
There were also fears that the field storming would cause injury. 
However, assistant director of Medical Services Outreach Ruthann Heberle said there was not a single reported injury from storming the field. 
"It has happened in the past, but Cappy does a really good dent section. It's just a haz­ard of standing on benches. 
"In a game like that you're not just standing, you're jumping around, but there was minimal damage." 
In past year's, ushers also have had to combat the marshmallow throwing that usually takes place within the senior student section. 
Gagnon and the rest of the stadium personnel were on the lookout for marshmal­lows being thrown during halftime, but it didn't appear to be as large as in p·ast 
years. 
"We didn't catch 

job of not trying to any student with
"That was one 
force an issue," marshmallows,"
ofthe best 
Heberle said. "He Gagnon said. "The assisted them over days I've ever last home game the wall and they had. last year we just peacefully and caught a bunch.
Everything
quietly walked Hopefully it will out. wasjust so fade out of exis­
"It was just a special." tence. really wonderful "It really doesn't game, all-around. sound like a whole
Chris Tarnacki 
We only had one big deal to throw transport and that sophomore a few marshmal­
was after the game was over and that wasn't related to the weather or the game or anything. We were busy, but just with minor things like splinters and bee stings." 
Generally, Saturday's game was no different from any other in terms of health issues and damage to the stadium. 
"Whenever we have a hot, humid game it's harder on the elderly and people who either don't drink enough liq­uids or drink too many liq­uids, so we had the usual amount of that," Gagnon said. "From my perspective there weren't anymore than we would have expected. 
"I think, off the top of my head, there were maybe three or four broken bench­es, almost always in the stu­
lows around, but 
we can't be in the situation from a liability standpoint to endorse throw­ing anything." 
Saturday's victory and storming of the field was an event that, in many students' minds, will go down as a great Notre Dame moment. 
Tarnacki said this game was something he will not soon forget. 
"The memory I will never forget is walking out of the tunnel, seeing Touchdown Jesus," Tarnacki said. "There is nothing like that anywhere else. 
"That was one of the best days I've had ever. Everything was just so spe­cial." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Reaction 
continued from page 1 
"The defense played really well, [and] to hold them to a touch­down until the very end. I don't think anyone expected that," Richey said. 
And many fans felt this week, the team looked and seemed just a little bit different. 
"We did well because our oiTcnse and defense played their hearts out and, more specifically, we were able to get our rushing game in order," Nakamoto said. 
While some attribute the team's success to the offense or defense, some attribute it to heart -the heart of the team, and of the fans. 
Saint Mary's freshman Natalie Holtz, stood in awe of the student body's support. 
"It was amazing how the stu­dent body came together and put their hearts into it," lloltz said. "It was great how we backed our boys the whole way, through thick and thin." 
Saint Mary's junior Shannon McManus felt the game gave new meaning to the idea of home-field advantage. 
"There is something about being at Notre Dame Stadium, something about coming to our house," McManus said. "You don't want someone beating you in your own house." 
The high from Saturday's win has still yet to wear ofT. but some students cannot help wondering what future games hold for the Irish. 
"I am very optimistic for the future; they proved to themselves and the fans that you can win if you have the heart," McManus said. 
Although the team succeeded in upsetting Michigan, they still have a tough upcoming schedule, including No. 13 Tennessee and No.1 USC. 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lern6311 @saintmarys.edu 



.EnJoy a double o,rder ·Of c,hicke.n. s*:fe.a.k o-r co.mbo £aJi+a 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 13, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Baghdad violence kills near 60 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Insurgents hammered central Baghdad on Sunday with one of their most intense mortar and rocket barrages ever in the heart of the capital, heralding a day of violence that killed nearly 60 people nation­wide as security appeared to spiral out of con­trol. 
At least 37 people were killed in Baghdad alone. Many of them died when a U.S. helicop­ter fired on a disabled U.S. Bradley fighting vehicle as Iraqis swarmed around it, cheering, throwing stones and waving the black and yellow sunburst banner of Iraq's most-feared terror organization. 
The dead from the helicopter strike includ­ed Arab television reporter Mazen a!-Tumeizi, who screamed, "''m dying! I'm dying!" as a cameraman recorded the chaotic scene. An Iraqi cameraman working for the Reuters news agency and an Iraqi freelance photogra­pher for Getty Images were wounded. 
Bin Laden is still around 
BAGRAM, Afghanistan -The trail has gone cold in the hunt for suspected Sept. 11 mas­termind Osama bin Laden three years after the audacious attacks, but the al-Qaida chief and his No. 2 are still orchestrating strikes like the recent suicide car bombing of a U.S. security firm in Kabul, a top American com­mander said Saturday. 
Maj. Gen. Eric Olson told The Associated Press the military had not intercepted any radio traffic or instructions from either bin Laden or his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri. But he said the involvement of well-trained for­eign fighters in attacks near the Pakistani bor­der convinced him that the fugitive leaders were pulling the strings. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Family members remember 9/11 
NEW YORK-Their voices breaking, parents and grandparents of those lost on Sept. ll. stood at the World Trade Center site Saturday and marked the third anniversary of the attacks by reciting the names of the 2,7 49 peo­ple who died there. 
The list took more than three hours, punctu­ated by tearful dedications when the readers reached the names of their own lost loved ones. 
"We miss you very much, we love you very much, and we'll never forget you because you're in our hearts forever," said Stewart D. Wotton, looking skyward and remembering his son, Rodney James Wotton. 
Four moments of silence were observed at 8:46, 9:03, 9:59 and 10:291a.m.-the precise times that the two planes slammed into the buildings and when they collapsed on Sept. 11, 2001. 
Low crime rates hold steady 
WASHINGTON-The nation's crime rate last year held steady at the lowest levels since the government began surveying crime victims in 1973, the Justice Department reported Sunday. 
The study was the latest contribution to a decade-long trend in which violent crime as measured by victim surveys has fallen by 55 percent and property crime by 49 percent. That has included a 14 percent drop i,n violent crime from 2000-2001 to 2002-2003. "The rates are the lowest experience in the last 30 years," Justice Department statistician Shannan Catalona said in the report 


LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana feels small earthquake 
INDIANAPOLIS -Some Indiana resi­dents felt a jolt from a small earthquake Sunday morning. 
The 3.6 magnitude earthquake hap­pened at 8:05 a.m. and was centered about six miles north of Shelbyville, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Shelbyville is about 30 miles southeast of Indianapolis. 
Buildings shook but no injuries were reported, ,said Julie Jones, a dispatcher at the Shelby County Sheriff's Department. 
Ivan po-werfully batters Caytnans 
Hurricane Ivan tore across the Caribbean at 150 mph killing at least 60 people 
Associated Press 
GEORGE TOWN, Cayman Islands -Hurricane Ivan battered the Cayman Islands with ferocious 150­mph winds Sunday, flood­ing homes, ripping off roofs and toppling trees three stories tall as its powerful eye thundered past just off­shore. 
Ivan has killed at least 60 people across the Caribbean and was expect­ed to strike western Cuba, where residents have dubbed the storm "Ivan the Terrible," on Monday. More than 1 million Cubans were evacuated from their homes. 
The storm also could brush the Florida Keys and parts of Florida's Gulf Coast. Mexico issued a hur­ricane watch and tropical storm warning for the northeastern Yucatan Peninsula. 
The hurricane, which grew to the most powerful Category 5 with 165 mph winds Saturday, lost some strength before tearing into the wealthy Cayman Islands chain, a popular scuba diving destination and banking center. 
"It's as bad as it can pos­sibly get," Justin Uzzell, 35 said by telephone from his ern end by Monday after­tide levels. age and it is severe," saidfifth-floor refuge in Grand noon or evening. The U.S. While it was nearly a Wes Emanuel of the

Cayman. "It's a horizontal blizzard. The air is just National Hurricane Center direct hit on Grand Government Information 
in Miami said the storm Cayman, the eye of the Service.
foam." 
surge could reach 25 feet storm did not make land­The airport runway was
High winds prevented 
with dangerous, battering fall, passing instead over flooded and trees wereofficials from assessing waves. water just south of the wrenched from their roots,damage immediately. But The Cayman Islands were island, said Rafael Mojica, a including a giant Cayman
Donnie Ebanks, deputy 
better prepared for the Hurricane Center meteorol­mahogany next to the gov­chairman of the British ter­punishment than Grenada ogist. ernment headquarters inritory's National Hurricane and Jamaica, which were Still, emergency officials downtown George Town.
Committee, estimated that slammed b~ Ivan in the said residents from all Radio Cayman went off the as many as half of Grand 
past week -though parts of the island were air temporarily before
Cayman's 15,000 homes Jamaica was spared a reporting blown-off roofs resuming broadcasts. 

were damaged. At 5 p.m. EDT, Ivan's eye direct hit Saturday. The and flooded homes as Though there were no 
Caymans have strict build­Ivan's shrieking winds and immediate reports ofwas about 225 miles south­ing codes and none of the driving rain approached injuries in the Caymans. the east of Cuba's western tip. 
shantytowns and tin shacks Grand Cayman, the largest death toll elsewhere rose as
Hurricane-force winds 
common elsewhere in the of three islands that com­hospital officials in Jamaica 
extended 90 miles and 
Caribbean. prise the British territory of reported four more deaths,tropical storm-force winds The Hurricane Center 45,000 people. for a total of 15. At least 34 extended 175 miles. Ivan 
said ham radio operators The government said people were killed in
was moving west-northwest on Grand Cayman reported Grand Cayman was "expe­Grenada, where the hurri­

at near 10 mph and was expected to turn northwest that people were standing riencing the most severe cane left widespread 
on the roofs of homes portion of Hurricane Ivan" destruction. Scatteredby Monday. 
because of storm surges of on Sunday morning. deaths occurred on otherIt was projected to pass up to 8 feet above normal "We know there is dam-islands and in Venezuela.
near or over Cuba's west-



Blast ingites fear of nuclear testing 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea -A large explosion occurred in the northern part of North Korea, sending a huge column of smoke into the air on an important anniversary of the com­munist regime, a South Korean news agency reported Sunday. 
The South Korean government said it was trying to confirm the report of an explosion at 11 a.m. on Thursday in Yanggang province near the bor­der with China. 
The Yonhap news agency carried conflicting reports from unidentified sources, with one in Washington say­ing the incident could be related to a natural disaster such as a forest fire. It also cited a diplomatic source in Seoul as raising the possibility of an accident or a nuclear test. 
Although North Korea is believed to be developing nuclear weapons, international experts would likely have been able to detect the test if one had occurred several days ago. 
"We understand that a mushroom­shaped cloud about 3.5-to 4-kilome­ter (2.2 miles to 2.5 miles) in diame­ter was monitored during the explo­sion," the source in Seoul told Yonhap. Yonhap described the source as "reliable." 
Thursday was the anniversary of North Korea's founding on Sept. 9, 1948. Leader Kim Jong Il uses the occasion to stage performances and other events to bolster loyalty among the impoverished North Korean pop­ulation. 
Experts have speculated that North Korea might use a major anniversary to conduct a nuclear-related test, but one analyst said an open test, as opposed to one below ground, would be hard in such a small country. 
"It's difficult to say, but it won't be easy for North Korea to conduct a nuclear test without resulting in massive losses of its own people," said Koh Yu-hwan, a North Korea expert in Seoul. 

Monday, September I,3, 2004
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
Meditation aids pain in arthritis sufferers 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Dalia Isicoff 
knows pain. A lifelong sufferer 
of rheumatoid arthritis, she has 
had seven hip replacement sur­
geries. 
Since leaving the hospital in February following her latest operation, however. she hasn't taken any painkillers. Not because the pain isnOt there ­it is. But Isicoff, 52, said she has learned to accept the pain, the disease. and herself, thanks to meditation. 
"When you have an illness like this, what one tends to do is say, 'Oh, my God! Here we go again, this is going to render me dis­abled. I'm going to wind up in a wheelchair!' and you rush to the medicine cabinet, "she said. "This has allowed me to have the patience to deal with these flare-ups and become relaxed enough so the need for pain medication is almost not there." 
The 52-year-old Clarksville resident said meditation has made her symptoms less severe, helping relieve stress that she said made the condition worse. 
"With this type of approach, you learn to acknowledge you have pain and, by realizing it and by being in this relaxed state, the pain is less,' she said. 
Researchers at the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore are studying others like Isicoff to see if meditation helps sufferers of the autoim­mune disorder, which affects about 2.1 million Americans, 

mostly women. Those with the 
disease often have general 
fatigus, soreness, stiffness and 
aches at first. Joints may swell 
and become damaged over time. 
Groups of rheumatoid arthri­
tis patients arc being trained in 
"mindfulness," a form of stress 
reduction meditation developed 
30 years ago at the University of 
Massachusetts. Their progress 
is being compared to patients 
not in the program. 
Mindfulness is similar to many meditation techniques. Participants are taught to focus on breathing to quiet the mind and become aware of the moment. 
The method has been used successfully to help patients with chronic pain from a variety of conditions, but this marks the first time it is being studied to see-if it can help the physical and psychological symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis patients, said Lisa Pradhan, one of the study leaders for the University of Maryland's Center for Integrative Medicine. 
Evidence suggests flare-ups of the disease are associated with stress, she said. 
Thirty-six patients took an eight-week course that started in March and will be given their third and final evaluation later this month. Participants are being sought for a second group of a similar size. which will take the course beginning later this­month and be tracked for six months. 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 





INNSBRUCK 
2004-2005 Academic Year 

Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 312 DEBARTOLO 4:30PM 
Applications Available wwwlnd.edu/-intlstud Questions?-Weher.l5@ftd.edu Application Deadline: December 1, 2003 

Seeking talented accounting, 'finance, and econon'lics .najors to join our tean'l. 
Corporate Presentation Date: Join us tonight, September 1 3, 2004 Location: Morris Inn, Alumni Room Time: 6 -8 p.m. 
Contact your campus career center to apply. 

www.huronoonaultlnggroup.aorn 1-asa-22e-a7oo 
BOSTON CHARLOTTE CHICAGO HOUSTON LOS ANGELES NEW YORK SAN FRANCISCO WASHINGTON DC 
Huron Consulting Group LLC is an independent provider of 
nnandal and operational consulting se-rvices. Huron's experienced 
and credentialed professionals employ their expertise In accounting, 
finance, economics and operations to a Vllide variety of both 
financially sound and distressed orgamzations, including Fortune 
500 companies, medium-sized and large businesses. leading 
academic Institutions, healthcare organizations and the law firms 
that represent these various organizations. 
Huron 
CONSUl TING GROUP 
Expenence.Redefined.­
Monday, September 13, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10,313.07 +23.97
}ones 




·'='·~= 
AMEX 1............7.•\i··.•...•• t~~~~;i':il;!:\;;} NASDAQ 1,894.31 +24.66 NYSE 6,568;30'li];l~w·~~~i~~!i . S&PSOO 1,123.92 +5.54 NIKKfi(Tokyo) II ,140:79'~*"«'~1~~'j''5iji 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,545.00 +7.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.98 +0.40 20.57 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.66 +0.53 20.46 MICROSOFT CP (MSFl) +0.77 +0.21 27.49 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +5.34 +0.53 10.46 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) 0.01 0.0 I 2.72 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -.34 -0.17 49.71 10-YEAR NOTE -0.45 -0.19 41.80 5-YEARNOTE -0.62 -0.21 33.92 3-MONTH BILL 
O>mmodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.80 42.81 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +3.40 403.80 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) -0.475 93.70 
Excha e Rates 
YEN 109.36 EURO 1.2285 POUND I.7983 CANADIAN$ 0.7759 

IN BRIEF 
Stock prices climb as oil falls 
NEW YORK -A sharp decline in oil prices and a surprise drop in wholesale prices pushed stocks higher Friday as investors' con­cerns about third quarter earnings were miti­gated. The Nasdaq composite index surged with investors buying heavily into an oversold technology sector. 
Oil prices fell briskly through the afternoon, again moving below $43 per barrel after spik­ing higher on Thursday. A barrel of light crude settled at $42.81, down $1.80, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Investors welcomed the 0.1 percent drop in the Producer Price Index, the Labor Department's measure Of wholesale prices, since the news was a strong sign that the economy has still managed to keep inflation at bay despite this summer's rising oil costs. 
A profit warning from Alcoa Inc., which slashed its third-quarter forecast by about 40 percent, weighed heavily on investors' minds and kept the Dow Jones industrial average lower for most of the session. Automotive sys­tems manufacturer Visteon Corp.'s warnings drove new fears about the health of the auto market and overall consumer spending. 
Gas prices resume decline 
LOS ANGELES -Gas prices dropped about 2 cents in the past two weeks, reflecting recent drops in the price of crude oil and plen­tiful supply, an industry analyst said Sunday. 
The combined national average for all grades of gasoline was $1.89, said Trilby Lundberg, who publishes the semimonthly Lundberg Survey. The price was down from $1.91 on Aug. 27. 
The survey, taken Friday, polled about 6,000 gas stations across the United States. 
Self-serve regular, the biggest seller, was $1.86. The mid-grade national average was $1.96 and the average for premium was $2.05. 
Lundberg said crude oil prices, which began the month around $44 per barrel, have been declining most days since then. Prices at the pump are beginning to catch up with those drops, she said. 
Prices went down despite the Labor Day weekend.· 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
US Airways files bankruptcy 
Seventh-largest airline claimed bankruptcy for the second time in 2 years 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. -US Airways Group Inc., the nation's seventh-largest air­line, filed for bankruptcy protection Sunday for the second time in two years. The company's president vowed to continue restruc­turing the airline into a low­cost carrier during the bank­ruptcy process. 
"We have come too far and accomplished too much to simply stop the process and not succeed," said Bruce Lakefield, US Airways' president and chief executive. "A restructured US Airways with low costs and low fares will be a dynamic competitor." 
US Airways said cus­tomers would notice no operational changes as a result of the bankruptcy and that it will seek permission to continue its frequent flyer program. 
The Chapter 11 filing in 
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Alexandria came after US Airways was unable to obtain $800 million in annu­al cost cuts from its workers' unions that the airline said it needed to stay afloat. 

Several major airlines also are confronting the need to repair weak fmances. United Airlines has been operating under bankruptcy for nearly two years, American Airlines was on the brink of "When you look at the other enough concessions during labor," Freshwater said. a filing 18 months ago and choices, I believe our the company's first trip into Bronner issued a state­Delta Air Lines warned that employees will make the bankruptcy in 2002. Then, ment Sunday saying work­it might seek similar protec­right choice." the unions collectively ers will have to make con­tion soon if it cannot trim its Last Monday, a deeply agreed to contract conces­cessions if the airline is to labor costs. divided pilots union refused sions of more than $1 billion survive. 
Several weeks ago, US to allow its membership to a year. "The reluctance of union Airways Chairman David vote on a company proposal The airline had hoped a negotiators to agree to con­Bronner warned that the that would have cut pay by deal with its pilots might cessions is understandable, airline would most likely 20 percent and retirement spur other unions to take but their refusal to acknowl­have to liquidate if it filed for plan contributions by 50 action. edge the realities of the air­bankruptcy. percent. Fred Freshwater, a pilots' line industry is a mystery," 
Lakefield subsequently As recentlyl as Friday, US union representative from Bronner said. backtracked from those Airways made a last-ditch Pittsburgh who opposed The bankruptcy filing comments, and on Sunday effort to reach a deal with management's latest con­probably will cost federal again sought to assure cus­the pilots, offering a propos­tract offer, said he wasn't taxpayers. The government tomers that the airline faced al with minimum pay cuts surprised the company was loaned the airline $900 mil­no immediate danger of that would have required unable to reach deals with lion last year as part of a shutting down. more flight hours each labor and that it sought special program to assist 
"I believe that the light of month, putting more pilots bankruptcy. airlines after the Sept. 11 day will convince our at risk of furlough. "When you look at the attacks. employees that sacrifices are Some pilot representatives behavior of management, The airline still owes Uncle needed to keep the airline who opposed the new deal when you look at their pro­Sam $718 million, and it will flying," Lakefield said in a said the pilots and other US posals, they were seeking ultimately be up to a bank­telephone interview Sunday. Airways workers had made the total capitulation of ruptcy court to determine 


Disney CEO offers his resignation 
cient, and smooth and easy," the board.
Associated Press 

Eisner wrote. Critics called for Eisner to step 
LOS ANGELES -Walt Disney Co. Eisner -known as a workaholic down sooner and resign his seat on chief executive Michael Eisner who reads scripts at night, watches the board as well. unexpectedly offered his resigna­every television pilot and even "It is not clear to us how a two­tion from the entertainment com­helps in the design of theme parks year lame duck CEO will benefit pany he has led for two decades, -helped transform Disney into a shareowners. and his continued but he will not be leaving the exec­media powerhouse, but recently presence on the board would pre­utive suite anytime soon. fought off a shareholder attempt to vent the company from the clean 
In a letter to Disney's board oust him. break that is needed to restore dated Thursday, Eisner said he Disney has fallen on hard times investor confidence," said Sean intends to step down on Sept. 30, in recent years amid sinking rat­Hannigan, president of the 2006, when his contract expires. ings at ABC Networks and some California Public Employees 
"Until then I shall continue to questionable acquisitions. Disney Retirement System, the nation's exert every effort to help the com­stock has stumbled, and investors largest pension fund an~ a major pany achieve our goals, to assist have begun to question Eisner's investor. the board in selecting the new control over his board of directors. The timing of the announcement chief executive officer, and to make Eisner did not say whether he surprised investors and many of the transition expeditious, effi-would seek to retain his seat on the company's top executives. 
--~------~--------------­
page 8 Monday, September 13, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Monday, September 13, 2004 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Moviegoers favor 'Resident Evil: Apocalypse' 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES The undead came alive once more over the weekend as "Resident Evil: Apocalypse" debuted at No. 1 at the box office, bringing in $23.7 mil­lion. 
The sequel to 2002's "Resident Evil," based on a video game series about shooting apart shuffling, bio­poisoned zombie attackers, follows hits like last year's remake of "Dawn of the Dead" and the zombie art­house thriller "28 Days Later," which reinvigorated 
the genre. 
Overall, however, it was a slow week for new releases as most kids headed back to school and the big-budget blockbusters of summer evap­orated in favor of B-movie­style thrillers and monster movies. 
The suspense drama "Cellular," with Kim Basinger as a kidnapping victim who makes a random phone call to a cell phone and pleads with a stranger to find her, opened at No. 2 with $10.6 million. 
'"Cellular' did OK, but every other movie was just treading water behind 'Resident Evil,"' said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box office tracker Exhibitor Relations Co. 
"Resident Evil: Apocalypse" stars Milla Jovovich as Alice, a bath-towel wearing, butt­kicking security chief who tries to help a group of sur­vivors escape a zombified metropolis before the city of ghouls is annihilated by a nuclear strike. 
With its miniskirted hero­ines and gooey guts-a-plenty, "Apocalypse" appealed main­ly to guys under the age of 25. 
"Certainly this is an adapta­tion from a game, so it has its own audience," said Rory Bruer, distribution chief for Sony, which released the film. "The zombies aspect of it is just fun." 
Bruer also credited the marketing campaign, which featured early teaser trailers that had little to do with the action-horror theme. One trailer appeared to be an ad for a genetically engineered moisturizing lotion that prom­ises to regenerate dead skin cells -the product that caus­es the mayhem in the films. 
Final charter character bo-wes out of 'ER' 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Noah Wyle, the last continuous on-air link to the NBC medical drama "ER's" freshman season in 1994, seems headed for the doctor's retirement home. 
Wyle, who plays Dr. John Carter, told E! Entertainment Television on Thursday that he plans to leave the show at the end of this season. 
"I've just got other stuff going in my life right now," Wyle told "E! News Live." "''ve got a son, I've got family and friends that said goodbye to me 12 years ago and are wondering when I'm coming back, and this little urge to scratch a different kind of itch in my career, and it's just 
coming to the end of the char­"He's clear on what he acter's run." said," George said. "That's Wyle was the impressionable where his head is at. That young resident among a pow­could change. There's a lot of 
erhouse cast that included Anthony Edwards, George Clooney, Eriq La Salle and Julianna Margulies. As they all left around him, Wyle became the show's promotional centerpiece. 
He may have talked to E! about leaving, but he has­n't told series cre­
'Tve just got other stuff going on in my life right now. " 
Noah Wyle actor 

things that could happen between now and the end of the season." 
A Warner Bros. spokeswoman said only, "people are going to have to stay tuned to see what's happening." 
The five-time Emmy Award nomi­nee's contract expires at the end of 
ator John Wells or the produc­this season. This spring he ers, Warner Bros. Television, watched as another popular said Wyle's spokesman, Eddie Warner Bros. show that George. debuted the same season, "Friends," made its goodbye. 
"The day the cast filmed their last episode, I saw them in the commissary. It was heavy," he told The Associated Press. "Here they were, clos­ing a defining chapter in each of their lives, and all I could do was think: 'The end of that chapter's coming, for me."' 
Earlier in the year he said he thought about leaving sev­eral times. 
What made him stay? "The money, probably," he said. 
"ER" will outlast him. NBC has locked up the show for another season past this one and, barring an unexpected downturn in the ratings, it will likely continue beyond that. 
Walters departs '20/20' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Barbara Walters says she is departing the ABC news magazine show "20/20" after 25 years because she wants to "leave at the top" and avoid being forced out. 
"Newsmagazines in gener­al are somewhat in jeopardy, I think," Walters told The New York Times for Sunday's editions. "I didn't want any­one to say, she was forced out, she had to leave." 
Walters, 74, said that when she first became an evening news anchor, coanchor Harry Reasoner did not want to work with a woman and wouldn't talk to her off the air. Soon, she said, she was getting "the sympathy vote." 
"One day I got a telegram from a man I did not know. It said, 'Don't let the bastards get you down.' And it was signed John Wayne," she said. 
Walters says she plans to stay in television, continuing her interview specials and appearances on "The View." ABC News appointed Elizabeth Vargas to replace her on "20/20." 
Walters said television news has changed in recent years. 








LONDONPROG 
APPLitCAIIC*-MEETING 
FOR FALL.2005, SlPII~i.20Q~~.. i ll.J"Lt.X'Eii·2DIJ~.~l006 
..·::~::;: ::::::·: :::-: ... 
···:::::;:.··. 

. --~:

Tu~+rt~,••,!i. 


6:~0pm·· 
ALL S·OPHOMORES WELCOME! 

Monday, September ~ 3, 2004 
page 10 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Touching live~. improving life. P&G 
Touching I ives. P&G believes that there's more to business than just making money. As a good corporate citizen, we use that money to improve the lives of our consumers the world over. 

Did you know that... 

-5,000 children around the world die every day from diarrhea caused by drinking unsafe water. -1.1 billion people do not have access to safe drinking water. -At any one time, patients suffering from water-borne diseases occupy about half of the world's hospital beds. 
Just one of the many ways that P&G touches lives is through our "PUR Saving Lives with Safe Water" campaign. P&G's water 
-I 
purification technology, PUR Purifier of Water, has effectively and 
affordably provided emergency drinking water at the household level to impoverished families in Botswana, Malawi, Liberia, and Zimbabawe. 
All interested Finance, Accounting, and Marketing majors are invited to visit our booth at the Career Fair this Thursday to find out more about P&G 
Bring this ad to the career fair on Thursday along with your resume for a chance to win some of P&G's world renowned products! 
P&G 


HoNG KoNG 

Hong Kong voters turn out in force 
Voters choose pro-democracy politicians in controversial election 
The exit polls also predicted Associated Press victory for a veteran activist IlONG KONG -A record 1.7 known for chanting slogans, million Hong Kong voters cast burning flags and demanding a 
ballots Sunday for an election that sent a fresh con­tingent of pro­democracy oppo­sition politicians to the legislature, but fewer than the outright majority feared by Beijing's allies, exit polls showed. 
The contest was surrounded in controversy even bdore the results were tallied. 
Polling stations ran short of bal­lot boxes, prompting some angry people to give up rather than wait to cast their vote. 
Politicians from the opposition Democratic Party conceded they had probably fallen short of expectations, after two candi­dates became embroiled in cam­paign scandals. One remains locked up in mainland China after allegedly being caught with a prostitute. 
"The scandals hurt us a lot," said Democratic Party lawmaker Fred Li, who won a seat. accord­ing to TV exit polls. The Democrats accused pro-Beijing rivals of stirring up trouble -a charge the rivals denied. 
"The pro-China figures have been targeting the democratic side, but now they've· got somebody even more radical to contend with." 
Ivan Choy political scientist 
ures have been targeting the democratic side, but now they've got somebody even more radical to contend with," political scien­tist Ivan Choy said. 

Official results weren't expected until Monday, but the  'The scandals hurt us a lot."  Affairs SecretaryStephen Lam apolo­gized and promised an  
exit polls conducted  immediate investiga­ 
for several local media outlets by Hong Kong  Fred Ll democratlc party  tion. Half of the legisla­ture's 60 seats were  
University  lawmaker  directly elected, with  
researchers  were  3.2 million people reg­ 

seen as a reliable barometer of istered to vote, while the other the vote's outcome. half were picked by less than 
Another apparent winner was 200,000 members of special the outspoken former radio host interest groups such as business, Albert Cheng, who went off the law and accounting that tend to air in May after alleged threats back Beijing. 
fuller explanation from China about its deadly military crack­down on the 1989 
Tiananmen  Square  
democracy  move­ 
ment.  

If "Longhair" Leung Kwok-hung ends up inside the legislature instead of staging protests outside it, he could become a major nuisance for unpopu­lar Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa. 
"The pro-China fig­over his pro-democracy com­ments -one of the biggest con­troversies in a campaign that was full of alleged smears and intimidation tactics. 

Many Hong Kong voters clear­ly were frustrated by Beijing's recent decision that ruled out full democracy in the near term despite widespread demands for universal suffrage. 
As votes were counted, out­rage grew over the shortage of ballot boxes. It was not clear how many polling stations were affected or how many people were unable to vote. 
"This is very serious," said Margaret Ng, who was seeking re-election. "I don't care whether it was a careless mis­take or whether it was a con­spiracy. One is just as unforgiv­able as the other. And what would the world think?" 
Constitutional 
RUSSIA 
Russia supports U.S. anti-terror methods 
Assodated Press MOSCOW -Russia reserves the right to carry out pre-emp­tive strikes on militant bases abroad in the wake of the school hostage seizure, Russia's defense minister said Sunday, adding that Moscow and the United States see eye to eye on fighting terrorism.' Sergei Ivanov did not say what countries might be possi­ble targets for a strike. but Russian officials in the past have said Chechen separatists have bases in nearby Georgia, and Moscow has had friction with that country's pro-U.S. government over the issue. President Vladimir Putin has blamed international terror­ism for the school hostage cri­sis at Beslan in southern Hussia where at least 330 hostages died on Sept. 3. He lashed out at those in the West who continued to advise Russia to conduct peace talks with rebels in Chechnya, sneering that they should negotiate with Osama bin Laden. President Bush visited the Russian Embassy in Washington on Sunday, sign­ing a book of condolence for victims of the school hostage seizure and expressing out­rage at the actions of "evil ter­rorists." "The atrocities that took 
place in the school were beyond comprehension," the president told reporters. 
Ivanov told the NTV televi­sion channel he had spoken twice with U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld last week, adding the U.S. administration was more receptive to Moscow's argu­ments on how to fight terror than some European ofl1cials. 
"The Americans and the 
U.S. military have a better understanding of the serious­ness of this threat since we and the United States have both been targeted in power­ful terror attacks." Ivanov said in the television interview. 
"In that sense, it has been easier for us to find a basis for mutual understanding with the United States than with some of the European nations." 
There was no immediate 
U.S. comment on Russia's right to pre-emptive strikes. Speaking Sunday on Fox tele­vision, Secretary of State Colin Powell said the school seizure and other recent attacks in Hussia highlighted the need for stronger global anti-terror efforts. 
In Sunday's interview, Ivanov repeated an earlier statement that a "pre-emptive strike may involve anything, except nuclear weapons." 
Monday, September 13, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
ISRAEL 
Thousands protest Israeli w-ithdraw-al plan 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Tens of thou­sands of Jewish settlers and their backers demonstrated in Jerusalem on Sunday against Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's plan to evacuate all settlements from Gaza and four West Bank enclaves in a rally held against a backdrop of assassination threats and warnings of civil war. 
The withdrawal plan has upset the Israeli political scene since it was announced last year, turning Sharon's backers into opponents and detractors into supporters. Skeptical Palestinians believe the whole plan is a trick to annex large parts of the West Bank to Israel. 
The demonstrators filled downtown Jerusalem, shutting down much of the city, to protest the planned pullout. 
Most of those filling down­town were Orthodox Jews, many of them teenage girls in long skirts or youths wearing knit skullcaps. A huge banner behind the stage set the theme: "Disengagement tears the peo­ple apart." Many waved blue­and-white Israeli flags. 

Organizers pledged to prevent incitement to violence, but there were also some ominous signs. 
One placard warned that the head of Sharon's disengage­ment committee would "not be forgiven." Another showed a picture of Sharon under the words, "The Dictator." 
Another sign said, "A time to 
' 
. 

FOHTIJNE% 
100 BEST 

COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR~ ey.comjusjcareers 
Now it's time to put on your thinking cap. 

love, a time to hate," quoting the biblical Book of Ecclessiastes. 
After the demonstration, hun­dreds of participants, many holding candles, marched to a square near Sharon's official residence, where they called on the prime minister to resign. The rally dispersed peacefully. 
At a Cabinet meeting Sunday morning, Sharon warned of statements of "grave incite­ment" that were "directing toward a civil war." 
At Ernst &Young, the opportunities to use your mind are endless. Welcome to our in-coming class from University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
Grayson Allen Patrick Amato Grant Bartucci, intern Michelle Bezdiceck Carolyn Billick Sarah Cerreta, intern Matt Curtin, intern Anthony Easterlin, intern Cesar Flores, intern lauren Fowler Michelle lvill Sarah Jenkins 
Jake Kaczka, intern Tim Kappel! Jack Kingseed, intern Matt Klein Matt Korros Stephanie lee Maggie McDonald Sarah McSherry Kristin Miller David Moehrman Bethany O'Hanlon Elliott Pope 

Colin Powers Jonathan Pressnell laura Reardon John Reed Alison Ruddy, intern Matt Sanchez Chris Sanders Jennifer Van Hettinga, intern Katie Wagner, intern Elizabeth Ward, intern Sarah Wear, intern Byron Wittenberg 
i.!J ERNST&YOUNG 




Ten die in suspected arson fire 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -A sus­pected arson fire raced through an apartment com­plex in suburban Columbus on Sunday, killing 10 people who lived in the same apartment and forcing others to jump from third-story windows to escape. 
At least 53 people were left homeless by the blaze in Prairie Township, which destroyed the building's roof and third floor, melted siding and left its wooden skeleton exposed. 
Antonio Noriega said fire­fighters pulled him from a lad­der as he tried to rescue his brothers and nephews. 
"My family is dead," Noriega said. Eight of his relatives ­including three young boys ­and two friends lived in the apartment, he said. Authorities wouldn't say whether others were still missing. 
The fire came just six weeks after three fires were set in the same building in an empty apartment and hallway, said Fire Chief Steve Feustel. There were no suspects and no known witnesses to Sunday's suspected arson, he said. 
The victims lived on the third floor and tried to escape, Feustel said. 
"They were out of their beds. They didn't die in their sleep," he said. 
Two people, including a woman who jumped from a window, were treated and released from a hospital, a nursing supervisor said. 
Residents of the gutted 24­unit building stood vigil out­side -some wrapped in blan­kets, some quietly sobbing. The American Red Cross handed out water, coffee and doughnuts, and helped resi­dents find temporary housing. 
The fire started about 2:30 
a.m. in the basement or the first floor, but the cause was not known, Feustel said. He said the fire burned fiercely in a stairway, blocking people from escaping. 
Pascasie Mulanigulwa, who lives in the next building, was awakened by the light through her bedroom window. "I saw people jumping down out of the third floor. It was terri­ble," she said. 
A hydrant that had been knocked over delayed getting water to fight the fire, which was already shooting through the roof when crews arrived, Feustel said. 
"These people were proba­bly already down by the time fire crews were on the scene," he said. 
Killed in the fire were Ismael Noriega, 36; his wife, Lidia Mejia, 22; their three young sons; Mejia's two broth­ers; her nephew and two fami­ly friends, according to Antonio Noriega, Ismael's brother. 
"My family, they're sleeping and the fire is coming fast," he said. "I can't help my broth­ers." 
Noriega said his family members were all immigrants from Mexico who came to Columbus four years ago. Many in the family worked together at a landscaping company. 
THE ()BSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, September 13, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, fN 46)% 024 South Dining H.Ul. Notre Dame, IN 465% 
Et>l!OR IN CMlllf Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR Bi!$lNllSS MM<AGER Meghanne O<!wnes MikeFl~ 
AssT. MAN.\GtNG Emma Joe Hettler 
NEWS Emroru Clal.te Heininger VU.'\'VPOINT ED!TORt Sarah Vabulas 
Sl'OllTS EDrtolt: Heath¢i' Van H~dcn SaNE EorroR: Marla Smith IN Focus EDrroR: Megban Martin SAI.Nl' MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDJTORt Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGERt Carrie Fnmklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Nelson SYSTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CONTROllER: Paulo Garcia 
0FRC£ MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 ADV£RTISINQ 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631·4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu AssiSTANT MANAGING EonOR (574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631·5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obmews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(514) 631·5303 viewpoint.l®nd.edu 
SPORT! DESK (574) 631-4543 spori:s.l@nd.~du SceNE Des~ 
(574) 631-4540 $"ne.l®nd.l:du 
SAINT MAllY's OE$11 smc.H/Pnd.edu PHOTO OW 
(574) 631-8767 photo®nd.~du SYSTEMS & WU ADMIIIISTRAfORS (574) 631-8839 
o8~iRVERONL/Nf
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Obse~"Vt:r Is the independent, daily nem;paper published in print 11nd online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotn: Dame duLac and Saint Mazy'~ College. Ediwrial liOnten~ il\4udlng a4~m¢rs. i~ not governed by policies ofche.adi'iUI!i:smuion ofeithi!r ·· inscitudon. The Observer reserves the rlght ID refuse advwtikmenu b<J.Sed on I:Ontent. ·•• · ·• •. 
The n~M~S is reponed as accllfatdy >WI objeCtivelya8 possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, A.•;$l$ram M;maging Editor and depatt!JWm edi~Or$. Commenwie:5y leaers and columns presenr the views of the authors and not neces.'l3.cily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint 5Jl".CC is awilable to aU ri:aders. The ~ expression ofall opinions through letters.is encau~ed. Le!tcrs to the Editor must be signed a.nd must include con~";~~:~ information. 
~stions JTgarriing Obmrrpolidt$ should lu di~Tctrd to Editor in ChiHfMattIAutr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohi('fWt (LJSI"S ')?9 l-4000) tt fN!hlbhcd: Mo~y tbmu.gb F,Hfay a:.;tp( dwdng: (!K:.un 110d •;u.:~~tWo f-='hxk A xubsu:J.pcion tulM ObtuW~f' l1 _$1{)(} for-~ ~mib: )'C";~r:$55forulll'tcfll~­T1Jt Ob~~:t i¥ ~ IJl-Wihcr ~;~f dsc ~itr~d .?ttt•. Mt J;pm~~.:rlvn rights ·~ (~CJw:d. 
"rtK· Oh•cnrr it puDlhbl:.l ,u: P.O. a., Q 
1U4 Sl>u~h tlin~ng H~ 024 So•<i> tli•i»g H~l Notrt: D4-1t~~ 1 IN 4/,~$6-077<J No.,..!:U..,.iN ~6~l6-0n? 1\:'Mdk•\ ~"t..\Re r~.J "'t ~"e l).~.fRC: 
al'ld .i..idlrtonol!IR•i(lng Orfl«<f. 
Send Ill~~~· cm"'llPIJ.J l"l ·n~()b•tTVer 
lhe()b.g,w:r iJ Jlficm~ p/me~~ I~ Alt,tt,p~~i<W r~~;~ arc: mtrml. . 

Time inside opens your eyes 
Life-changing experiences sometimes come at unexpected times. This one started with a harmless date to a base­ball game and ended up in jail. 
My date and I met friends for drinks before the game, downed a few beers Michael and headed to Poffenberger Camden Yards in Baltimore to watch 
Say why not 
the Red Sox dominate the Orioles. Our opti­mistic attitudes were not drowned out with the rains that poured down in the fourth inning. Even if they cancelled the game, we were determined to have a fun night. 
Ready to stir up some trouble, my date turned to me and said that she thought it would be a great idea to play slip 'n slide on the giant tarp that had been pulled out temporarily over the diamond. With alcohol and testosterone flowing through my veins, I, of course, could not back down from the challenge and soon found myself leaping onto the field and sprinting toward first base, hands pumping in the air as if I'd just won an Olympic medal. 
My 15 minutes of fame did not disap­point. There were 30,000 disgruntled baseball fans cheering at their new­found entertainment, and my slip 'n slide dive was worthy of the record books. When I climbed back into the stands, the stadium police chased me through rows of fans in several sec­tions. I rather inconveniently forgot however that radio waves travel faster than legs and was eventually caught and led to the stadium jail. But I was still all smiles and laughter, high on the experience and wishing that I had thought to run through the dugout to give Pedro Martinez a high five. 
The comic nature of the incident came to an abrupt and sober end sever­al hours later when I found myself booked, photographed and fingerprint­ed in a jail cell in downtown Baltimore. The next 20 hours were long and dehu­manizing. But they were also eye-open­ing. 

My time in jail will be looked back on with humor, a youthful folly. But the other 12 people sitting uncomfortably in the two-man cell in which I found myself, all of whom were black and from inner-city Baltimore, will probably have very different stories to tell, sto­ries that challenge the comfortable boundaries of life at Notre Dame. 
My cellmates had been in jail count­less times. They all grew up in parts of Baltimore where public schooling is inferior, entry-level jobs are few and stable families rare. Pressures and expectations are radically different than in the typical suburban communi­ty. For my cellmates. this constructed reality led them to dope use and attempted escape from the cops, while its parallel for most kids in America includes attending school plays and seeing movies. 
The cycle of drugs, dependence and materialism in which my cellmates have found themselves is a result of their political and economic marginal· ization at the hands of our wider socie­ty. Bad schools have led to dropping out -only 45 percent of black males grad­uate from Chicago public schools. Single parents working overtime at minimum wage jobs have led to a rela­tive dearth of positive role models. Discrimination has caused frustration and rebellion. A lack of jobs and income generates crime (In 2002, one in four black males was idle all year long; that, shockingly, does not include the esti­mated 10 percent of black men under the age of 40 who are incarcerated at any given time). This cycle continually degenerates, assaulting human dignity. 
With no options for making a valuable contribution to the greater society, the default reality is deviant behavior, stick­ing it to "The Man" who never gave. a leg up. And time spent in our country's "correctional" facilities certainly does not help anything. It doesn't successful· ly protect the wider society from crime, 
and it doesn't correct criminal behavior. 
It does, however, institutionalize human 
beings, depriving them of any hope they 
might have, dehumanizing them to the ·point where they start believing the 
message of their own worthlessness 
that the world has been feeding them. 
· After a pause in conversation in our 
cell, the gravity of this crisis and the 
way it is affecting people was made 
most apparent by one of my cellmates 
when he said, "We gotta keep talking. 
The silence is bad, because then you 
start thinking. And that just gets 
depressing." 
Structural solutions that would pro­mote human dignity could include the implementation of a living wage, so that parents do not have to work numerous jobs and can be present more in the lives of their children. and so that crime is not the only way to fund life's needs. Improving the quality of public educa· tion in urban areas would increase the number of individuals who could attain higher education. Job training could provide much-needed alternatives. The list or possible solutions aimed at increasing equality of opportunity and participation in society goes on. Recent legislation from the Bush administra­tion-such as the widely-touted "No Child Left Behind" Act-has only fur­ther demonstrated the lack of political concern about the situation of the urban poor. 
Until all citizens of the United States 
experience economic security and a fair 
shot at life, no member of our society 
will be secure. Until then, the values 
that we cherish in America apply only 
to those of us on this side of the rail· 
road tracks. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major. He can be reached at mpoffenb@nd.edu. 
The views of this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Senior pictures waste student m.oney 
What is it we pay to go to this school? $40,000? I've spent almost four years wondering where all that money goes, or better yet, doesn't go. One hundred fifty-nine dollars for football tickets is pretty bad. Nine dollars for a dining hall meal -yeah, that's about what they cost -is ridiculous. But now the class of 2005 is finding out one of the more absurd additional fees that I've ever heard of. You want to be in the yearbook? You've got to buy a senior portrait. 
I don't care about a senior portrait, and unless your par­ents have brainwashed you, neither should you. I have lots of pictures of myself and my friends over my time at this school that mean a lot more to me than some elaborately set up photo opportunity. So why would I pay $10 to break out a jacket and tie-mandatory dress for males-and walk around campus like the point man in some twisted "Where's Waldo?" 
In 30 years, when my classmates pick up their yearbook to take a walk down memory lane, I would like to have my smiling face on one of those big billboards on the side of the road. I go to this school, and I'm graduating with the class of 2005. Maybe I'm crazy, but shouldn't that be enough to get me in the yearbook? Maybe instead of giving away thou­sands of yearbooks every year, mostly to underclassmen who will never look at them again-I have a couple buried at home somewhere -we should start charging a small fee for the yearbooks rather than the pictures. This could fund at least a minimum portrait package for the whole senior class. 
I'm afraid it's too late to do anything about it now; sen­iors, we are already lost. But there is still a chance for you underclassmen. As for myself. well, I cancelled my portrait session. But thanks to a digital camera and the wonders of email, I might still be cast into Notre Dame history; just look for the guy sporting aT-shirt and a huge grin, right between the two suckers in jackets and ties. 
Paul Joice 
scmor 
off-campus 
Sept. 9 
TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL Angela Saoud Matt Mooney EiloonDuftY Kate Gales JenRowling Kaitlin Seryak 

For what will you use the DeBartolo 
Viewpoint Scene 
Justin Spack Chl'istie Boisen Performing Arts Center? Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Meg Dwyer 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Besides pride, loyalty, discipline, heart and mind, confidence is the key to all the locks. " 
Joe Paterno college football coach 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, September 13, 2004 
page 13 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Realizing errors in Iraq 
When are we going to wake up and get the point? Now that we have counted more than 1,000 dead soldiers in Iraq, isn't it about time to recon­sider what we are doing? There are no weapons of mass destruction-just lies. There is no connection between Sept. 11 and Iraq -just lies. There was no connection between Saddam Hussein and AI Qaeda -just lies. 
The world and especially America is not safer as a result of these actions. The Bush administration continues to manipulate your emotions with constant false alarms, vague warnings or nonspecific information from unspecified sources and elevated color alerts. Does this make you feel safer? 
The Bush administration seems to think it can defeat terrorism by "tak­ing the fight to the enemy," but Homeland Security expert Stephen Flynn warns, "Targeting terrorism at its source is an appealing notion, unfortu­nately, the enemy is not cooperating" The "coalition of the willing" is slow­ly coming to the realization that this approach won't work. The few "coali­tion" nations still present only have about 90 persons in Iraq and those may be withdrawn soon. We have about 145,000 and are losing territory, as well as Iraqi hearts and minds every day. The puppet government hiding in a compound in Baghdad, guarded by our troops, grows more unpopular every day. Does this make sense? The President lied to get us into this ill­advised war. I pray to God he can find another lie to get us out before many more of our soldiers are killed. 
A year and four months since President Bush declared "Mission Accomplished," 865 soldiers have died, and still there is no exit strategy. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld calls the death toll "relatively small." I wonder if most Americans, or the families and loved ones of these victims of Bush's bad policy and "grand standing bravado" consider the sacrifice of these young men and women so trivial. Someone needs to remind the "chicken hawks," those who did not serve on any battlefield, that even one was far too many. 
Regardless of the $200 billion already wasted, we may never be able to evaluate the real cost of this folly in lost lives, lost limbs, lost dreams and broken families. 
Wayne M. Sampson former Notre Dame employee Mexico, Mo. Sept. 12 


Sizing up the candidate 
The title to Tom Rippinger's Sept. 8 column tells us that voting for Bush is the hard road which we should nevertheless take for the good of the country. Upon reading Rippinger's reasons for this conclusion, however, we find that the choice for Bush is easy indeed. Easy because, we discover, Bush is not running against John Kerry and the Democrats at all, but against Michael Moore and the Soviet Marxists. Or, at least. it amounts to the same thing. In Rippinger's world, this election is not a choice between two different kinds of American capitalism, or two different kinds of national security, but rather between freedom and totalitarianism, tough self-defense and unconditional surrender. 
When Rippinger does seem to refer to Senator Kerry, his characterization still doesn't resemble much the man nominated to run against President Bush. This straw-Kerry would, Rippinger has discovered, not fight against terrorism, but instead, apologize and back down, presumably to AI Qaeda. In addition, this scarecrow-like Kerry is pro­posing to outsource our security to the international community, despite the fact that the real John Kerry's record in the senate and his explicit statements in this campaign offer nothing to support this outrageous claim. 
If the GOP convention is any indication, many Republicans must believe that to quali­fy as worthy to•defend America, a leader must be in favor of every military adventure, no matter how quixotic, and every defense spending proposal no matter how ineffi­cient. Apparently a good commander-in-chief must forget that defense budget dollars and soldiers' lives are precious and limited. That seems to be the standard Sen. Kerry is held to when he is criticized for his votes against some military programs in the '80s, in the face of soaring deficits, and in the early '90s at the end of the Cold War. In the latter case, the B-2 bomber which Kerry voted against was also opposed by the first President Bush. who also in 1992 promised to cut defense spending by 30 percent, with the help of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney. 
John Kerry never was a political rock star like John McCain or Bill Clinton, he really has an aloof air about him, and many parts of his voting record are indeed liberal. But under the watch of Bush and a Republican Congress, Americans have seen 1,000 deaths in Iraq, the alienation of powerful allies abroad, and poor economic perform­ance despite federal spending, tax cuts and low interest rates on full tilt for three and a half years. Hence it is no real surprise that Bush and the Republicans are eager to run against just about anyone but the real John Kerry. 
Jeremiah John 
doctoral candidate 

department of political science 
Sept. 8 

U-WIRE 

Fear sells in political marketplace 
It is true, as President Franklin Roosevelt said, that "we have nothing to fear but fear itself." Unfortunately, the fear in our times is so powerful and overwhelming that those who agree with Roosevelt should consider unabashed panic. 
We Americans are a timid, fearful lot who live life from crisis to manufac­Brian Boyko tured crisis. We make little attempt to use reason to estimate the credibility or immediacy of these fears. We even go 
University of 

so far as to accuse those who use their 
Texas-Austin 

reason to question these fears of being 
Daily Texan 

unpatriotic for not blindly accepting the terror. 
Fear, uncertainty and doubt are the order ofthe day. 
This is not a partisan thing: Rank-and-file liberals are just as likely to be scared into following as rank-and­
me conservatives are -and there is no law of nature or politics saying that Democrats cannot be just as effective fear-mongers as Republicans. Though the Kerry campaign has refrained from manufacturing additional fear. many people support Sen. Kerry's bid for the presidency simply because they fear the 
neo-conservatives in power more. 
But no politician, with the possible·exception of Joseph McCarthy, has done more to cultivate fear than President Bush. After the election of 2000, in which he failed to win the popular vote, his support has come almost entirely from the fear that gripped the nation after Sept. 11. 
He has abused that support to pass policy and wage wars that would have been dismissed as absurd before the terrorism scare. He has everything to gain by leaving the American people frightened and clutching at the frayed edges of his "security blanket" administration, and the best way to do that is to leave us ignorant. 
The Bush administration has repeatedly opposed fact­fmding investigations related to Sept. 11. When an investi­gation was eventually launched, it was poorly funded with a mere $3 million (compared to $70 million for Whitewater/Monicagate). The White House refused to pro­vide the commission with requested documents even under threat of subpoena and testified reluctantly only after vast public pressure, and then it censored parts of the commission's report once it was completed. 
Impo~nt data related to the hijackings have never been released to the public, such as the airport security camera footage of hijackers getting on the planes or videotapes from the Pentagon crash. The results of investigations into who short-sold American Airlines and United Airlines stock in the days preceding the attacks also have not been released. 
little information about the Sept. 11 attacks -or what the government did to investigate the tragedies or combat future terrorism ­has come to light. 
Essentially, we know nothing. 

The ignorant are powerless, the powerless are afraid, the afraid are compliant and the compliant vote Republican. 
Ignorance is not the only way this administration has sought to keep us cowering. The White House has made it a habit to periodically frighten us with indefinite and dubi­ous peril. 
Periodic "terror alerts," which have usually turned out to be nothing, have rekindled our fear. These terror alerts often occur after good news for the Kerry campaign or bad news for the Bush campaign. Knocking those stories off the news cycle tend to give Bush an approval ratings boost. 
No politician has ever lost an election by overestimating the paranoia of the American people. This spells disaster for the Kerry campaign in November. 
The Democrats have no hope of victory if they continue to appeal to higher reasoning functions. In a fair fight, where both the Republicans and Democrats argued policy and ideology, allowing for the person with the best ideas to lead the country, Kerry would squarely beat Bush. But 
sadly, that's not the character ofAmerican elections; no matter how much we wish it were true. Bush has sunk low, Kerry must therefore sink lower. If Kerry wants to win, he needs to. as Bush has done, appeal to the lower instinct of fear. There is so 
much to truly fear about the Bush administration­the loss of civil liberties, proposed "Big Brother" programs such as the massive database Total 
Information Awareness, designed to survey per­sonal credit card transactions and travel records indiscriminately, or the TIPS program to recruit mail carriers. cable installers and other persons routinely given access to private homes to act as 
spies for the government. Add disastrous fiscal policies, the willingness to use the military in wars of aggression and the unwillingness to enforce 
antitrust law, and the Kerry campaign need not fabri­cate a thing. We cannot hope to be free from fear if Bush wins the 
2004 election. We cannot hope to be free from fear if Kerry seeks, as he must, to win the election at any cost. It seems that people aren't willing or able to do the right thing and reject the fear, to look at the issues and think rationally. 
Practicality demands that to remove fear in the long­term, we must embrace the horror in the short-term. 
This article originally appeared on Sept. 8 in the Daily Texan, the daily publication ofthe University ofTexas at Austin. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSER\'ER 


CENE
page 14 

Blessid Union of Souls rocks old favorites 
Band sneaks back onto music scene with new twists on old standbys 
By LAUREN WENDEL 
Scene Writc:r 

Despite a five-year absence from Top 40 radio, Blessid Union of Souls' career may not be finished just yet. If Thursday night's set at St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium is any indica­tion, there will be plenty of fans welcoming them back into the limelight. 
Widely known for its emotional and accessi­ble tunes that speak directly to the audience, the band has been touring the nation recently playing small-scale venues and recording new material for an upcoming album. Despite this fresh material, the band is mostly remembered for several 90's love songs that take one back to those awkward junior high dances. Thursday's set consisted mostly of these old standbys, some with new twists that kept the audience pleasantly surprised and energized throughout the two hours. 
2 Skinny Dorks, an unsigned act from Cleveland, helped jump start the crowd with its energy filled, Dave Matthews Band-inspired opening set. Contrary to the name, the band actually consists of three full-time members and three other non-touring members. The group has been playing together for six years and was recently named the best unsigned act by the Hock and Roll Hall of Fame. 
Despite these accolades, the band played generic three-chord acoustic rock thrown together with some excellent saxophone play­ing by Matt Corey and high-tech voice box accompaniment. The set consisted of four orig­inal songs as well as a cover of Michael Jackson's "Man in the Mirror." Lead singer Jake Blazer's voice provided strong support and stage presence to songs that were lyrically weak and sloppily arranged. 
The challenge of getting a positive crowd response is much easier at an all-girls school, according to guitarist Eric Penrod. 
"[It's] easier, because girls are generally more accepting," he said. "You just have to get on stage for girls, with guys it's like you have to prove yourself. But at the same time we want it 
BOOK REVIEW 
'L 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Not all books donning woman in a dress on the co about a girl in love with lo statement may seem imp least highly unlikely, it p Adriana Trigiani's novel "Ll love mentioned? or co Trigiani's trip through the 1 through the eyes of a· girl notions, love of men is focus. 
"Lucia, Lucia" traces Lucia Sartori, a bea workingwoman in New 1950. the only daughter i seven, her four Italian br to be half of the tective father, the Italian "Groceria" in The novel takes the read ney through Lucia's sui breaks and family ties. and subject may seem times is, Trigiani creates and loyalty that requires spirit to understand. 
The character of Lucia esting on the whole; h ing girl who wants to break ditional bounds of society a bit over-played. ller begins to seem a bit unbe end of' the novel, but because Lucia is an afl'able one wants to like. At ~he merely to be a person standards for herself. M 
Aut 
By TAYLOR CLARY 
Scene Wri rer 
In "Dress Your Famil Denim," author David entertain readers once ., nd witty writing style in The author of the bests One Day" and "Naked" 
David Sedarls, author of Talk Pretty One Day" and " 


to be about the music." 
Blessid Union of Souls seemed to feed off the laid-back energy supplied by 2 Skinny Dorks and brought the 600-person crowd to its feet in quiet anticipation. Kicking off the set with the fast-paced "She's the One" and the hit '"I Wanna Be There" off its second self-titled album (EMI, 1997). Blessid Union of Souls showed it still knows how to rock out with its old standby hits. The set slowed down with an appropriately named new song, '"How Does it Feel Coming Down," but then quickly picked up again with the single '"That's the Girl I've Been Telling You About" (Walking off the Buzz, 1999). 
Lead singer Eliot Sloan, dressed in a cape-like orange silk shirt and sewn-in tight pin­stripe pants, twirled around onstage when not crooning into the microphone. He continued the set's laid-back vibe with the forgettable '"Oh Virginia" and the radio-friendly singles '"Light in Your Eyes" and '"Let Me Be the One," which prompted many audience members to sway in unison while displaying their cell phone lights. 

A well-played piano cover of Queen's '"Bohemian Rhapsody" surprised many in the audience and added some energizing group sing-a-long to the set. Later in the set, the rest of the band had the opportunity to show off its musical skills via a five-minute jam session filled with funk drumbeats by Shaun Shaefer and Led Zeppelin-inspired guitar riffs by Bryan Billhimer and Pence. This long performance prompted many audience members to leave early. If they had stayed, the crowd would have witnessed some awe-inspiring guitar playing that would lead anyone to pick up a guitar and try it out. 
The highlight of the night was the solo per­formance by Sloan of its first smash single, 1995's '"I Believe" (Home, EMI). This haunting and well-written love ballad brought some in the audience to tears while hugging their loved ones. At the end of the set, Blessid Union of Souls returned to a crowd favorite by playing "I Believe" punk, reggae and hard rock style in an extended version. This new twist revitalized the crowd's energy just in time for the band's 1999 smash hit "!ley Leonardo (She Likes Me for Me)." 
Despite not releasing any new material since this 1999 album, the band is not too concerned with losing a fan base. 
"You got to do what you got to do," Sloan said. "If the songs are good they'll hold up on their own, you can't really depend upon what critics say about you." 
As Blessid Union of Souls displayed Thursday, its songs are capable of holding up, even if it is past their prime. 
Contact Lauren Wendel at !wendell@nd.edu 
Monday, September 13, 2004 







NSIDER 
~HE 

Monday, September 13, 2004 vnSERVER Notre Dame 28, Michigan 20 
Walker, Irish Savior 
Freshman tailback revives running game as defense stifles Wolverines 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
At the start of the season, most of the Notre Dame faith­ful figured the Irish would be 1-1 after the Michigan game. 
And they are, it just hap­pened differently than many thought. 
In front of a raucous sellout home crowd, the Irish put on a display of balanced offense and stellar defense -while taking advantage of their opponent's mistakes -as they bounced back from a disap­pointing opener against Brigham Young to shock No. 8 Michigan 28-20. 
"We just believed we could get it done," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said when asked what changed between the BYU loss and the victory over the Wolverines. "Our guys really stayed the course, and I think our coaches did a wonderful job of directing them." 
Certainly another difference between the two games would have to be the play of true freshman running back Darius Walker. 
Walker, who did not see action against BYU, came into the game near the end of the first quarter and never looked back -eventually scoring two touchdowns and collecting 115 yards on 31 carries. 
"Basically, I was just wor­ried about doing my job to the best of my ability and the best that I could," he said. "I just tried to block everything else out. It was quite an experi­ence out there." 
Notre Dame scored its other two touchdowns through the air on passes to wide receiver Matt Shelton and fullback Rashon Powers-Neal. 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn finished the game 10­of-20 for 178 yards with two touchdowns and three inter­ceptions -although two of the interceptions deflected off Notre Dame receivers. 
Quinn was proud the team was able to win even without its quarterback playing his best game. . 
"That's just a big part of this team," he said. "It's nice to know that it's not on any one person's shoulders [to win the game for the team]." 
For a long time, Notre Dame looked as if it would have trouble putting any consistent offensive effort on the field. The Irish did not convert on third down until the second quarter, and twice in the sec­Michigan 20-yard line. . in the first half to give the ond half Notre Dame turned Michigan kicker Garrett Wolverines a 9-0 lead at half­the ball over inside the Rivas kicked three field goals time, after a first half in which Notre Dame advanced the ball to the Michigan 1-yard line but could not convert on fourth-and-one. The Irish defense made several key plays in the half to force the Wolverines to settle for field goals, rather than touch­downs. 

"I thought the Notre Dame defense was outstanding," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "They played really, rl')al­ly, really good football today." 
Early in the third quarter, Shelton got a step on the Michigan defensive back, and Quinn found his receiver open in the end zone. 
Rivas kicked another field goal to increase Michigan's lead to 12-7, ~tnd the Wolverines threatened again before quarterback Chad Henne's pass intended for Braylon Edwards deflected off the receiver's hands and into Dwight Ellick's hands for an interception on the Michigan 30-yard line. 
Six plays later, Walker ran six yards for a touchdown to give the Irish its first lead of the game. Notre Dame contin­ued with its momentum, as Jerome Collins and Chase Anastasio blocked a Michigan punt and Corey Mays recov­ered the ball at the Michigan 4-yard line. 
Walker took it in for the score on the next play. 
Notre Dame added one more touchdown in the fourth quar­ter, with Powers-Neal scoring on a 9-yard reception. Michigan added a touchdown late as Henne connected with Steve Breaston for a 25-yard pass with 1:13 left. 
The Wolverines were suc­cessful on the two-point con­version and tried an onside kick, but Notre Dame's Maurice Stovall recovered. 
The Irish were able to run out the rest of the clock and set off a rowdy celebration that included the Notre Dame student section storming the field. 
While he acknowledged it was nice to get a win, Willingham cautioned he would not allow his team to get overly confident heading into a road game next week­end against his alma mater, Michigan State. 
"There is still a lot of improvement that we have to have if we're going to be the best football team that we can be," he said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Darius Walker 

The freshman running back revived the running game, opened up the passing game and gave the defense some unfamiliar rest. 
stat of the game 
135 to 56 
Notre Dame's rushing total compared to Michigan's rushing total 
play of the game 
The punt block 
Jerome Collins and Chase Anastasio blocked Adam Finley's fourth quarter punt to set up Darius Walker's second touchdown and a nine-point Irish lead 
quote of the game 
"The thing I look at is that score." 
Kent Baer Irish defensive coordinator 
-------~-~--------------------~-----~ 
page 2 The Observer+.IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 13, 2004 
report card 
quarterbacks: <)uinn threw two touch­8-downs passes and made plays when his oflense nendnd them. I le did not have a good game, with three interceptions, but two of the pieks were not his fiwlt. 
A 
running backs: Going from 11 yards to 135 yards is an improvement. Walker proved this ollense can look respect­
able with a solid running game. Powers-Neal caught a touchdown pass. 
B+ 
receivers: Stovall had eight catches and got open for Quinn when no one else could. Shelton made a great catch on 
thn touchdown pass. In short, the 
receivers made big plays. 
B 
offensive line: The team ran the ball well, and all of the erndit cannot go to just the running back. The line 
opfmed holes, though it still struggled at times in pass protection. 
A 
defensive line: Tuck and Abiamiri were fantastic oll'the ends. Landri, Pauly, Laws and the other interior linemen 
made ).,>Teat pushes and forced the Michigan backs outside, where they lilUnd even less to work with. 
linebackers: These guys fired up the A whole team, and none of them got 
burned when lined up against a Miehigan wide recniver in a mismatch. 
8+ 
defensive backs: Jack..son. Elliek, l'.bikowski and Burrell were not tested deep too ofum. but thn delimsive backfield held 
Michigan and a top receiving corps to only one passing touchdown on the day. 
A 
special teams: IIoliday and Anastasio are tlw right players to return punts 
and kiekoll's. The punt bloek was a major turning point in the game. 
A-
coaching: ommsive play-calling wa.s ques­tionable until the running game began to dominate. but this team wa.'l ready to. 
play. Whatever Willingham told hi<> team in the locker mom. it worked. 
overall: Notre Dame beat a top 
10 team and made the recov­
ery it needed alter the BYU
3.56 
loss. This win is huge for Willingham. 
adding up the numbers 
net yards r11shing in the game for Notre 
135 
Dame 
56 
net yards rushing in the game for Michigan 
number of carries Darius Walker received in his Notre Dame debut at running back 
31 
2 number of times Tyrone Willingham has beaten rival Michigan in three tries 
number of times lloyd Carr has won at Notre Dame 
0 
Stadium 
12 
number of catches Braylon Edwards had Saturday 
number of times Edwards saw the endzone against an improved secondary 
0 
1 
Notre Dame's rank in all-time winning percentage 
In the 32nd meeting of these two rivals, Notre Dame and Michigan played a game of decisions. 
Brady Quinn's second decision was intercepted and led to three Wolverine 
points. 
Michigan freshman Chad Henne decided to throw passes short of the first down marker that ended oth­

erwise strong Pat Leonard drives. Notre Dame 
Associate
decided to go for fourth-and-goal Sports Editor and didn't score. 
Michigan decided to run the ball on third­and-goal and settled for a field goal. 
And then Notre Dame -anchored by an inspired defense -decided how they would win. They would run the football, and Darius Walker would be their workhorse. 
"He has that ability to make a guy miss in the open field," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. Walker made the Michigan defense miss often on his 31 carries, and the axiom preached throughout this program's history returned. 
Notre Dame football wins when Notre Dame football runs. 
Julius Jones put the Irish on his back last season, but a freshman quarterback and a team struggling for identity often could not capital­izn. But somewhere late Saturday afternoon. Jerome Bettis. Heggie Brooks, Autry Denson and Jones Wf~n~ all smiling. 
Walker gained 115 yards of Notre Dame's 135 rushing yards. Miehigan had only 56 yards on the ground. 


In the three meetings between Michigan and Tyrone Willingham's Irish, the team that has run the ball better has won the game. Willingham is 2-1. 
Walker's 31 carries should remind every player, coach and fan of what happened last season. Cincinnati Bengals first-round pick Chris Perry carried 31 times for 133 yards and four touchdowns. Michigan finished with 188 total yards on 54 carries. Notre Dame ran the ball 25 times for 49 yards. The Michigan starting offensive line jogged off the field to a standing ova­tion towards the end of the third 
And then Notre Dame ­
quarter. The Notre Dame won game ended an anchored by an inspired the rushing battle, embarrassing with Walker acting 
defense -decided how 
38-0. as Willingham's
they would win. They 
But the season "spark". 
before, in per­would run the football, Michigan coach haps the most and Darius Walker would Lloyd Carr fixed his important victo­comments on the
be their workhorse. 
ry for Willingham at Notre Dame until the upset of No. 8 Michigan Saturday, the Irish beat a ranked 2002 Michigan team 25-23. Notre Dame ran for 157 yards, Michigan, 91 yards. 
The Irish achieved the same victo­ry this Saturday. 
And it all came after a season­opening game in which neither the offensive line nor the running backs seemed to make forward progress. Coaches played tailbacks Travis. Thomas, Marcus Wilson and Jeff Jenkins in Provo, Utah, only two of whom saw the field against Michigan. Walker traveled to BYU, but he did not play. 
Thnn the Michigan game began and the initial game plan did not seem to call for 40 carries. Coaches took Walker out of the game for the denied fourth-and-goal attempt, though he scored a Georgia record 46 touchdowns as a high school senior. 
But then the carries began to increase. The defense held Michigan to field goals, and a solid defensive effort combined with a dominant running game to instill the key ingredients of Notre Dame football. 
The much-scrutinized offensive line decided it was time. Darius 
Walker decided 
being a freshman 
meant nothing. And 
most important rea­
son for his team's 
struggles. 

"We didn't run the ball well last week, we certainly did not run it very well today, and until you can run the football, you're going to have a hard time," Carr said. 
Twenty-two carries for 11 yards against BYU in their first game? The Irish would call that a hard time. 
Forty carries for 135 yards? Notre Dame may eall that thn beginning of a new identity. 
71ze opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The OfJserver. Contact I'at /,eon ard a l pleonard@nd.edu. 
Monday, September 13, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Walker debuts as promising back 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Freshman running back Darius Walker saw no action against Brigham Young in Notre Dame's first game. The next week, against one of Notre Dame's biggest rivals, Walker grinded out 115 yards and scored a pair of crucial fourth quarter touchdowns, including the even­tual game-winner. 
So how did he feel? 
"Oh, I was beat," Walker said. 
Carrying the ball a total of 31 times, 
the Walker put the offense on his back 
in the deciding final period, picking up 
61 yards and chewing up clock to lead 
the Irish to a rousing 28-20 upset victo­
ry over rival No. 8 Michigan (1-1). 
"I really can't put it into words," 
Walker said. "The exciting part" is that 
we won. We've been hearing a lot of 
stuff of about this big Michigan team, 
and for us to beat them like we did, it's 
kind of exciting." 
One week after the Irish (1-1) running 
game almost failed to record double dig­
its in rushing yards -a meager 11 
yards against BYU :-the rejuvenated 
ground game racked up 135 yards en 
route to victory. 
Walker pointed to the offensive line as 
the true key to his success. 
"The offensive line -I've got to give 
all the credit to, it really wasn't me that 
was doing the work," Walker said. 
"They opened up the holes, and I just 
ran through them." 

The line, however, wasn't about to little time extending the advantage. While Walker's first game left many 
take all the credit for the freshman's big After tight end Jerome Collins blocked fans scrambling to discover where this 
first day. a Wolverine punt and linebacker Derek freshman phenom came from, coach 
• "You've got to have a guy back there Curry pounced on the loose ball, Walker Tyrone Willingham knew what he would that knows he has that touchdown and was in position for his second trip to be getting when he recruited Walker that it's not going to be taken from him." pay-dirt. from Buford, Ga . .last winter and mixed left tackle Ryan Harris said. "I love that Shedding a pair of would-be Michigan him into the offensive equation attitude, and it's infectious to a lot of tacklers in cornerback Markus Curry Saturday. guys." and linebacker Lawrence Reid, Walker "A spark has a tendency to make 
Walker got his first taste of the end galloped into the left corner of the end everyone else do their job a little better," 
zone with 13 minutes, 48 seconds left in zone from five yards out to put Notre Willingham said. "I had no lack of confi­
the fourth quarter, sweeping to his right Dame on top for good and help secure dence of Darius, being a true freshman, 
and into the end zone untouched. the third straight Irish win over the stepping in and having that running 
"First time in the end zone. wow," Wolverines at Notre Dame Stadium. game." 
Walker said. "I don't really know what I Walker holds the record for touch­After not receiving the. opportunity to 
was thinking about, I just heard every­downs in a Georgia high school season play in Notre Dame's disappointing 20­
body screaming, and then the guys came with 46 his senior year, but the two on 17 season-opening loss to BYU and 
jumping up on me so it was an exciting Saturday were totally different. missing most o( the first quarter 
feeling. Scoring a touchdown, and for it The score marked the first time since Saturday, Walker got an opportunity to 
to be my first game, and then for us to November 2000 that a Notre Dame help his team establish a consistent 
win too, I just can't put it into words." freshman has run for a pair of touch­offense. 
The touchdown was the first by an downs, when Matt LoVecchio accom­''I'm just going to work hard and keep 
Irish freshman since receiver Maurice plished the same feat in a win over USC. doing what I'm doing, Walker said. 
Stovall hauled in a pass from Carlyle Walker's running impressed the Irish "Our offensive line was opening holes up 
Holiday against Rutgers in November of and Wolverines, alike. today, so if we keep working hard, we 
2002. "[Walker] did a heck of job in there for can still do what we did ... hopefully we 
The go-ahead score staked N'otre a freshman," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr can go give it to Michigan State." Dame to a 14-12 lead -its first of the said. "He's a slippery guy. I think he's a contest -and Walker and Irish wasted good football player." Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Irish regain top winning percentage 
behind current record holder Dunn leapt onto the ball and defense did a good job of stop­By JUSTIN SCHUVER Kory Minor, who played at recovered it for Notre Dame. ping the Michigan pass-catch­Associate Sports Editor Notre Dame from 1995-98. While the Irish would not ers, Ellick wasn't in any mood 
Tuck also collected two sacks score on the ensuing drive, it to badmouth his opponent 
Notre Dame's 28-20 win during Notre Dame's opener was still a rare moment in the after Saturday's win. over Michigan Saturday was against Brigham Young. sun for one of the more unher­"I feel we showed them more than just another win for "Anytime you've got a young alded players on the team. something and at the same the Irish in a historic rivalry, it quarterback coming into this "When I saw the opportunity time I think they showed us was also a win that helped Stadium with as much as rides there I was just trying to get something," Ellick said. NotrP . me regain its lead on on this rivalry, you definitely there as fast as I could and "They've definitely got some thew,,,. nrines as the top team want to get on him a little bit," jump on [the ball]," Dunn said. good athletes over there [at on the all-time Division I win­Tuck said. "You can make. him "Obviously it's something that Michigan]. ning-percentage list. get rid of the ball a little faster was exciting for me and I was "I haven't gone up against 
The Irish now lead Michigan than he wants to, maybe make just glad to help the team out. other receiving corps in the by a slim margin, with Notre his throws a little more off-line "We joke around how usual­nation, so I can't say they're Dame owning a .74567 win­than they'd otherwise be -ly when the snapper gets the best, but I also can't say ning percentage (797 -258-42) that's a big key in a game like interviewed it's because he they're not the best. I will say and the Wolverines having a this." messed up, so it was nice to do that they're very, very good, . 7 4541 winning percentage something positive and be at and certainly very talented." (834-273-36). An unexpected hero t?e ~~ght place at the right 
Irish snapper Casey Dunn t1me. Game captains Inching closer to the record did what he normally does on Captains for the game 
With his sack of freshman fourth down, get the ball to Walking the talk Saturday were defensive end Michigan quarterback Chad D . .J. Fitzpatrick and then run Earlier this week, Irish cor­Justin Tuck, linebacker Mike llcmne Saturday. Irish defen­down the field to try to cover nerback Dwight Ellick caused Goolsby, o!Tensive guard Dan sive end Justin Tuck moved his lane on defense. lin was a a mini-controversy after mak­Stevenson and wide receiver onn stnp closer toward bit surprised then. when ing comments calling out the Carlyle Holiday. ,·nmpnting his place in Notre Michigan's Stfwe Breaston was Michigan receivers to "prove" DamP history. tripped by his own teammate they were one of the best in 
Turk's 22 career sacks now and ended up muffing the the nation. Contact Justin Schuver at !nave him just half a sack kick. Although the Notre Dame jschuver@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Michigan  6  3  3  8  20  
Notre Dame  0  0  7  21  28  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 0, Michigan 3 
Garrett Rivers 38·yard FG with 8:29 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 17 yards, 2:37 elapsed 
Notre Dame 0, Michigan 6 
Rivas 33-yard FG with :11 remaining Drive: 13 plays, 41 ya~ds, 5:58 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 0, Michigan 9 
Rivas 22-yard FG with :00 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 75 yards, 3:52 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 7, Michigan 9 
Matt Shelton 46-yard reception from Brady Quinn (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) with 11:02 remaining Drive: 3 plays, 61 yards, 1:14 elapsed 

Notre Dame 7, Michigan 12 
Rivas 47-yard FG with 5:57 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 14 yards, 2:38 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 14, Michigan 12 
Darius Walker 6-yard touchdown run (Fitzpatrick kick) with 13:48 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 29 yards, 1:42 elapsed 

Notre Dame 21, Michigan 12 
Walker 5-yard touchdown run (Fitzpatrick kick) with 11:23 remaining Drive: 1 play, 5 yards, :06 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan 12 
Rashon Powers-Neal B-yard reception from Quinn with 5:49 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 40 yards, 2:13 elapsed 

Notre Dame 28, Michigan 20 
Steve Breaston 25-yard reception from Henne with 2:27 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 80 yards, 1:13 elapsed 


statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 

56 

return yards 

40-135  rushes-yards  30-56  
10-21-3  comp-att-int  25-40-1  
7-37.6 2-1  punts-yards fumbles-lost  8-38.4 2-2  
5-49 13  penalties-yards first downs  6-50 15  

passing 

Quinn 10-20·3 Henne 25-40·1 
rushing  
Walker  31-115  Jackson  15·32  
Grant  4·9  Rembert  4-23  

receiving  
Stovall  5·82  Edwards  12-129  
McKnight Shelton  3·42 1·46  Breaston Avant  5-42 3-30  

tackling page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 13, 2004 

Goolsby  14  Shazor  8  
Hoyle  9  Watson  8  
Ellick  6  Reid  5  
Burrell  6  Massey  5  





WILLING THEIR WAY 
On the third anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, the Irish and Wolverines 
played to a virtual standstill in the first half. Notre Dame, however, was pre­
pared to play and beat Miehigan, contrary to its performance at BYU the previ­
ous weekend. Solid defense kept the Irish in the ball game until coaches insert­
ed true freshman running back Darius Walker to jump start the offense and 
secure one of the bigger wins of Tyrone Willingham's career at Notre Dame. 
Willingham is now 2-1 against Michigan as a Notre Dame head coach. 


Clockwise from top right, Matt Shelton snags a touchdown pass as the American flag flies halfmast. Derek Curry and Maurice Stovall pump up the crowd. Tyrone Willingham shows approval. Justin Tuck and Derek Landrl celebrate a stop. Jerome Collins, Corey Mays and Chase Anastasio fall on a fourth quarter blocked punt. 



THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, September 13, 2004 
page 15 
r Sedaris' essays describe family life 

characters are generally flat, and while endearing, are not especially riveting. Even the villain of the novel is predictable in his double personality. 
Overall, what stands out most in "Lucia, Lucia" is the incredibly strong family of Sartori's. While the four brothers leave much to be desired, the mother and father are tremendous characters on which the entire story is built. One begins to get a real sense of what it means to be an Italian family as the drama of the 
"Lucia Lucia"
' 

Author: Adriana Trigliani Publisher: Random House 
2003 
Sartori's unwinds throughout Trigiani's novel. The most moving parts of the novel, both toward happiness and angst, were not ones involving the life choices of Lucia, but those of the hardships and joy of the Sartori family. Individually, the family members are not entirely fascinat­ing and come off as archetypical. As a whole, each member of the Sartori family contributes to a much larger and memo­rable character that is the Sartori family. 
The actual writing of the novel is well done, but not necessarily engrossing. Trigiani creates beautiful and impressive scenes, but the actions and dialogue of the characters within those scenes are 



tcia, Lucia' a light, breezy read 
lackluster and often cliche. Lines like, "When people are filled to the brim with love, they are their most beautiful" prove the cliched nature of "Lucia, Lucia." With this line, Trigiani hits a truth, but one that is widely known and not cleverly stated. 
Adriana Trigiani is best known for her bestselling novels "Big Stone Gap, Big Cherry Holler and Milk Glass Moon." She is also an award-winning play­wright, television writer and documen­
tary filmmaker. There is no question she is a talented writer and spins a terrific story, but "Lucia, Lucia" misses the mark of a great novel. Wholly entertaining and beautiful to read, it is the kind of book that can easily be set down and forgotten about. The tale of Lucia Sartori is clever and cute, to say the least, but not compelling. 
Overall "Lucia, Lucia" is a well-writ­ten cute story with some strong points. Recommended for love-sick women who need a dose of ''I'm every 
woman" girl power, but otherwise, it may be more fruitful to look for some­thing a bit more substantial. It is a good novel with a few beautifully moving sec­tions, but that is about all there is to it. Entertainment Weekly calls it "a breezy read" and there really is not a better way to describe "Lucia, Lucia." It is sweet and prettily written, but beyond one or two powerful moments provided by the strength of the family, there is simply not much to it. 

Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

Adriana Trlglanl's "Lucia, Lucia" leads a reader through the title character's adventures In love and family. 
in Corduroy and daris embarks to n with his heartfelt collection of essays. "Me Talk Pretty once again to his 
courtesy of www albany.edu 
bestseller "Me Your Family." 
own life and the lives of his family for material. 
Though his personal material combined with his unique satirical voice has been a successful formula for Sedaris in the past, it never feels quite right here. This time, Sedaris seems so preoccupied with giving his essays a tangible moral that they lose much of his trademark humor. 
However, there "Dress Your Family in
"Dress Your Family in Corduroy and
are times when Corduroy and Denim." Sedaris writes Denim" Although there are f1ash­naturally in the es of the David Sedaris funny and enter­
readers have become taining voice his familiar with. it seems readers have his concern with insert­come to know. One ing morals into his of these moments essays causes him to
Author: David Sedaris
is Sedaris's neglect the satirical style account of his Publisher: Little, Brown, and Company for which he has gained 
brother's wedding 
2004

in the essay "Rooster at the Hitchin'Post." Here his writing is carefree and hilarious, and though the story clearly has a moral, its pres­ence appears organic instead of self-conscious­ly injected. 
Through the course of the book, we see Sedaris's unique wit in glimpses. but it never feels as comfortable as in this look at his younger brother's wedding. He describes a wedding featuring a service performed by a phone book psychic, a DJ named J.D and a dog as the flower girl in a way that only Sedaris could. 
Sedaris's originality in telling the often absurd events of his life is what makes his essay interesting to read, and his uncompro­mising humor that keeps his readers laughing out loud. However. it seems that for the most 
part, this is lost in 
his fame. As a result, this makes his writing seem self-conscious and, at times, a bit cheesy. 
Clearly, this is not his best work, but there are moments when Sedaris gets it right. It is these moments that the reader holds out for, and at these moments when he or she is reminded why it is impossible not to love Sedaris and his entire family. 
Contact Taylor Clary at tdary@nd.edu 
page 16 Monday, September 13, 2004
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
AFC 


Steelers use familictr formula to beat Raiders 
think we knew coming in every­ter, breaking his team record
Palmer has successful 

thing wasn't going to go perfect, for most yards on opening day.debut but Bengals lose but we made it difficult on our­Portis had 120 last year. selves." 
Cle,reland 20, Baltimore 3 
The Steelers led 14-0 and 21­
A!; they left the tunnel, the
Associated Press 10 before the Raiders tied it on 
Cleveland Browns paused to
Alvis Whitted's fingertip catch
PITfSBURGH -Fittingly on a tou~;h the 1964 championship
of Gannon's 38-yard touchdown 
day Oakland and Pittsburgh trophy. They then played as if 
pass on fourth-and-12 and
brought back memories of the thev want one for themselves. 
Gannon's 2-point conversion
1970s by playing an unpre­Irtspired by a weekend long
pass to an uncovered Whitted
dictable game featuring a come­celebration for the '64 Browns,
with 4:51 remaining.

back and a last-minute winner, the 2004 version pushed
Maddox then led the decisive
the Steelers won by going retro. Baltimore around for three
drive, hitting Hines Ward for 15
The Steelers returned to their hours in a victory over the
and 11 yards and Jay
roots a strong running game Ravens on Sunday.
Riemersma for 12 ahead of
and creative pressure defense "~'hey played like a team,"
Reed's game-winner, which left
to open an early two-touchdown said Hall of Fame running back 
no time for Oakland to respond.
lead, then held off the rebuild­Jim Brown. "They won, but it 
ing Raiders to win 24-21 Denver 34, Kansas City 24 was more the way they won. 
Sunday on Jeff Reed's 42-yard Quentin Griffin might make They all contributed, every one 
field goal with seven seconds the Denver Broncos forget of them." 
remaining. Clinton Portis after all. Just as they did 40 years ago "We were good at times, Griffin ran for 156 yards and when the Browns won the last 
shaky at times, but we still did scored three touchdowns in his world title for any major what we had to and won," first game as Portis' replace­Cleveland sports team. These 
quarterback Tommy Maddox ment, lifting the Broncos to a Browns swarmed on defense, can't listen to everything you of-27 for 248 yards with two 
said. "It was disappointing we victory over the Kansas City macle big plays on offense, had read." touchdowns and an intercep­
let them back in the game, but Chiefs on Sunday night. no turnovers and won field It was a stunning transforma­tion. 
everyone's excited we won." Denver traded Portis to posi.tion with special teams. tion. 
San Diego 27, Houston 20

The Raiders (0-1) showed off Washington to get cornerback A::td for the first time since Before the winning drive, LaDainian Tomlinson got a lit­plenty of new, including coach Champ Bailey, a potentially their NFL rebirth in 1999, the Leftwich had gone 11-of-23 for tle help for a change and theNorv Turner, big defensive line­risky move because Portis Browns are 1-0. 75 yards, converted just two of San Diego Chargers won for amen Warren Sapp and Ted rushed for over 1,500 yards in "We didn't think about it all 10 third-down attempts and change.
Washington and an offensive each of his first two seasons. week," Lang said. "We thought threw two interceptions. On Coincidence? Probably not.
scheme redesigned to cover up Portis was superb in his debut about it all year. We couldn't that one drive that really mat­Tomlinson, largely a one-mantheir lack of playmakers. with the Redskins, rushing for wait to get back on the field tered, he was 7-of-13 for 72 show for San Diego during hisStill, there was a lot of old left 148 yards and touchdown in a aga.inst Jamal. We wanted a yards and converted three first three seasons, ran for 121 over from last year's 4-12 sea­16-10 victory over Tampa Bay. chance to redeem." fourth-down plays. 
· yards and a touchdown and theson, including four turnovers. Griffin was just as good. 


Jacksonville 13, Buffalo 10 New York 31, Cincinnati 24 Chargers revved up a mistake­
"The ball was on the ground He dashed and dived his way Jack Del Rio's pep talk was When Curtis Martin ran up free passing game and an way too much today and that to touchdown runs of 25 and 47 short and to the point. the 200 steps from the Santa opportunistic defense to beathurt us," said quarterback Rich yards and caught a 1-yard After watching his offense Monica beach during the the Houston Texans on Sunday.
Gannon, who passed for 305 touchdown pass from Jake 
sputter, the Jacksonville coach spring, he had this in mind. It marked the first time theyards, but had a fumble and Plummer in the first quarter. 
maintained his faith in quarter­When he asked for more work third-year Texans lost a seasonthrew two interceptions. "I Griffin even did Portis one bet-
back Byron Leftwich while during training camp, he had opener. sending him out for one last this in mind. When he asked for With the score tied 20-20 drive. more carries in the preseason, midway into the fourth quarter, 
"I didn't stop and have a long he had this in mind: a brilliant Tomlinson was practically a comersation with him," Del Rio start to the season and a victory bystander as Drew Brees drove said. "It was pretty obvious. You for the New York Jets. the Chargers downfield using get the ball, you have an oppor­Martin had 29 carries for 196 his new favorite target, tight tunity, it's do-or-die time." yards and scored on a 24-yard end Antonio Gates. 
Leftwich delivered, capping run and 3-yard catch, helping Gates got the ball down to the an 80-yard drive with a 7 -yard the Jets ruin the debut of 2003 Houston 15 with a 29-yard touchdown pass to rookie No. 1 draft pick Carson Palmer catch, then San Diego overcame Ernest Wilford as time ran out, with a victory over the a holding penalty when Brees giving the Jaguars to a victory Cincinnati Bengals on Sunday. hit Eric Parker in the back of over the Buffalo Bills on "I knew I was prepared," the end zone on a 19-yard pass. Sunday. Martin said. "I knew that I was Houston protested the call, 
It was a poised performance ready. When you know you're although poor replays failed to coming from a second-year ready, your confidence is high­show whether Parker's toes quarterback who looked er." landed inbounds. unshaken by the growing num­It soared during the game, Brees, who might not have ber of critics who doubted his taking away the hype from started if prized rookie Philip ability after he failed to gener­Palmer, who made his regular­Rivers hadn't held out for most ate a touchdown in four presea­season NFL debut. The of training camp, was 17 -of-24 
AP son games. Heisman Trophy winner com­for 209 yards and two touch­"I officially didn't struggle," manded the offense well and downs. Gates caught eight pass­Leftwich said, proudly. "You made few mistakes, going 18-es for 123 yards. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club Kaplan needs PT student advisors. Need BC GA tix. Will be used not LaSalle are hiring for the following Flexible times. $7/hr. By Turtle resold. 269-684·6102. NOTICES .postions: Creek Apts. Call 272·4135 for info. FoR RENT TICKETS 
Cocktail Server (Must be over 21) Need BC GA tix. Will be used not 
Main Dining Room Server (Must be Short-Nanny Needed From 9/27-resold. 269-684·6102. Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apartment. 21) Flexible 10/1 7am to 5:30pm in Granger for Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apartment. BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX 1909 Lincolnway West $450/month. Hours available. Please pick up 2 kids, ages 4 1909 Lincolnway West $450/month. PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­246·4634 applications at 115 West CoHax and 7. One person all day of split 246-4634 3911 Need WA tix. Will trade PU or BC 
Avenue, any part tie. Non·smoker, willing to 57 4·634-3082. Football & Grad 4 rooms 3 mile time after 2:00PM transport kids a must. Contact Jen 2 bedroom apartment for rent. 
from ND Best Area (574) 287·4545 674·9876. $525/month. Students welcome! For Sale: ND football tix. Good Nanny needed 1-2 days a week 1909 Lincolnway prices. 232-0964. Buy/Sell ND football tix. Home & 12:00·8:00pm. Must have own Looking lor JV Soccer coach for West. 246·4634 away games, including Mich.St.& transportation. Call college prep school in La Porte For Sale: ND football tix. Good Tenn. 
WANTED for interview 651·3633. area. Contact: 1 bedrom apartment 20 minutes to prices. 232·0964. 57 4·289-8048. Chris Balawender at 219-326-7450 campus, located on St. Joseph Now hiring Kitchen help & hostess. or cbalawender@laluiere.org River. Available Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ SOCCER REFEREES · needed for Apply Between the Buns Sports for University games Call 251-1570. 
PERSONAL

south side elementary schoollocat-Bar, South Bend 5742955672 ed near Erskine Ave. NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232­
FoR SALE

Golf Course on Miami Street. $30 Apartments available at College 2378 p.m. 288-2726 Spring Break 2005 with STS, per soccer game. Call574-291· Looking for a playlul,kind & respon-Park for the 2005·2006 school year, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. 4200. sible person lor occasional babysit-HOUSE FOR SALE 915 E. 1 ,200 square JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, Hiring campus 
ling of my Washington Close to campus; 3 feet, two bedrooms, two full baths, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND reps. Call for group discounts Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886-2 children (7&3yrs).Call Jill at 288· bdrm 1.5 bath & lots of closets/stor· patios, $975.00 Hurry call Patti at FOOTBALL GAME. CALL Info/Reservations 1-800·648·4849 4189 7118. age, 2 car garage. 289-5922. 235-7234 674-6593. www.ststravel.com 
Monday, September 13, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFC 

Lions notch first road win since 2000 season 
With no timeouts, Grossman
Owens has three TDs 
was sacked and then had to in Philadelphia debut spike the ball on second down. 
Scrambling on third down, he 
threw the ball to the corner for Associated Press Terrell, but Walker made the 
pick.

CHICAGO -Bracy Walker "Grossman started to scram­got one of the game balls and ble and I thought he was goingrightfully so. 
to try and run it into the endNeeding intravenous fluids to zone," Walker said. "He just sofight off dehydration, Walker 
happened to throw the ball,
rescued the Detroit Lions from and I looked and it fell into my the NFL's longest road losing hands."
streak Sunday. 
He rambled 92 yards for a Philadelphia 31, New York 17 TO after teammate Shaun Terrell Owens needed a Rogers blocked a third-quarter police escort to get to the sta­field goal attempt. And later he dium. He didn't need help find­preserved Detroit's 20-16 vic­ing the end zone. tory over the Chicago Bears, Owens had three touchdown intercepting Rex Grossman's catches, Donovan McNabb pass in the end zone pass with threw for 330 yards and tied a 18 second left. career high with four TO pass­
"It's important to end the es and Brian Westbrook ran streak for all the obvious rea­for 119 yards, leading the sons," Lions coach Steve Philadelphia Eagles over the Mariucci said after his team's New York Giants on Sunday. 24-game stretch of road losses Owens got stuck in traffic on was wiped away. "We are glad his way to Lincoln Financial it's over, believe me." Field for his first game with 
Detroit's victory spoiled the the Eagles, and was told by a coaching debut of the Bears' police officer he wouldn't Lovie Smith, whose team was make it in time without an bogged down by penalties and escort. mistakes. "I didn't expect the traffic to 
The victory was a costly one be so hectic," Owens said. "I for the Lions. They lost WR was on time for the game. Charles Rogers to a broken That's all that matters." collarbone for the second An Eagles spokesman said straight year and he could Owens wasn't fined for being miss most of the season. He late. got hurt going for a first-quar­The Eagles, runners-up in ter pass. Rogers, the second the NFC championship the last overall pick in the 2003 draft, three years, won their opener played only five games last for just the second time in season. coach Andy Reid's six seasons. 
Pro Bowl cornerback Ore' "It was a good start," said Bly will have an MRI on McNabb, who completed 26 of Monday after spraining a knee 36 passes and had no intercep­ligament in the first quarter. , tions. "We made some big 
Joey Harrington tossed a 4-plays. We made some mis­yard go-ahead TO pass to Az­takes. Overall, it was a great Zahir Hakim in the fourth performance." quarter and Detroit held on for Two-time NFL MVP Kurt its first road victory since Warner had a lackluster debut beating the Jets on Dec. 17, for the Giants, who lost their 2000. ninth straight game and first 
With 1:54 left, facing a diffi­under new coach Tom cult punt out of their own end Coughlin. Heralded rookie Eli zone, the Lions chose to have Manning made his NFL debut punter Nick Harris run out of in the final minutes, handing the end zone for safety. It cut off to Tiki Barber for a 72-yard the lead to 20-16, but gave the TO run on his first play. Lions a free kick a strategy "We obviously had a lot of that nearly backfired. trouble stopping them on 
R.W. McQuarters returned defense," Coughlin said. "We the free kick 3 7 yards to the have our work cut out for us, Detroit's 47 and Grossman's but I'm not discouraged." 19-yard pass to David Terrell Owens, who came to the and a 15-yard run by Thomas Eagles after eight sometimes­Jones got the Bears to the controversial seasons in San Lions 9. Francisco, made an immediate 

AP Bracy Walker, right, celebrates after scoring a touchdown off of a blocked punt during the Lions 20-16 victory over the Bears. 
impact, scoring on his first two 
receptions. 

Minnesota 35, Dallas 17 

Daunte Culpepper played 
like a quarterback entering his 
prime, changing plays at the 
line, making all the right 
throws and protecting the ball 
like a wise old pro. 

Culpepper threw a career­
high five touchdown passes, 
two to Randy Moss, and led the 
Vikings to a victory over the 
Cowboys on Sunday. 

"He's just got to drive the 
car," coach Mike Tice said, 
"and it's a pretty nice car he's 
driving." 

The Vikings are hoping the 
27 -year-old Culpepper's incon­
sistent days of interceptions 
and fumbles are behind him. 
Against a depleted Dallas 
defense, he was both sensa­
tional and efficient going 17­
for-23 for 242 yards with no 
turnovers and completing 
passes to nine different 
receivers. 

"I don't feel I have to make a 
play all the time with all these 
guys around me," Culpepper 
said. 

Meanwhile, 40-year-old 
Vinny Testaverde did his best 
to match Minnesota's rising 
star. Testaverde was 29-for-50 
for 355 yards, one touchdown 
and no interceptions. His 
favorite target, Keyshawn 
Johnson, caught nine balls for 
111 yards in his first game 
with the Cowboys. 

It was Johnson's first regular 
season appearance since last ·Nov. 16, before he was perma­nently benched in a conflict with Tampa Bay coach Jon 
Gruden. 

"We play 15 more games," 
Johnson said. "That's as posi­
tive as I can be. I'm not into 
losing." 

Darren Woodson's back 
injury left Dallas with one 
proven player in the second­
ary, Terence Newman, to 
defend Culpepper, Moss and 
the rest of Minnesota's offense 
that led the league in total 
yards last year. 

"It's very good to see the 
whole offense come around," 
Moss said. "Not just Daunte." 
Culpepper rushed six times 
for 25 yards and three first 
downs, throwing TDs to 
Onterrio Smith, Marcus 
Robinson and Kelly Campbell. 
"He's playing at a level that 
no one can match right now," 
said Smith, who rushed for 76 
yards while starter Michael 
Bennett rested his sprained 
knee. 


Atlanta 21, San Francisco 19 
Revenge was far from Jim 
Mora's mind after he led his 
Atlanta Falcons past his for­
mer employers. 

Instead, the coach felt only 
pride both in his new defense 
and in the players he left 
behind in San Francisco. 

Aaron Beasley returned a 
goal-line interception 85 yards 
in the fourth quarter, and Rod 
Coleman batted down Tim 
Rattay's pass on a 2-point con­
version attempt with 40 sec­
onds left in the Falcons' victo­
ry over the 49ers on Sunday. 
Warrick Dunn rushed for two 
touchdowns and Michael Vick 
was 13-of-22 for 163 yards in 
an uninspiring debut under 
Mora, the longtime San 
Francisco defensive coordina­
tor who took over the Falcons 
last January. 


But most of Vick's struggles were caused by -San Francisco's defense, which matched nearly every big play made by Atlanta's revitalized D. 
The defensive duel left Mora happy, but conflicted. 
"It may sound crazy, but I was extremely proud of our defense, and I was also proud of their defense," Mora said. "Those are some guys that I coached for a long time." 

St. Louis 17, Arizona 10 
Marshall Faulk and Emmitt Smith, members of what Faulk jokingly referred to as the "Over 30 club," quieted any talk about last hurrahs. 
Faulk, 31, shared time with St. Louis Rams first-round pick Steven Jackson in Sunday's victory over the Arizona Cardinals. But Faulk, who has missed 11 games due to injuries the last two seasons and is coming off two knee operations in the last year, carried the load with 128 yards on 22 carries. His steady play helped the Rams over­come three costly turnovers that kept the margin from being very comfortable. 
"He had an outstanding com­ing-out party," Jackson said. "And I think he answered a lot of questions about his knee." 
Smith, the NFL's career lead­ing rusher, had a resurgent game with 87 yards on 16 car­ries, including an ·11-yard touchdown run that put the Cardinals ahead 10-9 in the final minute of the third quar­ter. Smith, 35, was limited to only 256 yards last year due to injuries. 
"Emmitt is a great back, a guy that I idolize, a guy that gets it done," Faulk said. "If you look at him out there you wonder, 'What's he doing play­ing?' He makes things hap­pen." 
Smith took no solace in his effectiveness because the Cardinals lost. 
"The way I see it, it wasn't that good of a game," Smith said. "When you turn the ball over three times, there's no way that team that turned the ball over should be winning the game." 
Jackson also played well in his debut, shaking off a lost fumble on his first career carry after a 14-yard gain. Jackson, the first running back taken in the draft, finished with 50 yards on seven carries. 
"I don't have to play the whole game now and all the pressure of the running game isn't on me," Faulk said. "It's kind of a nice change-up when I come out to have him go in there." 
The Rams beat the Cardinals for the fifth straight time and sent Arizona to its 14th straight road loss, but did it the hard way. Each of the turnovers came deep in Arizona territory, and they also ran out of gas at the Arizona 10 and 4, settling for field goals by Jeff Wilkins. 
Seattle 21, New Orleans 7 
The Seattle Seahawks need not fear the road. 
With Shaun Alexander lead­ing the way, the Seahawks were sure-footed on their first trip of the 2004 season. 
Alexander scored three touchdowns Sunday to get the Seahawks off to a good start with a victory over the New Orleans Saints. Seattle was 2-6 on the road last season, but used its first journey to start working on expectations the Seahawks will be strong con­tenders for the NFC title. 
"Winning on the road, you must do that to win the cham­pionship," Seattle coach Mike Holmgren said. "We under­stand that. But the curse and all the ghosts, I don't believe in any of that stuff. Usually if your team is a little bit better, you win on the road." 
Playing behind one of the best offensive lines in the NFL, Alexander rushed for 135 yards on 28 carries. He ran for two touchdowns and caught another. 
Alexander had his knee wrapped after the game, said it was sore, but doctors told him it was all right. 
"Nothing hurt worse than when the doctors were tugging at it and all," Alexander said. "But I'm assuming I'm going to be all right." 
Holmgren also thought the injury was minor. 
Matt Hasselbeck completed 19 of 29 passes for 246 yards and a touchdown. Darrell Jackson had seven receptions for 98 yards. 
Seattle outgained New Orleans 415 yards to 281 and outrushed the Saints 194-74. The Saints converted only three of 14 third-downs. 
It was the second straight year the Seahawks defeated the Saints to open the season. 
page 18 Monday, September 13, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Bonds homers, clin1bs within one of 700 mark 
World Series champions will still The manager shrugged, hand­


San Francisco stays 

be the home team. ed the ball to Padilla and got 6 
ahead of Cubs, Astros The Cubs and Marlins meet 2·3 shutout innings in a victory again in a makeup doublehead­that completed a three-game er Sept. 20 in Florida. sweep. 
Associated Press After entering 0-6 away from "That was unbelievable," home, Burnett (7-6) took a Bowa said. "Padilla pitched 
PIIOENIX -Barry Bonds had shutout into the seventh and great. We expected five or six a feeling Mike Koplove would helped himself with two hits. He innings. He was mad when I pitch to him. has won a career-best four tc·ok him out. He was in a pretty
"I could see it in his face," straight starts and five of his last good zone." Bonds said. "Like, 'I'm tired of six. 
51:. Louis 7, Los Angeles 6 
this too. You might miss it."' 

Houston 5, Pittsburgh 4 Larry Walker went 4-for-5
Bonds certainly didn't, hitting Jason Lane's pinch-hit double with two homers and three a 460-foot shot ofT the bottom of drove in the go-ahead run in the RBis, powering the St. Louisthe center-field scoreboard for 1Oth inning and the Houston C 3.rdinals to a 7-6 victory overhis 699th home run. The ninth­Astros, held hitless by Dave LJs Angeles on Sunday and end­inning drive Sunday helped the Williams for six innings, rallied ing the Dodgers' five-game win­San Francisco Giants regain the to beat the Pittsburgh Pirates ning streak. 

NL wild-card lead with a 5-2 Sunday night. Despite the victory, the

win over the Arizona 

Eric Bruntlett doubled to start C3.rdinals ended their first losing Diamondbacks. 
the lOth against Pirates closer road trip of the season with a 2­
Bonds walked his first two 

Jose Mesa (5-2) and scored on 4 record. But they increasedtimes up, increasing his record Lane's one-out double, his ninth their NL Central lead overtotal to 203, then took a called pinch-hit of the season. C1icago to 17 games andthird strike and grounded out to Winning what manager Phil rEduced their magic number to
overshifted second baseman 

Garner called a must-have game five for clinching the division. 
Scott Hairston in short right 

following three losses in four Chris Carpenter (15-5) allowed field. 
games in Pittsburgh, the Astros six runs five earned and eight
With the count 3-1, Bonds 

stayed a game behind San hits in five innings in his firstfinally got a pitch he liked and Francisco in the NL wild-card career appearance against theconnected for his 41st homer of race. The Giants beat the D1Jdgers. The right-hander, whothe season, the lOOth September Diamondbacks 5-2. entered with the lowest run sup­homer of his career. 
Chad Qualls came in with two port on the Cardinals' stall' (3.9 won for just the fourth time in allowed two runs and seven hits
"If you don't start your car 

on in the 1Oth and got Abraham per game), struck out six and 12 games. in eight innings and struck out
eventually, the battery goes 

Nunez to ground into a game­walked one. With the score 2-all in the eight.
dead," Bonds said. "''m sitting 

ending double play for his first Jason Isringhausen got four eighth, Giles connected off Steve 
over there just rooting for every­Atlanta 9, Montreal 8 
career save. outs for his 41st save in 47 Reed (3-6) to reach 20 homers
body and, hopefully, we're stay­John Smoltz was sorry he did­
Houston's Roy Oswalt left with attempts, tying Florida's for the sixth straight season.
ing in this thing, but my car's got n't save a win for Jose Capellan 
a 4-2 lead after seven innings Armando Benitez for the NL "I think Reed threw a
to start, too, once in a while." me in the rookie's major league
and was in position to become le3.d. changeup, and he made a pretty
Bonds motioned to the sky in debut. his usual salute to his late father the NL's first 18-game winner, San Diego 15, Colorado 2 good pitch down," Giles said. "I Long after Capellan's exit,
but the Pirates rallied for two was just able to get to it and get 
as he crossed home plate but did With the San Diego Padres Andruw Jones hit a winning not acknowledge the crowd. runs against closer Brad Lidge desperate for a win, Brian Giles the good part of the bat on it, double in the 12th inning Fans booed loudly Saturday (5-5), who had converted 21 of pi ovided the spark. and it got in the air, and the ball Sunday to lead the Atlanta night, when Bonds was walked 24 save opportunities. Giles hit a tiebreaking solo was gone." Braves over the Montreal Expos. three times. Philadelphia 4, New York 2 homer in the eighth inning, then San Diego tied a team record "He threw great," said Smoltz, 
Bonds is third on the career With Philadelphia strapped for ca.pped a 12-run ninth with a with 10 hits in the ninth and fin­who blew a three-run lead in the list behind Hank Aaron (755) pitching, Vicente Padilla three-run homer Sunday in a ished one run shy of the team ninth. "He held his composure. and Babe Ruth (714). After an approached bullpen coach victory over the Colorado record for an inning. Ramon He has a bright future. I'm very ofT-day Monday, the Giants play Ramon Henderson to volunteer RCickies. Hernandez singled and doubled disappointed that I couldn't get at Milwaukee on Tuesday. for Sunday's start against the "We are getting to the point of in the inning, and Sean him his first win." 
Koplove, the 414th pitcher to New York Mets. the season where we pretty Burroughs tripled and singled. Smoltz, who failed to convert a allow a home run to Bonds, did­It was a tricky proposition much have to win every game Burroughs started the ninth­save for the fourth time in 41 n't want to work around him. because Padilla had worked on fr,Jm here on out to give us an inning scoring with a two-run chances, had an 8-5 lead but 
San Francisco (79-65) won for Wednesday and three days' rest opportunity," Giles said. "In the triple off Brian Fuentes. Phil gave up run-scoring singles to the sixth time in eight games is not the recommended therapy wild card we are close, but there Nevin hit an RBI single ofT Tim Endy Chavez, Terrmel Sledge and are one game ahead of the for a pitcher who spent 2 1/2 are still a few teams ahead of us Harikkala that made it 6-2, and and Juan Rivera. Chicago Cubs (76-64), who lost months this summer on the dis­th.3.t we really can't control, so Jay Payton had a two-run dou­"That's just the worst show­to Florida 11-1, and Houston abled list with tendinitis in his th1s one was big." ble. Kerry Robinson and Ramon ing," Smoltz said. "I never would (78-66). which rallied to beat right elbow. ~)an Diego, 2 1/2 games behind Hernandez hit run-scoring sin­have dreamed it possible. And Pittsburgh 5-4 in 10 innings. "He told Ramon, 'If he wants Sa.n Francisco in the NL wild­gles for a 10-2 lead. now that I've got that over with 
Jason Schmidt (16-6) pitched a to pitch me, I'm OK,"' manager ca.rd race and trailing three Jake Peavy (12-5). coming off and out of the way, I'm not going four-hitter, struck out nine and Larry Bowa said. other teams, had 18 hits and losses in consecutive starts, to talk about it any more." walked two in his fourth com­plete game of the season, retir­ing 21 consecutive batters in one stretch. Schmidt, who had been 0-2 in four starts since beating Pittsburgh on Aug. 12, has won six straight decisions against the Diamondbacks. 
Florida 11, Chicago 1 
The Florida Marlins think they can emerge from the wild-card pack and pull out a playoff berth. 
Juan Pierre had three of Florida's 15 hits, A.J. Burnett pitched eight strong innings and the Marlins beat the Chicago Cubs Sunday to split their cru­cial four-game series. 

.-
Alex Gonzalez hit a two-run double and Paul Lo Duca added a two-run single for the Marlins, who are 2 1/2 games behind San Francisco in a six-team race for the NL wild card. The Cubs fell a game behind the Giants for the top spot. Florida, which has won 11 of 14 overall, is staying in Chicago to play at least two games against Montreal at U.S. Cellular Field, home of the White Sox, beginning Monday. The games were moved from Miami because of the threat of Hurricane Ivan. The defending 








OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 13, 2004 CoMPILED FROM Tnr OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVtCES Page 19 

around the dial 
NFL 
Green Bay at Carolina 8 p.m., ABC 
MLB 


Pirates at Cubs 7:05 p.m., FSNC 

POKER 2004 World Series of Poker 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 
MIAMI -New season, new conference, same result. 
Frank Gore's 18-yard touchdown run in over­time gave No. 5 Miami a 16-10 victory over No. 4 Florida State on Friday night. 
The Hurricanes, playing their first game as a mem­ber of the Atlantic Coast Conference, extended their winning streak over the Seminoles to six games. 
"Are all the games like this in the ACC?" Miami coach Larry Coker said. "I may not like this league." 
The Hurricanes, who used to be in the Big East, won this one with defense. 
The Seminoles' offense did little during regulation and even less in overtime. After a holding call put Florida State in a first­and-20, Antrel Rolle sniffed out a screen pass for an 8-yard loss. Chris Rix connected with Craphonso Thorpe for a 15-yard gain on second down, but Rix fumbled on third down and Miami's Thomas Carroll recovered. 
Gore scored on Miami's second play. 
"We never got tired; we were hungry all the way to the end," Coker said. 
"It's a monumental expe­rience, a game you'll remember for the rest of your life. It was just a great finish, a great fin­ish." 
The game was originally scheduled to be played last Monday but was post­poned four days because of Hurricane Frances. A grandson and a former son-in-law of Florida State coach Bobby Bowden were killed last Sunday when their car was hit a by a utility truck that was helping to restore power outages caused by the hurricane. 
Miami (1-0) scored 16 straight points in the fourth quarter after Florida State (0-1) took a 10-0 lead by capitalizing on two turnovers. 
The Hurricanes also got some help from a missed field goal -something that has defined this rival­ry. 
Florida State's Xavier Beitia had a 34-yarder blocked with 3:58 to play. The kick would have sealed a victory for the Seminoles. Instead, it gave Miami the ball back with a chance to tie the game. 
"We had our chance to put them away and we didn't," Bowden said. "They had a chance to put us away and they did." 

IN BRIEF 
FeeleY. shakily holds No.I in Singh wins Canadian Open eagle on the 18th hole in the playoff, Dolpliin quarlerback shuffle over sentimental favorite a 5-footer for par at No. 17 on the 
DAVIE, Fla. -Quarterback A.J. OAKVILLE, Ontario-Already No. second extra hole. He missed them Feeley will remain in the Miami 1 in the world, Vijay Singh felt like all. Dolphins' lineup-at least for now. Public Enemy No. 1 in Canada. Weir ran out of chances, driving 
Feeley played well enough coming Any other time, some 40,000 fans into the rough on the par-5 18th, lay­off the bench in the Dolphins' season­at the Canadian Open would have ing up and then putting his approach opening loss to earn a start this week been thrilled to see the world's best into the water on the third playoff at Cincinnati, coach Dave Wannstedt player overcome a sore left knee and hole. said Sunday. a three-shot deficit to make birdie on lions' Rogers breaks his 
That means a demotion for Jay the final hole and win in a playoff. collarbone for second year Fiedler after four seasons as the Just not Sunday. CHICAGO -Detroit Lions wide starter. Not with Mike Weir on the cusp of receiver Charles Rogers broke his col­
Feeley threw for a touchdown. but becoming the first Canadian in 50 larbone for a second straight year had an interception returned for a years to win his national title -on Sunday and might miss most of the score in the Dolphins' 17-7 loss the 100th anniversary of the season. 
Saturday to Tennessee. Canadian Open, no less. Rogers, the No. 2 overall pick in the 
"To give us the best chance to beat Woe, Canada. 2003 draft, played only the first five the Bengals and do what we need to "I feel for Mike," Singh said after a games a year ago because of a bro­do offensively, he'll be ready to do thrilling duel that Canadians will ken collarbone, catching 22 passes that," Wannstedt said. appreciate once the shock wears off. with three touchdowns. 
But Feeley's hold on No. 1 is tenu­"That was the one person I didn't He was injured going for a pass in ous. Wannstedt said he may continue want to beat." the first quarter of Detroit's 20-16 to shuffie quarterbacks. In some respects, Weir beat himself. win over the Chicago Bears on 
"Whatever we've got to do to win at Three times he stood over a putt to Sunday. X-rays revealed a fracture any position, we're going to do it," he win the Bell Canadian Open -a 10-near the one he got last year during a said. foot birdie on the 72nd hole, a 25-foot bye week practice. 
The Ob.ierver + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

0 N 5 
M U S C 
Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis 
Sunday, September 19, 8 p.m. $75, ND/SMC/HC $60, All Students $25 
The Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts officially swings into action when the lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis tokes the stage of the leighton Concert Hall, ripping through familiar jazz charts with their head-bopping, foot-lapping, serious fun. Critics hove run out of ways to say "technically brilliant" when trying to describe the ensemble's audacious rhythms and ingenious arrangements. Marsalis will turn the leighton into the coolest place on the planet as pure joy erupts from the stage. 
Marcus Roberts Trio 
Friday, September 24, 9 p.m. $37.50, NDISMC/HC $30, All Students $15 
After astounding a Notre Dame audience last year, Marcus Roberts returns. The Marcus Roberts Trio will delight and amaze you as they spread the word of jazz. Blind since the age of five, Roberts lives an inspirational life as uplifting as his music. The trio ore masters of several forms-gospel, ragtime, swing, pop and bebop, from which they hove forged their own unique sound. When they play you can hear the future of jazz in America. 
Her-e Come the Irish 
Friday, October 1, 9 p.m. $18.75,$15 ND/SMC/HC, $10 Students 
A spirited jam session performed by ND Alumni who are now professional musicians. Jain us as our favorite musical Demers come home to celebrate the opening of the performing arts center. 

c E L E B 
NO Open House 

A L E 
Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul 
Friday, October 8, 9 p.m. 

$43.75, $35 ND/SMCIHC, $15 Students 
Eileen lvHrs rose to prominence as a nine time 
all-Irish fiddle champion and as the fiery fiddler of "Riverda.1ce," but her passion for exploration has cotapultE:d her to rarified air where only virtuosos play. He:r boldly imaginative style earned her the 
title "Jimi Hendrix of the violin" from a New York nmes reviewer. Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul storm the stage with matchless energy and an eclectic spirit. Respectful of their Irish roots, they infuse thHir concert with fresh vitality drawing from the rhythms of latin and African music. Eileen Ivers will change the way you think about the violin. 
F I. M 
BON VOYAGE 

11 14 minutes) http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/thrI reviews/re view_dis::>loy.jsp?vnu_content_id= 1929346 
Thursday, September 23 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

"Bon Yo)'age, a rich, teeming French farce set in and arotnd Bordeaux in 1940 on the eve of the German occupation of Paris, is a triumph of narrative ingenuity." 
Stephen Holden, NEW YORK TIMES 
"an absolutely gorgeous film to watch." J(]dc Mathews, NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 
"A beautifully crafted film with a star-studded cost, directed with a lightness of touch." Judith Prescott, HOLLYWOOD REPORTER 
R A T E 
N 0 w 
T H E A T R E 
Avanti: A Postindustrial Ghost Story 
by Jessica Chalmers 
http:/I avanti.nd .edu 
Friday, September 24, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, September 25, 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday, September 26, 2:30 p.m. 
Svndoy, September 26, 7:30 p.m. 
Monday, September 27, 7:30p.m. 
Thursday, September 30, 7:30p.m. 
Friday, October 1, 7:30p.m. 
Saturday, October 2, 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday, October 3, 7:30 p.m. 
A collaboration with The Builders Association 
Performed at the Deluxe Sheet Metal Factory, Downtown South Bend 
$18, ND/SMCIHC $16, All Students $12 
An original multimedia theatrical production, written by Notre Dame's own OBIE-award winning playwright Jessica Chalmers. 
ORDER YOUR TICKETS EARLY 
All screenings of ND Cinema sold out lost week. Avoid the lines by calling 631·2800 to order your tickets by phone. You may also stop by the Ticket Office in the Performing Arts Center between noon and 6 p.m. to get your tickets early in the week. Cinema tickets will go on sale Mondays for that week's movie. 
I T •I •I 
Community Open House 
Friday, September 17, 4 p.m.-1 0 p.m., Faculty, Stoff and Students Sunday, September 19, 12 noon -5 p.m., General Public 
Come and celebrate the opening of your performing arts center! Enjoy a self-directed tour through the Facility. Maps will be available. Notre Dame and regional performers will showcase their considerable talents in all five venue;. 


Discounted tickets are underwritten by the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 
MARIE P. DEBARTOlO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574-631-2800 
Monday, September 13, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

The CoNGREGATION ofHoLY CRoss 
invites you to join us in celebrating the 
VIGI,( 
of THE FEAST of 
OUR LADY 
of 

SORROWS 
PRINCIPAL PATRONESS OF THE CONGREGATION 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 at rr:oo P.M. beginning in front ofthe 
Log Chapel 
With Recitation of the Holy Rosary and Candlelit Procession through campus 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
TENNIS 

Federer wins his third Slam 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Well, there's at least one person who isn't try­ing to figure out whether Roger Federer could one day complete a Grand Slam or match Pete Sampras' career record of 14 major titles: Federer himself. 
The Swiss star has estab­lished himself as by far the best in the game right now, and that's good enough for him. 
Federer became the first man since 1988 to win three majors in a year, thoroughly outclass­ing Lleyton Hewitt 6-0, 7-6 (3), 6-0 Sunday to add the U.S. Open title to those he took at the Australian Open and Wimbledon. 
"I got the start I wanted, I was dreaming of," Federer said. "It's a very demanding sport. The season's long. There's not much time off. This is why I'm grateful every tour­nament, every Grand Slam I win. You never know which is your last." 
There hadn't been two shutout sets in the event's championship match since 1884, and Federer had an answer for everything thrown at him by the fourth-seeded Hewitt. 
The only time Federer was stumped? When asked whether going 4-for-4 in the Slams is possible. He paused, brushed a strand of hair off his forehead, sighed, paused again, then came up with this: "I don't know what to say." 
Then, asked about the Sampras' major total, Federer said: "It's not a goal for me to beat his record. For me, this is not motivation. This would just kill me." 
Mats Wilander won three Slams in a season 16 years ago, and Jimmy Connors did it in 1974. The last man to complete the Grand Slam was Rod Laver in 1969. 
"He's a little better than everyone else at everything right now," Wilander said after watching the match on TV at home in Idaho. "Physically and mentally he has the advantage over the other players. At the moment, I don't see anyone who can beat him." 
Federer, 23, is at his best against the best, when it counts the most. He's the only man in the Open era to win his first four major finals, he's won his last 11 tournament finals, and he's won 17 straight matches against top 10 players. Federer beat past No. 1s and Grand Slam champions in each major final this year: Marat Safin at the Australian Open, Andy Roddick at Wimbledon, then Hewitt. 

Federer led the 2001 Open champ in winners (40-12), aces (11-1), and service breaks (7-1), and won the point on 31 of 35 trips to the net. 
Is there a player who could have defeated Federer on Sunday? 
"I don't think anyone in the actual tournament," Hewitt said. "Maybe Pete Sampras." 
Especially in the 18-minute opening set, it was truly remarkable to see Federer dominate every facet against the pugnacious, backward-cap­wearing, "Come on!" -yelling, fist-pumping Hewitt. The Australian hurt himself by dou­ble-faulting to lose each of his first two service games but that might have been a function of facing Federer. 
"He's so good on the defense and so good at the return of serve that he's forcing the other player mentally to get a little bit of scaredeness: 'I've got to serve a little better or Roger's going to knock it by me.' 'I've got to make a better approach shot or he's going to pass me,"' said 1946-47 U.S. Open winner Jack Kramer, inducted Sunday into the tournament's Court of Champions. 
"He's getting errors because of the threat of his skills." 
With his fluid, all-court game and cool demeanor, Federer is 64-6 with nine titles on three surfaces this season. And he did it all without a coach: Federer fired Peter Lundgren in December and never replaced him. The one Grand Slam blem­ish on Federer's resume this year is the French Open, where he lost in the third round to three-time champion Gustavo Kuerten. 
"I don't want to put pressure on myself by saying, 'You know, next year, your only focus is the French Open,"' Federer said. "I have enough years left for to maybe accomplish that as well. But that's not my priority right now." 
He never before made it beyond the fourth round at Flushing Meadows, leading some to wonder whether the wind, wild fans and roaring air­planes might provide too many distractions for the fastidious Federer. 
But he dealt with 40 mph gusts and partisan rooting while beating Andre Agassi in a two-day quarterfinal, disman­tled Tim Henman's serve-and­volley style in the semifinals, then stopped Hewitt, who had­n't lost a set all tournament. 
Paraphrasing Frank Sinatra, Federer said: "To me, it seems like if you can handle New York, you can handle any­thing." 
"To me, not even in my wildest dreams I would have thought, 'I'm going to win the 
U.S. Open.' Now that I did it, it's still tough for me to believe," Federer said. "At the end of the year, I'll be looking back and thinking, 'How did I do this?"' 
His run of four of the past six Slam titles is the best since Sampras won four of five in 1993-94. 
"It's an incredible effort, what he's done," Hewitt said. "I don't think people probably realize how hard it is." 
All of the impressive numbers might fill a list that other ath­letes would tack to a wall as a reminder of goals. But unlike Tiger Woods' pursuit of Jack Nicklaus' accomplishments, Federer doesn't look too far forward. 
"The road is long, you know. Don't forget, there's a lot of hard work you have to put into it, a lot of sacrifice," he said. ''I'm still all the way at the beginning." 
Se Habla Espanol 
TONY SERGIO 
QUALITY SHOE REPAIR 
Over 40 Yrs. Experience 
574/246-9700 Orthopedic Work Fix Any Leather Replace Zipper Open 9 a.m.-6p.m. M-Sat. Saddle Repair 1508 Mishawaka Ave.. 
South Bend, IN 46615 

...-------------------------------­
page 22 Monday, September 13, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Zito returns to form, scalps Tribe in shutout 
White Sox, Red Sox blanked, Yankees win 
Associated Press OAKLAND -Barry Zito struck out 10 for the first time in more than a year and Erubiel Durazo hit his career­high 22nd home run, leading the Oakland Athletics over the Cleveland Indians 1-0 Sunday night. Zito (11-10) had not reached double digits in strikeouts since fanning 10 at Minnesota on May 27, 2003. He had struck out nine twice this season. "I think I just found I relaxed a little more," Zito said. "I think I put too much pressure on myself early in the year to be dominant." After the A's rallied to win 5­4 Saturday on consecutive eighth-inning home runs by rookies Bobby Crosby and Nick Swisher, Zito gave Oakland one of his best performances this year, allowing four hits in seven scoreless innings. His 125 pitches were his second most ever he threw 128 at Cleveland on Aug. 21, 2000. The A's maintained their two­game AL West lead over Anaheim, which beat the Chicago White Sox 11-0. Oakland plays its final 20 games against the division, starting Monday night with the opener of a four-game series against Texas. 
Anaheim 11, Chicago 0 
After a slow start this year, Bartolo Colon is beginning to earn every penny of his $51 million contract. 
Colon (15-11) pitched seven sharp innings to lead Anaheim over the Chicago White Sox Sunday. It was his 1Oth win in 13 decisions after a 5-8 start in his first season with the Angels. 
The stocky right-hander, who signed a four-year deal with Anaheim as a free agent last winter after spending 2003 with the White Sox, said his turnaround this season has been mainly a matter of mechanics. 
"I made a change to pitch from the first-base side of the mound rather than the mid­dle," Colon said through a translator after holding his for­mer teammates to six hits. "It's much better for running my fastball in and out." 
Seattle 2, Boston 0 
This one meant more to Gil Meche than his previous com­plete games. 
The right-hander pitched a five-hitter for his second career shutout and Raul Ibanez hit a two-run homer to lead the Seattle Mariners over the Boston Red Sox 2-0 Sunday. 
Shut out for the third time this season, Boston fell 3 1/2 games behind the first-place New York Yankees in the AL East. The Red Sox have a five­game lead over Anaheim in the wild-card race. 
Seattle's lchiro Suzuki went 2-for-4 with singles in the first and eighth, boosting his total to 231 hits this season. With 20 games remaining, Suzuki is batting .374 and needs 27 hits to break the 84-year-old major league record of 257 by George Sisler of the St. Louis Browns. 

of his final 13 batters in his third career complete game. 
New York 9, Baltimore 7 
Gary Sheffield and I-lideki Matsui hit consecutive homers in the ninth inning, and the New York Yankees took advan­tage of 14 walks in a 9-7 come­back victory over the Baltimore Orioles on Sunday. 
New York trailed 6-2 in the fifth inning before rallying for its seventh win in eight games. The Yankees took two of three from the Orioles to capture the season series 14-5 and move a season-high 37 games over .500 (90-53). 
It was the club-record ninth time this season that New York rallied from a deficit of four runs or more. The Yankees, who did not have a comeback of that nature all last year, won despite stranding 17 runners and going 0-for-5 with the bases loaded. New York had not received as many as 14 walks in a game since 1980. 
Tom Gordon (7 -4) got four outs and Mariano Rivera worked the ninth for his major­league leading 48th save in 51 chances. 
Texas 7, Toronto 6 

Mark Teixeira homered twice, including a two-run shot in the eighth inning that sent the Texas Rangers past the Toronto Blue Jays 7-6 Sunday for a three-game sweep. 
Chan I-lo Park and the Rangers couldn't hold the lead after Teixeira's three-run homer in the first. But Francisco Cordero made Teixeira's second shot stand up, striking out three batters in the ninth for his team-record 44th save. 
With Texas trailing 6-5, Michael Young led off the eighth with a double against Justin Speier (3-7). Teixeira fol­lowed with his 34th homer, his fourth of the series. 
Doug Brocail (3-1), the fifth Texas pitcher, faced only one hitter, but he got the win with a strikeout-caught stealing dou­ble play to end the eighth. 
Minnesota 8, Detroit 5 
The Minnesota Twins are playing with confidence. 
"We're playing pretty good baseball right now. I don't care if we are playing Detroit or who we are playing, it's tough to beat us," Matthew LeCroy said after Sunday's 8-5 win over the Tigers. 
Terry Tiffee, Torii Hunter and Cristian Guzman homered for the Twins, who are 11-7 against Detroit this year and 55-19 since 2001. The Twins have won five straight over the Tigers going into Monday's series finale. 
Terry Mulholland (5-8) allowed four runs and nine hits in 6 2-3 innings, then turned it over to his bullpen. 
Tampa Bay 7, Kansas City 2 
Jorge Sosa allowed five hits in seven shutout innings to win for the first time since July 31, leading the Tampa Bay Devil Rays over the Kansas City Royals 7-2 Sunday. 
Rocco Baldelli hit a two-run homer, and Julio Lugo, Tino Martinez and Jose Cruz Jr. and won their second straight each had three hits for the following a 12-game losing Devil Rays, who had 15 hits streak. 

First Lesson She Learned sYear Was How to Save. 
Disposable 
ntact Lenses 
YEAR SUPPLY
sgg98* 
After Manufacturers' Rebate *See store for details. 

When it's the presti­gious luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically cho­sen to match your career goal. 
Apply by 
November 5, 2004 

Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of lVlay 2005 ) an ND degree? No east-Asia 
. . ?
expenence. 
Meche (5-6) walked one, 

For more informatiQn ~:ontact Nancy o•connor at63 f-.5432
struck out four and retired 12 <: 
Monday, September 13, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Weir falls to Singh at Canadian Open 
PGA TouR 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY. 
Belles take fourth at invitational 
Gray as an inspiration for the "I didn't know what to expect 
By DAN TAPETILLO team. at first," Murphy said. "But 
Sports Writer "She sets the pace for us to everyone was really welcoming 
push each other and is a leader and shares the same positive 
Saint Mary's continued its for us," Murphy said. "It is her attitude when we go out and impressive season, finishing attitude that compete." fourth in a field of nine teams also makes her The Belles are at the Aquinas College an asset and "We came away from using team bond­Invitational last Friday. helps me to run the race with more ing as a source 
The Belles registered a team faster." of inspiration
than just getting
score of 106 points, and man­Murphy fin­and motivation aged to beat conference rivals ished close closer to our goal. while competing. Hope College and Olivet behind in 21st We became closer Knowing there is College, who finished fifth and with a time of another runner
as a team."
eighth respectively. Sophomore 20:09. Also working hard Megan Murphy said this meet posting impres­towards the was a crucial one for the sive results for Megan Murphy team's cause Belles. the Belles were makes the race
Belles runner 
"I think the team did great Becky Feauto less intimidating. because we are getting closer and Katie "We came to our goal of finishing within White. Feauto placed 31st with away from the race with more 1-minute of each other," a time of 20:39 and White fin­than just getting closer to our Murphy said. "This goal is ished 33rd in 20:45. goal," Murphy said. "We important because it makes our Sophomore Sara Otto was the became closer as a team." team stronger and closer." seventh runner to finish for the The Belles will face its next 
Leading the Belles towards Belles in 21:30, 1:35 behind set of challengers Friday when this goal is freshman Megan Gray. the team competes in the Gray, who continues to estab­Although the team continues National Catholic Invitational at lish herself as one of the team's posting impressive results, the Notre Dame. top runners. Gray placed 16th Belles are especially pleased in a time of 19 minutes and 55 with the growing sense of team Contact Dan Tapetillo at seconds. Murphy described unity. jtapetil@nd.edu 
LPGA TouR 

Sorenstam doillinates LPGA event 
Tour event of the year Sunday, have to think your way
Associated Press 

closing with a 1-under 70 for a around," Sorenstam said. "I did 
BROKEN ARROW, Okla. -four-shot victory at the John Q. not hit a driver on every hole. I Even Annika Sorenstam was Hammons Classic. tried to play smart and not amazed by her dominating play "I thought I played excellent overpower the course. I think after a long layoff. for three days," that was the key 
Sorenstam won her fifth LPGA Sorenstam said. for me." 
Associated Press 
OAKVILLE, Ontario Already No. 1 in the world, Vijay Singh felt like Public Enemy No. 1 in Canada. 
Any other time, some 40,000 fans at the Canadian Open would have been thrilled to see the world's best player overcome a sore left knee and a three-shot deficit to make birdie on the final hole and win in a playoff. 
Just not Sunday. 
Not with Mike Weir on the cusp of becoming the first Canadian in 50 years to win his national title on the 1OOth anniversary of the Canadian Open, no less. 
Woe, Canada. 
"I feel for Mike," Singh said after a thrilling duel that Canadians will appreciate once the shock wears off. "That was the one person I didn't want to beat." 
In some respects, Weir beat himself. 
Three times he stood over a putt to win the Bell Canadian Open a 10-foot birdie on the 72nd hole, a 25-foot eagle on the 18th hole in the playoff, a 5-footer for par at No. 17 on the second extra hole. He missed them all. 
Weir ran out of chances, driving into the rough on the par-5 18th, laying up and then putting his approach into the water on the third playoff hole. 
"The level of pressure was right there with Augusta," said Weir, who became Canada's first major champion last year at the Masters. "It was me who didn't get it done. I just didn't have anything falling my way the last few days." 
Singh, who blistered tee shots on the 18th all three times, only had to three-putt from the fringe to win for the seventh time this season and put a stamp on a No. 1 rank­ing he has held only a week. 
"It's only been a week," Singh said. "It's pumped me up a little bit more. You don't want to let that position go. The only way you can hang onto it is by playing better than the rest of the guys." 
Golf has never had a home game like this a major cham­pionship-caliber gallery, 99 percent of them in euphoria as soon as the ball left Weir's club. 
Asked if he felt the weight of a nation on his shoulders, Weir replied, "Every shot." 
"I was literally deaf just being screamed at," he said. "I had to open my mouth and give a yawn to pop my ears as I got to the tee. It was pretty cool." 
Singh noticed it, too, espe­cially late in the round. 
"They were cheering in a good way," he said. "They were not cheering against me. they were cheering for Mike. Although on 15 when I missed the putt, they got excited. You understand that's part of it." 
Singh closed with a 69 and joined an elite group Tiger 
DID YOU COMPETE IN POLICY DEBATE IN HIGH SCHOOL? NOTRE DAME IS STARTING A POLICY DEBATE TEAM THIS YEAR! 
Students with experience are highly encouraged to join the team! We will be travelling to a variety oftournaments like Kentucky, Wake Forest and Berkeley. The schedule is flexible and the team will make accomodations based on the needs ofthe students. 
This year's topic is 
RESOLVED: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
SHOULD ESTABLISH AN ENERGY POLICY REQUIRING A 
SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION IN THE TOTAL 
NON-GOVERNMENTAL CONSUMPTION OF FOSSIL FUELS IN 
THE UNITED STATES. 
It is an exciting year for Notre Dame debate, join us! You can contact Kiley Kane at kkane2@nd.edu for more information. 
"It's a course.  tough I'm just  "I thought I played  Sorenstam earned $150,000  
really surprised how well I hit it and putt it."  excellent for three days."  for her 53rd career LPGA title. She has started  
Sorenstam had  just 13 of 24 LPGA  
three birdies and  Annlka Sorenstam  events this year  
a bogey in the final round for a  LPGA golfer  and hadn't played since winning the  
9-under 204 total,  HP Open on Aug.  
winning the event  8.  

for the second time. She had a Sorenstam spent her time off three-stroke lead entering the either "chilling" in Lake Tahoe, round and played steadily on Nev., or cleaning up her the narrow fairways and slop­Orlando, Fla., home after ing greens of Cedar Ridge Hurricane Charley. She did Country Club while her chal­practice for a week before the lengers struggled. tournament. 
Shi Hyun Ahn closed with a She admitted to feeling a bit 69 and was second at 5-under rusty coming in, but her game 
208. Candie Kung also had a didn't show it. She opened with final-round 69 and was third at a 66 on Friday and added a 69 3 under. Mi Hyun Kim (67) and on Saturday. Heather Bowie (69) tied for "I can't play every week fourth at 2-under 211. because I get burned out and I 
After rolling in a bogey putt at don't play well," she said. "You the 18th, Sorenstam smiled and have to listen to your body." threw the ball into the gallery. Ahn earned $91,110 as run­
"Luckily, my game got better ner-up of the $1 million event and better everyday, and I real­that moved to Cedar Ridge after ly felt comfortable playing three years at Tulsa Country here," said the Swede, winner Club. of seven worldwide titles this Ahn, a leading candidate for year who also had a four-stroke tour rookie of the year with six victory in the event in 2002. top-five finishes in 19 starts, 
Joanne Morley, in the final birdied Nos. 2, 5, and 7 to move group with Sorenstam, closed to 5 under, within four strokes within a stroke of the lead after of Sorenstam. But Ahn bogeyed opening with two birdies. But No. 8 and fell off the pace. she bogeyed five of the next six "There are a lot of things I did holes, missing a 3-foot par putt good but there 'are more things at the third and a 6-footer at that I made a mistake and could the fifth. She also missed the be improved," Ahn said. "If I fairway at the par-4 7th and tried a little bit harder and not went on to finish with a 76, at went too aggressive, then I even-par 213. probably would have got a 
While Morley struggled, higher score." Sorenstam sank a 12-foot putt Defending champion Karrie for birdie at the par-3 6th to Webb closed with a 72 and fin­increase her lead. ished tied for 17th place at 2­
"It's one of those courses you over 215. 
Monday, September 13, 2004

page 24 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

vou !··1ave !)(Or~tics. !Gt th1::wn ~;~!uic:!~?.· you a:::; YI]Li i:::>uik:l :1/(}LJI"' c;::J.r<t?.':::'r. df;·tinf.:-:: 'lNil;J.t';; !rn~-::,OI'"tant to you and :o;.:==:l?. wrlS!i:·::.; irnport.ant i.O OlilGf'S. 


Monday, September 13, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 

Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
defending national champion USC next weekend. 
"[This tournament] was a great opportunity to work out some of the problems that we had been having," Henican said. "Obviously USC is a great team and we will need to play really well against them." 
The team held the Hornets to a match hitting percentage of only .116 behind the work of Henican who had 26 digs, the second most in a three game match in Irish history. 
The defense was dominant again against Cal-Poly in the weekend's final match. Notre Dame had 47 digs, 17 coming from Henican, to hold the Mustangs to a .044 hitting per­centage. Cal-Poly had trouble getting the ball past Brewster as her six blocks paced the Irish. 
While the Irish swept through both of Saturday's matches, Fresno State was not so easy to dispose of Friday night. The 30-21, 27-30, 30­20, 31-33, 15-12 battle was the third straight five game match for Notre Dame. Thankfully for the Irish, this time they earned a victory after being beaten by Valparaiso and Nebraska in their two previous matchups, and used that momentum on Saturday. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
CLEMENT 
Irish 

continued from page 28 
"We underperformed from that point of view, but it's not easy," Clark said. "They're not a bad side, we got lulled a lit­tle bit, we had a very easy game on Friday -we just had problems finding the net." 
The brick house that is the Notre Dame defense showed only harmless cracks this weekend, with one goal in Friday's game from Ian McAuley. Both Evansville and Fullerton were unable to build a lead, with Chris Sawyer notching five saves in the pair of games. 
"One of the real positives [about the tie] is that it feels like a loss, and that's maybe a mark of where the program has come," Clark said. "We take a tie here, and we feel that it's a loss. They're going home very happy, they're feel­ing as if it's a victory, and they're feeling as if it's a loss." 
Midfielders Nate Norman and Greg Dalby and defender Jack Stewart were named to the all-Tournament Team. This is Stewart's second all­Tournament team in as many weekends. 
"I thought Nate Norman was terrific-very exciting," Clark said of the sophomore stand­out. "Every time he got the ball he was ready to make something happen. That was really nice to see, I was thrilled for him -he's going to be key for the season." 
The season is starting off in the right direction, improving to 3-0-1-Clark's best start in his tenure with the Irish. After the game, Clark focused on the positives that the team had achieved. 

"I love the way our team was really pushing to win right up to the end of the game -we were the team who was trying to win the game, whereas I felt that they were very happy with taking half a loaf home," he said. "We wanted a full loaf and we chased and we chased -our fitness was good, and these are all positives." 
The Irish will chase the full loaf on Wednesday in Bloomington against No. 1 Indiana University. 
"We need to just relax in front of the goal -just relax and put some goals on the score sheet," said Clark. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

-------~~-----~---­
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 13, 2004 

Winning 
continued from page 28 
held a 1-0 lead in the first half before the Irish won the con­test 3-1. 
"We made of a couple of mis­takes in the beginning, but we responded well to the first big road trip and the test of the heat," Waldrum said. "We needed this to make us better." 
Notre Dame 3, Texas Tech 0 
Waldrum earned his lOOth win as Irish head coach in Sunday afternoon's victory. 
Despite playing on a field smaller than the regulation size, the Irish shut out Texas Tech with an impressive win. 
"I didn't hear [the team] complaining that the field was hard to play on," Waldrum said. "But when teams aren't as good as you, it makes their defending much easier and plays into their favor." 
Although Texas Tech had a defensive advantage in playing on its home field, the Irish still managed to take 21 shots. While this may sound like an impressive feat, Thorlakson expected the team to have cre­ated more opportunities for goals. 
"The more [shots] we take, the more we will dominate teams," Thorlakson said. "We just need to get the ball to the net and things will happen." 
Waldrum agreed. 
"We played well together in every part except around the goal," Waldrum said. "We just weren't as sharp." 
However, he focused more on the positive aspects of the game. The Irish defense remained dominant, as they only allowed Texas Tech four shots on goal. 
"Their goals were not dan­gerous," Waldrum said. "So defensively we did not skip a beat." 
Rhythm also remained a 
prime element in the victory, as the Irish changed their line­up several times during the match. Waldrum reasoned that mixing up the players on the field gave starters a rest and other team members more playing time. 
Maggie Manning had two goals for the team during the 26th and 44th minutes of the game. The first came off an assist from Jill Krivacek and the second from Chapman. 
"It was great that Maggie got two goals," Waldrum said. "We got great quality minutes." 
Thorlakson was also impressed with the team's overall performance as the team came away with their second win of the weekend. 
"We had to get the job done against Texas Tech," she said. "It was nice to get the results we did and get out ahead." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Golf 
continued from page 28 
Juniors Scott Gustafson and Eric Deutsch led the Irish this weekend, tying for 17th with a 10-over par 223. Sophomore Cole Isban tied for 26th after finishing the weekend with a 
226. Freshman Greg Rodgers and junior Mark Baldwin rounded out the Irish lineup, shooting 228 and 234, respec­tively. 
Isban was one of the few Irish golfers who competed 
this summer on a national seven or eight players to try level, something Jasinksi ar d play in the best amateur 
wants his players to do more of in the future. 
"Our long­term goal is to have us com­pete against the very best collegiate and amateurs dur­ing the sum­mer," Jasinski said. "We are slightly less 

"Our long term goal is to have us compete against the very best collegiate and amateurs dun ng the summer. " 
John Jasins kl Irish coac1 

events to con­tinue to grow competitive," 
Jasinski was especially pleased with the consistency his team dis­p I a y e d throughout the weekend. In Saturday's round, four of the team's five 
than halfway golfers all carded rounds of 4­
there right now. We need ov·~r-par 75. 
"That's been our biggest weakness in the past, not being able to establish a con­sistent pattern," Jasinski said. "We seem to be developing our ability to do that." 
With the team's depth and the lack of a true No. 1 star on the team, consistency will be what will make or break the team's season this year. 
"We seem to have a lot of guys who can be competitive at this level, but we don't have anyone who can really be force in the No. 1 spot," Jasinski said. "We do have seven or eight guys who can all contribute in a role." 
Despite not having a definite on-field leader, Jasinski feels very confident in his team's chances this season. 
"We don't have a star, but there's a lot of parity in this lineup -you can win either way," Jasinski said. "The way we performed this week is something we expect every week. Fifth place should be something we do regularly, and we should look to winning or getting top three." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


UR CALENDARS 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Wednesday, September 15 
Industry Day Banquet Joyce Center, Monogram Room Reception, 4:30 p.m. .Dinner, 5:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 15 
Career Fair Joyce Center Concourse 6:45 -9:45 p.m. 
Thursday, September 16 
Interview Day Flanner Hall 

INDUSTRY Dl~ •Oit 
8:00a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
JOYCE CENTER CONC:OURSE-ENTER GATE 1 OR 2 
BRING YOUR STUDE:NT ID CARD (IT'S REQUIRED) ATTIRE IS ~BUSINESS FORMAL 
SPONSORED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL, rmTRE DAME STUDENT SECTION OF THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 

r-------------------­
Monday, September 13, 2004 page 27
T'he Observer+ TODAY 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 35 ''Thanks, 64 Having no 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Yao Ming, Benjamin McKenzie,
Pierre!" vision?

1 Mall component 
Ruben Studdard, Paul Walker 6 Genesis twin 
38 Squeal (on) 66 Submarine 39 standstill danger Happy Birthday: It's time to put yourself and your dreams on the line and give10 Fly like an eagle 
(motionless) 67 Number it your best shot. Regardless of the results, it will lead to a better you and a
14 Hiker's path 
between dos better future. Don't hesitate to ask for help. Your numbers are I, I I, 20, 28, 37,40 City that Fred15 Goatee's locale 
46
Astaire was and cuatro 

16 Time for eggnog 
''flying down to" 68 Weird 17 Having no 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is a perfect day to make physical changes
in a 1934 hit 69 Habitual tipplers 

and certainly a great day for love and romance. You are in a real creative
entryways? 
42 "Dear old" 70 Gumbo 
cycle. ***** 

19 A.A.A. recom­family member vegetable 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Question what you are doing if you are h.aving
mendations: 

43 Jogs 71 Modify to problems with friends and family. Your stubbornness may stand in the way of
Abbr. 

45 Looks sullen particular getting what you really want. ** 20 Left on a map 47 Poetic conditions GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do something with friends and you will learn 21 How some ham palindrome some valuable information. Get to know the people in your neighborhood 
sandwiches are better. Romantic encounters are evident. **** ­
48 Tributary DOWN 

made CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put some thought into what you see yourself
50 Word before 1 Put in the hold 

doing in the future. You can make the necessary changes if you stop thinking
22 Letter after theta 
Nevada or 2 "_Grit" (John about it and start taking action. *** 23 Disney World Leone 
Wayne film) LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be a little hot under the collar today. Give 
attraction 

52 Hold back 3 Quaker people the benefit of the doubt. The more laid back you are, the more likely 25 Opposite of 54 Give a 4 Ran amok you are to get your own way. *** whole, milkwise benediction to VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Double-check any paperwork that is pending.
5 Santa's little 

27 "French" dog 56 Ball field helper Legal or contractual matters may not be as straightforward as you think. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Lots of talk and plenty of activity should be on
3CJ "I'm ready to covering 6 Commercial 
your agenda today. Love will flourish, so don't sit at home by yourself.
leave" 57 Motionless preti:-with 

Favors will be granted and options will be made available. **** 
32 Down Under 59 Campaign Lodge. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have difficulty avoiding someone 
bird funders, for 

71n a moment who wants to have it out with you. Try not to overreact. Let this person vent, 33 Britannica, for short 8 Bright and 29 Having no 41 "The only thing 53 & 55 Peruvian but don't retaliate. ** one: Abbr. 63 Buffalo's lake breezy typeset letters? we have to fear novelist SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You must take part in whatever you is fear "· Vargas_ can that will challenge you mentally and physically. This is your day to shine
9 Still in the out­31 Stocking shade 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE box, as mail F.D.R. 58 Istanbul and you will attract love and friendship. ***** 34 Where to watch CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): By helping someone in your family or a
44 Prairie homes resident
-:T:T'':"T':'':"' 10 Injection 

whales in close friend, you will build a strong bond that will bring you many returns in
selection 46 It goes around 60 Taj Mahal locale
Massachusetts, the future. Give today and you will receive in the future. *** +.+-::+±::-! 11 Having no with "the" the world 61 Intel product AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let anyone or anything fluster you.
49 Mississippi

commandment? 62 Typesetting Disappointments in partnerships may develop, but if you are logical and
36 Writer John River explorer mark
-7+7+:-:+:+:::-1 12 Prince Valiant's handle the situation in a practical manner, you will do just fine. *** 
Dickson
wife 51 Caught sight of 65 Poseidon's PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Consider what you can do to improve your 13 Plopped down 
371nkling 52 Agenda details domain life. Start a new diet or health regime that will make you feel good and as a result do better in all aspects of life. *** 
again 18 Museum guide 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a Birthday Baby: You have what it takes to be great. You are patient, precise -=r.,:...r:;:+:-~ 24 Delighted credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
and passionate. You are a doer and a giver and will always get back in return. 
-:+::::+::-! 26 Gradual Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday absorption crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. method 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -:-t-:-:t-:+:*.':t-::~+.:+::-t:-1 27 Saucy past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -ri+i*-i:r.~;+,::;ti-1F-i-i+i-l 28 Bradley or Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Sharif solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-------------------------------------------------------·------------------­
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
I'LL WORK FROM HOME I PR.OBABL Y SHOULDN'TMY DAUGHTER. SNEEZED FOR. THE REST OF THE TELL YOU THIS, BUT50 THE SCHOOL IS 
DAY. NONE Of YOUR. PHONESENDING HER. HOME. 
MESSAGES ARE REAL. HOW WILL YOU ANSWER. MY )PHONE? 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
PEANUTS 
IT'S COPPER, SEE? 11MWEARING I'M WEARIN6 ACOPPER BRACElET.. 
I DoN'T HAVE iJ6:J 10 THE VET... 
ACOPPER BRACELET.. 11MCURED! 
THE PAIN 15 GONE .••.. .....'tOO 5AI1 WE'RE 601NG TO THE VET ? 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

~mrn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles-, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
GULAH 
I 
I I 

02004 Tribune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reserved. 
CUIJE 
± 
WHAT 11-E COUPU::
tLIERIX 
010 V'JHEN 11-E UPSThlR.S

J () 
~IG\-eORS f-\l\0 A 
www.jurOOie.com 
IA\NCE FN<.TY.
tINKELT t 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
J rJ J 
1 suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: ~
..rI I J' THE rI r I xxI 
(Answers tomorrow 

Saturday's I Jumbles: SIXTY DICED COMMON JANGLE Answer: When Dad didn't help with the carpet cleaning, Mom was-"STEAMING" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address ____________________________________ _ 
City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
,­


THE OBSERVER 
'· 
1PORTS
Monday, Septermber 13, 2004 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
..t Reachi1ttg for the top 
The Irish needed a late come­.By DAN TAPETILLO back in order to defeat the (1-2­:ipons Writer 0) Sun Devils after trailing early 
in the first half. 
The Irish proved why they are Junior Katie Leahy scored the the envy of soccer programs first goal for Arizona State in around the nation after topping the 23rd minute. The tying goal l'lo. 11 Arizona State 2-1. came in the 35th minute from 
Notre Dame (5-0-0) battled senior Candace Chapman. her blistering 100-degree heat to fifth of the season. Junior for­begin the match Friday evening ward Katie Thorlakson also in Tempe, Ariz. In addition to continued her offensive domi­coping with the weather condi­nance this season, as her free tions, the team also needed to kick helped set up defender block out the opposing cheers of Melissa Tancredi's game win­more than 1,500 people that ning shot and fifth goal of the poured into Sun Devils Stadium. season. 
"It was so hot Friday night," Thorlakson has had a hand 'in I coach Randy Waldrum said. 14 of the 18 goals scored this "But I thought the kids played season, including two game­
Santa Clara's defenders converge on Irish mldflelder Kate 
great and responded very well." winning goals and a pair of
Thorlakson In a Sept. 5 game. 
tiT' 

VOLLEYBALL 
Brewster, Irish not:ch two victories 
the tournament MVP as she Irb;h came out hot on "It was good. It was reallyBy MIKE GILLOON averaged 3.82 kills per game Saturday. They didn't lose a good," Henican said. "We Spons Writer while posting a .372 hitting game in defeating Sacramento played three good teams and 
percentage. The junior middle State 30-16, 30-24, 30-28 in overall it was a great team 
Meg Henican needed just a blocker also had 28 digs, 18 the first match before sealing effort to get the wins." couple of words to describe blocks and 
the tourna­Saturday's match against the performance of her team. four aces ment title Sacramento State saw Notre 
"It's encouraging," the Irish during the with a 30-Dame turn in its top statistical 
• 
captain said about a weekend two match­23, 30-24, performance of the young sea­that saw the Notre Dame vol­es. The 30-14 sweep son. They recorded 59 kills, leyball team get back on the other all­of Cal-Poly. almost 20 per game, while right track as it won three tournament Henican posting a .311 hitting percent­matches to capture the Cal­selection for was happy age. Freshman setter Ashley Poly Best Western Royal Oak the Irish was about the Tarutis led the Irish offense Invitational and stop a three­outside hit-consistent, with 37 assists. match losing streak. ter Lauren Henlcan steady play After struggling in its match 
The Irish defeated Fresno Kelbley. She that saw the last week against Valparaiso, State Friday night before tallied 4.00 kills per game Irish defeat three traditionally Henican was glad the team downing Sacramento State along with seven service aces strong California teams, was able to improve on some and Cal-Poly Saturday to to spark the Irish offense. including the defending Big of its weak points before going improve their season record After a five game win over Sky conference tournament into their match against to 4-3. Fresno State Friday in Cal­champions in Sacramento 
Lauren Brewster was named Poly's Matt Gymnasium, the State. see VOLLEYBALL/page 25 
... 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish take l'Vin, tie in toUrnament 
were unable to find the back of games. However, the Irish By KATE GALES the net in 110 minutes of play proved nervous in front of the Sports Writer against Cal State Fullerton on net, sending shots high over 
Sunday. the ![oal or wide past the post. 
On a sun-baked field on the "At the end of the day, there In Friday's contest, the Irish edge of campus, as students were more positives than neg­did not mark up a goal until shook off the cobwebs from the atives," coach Bobby Clark defender Christopher High inaugural football weekend, said after Sunday's game. "We with 2:02 remaining and Justin the Irish were locked in a don't have a lot of time to McG,~eney followed it with the fierce battle to find the back of think about it -we play game-winner. On Sunday, a 23-foot net. Indiana on Wednesday, that's Full ~rton goalkeeper Sam 
... After scoring two goals in the the focus." Reynolds recorded only five final 2 minutes, 2 seconds of The Irish dominated both save!i on 27 shots by the Irish. 
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer regulation Friday evening games offensively, totaling 65 Standout defender Jack against Evansville, the Irish shots on goal in the two see IRISH/page 25 Stewart leaps for a header. 

game-winning assists . 
The win gave freshman goal­keeper Lauren Karas the first win of her collegiate career. 
Prior to the match, the Irish were deeply aware of the Sun Devils' offensive speed and endurance. Thorlakson said the team was aware of the chal­lenges Arizona State's program would bring. 
"ASU is ranked, and anybody in the top 25 is beating every­body this season," Thorlakson said. "This is why we are trying to take one game at a time." 
The early game deficit was reminiscent of last year's match, when the Sun Devils 
see WINNING/page 26 
MEN'S GOLF 
Men's golf takes fifth in Iverness 
Team shoots three rounds to end with a score of894 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
The Irish opened up their 2004-05 campaign showing lots of promise of good things to come. The team placed fifth in the Inverness Intercollegiate in Toledo, Ohio with a 3-round score of 894. No. 14 Kentucky won the event, shooting an 877, eight strokes better than Michigan State, its closest competitor in the 13-team field. 
This weekend. the Irish had both their best single round as well as their highest place­ment in the history of this event. Before this weekend, the Irish had never placed higher than 14th, and their lowest single-round score was 307, a mark they surpassed in every round. 
''I'm very pleased, we haven't fared too well at these [events] in the past," Irish coach John Jasinski said. "We talked about breaking 900; the conditions were perfect, and we maxed out our expec­tations." 
see GOLF/page 26 

U) CROSS COUNTRY 
AMERICAN lEAGUE

LPGA TOUR 
NATIONAl lEAGUE 
NfC

U.S. OPEN
LLI

1--
c.,) 
Annika Sorenstam 
Oakland 1 

Philadelphia 4 
Detroit 20 

won her fifth LPGA
z The Belles take fouth 
Cle1teland 0 
Chicago 16
NY Mets 2 

event in 2004 with a
over two MIAA rivals at 

Top-ranked Roger 
The Phillies pulled
a: s 
four-shot victory at the
=c.:s the Aquinas College 
Zilo struck out 10 to 
Detroit gets first road

Federer took home the 
within five games of the 
John Q. Hammons
Invitational. 
imrpJve to 11-10. 

NL wild card race. 
win since 2000 season.

men's U.S. Open tennis
<1: 
Classic.

"-
title.
!; page 23 

page 23 
page 22 
page 17

page 18
page 21 

U) 





