~---~­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 96 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23,2004 
ND students send letters to Gls 
By AMANDA MICHAElS News Writer 
When 1st Lt. Christopher Brusznicki wrote a general request to the Notre Dame ath­letic community for letters and care packages for his fellow troops stationed in Iraq, he never expected members of the Army ROTC to step in and lead the effort. 
However, when Cadet Kerstin Palm read the letter, she knew it was something that the group should be involved in, and brought the letter to the atten­tion of the newly-formed serv­ice organization within the Army ROTC. Its leader, junior Patrick Robinson, immediately saw the request as an opportu­nity to give back to the service­men in Iraq. 
"We had special ties to [Brusznicki], since he graduat­ed from Notre Dame in 2002 and was a member of the Army ROTC program, so we really wanted to help him out," Robinson said. 
In the letter, Brusznicki, Platoon Leader for the 82nd Airborne Division, described the conditions where he is sta­tioned in Fallujah, Iraq opti­mistically, but added that news and items from home were needed to keep the soldiers' spirits up. 
"Morale is getting to be pretty 
see ROTC/ page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Saint Mary's fights eating disorders 
By ANGElA SAOUD News Writer 

Ninety-one percent of col­lege-age women nationwide are on a diet. Fifteen percent have a medically diagnosed eating disorder. Starting today, Saint Mary's will try to raise awareness about this 
abusive  -and increasingly  
common  -behavior by host­ 
ing  an  Eating  Disorder  

Awareness Week. 
Titled "Celebrate Your S.H.A.P.E.," which stands for Spiritua'i gifts, Heart, Abilities, Personality and Experience, the week includes an array of activities designed to offer information, support and resources to stu­dents who suffer from eating problems. 
The events begin tonight, when junior Sarah Anderson will detail her personal expe­riences in a lecture ca1led "Experiencing Eating Disorders From the Inside Out." The talk will begin at 6:30p.m. in 303 Haggar-Hall. 
On Tuesday, writer, poet and activist Sonia Sanchez will speak in Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. 
see SMC/page 4 

NDSP reports wave of thefts 

By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame campus has fallen victim to a wave of thefts since students returned from winter break, University securi­ty officials said last week. 
On four separate dates, begin­ning Jan. 25 and continuing through February, students have reported stolen belongings 

I· 
from the Hesburgh Library and the South Dining Hall lobby, said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security Police. 
"These thefts are occurring while students are leaving book bags unattended while using the restroom or [visiting] vending machines," Hurley said of the library thefts, and the items robbed from South Dining Hall have disappeared while unat­tended in the lobby. 
He said no thefts have been reported from dorms or at North Dining Hall, where stu­dents are allowed to bring per­sonal items with them into the dining area. 
"We'II talk to the dining halls and see what they can help with," said Rex Rakow, director 
see CRIME/page 4 
Banned cab driver's license revoked by city 
South Bend suspends taxi license ofdriver accused of rape 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
The city of South Bend has revoked the license of a Yellow Cab Company taxi driver who had already been banned from the Notre Dame campus due to allegations that he raped a female passenger. 
The Mishawaka cab driver, Piara Singh, 30, was banned from campus last week after allegations surfaced that he participated in the confine­ment and rape of a female passenger Feb. 8. 
The notice of license revoca­tion, issued Thursday by the South Bend Department of Law, stated the Mishawaka Police Department was inves­tigating an allegation that Singh and two other people in the Yellow Cab took a woman to an apartment to rape and confine her. The notice also stated that Singh drove the woman to various other loca­
tions to confine and molest 
her. 
Notre Dame issued a no tres­passing order to Singh last week due to concern for stu­dent and employee safety, University spokesman Matt Storin said. The woman Singh is accused of raping is not a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student. 
Singh faces charges of rape, criminal confinement and criminal deviate conduct. 
The notice stated, "It has been determined that your license should be revoked because you willfully violated several state statutes related to the license of a taxi cab by using a Yellow Cab to further a serious crime against a per­son." 
It also described Singh's conduct as a "breach of the peace and a menace to the health, safety and welfare of the public." 
Singh has until 4:30 p.m. today to submit a written request for a hearing to appeal the revocation. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Banner envy 
I have found the problem. 
Yes, I know the problems of our sporadic men's basketball team have already been well documented by editors, experts•. propagandists, pundits and all the talking heads Matt Mooney you could ever ask for. Blame has been passed 
Sports Writer 
around like the team like the res­idents of Cavanaugh (I kid, I kid ... ). Chris Thomas is a favorite target, but on the plus side, at least no one keys his Hummer. Perhaps Mike Brey is to blame for not reinforcing a porous defense or not developing an offense that exists inside of 25 feet from the basket. Maybe I could try the more simplistic/insensitive approach of Gary Barnett and just write the team off as just "terrible. There's no other way to say it." 
No, the problem is at a much higher level than all of these. Much higher. About one hundred feet higher. I didn't realize the problem until I pinched a nerve in my neck trying to see the top gf a random blow-up Godzilla at the JPW Gala. I was pointing out to my junior par­ent-father the banners that hang from the ceiling above the basket­ball court. Big East championships were listed proudly in gold. The women's basketball 2001 national championship was among the most prominent. Even the men's appear­ance in the 1978 basketball Final Four was notable. These are all good and well. But as we moved down the line, the banners became less and less noteworthy. "Sweet 16 Appearances" were followed by "NCAA Tournament" berths. 
While I agree that it is an achieve­ment to make the NCAA Tournament, I defy anyone to find a banner that lists NCAA Basketball Tournament appearances at the likes of Kansas, Michigan State, UNC or Duke. There isn't enough room on Dick Vitale's forehead for all those banners. 
Meanwhile, our team has decided to celebrate mediocrity. And why not? Those banners take up space and gives the alumni that warm, ''I'd like to donate" feeling. I'll tell you why not. Would our football team list years of any and all bowl game appearances under the Play Like a Champion Today sign? Well, even if the Toilet Bowl is all we can hope for the current team, the answer is still a resounding "no." The Notre Dame football team measures itself by championships (or so I'm told). 
If Mike Brey is so intent on estab­lishing Notre Dame basketball as a consistent national power, his first move should be to gut the Joyce of those status-quo banners. The Final Four is banner worthy. And until we get there again, I don't want to see anything hanging from the rafters unless it's a noose around that stupid blow-up Godzilla. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con tact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, February 23, 2004 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL YOU WEAR ON THE FIRST DAY OF WARM WEATHER? 


Chelsea Mason Caitlin Kennelly Deacon Bruno 
Sophomore Sophomore Junior McGlinn Welsh Family O'Neill 
"Something "I need to go to "Flip-flops, bright., the mall to get dude.·· an outfit.·· 



Eric Houston Glgl Drzalc Rob Shelley 
Junior Junior Junior off-campus P.E. Knott 
"Footie "Something "My pirate
. ..

paJamas. made entirely suit.·· out ofdining hall cookies.·· 

Topless coffee shop recon­sidered 
MADISON, Maine -A businessman who hoped to open a topless coffee shop is having second thoughts. 
Normand St. Michel said he was taken aback Thursday by the opposition that surfaced at a hearing before the Planning Board. 
"I was all for it when I came here but now I am split down the middle," he said, adding that his wife also was opposed to his plan. 
Despite all the criticism, board members concluded that the proposal did not require their approval and that St. Michel could go for­ward as long as he met state and federal require­ments. 
St. Michel said he had been in similar establish­ments that were well-run and clean. He said the top­less aspect was just a mar­keting ploy. "Go in and eat and the waitresses would be topless, that's all," he said. 
'American Idol' reject idol­ized on web 
BERKELEY, Calif. -The "American Idol" judges said William Hung bombed with his gotta-see-it-to-believe-it rendition of Ricky Martin's "She Bangs." 
But rejection turned out to have a silver -maybe even platinum -lining. In the weeks since he got boot­ed by the TV talent show, the 21-year-old Hung has become an insta-Net celebrity, sought after by talk shows, record produc­ers and Idol dreamers everywhere. 
By now, you've probably seen Hung in action-arms waving over his head, hips following the beat of an entirely different drummer as he cheerfully attacks Martin's song. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
L&.l
:r: 
~ 
L&.l 

~ 
.... 
cs: 
CJ· 



35 30 

36 21 

35 22 
0 
HIGH 37

.... 
LOW 31 
IN BRIEF 
Discuss the positions of Catholics and Muslims in the world today from 9:15 to 10:30 
p.m. in the ·Coleman Morse Center lounge. The open forum will be cosponsored by the Department of Theology and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. 
Vote for your class council representatives today between 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., at https://a pps .nd. ed u/elections. 
Enjoy an afternoon of free food, relaxing massages and a raffle for prizes sponsored by UBWELL2. Participate in aci­tivities to challenge your own and our culture's idea of beau­ty from 1 to 2 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Prizes include a free massage from Emerald Cut, a Panera Gift Certificate and an ND Bookstore Gift Certificate. 
Sign up for the Notre Dame Encounter, a 3-day retreat that allows students to explore more deeply the meaning of their relationship with God and their commitment to living the Christian life. Signups will be open today in 114 Coleman Morse. 
Come listen to Real Women Have Curves, a lecture pro­moting healthy body images for women, from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center lounge. 
rarticipate in the Junior class service project when Rice Bowls are distributed on South Quad all day today. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mat~on about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

38 17 

41 25 


Monday, February 23, 2004 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
. I

ND researchers study effects of ballast water 
I 
Professor, Ph.D candidate publish groundbreaking work in marine biology 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Associa[e News Editor 
In a study slated to debut in Britain next month, Notre Dame researchers John Drake and David Lodge ana­lyzed the biological effects of ballast water from ships, identifying global hotspots and offering suggestions to combat the problem. 
The study will premiere in print form in the "Proceeding of the Royal Society," a publication tain balance and preserve the vessel's structural integrity. Although the pumping process and hostile environ­ment of the ships' hulls kill the vast majority of these organisms, the ::;heer quantity of water cycling through each year worldwide -three to five billion tons, according to the Global Ballast Water Management Programme ­means some will survive transport and disrupt the ecosystems where they are 
dumped. 
The introduc­
tion of 
from a European 
British scien­"[This discharged zebra mussels 
tific academy. water] is responsible for to the Great As cargo Lakes and an
hundreds ofnuisance
ships distrib­Asian species 
ute goods species around the of kelp into the 
across the world.,, waterways of world, they s 0 u t h take on and Australia, for
John Drake
later dump example, has thousands of researcher displaced tons of sea native species. water-and The invasion of microbes, a type of North small inver-American jelly­tebrates and the eggs and fish in the Black Sea has larva of various marine resulted in the collapse of species -in order to main-some commercial fisheries in 
the region. gravity models to assess Perhaps more frightening is water movement. the threat that invading Mathematical manipulation of 
microbes  the data allowed  
bring - caus-­ Drake and Lodge  
ing  cholera  to  estimate  the  
outbreaks and  rate of port to port  
spreading red  invasions  and  
tide. "It's a  prac­ "There's a lot of  determine which areas face the  
tical problem  bias on where the  greatest danger.  
that needs to be solved," said Drake, a  problems are being reported. "  The results, Drake said, were surprising. While  
Ph.D.  candi-·  places  like  the  
date  who  John Drake  Great Lakes and  
worked with Lodge, a biolo­ researcher  San Francisco Bay area often receive  
gy professor,  more  attention,  
on the project.  the  true  global  
"[This  dis­ hotspots for ballast  
c h a r  g e d  water invasion are  
water]  is  located in Asia and  

responsible for hundreds of parts of Europe. nuisance species around the Part of the reason for world. Ballast water is also a increased attention to certain concern because it moves areas, Drake said, is that around human pathogens." wealthier countries like the 
The researchers sifted United States have more through data from over resources to study the prob­28,000 ship arrivals collected lem while their less affluent at 243 ports around the counterparts typically over­world. The information they look it. gathered was used to con­"I think the correct inter­struct a simulation of ship pretation is that more traffic that also relied on intensely sampled areas 
aren't [necessarily] hot spots," he said. "There's a lot of bias on where the prob­lems are being reported." 
The study also looked at possible ways of dealing with the problem beyond today's preferred method of dumping it into the open ocean -a solution that is not effective. All the eliminated water can endanger the ecosystems of islands located "down stream." 
Drake's and Lodge's find­ings suggest eliminating the threat of biological invasions from ballast water at key ports by constructing process­ing plants to dispose of it would not significantly 

·address the problem. The best solution, the researchers said, may be to install treat­ment methods aboard ships that kill the organisms using ultraviolet light or other means. 
"We found far and away that implementing the on­board technology is a better strategy," Drake said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 


Attention: Students ONLY, DO You Have Plans for Spring Break? 

Coca-Cola can help. 
Look for the scratch off sticker on 20oz Coke products in your dorms 
Find the Sun or Snowflake &Win!! Prizes: 2 -$500 Travel Vouchers 50 -Stainless Steel Can Holders 200 -Coca-Cola T-shirts Call 631-7777 to claim prizes. 
In conJunction with Notre Dame Food Services and Coca-Cola Copyright 2004. The Coca-Cola Company, "Coca-Cola" and the contour bottle design are trademarks of the Coca-Cola Company. 

--------~~~----------------------------------------­
.. 
page4 Monday, February 23, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
low due to our receiving the news of our extension literally only a few days before Christmas," Brusznicki wrote. "I am hoping that you might be able to send to the men of my platoon letters of encourage­ment or whatever ND athletic souvenirs you can spare. I don't need anything as the Dome is always in my heart and my girlfriend has already sent me a lovely 'Play Like a Champion Today' towel that sustains me through many tough moments." 
Robinson and the rest of the service organization worked to write letters to and put together care packages for the 18 mem­bers of Brusznicki's platoon, even collecting donations at the ROTC's dining-in event. The final product contained every­thing from Notre Dame shirts to saltines and was sent out last week. 
As service overseas stands just a few years away, the proj­ect took on special significance for Robin9on and his fellows. 
"Honestly, it's just one of those things where, from our position in ROTC, we could be in their same situation a few years from now," he said. "It's nice to know they have support back home, so that we will too someday." 
Student senator and member of the Army ROTC Drew Sandstrum presented the letter at last Wednesday's Senate meeting, requesting that his fel­low senators start letter-writing campaigns in their dorms. 
"If anyone knows anyone overseas with the Army, we can get their mailing address through the Army Knowledge Online database," Sandstrum explained. "This would be a great way to show support for Domers in the military." 
Contact Amanda Michael at amichael@nd.edu 

Indiana residents greet returning Guard unit 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Relatives of 66 members of an Indiana National Guard unit wept and cheered Sunday as the guards­men returned home after a year­long tour of duty that included seeing combat in Iraq. 
Jo Barrett of New Concord, Ky., grew emotional as she waited Sunday at the Vanderburgh 4-H Center for her son, Specialist Donald Garrett of the 1st Battalion of the 163rd Field Artillery of the Indiana National Guard. 
"There are no words to explain it. It's like him being lost in a crowd and suddenly finding him. That's just the joy I feel," she said. 
Barrett was one of hundreds of family and friends who gathered to welcome the 66 members of the field artillery battalion. They arrived on two buses and were greeted with cheers, "Welcome Home" signs and the release of red, white and blue balloons. 
The returning guardsmen served as Fisters. or forward observers, for the 293rd and 152nd Indiana National Guard infantry regiments in Iraq. In that role, they kept watch for tanks and other dangers ahead of advancing infantry. 
If necessary, they could call for planes or other support to attack the threats. 
Sunday's homecoming featured a rally organized by a family sup­port group and included presenta­tions of commemorative gifts to the troops and remarks by Specialist Jamie Brown -the most seriously wounded of the 1­163rd. Brown received the Purple Heart and Presidential Coin. 

Crime 
continued from page 1 
of Notre Dame Security/Police. He said discussions would most likely take place after Junior Parents Weekend because most directors and staff members were kept busy with the sched­uled events and preparations. 
Such crime waves have occurred before, and Hurley said that, in the past, investiga­tions into the thefts have indi­cated that people outside of the University have been responsi­ble. In this most recent situa­tion, there is no evidence to indicate whether the culprit is working from inside or outside of the Notre Dame community. 
"I would like to think that it's not an internal problem, but I have no evidence to qualify my 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Sanchez's most recent work, a collection of emotional poems and powerful affirma­tions called "Shake Loose My Skin," was published in 1999. The Women's Studies Department and the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership are co-sponsor­ing her visit to Saint Mary's. 
More personal activities will also be included in the 

statement," Hurley said. And if the problem is internal, Rakow said, it is harder to spot. 
"The officers ... know the reports and what the trends are," Hurley said, and "they cer­tainly look out for what's hap­pening." 
But if items are being stolen by members within the commu­nity, however, it is more difficult for officers to identify them as the thieves, Rakow said. 
"Students look like students," he said. 
Both Rakow and Hurley stressed diligence on the part of members of the University com­munity until the security depart­ment establishes, if possible, more efficient measures or apprehends those responsible. 
"I think students need to be diligent and aware of who's messing around with book bags and who looks out of place," 
week. Firsthand nutritional in_formation will be distrib­uted on handouts in the Noble Family dining hall on Wednesday, and confidential screenings for eating disor­ders will take place on Thursday. The screenings will be open from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. in the center for Career and Counseling Development. 
Also Thursday, the movie "Real Women Have Curves" will be shown in Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. Door prizes will be gfven out and Rakow said. 
Despite the recent theft trend, however, students remained unconcerned in South Dining Hall Sunday. 
"I haven't had any problems," sophomore Jessica Voss said, adding that the only item of value she leaves in the lobby of South is her calculator. 
Freshman Justin Smith echoed Voss's opinions. 
"1, personally, don't keep any­thing valuable in the stuff I leave here," he said. 
He said it would be nice if stu­dents did not have to worry about their belongings disap­pearing while they ate, but Voss expressed a more resigned view. 
"People steal everywhere," Voss said. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
refreshments will be served. 
Eating Disorder Awareness Week will conclude Friday with more confidential screenings, which will be held from 2 to 4 p.m. in the center for Career and Counseling Development. 
The week is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Career and Counseling Development Center and the Office of Multicultural Affairs. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 


Saint Mary's College 


Presents 
~onia~ancli'ez 

Sor.ia Sanchez js a renowned writer, poet, and activist . San~z is thr author of o~r 16 books including the ""'inr.er of W 1985 American Book A ward in Poetry, Homtgirts and Handgrtr1adts. and her most rear.rly published work, Shake Loose My Skin. 
'f:eliruary :u,.tli' 
~arroff~udltorium 
7 o 'cfoc.k;p.m. 
SponiOCtd byThe <J..ii~ ofMulticulrural A.!bir$, The Cww: fur theWomer."t fr.ta-:u.lrutal Leadership_ and Worncn"t Studies. For toore infonnatiou, pleatie contact the Office'-'£ Multicultural Affainat 284-4721 

Take advantage ofa unique opportunity to study at 
Georgetown University next summer at special summer tuition rates. Choose from more than 300 undergraduate and graduate day and evening credit courses during three sessions. 
Pre-Session: May 24-June 18 First Session: June 7-July 9 Second Session: .July 12-August 13 
For information abrut programs for high school students, please Visit http://summerschool.georgetown.edu <X can: 202-687-571915832. 
Call 202-687-5942 for a 2004 Summer School Catalogue or visit our website. On­campus housing is available. Inquire about our partial tuition scholarships. 

./Jf~-~~ Georgetown University ~;~~! ·;~~~ School for Summer &Continuing Education -~..: -~ website: hHp://sumerschool.georgetown.edu ll~.'"'~ ~, email: summer@georgetown.edu 
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunty Jnstitut!On 

Monday, February 23, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Red Cross meets with Saddam 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -The international Red Cross visited Saddam Hussein in jail for the first time Saturday, and the ousted dictator wrote a letter to his family that will be deliv­ered once the United States confirms it does not contain any hidden messages to his fol­lowers. 
The announcement of the visit came after the U.S. administrator in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer, cited U.N. estimates that it may take 15 months to arrange elections -far longer than demanded by leading Iraqi politicians. 
The two-member International Committee of the Red Cross delegation, which included a doctor, spoke to Saddam privately at an undisclosed location in Iraq, spokeswoman Nada Doumani said. The announcement dis­pelled rumors the Americans had spirited Saddam out of the country following his Dec. 13 capture in a hole near Tikrit. 
AIbanians march on capital 
TIRANA, Albania.-Thousands of protest­ers marched past Albania's heavily fortified government headquarters on Saturday, demanding the prime minister resign over corruption allegations and his failure to improve living conditions in one of Europe's poorest nations. 
International observers estimated between 6,000 and 20,000 people participated in the march, organized by former President Sali Berisha's Democratic Party and nine other opposition groups. The groups have joined forces in their bid to unseat Prime Minister Fatos Nano and his Socialist-led government. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
S.F. mayor defends gay marriages 
SAN FRANCISCO -He's been called a renegade and a rogue, a thorn in the side of the Democratic Party's presidential ambi­tions. 
Yet what really matters to Mayor Gavin Newsom is what they're saying in the neigh­borhoods of San Francisco -that his deci­sion to buck California law and grant mar­riage licenses to gay and lesbian couples makes him a hero. 
"At the end of the day I sleep well, and in life there is nothing more important than that," Newsom said Saturday during an interview at City Hall, where nearly 3,200 same-sex couples have taken vows in the last 10 days. 
Edwards demands more debates 
ST. PAUL, Minn.-John Edwards sought to make the case Saturday that his presidential campaign represents a fight for change that sets him apart from John Kerry. He also kept up pressure on the front-runner to have more debates. 
Edwards and Kerry accepted an invitation to a debate on Feb. 29 in New York. Edwards called Friday for four debates before March 2, when 10 states hold contests. Kerry reject­ed that idea, although he has committed to the New York event and a long-scheduled debate in California Thursday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Woman arrested in mom's death 
MUNSTER-An 81-year-old woman was fatally stabbed and her body left in her home for at least four days before police officers entered and arrested the woman's daughter, authorities said. 
Police had received a tip that Margaret Jansky was dead inside her town house in the town just south of Hammond and found her body on Friday. 
Officers arrested 54-year-old Margaret Church, whom neighbors said is legally blind and lived with her mother. 
Church was being held on a preliminary charge of murder. Diane Poulton, a spokes­woman for the Lake County prosecutor's office, said additional information would not be released until formal charges could be 
· filed Monday. 
------------------------------------------------------------.--­
Nader enters presidential race 
Democrats, still stinging from Gore loss, condemn independent's campaign 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Consumer advocate Ralph 
Nader announced Sunday 
he is running again for 
president, this time as an 
independent, and rejected 
claims that a longshot can­
didacy would merely 
siphon enough votes from 
the Democrats to ensure 
President Bush's re-elec­
tion. 

But Nader's.decision was 
greeted with a chorus of 
condemnation from 
Democrats, longtime 
friends and former sup­
porters who blame him for 
Al Gore's loss four years 
ago. They suggested that 
Nader would not pull close 
to the 2. 7 percent of the 
vote he won before without 
the backing of an estab­
lished party and some of 
his past supporters. 
Republicans resisted the people into the political and a longtime Nader the same page of wanting temptation to gloat as party arena." friend, called Nader's deci­to retire our supremely chairman Ed Gillespie pro­Nader said he will mount sion "counterproductive." elected president, George claimed that Bush would a national campaign as an Even the Green Party, W. Bush." win a second term no mat­independent to highlight whose banner Nader car­Nader predicted he ter who runs. Mississippi issues he claims the major ried four years ago, chose would get more net votes Gov. Haley Barbour, a for­parties are ignoring, to focus on its own priori­from conservatives and lib­mer Republican National including universal health ties. eral Republicans dissatis­Committee chairman, said, care, rising poverty and "Our midterm goal is the fied with Bush's record "It will make less difference environmental concerns. creation of a multiparty than from registered than the Democrats fear, Democratic Na tionaI political system and the Democrats. but I know they're very Committee chairman Terry participation of a strong Democratic officials on nervous about it." McAuliffe, who personally Green Party in that sys­Sunday claimed that Nader 
In getting into the White ·urged Nader not to run, tem," said Ben Manski, the has promised not criticize House sweepstakes, Nader called the decision "unfor­party's co-chairman. . the Democratic nominee declared that Washington tunate." But Nader dismissed his but, rather, focus his has become "corporate "You know, he's had a critics among "the liberal ammunition on the Bush occupied territory" and he whole distinguished career, intelligentsia," and called administration. Nader accused both Democrats fighting for working fami­the spoiler moniker "con­acknowledged the pledge and Republicans .of being lies, and I would hate to see temptuous." but said it does not mean dominated by corporate part of his legacy being that "It shows how hostage he will refrain from criticiz­lobbyists who "care little" he got us eight years of they are to the antiquated ing Democrats if the_y about the needs of ordinary George Bush," McAuliffe electoral system and how attack him. ''I'm not going Americans. said on CBS's "Face the unwilling they are to to avoid responding," he 
"It's a question between Nation." oppose and change it," he told The AP. both parties flunking," Gov. Bill Richardson of said in an interview with Nader, who scheduled a Nader said on NBC's "Meet New Mexico minced no The Associated Press. "I news conference Monday to the Press," where he chose words. "It's a total act of would urge them to calm discuss his issues, said he to make his announcement. ego," he said. down, start reflecting, be plans to begin campaigning He asserted that "it's time Liberal Vermont Rep. tolerant of democracy and this week on Bush's home to change the equation and ' Bernie Sanders, the only freedom and watch events turf of Texas, where he will bring millions of American independent in the House unfold since we're all on focus on Bush's record. 

HAITI 

Rebels take major city in uprising 
Bertrand Aristide. for places to hide in case the capital is 
Aristide supporters commandeered attacked. 
CAP-HAITIEN -Rebels captured a plane from the airport, and witness­On the highway leading into Port­Haiti's second-largest city with little es said those who fled on it included au-Prince from the north, Aristide resistance Sunday, claiming Cap­seven police officers and former partisans set up flaming barricades Haitien as their biggest prize in a Aristide lawmaker Nawoum Sunday to block any rebel advance. two-week uprising that has driven Marcellus, whose Radio Africa had In Cap-Haitien, thousands shouting government forces from half the been inciting violence against oppo­"Aristide fini!" -Aristide is finished country. nents. -marched along with about 40 
The fighters shot off celebratory "We came in today and we took rebels in commandeered cars. rounds in the air as people looted and Cap-Haitien; tomorrow we take Port­"We're free!" people shouted, rip­torched buildings, sending a pall of au-Prince" the capital. boasted Lucien ping Aristide posters off walls. black smoke over the city of 500,000. Estime, a 19-year-old who joined the. Some looted Marcellus' radio sta­
Rebel leader Guy Philippe had popular rebellion from the hamlet of tion. Then rebels shot up a building vowed to take Cap-Haitien and Port­Saint Raphael, south of Cap-Haitien. and set it ablaze, to applause from au-Prince during Carnival festivities "Our mission is to liberate Haiti," he the crowd. that extend to Tuesday night. Philippe said. Reporters saw three bodies on the has told reporters there already are The victory leaves more than half of streets, and doctors said a 12-year­rebels in the capital, just waiting for Haiti beyond control of the central old-girl also was shot and killed. At the signal to attack. government. As that reality set in, least one rebel was wounded. · 
Rebels said their force of about 200 panic began spreading Sunday in Earlier, about 10 armed men only met resistance at the Cap­Port-au-Prince. stormed the police station and freed Haitien airport. They said eight peo­Sources close to the government about 250 prisoners. The police fled ple were killed in fighting with mili­told The Associated Press that several and the prisoners armed themselves, tant civilians loyal to President Jean-Cabinet ministers were asking friends witness Ordil Jean said. 

page 6 Monday, February 23, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
wav 

·, N46631 
212.1441 
Fax: 514.212.146.1 

Monday, February 23, 2004 page 7 
. MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 619.03 -45.70
}ones ' 
*~*~=­

FTSE IOO(London) 4,515.00 -0.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +0.37  +0.11  30.00  
CISCO SYffiMS (CSCO)  -2.07  -0.49  23.19  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  +0.42  +0.11  26.57  
JDS UNIPHASE QDSU)  + 1.43  +0.07  4.98  
APPLIED MATL (AMAT)  -1.72  -0.38  21.75  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.90  +0.44  49.53  
10-YEAR NOTE  + 1.14  +0.46  40.98  
5-YEARNOTE  T 1.92  +0.58  30.73  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.44  +0.04  9.16  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.38  34.26  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -12.30  398.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.575  97.25  
Exchon  Rates  
YEN  108.9  
EURO  0.7991  
POUND  0.5376  
CANADIAN$  1.337  

IN BRIEF 
Consumer index jumps in Jan. 
WASHINGTON -"The Consumer Price 
Index, the government's most closely watched 
inflation gauge, rose by 0.5 percent, more 
than double December's 0.2 percent increase, 
the Labor Department reported Friday. Much 
of the January jump was blamed on sharply 
higher energy prices, reflecting a cold snap in 
parts of the country, strong global demand 
and tight supplies, economists said. 
Excluding energy and food prices, which tend to swing widely from month to month, the core rate of inflation increased by a mild 
0.2 percent in January, up from a 0.1 percent increase in December but suggesting that prices for many goods and services remain fairly stable. 
Microsoft fights back in lawsuit 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. argued Friday that its conduct in breaking into the digital ' media field "constitutes permissible competi­tive activity," and accused rival RealNetworks of using an antitrust lawsuit to gain market share. 
The Redmond-based software giant was responding to an antitrust lawsuit that Seattle­based RealNetworks filed last December in 
U.S. District Court in San Jose, Calif. 
Microsoft's response, filed Friday, indicated -as expected -that the software giant would vigorously defend itself. 
Boeing to cut jobs in Air Force row 
CHICAGO -Boeing Co. said Friday it is reducing efforts to convert its 767 planes for use as Air Force refueling tankers as a result of government reviews into the controversial program -a move that will result in as many 150 job cuts at its plants in Wichita and Seattle. 
CEO Harry Stonecipher said 600 Boeing employees at those locations will be shifted to other work as the company slows development on a delayed Air Force project that has been costing it about $1 million a day. 
The cutback comes after the Pentagon ordered three additional reviews into Boeing's plan to lease and sell 100 jets to the Air Force for use as refueling tankers. 
WIRELESS SERVICES 
'Merger mania' goes wireless 
Investment banks jockey for position after Cingular buyout of AT&T Wireless 
Associated Press 
· t ~ ~ingular
NEW YORK -There are 
C·8II Ph008 1180 .AMWireJes
other ways to measure a 
cell phone company other 
The proposed merger between Cingularand AT&T would push
than size. With the taste of freshly 
Verizon into second place among U.S. cell service providers. 
spilled banking fees chum­
ming the waters, Wall 
Total u.s. subscribers In millions, as of Dec. 31 t 2003 
Street's sharks are already 
preaching the lucrative 
gospel of "bigger is better" 
to the presumably hapless 
"little" guys like Sprint 
Corp., Nextel Communi­
cations Inc. and T-Mobile. 
In reality, since Nextel and T-Mobile were already contending with a rival three times their size in Verizon Wireless, many strategists are not so con­vinced that the emergence of a competitor four times their size suddenly means they'll need to find their own merger partners to survive. 
And months before the· AT&T Wireless auction began in January, Sprint rebuffed a friendly proposal "When you define heft monumental costs of oper­operations, eliminating the by Verizon Communi­you've got to be careful," ating a single wireless busi­need for thousands of work­cations, industry sources said Jack Rooney, president ness across a far larger cus­ers. Stores can be closed on familiar with the overture and chief executive of U.S. tomer base. streets and in malls where have told The Associated Cellular, which recently But Bruce Greenwald, both companies have out­Press on condition of launched service in professor of economic strat­lets. anonymity. Again, while the Chicago, it's biggest market egy at Columbia Business Then there's added pur­Cingular deal promises to yet. ''In five of the major School, cautioned that heav­chasing power with suppli­change the competitive markets where we've been iest costs of a wireless busi­ers of cell phones and net­landscape, not all industry for a number of years, we ness are c oncentrated on work equipment. And, hav­observers would contend are the dominant carrier. In the local level. Geographic ing spent well more than that Sprint needs to go the sixth, we're tied for size can be a disadvantage half a billion dollars each on rushing back into Verizon's number one. if a company's customers advertising in 2003, the arms. "We're up against five or are too spread out, a prob­companies can choose to 
Sprint, T-Mobile and six of [the national wireless lem he see·s with the save substantial amount in Nextel have adamantly carriers] in every market, Cingular-AT&T Wireless marketing a single brand. maintained they can still go so we've been very success­combination. Despite those benefits, it alone. So has U.S. ful competing with these "The guys who are prof­there are mantras other Cellular, a feisty player in guys." itable dominate local mar­than size in the telecommu­smaller cities which has less No doubt, there are kets. It's all local economies nications industry -bun­than a tenth of the 46 mil­advantages to corporate of scale," said Greenwald. dled services, advanced fea­lion customers that a com­heft. By joining forces, There will be savings in tures and specialization bined Cingular and AT&T Cingular and AT&T combining customer serv­being among the most pop­Wireless can boast. Wireless can spread the ice, network and back office ular. 

CORPORATE SCANDAL 
Martha tries to get charges tossed 
Besides securities fraud, the remain­Friday, Cedarbaum pressed prosecu­
Associated Press 
ing counts relate to whether Stewart tor Karen Patton Seymour to prove 
NEW YORK -Lawyers for Martha and .Bacanovic tried to cover up the Stewart intended to defraud investors. Stewart and her former stockbroker true reason Stewart sold 3,928 shares Seymour responded by pointing to a will try to persuade a federal judge of ImClone Systems stock on Dec. 27, speech Stewart gave at an investor Monday to throw out some of the 2001, just before it took a dive. conference on June 19, 2002 -an charges in their stock-trading trial. The government contends appearance she was not required to 
U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Bacanovic sent word to Stewart that make -in which she tried to calm Cedarbaum will hear an hour of argu­ImClone founder Sam Waksal was investor worries by claiming her ments-20 minutes each for Stewart, frantically trying to sell his shares. ImClone sale was proper. broker Peter Bacanovic and prosecu­Stewart and Bacanovic claim they had "She knew and she hoped investors tors -on whether any of the five a standing agreement to unload the would rely on her word," Seymour counts each against them should be ImClone shares when the stock price said. "She didn't just say it for no rea­dismissed. hit $60. son. She said it purposefully." 
The judge on Friday appeared par­The securities fraud count refers to Stewart's lawyer Robert Morvillo ticularly interested in whether to three statements Stewart and her said Stewart was simply trying to strike the securities fraud count lawyers made in June 2002 in which clear her name against a rumor that against Stewart. It accuses her of they insisted she sold because of the eventually pr<>ved to be false-specu­deceiving investors in her media con­$60 agreement. lation that she had advance word that glomerate, Martha Stewart Living Prosecutors say the statement was a the government would reject an appli­Omnimedia. deliberate ploy to prop up the stock cation to review ImClone's cancer 
Cedarbaum referred to that charge price of Martha Stewart Living drug. as "the most problematic" of the Omnimedia. Stewart stood to lose $30 The government never criminally counts but indicated it was highly million for every dollar the stock in accused Stewart of knowing about the unlikely she would dismiss all the her company fell. report, only that Waksal was trying to counts. In a brief argument on the charge sell. 
Monday, February 23, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Biotech wheat last hurdle for industry 
Governors to hold meeting with Bush 
Arnold Schwarzenegger and
Associated Press 
others. He thanked the gover­
WASHINGTON -Despite the nors for their efforts on home­rising tensions and rhetoric of a land security. . presidential race, the nation's "We're still at war," Bush governors are looking to said. "The war on terror is a President Bush and his admin­new kind of war in which every istration for more support on American is threatened and education, health care and job­every level of government must producing road spending. work together." 
Bush was to sit down Monday Earlier in the day, governors with governors, along with his met privately with the top Cabinet officials, for a wide­National Guard general and ranging discussion on the most Homeland Security chief Tom 
pressing  issues  Ridge to express  
facing the states.  their  concerns  
Republican and Democratic lead­ers of the National Governors  "We have to kind of step back and rethink the whole  about the increasing demands on Guard units in  
Association,  at  picture.··  the fight against  
their annual four­ terrorism.  
day annual meet­ing here, urged  Mike Huckabee  "It's we're  not not  that sup­ 
consensus.  But  Arkansas governor  portive of the war  
others said that  on terrorism and  
was unlikely.  the war in Iraq,"  

"I don't think you can count said Republican Gov. Mike on the national governors as Huckabee of Arkansas. "We being an effective lobbying have to kind of step back and force. It's an election year," said rethink the whole picture." Like Democratic New Mexico Gov. other governors, he said part­Bill Richardson. "I suspect the time soldiery has seen a trans­meeting with the president will formation in recent years. be a little contentious. National Guard and Reserve Respectful, but contentious." soldiers make up about 22 per­
Bush welcomed the governors cent of the forces in Iraq. That and their spouses to a formal level is expected to rise to near­dinner at the White House ly 40 percent as a result of Sunday night, sitting himself at force rotations in the coming a table with California GOP Gov. months. 
HUNGRY? Grab a 
HUNGRY? So are they... DONATE MONEY to 
Pick up your "Rice Bowl" Monday, 2123 & Tuesday, 2124 at DeBartolo and O'Shag before morning classes ­First 500 receive a free Krispy Kreme Doughnut!! 
Sponsored by the Class Councils 
Associated Press 
WICHITA, Kan. -More than 10,000 years after nomadic hunters first harvested stands of wild wheat, researchers are working on genetically engi­neering mankind's oldest crop in what may become the last stand in the battle over biotech foods. 
With a genome five times the size of the human genome, wheat is so complex that it is one of the last major crops to undergo genetic manipulation. The staple food ha_s become the center of the fight over genetically modified organ­isms. 
Genetically modified wheat won't be released to farmers until it is approved by the Environmental Protection Agency, Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Agriculture Department. 
"For the non-GM people this is their last fight on a major crop," said Harold Trick, a wheat researcher and assis­tant professor at Kansas State University. "If this fails, it will be hard for them to come back from that., 

Consumers in Europe and parts of Asia worry that geneti­cally modified foods are unsafe and could harm the environ­ment. 
The battle lines on biotech wheat are being drawn in North Dakota, where oppo­nents are proposing a ballot measure that would give the state agriculture commissioner power to decide whether farm­ers may plant the crop. 
What worries growers most is whether they will be able export genetically modified wheat. 
More than half of the spring wheat grown in the United States is exported, and about 47 percent of those exports are now going to countries that have said they won't accept genetically modified wheat, according to the Center for Agricultural Policy and Trade Studies at North Dakota State University. 
But the furor over transgenic wheat has yet to flare up in Kansas, the nation's biggest wheat grower. 
Kansas grows winter wheat varieties. The introduction of biotech wheat will begin with spring wheat -which is 
grown  primarily  in  North  
Dakota,  Montana,  South  
Dakota and Minnesota.  

St. Louis-based Monsanto Co. says it is developing a geneti­cally modified spring wheat that, within six years, would enable farmers to spray weed killer without killing the wheat. 
Such a trait is of far less interest to winter wheat grow­ers, who plant their crops in the fall and harvest them in early summer before most weeds have a chance to take hold, said David Frey, adminis­trator of the Kansas Wheat Commission. 
The Kansas Wheat Commission -a grower-fund­ed advocacy group whose mis­sion is global wheat marketing -is funding much of the genetic research at Kansas 
·state University. 
I I I

C)S PU B 417 N. Michigan Street 
I WEDN E·SDAY'S I 
. I UPPER CLASS NITE I I
MUST BE 21 WITH A VALID ID 
I 

ALL DRINKS, PITCHERS : 
11 HALF PRICE'' I 
1 OPM -CLOSE I 
Karaoke • Pool • Golf • Video • Shuffle Board • Darts ~ 
OPEN SUNDAYS 1 nm 1
~~~~~.----~~--~K~~ I
Buckets and Shooter Specials· Food 1pm-9pm 
I WED 8l FRI LENT SPECIALS I 
I

popcorn shrimp n' fries • fried clam strips n' fries 
I

fish n' chips -fish sand n' fries 
MON TUES THURS I I 
Pint draft and Pitcher Specials 5pm -Close I FRI N' SAT I I 
Buckets and Drink Pint Specials 5pm -Close 
I 

MUST BE 21 WITH A VALID ID TO DRINK I NO AGE LIMIT TO EAT I 
--------------------------· 
••~ Notre Dame Basketball Stet 
Cheerleaders and Chips and Salsa Porn-Squad will sampling will take be in action! I.~I Vis t th<:: Prum(~ i11m~ & place following the GiVC\J&.'\1~1;'~.; l ir,.k on 
...,. ... 

game ra
W'\'W .ll mJ ..Xll11 

....--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 23, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
NIGERIA 
Islamic state protests polio vaccination 
Associated Press 
KADUNA -A northern Islamic state in Nigeria that is at the heart of a spreading Africa polio outbreak declared Sunday it would not relent on its boycott of a mass vaccina­tion program that it has called a U.S. plot to spread AIDS and infertility among Muslims. 
"Kano state will not partici­pate in tomorrow's polio cam­paign. Our team made the dis­covery of contaminants first, remember.'' state government spokesman Sule Ya'u Sule told The Associated Press, referring to tests the state says its scien­tists conducted on the polio vaccine last year. 
"Unless we are convinced by our committee [of health experts] that the oral polio vac­cines are safe, the exercise remains suspended in Kano state," Sule said. 
U.N. aid agencies insist the door-to-door drive to inoculate 63 million children in 10 west and central African countries, including Nigeria, is critical to stemming a growing polio out­break spreading out from Nigeria's predominantly Muslim north. 
Globally, the World Health Organization says the standoff endangers a massive effort that had worked toward stamping out polio entirely. The 16-year-old public health project has reduced the num­ber of cases worldwide from 350,000 in 1988 to fewer than 1,000 last year. 
Nigerian officials had hoped to resolve the controversy by dispatching a team of scien­tists, politicians and Islamic religious leaders to observe a battery of tests on the vaccines in South Africa and India earli­er this month. 
Nigeria Health Minister Eyitayo Lambo would not divulge the outcome of the visit, which he said ended last week. He gave no explanation of why the results were not being revealed -saying only that Nigeria's government 
AFGHANISTAN 
One dead in attack of 
private U.S. helicopter 
Associated Press 
THALOQAN -A lone attacker sprayed a U.S. com­pany's helicopter with gunfire as it prepared to take off from a southern Afghan village Sunday, killing the Australian pilot and seriously wounding at least one American passen­ger. 
Four foreigners and an Afghan interpreter had come in the helicopter to inspect the construction of a health clinic in the village of Thaloqan, about 40 miles southwest of 
the  provincial  capital,  
Kandahar.  
The group  was  about to  

leave when a man armed with a Kalashnikov assault rifle attacked the helicopter and then fled, said Khalid Pashtoon, spokesman for gov­ernor of Kandahar province. 
The Australian pilot was killed and an American woman who was helping set up health clinics in the region was seriously wounded, a U.S. Embassy spokesman told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
Officials said the helicopter belonged to The Louis Berger Group Inc., an engineering firm based in East Orange, 
N.J. that oversees infrastruc­ture projects in southern Afghanistan. 
Mike Staples, a public rela­tions official for Louis Berger in Kabul, refused to comment. 
Afghan forces were search­ing house-to-house for the suspect in the area, where rebels of the former ruling Taliban regime are active. Pashtoon said the village was home to the Hezb-e-Islami group of renegade warlord . Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a key Taliban ally. 
After Sunday's shooting, about 100 U.S. troops and 100 'Afghan forces cordoned off the site as a U.S. military heli­
copter hoisted the bullet-rid­dled helicopter away. 
In a statement, the U.S. mili­tary condemned the shooting as a "senseless and violent criminal attack," and urged tribal elders and other locals to hand over the assailant. 
A man claiming to speak for the Taliban, Abdul Samad, telephoned the AP in Kabul about six hours after the attaek and said the hard-line Islamic militia was responsi­ble. 
That claim could not be independently confirmed, and Samad's description of the shooting -which he said involved eight guerrillas ­was at odds with witness accounts. 
A U.S. military quick reac­tion force evacuated the injured personnel to a military hospital at Kandahar airfield, said military spokesman Lt. Col. Bryan Hilferty. 
Insurgent attacks in lawless southern and eastern Afghanistan have become commonplace over the past year despite continuing efforts to hunt down the Taliban and their allies, including al­Qaida. 
U.S. military officials say the rebels have started going after "soft" civilian targets after incurring heavy losses in bat­tles with coalition forces last summer. 
The attacks appear aimed at undermining the U.S.-backed government of President Hamid Karzai and reconstruc­tion efforts in the country, which is struggling to emerge from a quarter-century of war. 
Pashtoon complained that the local authorities had not been given prior notice that the foreigners were visiting Sunday. 
"They had not informed us. They had not asked us about security. They had no coordi­nation with us," he said. 
would forge ahead with the campaign regardless of opposi­tion. 
"We are not going to be both­ered" by the boycott, Lambo told The Associated Press, without elaborating. "The immunization is going ahead as planned. We have got our results and we are going ahead with the immunization." 
Mukhtar Sirajo, state govern­ment spokesman for Kaduna, another of the northern states where vaccinations had been blocked last year, told the AP that his state will allow Monday's emergency immu­nization campaign. But Sirajo did not rule out the possibility of the ban being reintroduced if Kaduna decided the results of the latest tests cast new doubts on vaccine safety. 
Immunization efforts "will not be stopped," he said. "But it is only fair that we hear from the verification team including all the stakeholders." 
There was no immediate word Sunday whether 
Zamfara, the third northern state that had banned the vac­cine, would now allow the emergency immunization cam­paign. 
Kano had been expected to deny permission for the emer­gency campaign. 
In October, similar door-to­door drives were blocked entirely in Kano, Zamfara and Kaduna. 
Residents in other northern states where volunteers tried to administer the oral vaccine house-to-house to toddlers and infants were frequently turned away by residents. Homeowners at times report­edly set dogs upon the volun­teer health workers. 
The boycott by Kano, where 89 cases since January 2003 made it the epicenter of the outbreak, "puts more children at risk from being crippled by polio, not only in Nigeria but also the region," said Gerrit Beger, spokesman for the United Nations Children's Fund in Ahuja. 
IRAN 
Hard-liners dominate 
parliamentary elections 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -The profile of Iran's new parliament took shape Sunday, with an out­come that the opposition had said was all but preordained: a hard-line core, even in the liberal bastion of Tehran. 
.There were fewer women and apparent gains for law­makers holding atomic sci­ence backgrounds. One con­servative leader said the new parliament may try to play a more prominent role in for­eign policy and the nuclear sphere as the Islamic state confronts suspicions that it is trying to develop nuclear weapons. 
The r(tsults from the Friday election had been widely expected after hard-liners barred more than 2,400 can­didates, many of them reform­ers, from participating. Liberals had called for a nationwide voting boycott to spoil he conservatives' victory. 
Turnout appeared to hover at around 50 percent, Interior Ministry sources said on cot:t­dition of anonymity. More than 67 percent of voters turned out in the last parlia­ment elections in 2000 in a pro-reform landslide. 
The conservative bloc -a mix of hard-liners and others considered loyal to the ruling clerics -had won at least 135 seats in the 290-member chamber, according to Interior Ministry figures. In Tehran, previously a liberal strong­hold, the conservatives were firmly in the lead. Reformers and self-described independ­ents had about 65 seats over­all. 
That put conservatives on the threshold of the 146 seats needed to claim a majority. The final tally was not expect­ed until at least Mondav. 
The nuclear questions could be the first serious test of the restored bonds between the leadership and parliament. 
The United States suspects Iran of conducting a secret program to build nuclear weapons. Iran denies the accusations and insists it seeks only energy-producing reactors. 
U.N. nuclear investigators also are looking into the extent of Iran's weapons-mak­ing capabilities and past links with Pakistan's nuclear pio­neer, Abdul Qadeer Khan, who has admitted selling technology and know-how. 
The main conservative fac­tion poised to dominate par­liament has brought several nuclear specialists into its ranks. The move by the Abadgaran lran-e-Islami, or Developers of Islamic Iran, could be an effort to gain a greater voice in the nuclear talks. 
Currently, nuclear issues are directed by the Islamic regime led by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
Abadgaran leader Gholamali Haddadadel, who has been assured a seat in the new parliament, told The Associated Press that he hopes the legislature can develop "a more credible voice" on issues such as nuclear development and for­eign policy. 
Haddadadel, whose daugh­ter is married to Khamenei's son, also said his party will use its nuclear experts and others to speak against "U.S. pressure" on the IAEA. The United States accuses Iran of pursuing nuclear weapons. 
Iranian lawmakers have very little room to make inde­pendent policies or initiatives. But the liberals will be denied an important forum to chal­lenge the non-elected clerical establishment that has final say in almost all affairs. 
SOUTH KOREA 
U.S., allies 
discuss nuke crisis 
Associated Press 
SEOUL -Efforts to resolve the North Korean nuclear cri­sis intensified Sunday as the United States and Asian allies met in Seoul to forge a com­mon stance ahead of crucial six-nation talks. 
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly and Japanese Foreign Ministry Director General Mitoji Yabunaka arrived in Seoul on Sunday to hammer out details with their South Korean coun­terpart Deputy Foreign Minister Lee Soo-hyuck. 
The United States, Japan and South Korea agree that North Korea's alleged uranium-based atomic weapons program must be addressed in the upcoming negotiations. 

But South Korea and Japan have recently focused on North Korea's offer to freeze its nuclear activities as a first step to resolving the standoff, in return for economic conces­sions from the United States. But Washington has demanded that North Korea first start dis­mantling its nuclear programs. 
Wednesday's six-way meet­ing in Beijing between the United States, the two Koreas, China, Russia and Japan will try to make progress on those issues. 
South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-moon said Sunday that any North Korean nuclear freeze must also allow inspections. 
"On the assumption that nuclear inspections should fol­low, North Korea's freeze of its nuclear weapons programs must be the first step toward the ultimate abolition of them, including the one based on highly enriched uranium," Ban told S<>uth Korea's Yonhap News Agency during a trip to Saudi Arabia. 
North Korea has said it would allow inspections, if a deal is brokered. But it is unclear how much freedom any outside inspectors would have in the tightly controlled country. 
Earlier Sunday in Tokyo, Japanese Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi said "every­thing depends" on North Korea at the upcoming talks. 
"On the one hand, they could break down in a day," she said of the talks. "On the other, in a best-case scenario, North Korea would acknowledge pos­sessing enriched uranium, agree to give up all its nuclear activities and invite inspec­tions." 
North Korea's alleged urani­um-based nuclear program could be a key stumbling block in the Beijing talks. The nuclear crisis flared in late 2002 when U.S. officials said North Korea acknowledged having the program in viola­tion of a 1994 agreement. 
North Korea has since denied having a secret uranium pro­gram, in addition to its plutoni­um-based one, and on Saturday called the U.S. accu­sation a "whopping lie." 
China has annoy·ed the United States by accepting North Korea's denial concern­ing a uranium program. 


Election 2004: Choosing the path of America's future 
Years from now, most people will remember George Bush's 2000-04 pres­idency as a time when America took on the world. 
Republicans will think back to the days when Bush, our Greg Parnell 
courageous general. warned renegade governments and mil-Ideas. Issues 
itant groups that and Ideologuesoppression and ter­rorism would no longer be tolerated and then followed through on his vow. Democrats will recall a vision of President Bush as a cowboy, whose fool­ish foreign policy alienated our country from the rest of the world. Many other 
issues are important when it comes to our current president, but I believe that for most of us, our like or dislike of 
Bush primarily comes down to this sin­gle issue of unilateralism. 
Should the United States take actions that we deem to be appropriate, when other nations around the world dis­agree? This question is the legacy of the Bush term so far. Do we need the United Nations or a system of international courts? Will our movements be blocked if the international community rises against us? What matters more -the support of foreign governments or the support of foreign populations them­selves? 
To be completely honest, unilateralism has very real benefits, as well as dan­gerous costs. First, actions such as the war in Iraq demonstrate to hostile groups that they no longer have any · room for error. The U.N. passed resolu­tion after resolution, but prior to our military action against Saddam Hussein, tyrants and oligarchies were able to feel relatively safe that these demands were nothing but hollow threats. Saddam, in essence, tried to call Bush's bluff, think­ing that America would not dare move before garnering more popular support. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
He was wrong. 

Saddam used to have palaces, riches 
and power; he has been reduced to cold 
meals in a high-security jail cell. 
Whether the war itself was justified or 
not, it cannot be denied that this unilat­
eral action will be a very effective deter­
rent for leaders who would dare chal­
lenge the sincerity of America's warn­
ings in the near future. From this point, 
these leaders know exactly what will 
happen if they cross the line, and will be 
extremely careful not to do so. 
It will take some time to determine 
just how pervasive this deterrent really 
is. Under pressure from the United 
States in December, Libya announced 
that it was giving up all hopes for 
nuclear arms and opening its doors to 
U.N. weapons inspectors. Dr. El­Baradei, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, seemed convinced when he said, "Libya has shown a good deal of cooperation, a 
·good deal of openness." Soon after, Syria requested that the 
U.N. pass a resolution calling for a ban on all nuclear, biological and chemical weapons in the Middle East. Granted, it was in part a move against Israel. Syria's enemy and the only state in the region known for certain to have opera­tional nuclear weapons. However, the nature of the request suggests also that some of the most aggressive nations in today's world have decided that the costs of pursuing nuclear weapons have become too great to bear. I think it is safe to conclude this is at least partially because no leader wants to find himself in the cell next to Saddam. 
On the other hand, the United States, too, must pay up, in a way, for acting unilaterally. Officially, we moved against Iraq because it possessed weapons of mass destruction that put our nation in imminent danger. Yet no such weapons have been found, and experts report it is unlikely that they ever will be. 
To a critical observer, this makes the Bush administration's decisions highly manipulative and devious. A govern­ment that knows there is insufficient physical evidence and therefore must "sell" the case, like a used car sales­man, cannot be tolerated. More impor­tantly, it creates an international under­standing that we will do whatever we want to do, regardless of how other nations feel about it. In such a world, nations will not be quick to come to our aid. 
This is a dangerous road to be follow­ing. Perhaps today, we are strong enough to exist without much interna­tional support. However, the system will evolve, and one day, we will not be so powerful. It is foolish and naive to think that of all the great civilizations formed throughout history, ours is somehow dif­ferent and will be the first one to be invincible. It may seem that we can alienate foreign governments now, but history suggests that such arrogance will only speed our fall, not prevent it. Furthermore, as globalization brings the world ever closer, the value of inter­national cooperation and support is only going to increase. 
Consider this issue above all the oth­ers when thinking about the presiden­tial candidates this year. If Bush retains the presidency, America's hard line against our enemies may indeed keep our borders safer, especially in the short term. If a Democrat takes office, expect an attempt to rebuild the international relations that are currently in a state of disarray. One of these paths will be America's future. Choose wisely. 
Greg Parnell is a sophomore political science and economics major. His col­umn appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at gparnell@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

!..:... ::::.. TODAY'S STAFF . 
:·.::..!.:·'_::'_:·_::·:. . 
,.,,....,.··.·•·•·News ·Sports·· . 
OBSERVER POLL 
..=: ·:'arure Heininger · Justfu Schriver.· . Matthew . Steve Coyer 
·Kate Gales
Smedberg ,: ·•··•·· . ···· ..<···s ........................

Matt Bramanti . ·. · cene 

Where do you go to Mass?
Viewpoint•.•-· · Ma.fiaSmith ·. · 
•Eileen Duffy Illustrator . .=:: Graphics ··• ·' .··Pat Quill Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
-•• · Mike Harkins 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'The future is the worst thing about the present... 
Gustave Flaubert French novelist 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending the decision to drink 
Consumption of alcohol present throughout ancient Greece, the Bible 
I am writing in response to Ryan Iafigliola's Feb. 20 column expressing his opinion that the wicked­ness of alcohol makes it difficult for non-drinkers to survive on this campus. I don't know what kind of parties Ryan has attended, but the vast majority of parties I've been to on campus have been com­prised of both people who drink and those who do not-· those who go, instead, simply to socialize with others. I do not see this clear-cut divide of the student population, of those who drink and 
This school certainly does not encourage drink­ing. It has and enforces many alcoholic policies, such as the banning of hard alcohol in dorms. My question to Ryan is this: You claim that this school offers too few opportunities to non-drinkers, but what more could you possibly expect from our University? I look all around and see many events, especially on weekends, that this campus offers. Since it is obvious that we do not live in a college 
town, I feel that Notre Dame has done its best 
Football solution flawed 
Following a 10-win season in 2002, Notre Dame's football 
team struggled to a 5-7 mark in 2003 against one of the tough­
est schedules in collegiate football history. While many Irish fans 
remain optimistic about the possibility of aRe-Return to Glory in 
2004, a group of frustrated (and, I must add, more distin­
guished) alumni have expressed disappoint­
ment with the program via a letter to the Mike 
University's Board Of Trustees. Marchand 
The letter was sent to the Board before their 
winter meetings earlier this month. When the Unditinguished 
Board didn't respond or address any of the Alumnus 
issues, the independent Web site NDNation 
(whose members were the authors) posted it and invited other 
alums to sign it. Although critical, sometimes harshly so, of the 
direction of the program, in their final analysis, the writers 
make three suggestions which have little to do with the on-field 
play: making football the preeminent focus of the Athletic 
Department, giving the Athletic Director more control over the 
coach-hiring process and appointing a layperson to the 
Executive Vice President position. These are reasonable, princi­
pled proposals, and I agree heartily with their implementation. 
Only, I didn't sign the letter. 
I have absolutely no problem with the plans, only the manner in which they were presented. First, the letter states that win­ning football, along with academic distinction and Catholic val­ues, represent "the three pillars on which the University was built." Although I agree that football has helped Notre Dame "hold its unique place among American universities," the "pil­lar" analogy is still flawed. For one, I highly doubt Father Sorin arrived at the lakes in 1842 and envisioned the University he created to be fundamentally supported by a sport that hadn't even been invented. Also, as vitally important as football is, Notre Dame was, is, and always will be a scholastic university with a football program, not the other way around. Equating football with learning and Catholicism is a disservice to the lat­ter two. The football program is best seen as the vehicle by which hundreds of thousands of young men (and eventually. women) came to recognize how wonderful Our Lady's University is. At best, to refine the analogy, it buttresses the other two pil­lars. 
Second, while the authors explicitly claim that the letter "is not a call to fire Tyrone Willingham," the underlying intent is clear that the writers desire his removal. Willingham is the only person associated with the program to even be mentioned by name in the letter, and considering that the authors argue that the program is in marked decline, especially recently, to only name Willingham is a subtle note that they believe his leader­ship to be distinctively inadequate. They also believe (as per their second recommendation) that Willingham's employment was the result of "ineffective and unaccountable" hiring prac­tices and the latest in "a series of mediocre and poorly vetted coaching hires." 
My third qualm is with some of the people who've gone on record as agreeing with the letter's intent, specifically certain members of NDNation.com. While intelligent people (obviously, considering their alma mater) and possessing the best of inten­tions for both the football program and the University, these are not the people I wish to see issuing judgments. For example, in an exposition called "Hard evidence that the ACP has fully infil­trated the student body," one message board poster claims that "[Father Edward] Malloy is succeeding in his effort to jade the student body with persistently piss poor football in order to fully instill his culture of indifference." By the way, "ACP" stands for "Ass Clown Posse," a term which, near as I can figure, is used on just about anybody who has any sort of disagreement, includ­ing most members of the NDToday.com message boards, who are mostly students and young alumni. 
The "Hard evidence" thread was a specific response to NDToday, and it wasn't pretty. Some brief excerpts: "[T]he majority of posters there are geeks to the highest degree"; "They should have just enrolled someplace else. They really should have. They are a disgrace to the history of our University"; "[P]seudo-intellectuallosers"; "These people have no SOUL!"; and "[P]hilosophical troglodytes." One person even came after me, because I either 1) bought a book, Alan Grant's Return To Glory: Inside Tyrone Willingham's Amazing First Season At Notre Dame, 2) said they were "stupid," or 3) mentioned that the alumni were the ones who sold out the team on Sept. 9, 2000, creating the "Sea Of Red" for the game against Nebraska. 
So far, the online version of the letter has gathered 2,000 alumni signatures, according to NDNation. I'm only one alum­nus, and my platform is much smaller, but this ass clown wishes to state that he agrees with the letter, but with reservations too substantial to affix my name to it. · 
Go Irish. 

Mike Marchand, class of '0 1 and Honorary Member of The Ass Clown Posse. posts on the NDToday message boards, but look, closely, for he hides his identity well. Despite this column. he is still proud to be a Notre Dame alumnus, which is why his e-mail address is Marchand.3@alumni.nd.edu. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
were wine connoisseurs as well. They not only viewed wine as a form of ambrosia, but also maintained that being drunk elevated them to the status of the gods. Any CORE student can attest to this, having read ..The Bacchae" by Euripides V. Furthermore, drinking played a pivotal role in deci­sion-making in ancient Greece. It was the custom for groups to converse, debate and reach a decision while drunk. While sober, they would do the same. If the decision was the same in both instances, it was deemed wise and carried out. 
Additionally, Plato certainly did not condemn ine­briation. One of his dialogues on Socrates, ..The Symposium," is set at a dinner party flowing with wine, where the attendees, comprised of the great Greek poets, playwrights and philosophers, elo­quently praise the virtues of love and the ..sweet nectar" we call wine. 
One of the flaws of Ryan's column is that he over­generalized the characteristics he attributes to drunken people. Many of them belong not to inebri­ated individuals, but to alcoholics. The drinkers I know do not drink because they dislike themselves, nor because they want to escape themselves. 
those who do not, as Ryan described. at providing many opportunities for stu­
Ryan, I have read the Bible and dents to partake in on campus, all of Plato. One of the most well­which are non-alcoholic. One can known stories from the Bible is attend plays. musicals, SUB the Wedding at Cana, an event movies, concerts, Flipside events at which Jesus miraculously and other such activites without produced more wine for the even leaving the confines of wedding guests when it had Notre Dame. Who really wants been depleted due to a lack to go to the gym to work out at of supply. If Jesus was asso­midnight on a Saturday night? ciated with wine, why can't Other places, such as Reekers we be? We do attend a and Legends, stay open much Catholic university, where later to provide a place for stu­wine is offered daily at Mass. . dents to socialize. Truly this is not regarded as As for the statistics that were being evil, but rather a pivotal quoted, of course there is going to part of communion with God. be a larger number of non-drinkers 
The ancient Greeks, such as Plato, in the freshman class compared to the 
Requesting .mutual respect 
After reading ..The other minority," I decided a brief response was necessary. To be honest, Ryan Iafigliola's column was thoroughly offensive, especially when I read that apparently I, as a drinker, am ''not good enough as myself," so I drink to feel better. 
That is an incredibly judgmental thing for someone who references the Bible in the same paragraph to say. Try this Bible lesson on for size: Love others; don't judge others. At the end of your letter you accuse drinkers of assuming you and other nondrinkers stay in at the library all night. Guess what, Ryan? I don't. I don't know you and I don't judge you or your actions. Please extend the same courtesy to the students you attacked Friday. 
Apparently, you also believe that our school is more alcoholic than other schools. Have you visited other schools or do you form opinions based on random statistical samplings you find online? Perhaps the administration is willing to trade that five percent difference you referenced for the difference in drug usage between other schools and Notre Dame. 
Next, you mention that the amount of nondrinkers dropped from 27 percent first semester of freshman year to 12 percent in the student body. I don't know ifyou thought of this, but as students become upper­classmen they turn 21 -the legal drinking age. 
Also, you believe closing the gym and The Huddle early on weekends promotes drinking? And here. I thought the weekends were for relaxing, whether with alcohol or not. How about this, Ryan: You work The Huddle on Friday and the gym on Saturday so people can go. 
You also accuse Notre Dame of promoting drinking by providing no opportunities for students wishing to abstain from alcohol? One word: Flipside. This is a group that promotes a fun, alcohol-free atmosphere instead of sitting on a pedestal and judging, condemning and complaining about people that choose to drink. 
So, what is my point? To you Ryan, not all nondrinkers on campus, stop acting like drinkers have some sort of social defect and maybe you will get the same treatment. 
Matthew Wormington sophomore Carroll Hall Feb. 21 

overall student body, as many juniors and seniors are 21 or over. Furthermore, not all drinkers are binge drinkers who constantly drink to their edge; instead, most are fairly moderate. Drinkers do not think that non-drinkers have a social defect. Drinking should not defme a person or his/her personality. Abstaining from drinking may be the path that some choose to follow for var­ious reasons. This abstention certainly does not mean that one is morally superior than one who chooses to drink. It is merely a personal choice. Alcoholism, on the other hand, is a dangerous vice. Drinking moderately and socially does not make one lose one's integrity or reflect bad character. 
Realize that we do not live in a puritanical socie­ty. Alcohol is not the devil, nor is it inherently evil. If you expect drinkers to respect your choice not to drink, then you should also respect their choices to drink. 
Caidin Smith 
sophomore 
Farley Hall 
Feb. 20 

:------------------­
~­

page 12 Mondya, February 23, 2004 



maribou boa. 
I didn't know about Manhattan. Manhattan that 
the hit HBO drama indepen . iHit:::~a women have had as "Sex and the City" somet h·""''"'n'''''""'*il'i'""' uch money and until last year. HBO 
cessfu~,:::::Y<'ffl~:=~H?~ wer as men. Plus,
isn't provided in the .........,r.:t:t:::::::::ue equal 1ux ury of dorms, ating men like sex and I .·:-;.;.,.,,.,.,, ects."
h a d Kristin Cordova 
se two facts giveCarrie arrives spent en choices and m Y Scene ilities that
in a chiffon gown 

soph o-Columnist n before our more
by Donna Karan n history have 
y e a r . er had.
ready for a abroad in Spain. So by eas like this have my junior year, I was ::IGI.t:Y/ ted the controver­
wedding, if not 

somewhat out of the d mystique thather own. loop about the con und the versial and groun and
Miranda, always 

breaking show th 
e to "No one 
co:'i:'i:::;;>o-:""'-n

sensible, sticks has tried to portr 
her abou
women's sexuality.
with the classic 

Granted, "Sex oflo little black dress. the City" does not gramme Manh 
tray every worn that love sexuality, or e y want, but American an's has "flown sexuali marri uality worn 
It d 
striv . stereo that wo

Samantha and 
about sex ',=::::r:=:::::::;::::::::::;::I=::::::j::I~~Carrie, on or that 
women

vacation in Los d o n ' t Angeles, search for discount knockoff purses. Samantha wears a Katayone Adeli camisole and re 
qual to
cropped Roberto 
ounter-' Cavalli jeans. still 
·n;::::::~tHJ:1:t::lt'''''. sti g­Carrie dons a -;-y;.:;;;,,,,,,,,:f:ir:J male 
peasant top by """""·:·:<:·:·:·:·:-;: his 
D&G. 
L­
~ ~ 


f0 be it1 aCOUple, do YOU have to put your Sit1gle self Ot1 ashelf? 

Monday, February 23, 2004 
page 13 
'L43Mt JO .J.OO L4aJ ,JSOf ~s 'PAl'* I 'L4~JqS3J ~ s,~S 'IL41'* .J.,L40p I ·xas ,J.Ooq~ II~ JOIA SJ am tJS~d SdJ'4SL40IJ.ercu JO S.ijJJdS ac.p. Aq paJUOat JaAaJQJ 3M 'tJJ~ JO 

Carrie goes 

] 
aJ a)


from a date with Big to a delivery ~ with Miranda in Michael Kors pleated georgette and lace dress, a rainbow-metallic brocade MoMo Falana coat, and ruffle cascade Christian Louboutin stilletos. 
him a "playboy,'.,..·......•'=<·=·,.,.....eir common expe -about women's whereas we ostr · in relationsh ity by asking f.t:=~=~;-.:ptions no one
W 0 men W h 0 d OJ -~=-~i~l~~ll!~fl::::rlll:!ll~ 
same with word~::i 
an~~!~!~:I:!o ask. In the "slut" and "easy." =·==t~:~a~~m t>I §1t :=:~11:~ ode , carrie Many women .. M=W:itAelf whether "Sex and the C .::::=t:au~t:~ si b l e f 0 r 
because it po rtrau,:o,;,:,::·:::-:-:· have sex 
both women and tu~;:u::::=:==:::==~ctg e:e:::=::m:e·=n , "without 
Carrie goes 
as sexual objects Xrili<i'•\:,=~~~~~t"':~=~=~·....;;t.i:::::::~·::====t&~1U¥i8f&''.··· From hind­aggressors. It foil we know that 
casual in a Sex the story of thes e next five sea­
Pistols "Anarchy
friends as 
th~eJflllll Carrie, 
gate the stony ha, Charlotte in the UK" topYo r k d ating W'li~t:~n~·lt iranda will and struggl "yes." from punk 
t 

''"""'';il:'''''''''""'ls o discover, couture matriarch 
R'!'l;(.'""·'·, that having had told men is not Vivienne @ntnng or what
tt the end Westwood's
ant. What they 
~ve m 
t is to have , infamous KiiJ.g's 
~attan. 
women, 

ze to the to their Road boutique e of :mmrr.~:~dards, not "Seditionaries." 
.·.-=U.:·E·>=·E· Nl t o st a n ­society or =:''""''''~~..... gi on. 
IIW~tfds of Mr. Big !illiill~lf:k to me: "0h, You've never iWI~llll' love." Carrie's breath catches in h e r 
Carrie, ready
throat, and she for jury duty,
knows it's 

talks to Jack
the truth. Maybe Berger in a pair
after sex 

and the of pinstripe high­
s:.
·­
city have 

waisted Jean Paul
b 0 t h 

fa d e d Gaultier pants, a a w a y,
Samantha Jones vintage polka dot
Love will

Sex and the City 
be the shirt and City 
o n l y 

Hall style 


answer suspenders. Red _2 Miu Miu shoes ~ 
\..

peek out from Q. 
0 

her trousers. a) 
~ 
~ 
"C 
~ 
"C
·;;; 

boot. Cat1 you really forgive if you cat1~t forget? Whet1 tttet1 attetttpt bold gestures, get1erally irs cottsidered rotttattlic. Whett wotttm do it, it's oftet1 cot1­
_______________. 
. 
~----~ -~-~-­
page 14 Monday, February 23, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS
j 
NBA 

l Duncan and Spurs defeat Timberwolves 94-92
I 
l 
~ l ~-Associated Press Cassell's mid-range jumper with lead Sacramento past the short­
8.8 seconds left instead of trying handed Toronto Raptors 96-81 
In front of a hostile, sellout a 3-pointer for a tie. Cassell hit Sunday. crowd, San Antonio's quiet man the shot, and the Spurs got the The Kings, the NBA's highest helped lead his team to victory inbound to Ginobili, who was scoring team, had a season-low at the foul line. fouled with 8 seconds to go. 39 points in the first half and 
Tim Duncan, a notoriously bad Minnesota had one more trailed Toronto, the lowest scor­free-throw shooter, made 7 of 8 chance when Ginobili missed ing team, by eight. However, foul shots in the fourth quarter the second foul shot. Cassell Bibby got Sacramento going in to finish with 25 points, and found Latrell Sprewell on the the third quarter, scoring 12 of Tony Parker had 26 as the San wing, but Ginobili played him his 18 second-half points. Antonio Spurs beat the first­tight and the clock expired. "It was because of the time place Minnesota Timberwolves Cassell said it was a busted difference," Stoj akovic said. "It 94-92 on Sunday. play. was early in Sacramento. The 
Hedo Turkoglu had 13 points "We just had a miscommuni­start of game is usually when -all in the second half-and a cation about which side we we wake up. It was just about career-high 14 rebounds, and wanted to run the play," he said. energy. We approached the Manu Ginobili added 11 points "I chose one way, Spree went game kind of lax. We thought it as the Spurs sn~pped the next way. It happens, you was going to be easy." Minnesota's five-game winning know what I'm saying? You Chris Bosh had 20 points for streak and pulled to within can't blame the game on one the Raptors, who tied a season­three games of the Wolves in the possession." high with their fifth straight 
1.-.... 
Midwest Division. Cassell, who got into foul trou­loss. Toronto is in danger of 
The Spurs also wrapped up a ble in the third quarter, had 24 falling out of the playoff race season-high seven-game road points, and Sprewell added 15 after losing Vince Carter and trip at 6-1. Their one loss was for the Wolves. Jalen Rose to injuries. 89-87 at Cleveland on Friday San Antonio outrebounded Sacramento won for the sixth night. Minnesota 49-42, including 11 time in seven games despite 
"It's huge to end the trip this from former Wolves player playing without injured center way," Duncan said. ''We knew it Rasho Nesterovic. The Spurs Brad Miller, suspended forward was important because they had also scored 12 points off 15 Chris Webber and injured guard four games on us, <>nd we might Minnesota turnovers. Bobby Jackson. see them again in the playoffs." "That's how we win, is making "We needed to change our 
San Antonio's win gives each stops," Parker said. "We were attitude in the second half," team one victory in the season mad that against Cleveland we Divac said. series. The division rivals play didn't make stops down the Sacramento coach Rick two more games next month. stretch." Adelman wasn't happy with the 
In a game featuring two of the Said Garnett: "They're not just effort. NBA's premiere post players and a good defensive team. They're "We were playing with no leading MVP candidates -a good team period. But like intensity at all in the first half. It Duncan and Kevin Garnett -every loss, we've got to learn was almost like we expected to Duncan, who entered the game from it." win," Adelman said. shooting 58 percent from the Parker hit his first five shots "Offensively, we were totally out free-throw line, helped win the and scored 11 points in the first of it. We didn't run anything." game at the line in the final sec­quarter to give the Spurs an Alvin Williams' jumper gave onds. early lead. His 3-pointer at the Toronto a nine-point lead early 
Duncan was 2-for-6 from the 6:16 mark broke a 10-all tie and in the third, but Bibby sparked a line before the fourth, but he sparked a 16-8 run to give San 17-2 run with a 3-pointer, and calmly sank two crucial foul Antonio a 26-18 advantage. capped it with a fastbreak layup shots with 18.1 seconds left to The Wolves pulled back to to give the Kings a six-point give San Antonio a 92-88 lead in within five before the Spurs had lead. son we were up." in the fourth quarter of a 92-86 front of a record Target Center a 9-2 spurt to go up 37-25 in the Sacramento started the fourth Bosh, guarded by Songaila, loss. crowd of 20,347. second quarter. quarter on a 16-4 run, including ·had 14 points in first half and Whether they were booing or 
It was a good reminder of why Sprewell hit a 3-pointer and a two 3-pointers by Stojakovic. Jerome Moiso, who has barely chanting the name of the Duncan is the reigning MVP. 13-footer in the final minute to Darius Songaila capped it with a played this season, had all of his departed Keith Van Horn, the 
"He's our heart and soul just pull Minnesota to 48-41, but jumper for an 85-71 lead. 10 to help Toronto build its half­matinee crowd let it be known like Kevin is Minnesota's heart Parker hit a driving layup with Songaila, recently inserted time lead. that they weren't happy seeing and soul," Spurs coach Greg 5.7 seconds left andSan Antonio into the staring lineup, had 15 the Knicks play so poorly. The Popovich said. had a nine-point halftime lead. points and 10 rebounds, while Cavaliers 92, Knicks 86 loss was the fourth in five games 
Garnett, who led Minnesota center Vlade Divac had 13 LBJ at MSG was A-OK for the for New York, which now with 28 points and 10 rebounds, Kings 96, Raptors 81 points and 12 rebounds. Cleveland Cavaliers. embarks on a four-game answered the free throws with a The Sacramento Kings "They are better than us. That LeBron James scored 22 Western road trip. quick layup and Duncan was bounced back in the second half doesn't mean you give up, but points in his first game at James didn't have his flashiest fouled on the ensuing inbound. after their worst first half of the the reality is they are better," Madison Square Garden, where or most productive game, step­
This time, Duncan made only season. Toronto's Michael Curry said. the fans turned on the home ping aside to let center one of the free throws. The Peja Stojakovic scored 27 "They shot 31 percent in the team Sunday as the New York Zydrunas Ilgauskas carry most Wolves then opted for Sam points and Mike Bibby had 21 to first half and that was the rea-Knicks fell behind by 23 points of the offensive load. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Guitar tutor for my son. 233-6242. DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF 920 Oak Ridge Drive Rental 
lv. Msg.. BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM NO GREAT AREA FOR 5-6 STU· 3Bdrm/1 B Ranch, great area close 
NOTICES WANTED . HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DENTS 2773097· to NO includes DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED· stove, new refrig. washer/dryer. ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR VERY NICE 3bdrm home in $960/mo. 273-1717
FoR SALE
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Wanted-Old paintings, especially THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL EastBank area w/washer-dryer & Search 24 bookstores Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-YEAR. ... WE ARE ALSO STARTING alarm system inci.Nice with 1 click! 9359 COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR TO LEASE FOR THE 2005·2006 yard for volleyball etc-full bsmt.Walk 
PERSONAL

S&H calculated. LEASE 2004-2005 Academic year· SCHOOL YEAR .. CONTACT to Corbys&StJoe Church. Call Joe www.bookhq.com looking for full or part-time work? Available June 1, 2 Bdrm -KRAMER AT OFFICE 234·2436 OR Crimmins@574-514· 
Reach Your Potential in outside 2 Bath -Fully Furnished -Security CELL315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 0643(cell)or574-273-Q002(home) UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Large 1 Bedroom Condo sales with Media Direct, a growing System. (626) 441-1275 or not go it alone. If you or someone 1 0 min from Univ. cable TV sales, marketing and audit salvaty@ earthlink. net MOVING TO CHICAGO? Condo for 1903 Oak Park Dr. Rental: 2BR/1 B, you love needs confidential support All App. Pool company. Salary plus commission. sale by 2 ND 1995 grads. Bright 1-1/2 ile NO, great area. incl. Stove, or assistance, please call Sr. Mary low taxes less than rent Bonuses, health benefits and paid FOR SALE-like new weights set bedroom condo on refrig, Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For 574-299-4997 training. Hard working, with incline bench, leg lift. Will deliv-24th floor in secure building steps washer/dryer. $625 mo. 273-1717 more information, see our bi-weekly 
enthusiastic people wanted. Sales er. $150 from lake & public transportation. ad in THE OBSERVER. Freshmen check out experience is a plus not a require-277-1345 10·15 1006 White Oak Dr. Rental: 3 www.nd2007.com ment. Phone minute walk to grocery & Wrigley BR/1 B, 1 mile NO, great area. incl #1 Spring Break Vacations! 
1-800-376-7961 Field. May 2004 closing. 773-929-Stove, refrig, Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, www.RepublicanConnections.com 3178 or washer/dryer $850/mo~ 273·1717 Bahamas & Florida! Best
FoR RENT
Exclusive member Summer Camp counselor for chil· nasserweiss@ hotmail.com Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! 
only site for conservative dren w/disabilities. $7-$11 hr., 35 E. Washington area, Last 4 BR Book Now! 800-234-7007 singles~ Find someone who hr/wk, summer 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, House avail. for 04/05. WID, endlesssummertours.com shares your values! Site only. 5 sites in Summit County, WALK TO CAMPUS 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky· Furnished, B-Ball, opens Valentine s Day. Email Ohio. Visit www~akroncyo.org • MMMRENTALS.COM mmm-lights. V·Ball, Sec.Sys., Congratulations to Dennis Rodman Webmaster@ republicanconnec-download an rentals@aol.com $1640/mo. Call574·232-4527 or 11 mo. lease, 109 N. St. Peter. for winning Celebrity mole ... no one tions.com for information. application. EOE 272·1525 269·683-5038. 233-9947 saw it coming. 
Monday, February 23, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 
PGA 
Despite late struggles, Weir holds on to win Nissan Open 
• Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Mike Weir wanted to prove he could win with the lead. 
By the time he won the Nissan Open on Sunday, it felt like another one of his great come­backs. 
A seven-shot lead disappeared in a span of 12 holes. Shigeki Maruyama was charging hard, knocking down the pin with a 3­iron at No. 15 and catching Weir on the next hole with a 6-iron that never left the flag. 
Then the came rain, hard and steady, making the decisive, 475-yard 18th hole at Riviera play even longer. 
"You have to dig deep," Weir 
11A 

GREA.T NA.TlON bESET~VES GREaT ART, 
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS 

SHAKESPEARE 
IN AMERICAN COMMUNITIES 
National Endowment for the Arts partnership with The Sallie Mae Fund present Shakespeare in American Communities. 
Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame brings you Guthrie Theatre's production of 

THELL{) 
February 26-29, 2004 
' 

O'Laughin Auditorium Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana For tickets and information, ca11574-284-4626 or go to shakespeare.nd.edu. 
Shakespeare in American Communities is the largest tour of Shakespeare in American history. The initiative is sponsored by the National Endowment for the Arts and the Sallie Mae Fund in cooperation with Arts Midwest. 

NATIONAL 
EN.OOWMfkl fOR HH ART<; 
NationalCity. 

TheSallieMaeFund All 
MIDWEST 

said. "I was able to do that.·· 
Right when it seemed as through he was going to let a big one get away, the gutsy Canadian answered with the best chip of an immaculate week with the wedge. From the side of a grassy hill, Weir nearly holed the 45-foot chip and tapped in for par and a one­stroke victory. 
The Masters champion, who had won his previous six PGA Tour events from behind and was 0-for-5 with a 54-hole lead, closed with an even-par 71 and became the first back-to-hack winner at Riviera since Corey Pavin in 1994-95. 
He finished at 17-under 26 7 and earned $864,000. 
"If you'd have told me at the beginning of the week I'd be tied on the 17th hole, I'd be happy with that," Weir said. "It wasn't maybe what I was expecting at the beginning of the day, but that's the reality now. I just needed to bear down a little bit." 
Maruyama, who trailed by seven when Weir chipped in for birdie on No. 3, injected some excitement with one great shot after another that made Weir wipe his brow even before it started raining. 
Maruyama's chances ended when he missed the 18th fair­way, couldn't reach the green and hit a 50-yard chip 12 feet past the hole. His par putt to force a playoff slid by on the 
right. "The last hole I was trying to 
....
hit the ball farther because it started raining," Maruyama said. "That was the biggest mis­take of my whole week. I'm still not good at playing in the rain. I start practicing in the shower tonight." 
It was his only bogey in a final-round 67. 
Stuart Appleby got within three shots of the lead on the back nine, but finished with six straight par for 66 and was three shots back. 
John Daly, coming off his first PGA Tour victory in nine years, made six birdies on his final 12 holes for a 6 7 and finished fourth. He only had two top lOs all of last year, and this will allow him to climb even higher in the world ranking as he tries to get into the Masters. 
Tiger Woods is now 0-for-6 as a professional at Riviera, the only PGA Tour course he has played so often without winning. For the second straight year, he saved his best round for when it didn't matter -a career-best 64 at Riviera that moved him up 37 spots into a tie for seventh. 
"You have to play good for all four days, and I haven't done that," Woods said. 
Weir started the round with a five-shot lead, although it sure didn't look that way. He was grinding from the first hole, playing like he was tied for the lead coming down the 18th. 
1Jndcrgraduatc mcn1hcrs of the gay, lesbian, and bisexual co1nmunity arc invited to apply for n1cmbcrship on the 
Standing Connnittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications arc no\,..-· available in the ()111cc of Student AJiairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standini! Con1mittee web site
.... 

http://\\'WW.nd.edu/--scglsn/ 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on friday, April 5, 2004. ru1d can be submitted at the Offic~ ofSt11d~nt Afrairs. 
~HI!' 'S~A""'Itt:o!IJ (';;,NMITT!:~ ~N 
Q&Y &Nil Ll<&lltol• 
inUIIUIT~ 


'1-{L?Pifu({y beer is not t-fie on{y thinB you chuB toni3ht! 

Love, T'he Peas 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles earn 7th place at --MIAA1neet 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

Despite the overall finish, the Belles are still smiling. 
After finishing seventh at the MIAA Championships this season, Saint Mary's still came away from the meet with sev­eral strong performances. 
As expected, Hope College won the conference title, col­lecting 587 points. Hope easily defeated its closest chal­lengers, Calvin and Kalamazoo, to finish in second place. 
Poised to challenge confer­ence rivals, Saint Mary's per­formed well following Thursday's portion of the com­petition ending the day in sixth place. However, the Belles never surpassed that rank and finished seventh after Friday's portion of the meet. 
Great performances by sev­eral of the team's swimmers are not accurately depicted just by glancing at times, such as how senior Megan Ramsey and sophomore Sarah Nowak both qualified for the finals in all three of their individual events. 
Ramsey earned a second place finish in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5 min­utes, 14.22 seconds. She also fmished fourth in the 100-yard butterfly and sixth in the 200­yard butterfly. 
"During the first day of com­petition, she [Ramsey] had a great feeling and took it out very well," Saint Mary's swim­ming coach Gregg Petcoff said. 
Nowak, after taking a semester abroad during the fall, swam in her first champi­onship meet and earned the title of performer of the meet. She took third in the 200-yard breaststroke, fourth in the 100-yard breaststroke and eighth in the 200-yard individ­ual medley. 
"[Nowak] hit great times this meet and even broke the school records in the 200-yard breaststroke and the 200 indi­vidual-medley," Petcoff said. "She has just been a gift to have on this team." 
Several other individuals swam competitive times, earn­ing them a trip to the finals. Senior Maureen Palchak fin­ished 11th in the 100-yard freestyle and senior Katy Lebiedz took 11th in the 200­yard breaststroke and ninth in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
Lebiedz's younger sister, Bridget, also placed lOth in the 200-yard butterfly and ninth in the 100-yard butter­fly. 
The only other swimmer to 
reach the finals was Julie 
McGranahan, who finished 
ninth in the 200-yard butterfly 
and 10th in the 100-yard but­
terfly. 
As the season came to a 
close for Saint Mary's swim­
ming, Petcoff had only one 
word to describe the team's 
overall emotions -bitter­
sweet. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


Monday, February 23, 2004
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 

Oswalt named opening day starter 
Associated Press 

KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Roger Clemens and Andy Pettitte had just arrived at spring training Sunday when Houston Astros manager Jimy Williams announced that neither one would start on opening day. 
But the decision to go with Roy Oswalt came as no surprise to the ex-Yankees. 
"Jimy and I talked about it a couple of weeks ago and that's how we talked about it," Clemens said. "To me, all the guys are deserving. We've all had our opportunities to start opening day." 
Oswalt, one of three holdovers from last year's rota­tion along with Wade Miller and Tim Redding, is one of the best young pitchers in baseball. But he was hampered by chronic groin injuries in 2003 rigorous workout habits with fell just short. 10-5 with a 2.97 ERA in 21 and had surgery in the offsea­Clemens. ··For us, this is great." "If I go first or I go third it starts last year. His 2. 92 ERA son to correct the problem. Oswalt, a 19-game winner in doesn't matter," Oswalt said. the last three seasons is better 
Clemens and Pettitte were the 2002, was on the disabled list •'It's an honor, so of course it's than either Clemens or Pettitte. Astros' two big offseason acqui­three times last season. But he special, but I don't see [the oth­Williams' decision was partly sitions, but Williams decided to returned to the mound and won ers] behind me. I see them with to reward ·Oswalt, and to posi­go with Oswalt against Barry four games down the stretch as me." tion the left-handed Pettitte Bonds and the San Francisco Houston's bid to catch the Despite constant pain and between the team's top right­Giants in Houston on April 5. Chicago Cubs in the NL Central limited action, Oswalt, 26, went banders. 
"He has come through the [farm] system and he was injured ... three times with his groin, and basically could have packed it in," Williams said. "He could have said, 'I'm injured, I need an operation, I might hurt myself if I try to continue pitching."' 
Pettitte will go second in the rotation, followed by his pal Clemens. Miller, the club's opening day starter in 2002, will pitch fourth, and Redding is No. 5. 
"He's got a lot of pitching over there," Yankees manager Joe Torre said in Tampa. 
He would know. 
Setting up the starting rota­tion two weeks before exhibi­tion games begin gives the pitchers time to prepare their throwing routines in February, a luxury Pettitte said he and Clemens never had in New York. 
"Usually that's top secret where we come from," said Pettitte, who shares famously 


Monday, February 23, 2004 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish place second at Big East Championship 
Notre Dame breaks eight school records, but finishes behind No. 16 Pittsburgh 
marks in the 200-yard indi­
By MATT PUGLISI 
vidual medley and the 100­
Sports Wrirer 
yard butterfly. 
"We do a lot of different Records are made to be training in a lot of different broken. areas, which helped with the 
The Irish cracked eight individual medley," school records and posted an Kegelman said. "The [but­all-time Big terfly] record E a s t just came Championship from train­high of 584 ..We had a lot ofgreat ing." points en In addition
swims and broke a lot of 
route to a sec­to Kegelman.
school records this 
ond place fin­freshman ish behind No. weekdend. •• Ted Brown 16 Pittsburgh (500-yard at the confer­freestyle),
Tim Kegelman 
ence champi­sophomores
I rlsh freshman 
onships in D o u g East Meadow, Bauman N.Y., this (100-yard weekend. backstroke The runner-up finish snaps and 200-yard backstroke), a streak of three consecutive Steve Shomberger (200-yard fourth-place finishes at the backstroke) and a trio of annual meet for the Irish. relay teams -200-yard 
"We had a lot of great freestyle, 200-yard medley swims and broke a lot of and 800-yard freestyle relays school records this week­-all claimed school records. end," freshman Tim In recognition for guiding Kegelman said. "Our ulti­the burgeoning Irish from mate goal was to win to the fourth to second place at the meet. but we just couldn't Big East Championships. overcome Pittsburgh's div­Welsh was named the Big ing." East Coach of the Year. 
Kegelman piloted the "He's really a great motiva­attack on the Irish record tor and gets the teams book with a pair of all-time focused on what we need to 
do," Kegelman said. "He continued for the Irish 
keeps the attitude positive Friday as a one-two finish in 
and is very encouraging." the 400-yard individual med­
Behind a couple of third­ley by sophomore Jaime place performances by Lutkus and junior David Kegelman (200-yard individ­Moisan, respectively, helped ual medley) and Brown (500-catapult Notre Dame into yard freestyle) and a trio of second place, 112 points. fourth place finishes by behind the Panthers and 21.5 sophomore Jaime Lutkus points ahead of the Hokies. (200-yard individual medley), In addition, Kegelman fin­freshman Scott Coyle (three­ished second in the 100-yard meter board) and the 200-butterfly, the 800-yard yard freestyle relay team freestyle relay team (Brown. (Kegelman. freshman Tim freshman Brian Freeman, Randolph, sophomore Doug junior Matt Bertke and sen­Bauman and junior Frank ior co-captain Matt Obringer) Krakowski), took third, the Irish and both found them-the 200­selves in yard medley
'1Coach Welsh] is really a
third place relay squad 
with 169.5 great motivaator and gets (Kegleman, points, the teams focused on what Randolph, 
behind both Bauman and
we need to do.··
Pittsburgh Krakowski) 
(234) and a n d Virginia Tech Tim Kegelman Obringer (191.5), at Irish freshman (200-yard 
the end of freestyle) action claimed Thursday. fourth. 
Kegleman's record was set The record-breaking whirl­in the 200-yard individual wind touched down once medley preliminaries while again Saturday as both both Brown's and the 200-Bauman and Shamberger yard freestyle relay team's eclipsed the school mark in came in the event finals. the 200-yard backstroke to 
The strong performance finish second and fourth, 
respectively. Sophomores Patrick Davis (1,650 freestyle) and Tyler Grenda (200-yard breaststroke) each chipped in as Davis finished second and Grenda came in fifth. 
The fight for second place between the Irish and the Hokies came down to the 400-yard freestyle relay with the Irish needing only a ninth place finish to clinch second place. The relay squad (Krakowski, Obringer, freshman Louis Cavadini and junior Drew Pittman) deliv­ered, finishing sixth and securing a second place fin­ish for Notre Dame for the first time since 1999. ,, 
As is the case with the women, the future for the Irish remains somewhat hazy. While Coyle will com­pete in the NCAA Zone C div­ing meet March 12-13 in Bloomington, Ind., the Irish are unsure if any of their th-ree potential NCAA Championships participants -Kegelman, Brown and Obringer -will be invited. A decision should come in the next two weeks. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
START HERE. 
[3 Cl PLACES. If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and Indiana CPA Society 
OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 18 COl\1PILED FROlv\ THE OBSERVER'S vVIRI SERVICES Monday, February 23, 2004 


.~­
....... =•=•= ;.;:> :; ·•~ """ •·•·•·• :.;: ; '::: :; )
s: ·=::: \I ••:;; ..... •.. {.:0 ..... •••• •: .,.... :::: nr.. ·~: ':~ I: 8~:·::::::· :•:•:•!o!':h' \' ::::.:· 
\> 
:;:; ·~ :;:;:;::;;: :::;::•; ti i~· :::::. }t; iri; :::: :;:: ~· ::;::: ...:·• :·~ ii: :::: ~::i ::;::: i~ :;::: )\; ifl {t: ::;::: :;:,, •f; ;:;::; F• 
f :;;; X::•: ~::: t ·····~ ·:=:: i•:::: 
:;:; 

••• ··~; :=:;; ~~~t ••>rr:m:rtrt1J.*«a:::mti:r:=~t1~*':t•:::=:•:rr:·::i:::;.;~srr::II:r:·:::::m:2t~rtt::::::::::::::::::::::•::
8~~w* ·m;'~Btr1e7 18 wGu's"t±:i18:±wa••··~wwwm~te'w\;~&;'[J;·1~mt
mw~u~:a~w 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Villanova at Syracuse, 7 p.m., ESPN Kansas at Texas, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Detroit at Philadelphia, 7 p.m., NBA TV New Orleans at Cleveland, 7 p.m., FOX Sports 
NHL Detroit at Edmonton, 9 p.m., ESPN2 Anaheim at Phoenix, 7 p.m., FOX Sports 
NFL 


Icon Sports Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning fires a pass In a 29-27 victory over Tennessee on Dec. 7, 2003. The Colts will designate Manning a franchise player to prevent him from becoming a free-agent. 
Colts to place franchise tag on Manning 
ASsociated Press NFL rules require teams "That's what Bill told me The Colts have already 
INDIANAPOLIS -The to pay a "franchise" player the last time we met," restructured the contracts Indianapolis Colts are the average of the top five Condon said. of about a half-dozen play­expected to designate Pro players at the position or Condon would not dis­ers to free up space under Bowl quarterback Peyton 120 percent of the player's cuss the status of the nego­the salary cap, and they Manning their franchise salary cap number from tiations although Polian can clear an additional $15 player Monday, a move that the previous year, whichev­said he expected to meet million by releasing offen­will cost a league-record er is higher. Manning with Manning's agent again sive lineman Adam $18.4 million. counted more than $15 soon. Meadows, defensive line­
President Bill Polian million against the team's The move could force sig­man Chad Bratzke and promised Sunday to tag salary cap last year. nificant roster changes for backup quarterback Brock Manning, the league's co­Teams could still sign the Colts, who reached the Huard. MVP, preventing him from Manning to an offer sheet AFC championship game Indianapolis could free the hitting the free-agent but the Colts would have last year for the first time up more money, possibly to market March 3. an opportunity to match it. since 1995. Indianapolis re-sign Meadows, Bratzke 
"There is no question If Indianapolis chose not to, lost to eventual Super Bowl and Huard, if they reach a whatsoever," Polian said at it would receive two first­champion New England deal with Manning before the NFL combine. "The round draft picks as com­24-14. March 17. That would only question is what he'11 pensation. But the Colts must be in allow them to remove the be lined up with." Manning's agent Tom compliance with next franchise designation and 
Manning's contract Condon said he expected year's salary cap, $80.5 likely lower Manning's cap expired after last season. the move. million, by March 3. number. 
IN BRIEF 
Dolphins, Eal!les working 
on deal for Feeley 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Miami Dolphins and Philadelphia Eagles were working on a trade Saturday night that would send reserve quar­terback A.J. Feeley to Miami. 
Dolphins coach Dave Wannstedt confirmed the trade talks, but said no agreement had been made. 
"All we can say is no trade has been made." he said at the NFL scouting combine. "We are talking to Philadelphia and we're in the midst of talks." 
No deals can be made official until the offseason trading period begins March 3. 
It's likely the Eagles would receive an undisclosed draft pick in 2005 in exchange for Feeley. 
Feeley, a restricted free agent, served as Philadelphia's third-string quarterback last season behind Donovan McNabb and Koy Detmer. 
A 2001 fifth-round draft choice from Oregon, Feeley showed promise in his second seasqn when he won four consecutive games while McNabb and Detmer were sidelined with injuries. 
The Dolphins are trying to upgrade the quarterback position, which has­n't been the same since Dan Marino retired after the 1999 season. 
Injury-prone quarterbacks Jay Fiedler and Brian Griese split time last season, but both could be gone this season. 
Rodriguez and Jeter face 
straiQ.ed relationship 
TAMPA, Fla. -Alex Rodriguez watched a practice grounder skip through his legs, tossed his glove to the grass and picked up another mitt. New to third base, he'll need time to learn the position. 
Repairing his relationship with Derek Jeter will take a while, too. 
On Sunday, Rodriguez acknowl­edged their friendship had deteriorat­ed in recent years. Once best buddies -they kidded on the field and crossed paths on the dating scene ­the new Yankees teammates have never been the same since A-Hod criticized Jeter's skills and leadership in early 2001. 
"When we came up, we were kind of tied at the hip," Rodriguez said. "We haven't been as tight the last three years." 
Trace the bad hop between the star shortstops to remarks Rodriguez made shortly after signing his $252 million, 10-year contract with Texas. 
First, he said Jeter was unlikely to get such a salary "because he just doesn't do the power numbers and defensively he doesn't do all those things." 
Then, talking about a player whose team had won three straight World Series championships, Rodriguez said of Jeter: "He's never had to lead. He can just go and play and have fun. He hits second -that's totally different than third or fourth in a lineup." 
Immediately, Rodriguez knew Jeter was stung by the comments. 
Monday, February 23, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish defeat Brigham Young 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
What a difference. 
The No. 26 Irish defeated No. 20 Brigham Young 6-1 Friday to extend their winning streak to five matches. 
"It was exciting," sophomore Kristina Stastny said. "We really played well and I think this weekend proved that we have the potential to be a top -15 team." 
In building on their own suc­cess this spring, the Irish broke the Cougars' four-match win­ning streak. 
"This weekend was definitely a confidence booster," sopho­more Lauren Connelly said. "It 
showed us that we can play No. 39 Lauren Connelly and with any team." senior Alicia Salas came ofT the Throughout the season, coach courts first with an 8-4 defeat of Jay Louderback has empha­the Cougars' Sofia Holden and 
sized the impor- Lauren Jones.  
tance of winning  The duo is now  
the doubles point each match. In the  "I think this weekend proved that we have  7-0 in dual matches and 13-2 overall. In  
season-opening match against Michigan, the  the potential to be a top-I 5 team ...  the clinching win for the Irish, freshmen  
Irish  lost  the  Catrina  and  
doubles  point  Kristina Stastny  Christian  
and  ended  up  Irish sophomore  Thompson  

losing the match 4-3. 
The Irish proved this point resoundingly, first earning the doubles point and then claiming five of the six singles matches for the win. 

Happy Birthday 
Oucci, 

from the Sept 
(:Otif'ON•..<:Ot'T>ON.J:Ol.iPON.-C.:OtJr'ON••COUPON_.C,OtJJ>I..)N._C01:JJ>t.1N,.c.."::tYPl1N•.COli~'ON 

·suas 
AUTHENTIC 5U55 SINCE 1956 
An11 WIUlP OR SUB! 
PURCKA$E ANY SUB OR WRAP WITH A FOUNTAIN DRINK, AND GilT ANOTHER sue OR WUJ!. OF iGVAL Qft LllllllYMYI.,P.~P. VAUD UNTil MARCH 31, 2004 AT MICHIANA LOCA110NS USTED. NOT IIALIO WITH AH'f OlliER OfFER, COlPON OR SPECfAL. 
~'MISHAWAI:A-5718 N.UAIN ST. ACRQ$5 FROM $AM$ CUISIN TH£ FAMILY VIDEO SUILOING. 24z.oos6 
• • SOUTH BEND-5R 933 • AUTEN lllliN THE FAMILY VIDEO BUil.DING. f?7:§92Q 
••OOWNfQWN.IN TJiE 1..088V or; THE CO~ F0011IAU. HAU. OF FAME. 24f91H 
·~ ~ 


Undcrgradua1c 1ncmbcrs ofll1c gay, lcflbian, and bisexual con1m1mity arc invited to apply for nlCinhcrship on the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. Application.~ arc now available in the Oflicc of Student Allairs {316 Main Building) or on the Standinl! Committee ·web site,. http:/I\VV\''N. nd.edu/'""Scglsn/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Fiiday.. Aptil 5, 2004, and can be submitted at the Office of Student Affairs. THI! S~A".,'"'<' CQNIIMir.'C'C ON QI.V 4JID U:,;a;IAM l'k..ut'l"i.fit our wd1 sitf./01 num.! i!ifornsation.!!RUJH:Kr IQJ;.­ 

edged out 
H a d l e y 
McFarlane and 

Barbara Zahnova 8-5. 
Connelly remained undefeat­ed this season contributing the first win in singles 6-1, 6-0 against Olga Boulytcheva at No. 4 singles. 
"Lauren has been playing amazing tennis this spring," Stastny said. 
Stastny followed Connelly's lead, besting McFarlane 6-2, 6­0 at No. 4 singles. Salas, ranked No. 14 in singles, ensured an Irish victory, with a clinching win at No. 1 singles over No. 43 Barbara Zahnova 6-3, 6-3. 
"Alicia has really led by example," Stastny said. "She's really on a roll this spring." 
At No. 3 singles, Catrina Thompson added to the team's success, knocking off Jones 6-3, 6-4. Christian Thompson sealed the team's fate in the final match, edging out Holden in a tiebreaker 6-3, 3-6, 1-0 (10-6) at No.2. 
The Irish are set to host No. 36 Indiana Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish make up for sloppy start, beat Dennison 15-2 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

Despite a slow start for the 
second straight exhibition 
game, the Irish were able to 
rebound and defeat Dennison 
15-2 Sunday at the Loftus 
Sports Center. 
Notre Dame needed to 

bounce back in the second 
half after only leading 3-1 
lead in the first quarter. The 
Irish know sluggish starts 
could be detrimental against 
future opponents. 
"We just realized that we can't get off to slow starts against good teams," Irish sophomore Pat Walsh said. "The best teams in the coun­try will take advantage of it and not look back. 
Dennison was Notre Dame's last preseason opponent and third consecutive exhibition win. Notre Dame defeated Mercyhurst 22-4 and the Boston Cannons of Major League Lacrosse 14-11 earli­er this month. 
This was the team's second consecutive "scare" as Notre Dame slipped past the Cannons after overcoming a 7-2 deficit. 
The team's slow starts can be attributed to nerves. 
"Being the wrap of the pre­season, I think everyone was just a little anxious and look­ing forward to starting the season," Walsh said. 
Although Dennison was an unranked opponent, it took the Irish until halftime to finally realize the key to take 
control of the game. 
"We just need to focus on the basics," Walsh said .. "Instead of trying to play our game, we just let them dic­tate the game for the first half." 
During halftime, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan reiter­ated what the team's focus needed to be. Corrigan told the Irish they needed to fin­ish the exhibition season 3-0 and get back to the way the team played in the previous two games. 
"He didn't have to say more than that to get the team going," Walsh said. "It wasn't a tough thing to spot, because everyone knew what was going on." 
Goals from Matt Howell, Dan Berger and Pat Walsh let the Irish turn the game around at the beginning of the second half. 
Notwithstanding the slow start, the Irish were content with the victory and are opti­mistic as the regular season nears. 
"Everyone was pretty satis­fied because we got out of it what we wanted," Walsh said. "It showed that we could bounce back in a game that was not going well, and it showed our character." 
The Irish begin the regular season Sunday at Loftus against No. 17 Penn State. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


I 
j 
1 
·~· 
1ti page 20 
I ~ 
I. 
I; 
I r 
I i 
I) 
I' I. 
I 
...._ 

r ·. 
t 
J 
d ' It. 
·''.
''I, 1'' ll 
L'.', 1( I' !' l· 
v. 
i 
l I 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT ..JMonday, February 23, 2004 

t 
t 



Monday, February 23, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Dwight Ellick pulls away from his Alabama oppo­nent in the GO-meter race on Feb. 7. 
Nominees name and department as wen as·a
Nil E:xpt•ass 
description of her job. 
Billlar•d11 Mlall 
How she contributes to the University~
Lafortune Student Center 
How she is active in her field of study ..
8-Ball Tournament Friday, Feb. 27, 9:00pm And a. description of the rapport she has with stu­
*Prizes awarded to 
dents and/or the Notre Dame community. ! 
' 

Nominations can .be sent to the Women.•s Resource Center at 300 Lafortune via campus mail or emailed to nd.. wrc.. 1@'nd-.. edu.. 
. The deadline for nominations has been extended to Fridayf March 5. 
-.. 

Champs 
continued from page 24 
1-and 3-meter boards en route to being named Most Outstanding Diver. 
Despite a record-breaking victory by Carroll in the 200­yard individual medley-the freshman broke both the Notre Dame and Big East Championship mark -and first place finishes by Perry­Eaton (1-meter board) and the 200-yard freestyle relay team (Carroll, freshman Rebecca Grove, junior Katie Eckholt and senior Danielle Hulick). the Irish found themselves in second place, trailing Rutgers by five points at the end of action on Thursday night. 
"We've been behind anum­ber of times in the past and were able to come back," Weathers said. "The first day has traditionally be en a weaker day for us. We had a lot of girls that didn't swim [Thursday]." 
The Rutgers lead wouldn't last long as Carroll (1 00-yard breaststroke) and Perry­Eaton (3-meter board) each won their second event in as many days to propel the Irish to a commanding 503.5-419 advantage over the Scarlet Knights at the end of the meet's second day. 
Senior Marie Labosky also claimed an event victory for the Irish in the 400-yard individual medley and on the 800-yard freestyle relay team (Carroll, Ellen Johnson, Ann Barton and co-captain Lisa Garcia) broke the second old­est Irish swimming record to conclude Friday's action. 
TRACK & FIELD
The meet's results were hardly in doubt by the final day as Carroll finished off her tri-fecta with a victory in 
Irish perform well at Big East's
the 100-yard freestyle and 
Honoring Women of Notre-Dame
> 

The Women'·s Resource Center i:s currentl:y accepting nomination forms for female faculty and staff members in the Notre Da.·me community who
:,~;~~iirlt:!i 
rnake exceptional contributions to the University. All nominations should inc-lude: 
a close sec­ond to Seton Hall [__ :;J'={:~>})''}{i 
senior Obra k••. ,,m•=•=•=•=·.. ········,·····=·•'····...·,.~~·,,·~ 
Hogans in the 400­meters. Postel fin­ished in 
47.66 sec­onds, 0.47 seconds behind Hogans. 
The mile saw Irish rulmers fin­ish in sec­ond and third place. Freshman K u r t Benninger beat out his junior teammate Eric Morrison as the two fin­ished in 4:08.74 and 4:09.16 respectively. 
The Irish also had someone finish second in the men's high jump as junior Chris Staron cleared 2.01 meters. Junior Ryan Mineburg and freshman Christopher Jacques finished fifth and sixth respectively. 
On the women's side junior Lauren King repeated as confer­ence champ in the mile run fin­ishing in ·4:53.95. Senior Megan Johnson was right behind King in second place with a time of 4:55.57. 
The 1,600-meter relay team finished in first place as senior Kristen Dodd, junior Tiffany Gunn, junior Tricia Floyd and freshman Okechi Ogboukiri scorched to a time of 3:45.23. 
Dodd was also second in the 400-meters with a time of 54.76 seconds while Floyd placed sev­enth in 57.42. 
Senior Ayesha Boyd placed fifth in the 60-meter dash with a time of 7.65 seconds while Dodd finished seventh in 7.7 4 seconds. 
Molly Huddle turned in yet another impressive effort, as the sophomore was one of three runners to break the Big East 3,000-meter record of 9:13.11. The extremely fast race was won by Providence junior Kim Smith who demolished the record by running in a time of 
8:55.88. West Virginia senior Megan Metcalfe finished second and Huddle finished third in 9:09.34. 
Stacey Cowan led the way for the Irish women in the field events. The sophomore cleared 
1.82 meters in the high jump to finish in second place. Her sen­ior teammate Jennifer Kearney took sixth as she jumped 1.64 meters. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
the Irish coasted to their 
eighth straight conference 
championship. 
What's next for the Irish remains somewhat of a mys­tery. Notre Dame is currently scheduled to participate in the Gopher Invite in Minneapolis Sunday in a so­called "last-chance" meet. The Irish are also consider­ing competing in a meet at Purdue in place of the Gopher Invite. 
Perry-Eaton will compete in the NCAA Zone C diving meet March 12-13 in Blo-omington, Ind., as she attempts to return to the · NCAA Championships where she finished ninth a year ago. As of right now, Carroll is the only Irish swimmer guaran­teed a spot at the NCAA Championships in College Station, Texas, March 18-20. However, seven other Notre Dame swimmers -Barton, Garcia, Grove, · Hulick, Johnson, Laboksy and Courtney Choura -in addi­tion to four relay teams (200 freestyle, 400 freestyle, 800 freestyle and 400 medley) could receive invites to the meet. 
"I think Meghan has a great chance to qualify in diving," Weathers said. "We won't know about the others for a few weeks, but I hope we will qualify a couple more girls." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
:. :::::_:::;:>>::::·.:= :: :=::: =:<:-~::<;:;;)/:::::~= __ ::-:_:::::-..:::· <\ .· ·. _· .._:·:·:·:::./:_:·\.+:)<.::;::(:~>:;::}: ::::::: 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's and women's 
track and field teams came close 
to sweeping the team titles at 
this weekend's Big East Indoor 
Championships. Instead, both 
teams placed second in the con­
ference meet held at the Carrier 
Dome in Syracuse, N.Y. 
The Irish men won the confer­ence title last year and came within seven points of a repeat championship. However, Connecticut came out on top scoring 160 team points to Notre Dame's 153. 
Just as they did in last year's conference indoor meet, the Irish women finished behind a tough Miami squad, 179-111. 
The Irish had many outstand­ing individual performances on both sides. Selim Nurudeen was the sole individual champion for the men as the junior set the Big East and Carrier Dome record in the 60-meter hurdles with a time of7.78 seconds. 
Nurudeen continued his suc­cessful weekend by finishing third in the 60-meter dash in a time of 6.86 seconds and second in the 1,600-meter relay. The relay team finished in 3:13.71 seconds and consisted of junior Trevor McClain-Duer, freshman Jordan Powell, senior Thomas Dwayne and Nurudeen. 
Senior Godwin Mbagwu was second in the triple jump with a distance of 15.16 meters. He also placed third in the long jump witl; a leap of 7.04 meters. Fellow senior Juan Alba placed second in the weight throw as he tossed the 35-pound weight a distance of 18.06 meters. 
Sophomore Hyan Postel placed 
Monday, February 23, 2004 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Huskies 
continued from page 24 
It seemed as if every loose ball and every rebound ended up in the hands of a Connecticut player. No Irish player had more than five rebounds, while four Huskies had more than six. Connecticut's top two rebound-ers-Okafor and forward Josh Boone -combined for three more rebounds than the entire Irish squad, and the Huskies had nearly as many offensive rebounds (23) as Notre Dame had total rebounds (30). 

That meant the Irish would have to shoot their way past the Huskies' tough defense. But Notre Dame only connected on 25 percent of their 20 3-point attempts. And in the face of an inspired Connecticut defensive performance that shut down the potent Irish offense, that wasn't enough to win. 
NOTRE DAME 50, CONNECTICUT 61 at HARTFORD 

NOTRE DAME (13-7, 6-2} Cornette 1-6 0-0 3. Jones 1-5 4-4 6. Timmermans 3-6 0-0 6, Thomas 6-23 0­
0 13, Quinn 4-13 0-2 9, Cornett 1-6 1-2 3, Falls 3-5 2-3 10. 
BOSTON COLLEGE (14-5, 4-4} Boone 5-6 2-3 12, Brown 3-8 5-6 12, Okafor 6-13 2-5 14, Gordon 1-9 3-4 5, Brown 1-9 1-2 3, Villanueva 1-3 1-2 3, Armstrong 0-2 0-0 0, Tooles 0-0 0-0 0, 
Anderson 4-9 2-2 12.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  19  31  50  
BOSTON COLLEGE  31  30  61  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 5-20 (Falls 2­4, Cornette 1-3, Thomas 1-6, Quinn 1-6, Timmermans 0-1). Connecticut 3-12 (Anderson 2-5, Brown 1:2. Villanueva 0­1, Gordon 0-4).Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 27 (Cornett 5), Connecticut (Okafor 22). Assists: Notre Dame 8 (Thomas. Quinn 3). Connecticut 12 (Brown 6). Total fouls: Notr~ Dame 17, Connecticut 14. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

i l Winning 
continued from page 24 

Schaechterle in a 6-3, 6-4 deci­ 
sion.  
The Irish were down early  
after  the  doubles  point.  
Although D'Amico and Ryan  
Keckely defeated Perrin/Justin  
Hoeveler 9-8 (9-7), Haddock and  
Scott fell 8-6 and Bass and King  
lost 8-5.  
"It says a lot for our condition­ 
ing that 16 hours later, we were  
able to come back and play like  
this," Bayliss said of the quick  
turnaround between matches.  
The Irish were comfortable  
before an energetic home crowd  
on Sunday.  
"You come into this place, you  
better bring your lunch, because  
you're in for a fight," Bayliss  
told his team in the locker room  
i 1:  after the match. The Irish again lost in doubles,  
with No. 1 D'Amico and Keckley  
falling to Johan Brunstrom and  
Henrik Soderberg 8-2. Haddock  
and Scott defeated Gwinyai  
Chingoka and former Notre  
Dame player Paul McNaughton  
8-3, but Bass and King lost to  
Peter  Oredsson  and  Alex  
Skrypko 9-8 (7-2).  
After the doubles point, King  
left the courts with an injured  
arm.  He is expected to play  
l  Thursday but was replaced in  
' I  the l~neup by Langenkamp. Keckley, who had not finished a singles match this season due to  
r( II  recurring ankle injuries, took  

the No. 6 spot. 
The first match completed was an injured Haddock at No. 1, who lost to Brunstrom 6-1, 6­
2. With the Mustangs up 2-0 and leading in two other matches, the outcome looked grim for the Irish. 
The Mustangs, however, could not prepare for the ferocity of D'Amico's play against McNaughton, a former team­mate. Despite a nagging shin injury, D'Amico took the point in straight sets with a score of 6-4, 7-5. 
Keckely then regained focus after a challenging second set and defeated Oredsson 6-4, 1-6, 6-2 at No.6. 
Bass displayed his usual tenacity, beating Alex Skrypko 6-3, 5-7, 6-2 at No. 4. He improved to 6-0 in three-set matches this year. 
The attention then focused on Scott, who had lost the first set to Chingoka 6-3. Scott's preci­sion placing of the ball proved to be the difference in an emotion­al match-clinching 3-6, 7-5, 6-3 victory. 
Langenkamp defeated Fede Murgier 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 to rally at No.5. 
"We've been playing some good tennis," Bayliss said. "It's not always pretty but we're able to step up when it matters most." 
The Irish will travel to No. 1 Illinois Thursday. The defending national champions have last lost at home since losing to Notre Dame in 2002. 
NOTRE DAME 5, NORTHWESTERN 2 at the COMBE CENTER 
SINGLES No. 1: Luis Haddock (ND) d.Tommy Hanus (NU) 4-6, 6-1, 6-4 No. 2: #68 Matthew Scott (NO) d. Chuck Perrin (NU) 6-2, 6-3 No. 3: Brent D'Amico (ND) d. Christian Tempke (NU) 4-6,6-1,6-2 No. 4: Stephen Bass (ND) d. Willy Lock (NV) 5-7, 7-6 (7-4), 1-0 (10-8) No. 5: Barry King (ND) d. Matt ChrLc;tian (NV) 6-2, 6-2 No. 6: Adam Schaechterle (NU) d. Eric Langenkamp (ND) 6-3, 6-4 
DOUBLES No. 1: D'Amico/Ryan Keckley (ND) d. Perrin/Justin Hoeveler (NU) 9-8 (9-7) No. 2: Hanusffempke (NU) d. Haddock/Scott (ND) 8-6 No. 3: Christian/Schaechterle {NU) d. Bass/King (ND} 8-5 
NOTRE DAME 5, SOUTHERN METHODIST 2 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES No. 1: #91 Johan Brunstrom (SMU) d. Luis Haddock (NO) 6-1,6-2 No. 2: #68 Matthew Scott (NO) d. #40 Gwinyai Chingoka (SMU) 3-6,7-5,6-3 No. 3: Brent D'Amico (NO) d. Paul M~Naughton (SMU) 6-4. 7-5 No. 4: Stephen Bass (NO) d. Alex Skrypko (SMU) 6-3, 5-7, 6-2 No. 5: Eric Langenkamp (NO) d. Fede Murgier (SMU) 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 No. 6: Ryan Keckley (NO) d. Peter Oredsson (SMU) 6-4, 1-6, 6-2 
DOUBLES No. 1: #39 Brunstrorn!Henrik Soderberg (SMU) d. D'Arnico/Keckley (NO) 8-2 No. 2: Haddock/Scott (ND) d. Chingoka/McNaughton (SMU) 8-3 No. 3: Oredsson/Skryko (SMU) d. S. Bass/Barry King (ND) 9-8 (7·2) 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
ish with nine points. 

Notre Dame started the sec­ond half on a 10-0 run, capped off by a Batteast lay-up. They extended that lead to 55-41 with 16:01 left before Pittsburgh started chipping away. The Panthers took advan­tage of solid contributions from Jennifer Brown and Katie Histed in the comeback. Brown scored all 12 of her points in the second half and Histed fin­ished with 11. 
Pittsburgh had a promotion before the game called "Pack the Peterson" where they sold all tickets to the game for just $1. All 12,000 seats sold out, but fewer than 8,000 showed up -which was still larger than the typical Pittsburgh crowd. 
Notre Dame has Miami, Rutgers and Syracuse remain­ing before the Big East Tournament. The Irish beat the Hurricanes 59-50 in Coral Gables Jan. 28. Miami is 20-4 and 9-4 in the conference. 
Rutgers is 16-9 overall, 8-5 in the Big East and 5-1 at home this season. Notre Dame travels to face the Scarlet Knights Saturday. The Irish then finish the season at home against a Syracuse team they beat 64-35 Jan. 21. 
NOTRE DAME 72, PITTSBURGH 68 at the PETERSON CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (17-8, 10-3} Batteast 7-13 3-9 17, Borton 2-3 0-0 4, Severe 2-3 3-5 7, Joyce 5-8 0-0 16, Duffy 0-6 3-4 3, Hernandez 0-1 0-0 0, Gray 1-2 0·0 2, Flecky 0-0 1-2 1, Erwin 3-3 3-4 9, LaVere 6-7 1-2 13. 
PITTSBURGH (6-18, 2-12) Kincaid 9-17 6-7 24, Stuffiet 1-3 0-0 2, Morris 1-2 0-0 2, Kunich 2-9 0-0 6. Histed 4-15 0-0 11, Brown 5-8 2-3 12, Hughes 1­2 0-0 3, Moore 4-5 0-0 8, Taylor 0-1 0-0 0. 
1st  2nd  Total  
NOTRE DAME  40  32  72  
Pittsburgh  37  31  68  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 5-12 (Joyce 5­8, Duffy 0-3, Batteast 0-1), Pittsburgh (Histed 3-9, Kunich 2-6, Hughes 1-1 Stiffiet 0-1). Fouled out: Kincaid. Rebounds: Notre Dame 30-12 (Batteast 8), Pittsburgh 32-17 (Brown 9). Assists: Notre Dame 18 {Severe 6). Pittsburgh 15 (Kunich 5). Total fouls: Notre Dame 15, Pittsburgh 23. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality 
houses close to can1pus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 

ple * Herve-Cllapeli_...·""'"""'··· =•:::==,at * Seve11 Jea.ns * Fren 
312 \V. c:.Ieveland Ave. Granger, IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 
528 E. Co.lfuJ'-i\ve. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 
'' 

Announcing the Year 
2004 AnnuaJ AV\rards of 

the .Albert Rava.rin.o 
Italian Studies Travel 
Scholarship 
. · Thanks to a gcirez.ous gift fh:m1 tlte.)\lbert Ravariuo fan~ily. th=.ftulian Studit;,~ PTt)grarn i~ plc:W!>:..."d t'l ru:mou:ncoc the }~ 2:004. an.m~al.com])ctition.foc tn~Yd in SU~}pott of~w11mCf" ~·~.search nhd ihreign ~wdy intmly. Grant~ wiU ~ mt«iC: in m:nounts: notto exceed $3.t.ltJQ,.andwtU no:t i~unnall~; ~o:.'ltw~r all espc:m~~-N,r*~n: Dame t'Taduatc &ld undcrgr:Kfuate students wbl) are p!aili\hlS. h) plit~~ r.e:o;e-~r£h or .l£ ['():n:n;al pro~im of summa stUdy initaly arc invitoo.to apply. Sm.denti: musl: halwe cumpla~l ~llc.w:t one )~43"Jlfitaliao l3.ngu~gc,·.T.b~<;.'*Otttsc work..willnollll3Uy be in ltalhu1~ \\>tn invul\'~ lh.e 
J
studyo:fltQ.Han Jru~g~Jl.age,, lih::naluTC:, Mntl t:*.1ltu:rc.; :and 1nust be applleabfe to a ~&.twie.nt•S: 
. . I
dcgi'OC prognun at tlw tJnivef'sity ofNotte Dam-t:_ . ' 
. . ... 
Rec.onuner~td l)rt·~~n.s · fi,r. fun...Jgn: >Jtudy include. bu~· ue .not ·u.rnited tu-. l.A:ly,::lla . UniversityinRome~ Uosto<n Uni\'er~ity in P~l:u~ UCLA in Pi~~ Miami Uui'vcrsitr in Urhint-,,.. C<lhnnb:i:a Uni~-a:sity in Sc:andiano. lnter·ested ~tudentil .iin: c:ncl::mm,b."Cd ·to eori~uil the m»J.erials. on Wtli.M~ fo:rcig):l study in the l.)cpartment ofRot1iunc·e J~n:gJ.tlfg~~ :343. O•Shau!lh~y Ilull. 
Saud~~t:s a:r~· invitro to submit a ietter wnkh ~h<nald include: . ·· l) . .an ~;ltpb~~itm '!--,fb9Wthc p.I'Ol)<)S.Cd 1\.~M.Cb Ot .fi'3n!::i~trE ~ludy will ~"tlfumcc their dcgt'~e ptogrn.m at N~)tre n~mc: 

2) a JK."BBUaJ $t"atoncnt :indkatins t~i:r h.u:kgnlu.mf;int-crcst$,,:md lotlg-tenn ~()a]~ J.) a tk.wriptit'n oflhc res.-tarch Pl'Ojcct C>t' tbe l)fO:grotm H1ey intend to fol.lo\.'\' 
4) a budget indicating the: c.u,.lx ·i~"::olvcd 
J 
I SJ the tutlli;S oft'-'-o refere~~ceft:~ · 
! 
1 
..r\.pplkation DeadUue~ T1aursda.y.. 1\brr.b 411\.2004 Albert Ravarioo JtatiAU Studl~ Travel Sch~~l~n:taip Program in Italian Studie-s 
34.3 o·sh:au~hD~liiY Ball VniYerslty of Nolr~ Dun~c 
;·> I 
....""-············-•.•........~ 
------·--·-------,,,·.·.. ···••••.•.•.w.w~ 

Monday, February 23, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 35 Reception with 68 Capital NNW of open arms Copenhagen
1 Birds' homes 39 Was a passen­69 Slaughter of the 
6 Order (around) 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Peter Fonda, Sylvia Chase, W.E.B. ger 1940's-50's DuBois, Georg Frideric Handel ~
10 Quaint cry of 
Cardinals
41 Play on the •
shock 
Happy Birthday: You'll be open, receptive and prepared to take on the world. 
radio 70 _-fatty acid
14 Not bottled, as This will be a time of expansion for you. You will be far more willing to 42 Supply-and­71 Taking the blue present your ideas and to work in unison with others. Your need to succeed
beer 
demand subj. ribbon will be the driving force that will help you get to where you want to go. Your 
15 Choir voice 
numbers: 4, 9, 27, 31, 36, 48

43 Tidy Lotto prize 72 Fall mo. 
16 Knot 
73 Elephant groups 
48 Mary _ cos­ARIES (March 21-April19): Friendship opportunities are present if you can
17 Writer 
metics get involved in worthwhile groups. Relatives may be able to shed some lightRogers St. on a personal situation. **** 
49 Sweet Spanish DOWN
Johns TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Emotional upset will result in confrontations if
dessert 

1 Ark builder you aren't extremely careful in your verbal interactions. You must remain18 Nay opposers 50 Suffix with 2 Prefix with derm objective if you wish to resolve your personal situation. *** 19 Coin opening kitchen GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Use your creativity in your pursuits. Your
3 Leave in, as text 
reputation will be at stake if you say things unjustly about other people. Be
20 Nursery rhyme 51 Railroad stop: 
4 Bathroom pow­precise in your conversation to avoid being misinterpreted. *** 
bakery item Abbr. 
ders CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expect to have problems with your 23 Rap's Dr. _ 52 Once-fashion-lover today if you have been somewhat nagging. Confrontations could lead to 
5 Songbird 
isolation. Spending sprees will be damaging to the bank book. ** 
24 Theater alert able card game 
6 Seabiscuit and LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make profitable investments if you have 25 More down and 55 PanAm rival Citation, e.g. ready cash on hand. Social activity will lead to new friendships. You can make favorable physical changes if you get into fitness. ****
out 57 Doctors' org. 7 Barcelona 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Property investments will be lucrative. Changes
cheers
27 Omaha's home: 58 Scarce consola­will be to your advantage. You need new surroundings. Help others with their Abbr. tion 8 Pierces legal or financial problems. Your suggestions will be valued. **"'* LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Self-improvement projects will bring you into
30 Burden 64 Pompeii, e.g., 9 Flip response to 
contact with new friends. Don't allow your adventurous mood to get you into
today a complaint
33 Letters and trouble. Don't procrastinate when it comes to exercise. *** packages 66 Writer Ephron 10 Naval rank: by SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Romance will surface if you follow your Abbr. educational desires. Your communicative talent will result in support. Group 
34 Make, in arith­67 Anouk of "La 36 Lawyer's docu­46 Germany's _ 60 Play group? 
involvement will lead to a leadership position. **** 
metic Dolce Vita" 11 Famous bed ment von Bismarck 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't take risks. The temptation to
61 Bridge master

tester 
37 Palace protector 47 Educational gamble will result in frustration, not to mention losses. Get involved in
Sharif

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Love to pieces innovation of physical activities that will tire you out and get you back into shape. *** 
38 "A Day Without 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can help those less able to help
I"':"T.~:-r=-r:T-:-r::-1 13 Keep (from) the 1960's 62 Tear
Rain" singer, themselves if you make concessions. You will receive praise for your unselfish 
~~~~~,._;:;..j 21 Mrs. Chaplin 
2000 52 Tree with pods efforts. Satisfaction will come if you're relentless in your pursuits. ****
63 "_of the 

-i:+;::+.~i:f-:+=+:-~ 22 Patricia who AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Loneliness will result in ciepression. Don't
40 Singer 53 Entertain D' Urbervilles" 
give in to emotional blackmail. You need to spend time with close friends who 
won an Oscar 
Fitzgerald 54 By oneself will boost your morale and give you positive support. ** 
for "Hud" 65 Word in most
44 Fem. opposite 56 Blazing PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your excellent bedside manner will allow you -:-+=+:::+::-t 26 Backgammon of the to help a friend who hasn't been feeling well. Take care of any pending legal equipment 45 Recites 59 Let go Commandments matters or overdue bills. Look into long-term investments. *** 
27 Drug cop 
Birthday Baby: You've got what it takes to make your parents proud. You're28 Suffix with For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a sensitive, caring and at the same time determined, practical and stable. What a switch credit card, 1-800-814-5554. package you are--always wanting to please, but never starting things that you -.. know you can't complete. You're always willing to lend a helping hand to the 
29 Not the most Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
ones you Jove. 

comfortable crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. place to sleep Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 . Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialasr.com -=-+-=+~4.~~ 31 Russia's past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Mountains Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ..__.......~-_..._;....., 32 Grin nytimes.com/learning!xwords. 
DILBERT 
I CAN MAKE YOUR 
COMPETITORS TIRED 
AND UNFOCUSED 
FIVES 
In-class morale has been way up since the installation of the Anti-Jerk system at ND... 
Well it looks. like Yeahl Could you Dtec1Sel we can finish early review chapters one unless there are any through thirteen?
j 
.. 
• 

I'LL PESTER THEM WITH AN ENDLESS SERIES OF CHARITY REQUESTS, EMPLOYEE 
BIRTHDAY PARTIES AND BLOOD DRIVES. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
SCOTT ADAMS 

~ 
I KNOW

f1 
IT WORKS= 
so ...

~ 
BECAUSE

1& 
TIRED. 

iS 
THEY PAID 

.... 
CAN'T ...
ME TO DO

~ 
FOCUS.IT TO YOU .

•
E 
I ~ I 
Q 
T 
t~~~~~~::..J 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
I feel 

one letter to each square, I've had 
woozy myself 

to form four ordinary words. too many 
THALC 
(IJ
C2004 Trilune Media Services, Inc 
r~ftrJ
tNAITLE 


THe 6ARFl-IE:S GOT SICK ~TI1EY
J (] tJ 
JM616eD. TOO 
www.jumble.oom 
OFTE:N TO--­

tHARSHT I Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

saturday's I Jumbles: BRAVO ICILY PAROLE HECKLE Answer: Where the student ended up when he com­pleted the sailing course -AT "C" LEVEL 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
--------"" --.­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
~

J·••o:..-•,.""·-···-----·---.... -·-··---······ -­
. . -. )• ,. . . . 
. .. . ... . 


Monday, February 23, 2004 page 24 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish win 8th straight Big East championship 
stomped on the competition swim a little faster," coach triumphing in the 200-yard won a stroke event, an individ­
By MATT PUGLISI 

and strolled out with a confer­Bailey Weathers said. "We individual medley, 100-yard ual medley and a sprint, which 
Sports Writer 

ence title as Notre Dame swam well in some events, but breaststroke and 100-yard is pretty unusual." 
(725.5) rode outstanding per­we should have swum faster in freestyle. Carroll took home Perry-Eaton, the 2003 Big
The Irish have a love-eight 
formances from freshman others." the Big East Championship's East Diver of the Year, contin­
relationship with the Big East 
Katie Carroll and senior Carroll became only the Most Outstanding Swimmer ued her season-long domi­
Championships. 

Meghan Perry-Eaton to a fourth freshman and third award in recognition of her nance as the senior swept the
For the eighth consecutive 
173.5-point victory over sec­Notre Dame swimmer in Big impressive performance. di....:ing events, winning both the 
year, the No. 20 Irish (8-2) 
ond place Rutgers (551). East Championship history to "Katie is just extremely ver­
walked into New York, 
"I think we'd have liked to win three races at the meet, satile," Weathers said. "She see CHAMPS/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Okafor, Huskies' defense stifle Irish in 61-50 loss 

•.it-.. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

When Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun walked into the inter­view room after his team lost to Notre Dame on Feb. 9, he criti­cized his team's lack of compo­sure and inability to contain the Irish offense. 
No such criticism was needed Saturday, not after his Huskies unleashed a stifling defense against Notre Dame by holding the Irish to a season-low 29.7 field goal percentage. Combine Notre Dame's scoring woes with the Huskies' dominant rebound­ing advantage, and No. 8 Connecticut (21-5, 9-3 in the Big East) avenged its loss to the Irish two weeks ago with a 61­50 win that snapped a three­game Notre Dame (13-10, 7-6) win streak. 

With Torin Francis sidelined for the third straight gfme, the Irish had no answer for the Huskies' Emeka Okafor, who finished with 14 points, a career-high 22 rebounds and seven blocks. He anchored a Connecticut defense that pres­sured the Irish all afternoon, out-rebounded the Irish 59-30 and rarelygave Notre Dame an open look at the basket. Only Chris Thomas, who finished with 13 points, made more than five field goals. 
A relentless Connecticut defense never really gave the Irish offense a chance to get going. Notre Dame didn't score its first points until Jordan Cornette drained a 3-pointer with 13:35 left in the first half (ending a 10-0 Huskies run to start the game), and only two players reached double-digits -Thomas and freshman Colin Falls, who finished with 10 points. Notre Dame made just two of its first 17 shots and ended the first half with a sea­son-low.19 points. 
Despite their offensive woes, the Irish were never completely out of the game. Although the Irish trailed by as much as 15 points, they closed the deficit to within four points three times in the second half, the last time coming on Thomas' jumper with 8:49 left to make the score 46-42. 
But the Huskies then went on an 11-2 run to put the game out of reach, and after Thomas' jumper Notre Dame only made three field goals the rest of the way. 
see HUSKIES/page 22 


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish avoid Panther upset 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

When lowly Pittsburgh 
thought of an upset, two Notre 
Dame seniors took over. 

Le'Tania Severe stole a pass and made two free throws with 4.7 seconds left to clinch the win, and Jeneka Joyce had her third consecutive career­high performance as the Irish survived 72-68 over Pittsburgh Saturday. 
Joyce had 16 points on five 3-pointers and Severe finished 
! with seven points to help Notre Dame improve to 17-8 and 10­3 in the Big East. 
I 
The Irish have struggled on the road all season, and did so again Saturday before 7,814 at 
the Peterson Center. They led 40-37 at halftime and extend­
1 
ed that advantage to as many as 14 in the second half, before seeing Pittsburgh crawl back to take a one-point lead / with 2:18 remaining. The 
l TRACK & FIELD 
~ 
'! 
! 
( 

The men and women both placed second in the Big East tournament 
ij 
i 
this weekend. 

! 
page 21 

Panthers' LaToya Kincaid led all scorers with 24 points on 9-of-17 shoot­ing. She also grabbed six rebounds in 34 minutes of play. 
"Pittsburgh played hard, with a lot of emo­tion, Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "And we had no answers for Kincaid." . 
Notre Dame was led by forward Jacqueline Batteast who had 17 points, eight rebounds, three assists, three blocks and two steals. She did miss six of nine free throws as the Irish con­
Sophomore forward Courtney
verted just 15-of-28 from 
LaVere goes up for a rebound
the line. Courtney LaVere 
against Georgetown on Feb. 4. 
added 13 points on 6-of-7 shooting in just 18 minutes. 
Notre Dame shot 56.5 per­cent from the field for the game. 
The Irish trailed 35-32 with 
1:58 left in the first half before Joyce drained back-to-hack 3­
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame 6 BYU 1 
The Irish posted a thrashing of No. 20 BYU on Friday. 
page 20 
pointers. Forward Crystal Erwin added a lay-up giving Notre Dame a 40-35 lead late in the half. Erwin made all three of her field goals to fin-
see HOOPS/page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish knock off two high­ranked foes in weekend 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

Bobby Bayliss, Notre Dame's normally stoic coach, threw his clipboard in the air as his tennis players mobbed him following a tight match at Northwestern Saturday. 
The usually composed senior tri-captain Matthew Scott pumped his fists in the air and bent backwards with exhilara­tion after clinching the victory against Southern Methodist Sunday. 
The Irish have been on fire lately. But this weekend's key vic­tories over No. 37 Northwestern and No. 40 Southern Methodist have shown that No. 50 Notre Dame has the spark to take the team to the next level. 
"They were very similar matches," Bayliss said. "We lost a disappointing doubles match and came back in singles -the script is the same." 
Senior tri-captain Luis Haddock was instrumental in the victory over Northwestern. 
"He showed so much poise," Bayliss said of Haddock who bat­tled a groin injury but defeated Tommy Hanus 4-6,6-1, 6-4. 
"He was out there on one leg -literally," Bayliss said. "The only way for him to win was to hit first serves." 
Scott registered a 6-2, 6-3 vic­tory over Church Perrin and jun­ior tri-captain Brent D'Amico defeated Christian Tempke 4-6, 6-1, 6-2. Freshman Stephen Bass beat Willy Lock 5-7, 7-6 (7-4). 1­0 (10-8) and classmate Barry King easily defeated Matt Christian 6-2, 6-2. 
Eric Langenkamp suffered his first loss in this year's dual­match play to Adam 
see WINNING/page 22 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
PGATOUR 
NBA 
Notre Dame 15 

Nissan Open 
Timberwolves 92 
Denison 2 
Spurs 94 

The men placed sec-
The men's lacrosse 

ond in this weekend's 
Mike Weir survived 
The Spurs rallied 
team finished preseason 

Big East championship, 
several late rallies by his 
behind Tim Duncan to 
competition with a win 

behind No. 16 
opponents to win the 
beat the Timberwolves 
against Denison. 

Pittsburgh. 
Nissan Open. 
in Minneapolis. 
page 17 
page 15
page 20 

page 14 




