
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
A higher calling 
Men at Old College, Moreau Seminary prepare for the priesthood 

h'ditor's note: This is the first of a four-part lloly Week series focusing on the religious of Notre /Jame, Saint Mary's and 1/oly Cross. 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
New> Writer 
In thn chapel, Jive stained gla..'is angnls rise up behind the altar, and a setting sun sends fractured bits of colon~d light l'Joating through the cloud of lingering incense. In the 
library. a mosaic 'r<:;.. Religious through the dif­of saints wield­®:~,.:P,)!I~.,...,... on Campus ferent levels of 
ing quills and ~-!::::::. ~~&~:f=~~; formation. you 
scrolls send ~=il get an itch to go encouraging ·rJffi A Holy Week Series out and do what 
glances on the woodPn tables and worn arm­chairs that usually hold seminari­ans and their piles of books. In the courtyard. an abstract pieta is l'ranwd by thn striking tableau of the ( ;o]dnn Dome rising from the watnrs of the lake. 
Silent and unimposing, the art­work of Mornau Seminary serves as a subtle reminder of the key­storws of r!'ligious life at Notre Dame: prayPr and study, tradition and modernity. 
Hun by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Moreau is just one half of a two-part vocations system that also includes the undergradu­ate discernment program at Old College. Within the walls of these two buildings reside the men look­ing to dedicate themselves to the religious life, "normal guys," as they affirm repeatedly, but sur­rounded by mystery nonetheless. 
A long journey 

"My friends at medical school commiserate with me," said Stephen KoPth, displaying a half­smile. "After spending so many 
years going 
you've been trained to do." 
Koeth, a 1999 Notre Dame graduate, is in his second year of theology, but has actually already spent four years in the program. Seminarians can spend anywhere from five to nine years going through the steps of discernment and formation process that even­tually culminates in the priest­hood. 
The vocations oflice, directed by 
see SEMINARY/page 9 
MEGAN DAVISSON/I he Observer Brad Tucker, left, Matt Young, Joe Walker and Joe Wysocki are among the seven students who reside In Old College. 
Protests prompt Taco Bell response 
University has not reacted to PSA inquiries about marketing relationship 
By ClAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
A publicized hunger strike last week by freshman Antonio Hivas and a protest outside of a Taco Bell restaurant Friday received a corporate statement from Taco Bell but have yet to lead to an official response from the University. 
Both the demonstration ­which brought about 50 chant­ing and sign-waving students and scattered faculty members to the intersection of Lafayette Boulevard and LaSalle Street -and the hunger strike were carried out to coincide with the end of the National Student Week of Action, but organizers said their struggle is ongoing. 
"[Rivas]'s hunger strike is over, National Student Week of Action is over, but our fight is not over," said Melody Gonzalez, a leader in the protest. 
Friday's demonstration was the latest in a string of weekly protests titled "Fair Food Fridays" started by the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW) in April 2001. The campaign aims to con­vince customers to boycott Taco Bell due to alleged unfair labor standards and wages for the migrant workers who pick tomatoes for the chain's sup-

see PROTEST/page 4 

Republican plan might affect ND's financial aid 
By SHEILA FLYNN Senior StaffWrirer 
A Hepublican-backed plan to redistribute financial aid alloca­tions to universities could aiTect Notre Dame in the future, but changes would most likely not be immediate or insurmountable, said Joseph Husso, director of student financial services. 
"There's been a rising level of interest to try to rectify what appears to be a procnss that doesn't seem to work," Husso said. 
The President George W. Bush­backed proposal calls for a decrease in federal education money sent to wmtlthier universi­ties with a smaller percentage of low-income students, instead of allocating more funds to institu­tions in which a larger population of low-income students are enrolled. In a March 26 article, The New York Times reported that several Ivy League schools, for example, receive government amounts significantly larger than the median sum given to univer­sities across the nation. Supporters of the aid revision plan charge that such esteemed and rich schools have secured these amounl'> because they were better able to negotiate or were more experienced in navigating red tape and paperwork. 
Russo, who has been monitor­ing the financial aid develop­ments since the 1960s, said more savvy university administrations definitely did have the upper hand in the past -especially in the "earlier years," circa 1965, when schools were required to complete a "very, very complicat­ed application." 
He said this diiTicult application procedure was changed in the 
see AID/page 6 


Off-campus porch incidents raise no resident concern 
By KATE GALES News Writer 
While a high profile balcony collapse during a party in Chicago last surnnwr Jell 13 dead and 30 injured. Notre Dame students said they are not concerned that a similar incident could take place at ofT-campus apartment cornplnxns. 
llowever, there have been at least three recent incidents where stucllmts partying have fallen oil' of balconies, including at St. Patrick's Day parties at the College Park apartment complex both this year and last year and a party this fall at the '1\Jrtle Creek apartment complex. 
For students, these incidents have caused more concern than the possibility of a balcony col­lapse. 
"It has never really crossed our minds -we never have that many people out there that it's a weight concern," said Lindsay Wind. a senior who lives in College Park. "Before all of this started to come up, I probably wouldn't even think about it. Usually it's not what you're think­ing about when you're having a party." 
"It's not something we're con­cerned about," said fellow resi­dent Lindsay Zika. "Most of our friends know how to be safe. 
People like to hang out there; it's never been an issue for us." 
Patty Russwurm, a property manager with Paramount Management. the company that manages College Park, said she is not aware of any other incidents at College Park when a partier had fallen off a balcony during the last two years that Paramount has managed the property. 
Though less publicized, Turtle Creek Apartments has also faced a problem with irresponsible bal­cony use, according to property manager Tammy Michelbrink. 
"We had an incident this fall, but nobody was seriously 
see PORCHES/page 6 


--------------------------------------------------, 
INSIDE COLUMN 

All about ICPA 
This weekend was the stuff of which legends are made. 
The Observer staff took its annu­al trip to ICPA (the Indiana Collegiate Press Association) con­vention, but in reporting back 
Maureen 
to the friends 

Reynolds
who didn't go, I've realized the weekend was 

Associate 
light on journal­

News Editor 
ism and heavy on scandal. 

ICPA is an opportunity for aspir­ing journalists from the state to attend workshops and panels, and then enjoy a lunch and awards cer­emony. But I guess since The Observer is traditionally snubbed at these awards in favor of papers whose "big story" is the theft of its April Fools edition over a year ago, our staff generally sees the week­end as an opportunity for bonding before the new term. 
Upon our arrival in Muncie, Ind., we enjoyed dinner together. Then, true to form. we returned to the hotel to begin the night's festivities. 
At 9:30 p.m., since we had already received several warning phone calls from the front desk (due to the oversensitivity of the woman staying below). we decided to go swimming. The water was warm and over-chlorinated, and we were ready for a return to our younger days of pool games. Let's just say that my arms still hurt from the chicken fighting. 
After being told that chicken fighting was indeed NOT allowed in the hotel pool, it was time to return upstairs, where some of us changed into pajamas, and some of us took 45 minutes to get ready for a simple game of Never Have I Ever. 
Never Have I Ever is a game in which things you never wanted to know about your friends are revealed for all the world to know. I can now say I'm definitely closer to my fellow staffers because I know of their secret hook-ups and embarrassing moments. 
After the games ended, the debauchery continued, and I was able to find out even more little­known facts about my friends. 
I now know that a certain friend of mine can impersonate a ptero­dactyl flawlessly and doesn't have the slightest problem mooning the rest of us in a hotel room -or in the hotel hallway. 
And I also know that, even though someone may look very easy to pick up, I won't be able to do it when she needs to be dragged into our room from the hallway. 
Finally, I know that, no matter what you may hear, at no point did two of our female staffers make out -sorry guys. 
The next day, The Observer once again was severely underappreciat­ed (probably because we don't con­tinue to beat the dead horse of paper theft.) 
But that doesn't matter, because it's Friday night that counts any­way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL YOU DO WITH YOUR FREE TIME ONCE MARCH MADNESS IS OVER? 

Dean Wolf Larry Bailey Ben Zerante Jackie Clark Justin Hendricks Devon Russell 
Junior Sophomore Sophomore Sophomore Freshman Sophomore Keough Stanford St. Ed's Welsh Family Stanford Dillon 
"Get some more 'Try to earn 'Tll cover "Cry." "Watch more "[Ping] Pong." sleep., back some of myselfin baseball. " 




the money I lost chocolate syrup. in it." I'll be delicious." 
Printer advertisements prompt official concern 
WELLINGTON, Ohio ­Health officials expressed outrage Friday over a fake suicide scene displayed in a shop window to sell print­ing services. 
The display at Special Effects, a video and print­ing store in this northeast Ohio village, shows empty beer cans on the floor near an overturned table below dangling legs meant to look like a person who hanged himself. 
On a nearby table is a short, scrawled suicide let­ter on a piece of notebook when the wieners are three for a dime. 
paper  - and another note  
TODAY  
c::  


He should know. DiFate, whose family had a grocery store in Yonkers and sold homegrown vegetables at a roadside stand, added hot dogs to the offerings in 1929 and has run his busi­ness in the same spot off Jackson Avenue ever since, except during his World War II service with the Marines. 
His season begins every April 1 and runs until December. To celebrate the anniversary, diFate is sell­ing three hot dogs for 10 cents, just as he did in 1929, through Sunday. 
that's lengthy and profes­sionally printed. 
A sign reads, "Contemplating suicide? Let Special Effects give your suicide note that pro­fessional look." 
The head of the state agency in charge of suicide prevention said the display goes too far. 
Vendor offers hot dogs at 1929 price 
GREENBURGH, N.~ ­After 7 5 years of selling "the best hot dogs in the world" from the same road­side stand, Mickey diFate thinks strained squash is a poor substitute. Especially 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

IN BRIEF 

A blood drive will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom today from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
As .a part of the labor film series, the film "Break and Roses" will be shown at 4 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. Economics rofes­sor Teresa Ghilarducci and IUSB labor studies professor Paul Mishier will introduce the film and lead a discussion afterwards. 
The school of architecture will sponsor a talk on "Architecture of the Public Realm" by Kate Diamond, design principal at RNL Design in Los Angeles. from 4:30 to 
5:30 p.m. today in Bond Hall room 104. 
Amnesty International will sponsor a showing of the film "Dead Man Walking" at 7 
p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 119. 
Professor Cornelius Delaney will host a philosophy lecture on the table "Rawls' Political Liberalism: What Else" from 7 to 8 p.m. tonight in Malloy Hall room 220. 
Political science professor Keir Lieber will introduce the film "Triumph of Evil" a front­line documentary on genocide in Rwanda at 7 p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Centery Auditorium. 
Class registration for Fall 2004 will begin for rising sen­iors on Tuesday and continue through Thursday on Irishlink. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 50 HIGH 50 LOW 35 LOW 33 
lLI 
:::c 
!;i 
lLI 
3: 
..... 

~ 
c( (,) 


..... 0 HIGH 49 HIGH 42 HIGH 60 HIGH 53 
LOW 39 LOW 39 LOW 39 LOW 35 
Atlanta 64 I 39 Boston 40 I 32 Chicago 54 I 41 Denver 65 I 44 Houston 72 I 62 Los Angeles 70 I 54 Minneapolis 63 I 45 New York 46 I 33 Philadelphia 48 I 32 Phoenix 75 I 59 Seattle 60 I 42 St. Louis 64 I 42 Tampa 72 I 53 Washington 50 I 33 
Monday, April 5, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
White, Moran appoint BOG reps 
dent center, which is slated 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
for completion in January. Assistant News Editor "We're in the process of 
finding someone," White 
All but three positions on said. "In all fairness, we'd Saint Mary's Board of probably start with the peo­Governance have been filled ple who were initially inter­for next year since student ested in BOG." body president Sarah Those 20 scats on BOG Catherine White and vice already filled arc the result president Mary Pauline of an application and inter-
Donna Lubbers and Sarah the Board as "refreshing." Brown. both juniors, arc "After spending time on the finalists for each. College retreat with everyone and at President Marilou Eldred is the BOG transition meeting, I expected to announce the am really honored to work Board of Trustees' decision with this group of women," 
·for student trustee within the White said. "They bring so next two weeks, and an elec-many unique talents and tions commissioner will sub-represent all aspects of the 
~~rl::r~f!"l~.~l~r,£·:~~~,~ ~~5'~;i"{t!·z~~ :·~.'::;: l:, , ; ! , ::, i; 1~·1! ji!! ll 

revising the position to include additional responsi-Contact Anneliese Woolford at bilities relating to the stu-wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Moran took ofl'iee Thurs­day. 
The remain­ing positions to be filled are those of stu­dent trustee, elections com­missioner and campus food commissioner, White said. 
The student trustee and elections com­
m iss i one r positions will be filled simul­
taneously, as 
"We feel that we selected a diverse and motivated group ofwomen to represent Saint Mary's in the upcoming year. We're very confident in their abilities." 
Sarah Catherine White 
Saint Mary's student 
view process that began shortly before spring break. Six mem­bers of last year's Board, including White, retain posi­tions. 
"We feel that we selected a diverse and motivated group of women to represent Saint Mary's in the upcoming year, Moran said. 
"We're very conn-dent in their abili­tics." 
White describes 
page 3 




Observer, staffers honored at ICPA 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer was named the third-best Indiana daily student newspaper at the annual Indiana College Press Association award banquet Saturday. 
Numerous staff members captured a variety of individ­ual honors as well. 
Former editor in chief Andrew Soukup's stories on Father Daniel Groody and Darrell Campbell for the Irish Insider won Best News Feature Story and Best Sports Feature Story respec­tively. lie also placed second in Best News Online report­ing for his coverage of for­mer Executive Vice President Father Timothy Scully's res­ignation and third in Best Sports News Story for his article on the expansion of the Big East. 
Other first place entries went to Scott Brodfuehrer and Meghanne Downes [Best News Reporting Online for their story on Abram Elam 's testimony in his sexual assault trial] and Brett Campbell and Dan Zychinski [Best Editorial Cartoon]. 
Former managing editor Kate Nagengast won second place for Best Investigative Story for her reporting on the University's budget, and The Observer's Editorial Board placed second in Best Staff Editorial for an editorial on changing the handling of dis­ciplinary cases following Elam 's trial. Third place indi­vidual honors were earned by Joe Trombello [Best News or Feature Series for his cov­erage on academic engage­ment] and Tim Kacmar [Best Sports Photo and Best Feature Photo]. 
The Observer finished third for Online Publication of the Year, Best Front Page and Best Special Issue. 
Other Notre Dame media groups attending the !CPA convention included the Juggler, named best literary magazine; Scholastic, nanwd the second-best news maga­zine; and the Dome. named the second-best yearbook. 

INFORMATION MEETING 



OXFORD PROGRAM 
JUNIOR YEAR 2005-2006 
MONDAY, APRIL 5 
6:30pm 102 DeBartolo 
• 

FOR FIRST YEAR A & LAND SCIENCE COLLEGE INTENTS 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
pliers in Florida. 
Taco Bell employees provided a corporate memo to cus­tomers, and protesters did not intrude onto company property to seek further response. 
The statement, signed by Laurie Schalow of the Taco Bell Corp., details the history of Taco Bell's dialogue with the CIW and claims that all condi­tions of the company's Supplier Code of Conduct have been met, including specific anti­slave labor language and a $9 minimum wage for farm employees. 
"[The CIWJ think that if we simply charge our customers more money for our products, we can pay more money for the ingredients and this will some­how trickle into their pay­checks." the memo states. "That is a fallacy." 
The statement said that the free market, not Taco Bell, was responsible for determining produce prices. and said the restaurant was being unfairly targeted in -a "labor dispute" between tomato suppliers and their workers. 
However, Progressive Student Alliance member and protest participant Brigitte Gynther refuted the restaurant's argu­ment of detachment, saying that since the corporation is capable of initiating anti-slav­ery legislation, it can also play a role in labor disputes between tomato providers and migrant workers. 
"Major buyers do have power to impose regulations," she said. "Taco Bell only needs to charge 1/4 cent more per item been delivered to Malloy by the to pay a penny more per weekend, University pound" of tomatoes -the tar­spokesman Matt Storin said the get figure to president was achieve and traveling out of exceed minimum "Every day you town and was wage. unaware of the

don't do something
Gynther added letters. 
that workers are is another day farm Rivas said he paid by the buck­workers are poor ... had not yet been et and not by the contacted directly
[the University has] 
hour, a practice by the University that allows toma­had plenty oftime." after keeping a to companies to liquids-only fast underpay on from dinner on.
Brigitte Gynther
"downtime" such March 25 to 4:30
protester
as weeding fields 
and riding buses back and forth between picking sites. 
"You'd have to pick a whole lot of buckets to make $9 an hour," she said. "Anyone who picks tomatoes can tell you that's not true." 
Despite Taco Bell's insistence of uninvolvement, Gonzalez said that she and fellow mem­bers of the PSA planned to con­tinue flooding the offices and Sorin Hall residence of University President Edward Malloy with copies of a letter asking the University to refuse to renew its marketing rela­tionship with the restaurant. 
The letter also expresses sup­port for Rivas' hunger strike and asks for Notre Dame to address several different fronts. including its standards of eval­uating members of the Board of Trustees. Board member Stephanie Gallo serves as a senior marketing manager for the wine manufacturing com­pany Gallo, which has been accused of denying health care benefits to its grape pickers. 
While Gonzalez estimated that more than 30 copies as well as several e-mails had 


opportunity to: 
•Earn a Master's degree in Education in two 
•Serve as a fulltime teacher •Receive tet.lcher licensure •Earn a monthly stipend •Serve as an Americorps volunteer 




~ ERANCISCAN 
u·N1VERSITY 
Clinton Iowa 1-800-242-4153 
p.m. on April 4, 
when he received the Eucharist at a small mass service in St. Edward's Hall. He claimed that encouragement from peers and campus work­ers helped him maintain his motivation during the last few days of the strike. 
"That's what kept me going -it was unbelievable," Rivas said. "I just want to see [the University] take more responsi­bility for their actions ... [and] be more socially conscious." 
The University has met with PSA members repeatedly dur­ing the school year to discuss concerns about the Taco Bell marketing relationship and committed to reviewing the sit­uation in February, but has not issued a statement since. 
Members of PSA criticized the delay, saying that the adminis­tration is wasting time with dis­cussion in place of acti"n. Gynther said that a public statement of the evaluation was overdue. 

"Justice delayed is justice denied," she said. "Every day you don't do something is another day farm workers are poor ... [the University has] had plenty of time." 
She added that she hoped a public statement would be issued before Easter. 
Gonzalez agreed, claiming Notre Dame's Catholic priorities obligate the University to go beyond researching labor prac­tices and terminate its contract. 
"The best thing Notre Dame can do is take action," she said. "It is a research institution but also an institution of society, and it has to respond to the injustices of society." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
ARE YOU CONSIDERING MAJORING IN 

POLITICAL SCIENCE? 
THEN DON'T MISS THE 
"MEET YOUR MAJOR MEETING" 
Wednesday, April 7 116 DeBartolo 
7:00 -8:30 p.m. 

Advisors will explain the major and will be available to answer questions. 
www.nd.edu/"'govern me 

Master of Business Administration Accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (www.aacsb.edu) 
• 
International Business 

• 
International Finance 


• 
Marketing Management 


Master of Arts in Government and Politics 
Accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education 
(www.msache.org~ 
• International Relations 

Rome Campus Contact Information~ 
Via di Santa Maria Mediatrice, 24-00165 Rome, Italy Ph. 011 39 06 393 842; Fax 011 39 06 636 901 U.S. Ph. (212) 815-9216 Ext. 2 E-mail: info11 @rome.stjohns.edu Website: www.stjohns.edu/rome 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 5, 2004 CoMPILED FROM T11E 0BSERVER'S·WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
"The Erased" denied citizenship 
LJUBLJANA, Slovenia -Slovenes over­whelmingly voted Sunday against restoring the righL-; of thousands of ethnic Bosnians. Croats and Serbs who were stripped of their citizen­ship when Slovenia broke away from Yugoslavia. 
More than 18.000 people were officially erased from state records after Slovenia declared iL-; independence in 1991. The move efl'eetively made them non-persons in the eyes of the government. 
In a referendum Sunday, 95 percent of the voters denied mstoring the right<> to the ethnic minorities. 
Only 4 percent supported a Constitutional Court ruling that had recommended last year tlw government restore rights back to the group, widely known here as 'The Erased." 
Bribery suspicion turns to Sharon 
.IEHUSALEM -Israel's attorney general will elose the corruption investigation against Vice Premier Ehud Olmert, the Justice Ministry said Sunday, but Prime Minister Ariel Sharon might still be charged. 
Olmert. a close confidant of Sharon. was suspected of involvement in a bribery case that threatens to bring down the prime minister. 
Sharon is suspected of accepting hun­dreds of thousands of dollars from an Israeli real estate developer to promote a tourism project on a Greek island. Attorney General Meni Mazuz is expected to make his decision on whether to indict Sharon in tho coming weeks. 
Developer David Appel has already been charged in the case. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Early television watching harmful 
CI !ICAGO-Very young children who watch television face an increased risk of attention deficit problems by school age, a study has found, suggesting that TV might overstimulate and permanently "rewire" the developing brain. 
For every hour of television watched daily, two groups of children -aged 1 and 3 ­faced a 10 percent increased risk of having attlmtion problems at age 7. 
The findings bolster previous research show­ing that television can shorten attention spans and support American Acadflmy of Pediatrics reeommendations that youngsters under age 2 not watch television. 

Tax break on Neverland rebuked 
l'op star Michael Jackson has saved more than $1 million in property taxes on his Neverland Hanch by claiming the California land conservation tax break. but a year ago, California oflicials decided he had developed too much of the property to qualify for it. 
"This is an egregious violation." said Valentin Alexeel'f. director of the Santa Barbara County Planning and Development Department. 
Jackson responded by withdrawing from the program. County ollicials are considering legal action to collect back taxes and possibly fines. The tax break, which Jackson began claiming when he bought the property in 1988, reduced his tax bill by about half. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Students look at terrorist targets 
Vi\LI'AHi\lSO, Ind. -Thirty Valparaiso University students planned to examine how to make government buildings in northwest Indiana safe from terrorist attacks. 
Professor Anatol Longinow was leading the semester-long senior project to look at five northwest Indiana public sites to report on how to make them safer. The Lake and Porter county clients under nxamination asked that the class not identi­fy them, students said. 

10 U.S. troops die in Iraq riots 
Fighting rages in four Iraqi cities in response to arrest of 21-year-old cleric 
Associated Press 

NAJi\F, Iraq Supporters of an anti­American cleric rioted in four Iraqi cities Sunday, battling coalition troops in the worst unrest since the spasm of looting and arson immediately after the fall of Saddam llussein. At least 22 Iraqis. eight U.S. troops and one Salvadoran soldier died. 
llundrcds were wounded as fighting raged in Baghdad, Najaf, Nasiriyah and Amarah. Tanks rolled through the Iraqi capital and two llumvees burned in the streets of its· eastern Sadr City neighborhood. 
Protesters. some dressed all in black or waving green banners, raced toward the fighting in Naja!' as heavy gunfire echoed through the city. One man stood on a bridge, a rocket-propelled grenade launcher at the ready. 
The riots were ignited by the arrest on Saturday of an aide to anti-American cleric Muqtada af-Sadr, known to his reverent fol­lowers as "al-Sayed," or master. 
"I am happy to die for al­Saycd," 21-year-old Ali llussein said after being shot in the arm during fighting with troops in Najaf. "Take me to see my The explosion of violence the U.S. military said in a Salvadoran and an mother first then let me will likely place al-Sadr written statement. American -died and at die." back under the scrutiny of A resident said some least nine other soldiers 
The unrest appeared to the U.S. military, whose American soldiers had were wounded, the be a show of force by Al­leaders threatened to taken refuge in a building. Spanish defense ministry Sadr, a 30-ycar-old Shiite arrest him six months ago The report could not be said. Twenty-two Iraqis cleric backed by an illegal after his militia fought independently confirmed, died and more than 200 militia and hundreds of gunbattles with U.S. troops and it was unclear were wounded, said Falah young seminary students. and moderate Shiites, who whether the soldiers Mohammed, director of the They are devoted to him support the coalition. involved were those who Najaf health department. because of his anti-U.S. Sunday's violence -died. In nearby Kufa, al-Sadr stance and the memory of along with the unrelated Near Najaf, supporters of supporters took over a his father, a Shiite religious killings of two Marines in al-Sadr opened fire on the police station and seized leader gunned down by Anbar province -pushed Spanish garrison during a guns inside. No police were suspected Saddam agents the U.S. death toll to at street protest that drew in sight. in 1999. least 610. about 5,000 people. Militiamen demonstrat­
Al-Sadr issued a state­In the Baghdad neigh­The Spanish and ing against al-Yacoubi's ment later Sunday calling borhood of Sadr City, a Salvadoran soldiers inside detention also traded fire off street protests and say­militia loyal to al-Sadr the garrison fired back. with Italian troops in the ing he would stage a sit-in attacked police stations and assailants later southern city of Nasiriyah, at a mosque in Kufa, and government buildings regrouped in three clusters said Italian Lt. Col. where he has delivered -touching off battles that outside the base as the Pierluigi Montcduro. One fiery weekly sermons for killed seven U.S. soldiers shooting continued. Italian officer was wound­months. and wounded at least 24, Two soldiers a ed in the leg. 


Head of Madrid attack dies in blast 
Associated Press 

MADHID, Spain -The suicide apartment house blast that killed the alleged ringleader of last month's Madrid train bombings and four other terror suspects left the core of the terror group either dead or in jail, Spain's interior minister said on Sunday. 
Explosives discovered in the building where the five killed them­selves to avoid capture Saturday night indicated they were plotting more violence and were linked to the failed bombing of a high-speed rail line Friday. 
Two or three suspects may have escaped before blast, which also 
killed a special forces officer and wounded 15 other policeman, Interior Minister Angel Acebes told a news conference. 
Preliminary forensic tests on human remains in and around the apartment showed that five sus­pects had died in the blast, one more than previously reported, an Interior Ministry official said Sunday. 
Sarhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet, a 35-year-old Tunisian accused of spearheading the March 11 attacks that killed 191 people, was among those who died in the explosion in Leganes south of Madrid, Acebes said. 
"The core of the group that car­ried out the attacks is either arrest­ed or dead in yesterday's collective suicide, including the head of the operative commando unit," Acebes said. 
Fifteen suspects arc already in custody in the Madrid attacks. Six have been charged with mass mur­der and nine with collaborating with or belonging to a terrorist organization. 
The 22 pounds of dynamite and 200 detonators found in the apart­ment are the same as that used in the March 11 attacks and in the bomb that was discovered Friday before it could explode along the high-speed rail line between Madrid and Seville, Acebes said. 
page 6 Monday, April 5, 2004
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
renters signing an agreement upon moving into the complex. 
Porches 
continued from page 1 
injured," she said. 
Both complexes also limit to the number of adults allowed on the balconies -eight at College Park and five at Thrtle Creek. 
"It is explicitly written out in [residents'] leases that no more than eight people are permitted on the balconies at any time. That's why the people who weren't residents were evicted on St. Patrick's Day," Russwurm said, regarding the student who fell off the balcony. 
Residents of the apartment complex said they had been informed of the limits. 
"Our maintenance people told us [about it] at the beginning of the year," Zika said. "They made it clear that we under­stood the rules." 
Turtle Creek implements a similar policy, with apartment 

"We have our residents sign something when they come to move in, [saying] that we don't expect them to have more than five adults out on the patio at the same time," Michelbrink said. 
The property managers said they do not supervise residents, but are aware that some lease­holders may be using the bal­conies irresponsibly. 
"We have seen people have too many people on their bal­conies," Michelbrink said, "but we're not here to monitor every night to see what they do." 
When it comes to manage­ment's attention that the con­tracts are being violated with this type of behavior, notices are sent out to offenders, Michelbrink said. Continued problems could cost them their leases. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Smith Barney invites you to their 
Notre Dame Financial Symposium 
Planning for the years ahead. 
Revised tax laws, market uncertainty, a changing economy. Where does your financial plan stand? Join us at our Notre Dame Financial seminar to hear from 15 professionals on financial topics that could be important to you and your family. You can attend up to 4 breakout sessions before the keynote speaker begins at 11:30 a.m. 
Keynote Speaker Dr. Kevin Elko 

Corporate and NFL• Performance Consultant & Author of "Nerves of Steel" 
DATE:  Saturday, April 17, 2004  
TIME:  8:00a.m. to 12:30 p.m.  
LOCATION:  University of Notre Dame  
McKenna Hall (across from the Morris Inn)  
Parking at Hesburgh Center visitors Jot  
on NO Avenue across from cemetery.  
RSVP:  (574) 631-6691  

Reserve your space. Cost $20 per person. 
Refreshments and light lunch included. We welcome your friends and colleagues. Seating is limited. 
Your Breakout Session Speakers (each speaks twice): 
8:30 a.m.-9:05a.m. & 10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. 
Ralph Allen, Regional Vice President, 
Pioneer Investments: Stock Market Investing/Current Market Overview 
Robert Malvenda. Director Smith Barney Municipal Retail Sales: 
Bond Investing Strategies/Current Market Overview 
Joseph Russo, Director of Financial Aid 
University of Notre Dame: Funding College Education/Strategies and Tools 
for You 
Tracey A. Anderson, JD, LLM, CPA South Bend IN: Tax Planning/IRS Code Changes You Should Know 
Jeff Ochs, Insurance Consultant, 
Insurance Designers: Understanding Life Insurance for Estate/Tax Purposes 
9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. 
Bob Hartig, Regional Vice President American Funds Distributors: Why Is International Investing Important to You 
Bill Taratsas, Regional Vice President lNG Golden Select Annuities: Protecting Your Investments with Variable Annuities Mark Howard, Regional Loan Specialist, 

GtiMortgage: Strategies for Debt Management/Borrowing Money 
lyndon Keyes, Director Interactive 
Marketing, Smith Barney NY: Financial Record Keeping Via Computer 
Bill Ventura, Regional Advisor, Lincoln Financial: Strategies for Paying Long Term Health Care Costs 
8:30 a.m.-9:05a.m. & 9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. 
Bob Walsh. Public Affairs Specialist Social Security Administration: Everything You Wanted to Know about Social Security 
10:00 am.-10:35 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. Jim Casey, Regional Trust Specialist, Citigroup Private Trust: Wills, Estates and Trust Planning Strategies 
8:30 a.m.9:05 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 am. Jason Heine, Regional Vice President, Nationwide Financial: 401(k) Issues for Plan 
Sponsors-How ERISA Affects You 
9:15 a.m.-10:35 a.m. (one presentation only) larry Sherman, Regional Director, The Geneva Company: Selling Your Business: Whv ... When ... and How 
THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT.~ 
SMmiR\RNEY 
c1t1grouPt 
Mutu_al funds and variable annu1ty i~vestments are subject to market nsk, including possible loss of principle. Variable annu1t1es are long-term investments 1ntended for retirement planning. Taxes may be due upon Withdrawals from the contract Withdrawals may be subject to a 10•1o federal penalty tax if made before age 59~ and are subject to quali­fted retirement plan provisions. Coptes of the prospectus, which contains more complete information including fees a.nd ex~nses, will be av.aila.ble at t~e seminar. Please read the prospectus carefully before investmg. There are addi· ttonal nsks asS?ciated With mternattonalmvesting. International investing may not be for everyone. Smith Barney doe not provtde legal or tax advice. Please consult your attorney and/or tax advisor for such guidance. 
C2004 Crttgroup Global Markets Inc. Member SIPC. Smith Barney is a di"lision and service mark of Gtigroup Global Markets Inc and its afftliates and is used and registered throughout the world. OTIGROUP and the Umbrella Device are trademarks and service marks of dticorp or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT is a service mark of Cttgroup Global Markets Inc. Geneva. Cttigroup Global Markets Inc. and Citigroup Private Trust are all affiliated companies under the common control of Citigroup Inc. 



Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality 
houses close to can1pus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
early 1980s in an attempt to make it more fair, requiring uni­versities to fill out only a single sheet of paper. 
"[The process changed] for the very reason not only that it was too complicated, but also to try and remove from the process what clearly had become known as grantsmanship," Russo said. 
"Those who knew how to get the money were advantaged." 
Despite the fact that the process was simplified, however, Russ0 said levels of funds were "grand­fathered" to ensure that "those institutions that historically had been getting dollars" would still be able to support their schools and their students. 
"The grandfathering factor still remains very significant in the funding process, all the way up to today," Husso said. 
He also said that a main compo­nent of aid allocation relates to a school's tuition, and Notre Dame's cost guarantees aid to students who might not necessarily qualify elsewhere. 
"If some were enrolled at the local community college, they might not be eligible," Russo said. 
"What this comes down to is a pretty basic policy matter: Is fed­eral student aid intended to pro­vide access or access and choice?" 
Another factor prompting the new proposal is the appearance of more proprietary schools across the country, Russo said. 
"A lot of new schools have entered the process, proprietary schools," he said. "Because so much of the funding is already set aside, they're left with not as much opportunity. Some of the lowest income students today are enrolled in those types of institu­tions." 
If the government does decide to increase aid to these types of institutions and limit funding to Notre Dame, Russo said the fman­cial dent will be felt, but it will not affect all types of aid. Money from Stafford and Pellloans, for exam­ple, comes with students and is not directly distributed by the University. 
"We're involved with the process of getting them [students] money here, but they bring both of those programs here to the tune of millions of dollars annual­ly," Russo said. 
"The kind of money they're talking about refers to the other three of the campus-based federal student aid programs." 

These campus-based programs include a grant, a loan and work­study, Russo said. 
"Ten percent of the current fed­eral dollars this year are what we're talking about," Russo said. 
"One hundred thirty-five million is being administered for under­graduate total student financial aid; 35 million is federal; of the 35 million federal, about 3.5 million of that -10 percent -would be through this campus-based feder­al allocation process," the process being revised, Russo said. 
The impact would be signifi­cant, he said, but not disastrous. 
"The federal dollars here are significant, but they're not the only dollars," Russo said. 
He predicted that, if the changes do occur, they would not hit the University at once; rather, they will be instituted as a "phase-out," H.usso said. And, given time and reconsideration of policies, he said he believes the University would figure out a solution. 
"If that [aid] were to totally dis­appear, we think we would still be able to manage," Russo said. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, April 5, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,470.59 +97.26

}ones 
.!"­
up: Same: DoWll: Composite Volume: 1,75 I 140 v 1,609,116,672 

AMEX 1,265.17 +2.43 NASDAQ 2,057.17 +42.16 NYSE 6,680.33 +35.99 S&PSOO 1,141.81 +9.64 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,986.82 +170.87 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,465.60 +54.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.60 +0.15 5.06 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.76 +0.06 25.85 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.42 +0.29 28.12 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +0.66 +0.18 3.55 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.72 +0.17 24.43 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +3.20 +1.54 49.72 10-YEAR NOTE +6.21 +2.42 41.40 5-YEARNOTE +9.78 +2.79 31.32 3-MONTH BILL + 1.20 +0.11 9.27 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.} +0.12 34.39 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -6.30 422.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.50 I 08.50 
Excho e Rates 

YEN 104.5 EURO 0.8274 POUND 0.5474 
IN BRIEF 
Area band instrument factory closes 
ELKI!AHT, Ind. -An Elkhart factory that for decades manufactured band instruments stopped production Thursday, putting 100 peo­ple out of work. 
Steinway Musical Instruments of Waltham, Mass.. announced in October the shutdown of Conn-Selmer's North Street plant. Steinway, Conn-Selmer's parent company, said it was try­ing to improve profitability and compete more efl'ectivcly. 
870~employee company files Ch. II 
INDIANAPOLIS -Haynes International Inc., an 870-employee maker of industrial metal alloys, filed for bankruptcy protection on Monday and said it had reached agreements with cmditors and union employees in hopes of emerging from Chapter 11. 
The 92-year-old company is trying to shake off a growing debt burden and dropping customer demand. 
llaynes said it expected to continue operating without interruption as it prepares a reorgani­zation plan in hopes of exiting bankruptcy by year's end. 
Health insurance merger approved 
INDIANAPOLIS -The parent trade organiza­tion for Blue Cross and Blue Shield has approved the pending $14.3 billion merger of WellPoint llcalth Networks Inc. and Anthem Inc. 
Wellpoint and Anthem announced the approval by the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association in a joint news release Tuesday. 
The Chicago-based Association represents the national and international interests of the 41 Blue Cross and Blue Shield member eompanics, whieh arc independent. The plans insure about 88 million people collectively, according to infor­mation posted on the group's Web site. 
More than 12 traditionally nonprofit Blue plans have converted to for-profit status over the last decade. WcllPoint and Anthem have largely driven the consolidation trend, expand­ing their collectivn reach from Maine to California. 
Consumer advocates say the merger of the two biggest Blue Cross Blue Shield licensens could erode consumer choice within some of the 13 states where the companies have about 26 million members. 
Stocks climb due to job report 
More than 300,000 jobs created, Dow posts best performance since April 2003 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Pleased with a better-than-expected jobs report, investors sent stocks higher on Wall Street, setting aside worries on the potential for higher interest rates to focus on the 308,000 jobs created in March. 
The day capped Wall Street's best week so far this year. The Dow posted its best weekly performance since April 28, 2003, and the Nasdaq saw its strongest weekly gain since May 13, 2002. 
The Labor Department employment report also included upward revisions in the January and February figures. For the quarter, the economy added a total of 513,000 jobs. 
"You certainly can't call this a jobless recovery any more," said Joseph Battipaglia, chief invest­ment officer at Hyan Beck & Co. 
The unemployment rate, however, rose to 5.7 percent in March from 5.6 percent in February as more people came back into the job mar­ket. That could help ease the eoncerns of some investors that the Federal Heserve may speed up its timetable for raising rates. 
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 97 .26, or Battipaglia said, at least got today is just that -day after it announced it is 
0.9 percent, for the day at compared with the stunning good news." cutting 2,500 jobs and clos­
10.470.59. growth experienced in While the economy adds ing its 188 retail stores 
Broader stock indicators 2003. jobs, struggling computer around the country. a-lso were higher. The "Now, you'll see people and software maker Sun Semiconductor stocks Standard & Poor's 500 turn their attention to inter­Microsystems Inc. is cutting helped advance the technol­index was up 9.63, or 0.8 est rate worries and per­them. The company, which ogy sector as the industry percent, at 1,141.80, and haps being somewhat cau­said it would miss its own reported a 31 percent spike the Nasdaq composite index tious about the market," earnings estimates for the in worldwide sales for added 42.16, or 2.1 percent, Battipaglia said. "That's a first quarter, plans to cut February. Intel Corp. rose to 2,057.17. healthy process for the 3,300 jobs. 7 4 cents to $28.12, while 
Por the week, the Dow market." However, the company rival Advanced Micro rose 2.5 percent, the Still, most analysts believe also settled a long-standing Devices Inc. gained 66 cents Nasdaq climbed 5 percent that interest rate hikes are court battle with bitter rival to $17.45. and the S&P 500 was up 3 months away. Microsoft Corp. by signing a There was yet another percent. All three indexes "Once the Fed starts tight­10-year, $1.6 billion cooper­merger in the banking moved into positive territory ening rates, either late this ative agreement. Sun industry, though not on the for the year, erasing a large year or early next year, the gained 87 cents, or 21 per­scale of Bank of America's portion of the losses from increases could come pretty cent, to $5.06 as the two acquisition of FleetBoston, March's market correction. rapidly, in rapid succes­companies said they will which closed Thursday. 
Investors will likely look sion," said Stuart work to ensure that Sun's Western New York bank forward to earnings season Schweitzer, global markets technology will be compati­First Niagara Financial with more confidence, but strategist at JP Morgan ble with Microsoft's. Group Inc. announced it the specter of interest rate Fleming Asset Another troubled comput­would buy lludson Hiver hikes will keep any rise in Management. "But for now, er maker, Gateway Inc., Bancorp Inc. for $19.60 per the markets relatively tame, I think the good news we climbed 66 cents to $6.06 a share. 

Lilly's injectable Zyprexa approved 
violent. ago began replacing old-line treat­
Associated Press 
Zyprexa recorded $4.3 billion in ments that tend to have more severe 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co. sales last year. accounting for about a side effects, including involuntary said Tuesday it won federal approval third of Lilly's sales. But it is undergo­facial and body movements. to sell an injectable version of its top­ing a patent challenge from generic Geodon's injectable form was selling anti-psychotic Zyprexa, giving drug makers and faces inereasing approved in June 2002. While the doctors a new option to quickly calm competition from newer anti-psy­injectable form of Geodon is approved agitated patients. chotics including Bristol-Myers for treatment of agitated schizo­
The rood and Drug Squibb's Abilify and Pfizer's Geodon. phrenic patients, Zyprexa's intramus­Administration's approval of the· new Hobert Hazlett, an industry analyst cular form is approved for that use shot form of the eight-year-old drug is with the firm SunTrust Hobinson and also for agitated patients with expected to supplement Zyprexa's Humphrey, said he expects injectable bipolar mania, Lilly spokeswoman tablet form, used for long-term treat­Zyprexa to prove more effective and Marni Lemons said. ment of schizophrenia and the manic therefore become more widely used Zyprexa remains the top seller in stage of bipolar disorder. The faster­than the shot form of Geodon, the its class. and four years ago won FDA acting injectable version is designed only other drug in its class available approval to treat bipolar mania. The for single or occasional uses in in injectable form. drug has been prescribed to 12.5 mil­patients during episodes when they The drugs are atypical anti-psy­lion people since its 1996 introduc­become agitated and in some cases chotics, a class that a dozen years tion to treat schizophrenia. 

Monday, April 5, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Join the Conversation! 
soth Anniversary of Brown V. Board of Education 
Monday, April 5th 7:00 -9:00pm 
ETS Theater in McKenna Hall (CCE Basement) Screening of The Road to Brown followed by a panel discussion, "The Legacy of Brown" 
and 


Tuesday, April 6th 7:00-8:30pm 
Coleman-Morse Lounge (1st Floor) For a panel discussion led by Notre Dame Students: "Desegregation and the South Bend Schools" 


Seininary 
continued from page 1 
Father Jim King, is the starting 
point for all those interested in 
religious life. From there, men can 
choose either the Old College pro­
gram if they are undergraduates 
or the candidate program if they 
are seniors in college or have 
already graduated. 
The Oid College program allows those interested in the priesthood to experience Notre Dame's on­campus life for three years before they move to Moreau for their senior year. 
"There was definitely a call in 
my life to the ministry and priest­
hood that I could no longer ignore, 
and Old College gave me the 
opportunity to answer it without 
sacrificing an undergrad experi­
ence," Notre Dame junior Jake 
Grenier said. 
After their third year at Old College, the students move into Moreau, where they are joined by older candidates in the program just deciding to join the seminary. 
"During the Candidate year, the men get a feel for the life of prayer, study, commitment and apostolic works," Moreau rector Father Wilson Miscamblc said. 
The following year -called the novitiate -is spent in an intense, retreat-like environment outside of Colorado Springs, Colo. that features manual labor. prolonged periods of silence and personal prayer and introspection. 
After this experience, the men make their first vows and return as the newly-professed to begin theological studies for the Master of Divinity program. Three to four years later, the seminarians peti­tion to become deacons and take their final vows during an ordina­tion ceremony. 
This year, six men will enter into the ranks of the Holy Cross com­munity that spans across the globe and is rooted on the banks of St. Joseph's Lake. For many of them, the journey to the final vows begins at Old College, where young men discern their future under the watch of priests past and present. 
Welcome to the 'O.C.' 
"Once at a party in Farley, a girl was looking for a group of Old Collegians that were supposed to come, and when she saw some guys sitting quietly in the corner, she assumed it was them. Thrns out they were from Alumni," laughed Old College freshman Joe Wysocki. "My friend told me that story -it basically sums up how a lot of students of campus see us over here at Old College." 
Seven undergraduates -many of whom have contemplated the priesthood for years -live and study in Old College along with seminarian Tom King and Father Charles Gordon. 
According to Grenier, the small group of men with common goals is a great draw to the program. 
"There's a different atmosphere here, like a house. You get to know people on a different level," added Wysocki. . 
Like other undergrads, the Old Collegians go through the normal track of courses and majors. but must additionally complete 24 credit hours of philosophy and 12 credit hours of theology. They can join clubs, play on intcrhall teams and study abroad. 
And what about the question on everyone's mind? 
"Dating is a grey area," Wysocki . said. "It's acceptable and you shouldn't deny it, but the general rule is you don't look for it. It's all part of discernment." 
More stringent parietals, which begin at 11 p.m. on weekdays and 1 a.m. on weekends, and the restriction of female visitors to the basement and first floor make it harder for the couple as docs the 
Old Collegian's commitment, said 
King. 

"The goal L<> to try to work into living the vows, and by the time they get to Moreau, they can't date," King said. "llonestly. I would think it'd b1~ more dillicult on the person dating the Old Collegian because most times, in the end .Jesus wins out." 
Though their families and friends are. as a whole, supportive of their decision, the Old Collegians must deal with miscon­ceptions and ignorance from those who know nothing about the pro­gram. 
"When I first meet people and say, 'lley, I live in Old College!' I get a lot of 'What's that? Who's that? Whore's that?"' Tucker said. "llonestly, we're regular stu­dents, we do regular things. we have fun too." 
Though regular studenl<> at Old College, their lives take an excep­tional turn as they make the next step in their journey to priesthood. Across the pond at Moreau 
"This is our 'Wall of Fame,' if you will," said Miscamble, gestur­ing proudly down the hallway lined with pictures of the semi­nary's past ordained. 
From among the black and white photos appear such well­known faces as Father Edward Malloy and Father Mark Poorman -constant reminders of the high standard of achievement expected of those living and studying in Moreau. 
Centered around what seminar­
ian Greg !Iaake calls the "three 
pillars" -common prayer, com­
mon table and study -life within 
the walls of Moreau is a struc­
tured combination of introspection 
and interaction with the other 
professed and those in the outside 
community. 

For the men in the formation program, Moreau is a place to seek support during what can be a long and trying process. 
"It takes serious consideration to take vows of poverty, chastity and obedience [that arc required of seminarians and priests [. Poverty and obedience are just as hard as chastity. Each day a dif­ferent one can be diiTicult," I Iaake said. "The support of your broth­ers helps you live your vows, because you're all in it together." 
Though the men have the option to quit the program at any time before taking their final vows, the mere prospect of spending years in the prolonged formation pro­gram dissuades many from taking the chance. 
"The way I sec it, formation is sort of like dating. You don't get married before you date, in the same way you want to live the life before you commit yourself to it," said Tom Smith. a May 2003 grad­uate of Notre Dame and new can­didate. 
The seminarians spoke highly about the feeling of family within the Iloly Cross order that drew them to Moreau, and Haake admitted that a visit to Moreau was all it took to alleviate his mother's reservations about his decision to enter the priesthood. 
Life across the lake, however, has il<> drawbacks as well. 
"The single biggest challenge is the fact that it's institutional living. with a big kitchen and common baths," Koeth said. "There are times when that can wear on you, even though the sense of family helps make it more of a home." 
Unlike common perception, Moreau is a place for men to dL<>­ccrn whether the call to priest­hood is right for them. and even those with the slightest question in their mind are encouraged to join. 
"If you're thinking about the priesthood, as Jesus said to Andrew, 'Come and sec,"' Koetl1 said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
THE OBSER\'ER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 5, 2004 
Targeted killings must end 




News Amanda Michaels 
ScottBrodfeuhrer 
Eile~n DUffy Graphics 


SiBce the start of the second intifada in September 2000, many Palestinians, frustrated by diplomacy's failure to achieve any progress, have turned to more violent means to try to attain Palestinian statehood. In 
Greg Parnell 
response, Israel has taken a more militant stance as Ideas, Issues well, using targeted and killings and other Ideologuesconfrontational methods to try to end the terrorist threat and provide a sense of security for its citizens. According to Israel, these operations are necessary in order to protect its citizens. From the Arab viewpoint, they are brutal murders of political leaders intended to suppress the Palestinians' ability to organize a legitimate independence movement. 
This situation leaves the United States in somewhat of an awkward position. As Israel's closest ally and primary supplier of weapons and eco­nomic aid, the American government typically does everything it can to help Israel. However, our nation follows a policy prohibiting assassinations of any kind. Therefore, should the global community reach a consensus that Israel's targeted killings are indeed forms of assassination, the United States will be left treading a thin line of conflicting loyalties. Furthermore, even if such a consensus is not reached, it is important that our gov­ernment be willing to take measures against Israel, should targeted killings put our interests in the Middle East at risk. 
In support of the Israeli policy, there is some evidence that targeted killings do inhibit terrorist operations. In the early years of Israel's independence, terrorist infiltration from Egypt less­ened as a result of a strike on Egyptian intelligence officers. In the 1960s, Israeli mail bombs sent to Egyptian scientists effectively termi­nated President Gamal Abdel Nasser's plans to construct missiles capable of reaching Israel. Finally, the 199 5 assassination of Islamic Jihad leader Fathi Shikaki left a power vacuum in the terrorist organization that under­mined the effectiveness of this group for several years. 
On the other hand, there are equally strong arguments that targeted killings are not only ineffective, but may actually encourage terrorism. As Israel has increased its use of target­ed killings to a higher rate than ever, record numbers of Israeli civilians have become victims of Palestinian attacks. Numerically, about 600 Israelis have been killed during the second intifada, most of whom are civilians. Meanwhile, l-lamas, the most radical group and probably the biggest obstacle to a peace settlement, has grown more popular with every attack. Polls indicate that Israel's bru­tal tactics are pushing large numbers of moderate Palestinians towards the radicals' camp, rather than the other way around. 
Targeted killings give l-lamas ample political cover to continue suicide bombings -attacks that may not have been possible had Israel not pro­vided them with a motive. In May 2003, for example, the Palestinian political organization "Fatah" declared a unilateral cease-fire, with the help of the United States, United Nations, European Union and Russia. l-lamas, not wanting to look like the spoiler of a chance at statehood, called a temporary halt to its opera­tions. However, Israel released only a small portion of the Palestinian pris­oners that were proposed, and did not completely suspend its use of targeted killings. Just months later, suicide bombings were reinstated, officially said to be in direct retaliation for the targeted killings carried out during the months of June and July. The short window of opportunity was missed, and support for l-lamas con­tinued to grow daily. 
Although it may be politically unpopular, it is time for the U.S. gov­ernment to condemn Israel's use of targeted killings and, if necessary, apply diplomatic and economic pres­sures to try to change its policy. A two-state solution to the Arab-Israel conflict is the outcome that best suits America's interests throughout the entire region. However, such a resolu­tion will only arise if popular support among Palestinians shifts away from radical groups and towards more moderate leaders. Currently, Israel's practice of targeted killings is reduc­ing the power of moderate Palestinian voices and increasing the influence of groups like l-lamas. 
The best way to defeat l-lamas is to take away the reason that Palestinians support it. Most Palestinians desire peace and statehood, not the destruc­tion of Israel (which is the stated goal of l-lamas). They support Hamas because they admire the militants' willingness to sacrifice their lives for the Palestinian cause. Therefore, sig­nificant diplomatic progress towards granting Palestine its own state would make the radical acts of l-lamas unnecessary and even detrimental to the cause in the eyes of many Palestinians. 
In order to promote fairness and objectivity, the United States could simultaneously make a more system­atic attempt to reduce corruption in the ranks of the Palestinian Authority. Penalizing the PA for corrupt and dan­gerous policies would lead to a more effective, powerful and more popular leadership. This is the leadership that must be in a position to negotiate with Israel once a cease-fire has been reached. 
The United States has historically been reluctant to condemn Israel. However, the issue of targeted killings is seen by enough people to be wrong that some amount of pressure could be applied without suffering terrible political costs. Temporary bitterness among Israel citizens and pro-Israel groups within the United States would be a small price to pay for subduing the violence and creating a chance for Palestinian moderates to gain power , against the more radical groups. It is time to show the world that we are on the side of peace, not the side of Israel. 
Greg Parnell is a sophomore politi­cal science and economics major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at gparnell@nd:edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces-
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of Notre Dame's admission standards for football players? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Peace will never be won ifmen reserve for war their greatest efforts. Peace, too, requires well-directed and sustained sacrificial endeavor." 
John Foster Dulles former U.S. Secretary of State 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, April 5, 2004 
page I I 
Being gay, being Catholic 
The first time is always the hardest. It took me 14 months of hesitation before I told my roommate I was gay, and before that it took me six years to tell myself­though I had always known in some part of my mind. But the burning secret with­
Lance Gallop

in me fought against a cold, if irrational, fear, and I pushed the date of my Guest unmasking further Columnist and further back. 
In the end, it was not the hot pain of my old secret that broke through the icc; rather, it was respect for truth. I'or if I am to claim in any way to love the truth, then I must be completely honest to and about myself. Those who live lies cannot follow the truth. Those who live lies cannot be Christians. So -finally -I came out to my roommate, my closest friends and my parents. 
In coming out. I had to face many dirty realities. The fact is that a large cross-section of the nation does not understand, nor does it wish to under­stand. homosexuality and the issues that surround it. A significant portion of our nation cannot understand why a gay youth would choose to be open about himself, and immediately brands me as an attention-hungry showoff at best or some sort of lurid and sex-mad sodomy­evangelist at worst. 
The saddest truth is that a very small, but vocal, "Christian" minority hates me merely for existing, and if I were to wan­der openly in certain part of the country I might never wander out again. Their mantra and drumbeat, "God hates fag­gots," pounds a steady rhythm in the back of nightmares. 
This is not an easy world to come out into, but coming out is too important to avoid. For what is at stake for me, and what is at stake for other gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgcndered (GLBT) stu­dents, faculty and staff on this campus is much more than politics. While I cannot pretend to speak for the entire GLBT community, even here at Notre Dame, I can speak to my own mind, and I think many would concur. What is at stake here is our identity. 
l'oryousee,Jcannotchangethecen­tral tenets of who I am, no more than any other person, mightiest saint to lowliest sinner, can do so; nor should I be expected to. To reject my identity, to deny what God has -for whatever rea­son-made me to be, is both a grave sin against him, and against myself. Matthew 5:48, a Latin scholar once told me, is properly translated as this: "Be completely what you are, as your heav­enly Father is completely what He is." And yet it is precisely this rejection of self that society, and worst of all the Church, tries to force upon us. 
And yet, hurt as I am by this rejection, 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Continuing social action 
Friday, after the Taco Bell protest downtown, Tony Rivas ate for the first time after a seven-day hunger strike. But the end of his fast and the end of the Week of Action do not mean an end for the fight for justice and the call for Notre Dame to take action. Tony willingly sacrificed his health for one week to call attention to some of the injustices at Notre Dame. We cannot ignore the values in Catholic Social Teaching and Liberation Theology-values that talk about the dignity of work, the right to a living wage, the right to organize, and our call to love and respect all human beings. Notre Dame has a lot of great courses, programs and research about these issues-we must be willing to take action. 
Some of the demands of Tony's hunger strike include: 
-Issue a statement guaranteeing that Notre Dame will not enter into any more contracts with Taco Bell until Taco Bell takes responsibility for the conditions from which its tomatoes come, as determined in conjunction with the Coalition of Immokalee Workers. Every day that the Notre Dame Athletic Department receives money from Taco Bell while failing to pressure them is a day too many. 
-Develop and announce a plan and timeline to ensure that, starting at the beginning of the fall 2004 semester, Fair Trade Coffee is available in both dining halls and other food service out­lets on campus. We understand that Notre Dame's current coffee provider has been planning for some time to release bulk Fair Trade coffee, but every day that we continue to not serve Fair Trade Coffee is a day that coffee farmers and their children starve. 
Students and organizations across the nation are aware of Tony's hunger strike and are also organizing their own actions in solidarity. Tony's sacrifice has also motivated the Coalition of Immokalee Workers to continue fighting for their rights because they know they have people who believe in them and their cause. Tony has started a national movement that is calling students to take action to end the exploitation of workers. · 
As students, consumers and members of society, we have the obligation to take action and demand justice. Notre Dame is now in a position where it can set an example to other universities, that not only does it preach to and teach its students about social justice, but also actively participates in the fight for justice. 
Melody Gonzalez junior Pasquerilla East April2 
I also see the seeds of reparation, for I know this: God did not send his only son to use as a doctrine, or a law, or any scale of justice. He sent a human. This is the heart and soul of all Christian truth. All theology is incarnational theology, and all Catholic truth must be under­stood through the person of Jesus. For only through the person of Jesus does the law obtain life, only through the per­son of Jesus can one see that these are not simply issues of right and wrong to be judged and thrown away, a closed book soon forgotten. These issues have faces, and hearts, and souls. They live and they breathe, they love, laugh, hope, hurt and yearn. This is why, above all else -above justice, above "righteous condemnation"-the most Christian virtue of all is compassion. 
The birthright of every human is this: self-love, respect and dignity. But by calling homosexuality an "objective dis­order" -a useless term which has never been formally defined -it is immediately implied that we have no right to be happy in who we are, no right to be joyful (yes, joyful) that God made us gay or lesbian. For this is what we are and every person has the duty to love himself for what he is. The other road leads only into darkness. 
For this reason, the most insulting arguments are those that would decon­struct this debate down to questions of pure sex. As if life is a two-bit pinball game of who gets to screw whom and how, as if we are so petty that we cannot see·beyond our genitals. Sexuality is not as clear-cut as that; it is holistic, compli­cated, messy, far reaching and confus­ing. Far more than an act performed with another person, it is a large portion of what it means to be a human, and it turns up in many places that are not classically understood as "sexual." 
This is why we struggle for accept­ance; this is why we struggle for formal recognition. This is why we have a sea of orange. A thousand whispered glances and a veil of intolerable silence have stolen our intrinsic dignity from us. For recognition leads-eventually-to understanding, and understanding leads to acceptance and respect. And the day will come when it does not take a young man six years to come to terms with himself because all he could see was a road paved with pain. The day will come when homosexuality is no more remarked upon than a love of music or the ability to sing well. At least, this is my deepest conviction. Time will tell if I am wrong. 
This column appears as a guest col­umn. Lance Gallop is a senior living in Keough 1/all. 1/e can be contacted.at lgallop@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Alleviate overall poverty 
John Infranca's April 2 column "Hethinking worldly justice" argues that the parable of the vineyard owner (Matthew 20: 1-16) calls us to an economic standard ofjustice sharply differ­ent from the conventional one. In the parable, those workers who only worked part of the day are paid the same wage as those who worked a full day. lnfranca states that "Hence Jesus presents an understanding ofjustice predicat­ed on giving to individuals based upon their need, not on their 'contribution."' In doing this he takes this parable out of its original context as a parable showing God's mercy and munifi­cence to those who have found God late in their lives. Infranca has instead tried to construct an economic argument out of a parable that has a purely theological meaning. 
However, what we need to further examine is what, exactly, lnfranca is advocating under the guise of Christianity. He seems to be advocating an economic system in which people are not rewarded according to their abilities and con­tributions to society but only according to their needs. This sounds uncannily similar to Karl Marx's dictum "From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs," and this dictum has brought suffering, death and enslavement to millions. It is interesting that many thousands have risked their lives cross­ing the "straits of Florida" to escape the "work­er's paradise" of Cuba, where Marx's dictum is enshrined, when hardly anyone wants to leave the capitalistic United States to get into Cuba. Now, I do not believe for a moment that Infranca is advocating totalitarian communism, but he does seem to be advocating some form of socialism that shares its ideological heritage with communism and Marxism. 
The problem with Infranca's argument is that if everyone were guaranteed the same outcome -no matter if or how hard they worked -no one would want to work. There would be no incentive to get ahead and every incentive to not work. One does not have to look to the totalitarian communism to see the flaws of socialism, either. India is a perfect example of a democratic country with free elections that has pursued socialistic policies of economic planning that have kept India impoverished. Though the intentions of these policies like Mr. Infranca's are good-natured, they have led to misery. 
One may argue that India is suffering from the legacy of colonialism, but let's look at two other jurisdictions that were also British colonies and have done quite well. The former British colonies of Hong Kong and Singapore embraced free markets and now have the high­est standard of living in Asia except for .Japan. There is in fact a direct correlation to per capi­ta income and economic freedom. The United States, Hong Kong and Western Europe arc the most economically free and enjoy the highest standards of living, while countries such as Cuba, Iraq and India are not economically free and are impoverished. In fact, only one third world country, Chile, is rated as economically "free" by the 2004 Heritage l'oundation Index of Economic Freedom, and not one first world country was rated as "mostly unfree" or "repressed." 
If we wish to do the truly Christian thing and work to eradicate poverty, especially in the third world, we must embrace a system that encourages the creation of wealth and not a system that destroys wealth. Though the free market has its problems and should probably be regulated in a few areas it leads to a. healthy, happy and wealthy population. Socialistic policies, however well-intentioned, time and time again have led to misery and poverty, the very ailments the policies were designed to correct. 
As the great Sir Winston Churchill said, "The inherent vice of capitalism is the unequal shar­ing of blessings; the inherent virtue of social­ism is the equal sharing of miseries." Therefore, as Catholics, we should embrace the economic system that leads to plenty and alle­viates overall poverty instead of pursuing poli­cies that only further misery. 
Rob Schrimpf sophomore Stanford Hall April3 
THE ()BSER\'ER 



CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 5, 2004 






"This story is brought to ducer Joan Ganz began TV Guide you today" by the letter "S" researching television for important .... · and the numbers "3" and children with support from praise, tho ..· ·i 5". The "S" would be for the Carnegie Institute. This 
larity of th .. ··• .•. 

"Sesame Street" and the led to the foundation of the watched b 
·· · "3" and the Children's Television million vi · "5" are Molly Griffin Workshop -a familiar United Sta .· because the moniker to any "Sesame mothers show is cele-Street" viewer, although the the age of brating its Scene Writer name has recently been than any nf':t>;O•fi"<• 35th anniver­changed to the Sesame Over 120 sary, and this Workshop. The show was watch "Se refrain will likely conjure and continues to be one of although i up some memorable images the most heavily researched the social from the childhoods of the programs on television, and toms of ea estimated 7 4 million "grad­its ultimate goal is to com­watches" uates" that grew up watch­bine learning and enter­which emp .· ing Sesame Street. The tainment for children. The dren's free· · show will be kicking off its show was conceived with atively ann·'.''·'·"·w·.... 35th season with a prime­puppets in mind. Thus Jim 
Egypt wa~5·li~J~I

time special, entitled Henson was brought on Simsim," .·,...,,.,.,,.,.,.,.."Sesame Street Presents: board, and the characters basic skillstJ~m The Street We Live On," Ernie, Bert, Grover, Cookie 
tion, heal.M•••::•"'"'"n

April 4 at 8 p.m., complete Monster and Big Bird were nutrition. with a huge lineup of created. The inner city was China leadl$ ; l celebrity guests. This may chosen as the show's setting 
about ae1~~~~~]g

not seem like big news on a instead of the suburbs ics andu.:..l~W{::O::I\lcollege campus, especially because youths were typi­
from "~9i!mfl!I 1

since most students won't cally less educated in such watch a children's show­areas, and it included a and those who will won't be racially diverse cast of peo­judged too harshly. Many ple and characters, which students can-take this was especially important in opportunity to think about the Civil Rights era when where they learned about the show was created. the letter 'Y," the differ­"Sesame Street" premiered ence between a rectangle on Nov. 10, 1969, and it has and a square and valuable been influencing genera­life lessons about sharing tions of children ever since. and playing nice. Whether The show has received a in preschool or in the years great deal of acclaim and following, praise over its millions of 35 year run, 
students "Sesame Street" premiered both through 
across the critical awards
on Nov. IO, I969, and it has
world, and sheer pop­
been influencing 

learned ularity. It has
generations ofchildren ever
mcuh of that won a plethora essential since. of honors, information including 91 from Emmy awards, "Sesame Street." which is more than any 
"Sesame Street" originally other television show in was created because of history and was voted concern over the lack of Favorite Children's educational programming Program by one million for children. Television pro-people in the First Annual 
THE ()BSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April 5, 2004 
page 13 

ds. More segments with new guest strike you as children's critical stars, who often parody entertainment, like "Six is the popu­their own famous songs, Feet Under," "The Tonight w itself. It is shows or movies in order to Show" and "Joe 

re than eight teach a lesson. Millionaire" and made them in the Elmo, infamous educational nd more for the "Tickle­and appror.ri­
child under Me Elmo" craze, {Other children's ate for chi ­tch the show leads viewers shows] wouldn't be dren. t through an hour here without the path After 35 
of "Sesame

lr countries that "Sesame Street" years, it is only 
!Street," Street" memo­natural that
paved in
Hlored for ries. He recol­"Sesame
creating entertainment 
te and cus­lects past events Street" isn't 
specifically for 
S
\tion. Brazil in "Sesame alone in the ~samo," Street" history children. children's ies chil-such as wed­entertainment ~o play cre­dings, births and industry. Other Haneously. other important memories long-running shows like IAlam on the show. For those "Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood" iis about viewers who haven't been have ended, but new shows 1 educa­with the show long enough are constantly cropping up : iene and to remember all of these to try and join in the chil­
events, much of dren's television market. the show is Shows like "Blue's Clues" or "Ooer 120 other actually new "Dora the Explorer" are material featur­popular now, but they
countries watch 
ing a host of dif­wouldn't be here without
"Sesame Street," 
ferent celebri­the path that "Sesame
although it is tailored 
ties from all· Street" paved in creatingfor the social climate areas of the entertainment specifically and customs of each entertainment for children that was both nation." industry. educational and entertain­Norah Jones ing. "Sesame Street," 
sings "Don't though, is truly in a league in Know Why 'Y' Didn't of its own, not only because outh Come," a play on her song it began the revolution in of the show "Don't Know Why I Didn't children's programming, 
ews Come." Julianne Moore but also because of how 
of its appears in "Far From many people it has touched :HV·positive Seven" a complete parody over the years. "Sesame ter to teach of "Far From Heaven" Street" has not only 
>-ase, which down to the 1950's clothing. changed how kids learn 
ing an epi­Dr. Phil appears with his before going off to school, frican own puppet doppelganger, but it also proves that the show Dr. Feel, to help kids cope ever-popular adage of ract with with their feelings. Other mothers, "television rots are infeet­guests include BtU Cosby, the brain," is not always le Street" Seth Green, Venus entirely true. lmost uni-Williams, Ruben Studdard, 
for chil­I larvey Fierstein, Kelsey he world. Grammer, Dennis Frans, The views expressed in this ~same Wayne Brady, Jason Biggs, column are those of the 
l'he Street Harry Connick Jr, and Cher. author and not necessarily l be an "Sesame Street" even uti­those of The Observer. ips from lized the premises of shows Contact Molly Griffin at ·ell as new that would not immediately mgrif.fin@nd. edu. 

MEN'S GOLF 

Irish close tournament with strong final round 
two-under par 70 in the final way through the second round. the first two rounds, Gustafson were happy about the direction 
By ANNIE BRUSKY round to mark the second-low­Although they've struggled finished closely behind Baldwin they are heading. 
Sports Writer est single-round score of his all season with damaging with a tie for 35th place. He "We're always getting closer 
career and his best round in below-average final rounds, steadily improved in each 9f to having a breakout perform­
Sunday's final round at the exactly one year. the Irish finally pulled every­the three rounds to garner a ance, always getting closer to Cleveland Golf!ASU Invitational Baldwin's total score of a thing together Sunday and six-over par 222 (75-74-73). reaching our potential," gave Notre Dame golf fans just two-over 218 (74-74-70) land­ended with their Isban shot 226 Gustafson said. "We're finish­a glimpse of what they can ed him in a tie for 18th place. lowest 54-hole (75-73-78) to end ing a lot closer to the leaders expect in the future from this "We're really proud of Mark," total of the spring "We're always up in 62nd place, than we have in the past." young but talented team. sophomore Scott Gustafson in order to match while sophomores The team finished above
getting closer to 
Only three teams in the tour­said. "This is the Mark Baldwin the 28-over par T o m m y some quality teams, including nament's highly competitive we expect. He's a good player, scores of Georgia having a breakout Balderston and Big East foe Virginia Tech, who field shot better than the Irish but he's been struggling a bit Southern and performance." Daniel Klauer tied they will be facing again next in the final round, as the team this season. That was one of Toledo. for 82nd place at weekend at Purdue's pulled themselves up into a the biggest highlights of the Playing at the 18-over par 234. Boilermaker Invitational. 
Scott Gustafson
three-way tie for 14th place. tournament, just seeing Mark par-7 2 Forest Seeing his first The Irish hope to build on 
"It was really encouraging get back into his old form." Hills Golf Club in Irish golfer action of the Sunday's final-round success in how we finished this last day," Isban agreed. Augusta, Ga. a spring season, the upcoming tournaments freshman Cole Isban said. "We "We needed to get that depth. course that is Klauer showed when they find themselves struggled a bit in the earlier How Mark performs will be a notorious for allowing low constant improvement over the face-to-face with more district rounds, but we did really well big factor in our upcoming scores, Notre Dame carded a weekend. His final-round cul­and regional competition. in the final round and beat tournaments," he said. three-round score of 892 (298-mination of two-over 7 4 tied "It's a big stepping stone, some good teams." Against a 18-team field that 300-294). finishing 31 strokes the lowest round score of his beating all those teams we did 
Sophomore Mark Baldwin included 10 teams ranked in behind tournament champion career. in the final round," Isban said. turned in his best performance the top 25 of the nation, Notre Minnesota. Although they would have of the season and led the Irish Dame was in 18th place when After enduring a roller-coast­liked to finish higher in the Contact Annie Brusky at in· their late push, shooting a darkness suspended play mid-er ride of birdies and bogies in overall standings, the Irish abrusky@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Brophy surges, Irish finish fifth 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Katie Brophy feels a lot bet­ter about her golf game after this past weekend. She has every right to. 
The sophomore paced the Irish this weekend at the Indiana Invitational with rounds of 74-72-77. leading the team with the second best performance of her college career, a l-over par 223, tying for second place overall out of the field of 95 golfers. 
Brophy attributed her suc­cess to an improved mental side of the game. 
"I was able to focus on one shot at a time and not worry about the total score," she said. 
Irish coach Debby King agreed.

'­
"They were a lot more focused, and it paid off in the end," King said. 
As a team, the Irish finished wen, shooting a combined 46­over par 934 and placing fifth out of a field of 15 strong teams, including familiar foes Indiana and Missouri. Missouri turned in a weekend low 296 on Sunday to claim the title, finishing 26 strokes ahead of the Irish with a 908. 

For the first time in the spring season, King has expressed satisfaction in her team's weekend performance. 
"I was very much pleased; this was a par-74 course, but we were still very close to our goal of 300 each round," King said. 
Behind Brophy, the Notre Dame team was led by junior Karen Lotta, who tied for 17th with individual round scores of 80-76-79, giving her a 235 for the weekend, an individual spring low. Freshmen Noriko Nakazaki and Stacy Brown fol­lowed, tying for 27th and 43rd, respectively. Nakazaki shot a total of 238 with rounds of 73­84-81, and Brown scored 78­86-80 in each round, giving her a total of 244. Sophomore Sarah Bassett finished with a 247 after shooting rounds of 81-82-84, and senior co-cap­tain Rebecca Rogers rounded out the lineup with rounds of 80-82-90 and a total of 252. 
Overall, confidence was the most prevalent theme of the weekend for the Irish team. 
"We had a serious talk about proper practice to be more confident in competition," King said. "A lot of [the team's suc­cess] had to do with a better mental attitude." 
Brophy agreed. 
"I had a lot more confidence with every shot," she said. "Instead of don't hit this [shot] in a bad place, I'd think hit it down the fairway, straight and far. I felt excited as opposed to scared." 
Brophy attributes the newly found mental edge to more productive practices in the week leading up to the tourna­ment. 
"Practice has been a lot more structured, and we've been using our time more wisely," she said. 
For the Irish, it appears as though the poise they demon­strated this past weekend could potentially snowball, giv­ing the team the mental edge that could help the team reach its first ever NCAA tournament. 
"We're much more positive, and I definitely think it's a step in the right direction," Brophy said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
NCAA BASEKTBALL 

UConn's Okafor in spotlight of Finals 
Associated Press SAN ANTONIO-Few people draw the distinction between life and basketball more clearly than Emeka Okafor, the star center for Connecticut. The son of a man who grew up in war-ravaged Nigeria, Okafor has led an easy life by comparison, and he's the first to concede that. "My dad's high school educa­tion was interrupted by a civil war and they weren't sure they were going to eat the next day," Okafor said. "And here I am in the United States won­dering what I'm going to get for Christmas." On Monday, Okafor will lead UConn against Georgia Tech in the national final, hoping to push the Huskies to one half of a possible sweep of the men's and women's championships. The Connecticut women beat Minnesota 67-58 Sunday night to advance to the champi­onship game. A win for the guys would mark the crowning achieve­ment on the basketball court 


AP 

Emeka Okafor leads Connec­ticut against Georgia Tech. 
for Okafor, although it would be only part of the picture in his well-rounded life. 
The 6-foot-10 All-American, who averages 17 points and 11 rebounds, will earn his degree in finance in May with a 3.8 grade-point average. After that, he'll probably be a top­five pick in the NBA draft in June. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r·m· at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Get the 'bleep' out of the cold! Mexico/Caribeean only $125 each way all taxes included. Other worldwide destina­lions cheap. Book on-line www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 Catholic family offering fulltime sum­mer childcare opportunity to care lor 4 school age children, ages 5 to 11 , Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages negotiable, non-smoker pre­!erred, own transportation a plus, contact Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. 

FoR SALE 

1042 Lawndale, South Bend, IN Pymts can be LOWER than RENT. 3 BR, 2 Story wlbsmt. Re-habed new roof, carpet, bath, kit. $50K. 574-674-9548 Country Estate in Buchanan, Ml 10 acres w/woods $21 0,000 2198 E Warren Woods Rd. 3 BDRM, 2 BA, Re-habed 20 min. to Lake Michigan,near by lakes lor fishing, room for horses. Quiet. Ready to move into. 574-674-9548 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to NO. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR....WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near campus. Only a lew left lor next school year. Call Justine, 234-9923. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, 3 lull baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. Call574-232­4527 or 269-683-5038 Attention 2004-05 Juniors & Seniors, Grad Students. Rental Home Available for 2 students. May-Aug and Aug-May lease. Fully furnished. All appli­ances,utilities, cable & high speed internet included. Off street parking. 4 miles from NO. $450/monthlstu­dent. 574-656-8695. 
Faculty/Staff Rental Homes 600 feet to Campus 604 E. Angela 3 BR 2 Bath 2,000 sq. ft. $1,950 month 542 E. Angela 4 BR 1-1/2 Bath, 1,700 sq ft. $1,850 month. www.rentclicks.com or 272-4796. 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Opening Day 2004 Let's go Cubbies! I'm stuck with you lor Easter. 
Bookstore team Off in the Shower wishes its name hadn't been cen­sored. 
--~~--­

------------. 





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 5, 2004 COMPILED FR.OMTHE 0BSERVUtS WHli SERViCES page 15 

IWLCA women's 1..8crosse > 
team 

1 Princeton 2 Georgetown 3 NOTRE DAME 4 Loyola 5 Virginia 6 Duke 7 James Madison 207 8 Maryland 203 9 Vanderbilt 181 10 Syracuse 154 11 Dartmouth 152 ~. 12 John$ Hopkllli ··13!f·\··.·..·~•.·.·.·· ......·•···· 13 North Carolina 
109 ..•..•...
104 •.•.....

14 Yale 15 Northwestern 101 16 William and Mary 60 17 TOW$On 46 18 Penn State 37 19 Richmond 33 20 Stanford 14 
USILA Men's Lacrosse Top 20 
rfcord :pqi~~~ .
team 

1 Maryland 7-0. 198 2 Johns Hopkins lH ·· ... 190 .. 3 Syracuse 4-1 ............•.<1711 
4 Georgetown $-1 ····• 163•··~······· 5 North Carolina 5·2 156 6 Navy 6-1 145 1 Princeton 3·2 144 8 Duke 4-3 124 9 Cornell 
10 VIrginia ::~. l~: > . 11 Brown 
::~. :~ \ ..

12 Army 
13 NOTRE DAME t.a··· · • <sa> >• 14 Rutgell 
4~2 51>······· 
2~3 .·. >42

15 Towson 16 Denver H . ··39 17 Ohio Slate 5+2 . <. 37 18 Delaware H ·<as> 
18 Loyola 2·3 ..••.• ··:..··35•·•. 20 UMBC 2-3 >21(. 
...::i:t:f::.:. 
Mens College Baseball Big East Conference 

team conf. peL·. oy~r~R J:Wk>•·•·•···•· 
NOTRE DAME 6-0-0 1.000 Plllsburgh 4-1·0 .800 St. John's 4-1-0 .800 14·1).0 . . J560
··~·~:~·····················•·:;=•··················

10"13-ll . . . . .434 Villanova 3-3-0 .500 11+8·1 .680 Georgetown H·O .500 18·15.0 ,545 Seton Hall 3-3-0 .600 7·1H .291 Boston College 1-1-0 .500 8·15·0 .•34l Connecticut H·D .200 10,1Hr •••···•A7~ VIrginia Tech 0-5·0 .000 1Z•12•0 • · •· .500 West VIrginia 0·5·0 .000 8;16-0 .333 
R11tgen 3-2·0 .600 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgia Tech vs. Connecticut, 8 p.m. CBS 
MLB White Sox at Royals, 2 p.m., WGN Cubs at Reds, 1 p.m., ESPN Phillies at Pirates, 3 p.m., ESPN2 Giants at Astros, 6 p.m., ESPN2 Rangers at Athletics, 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
FIGURE SKATING Figure Skating World Championships, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

AP Photo Tennessee's Dominique Redding battles for the ball with LSU's Tillie Willis In their Final Four game Sunday In New Orleans. Tennessee won and will face Connecticut In the championship game Tuesday. 

Tennessee, Connecticut meet again 
Associated Press tory for the Lady Vols, tested layup. points, made the pass that 
who had only three play­Tennessee will seck an led to one of the game's 
In the end, Tennessee ers score in double fig­NCAA-best seventh title biggest baskets and then 
always seems to find a ures. against the winner of the crushed Minnesota's final 
way. With the score tied 50-other semifinal. hopes by flicking away 
LaToya Davis scored 50 and the clock running Connecticut. Shannon Schonrock's 3­with 1.6 seconds left after down, once again Connecticut 67, point shot near the end. LSU's Temeka Johnson Tennessee put the ball in Minnesota 58 The Huskies (30-4) lost the ball in the back­the hands of Tasha Butts, NEW ORLEANS -With recovered the ball and court, giving Tennessee a who scored the winning one final swat, Diana Taurasi dribbled out the 52-50 victory over the points in the Lady Vols' Taurasi secured final seconds, smiling Lady Tigers in the national last two narrow wins. Connecticut's place in when the buzzer sounded semifinals Sunday night. She missed this time, another national champi­and slapping hands with 
Nothing has come easy giving LSU the ball with 6 onship game. teammate Ann Strother. for the Lady Vols this sea­seconds left. But Connecticut fought off Minnesota (25-9) made a son. but remarkable bal­Tennessee trapped repeated comebacks by a remarkable tournament ance and resiliency have Johnson in the backcourt, gutsy Minnesota team and run after guard Lindsay put them in their 11th forcing the turnover. The stayed on track to win a Whalen returned from a NCAA championship ball squirted out and third straight NCAA title broken right hand that game. Shyra. Ely came up with it with a victory in the semi­sidelined her for the final 
It was the third straight and quickly fed Davis finals. seven regular-season two-point. last-second vic-underneath for an uncon-Taurasi scored 18 games. 
IN BRIEF 

~renstam gets milestone full-time in 1994, became the sixth over the Boston Bed Sox 7-2 Sunday victory LPGA player to win 50 or more tour­night in Lee Mazzilli's first game as naments, and the first in almost 35 Baltimore's manager.
LOS ANGELES -The milestone 
victory was typical Annika years. Martinez experienced an unchar­
Sorenstam. The most recent was Kathy acteristic lapse in control while 
Sinking a couple of pressure­Whitworth in 1969. Whitworth also yielding three second-inning runs. packed birdie putts, and knocking won the most titles. 88. The Hed Sox fell behind the New her approach shot near the pin on Sorenstam played the final round York Yankees (1-1) in the AL East for another green. Sorcnstam birdied at El Caballero Country Club mostly the first time this season by virtue of conservatively, but turned it on when
three of the final live holes Sunday the opening-night loss. 
she had to down the stretch.
to win her 50th LPGA Tour title. Signed as free agents during a "Fifty is kind of a magical number. "Starting today, I just wanted to busy winter for the Orioles, Lopez, 
have great patience because I know Palmeiro and Tejada combined to goI've thought about this for a while. I anything can happen out there," she 7-for-11 with three runs and four
really wanted to do it this week," Sorenstam said after a 3-under 69 said. HB!s. Tejada was also perfect on 12 Sorenstam led all three days of the chances at shortstop.
gave her a three-stroke victory in the Office Depot Championship. tournament, although Bunch tied Martinez was the loser, giving up her at the top briefly during the final three runs, two earned, and seven
The LPGA Hall of Farner, also the 
tournament winner in 2001 and round. hits in six innings. lie struck out live, 2003 and the runner-up in 2002, had Orioles win opening game walked one and hit a batter. a 9-under 207 total. BALTIMORE -One bad inning did It was his first appearance in a 
Ashli Bunch closed with a 65 to tie in Pedro Martinez, just like last game that counted since Oct. 16, for second with Meg Mallon at 6 October. when the three-time Cy Young under. Mallon, two shots off Javy Lopez homered and drove in Award winner blew a 5-2 against the Sorenstam's lead beginning the day, three runs, and fellow newcomers Yankees in Game 7 of the AL cham­shot a 70. Rafael Palmeiro and Miguel Tejada pionship series. and New York went 
Sorenstam. who came on the tour both had two hits to lead the Orioles on to win 6-5 in 11 innings. 

page 16 Monday, April 5, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The HIGGINS LABOR RESEARCH CENTER 

works on labor; so can you. 
Check out these courses for Fall2oo4: 
I)  AMST 40I: U.S. Immigration History  
2)  AMST 201: Race and Ethnicity in the Twentieth-Cenmry U.S.  
3)  Ai'\TTH 414: Transnational Societies and Culmres  
4)  CSEM 28o: Economics of Work and De..sire  
5)  CSEM 28o: Labor, Race, and the Struggle tor Dignity  
6)  ECON 416: Problems in Political Economy: Globalization  
7)  ECON 457= The Economics of Gender and Racial Discrimination  
8)  GSC 422: Women &Work in Early America  
9)  HIST 480: Labor Movements in the 20th-Cenntry US  
10)  THE0368: Social Concerns Seminar  

I) AMST 4m: U.S. IMMIGRATION HISTORY Department of American Smdies, TTh 3=30-4:45 Pro£ Tom Gugliehno, tt,rugliel@nd~eq-u . 

This course is a high-level introduction to the history ofimmigration in the United States. Exa111ining some hf'the lx:§ft1¢)YJiterat:Ure ontl1¢suqje<.:t as well as a range of other material-film, memoir, fiction, government records, and court decisions-smdents explore avarietyofilnrnigrant I:,rr'oups and time periods-from the Irish, Italians, and Chinese of the mid-nineteenth and early twentieth cenntriesto .Tamaicans, Mexicans, and the Vietnamese today. 
2) AMST 2oi: R/\.CE AND ETHNICITI' IN THE 1WENTIETH-CENTURY U.S. DepartmentofAmerican Smdies, TTh 9:30-10:45 Pro[ Tom Guglielmo, tgugliel@nd.edu 
At the dawn of the twentieth cenmry, African Americans, Asian Americans, Latino/ a Americans~ and Native AmeriqJn~':i.vY~re often restricted by legal or other means from owning a nice home, attending a good school, working a qualityjob, andvoting. Certain European "htces11 such as .JewsJtalians, and Poles, while generally accepted as white, also faced their share ofdisctimination and prejudice. By the beginning ofthe tvventy-first<..--entury, however, much had changed. All racial divisions among Europeans had disappeared and people of color, thanks to their own vigorous political activism, had tor<..'e<..i tooeral and state governments to abolish many legal barriers tb political, economic, and social equality. This course will examine this transtom1ation-a:nd what ha..s come ne).:t-through a mix of reading, writing, and discussion. 
3) Al~TH 414: TRANSNATIONAL SOCIETIES AND CULTURES Cross listed with SOC 433 Department of Anthropology, MWF I0:4o-n:3o Pro£ Kimbra Smith, Kimbra.LSmithi579@nd.edu 
. 



This course analyzes how culmral identities and behaviors are formed in the context ofglobal systems. Through speCific ease smdies, sritdents \Vill explore how different social groups consmtct their culmres in interaction with other culmres, and how,in so doing~ these grqups are bothrespondingtqand shaping global agendas. Focusing on linkages between local and international systems, this course Will investigate issues$~}¢!) iq'the globali?iti9!1 ofwest­ern media (especially cable lV, films, Internet); the tise of transnational corporations and their effeci$ qhindigenous econbrijie8L1:!1e :.Inthrop(:)lqgy qfgeveh opment; population displacement (e.g., refugee populations, migrant workers, andother deterrit6na.lized ¢oiTirndnities)~ tplipsJ1tal1.d ecoi:oudspiaridthb r eftects on local populations; the growth oftransnational social movements; the economics of the environment in globalcont6:fs; and the efkctsbf''free trade" and smtcmral adjustment policies in the Third World. This course will expose sntdents to different theoties ofglobalization,transnationalism,.and moder­nity, and will discuss why the sntdy of regional, national and international linkages Ius become a critical component ofcontemporary anthropological research. 
4) CSEM 28o: ECONOMICS OFWORKAl'\TD DESIRE College Seminar, MW J00-4:15 (section 2) Prot: Teresa Ghilarducci, ghilarduccLr@nd.edu .• 
·· .. ·· .. 
Sntdents will be able to identifY the causes of the unprecedented degree of inequality ofwell~beingbetween people and nations. Constirnpnqn beha,y­ior, public policy, and work relations are chiefly responsible. We e:xvlore the possibilities and pitfalls ofseveral individual aridspcialresponse.s. Tl1¢dass will engage in a variety ofways oflearning: traditionallecmre, seminar, group projects, field work-a trip to the Mall-essaywtiting~ andstaristicalana,Jysis; Smdents will be exposed to social science methods, especially economic analysis, but we will also explore these themes instodes, novels, films, and other art 
forn1s. 
. Selected Readings: FredetickTaylor, Ptinciples of Scientific Management, 1967 DanielS. Hamern1esh, Dress tor Success-Does Ptimping Pay? 1999 Karl Marx, "The Fetishism of Commodities and the Secret Thereof' from Capital Vol. I, r886 .Juliet Schor, The Overspent Ametican, and The Overworked American, 1998, 1991 · . Amitava Dutt, "Consumption, Happiness, and Religion" .in Crossing the Mainstream: Ethical +llldl\1et:hodologiCall~sue§Hif?#onomics, Robert Frank and Philip Cook, The Winner-Take-All Society, 1995 . ·.· ·.·. ·.··.·. ·.··· . Philip Roth, Amelican Pastoral (winner of theAmetican Book award), 1998 


5) CSEM 28o: LABOR, RACE, AND THE STRUGGLE FOR DIGNIIT College Seminar, MW Joo-4:15 (section 23) Pro[ Marty Woltoon, mwolfson@nd.edu 
This course will examine the lives ofworkers and the lives ofpeople ofcolor in America. It will ex~m.ine their sn·uggles fordignity and· respect, especially as they come together in our nation's workplaces. The perspective will be on people's own storie..s about the conditions oftheir da:ilyljves,asexpressedin nontktion~ novels, films, and oral histories. The eontent of the course will focus on three areas: 1) the Atiican-Americancivil tights movemei1t~yspecially a'l itlinked upwith workers' lives in the campaign ofthe Memphis sanitation workers in 1968; 2) the Farn1workers' campaiglnled byCesarChayez,aqcllntliienceo bytheppilpsophy of nonviolent direct action ofthe civil tights movement and Martin Luther King, Jr.; and 3) the so·uggles ofworkersin the meatpackingindustry, ~representative 
of current labor developments, and especially as related to the issues ofinterracial conflict and unity.· · · . .·.· · · ·.· .· · 
.------------------------
MunJay, April 5, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
HIGGINS LABOR RESEARCH CENTER FALL 2004 COURSES CONTINUED 
6) ECON 416: PROBLEMS IN POLITICAL ECONOMY: THE POLITICAL ECONOMY OF GLOBALIZATION 
Depanment of Economics and Policy Studies, MW II:45-t:oo Prof. Marty Wolf<ion, mwolt'ion@nd.edu This course will address the issue ofglobalization. In particular, it will cover the following topics: 
1) Corporate Strategies: why are companies going abroad? 
2) Ncolibcralism: how did the move to free markets develop historically? 
3) Capital Mobility: do open borders bring in needed funds or"hot money"? 
4) Foreign Direct Investment: a spur to growth or a "raceto the bottom"? 
5) Overcapacity: why can companies produce more than people can afford to buy? 
6) International 'frade: how does it affect developed and developing countries? 
7) Free:T'rade Agreements: do they threaten labor, the environment, democracy? 
H) Labor and Environmental Standards: are they protectionism or global justice? 
9) Financial Crises: what caused the financial crises in Asia_ Russia, Latin America? to) The I MF: do "structural adjustment" policies hurt developing countries? 1qOutsourcing to Developing Countries: job opportunities or exploitative sweatshops? 
12) Immigration: can immigrant and domestic workers find common ground? 
13) Race and Gender: why are these issues impottant to understanding globalization? 
q) Plant Closure": what can workers do? 
15) I,abor Solidarity: do workers in the US and abroad have common interests? r6) Union Strategies: should unions supp01t fair trade, tariff<;, cross~border organizing? Prerequisite: Econ 315, Inn·oduction to Political Economy, or permission of instructor. Student" interested in taking this course should contact Prof. Wolfson (mwolfson@nd.edu or 631-8093) 
7) ECON 457: 'T'HE ECONOMICS OF GENDER AND RACIAL DISCRIMINATION M vV I :30-2:45 Prot: Teresa Ghilarducci, ghilarducci.I@nd.edu 
This class will examine theories ofeconomic discrimination with an emphasis on the evolution of the U.S. labor market. One theme is that dis­crimination is rooted in the economic base. T'o understand how the distinctions between the following must be made: caste, class, racial, ethnic, gen­der, sex, and religion. \Ve will use the theories to understand modern day issues such as: gay marriage, race and college spons, the valuation of"caring" labor, i.e. home health care, child care, education, and affinnative action. Selected Readings: Blau, Ferher, and Winkler, The Economics ofWomen, Men and Work, 2002 Ilolzer, I larry; What Employers Want: Job Prospects tor Less Educated Workers, 1996 Ignatiev, Noel, How the Irish Became White, 1995 
Prerequisite: one semester offirst year Economics. 
R) GSC 422: \VOMEN & WORK IN EARLY AMERICA Progmm in Gender SUidies Cross-listed with AFAM 422, AMST 4221 I, I-liST 422M, MW 1:30-2:45 Dr. Sophie White, white.131@nd.edu 
This course will introduce students to a broad view ofearly American social history that foregrounds the gendered aspects ofwork in Early America-defined loosely a.s the period from colonial settlement to r82o. On one level, this approach allows for the recovety ofwomen and girls' con­tributions to the formal and inf()rmal economies ofpre-Industrial early America, including their work activities within the household. This perspective is especially crucial to the examination ofwhite, Indian and African servimde and/or slavery since gender ideologies dictated the work experiences of large race-and cla..,s-detlned segment<; of the population. Yet culmral retention also played a part and this course will invite students to investigate the impact ofderivative work practices (t<x example examining African women's dominance of market activities in the New World through the lens of West Ati·ican work practices). Further, while the course title emphasizes women's experiences, the class and race implications of male work practices in early America will be similarly illuminated by a gender studies approach. Thus, an overarching purpose of the course will be to highlight the fluid and instable conceptions ofwork that were applied alternately to masculine a_<; opposed to feminine occupations, just as they were alternately applied to European versus non-European, free versus enslaved, and public·versus private sphere.,. 
9) I IIST'4So: LABOR MOVEMENTS INTHE2oTH~CEN'TURYU.S. Cross listed with AFAM 4So, AMST 481 H, GSC 479, liPS 48oA, HESB 480, MW 3:00-4:15 Prof. Dan Graff, dgraft@nd.edu 
This course explores American \vorkers' collective effort<; as workers in their search for economic security, political power, and social and cultur­al autonomy ti·om the 1S9os to the near present. For the most patt, this course will focus on the unions and related organizations forged by workers throughout the past centul)·-from major umbrella groups like the American Federation of Labor, the Industrial Workers of the World, and the Congress of Industrial Organizations, to important sectoral actors like the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Poners, the United Automobile Workers, the American Federation ofTcachers, and the Unin:d Farm Workers. The central questions of the course will be: when, where, and why have US workers organized collectively in the twentieth centllt)' and how successful have they been? What have been the responses ofemployers, the govern­ment, and the public at large to these collective efforts ofworkers, and how and why have those responses changed over time? What ha.'i been the rela­tionship between organized labor and racial and gender discrimination, a.s well as the cause" of racial and gender equality? And how have Americans gcncmlly, and workers in particular, understood the labor movement in relation to capitalism, freedom, and democracy? Students will be expected to write several shott papers, engage in regular classroom discussion, and screen several tllms outside ofcla.ss. 
10) TliE03oR: SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINAR .Jay Caponigro, Director of the Robinson Learning Center,jcaponigro@nd.edu 
'l'his course is the City of I lope seminar in Chicago. It will be held during the second week ofJanuaty 2005 (over break). We meet ti:mr evenings before the ttip, and spend five days in Chicago meeting with labor and community organizers, a.s well as faith based institutions throughout the area (such a.s the National Interi:1ith Coalition f()r Worker Justice). The course is limited to 10 smdents and applications are at the Center f()r Social Concerns or the Robinson Center starting the first week ofOctoher. The deadline to sign up for the course is mid-October. 
For ry1ore information about the HlRC, check the website www.nd.edu/ -hlrc or contact: Teresa Ghilarducci, HlRC Director and Department of Economics and Policy Studies 510 Flanner Hall 631-7581 
Monday, April 5, 2004
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish upset by Virginia Tech 4-3 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
Does a week change things? 

Apparently, it can. No. 50 Virginia Tech upset No. 26 Notre Dame 4-3 in a match that was eerily dissimilar to last week's victory over Ball State. 
"Today I think we were just out-toughed and out-compet­ed," tri-captain Matthew Scott said. "We came into this match pretty decently prepared, it just served as a reminder that we have some work to do before the Big East [Tournament) and we're likely to play them again." 
This week, the top of the line­up kept the Irish alive. The team again lost the doubles point, with only the No. 1 team of Luis Haddock and Scott com­ing out on top. Haddock and Scott are 10-2 as a team in the dual-match season. 
At No. 2, Brent D'Amico and Ryan Keckley dropped a close 9-7 decision, and Steven Bass and Eric Langenkamp lost in an even closer 9-8 match. 
"I think the doubles point was a big disappointment for us," Scott said. "We were in a posi­tion to win at all three spots and unfortunately we came up short in two of them, and that ended up deciding.the final outcome." 
In singles, senior experience showed, as Haddock won 6-3, 6-4 at No. 1 and Scott took the No. 2 spot 6-2, 6-0. 
Barry King also put a point up for the Irish at No. 5, winning 6­4, 6-7, 6-4 in three hard-fought sets. 
In a switch from the usual lineup, Bass played No. 3 and D'Amico was moved to No. 4. Bass lost 5-7, 5-7 and D'Amico was defeated 6-3, 6-1. 
The match again came down to Keckley at No. 6, who was unable to clinch the victory, los­ing 6-3, 4-6, 6-0. 
The loss could have a serious effect on seedings for the Big East Tournament, held April 28 -May 1 in Coral Gables, Fla. 
"We have a full week before our next match at Florida State, and we have to get to work right away and fix the things we can and look to bounce back from this in the Big East,'' Scott said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Five-gaine win streak snapped at Valparaiso 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Writer 

All good things must come to an end. 
Saint Mary's had its five-game win streak snapped this weekend when it suffered its worst defeat of the season, a 9-0 loss to Valparaiso. The Belles then trav­eled to Chicago, where they got back on track with a 7-2 win over the University of Chicago. 
Friday's home match proved to be a difficult day for everyone who played. The team faced numerous setbacks in its quest for victory. No. 4 singles player Kris Spriggle was unable to par­ticipate in the match due to a scheduling conflict with her exams. The team also had to deal with the loss of Kaitlin Cutler, who entered the contest with the flu and was forced to forfeit her match only four games in when she became too ill to continue. The automatic loss gave Cutler only her second l:oss on the year, which currently gives her the top record (13-2) among Saint Mary's singles play­ers. 
The rest of the squad was unable to continue its strong play against Valparaiso. 
"The Valparaiso team was a lot stronger than the year before," Miranda Mikulyuk said, who lost 0-6, 1-6 in straight sets. "And we gave it our all but it just wasn't enough. We were all proud with how we played." 
Sophomore Kristen Palombo, who had won her last four matches heading into the Valparaiso contest, lost 2-6, 2-6. 
"We were all just a little off our games against Valpo," she said. "We all just sort of had an off day." 
No. 1 singles player Jeannie 

Knish also was defeated 2-6, 2-6 in straight sets. "They were a tough team," Knish said. 
"We had trouble pulling our­selves together. Plus, it was freezing outside. It was really cold, and it was just hard to get warmed up." 
In her first singles match of the year, freshman Grace Gordon lost 1-6, 1-6, and Kate Bowler was also unsuccessful. losing 4-6, 2-6. 
Palombo hoped she and her team had learned something from this match. 
"It was a good learning experi­ence," Palombo said. "Since we had won so many matches in a row, this loss to Valparaiso served as a wake-up call. After the match, we made some adjustments, and I think that that really showed on Saturday." 
The team was able to rebound strongly with its match against the University of Chicago on Saturday. Their 7-2 victory moved them to a record of 11-4 on the year (3-0 in MIAA confer­ence play). 
"We had to fight the weather as much as we had to fight the team," Mikulyuk said. 
"The wind was just horrible." 
However, the team seemed to play up to their ability again, and the return of Spriggle and a healthy Cutler provided an added boost. All but one of the singles players won, and the doubles teams also enjoyed improved success. 
"It was a 180-degree difference from the previous game. We tried our best to use the cold and wind to our advantage," Palombo said. "We're looking to start a new streak from this one." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 

Monday, April 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL 


Red-hot Belles tally two wins 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
SportS Writer 
After a nine-game losing stn~ak, the Belles have fought back to win five out of their last six. On a chilly Saturday after­noon, Saint Mary's posted two impressive victories against Adrian College in conference play. 
After stressing the importance of improving their offense, the team went on to win game one by a score of 9-5 and followed with a 4-0 victory in the second part of the doubleheader. 
Marnie Walsh said that an increase in batting practice was the key to the oiTensive improve­nwnt in Saturday's game. 
In th1~ first inning, Angie 1-:llison doubled to left center from tlw number two spot, while Laura lleline continued to shine as she singled to ccmter field, scoring the first run. Katrina T1~bb1~ then smacked her first of' thrne hits into right field, good for a triple. She came home to score shortly after on Erin Sullivan's HBI single. And, the B1dlc$' offense wasn't done. 
They erupted in the second 
inning as seven runs crossed the plate giving pitcher Kate Sajcwich a large cushion to work with. The inning began with Jean Downes reaching lirst on a single. After an Adrian error, she came all the way around to score. 
Amy Parker also reached on an error by the second baseman and scored on a Walsh double. Next up was Angie Ellison who nailed a double into center, giv­ing the Belles a 5-0 lead. With two outs, Tebbe knocked a hit into right giving her an RBI before Sullivan singled to the opposite side. 
After Sajewich was hit by a pitch, Downes cleared the bases with a blistering double giving Saint Mary's a 9-0 lead. Adrian fought back with two runs in the fourth and sixth innings, but was unable to overcome the delicit. 
Game two was highlighted by the dominating pitching of Libby Wilhelmy. 
"[Wilhelmy! has been amaz­ing, especially in the last three games posting all shutouts," Walsh said. 
And Saturday was no diiTerent as Wilhelmy went the distance giving up only two hits in seven scoreless innings. The Belles' first run came in the first on a Heline double that scored Walsh. Saint Mary's was back at it again in the second when Tiffany Griffin and Audrey Gajor came around to score on a Walsh single. 
The !ina! run came in the sev­enth when Wilhelmy showed that she could do more than just pitch. She dropped a double into center scoring Ellison. The Bulldogs' two hits came in the first and fourth and both were singles. 
As the MIAA conference tour­nament rapidly approaches, Walsh believes that the Belles have a very good chance at earning a spot. 
"In making the tournament, we must continue to play like we did in the last game," Walsh said. "Our defense and hitting arc very important." 
This weekend's doubleheader improves Saint Mary's record to 10-12 on the season and 3-3 in the MIAA. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 



Irish earn more NCAA berths 


By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Despite battling less than ideal weather conditions the Irish won ten events in its Spring Opener this weekend. 
Selim Nurudeen led the way with the unofficial eighth fastest 110 meter hurdle time in the country this year. lie clocked in at 13.92 seconds but technical difficulties will prevent all times from being made oflicial until sometime this week. 
Nurudeen was pleased with his performance despite the cold, windy weather he faced. 
"It was hard to get warmed up in the cold weather," Nurudeen said. "It was diffi­cult to get as loose as you'd like and open up your stride like you want to." 
Godwin Mbagwu was also a winner on the men's side as he placed first in the triple jump. He hopped, skipped and jumped his way to a dis­tance of 48-9 3/4, which is only eight inches short of the qualifying mark for the NCM Regionals held in May. 
The biggest standout for the women's team was distance runner Stephanie Madia. 
She was a double winner by taking first in both the 1 ,500 and 3,000 meters. Madia took 
4:40.1 to win the 1,500 meters and finished the 3,000 meters in 9:52.94. 
Megan Johnson competed in the steeplechase for the first time in her Irish career and came away with a victo­ry. ller unofficial time of 
10:54.70 should qualify her for the NCAA regional. 

The third winner on the men's side was Dan Driscoll as he won the 5000 meters with a time of 15:08.69. I lowever, Driscoll will need to lower his time to 14:50.44 to qualify for the Big East cham­pionships. 
The 400 meter relay team was victorious as well. They lowered their 42.59 second time from last weekend down to 41.00 seconds and easily qualified for the Big East meet. 
Pole vaulter Laura lluarte was the third winner for the women as she cleared a height of 11-5 3/4 Fellow field event competitor Stacy Cowan placed first in the high jump with a height of 5-6 1/4. 
The final winner of the women's team was Tiffany Gunn as she ran the 400 meter hurdles in a time of 1 :05.94 seconds. 
A handful of other Irish ath­letes had a successful meet as well. Hyan Postel placed third in the 200 meter dash with a time of 21.85 seconds. lie had already qualified for the con­ference meet last weekend. 
Kate Duman tossed the javelin a distance or 136-1 1/4 to take second place. Katie DeHusso also placed second in the 3,000-meter steeple­chase with a Big East qualify­ing time of 11:10.54. 
The men's 1,500 meters was dominated by the Irish as Todd Ptacek, Todd Mobley and Thomas Chamney fin­ished in second, third and fourth place respectively. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Happy 
21st SexyI 
Love, Mike, Matt, Pete, Ed, Mark, and jenny 
page 20 

The Observer + SPORTS Monday, AprilS, 2004 
BASEBALL 



SolliTiann could be out for rest of season 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
No. 5 Notre Dame got a couple of big wins Saturday over Villanova, but they also lost a big player when second baseman Steve Sollmann went down with · a broken jaw in the fifth inning of the opening game. The senior tri-captain was chasing down a ball in shallow right field when he collided with teammate Cody Rizzo. 
Sollmann also suffered a con­cussion on the play, and· the game was stopped as an ambu­lance came on the field to carry Sollmann off to the hospital. 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri stat­ed Sollmann was discharged from the hospital Sunday morn­ing and traveled with his family to a hospital in his hometown Cincinnati. He will undergo sur­gery on his fractured jaw today, and his prognosis for a return to the Irish this season is unknown. 
"When the injury happened, I was just glad he was alive and could walk and move his arms. The last thing on my mind was him playing again for us," Mainieri said. " ... But then [Saturday] night, the word peo­ple were telling me is that people can come back in five to six weeks from a broken jaw. 
"And if anybody can do it, it would be Sollmann. He's the toughest kid I've known." 
Until that time, Mainieri says 
' he plans for senior reserve Zach Sisko to see time at second base in place of Sollmann. The Irish skipper says he will also consider moving catcher Javi Sanchez ­who started at third base this year against Penn State on March 8 '----out from behind the plate and using the senior cap­tain at second base. 

''I'm still toying with the possi­bility of maybe putting Javi [Sanchez] out there and catching with [freshman catcher] Sean Gaston," Mainieri said. "[Gaston] was not available to us this weekend, because Thursday night, he had a badly sprained thumb [against Hillsdale College]. We'll see how [Gaston's] thumb comes around, and we'll probably get [Sanchez] a little work there." 
During the 2002 season, Sanchez came off the bench for the Irish to play shortstop for the remainder of the season in place of injured starters Matt Macri and Matt Edwards. The senior was actually recruited out of Christopher Columbus High School in Miami as an infielder and had not played catcher until the start of the 2003 season with Notre Dame. 
But until Gaston's thumb heals and he could take over for Sanchez at catcher, Mainieri says he has confidence in Sisko to handle the starting role at sec­ond. 
"And we'll continue to play Zach [Sisko]. and I have a lot of confidence in him," Mainieri said. "I think he did a good job [Sunday], and if that's the way we go, then we'll be fme." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 


Irish dominate Big 
Green for third win 
Notre Dame's intense, offen­By DAN TAPETILLO sive-minded game discredited 
Sports Writer 

Dartmouth's title of No. 7 in the nation for scoring offense. 
Notre Dame defeated For the third consecutive

Dartmouth 10-3 to earn its third game, the Irish got out of the

victory of the year, breaking 

gates quickly as Notre Dame outDartmouth's five-game winning shot Dartmouth 4-0 in the firststreak. 
quarter and held a 15-4 advan­Goalie Stewart Crosland held tage in shots. 
off Dartmouth's offense, record­

Dan Berger and Brian
ing 12 saves and allowing only Hubschmann led the offense as one goal, good for a career best both netted two goals for the save percentage of .923 on the 

Irish. 
game. 

Six other players scored for the Before Crosland's departure team including All-American Pat with 4:18 remaining in the game, 
Walsh who scored once andthe Irish held a 10-1 lead. 
dished out three assists. 
Midfield Drew Peters praised Walsh is currently the Great Crosland's stellar performance. 

Western Lacrosse League's lead­"He was seeing the ball really ing scorer and is ranked fourthwell today," Peters said. 
nationally heading into the week. 
In his first collegiate appear­Walsh has registered 13 goals 

ance, Sean Quigley replaced 

and 17 assists in 2004. 
Crosland to finish the game as Notre Dame also came out vic­the clock wound down, and torious in ground balls, 49-47recorded two saves and a ground after trailing Dartmouth goingball. 

into the fourth quarter.
Other key players in the strong Dartmouth's Andrew Goldsteindefensive effort were Brennan led all players with seven.

Creaney and Mickey Blum, who Brennan Creaney registered

held Dartmouth to nearly 10 

seven ground balls for the Irish. 
goals below its season average of "We came out stronger than12.67. The team effort allowed Dartmouth and we knew how 

the Irish to near their season important this game was to us,"goal of playing intense lacrosse Peters said. "We needed to winfor all four quarters. 

to feel confident, especially going "Our goal of the entire season 
into the heart of our league
has been to play a hard game for play."

the complete 60 minutes," Peters said. "Today was our best show­Contact Dan Tapetillo at ing of it." jtapetil@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 


Irish remain undefeated 
No.3 Notre Dame defeats Connecticut to go 8-0 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Make it eight. 

Attack/midfield Meredith Simon netted her third straight four-goal game and defender Kassen Delano turned in a hat trick with all three of her scores coming in the contest's final 25 minutes as No. 3 Notre Dame tallied its eight straight win this sea­son. The Irish exploded for nine second-half goals to defeat a struggling Connecticut (3-6, 0-2 in the Big East) sq.uad ·14-8 in Storrs, Conn., Saturday. 
The victory extends Notre Dame's winning streak to a school-record 12 games and leaves the Irish with a perfect 8-0 start to the season, including a 3-0 mark in con­ference play. 
"I was happy [with the team's play]," head coach Tracy Coyne said. "There was a lot of adversity. The game was pushed up to 7:00 p.m., we were playing under the lights on their turf. it was really cold and wet, and I was just happy to leave with a win." 
In a see-saw first half that included five lead changes, midfield Meghan Murphy struck first for the Irish 51 seconds after the opening whistle to give the Irish a temporary 1-0 advantage. 
After the Huskies picked up a couple of scores to claim the first of a pair of first-half Connecticut leads, attack Abby Owen responded three minutes later to knot the score at 2-2 and Simon found the back of the net 90 sec­onds after Owen to provide Notre Dame a 3-2 lead with 
19:21 left in the half. 
The Irish and Huskies con­tinued to trade goals for the remainder of the half as a pair of Connecticut tallies left the Irish down 4-3 before midfield/defender Andrea Kinnik, and Simon beat Huskie goalkeeper Jennifer Wong to restore a 5-4 Irish lead. 
A Huskie goal by Tracy Mullaney -her third of the half -with 4 7 seconds left evened the score at 5-5 head­ing into half time. 
"We switched some defen­sive match ups [at halftime]," Coyne said. "We just needed to change our offense because they were playing a zone -we had to play a dif­ferent offensive strategy against that, and I thought we handled it pretty well." 
Playing more like the squad that has run off victories over four teams currently ranked in the nation's top 20, includ­ing wins over then No. 2 Duke and No. 6 James Madison, the Irish netted the first three goals of the second half and eight of the next ten to turn the one-time nail bit­ter into yet another solid Irish victory. 
Delano kicked off the Irish second half run with a goal 

4:34 into the period and attack Jackie Bowers and Simon quickly followed suit to boost the lead to 8-5. 
Although a Huskie tally 
1:50 later brought the under­dogs within two at 8-6 Irish, it would be as close as Connecticut would get. 
Midfield/attack Crysti Foote and attack Kristen Gaudreau delivered to bump the advan­tage to four goals with Gaudreau's goal coming with 
14:45 remaining. 
Connecticut's. Kristen Link kept the Huskies in the game on a free position goal with 
13:39 left, but the hosts were ultimately unable to over­come Irish stalling tactics as Notre Dame managed to keep the Huskies off the board for the next 12:41. 
Attack Lauren Fischer broke Notre Dame's own 
12:01 scoring drought with just under three minutes. left and Delano posted her sec­ond and third goals within the next two minutes to put the game away. 
"Connecticut always plays us tough," Coyne said. "We were up against a lot and we knew that they were going to come out and give us a very competitive game. We want to be in those types of situa­tions because I think it will only make us better in the long run." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

•First 
2.00 fans will receive a Notre Dame Athletics T-shirt sponsored by Drive and Shine 

• 
First 100 fans will receive a Jimmy John's sandwich 

• 
First 2.50 fans receive a Notre Dame Athletics T-Shirt, sponsored by Drive and Shine 





Wednesdav, Aorill ~ 
Baseball vs. Valparaiso @ 6:05 PM 
Monday, April 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
tunity to see quality playing time. work. Technique is big at that Now, Simmons relishes having position. You can't do freelancing

Goolsby 
Goolsby and his experience back at that position." 
continued from page 24 
what was best for him," Irish linebackers coach Bob Simmons said. "IIad he come back with three to four games left, that would have been difficult for him to do. And I think he wanted to redshirt, too." 
Simmons initially brushed ofT the effects of Goolsby's injury, saying it gave other players a chance to step up and prove they belonged. Courtney Watson had to switch from his traditional outside linebacker position to play Goolsby's inside slot, giving Brandon I Ioyte plenty of oppor­in the Irish linebacker corps. Goolsby joins Hoyte and Derek Curry as the expected 2004 starting linebackers -and all have started at least a year for the Irish. But while Hoyle and Curry gained valuable game experience last year, the year on the sidelines has transformed some (but not all) of Goolsby's ferocity into discipline. 
"He's more fundamentally sound, in terms of accepting coaching and understanding that you can't do things his way," Simmons said. "lie knows know that you have to play within the framework of the defense and make plays within the frame-
After getting over initial fears about re-injuring his collarbone in a fierce collision or brutal impact with the ground, Goolsby has a broad smile on his face and an extra bounce in his step. 
After all, he's back on the foot­ball field -and far, far away from a basketball court. 
"Would I have been able to play or not?" Goolsby wondered. "If the team needed me, I could have been out there. 
"But everything happens for a reason, and I'm really looking forward to this season." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Malloy 
continued from page 24 
program." He added that coach Tyrone Willingham hasn't been successful enough in "snatch­ing the blue-chip athletes from the South -especially Florida -and the West." 
Rhoden said, "Notre Dame didn't have black athletes; it had the wrong black athletes." 
Malloy responded, saying the University has "made progress toward great diversity" and currently has a minority popu­lation of 20 percent -an increase of 8 points from 1984. 
Malloy also supported Willingham and his ability as a college head coach who "will continue to recruit outstanding athletes who fit Notre Dame." 
Malloy said upcoming com­mencement speaker and for­mer Notre Dame football play­er Alan Page was an example of what Notre Dame looks for in its students. Page, a Minnesota State Supreme Court Justice, is a member of both the College and Professional Football Halls of Fame. 
"After a disappointing season in football, we are not far from success." Malloy said in the let­ter's closing paragraph. "We expect to win, and to send into the world more men and women who succeed like Alan Page and represent all Notre Dame stands for." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Wish so·meo11e could joi11 you i11 Notre Dame, Indiana? 
' . 
Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. If you have a relative or friend who would like to be closer to you next year, tell them about Holy Cross College -we're right next door to Notre 

Dame. They could complete our Associate of Arts curriculum, transfer, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies degree. Give us a call at 239-8400 or e-mail admissions~hcc-nd.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted for Spring and Fall admission. 
HOLY CROSS 
COLLEGE~ "1· at Notre Dame, Indiana t.e:· 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-0308 574·239·8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc-nd.edu 


6139llfl 392 
cross list: ANTH 392f Prot. Jonathan Noble TH 3:30 •4:45 
2 
0 "C
, 0
, 
r;

Social &Political Protest J 
0 

Business Banquets &Karaoke c. ii" ~ 
ro

Sports &Leisure 10 
0 
... ,.

Theater &Drama 
9 
J

Advertising &MTV ro Film &Television ~ . 
ij" Pop &Punk Music c J 
10 
10 ~ ro 
~ 
.0 
c 


Softball 
continued from page 24 
down and hit the ball really well, and that's what we're capable of. "It's just a matter of whether 
we can do it every time or not." 
Freshman Stephanie Brown had by far her best performance of the year in an Irish uniform in Friday's sweep, as she finished the day with a 5-for-6 perform­ance with six ·RBI, four runs scored and two home runs. One of those home runs was a grand slam in the second game of the doubleheader. 
"Stephanie was awesome for us on Friday," Gumpf said. "It was a really great day for her and you could tell she was really having fun out there as well." 
While the offense of the Irish came through in a big way in Friday's games, the pitching was solid as well. Heather Booth recovered from a 2-0 loss against Western Michigan Thursday to pitch the complete­game six-inning victory in game one against the Huskies. 
Booth allowed five hits. one run and struck out six. Steffany Stenglein picked up the win in game two. allowing just two hits while striking out five. 
Game one Friday started off looking like it would be close, with each team scoring one run early in the game. Notre Dame's run came in the top of the first. when Nicole deFau led ofT with a double, moved to third on a wild pitch and came home when 


TWO MEN ANDA 

TRUCK® 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • local & long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes & Packing Supplies  
• Packing Service  • loading & Unloading of  
• Insured & Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomenandatruck.com 

Visit Our Box Store/ 
11590 McKinley, SuiteD • Osceola, IN 46561 
Connecticut failed to cover the plate on that wild pitch. 
Suzie deBarry countered with an HBI single in the top of the second for Connecticut, but Notre Dame jumped back ahead in the bottom of the inning with an HBI single from Megan Ciolli. 
The Irish scored three more runs in the bottom of the third and never looked back en route to the eight-run victory. 
Notre Dame continued its offensive onslaught in game two, with Megan Huthrauff crushing a pitch to right field for a three­run home run in the top of the first inning. It was Ruthraul'f's eighth home run already this season. The Irish put the game away in the third. scoring seven runs in the inning including Brown's grand slam. 
Booth and Stenglein pitched even better in the games Sunday against Boston College. Booth collected her sixth shutout of the season in game one. scattering live hits while striking out live. 
Stenglein allowed only one hit and one unearned run while striking out eight Eagles batters and walking one. 
"They're really stepping up well for us," Gumpf said of her two starters. "I thought that [Sunday) they faced some good hitters and they were able to shut them down. They really dominated, and that's what they're going to have to do in the Big East if we're going to get to the postseason." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Monday, April 5, 2004



Baseball 
continued from page 24 
Wildcats Saturday when he col­lided with right fielder Cody Rizzo chasing down a fly ball. 
The Irish went on to defeat Villanova 6-5 Saturday in the nightcap of the doubleheader and then knocked off the Wildcats 13-1 Sunday. 
Despite the possible season­ending injury to Sollmann, Mainieri is pleased about his team's position in the early standings of the Big East. 
''I'm really happy obviously to be 6-0 in the league and to have the record that we have overall," he said. "I feel like we've kind of made a statement in this early part of the season that we're the team that people have to chase." 
The Irish got off to a good start in the opener Saturday, staking Irish pitcher Chris Niese! to a 10-0 lead after three innings. 
In the second inning, Notre Dame sent 13 batters to the plate, as left fielder Steve Andres led off with a solo home run and designated hitter Matt Bransfield had a three-run homer. Catcher Javi Sanchez also had a pair of singles in the frame, as the Irish plated eight runs to post their highest-scor­ing inning of the year. 
After Sollmann's injury, how­ever, things started to turn towards the Wildcats' favor. In the top of the sixth, Villanova narrowed the Irish lead to 11-6 and had bases loaded with only one out when Mainieri decided to go to closer Ryan Doherty an 
RED BULL GIVES YOU WIIINGS. OH, AND AGREAT OPPORTUNITY. 
Red Bull is on the lookout for aStudent Brand Manager (SBM). An SBM is a reliable and motivated student whose responsibilities include brand development on campus, market analysis and having a great time. 
Our expectations from you are the following: 
• 
You're going into your second year or higher at this school. 

• 
You have agood knowledge of when/where things are happening. 

• 
You're interested in marketing and have good communication skills. 

• 
You have an entrepreneurial spirit and are outgoing. 


Does this sound like you? If so, go to: www.redbullu.com. 

Red Bull" 
~ 
ENERGY DRINK 


OPENING 
inning early. 

The move paid off as the 7­foot-1 sophomore struck out the next two batters to end the inning. 
"Ryan Doherty has done a great job or us all year," Mainieri said. "[Saturday] in that first game, when I felt it all kind of slipping away from us, I went ahead and used Ryan Doherty right there, and he came in and got those two big strikeouts for us." 
The Irish put the game out of reach in the bottom of the inning with four runs on the strength of a two-run triple from third baseman Matt Macri and RBI doubles from center­fielder Danny Dressman and first baseman Matt Edwards. 
Niese! got the win for the Irish to improve to 4-1 on the season but was hit hard for six runs (five earned) in five innings pitched. Sanchez fin­ished a perfect 4-for-4 in the game. Macri was 2-for-3 with three runs scored and 2 RBis, while Bransfield was 2-for-4 with three RBis and two runs scored. 
The nightcap of the double­header Saturday proved to be the real nail-biter, as the Irish and Wildcats played neck-and­neck all game and required 10 innings to decide a winner. 
Down 5-3 in the eighth inning, the Wildcats got a lead­off walk from first baseman Adrian Schau followed by a home run from shortstop Brian Trotta off Irish reliever Joe Thaman to tie the game. Thaman then buckled down and induced a pair of ground­outs and a popup to prevent any further damage. 
In the bottom of the lOth, with one out and runners on first and second, Macri fouled off pitch after pitch from Schau -now in the game at pitcher -before sending a two-two pitch to left field for a game­winning single. 
"I thought Matt Macri's at bat [Saturday] to win the game ­not just the fact that he got the hit -but just the whole at bat -the way he was in there fighting off pitches from a real­ly good pitcher in those tough conditions and in that tough situation ... was very inspira­tional to everybody," Mainieri said. 
Lefty Tom Thornton started into his repertoire. for the Irish and allowed two "I feel good. Everything felt runs in five innings, but right back in sync," Johnson Doherty got the win in the 1Oth said. "I lost my control out to improve to 3-0 on the year. there a little bit, but for the 
Sunday, Notre Dame had lit­most part everything felt in tle trouble in completing the rhythm and pretty good. sweep of Villanova -its sec­"[Having a breaking ball] ond Big East sweep in as many really boosts your confidence, weekends. Right-hander Grant and you trust your stuff a little Johnson got the start for the bit more, because there.'s Irish and was superb, logging another pitch the batters have four innings and holding the to worry about." Wildcats both hitless and Johnson also got some help scoreless. The junior, who from a six-run first inning that missed all of 2003 following put the Irish out to a 6-0 lead. shoulder surgery, is still work­Notre Dame got RBI singles ing on a pitch count in games from Bransfield, Sanchez and as part of his rehab, as Sunday shortstop Greg Lopez as the was the first time all season . Irish posted their biggest first that he mixed a breaking pitch inning of the season. 

In the fifth inning, the Wildcats posed their only true threat in the game as they loaded the bases with two outs against Irish reliever Jess Stewart. Mainieri then brought in freshman Jeff Samardzija, who allowed a one-run single that made the game 6-1, but then struck out right fielder Alan Day to stop the bleeding. Samardzija worked three more scoreless innings for Notre Dame as the Irish cruised to an eventual13-1 win. 
Notre Dame next plays at Frank Eck Stadium Tuesday at 5 p.m. against Chicago State. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS HAS SOMETHING NEW FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR! 
4 Bedroom Townhome (accommodates up to 6 people) 2 Full Baths and 2 Half Baths Washer and Dryer in apartment! Covered Carports LARGE Fenced in Privacy Patio 
This new 2400 sg. ft. 4 Bedroom Townhome can accommodate up to 6 people and can be your new home next year! 
Be th~ first to live in our new and exciting floor plan! 
Call for details! Turtle Creek Apartments 272-8124 
Monday, April 5, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 


FIVES 
Brad had almost pulled of the classic stunt of "listening to the game while taking your girlfriend to dinner", but everything fell apart when he mistimed the beginning to his UConn mascot cheer... 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Oh Bradley, this has been such a lovely evening! rm glad I got to wear this new dress! How do you think it looks on me? 
HUSKY! HUSKY! HUSKY! 


___) 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION ­

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RASEE 
j

I (I I I 
..) 
C2004 Tribune Media Servicea, Inc. All Alghla Reserved. 
DURIL 

I [ J lu 

WHEN HE TRIED TO HANG WAL-L-­
ZULZEG PAPER, SHE 
BECAME--­




I I I 
YtWW.juntlle.com 
Answer here: r 

Jumbles: GOUGE FRUIT PENCIL IODINE
Saturday's 

Answer: Where she went before the high school reunion­ON A DIET 

EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 36 Perform a 63 Clay pigeon 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS I>AY: Dean Stockwell, Andy Gibb,
dance with a shoot

1 Shade trees 
Samantha Eggar, Rex Harrison
shake 
64 Final word 

5 Consent (to) 
40 WNW's oppo-Happy Hirthday: This will be an emotional year if you haven't dealt with 10 Baby bottle con-site personal issues that have been hanging over your head for some time now. Get tents moving; the longer you wait the more time you'll waste. You need to get on 41 Hackneyed DOWN with your life, not live in the past. You've got some terrific ideas and it's high
14 "See you later!" 
1 Talk back? time you initiated them so stop stagnating and get on wi!h it.
42 Wall Street inits. 
Your nwnbers: 4, 13, 22, 31, 35, 40

15 Senior dances 
2 Big cat

43 Wearisome one16 Assert ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your outgoing nature will bring you popularity.
3 Nutmeg relative 
44 Archipelago 

You can get a lot done if you focus on your goals. Today will be favorable for
17 Flimflam 
parts 4 Not worth a pursuing members of the opposite sex. Leave time to go to the gym. **.. 19 Roman cloak TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't hesitate to take the advice offered by
46 Some messing 5 Tack on 

friends and relatives. Not only will their suggestions be helpful but they will
20 of a kind around 
6 Bad pun also relieve your stress. Don't make unreasonable promises. *"* 21 Warp-resistant GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make sure that you spend some time with your
49 Narrative response

wood lover today. A passionate evening is in order for the two of you. Travel or plans51 The "A" of ABM 7 Having lots of to take a vacation together should be discussed. **** 22 Temptress ups and downs CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time to make those personal changes you
52 Just great 

have been thinking about for some time now. It is best not to divulge too much
23 One who went 
55 Royal attendant 8 Cousin of an about your personal life to your business associates. *** 
to tell the king 
ostrich LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your colorful personality will attract members of the
the sky was 
56 Mishmash opposite sex. Take a position of leadership in group endeavors. Don't hesitate
falling 9 Road curve 
to take that trip you've been needing. ***** 
59 Asia's shrinking 

26 Not just ask 10 Morning prayers VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't trust anyone when it comes to financial
Sea 

matters. Joint ventures show apparent deception. Don't overspend on the ones 29 Commotions 60 County north of 11 Off-white you love; quality time is more worthwhile. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Residential changes are in order. Take care of the
30 Family data San Francisco 12 Theater section 
needs of those less able to do things for themselves. You can learn new skills 31 Juicy tropical 61 Where a stream 13 Skating champ or pick up valuable infonnation if you listen to others. *** fruit may run SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Elders in your family may need assistance.
Michelle 

35 One side of a 46 Title colonel in a 52 Man cast out of 
Don't let them put unreasonable demands on you. Don't over-react to criticism. 33 Watering hole 62 Lots of 18 British gun vote 1960's sitcom paradise Overspending on your home will cause limitations. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>cc. 21): There will be tension with your lover if
22 Busybody 37 Jet black 47 Military chaplain 53 Girl-watch, e.g. 
you allow a misunderstanding to get out of hand. Compromise will be
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
_.-:::-r,..,-':"T':-r:-r:-r:,..., 23 Dish of leftovers 38 "Listen!" necessary. You must pay more attention to one ano!her. *** 
48 Actress 54 Sharp 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will want to get things done today and 
~,.,-+-=+::=+:,-+-:--+-::-~ 24 Group of jurors 39 Exclusively Dickinson 
anyone who gets in your way had better watch out. Your high-energy mood
56 Pinafore 
will leave you with little patience for anyone or any!hing. *** 

25 Jittery 43 By the skin of 49 Unsolicited -:::+-:-+:*:::-•""""-=+=-~ one's teeth 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be desperate for companionship.
e-mail 57 Acorn's source 
ll!'t-7+:~:=-t 26 Florida's Miami-Mental stimulation will be a must in relationships and friendships. Sign up for -County 44 Purpose seminars that perk your interest. Travel should be on your list. **** 
50 "Gone With the 58 Reproductive 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional setbacks will occur if you haven't
45 Omit Wind" estate cells 
resolved the problem your relationship faces. Get those domestic chores done and stop stewing about who is going to help you. ** 
28 Apportion, with For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a
"out" 

Hirthday Haby: You're an ingenious little tyke, eager to find out all that you
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
can and quite willing to lead the crowd. You're certainly not shy and arc always
31 Miser's hoard­

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
willing to try something new. It's not likely that anything or anyone will hold
ing 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. you back. You'll make your parents proud; however, you will also cause them worry. -:+=+:::+-:::+.-+--=-~ 32 AIias Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com33 terrier ...r::rl-::-:+.::+.-i-:t:-1 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young -..;:;..&..:..:..J...::...L.:..:..L=..I 34 Nuisance solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE 0BSER\'ER 
-








PORTS
Monday, April 5, 2004 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Malloy responds to criticism 
By MATT LOZAR .Sports Writer 
University President Father Edward Malloy responded to recent comments made about the football program's aca­demic standards with a published letter in Sunday's edition of The New York Times. 
Storin said the sports opinion pages of The New York Times provided a national outlet for Malloy's piece that responded to the recent national attention former Notre Dame football player Paul Hornung's comment on football recruiting and admission standards at Notre Dame received last week. 

During an interview with Detroit radio station WXYT-AM on Tuesday, Hornung said, "We can't stay as strict as we are as far as the academic structure is con­cerned because we've got to get the black athlete. We must get the black athlete if we want to compete." 
Hornung's comments garnered atten­tion nationwide resulting in reactions from columnists across the country. A col­umn by William C. Rhoden entitled "Hornung Has Failed to Meet Standard of Common Sense," ran in Thursday's print edition of the Times and was another rea­son for Malloy's letter. 
"There was a column in the Times that didn't make the print edition here, but we felt that although you can't address a spe­cific column with another," Storin said. "There were some things said about the University and its attraction to players of color that needed to be said." 
Rhoden took the comments made by Hornung one step further and said Notre Dame must do a "better job of selling the 
see MALLOY/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Irish beat Wildcats, lose Sollmann 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
It was a bittersweet week­end for the Irish against Villanova. 
No. 5 Notre Dame improved to 22-3 and 6-0 in the Big East with a three-game sweep of the Wildcats (17 -8-1, 3-3). but the Irish lost second baseman and team leader Steve 
Sollmann See Also with a frac­
"Sollmann could tu.:fd jawj us t 
be out for rest of thought that season" the kids showed unbe­page 20 lievable com­posure and strength to be able to go out there and play under those conditions," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. The senior and team tri-cap­tain Sollmann was injured during the fifth inning of Notre Dame's 15-7 victory over the 
see BASEBALL/page 22 


ND SOFTBALL 
Irish sweep first four conference gam.es 

SOFIA BALLONffhe Observer 
Irish softball players huddle during Sunday's game. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
After just four games, the Irish have already shown that they will be a force to be reckoned with in the Big East this season. 
Notre Dame (28-1 0, 4-0 in the Big East) opened its conference schedule by sweeping Connecticut (13-14. 1-3) by scores of 9-1 and 10-0 Friday, and then followed that up with a sweep of Boston College (20-15, 2-4) by the scores of 5-0 and 7-1 Sunday. 
''I'm very proud of the girls," coach Deanna Gumpf said. "Coming into conference play I wasn't really sure how they would react, but we really played our game this weekend. We were able to shut people 
see SOFTBALL/page 21 
FOOTBALL 


Goolsby prepares for return to gridiron, not blacktop 
ByANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 
For the thousandth time, Mike Goolsby is not playing Bookstore Basketball this year. 
Not after he re-broke his collar­bone playing in the campus tour­nament last year, earned the wrath of his coaching staff and put his left arm and his 2003 sea­son in a sling that hung from his neck. 

"Now," he grinned, ''I'm going to stick to safe sports, like foot­ball." 
What happened to Goolsby in 2003 was often a mystery to most outside the football program. Reporters rarely had the opportu­nity to interview him and Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham always said that Goolsby's status was "week-to-week" with an undisclosed injury. 
Most thought that Goolsby's Bookstore injury a year ago kept him off the field. But this spring, the soon-to-be fifth-year senior revealed that both his shoulders were ·hurt when he decided to play Bookstore Basketball. 
Goolsby first hurt his left collar­bone in Notre Dame's 28-6 Gator Bowl loss. While that injury healed, he had surgery to repair cartilage in his right shoulder. Then, just weeks after he took the sling off his right shoulder, he again fractured his collarbone playing in Bookstore Basketball. The healing process began all over again, and Goolsby had to miss the entire season as a result. 
"It was really rough," he said. "Had we had a successful season, it would have been different. It's tough to watch your buddies put everything into it and not come out on [top] -and I felt partially responsible for it, too." 

"It was a bad decision to play Bookstore." 
Goolsby didn't put on pads until two-thirds of the way through Notre Dame's season, when he lined up with the scout team. He could have played had the Irish needed him, but at that point in the season, it simply wasn't worth it. 
"What we were looking for was 
see GOOLSBY/page 21 
en 
MEN'S LAX 

WOMEN'S LAX 
SMCSOFTBAU 
TRACK AND FIELD 
MEtfS GOLF 

ND WOMEN'S GOlF 
w
1--
c.l Notre Dame 10 

Notre Dame 14 
Saint Mary's 9-4 
Irish add to list of 
Strong final round 

Irish finish fifth 
z Dartmouth 3 

Connecticut 8 
Adrian 5-0 
NCAA qualifiers 
not enough 

Katie Brophy cards a
= 
::5 Irish snap the Big 

Meredith Simon's 
Belles sweep double-
Notre Dame wins ten 
The Irish finished 14th 

second place 223 at the
c: 
Green's five-game win-

four goals help Irish 
header and improve 
events at the Spring 
at the Cleveland 

Indiana Invitational. 
.,. ning streak. 
extend winning streak 
record to 10-12. 
Opener . 
GolfI ASU Invitational. 

to eight. 
a.~ page 20 
page 19 
page 19 
page 14

page 20 
page 14 
en 





