
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 32 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Presidential transition progresses 
Malloy delivers final Jenkins prepares to address to faculty take office in July 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Writer 
News Ediror 
Echoing Notre Dame's 
Father John Jenkins isn't ready achievements and themes over to be Notre Dame's president justthe past 18 years, University yet. In fact, the president-elect
President Father Edward 
said, complete preparation will Malloy emphasized the need to always be out of reach. 
build and expand on the institu­"Is one ever ready?" he asked,tion's progress and character in while sitting directly below his his final address to the faculty 
"Notre Dame" shelf, which 
Monday. 
includes biographies of predeces­Malloy said he looks forward sors Father Edward Malloy and 
to passing the reins of the 
Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
University to President-elect 
"You bring into any job -and I Father John Jenkins this sum-think this is true of any job in my 
see MALLOY/page 4 see JENKINS/page 6 
Band director clarifies away game budget confusion 
University officials say band will travel to Tennessee 
Ken Dye chose to funnel the extra money."
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
$30,000 allotment usually used In a letter to the editor pub­
Associate News Ediror 
to support two trips to regional lished in Friday's Observer, Dye away games -like Purdue or cited "the visibility and impor­
Though miscommunication led Michigan -toward a two-day tance of the Tennessee game" as some members of the Band of trip to the University of reasons for spending the whole the Fighting Irish to fear that a Tennessee, which has an esti­travel budget in one place. $36,000 funding shortage would mated cost of $66,000, Poorman Dye clarified the situation for jeopardize their trip to the said. band members during a break in University of Tennessee away "Somehow misinformation Tuesday night's practice. game, Father Mark Poorman, came about that said [the fund "I want to make sure you all vice president for student affairs, shortage] is the function of a know that wasn't a specific budg­said Tuesday that the University travel budget cut, but they et cut to the band that caused will make sure the band will be always have to make up money this," Dye said. "The trip is not in attendance regardless of for extraordinary expenses," cheap -we're going overnight, fmancial concerns. Poorman said. "The trip the band and we want to do it right, as in 
Contrary to popular belief, planned is important but expen­not going on school buses or eat­Poorman said that a budget cut sive, and when they decided they ing at the Waffle House -so was not at the root of the band's wanted to go to Tennessee, they dilemma. Rather, band director knew they would have to raise see BAND/page 6 



Students, faculty react to debate 
Candidates receive praise, criticism for sole clash 
By ANGELA SAOUD Sainr Mary's Ediror 
Ac:, households around America tuned in to watch Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards 
debate topics of the presi­d e n c y Tuesday night, many members of the Notre Dame com­munity said 


al'ter watch-Cheney ing the debate that they were not swayed one dirnction or another. 
A'isistant professor of political sei1mce David Campbell said while Cheney may be remem­bered more for what he said in this debate, both candidates made strong arguments. 
"Cheney may have the advan­tage that he said a couple of things that will likely be repeat­ed," l)e said. "However, those same comments, because they were negative, could also w o r k against him. I don't think there were 
any gaffes made by either candi­date. Both of them had a message they got across." 
Despite the !act that Campbell 

felt both competitors did well, he said this debate differed greatly from Thursday's presidential debate. 
"This was a much more nega­tive exchange," Campbell said. "They were more willing to criti­cize each other than the presiden­tial candidates were." 
But for some Notre Dame stu­dents, the winner was cut and dry. 
Freshman Chris Lund said he believed Cheney acted more pres­idential than Edwards. 
"I think Cheney was a lot more forceful on his Iraq points, espe­cially with the involvement of Iraq," Lund said. "Cheney had an advantage in foreign policy and health care, but Edwards had a 
see DEBATE/page 4 


Vote upholds board's liquor license ruling 
The Library Irish Pub has 15 days to appeal 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Almost a month to the day after deciding not to renew the liquor license for The Boat Club, the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission voted Tuesday to add The Library Irish Pub to the list of popular student bars that may not survive past spring. 
Upholding the Sept. 22 recom­mendation of the St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Board, the ATC voted 4-0 not to renew The Library's permit, chairman Bart Herriman said. 
The state will typically follow the local board unless local officials' actions are found to be arbitrary or capricious, which was not a con­cern in this case, Herriman said. 
In September, the local board claimed that pub owner Chuck Hammons lost his chance for approval by breaking an agree­ment to sell the bar a year ago, after Indiana State Excise police raided the establishment in April 2003 and cited 51 minors. A sec­ond raid on April 16 of this year led to the citation of 20 minors, all of whom were Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. 
Hammons, who questioned St. Joseph County officials' motives when the local board made its decision, said he was surprised the commission upheld it. 
see BARS/page 6 

Wednesday, October 6, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Gaining on the brain 
It's 3:30 in the morning. My paper's 
only half done, I'm thousands of pages 
behind in my readings for class, and the 
repercussions of my academic irrespon­
sibility are bearing down on me faster 
than Warren Sapp 
on a high school Eric Retter 
quarterback. 
Despite the evi­Production 
dent causes for 
editor
panic, I am calm, 
collected, and sat­
isfied. The reason is because I just led 
my Atlanta Falcons to a Super Bowl vic­
tory on my Playstation 2. You see, I am 
one of those kids who make up a sizable 
minority of Notre Dame's population: 
the video game addicts. I'm one of 
those kids who spend more time study­
ing the intricacies of Madden and Mario 
Tennis than the large hardback volume 
I'm supposed to memorize before 
Christmas. I'm the special kind of kid 
who will assault my unwitting friends 
with the play-by-play of my latest 
astounding comeback. damaging the 
fabric of that friendship in the process. 
I've fallen to such a dependence on my 
128-bit fantasy world that I created 
myself as a football player; By the way, 
fake me is really good. 
It all started when I was five. 

Apparently, I had had some trouble with 
hand-eye coordination as a young child, 
and the doctor mandated that I should 
get a Nintendo to rectify the situation. 
In retrospect, that was like proscribing 
opium for a toothache; the cure is way 
worse than the disease. Since that day, 
I've been a junkie forever searching for 
my next fix. 
Certainly. I am not alone. Walk down the hallway in any male dorm, and you will see countless young men wasting their lives away with a controller in hand. The thing is, these are smart kids, college students at one of the top universities in America who are con­sumed by this compulsion. Imagine what kind of things people like me could accomplish if 2 hours a day weren't stolen by Japanese programmers. If Halph Baer (yes, I looked it up) hadn't invented the video game in the 1960s, we'd all probably be driving hydrogen powered, flying cars, and, who knows, I might have become a Nobel Laureate. As it stands now, I tool around South Bend on a rusty bike and will be lucky to get a job I graduate. 
After years of dedicated research by people deprived of Nintendo, we know two major differences that separate us from the majority of creatures in the animal kingdom: our intellect and abili­ty to be rational, and opposable thumbs. We all come to college ostensibly to cul­tivate the former, to educate ourselves of the great works of great men and hopefully acquire the skills to one day join tlwir ranks. Surely most, if not all, professors and students at institutions such as Notre Dame would name the intellect as mankind's greatest blessing, and rejoice in their ability to think. 
I say thank God for opposable thumbs. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due 10 an editing error, a headline in rhe Oct. I issue of The Observer listed the incorrect location for a performance of "The Odd Couple." It occurred at the Morris Center for the Performing Arcs in downtown South Bend. not the Morris Inn. Due to a production error, a quote from congressional candidate Joe Donnelly in the Oct. 5 issue was truncated. The wd of the quore should read, "We have to stabilize it, and get it under control and when we leave, it won't be soon enough." Due 10 an editing error, the Inside Column in the Oct. 5 issue incorrectly referred to "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" as "Aqua Team Hunger Force." The Ob•erver regrets the errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 








David Gonzales  Rosa Lopez  Soon Kyu Choi  Steve Fabian  Tad Skotnicki  Wayne Chung  
sophomore Morrissey  freshman Howard  sophomore Badin  sophomore Stanford  sophomore Morrissey  freshman O'Neill  
':As long as the cough syrup remains unguarded. a 10.  "From what I hear I wouldn't want to get too sick here."  "I had to go there as a result ofplayin' Assassins meng!"  "I've never been there, but I hear it's nice."  "You might have better luck with voodoo."  "/give it a 1.9172322990 out of10."  


ERIC SALES/The Observer Stanford sophomores Chris Ulad, left, and Vlnh Nguyen enthusiastically destroy a wrecked car on North Quad Monday for Zahm's annual fundraiser to benefit the charity There Are Children Here. 
OFFBEAT 
Band's antics not so hot 

FLINT, Mich. -For a few moments, the punk band Treephort was the hottest act in town. 
But the group got into trouble at a downtown club when the lead guitarist set his thong on fire, then removed it and scurried around the stage naked. 
The Atlanta-based band was about 20 minutes into its set Sept. 25 at the venue Flint Local 432 when gui­tarist Joe Klein dropped his pants, set fire to the thong and removed it. The bass player also stripped. 
The club's management ordered the band to get ofT the stage. 
"They threatened to break stated policies of the club, and so we told them their set was over and asked them to leave," said club owner Joel Rash. 
Compromise works In sports vs. sabbath 
NOHWALK, Conn. ­Norwalk High School need­ed a little divine help before its football team took to the field. 

School athletic officials had sought the permission of Rabbi Yehoshua Hecht of Beth Israel Synagogue of Westport-Norwalk for a Friday night game next door to the synagogue where the rabbi leads Sabbath services. 
"A house of worship is a house of worship, and it is difficult to hold services when the cheer is not 'Halakha,' but 'Let's go, New Canaan!"' Hecht said. Halakha means Jewish law. 
The high school's Friday night schedule is part of an agreement the Norwalk High School Bears reached with the neighborhood when the tea'ffi moved to its stadium behind the high school. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

Human Hesources will offer free blood pressure and body fat screenings for facul­ty and staff today from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. in the lobby of Grace Hall. 
The Center for Social Concerns will host an infor­mational session about two­year domestic post-graduate service opportunities in the Inner City Teaching Corps. The session will take place from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the esc coffeehouse. 
Edward W. Said: A Commemorative Symposium will be held on Thursday. Guest speaker Prof. Paul Bove of the University of Pittsburgh will present "An Exemplary Intellectual: A Tribute to Edward W. Said" at 5 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The talk is free and open to the public. 
A campus debate watch for the second Bush-Kerry Debate will take place Friday in 141 DeBartolo Hall at 8 
p.m. Refreshments will be provided. 
The Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board is sponsoring a community-wide bonfire for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross on Monday at 7 p.m. on the Saint Mary's soccer field. The event will feature live entertainment from various cultural clubs, a marshmallow roast. a raffle of cash and gift certificates and free glow necklaces for the first 250 attendees. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

~ 

HIGH 68 HIGH 67 LOW 45 LOW 48 
0:: 
LLI 
:z: 

!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
_, 
c:( 
(,) 
TODAY 
~ 
0 
HIGH 70
...J 
LOW 48 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
j: .~ 
·: ·~~ ~: 1~ 


:==.( 

~ 
:·. 



HIGH 58 HIGH 71 HIGH 72 LOW 48 LOW 55 LOW 52 
Atlanta 78 I 57 Boston 64 I 51 Chicago 70 I 52 Denver 66 I 44 Houston 82 I 72 Los Angeles 84 I 62 Minneapolis 74 I 54 New York 67 I 56 Philadelphia 65/48 Phoenix 94 I 69 Seattle ?4 f ~~St. Louis ?9 I ?J _Tampa 89 I 69 Washington 70 I 53 
·---------­

Wednesday, October 6, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC bookstore gets new-ntanager 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
On th0 surface, the Shaheen Bookston~ at Saint Mary's looks thP samP as it has for years. Undenwath. hownver. big changes an~ in store for this little shop. 
Tlw biggest of thcsP is a change in managnm<'nl. Saint Mary's rPccntly hired Michael llicks, a fornwr bookstore manager and assistant din~ctor of finance at Silwr LakP CollcgP in Wisconsin, w; tiH~ nPw bookstorP director. 
l.auriP Stickcdmaier. Saint Mary's virP prnsident for finance and administration. hopes I licks will mow the bookstore in a pro­gn•ssiw direction. 
"liP is collaborative and has gn·at idPas." slw said in a state­nwnt. 
Sonw of those idnas include marketing to tlw local community. broadening the variety and amount of items sold and encour­aging student interaction with the bookstorn. 
"I want to build a rnpoir," I licks said. 'This is your bookstore, not mine. All the women should have ownPrship in it." 
Hicks has already begun to engage the campus by asking work-study students for design idnas. which hP intends to create and rnarkd. I le also intends to rnach out to campus clubs and organizations to hnlp them with their dnsign nneds and to imple­m<~nt a fashion show to let stu­denlr; givn their opinions on Saint Mary's clothing designs. 
"I believe in team building and teamwork. We all have to be a team. <wen if we're only here for 
CENTER FOR StKJAL. Co::-:CFRNS 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
four years." Hicks said. "That's what makes a college experience worthwhile." 
Hicks said he is glad to be a part of the Saint Mary's team. llis daughter Jessica attended the College and graduated in 2000, giving him an opportunity to see the campus and feel what he calls "the Saint Mary's spirit." 
''I've loved Saint Mary's since the first day I brought my daugh­ter on campus," he said. "Words just don't do it justice. I think it's a unique campus. At Silver Lakes it was a different type of culture. We didn't have the financial resources of a college this size.. Our book­store was one-third the size of this one." 
The upcoming opening of the new student center will allow the Shaheen Bookstore to expand even further. I licks said. adding he expects bookstore traffic to increase after the new facility is completed. 
"I think it's going to be really nice," he said. "It's going to be a tremendous opportunity, not just for the bookstore but for the entire campus." 
He also expects sales to climb after the move, despite the trend of students turning to online used­book sources in an attempt to combat the rising cost of text­books. Hicks said there is no easy answer to the problem. although he is trying to solve it. 
"It concerns me a lot, because it is the publishers who are making all the money," he said. 'They are gouging the students and leading the whole racket. And it really is a racket." 
Hicks recently performed a cost study against eight online sellers 

KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 

A student makes a purchase at the Saint Mary's bookstore. 
such as amazon.com. Barnes & Noble online and half.com only to find that with shipping added, the average price of texts for a semes­ter is about the same as at the col­lege bookstore. Hicks said he will work to help the students in any way he can and is pleased just to be at Saint Mary's. 
"I am really happy that this opportunity has been given to me," he said. "[My daughter] said to me, 'Dad, do you remember what you told me eight years ago?' and I do. I said. 'someday, I'm going to be here."' 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
Diversity advocate pro111otes awareness 
By ABIGAIL RICHARDSON 
News Writer 
"The Matrix," the Titanic and eating M &M's -llugh Vasquez tied all of the above to racial ten­sions when he spoke Tuesday night at Saint Mary's. 
In a talk titled "Dismantling Hacism and cr<'.ating Cross Cultural Alliane~~s." Vasquez. orw of the country's top diversity advocates, stressed that racism is everyone's problem. 
"The first step is to wake up" in order to create cross-cultural alliances, he said. 
Using "The Matrix" as a metaphor. Vasquez said every­one needs to make a choice to recognize reality. Just as in "The Matrix," Nco had to choose between the md pill (entering the Matrix) and the blue pill (return­ing to reality), everyone has the choice to wake up, Vasquez said. lie handed out packets of M&M's to demonstrate his point. 
"We need to wake up to the reality of what is going on around us," he said. 
The next metaphor involved the Titanic. 
"When it comes to racism, we're all in the same boat but not on the same deck," Vasquez said. "We have difl"crent experi­ences." 
Using a hole in the bottom of the boat to signify racism, Vasquez said the hole is every­one's concern, not just the people that arc at the bottom -even though it is more immediate for them. This works for cvnry "Lr;m," not just racism, he said. 
"To make cross-e ultu ral alliances you have to move from deck to deck to deck," Vasquez said. "Look at each other ... who is on your deck, and who is on the dill"ercnt decks." 
Drawing a heart li.>r tlw audi­ence. Vasquez said babies all have thn sanw hearts. but sonw­thing changes them to form racism. sexism and otlwr prPju­diccs. We are told what is right and wrong and messages are sent to our heart. he said. 
"Mcssagns bombard our hearlr;," Vasquez said. "We haw attacks on our heart. To creatP class-cultural alliances, I haVl~ to recognize heart attacks that came your way, and you have to recognize the heart attacks that came mine." 
Vasquez said people don't for­get these attacks easily. because they arc hurtful and arc the rca­sons for racism and other "isms." 
"I encourage you to keep eat­ing the red IM&M's] and wake up," Vasquez said before con­cluding his speech. 
Vasquez had been an actor in documentaries such as "Skin Deep," which involves racism in colleges. He has also co­authored books involving the creation of cross-cultural alliances. 
Contact Abigail Richardson at arichaO1@saintmarys.edu 

Volunteer Opportunities 
Tutoring and Mentoring 
young students 
The Greater Holy Temple is 
asking for volunteers for their 
Tuesday night program which 
runs from 7-8 p.m. Transporta­
tion can be made available. Con­
race Jean Cane at 631-5685. 
Anything and Everything 
A man in our Notre Dame neighborhood was severely dis­abled after getting a staff infec­tion in his knee. He doesn't have any family and therefore is in need ofservices, such as grocery shopping and lawn care. Contact Jim Lichkey at 234-7228. 
Redistribution ofSupplies and Equipment The Elkhart-St. Joseph Head­
start Agency has requested volun­teer.~ to help them sort materials at the warehouse. They need help sorting and then redistributing supplies to the new site. Contact Donna Canrer at 269-684­5441 or at rernacdm@aol.com . 
Help with 6th Grade Math 
Courtney Adams, a sixth grade student, needs tutoring in math. She is looking for a tutor to help her at LaSalle Academy after school from 3-4 p.m. two days a week. Please contact Naomi at 276-8372. 

Rock the Vote Events 
October 6 
Cavanaugh Hall Election 2004 Discussion 
Featuring David Singer (Political Science) 8:00 pm, Cavanaugh Hall Lounge 
October 7 
Alumni Hall Student Debate 
College Democrat.s vs. College Republicans 
7:00 pm, Alumni Hall Lounge 
October 13 
"American Catholics in the Public Square" 
Fearuring Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, former editor of Commonweal Magazine. Lunch Provided · 
12:00 pm, Coleman Morse Lounge 
October 26 
':Africa, Trade, Debt and the U.S. Presidential Elections" 
Faculty Panel and Guest Speakers 
7:00 pm, Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
ISSLP Information Sessions 
Learn about the innovative International Summer Service-Learning Project and how you can get involved. Attend the following informa­tion sessions to learn more. 
When: Tuesday, October 12 at 6:00-7:00 pm 
Where: Center for Social Concerns Lounge 
How to Register to Vote 
You can register to vote in either Indiana or your home state. Ifyou are not registered to vote, visit www.rockthevote.com. To vote in your home state, you may request an absentee ballot, but you must already be registered to vote. Requests for an absentee ballot must be made in writing 30 days prior to Election Day. Forms, requirements and deadlines vary by state. For more information on absentee voting, visit http://www.nass.org/electioninfo/electfaq.html for general FAQ and a link to your stare election office found on the "State Election Offices" page. 

Online Registration Available for ·Urban Plunge Semin.ar 
Online registration fotthe Urban Plunge, a orte·credit experientiallearning course designed to expose s.cudents to the sires and sounds ofpoverty, is now open. During the 48-hour immersion over January break Students will have the opportunity to meet people affected by poverty as well as those working to eradicate it~ For information and to apply, go to http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu. 

Online Registration Opens for Holy Cross and Border Issues Seminars 
AppliGations are now availablefor the Holy Cross Mission in Education and the Border Issues seminars. Apply online at http:/ltenterfo.rsociakoncerns.nd,edu. The registration deadline is October 8. 
Holyf:ross Mission ih Education focuses on the educational and ourreach efforts ofSt. John Vianney Catholic Parish in Goodyear, Arizona, ancl builds upon Notre Dame's relationship with the C()t1gregation.~f Holy Cross. Studenrs also collaborate with thosein ministry with.H.oly Cross in Phoenix. 
Borde~; .Issues focuses onimmigration and related issues that 
surface betWeen the United States and Mexico. Participants 
travel to El Paso, Texas, and Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, to meet 
with refugees, work with parish organizations> and discuss 
policy issues. Ap(>licati(:ms and information can be found at 
http:l/tenterforsocialconcerns.nd.edu. 

Organizing, Power and Hope Semina,r Opens Wednesday 
This ~lx~daywinrer seminar,Jan 4~9, 2Q05, is an opportunity to experience thegospelin action on the streets of Chicago. ~;trtidpanrs explore rieyv: perspectives on the role of neighborho6d churches and organizations responding to social n~eds;}nJoimacion anda.Jl onPne application available at 
··hup:Hcenterfursacialconcerns;nd.edu. . 
·. 
page4 Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
mary focus. He added that diversity, which includes a ing and research University, Notre Dame is an excellent jump from 7 to 21 percent in im;reasing diversity, maintain­


Malloy 

Debate 

teaching institution and that the past 18 years. He added ing town-gown relations and continued from page 1 the administration evaluates that this also led to a student fostering its residential com­
continued from page I 

professors on their teaching body that came from multiple munity will usher Notre Dame mer, and hopes to leave Notre abilities. different backgrounds and into the future and is made 
lot of credibility with unemploy­Dame as a strong and motivat­. According to Malloy, the could not be identified by a sin­possible by the institution's bal­
ment and job loss." ed institution for his successor more difficult task is develop­gular descriptive category. anced budgets and successful 
For others, the winner of the -much like his predecessor, ing Notre Dame's reputation as "When it comes to underrep­fundraising and investing. 
debate was still cloudy. President Emeritus Father an outstanding professional resented [ethnic] minorities, I Malloy concluded his talk by 
Junior Phillip Wells said he Theodore Hesburgh, did for and graduate school. find myself a prisoner of census highlighting Notre Dame's sto­
thought Edwards had an emotion­him 18 years ago. He also looks forward to the categories," Malloy said. ried athletic tradition. 
al advantage while Cheney had a Malloy began by emphasizing day when professors will be Malloy continued his theme "[This is an] area where pas­
factual advantage. Notre Dame's distinctive regularly using books written of diversity by stressing the sion reigns extreme . . . and it's 
"[Who people see as the winner] Catholic character as one of its by Notre Dame faculty and University's commitment to something we need to keep in 
all depends on whether to the strengths. Malloy referred to when the University's federal international expansion and perspective," Malloy said. 
American people, emotions or fac­the open discourse, various grants are on par with its peer the valuable enrichment that Malloy added that he fre­
tual analysis will connect better academic institutions and com­institutions. international faculty and stu­quently enters conversations 
with them," Wells said. 'To be hon­mitment to learning across dis­Malloy believes that Notre dents provide to the local cam­with his peers where they 
est, I didn't see a clear winner." ciplines as the hallmarks of Dame's elevation to a great pus. begin by asking "how's the 
Tuesday's debate was the only strength that make Notre Dame research institution will rely Malloy's third priority that he football team?" and that he 
debate scheduled to take place an example and leader for upon the commitment of its highlighted focused on town­sees these moments as oppor­
between the two vice presidential other universities and a place faculty. gown relations. tunities to instead talk about 
nominees. The next presidential where the universal Catholic "This is not yet in the heart of He said he was excited that the factors that distinguish 
debate will take place on Friday. Church can turn towards for as many people as I would the University was encouraging Notre Dame and make it 
Wells said he believes each can­guidance or assistance. hope," Malloy said. "It's in their faculty to live in the neighbor­unique. 
didate brings something different "No matter where you look heads and I don't think many hood just south of campus, Malloy said he intends to 
to the table, but as to who would on this campus, Catholicity are against it." adding that it not his intention leave Notre Dame with the 
be better as a vice president, he's should come forward," Malloy Malloy also focused on the that this lead to regentrification knowledge that these factors 
not saying yet. said, while adding that Notre University's progress in pro­but that a mixed socioeconomic will be built upon under his 
"I think that it's important that Dame's Catholic character did moting diversity, stating that community develop where the successor and that Jenkins has 
Dick Cheney had a real soft tone not detract from its academic the University has searched for University can assist the devel­a strong base from which to 
conveying his messages," Wells pursuits. and utilized the opportunities opment of the area. begin his leadership as the 
said. "Even his attacks on Edwards Malloy reflected on several that women could contribute to Malloy said that Notre head of the University. 
were in that soft tone. He really priorities his administration Notre Dame in the classroom, Dame's ability to smoothly He believes that since Notre 
played the elder statesman role. faced that will be continue to as administrators and within expand and develop within its Dame is a place that governs 
Edwards played the idea of a be addressed and developed in departments as leaders. He borders depended upon the through relationships rather 
champion of the people. [He's a the future, such as the debate admitted there was a need for good relationships it fostered than memos that this enriches 
person] who had a lot of over the relationship between cautious optimism and added with the local and state govern­the development of the commu­
wisdom, without having been teaching and research, the there was still much to accom­ment. nity. 
skewed by politics." commitment to diversity and plish. He also focused on the Malloy thanked various mem­
And while for many, the vice town-gown interactions. Malloy compared Notre University's strong residential bers of his administration for 
presidential debate is not as "I feel very good about how Dame to Saint Mary's, stating community, stating that it was their commitment and said that 
important as the presidential the aspiration for teaching has that the University is more dis­what created the mystique of he looks forward to having the 
debates, Campbell said it is far passed from one generation to persed and needs to be more Notre Dame. Malloy believes leisure to look at Notre Dame 
from an exchange that should not the next," Malloy said. focused on incorporating Notre Dame is distinctive and from a different..perspective 
be ignored. He emphasized that while the women in its co-educational special because its community once his term as president 
"There have been a lot of cases University is expanding its environment. "plays, prays, studies and ends. 
where vice presidents had to research capacity by increasing The President also highlight­serves together." 
assume the presidency," he said. its faculty and infrastructure, ed the University's gains in Malloy said the University's Contact Meghanne Downes at quality teaching remains a pri-increasing ethnic minority commitment to being a teach-mdownesl@nd.edu 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 







Joey Callahan 

is IRISH. is FUNNY. is FREE. 
FRIDAY ••• 10/8 ••• 1Opm WASHINGTON HALL 
Joey Ct~llllhlln Comedy Show 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 631-7308 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Genocide tribunal ratified 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia -With the nec­essary laws approved, Cambodia could begin trying former leaders of the Khmer Rouge for genocide by the end of next year, a senior government official said Tuesday. 
Deputy Prime Minister Sok An also said about 10 former top members of the defunct communist group, which ruled Cambodia with an iron fist in the late 1970s, could face prosecution. 
He spoke after legislators approved laws Tuesday barring the Cambodian government from pardoning Khmer Rouge suspects. 
On Monday, they ratified a landmark U.N.­backed plan to set up a tribunal to prosecute the surviving leaders of the regime, believed responsible for the death of almost 2 million people. 
"We have fulfilled this supreme task to seek justice for the victims and contribute to the cause of the entire humanity, which is to prevent the return of genocide," Sok An told reporters after the 96-2 vote. 
New Chechen president sworn in 
GROZNY. Russia -Chechnya's new Kremlin-backed president was sworn in Tuesday. taking the helm of this wartorn Russian region under heavy guard nearly five months after his predecessor was assassinated and nearly a month after a wave of terrorist attacks blamed on Chechen rebels. 
Maj. Gen. Alu Alkhanov, elected Aug. 29 in a vote critics said was rigged, was inaugurated in a tent erected inside the government com­plex in the Chechen capital Grozny. Its exterior was draped with a sign calling for "durable peace, stable life and a worthy future" for Chechnya, where the second war against sepa­ratist rebels in a decade drags on five years after it began. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. and Oil-for-Food explored 
WASHINGTON -A House subcommittee investigating Iraq's oil-for-food program expanded its probe to the Bush administration Tuesday, agreeing to subpoena documents on the U.S. postwar management of oil revenues and. if necessary, audits on contracts for reconstruction projects, including one given to Halliburton Co. 
Democrats on the House Government Reform subcommittee on national security said there should be a full investigation into the Bush administration's refusal to release audits of Halliburton's $1.5 billion, noncompet­itive contract to repair oil production facilities. 
Failure to release the information. said Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., would appear hypo­critical and arrogant, and "reinforce the image that our primary goal (in Iraq) was to seize control of the oil." 
Anti-gay amendment dismissed 
BATON ROUGE, La. -A state judge Tuesday threw out a Louisiana constitutional amendment banning gay marriage, less than three weeks after voters overwhelmingly approved it. 
District Judge William Morvant said the amendment was flawed as drawn up by the Legislature because it had more than one purpose: banning not only gay marriage but also civil unions. 
Anti-gay marriage groups expressed out­rage, and attorneys vowed to appeal. 
lOCAL NEWS 
Elderly abused in nursing home 
ROCKVILLE -Two staff members at a nursing home abused mentally ill residents, encouraging a woman to expose her breasts and a man to hit himself in his genitals, a state agency said. 
The Indiana State Department of Health is seeking to have the license of Lee Alan Bryant Health Care Facilities placed on pro­bation for up to nine months, during which time it would need to hire a full-time admin­istrative consultant. 

Forces in Iraq launch offensive 
After a series of bombings, over 3,000 soldiers engage in fighting south of Baghdad 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq -More than 3,000 U.S. and Iraqi forces launched a major operation Tuesday against insurgent strongholds just south of Baghdad, their sec­ond mission in five days to wrest control from militants whose attacks threaten· national elections seen as crucial to stabilizing this turbulent country. 
The operation in Babil province an area notorious for kidnappings and ambushes and home to the fabled, ancient city of Babylon follows last week's U.S.-Iraqi drive to oust insurgent forces from Samarra, about 60 miles north of Baghdad. 
The 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit and Iraqi forces went into action after a string of bombings set off clashes Tuesday between U.S. troops and gunmen west of Baghdad and in the northern city of Mosul, and as the discovery of five beheaded bodies over two days indicated the pace of such grisly killings was also surging. 
The Marines and Iraqis punched their way across the Euphrates River, round­ed up 160 suspects, seized a suspected training camp and took control of a major bridge, the U.S. command civilian official in Iraq at the said during a speech U.S. troops in the Baghdad said. The bridge, spanning time, said "we never had Tuesday in Baghdad. "I district of Sadr City. During the Euphrates, is believed enough troops on the believe that many of the his speech, Allawi said the to be a favored corridor ground." Iraqi people agree with me two sides had reached the linking insurgent areas U.S. and Iraqi forces are that we should not let ter­basis of a deal and talks around Baghdad, Fallujah trying to curb the mounting rorist forces decide our were continuing. and towns farther south. insurgency in order to hold agenda." However, clashes between 
The area in which they national elections through­"It's true that the security al-Sadr's militia and were operating was an esti­out the country in January. situation in which the coun­American troops continued mated 40 to 45 miles north­Some U.S. officials have try is living commands most despite the talks. Residents west of ancient Babylon. expressed doubt that ballot­of your attention and of the Shiite district report­The capital of Babil ing will be possible in areas maybe your questions too. ed hearing explosions province is Hillah, about 65 that have slipped from Iraqi It's true that it is a source of Tuesday night. miles south of Baghdad. government control. worry to many who are U.S. troops also battled The provincial capital sits Prime Minister Ayad concerned about Iraq's gunmen in an insurgent near the Euphrates in a belt Allawi said the tempo of future. But it's better than stronghold west of Baghdad of rich agricultural land attacks against insurgent surrendering to the evil and in Mosul after a series between that river and the strongholds would increase forces or giving in to their of bombings. At least five nearby Tigris. but acknowledged that the demands." American soldiers were 
The U.S. military lost sig­security challenge was a As part of the campaign, wounded underscoring the nificant areas of Iraq to "source of worry." Allawi's government has role of homemade explo­insurgents after Saddam "I don't want to deny the been negotiating with fol­sives as the insurgent Hussein's ouster. In impact of security situation lowers of renegade Shiite weapon of choice in a coun­remarks published Tuesday, nor minimize the size of the cleric Muqtada al-Sadr to try awash in military ord­
L. Paul Bremer, the top U.S. challenges we face," Allawi halt weeks of fighting with nance. 

House attempts to end draft rumor 
The House voted 402-2 to defeat lingered around the presidential
Associated Press 

the draft bill offered last year by Rep. campaign for the past few weeks, 
WASHINGTON -House Repub­Charles Rangel, D-N.Y.. fueled by an e-mail driven rumor mill licans sought to quash a persistent Even he urged Democrats to vote and a campaign by Rock the Vote, a Internet rumor that the government against the bill, and charged nonpartisan group that seeks to boost will reinstate a military draft after Republicans were cynically trying to voting among young people. the election, engineering an over­use the measure to escape election­The White House on Tuesday whelming vote Tuesday to kill legisla­season questions about the war in accused opponents of President Bush tion they hope will put the rumor to Iraq. of trying to scare voters with false rest for good. Just two lawmakers, Rep. John rumors. 
Republicans accused Democrats of Murtha, D-Pa., and Rep. Pete Stark, Much of the Internet gossip circling feeding the rumor mill to scare young D-Calif., struck off on their own and the World Wide Web has suggested voters and their parents into voting voted for the measure. that Republicans, including the presi­against President Bush. "We are in a war, and not only a dent, have a plan to surreptitiously 
"This campaign is a baseless, small segment of the population bring back the draft in a second Bush malevolent concoction of the should fight in that war," said term. Democrats say worries about it Democratic Party and everyone in Murtha. are spurring voter registration on this chamber knows it," said House The specter of a wartime military college campuses and among people Majority Leader Tom DeLay of Texas. draft like that of the Vietnam era has in their 20s in urban areas. 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Bars 
continued from page 1 
'The state has been fair in the past -the local board is the kan­garoo court," he said. "But obvious­ly I've got to fight it, and we will 


Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
life -your strengths and your weaknesses," he said. "You're never going to be totally adequate for the job ... So in a sense, the answer to [when you're ready] is never. But what you try to do is get in the position to do the best job you can." 
Jenkins is using this year to do 
exactly that. 
Chosen by the Board of Trustees in April to succeed Malloy when the president steps down in June 2005, Jenkins has in the interim started to establish relationships with various circles of the Notre Dame community. 
"Universities are interesting institutions for a reason -there are a lot of different constituen­cies you work with," he said, list­ing faculty, students, alumni, trustees, benefactors. the wider public and leaders of the Catholic Church as vital branches of Notre Dame. 
Therefore, Jenkins said, listen­ing to and learning from these groups easily tops his preparation priority list. 
"I think it's very important for the president to be able to relate positively to each of these groups, each of which are critical to our success," Jenkins said. praising the passionate connections each faction feels to the University. "I see that as an excellent way to spend time this year, because !when we] face challenges in the future, we will have had that interchange." 
Achieving such interchanges this year does present one imme­diate challenge -time. 
But while a tight schedule pre­vents him from satisfying all con­stituencies at once, Jenkins said he strives for balance. 
"You do feel you're pulled in a lot of directions," he said. "llow do you portion your time so you're serving all groups? I think that's the toughest thing -and that's the most important thing." 

Jenkins, a former associate provost and Holy Cross religious at Notre Dame, said he has also begun the transition to presiden-

Band 
continued from page 1 

even if you put all our resources together. it still comes up some­what short." 
To make up for the shortage, Dye said the organization will fol­low its traditional fundraising steps, including the sale of mer­chandise on the band's Web site. 
Dye emphasized, however, that band members and their families are not required to donate or fundraise. 
In the event that the campaign does not raise enough money to fund the trip, Poorman and David Moss. assistant vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, have guaranteed that their office will make up the difference. 
"Our hope is that the band will be able to find additional money in the budget somewhere, but I guess the bottom line is that the appeal." 
The Ubrary will be formally noti­fied of the ATC's decision within four days and will then have 15 days to file an appeal, Herriman said. 
If Hammons does appeal, ATC hearing judge Mark Webb will hear arguments from both sides and 
tial influence. When issues arise 
that stretch past Malloy's tenure, 
the presideflt has consistently 
sought his counsel, Jenkins said. 
"It's actually gone very smooth­ly -it's clear he's making the decisions now, but on anything that's going to affect the long term, the University after this year. we talk about that," Jenkins said. "I know these things arc dif­ficult because you have two peo­ple who kind of have authority here, but there's not been a single issue where I feel there's been some tension or we're going in different directions." 
That's not to say the choices haven't been complex. 
"On so many things, they're just difficult decisions, and it's a tough call -[Malloy] recognizes it's a tough call, and I recognize it's a tough call, and it could go either way on some things," Jenkins said. "But that's not really a clash of wills." 
And as Malloy's 18th and final year draws to a close. Jenkins said, he does not foresee the pres­ident pulling back from his duties -nor does he expect him to. 
"I think he's already trying to include me in the decisions that have long-range consequences, and realizes that he has to include me and will include me," Jenkins said. "Maybe the right word is collaboration." 
Jenkins also continues to col­laborate with new Executive Vice President John Af'fleck-Graves. The duo, who worked side by side in the Office of the Provost before their April appointments, has vis­ited various advisory councils and groups together when possible, Jenkins said. 
And while the whirlwind that began after the announcement has slowed down somewhat,' Jenkins said he faces a new test in gearing up for what's to come. 
"One day at a tin1e, one week at a time," he said. "And no doubt, after I take the job, I'll still be cor­recting myself, because you know I'll be green....But you're never completely ready, and you just try to get as ready as you can be ... I hope Ito be] by July 1, 2005." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
trip was never in jeopardy," Moss said. "Between [the band's fundraisingJ and what we can do here in Student Affairs, we have complete confidence that that band will be in Tennessee." 
Dye passed these assurances on to the band. 
"There's always be.en a plan in place so we could get down there for the fans and the team," Dye said. "We still have to fundraise. it's true, but not to the same extent that many of you per­ceived." 
Band members like social co­chair Nicole Thaner reacted favorably to the administration's efforts to eliminate confusion. 
''I'm glad the University and Dr. Dye took the time to clarify things to the students and we're happy to work with them for our fund raising for the trip," she said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
make a recommendation to the remain open during the four-to case-by-case basis," he said. commission based on his findings, eight-month appeal process, "That's at our discretion.... If Herriman said. The ATC will then Herriman said. The ATC will make something's so unbelievably egre­make a final decision about renew­a determination based on various gious to not allow them to operate. al, but if the bar is denied again, factors, including large numbers of it would outweigh all the [other] Hammons could file a further minors served, repeat violations factors." appeal with the Indiana court sys­and if any violent activities have tem. occurred at the bar, he said. Contact Claire Heininger at 
The Library can request to "We weigh all the factors on a cheining@nd.edu 


FREE PIZZA& 1 st 250 fans will receive an ND soccer scarf! Hockeyvs. Minn.-Duluth 7:35 PM@ Joyce Center 

Gold Gamest-shirts for 1st200 fans from South 

$0Ul'"N IIEHO 0"TH.O...A-5PtC:S
Bend Orthopaedics & 1st 1 000 fans will receive a replica mini-banner from Marathon Oil! 
Friday 10/8 Hockeyvs. Minn.-Duluth 
7:35 PM@ Joyce Center 


netterPiaa. 1st 700 students will receive a Papa John's schedule t-shirt! 
Sunday 10/10 #14M. Soccer vs. Syracuse 1 PM@ Alumni Field 1st 250 fans will receive a stadium seat cushion courtesyofJimmy John's! 




World Conflict and the Catholic Response 
Get tapped in ar Legends. Doors open at 9:30pn1, Speakers start .... TO:OOpn1 free soft drink-s and food, cash bar •can't n~ake it? We'll be back on 11/3. 
C-M 

Wednesday, October 6th 

THEOLOGY ON TAP 
:»resents 
" 

Lt.. Col Kelty Jordan, Ph.D Professor ofMilitary Science and 
Jerry Powers 

Kroc Institute for Peace Studies 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
The Observer+ BUSINESS NEWS page 7 






The VisatbCredit Card 

With otJr Visokl CrAriit Card~ you can make online payments and view your balance at any time. 
.
_,.,,~· 
... ·.. _; 
I"'--""*" 

0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You eon bonk on us to be better 5741631 ~8:222 • www.ndtcu_org 
Looking for an Opportunity to Make a Difference? 
CIA's Directorate of Intelligence will be interviewing candidates for Analyst Positions. 
Representatives from CIA's analytical arm, the Directorate of Intelligence, will be interviewing for analyst positions in Chicago during the week of November 15th. Analysts work on the forefront of protecting national security, quickly assessing how rapidly changing international developments will impact US interests at home and abroad. They use information from classified and unclassified sources from around the world to develop and provide the reliable intelligence that is essential for US policymakers to make informed decisions. The Dl is hiring for the following positions: 
• Analytic Methodologist  • Economic, Political, Leadership and  • Medical Analyst  
• Collection Analyst  Military Analysts  • Psychological/Psychiatric Analyst  
• Counterintelligence Threat Analyst  • Science, Technology and  • Crime and Counternarcotics Analyst  

• Counterterrorism Analyst Weapons Analyst 

Candidates must have at least a bachelor's degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Language skills, previous foreign area residence or travel, and relevant work experience are pluses. Candidates must successfully complete a medical examination, polygraph interview, and an extensive background investigation.AII positions require US citizenship and relocation to the Washington, DC area. 
The CIA is America's premier intelligence agency, and we are committed to building and maintaining a work force as diverse as the nation we serve. 
For additional information, and to apply online, please visit www.cia.gov. Successful applicants who have submitted their resume by October 15th will be contacted to attend an information session and arrange a local area interview. 
An equal opportunity employer and a drug-fi"ee work force. 

THE WORK OF ANATION. THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE. 


Microsoft unveils new Internet TV 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Microsoft Corp. introduced on Tuesday a new version of its Internet TV service, seeking to broaden its appeal beyond a relatively small base of older, computer-phobic users. 
The set-top hardware it uses, the MSN TV Internet and Media Player, is a strange hybrid for an increasingly networked world. 
Essentially a media receiver, the player lets people surf the Web, display digital photos, watch downloaded video clips and do e-mail _ all the time using their television as a moni­tor. 
The new version, called MSN TV 2, adds a port for people with high-speed Internet con­nections and home networks. Made by Thomson under the RCA brand, it has more process­ing power than its predecessor but contains no hard drive. The box has 128 megabytes of RAM and 64 MB of flash memory. 
It sells for $199.95 plus a sub­scription fee, depending on whether it is used with broad­band Internet access or dial-up. The box also includes Wi-Fi con­nectivity for wireless home net­works and slots for memory cards from digital cameras. 
A wireless keyboard and remote are also included. Microsoft last updated this 
service two years ago, at which time it said it had a little over 1 million subscribers. 
MSN TV is the renamed WebTV service that Microsoft bought in 1997. The company declined to provide current sub­scription numbers. 
"We're going after the broad­band household.s with home net­works who have digital content on their PC and a big screen TV where they can relax and share that media with friends and family," said Sam Klepper, gen­eral manager of MSN TV. 
Subscribers get access to Microsoft's MSN service, which includes 200 streaming radio stations and video clips from NBC, the Discovery Channel, Fox Sports and other partners. 
Users will not be able to watch movies downloaded from the Internet or listen to songs pur­chased from legitimate online services, such as MSN's own music store, until next year, when copy-protection software is added to the receiver. 
But like any other media play­er -the market remains young -the device will play songs that have been ripped from a user's CD collection to comput­ers on a home network. 
Analysts said Microsoft will have a tough time attracting a younger, more tech-savvy con­sumer while simultaneously try­ing to appeal to older less tech­savvy users. 

TH~ TRUTH IS...-­




BIGG~R IS 
R~AUTI~ULL~R. 
SOM~RODY'S GOTTA STAND ~OR THf Tl!.UTH. AND SWNG 
HOW OUR SANDWI~H~S All.~ A sm ~ IN~H~S RIGG~l!. 
THAN TH~ ~OMPniTION'S, IT MIGHT AS Wm R~ US. 
L~T TH~ TRUTH 9~ KNOWN. 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAQ 
U.S., Iraqi troops attack insurgents 
Associated Press 
BAC;IIDAD. Iraq -More than 3,000 U.S. and Iraqi forces launched a major operation Tuesday against insurgent strongholds just south of Baghdad, their second mission in live days to wrest control from militants whose attacks threattm national elections seen as crudal to stabilizing this tur­bulent country. 
Tlw operation in Babil province -an area notorious for kidnappings and ambushes and home to the fabled, ancient city of Babylon -follows last week's U.S.-Iraqi drive to oust insurgent forces from Samarra. 
about  60  miles  north  of  
Baghdad.  
The  24th  Marine  

Expeditionary Unit and Iraqi forces went into action after a string of bombings set off clash­es Tuesday between U.S. troops and gunmen west of 
gent stronghold
"/ don't want to

Baghdad and in west of Baghdad the northern deny the impact of and in Mosul after city of Mosul. security situation a series of bomb­
and as the dis­ings. At least five
nor minimize the 

covery of five American soldiers beheaded bod­size ofthe were wounded ­ies over two challenges we underscoring the days indicated role of homemade
face."

the pace of such explosives as the grisly killings insurgent weapon was also surg­Ayad Allawl of choice in a ing. Iraqi prime minister country awash in 
The Marines 

and Iraqis 
punched their way across the 
Euphrates Hiver, rounded up 
160 suspects, seized a suspect­
ed training camp and took con­
trol of a major bridge, the U.S. 
command said. The bridge, 
spanning the Euphrates, is 
believed to be a favored corri­
dor linking insurgent areas 
around Baghdad, Fallujah and 
towns farther south. 
The area in which they were operating was an estimated 40 to 45 miles northwest of ancient Babylon. The capital of Babil province is llillah. about 65 miles south of Baghdad. The provincial capital site; near the Euphrates in a belt of rich agri­cultural land between that river and the nearby Tigris. 
Tlw U.S. military lost signifi­cant areas of Iraq to insurgent<; after Saddam llussein's ouster. In remarks published Tuesday, 
L. Paul Bremer. the top U.S. civilian oflicial in Iraq at the lime, said "we never had enough troops on the ground." 
U.S. and Iraqi forces are try­ing to curb the mounting insur­gPncy in order to hold national eloclions throughout the coun­try in January. Some U.S. otli­cials have expressed doubt that balloting will be possible in aroas that have slipped from Iraqi government control. 
Prime Minister Ayad Allawi said tlw tempo of attacks against insurgent strongholds would increase but acknowl­edged that the security chal­lenge was a "source of worry." 
"I don't want to deny the impact of security situation nor minimize the size of the chal­lenges we face," Allawi said during a speech Tuesday in Baghdad. "I believe that many of the Iraqi people agree with me that we should not let ter­ror!.st forces decide our agen­da. 
"It's true that the security sit­uation in which the country is living commands most of your attention and maybe your questions too. It's true that it is a source of worry to many who are concerned about Iraq's future. But it's better than sur­rendering to the evil forces or giving in to their demands." 
As part of the campaign, Allawi's government has been negotiating with followers of renegade Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr to halt weeks offighting with U.S. troops in the Baghdad district of Sadr City. During his speech, Allawi said the two sides had reached the basis of a deal and talks were continuing. 
However, clashes between al­Sadr's militia and American troops continued despite the talks. Residents of the Shiite district reported hearing explo­sions Tuesday night. 
U.S. troops also battled gun­men in an insur­
military ordnance. 
In Ramadi, 
about 70 miles west of 
Baghdad, American troops and 
insurgents exchanged gunfire 
after a car bomb exploded, 
police Capt. Nassir Hassan said. 
The U.S. military had no report 
of the incident, but an 
Associated Press photographer 
saw two dead Iraqis and four 
wounded at the scene. 
Later, a roadside bomb deto­
nated as a U.S. military convoy 
was passing near the Grand 
Mosque in the eastern section 
of Ramadi, wounding one sol­
dier, said Marine spokesman 
1st Lt. Lyle Gilbert. He said 
seven Iraqis were wounded. 
However, Dr. Diaa al-Haity at 
Hamadi General Hospital said 
lour Iraqis were killed and two 
wounded. 

In Mosul. Iraq's third largest city and the major metropolis of the north. a car bomb target­ed a U.S. convoy at a traffic cir­cle, wounding four American soldiers, said Capt. Angela Bowman, a military spokes­woman. After the explosion, insurgents fired a rocket-pro­pelled grenade at the convoy, which returned fire, she said. Three Iraqi civilians were killed, police and the U.S. mili­tary said. At least three others were wounded. according to a nearby hospital. 
A third car bomb exploded as the Iraqi National Guard was conducting raids in Youssifiyah. 12 miles south of the capital, said police Lt. Abbas Shechati. One Iraqi civilian was killed and 13 Iraqis were wounded, nine of them National Guardsmen, he said. 
Near Baghdad, one soldier from the U.S. Army's 13th Corps Support Command was killed and two were wounded when their convoy hit a road­side bomb late Monday, the military said. 
GAZA STRIP 
Missile strike kills tnilitant leader 
Israeli offensive is deadliest in 4 years, United States urges restraint 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -An 
Israeli missile strike killed a 
leader of Islamic Jihad and 
another member of the violent 
group Tuesday, the sixth day of 
an Israeli military offensive 
aimed at ending Palestinian 
rocket fire on Israeli towns. 
A second strike Tuesday night killed two militants in the Jebaliya refugee camp and wounded eight other people, including six civilians. 
In Washington, U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said he hoped the Israeli campaign in northern Gaza -the deadliest in the strip in four years of Israeli­Palestinian fighting -would end soon. 
'The immediate problem right now is that Israeli built-up areas are being hit by rockets and (Israeli Prime Minister Ariel) Sharon finds a need to respond to that. I hope it does not expand," Powell said. "And I hope that whatever he does is proportionate to the threat that Israel is facing and I hope that this operation can come to a con­clusion quickly." 
The United States later vetoed an Arab-backed resolution at the United Nations that demanded an immediate end to the military operations and the withdrawal of Israeli forces. 
Nearly half the 72 Palestinians killed and 60 percent of the more than 400 wounded in the cam­paign were civilians, Palestinian hospital officials said. Israeli troops have also demolished dozens of houses to carve out paths for tanks, mainly !n 
Jebaliya, scene of the heaviest fighting. 
An Israeli military official said Palestinian security officials have delivered messages through mediators. offering to try to pre­vent rocket fire on Israeli towns if Israel ends the operation. However, Israel appears to be in no rush to pull back. 
A senior Palestinian official said he was unaware of contacts with Israel, which refuses to negotiate directly with the Palestinian Authority. 
In Gaza City, an Israeli aircraft 
fired two missiles at a car Tuesday. killing a top official of Islamic Jihad -Bashir Aldabash, 40 
and another member of the group, Zarees Alareer. The first missile missed, but the second hit the vehicle, which burst into flames. 

The army said Aldabash was "responsible for dozens of terror­ist attacks." 
Later Tuesday, an Israeli air­craft attacked a group of mili­tants from the AI Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades in Jebaliya, according to witnesses and the militant group. The attack killed two mili­tants and wounded two other militants and six civilians. 
Israeli security officials have said targeted killings of Palestinian militants were also part of the offensive, "Days of Penitence," which was launched last week, after two Israeli chil­dren, ages 2 and 4, were killed by Palestinian rocket fire on a border town. 
Late Tuesday, an armored Israeli bulldozer ran over a land mine, setting off a huge explo­sion. Then tanks fired shells. wounding three people, Palestinians said. The military had no comment. 
As the resolution came to a vote in the Security Council, U.S. Ambassador John Danforth cast the U.S. veto after British and German efforts to lind compro­mise language failed. 
"It is dangerously disingenuous because of its many material 
"The immediate problem is that Israeli built-up areas are being hit by rockets ... " 
Colin Powell Secretary of State 
omissions. Because of this lack of balance. because of these omissions. the resolution lacks credibility and deserves a 'no' vote," he said. 
Also Tuesday, the Israeli mili­tary said it is re­evaluating its 
claim that Palestinian militants used a U.N. vehicle to transport a homemade rocket -an appar­ent retreat in a high-profile con­frontation with the world body. The U.N. Helief and Works Agency said it has been informed that Israel will retract the accu­sation. 
Last week, the military distrib­uted a video, taken from an unmanned Israeli aircraft, that showed three Palestinians near a 
U.N. ambulance in Jebaliya, including one who carried an elongated object and at one point tossed it into the vehicle. UNHWA officials insisted the object was a stretcher, not a rocket. 


Off-Campus Housing 
Offered by Domus Properties 
Now leasing for 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 school years 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 2 4-hour maintenance staff  
To view all of our  
houses, visit  
WNW. domuskramer com  
Call today­ 
properties rent  
quickly.  
Contact Kramer at  
(574J 315-5032  

(574J 234-2436 
Our "Painted Lady", at 1022 E. Madison Street. iSJUSt one of the many houses offered by Domus Properties 







ELECTION 2004 
Monday, October 6, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
"It's awfully hard to convey a sense ofcredibility to allies when you [Sen. Kerry and Sen. Edwards] voted for the war and then you declared: Wrong war, wrong place, wrong time. " 
Dick Cheney vice president 

"It is not just me that sees the mess in Iraq. There are Republican leaders, like [Sen.] John McCain, like [Sen.] Richard Lugar, like [Sen.] Chuck Hagel, who have said Iraq is a mess and it's getting worse. " 
John Edwards vice presidential candidate 
Cheney, Edwards clash over Iraq in only debate 

Above left, Democratice vice presidential candidate Sen. John Edwards waves to the audience at a rally following Tuesday's debate at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. Edwards and Vice President Dick Cheney exchange words at the debate. Cheney greets his own rally. 
has drawn closer in recent days. encounter that Kerry is widely Massachusetts senator -as well would seek to raise taxes -a
Associated Press 
The debate format encouraged perceived to have won. as Edwards -had changed their claim Edwards disputed even 
CLEVELAND -Vice President give-and-take -and neither the Polls since then have shown the mind due to the pressure of the before it was spoken. The Dick Cheney accused the Bush administration's powerful four-term Massachusetts senator Democratic primary campaign. Democrat said Kerry's proposal Democratic presidential ticket second-in-command nor Kerry's gaining in the polls, closing the "These are two individuals who calls for rolling back the Bush tax Tuesday night of turning against running mate shrunk from the gap with Bush in some and have been for the war when the cuts on only those earning the Iraq war for political gain. task in their only encounter. pulling into a statistical tie in oth­headlines were good and against $200,000 or more a year. "We need a fresh start" countered "Frankly, senator, you have a ers. it when their poll ratings were Cheney, whose daughter, Mary, Sen. John Edwards in campaign record that's not very distin­Cheney and Edwards got some bad," the vice president said. He is a lesbian, spoke supportively debate, accusing the administra­guished," Cheney said to encouraging news from post­added, "If they couldn't stand up about gay relationships and said tion of mismanaging the conflict. Edwards, citing him for a pattern debate polls. An ABC News poll of to pressures that Howard Dean that "people ought to be free to 
In a clash at close quarters, the of absences during his single term debate watchers said the vice represented, how can we expect choose any arrangement they Democratic vice presidential can­in the Senate. president had won. A CBS survey them to stand up to al-Qaida?" he want." At the same time, Bush didate accused Cheney of "not ·Edwards summed up his points of undecideds said Edwards had said. supports passage of a constitu­being straight" with the public like the former trial lawyer he is. triumphed. Cheney also said Kerry had tional marriage to ban gay mar­about a war that has claimed In a jab at the Bush-Cheney Edwards was on the attack declared during last week's riage, and Cheney said, "He sets more than 1,000 American lives. campaign's claim on experience, from the opening moments of the debate that he would put policy for this administration, and He said casualties are rising he said, "Mr. Vice President, I debate. Cheney sought methodi­American military commitments I support him." monthly and the United States is don't think the country can take cally-sometimes sarcastically­overseas to a global test. He said Edwards said it was obvious bearing 90 percent of the cost of four more years of this type of to rebut his rival's claims. that was part of a record that led that the Cheneys loved their the conflict as well as suffering 90 experience." Edwards said that in addition to Kerry to oppose the frrst Persian daughter and that "you can't have percent of the dead and wounded. Cheney listened politely to mismanaging the war in Iraq, the Gulf War in 1991 and "always anything but respect" for them. "I 
Cheney challenged that, saying Edwards -a contrast to Bush, administration had Osama bin being on the wrong side" of believe marriage is between a the Iraqi security forces had taken who repeatedly grimaced and Laden cornered in the mountains defense issues. man and a woman and so does nearly half of the casualties. "For scowled last week while Kerry of Afghanistan at one point. But, On domestic issues, Edwards John Kerry," Edwards said. But, you to demean their sacrifice is attacked the administration's he said, Bush turned over the said Bush has presided over a loss he added, "We should not use the beyond the pale," he said to record. hunt for the mastermind behind of jobs during his administration Constitution to divide this coun­Edwards, seated practically at his From the first moments of the the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to -the first president to do so since try." elbow. debate, the vice president also Afghan warlords. Herbert Hoover sat in the White Edwards also charged that 
Cheney also criticized sought to place the war in Iraq "The senator has got his facts House. He also said more Cheney, as the chief executive offi­Democratic presidential candidate into a larger context than Bush wrong," said Cheney, one of sever­Americans are in poverty, and liv­cer of Halliburton. pushed to lift John Kerry for taking "the wrong was able to emphasize, saying it al times he accused his counter­ing without health insurance, than U.S. sanctions against Iran, did side" on defense issues over the must be viewed as part of the part of misstatements. "We've when the president took the oath business with countries that were past three decades. overall global war on terror. never let up on Osama bin Laden of office in 2001. "sworn enemies of the United 
''I'm saying specifically that I Cheney, 63, and Edwards, 51, from Day One. We've actively and "The economy is on an States," and that Halliburton paid don't believe he has the qualities sat a few feet apart around a aggressively pursued him." upswing," the vice president said, millions of dollars in fines for pro­we need in a commander in semicircular table on a stage at As for Iraq, the vice president with the creation of jobs. He noted viding false information. chief," he said. Case Western Reserve University. said Kerry voted to authorize the that on Monday Bush had signed Cheney accused Edwards of 
The two men debated exactly Bush and his Democratic rival war, then voted against an $87 his fourth tax cut into law in four "trying to throw up a smoke four weeks before Election Day in held the first of three presidential billion aid package for Iraq and years. screen" and said "there's no sub­a race for the White House that debates last Thursday, an Afghanistan. He said the He said a Kerry administration stance to the charges." 
SOUND BITE: ARMED FORCES 
Should the size of active-duty forces be increased, decreased or kept about the same? 
"In January 20f!4· Secretary Rumsfeld approved "VVhen it comes to the military, my first order of busi­increasing the size of the Army by 30,ooo soldiers. ness as commander in chief will be to expand America's Military commanders in the field tell me they have the Army active-duty forces by 40,000 troops, including the personnel and resources they need. If they need more, I doubling ofArmy Special Forces. Each day provides us will make sure they get it. We have the resources now to with further evidence that our military is stretched dan­meet current and potential threats, and I remain commit­gerously thin. We've deployed units from the National ted to maintaining all-voluntary armed forces. I also Training Center, called back members of the Individual have great confidence in the men and women of our Ready Reserve, extended tours of duty, delayed retire­armed forces, and our nation greatly appreciates their ments, and relied on 'stop-loss' as a kind of 'backdoor service and honors their sacrifices. In my role as com­draft.' This is no way to keep faith with the men and mander in chief, my pledge to our military is that they women of the American military. As I have said many will have what they need to fight and get the job done. We times, expanding our active-duty force is an imperative if are transforming our military so that we can meet any we are to give our troops the strength and support they test with all the might ofthis great country." deserve and our country the military it needs." 
Bush 
Kerry 





---------~~ -----~ ~ 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 021 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 465S6 EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 

MANAI;JNG EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGfR  
Meghannc Downe.•  Mike Flanagan  
Ass1: MANAI;ING EDITOR  
joe H~nlcr  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EI>ITOR: Sarah Vahulas 
Sl•oRn EDITOR: Hc-.1thor Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EOJTOR: Maria Smith 
IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EDI'IUR: Claire Kelley 
GltAI'III<'.S EurroRt Mike Harkim 

ADVEIUISING MANAGER: Cairie Franklin 
AD DF.SIGN MANAGER: Kellr Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Marr Allen 
CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING {574) 631-69J)O obsead@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT 0ESK {574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhc University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Marr's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer r~-scrves rhc right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned <·dirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistanr M;l!laging Editor and department editors. Comm~m.U"ies, leners and column.-present the views of rhe aurhors ;Uld nor necessarily those ofThc 
Obscrv~r. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free L'Xpression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters 10 the C.ditor must be signed and musr include cuntacr mformation. 
Qul'Ihom regurding Ubmwrpolicit'S should bt di,~cttd to Editor m 01iifMatt Lowr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

I ht UI.W"rV\'1 tll"l'~ ~ 1J 1l l··HIOU\r, l'u.hh•hc-J MonJ.1y rhwu~h hidol)'~Cpll{UtiO~ cum .m.t ,..,,u~<•ll('tntxb A •uhKr•rr~ornu) Ihe-Obscrrct i• SlOO for unr .u..wkmil· VUI $ .. "i rnr n/h Klllt1kr 
Jhe Ohi('PT' " ~ mrmll("r uf rhl" Auuc1.ut"d f'rn1 Ailttrn•du..:don r:ia:hn Mr 
ll"o!'f\'C'ti 
fhf'Uhtcr~CII• f'Uhlufto:ti.U P.O. ltrn1.Q Ul'l \uurh lluunl' H.,JJ 1114 S..rmh lluung H.dl Nmrt llJm..:. IN ~hSSt..uniJ Notl't" I l,'"'"· IN 4M~t... nn'J l\:nuti1< ;alru•\'"ll(' r•.a.~J ~~ Nlltrc ll•m•· .u1J.1J,!umnaJ n!Aiillllf,ulli.l;,-, 
.~nulo~dtlrr\• .urrnrioru rw lht· (lhu-rvt-• 
I""" Obwn•l'r" t1 Ultmht·r of 1h~ lu..>CIIlto.i Prn£. All rc:ptoJU<.IIOII riglm .n­~~· .. ·hl'll. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Claire !Ieininger Dan Tapetillo Megan O'Neil Kate Gales Jeannine Privat Steve Coyer Viewpoint Scene 
Eileen Duffy Molly Griffin Graphics Illustrator Desiree Zamora Graham Ebetsch 
THE 0HSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
Always low wages. Always. 

By all standards of human rights and social justice teaching, it is with­out a doubt morally wrong and irre­sponsible to shop at Wal-Mart. Sam Walton's super-marketplace chain exhibits every sort of labor, human Kamarla Porter rights and gender equity abuse Breaking the imaginable. In the Habit United States and abroad, the company's commitment to high profits leaves its workers throughout the supply chain with poverty wages and unfair working conditions. As Wal-Mart expands across the earth and proliferates its worker abusing modus operendi, we as consumers and concerned citizens must be aware of its actions. 
Wal-Mart's size is fundamentally unnerving. As the largest private employer in the United States, Wal­Mart revenues equal around 2 percent of our gross domestic product. Last year's profits totaled $263 billion. The Wal-Mart heirs-Helen, Rob, Alice, Jim and John Walton-make up five of the 10 richest people in the world. 
Their 1.2 million U.S. employees reside on the extreme opposite side of the economic spectrum. The most gen­erous calculations put Wal-Mart "associates" at a yearly salary of $13,861 -below the poverty line of $14,630. Most Wal-Mart employees make less than this, since many posi­tions are part-time. Additionally, 41 to 46 percent of employees receive health insurance cover­age, which is unafford­
able -taking up "Over Joo violations normal goods like milk $6,400 or 45 percent of have been brought and bread. but charge a full-time salary. market price or higher
against Wal-Mart in
Wal-Mart has a for their other products. deplorable labor rights the last four years Even low prices, their abuse record. The com­for its labor abuses." mantra, are negotiable 
pany vehemently blocks any peep of unioniza­tion by firing and intimidating work­ers with solidarity on the brain. Over 100 violations have been brought against Wal-Mart in the last four years for its labor abuses. Not a single Wal­Mart employee bnlongs to a union. This t>xaccrbates poor working condi­tions with no way for employees to improve their lot. Unionized workers in similar jobs make 30 percent more for profit. 
Abroad, Wal-Mart engages in the worst kind of third world labor practices. 
In stifling third-world factories, workers receive 11 to 17 cents an hour to produce Wal-Mart garments. Predominantly female workers spend 15 hours a day-20 hours during high production periods-performing one single task. Minors work against international labor laws in Wal-Mart in wages and have access to pension and health care plans at significantly higher rates. 
Contrary to their cheery commer­cials, employees hate working at Wal­Mart. The labor turnover rate is out­rageous -around 300 percent yearly. It's no wonder, with poverty wages and no voice or union representation on the job. Wal-Mart blatantly prac­tices gender discrimination against its female workforce. Women make up 70 percent of Wal-Mart's employees and receive significantly lower wages com­pared to their male peers because of the company policy to offer raises more often to men. Over 1 million cur­
"Jfyou have any

rent and former female Mart picture bleaker. Wal-Mart employees filed ounce ofhumanity With tax cuts. the already the largest class action bling-ing Waltons saved 
or respect for 

suit in history to protest at least $190,367,803 on
human life,

the company's repulsive federal income taxes. gender-labor practices. shopping at Talk about an un-deserv­
Many hail Wal-Mart's ing welfare handout.
Wal-Mart is not an 

entry to devastated Furthermore, President
option."

industrial areas and sub­Bush is as anti-union as 
urbs and rural communi­ties for the jobs and low prices. However, for every three jobs Wai-Mart creates, two decent paying jobs are destr.oyed. Wal-Mart locks its employees and con­sumers into a cycle of poverty. The company lowers purchasing power of a community by lassoing wages in and outside the store way down. By that time, the only place people can afford to shop is Wal-Mart. Yet, their piracy 
continues. Wal-Marts will offer lower prices for Wal-Mart. He refuses to 
support the Employee 

Free Choice Act, intro­duced by U.S. Rep. George Miller and Sen. Edward Kennedy, which would protect and expedite workers' drives 
to organize. The Bush administration 
most recently stripped over (J million workers of their overtime pay with new regulations. 
If you have any ounce of humanity or respect for human life. shopping at Wal-Mart is not an option. Contributing to a repeat human rights abuser through patronizing these stores is contrary to every single reli­gious and secular moral teaching. The abuses mentioned here represent only a sample of Wal-Mart's dirty dealings. We must usc our consumer and demo­cratic power to stop this menace. Boycott Wal-Mart and join the move­ment to bring this smirking corporatn pirate to justice. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. ller column appears e11ery other Wednesday. She can be contact­ed at kporter@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
sweatshops. Any mention of labor organizing brings physical violence and intimidation on the workers. 
Free-marketeers say any job in third-world nations is better than peo­ple scavenging in a garbage heap, yet with the size of Wal-Mart's profits, no worker in their supply chain should be paid starvation wages. U.S. companies are eager to export jobs and prod uc­tion facilities, yet relent in furthering the cause of human and labor rights abroad. As a supposed beacon of free­dom, our stance from the perspective of third-world workers is one of 
exploitation and injustice. 
The Bush administra­
tion has made the Wal­
OBSERVER POLL 

Should Notre Dame have the SafeBus service for students? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Remember, people willjudge you by your actions, not your intentions. You may have a heart ofgold -but so does a hard-boiled egg." 
Anonymous 


THE 0HSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rock The Vote events vvelcollle both parties 
In defense of the Democrats who attended the Presidential Debate Watch Thursday night: 
The debate was an opportunity for all members of the Notre Dame family to eat pizza. listen to the two candidates and actively show our support for them. 
Hock the Vote's intent all along has been to increase political participation and create an election year buzz that transcends politiCal affiliation. If anything, the support displayed by mem­bers of the student body Thursday night is an indicator that political ener·gy at Notre Dame is on the rise. We can't blame Hock the Vote if a Debate Watch, sponsored by the FTT department, was more heavily attended by Democrats. 
Should we stay home because our candidate's ability to con­vey a message of hope and progress inspires us to cheer? 
A recent Newsweek poll found that two out of every three Americans polled after the debate thought John Kerry clearly won. That seems to be just about how many people in the audience felt the need to cheer as John Kerry delivered his message. 
If you want to enjoy the debate in a quiet and passive envi­ronment, I ask: Please stay home. When Debate Watch is structured so that the Left sits on the left and the Right sits on the right, expect Crossfire-like reactions of energy and sup­port. 
I know many of the people that have worked hard to Rock the Vote. These students are taking it upon themselves to bring both sides together in "a safe atmosphere for intelligent political participation." The three events I've attended (stu­dent debate, National Review v. The Nation debate. Presidential debate watch) have in no way been structured to support any agenda; rather, it is the active members of the student body like myself and the rest of my sign-carrying friends that have showed up at these events in support of our ideas. Republicans, don't simply discount events sponsored by Rock the Vote as partisan. Attend them actively so that next time there is a debate watch we can all celebrate as the two candidates do their best to win over our nation. 
Nick Guzman junior Morrissey Manor Oct. 4 
Questioning eat's so-called innocence 

·This letter is in response to the article entitled "Hit the road, Cat," published in the Oct. 4 edition of The Observer. While Joey Falco may think it a heinous crime that someone designat­ed as a potentially serious threat to the United States was dealt with as such for the protection of the country, I personally do not. My mother was on that plane on her way home from Scotland. and if there had been a problem that had not been dealt with because its cause wrote a song called "Peace Train" 30 years ago, I would have a lot more to complain about than one ex-musician and his wife sent back to London. 
People change. Radically. Cat Stevens was earmarked for a reason-one doesn't get the attention of the federal govern­ment for nothing. Joey needs to count his blessings that Homeland Security -or, "the American Wing of the Knights Templar"-is working to keep us all safe, and realize that sometimes sacrifices need to be made. 
Keep in mind that doing nothing is an action in itself, and it carries its own sacrifices. Look at Sept. 11. Complain all you want about Stevens/Islam, Joey, but I suggest you take into account the consequences of inaction first. We already saw them three years ago, and I have no intention of doing so again, and neither does our "Wing of the Knights Templar" -who are, in fact, the reason we haven't had a repeat since. 
Thank you for wanting to open us up to threats. I sincerely appreciate it. I mean, why would I want to protect not only a family member. but also the other four hundred-plus passen­gers on that plane, as well as everyone in Washington-Dulles Airport? They all thank you too for your sincere concern about Stevens/Islam. I'm sure they'd do the same if they were dead because of people who think like you. I know I would, along with the countless other people who had mothers, fathers, wives. husbands, sisters, brothers and other family members on that plane. 
Zac Liptak freshman Zahm Hall Oct. 4 

Purdue fan, not Notre Dame fans, showed lack of class 
Monday we read "Notre Dame outclassed" which discussed how disappointed the author was that a Purdue fan who was in the Notre Dame Student section was verbally attacked and had a cup of ice thrown at her. It says that the Purdue fan had a right to be in the Notre Dame Student section because she probably bought her ticket from an Irish fan trying to make a profit. A Notre Dame student has an usher relocate her later in the game, and the author "cried-twice -before halftime" because of the "classless" actions demonstrated towards the fan. 
As two students who stood very close to this Purdue fan, we must begin by stating that the Purdue student had no place in the Notre Dame student section. The statement that she 
probably bought her ticket from a of our problems. A group of Notre Dame fan is completely other Notre Dame students irrelevant because she (who coincidentally were would still need an 10 to sitting in the Notre get into the student Dame section with us) section -unless it said their car's win­was general admis­dows had been sion. In addition, 
broken the night don't all schools before. When it have lotteries for comes to college away games so football, there the visiting are a lot of team's fans can actions that you sit in their own may consider section? The first wrong. Wanting display of a Jack to enjoy a game of class was the in your own stu­fan's decision to dent section that break Notre Dame an out of place policy and sit in the Purdue fan is ruin­student section instead ing is certainly not of her real seat. The one of them. author wrote that, "[The As a final note, the fan] was relocated to another author lamented the fact that section where she would not be so the lone Purdue fan was able to 
threatened by the words and actions of those around her," a statement that is completely inaccurate. The fan was relocated because she, for what must be obvious to everyone but the author, was not a Notre Dame student. 
Furthermore, the Purdue fan showed the most lack of class by the way in which she cheered. Was it classy for her to pour salt into an already deeply wounded student section? What could she possibly have expected other than to upset the hundreds of students she was sitting among, all of whom are equally passionate about their team? With all of these aggravated fans, it is more than likely that someone will throw a cup of ice on her regardless of the amount of class the school is known for showing. As the author states, "I agree that the manner in which she cheered was 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


incredibly aggravating: in fact, I moved from standing next to her because she emphatically clapped her hands and shrieked in such a man­ner that caused the eardrums of surrounding stu­dents to ring." Should we and the rest of the stu­dent section all move seats because this Purdue fan is so aggravating? No student deserves to move or have his or her experience ruined because of one overly obnoxious fan. In this cir­cumstance, we do not think that students yelling at the fan or getting an usher to relocate her is in the least bit classless. 
We also noticed that you compared this incident with ones that happened at other schools. We went to Purdue last year and fans who screamed 
and threw things at us were the least 
"sing the Purdue cheers over an entire section oflrish fans." If this actually did happen, there is nobody else to blame but Kate Dobbertin and all fans like her, because as she said, even "if we had come back and scored four touchdowns in the last five minutes to make the greatest comeback ever known in college football, it would have made no difference to me." Wow Kate, we suppose that the only response to such an apa­thetic attitude toward our football team and school spirit is a loud and proud, Go Irish! 
Kevin Silva James Giordano sophomore Keenan Hall Ocr. 5 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 

The plaid blazer, tie and brightly colored polo shirt come together In a look that is a perfect example of the polished, preppy look that Is one of the biggest styles that will be fashionable this fall. 


Photo courtesy of www.jcrew.com Tweed can be seen everywhere this fall, from skirts and hats to shoes and purses, and It Is extremely popular for cropped jackets. 

By EMILY HOWALD 
Scene Writer 
As the temperature in the Bend drops, it beeomes time to store away the llip-11ops, tanks and minis that we have all come to wear and love. Yes, boys, unfortunately this fall minis are out, and the essence of feminine frills is back in style. 
Trends for women 
For girls, the most common look for fall is tweed. Say it again ... tweed, tweed and more tweed. Take note --remember tweed is a texturn, and check is a pattern. It is the two combined that is the hot look for fall. Tailored tweed is the most pop­ular look. found not only in jack­ets. coats and skirts, but also shoes and handbags. Shrunken blazers are already on sale at the local South Bend favorites 
(a.k.a. The Gap. Banana Hcpublic and Abercrombie). 
To accompany the shrunken blazer. the look can be made more casual with a pair of nar­row leg jeans, or it can be dressed up with a slim pencil skirt. The skirt is another key statement this fall, fashionable in any style and length. Keep in mind that although the knee length hem says classic, with a hip-hugging lit, the skirt is still sure to turn a few heads. 
Fur is returning to its previous glory with a plethora of options from which any fashionista may choose. Short fur jackets, long fur coats, fur-lined collars and hoods are expected to be seen in great abundance this fall and winter. Mink jackets and fox caplets are also expected to 1111 the streets (of New York, at least). Although these fur pieces may get eostly, DKNY has some great deals and vintage is always a great alternative as well (to the environmentalists who are think­ing about writing editorials, this is not an endorsement to buy fur). 
Another new trend for fall is the "bow coup." As W stated, "the bows of fall were a variety of' spedes. Bold and sexy at Dolce & Gabbana, witty at Mosehino and heavily bow laden at Chloe." This look, which has been inspired by Mare Jacob's new line, as well as Louis Vuitton. fea­tures fitted sweaters with velvet ribbon bows as wnll as f'loppy wide bows a Ia the Seventies. Buy a few yards of ribbon and add a bow belt. You'll be setting the trend. 
As far as colors go, do not be deeeived by the common autumn colors. The lighter, girly colors will carry over from the summer in the form of eamisole tops and sequined sweaters and shirts. Flirty skirts in more breezy col­ors, many with large patterned f'lorals, are also carrying over into the fall. But be sure to uphold the fall fashion rule and not carry on the summer fashion styles for too long. 

Pink is the eolor of' the season, from the softnst shades to bright and hot pinks. Alternatively, blaek and white maintain their classic status. 
Lastly, and most importantly -­accessories. Hemember this fall that bigger and brighter are always better. 
A bright-colored bag adds instant excitement to any outfit. Do not be afraid to mix and match, because bright colors are a great accessory to enhance any outfit. 
Handbags are avail­able this fall in a rain­bow of colors from lime green to orange to pink.Matehing is. no longer necessary. Find a great bag in a eolor you like and just go with it. 
In regards to jewnlry, big, chunky pim~es that sparkle should be used to add llavor but avoid being excessive. Long, large earrings, bangle bracelets and large gems are popular this season. Estate jewelry is making a huge eome­back, but the hottest trend this season is by far the addition of broaches to an outfit. 
Broaches add sparkle to nearly everything. 
Tlwy can be added to a shirt, a scarf. a hairstyle or a purse -­thny am by tlw far the greatest investment to add to a jnwelry collection this season. Do not be afraid to cluster two or throe pins tog11ther. Haid your great grandma's jewelry box. There are treasures to be had!· 
Now on to shoes, shoes and more shoes ... 
Helax girls. The popular stiletto trend has finally begun to slow down, and fashionistas' have dncided to give women's feet a 


~­

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
page 13 



c
. ­
Photo courtesy of www.jcrew.com 

ranging in hue from bright to light, is the new "it" color this on. Wearing a fedora adds the right amount of edge to a and conservative outfit without overwhelming it. 


this season. Although high will always be popular, this 111 a thicker. squarer heel efinitely aid in alleviating of the stresses of those spikes that many women 
to loathe. Jacob's shoes are a per­mple of what to expect 
. A round-toe, accom­by a square heal, in fun such as teal or red are assets to complete an out-for T-straps and ankle because both are great 
looks that can jazz up an outfit. 
Crocodile-embossed shoes are making a strong comeback, as are low flats. One of the greatest fads of the season is metallic shoes that add to the level of sparkle to an outfit. 
Boots in all colors, shapes and sizes are back yet again this sea­son. Tall boots, low boots and everything in between are popu­lar, and the material has deviat­ed from just leather and suede to include stretch leather, rubber and fur. 
All in all, girls, just be yourself. Don't be afraid to wear some­thing that may stand out or draw attention. This season you don't have to match. Select pieces that are fun and colorful and strut your stuff. Keep an open mind and parade what works. Hemember what Cecil Beaton once said: "Fashions are ephemeral. but fashion is enduring." 

Trends for men 
As for the boys, while it is commonly known that most Notre Dame boys typically stick to the look of a button­down and jeans, with a few variations, one may want to consider some small additions this fall. 
Blazers, whether they are corduroy or suede, pinstripe or solid, are 

Photo courtesy of www.ae.com very popular this sea­blazers are pieces that can be son. Wear the blazer up or dressed down. with a hoody beneath 
(and yes, it can be Notre Dame, 
but solids also work) for casual 
yet sophisticated results. 
Banana Republic has numer­
ous blazers that are stylish, but 
don't stray too far from the 
casual and comfortable look that 
is common here in South Bend. 
Don't be afraid to wear 
sweaters that have a higher col­
lar, and then pop the collar for a 
look of extra relaxation, as well 
as added warmth. 
A very popular look this fall is 
the colorful striped button down 
shirt. Halph Lauren and Tommy 
Hilfiger both have come out with 
numerous bright-colored combi­
nations. Embrace these colors 
and have some fun with them. 
The slimmer. body conscious 
shirt is still the preference, but 
watch for the boxy, square look 
starting next year. 
Warm colors can also be found 
with the ever-popular little alli­
gator, also known as Lacoste. 
The shirts are rivaled by those 
of the preppy designer 
Vineyards Vines. Both look great 
by themselves or layered on top 
of long-sleeve T-shirts. 
Tweed for men is nearly as 
popular as it is for women. 
However, men can casually throw on a tweed blazer with a comfy pair of cords and some loafers. Although tweed may sound a bit unusual, J. Crew and Polo both make very conservative and casual blazers that do not exceed the norms of the average Notre Dame male. 
Guys should also consider branching out in their footwear, and looking into wing-tipped shoes and buckskins, which are both becoming exceedingly popu­lar this season. Oxfords and loafers are returning again for fall, as well as boots. 
The classic casual outdoor shoe remains popular, although instead of the usual Puma, old­school styles such as Asics and Adidas are gaining status. 
Men should not be afraid to accessorize, especially with trendy new watches that are quickly gaining notoriety. Both timepieces and wristwatches are becoming available in numerous styles that add a level of individu­ality. 
It is important to remember that although these new trends are popular this season, main­taining a level of comfort is most important. Those who are confi­dent and comfortable in what they wear often can pull off the greatest and most unique looks, while maintaining a fashionable edge. 
Remember guys, in the words of the popular designer. Yves St. Laurent: "Fashions fade, style is eternal." 
Contact Emily Howald at ehowald@nd.edu 
~----------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
MLB PLAYOFFS 


Schilling leads Red Sox over Angels with 9-3 win 
Associotcd Press back like we did then." losing pitcher Jarrod Washburn said. ANAHEIM, Calif. -Curt Just like the 2002 postsea­Schilling has pitched a lot bet­son. most of the fans at Angel ter in big games than he did Stadium wore red and made it Tuesday. noisy by banging ThunderStix. Fortunately, he had a large The volume level decreased margin for error early on. so significantly after the Hed Sox' everything worked out for the took their big lead, and not Boston Hed Sox. even stuffed Rally Monkeys 
Schilling worked effectively could spur the home team. into the seventh inning. Manny The seven runs were the Hamirez and Kevin Millar most ever scored by the Red honwn~d during a seven-run Sox in an inning in the post­burst in the fourth and the Hed season and the most ever Sox beat the Anaheim Angels allowed by the Angels. Five of 
to open the AL playoffs. the runs were unearned 
Schilling said he felt "incred­because of a throwing error by ibly strong" in the bullpen third baseman Chone Figgins. before the game and had good Schilling was relieved by velocity. but struggled other­Alan Embree with a runner at wise. second. two outs in the sev­
"J knew I wasn't as sharp as enth and the Red Sox leading I have been." he said. "Looking 8-3. Embree retired pinch-hit­back, I made some mistakes ter Adam Riggs on foul popup today. I left some pitches over to end the inning. the plate. [But] solo home runs Boston went ahead for good don't beat you." off Washburn in the first on a 
Each team hit two homers, two-out double by Ramirez but Boston's produced five and a broken-bat single by runs and Anaheim's only two. David Ortiz. 
And the Red Sox had an 8-0 Ortiz walked to begin the by hitting five home runs. managed by Tony La Hussa in "That's our game," Twins lead after 3 1/2 innings. fourth and Millar hit an 0-1 overwhelming Odalis Perez the 1988 World Series. The manager Ron Gardenhire said. 
"All you can ask from him is offspeed pitch into the left­and the Los Angeles Dodgers Dodgers were swept in the Brad Radke now starts for to go out there and give us a field bullpen, making it 3-0. in a blowout. first round by Atlanta in 1996 the AL Central champions on chance to win." said Millar, The Red Sox then loaded the "It was a lot of fun out there and Cincinnati in 1995. Wednesday night, trying to whose two-run homer trig­bases with one out, and two today to see the packed house Twins 2, N.Y. Yankees 0 take a 2-0 lead in the best-of­gered Boston's big inning. "We runs scored when Figgins and everybody in red," Walker Johan Santana and the five series, which shifts to the ' swung the bats enough to give fielded Johnny Damon's said. "It was a good feeling." Minnesota Twins· dazzling noisy Metrodome in him a lead. and he held it." grounder but was far off target Walker, acquired in August defense had the New York Minneapolis starting Friday.
Schilling gave up nine hits with his throw home as he from the Rockies, made his Yankees seeing double. New York, which lost the and three runs, two earned, went for the force. only other postseason appear­Santana and the Twins first game of all three postsea­and allowed at least one "In a game like this, it's cer­ance in 1995, batting .214 for escaped trouble with the help son series it played last year, is baserunner in every inning. He tainly more irritating than a Colorado in a first-round loss of a record-setting five double in familiar position: The walked two and struck out regular-season game. There's to Atlanta. plays. Jacque Jones homered Yankees have dropped the four in 6 2-3 innings. a lot more riding on it," Albert Pujols, Jim Edmonds in his first start since the first-round opener in three of 
The 37-year-old right-han­Figgins said. "I played aggres­and Mike Matheny. who've death of his father, and the the last four seasons _ winningder entered with a 5-1 record sively. That's the way I play. If been part of three postseason Twins beat the Yankees the series each time, but losingand a 1.66 ERA in 11 previous it happens tomorrow. I'm teams in four years with St. Tuesday night to win their to Anaheim two years ago postseason appearances. going to do the same thing. I'm Louis, also connected. eighth straight opener in a after leading 1-0. 
Schilling also tweaked his not beating myself up." Add in a strong six-inning postseason series. Santana, unbeaten in 16 right ankle and said afterward Scot Shields relieved and performance from Woody "I was able to throw the starts since the All-Star break. it was a little sore. But he said struck out Mark Bellhorn. but Williams and the Cardinals right pitch at the right time allowed eight hits in seven 
he doesn't believe it will create Ramirez capped the inning looked every bit as dominating because I know my teammates innings, the most off him since any problems. with a three-run homer over as they did in leading the can make some plays." May 23. Four of the Yankees' Pedro Martinez will pitch the left-center field fence. majors with 105 wins and Santana said. "Tonight we first six batters reached safelyagainst Anaheim's Bartolo Troy Glaus, MVP of the 2002 leading the NL in runs and proved what the team, the and 10 of the first 24, but Colon in Game 2 on World Series. hit Schilling's batting average. Minnesota Twins, are all Santana kept escaping. Wednesday night before the second pitch in the bottom half The game was a slugfest, about." "He pitched his heart out," best-of-five series moves to for a long home run. exactly what Dodgers manager Minnesota's Soul Patrol out­Gardenhire said. "He was Boston. Darin Erstad added a solo Jim Tracy had hoped to avoid. field twice denied the Yankees unbelievable tonight." "We're up 1-0. Tomorrow's homer in the seventh, and the The Dodgers, who set a fran­with jumping catches _ left Juan Rincon pitched the starters will determine Angels got another run on chise record with 53 come­fielder Shannon Stewart saved eighth, and Joe Nathan fin­momentum going into the Schilling's throwing error and from-behind victories, fell so one run and possibly two on ished for the save with the game." Schilling said. "This is an RBI double by Glaus. far behind they couldn't recov­Ruben Sierra's shot in the sec­Twins' only 1-2-3 inning of the a tough place to win. But Cardinals 8, L.A. Dodgers 3 er. A five-run third, all of the ond, and center fielder Torii game. New York, shut out for we've got Pedro going. I'm Larry Walker is back in the runs scoring with two outs, Hunter pulled in an eighth­the second straight time in pretty excited about that." playoffs for the first time in was the key. inning drive by Alex Rodriguez postseason play, went 0-for-6 The Angels are in a familiar nearly a decade, and he's mak­"Two runs is nice, but get­at the top of the wall. with runners in scoring posi­place. having lost series open­ing the most ol his second ting five runs is just unbeliev­Hunter also threw out Jorge tion. ers to the Yankees. Twins and shot. able," Williams said. Posada at the plate in the sec­"We had many opportuni­Giants two years ago before In the Cardinals' playoff "Especially in a game of this ond to complete the second ties," Yankees manager Joe 
rebounding to beat those opener, the three-time batting magnitude." double play by the Twins, who Torre said. "Santana probab teams en route to the World champion led the hit parade. Los Angeles still hasn't won set a record for twin killings in didn't have his best stu Series championship. Walker homered twice and St. a postseason game since it a nine-inning postseason tonight, but when he needed "Hopefully we can bounce Louis tied a postseason record beat the Oakland Athletics game. get a groundball, he got it." 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr !o edit all classifieds for conrenr wirhou! issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 



2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Wanted: ND football tix. 
WANTED FOR RENT Walking distance from ND Top$$$ 251-1570. 
MMMRentals.com 532-1408 PART-TIME WORK ND Football housing. Walk to ND ltball tix bought & sold a.m. Great pay, flex sched. ,sales/svc.all game. 574-315-3215. Studio apartment,quiet neighbor-232-2378 p.m. ages18+,cond. apply, 273-4878 hood near ND. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW $350/mo plus electric. 288-2726 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS LEASING FOR 2005-2006 WWW WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-Call574-271-8941. JACK, M ES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED 
HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT TICKETS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOT­FOR SALE NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY BALL GAME. 
SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE BUY /SELL FOOTBALL TIX Duplex for Sale close to ND STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY-PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-CALL674-6593. Campus and downtown. 718 E. ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE 3911 Colfax Open House Sunday WWWDOMUSKRAMERCOM OR Buying and selling ND football tix, 
2-4PM Century 21 Jim Dunfee CONTACT KRAMER (574)234-For Sale ND football tix. Good especially Boston College 574-289­Realty Chuck Bultinck 235-3202 2436 OR (574)315-5032. prices. 232-0964. 8048 
0

• t t #! 1 C' fIe • . . -, \ . 
-....... ----...................... -......................~ ......__ .... "~~·-..•.&.4.1.1_• ~ -·-~-•.3-. _._:_ ... .J. -'-l.\ ·... ~ _t 
PERSONAL 

Spring break 2005 Challenge .. find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Mealsl November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-771 0 
SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun & Cabo. Book by Oct 31 =FREE MEALS & FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group-GO FREE! 800­875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossicom 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299' Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $4591 Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1· 800-678-6386 
Your passion is showing 
Whyyyyyyyyyyy?????? Do I have four midterms this week! 
Katie K and Sarah W watch out for the contagious pink eye .. it is com­ing to get you! 
Where would we be without identity theft?... For starters... we would not have those great commercials 
! 

Wednesday, October 6, 2004 I I 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 I 
I 
NBA 
O'Neal begins training camp without back brace 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jermaine O'Neal opened training camp on Tuesday without something that's bf)en with him for a long, long time. And he wasn't sorry to see it go. 
"I haven't practiced without my back brace for three years," O'Neal said. "That's a plus for me." 
Instead of playing his fourth straight summer of international basketball in the Olympics this year. tlw Indiana Pacers star beggPd oil" the tnam to rehabili­tate an injured left knee and rest his chronically sore back. 
The approach seems to have worked. 
A.sidP from a nagging ligament strain in his left foot that appears to be minor. O'Neal returned to Conseco Fieldhouse bigger, healthier and refreshed after spending some much­nneded time ofT the court. 
''I've actually had a chance to get stronger and concentrate on a lot of things that I needed to," O'Neal said. "It's going to help me." 
A.ftnr tlw Pacers were elimi­nated by Detroit in the Eastern Conference finals. Pacers coach Rick Carlisle called the upcom­ing summer a critical one and urged his players to work hard to improve on the basketball court. But he could tell that his star needed a little time away. 
"His body needed that oppor­tunity to take a breather." Carlisle said. "Jermaine's situa­tion is unusual because he's one guy that needed to have a lighter workload in the summer after three years of rigorous international play. He's got a few dings. but he'll work hard to get through those. This is a new beginning for him." 
And for the Pacers. who aren't shying away from championship 
aspirations  after  losing  to  
Detroit  in  the  Eastern  
Conference finals.  

''I'm very excited about our chances this year." O'Neal said. "We're not looking at getting to the Eastern Conference finals. We're not even looking at get­ting to tlw championship. We're looking at winning the champi­onship. That's our goal." 
A healthy O'Neal will go a long way toward making that goal a reality. He fought through multi­ple injuries last season to finish third in the MVP voting while averaging 20.1 points, 10 rebounds and 2.5 blocks a game last season. 
Those numbers dropped slightly in the playoffs as his body wore down, and he hob­bled off the court after the sea­son-ending loss to Detroit in Game 6 on a badly sprained left knee. 
Rather than have surgery to repair a slightly torn ligament, O'Neal decided to let it heal on its own. 
Three months into the sum­mer, it was still swollen and sore. 
"It took a lot longer than I expected." O'Neal said. "I was really getting concerned that I might have made the wrong decision." 
But O'Neal woke one morning in early August, walked up his stairs, and it started to feel bet­ter. 
That's when the training start­ed. 
"I was really going hard," he said. "I got a lot stronger and when you're stronger, you can finish games strong. That's what I want to do because I got tired sometimes last year." 
Improving his conditioning may be one of the final steps he has to make for a player who started his career at the end of the bench in Portland. 
Since being traded to Indiana in 2000, O'Neal has blossomed into one of the best players in the league. Another year in Carlisle's offense, which is geared around getting the ball to O'Neal on the low block, should continue that develop-
IR!SIJCII !JRI!J/!tl 
'!1!11J!E ~)/!JJW[J 



ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S WATER POLO 


TEAM is ranked 16th Nationally and is searching for good, hard-working players for their run at the National Title this November, hosted here, at NO. Experience is a plus! 

Got what it takes? Email wpolo@nd.edu or be at Rolf's Aquatic Center M-TH 8:45-10:45 p.m. 
WORLD FAMOUS DUELIIIG PIANO SHOW EVERY IIIGHI 
BUY ONE SANDWICH OR WRAP ,& GET SECOND ONE AT 1/l PRICE WITH CURRENT STUDENT ID! 

100 N. CEmR ST. (In the "100 CENTER" Behind Hacienda &Funny Bone) 259 ·1522 www.rumrunnersusa.com OPEN: Wed· Sun Nights 
ment. ty in this league, and he didn't Miller said. "He's found a home "All you need is an opportuni-get that in Portland," Reggie here. He's the cornerstone. 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
"All the fun of college,
View photos and floor plans at 


without the education"
www.REMCl.com 

~!.................................,...;;;;;;;~~ :::::> Proudly Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community :::::> The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Avail­able :::::> 4 & 5 Bedroom Units ND 
ND :::::> WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit E AV :::::> Dishwasher 

E 

=> 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance => ADT Alarm Systems :::::> Close to Campus 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rludwig@cbresb.com 


Notre Dame Apartments 
=> Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus => Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue => Current !-year & I O"month Leases Available => On-Site Laundry Facility :::::> 2 Closets and 1 Desk in Each Bedroom :::::> Private Parking Lots => 24 -hour Emergency Maintenance => Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment => Double vanity/sinks in bathroom 


For More Information: Real Estate Management ColJXlration P.O. Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574~234-9923 Fac~e: 574-234-9925 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
NBA 

Nuggets ready to improve 
Associarcd Press 
DENVEH-Tired of the con­
stant elbows he was receiving 
from Nene, Kenyon Martin 
wheeled and punched his new 
teammate in the eye. 
Training r.amp hadn't even startPd. yet already it was dc~ar thrrp's a different atti­tudcl in Denver. A year after hoping to get bPttPr with nmerging star Carmelo Anthony, the Nuggets are ex1wcting even biggnr things with Martin addPd to the mix. 
"This is what we imagirwd. this is what wp'rn lwrl' for. this is. as a roach. what I embnu:e," Nuggets coach Jeff BzdPiik said. "I want this prnssun·. I want to snl' this team lw all it can lw." 

It's hard to romprPIII'nd just how quickly tlw Nuggets havP rl'arhnl this point. For tlw lwttnr part of a dPcadl' Denver had bPen till' doormat of the NHA. thrPatening futility marks with lirwups at times IH'tter suited for tlw minor lnagqes. 
That changc~d last season. 

With a rosLPr overhaul by gPneral manager Kiki Vandnwnghn and thn arrival of tlw charismatic Anthony, the Nuggc•ts put together one of tlw biggest turnarounds in NBA history. After winning only 17 games a year earlier, Dnnver went 43-39 to reach tim playoffs for the first time since 1995. 
In just one season, the Nuggets regained respect, rekindled fan interest and rebuilt expectations. And now they're expected to take the next step and become one of the elite teams in the Western Conference. 
''I'm excited," Vandeweghe said. ''I've always sort of liked taking the last-second shot, I like kind of being in a pres­sure situation at the end of games. To me, that's the fun of basketball. It's better than the alternative." 
Martin makes it possible. For all the success the Nugge~ had Ia~ season, they 

AP Carmelo Anthony talks with Earl Boykins at media day. 
infonnation, please call 
233-2131 

still had trouble grabbing offensive rebounds, defending the opponents' top scorer and playing with the grit needed to close out tight. physical games. Kevin Garnett exposed those weaknesses in the play­offs when he helped Minnesota take out Denver in four games. 
Martin has the ability to tie up all those loose ends. 
The five-time All-Star is a tenacious defender. an excep­tional rebounder and a strong finisher on the break. which should fit in well with the Nuggets' uptempo style. 
Teamed with Anthony. Nene and Marcus Camby. Martin gives DPnver onP of the best frontcourts in the WPst. 
But his impact :s Pxpected to go denper -into the iocker room. With an intimidating presence on and ofT the court and two trips to t htl NBA Finals in his past. Martin has the kind of swaggPr that could rub off on the young Nuggets. 
"lie gives our tclam more of an identity. plays with aggres­sion, heart and emotion." Camby said. "You need that in tough games going down stretch. lie's the kind of guy you want in your corner." 
Griffin gets another chance with Wolves 
Associated Press 
COLLEGEVILLE. Minn. ­
Eddie Griffin is getting another 
shot at the NBA. 
The former Houston and New Jersey forward better known for his troubles off the eourt, agreed to terms with the Minnesota Timberwolves, the team announced Tuesday. 
Griffin, the seventh overall pick in the 2001 draft, joined his new teammates for an evening practicn Tuesday, the first day of training eamp. 
Terms of tlw deal weren't released. 
Arn Tellem. GriiTin's agent, didn't immediatl'ly return a phone all seeking comment. 
Griffin was rPIPascd by tlw New JnrsPy Nds in FPbruary. less than two months after signing with thn tnam in hopes of rr.surrncting his carnPr. Tlw llouston Hockl'ts cut him in December. 
"I think hn really wants to try to close one chaptnr in his Ji('p and get on to another one," said Kevin McHale. Minnesota's vice president of basketball operations. "llopdully, hP'll bP able to do it herP." 
Griffin didn't app!'ar in any games for the Nets aftc~r sign­ing on Jan. 8. lie left the team in late January so he could check into the Betty Ford Center to get six weeks of treatment for alcohol abuse. lie also entered a residential alco­hol treatment program over­seen by former NBA playc1r and coach John Lucas. 
Grillin was convicted of mari­juana possession Jan. 20, and was under indictment for felony assault for allegedly fir­ing a gun at his girlfriend last October. 
Grillin was jailPd in February for allclgedly violating a curfPw set as a condition of his bond in the aggravated assault charge. 
lie avPraged X.7 points, :i.X rebounds and 1.b:~ blorks in 150 c·;tr!'nr games with thc• Hockclts. · 
Mrllall' acknowiPdgPd arquiring CriiTin is a gambll', but said. "You can't do any­thing about what happPrwd ... 
Till' h-foot-1 0 Griffin gives the WolvPs sonw frontcourt d P pt h and a no tlw r phys ir al dcfPndPr. 
"I don't know if Eddie• knows how good lw is." forward KPvin (;arnl'tt said. "f~ddil''s a war­rior. man. In all my days of playing against him. there's no easy nights against EddiP." 

The products we carry arc made in fair work­
JU6T ~OOD6 
ing conditions from earth-friendly materials such as hemp and organic cotton. 
social & ecological a-WEAR-ness 
Feel good-dress beautifully! 1211 Mishawaka Avenue 
Open Oct. 7, 8, 9
South Bend, IN 46615 574-286-s878 
info@justgoods.net www.justgoods.net 
family apparel • handbags • sweaters • candles • accessories • home decor 

llniversity of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Top Ten Reasons Why You Should NOT Go To France 
With Prof. PauJ McDowell and returnees of the program 
trst or secont 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 Academic Year 2005-2006 Fall 2005 . Spring 2006 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Sheffield's training questioned 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Gary Sheffield emerged from the trainer's room before games, his left shoulder wrapped in bandag­es that resembled football pads. Most days, one or two fingers were taped, too. 
He played through bursitis that twice required cortisone shots and forced him to catch fly balls hip high, a totn liga­ment in his right thumb that has bothered him since spring training and nearly a year of controversy about his appear­ance before a federal grand jury investigating illegal dis­tribution of steroids. 
Yet, he made it out on the field for 154 of the Yankees' 162 games and led the team with 121 RBis. After a winter of worry among fans that he could be a disruptive force in the Yankees clubhouse, he became a fan favorite, sere­naded throughout September with chants of "M-V-P! M-V­P!" 
"People don't understand what I have to go through to get to play a game," he said matter-of-factly, without a trace of complaint. "I have to go through an hour-and-a half worth of treatment before I can talk to anybody." 
Three years ago he was a malcontent in Los Angeles, demanding that the Dodgers trade him. Baseball executives wondered why he had passed through so many teams. But there was no doubt about his talent -he's only the second player in major league history to reach 100 RBis with five teams, according to the Elias Sports Bureau, the first since Hall of Farner Dan Brouthers from 1887-94. 
Now, in the spotlight of New York, his image has trans­formed. George Steinbrenner personally negotiated a $39 million, three-year contract when his baseball executives would have rather spent the money on pitching. Sheffield, speaking softly and repeatedly saying God has a plan for him, says he couldn't be happier, at ease with the constant scruti­ny the Yankees come under. He says it's unlike anything he experienced before. Uncle Dwight (Gooden) prepared him for it. 
"Every detail, everything you do right, everything you do wrong, that's just the way it is," Sheffield said before praising Yankees fans for fill­ing the ballpark close to capacity each night. "I've been places where, and play­offs included, other ballclubs come into town and you think they have their home-field." 
When he arrived at Tampa, Fla., for spring training, he was questioned about his tes­timony in the BALCO steroids investigation. Sports Illustrated reported in this week's issue that Sheffield admitted using a cream sup­plied by BALCO on his surgi­cally repaired right knee in 2002, though he was not told it contained an illegal steroid. 
"That's why I was mad," he told the magazine. "I want everybody to be on an even playing field." 
Bob Holley, the lawyer for BALCO president Victor Conte, said in an e-mail to The Associated Press on Tuesday that "BALCO provided Gary 



Yankees slugger Gary Sheffield is under fire after accusations of steroids use. 
Sheffield with no illegal sub­stances and the check BALCO received from Sheffield was for legal nutritional supple­ments." 
Sheffield refused to address the situation Tuesday. 
"Unfortunately, everything always comes out when it's a special moment for me and my teammates," he said. "Same thing happened the first day of spring training, the same thing happens the first day of the playoffs. I'm looking forward to getting it behind me and moving for­ward." 
Wright finds success in Atlanta's rotation 
Former Padre will start Game 1 today against Houston 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-Jaret Wright 
couldn't get much lower: 
Waived by a last-place team, 
he stood outside Houston's 
Minute Maid Park with his 
luggage stacked beside him, 
waiting for a cab that would 
take him to the airport. 
As it turned out, things 
were starting to look up. 
Wright was claimed by the Atlanta Braves, who remem­bered when he was a 21­year-old phenom starting the deciding game of the 1997 World Series, before injuries sent his career into a tail­spin. 
Just over a year later, Wright has come full circle. The right-hander will start Game 1 of the NL playoffs against Roger Clemens and the Houston Astros. 
"It happened a lot quicker than I thought it would," Wright said Tuesday on the eve of the opening game at Turner Field. 
Wright pitched well enough over the final month last season to earn a spot on the playoff roster as a reliev­er. Heading into spring training, he asked for a chance to start again and claimed the final spot in the rotation. 
As the season went along, it became clear that Wright was Atlanta's best starter. He finished 15-8 with a 3.28 ERA -moving to the top of the rotation in the best-of­go up against him, it's an honor. I'm up for it. He's going to battle. I'm going to battle just as hard." 
Clemens couldn't pitch the final game of the regular season when stricken by a stomach virus. 
The Astros won anyway, capping a remarkable run (36-1 0) over the final seven weeks that was good enough to claim the wild card by one game over San Francisco. 
Now, Clemens is available to start the playoffs. He threw some with his oldest son on Monday, felt better on Tuesday and knows he'll be well enough to pitch Game 1. 
"However I feel, I'm going to make the most of it," Clemens said after the Astros arrived at Turner Field for an afternoon work­out. ''I've pitched with differ­ent aches and pains throughout the years." 
The Astros seem to have a huge advantage on the mound for the opener. Clemens is a six-time Cy Young winner with 328 wins on his resume. Wright's career record is just 52-45. 
Then again, the 28-year­old right-hander knows a thing or two about pitching in pressure situations. As a rookie for the Cleveland Indians in 1997, Wright beat the New York Yankees twice in the division series and was the second-youngest pitcher ever to start to start Game 7 of the World Series. 
He shut out the Florida Marlins for six innings, but came out after giving up a homer to Bobby Bonilla that cut Cleveland's lead to 2-1. 
five division series. Wright watched in dismay as He'll go against a future Cleveland's bullpen gave up Hall of Farner. the tying run in the ninth, 
The 42-year-old Clemens, then the series-deciding run who called off retirement to in the 11th. pitch for the Astros, had Wright rarely tunes in for another remarkable season replays of that painful loss. (18-4, 2.98) and is one of the "I've caught glimpses of leading contenders for the it," he said. "It's kind of a NL Cy Young award. weird feeling. You get but­
"He's done a lot of stuff in terflies a little bit all over the game that's amazing," again watching it. I probably Wright said. "To have my would have watched it 50 name called in Game 1 and times over if we had won." 

JOIN THE 

VOLUNTEER TEACHING CORPS 
:I'be Inner City Teaching Corps is an education non-P.rofit whose mission 1s to transform education in underserved communities and to empowerchildren in urban schools through innovative peoples and programs. The Volunteer Teaching Corps fVTC) service program places outstandingrecent college graduates as c assroom teachers in inner-city Chicago. By com~ining teaching and inv'?lvement in after-schoql. activities, the VTC 
provtdes "Corps members wtth excellent opportumtles to channel their enthusiasm toward children from inner-city neighborhoods. The VTC is founded on four living realities central to the growth of Corps members and a continuing commitment to inner-city education: 
u:ooo;nu~l!: as Service, Faith-Based Living, & Splrltuallty. 
Informational Meeting 
Wednesday, October 6 
4:30 PM & 7:00PM in esc 
• Allemative Teacher Certification Program • Ongoing professional support and training 
through Northwestern University • Loan deferment and/or cancellation (credits toward a Masters in Education) • Room, board & medical insurdncc 
• 
Faith-Based Community Living • $l50monthly stipend 

• 
After-school activities (sports, art, drama etc.) • Transportation 


http://www.ictc-chicago.org teach@lctc-chlcago.org 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
FALL 2005, SPRING 2006, AY 2005-6, SUMMER 2005 
INFORMATION MEETING 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004 
5:00 PM 138 DBRT 

Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2004 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2005-6 MARCH 1, 2005 FOR SUMMER 2005 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 


Wednesday, October 6, 2004 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Packers continue to struggle 
Auociated Press 
GHEEN BAY. Wis. -Maybe Mike MeKnnzil' knew what he was talking about all along. 
When he first said he wanted out of Grnen Hay -a wish that was finally fulfilled Monday with his trade to the New Orleans SainL'i -McKenzie not only mentioned money but everything else he didn't like about the Packers. 
lie was unhappy over sec­ondary coach Hob Slowik's promotion to defensive coordi­nator when Ed Donatell got fired for the fourth-and-26 wreckage in Philadelphia that knocked the Packers out of the playoffs. And he was doubly disappointed when Kurt Sehottenheimer filled Slowik's vacatnd job in the secondary, a position McKenzie wanted to go to assistant defensive backs coach Lionel Washington. 
Donatell landed in Atlanta, where the Falcons (4-0) have a revitalized defense. A dismal defense is the primary reason for the Packers' first 1-3 start in 11 seasons. 
McKenzie, Green Bay's best defender last year, told coach­general manager Mike Sherman in April he'd never play for him again and swore it wasn't a ploy to get the Packers to renegotiate his con­tract. 
lie did play for the Packers again, albeit just nine snaps in the dime defense against Chicago three weeks ago befon~ suffering a puzzling hamstring injury that sidelined him for the last two games. 
"One of those ugly divorces," is how safety Darren Sharper described the split that was seven months in the making. 
When McKenzie took his bags -and baggage -to the Saints. he left behind a dys­functional defense. 
After McKenzie began beg­ging for a one-way ticket out of town, Sherman selected cor­nerbacks Ahmad Carroll and Jony Thomas with his top two draft picks, but they didn't impress as expected in training camp and got into a fight last month. Neither has seen the fil~ld much despite the propen-sity of McKenzie's replace­ment, Michael Hawthorne, to get hurt and burned on a weekly basis. 

The defensive line has a huge hole in the middle with­out 350-pound nose tackle Grady Jackson (knee). Paying a big price for his sumo-sized absence are Sharper and mid­dle linebacker Nick Barnett, both of whom look lost at times. That probably says more about Slowik's schemes than about a two-time Pro Bowl safety and a second-year player who made a push for rookie of the year honors last season. 
The new blitz-heavy approach may be a work in process, but the season is quickly slipping away. 
The Packers are 0-2 at home for the first time since 1988 after allowing the Bears 182 yards rushing and the Giants 245, the most anybody has gained on the ground against Green Bay since 1983. 
In between those embarrass­ments was an even bigger flop at Indianapolis. Slowik com­pounded his ill-conceived game plan -one he acknowledged he worked on since summer ­by his startling decision not to 


"'"~" 
f J 
~~xN('··~ch Grill 
·,._..., ~' 
Cl1oo!t·~ unJ' IJt'Ofm•orit~s 
an on~ 
mout"·wat~l'ittf( 
p/att•. 
,\;··w~· ..vito f,,.,Jt n'l:J,'T<?" otnd /<~to·I.-J row•ih-J w.o,~'JIIIr·•
1 
U..,'t. A Little At: 
.Hi.~Jft.IWrllur 
4810 GntJ·"' Rd }'!1-/J.Ji.l 

make adjustments until half­time, after Peyton Manning had thrown five touchdown passes on six possessions. 
The Packers' once potent offense just can't keep up. 
Pro Bowl center Mike Flanagan (knee) was placed on injured reserve Saturday. He was replaced by Grey Ruegamer, who got pushed around in Green Bay's 14-7 loss to New York. 
Brett Favre has started 212 straight games, counting play­offs, the longest streak for a quarterback in NFL history. But he is starting to show the effects of his ironman streak. His left shoulder frequently pops out of its socket and he's been knocked out of his last two starts. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles prepare to face Kalalllazoo College 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's trip to Michigan today might be its most important of the year. 

The team will be putting its three-game winning strP-ak on the line against the Kalamazoo HornP.ts. 
The Belles have managed to climb out of the cellar in the MIAA and are currently in fourth place. 
The team now stands with a 4-5 record in league play and 4-8 overall. 
But Kalamazoo will prove to be a real test for Saint Mary's. 
The Hornets have already defeated the Belles in four games earlier this year and have also won six of the last 
seven matches have done a lot
"We have done a lot of
played. of drilling and
drilling and have
Kalamazoo have decided currently sits decided as a team to as a team to in third place take control
take control ... " 
in the league and step up with an our overall impressive Michelle Gary play." record of 7-2 in defensive specialist Today's game 
the conference and 13-7 over­all. 
In the match played earlier this year, Amanda David and Shelly Bender both had strong offensive games for the Belles. 
Stacey Stark collected nine kills in the contest. and Michelle Turley had a great game on defense with 15 digs. Ann Cusack added 10 digs. 
The Belles will have to rely upon these leaders in this 

President, Center for National Policy Former Indiana 3rd District Congressman 
"The 9/11 Commission: The Transformation of Our Intelligence Community" 
Thursday, October 7th, 2004 7:00p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
(Reception to follow) 
Sponsored by: 

Notre Dame Law School John J. Reilly Center's Science, Technology & Values Program Computer Applications Program Hesburgh Program in Public Service 

highly critical match. 
This contest is crucial for Saint Mary's because it is presently caught in a three­way tie for fourth place with Adrian and Albion. 
A win could givo the Bolles sole possession of fourth place as the M IAA tourna­ment approaches. 
Saint Mary's has overcome a variety of off-the-court prob­lems in recent weeks and has made the decision to come together as a team. 
Michelle Gary acknowledged the strength of Kalamazoo, but is confident in the team's chances of winning and beat­ing the rest of the teams on the schedule. 
"Over the past week we have had a number of full 
practices," 
Gary said. "We 
Timothy Roemer 

Commissioner, 911 Commission 
begins at 7 
p.m. 
After this match, the Belles will not get much rest following the match as they prepare to take on another conference rival. 
Saint Mary's will face Calvin College Friday. 
Tonight will be the first of six consecutive away games for the team. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 





OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 19 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 usc (46) 4·0 1.604 2 Oklahoma (18) 4·0 1,560 3 Georgia (2) 4·0 1,491 4 Miami 4·0 1,409 5 Texas 4·0 1,358 6 Aubum 5·0 1,305 7 California 3·0 1,180 8 Florida State 3·1 1<149 9 Purdue 4·0 1,047 10 Virginia 4·0 1,036 11 Utah 5·0 937 12 Florida 3·1 866 13 Minnesota 5·0 722 14 Michigan 4·1 666 15 Wisconsin 3·0 650 16 West Virginia 4·1 604 17 Tennessee 3·1 551 18 Ohio State 3·1 547 19 Arizona State 5·0 507 20 Louisville 4·0 478 21 Boise State 5·0 396 22 Oklahoma State 4·0 360 23 Maryland 3·1 263 24 LSU 3·2 191 25 South Carolina 4·1 60 
NCAA Football Coaches 
team Jrecord points 
1 usc (46) 4·0 1,507 2 Oklahoma (18) 4·0 1,462 3 Georgia (1) 4·0 1,398 4 Miami (2) 4·0 1,347 5 Texas 4·0 1,283 6 Auburn 5·0 1,180 7 California 3·0 1,116 8 Florida State 3·1 1,049 9 Virgf~la 4·0 988 10 Purdue 4·0 952 11 Utah 5·0 876 12 Florida 3·1 731 13 Minnesota 5·0 684 14 Michigan 4·1 644 15 Ohio State 3-1 643 16 Wisconsin 3·0 597 17 Tennessee 3-1 519 18 West Virginia 4·1 497 19 Boise State 5·0 442 20 Louisville 4·0 434 21 Oklahoma State 4·0 353 22 Arizona State 5·0 314 23 Maryland 3·1 307 24 LSU 3·2 232 25 NC State 3·1 63 
Women's Volleyball AVCA 
teaT!!  record  
1  Minnesota  13·1  
2  Washington  10·0  
3  Southern Cal  6·2  
4  Penn State  11·0  
5  Florida  10·1  
6  Hawaii  10·0  
7  Nebraska  9·1  
8  UC-Santa Barbara  8·0  
9  Colorado State  ,10·1  
10  UClA  8·3  
11  Stanford  9·2  
12  California  7-3  
13  Santa Clara  8·2  
14  Texas A&M  6·4  
15  Kansas Slate  8·4  
16  Ohio State  12·0  
17  Arizona  8·4  
18  Texas  11·0  
19  Illinois  9·2  
20  Tennessee  12·1  
21  louisville  9·2  
22  Utah  8·2  
23  long Beach State  10;1  
24  Kansas  10·2  
25  Colorado  H  


around the dial 
MLB PLAYOFFS Houston at Atlanta 3:09 p.m., ESPN Minnesota at New York 6:09 p.m., ESPN Boston at Anaheim 9:09 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

DEERFIELD, Ill. Scottie Pippen played the sidekick to basketball's greatest star. creating a partnership the Chicago Bulls parlayed into an NBA dynasty with six titles in the 1990s. 
Pippen's career came to an end Tuesday as he announced his retirement following 17 years in he league. He made the announcement standing in front of the six champi· onship trophies he helped the Bulls win. 
"As I stand here and as I look back, I don't think Michael (Jordan) had any championship trophies without me," Pippen said of a basketball relationship was mutually beneficial. 
Jordan already was a star when Pippen arrived in 1987. Four seasons later, they brought the Bulls their first title. 
"It was a taste for us we had never had before," Pippen said, looking back on the five-game victory over the Lakers. 
There were two "three­peat" championships inter­rupted by Jordan's unsuc­cessful foray into baseball and a 72-10 regular season that may never be sur­passed. 
"He was playing with the best of all time," Bulls coach Scott Skiles said. "I don't know. maybe Michael wou1dn't have gotten them 
IN BRIEF Orton continues to draw 
natmnal attention 
INDIANAPOLIS -Kyle Orton is no rock star, but he sure is starting to feel like one. 
As the wins and big numbers keep piling up for No. 9 Purdue, so does the attention on Orton and his team­mates. And the spotlight is starting to get a little bright. 
After the Boilermakers (4-0, 1-0 Big Ten) routed Notre Dame for their first victory in South Bend in 30 years, they were mobbed by fans and auto­graph seekers outside the stadium. 
It's something that has caught the players by surprise, especially Orton, the low-key quarterback from Altoona, Iowa. 
"I tell the guys 'Once you leave the locker room, stay on the move. Once you stop, the feeding frenzy is upon you,"' Purdue coach Joe Tiller said Tuesday. 
Orton found that out first hand in South Bend. The Heisman Trophy candidate had what is increasingly without Scottie, either. You could make a case for that, for sure." 
Pippen, 39, chosen one of the NBA's 50 greatest play· ers in 1996 for the league's 50th anniversary, was known for his all-around play -especially his long· armed defense at 6-foot· 7 against some of the league's best scorers. The seven-time All-Star direct­ed the Bulls' famed triangle offense with his ballhan­dling skills. 
"Michael was here seven years before they started winning championships," said former Bull Bill Wennington. 
"What was the problem? He needed someone who agreed that you needed to go up the court and work your backside off to get it done. And Scottie was that guy who came in and said, "Yeah I will do that and you know what? If I'm the sec­ond man, that's OK." 
After 11 years with the Bulls, Pippen left after the 1999 lockout and played one year in Houston and four more in Portland. 
Looking for some leader­ship, the Bulls brought Pippen back last season to work with their young team. But he had knee sur­gery in December and played in only 23 games as the Bulls went 23-59. 
Pippen finished his career with a 16.1 scoring average to go with 6.4 rebounds and 5.2 assists. 

becoming a typical game for him, completing 21 of 31 passes for 385 yards and four touchdowns. He has now thrown 17 touchdown passes and no interceptions in four games this season. · World Golf Championships
lacks distinction 
THOMASTOWN, Ireland Umbrellas were in, sunglasses out. Fans walked about Mount Juliet in golf shoes with metal spikes, some­thing only seen (and heard) in Europe. No one in the gallery was drinking beer at 9 a.m. and scream­ing "Get in the hole!" when someone teed off on a par 5. 
Take away the $7 million purse, and the American Express Championship felt like a European tour event. 
And it's not much different when the World Golf Championships come to the United States. Even with the inflated prize money, it's getting hard to distinguish between them and most other PGA Tour events. 
Ernie Els earned $1.2 million for winning his first World Golf Championship at Mount Juliet. 
Sergio Garcia got nearly $1.05 mil­lion for winning his first Byron Nelson ChamJlionship in Dallas. Ravens Jamal Lewis will plead guilty 
ATlANTA-Baltimore Ravens run­ning back Jamal Lewis has agreed to plead guilty in his federal drug con­spiracy case, an aide to the presiding judge said Tuesday. 
Lewis is scheduled to enter his plea Thursday in federal court in Atlanta, said Vicki Hanna, the courtroom deputy for U.S. District Judge Orinda 
D. Evans. "A guilty plea on Mr. Lewis," Hanna 
said.  "That's  what's  scheduled.  
Correct."  
"There  is  no  plea  agreement  

entered," Hanna said. "The agree· ment won't be filed until it's entered, which would be Thursday. There is no plea agreement on file." 
page 20 Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Golf 
continued from page 24 
rebounded from a tough first round, in which she shot an 82, by finishing her final two rounds with a 73 and a 72, pulling herself into the top 15. 
Lee. Gebauer finished with a 235, placing her in a tie for 24th. Lee. who has played in every event so far in her first season. struggled somewhat in the early rounds, and walked off the course Tuesday in 41st place, ending up with a 242. 
What's most 
impressive 

Suzie Hayes had a consistent tournament and  "Suzie had one ofher best  about the Irish's most recent victory  
ended her tour­ tournaments of  is they did not  
nament in a three-way tie  her career."  rely entirely on the great play  
for 14th place with a 14-over  Debby King  of one individ­ual player. The  
par 230. Hayes,  Irish coach  team finished  

a junior co-cap­tain, had one of her most impressive finishes since joining the team two years ago. 
"Suzie had one of her best tournaments of her career," King said. 
However. King was not at all surprised by the strong play of her team leader. 
"I've been waiting for her to do this for some time," she said. 
Hounding out the Irish lineup were junior Lauren Gebauer and freshman Jane 
with consistent play from all six players. 
Consistency was something the team worked hard on early this season, and King is pleased to see that the team's effort is paying off. 
"The thing about this team is, we're so deep with talent, and everyone is stepping up and playing well right now," she said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
CONMI'T7t:C Ollf 0 ....., ~VitO l.«AIAN 
Anu»e"T Nr:£:os 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude. CSC. 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat fdr gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
CoJJJact: Tami Schmitz: 1-3106: schmitz.8@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: httn://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 

........................................................................ 
The NEW AND IMPROVED 
Br. Gorch Pool Hall 
Doubles 8-Ball Tournament 
Friday, October 8 @9:00p.m. 
Prizes include gift certificates to Best Buy and Legends! 
Sign ups in Br. Gorch Pool Hall Registration limited to 16 teams 
Brother Gorch Pool Hall also offers same-day 
KOdak film development and i,;l shipping. 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 


Belles 
continued from page 24 
"It was very good for team morale. We have 19 field players plus three goalies, and for as hard as they all work in practice, it's nice for them to get some time," said Artnak. "Just look at the score; the starters aren't the only ones on the team that can play. Anyone on our team can step in and play on a high level." 
The Belles appear to have put an end to two of their big prob­lems from the previous game ­playing consistent soccer from start to finish, and getting pro­duction from their forwards. 
"We got everyone in the game and still put two solid halves together, so we obviously have a lot of depth on our bench; it was good to have a solid win," Taylor said. "The forwards showed a lot of progress in this game; it was definitely a big improvement from Saturday's game against Calvin." 
Once the weak link of the team, the bench has become one of Saint Mary's biggest assets. 
"The bench has been a prob­lem in the past, but it's gotten better every year," Artnak said. "It's great to know this year that if someone has an off day, the bench can step right in without missing a beat." 
With the victory over Tri-State, the Belles have now played every team in the MIAA once. They will now face each team again to close out the season. 
"We're at the halfway point now; we feel pretty decent about our record," Artnak said. "But it's a whole new half; we'll put the first half behind us. and play everyone again after our experi­ences the first time. We'll take it one game at a time; the more games we win, the more we can keep our destiny in our own hands." 
Saint Mary's hopes the lesson learned in the first half will prove useful for the next round of games. 
"As a team, we've learned from our games; for example. after the Olivet game, we've learned to take every game seri­ously," Artnak said. " 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish struggle against Wildcats 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Wrirer 
The Irish now know they have work to do. After entering the Windon Memorial Classic to see how they compared to the top teams in both the district and the nation, the Irish were give a hard dose of reality. 
Notre Dame finished well behind host Northwestern's winning team score of 865 by placing 14th in the field of 18. Its team score of 906 was 41 strokes off the lead. 
The field had five teams that made the NCAA finals last year, including defending champion California. Additionally, nine other teams qualified for the NCAAs, with the Irish being one of these teams. 
Freshman Greg Rodgers, who has been performing stronger with each passing week. led the Irish this weekend. This show­ing was the best outing of his brief career for the Irish. Rodger's seven-over-par score of 220, which included a 69 on Monday's second round, placed him in a tie for 19th place. 
Sophomore Cole lsban was the runner-up for the Irish, shooting a three-round total of 226, placing himself in a tie for 44th. Junior Tommy Balderston, who won the John Dallio Memorial Invitational two weeks ago finished in 74th place with a score of 233. This placed him one stroke ahead of teammate Eric Deutsch, who shot a 234 and concluded the tournament in 77th. 
Junior Scott Gustafson, who has missed most of the year due to injuries sustained in a van accident, played in his first event of the season. After shooting a disappointing 86 in the first round, he improved with each successive round. shooting a 72 in round three. to finish in 82nd place with a score of 236. 
Additionally, five Irish golfers competed as individuals at the Earl Yestingmeier Invitational. Three of these players -Shane Sigsbee, Mark Baldwin and Eddie Peckels -scored in the top 10, having total scores of 212, 214 and 215, respectively. Also, freshman Mike King fin­ished tied for 34th with a 223, and senior co-captain K.C. Wiseman's score of 226 put him in a tie for 52nd. 
The Irish will not compete as a team again until The Nelson Invitational, hosted by Stanford, on Oct. 23 and 24. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Queslioning Studen:ls and Friends 
Please io:inustaran inlormauonalgatheringand conversation f,or studeniS questioning sexual oriontatioa 



Wednesdav. October 6 1· 
,PM Bee 'loom 


sb011nts will be served 
Broughtto you by 111e SUJdenrResource Gr,oup or tileStaldlng Commtu.ee tor Gay aad lesbian Studentnee,ds 
r------­
------~----­

Wednesday, October 6, 2004 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Hart's play. tions. every member of the Wild Hesmond and Sullivan look to "Their defense was covering Hesmond gave Walsh plenty Women defense has come up lead Walsh to an undefeated
Chaos 
of reason to celebrate as she provided constant harassment to the BP passing game. 
"The defensive line pressure forces the quarterback to make bad decisions," Hesmond said. 
She also noted that nearly 
the outside receivers pretty continued from page 24 
well, and I saw Anne Marie 

floating in the middle," she ing up, and [Jenny] did a great said. job getting open," Ruffer said. "I was happy to complete a 
Ruffer finished the contest pass to her, because she did a with two touchdown passes on great job on the line all game, 13 completions, throwing for and I was glad that she got 170 on 23 some recogni­attempts. tion." 
She hit Janice Pasquerilla
"Cavanaugh's

Flynn with four West was solidi­
offense was

minutes left in the fied when Van game, giving the determined to Hoegarden Chaos a 14-6 lead convert on the capped a 70­after the two-point yard-drive with a
opportunity.,,

conversion. 10-yard touch­
Ruffer's effec­down run. tiveness, though, Jenny Nokes "We had been was not limited to passing the
Chaos receiver 

the air. On the final play from scrimmage, she ran for a six­yard touchdown to make the score 20-6. 
For McGlinn, the loss was not as bad as the score indicates. 
"We're a little disappointed, but we played a great game," Becky Brown said. 
The Shamrocks tied the game late in the first half with a stel­lar catch and run to the goal by Liz Maher. On third-and-two, Brown hit Maher at the nine­yard line, slashed past two defenders to even the score. 
Unfortunately for the Shamrocks, that would be the only McGlinn score of the night. 
After Cavanaugh took the lead again, the McGlinn had to try to convert a tough fourth down with 1:15 left. 
Chaos middle linebacker Lizzy Brown adjusted to the pass and intercepted the ball. Her 20-yard return to the 
whole drive, and 
the middle was wide open, so I just took off running. It was 3rd down, so I just wanted to get the ball in the end zone," Van Hoegarden said. 
The game was a must-win for the Weasels, who are hoping for a playoff spot. 
"This game was really impor­tant, because we were coming off a loss to Cavanaugh on Sunday," Hart said. "We're really coming together as a team. We're -communicating better, and everything is just starting to click. I think this game really set a precedent for how we're going to play the rest of our games." 
Walsh 6, Breen-Phillips 0 
When two undefeated teams play one another, it is the team that avoids making the big mis­takes that wins. At least this was the result of Tuesday night's match when Walsh 

McGlinn 6 set up Ruffer's touch­ "/ don't think they  upset top-ranked Breen Phillips  
down  run  and  saw me as a  with a  6-0 victo­ 
sealed the game  potential receiver.,  ry.  
for the Chaos, now  Garnering  
3-1. "Cavanaugh's  Anne Marie Hart  "MVP" "Hesmond  and for  
offense was deter­ Weasels center  Heisman" chants  

mined to convert on the opportuni­ty," Nokes said. "After the interception, we really wanted to step up and convert the opportunity the defense gave us." 
At 1-3-1, McGlinn will have difficulties finding post-season play as the season is coming to a close. 
For Cavanaugh, the focus now centers on Breen-Phillips. 
"We have a big game Sunday against BP," head coach Lou Perry said. "They might be the best team we faced, and they'll be angry after they lost tonight." 
Pasquerilla West 13, Farley 6 
There are great moments in sports when an unexpected hero steps up to lead his or her team to an important and memorable victory. 
Such was the case for Pasquerilla West (2-1-1) in its 13-6 win over Farley (1-4) Tuesday night, when quarter­back Heather Van Hoegarden hit center Anne Marie Hart for what turned out to be a crucial touchdown late in the game. 
"It was a pretty simple play. Heather rolled out and was looking on the outside, and I was just in the middle right in front of the end zone," Hart explained. 
"They were covering our slants. and I don't think they saw me as a potential receiv­er." 
The play gave the Weasels a 13-0 lead heading into the final stretch of the. game, which proved to be very important as the Finest scored a late touch­down to get within seven. After completing the pass, Van Hoegarden was happy with 
after the game 
was senior cor­nerback Katie Hesmond, who grabbed two interceptions for the Wild Women. Hesmond has had two interceptions in each game this year, bringing her season total to ten. 
I-Iesmond's first interception came late in the first half, when she intercepted a pass by Breen Phillips sophomore quarterback Ali Brosnan. Her 30-yard interception return set the Walsh offense up with great field position deep in the Babes' territory. 
Walsh freshman quarterback Mary Sullivan was able to con­vert the good field position into points for her squad with back­to-hack quarterback keepers, the second of which was a ten­yard scramble for a touch­down. 
"That run was all set up because of downfield blocking," Sullivan said. 
Gaining nearly one hundred yards on the ground individual­ly, Sullivan has proven to be the catalyst for the Walsh option attack. 
Throughout the entire con­test, Sullivan slashed her way through the BP secondary. She was able to gain significant amounts of yardage and took time off of the clock during every possession. 
As hard as Sullivan was for the Babes to contain, Hesmond's defensive domi­nance was the reason that the Wild Women shut out their fourth opponent in five games. 
With a handful of pass deflec­tions, and the two crucial inter­ceptions, Hesmond made it nearly impossible for Breen Phillips to make any comple­season this Sunday against Pasquerilla East. 

Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu, Ben Wallace at bwallac2@nd.edu and Nathan Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu 
Applications Available wwwl nd.edul-intlstud Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004for F '05 and AY2005-2006 
John H. Cochrane 
M)'ron S. Scholes Professor ofFinance Graduate School ofBusiness University ofChicago 
Asset Pricing Theory and the Equity Premittm 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 3:30p.m. to 5:00p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business University ofNotre Dame 
Sponsored by: Department of Finance, Mendoza College of Business 
Free and open to the public For information: (574) 631-3277 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Mendoza College ofBusiness 

UNIVERSITY 0 F NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 Hurley Building Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5882 Fax: 631-57ll 

BERLIN 
INFORMATIONMEETING With Professor Hannelore Weber 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 244 DeBartolo 
7:00PM 

with an interception through­out the season. 
The play of the Walsh defense has been the story the entire year, allowing only six total points all season. With only one game remaining, 
r------------------------------~-------­
page 22 
Football 
continued from page 24 
right positions to get them to execute the job, but it still comes down to execution," Willingham said. "And some­times you search and the guy behind that guy is not as good as the guy you recognize. And as a coach it means you have to coach our guys better to do their job." 
Notre Dame is aware of Hushing's game-changing abili­ties. Willingham said his team is preparing accordingly. 
"We are very much aware [that Stanford is third in the country in kick returns]-! think it is T.J. Rushing, is dynamic in his return ability," Willingham said. "He has done a very good job against some other very good teams, so we'll have to put in some safeguards to make sure he does not have that kind of success against 
us." 
Also on special teams, Stanford has blocked three punts and one field goal in four games, including a blocked punt they returned for a touch­down last week against Washington. 
"You always focus on those things," Willingham said when asked if he was concerned about the Cardinal special teams. 
Meanwhile, the Irish have allowed an average of 18.4 yards per kick return. They have also blocked one punt and had two blocked. 
Contact Heather van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Special teatns are the unit in the spotlight 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 

Two kickoff returns along with a punt blocked for a touch­down has made Notre Dame's special teams units a hot topic. 
Jerome Brooks' 100-yard kickoff return Saturday was a turning point in the game and gave Purdue a lead it would never relinquish. Many Irish players on Monday voiced con­cern on the unit's performance. 
"It's extremely disappointing, especially in the kickoff area." linebacker Mike Goolsby said. "It's one of the rare parts of football that it's not about game planning or scheming anymore, it's about an attitude going down there making the hit and making the play, and I don't think we've had that. That's unacceptable." 
Goolsby called himself out by saying he shouldn't have sent in his substitute on kickoff return when he felt he needed some time off. 
"I didn't feel like I was pulling my weight," he said. "That's something I have to look at and some of the other guys have to look at their effort." 
As for other starters, they're ready to play more of a role on special teams if asked by the coaches. 
''I'm up for playing any spe­cial teams personally. It's ulti­mately the coaches' final deci­sion, but it's not my decision," said linebacker Derek Curry, who is on the punt team. "Given that opportunity, I'd go out there in a minute." 

Justin Tuck, who isn't on any special teams unit, felt the same way as Curry. 
"I might be asking the coach­es to put me on them this week­end," Tuck said. Fasano 
Hearing about the game plan going into Saturday doesn't make Anthony Fasano's game seem like as much of a sur­prise. 
Looking at the Boilermakers at film exposed holes in the middle of their defense on Irish are dwelling on this week. blitzes and zones which Fasano ''I'm not looking back at last and Brady Quinn were able to year," Tuck said. "We haven't take advantage of. looked at film from last year's 
"I think it was more of what game. It doesn't do justice to the defense was giving us than the type of team they arc right more of what I was doing," now." Fasano said. "Coach put us in a The Cardinal (3-1) started the good situation and me and season with four straight home Brady just worked it out and games with their only loss com­took what they were giving us." ing to USC when the Trojans Not taking Stanford lightly mounted an impressive second 
Last year's 57-7 win was half comeback after Stanford Notre Dame's biggest of the built a 28-17 lead. season and the biggest in the Tyrone Willingham era. Contact Matt Lozar at 
But it's not something the mlozar@nd.edu 
WINNING NAVY TICKET LOTTERY NUMBERS 
the winning lottery nmnbers are also posted outside the SUB office in 201 LaFortune 
1818,2110,2751,2757,2760,2761,2766,2767,2768,2769,2771,2774,2776,2779,2781 
2782,2786,2795,2796,2797,2803,2804,2807,2810,2813,2822,2824,2826,2827,2831 
2835,2836,2837,2842,2843,2844,2849,2851,2853,2856,2858,2860,2861,2863 2864, 
2868,2874,2876,2877,2882,2890,2900,2903,2905,2907,3003,3004,3006,3010,3014, 
3015,3018,3020,3021,3022,3023,3025,3026,3029,3030,3031,3036,3039,3040,3043, 
3044,3045,3053,3056,3062,3064,3070,3081,3083,3084,3085,3090,3091,3092,3095, 
3100,3103,3104,3111,3113,3114,3117,3118,3119,3120,3121,3122,3123,3126,3128, 
3129,3130,3134,3141,3143,3146,3152,3154,3155,3159,3161,3162,,3164,3165,3166, 
3169,3172,3175,3176,3179,3180,3185,3193,3201,3202,3208,3211,3216,3218,3219, 
3220,3223,3224,3226,3228,3229,3230,3232,3236,3237,3238,3239,3240,3241,3248 
winning numbers may begin to purchase tickets from LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE 
you must have ND STUDENT ID and WINNING TICKET NUMBER to purchase ticket 
At the opening of LaFortune Box Office on Monday, October 11th, the remaining tickets will be available to any Notre Dame student (winning lottery tickets become invalid) 
GO IRISH, BEAT MIDSHIPMEN brought to you by the student union board. SUB.ND.EDU 

.-------------­
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DILBERT 
THE BUCK-PASSER 
ALICE, THIS TASK IS RIGHT UP YOUR ALLEY. 
PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS 

WHY SHOULD I DO BECAUSE YOUR WORK , YOU ITS RIGHT ITS GONNA FILTHY BUCK-PASSER?! UP YOUR BE RIGHT 
ALLEY. UP YOUR ALLEY. 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

JUMBLE 

I I r 
~004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GEDEW 
rJ I b 
IDRYBAN j
t rI 
WWW.Juni:lle.com 
I BADOUN t 

form the surprise answer, as
I ( J J I

.____.._....,......::..____._,._.a____. suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: rnTHE"( I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GRIEF HOIST THRIVE DISARMYesterday's I 
Answer: What the tennis fans said when he aced the obnoxious favorite-"SERVES" HIM RIGHT 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 

THE: C-OWBOY DIDN'T JOIN HIS PAL.S IN THE: SAL.OON BE:C.AUSE: HE: WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to 
CROSSWORD 
Note: Each of the three theme answers below (20-, 36-and 54-Across) can be clued with the same three letters. 
ACROSS 35 Kennel sound 64 Advil alternative 1 Chick on the 36 See instructions 65 Caribbean and piano others
41 Leave the 6 P.D.O. in the 
scene 66 Rock radio 

I.C.U. pioneer Freed
42 Satisfy the 10 Casing munchies 67 Administered 14 Ph.D. hurdle 43 50-50, e.g. medicine 
15 Part of S.N.L. 
44 Old discs 16 Narrow way DOWN
45 Orthodontist, for 17 Try to bite one: Abbr. 1 Swindle 18 Mental flash 46 Calls the shots 2 Yankee 19 Aboard 50 Words of 
opponent assistance

20 See instructions 3 Cousin of an 23 Flamenco shout 
52 Sidekick epee 

53 Cry of insight 4 Zing 25 Comb stopper 54 See instructions 5 Vino region 
24 Sushi selection 
27 Harangues 59 Cork's country 6 Covers with gunk
30 Toward the tail 60 Confess 7 Kind of basin 
32 Copacabana 61 Camel site caravan's stop-B State firmly 33 Youth 9 Sign of sorrow
off 
62 Tend the sauce

34 Dedicated 10 "Wake of the 
lines? 63 Victory goddess Ferry" painter 11 Pocket ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE protector? 12 Cabinet post since 1849 
13 Opposite of paleo­
21 Ribbed 
22 Follower's suffix 
26 Barn section 
28 Heaps 
29 Letter from Greece 
30 Flap 
-:':-t-::::+=+::+.::-1 31 Productive -=+-:=:+:+.~:-! 34 Frequently, in verse 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


35 "Whoopee!" 45 Society newbie 52 Lawrence Welk specialty
36 Healthy 46 Obscure 55 Sicilian
37 Speed up 47 Political hothead? 
movements
38 Ornamental 56 Come up short · 

vine: Var. 48 Prosper 57 Loathsome
39 "_ Kapital" 49 Got fresh with 
person 40 What a person 51 Mike who 
58 Sign of sanctity may become played Austin 

when kneeling Powers 59 Double curve 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Miller, Diane Cilento, Mario Lemieux, Josie Bissett 
Happy Birthday: Don't hold back. Set your sights on your goals and forge ahead. You can have it all if you are precise, determined and confident in your pursuits. This is a terrific year to lay out your plans and take action. You will find it easy to round up the support you need if you use your sophisticated manner to persuade those in influential positions. Your numbers: 2, 15, 17,26,35,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is not the day to give unwanted advice. It's best to listen and observe. You'll damage your own reputation if you insist on gossiping about others. Friends will get quite upset if you take sides.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It is best to make your own arrangements if you don't want to be disappointed or left out. Don't be dependent on others. Instead, you should do things for yourself. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a thirst for knowledge. Listen and you will pick up valuable information. Travel should be a part of your plans for the day. Short outings will bring about love possibilities. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Expect to have sudden changes regarding your relationships. Residential moves will be to your benefit in the long term. Larger quarters or more people on your domestic scene loom. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expand your circle of friends. Don't be afraid to volunteer for positions that involve working within your community. New connections will lead to adventure and excitement. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend time with those who could use your help You need to be around individuals who you find stimulating. Look into personal changes that will make you feel better about yourself. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use extra discipline to enable you to control bad habits. Limitations may develop if you have children who need your attention. Beware of poor financial maneuvers. **¥ SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social activities will enhance your love life. Don't deal with legal documents or personal papers today. Your anger will mount if a joint venture isn't working out. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Follow through with projects that you can do by yourself. Dealing with those you love could lead to upset. It is best not to discuss personal matters today. ***** CAPRICORN (De.c. 22-Jan. 19): Slow down and enjoy life. Rethink your intentions and you won't find yourself in an awkward position. Minor mishaps can be expected if you don't think about what you are doing. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your intuitive insight will give you the upper hand when dealing with others. You need to spend time with those who have the same intellectual interests. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your overactive imagination may lead to bad dreams. Try to put your personal life in perspective. Stop running away from your problems. You can't make changes unless you're willing to acknowledge what needs to be done. *** Birthday Baby: You have a will of your own. You are strong, determined and willing to do whatever is necessary in order to do things your own way. You were born with the ability to intellectually manipulate others. You are a born leader and a no-nonsense individual. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web .vite at www.eugeniala.l'l. com 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-----·~ ----~--­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Bending, not breaking 
Stanford will present a new challenge for Notre Dame's struggling special teams unit 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Editor 
In two of their last three games, thn Irish have allowed a kick return to go for a touch­down. Saturday against Stanford, defending the return will become an even greater task. 
Tlw Cardinal. whirh ranks f"irst in the l'ae-1!1 in kick returns and third in the nation, is led by speedy T.J. Hushing. The junior cornerback has rnturned eight kicks for 374 yards this Sf~ason, good for a 
37.6 average. !lis average is first in the nation. 
Hushing will present chal­lenges for the Irish special teams, which gave up a 100­yard touchdown return to Purdue's .Jerome Brooks after Notre Dame cornerback Ambrose Wooden missed a tackle that would have saved the touchdown. 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham attributed the touchdown to a lack of tech­nique on the part of the Irish unit as a whole. 
"We didn't hold in the correct manner," Willingham said. "All of the little things that go along with it to create a big play, we didn't do well. It is usually a breakdown in your lane struc­ture that you don't cross the space at the right time, you don't push and take the guy back into the wedge. And !Purdue's) was more of a double team at a couple of places. You don't break or penetrate the double teams; therefore, you open and widen that lane and allow him a chance to get up in thnre and we didn't constrict it." 
Against Michigan State Sept. 18, the Irish gave up an 89­yard kickoiT return for a touch­down to DeAndra Cobb. So what happened then? 
"Very much the same thing las the return by Purdue]." Willingham said. 
Hushing has already run one kickoiT back fur a touchdown, a 99-yarder against Brigham Young. Against USC last week, he had a 54-yard return as well. Marcus McCutcheon is the Cardinal's other returner, and he is averaging 24.3 yards per return with three returns on the season. 
Willingham said the Irish will not necessarily make personnel changes in special teams, despite the Cardinal's three big plays this season. 
"You constantly try to lind the right personnel to put in the 
see FOOTBALL/page22 


NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish roll to victory by 12 strokes 
ranked No. 11 according to By ERIC RETTER the most recent golfstat.com News Writer poll. 
King is pleased to see her The Irish are on a roll. team beginning to achieve its ThP. team rallied from one potential. The team has also 
stroke down to come back and achieved its highest ranking of win the Shootout at the the season, No. 18 in accord­I.ngP.nds by 12 strokes. For the ing to golfstat.com 's most first time in recent poll. Irish coach "It's just like Debby King's "It was just a matter the cliche; it was 
four-year oftime. All of[the just a matter of 
tnnure, the time," King said.
players on the team/

Irish can boast "All of [the play­about winning have been working ers on the team] 
back-to-hack so hard, it had to have been work­
tournaments, ing so hard, it
pay offsooner or

starting with had to pay off
later.,, 
Photo courtesy of und.com
the .Jeannine sooner or later." 
Junior Katie Brophy finished
McHaney .Junior co-cap­
11-over par this weekend.
Invitational! tain Katie
Debby King 

Central Brophy and
Irish coach 

Hegional sophomore Stacy Sophomore Noriko Nakazaki Preview title on Brown led the finished close behind her Sept. 24-26. Irish this week­teammates, posting a 229 to 
Thn Irish faced a relatively end, both finishing in a tie for finish in 13th place. Nakazaki strong field at the Shootout, eighth with three-round totals ineluding Michigan, currently of 11-over-par 227s. see GOLF/page20 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Cavanaugh tops rival McGlinn in 20-6game 
By KEN FOWLER, 
BEN WALLACE and 
NATHAN DYER 
Sports Writers 
Though the temperature at Hiehle Field West may have bllen eold, the air was hot with action in the matehup between the Cavanaugh Chaos and McGlinn Shamrocks last night. 
For McGlinn, Bridget Meacham and Becky Brown combined to throw for over 100 yards, completing eleven passes on fourteen attempts with one touchdown. 
Cavanaugh's captain, Lisa Ruffer, however, refused to be outdone. 
Setting the tone early in the game, Huffer completed six of her first ten passes for eighty­five yards. With just over eight minutes left in the first half, she connected with .Jenny Nokes for a touchdown pass to give Cavanaugh a 6-0 lead. 
"Their defenders were push-
see CHAOS/page21 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles dominate Tri-State in 8-1 victory 
After scoring only eight goals By RYAN DUFFY in their last live games com­Sports Writer bined, the Belles ended their offensive woes and exploded For perhaps the first time all for another eight yesterday.season, the Belles were clicking Captain Katie Taylor opened 
on all cylinders. the scoring with a header off of 
After losing two of their last a corner kick. Her teammates three games, Saint Mary's quickly followed her lead, and looked dominant in an 8-1 win goals by Carrie Orr, Carolyn over Tri-State University on Logan and Ashley Hinton Tuesday. allowed the Belles to go into the "It was nice to finally put half with a 4-1 lead. Hinton led 
some balls in the back of the off the second half with her net," senior Shannon Artnak second goal of the game to said. "It's hurt us sometimes in make it 5-l, and Orr matched games not being able to finish, her feat when she scored her and sometimes we'll play well, second goal. Jen Concannon but not finish shots. We hope and Cat MacMillan also scored the team as a whole was able goals to seal the 8-1 victory. to get the monkey off our The large lead allowed Saint back's with this game, because Mary's to get more players into 
we can't continue to have that the game than usual. problem for the rest of the sea­son." see BELLES/page 20 
en 
MEN'S GOLF 
NBA 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
NFL 
NBA 
MlB 
loLl

1-
(,) 
Saint Mary's vs. 
Red Sox 9 
The Irish finished 14th 
After 17 years, Scottie 

Kalamazoo 
Green Bay cornerback 
Angels 3 

Jermaine O'Neal has 
out of 18 teams last 
Pippen announced his 

Mike McKenzie was 
started training camp
a: ::5 z 
weekend at the Windon 
retirement from the 
The Belles face their 

traded to New Orleans 
for the Pacers without a 
Curt Schilling pitched 

C) c:s 
Memorial Classic. 
NBA. 

MIAA rival, who is in 
after he mentioned his 
back brace for the first 
for Boston in the AL 

a.. !;: Cl: 
third place in the con-
distaste for the team. 
time in three years. 
playoffs opener. 

ference. 
page 19 
page 18 
page 18

en page 20 
page 15 
page 14 







