
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Police investigate intruder 
NDSP looks into reports ofPasquerilla West vandalism 
her, said Chuck Hurley, Notre adding that she did not speak toBy CLAIRE HEININGER Dame Security/Police assistant the intruder and said she had 

News Editor 
director. never seen him before. 
The man walked into the The suspect is described as 

Notre Dame security officials shower stalls and remained white, between 5-foot-7 and 5­are searching for a male intrud­there for a few minutes, where foot-9, wearing baggy blue jeans er who was reportedly lurking the witness heard him "shuffiing and a dark hooded sweatshirt, in Pasquerilla West on Sunday around," Hurley said. After the unshaven and with a sandy morning, frightening residents man exited the shower area, the blonde buzzed haircut, Hurley and vandalizing several areas in witness saw him leave the bath­said. He was believed to be of the dorm. room, walking strangely "as if college age, NDSP director Rex 
i\ resident of the women's hall tipsy or trying to be quiet," Hakow said. said she was in a fourth floor Hurley said. No evidence was found of bathroom at approximately 7:05 Because she was afraid to fol­forced entry to the dorm, lead­
a.m. when she glanced into the low the man, the resident wait­ing police to conclude the sus­mirror and saw a suspicious ed a few minutes before leaving person enter the room behind the bathroom, Hurley said, see POLICE/page 4 

SMC seniors cap off year -with cotnp projects 
By ERICA RANGEL 
News Writer 
For many Saint Mary's seniors with little more than a semester left, only one.. major assignment stands in their way -the senior comprehensive. 
Commonly known as the "comp," the graduation require­ment aims to be a capstone for each student's major. 
Comp requirements generally vary from major to major. Business majors complete a group case project and 25 to 30 page paper on a company, while music majors select a 19th or 20th century piece to present and perform. Science and math majors work on research proj­ects, and liberal arts major 
see SENIORS/page 4 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Me111bers exa111ine results of task forces 
Students propose new campus lighting idea 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Members of the Campus Life Council discussed task force reports, including proposals on campus lighting and bylaw changes Monday. 
O'Neill senator Alex French said the security task force has proposed installing more lighting on campus. The report cited the path past the tennis courts on the way ·to Turtle Creek as an area of particular concern. 
Father Jim Lewis, Carroll rector, agreed with the idea of increased lighting. 
"I would appreciate any 
attention you could offer in more remote areas of the campus," he said. 
However. Father Paul Doyle, Dillon rector, expressed some hesitation in regards to adding lighting around campus. 
"J think it's important to haye lighting in places where people are at risk," Doyle said. "But there's too much lighting in some places.... In my opin­ion, in front of Morrissey, it need not [always\ look like noon." 
French also raised the topics of security call boxes. improved fire safety and reestablishing a security blot­ter section in The Observer. 
Jordan Bongiovanni, Cavanaugh senator, said the social concerns task force was examining diversity on cam-
see CLC/ page 4 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Students 
•


rev1ewnew constitution 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 

Council of Hepresentatives met Monday night to discuss a variety of issues. including complaints made by representatives about the new constitution, which took effect this year. 
Student Body President Adam Istvan started by asking members to voice any problems with the new constitution. 
Chief of Staff Dave Baron men­tioned the unnecessary demands the Constitution places on the Executive Programming Board, which is responsible for scheduling and publicizing all campus events. He noted that though the Constitution currently requires two representatives from the program­ming board be present at all the meetings, only one is necessary. 
"It seems superfluous to have, for example, both the Student Union Board manager and director of pro­gramming at every meeting," Baron said. 
Hall Presidents Council co-chair Liz Cain added that, in the case of the Executive Programming Board, the constitution demands more meetings than are necessary. 
"Right now the Executive Programming Board meets every other week," Cain said. "But if we met once every two weeks, we would still get the job done." 
Senior class president Darrell Scott said the frequency of meet­ings seems to affect the attitude of those who attend them. He noted that less frequent meetings can be beneficial for groups that do not always have new weekly business to discuss. 
see CORlpage 4 
Tuesday, November 9, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Like father, 
like daughter 
I think it was when I was around I() that I realized who my hero was. I remember sitting on the l'loor of' my bedroom sobbing, lis­tnning to Simon and Garfunkel's song "I Am A Hock," play. Julie Bender over and over again on repeat. There was a Scene Writer knock on my door, and I quickly brushed away my tears and tried to compose myself as my dad peeked in. When he saw I was cry­ing, he of course pushed the door all the way open and made me tell him what was wrong. I remember the heat rise into my flushed face as I looked in my dad's sympathetic eyes. He obviously thought some­thing serious had happened. It would be way too embarrassing to admit all these tears were just because the boy I had liked for two years had asked one of my friends to the homecoming dance and not me. Somehow, though, amidst my gasps, hiccups and another flood of tears, my dad got the story out of me. But, instead of laughing or telli.ng me how silly I was being­things that in retrospect are true ­my dad wrapped me in a huge hug, and to my great surprise, he told me not just one, but many similar stories from when he was in high school. 
In hearing these stories from my dad, I realized how similar we were in just about every aspect of our personalities. Physically, we arn opposites, my dad being 6-foot­2 and dark (now gray) haired, and rnn only 5-foot-2 and blond. But, in our quirks, we are nearly identical. Things I thought were purely cre­ations of my own -like writing a script every time I have to call a boy on the phone -my dad had done years before. Even things like listening to "I Am A Hock" on repnat, is inherited from my dad. 
_ When he heard that song playing 
· from my room, by instinct he knew something was wrong. He had lis­tened to Simon and Garfunkel when he was feeling down as a teenager as well. Strange how the phrase 'like father, like daughter' is so true. 
Looking at my dad now, I know that he has always been my hero. whether I realized it or not. I remember the time he was my soft­ball coach as a kid, how he came to every one of my soccer and lacrosse games in high school, how he took me to my first concert ... how he's the first person I want to call every time something good or bad happens. 
I love my dad; he's the absolute greatest. I know that if I continue to follow in his footsteps, I will be successful, no matter what. One thing is for sure, I can listen to "I Am A Hock" all I want, but there is one person who will never fail to make my tough exterior melt-my dad. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Julie Bender at jfJender@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ISm at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correc£ our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How LONG UNTIL IT SNOWS IN SOUTH BEND? 
j 
,_, .




f ,.I·
1.\ . ' > 
"__:._· •.J'..' . 

t .} : ; 





Brandon McGirr junior Keenan  Alison Dunleavy freshman Pasquerilla West  Christina Goodwin junior Pasquerilla East  Murf Tiawphaibul junior Knott  Rachel Manley junior Farley  Will Kurtz junior Knott  
"When  "Tomorrow  "Hopefully  "Who knows? It  "Far too soon. "  "When God  

engineers have because I want before never snows too much work to make snow Christmas. " here." to do. Oh, angels on the 
,
wait ... quad." 

Company again touting weird soda flavors 
SEATTLE -Jones Soda Co. takes the idea of a liq­uid diet to a new low. How does Green Bean Casserole Soda strike you? And how about an aggressively but­tery-smelling Mashed Potato Soda? 
Even the creators of the fizzy concoctions at this small Seattle soda compa­ny can hardly stomach the stuff. But last year's unex­pected success of the Turkey & Gravy Soda means another round of bizarre food-flavored soft drinks. As an added bonus -they're calorie-free. 
TODAY 
c:: 
This week Jones Soda Co. launches a full meal deal of five Thanksgiving soda flavors. from the bile­colored Green Bean Casserole to the sweet ­but slightly sickly ­Fruitcake Soda. Last year's Turkey & Gravy is also back on the menu. 
Mobsters use laundry to send messages 
HOME -Italy's anti­Mafia investigators have long battled money laun­dering. Now they're crack­
ing down on jailed mob­sters' dirty laundry. Imprisoned Mafia boss Leonardo Vitale smuggled 
messages out of prison in laundry given to visiting relatives so he could keep running extortion rackets targeting vintners in the countryside near ?artinico, outside Palermo, prosecu­tors said Monday. 
The revelation came as police arrested 24 people in connection with the extortion ring, including Vitale's wife. whom inves­tigators said received and transmitted her husband's orders so he could contin­ue running the Vitale clan from behind bars. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI ::::t: 
~ 
LLI 
J)

-~ 
_, 
~ 
<C 
(.) 0 

...1 HIGH 48 HIGH 44 HIGH 59 HIGH 47 LOW 37 LOW 34 LOW 42 LOW 23 
feels like it. " 
IN BRIEF 

The Career Center will sponsor "The Job and Internship Search: Beyond Campus Interviews," today from 6 to 7 p.m. in 114 Flanner Hall. 
A panel of scholars will dis­cus the topic "Rethinking the Bomb: Nuclear Weapons in the Age of Terrorism," today from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Eck Center Auditorium. 
Notre Dame professors Daniel Lindley. George Lopez. Gary Masapollo. and Martha Merritt will discuss 
U.S. involvement in Iraq at the panel "Iraq: What Now'? Should the U.S. withdraw stay the course, or engage more deeply?" today from 
4:15 to 5:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
International Students Programs and Services will sponsor a showing of the Norwegian film "Kristen Lavransdatter," with English subtitles, today from 7 to 10 
p.m. in DeBartolo Hall 117. 

CNN journalist Margaret Carlson will give a lecture on "How Did We Get Ilere? The Voters. the Media and the Unknown in Election 2004," from 2 to 3:15 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The play "Fortinbras" will be performed today from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in Philbin Studio Theater of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~ 

~ 
HIGH 41 HIGH 

44 
LOW 24 LOW 

27 
Atlanta 63 I 40 Boston 40 I 27 Chicago 53 I 42 Denver 62 I 43 Houston 76 I 60 Los Angeles 68 I 52 Minneapolis 53 I 47 New York 44 I 30 Philadelphia 45 I 28 Phoenix 71 I 54 Seattle 54 I 46 St. Louis 60 I 42 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Students discuss Identity Forum 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Board of Governance mem­bers discussed the recent Saint Mary's Identity Forum, which focused on diversity at the College, and the T-shirt sold to students during Pride Week in September. 
BOG members said some stu­dents found the T-shirt to be sexist and racist. Additionally some students believe the T­shirts inappropriately stereo­typed the College. 
"I feel that it is important for us to have honest discussion about the T-shirts. recognizing that there arc a lot of opinions out there." women's issues commissioner Katie Kelly said. 
Student body pmsident Sarah Catherine White apologized for not being able to attend the dis­cussion and said that she looked forward to attending future identity forums. 
Katie Kelly, the primary organizer of the forum, said she would like to hear feedback from the audience regarding what they liked and disliked about it. Many board members commented on the fact that it was important to continue this campus-wide dialogue and find ways to get those who did not attend the forum to attend future forums. 
The board also discussed the forum's length. Last week it lasted only one hour due to a fire drill that occurred in LeMans Hall. Some felt this was not enough time and that not everyone had a chance to voice their opinion. It was also noted some students felt no progress was made regarding the defini­tion of a Saint Mary's woman. 
"People need to be reason­able. We cannot solve anything 
Open 
AA 
Meeting 
6:00p.m. Wednesdays 

Room 300 Health Services Bldg 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 

DUTPDST Hours: 
Mon. -Fri.: w:oo am -9:00 pm
~ 
Sat.: :w:oo am-B:oo pm
Cold Weather Experts 
Sun.: 12:oo pm-6:oopm 
in one hour," student body vice president Mary Pauline Moran said. 
Kelly said she hoped to hold another identity forum some­time before Thanksgiving and also intends to create a commit­tee to focus on discussion ques­tions and the agenda of the forums. 
"These are life long issues we will face both in and out of col­lege. It helps us think further as student leaders," Sarah Catherine White said. 
In other BOG news: 

+ Adriana Puente, the new president of the Student Diversity Board, said she intended to focus on increased accessibility for the disabled around campus. SOB also plans to contribute to the discussion of campus diversity by conduct­ing a survey to sec what specific issues are on students' minds. The Board will also be hosting a 
Nov. 18 diversity forum. 

+ 
The Student Activities Board will host a showing of "Shrek 2" at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 

+ 
Mission commissioner Mary Beth Swyart said the second Service Sunday occurred Sunday and had a turnout of about 25 students. Swyart said she was pleased with the turnout and plans to hold another Service Sunday sometime in December. 

+ 
Junior class president Dan-ielle Lerner said the class formal will be Nov. 20. The class is also in the process of selling Junior Mom's weekend wookbooks to fundraise for Junior Mom's weekend. which will be held in April. 


Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
"The members of the board will have more energy, more pep in their step, if they meet every other week." Scott said. 
Student Union Board manager Jimmy Flaherty credited the pro­gramming board for unifying the student groups to develop a com­prehensive, all-inclusive calendar, but he acknowledged that SUB has failed to make the calendar widely available students. 
"We have great discussions at the meetings. But then the infor­mation sits on a desk for a week, and does not get publicized around campus," Flaherty said. "Why can't we send that informa­tion forward to the students? A Web site would be a united push to achieve that." 
Istvan accepted responsibility for delays in implementing a web­site with a calendar of campus events, which is required in the new constitution. 
"Updating and completing the Web site has been one of my office's failures, but we're work­ing on it," Istvan said. 
He cited a lack of cooperation from Domer Designs, which runs and maintains most of the University's Web sites, as part of the problem. 
Istvan also mentioned his own experiences with the constitution this year, noting he has not yet used the presidential committee, to which he is entitled. This com­mittee would, in theory. organize and run events that bring speak­ers to campus and raise aware­ness about issues affecting stu-· dents. He cited as examples Gay and Lesbian Awareness Week and Alcohol Awareness Week. events currently being run by Student Senate. 
"I have definitely not gotten a flash bang start on that." he said. Other complaints voiced about the constitution dealt with the 
document's financial provisions. Baron expressed his concern about access to account balances of student government groups. He suggested that the constitution might clarify where money is located and how much each stu­dent group is spending. 
COR also discussed the need for the constitution to grievances. and Istvan told members to move forward with any changes. 
"If you see a problem. we can present a constitutional amend­ment to the Senate," Istvan said. "They can then bring in the Chair of the Oversight Committee." 
Members also talked about options for electing next year's student body president. Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni asked COR what the best method was for electing a president in the run-off election held after the primary. Members decided the best plan would allow for voters to abstain, but would give the presidency to the candi­date with the plurality and not necessarily the majority. 
"We'd like to see a system in run-off that allows for the person who gets the most votes to win," Istvan said. 
Hall Presidents Council co-chair Liz Cain also noted the flaw in the voting system that makes a vote from a small dorm such as Badin have the same weight as a vote from an off-campus student, where nearly 50 percent of the senior class lives. 
In other COR news: 
+ The Council also continued its discussion about adding a non­voting member from the diversity council to the Council. 
After a discussion of what the constitution allows in regards to adding a new member, members voted to request that the Diversity Council present a candidate for approval by COR. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalonel @nd.edu 

Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge 

Eire 

"Irish-Not just forT-Shirts" 
Irish is the oldest vernacular literature in Europe and the living language of An Glweltacht in Ireland. \Videly spoken by Irish emigrants to the l.Jnited States in the 18'11 , 1<''" d ?O'h . . k . U S . . 
"J an ~ century, It IS spo ·en 111 . . Cities such as Boston, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. The Department of Irish Language & Literature/Roinn Theanga agus 
Litdocht  na Gaeilge offers courses  for absolute beginners, intenncdiate and advanced  
students next tenn.  
*Discover your hcriwge  *Learn about Ireland  
*SatisfY the Irish Studies Minor  *Satisfy the Foreign Language Requirement  

''Irish has been taught at Notre Dame since 1868. Isn't it time you took a course?" 
IRLL 101 A fun and cntc11aining introduction to the modern Irish language. This course introduces the basic principles of grammar and sentence structure, as wcl.l as core vocabulary. Emphasis is placed on the application of these principles in every-day siwations. 
IRLL 102 A continuation of IRLL I01. Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts in Irish and expanding the student's linguistic, grammatical and cultural knowledge. The students grows in confidence and linguistic ability. 
IRLL 103 A continuation of IRLL 102. Develops the student's existing language skills. Emphasis is on expanding fluency, competency and reading literature in translation. 
I.RLL 101:01 IRLL 101:02 IRLL 101:03 IRLI~ 102:01 IRLL 102:02 IRLL 103:01 
Spring 2005 

T H 11:00-12:15  Prof. Sarah :\lcKibben  
M \VF 10:40-1 1:30  J>mf. J•etel" .McQuillan  
T H 1.2:30-1:45  Prof.  Brian 6 Conchubbair  
T H 2:00-3:15  Prof. Sarah McKibben  
JVIWF 9:30-10:25  Prof. Peter McQuillan  
T H 11:00-12:15  Prof. Brian 6 Couchubhalr  

Tuesday, November 9, 2004
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Bruno said. For now, all residents have been cautioned through a




Intruder 

letter and a phone message to 
stay on high alert about locking
continued from page I 
room doors. immediately report­pect was let in or entered ing any suspicious activity and through an unlocked door, not allowing strangers to enter llurley said. It was unclear how the dorm, she said. the man left the dorm. Rakow · Recommending the same pre­said. adding that no witnesses cautions, NDSP distributed an rcportnd hearing alarms sound. alert notice to all 27 residence 
Scweral other Pasquerilla West halls Monday afternoon and sent residents later told NDSP oflicers a campus-wide e-mail Monday and hall stall' that they had seen night. the intruder in the hall between Rakow said the security offi­the hours of 7 and 8 a.m.. Hakow cers who patrol the Pasquerilla said. NDSP oiTicers assigned to West area would be on high alert patrol the area at that time did for further suspicious activity, but not observe anything suspicious, that no additional oflicers will be llurley said. assigned to the area. 
NDSP was dispatched to the Several hall residents did not dorm at 3:44 p.m., Hurley said, express significant fears as a af'tor the first witness alerted res­result of the incident. ident assistants to what she had "It's not like it's the first time snen. something like [seeing a suspi­
"Obviously the time lag here cious person on campus] has was fairly substantial," Hurley happened," sophomore Cara said. Burditt said. adding that the inci­
Though hall staff was aware of dent seemed like a "fluke" the vandalism problem -obsc­because many residents saw the ene messages and the words "JU intruder but no assaults were Bloomington" were found reported. scrawled on shower stalls. doors "It seems like more of a prank and students' personal white to remind us to lock our doors," boards. Hurley said -Sunday she said. morning, the intruder incident Another sophomore. Theresa did not come to the stalT's atten­Kane, agreed with Burditt. tion until that afternoon. "I don't think it's a very big Pasquerilla West rector Sister deal -a lot of people saw him Susan Bruno said. and it seemed like he didn't hurt 
"[At first] a lot of students anyone," she said. "I think every­thought it was a random prank," one is watching for [problems] she said. "You think it's someone but there's no huge disruption being malicious -you don't here." think it's wholescale across the Several Pasquerilla West resi­dorm." dent assistants declined to com­
As more witnesses come for­ment. ward. hall staff. the Office of Student Affairs and NDSP will Contact Claire Heininger at continue to piece things together, cheining@nd.edu 
Colin Farrell [asjessc:James] in 'American Ouliaw' 
LIES MY TEACHER TOLD ME 
·-~~~~ 

"God alone knows the'./ut(fte, but on~)! an-historian can ulter the past." /;'' · '. . -Ambrose Bi~rcc 

,.·,,: "History is mrire or less hunk." 

-Henry Ford 
"Ood cam-lotchange the ptzst, but historians con.'' 
w. -Samuel Butler 
''HislOry will he kind to me, .for I intend to write it. " . -Winston Churchill 
"The past does not influence me; I influence it."·· 
-'Willem De Kooning 

"History leaches everything including the future. ·• -Lama1·1inc 
ABOUT THE AMERICAN PRESIDENCY 
Find out what your history teachers never told you! 
Dr. James W. Loewen 
129 DeBartolo November 10,2004 8:oopm 
Sponsored by: ND History Club & The Department of History, SMC History Cluh, Undergraduate Intellectual Initiatives, Alumni Hall, First Year of Studies, College 
Seminar, The Program in American Democrac::y, Keenan Hall, Program in Education, 
Schooling and Society and the Institute for Educational Initiatives, The Department of 
Sociology, Keenan Hall 
'Bloody Sunday', Derry, 30Janua•)· 1972. 

Keough Institute for Irish Studies, University of Notre Dame Undergraduate Courses, Spring 2005 
ln'sh 


Irish 101. A fun and entertaining introduction to the modern Irish language. This course introduces the basic principles of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabularr Emphasis is placed on th~ application of these principles in every-day situations. IRLL 101:01 T H II :00-12:15 Sarah McKibben. IRLL 101:02, MWF 10:40-11:30, Peter McQuillan. IRLL 101:03, T H 12:30­1 :45. Brian 6 Conchubhair IRIA. 102. A continuation of IRLL 101. Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts in Irish and the student's linguistic, grammatical and cultural knowledge is expanded. Building on IRLL 101, the students grow in confidence and linguistic ability. IRLL 102:0 I, T H 2:00-3:15, Sarah McKibben, IRLL 102:02, l\1WF 9:30-10:25. Peter McQuillan. 1Rlll03..<\continuation of IRLL 102. This course develops the student's existing language skills. Emphasis is on expanding fluency, competency and translation. IRLL I 03:01, T H II :00-12:15. Brian 6 Conchubhair 
English 

Introduction to Irish Writers. IRST 371 A:O I. MWF, II :45-12:3. Christopher Fox. The small island of Ireland has produced a disproportionate number of great writers, includingjonathan Swift, Maria Edgeworth, Oscar \'Vilde,JamesJoyce, William Butler Yeats, Elizabeth Bowen, Brien Friel andjohn McGahern. This class will introduce the student to a broad range of Irish writers in English from 18th century to the present. Anglo-Irish Literature: Cultured Misrule, Dissolute Lords and Rebel Countesses. IRST 372£:01. MWF, 1:55-2:45. This course will examine the role of the Anglo-Irish in the political am! literary life of Ireland from the Act of Union ( 1800) to the last decades of the 20th Century. Irish Gothic from the Union to 'The Troubles'. IRST 3 79C:O l. MWF, 11 :45-12:35. James Wurtz. This class will examines how Irish literature uses ghosts; vampires, demons, and rebels to grapple with threats facing society, and engages with the historical unrest in 19th and 20th century Ireland. Swift and the Arts. IRST 499. T H 3:30-4:45.Joseph McMinn. 1l1is course looks at howJonathan Swift regarded non-literary arts in 18th century Ireland and England -gardening, music, archi­tecture and painting-and how his views on those art forms are reflected in his poetry and prose. Reading "Ulysses" IRST 4 75B:Ol. T H 12:30-1 :45. Maud EHmann. This course aims to make Ulysses, the greatest novel of the 20th century, understandable by reading it slowly chapter-by­chapter in the light of Homer's Odyssey andjoyce's Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Irish Fihn and Culture. IRST 476 T H 11:00-12:15. Course Req. IRST 476L. Luke Gibbons. This course will examine some of t11e dominant images of Ireland in film and literature, and will place their development in a wider cultural and historical context. Particular attention will be paid to such key figures as Yeats, Synge, andjoyce, and contemporary writers such as john McGahern, William Trevor, Patrick McCabe, and Roddy Doyle will be discussed. 
Graduate Courses 

Irish Dra111a and Revohationary Politics. ENGL 571 T H, 2:00-3:15. Susan Harris. This course investigates the relationship between the drama produced by the Abbey Theater movement during the first decades of the 20th century and the political struggle for Irish Independence that was taking place at the same time. Modernis111 and the Four Nations: England, Ireland, Scotlaud and Wales. ENGL 573 H, 6:30-9:00. Mary Burgess. This seminar examines the geographies and locations of British and Irish Literary Modernism. Gender and Writing. ENGL 5 75:0 I. T H, 12:30-1 :45. Maud EHmann. Graduate Course. This course focuses on the seventy years behveen 1871 (the publication of George Eliot's Middlemarch' and 1941 (the publication of Virginia Woolrs Between t11e Acts), a period of upheaval in gender relations that also witnessed the emergence of the modern professional woman writer. Rethinking Race: Irishness, Whiteness and Post-colonialism. ENGL 577. W 7:30-9:00. Luke Gibbons. This seminar will discuss issues of race and representation in relation to Irish Literature and Culture. The threat presented by the Irish to colonial civility had less to do with visibility than with other components of racial theory, as the Celt, provided an ominous template for the concept of doomed races, and ot11er modes of cultural contagion. 
History 

The Bandit and Outlaw in History IRST 322A:OJ T H 3:30-4:45. Eamonn 6 Ciardha. This course examines the role of the bandit and outlaw in Irish history, literature and popular culture behveen the 16th and t11e 20th centuries. It will also seek to discover why the bandit has remained the focus of recent popular histories, Hollywood films and historical documentaries. Irish History II. IRST 327B:Ol. MWF, 9:35-10:25.James Smyth. This course consists of lectures and readings examining Irish (mainly) political history and Anglo-Irish relations from the Act of Union (1801) up to and including 'The Troubles' and the Peace Process. Medieval Ireland. IRST 435:01, T H 11:00-12:15. Aideen O'Leary. This course covers the history and culture of Ireland from the pre-Christian era to approximately AD 800, discussing the achievement of St. Patrick, Irish monasticism and the Vikings. 
Anthropology/Culture 
Irish and Anlerican Dance. IRST 228:0 I. MWF, 4:30-4:45.James McKenna. This course will teach a range of fundamental tap steps in addition to at least two finished tap dance pi~ces set to CD music. Several hard show tap dances will be taught, depending on the ability of the students. 

. -­





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 CoMPtLED FROM TtlE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Rebels deny prisoner swap proposal 
BOGOTA Colombia -Marxist rebels reject­ed a Colombian government proposal to hold talks at a foreign embassy in Bogota over a pro­posed swap of jailed rebels for guerrilla-held hostages, including three Americans. 
In a statement posted on its Web site, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, insisted President Alvaro Uribe grant the rebel group two demilitarized zones before any discussions on a prisoner swap -a demand the government already has rejected. 
Uribe said Oct. 29 the government was ready to free 15 rebels jailed on minor charges as a first step to build confidence, provided the FARC at least expresses a willingness to recip­rocate. The two sides then would meet at the Vatican's embassy or another diplomatic mis­sion in Bogota, according to the government proposal. 
Arafat's lieutenants travel to Paris 
CLAMART. France -Palestinian leaders rushed to Paris yesterday to check on the criti­cally ill Yasser Arafat, but hospital officials said visiting rights were restricted -setting the stage for a dramatic showdown between the delegation and Arafat's wife. 
Early Monday, Suha Arafat accused the lead­ership -including top lieutenants Ahmed Qureia and Mahmoud Abbas -of coming to the French capital with the sole intention of usurping her husband's role as head of the Palestinian Authority. 
"I tell you they are trying to bury Abu Ammar alive," she shouted, using Arafat's nom de guerre, in a furious telephone call with Al­Jazeera television from the 75-year-old Arafat's bedside in a hospital southwest of Paris. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New Jersey governor bids farewell 
TRENTON, N.J.-A contrite Gov. James E. McGreevey delivered a farewell address yester­day in which he said he does not apologize "for being a gay American but rather for having let personal feelings impact my decision-making." 
McGreevey. who is to step down Nov. 15, used the speech to list several accomplishments of his administration, but the Democrat also expounded on the soul-searching that has occu­pied his time since making his stunning, nation­ally televised resignation announcement three months ago. 
"I am sorry that I have disappointed the citi­zens of the state of New Jersey who gave me this enormous trust," McGreevey said during the 15-minute address to staff and supporters. 

Plane crash engulfs homes in flames 
DETROIT -A small plane crashed in a Detroit neighborhood yesterday afternoon, set­ting at least two houses on fire. Witnesses said construction workers at the scene helped pull two people out of the wreckage of the aircraft. 
The man and woman were taken to a hospi­tal, where they were in serious condition, said Detroit Fire Commissioner Tyrone Scott. 
Police said nobody on the ground was injured. 
The roof of one house was completely burned away, and another house was damaged by frre. The mangled remains of the two-engine Piper Aztec plane rested on the ground across the street from one of the homes. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Convicted killer gets life in prison 
INDIANAPOLIS -Child killer Walter Dye pleaded guilty to murder today and was sen­tenced to life in prison without parole. 
Dye had been on death row for the July 22, 1996, killings of three Indianapolis children, but his conviction was overturned in 2001 because a juror failed to disclose that her brother was sentenced to death in California. 
Deputy Prosecutor Ralph Staples said the plea agreement brings the case to a close without forcing further pain upon the victims. 
"When it came down to it, our victim's family, Myrna Dye specifically, did not want to go through another trial," Staples said. 
IRAQ 


U.S. forces storm north Fallujah 
Thousands of troops attack Sunni strongholds to put an end to guerrilla control 
Associated Press 
NEAR FALLUJAH Thousands of U.S. troops, backed by armor and a stunning air barrage, attacked the toughest strongholds of Sunni insur­gents in Fallujah yesterday, launching a long-awaited offensive aimed at putting an end to guerrilla control of the Sunni Muslim city. 
After nightfall, U.S. troops advanced slowly on the northwestern Jolan neighborhood, a warren of alleyways where Sunni mil­itant fighters have dug in. Artillery, tanks and war­planes pounded the dis­trict's northern edge, soft­ening the defenses and attempting to set off any bombs and boobytraps before troops moved in. 
At the same time, anoth­er force pushed into the northeastern Askari dis­trict, the first large-scale assault into the insurgent­held area of the city, the military said. 
Orange explosions lit up the palm trees, minarets and dusty rooftops of Jolan, and a fire burned on the city's edge, said AP reporter Jim Krane, locat­ed at a U.S. camp near the city. 

Some 5,000 U.S. Marines and soldiers were massed in the desert on Fallujah's northern edge participating bardment and skirmishes "The people of Fallujah avoided any public esti­in the assault. Iraqi troops before the main assault have been taken hostage ... mate on how long it may were also participating in began. and you need to free them take to capture Fallujah, operations, U.S. Defense A doctor at a clinic in from their grip," he told where insurgents fought Secretary Donald H. Fallujah, Mohammed Iraqi soldiers who the Marines to a standstill Rumsfeld said. Amer, reported 12 people swarmed around him dur­last April in a three-week 
The top U.S. commander were killed. Seventeen oth­ing a visit to the main U.S. siege. in Iraq, Gen. George Casey, ers, including a 5-year-old base outside Fallujah just Commanders have esti­
predicted a "major con­girl and a 10-year-old boy. before the attack began. mated around 3,000 insur­frontation" on the streets of were wounded he said. "May they go to hell!" the gents are barricaded in the Fallujah in the operation he Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad soldiers shouted, and city. Casey said that some said was called "al-Fajr," Allawi said he gave the Allawi replied: "To hell they insurgents managed to slip Arabic for "dawn." He told green light for troops to will go." away, but others "have reporters in Washington on launch the long-awaited Earlier Monday, U.S. and moved in." 
Monday that up to 15,000 offensive against Fallujah, Iraqi forces seized two Casey said between 50 
U.S. troops were encircling aimed at re-establishing bridges over the Euphrates and 70 percent of the city's the city. government control before River and a hospital on 200,000 residents have fled 
Two Marines were killed elections set for January. Fallujah's western edge the city. The numbers are when their bulldozer He also announced a that they said was under in dispute, however, with flipped over into the round-the-clock curfew in insurgents' control. A team some putting the popula­Euphrates near Fallujah Fallujah and another near­of Marines entered north­tion at 300,000. Residents earlier Monday. A military by insurgent stronghold, western Fallujah and said about half that num­spokesman estimated that Ramadi, flexing emergency seized an apartment build­ber left in mid October, but 42 insurgents were killed powers he was granted the ing. that many drifted back into across Fallujah in born-day before. U.S. commanders have the city. 

Rumsfeld announces plan to free Iraq 
end the insurgency or eliminate the session with Pentagon reporters. 
Associated Press 

need for more fierce combat in com­Rumsfeld said the battle for 
WASHINGTON -Defeating the ing weeks. Fallujah, which began Sunday and insurgents in Fallujah is critical in "These folks are determined," intensified on Monday, should not be the battle for a free Iraq because Rumsfeld said, referring to the esti­seen as a final showdown with the "one part of the country cannot mated several thousand Saddam insurgents, although Fallujah is their remain under the rule of assassins," Hussein loyalists and Islamic extrem­main base. Defense Secretary Donald H. ists who are believed to be mainstays "It's going to take time," Rumsfeld Rumsfeld said Monday. of the insurgency. He said they were said, for enough ordinary Iraqis to 
"These are killers. They chop peo­still getting money and recruits from reach a "tipping point" and turn on ple's heads off," he told a Pentagon outside Iraq. the insurgents. news conference hours after An undetermined number of insur­"It's a tough business and I think American and U.S.-trained Iraqi gents escaped before the fighting it's going to take time," Rumsfeld troops launched an assault on began and will try to set up opera­said. Fallujah. tions elsewhere in Iraq, Gen. George Some leaders of the insurgency 
Rumsfeld and Gen. Richard Myers, Casey, the top American commander probably slipped out of Fallujah chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in Iraq, said by telephone from before the fighting began, Myers said victory in Fallujah would not Baghdad in a question-and-answer said, 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 9, 2004 
comps can begin junior or senior helped me to see how all the dif­Patrick White said some colleges said. 
year and last one to two semes­ferent parts of the business have even modeled their senior However, this experience pro­ters. major come together, "she said. comp programs after Saint vides future alumnae with confi­continued from page 1 Senior Jodie Emerick says her Some schools have programs Mary's. dence to handle the research, 
comp may have led to late like Saint Mary's, while others "Other colleges have occasion­writing and thinking necessary comps generally include a paper nights, but she does not regret have "capstone courses," and ally asked for our advice on how to tackle any problem, project or and exam. all the hard work put into it. some require students to write we structured our advance writ­task in the real world. 
Depending on the major, "It was demanding but has senior theses. Faculty dean ing and comps, because they are "Alumnae surveys invariably looking to establish such a pro­identify the senior comprehen­
Seniors 



~Merrill Lynch 
ml.com/careers/americas 
SHARE OUR PASSION MERRILL LYNCH PRESENTATION 
NOTRE DAME juniors and sophomores are invited to attend: Wednesday, November 10, 2004 6:00-8:00 pm Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 210 
Whether you look at us in terms of people, culture, products or our virtually limitless possibilities, Merrill Lynch defines "exceptional" in every sense of the word. It's a source of pride for all of us who work here. And a source of exceptional careers for those eager to share in our passion for doing great things. 
Attend our presentation. And let's explore the possibilities together. 
Summer opportunities: Investment Bankinq 
EXCEPTIONAL WITHOUT EXCEPTION 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 


The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
The Notre Dame Law School Nat ural Law Institute Presents 





"Law and Obligation" 
Step]!t!n Perry 
Fiorello LaGuardia Professor of Law and Professor of Philosophy 
New York University Law School 
Tuesday, November 9~ 2.QP1rP 4p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
gram," White said. 
White said comps offer stu­dents something tangible to take out into the real world. 
"They give each student the opportunity to show the breadth and depth of her understanding of her major [and the] ... ability to produce a significant piece of work in her major," White said. 
With seniors feeling nervous about approaching comp due dates, the tension is flowing over into the minds of junior students as well. 
"Just seeing what the seniors are going through now makes me a bit nervous about what my last year at Saint Mary's will be like," junior Talia Matury-Vacaro 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
pus, in part because of the recent Princeton Review rank­ing listing Notre Dame as num­ber one in the category "Alternative Lifestyles not an Alternative." 
Bongiovanni said the social concerns committee was creat­ed last year in response to stu­dents who felt social awareness on campus was nonexistent. 
According to Bongiovanni, the committee is evaluating Notre Dame's peers in the Princeton Review's Top 20 rankings as well as schools perceived to be stronger in diversity to better promote it at Notre Dame. 
"We're looking into making a more refined comparison of the schools around us," sive as the most important activ­ity of their experience in the biology department," biology department chair Thomas Platt said 
White said despite the long hours keeping students from other activities ultimately the comp is worthwhile. 
"Life beyond college is full of little and not-so-little projects that are like our comps, and Saint Mary's students, according to employers and graduate pro­fessional school advisors are able to handle anything thrown at them," he said. 
Contact Erica Rangel at rang4716@saintmarys.edu 
Bongiovanni said. "We're really in the research stage before we begin talking of anything of that nature." 
Siegfried senator James Leito said the vending task force had been trying to find data regard­ing vending prices. 
However, student body presi­dent Adam Istvan expressed concern as to the feasibility of this plan. 
"That's going to be tough," Istvan said. "Getting informa­tion for this task force is becom­ing increasingly difficult." 
Welsh Family rector Candace Carson shared her proposed changes to CLC's bylaws, which involved mainly minor changes to details, names and wording. 
"A lot of the changes were cosmetic," she said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 
page 7 


Microsoft resolves antitrust claims 
Computer giant pays over $536 million to settle more of its courtroom problems 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Microsoft Corp. opened its wallet again yesterday to clear more of its courtroom problems, paying $536 mil­lion to rival Novell Inc. and an undisclosed smaller amount to a trade group that had backed antitrust complaints by the U.S. gov­. ernment and the European 
Union. 
Novell, a bitter, decades­
long rival of Microsoft. said 
despite the huge payoff it 
intends to file an antitrust 
lawsuit against Microsoft 
this week over damage a 
decade ago to its once-pop­
ular WordPerfect business 
software. 
The payments announced 
yesterday, however, were 
enough to persuade both 
Novell and the Washington­
based Computer and 
Communications Industry 
Association to pull out of 
the legal case against 
Microsoft in the European 
Union, which has deter­
mined Microsoft abused its 
industry dominance and 
fined it $600 million. A 
crucial ruling on sanctions 
against Microsoft is expect­
ed as early as this month. 
Microsoft previously 
spent $2.4 billion settling 
antitrust and other claims 
by AOL Time Warner Inc. 
and Sun Microsystems Inc., 
both significant supporters financial disclosure docu­ing program. The The Computer and 
of the European case. But ments that it still could WordPerfect lawsuit will Communications Industry 
even billions in payments face up to $950 million in seek unspecified damages Association, which has 
won't put more than a dent exposure for remaining and will be based partly on fought Microsoft vigorously 
in Microsoft's staggering antitrust claims, including facts proven in court dur­on legal fronts for more 
cash reserves of about the court cases expected or ing the U.S. government's than a decade, did not dis­
$64.4 billion. already filed by Novell and antitrust case against close the size of its pay­
Novell said the $536 mil­RealNetworks Inc. Microsoft, LaSala said. ment. People familiar with 
lion agreement resolves Microsoft restated its "We have had extensive the deal, speaking on con­
antitrust claims involving first-quarter financial discussions with Microsoft dition of anonymity, said it 
the Netware operating sys­results to reflect Monday's to resolve our differences, was a fraction of the 
tem for connecting com­announcements, adjusting but despite our best efforts, amount paid to Novell. The 
puters across networks, net income down to $2.53 we were unable to agree association said Microsoft 
which competes with billion and earnings per on ace eptable terms," will spend $65,000 to 
Microsoft's dominant share to 23 cents. Novell's LaSala said. "We intend to become a member of the 
Windows software. Joseph net income for its latest pursue our claims aggres­trade organization. 
A. LaSala Jr., Novell's gen­quarter was $14 million. sively toward a goal of "Ten years of litigation is eral counsel, called it a sig­Novell said it will allege recovering fair and consid­a long time to fight a com­nificant settlement. The in its upcoming antitrust erable value for the harm pany like Microsoft," said company's shareholder lawsuit that Microsoft caused to Novell's busi­Ed Black, the group's head meeting was set for acted illegally during the ness." and one of Microsoft's most Tuesday. mid -1990s when its Office Microsoft's general coun­vocal critics in Washington. 
Microsoft, one of the business software eclipsed sel, Brad Smith, said his Black said he will not most widely held securi­the popularity of Novell's company was ready for recant any of his past criti­ties, predicted Monday in WordPerfect word-process-that court fight. cisms of Microsoft. 



New drug to be first sold by race 
the Association of Black times more likely to develop it. It

Associated Press 
Cardiologists, which supported the happens when the heart is too weak 

NEW ORLEANS -A two-drug study. "Here we have a wonderful to pump effectively, causing fluid to combination pill dramatically trial that shows a clear result and back up in the lungs and leaving reduced deaths among blacks with the issue is raised, 'Why was this people weak and short of breath. heart failure, a landmark finding trial only done in African Half die within five years of diagno­that is expected to lead to govern­Americans?'" sis. ment approval of the first medication The nationwide study is the largest Earlier research suggested that marketed for a specific race. . ever done solely on blacks with heart standard heart failure drugs called 
Black cardiologists hailed this form failure. The findings were reported ACE inhibitors do not work as well in of racial profiling after years in Monday at an American Heart blacks, and that blacks may have which minorities got short shrift in Association meeting in New Orleans lower amounts of nitric oxide, which medical studies. Others complained and will be published Thursday in plays many roles in heart health, in that the drug also might help whites the New England Journal of their blood. and should have been tested in Medicine. The drug's maker plans to Two chemicals -isosorbide dini­them, but wasn't for business rea­seek Food and Drug Administration trate and hydralazine -boost this sons. approval by the end of the year. substance, but administering the 
"At times you can't win" said Dr. Heart failure affects 5 million right dose is complicated when they Augustus Grant, past president of Americans, but blacks are 2 112 are prescribed separately. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 9, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

The wisdom of middle America 
1~0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGINI; EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VU·."WPUINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS AoMINISTRA:fOR: Mary Allen CoNTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.ed u 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. 1:-J.litorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverri.<ements bao;ed on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoril)' of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A.sistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.etters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quctiom regarding Observerpolicies should be dirrcttd to Editor in ChiefMatt l.ozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The OhK·rv~r (USPS 'i 1}1} l-4t~J0) iJ puhli~hc:J Mnn.!.•y thruugh lnJo~y L'XI..L'(lt ,furinc uun o~nJ V!~UIInu periu.h A •uhKriprion ro Tht: Oh)c.'lVcr j, :lJU() fur tiiiL' ..Clllkmi..: y<.u. SSS fur un..·~o.·m ..-,ter Th.: Ob~~.·rv~r II .a manhc-r of rht-A~)UCio~m.l l\a1. All n.-pn•Ju...rinn riutm .ar..· r..·lo('fvC\1 
l'h~ OU...:rvw:r i1 ruloh\hL-d .at. 1!0. Boii'.Q 0!4 ~JUrh llminc H..JI 1114 South llinmg H.ll 
Nurr~ D.arm·, IN 1bCiS6.tJ7~ Nurn.·l>;uni;',IN 46~'\l.-On'J 1\·rioJk:.J f>l'''"''' f'"HI .ar Nuuf' I);~me: 
"m! .kiJirkm•lmatlmg utlk.o 
PUHMA!'I'Il~R 
\cnJ •JJr~w .;orr\"luoru ru. 
l'hcOh"'f'•._:r 
The.• OhHnc:r il illll~mhcr uf thf' Aa\t"'-io~r~...J l'rn•. AU fi.'J'foductlon ri~thrJ o~.n: f~l't'VcJ. 


Fools, now we can begin our plan to take over the world, destroy the envi­ronment and put CIA wiretaps on all your phones through the Patriot Act. I can't tell you any details because then the vast right wing conspiracy would kill Tom Rlpplnger me, but it definitely involves evil and Confessions of moon lasers. Vice a Campus President Dick Conservative Cheney and Republican National Committee Chairman Ed Gillespie are simply robots controlled by giant oil devour­ing space aliens slowly taking over the country. Only the politically enlight­ened such as Bruce Springstein or Michael Moore were standing in their way, until we rigged the election. (Add evil "muahahah" for effect) 
From the tone of the post-electoral dialogue, I can't help but laugh at the doomsday prophecies of some liberals. Consequently, I think it is time for a reality check of why the conservative movement simply makes more sense for America. As well, I wish to shed some light into the possibility of people who are not fundamentalist Christians or fearful bigots casting a vote for President George W. Bush out of rea­son and gaping weaknesses in Sen. John Kerry's agenda. 
For those who regularly read Viewpoint or follow the news regularly, I promise I will be brief on the much­debated issue of the war in Iraq..on this issue, the left has alleged that Bush lied to the American people. Addressing this issue, I'll give you a quote from Bob Woodward's Plan of Attack: "I think Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction are a threat. and that's why I voted to hold him accountable and make certain we disarm him." 
This was a quote from none other than Sen. John Kerry from March 19, 2003. I don't believe I need to elabo­rate what an obvious hypocrite his anti-war rhetoric 180 during the Democratic primaries made him look a year later. This, and the consideration that most of his critiques of Bush in the debates were made through the lens of hindsight made him look even worse to the American people. 
In the broader spectrum of interna­tional affairs, our conservative agenda is less popular. However, things must be put into a realistic perspective. We've just held elections in Afghanistan, elections in Iraq are com­ing up, Libya has voluntarily given up its nuclear weapons program, North Korea is being pressured with six­party talks, Iran is being pressured into giving up its nuclear program, and Saddam Hussein is behind bars. On the short end of the stick, we've angered a lot of left-leaning Europeans, regular watchers of Al-Jazeera, an anti-semitic United Nations and llollywoud. If international relations were a popular­ity contest instead of a complex bal­ance of power in an anarchic world, putting the United Nations over nation­al interest would make sense. Fortunately, the American people chose policies in their interest over winning an "international popularity contest" Kerry alluded to in his slogan "Respected Abroad." 
While on the issue of the popularity, it's quite difficult for the United States to achieve a happy medium of environ­mental regulation in an ever-competi­tive global economy. The United States faces large developing competitors in Asia, which are unwilling to adhere to the Kyoto Protocol. Therefore, it would seem completely logical for the Unit~d States to refuse to ratify measures that can only hurt its economy. In contrast, these measures would be quite easy to implement in a small European coun­try's economy. Bush made the right choice in protecting the interests of the American worker, despite the gripes of liberal pundits. 
I wholeheartedly admit that the con­servative philosophy does place a pri­macy on economic growth. It stands to reason that you cannot enjoy the luxu­ries of large government entitlements and costly environmental regulations without a robust economy. Instead or beginning from sweeping declarations or what government entitlements can be doled out, a conservative realizes that more people making money and investing in your economy ultimately expands your tax base to provide for such programs. 
Free-market innovations like the computer, the telephone and the assembly line that initially cut jobs ended up creating better ones in the long run. Would not the same liberals bemoaning the automation or today's 
factories cry out of what evil the tele­
graph did to the well-pa•d employees 
of the Pony Express? Today, this logic 
manifests itself in blaming "big corpo­
rations" for human inequalities that 
have existed since the dawn of time. 
Eventually, varying degrees or state 
socialism becomes the one size !its all 
policy prescription or liberals that 
loathe the free-market. 
Other popular myths must be debunked as well. Social Security will be reformed so my generation will be able to make morwy ofT of' a nnw and innovative system of' private accounts that is expected to average 6.4 percent returns. as opposed to a meager return of one percent or less under LIH' current syst<~m. llealthcare will bP reformed to operate on a syst<)m that promotes insurance company competi­tion instead of Washington bureaucra­cy. We will also see fund amen tal tort reforms that may be upsetting to those that make a living off of suing the nation's hard-working doctors. 
In this brief summary by no means covering the spectrum of the conserva­tive agenda, I wanted to elaborate on some spots of our policy agenda that could be appealing to those voters who are not motivated by scare tactics or evangelist Christianity. I feel like I am becoming an echo in pointing out once again that the United States must make itself the best place to do busi­ness to continue to be truly successful. To brielly address moral issues as well. it also makes much more sense for elected legislatures to enact law before activist liberal Supreme Court judges. In doing so, as conservatives we do not wish to harm anybody, but instead ensure policies that in tlw long run will continue to fostnr tlw gn~atf'r liberty of' soci<~ty. To bnlinve tlw aver­age American could not perform this simple calculus of' mason in voting for Bush denies reality. 
Tom Hippinger is a senior political science major. 1/e supports !'resident George W Bush and is the co-President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. 1/e can be contacted at trippin 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Teresa Fralish Dan Tapetillo Kate Antonacci Bobby Griffin Tricia DeGroot Ken Fowler 

Do you think that academic cheating is a
Viewpoint Scene 

Katherine Howley problem on campus?
Ham a Graphics Gottumukkala Graham Ebetsch Illustrator 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Katie Knorr 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What we call the beginning is often the end. And to make an end is to make a beginning. The (~nd is where we start from." 
T.S. Eliot author 

THE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 
page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Wake up the echoes, er, Notre Dame 
What is happening at the premiere Catholic university in this land? lias liberalism completely taken hold of my alma mater? You would think it was a national day of mourning after President George W. Bush's re-election from reading the woe-is-me (and our country) Viewpoint letters. 
It is telling that moral values played a major role in the out­come of the election. Not that the economy. hcalthcare. Iraq or othor issues are not impor­tant. Certainly they are. llowcver, the underlying mes­sage delivered by the voters is that morality, character and trust count for much more than the liberal media and Hollywood Left want America to believe. 
The extreme left seems to buy into the notion that it is okay to hate. ridicule, scold and ostracize those who hold Christian beliefs. are pro-life and believe in the sanctity of marriage between a man and a woman. To listen to the left you would think the rest of America was out of touch with reality when in fact the oppo­site is true. The only poll that mattered was the one deliv­ered this past Tuesday by the electorate. The message was clear. Morality, marriage (between a man and a woman) and family values is what most Americans overwhelming favor. Bush and the Republicans by and large share these same values. 
Which brings me to Notre Dame. This University was founded on Catholic teachings and principles. The teachings are clear regarding many moral issues. On the issue of abortion, for example, there is no gray area. Abortion is intrinsically evil. It is the killing of a defenseless life. As Catholics, it is our calling to protect the unborn. Sen. John Kerry, a self described Catholic, took the stance that he was personally against abortion, but would not impose his beliefs on others. This is a coward's stance. As Catholics we owe no apologies to others regarding our beliefs on this issue of abortion. Only the Father in heaven has the right to give life and to take it away. Bush, to his credit, did not succumb or waffle. 
Sadly I see Notre Dame ­students, professors and yes, administration officials -as succumbing to secular ideolo­gy. I read many Viewpoint articles that seem to be out of touch with or critical of Catholic teaching. Being a Catholic in today's world is not easy. We often are ridiculed for holding beliefs that are not accepted by pop culture. Jesus as much told his followers ­from Jesus' time to the pres­ent-when he said to them blessed are those who are rebuked, insulted and ridiculed for taking up my cross and following in my ways. For the Kingdom of Heaven will be yours. 
As the Notre Dame family, and brothers and sisters of Christ. we need to ask our­selves: Are we helping to carry Jesus' cross on the road to salvation, or our we conve­niently turning our backs to it, watching as it fades away? 
Orlando Rubiano alumnus class of '87 Nov. 8 

U-WIRE 
Politically speaking, we are all mostly channel-flippers 
I'm tempted to write another column conducting a long, involved post-mortem on the elec­tion. but at this point, most people already have their opinions solidly established on the results, and Tim Birkel 
most everything that can be said Ball State already has University been. We Daily News H.epublicans are ofT and running with our winnings and Democrats are off licking their wounds and trying to regroup. 
So. I'll just come out and say I've found a little bit of John Kerry inside myself. I'm a flip-flopper. Or maybe just a flip-flipper. 
Nothing frustrates my fiance more than my fondness for freely flipping channels at every oppor­tunity. llow many times has she sat down to sec what I'm watching only to have me f1ip to another channel almost right away? Usually. she'll lightly chastise me with, "!ley. I was just getting interested in that!"-and reluc­tantly, I will turn back to that sta­tion. 
At no time is this more appar­ent then when I'm watching foot­ball on the weekends. On Saturdays, anyone who watches college football knows that approximately half the stations in existence carry some sort of foot­ball game, even if it is a game along the lines of Dartm<mth ver­sus Cornell. Of course, when I'm watching the games, as soon as there is even the hint of a com­mercial I'm off and running for 
the next game. Alissa has told me many times that she wouldn't mind watching sports with me if she could ever figure out which game I'm watching. 
So why do I flip? Probably because I'm afraid that some­where. in some game, something exciting will happen and I'll be stuck here watching competing ads for erectile dysfunction med­ications. The end result, usually, is that I flip away from the game I really want to watch to some other game for the commercial break, get involved in watching that sec­ond game; and by the time I flip back something really exciting has happened in the game I really wanted to watch. I've missed it, and now I'm stuck watching SportsCenter highlights to find out what happened. 
Today, it struck me how closely my football-viewing habits match the political interests of our nation by and large. People watch when things are exciting, when it's third-and-long, or when Ohio is waiting to be called, and then as soon as the touchdown is scored, 
or the election is over, they lose 
interest. After that moment of ulti­
mate joy or sadness, the game just 
isn't that entertaining any more. 
They flip away to watch something 
better for a while, and are sur­
prised when they come back and 
the complexion of the game has 
changed. 
Most of the electorate, both 
right and left, is made of these 
kinds of channel-surfing voters. 
Only that peculiar hardcore on 
both sides keeps careful track of 
the issues and the score during 
the whole game. 
For those of us in the minority 
that continually follows politics, 
and those of us who write about 
politics, I offer this piece of 
advice: never take your eyes off 
the game. It may be the boring 
stretch of the third quarter right 
now, where both teams are just 
trying to run out the clock, but we 
are the SportsCenter of the politi­
cal world, and if we don't tell most 
of AmeriCa what they've missed, 
no one will. 
This column originally appeared 
on Nov. 8 in the Daily News, the 
daily publication at Ball State .University. 
The views expressed in this col­
umn are those of the author _and 
not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 


True signs of 
•

progressiveness 

I read Peter Quaranto's column "Calling All Progressives" and wanted to write in a response. 
Quaranto writes, "For those of us progressives. Tuesday was a deeply disappointing day. a day when we lost hope for our coun­try." I feel that this language ("us progressives") is an over-sim­plification of the electorate, polarizing in a way that is inaccu­rate and most likely counter-productive as well. 
As I see it, this was a complicated election. There were vari­ous issues of great importance to the electorate, and each citi­zen had to discern priorities, and cast a vote accordingly. I know my own (Ohio) family was divided as to how each would vote, but I respect each member of my family as intelligent adults, and the reasoning behind their vote as well. And in the end, I can confidently say that each of our votes wer-e informed and cast with the hope for the betterment of society. 
In my opinion, respectful dialogue and discussion are true signs of progressiveness, or "that which will lead to the gradual betterment of humankind." So I echo Quaranta's cry, "Calling All Progressives," but suggest that the call not be limited, but inclusive to all who share in the right and the responsibility to work for the progress of humanity. In a democracy such as ours, each voice and each vote has the right to be heard, and for all to be heard starts with all to be listening. 
Nicole Shirilla alumnae Nov. 8 

Think tvvice before cosmetic surgery 
The number of young people getting plastic sur­gery is increasing. In fact, many below college age are also going under the knife. Since 1992, the number of cosmetic procedures performed on patients 18 or under has jumped from 13,314 to 74,233. 
More often than not, young 
Staff Editorial 

people who get cosmetic sur­gery don't really need it. 
University of

Older people who are trying 
Oklahoma 

to stop the effects of aging may 
Oklahoma

have an acceptable reason to 
Daily

have plastic surgery, but most people who are in high school or college aren't even fighting aging yet. 
There are, of course, situations where someone has been disfigured in an accident, making plastic surgery an acceptable option. 
However, many of the "flaws" that people are trying to fix do not require plastic surgery. Often, the problem lies in the individual's mind, not with the individual's appearance. 
Plastic surgery has become a major trend in America. Many shows about plastic surgery air on television today, and the trend of plasti<; surgery is making normal what was at one time rare. 
As a result, the idea of what is beautiful in soci­ety is becoming unattainable without plastic sur­gery. 
Before a young person has plastic surgery he or she should seriously consider whether this action is really necessary. 
This editorial originally appeared on Nov. 8 in the Oklahoma Daily, the daily publication at the University ofOklahoma. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE ()BSERVER 




CENE

page 10 
Tuesday, November 9; 2004 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Foxx shines in biopic of R&B legend 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
A«istant Scene Editor 

Many p!Hlplc know little more about Ray Charles beyond a vague picture of a blind. African-Anwrican man playing tlw piano with sunglasses on. At least that is all many think they know about Hay Charles. 
As it turns out. it would be nearly impossibll' for most people not to know most. of his songs word for word. Charles' musil' is the backdrop for much of the Anwrican society; from commercials to state songs, every Anwrican knows Hay Charles. And at this point of knowledge, the truth is. many are unaware of his illustrious life as a singer. songwritnr, pianist, father, f'rinnd, husband. hnroine addict and playboy. 
All these things come to life in the l'ilm "Hay," a biographical journey of Charles' life. The 
career. With flashbacks to his child­hood. mostly focused on the death of his little brother that Hay himself wit­nessed, the film continues through Charles' life through the end of his heroine addiction. Charles literally penetrates the senses of the audience, with the movie set to the background music of all Charles' big hits. Fittingly for the story or a blind musician' it is Charles' music that dominates the energy of the film, carrying him from era to era of his life. 
The cast or "Hay" is nothing sort of terrific, with the most notable perl'orm­ance given by Jamie roxx in his por­trayal of Charles. Foxx, who is better known !'or his comedic work of much lower caliber, is simply incredible. When the film ends, it is shocking to realize that the character being watched was footage of Charles him­self, but Foxx who mastered every' nuance of Charles. rrom the self-hug, 
to the manner of 

l'ilm does not hide speaking, to the
Ray
much or attempt very specific way to make the Charles throws famous musicians .~'li ., '..,, his head back life look pretty or while he's play­even very nice. ing passionately,
Director: Taylor Hackford 
"Hay" gets into the Foxx mastered it Writer: James L. White
heavy muck of his all. roxx actually
Starring: Jamie Foxx, Kerry Washington, 
life. focusing a played the part
Regina King and Clifton Powell 
great deal on his with his eyes heroine addiction sealed shut, and consistent philandering. The film although the producers had originally 1dicits anger. then love, and then com­thought the actor chosen to play passion from the audience as they Charles would simply wear the sun­watch Charlns becomes a legend. glasses with his eyes open. Foxx 
The film begins with a young Hay in refused to play Charles with sight, as it his mid-twenties at the outset of his just did not feel right. The result of 
Stellar cast highlights touching dramatic comedy 
By CHRIS KEPNER Scene Critic 

To Zach Braff. star of TV's "Scrubs," "Garden State" is a first stab at writing and directing a feature l'ilm. This may S!Hlm like a hasty leap to some, but al'ter seeing the quality of the result you're surn to join the rest of us in anx­ious anticipation of his next effort. 
As if writing and directing wasn't enough, Braff chosr. to star as Andrew "Large" Largeman, the film's protago­nist. Living in Hollywood, Largeman is orw of thousands of hopeful head shots working dllad -tl nd 
ing the drugs prescribed by his psy­chologist father that have left him almost numb to emotion since he was a kid. Largeman's four-day homecoming thus becomes the subject of this com­ing-of-age film. 
Largeman's old friends and acquain­tances seem to remember him pretty well considering they haven't seen him since he was sent off to boarding school at the age of 17. Ignoring this weakness in the story is easy to do though. This is also necessary to appreciate his relationships with 'these people, especially his best friend Mark. 
Natalie Portman shines as Sam, the 
epileptic girl 
jobs, accepting that becomes
Garden State 
roles in any bot­Largeman 's love l o 111 -1'11 e d in g d r e k interest after he that might gnt meets her while 
,,, :: :: ;; i 
'li''litli
tlwm noticed, and getting checked smiling through out at a clinic 
Director: Zach Braff 
l'll'nclwd teeth as for headaches 
.Writer: Zach Braff 
they assure every­he's been hav­
Starring: Zach Braff, Natalie Portman, 
one back home in ing. Don't be 
Ian Holm and Peter Saarsgard
Anywhere Else, misled by her 
U.S.A. that "things are great out here." 

Largeman's dead-end job is in a Vie tn anwse restaurant that doesn't serve bread, impersonating a Vietnanwse waiter. II is best role to date is tlw rntarded quarterback who may not havn led his high school team to victory, but certainly taught them a les­son about courage. And his Anywhere l~lSil, li.S.A. is New .Jnrs1ly, the "Garden Stale." 
Largeman is returning home for the first lime in nine years in order to attend his mother's funeral. lie uses tho trip as an opportunity to stop tak­
condition though, as there is never so much as the slightest hint that she will have a seizure during the course of the film. 
"Why docs an epileptic always have to have a seizure? I just wanted to have an epileptic character in my movie without the pretense that she might have one," said Braff during a question and answer session at the London Film Festival. 
One of the most enjoyable parts of "Garden State" is the soundtrack, which is composed of music hand­picked by BraiT himself. When he was handing out copies of the screenplay to 
Foxx's many decisions and careful study of the musician results in an Oscar level performance. 
The rest of the cast is terrific as well, carrying their weight next to such a heavy performance by Foxx. Although Charles recently died, he did see the film before his death and spent time with Foxx while roxx was preparing to play the role. llownvnr. he was not around much during the actual filming of "Hay." 

An incredible film, with incredible acting, "Hay" is easily the best movie of the year, and a definite must see. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

studios, he included a mix CD with songs from bands like Coldplay, Simon & Garfunkel, and The Shins, the very. songs that now set the mood of the lilm. 
Go into this film expecting to laugh, as it is soaked through with Braff's great sense of humor. Its certainly been made fun of before (think "Cable Guy"), but a shot is taken at Medieval Times here that should have you in stitches. 
In a time when most films need a 

huge budget to make waves in the box of'fice, "Garden State" was madn for a mere $2.5 million. But the pric11 tag is certainly no measure of the valu1' of' this film. 
While the comparisons to "ThP Graduate" arc a stretch. as even BraiT will admit, "Garden State" is a touching story that will not oven think about. leaving you disappointed. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 

THE 0BSER\'1R 




CENE
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 
page II · 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
'Incredibles' provides Pixar with another winner 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Critic 
l'ixar's "The lncredibles" is a visually­stunning parody of. and homage to, the nntire superhero genre. Like all Pixar films, hownver, it doesn't let its outstand­ing computer animation overshadow a character-driven plot that pulses with nigh-pnrfcct rhythm and life. In the hands of dirnctor Brad Bird, whose previous credits include "The Iron Giant" and some episodes of "The Simpsons," "The Incredibles" becomes a quick-paced adventure that is witty, entertaining and funny. 
The plot concerns a superhero. Mr. Incredible (voiced by Craig T. Nelson), and his wife Elastigirl (voiced by Holly Hunter), who are forced into civilian life and gov­ernment protection by numerous lawsuits filed against cos­
element that will likely be above younger audiences. It is also a surprisingly elitist film, in which a central recurrence seems to be that not all people are created equal and that society should accept and embrace excellence. In a true sign of its success as a family film, however, "The Incredibles" is entertaining enough that deeper interpretations will probably be lost on children and better appreciated by adults. In fact, most viewers (of all ages) will be so engaged in the film that such concerns will likely be nullified as the audience becomes caught up in the film's story. Surprisingly, the plot does not drag despite a nearly two-hour running time, an impressive feat for an animated fea­ture. 
"The lncredibles" is faster-paced and more visually-kinetic than previous Pixar features. While the animation initially seems less lush than in their previous film 
"Finding Nemo," a 
tumr:d heroes. A good portion of it 
The Incredibles 
middlr:-aged Mr. takes place on a Incredible is lured 
beautifully-animat­out of' retirement ed "Jurassic by a private, top­Park"-esque island secret mission complete with vol-Director: Brad Bird
which allows him cano and water­
Writer: Brad Bird 

to be a superhero fall. The animation 
Starring: CraigT. Nelson, Holly Hunter,
again. Eventually, style switches 
Samuel L. Jackson and Jason Lee 
his entire super­between gritty 
powered family, which includes his Flash-like son Dash (Spencer Fox) and his sometimes-invisible daughter Violet (Sarah Vowell). become involved. 
This is the first Pixar film to be rated PG rather than G, which accounts for its slightly more adult-oriented themes. The film essentially deals with a character as he deals with a mid-life crisis, a thematic 
comic-book style pulpiness and colorful richness seamless­ly, which further enhances the film's superhero plot. The editing is faster and more robust than most animated features and several extremely-well executed action sequences throughout the film's length keeps it from dragging. 
The voice-acting is excellent, with Nelson hitting the perfect blend of classic heroism, world-worn experience and blind enthusiasm. Other stand-outs include Jason Lee {Dogma, Almost Famous), who finds an appropriately crazed tone as the madman antagonist, and Holly Hunter as Elastigirl. Samuel L. Jackson, as the superhero best-friend Frozone, and Elizabeth Pena, as the mys­terious Mirage, are both reduced to arche­types, which is unusual for a Pixar film, but the acting is good enough that it does not become a distraction. Jackson attacks his relatively small role with the enthusi­asm that has become associated with the actor. 
Homages and parodies abound and "The lncredibles:· has great fun with this; it is obvious that the filmmakers have a deep understanding and love of old super­heros. The dangers of wearing capes are discussed, monologue-prone villains acknowledge their own long-windedness. and the conceit that a mere eye-covering protects secret identities is referenced; all of these clever allusions are presented with a knowing wink to the audience. 


Bird has made a wonderful and winning film that not only matches, but also exceeds his earlier animated effort. Despite a few minor quibbles. his feature succeeds on nearly every level. As for Pixar, they've raised their winning streak to 6-0 and, with "The Incredibles," have delivered one of the most fun, engaging and consistently enjoyable pictures to come out of Hollywood since its own Finding Nemo. 
While in the long run, Pixar may not have made a movie as enduring (or enduringly popular) as "Toy Story" or "Finding Nemo," they've still once-again proven its nigh-miraculous ability to pro­vide top-notch animation, story and enter-
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


'Alfie' not as charming on closer inspection 
as modern jargon would describe him,By EMILY IAROCCI 
a player. He moves from woman to Scene Critic 
woman. night after night, and lives his 
life in such a way as to not get emotion­
With a cast including such Hollywood ally attached to any of them. His emo­greats as Jude Law, Marisa Tomei, tional attachment phobia is even obvi­Omar Epps, Nia Long and Susan ous within his friendships because he Sarandon, how could a movie possibly really only has one friend, Marlon be anything but outstanding? The {Omar Epps). The only other real rela­grnatly anticipated remake of "Alfie" tionship he has is a semi-steady rela­has finally arrived and despite its tionship with Julie {Marisa Tomei), who amazing cast, it fails to meet its lofty in Alfie's eyes is pretty much a friend expectations. with benefits. 
The acting is wonderful and executed Unfortunately for Julie, Allie docs not by exceptionally talented professionals. love her. and she docs love him. She llowever, the plot seems to suspect falls short of its that he cheats on
Alfie
assunwd role. The her, but initially marketing division 
ignores the fact, may be at fault for because of her this, or successful great affection for depending on how him. Eventually,Director: Charles Shyer
you look at it. It is Alfie successfully
Writer: Elaine Pope and Charles Shyer
not the romantic. drives both Julie,
Starring: Jude Law, Marisa Tomei, Omar
light-hearted com­and Marlon away
Epps, Susan Sarandon and Nia Long
ndy it appears to by failing to take bn in the pre­their feelings into views. Most of the actual comedy within account, when his sexual appetite is the film was found only in the begin­involved. ning. The rest of the movie is the depic­One by one throughout the movie all tion of a man whose casual lifestyle is his relationships {some old and some ing of confusion and maybe even dejec­his involvement with numerous women. falling to pieces before him, having new) and other parts of his personal life tion. but rather a much more serious movie. quite the opposite effect of what the begin to crumble and most fall apart Although the movie did not meet Above all things, this is not a romantic viewer was hoping for -two hours of completely. As his life falls to pieces, expectations, especially given its nor­comedy, as the trailers and previews laughter. Alfie has absolutely no one to turn to, mally stellar cast, a second viewing would suggest it to be. 
Our first introduction to Alfie is no one to comfort him, or .advise him. may provide a different response. This Overall, "Alfie" was decent. but cer­indeed hilarious. but after the first 20 The ending does not resolve anything, movie isn't the light-hearted fare with tainly not a movie to write home about. minutes or so, his life begins to fall we are left hanging, but not in the kind the predictable happy ending. Viewers It's worth seeing, but definitely not one apart and from there, there is really no of way that is indicative of the fact that will probably enjoy it more if they don't of the better movies I've seen recently. turning back. there will be a sequel. The ending is not approach it expecting solely the comic 
Alfie {Jude Law) is a philanderer, or satisfying, leaving viewers with a feel-interludes between a philanderer and Contact Emily Iarocci at eiarocci@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, Nov<;mber 9, 2004 
MLB 



Crosby and Bay earn Rookie of the Year honors 
Associated Press 

-· NEW YOHK Oakland Athletics shortstop Bobby Crosby was just a vote shy of being a unanimous pick for AL Hookie of the Year, and Pittsburgh Pirates outfielder Jason Bay easily won the NL award Monday. Crosby received 27 of 28 first­place votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America for 138 points. Chicago White Sox closer Shingo Takatsu received the other first-place vote and finished second with 44 points. followed by Baltimore pitcher Daniel Cabrera with 29 points. Crosby, the son of former major league infielder Ed Crosby, said it was nerve-racking waiting for the announcement and that being a unanimous pick "would have been nice." 
"I think it's sweet either way." he said. 
Bay, the first Pittsbur:gh player and lirst native Canadian to win the NL award, got 25 of 32 first­place votes and 146 points. San Diego shortstop Khalil Greene received seven lirst-place votes, 24 seconds and one third for 108 points, and Padres reliever Akinori Otsuka was next with 23 points. 
Pittsburgh had been the only pre-expansion team without a rookie of the year, with four players finishing second: first baseman Donn Clendenon (1962). second baseman Johnny Hay (1 982), pitcher Mike Dunne (1 987) and outfielder-first base­man Orlando Merced (1991). 
Bay. traded by Montreal in 2001, the New York Mets in 2002 and San Diego in 2003, was surprised that the Pirates, whose rookies have included Hoberto Clemente, Willie Stargell and Barry Bonds, never had a winner. 
"It means the world to me," he said. "You walk into the locker room and you sec all those jer­seys hanging up, it's kind of amazing it never happened." 
Bay got married in Seattle on Saturday to his college girl­friend. Kristen. He was trying to sleep late Monday when he got the call. 
"November 2004, especially in a two-day span, is something I'll never forget," he said. 
Crosby, 24. took over Oakland's shortstop job from 2002 AL MVP Miguel Tejada, who signed with Baltimore. Crosby hit .239 with 22 homers and 64 HBis, his average the lowest for a non-pitcher given the award. 


Bobby Crosby won the Al Rookie of the Year award Monday .after hitting 22 home runs and knocking in 64 runs for the A's. 
RECSPORTS 


Irish qualify for nationals in water polo 
powered offensive attack, go-ahead goal that narrowly Lalbourn and Kat SublofT fin­which Notre Dame dominated
Notre Dame falls to 

beating Toledo 15-5. The missed. After calling a time­ished third. in the varsity A and B divi­Grand Valley State underclassmen on the squad out. the Lakers immediately Overall composite rankings sions. Both teams lwld ofT helped propel the team to vic­fired a shot from the free pass found Michigan. Miami of tough Cincinnati and Daytonin tournament final tory over the Hockets as soph­that bounced off the crossbar Ohio, Michigan State, Ohio competition to takp the top omores Jon Kelly and i n t o a g r o.u p o f I r is h an d University, Indiana. Ohio State spots. The novice crew posted Special to the Observer Shepard, along with freshmen Lakers players. A struggle for and Purdue finishing in order competitive times for their Dusty Mennella and Colin the ball ended with the ball in ahead of the Irish, with first sprint of the year taking 
The No. 11 ranked Notre Dunn scored for the Irish. By the hands of a wide-open Western Michigan, host Hope first place in the B division. Dame men's water polo team winning the first two games, Grand Valley player. In a con­College and Denison com plet­Squash headed to Western Michigan Notre Dame qualified for the troversial finish, the Lakers ing the field. Purdue hosted the f1edgling University this weekend for championship game against player shot and scored as time Men's Rowing Notre Dame squash club this the Great Lakes Conference No.5-ranked Grand Valley expired. Video footage appar­The Notre Dame men's row­weekend in the first of two Championship. In the first State University. ently showed that the goal was ing club finished its season on contests between the schools match on Saturday against the In usual fashion, this game scored after regulation, but a high note this Saturday in a this year. The Irish dropped host Broncos. the Irish jumped proved to be a battle to the the referees did not overturn regatta against the University five of six contests. although out tc a quick seven-goal lead finish. With numerous lead the goal. of Dayton and the University the top of the lineup was com­by the end of the first quarter. changes in the first half, the The Irish still qualified for of Cincinnati in West petitive with the With continued scoring and Irish squad eventually found the national tournament in Carrolton, Ohio. Boilermakers. tough defense the Irish even­itself down 7-4 to the Lakers two weeks by making it to the In the 4,000 meter competi­Sophomore James Zhang tually rolled to a commanding late in the third period. After conference championship tion the men's varsity A boat was the Irish sole victor, earn­18-9 vietory. Leading the scor­calling a timeout and regroup­game. For the first time ever, took second place with a time ing a hard fought 3-2 number ing with six goals was gradu­ing, the team turned up the the University of Notre Dame of 12:09 only 4 seconds behind one match. Freshman Mikn ate student Matt McNicholas. scoring and played tenacious will be hosting this national the winning Dayton boat. The Gelinas and captain Sereeparp Also scoring were graduate defense. led by outstanding championship tournament. B boat had a brilliant race Anantavraslip both lost close student Jay Nunez, seniors play between the pipes from Sailing beating the Dayton and 3-2 decisions at numbers two Jack Spittler and Mike Grow. goalie Scott Tagwerker. The Notre Dame's sailing club Cincinnati B boats and taking and three. It was Gelinas first juniors Hyan Downey and Greg fired-up Notre Dame squad finished No.8 overall in an fourth place overall. The no­loss in four matches this sea­Szewczyk and sophomore slowly crawled back into the eleven school field at the Area vice crew had a strong show­son. Sophomores Phil Moss. Steve Shepard. game. With 45 seconds left in East Elimination Regatta at ing as well posting a 13:41 in Mike McConnell and GrPg 
On Sunday morning, in regulation, the Irish had pos­Holland, Mich. The A division the A boat and a 14:09 in the Caso dropped 3-0 matches at Notre Dame's second match of session of the ball and were crew of Chris May, Amy B boat. The University of four through six respectively. the tournament. the Irish deadlocked at 9-9. After run­Becker. and Bryan Marek Dayton novice took first place The two schools will play faced the Toledo Hockets. ning the clock down to 4 sec­placed ninth overall in eleven with a time of 12:59. again in January at the Big Again the Irish cruised to onds with a rebounded shot, races, while the B division The afternoon race consisted Ten Squash Championshipsanother victory led by a high-Shepard fired a shot fnr the crew of Tim Hay, Kerry of a short 1,200 meter piece in hosted by Northwestern. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES FOR RENT 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL Party Cruise! AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. 5 Days $299' 

TICKETS FOR SALE 

HOME,W/D,NEAR Includes Meals, Parties! Moving to Chicago? Sublease in DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. BUY/SELL Plan your next trip! VW EUROVAN Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, 4br Lincoln Park apt. w/3 ND grads. LEASING FOR 2005-2006 AVAIL. NOW. <;ALL JOE GRIM-FOOTBALL TIX pop-top camper 1999 Sleeps 4 273-Jamaica From $459! $575/mo, open Dec. 1 Call Andy @ SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-MINS574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 9959 Leave a phone number. Panama City & Daytona $1591 312·371·4415 ES LEFT. 273-3911 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 
WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES Apartment for rent 2 br, partially fur-Gently worn ND winter hip length 1 -800-678-6386 NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BED-nished, desirable North Shore For Sale: ND football tix. jacket. XL $60. WANTED ROOM HOUSES, STUDENT Triangle neighborhood, 1.25 mi Good prices. 233-2431. ADOPTION-Happily married couple 
NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY from campus, second semester 232-0964. long to provide your newborn with a Tutor for hrgh school student. SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE special $400/mo plus electric, 233-happy home, warmth, security and Granger family sees tutor for 9th STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY-1604 Wanted: ND football tix. PERSONAL unconditional love Expenses paid grade girl in algebra, physical sci-ERS. Top$$$ Carolyn and Kevin 1-866·206-3323 
ence. and Spanish. VISIT OUR WEBSITE 6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave across 251-1570. SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi PIN#7774 Must be patient, organized, posi-WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR from radio tower available for 06· Tours! Over 18 years of Spring tive, focused and able to speak CONTACT KRAMER (574)234-07. Completely renovated,large ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. Break experience! 160 yards, 2 TO's Englsh clearly. 2436 OR (574)315-5032. rooms,3 full baths. ND Ave house 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 The BEST Spring Break Under the One to two hours Monday, Tuesday w/5bdrms available for 05-06. Will Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Why do I always get burned by and Thursday 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 lease to as few as 3 students, good NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Cameron & Cabo. Organize a kickers? at 3:30. Email reply to· Walking distance from NO location & competitive rent. Email Call Amy group-GO FREE! 800-875-4525 or WrightHarmon@ aolcom MMMRentals.com 532-1408 ndhouses @yahoo.com 219-872-5932 www. bianchi-rossi.com Hi Eva 
Tuesday, November 9~ 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 13 
NFL 

Strahan sidelined for the remainder of season 
Associated Press 
i 

EAST RUTHERFOltD, N.J. ­All-Pro Michael St~ahan will miss the rest of the srason with a torn muscle in his dhest, leav­ing the New York Gia ts without both starting defensiv ends. 
Strahan, the NFL's a !-time sin­gle-season sacks le der, was hurt Sunday in the th rd quarter of a 28-21 loss to t e Chicago Bears. The 12-yeat veteran reached out with hlis arm to attempt a tackle oq Anthony Thomas and his arrrl' was bent 
back as the running back cut inside. Surgery will be performed Wednesday. 
"This injury is a shame bec~use Michael really enjoys playing in this defense," coach Tom Coughlin said. "He bought into our defensive philosophy and our schemes and how he fits into it." 
The news was doubly bad for the Giants because Keith Washington tore. an anterior cruciate ligament in his left leg against the Bears. He also will miss the rest of the season. 
Holmes may be out next week 
Priest Holmes has strained lig­·aments in his right knee and might not be able to play next Sunday at New Orleans. 
The star running back left Sunday's loss to Tampa Bay in the third quarter. His injury was first said to be a bruised knee, but the team learned Monday that Holmes has a strained MCL. 
"The extent of the strain will only be known after a period of days," coach Dick Vermeil said. "We'll go ahead and prepare as if he's not going to be there." 
Vermeil added that Holmes will be evaluated each day and was "a little better" Monday. 
The 31-year-old Holmes leads the NFL with 892 yards rushing and 90 points despite being dogged much of the season with nagging injuries. 
He underwent hip surgery fol­lowing the 2002 season and bounced back, scoring a league­record 27 touchdowns in 2003. He scored his 14th touchdown Sunday in Kansas City's 34-31 loss to the Buccaneers before 

We were named one of Fortune® magazine's" 100 Best Companies To Work For." And you can bet it wasn't because of the free coffee. 
Job perks are great. And at Ernst & Young we happen to think the most important ones are those that help our employees grow. That's why we've given them access to some of the best
FORTUNE" 

professional development programs in the country. As well as the opportunity to work on some

100 BEST 

COMPANIESg of the most prestigious brands in the world. In turn, Fortune magazine recognized us as one of TO WORK FOR~ the "100 Best Companies To Work For" six years in a row. So if you're looking for agreat place to work, look for us on campus. Maybe we can grab a cup of coffee. ey.comjusjcareers 

leaving after a 13-yard run around left end. 
The news about linebacker Shawn Barber's knee injury was worse. Vermeil said Barber could be out the rest of the year, and he'll be examined this week by a specialist in Birmingham, Ala. 
"We'll know more later," Vermeil said, adding that it was "very possible" the seven-year veteran would not return this season. Leftwich to miss 2 weeks 
Jaguars quarterback Byron Leftwich probably will miss two games with a sprained left knee. Leftwich was re-evaluated Monday, and doctors determined there was no need for surgery. But he will remain in a brace and on crutches this week. 
Backup David Garrard will make his second career start Sunday against Detroit. 
Leftwich, who has completed 
64.8 percent of his passes for 1,891 yards and nine touch­downs, sprained the lateral col­lateral ligament in his left knee Oct. 31 at Houston. Jacksonville had a bye Sunday. 
''I'm trying to give you the most realistic picture, which is that he could return for Minnesota," Del Rio said. "He is young and he's a fast healer. If he's feeling great, there's a chance he would play next week." 
Pennington out with rotator cuff injury 
Quarterback Chad Pennin­gton will miss two to four weeks with a strained right rotator cuff. 
Pennington was hurt in the first quarter of a 22-17 loss to Buffalo on Sunday when he scrambled up the middle for a 12-yard gain. Rather than slid­ing, he dived ahead and was hit from the right side by linebacker London Fletcher, who forced a fumble. 
Pennington continued playing, but his arm started to stiffen and he left the game in the fourth quarter after talking with coach Herman Edwards. The conversation took place after Pennington's last two drives ended with an interception and a 13-yard sack. 
Former Cowboys starter Quincy Carter will start Sunday against Baltimore. 
For the second straight year, the Jets (6-2) must play without Pennington, who signed a $64 million extension before the sea­son started. Last year, he broke his left wrist in the preseason and missed the first six games. Without him, the Jets struggled and finished 6-10. 
"Compared to what I went through last year, this is some­thing hard to take because I hate missing games and it's something I'm not used to as a starter," Pennington said. "But at the same time my cup's still half full, not half empty and I have a Jot of great expectations for our team." 
Krenzel's ribs not a problem 
Rookie quarterback Craig Krenzel expects to practice this week and play Sunday at Tennessee. Krenzel's ribs were hurting at halftime Sunday, but he stayed in the game and the Bears rode a stellar defensive effort -five turnovers and seven sacks -to a 28-20 win over the New York Giants. X­rays after the game showed no cause for alarm. 
Krenzel is 2-0 as a starter for 
the Bears. 
·----­

~---~~ 
AROUND THE NATION 
)age 14 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, November 9, 2004 
Men's Basketbal AP Top 25 
team first opponent 
1 Kansas Vermont 

2 Wake Forest George Washington 
3 Georgia Tech Alabama State 
4 North Carolina santa Clara 
5 Illinois Delaware State 
6 Syracuse Northern Colorado 
7 Oklahoma tate Northwestern State 
8 Connecticut Buffalo 

g Kentcky Coppin State 
10 Arizona San Diego 
11 Duke Tennessee Martin 
12 Mississippi Sl. fairfield 

13 Michigan State florida A&M 
14 Louisville BYU·Hawali 
15 Maryland Jackson State 
16 Texas Texas State 
17 Pittsburgh Howard 

18 Alabama Western Caronna 
19 N.C. State New Orleans 
20 NOTRE DAME Harvattl 

21 Wisconsin Pennsylvania 
22 Washington Seattle Pacific 
23 Florida Jacksonville 
24 Memphis Savannah State 
25 Gonzaga Portland State 
NFL 
AFC East 

team New England N.Y. Jets Buffalo Miami  retord 7-1 6·2 3·5 1-8  perc. .875 .750 .375 .111  PF 208 185 137 123  PA 146 138 137 186  
team Pittsburgh Baltimore Cincinnati Cleveland  AFC North record perc. 7·1 .875 5·3 .625 3-5 .375 3-5 .375  PF 197 154 152 160  PA 137 113 169 174  
team Jacksonville Indianapolis Houston Tennessee  AFC South record perc. 5·3 .625 5·3 .625 4-4 .500 3·5 .375  PF 128 249 171 151  PA 146 206 174 178  
AFC West  
team Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland  record 6·3 6·3 3·5 3·6  perc. .625 .571 .500 .375  PF 199 262 237 165  PA 154 173 211 247  
NFC East  
team  record  perc.  PF  PA  
Philadelphia N.Y. Giants Dallas Washington  7·1 5·3 3-5 3·5  .875 .625 .375 .333  189 172 141 115  104 113 177 123  
team Minnesota Detroit Green Bay Chicago  NFC North record perc. 5·3 .714 4-4 .500 3·5 .500 3·5 .375  PF 211 137 206 108  PA 162 141 203 133  
team  NFC South record perc.  PF  PA  
Atlanta New Orleans Tampa Bay Carolina  6·2 3-5 3·5 1-7  .750 .375 .375 .125  170 171 143 124  170 234 155 185  
NFC West  
team Seattle St. Louis Arizona San Francisco  record 5·3 4-4 3-5 H  perc. .624 .500 .375 .125  PF 194 180 150 145  PA 145 205 165 224  
through 20II 


around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Toledo vs N. Illinois 7:30 p.m. ESPN2 
POKER World Series of Poker 7 p.m. ESPN 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 
Sure, Kansas often grabs a spot in the upper half of the AP preseason college basketball poll, but the school hasn't been No. 1 since a player named Wilt Chamberlain suited up for the Jayhawks in the 1950s. 
Kansas stood atop The Associated Press' Top 25 
on  Monday,  the  13th  
straight  season  the  
Jayhawks  have  been  

ranked 11th or higher in the first poll. 
The Jayhawks received 25 first-place votes and 1,697 points from the national media panel, edg­ing Wake Forest, which had 22 first-place votes and 1,680 points. 
The Demon Deacons were the first of three straight Atlantic Coast Conference teams in the poll, and six teams from the league were in the Top 25. 
Wayne Simien leads four starters back for Kansas, which lost to Georgia Tech in the NCAA tournament's regional finals last season. 
"I hope we're never going to be satisfied and our veterans understand they've got to go play. It's nice, but it means nothing in the big scheme of things," second-year Kansas coach Bill Self said. 

The Jayhawks hope they can do even better than the last time they were No. 1 in the preseason: In 1956-57. Chamberlain led them to the national championship game, a triple-overtime loss to North Carolina. 
As for Wake Forest, it has all five starters back from the team that lost to Saint Joseph's in the round of 16. 
"You see it, you look at it, and you shake your head, but you can't waste one nanosecond to worry about it," Demon Deacons coach Skip Prosser said, referring to the lofty ranking. which matches the highest in school history in any AP poll. 
Georgia Tech and North Carolina were third and fourth in the balloting. It is the second time in three years one conference has had the Nos. 2-4 in the preseason poll. The Big 12's Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas were in that order in 2002. 
No. 11 Duke, No. 15 Maryland and No. 19 North Carolina State round out the ACC teams in the poll. 
"It's a tough, tough league," Prosser said. "I 
don't think that'll  ever  
change."  
Illinois.  where  Self  

coached before heading to Kansas. was fifth. 

IN BRIEF 
NFL extends TV agreements
NEW YORK -The NFL agreed Monday to $8 billion in contract extensions with Fox and CBS to tele· vise Sunday afternoon games for six more years. deals that would also allow the league to show better matchups late in the season in prime time. 
The current eight-year contract, which expires after the 2005 season, was worth $17.2 billion. including the Sunday night (on ESPN) and Monday night (on ABC) packages. The extensions will run through 2011 and represent a 25 percent increase in rights fees. 
The league still is in talks for the prime-time packages. The exclusive negotiating period for ABC/ESPN extends for nearly another year. 
The deals give the NFL the option to move seven late-season games from Sunday to Monday night to fea­ture more attractive matchups, according to an official within the league who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
The NFL also can develop late-sea­son prime-time satellite or cable packages of eight games, which would be televised on Thursdays and Saturdays. Or the league could take those eight games and show them regionally in prime-time telecasts on Sundays and Mondays · Hocl{ey player sentenced in 
attempted murder case 
EAST ST. LOUIS, Ill. -Former St. Louis Blues player Mike Danton was sentenced Monday to 7 1/2 yoars in prison for trying to have his agent killed. 
Danton, 24, said nothing as U.S. District Judge William Stiehl imposed the sentence. 
"I do not believe in over 18 years on the bench I have been faced with a case as bizarre as this one," Stiehl said, noting that Danton chose a 19­year-old acquaintance and a police dispatcher as his would-be helpers in the murder plot. 

Danton is expected to ask to be moved to a prison in his native Canada. His contract with the Blues ex_pired after the 2003-04 season. Three players inducted into 
NHL Hail of Fame 
TORONTO -Ray Bourque, the finest defenseman of his generation, entered the Hockey Hall of Fame on Monday with Paul Coffey and Larry j'vturphy. 
The three stellar defenseman com­bined for nine Stanley Cups and joined the hall with builder Cliff Fletcher and hockey writer Jim Kelley. 
Bourque played for 22 NHL sea­sons and was a five-time Norris Trophy winner. 
He spent all his career in Boston until he capped it by winning the Stanley Cup with Colorado in his final season in 2001. 
Coffey won three Stanley Cups in Edmonton and one in Pittsburgh. His 48 goals in 1985-86 are the most by a defenseman in one season. 
Tuesday, November~. 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Martinez, Sosa and Johnson headline meetings 

Associated Press Monday and set up shop for 
their annual meetings. 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Pedro Many of the GMs had already Martinez, Samm~ Sosa and arrived at the ritzy oceanfront Randy Johnson figur~d to attract hotel by the time some other plenty of attention once all 30 prominent guests -members of general managers got together the heavy metal band Metallica 
fl.' 

Get a Jutnp Start on your Summer Internship Search! 
St. Paul Travelers~ summer paid internship opportunities are available in Hartford, CT and ~t. Paul, MN. Work 40 hours a week and gain valuable experience that can help place you a couple of rungs above the competi­tion on the ladder to a post-college job. 
Find out more about our internship opportunities... 
When: Thursday, November 11, 2004 
lime: 11 :OOam-1 :OOpm Place: Center for Continuing Education, Room 112 
How to apply: Qualified candidates should go to Career Services and submit their resume to our internship postings. 
The question isn't ''Why SHOULD you work at St. Paul Travelers this summer"; the question is "why SHOULDN'T you''?! 
Don't be one of the many at the last minute when you can be one of the few now! Get your resume in early! 
1
www.stpaultravelers.~om 
~STPAUL 

tlllliii !TRAVELERS 
-checked out. Quickly, the baseball folks got down to busi­ness. 
In the first trade of the offsea­son, San Diego sent outfielder Terrence Long and pitcher Dennis Tankersley to Kansas City for pitchers Darrell May and Ryan Bukvich. 
Also, the Montreal Expos ­still operating under that name, but expected to become the Washington Nationals real soon -cut reliever Rocky Biddle. Count the San Francisco Giants among the teams that came to Florida looking for a closer. 
Besides deals, there are other things to talk about during these five days. There will be a discus­sion about moving the July 31 trade deadline, and the topic of instant replay also was listed on the agenda. 
"I think people want to see that the umpires get it right," said Bob Watson, vice president of on-field operations. "I think the postseason proved they could do it without instant replay." 

Plus, there might be a debate about post-series hugs and handshakes, such as what took place between the St. Louis Cardinals and Los Angeles Dodgers after their first-round NL matchup. Fact is, a lot of old school executives didn't like it too much. 
Along with the GMs, there was at least one prime player in town. Scott Boras, who repre­sents free agents Carlos Beltran, Adrian Beltre, Derek Lowe, Jason Varitek, Magglio Ordonez and J.D. Drew, breezed through the lobby. 
''I'm late for another meeting," he said. 
Traditionally, the GM gather­ing serves as a precursor for the winter meetings, to be held Dec. 10-13 in Anaheim, Calif. 
"This is where you can lay the groundwork," Atlanta GM John Schuerholz said. "I don't think you 'II see a lot of action here because there are too many dynamic free agents still out there." 
Carlos Delgado, Nomar Garciaparra, Troy Glaus and Martinez are among the elite players eligible. Only their for­mer teams can talk money with free agents until Friday. Just to be sure, baseball sent out a two­page memo to clubs last week reminding them no collusion is allowed on offers. 
Stung by Boston in the AL championship series, the New York Yankees figure to make an impact sometime before opening day. That could mean trying to lure Martinez away from the World Series champion Red Sox and perhaps making a trade to get Johnson from Arizona. 
Yankees GM Brian Cashman said he'd spoken to most teams before flying south, with talks in the initial stages. 
"The way these winters have gone, things don't move too swiftly," he said. 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Tying Up Loose Ends Before Packing Your Suitcase" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 7:30PM 119 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 Academic Year 2005-2006 Fall 2005 Spring 2006 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
vs. Quincy 

Troop ND half-time show! 
Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for the latest promotional information 
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 page 16
The Observer + SPORTS 

Men's 
continued from page 20 
the Dawgs wound up with 
negative total yardage on 
offense for the entire game. 
Ilowever. Knott dominated in 

rushing yards as John Lyons 
ran for 58 of his 120 total 
rushing yards on the first 
drive of the game, as Knott 
scored a touchdown without a 
single passing play on the 
drive. Lyons capped the drive 
with a 5-yard run into the end 
zone. 
"Having Lyons opens up everything for us," Lynch said. "Our passing opens up a lot with him." 
On their second drive the Juggs extended their lead with a 25-yard pass from Justin Gillett to Lyons. The extra point was no good, and Knott led 13-0. 
Kicker Eric Wooldridge boot­ed an impressive 37-yard field goal in the third quarter to make it a three-score lead. 
With the suspense gone. Knott mounted one last scor­ing drive, culminating in a 30­yd touchdown pass to Trey Patrick who. for the second straight week, contributes both a touchdown catch and an interception. Knott handed the ball off to Lyons. who went in for the two-point conversion to put the final score at 24-0. 
Knott will now move on to the interhall championship game at the stadium on Sunday. The Juggs' opponent will be the undefeated Knights of Keenan IIall. 
"We have been saying all season our goal was to win the championship and we are now at the last and biggest step," Lynch said. 
Keenan 20, Siegfried 0 
The No. 1 Knights of Keenan blew away Siegfried during Sunday's semi-final match-up. The final score of 20-0 was met with an uproar on the packed Keenan sidelines. 
The Knight's finished the first quarter with a touch­down, making it 7-0 after quarterback Eric Laumann completed a long pass into the end zone. The Ramblers stepped up, however, and blocked the extra point attempt. 
Keenan was successful on the field because both offense and defense fought aggres­sively. Siegfried entered confi­dent as well, but after an interception early in the sec­ond quarter by Keenan's Scott Morin, the Rambler offense began to falter. 
As a result of Morin's inter­ception, the Keenan offense held possession during a long series and Laumann complet­ed a second long touchdown pass to Zenker once again. This time the extra point was completed. 
With regard to the touch­down completion, Laumann praised Zenker for his pres­ence on the lield. 
"He just makes me look good," Laumann said. 
Siegfried's offense took the field right before half time, only to be shut down by Keenan's John Wood, who made an interception and returned it 20 yards. 
In the second half, Siegfried's defense came strong and ready to play. It stopped Keenan's running game during two possessions. The secondary, especially, made some crucial tackles, holding off Keenan on a fourth down conversion. 
At the beginning of the fourth quarter, Keenan's offense was third and long when Laumann completed another long pass to Zenker, sealing a Knight victory and a trip to the stadium. 
"We get all the credit, but the real stars of the game are the line," Laumann said. 
After the loss, Siegfried cap­tain John Hughes respected Keenan for its aggressive style of play. 
"We knew they were going to be great, they came in and ran the ball and passed it really well. We made a couple of mistakes and we could have showed for a lot more plays. We didn't get it done when it mattered," Siegfried Captain John Hughes said. 
Despite the dominance Siegfried has held in men's interhall football the past sev­eral years. it was Keenan's afternoon and is now simply looking towards next Sunday's championship game. time in four years that we've The seniors on the team that are going to return. My 
"We came out and played as been to the stadium, it'll be a have only lost four games in compliments to Keenan on a good as we could play. I think new experience for all of us," four years, which is quite an great game," Hughes said. our real success in winning Keenan captain Patrick impressive career. the game can be attributed to Downey said. ''I'm really proud of the our running game. which Siegfried's accomplishments, guys, we had a great season. Contact Kate Seryak and John opened up a lot of other however. are not to go over­I'm proud of the seniors going Everett at kseryak@nd.edu and options for us. This is the first looked. out and of all the great guys jeverett@nd.edu 

THE CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS 
THE BROTHERS OF THE MIDWEST PROVINCE 
BESSETTE HOUSE 
A HOUSE OF DISCERNMENT ON THE CAMPUS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOR MEN CONSIDERING THE CONSECRATED LIFE AS A BROTHER IN HOLY CROSS 
OPEN FOR MEMBERSHIP IN JANUARY 2005 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 574-631-2703 
E-MAIL PSMITH@HCC-ND.EDU 






What challenges will business and government lead~ti\YMfl• Witfl;if't the year 2015? This 1.5-credit-hour course wilt explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society over th@ ··~·· Aseries of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts on economic demography, bioteclln r"lg1oUJ fundamentalism, oil and peace, futurism and work, and natural resources. 

JEFF MATIESONfThe Observer 
Cavanaugh quarterback Lisa Ruffer runs down field in the team's 18-13 victory over Pangborn on Monday night. 
No cover ever with studentiU 

~1 i Sports ~ar in South ~end 2046 South ~end Ave ~ Across frot~t Martins Plaza 272~1766 
NP Football Headquarters Online sports info 
..~reat Food, ~reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football TUES: CoLL£0£ NltHT ~ PJ 8-SPECIALS {STARfiNt AT •1.00) Wed: n.tVIA Night -Jrit1g your teat~ts -Prizes fHURS: PJ ~ FIRST fHURSPAY EVERY MONTH: JASSY C.rtAZZ Fri: Live Et1tertait1tttet1t Sat: NU gat~tes Sut1: 
-14­

MBA·525/ BA-325 

The Observer + SPORTS 
Wo01en's 
continued from page 20 
back again. 
Capitalizing on three Chaos penalties and two passes down­field by Pangborn quarterback Katie Mooney, Trish Conneely caught a 10-yard screen pass out of the backfield for a touch­down as time expired in the half. After converting on the extra-point, the underdog Phoxes took a 13-12 lead into intermission 
Throughout the second peri­od. the Chaos defense stepped up in desperate situations throughout the half. 
With the Phoxes ready to strike again, the Cavanaugh secondary deflected what could have been a touchdown pass on fourth-and-goal from the 15. 
The Cavanaugh offense rose to the occasion as well, retak­ing the lead late in the second half off of a third touchdown pass of the night by Ruffer. 
Nevertheless, Pangborn proved it still had some fight remaining with less than five minutes left when it began a drive on its own four. 
The Phoxes dissected the defense and marched downfield with only a few minutes remaining on the clock. 
Faced with 4th-and-1 on the 21 yard-line and 65 seconds left in regulation, Pangborn called a timeout to decide what play to run. 
With the game on the line, Conneely took the ball on a draw and dashed towards the 20-yard line, but Cavanaugh defender Liz Brennan tore Conneely's flags out inches 
LL~ fe ~e L~Re LV\, 20"15 ? 
REGISTER NOW I 
::<>:·:··: 
'%::-'"" 
before the first down marker. 
Pangborn players protested the call, insisting that the ball carrier had broken the 20, but the referees dismissed their claims. 
After two quarterback keep­ers, the clock ran out and Cavanaugh celebrated a hard­fought win. 
Contributing to the winning effort with two touchdowns, Nokes was especially happy. "Some nights the defense is big," she said. "Other nights it's been the offense. But tonight it was everyone." 
For Pangborn's Johnson, the loss was tough, but her team still played well. "To be ranked No. 10 at the beginning of the season and come this far is something to be proud of," she said. 
Walsh..13, Welsh Family 6 
A sign hanging outside Walsh Hall read, "Hey Welsh, there's no 'E' in stadium." Aside from the spelling, the Wild Women kept the stadium without an 'E,' literally speaking. 
The Wild Women defeated the Welsh Family Whirlwinds 13-6 on Monday night at the Stepan fields in a semifinal match-up. 
"We were pumped," Walsh senior captain Carrie Campbell said. "We had some huge plays. We had awesome fans here. The dorm was alive before the game and the field was alive . Our fans were great." 
The teams played to a 6·6 first-half tie and remained deadlocked throughout most of the second half. 
With three minutes left in regulation, the Wild Women put together the game-winning drive. The Walsh fans screamed, shook bells, jumped page 17 

and did push-ups. From 30­yards out, Walsh quarterback Mary Sullivan launched a 25­yard pass that looked over­thrown. 
But freshman wide receiver Cigi Low made the catch ­
with  her  arms  fully  out­ 
stretched ­ to make the  diving  
grab.  

"Cigi made the most spectac­ular catch in girls interhall football history," Walsh coach Matt Schulte said. 
Campbell also commented on the impressive play made by Low. 
"She was fantastic," Campbell said. 
The Wild Women then fin­ished the drive with a five-yard touchdown pass from Sullivan to wide receiver Marie Brenner. 
Welsh Family had one last chance on offense. but Walsh defensive back Julie Campbell sealed the game with an inter­ception. 
"We played pretty well," Welsh Family captain Melissa Sands said. "It's the third year in a row that we've lost in the semi's. We were not disappoint­ed with our season and we wish we could've gotten in the stadi­um, but we're happy with what we accomplished." 
Campbell. the senior Walsh captain, breathed a sigh of relief when she knew her team had achieved part of their goal -aspot in the championship. 
"It's been four long years." she said. "It's exciting. We've put lots of heart and sweat into this season." 
Contact Ken Fowler and Tom 
Dorwart at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
and tdorwart@nd.edu 
Tuesday, November 9, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 18 
Pitt 
continued from page 20 
Young and Boston College, the energy level wasn't as high as it needed to be. 
"We've had a couple of set­backs this year. but one thing we've always told ourselves, if we approach every game like it's the big game, and there's no reason we can't do that no matter who we're 

"A lot ofit comes
playing, we happened last can beat every down to how hard weekend," Curry 
said. "We had a
team in this we are going to 
country and great win, we
play."
we can domi­have to let go that nate people," we won that Irish defensive Derek Curry game, but focus end Kyle on Pittsburgh
Irish linebacker 
Budinscak said. "We said it before, and I can say it again. if we approach this game like we approached big games earlier this year. there's no reason we can't be very successful. That's what we really have to have in our minds." 
It's applicable this week with Pittsburgh corning to Notre Dame Stadium on Senior Day. TIH' 5-3 Panthers have defeated Boston College in overtinw, but also needed overtime to defeat Division 1­;\;\ Furman. Boston Collegn's play has been as inconsistent as the Irish -minus two wins over top 10 teams. 
So it's easy to see why the Irish would be overlooking this Pittsburgh team. espe­cially with a Thanksgiving weekend match up with No. I USC looming. 
But they know doing that will send thPm right back to w lw re they were after the loss to Boston College. 
"You can't overlook Pittsburgh. Our focus is more on Pittsburgh than any other team on the schedule right now, even USC. We know we play them, we know they are No. 1, but our main focus is Pittsburgh," Irish linebacker Dernk Curry said. "To have the type of ending we want to have to this season and finish the way we want to finish, it's going to be really important we play well this weekend." 


Not overlooking Pittsburgh means the Irish can't dwell on what they accomplished Saturday in Knoxville. Doing that will shift the focus from what it needs to be -staying focused on this week's oppo­nent. 
";\ lot of it comes down to how hard we are going to play. Actually a lot it has to do with kind of getting past what 
because  it  is  a  
pivotal.  pivotal  
game.  
Irish  coach  Tyrone  

Willingham spoke last week about becoming more consis­
tent. The win Saturday con­firmed Notre Dame's track record so far this season ­being consistently inconsis­tent. 
That's why on Saturday it's not unreasonable to expect a close game. 
"You always have to be worried of a letdown." Budinscak said. "Because of our track record this season, it's especially true. We have to come out and not think of this as any different as Tennessee." 
Coming out and winning decisively, as Curry, Budinscak and others said Monday, will show just maybe, with only one regular season game left. the Irish have found out what their problem is -because defen­sive end Justin Tuck is tired talking about it. 
"I wish I had an answer for !the inconsistency]," he said. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

World Cup 
continued from page 20 

electronic scoring devices which indicate when a touch has been scored."For different reasons, they decided to sharpen the actions," Bednarski said. "Simply, it's a much faster sport now in reaction time. SomP kids have problems. It's like a preference for bigger, taller fencers. To reach the target they can reach earlier if you have a very long arm. it's easi­er. It affects mentally some kids because they were afraid to make some actions." 
Notre Dame will begin to alter its training immediately to corre­spond to the rule changes. Bednarski knows that the sooner his team adjusts the better chance it has of gaining an advantage on the competition. 
"Now we have to jump and start training with new timing. Those who are more experienced like Zagunis, they very quickly adapt­cd to the new standard." 
llowcver. Bednarski is not blind to the fact that the Irish will need more than just Zagunis if the team hopes to compete for the national title. Due to the team-oriented nature of collegiate fnncing, she can only score one point for her team, just like every other J(mcer. 
"We need to have [at least! 12 good fencers," Bednarski said. "One person doesn't change the position of the team. It's not like basketball when one leader can change the result. lien~ the num­ber of poinlo; for each nwmber of the team is limiWd. II' you win your bouLo; 5-0 it doesn't count for others."Nevertheless. he does feel that her experience as a top Olympic fenc1~r can still be of gn~at value to the squad as a whole. 
"The most important thing is that a. fencer like Zagunis is giving an example because she Lo; a hard worker," Bednarski said. "It's tlw example and the role of the leadf~r is important." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


YOUR CATERING SOLUTIONUJ 
BOX LUNCHES, PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 

FREEBIE$ (SUBS & CLUBS ONLVl Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato, mayo, sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 57 4.277.8500 
0 

''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!'' © 
Cal1259·sooo for more details 


Tuesday, November 9, 2~04 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
-----------.--------------------------------------------------------------­
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
r--------------------------.or-------------------------~
.5 
THE GOVERNMENll SAYS WE HAVE TO PUT L.JARN­ING LABELS ON OUR FORT'{-THOUSAND CAL­ORIE, SHARD-FILLED DOUGHNUTS PRODUCT.  HOW ABOUT:" L.JARN­ING! THIS PRODUCT WILL KILL YOU BUT THAT'S OKAY BECAUSE IT TASTES GREAT!" \  eli u. :::> ,.. .0 ;; e 0 .E g ,.. <( 'i5 ell  IT LOOKS LIKE HE CHOKED ON SOME SORT OF WAR.NING LABEL.  
;g  
0  
"'  
"  
PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  
GUESS WHAT I ~AVE  FOR  W~AT DOES T14AT  1\  W~O I='IXES YOUR  
LUNCH, MARCIE ... T~IRTI{-FIVE FORTUNE COOKIES!  ONE SAV, 511<.?  LUNC~, KID?"  

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

one letter to each square. ... and the juice 
to form four ordinary words. of lwo hmes 
FEASH j 
" 
1 
ri 
<rJ2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

~~"i~fl rJ 
,." 
H0DISM 

WHAT THE: BARTE:N­'i Ot=R SAID V'Jl-1f:N HE
rJ t
1 

.A SHARW HlS t=XOTlC.
www.jumble.com 
DRINK REC.IPE:. 
WADROC t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I [ ) ) I
.___.__......,.-"-''----::-::;:::::~~1'7"'"~su~g~gested by the above cartoon 
Print~="[ I I I J'Dr I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles HEFTY POPPY WISDOM FOIBLE Answer: A well-dressed man with scuffed shoes lacks this-"POLISH" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 41 Cockpit gauge DOWN 
fig~re

-serve 1 One seen
-46 n± Ronald playing with a5 Desert flora Reagan beach ball 10 Fresh kid 47 In the style of 2 Logo along U.S. 

14 Jacob's twin highways, once48 Gd astray15 Venusian, e.g. 
3 Placed 16 Suffix with Cine-.. Mr "'"dacd, 4 Mold and
53 A martypants

17T_ tiger mildew, for two
m y have a big 18 Muscle injuries on 5 Former Sears 
mailing19 Lyric poems 55 Cohabitate 
20 Protest formally 62 Ju~n·s emphatic 6 A Baldwin 
23 Not well asfent 7 "See ya!" 24 Silver 63 AJress Verdugo 8 Semester, e.g. 
(cloud seed) 64 0 ean motion 9 Fill with 25 Before now confidence
65 P~nny-_ 28 Cry out loud (trvial) 10 Like a sombrero's brim
30 Moon or sun, 66 Ai~ed again poetically 11 Pie chart lines
67 cJesarean 31 Diet plate rebuke 12 Make better serving 68 Ti~e to go once 13 "Take a sip" 36 Falco of ''The around the sun 
21 Lanchester ofSopranos" 
69 Peter, Paul or 

film 37 Battery type Mary 
22 Stud site 
38 Siberian dty 70 lnyitation letters 25 Air force hero 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 26 1977 George -::-r=r=-r-::-r:::-~ Burns title ro I e 
-7+-::+7-+;±:..1 27 Ear-related 
29 Trivial amount, slangily 
30 Tara name 
32 Mad Hatter's drink 
1-rlr.-i~-:-• .t-::+:::::t-::-•illllr.::-t-:-t-=+-=+:::-1 33 Salary max 
34 Message from a desert isle, perhaps 
35 Cousins of an -=+-:-:+-:-+:-1 ostrich 
~..:...L..:....L:..J 39 Lanka 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Obse~ver an indispensible link to the two campuses. :Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


40 Barbie's  50 Quaker's  58  even keel  
ex-beau  "yours"  
42 Simoleon  51 "  Ia vista!"  59 Half of a batting average  
43 Publishers  52 Not so cordial  calculation  
44 Swanky  54 Riverbank romper  60 1999 Ron Howard  
45 Herb in stuffing  56 Courtroom  comedy  
49 Op-ed piece,  statement  61 Do another  
e.g.  57 Actress Hatcher  hitch  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jack Osbourne, Tara Reid, Parker Posey, Mary Hart 
Happy Birthday: Don't let emotional or personal matters distract you from what you are trying to achieve. A serious approach to what counts will bring g()od results. Focus on what you do have control over. Your numbers are 
5, 12, 14, 19, 24,33 

ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Prepare to work extra hard. You will be praised for your skills with detail work and how well you work with others. Don't let incompetence get to you. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can probably turn something you enJOY doing into a lucrative project. Socializing or doing things with family. friends or children will turn out well. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Although you may be able to charm your way today, it may be difficult to complete what you are trying to do. Preparation will make the difference.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You w'ill be able to depend on friends to help you finish whatever you start. Your enthusiasm will speed up the process and attract a new friend or lover. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be too eager to quit your job or make changes to your life today. Stabilize your position and ready yourself to deal with financial matters. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be emotional when it comes to personal issues. Don't let anyone back you into a corner. Take your time to think about the way you feel and what you need and want. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use your charm and favors will be granted. You can make changes that will affect your future prospects. Information that will raise your financial situation is evident. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have lots to look forward to. Your involvement with interesting people will lead to a connection that will help you get your creative ideas off the ground. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be too anxious to wheel and deal with people you don't know well. You are likely to misread the intentions of someone who is promising you the world yet offering nothing.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on what's feasible as well as what you want out of life. You are not a follower, so don't get in the lineup. Be strong and do your own thing. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Today is your lucky day, so don't blow it. Financial gains can be made. but you will be tempted to spend frivolously. Don't neglect your health. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Focus on what you can do to make everyone around you happy. A change of residence or fixing up your place will send a favorable message to your loved ones. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are strong-willed and will stafld up for your beliefs. You have a creative imagination and can converse in a colorful and entertaining manner. You are popular and respected among your peers. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, November 9, 2004 
page 20 
INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
No. 1 Cavanaugh is set to face No. 3 Walsh in the finals 
By KEN FOWLER AND TOM 
DORWART 
Sports Writers 
Cavanaugh continues to roll this season as they head to the championship game this Sunday against Walsh. 
But Monday evening the Chaos barely hung on for an 18-13 victory against upstart Pangborn. 
On their second possession, already down 6-0, the Phoxes decided to take a chance and go for a 4th-and-4 from their own 36-yard-line. 
That risk paid a handsome reward in the form of a 44 yard touchdown run for Brynn Johnson. 
Unfortunately for Pangborn, Cavanaugh struck back imme­diately. Chaos star receiver Jenny Nokes caught her second touchdown pass, a 32-yard strike that tied the game at 12. 
For quarterback Lisa Ruffer, it was her second of three scor­ing passes on the night. She finished the game 7 -for-17 with 190 yards combined on the ground and through the air. 
After surrendering that score to Cavanaugh with less than two minutes remaining in the first half, the Phoxes battled 
see WOMEN'S/page 17 

Stadium or bust 


Above, Keenan receiver Reed Langton runs past Keough defenders on Oct. 
3. At left, Walsh celebrates 
its victory over Welsh Family on Monday night. 
•

PHOTOS BY HILARY THORTON AND JEFF MATTESON 
Knott upsets Alumni to earn spot in finals against Keenan 
By JOHN EVERETT AND 
KATESERYAK 
Sports Writers 

Of the seven passes attempt­ed by Alumni quarterbacks on Sunday, only one of them resulted in an incompletion. Unfortunately for the Dawgs, four of the remaining six ended up in the hands of Knott defenders. 
Matt O'Connor, Trey Patrick, Jim Lynch and Mike Peters contributed one intl.)rception each in the Juggs 24-0 victory on Sunday 
"We were working hard and have been in great shape all season," Lynch said. "They began to throw them longer as the game went on and time began to run out." 
The Knott defensive unit can also be credited with the amount of pressure they con­stantly placed upon Alumni's offense added Lynch . 

In addition to the intercep­tions. the Juggs also got two sacks and a fumble recovery by Justen Cheers. Throughout the entire contest. Alumni struggled in finding ways to place the ball in the end zone. In a clear illustration of Knott's defensive dominance, 
see MEN'S/page 16 
FENCING 

Zagunis continues to dotninate cotnpetition 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
In her first competition since the Athens Olympics, Marie! Zagunis continued to chew up international competition at the Junior World Cup last weekend in Louisville. 
The Irish fencer took home a gold medal in women's saber despite having missed a few weeks of training due to surgery on her wisdom teeth. 
"She was fencing very strong­ly," coaeh Janusz Bednarski said. "[She) won in beautiful style, [and) it was a great perform­ance." 
Notre Dame posted four other top ten finishers at the competi­tion. Sophomore Amy· Orlando placed eighth in women's epee while freshman Greg Howard finished ninth in men's foil. Sophomores Matt Stearns and Valerie Providenza both placed tenth in their respective saber divisions. 

"They fenced well, we had good results," Bednarski said. "! would like to have more medals but it's not easy in the World Cup. But we're at the beginning of the season. 
They don't have enough bouts yet [to be consistent]." 
The competition was a new experience for Irish fencers and coaches alike. The World Cup provided the first opportunity for them to encounter new rule changes which will also affect NCAA competition. The adjust­ments involve the timing of th~ 
see WORLD CUP/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

Irish looking for consistency 
Team strives for its second straight win against Pittsburgh this Saturday 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Maybe, just maybe, the Irish are starting to figure out why they've been so inconsistent. 
The talk on Monday cen­tered on keeping the same intensity and energy level no matter what opponent lines up on the other side of the ball. 
In the wins over Michigan and Tennessee, the energy level was at season-highs. 
In the losses to Brigham 
I 
see PITT/page 18 

Ryan Grant breaks through a tackle against Tennessee during the third quarter Saturday in Notre Dame's 17-13 win. 
en 
MLB 

COLLEGE BBALL 
NHL 

MLB 
CLUB SPORTS
NFL 
w 

Col Free agents are the 
The No. 11 men's water

Kansas earns the No. 
Ray Bourque enters 
New York Giants 

Oakland's Bobby
z main topic of discussion 
polo team qualified for

1 ranking in the men's 
the Hockey Hall of 
defensive end Michael 

Crosby and Pittsburgh's 
the national tournament

at the General 
Fame on Monday with 

Jason Bay win rookie of 
preseason college bas-
Strahan is out for the
a:--::5 

Manager's Annual 
held at Notre Dame in

ketball AP poll for the 
Paul Coffey and Larry 
season with a torn chest 

the year honors. 
C) = c::c meetings. 
two weeks. 

first time since 1956. 
Murphy. 
muscle. 
J:L. !:i 
page 12

page 15 
page 12
page 14 
page 14 
page 13
en 









