'' 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Campus empties as students depart on break 
Vacation plans vary from home to abroad 
By JEN ROWLING 
NewsWrirer 
As the stress of midterms subsides, suitcases are replacing books and students are focused on fall break activities from football games to trips abroad. 
Some. like Pasquerilla West sophomore Aly McKillen, aren't terribly concerned about following set plans. 
''I'm going to Long Island to stay with a friend from NO and we're going to the city and whatever else. It really is not that planned of a trip. We might go to the boy's soccer game at St. John's,"McKillen said. 
Among the swirl of plans to catch some surf and sun, a group of Notre Dame stu­dents have planned a trip down ·south for the week, 
"We are going to road trip down to Mobile [Ala.] where I am from. Then spend some time in New Orleans and Nashville before coming back to NO," Dillon junior Zach 
see TRAVEL/ page 4 


South Bend, PAC host shows during week off 
By MARIA SMITH News Wrirer 

While students head back home or out on vacation for fall break, the entertainment around South Bend contin­ues. 
Several 
b i g -n a m e See Also 

acts will c o m e Scene section 
through town before class-pages 12-14 es start up again on Oct. 25. 
Tonight the blues-rock group the Fabulous Thunderbirds will play a ben­efit concert for the Center for the Homeless at Heartland. 
The concert, organized by Notre Dame graduate and former owner of Vegetable Buddies Nightclub Andy Panelli, is one of se_veral per­formed over the years to raise money for the Center. 
Tickets cost $22 and are on sale at Heartland -222 South Michigan St. -by call­ing 574-234-5200 or Ticketmaster at 574-272­
see CONCERTS/page 4 
Rising number ofapplicants fill break seminars with students willing to serve 
. 

area to Appalachia where, seminars sponsored by the od for the spring seminars to Junior Jenna Leary, who will 
By TRICIA de GROOT 
according to the Center for University. coincide with the regular be. helping flood victims and 
News Writer 
Social Concerns Web site, stu­Angela Miller McGraw, University registration period. reinforcing creek banks in Dry 
de.nts will "examine social Appalachia seminar director, "This means that students Creek, W.Va. said, "What's 
While most of students are issues from multiple perspec­said that the esc has seen a will have to plan ahead, but it going on in West Virginia is a just relieved to be done with tives, read relevant t-exts, steady increase in applica­will significantly lighten real environmental issue, and all of their midterms and are study the Catholic social tradi­tions for the seminars in administrative work for the I really feel like I am going· to looking forward to a week of tion and take an active role in recent years. Registrar's Office," Miller be making a difference." family and sleep at home, a building a learning communi-· "The number of applicants McGraw said. With the desire for· service number of their peers made ty." was particularly high this fall, Though financial, adminis­comes the draw of doing the decision months ago to The fall break seminars, which we attribute to chang­trative and space constraints something outside the comfort commit themselves to serve staffed by members from the ing from a paper to an online restrict the CSC's ability to zone for Notre Dame students. the underprivileged by means Center for Social Concerns, application," Miller McGraw expand the seminar pro­"''m really excited, but I'm of a fall break seminar. faculty and staff from other said. grams, Miller McGraw said kind of nervous too because 
There are seven different academic departments, stu­She said there were over they will "continue to think I'm not really sure what to one-credit seminars offered dent leaders and community 350 applicants for slots this creatively about how to expect," junior Claire this year, with locations partners, are one of three fall, and that the esc plans to increase opportunities for extending from the Seattle arinual sets of academic break move up the application peri-participation." see SEMINARS/page 4 

O'Hare travellers hope new regulations decrease delays 
By PETER LEAHY 
News Wrirer 
As students pour into air­ports to hop. a flight back home for fall break, they will inevitably face the dreaded delay. Unfortunately for those who take advantage of Chicago's air travel options, O'Hare International Airport has been recognized as one of the worst airports in the nation. 
In an effort to reduce the sys­tem-wide congestion caused by the problems at O'Hare, the Federal Aviation Administration made an agree­ment with airlines in August to cut 37 peak-hour arrivals at the hub airport. 
The reduction of flight traffic is expected to reduce delays at O'Hare by about 20 percent and across the rest of the national air. network by 5 per­cent, airport officials said. Before the FAA stepped in, records indicate that only 6 7 percent of flights were arriving there on-time 
"After meetings [last August] with the FAA the airlines vol­untarily came to an agreement to cut flights," Annette Martinez. spokeswoman for the City of Chicago Department of Aviation, said. "We were at the bottom of the top ranking U.S. airports in the U.S. in May. Now we are 26th." 
Martinez was referring to Bureau of Transportation sta­tistics that rank the major national airports based on the number of delays, with the slower aiTports lower on the list. 
Martinez said that the rise is probably due to improved 
see O'HARE/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ready for a break 
I'm not sure I can even describe how happy I am that it is finally fall break. During the past eight weeks I have put in countless hours at The Observer office, written a file folder's worth of papers. read noveL'>. plays and poems, put together lesson plans for the sen­iors I teach at Washington lligh School-I'll stop the list there. You get the point. 
And as thrilled as I am to have the 


Angela Saoud 
next 10 days away 

from campus, I can't ignore the lit­Saint Mary's 
tle nagging feeling 

Editor 
inside, reminding me that the school year is a quarter over. and I'm that much closer to graduation. 
I'm not sure I can even count how many people have asked me the infa­mous question. "So, what are you doing alter graduation?" 
The truthful anstver is, I Just don't know. 
Over the past few weeks, many of my friends have started interviewing for jobs. Some already have offers. But for people like myself who aren't sure where they will be living or what they will be doing after graduation, thinking about the future makes my throat constrict. 
From the time I was little, I always thought I would be a teacher. Throughout middle school and high school, I watched my mother, a middle school teacher, touch lives and forever change her students. And I want to do that. 
But during my sophomore year at Saint Mary's, I found journalism, and things have been confusing ever since. Ideally, I'd like to do both: Teach high school EnglL'ih and freelance write on the side. But it would be nice to have a social life too. 
During my junior year, I thought I had all the time in the world. Over the sum­mer, I was carefree. mostly unconcerned with what my future held. But coming back to Saint Mary's, the topic is ever. present, and I need to make some deci­sions -fast. 
I don't know what the future holds. While that's exciting, more than that. it's scary. I remember thinking college was daunting, but the real world is down­right petri1ying. 
I won't have the things I've come to rely on at Saint Mary's-friends around every corner, tunnels to avoid walking outside to class in the rain and (although 
I sometimes complain about it,) a dining hall ready to serve me at meal times. 
The real world is looming, and that's a fact that has to be faced. Over break, along with relaxing. I need to update my resume, get my writing portfolio in order and if I feel up to it. perhaps start looking at geographic locations I could move to. 
I thought college would last forever. Four years seemed like an eternity the first time I stepped onto campus. And now, everyday I wake up knowing that I have one less day as a college student. 
So. while I will certainly be enjoying my time off. I can't help but think that this is my last fall break -Ijust don't think I'll be getting one when I enter the job force. For now, I'll just pack, and ponder what the future holds. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The front page headline for the Oct. 13 issue ofThef Observer should have read "Church and State: Keeping them separate". 
Friday, October 15, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY~ WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR FALL BREAK?  
Aaron Roberts  Simon Joseph  Peter DeMoss  Katie Hesmond  Natalie Grasso  Tom O'Grady  
junior Alumni  freshman Dillon  sophomore Carroll  senior Walsh  freshman Le Mans  sophomore Dillon  
"/am going to  "The same  "/am going  "/am going on  ''I'm going home  "Trip to the  

eat a lot of thing we do home." the Gullah 
corn. every fall Seminar. .. 
break. Pinky. 
try to take over 
the·world." 

MIKE KELLEY !The Observer A defensive-looking squirrel perches on a branch outside the dining hall. Like most Notre Dame fauna, this squirrel Is lying In walt for an unsuspecting student to drop a morsel from their recent meal. 
OFFBEAT 
British prefer death to spiders 

LONDON -Spiders are more scary than terrorists ­at least according to a sur­vey of a thousand Britons. 
Household creepy crawlies frighten Britons more than terrorist attacks, or even death, the survey found. 
Terrorism came second on the list of respondents' top 10 fears, according to the survey conducted by RSGB Omnibus for Universal Pictures UK Ltd. The survey was based on telephone interviews of 1,000 aged 16 to 55 across Britain. 
Another crawling phobia -snakes -was ranked third, followed by a fear of heights. Death came in a surprising fifth place as the nation's greatest fear. 
Blind couple tries to sail around world 
SAN FRANCISCO -Scott 
Duncan and Pamela Habek 
have embarked on an 
attempt to sail alone around 
the world, a journey made 
even more treacherous by 
the fact that both are legally ·blind. 
Duncan, 38, and Habek, 
42, set out Monday in a 32­
foot cutter for what they 
hope is a two-year voyage 
that takes them down the 
coast to Panama, across the Pacific and Indian oceans, around the tip of South Africa, through the Panama Canal and back home. 
"We can't drive a car at 60 mph, but we can drive a boat at six knots." Duncan said. 
With the help of modern technology that includes a talking Global Positioning System and a 10-power video magnifier they can use for reading charts, the cou­ple are confident they have what they need to avoid sail­ing into harm's way even without perfect vision. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...... 
c( 

(.) ..J 0 HIGM 49 HIGH 45 HIGH 48 HIGH 54 

LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 35 LOW 38 
to see my sunny beaches family." ofAppalachia. " 
"" 
IN BRIEF 

Fall break will run from Saturday through Oct. 24. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will face off against Boston College on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
On Saturday. the Notre Dame women's tennis team will play in the Eck Classic at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Matches will be held through­out the day. 
A dance event, "Passage of Oracles" with Peggy Choy will take place on Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre or Moreau Center at Saint Mary's. The event will combine African and Asian dance, music and marital arts. Those interested in pur­chasing tickets should contact the Saint Mary's box office at 284-4626. 
Today is the last day to sign up for the NDE retreat held from Nov. 19-21. Interested students should go to the Campus Ministry office in 114 Coleman-Morse. 
South Dining Hall will. close after lunch today and reopen for brunch on Saturday, Oct. 23. 
North Dining Hall will close after dinner today and reopen for dinner on Sunday, Oct. 24. 
The Irish football team will play against Boston CollP-ge on Saturday, Oct. 23 at 1:30 
p.m. local time. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 64 LOW 43 LOW 55 
Atlanta 54 I 46 Boston 64 I 55 Chicago 52 I 38 Denver 64 I 36 Houston 76 I 54 Los Angeles 81 I 60 Minneapolis 46 132 New York 64 I 52 Philadelphia 66 I 50 Phoenix 92 I 67 Seattle 62 I 50 St. Louis 62 I 43 Tampa 75 I 60 Washington 66 1 52 
Friday, October 15, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Students cantpaign during break 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Unlike many of their peers, many politically-minded Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents are using next week's hiatus as an opportunity to actively campaign for the upcoming presidential election. 
Some members of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Republicans and College Democrats will be spending their break canvassing door to door in their own neighbor­hood, rallying support for their preferred candidate. 
Saint Mary's College Republicans co-president Mary Allen said that while the club itself does not have any activi­ties planned over break, many of its members will participate in these door-to­
door campaign ':4 lot ofpeople are Once you're efforts of their going to get involved involved with 
own volition. the Democratic
and volunteer as
"There are Party, it really individual girls opens your eyes
much oftheir time as 
who are plan­they can while they to how a presi­ning on going dential cam­
are at home."
around their paign really is a hometowns, national effort their neighbor­Colin Taylor -people all hoods, and get­president over America ting involved in are doing the
College Democrats 
local chapters," Allen said. "Some of the girls have gotten geared up and gotten paraphernalia like stickers and buttons to take back home with them, and they will be bringing parapher­nalia back to hand out to South Bend residents as well." 
Notre Dame College Democrats co-president Colin Taylor said that many of his organization's members will 
ONLY, the M::r::n~ Cruta. drca 1:JCC J...D -(tl'lE 'Cr~~ 
Gr·;trhr" qr Frt!Jli!~h lil....:r~,r): an ooglnal 1777 troad:~lde 
ct ow· Doclamticn cf !rc~ftndan:e; a frat {;Y:h:.n ur lhn F:Y:()I';:tlil;'" raper:~; Cammon Sem:e b'ol Thor:1a:;. P~irr-::-; 

also be spreading the political word. 
"A lot of people are going to get involved and volunteer as much of their time as they can while they are at home," Taylor said. 
Taylor will be participating in the campaign efforts during the break. 
"I live in Ohio, and I'm going home to work all week for the Kerry campaign in Ohio," he said. "It's so close in Ohio right now ... it's virtually a dead heat, and I just want to help out as much as I can. And I enjoy doing it." 
Also from Ohio is Sarah Staley, president of the Saint Mary's College Democrats, who said she is excited to see John Kerry speak in her home state on the first Saturday of the 
break. 
"It's a great 
opportunity. 
same things like 
going door-to­

door and phone banking," Staley said. 
Staley said by contributing to the campaign efforts in their own hometowns, club mem­bers are "taking a step in the right direction." 
Allen agreed, emphasizing the importance of making information available for all. 
"It's important to get the vote . out," she said. "Some people really don't know who is run­ning or what the candidates believe. It's important that everybody gets out there and expresses their opinion." 
Notre · Dame College Republicans co-presidents Tom Rippinger and Ian Ronderos have already planned club activities for when school resumes. 
"We have contacted the Michigan Republicans," Rippinger said. "As soon as we get back, we want to do some swing state work in Michigan. Especially in the 72 hours before the vote, it's important to kick it up." 
Ronderos agreed that the few days before the election will be crucial for all candi­dates. 
"We're going to skip classes on Election Day to work for the Mitch Daniels campaign," he said. 
Democrats from both col­leges will also be participating in additional events as the election draws nearer. Together, the clubs will attend a Kerry rally in Battle Creek the last Sunday of fall break and canvas neighborhoods, including a trip to the Toledo area the weekend before the election. 
"We're going to be going door to door, making sure peo­ple can get out to vote," Staley said. "The day of the election, a few of us are going up to Michigan to be runners, doing things like checking off lists of people who need to vote and helping the elderly to get rides. It will get students and resi­dents pumped up for the elec­tion." 
Contact Nicole Zook at Zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Graduate school dean named AAAS fellovv 
Special to The Observer 

Jeffrey Kantor, vice president for graduate studies and research and dean of the Graduate School, has been named a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). 
Kantor is the 10th AAAS fel­low in the history of the University and the only engineer to be so honored. The others are: Subhash Basu, Harvey Bender, Frank Collins, Thomas Fehlner, Richard Fessenden, W. Robert Scheidt, Phillip Sloan, Anthony Trozzolo and Paul Weinstein. 
Founded in 1848, AAAS serves sqme 262 affiliated societies and academies of science and 10 million. individuals. It is an inter­national non-profit organization dedicated to advancing science around the world by serving as an educator, leader, advocate and professional association. Fellows are recognized for com­mendable efforts to advance sci­ence or its applications. 
Kantor also has been reap­pointed to the board of the Indiana 21st Century Research and Technology Fund. The fund was created in 1999 by the General Assembly to stimulate the process of diversifying the state's economy by developing and commercializing advanced technologies in Indiana. The enabling act created a board, representing most of the aca­demic and commercial sectors of the state, which establishes fund awards. reviews policies and approves awards. Kantor, who had previously been appointed to the 21st Century Fund board in July 2001, will serve through September 2006. 

Kantor was elected vice presi­dent for graduate studies and research in 2001. He is respon­sible for both the development and state of all postbaccalaure­ate work in the University and for the development and admin­istration of all research conduct­ed by its faculty. 
Prior to assuming his current position, Kantor served for five years as vice president and asso­ciate provost of the University. In that role, he established the University's Web administration office, created and filled the position of chief information offi­cer, and was instrumental in academic budget and space planning. He also chaired the Provost's Task Force on Strategic Directions in Science and Engineering. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1981, Kantor is a professor of chemical engineer­ing and specializes in chemical process dynamics and control theory. His research has been supported by the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy and sev­eral industrial sponsors. 
Former ND tailback returns to work at OIT 
Special to The Observer 
Former Notre Dame tailback Reggie Brooks is full of surpris­es. 

In 1992, he surprised coach Lou Holtz by making a seemingly impossible catch of a two-point conversion pass in the back of the end zone, securing an Irish win over Penn State with only 20 seconds left in the game. 
That same season, he sur­prised Irish fans when he rushed for 1,343 yards, knocking one of the famed Four Horsemen from the record book and coming within inches of breaking the yards-per-carry record set by George Gipp in 1920. 
As a running back for the Washington Redskins in 1993, Brooks became the first rookie to lead the team in rushing in 18 years. This may have shocked Washington fans, but the Irish faithful had learned to expect the unexpected. 
Today, Brooks -and his cur­rent "team" position -might surprise the Notre Dame com­munity once again. 
Eleven years after leaving Notre Dame to play professional ball, first for the Redskins and then for Tampa Bay, Reggie Brooks has returned to Notre Dame to pursue another love: computers. -­

Last February, Brooks, his wife, Christina, and four children relocated to South Bend when he was offered a full-time position with the Office of Information Technologies (OlD as an admin­istrator of production systems. A management information sys­tems major as an undergradu­ate, Brooks is a configuration management specialist. 
"It was a funny thing how it worked out," Brooks says. "I had applied for a position here sever­al months before, and then did­n't really think much of it. Then, a few weeks prior to getting a call about the-· position, my wife and I were discussing possible places to raise a family." Three weeks later, Brooks heard from OIT, and tqe move just seemed to make sense. 
Both he and his wife are nos­talgic for Notre Dame, having met here as students. They were both optimistic about the oppor­tunity to raise their family in a community with such strong tra­ditions. 
Brooks is immersed in the Renovare Project, the cam­puswide replacement of the University's information systems. A few of his responsibilities include verifying changes and defining processes that allow OIT to track changes to the sys­tem more efficiently -all to ensure that the University is able to make a seamless transition to the new system. 
Surprise, again: His office has only a football calendar to sug­gest Brooks' past. There is not a piece of college or pro memora­bilia to be seen. A slot in the U93 radio post-home-game show is where Brooks reconnects with his past. 
If his pro career ended prema­turely, Brooks' observations indi­cate it was getting time for him to move on. "Football is a busi­ness," Brooks says. "Even col­lege ball is becoming a business. You lose a lot of joy in playing because of it. It has hurt the game in my mind." 
.---------------~-----------------------------~ -~---~-----~-~---, 
Friday, October 15, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Concerts 
continued from page 1 
7979. 
Students sticking around will also have the chance to see Second City, one of the nation's top comedy groups. at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The troupe is the former home of many of the nation's top comedians, including Bill Murray, Eugene Levy, Mike Meyers, Chris Farley and Tina Fey. 
The show will be per­formed at 8 p.m on Oct. 22. Tickets are $15 for stu­dents, $25 for faculty and staff and $31.25 for the general public. Tickets are available from the box office at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and can be ordered over the phone at 631-2800, online at 


Travel 
continued from page 1 
Madonia said. 
Other students have 
planned to spend the week 
during service projects. 

"I am going on an Appalachian trip to New River Gorge Park. We will be learning about the region and helping to maintain trails in the park area," Tim Feldman said. 
Lewis junior Lauren Mullins, who spent this past summer at school, is excited to head home. 
"I haven't been home since June and I think New Orleans is ready to see me again," Mullins said. 
Some international stu­dents are capitalizing on the week and going back home. 
Pasquerilla West sopho­more Stephanie Frank said, ''I'm going to Houston for four days then home to Guatemala City. I am super excited to see my family and party with my friends, South American style!" 
A trip to the Meadowlands to support the Irish football team is on the agenda for some Domers. 
http://performingarts.nd.edu or at the box office Monday through Friday from noon to 6 p.m. 
On Oct. 24 Notre Dame will welcome Regis Philbin back to campus for another benefit concert for the Center for the Homeless. Regis will perform numbers from his recently released CD "When You're Smiling," which includes songs such as "You Make Me Feel So Young," "It Had To Be You" and "You're Nobody 'Til Somebody Loves You." 
Tickets for the benefit cost $30 for regular and $100 for preferred seatings. Tickets are on sale now at the ticket office in the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts, or can be purchased by calling 631­2800. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
"I am going to New Jersey with a bunch of friends to watch ND dominate Navy, to sleep and to go out in New York City," senior Helen Kearney said. 
"For fall break I am going back to New Jersey to go see the Navy game, root on the Irish and tailgate with my family and friends from school. For the rest of the week I'm just laying low and playing some golf," Keenan sophomore Greg Stewart said. 
The Notre Dame student section at Navy game might be less than a sea of green, however, as director of stu­dent activities Brian Coghlin said that a number of stu­dents did claim their Navy tickets they won in this week's Student Union Board ticket lottery. 
At least 40 pairs of tickets currently untaken, and they are available for purchase by any student. 
Whether it is time spent here, at home or aboard, the break will be welcomed after a long, weary week of midterms. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 


Conference examines economic growth 
Special to The Observer 
Understanding the condi­tions necessary for economic growth in developing coun­tries will be the focus of a conference on Oct. 15 and 16 at the University of Notre Dame. 
Organized by Notre Dame's Department of Economics and Econometrics, "The Seng Conference on Money, Banking and Economic Development" will bring together economists from around the world to examine factors for economic growth in countries that enjoy high standards of living, and bar­riers to development in coun­tries that do not. 
"The most important driv­ers of development are tech­nological advancement, inter­national trade. financial intermediation, and invest­ment in physical and human capital," said Christopher J. Waller, Gilbert Schaefer Chair of Economics and primary organizer of the conference. "Data show that high stan­dards of living are observed in those countries that engage in these a·ctivities, whereas there are no exam­ples of countries enjoying high standards of living that do not engage in these activi­ties. We need to understand why some countries do not adopt them." 
Presenters at the confer­ence will explore governmen­tal policies that enhance trade, strengthen payment systems and encourage investment, as well as those monetary policies that destroy banking systems and credit markets. 
O'Hare 
continued from page 1 

weather in the time from May until to now. 
"On time performance has improved mainly because of better weather," Martinez said. "It could have been the flight cuts but we won't know that until we have more time to assess the impact of the flight cuts." 
Whether it's the weather or the cuts, students routed out of O'Hare are crossing their fin­gers for a smooth trip. 
One of the unlucky ones, Zahm freshman Creston Brown said he was once delayed 20 hours on a flight going to China. 

"Our flight was scheduled for 7 a.m. and we left after mid­night," he said. 
Over break, Brown is flying from the South Bend Airport to O'Hare to his home in Columbia, S.C. He has an already scheduled three-hour layover at O'Hare, but Brown said he can handle it. 
"After 20 hours three hours doesn't seem like much," Brown said. 
There are a few main rea­sons why flights to and from O'Hare are so susceptible to delays. 
"O'Hare tends to get backed ing easier, at least during fall up because of weather prob-break, is to travel out of the lems," Mary Kowalski, manag-smaller South Bend Hegional er of Anthony Travel, said. Airport. Administrative and 
In other cases there are too finance director of South Bend many flights booked for O'Hare Airport Mike Guljas replied to handle, Kowalski said. that fall break is a busy but not 
Brown had some suggestions overwhelming time for the air­of his own for improving the port. situation. "We have plenty of capacity," 
"They need to slow do:wn Guljas said. "We wish it was flights but the more they slow always this full. The airlines do down flights the more they not increase the number of slow down the flights it is just economy," Brown that they are said. more full." 
cavan aug h "O'Hare tends to get No changes freshman Meg 0' backed up because are made in Farrell said she ofweather the airport's 
hopes that delays procedures will not affect her problems." beyond securi­
as she departs ty measures. from O'Hare on a Mary Kowalski "Our safety flight to Tulsa, officers would 
Okla. Anthony Travel manager be more on the "My flight arrives look out for in Oklahoma at traffic conges­
10:30 p.m., so if it gets delayetl'H~•tions," Guljas said. I'm looking at a middle of the Congestion at O'Hare night arrival," she said. remains a problem even after 
While delays due to the the cuts in the numbers of' weather are unavoidable, flights. To remedy the situa­Kowalski said there are ways tion, Kowalski recommended to improve the travel experi-·that South Bend take on more ence. business. 
"Call and reconfirm your "It'd be nice if we could see flight make sure you don't have more air service out of South schedule changes and get to Bend," Kowalski said. the airport early if the weather looks bad" Kowalski said. Contact Peter Leahy at 
Another way to make travel-pleahy@nd.edu 

Sentinars 
continued from page 1 
Chiappetta, who will be work­ing on the Appalachia semi­nar, said. 
Seminar students are not only donating their time and services to aid others, but are also addressing various cul­tural and social issues. 
The Washington D.C. semi­nar, for example, requires that students examine press­ing social issues, such as abortion and stem cell research, with regard to the upcoming presidential elec­tion. As a result, these one­credit seminars also require article summaries, papers and group discussions, which vary for each seminar. 

"I've heard a Jot of great things about it from people that have done it in the past, and from the classes we have been going to about Appalachia, it seems like there is so much that we can Jearn from their culture." jun­ior Christy Tacit. going to Appalachia, said. "It should be a major eye-opener for a lot of us, but i think it is a great way to spend our time. Clearly, they need our help." 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 


To view all of our houses, visit VWIW. domuskramer.com 
Call today­properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315-5032 (574) 234-2436 




Off-Campus Housing 
Offered by Domus Properties 
Now leasing for 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 school years 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 2 4-hour maintenance staff  


Our "Painted Lady". at I 022 E. Madison Street, is JUSt one of the many houses offered by Domus Properties 

r---------------------------------------------------~ -----------------------------------------------~--------------------~--~----------­

ORLD & NATION 


Friday, October 15, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
New crew surges into orbit BAIKONUR, Kazakhstan -A new Russian­
U.S. crew headed to the international space station Thursday, surging into orbit aboard a Soyuz spacecraft none of the three astronauts has piloted before. 
The Soyuz have been the only manned vehi­cles able to reach the orbiting research lab since the U.S. space shuttle fleet was grounded 20 months ago after the Columbia burned up on re-entry. 
Russians Salizhan Sharipov and Yuri Shargin and American Leroy Chiao were flying their first mission in a Soyuz spacecraft -a rare rupture with a tradition of having at least one crewman with previous experience in piloting the capsule. 
Chiao and Sharipov both have flown U.S. space shuttles, while Shargin is a spac~ rookie. 
Over one million register to vote 
RAMALLAH, West Bank -More than one million Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza have registered to vote in upcoming municipal and general elections, officials said Thursday, completing the first phase in an often delayed election process. 
The voter registration drive launched by the Palestinian Authority last month officially ended Thursday. although officials at the Central Election Commission said 16 of its offices will remain open. 
In the first days of the drive, few of the 1.8 million eligible voters turned out to register, citing frustration with official corruption and Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat's inability to bring an end to the conflict with Israel. 
The commission embarked on a wide adver­tising campaign, and the Islamic Hamas called on its supporters to register in large numbers. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Judge rejects Jackson request 
SANTA MARIA. Calif. -A judge Thursday rejected a defense request to throw out the indictment against Michael Jackson, saying prosecutors had presented enough evidence of child molestation and an attempt to silence the alleged victim's family for the case to go forward. 
Judge Rodney S. Melville rejected argu­ments that the indictment should be thrown out because of prosecutorial misconduct, improper legal instruction and insufficient evidence. 
The decision came after perhaps the most unusual of a string of media restrictions in the secrecy-shrouded case against the pop star: Reporters and other members of the public were prohibited from talking in court, even before the proceedings. 
Student convicted of manslaughter 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.-A Harvard graduate student was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to six to eight years in prison Thursday for stabbing a young man to death in a fight that heightened the generations-old tension between the Ivy Leaguers and work­ing-class Cambridge. 
Prosecutors had charged 26-year-old Alexander Pring-Wilson with murder in the slaying last year of Michael Colona, arguing that Pring-Wilson attacked the 18-year-old Colona for ridiculing him as he stumbled home drunk. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Cheney stops in South Bend 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -The presidential campaign made its way into Indiana for the first time in three months, although it turned out to be little more than a rest stop on the way to the battleground state of Michigan. 
Vice President Dick Cheney flew into South Bend on Thursday evening and planned to overnight there before making a bus tour through southwest Michigan on Friday. He did not have any public events in South Bend. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.S. forces shell insurgents 
Marines launch attacks on Fallujah after city delegation suspends peace talks 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD U.S. Marines launched air and ground attacks Thursday on the insurgent bastion Fallujah after city represen­tatives suspended peace talks with the government over Prime Minister Ayad Allawi's demand to hand over terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
Late Thursday, residents of the city, 40 miles west of Baghdad, reported shudder­ing American bombard­ments using planes and armored vehicles in what they said was the most intensive shelling since U.S. forces began weeks of "pre­cision strikes" aimed at al­Zarqawi's network. 
In Washington, however, a senior military official, speaking on operational matters on condition of anonymity, described the latest fighting as strikes against specific targets and of the same scope as previ­ous attacks into Fallujah. 
Warplanes and artillery pounded the city as two U.S. Marine battalions attacked rebel positions to "restore security and stability," 1st Lt. Lyle Gilbert, a spokesman for the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, told CNN. 
"It is going to be a long night," he said. 
Maj. Francis Piccoli, spokesman for the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, told The Associated Press that two Marine battalions were engaged in the fight backed up by aircraft. 
He would not say the attack was the start of a major campaign to recap­ture the city, saying he did not want to jeopardize any future operations. 
Piccoli said the goal of the operation was to "disrupt the capabilities of the anti­Iraqi forces." 
"Ultimately, the intent is to help the Iraqi government bring in democracy," he added. "As you bring in sus­tained security and stability, the Iraqi government can 
Advisers say safeguards sufficient 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal health advisers unanimously agreed Thursday that current safeguards on blood donations in the United States are sufficient despite the disclosure that a second British resident most likely acquired mad cow disease through a tainted transfusion. 
"The United States is not Great Britain," said Dr. Stephen DeArmond, a University of California-San Francisco pathology professor. DeArmond pointed to the lack of evi­dence that so-far symptomless mad cow infections suspected in thousands build on as they go into elec­tions" in January. 

U.S. officials believe al­Zarqawi's terrorist group, Tawhid and Jihad, is head­quartered in Fallujah. The group purportedly claimed responsibility for two suicide bombings inside the heavily guarded Green Zone in Baghdad on Thursday, according to a statement posted on a Web site known for its Islamic content. The unprecedented attack killed 10 people, including four Americans, and wounded 20. 
The U.S. military said its targets were linked to al­Zarqawi's terrorist network, including a building being used to store weapons, two safehouses used to plan 
of British residents are an issue in this country. 
The Food and Drug Administration advisory committee agreed that donor restrictions are still warranted. But it stopped short of asking for additional safeguards in the United States to fur­ther prevent the risk of transmission of mad cow disease through blood. 
The agency already bars blood donations from people who lived more than three months in Great Britain or who received transfusions there after 1979. 
In both confirmed British infections, recipients got blood from donors who were young and apparently healthy at the time of donation. The chances attacks, several illegal checkpoints and a weapons cache. 
At least five people were killed and 16 wounded, according to Fallujah General Hospital. 
Fallujah residents said the Americans were attacking several areas with rockets, artillery and tanks. One resi­dent said U.S. forces were using loudspeakers in the west of the city to urge Fallujah fighters to lay down their arms "because we are going to push into Fallujah." 
Residents reached by tele­phone from Baghdad also said there were sharp clash­es in the northern part of the city, which was a major battlefield during last April's Marine siege of Fallujah. 

that two confirmed infections among people who received blood was caused instead by eating mad-cow tainted beef were remote -1 in 80,000 to 1 in 1 billion, the panel was told. 
Getting the human form of mad cow disease, variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, through tainted blood "is a reality. And we've got to treat it like that," said Steven Anderson, an FDA risk assessment expert. 
The new case involves a woman in her 80s who died from an unrelated medical condition early this year, according to Dr. Robert Will, a neurol­ogist who founded the British mad cow surveillance team. 
Allawi warned Wednesday that Fallujah must surren­der al-Zarqawi and other foreign fighters or face mili­tary attack. 
Abu Asaad, spokesman for the religious council of Fallujah, said that "handing over al-Zarqawi" was an "impossible condition" since even the Americans were unable to catch him. 
"Since we exhausted all peaceful solutions. the city is now ready to bear arms and defend its religion and honor and it's not afraid of Allawi's statements," Asaad said in a live interview with Al-Jazeera television. 
However, he used the Arabic word for "suspend," implying that the talks could resume later. 


---~---·-·~------~-, 

page 6 Friday, October 15, 2004 
The Observer+ NEWS 
''The West Wing'' eyes Republican successor for Bartlet 
President's second term to end soon; change could rejuvenate ratings 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES The 
prospect of a change in the 
White House tends to draw a 
strong reaction. pro or con. 
Not from "The West Wing" executive producer John Wells, though. lie seems unfazed by the coming end of Democratic President Josiah "Jeb" Bartlet's tenure -and maybe even a Republican successor. 
"We were a year and a half into the administration when we started the show," Wells said of the NBC drama enter­ing its sixth season. "We have term limits in this country and so, on our electoral schedule, Bartlet's second term would end a year from this coming January." 
That fact foreshadows a hybrid season when "The West Wing" returns Wednesday (Oct. 20, 9 p.m. EDT). Bartlet (Martin Sheen) grapples with his legacy while others fight for the chance to replace him. 
Among them are contenders played by two familiar actors: Jimmy Smits ("NYPD Blue"), who's a potential Democratic candidate, and Alan Aida ("M­A-S-II") vying for the GOP nomination. 
Also in the running is Vice President Hussell (Gary Cole). with talented staff member Will Bailey (Josh Malina) at his side. 
Could Wells envision "The West Wing," if re-elected by NBC to a seventh season, with a Republican president? 


Wal-Mart's expansion plans hit road block 
Associated Press 
TEHHE HAUTE. Ind. -The City Council has at least tem­porarily blocked zoning approval for a new Wal-Mart store. the latest stumble for the retail giant's expansion plans in Indiana. 
Discussion of the planned 
store on Terre Ilau te 's north side drew a crowd Tuesday night that packed a City Hall meet­ing room. with many applauding those who spoke against the proj­ect. 

The council voted 4-3 against a zoning change for the store. Two council members. 
however, were absent, and one councilman who at first voted to approve the store changed his vote. meaning he could ask for it to be reconsid­ered as soon as next month. 
Councilman Jim Chalos said he made the maneuver becaus!' he wanted the other two council mPrnhers to have a rhanc!' to vote~ on the ston~. 
SPVPral rPsid1•nts corn­plairwd tltat \\'al-!\lart was tiH• "rorrg rompany to boost 
"Wal-Mart, which is the company that is coming in here. does not pay the majority ofits employees a living wage." 
Jim Chalos councilman 
Steve Reedy, the owner of 
574-272-5478 

American Beverage Centers, 
C\11 FOR CARRYOllT
told the council that the site 
i

sought by Wal-Mart might not 
L---~----__.J
be able to support the addi­tional traffic a new large retail store might bring. 
"We need other things in the north end," he said. Wal-Mart has run into simi­lar opposition for other nnw 
ston~s it has propos1~d build­
:\llST BE ·~I TOCO;\St_'~H: .\I.C()HCHJC BE\'EIL\C;Es
ing PlsPwhPrP across thP 
stall~. 
growth in the area. "Wal-Mart. which is the 

IHE AREA'S BEST KEPT SECRET 
company that is coming in here, does not pay the majori­
St'NllA\' TICKET AND ESPN GAMEPLAN 
ty of its employees a living 
ON

wage" said Ed Ping. a repre­sentative of the Wabash Valley 
FOtTR to' THE:\TRE SCREENS 
Central Labor Council. "We 
WJTH SI)EAKERS AT EYER\' TABLE 
want growth there, but this is not the right kind of growth." 
ANil 

"I really could," he told The wholesale changes in the 
Associated Press. "What we've White House staff and the cast. 
tried to put forward in the But Wells told a phone news 
Irartlet administration is a conference Wednesday that he 
Democratic presidency that hopes current stars would be 
was a bit of wish-fulfillment of able to remain -although 
what you'd really want your that's less likely with a 
Democratic president to be. Republican administration. 
"I don't think there's any He's also hoping that Sheen, reason you wouldn't want to whose contract is up this year, see that show with a decides to come back for Republican." another season and maybe for 
Is he concerned that the post-presidency appearances. show, called "The Left Wing" Before the NBC show wades by those who find Bartlet's pol­into the heat of primary con­itics grating, might be seen as tests and before Bartlet gives making the move to pander to up power, there are lingering conservatives? issues to resolve. 
"I think it depends on who At the end of last season. the Republican candidate is growing violence in the Middle and how you feel about the East led to the death of promi­candidate by the time he or nent U.S. officials and left an she is elected," he said. angry Bartlet weighing mili­
Series creator Aaron Sorkin tary action -and now trying cast Bartlet in the same liberal to revive the Israeli-Palestinian mold as the leader in his 1995 peace process. film "The American The Gaza Strip attack also President." Sorkin, who left critically injured White House the series in 2003, could not staff member Donna Moss be reached for comment, a (Janel Moloney), who was part spokeswoman said Wednesday. of the American contingent. 
Change could reinvigorate Whether Donna survives the series' rat-(and whether she ings, which and her boss, dropped from a "I don't think deputy chief of season-high aver­there's any reason staff Josh Lyman, age of 17.2 mil­finally become an
you wouldn't
lion viewers in item) are obvious 2001-02 to 11.8 want to see that cliffhangers. Wells million viewers show with a promises other last season. immediate
Republican."
But Wells, upheaval in "The whose relation­West Wing." ship with NBC is John Wells "There are sub­bolstered by the producer stantial changes in other shows he the White House at provides, includ-the beginning of ing longtime linchpin drama the season, within the first two "ER," said "The West Wing" episodes," Wells said. ensures an aft1uent viewership Involving the White House for sponsors and that he's con­staff that viewers know and fident of renewal. love? "In the staff that we 
A new commander-in-chief. know and love, things are hap­from either party, would mean pening," Wells says, with 
A message 
14 OTHER T.V.'S
seeking comment was left 

WATCH CP TO 8GAMES.-\TTHE SAME TIME 
Wednesday for a Wal-Mart spokesman, but the company has previously reject­ed such criti­cisms regarding other projects, 
saying its stores benefit con­sumers and 

52885 US JIN. 
attract other 

South Bend IN 46637
businesses. 

vague discretion that would sit there and listen to these make a bureaucrat proud. people harangue each other." 
After the dust settles, the lat­Will the series be affect1~d by ter part of the season will the outcome of November's focus on the campaign trail President Bush-Sen. Kerry 
with Smits' and  election?  
Aida's characters  "I would say  a  
and  on  how  "I think we have a  lot  of  that  
Bartlet delivers his swan -or  number ofviewers  depends on how the election itself.  
lame-duck  who showed up  goes," Wells said.  
song. "How does the Bartlet adminis­ after [the 2000] election because  "If its as close or contested as the last election. that  
tration deal with  they felt that who  may  have  an  
the remaJnwg time they have in trying to be effec­tive?" Wells said.  they wanted in office wasn't there, so they came to see  impact." For some view­ers, he speculat­ed, the desired  
"What  does  he  what Bartlet did."  goal  is  fantasy  
really  want  to  rather than reali­ 
accomplish in his remaining year in office?"  John Wells ru:g_ducer  ty. "I think we have a number of  

Writers for the series, which makes a point of drawing on real-world Washington expert­ise, asked former Reagan and Clinton administration figures to reminisce about their sec­ond-term experiences. 
Politicos returning as advis­ers for the season include for­mer Clinton press secretary Dee Dee Myers and Laurence O'Donnell, who worked for the late Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan. 
Two newcomers are former Clinton economic adviser Gene Sperling and Reagan chief of staff Ken Duberstein. 
They're all crucial to the series, Wells said. 
"The most important thing about writing the show, as far as political issues go, is having arguments. We have to have people in the room to. argue both points-and they do," he said. "It's a load of fun. It's actually my favorite part [of creating the show]: You get to 




NIGIITL\' SPECIAlS SUNDAy. DOJ\fF.STIC BtrCI\l:'I'S 6BOTTLES FOR $12.00 MONI>Ay. $1.00 16oz. HOM. Dlt-\FTS 
1TESDA\'~ $1.50 \\'ELL DRINKS 
WEDNESDA\'. $1.50 COSMO'S AN() 
$3.00 MARG:\RIT,\'S 
THl'RSD.-\Y· Sl50 DOM. BOITlES & .35 WINGS (MIN. 10) 
·····--·•·····~···-·--­

viewers who 
showed up after [the 20001 election because they felt that who they wanted in office wasn't there, so they came to see what Bartlet did." 
This is the first season "The West Wing" has returned with­out a best-drama Emmy in hand. After four consecutive wins, the award went to HBO's "The Sopranos." 
Wells said he was pleased with the outcome. The mob drama was overdue for a win. he said. and "The West Wing" can proceed without the ques­tion of whether it or any show is worthy of so many laurels. 
Some critics argue the politi­cal drama fell short of the dra­matic heights reached when Sorkin was on board. through the end of the 2002-03 season. 
Wells largely disagrees but acknowledges thfl,_,ehalknge oj' shifting from a show written by the prolific Sorkin to one relying on a new staff or writ­ers. 
Located Just North Of Cleveland Road On US 31, Ne:..1 To Comfort Suites 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, October 15, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,002.33 -74.85
}ones 
A 

Same: ~ Composite VolumE
·~ 

1,081 163 • 1,320,088,960 
AMEX 1, 273.40 ~3.56 
NASDAQ 1,920.53 -4.64 
NYSE 6,556.53 ~53.18 
S&PSOO 1,113.65 -8.19 
NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,195,99 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,634.80 -13.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I~AIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.50 +0.71 20.99 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -0.27 -0.0 I 3.74 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.57 -0.30 18.86 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 28.03 YAHOO INC (YHOO) +0.73 +0.73 34.96 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.18 -0.09 48.71 10-YEAR NOTE -0.59 -0.24 40.78 5-YEARNOTE -1.04 -0.35 33.19 3-MONTH BILL +2.06 +0.34 16.87 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.96 53.14 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -2.00 414.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.10 94.30 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.7700 EURO 0.8102 POUND 0.5577 CANADIAN$ 1.2564 
IN BRIEF 

Low-profile drive worries retailers 
COSTA MESA, Calif. -Few people took notice when Sony Electronics Inc. opened a tiny storefront last year here at South Coast Plaza, a swanky mall south of Los Angeles. 
As it turns out, the small store would rep­resent a big change in how Sony sells its tel­evisions, DVD players and other gear. 
Since opening its first store last year, Sony has quietly opened stores in seven other cities. The Japanese giant will open in its 11th and 12th U.S. stores this month, in Denver and Las Vegas, and expects to have about 30 Sony Style stores in the United States by April 2006. 
Some retailers that sell Sony products worry they will lose sales. They also worry that if the stores are successful. other manu­facturers will open stores, too. 
"We're going to watch very closely what they do with these stores," said Tom Campbell, vice president of Ken Cranes Home Electronics Inc., a chain of eight stores in Southern California. "The manufac­turer is becoming a potential competitor." 
Company wants 30,000 stores 
SEATTLE -Java junkies often must jour­ney more than two blocks to find a Starbucks, which the company sees as a problem, its chief executive said Thursday. 
As a fix, Starbucks plans to more than triple the number of its worldwide outlets to 30,000, with half of those in the United States. 
"Despite what you hear now that we must be nearing saturation in North America, that is not true," Chief Executive Orin Smith told analysts, saying convenience mattered both to frequent and infrequent Starbucks customers. 
"Americans don't walk, so if you have to go more than two blocks, they don't go," he said. 
Starbucks will focus its growth in American suburbs and small towns, with many of the new coffee shops being drive-throughs. It cur­rently has about 8,500 stores, including 6,100 in the United States. 
One reason for Starbucks' rapid expansion is demographic. Smith said the company is seeing younger, less affluent, less educated and more ethnically diverse customers. 


U.S. trade deficit skyrockets 
Imports swamp exports as Americans buy Chinese cell phones, toys, TVs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The trade deficit jumped to the second-highest level in his­tory as surging demand for foreign oil swamped a small gain in U.S. exports, the government reported Thursday. America's trade gap with China hit an all­time high as retailers stocked up on cell phones, toys and televisions in preparation for Christmas sales. 
The worse-than-expected trade performance in August -a deficit of $54 billion-represented a 6.9 percent widening from July's trade gap of $50.5 billion. The record monthly deficit was set in June at $55 billion. 
Exports, helped by a rise in shipments of commer­cial aircraft and record foreign sales of American cars and auto parts, rose by a slight 0.1 percent to $96 billion in August. 
However, this improve­ment was overwhelmed by a 2.5 percent surge in imports to a record $150.1 billion as America's foreign oil bill climbed to the high­est level in history. The average price for crude oil jumped to a 23-year high of $36.37 per barrel. 

Analysts said the bad news on trade will only get changes, rose by 4,000 to a an annual rate of $590 bil­challenger John Kerry has worse in coming months seven-month high of lion, 19 percent higher pointed to the string of given that oil prices have 352,000. than the previous record, record trade deficits run continued to soar, with The jobless claims report last year's $496.5 billion up since Bush took office crude oil hitting a new reflects a labor market imbalance. as evidence that the record of$54.76 per barrel that is continuing to disap­Democrats contend administration has failed Thursday. point economists' expecta­President Bush's failed to protect American work­
"The skyrocketing oil tions. The country added a economic policies have ers from unfair trade prac­prices are sucking the Iower-than-expected pushed the country back tices engaged in by low wind out of the economy," 96,000 jobs in September into a period of twin deficit wage countries such as said Joel Naroff. chief as the unemployment rate troubles with the economy China. economist at Naroff held steady at 5.4 percent. buffeted by runaway feder­In Weanesday night's Economic Advisors. "And The economy raced al budget deficits which final debate, Kerry criti­the worst is yet to come." ahead at a 4.5 percent increase domestic demand cized Bush for failing to 
In a second economic growth rate in the first and send the trade deficit pursue an unfair trade report, the Labor three months this year soaring. practice complaint that Department said the num­before slowing to a 3.3 The administration would accuse China of rig­ber of Americans filing percent growth rate in the announced Thursday that ging its currency system to new claims for unemploy­April-June quarter as the federal deficit hit a keep the yuan undervalued ment benefits rose by surging oil prices sent the record $413 billion for the by as much as 40 percent 15,000 last week to a sea­trade deficit soaring and 2004 budget year, which against the U.S. dollar, giv­sonally adjusted level of took a big bite out of con­ended Sept. 30. That is up ing Chinese products a 352,000. The four-week sumer spending. 9.5 percent from last year's huge competitive advan­moving average of claims, For the year, America's record of $377 billion. tage against American which smoothes out weekly trade deficit is running at Democratic presidential goods. 

Google program scours hard drives 
_in Coogle's intensifying battle with soft­Although its desktop program can be
Associated Press 

ware giant Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo used exclusively offiine to probe hard 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -Coogle Inc., which owns the world's second drives, Coogle designed it to run in a Inc. on Thursday became the first tech most popular search engine. browser so it will meld with its online heavyweight to tackle the daunting Coogle's desktop invasion heralds a search engine. Google.com visitors who task of uncluttering computers, intro­momentous step into a crucial realm -have the new program installed on ducing a program that quickly scours the challenge of managing the infoglut their computer will see a "desktop" tab hard drives for documents, e-mails, that has accumulated during the past above the search engine toolbar and instant messages and past Web search­decade as society becomes more teth­all their search results will include a es. ered to increasingly powerful comput­section devoted to the hard drive in 
With the free desktop program, ers. addition to the Web. Coogle hopes to build upon the popu­"We think of this (program) as the The desktop search program could larity of its Internet-leading search photographic memory of your comput­be the bridge to a day when Google engine and become even more indis­er," said Marissa Mayer, Coogle's direc­begins offering consumers the option pensable to the millions of people who tor of consumer Web products. "It's of storing some files directly on the entrust the Mountain View-based com­pretty comprehensive. If there's any­company's own computer servers, said pany to fmd virtually anything online. thing you once saw on your computer Danny Sullivan, editor of Search 
The new product, available at screen, we think you should be able to Engine Watch. "It would be the next http://desktop.google.com, ups the ante fmd it again quickly." logical step ifthis is a success," he said. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 15, 2004 
CAMBODIA 

ENGLAND 
Sihatnoni natned next 
Malaria vaccine tests -well early 

Associated Press

Catnbodian-tnonarch 
LONDON -Scientists have made important progress in the
King Sihanouk abdicates throne to his son, 
quest for a malaria vaccine, showing for the first time that
former ballet dancer and U.N. ambassador 
Associated Press 
PHNOM PENH ~ Retiring King Norodom Sihanouk's son. a former ballet dancer and U.N. cultural ambassa­dor, was of!icially confirmed Thursday to succeed his father on the throne, assuring the continuation of the ancient monarchy. 
Prince Norodom Sihamoni, who has spent much of his life abroad. was unanimously approved by a nine-member Throne Council. said a state­ment signed by the panel's chairman, Chca Sim, who is also the country's acting head of state. 
The meeting was triggered by the 81-year-old Sihanouk's surprise abdi­cation last ried, has long been consid­erect the choice of his mother, Queen Monineath. 

The other possibility had been Prince Ranariddh, who served as his father's political proxy for more than two decades, as head of the royal­ist party and a former prime minister. But Ranariddh had said repeatedly he was not interested in being king. 
Born in 1953, Sihamoni went to school in Prague, Czechoslovakia. at age 9, graduating in 1975 from the Academy of Musical Art. Later. he studied film-making in North Korea, according to his official biography. 
From early 1976 until January 1978, he was a pris­oner of the Khmer Rouge. 
Sihanouk had 
been ousted as 
pox, or even provide lifelong
week for "With Sihamoni Cambodia's 
immunity.
health rea-in place ... the supreme political 
However, a vaccine that would
sons. !lis ail­leader in 1970,
monarchy is 
turn the disease into a mostly
ments over the and then allied 
past decade preserved. but only himself with the 
mild infection would make a 
huge dent in the effort to con­
have included as a shadow of Khmer Rouge 
colon cancer. against his 
trol malaria, which kills a child
what it once was
diabetes, usurpers. 
every 30 seconds and poses a 
hypertension in the 1950s After the 
threat to half of all people on 
the planet. About 500 million
and two and 6os." Khmer Rouge 
episodes of malaria occur every
strokes. won a civil war in 
year. mostly in the developing
Sihanouk 1975. Sihanouk
Milton Osborne 
world. It is the leading killer of
and Prime and royal family
Slhamonl biographer 
children under 5 in sub­
Minister Jlun members flew 
SPn had both 
warned that 
failure to choose a new king 
by Thursday could have 
threatened the continued 
~~xistence of the monarchy 
and might destabilize this 
poor country of 13 million 
people. 

Sihamoni, 51. is with Sihanouk in Beijing, where the monarch has been receiv­ing medical treatment. They are expected to return to Cambodia next Wednesday, and a coronation ceremony is planned for Oct. 29, said Sihamoni's half-brother Hanariddh, who is head of the National Assembly. 
Sihanouk once said Sihamoni "would probably decline that royal job which he finds frightening." But after abdicating, the king made clear that it was his son's royal duty to accept the crown if offered. 
No one expects Sihamoni to dominate the country like his father. whose reign was marked by deep falls from grace and astonishing come­backs. most notably his ill­fated alliance with the com­munist Khmer Rouge, respon­sible for the deaths of 1. 7 mil­lion Cambodians. 
But having Sihamoni appointed to the throne helps Sihanouk ensure the survival of a monarchy that stretches back to the 13th-century splendor of the Angkor empire and whose future had been questionable in the face of a government dominated by former communists. 
"With Sihamoni in place ... the monarchy is preserved, but only as a shadow of what it once was in the 1950s and 60s." said Milton Osborne. one of Sihanouk's biogra­phers. 
Sihamoni. who never mar-number of malaria deaths is ris­
ing. We need some new tools." 
The vaccine, which 
GlaxoSmithKline Bio has been 
developing for 20 years, was 
tested in 2,022 children aged 1 
to 4 in Mozambique, where the 
mosquito-borne disease is 
endemic. 
After the children were treat­
ed with malaria drugs to get rid 
of any traces of the parasite, 
half got three shots of the 
malaria vaccine in three con­
secutive months, while the 
other half got other childhood 
vaccines. 
The children were followed up for about six months and blood was taken every few weeks to check for malaria. Any Q{:,\Yh cases wBre immediately treated. 
The researchers, led by Dr. Pedro Alonso at the University of Barcelona, found infection in 30 percent fewer children in the vaccine group than in the com­parison group. The vaccine also reduced the risk of getting sick by 30 percent, the risk of get­ting repeated attacks by 30 per­cent, and cut by 58 percent the chance of developing severe malaria. 
Within the comparison group, four children died of severe malaria, while none of the chil­dren who got the vaccine died of malaria. 
The vaccine was most impres­sive in children under 2, in whom the disease is most dan­gerous. The vaccine reduced the number of severe malaria episodes in that age group by 77 percent. 

Malaria is caused by the para­site Plasmodium falciparum, which is carried by mosquitoes. When the parasite is injected into the human body it is in a form that can only infect the liver. where it transforms and multiplies. After about a week, 10,000 daughter parasites leave the liver, now in a form that can infect red blood cells. 
When one parasite invades a red blood cell, 10 pop out and in 

doing so, rip open the cell, 
killing it. 

The vaccine. which targets 
the parasite before it invades 
red blood cells, is made using 
an antigen, a piece of a protein 
that sits on the surface of the 
parasite and can be recognized 
by the immune system. When 
the vaccine is injected, the 
immune system kicks into 
attack mode and makes anti­
bodies. 

When a mosquito later injects 
the parasite, the immune sys­
tem recognizes it. 

The antibodies stick to the 
surface of the parasite. hoping 
to stop it getting into the liver. If 
that doesn't work, the immune 
cells find the parasite in the 
liver and kill it there. And if that 
fails. scientists believe the 
immune cells reduce the multi­
plication of the parasite and 
block some of the more virulent 
daughters from getting out. 

"Fewer parasites coming out of the liver and a possible filter­ing effect of preventing the viru­lent parasites from exiting, is one possible explanation for why we see less severe dis­ease," said the vaccine's co-cre­ator, Ripley Ballou of GSK Bio. 
Further studies still have to be done to see that the vaccine works in children elsewhere in Africa and to verify that it will not interfere with other immu­nizations. 
"It's quite obvious that there is going to be no single way of protecting against malaria. You won't do it just with drugs, you won't do it just with a vaccine or just with bed nets..Y<;J.u.'ye really got to put these together," said Geoff Targett. a malaria researcher at thP London School of llygiene and Tropical Medicine who was not involved with the study. 
"We may have to think about living with the parasite. b'ut in a way where death and severe disease are very rare events. That's probably the way we 'II end up," he said. 
childhood shots can prevent nearly one-third of cases and slash the risk of severe, life­threatening attacks by almost two-thirds. 
Experts say the findings, out­lined this week in The Lancet medical journal, provide robust evidence that the dream of developing a vaccine that will get babies through the most vul­nerable period of infancy could become a reality by the end of the decade. 
Researchers have been work­ing on a malaria vaccine for more than 20 years. but until now none of the candidates showed promise. If this research bears fruit, it would be the first human vaccine against a parasite. 
Specialists agree that, at least for the foreseeable future, there is no prospect of a vaccine that would wipe out malaria like the smallpox vaccine did for small­
home, only to be detained at the royal palace. 
"During that time, we saw no one," Sihamoni said in a rare interview in 1995 with the Phnom Penh Post. "For food. we grew vegetables and fruit in the garden of the palace. Twice a week, Khmer Houge guards came to the back door and gave us rice and fish. We cooked every­thing ourselves ... We wore 
black clothes given to us by the Khmer Rouge. We washed everything ourselves." 
"This period was a very unhappy one, especially for our morale. My father's morale was low," Sihamoni said. "I got on with things. I am very physical, being a dancer, so I worked in the gardens. I cleaned out the throne hall." 
After a Vietnamese invasion Saharan Africa. 
"We think a vaccine is impor­tant because as quick as you can make new drugs, there's resistance and [delivery of] bed nets has not been as simple as one would have hoped," said Melinda Moree, director of the Malaria Vaccine Initiative, which backed the latest study. "We've been trying to apply our existing technologies and the 


drove the Khmer Houge from power in early 1979, Sihamoni spent the next two years as secretary to his father in Beijing. 
As Sihanouk rallied a coali­tion of guerrilla groups to oust the Vietnamese-installed government, Sihamoni went to Paris, where many Cambodian refugees had set­tled. He taught and per­formed ballet and classical Khmer dance. 
In 1992, he briefly served as Cambodia's envoy at the United Nations after Sihanouk's guerrillas reached a peace agreement with the government in Phnom Penh. The accord led to elections and Sihanouk's restoration as king in 1993. 
From then until this year, Sihamoni served as ambassa­dor to UNESCO, promoting Cambodian culture while working on the issue of stolen artifacts. 
TURTLE CREEK i\PART'~1ENTS 
Stop in this week BEFORE FALL BREAK{ 
You can pfck up the applications you will need and take them home over FALL BREAK! 
Turn them in when classes resume and have your housing set up for 2005-2006! 
We also have floor plans available for the 2005 spring semester. 
w·,w1 turtecreeknd com info @tut11ecreeknd.com 574-272-8124 

-----------------·­
•








ELECTION 2004 
Friday, October 15, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI--JE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Cheneys object to Kerry's remarks 
on lesbian daughter Mary 
WASHINGTON -Dick Cheney and his wife say they are angry at John Kerry for invok­ing their lesbian daughter during the final presidential debate. Kerry says he was just trying to say something nice about how the · Cheneys have dealt with the issue and meant no offense. 
Temperatures have risen sharply since the vice presidential debate, just last week, when Democrat Sen.· John Edwards mentioned Mary Cheney and the Republican vice presi­dent thanked him for his "kind words." 
This time, a back-and-forth ensued that had the vice president's wife, Lynne Cheney, . accusing Sen. Kerry of a "cheap and tawdry political trick" and Elizabeth Ed«rards, wife of Kerry's running mate, suggesting Mrs. Cheney was ashamed of her daughter. 
Debating President Bush Wednesday night, Kerry referred to Mary Cheney when asked whether homosexuality is a choice. 
"We're all God's children," he said. "And I think if you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter. who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was. She's being who she was born as. I think if you talk to anybody, it's not a choice." 
Bush said he didn't know if it was a choice or not. But no one was talking about that on Thursday. 
Kerry's defenders said he was well within bounds, particularly given that Cheney has also talked about his daughter when dis­cussing gay issues. 


JudJ;!e rules Ohio voters can cast 
balrots at wrong polling place 
TOLEDO, Ohio -In a victory for the Democrats, a federal judge ruled Thursday that Ohio voters who show up at the wrong polling place on Election Day can still cast ballots as long as they are in the county where they are registered. 
U.S. District Judge James Carr blocked a directive from Ohio Secretary of State J. Kenneth Blackwell, a Republican, who recently announced that poll workers must send voters to their correct precinct. 
The judge said voters who show up at the wrong polling place after moving without notifying the elections board, and those whose names cannot be found on the regis­tration rolls, should be able to cast provision­al ballots there. 
Denying any voter the right to a provisional vote will erode confidence in the election and lessen the incentive to vote, the judge said. 
FCC will allow anti-Kerry film 
WASHINGTON The Federal Communications Commission won't inter­vene to stop a broadcast company's plans to air a critical documentary about John Kerry's anti-Vietnam War activities on dozens of TV stations, the agency's chairman said Thursday. 
"Don't look to us to block the airing of a program," Michael Powell told reporters. "I don't know of any precedent in which the commission could do that." 
Eighteen senators, all Democrats, wrote to Powell this week and asked him to investi­gate Sinclair Broadcast Group's plan to run the program, "Stolen Honor: Wounds That Never Heal." two weeks before the Nov. 2 election. 

Candidates enter final weeks 
Bush assails Kerry's liberal record; Kerry says Bush fights only for elite 


AP 

Left, President Bush greets supporters at a rally in Reno, Nev. Democratic challenger Sen. John Kerry appears on 
Comedy Central's ·"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart." 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -President Bush criticized Sen. John Kerry as a liberal trying to hide from his own record Thursday as the two men entered the last, post-debate lap of a close race for the White House. The Democratic challenger said his rival "fights, literally, for the privileged few." 
"I believe we need a presi­dent who will fight for the great middle class and for those who are struggling to join it," Kerry added. 
The ubiquitous polls made the race a statistical tie as Bush and his Democratic rival plunged into the final18 days of campaigning. That marked an improvement in Kerry's national standing over the course of three pres­idential debates -even though Democratic officials confirmed West VIrginia and its five electoral votes have been written off as lost. 
And there were veiled hints of concern within the Bush high command as the campaign entered what the president called a "sprint to the finish." Marc Racicot, campaign chairman, told reporters· the Democratic challenger had helped him­self during the face-to-face encounters: "I think it was temporary," Racicot said. 
Democrats and their allies tried to deflect criticism over Kerry's debate-night refer­ence to Vice President Dick Cheney's gay daughter, Mary. "A cheap and tawdry politi­cal trick," Mary's mother, Lynne Cheney, said of the remark. 
Kerry and Bush both cam­paigned in Nevada during the day, a state with five elec­toral votes and one of rough­ly a dozen still competitive in the final days of the race. 
The four-term Massachusetts senator unleashed an attack on the Medicare legislation that Bush signed into law last year, saying it was "full of empty promises and special interest giveaways." 
Kerry also faulted the pre­scription drug card benefit that took effect this year, a transition to a full overhaul of the Medicare program that he said does little to lower the cost of drugs. 
"The truth is that after doing nothing to really lower the cost of prescription drugs for you, the president is now telling you that he solved the problem. Right. And those weapons of mass destruction are going to be found any day now," he said with sar­casm. 

Bush's after-debate mes­sage was simple -Kerry is a liberal who will raise taxes, increase government spend­ing, stick with the status quo on Social Security, and give other countries too much say in the use of U.S. troops over­seas. 
"My opponent wants to move in the direction of gov­ernment-run health care," the president added. "I believe health decisions ought to be made by doctors and patients, not officials in Washington, D.C." 
Attempting to pin the liber­al label on Kerry, he added, "Now he dismisses. that as a label. Must have seen it dif­ferently when he said to a newspaper, 'I'm a liberal and proud of it."' 
Apart from the public rhet­oric, the two sides readied their campaign endgame strategies. 
For Bush, according to White House officials, that will mean stepping up his effort to portray Kerry as a flip-flapper, a liberal with few accomplishments in the Senate. At the same time, officials said the president will play to one of his cam­paign strengths -his wartime leadership. He intends to travel to New Jersey next week to deliver what aides call a major address on terrorism. 
The state hasn't voted for a Republican since the presi­dential election in 1988, but New Jersey is just across the river from New York City and it suffered a significant loss of life when terrorists struck the W.orld Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. 
Kerry, having performed well in the debates, hopes to use the fmal 2 112 weeks of the campaign to persuade voters that he is a safe replacement for Bush in an era of terrorism. The effort will include a series of speeches designed to cast the senator as the champion of the middle class -as he said during the day -and depict Bush as the defender of the elite. 
Final figures showed that 51 million Americans watched at least part of the final presidential debate. 
While the candidates were ready to move on, one con­troversy simmered. Both Cheney and his wife criti­cized Kerry for havin-g referred to Mary Cheney's sexuality during the debate. 
"You saw a man who will do and say anything to get elected," the vice president said in Fort Myers, Fla. "And I am not just speaking as a father here, although I am a pretty angry father." 


SOUND BITE: STEM-CELL RESEARCH 
What should the federal role be in financing stem-cell research? 
"I have strongly supported medical research to find new 
'1 agree with Nancy Reagan and Jolm McCain that right now, treatments and cures for diseases, and I support pursuing some ofthe most pioneering treatments could be right at our fin­stem-cell research without crossing a fundamental moral gertips -but because ofGeorge Bush s decision to refuse feder­line. I decided to provide federal funding, for the first time, to al.funding for research on stem-cell lines created after August 9. research using human embryonic stem cells. I determined, 200I, they remain beyond our reach Stem cell research holds however, federal funds should not encourage the further immense promise for millions ofAmericans suffering from dis­destruction ofhuman embryos ... My administration has pro­eases like diabetes, Parkinson S, Alzheimers, heart disease, can­vided $35.5 million for research. But there is also a great cer and spinal cord injuries. As president, I will lift the ideologi­deal of stem-cell research that does not require the destruc­cally driven restrictions on stem cell research. And I will fund tion of a living human embryo. Last year, the NIH funded this research, with at least $wo million a year, while ensuring Bush $I90 million in 'adult' stem-cell research." Kerry strict ethical oversight ofthe research. .. " 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, October 15, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
EO. Box Q, Notre Dame, JN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDlffiR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGIN<; EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M~gh.,nne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
A~s·1; MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Vlf.WPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPOitTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDiffiR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin All DF.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BuSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporcs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 phoco@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse ildvertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhc authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free c'Xprcssion ofall opinions rhrough·lettcrs is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qtwtiom rtgarding Observerpolicies shouLd be directed to Editor in Chiif Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l'llf 0h5C'r'l\"r {USPS ';IJ9 2·4000) i1 puOH1~J Moud.1y rhrough 1:rid.1y cxo..:c:pr duri11t; cum ~tHI v~~::~.rhn JIC'nodJ A,ubKr\pnon ruThr-Ohlc:rvct i• SlOO fm one :~.cademic fC'.U. ~5-S lOr on.: k'mtm·r 
rh1 Olae"rwr •• • member of rh~: Auou.urd Pr~s. All reproduction righn .1~ rnrrvcd. 
l'hr Olv.t·n·c>r •• puhlishctl.af· I~O. fh•xQ tll"StuuhDmmgH.-11 024 Sourh Dining Hall Nurre D~mc. IN "hS5{..1JntJ Norrr !Janu·, IN 465~().!1779 1\·nmhL.al rml.\i:l' p.UJ..u Notr<.: D•m~· .mtl oll.li!HIIII\IJ maiJin~nffK'Ct 
l't)"'JMA\'IT,R \t-nJ ""IJrru cmrt•u•nnt ro· 
l"hr<th\t'f\'CT 
·1 ht• ( lhunct '' • mc:ml"-'r uf the ~sa<:iJ.cai l~tn. All r~rroJucriou nghr1 .ln: 
ll'\l.'IH,J, 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Display should be respected 
There are very few issues that can polarize any conversa­disrespectful, doubt the intentions of the people behind it or tion anywhere in the country as quickly as abortion. The simply not think it is the most effective way to protest abor­topic falls in with politics. religion and comparing salaries as tion. one that is often not considered polite or productive to talk Whatever reasons people may have for objecting to the dis­about. Considering how controversial the issue is, the vandal­play, vandalizing it is not the answer. Not only is this illegal, it ism of a display of 1,200 crosses staked out on South Quad in is an ineffective way of countering any argument espoused by protest of abortion is perhaps not surprising. The Cemetery Right to Life: The people who destroyed the display may have of the Innocents illustrates something thal cannot be as pow­had valid reasons to dislike it. but those reasons are no clear­erfully conveyed in words as in imagery -that widespread er now than if the crosses had remained standing. abortion may be a form of mass murder. Students would do better to examine why the display 
If abortion is in fact murder that is not pro-evokes such strong emotions that people feel moted but certainly not prohibited by United O Th the need to destroy it. The issues surrounding States law. it is difficult to say that a three-day \)server abortion are numerous and they are serious. display on a field at a university is too strong a and they will not be solved by anything that can response. The display may be unsettling, but it be displayed or destroyed in a small part of a is also hard to argue that a few days of discom­small campu9. Many people who support the
Editorial 

fort are too much to ask in considering the kind Cemetery of the Innocents may not be consider­of problem that is being addressed. ing all the pertinent social problems that surround abortion. 
If the purpose of a protest is to force people to think, the but the fact that Hight to Life is creating a peaceful protest Cemetery of the Innocents has certainly achieved its goal. In against a potentially serious problem should be respected. a society where abortion is contested but still legal. and often Furthermore, students should respect the fact that strong relegated to the_realm of issues which are left untouched, the feelings reflect a strong need for dialogue. Neither compla­display at least succeeds in disturbing the complacency of cency nor conflict will solve any of the problems surrounding those who have given up on considering the issue. abortion. The crosses arc a call for every student, whether 
People may object to the display for many reasons. they support abortion or not. to consider issues of poverty, Students may not believe abortion is wrong, not think the equality, life and liberty that surround abortion and what the government can legislate on the issue, think the display is best way to approach these issues might be. 
Watching Kerry's rise of support 
The image of this year's presidential election played out directly before me while I crawled through rush hour tratlic on the Fourteenth Street Bridge next to the Jefl'erson Memorial. In the left lane, a Caucasian drove an 
Gary Caruso 

old, battered Dodge van with a 
"Veterans for Kerry" Capitol Comments bumper sticker. The van inched by an African-American driv­ing a shiny Jaguar on the right with a "Veterans for Bush" sticker. The Sen. John Kerry supporter looked over at the Bush supporter and saluted. The President George W. Bush supporter wiggled his fin­gers as though to say, "Hello." The con­trast epitomized the reversed universe of this year's electorate. 
This column will be the last published before the election between Bush and Kerry. As Americans decide the outcome of the final debate, my crystal ball has sharpened its electoral images. Voters are processing how to reconcile a slump on the home front with a strong defense while equating how Iraq figures into their voting equations. 
Voter registrations have soared through­out the nation which highlights the impor­tance Americans are placing on the elec­tion and the future direction our next president will take us. Some constituen­cies are splitting from routine election pat­terns based on war, election spin or reli­gious views. Yet one trend that is pointing to the outcome of November's results is the slow, steady rise of John Kerry in the polls while the president stagnates in the mid to upper 40 percent ranges. 
John Kerry is viewed as having per­formed better in each of the three presi­dential debates. Americans contrasted the unfiltered remarks of both candidates dur­ing the three debates. After the first debate. Kerry was viewed as having won by 16 percent immediately after the debate. Within a week. voters viewed Kerry the winner by 38 percent. While the second debate was a slight win for Kerry, the Senator won the third debate by 13 percent immediately after the event. 
The debates this year served as a springboard for Kerry like the one and only debate in 1980 catapulted Ronald Heagan past then-President Jimm:Y Carter. A mere week before the election of 1980. Carter led Reagan by three percentage points until they met in the 

debate. Reagan swept past ride that momentum to elec­Carter in dramatic fashion. tion day. 
This year will be simi­This columnist has lar with the challenger been on record since winning the election early summer fore-unless a dramatic casting that the elec­attack on U.S. soil tion will not be as tips public senti­close as the 2000 ment. John Kerry election, or close at has erased deficits all. This columnist in recent polls in has forecasted that most battleground Kerry will defeat states. Just two the president weeks ago. before based on the inter­any of this year's nal data showing debates. the presi­the president's ceil­dent led in most con­ing of support. tested states. As of the Barring any dramatic third debate. Gallop (Went that tips public polls show that Kerry has S(mtinwnt prior to dec­pulled ahead in Wisconsin, tion day. this race was Minnesota. Iowa, New decided in April when Iraq 
Hampshire, Oregon, Nevada, Pennsylvania and Ohio. 
Campaign staffs usually choose which polling data they prefer to acknowledge for public consumption. I have chosen the Gallop data because Democrats complain that the Gallop organization reports polls of all registered voters and generally favors Hepublicans with its results. The instant "flash" polls after each debate, conducted by Gallop. showed Kerry with substantial wins. The battleground polls cited above arc also Gallop findings. 
The data within all of the polls has shown a constant ceiling that the presi­dent cannot break. His support numbers hover around 46 percent, varying a point or two in either direction. Tlw president cannot win back those who have aban-· doned him for whatever reasons they cite: war, economy, lwalth care. stubbornness, terror or ideology. Kerry has slowly con­vinced these voters. a few at a tim(~. that he is an acceptable alternative. The momentum, small and slow as it is. 

nonetheless has been with Kerry since 
the first debate. I lis goal is to 
(~ruptod with insurgency. 

Crystal balls aside, the Bush supporter riding in the Jaguar with the "Veterans for Bush" sticker has lim~told the president's fate with his farewell wave to the Kerry veteran. That day, the battle of the bumper stickers garnered mutual respect. If only the process could be as dear-cut. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73, serued as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. /lis column appears euery othPr Friday lie can be contactPd at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
News Sports Amanda Michaels Dan Tapetillo OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Eileen Duffy Ann Loughery Maddie Hanna Ken Fowler What are you doing for Fall Break? 
"All citizens should have their weapon ofchoice ...
Viewpoint Scene 

a. Going home 37% 
{but] only I should have the ammunition. Because 
Alyssa Maria Smith b. Staying at school 12% 
frankly, I wouldn't trust the rest ofthe goobers 
c. Service Trip 2%
Brauweiler Illustrator 

d. Notre Dame vs. Navy Game 32% 
with anything more dangerous than string. " 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch e. Fun vacation 7% 
f. Two or more of the above 10%
Graham Ebetsch 

Scott Adams
*Poll appears courtesy of 
www.ndsmcobserver.comand 
cartoonist
is based on 304 responses. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, October 15, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Do unto others 
In response to Andrew Yi's "Abortion is a Human Right" letter, I wish to open my article with a quote from Ayn Rand: 
"If I ask people whether they believe in life. they never understand what I mean. It's a bad question. It can mean so much that it really means nothing. So I ask them if they believe in God. And if they say they do, then I know they don't believe in life. Why? Because, you see, God­whatever anyone chooses to call God -is one's highest conception of the highest possible. And whoever places his highest conception above his own possibility thinks M very little of himself and his life. It's a rare gift, you know, to feel reverence for your own life and to want the best. the greatest, the highest possi­ble. here, now. for your very own." · 
I do not question Yi's claim that. as a pro-choice Catholic, his integrity and character have been repeat­edly attacked. It certainly isn't a compliment to describe the Catholic Church as having a pervasive undercurrent of anti­intellectualism. Ending one's article with a quote from Ayn ltand. whose claim to fame, among other things. is her vehement con­demnation of religion as being con­trary to reason only reinforces this impression that Yi carries a deep grudge against the Catholic Church. In fact. the down­right hostile rhetoric of his article seems profoundly anti-religion in nature; I am not surprised that his integrity and his faith in Catholicism would be ques­tioned by others. 

Is this to say that there is something wrong about not being Cathol.ic? Certainly not. But the language Yi uses when he describes anti-abortionists as a sexist, misogy­nic bunch of bigots is harsh. Why then should he expect the inevitable response to be calm and reserved? When a person is called a bigot, a misogynist, a sexist (pig), it is an all-too-human reaction to respond with ad homo­nym of one's own. Perhaps that is why Yi's integrity and character have been repeatedly attacked. After all, he who casts the first stone has no right and no moral 
superiority when those he attacks fling his insults right back at him. Lest there be the inevitable responses calling me a fool for missing the main topic of Yi's article -abortion -I shall examine it in some detail, even though I feel that it would be repeating the same, tired old spiel to an audience that is not listening. Yi's argument seems to indicate that he believes 
that the right of a woman to control her own body takes precedence over the life of 
the fetus. Very well. When then does the fetus gain the same rights of a human being as the mother? At birth? But such a claim is nonsensical -one minute 
before birth, one hour before 
birth, one day before birth ­how much difference is there in between? To arbitrarily des­
ignate time x as that point in time when a fetus magically becomes a baby is about as logical­ly coherent as believing that 
Pinocchio's Fairy Godmother trans­forms him from a puppet into a little boy. In closing, I suggest Yi consult a dictionary 

before he bandies big words about. I am not a bigot. I do not hate women. I do not consider women somehow inferior to men. I am none of these things, but I do condemn abortion. 
Chang-Tze Chia 
sentor 
off-campus Ocr. 14 

Defining 'lifestyle' 
I want to congratulate Cody Graeber (Letter to the Editor on Oct. 14) on identifying the key mis­conception in the debate concerning acceptance of gay and lesbian students on this campus. Indeed, we need to make a distinction between "the person and the act" and accept that one's "identity is bound up in much more than [one's] sexuality." However, I am,afraid that Groeber ascribes this misconception to a wrong party in the discussion. 
It is not the "gay activists" who tend to equal human beings and sexual activity over and over again. It is the people who claim that we cannot fight discriminatory atmosphere because it is hard to distinguish between a person and his or her "homosexual lifestyle." 
What is a "homosexual lifestyle?" Are we talk­ing about the passion of gay men for hamburgers, or about the inclination of lesbian couples to enjoy road trips during their vacation? No, the "homosexual lifestyle" is a reference to sexual intercourse between two people of same sex. Isn't this an attempt to equal a person with his or her sexuality? Would it not be more appropriate to accept gays and lesbians as human beings need­ing "to love and be loved" (a desire that everyone seems to agree on) and leave their private deci­sions about their sex life out of the arena of pub­lic scrutiny? 
Do we discriminate against unmarried hetero­sexual couples because it is possible that in their private lives. they are breaking the rules of Catholic teachings? That would be absurd. would­n't it? So why is it normal to do the same thing when it comes to gay men and lesbians? 
Petra Dankova 
seniOr 
Pasquerilla West Ocr. 14 

U-WIRE 

Muslim vote not considered 
During Friday's debate, the issue of judicial appointees was discussed among the candidates. Jonathan Michaelson asked President George 
W. Bush how he would fill anticipated vacancies in the Supreme Court if re­Hassan Khaja elected. In his rebut­tal to the president's Rutgers answer, Sen. John University Kerry said he would Daily Targum apply the late Justice Potter Stewart's standard: one who reads the opinion ol' a judge fit for the Supreme Court should not know whether or not the judge is "a Mus1im, a Jew or a Christian." 
To understand the significance of Kerry's use of the dreaded "M" word, one need only look to the Muslim vote and its role in this election. No one thinks. anytime soon, a Muslim will be nominated to the Supreme Court, but this marks the first public considera­tion either of the candidates has gjven to Muslim voters. 
American Muslims deserve special consideration because they find them­selves in a unique position in the United States. Two fears have been joined upon the American Muslim. 
One of those fears ,is the very real fear of a terrorist strike. The fact that one Df the airplanes on Sept. 11 was downed in Shanksville, Pa. -a short distance away from a school-shows us just how real. unpredictable and inescapable a terrorist attack is. 
However, there is a fear that has been visited on American Muslims in addition to the fear of being victims of terrorism -being labeled the prime suspects. Evidence of the air of suspi­cion Muslims face is the demand placed on them by non-Muslims to condemn terrorism. Naturally, it is assumed if they don't condemn it, which is unlikely, they supportit. At the same time. if they don't rush to pub­licly condemn ter'­ror on the air­waves. they feel they will be placed under the same suspicion. 

This fear is only exacerbated by abuse of the terror alert level on the part of the Bush administra­tion. Certainly, if law enforcement needs to be on guard, then it does them good to know there is addi­tional chatter that intelli­gence agencies are picking up on. But, the prevailing logic holds that alerts fall on deaf ears when they are too frequently relayed to the pub­
lic. Law enforcement officials are trained to take every alert seriously and to be ever vigilant. The layper­son, on the other hand, is not. 
But there is an alternate, unintend­
ed consequence to the abuse of alerts -creation of an atmosphere of fear. Law enforcement officials, in this sit­uation, are supposed to be and are expected to be properly trained to 
handle all threats. Once again. the layperson is not. In an atmosphere of fear. to said layperson, every­one becomes a sus­pect: Considering Islam is the com­mon thread among 
the more popular terrorists, the inevitable conse­
quence is the singling-out of Muslims. Excluding the more ignoran·t racial and ethnic 
profilers, law enforcement is usually keen to the science of criminal profiling. It's been understood 
among American Muslims that. in an envi­ronment of fear. they must 
watch what they say. The Constitution guarantees free speech, but common sense guarantees, in a time of fear, hysteria prevails over the law. 
With Tariq Ramadan and Yusuf Islam, widely considered moderates, being denied entry into the United States, the prevailing logic was shat­

tered. 
While there certainly might be peo­ple who -either out of a genuine effort to understand Muslims or out of a concern for political correctness ­won't vocalize hatred or suspicion of Muslims. their survival instinct might not have set in yet. If impulse is left to rule, as sometimes it will, who is to say that impuls.e will not cause suspi­cion of Muslims. who have long been understood in American culture as the new enemies? When backed into a wall, wouldn't impulse force desper­ate action? 
In light of this, the candidate who wins the Muslim vote will be the one who does the most to quell the atmos­phere of fear. In this regard. the choice will probably be overwhelm­ingly for Kerry, considering Bush cre­ated the atmosphere of fear and third-party candidates are considered unlikely to win. 
There's still a segment of Muslims, however, who support Bush. In fact, if Bush makes a sincere effort to reach out to Muslims who -like all humans in a state of fear -might act against common sense. ignore the past years of fear and vote overwhelmingly to re­elect Bush. 
This column originally appeared on Wednesday, Oct. 14 in the Daily Targum, the daily publication at Rutgers University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
CENEpage 12 Friday, October 15, 2004 
PAC PREVIEW 




The nation's top comedy 
Second City brings humor improv to the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
By MEEG CONROY  with one-liners and five-second "blips," the heart of the show is  thoughts to consider. Second City's stop in  
Scene Writer  Second  City's  calling  card:  South Bend is only one  
improv acts. These totally un­ of many that they have  
What do Bill Murray, Eugene  rehearsed  acts  have  made  made  this  year.  The  
Levy, Mike Meyers, Chris Farley,  Second City and its comedians  company has an exten­ 
and Tina Fey have in common?  famous. Inspiration is usually  sive schedule, covering  
A bond holds all of these actors  taken from the audience. Cast  schools. theatres, com­ 
together,  and  it's  not  just  members ask for suggestions  munity centers and pri­ 
Saturday Night Live. Although  such as an opening line, histori­ vate  engagements  
oach showcased their talents at  cal era, emotion or object. From  across the country. Their  
one point or another on the well­ there the actors  run with their  acclaim is spreading and  
known comedy show, their first  imaginations, creating wacky,  in turn increasing per­ 
comedic debut was with Second  surprising and, most importantly,  formance demand. Yet,  
City.  humorous scenarios. Every skit  neither  a  strenuous  
For almost 50 years Second  is unique and sure to keep the  schedule  nor  high  
City has been producing some of  audience engaged.  expectations are slowing  
the funniest actors in the world.  Although the "inspiration'' may  down this group's talent.  
Through a series of improvisa­ appear random. especially· for  Already  this  year  
tional sketches, actors are able  improvisational acts, Second  reviews are raving about  
to test their comedic potential.  City's  cast  is  sure  to  offer  Second  City's  talent,  
Hesults have been amazing.  poignant social commentary.  spunk and hilarity.  
Since the company's beginnings  Politics,  religion,  corporate  Associate producer of  
in 1959, Second City has grown  America, current events and  the Chicago company,  
to include five theatres, television and film series, and national tours.  even the area they're currently touring in are usually reflected in the show's skits. Students might  Beth Kligerman encap­sulates the essence of Second City when she  Photo courtesy of Patrick Ryan The Second City comedy troupe tours the country with top-notch skits and comedy improv stylings.  
Next week, Notre Dame stu­ expect a little "Notre Dame com­ says that it is, "a cre­ 
dents and faculty will have the  mentary." Actors will attack with  ation unlike other art forms."  Don't miss this opportunity to  DeBartolo  Center  for  the  
privilege to become part of this  these issues with the most pow­ The  group  tests  the  human  experience Second City, and take  Performing Arts and  can  be  
comedic legacy. Six of the nine­ erful weapon: humor. Although  comedic  potential  through  part in the continuation of one of  ordered over the phone at 631­ 
teen members of Chicago's tour­ skits may touch on some darker  improvisation, creating humor  the most famous comedic lega­ 2800, on-line at httpJ/performin­ 
ing company, as well as a profes­ themes, they allow the audience  that touches the audience's core  cies.  garts.nd.edu, or at the box office  
sional museum, will perform at  to acknowledge current issues in  with real and current issues.  The show will be performed at  Monday through Friday from  
the Decio Mainstage Theatre.  the light of comedy. This creates  Second City shows the comedy of  8 p.m. on Oct. 22. Tickets are  noon to 6 p.m.  
The cast will present two 40­ an environment of comfort and  humanity.  $15 for students, $25 for faculty  
minute segments of non-stop,  openness. Second City will leave  With Second City's prestige  and staff and $31.25 for the gen­ 
hilarious comedy. Amidst some  audience members not only with  preceding their arrival, demand  eral public. Tickets are available  Contact Meeg Conroy at  
pre-written sketches, peppered  aching sides, but also  a  few  for tickets is sure to be high.  from  the  box  office  at  the  mconroy1 @nd.edu  

PAC REVIEW 

Music with international appeal 
Mariza's emotional and dramatic performance crosses language barriers 
ly feminine dresses seemed appropriate for a By MARIA SMITH kind of music in which personal interpretation 
Scene Editor 

is so important. When the singer reflected on stage about the feeling of singing fado and the 
It is perhaps a curse of opera singers and way her own life had changed since she began international musicians alike to be singing con­making a living through music, it was hard not stantly for people who do not understand a to wonder what the life on and off the stage word they are saying. Much of the meaning of a was actually like. performance is obviously lost when the words Mariza performed in the Decio Mainstage are incomprehensible. Theater instead of the Leighton Concert Hall, 
On the other hand, a language barrier can be which is usually used for musical performanc­a blessing for some performers. Attention es. The venue allowed fc r dramatic lighting as taken away from lyrics is refocused on stage well as a more decorative stage setup that suit­presence and on the details of the actual music. ed the music well. 
At Wednesday night's performance Mariza The performance by guitarist Antonio Neto. and her musicians gave the audience plenty to Portuguese guitarist Luis Gerreiro and bassist focus on besides words. Fado is a beautiful Laurindo de Sousa was beautiful in its own style of music, and whatever was lost with the right. The three worked well with each other words, plenty was left in the Portuguese and with the singer to bring the haunting and singer's voice and interpretation. highly rhythmic melodies together. 
A good performer has to be able to convey At times during the performance Mariza nar­emotion to an audience, and this becomes rated scenes of beaches and Lis!}on cafes. especially important for a musician performing Microphones do not always suit guitars as well in a language their audience does not under­as fully acoustic performances, and it was easy stand. Mariza portrayed an emotion in her to imagine that the music, like many forms of music that might even have been lost had the urban music, might sound better in a more nat­particulars of what caused it been known. ural setting than a concert hall. 
At one point Mariza sang a facto set with a Still, the concert gave a sense of a style of text by Portuguese poet Fernando Pessoa who music that is wonderful and not often heard in lived from 1888 to 1935. This was beautifully the United States. People with an adventurous set, but probably lost the most for non­taste in music might try picking up a CD and Portuguese speaking audience members. getting their own sense for what the national 
Mariza is rightly famous for her voice, but music of Portugal is all about. her presence on stage was vital. The contrast between her short peroxided hair and colorful-Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 






CENE

Friday, October 15, 2004 
pa'ge 13 
PAC PREVIEW 
Talk show host turns crooner 
Regis Philbin exhibits new-found musical talent on campus to benefit the homeless 
with the Center for the New York. At Notre Dame, he The benefit is meant not only with guaranteed seats for the By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Homeless for over 10 years, will be featured with a 22-to raise money for the Center Oct. 25 broadcast of "Live with Scene Writer particularly with Lou Nanni, piece orchestra composed of for the Homeless, but also to Regis and Kelly," which will be the current Vice ·President for students as well as profession­raise awareness about its role recorded at 7:30 a.m. Tickets 
Regis Philbin is perhaps one. University relations who used al musicians from the greater in the South Bend community. for the tele.vision broadcast of the most well-known Notre to be the executive director for South Bend area. Each night, the Center, located were distributed free of charge Dame graduate, and he is the center, " said current Philbin is well-known for his at 813 S. Michigan Street, with tickets to the concerts by returning to the campus this director Steve Camilleri. "He successful morning television hosts about 200 guests, and Mariza and the Academy of St. fall to help out a worthy cause. has committed all that he can show, "Live with Hegis and they always encourage stu­Martins in the Fields On Oct. 24 at 6 p.m. Philbin to help us." Kelly," and his celebrity status dents to volunteer their time. Wednesday and Thursday will perform a benefit at the Regis recently released a increased with the incredible "The benefit is the result of a night. Extra seats may be new Debartolo Center for the musical CD entitled, "When success of the original version combination of great things," available for students who Performing arts. All of the pro­You're Smiling", which of the game show, "Who Wants said Camilleri, "Regis' love of wait outside the show on the ceeds from the show will go to includes covers of such songs to be a Millionaire?" He has Notre Dame, the Center for the morning of Oct. 25. suP.port the Center for the as "You Make Me. Feel So won several Emmy awards, Homeless and South Bend." Tickets for the benefit are on Homeless in South Bend. In Young," "It Had To Be You," including one each for "Live" Sea.ts for the benefit cost sale now at the ticket office in conjunction with his perform­"You're Nobody 'Til Somebody and "Millionaire," and he was $30, and there is no price the Debartolo Center for the ance at the PAC, Regis will be Loves You" and a duet with his awarded TV Guide's Television break for anyone, because the Performing Arts, or can be taping an episode of his popu­wife Joy on "They Can't Take Personality of the Year for net proceeds of the show go purchased by calling 631­lar morning show, "Live with That Away From Me." He has 2001. He has also written directly to the Center for the 2800. Regis and Kelly," at the PAC turned the music from the CD three books and released his Homeless. Preferred seating the next morning. into a club act that he has per­own clothing line based on his can be purchased for $100. C~mtact Molly Griffin at 
"Hegis has had a relationship formed in both Las Vegas and attire on "Millionaire." Preferred seating tickets come mgriffin@nd.edu 
PAC REVIEW 


No conductor necessary 
Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields and O'Riley give a fine performance 
with every member playing furi­implausibly difficult piece. It better to place the Liszt at the ty that simply cannot receive By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
ously into their music stands. was easily the most dramatic end of the program and leave enough of this musical expo­Scene Writer 
The combined effort was shock­work of the evening, and Mr. the audience with that thrilling sure-and to think, the university ing to watch; it seemed as if the O'Riley's wrists, thundering feeling it had received by the is still waiting for the. arrival of 
The orchestra hailed from orchestra acted with a uniform away at the keys and covering work's end, while the warmness the New York Philharmonic. England. The pianist was a mind, and Mr. Sillito acted as its all registers of the piano, evoked of the Tchaikovsky opened the Hang on, everyone. The music true-blooded American. master control. This was espe­memories of similarly compli­second half of the concert. It has made its way to the Dome. Together, they held a terrific c1ally important for the final cated passages from matters little, though, compared evening of chamber music. piece of the evening: the Rachmaninoff's "Piano Concerto to the fact that the audience wit­
The Academy of Saint Martin Tchaikovsky "Serenade," which No.3." nessed world class performers Contact Brandon Hollihan at 
in the Fields, along with guest contained several beautiful Perhaps it would have been bringing their gifts to a universi-bholliha@nd.edu pianist Christopher O'Riley, per­melodies, including the Russian formed a series of works at the anthem, which required the ... Leighton Concert Hall last night orchestra's complete concentra­to an enthusiastic reception tion. from the Notre Dame communi-Mr. O'Riley's addition to the ty. Works included evening was wonderful. The Shostakovich's "Chamber audience saw two sides of his Symphony for Strings, Op. performance in each of the 
lOOa," Mozart's "Concerto No. works he performed. He first 12 in A Major for Piano and came off as relaxed and con­Orchestra," Liszt's "Malediction trolled in the Mozart concerto. for Piano & Strings" and Much of the piece confined the Tchaikovsky's "Serenade for piano to its upper-to-middle reg­Strings in C Major." ister, with effortless passages to 
The most intriguing aspect of which the orchestra would the evening's performance was respond, sometimes in unison. the lack of a conductor to lead This "back and forth" effect the orchestra through both very actually felt like one of the con­rhythmically and melodically cert's more hollow points, as if difficult passages. Hather, it was the fusion of a string-only Kenneth Sillito, the Academy's ensemble with a Mozart piano artistic director and principal concerto had resulted in some­violinist, who controlled the thing missing. tempo and overall flow of the Before performing the orchestra with his physical pres­"Malediction" after intermis­ence. As the orchestra played sion, Mr. O'Riley made a sly on, the musicians constantly anecdote to the audience about 
looked over their shoulder at how, in French, malediction the concertmaster, while he vig­meant "curse." orously rocked back and forth to "But not in the way a rap relay the necessary emotion of artist ·or the Vice President of each phrase to the players. the United States might use it," 
This is not to say the entire O'Reilly said, getting a hearty.orchestra was lacking in emo­roar from the audience. tion during the evening. When When he sat at the piano, the allegro molto movement of however, Mr. O'Riley's genial 

thp Shostakovich began, the presence turned to command­Christopher O'Reilly and the Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields played an unconducted Academy rushed into action, ing, as he delved inta an concert with impressive dynamics and unity. 
-~­


THE OBSERVER 

CENEpage 14 
Friday, October 15, 2004 


They've still got the blues 
Legendary blues rockers the Fabulous Thunderbirds will play at Heartland in a benefit for the Center for the Homeless 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Scene Writer 
'" 
On Friday night the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and South Bend communi­ties will have the opportunity to make a positive difference in hundreds of lives-simply by listening to blues rock at Heartland. 
Award-winning band the Fabulous Thunderbirds will be playing a benefit concert for the Center for the Homeless. along with up and coming blues star Nick Curran and opening been nominated for several WC Handy Awards, and Wilson won in 2004 for best blues song of the year. 

The Vegetable Buddies Nightclub, a legendary club that used to bring musical acts to South Bend, had the Fabulous Thunderbirds per­form three times in the 70s and 80s. 

act Eddy "the Chief' "Members that will be S h o r t I y Clearwater. All prof-after, the its from the show playing are recognized b a n d 
will go to the Center, as some ofthe world's opened which successfully great blues for a transitions homeless R o 11 i n g people into jobs and musicians." S t o n e s 
home ownership tour. every year. Andy Panelll A n d y The band has been concert organizer Panelli, a 
playing quintessen­tial American music for the past 25 years, and the band's sound has evolved from its beginnings as straight blues into a blend that now includes more genres· and has more energy. 
Frontman and founder. Grammy-nominated Kim Wilson, is the only remaining member from the original lineup. The band achieved Billboard success in the 80s with hits like "Tuff Enough," "Wrap it Up" and "Stand Back." Wilson and the band have also 

N o t r e D a m e graduate who now promotes shows that contribute to worthy causes, is confident that the show will be worth 
Photo courtesy of www.labulousthunderbirds.com

attending. 
Blues rockers, the Fabulous Thunderbirds, will play at a benefit for the Center for the Homeless
"Members that will 
on Friday night. The group Is famous for hits such as "Tuff Enough" and "Wrap It Up." 
be playing are recog­
nized as some of the 
world's great blues musicians in this be a tremendous night of blues and 
rock band," Panelli said. "It's going to rock music over there. I would encour­age everybody to come out and have a great time and do something good for a very worthy cause at the same time-it's going to be a great evening." Adding to the talented lineup will be Nick Curran, who won the 2004 WC Handy Award for Best New Artist Debut. The young guitarist and vocalist incorporates R&B into his rock and blues music, interpreting classic songs as well as crafting his own. His albums "Doctor Velvet" and "Player!" have earned him national and international critical acclaim. The musicians will be playing for 

more than the audi­ence, in a way, as all proceeds will benefit the Center for the Homeless. The Center has had strong ties to the Notre Dame com­munity since its incep­tion. Founders Dave Link, former dean of the law school. and D'Arcy Chisholm approached University President Father Edward Malloy for help when they needed more funds to refurbish an 
abandoned men's department store. 
Malloy went to the Board of Trustees 
and asked for a $1 million to purchase and rehabilitate the building to begin ·the center-a brave move, since he was early in his tenure as president at the 
time. 
"It has a full continuum of services 
for individuals and families to help 
break the cycle of homelessness, of 
addiction, of dependency," Lou Nanni, 
vice president for University Relations 
and former executive director of the 
center, said. 

An example of services for children is the occupational therapy program that works with newborns. The center has the only full time Montessori program in a homeless center, and works with children ages 3 to 5 before kinder­garten. It also works with the South Bend school system to help children once they begin school. attending to details like making sure they are picked up on the bus first and dropped off last so it is not obvious that they are homeless. 
"For adults, there are emergency assistance, crisis management, life skills. job training and home ownership programs, and all services are located 
at the center," Nanni 
said. 
Nanni stresses that

[T]he center is not only 
the center is not only

the best model in the 
the best model in the country for helping country for helping individuals and families
individuals and 
break the cycle of

families break the cycle 
homelessness, but it ofhomelessness, but it also draws strength from its relationships
also draws strength 
with the university and

from its relationships 
the community. The with the university and concert Friday is one the community. more chance for the 
center to benefit from 

these relationships. and in turn continue its important work in South Bend. 
The benefit concert will be Friday, Oct. 15 at Heartland. 222 South Michigan St. Tickets cost $22 and are on sale at Heartland by calling 574­234-5200 or Ticketmaster at 574-272­7979. Tickets can also be purchased at the Web site, www.ticketmaster.com. The Vegetable Buddies production is only open to those 21 and older. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 

page 15

Friday, October 15, 2004 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 
Giants and Jets remain surprises in NFL this season 
Associated Press "Most people in Florida are from New York and New Jersey 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -anyway," Giants center Shaun Lost in the excitement of the O'Hara quipped. latest renewal of the Yankees­Jokes aside, the early success Red Sox rivalry and the exploits of the Jets and Giants has com­of A-Rod. Jeter and Mariano is mon threads. the other story quietly gaining Both made significant pla"yer momentum in the New York and coaching changes in the area. offseason. They also have 
It's the unexpected rise of the stayed relatively healthy in a Jets and Giants, who together year where many contenders arc providing two of the NFL's have been hurt by injuries. biggest surprises this season. Somewhat easy schedules 
Also-rans a year ago with a haven't hurt, either. The New combined 10 wins, the teams York teams have won against are off to great starts. opponents with a combined 10­
The Giants (4-1) are riding a 27 record. four-game winning streak head­Coughlin has to get credit for ing into a bye week under new, the Giants' success. He restored --­no-nonsense coach Tom order to a team that went 4-12 Coughlin. Their only loss was to in 2003 by instituting a detail­Philadelphia (4-0). oriented doctrine that demands 
If Herm Edwards' Jets (4-0) accountability on and off the beat San Francisco on Sunday field. Mess up and your wallet is at Giants Stadium, it will be a lighter. franchise-record best start. Although that approach alien­everyone plays well, you're . At this time last year, the Jets four touchdowns. 
"The thing you find out in this ated many veterans, including going to win games." were off to an 0-4 start, and Now with another win, the league is that one year doesn't Pro Bowl defensive end Michael Even in games in which they they finished 6-10. Jets would accomplish some­determine what is going to hap­Strahan, the positives are obvi­haven't played well, the Giants The Giants had something to thing that even Joe Namath pen the next year," said Giants ous. Mistakes are down and the have found a way to win, or do with that. The Jets lost Chad failed to provide in the glory quarterback Kurt Warner, the players are showing a hunger gotten lucky, such as when Pennington for the first six days. two-time MVP who has added again. Brett Favre missed most of the games of the season when the "Yeah it would be great, but it another surprise with a career­Tim Lewis' defense, which is second half with a concussion in quarterback broke a wrist in a doesn't put a ring on our fin­reviving season. confusing opposing offenses by a 14-7 win at Green Bay. preseason game against them. ger," said receiver Wayne 
While no one on either team mixing 4-3 and 3-4 formations, The injuries also haven't hurt During the offseason, the Jets Chrebet, who was with the Jets' is seriously considering an All­leads the league with a plus-11 as much this year. When veter­upgraded their linebackers, the only other time they started New York Super Bowl just yet, turnover differential. Warner an safety Shaun Williams was signed another quality receiver 4-0, in 2000. "To me, it is not all Giants running back Tiki and the offense are showing lost with a knee injury, rookie in Justin McCareins and hired that exciting. Double digits and Barber, who Iea,ds the NFL in flashes of the explosiveness that Gibril Wilson stepped in and an aggressive new defensive 0 _then I will be excited." rushing, let his mind wander made the Giants a threat late in played well. coordinator in Donnie But players are happy for fans for a split second. the 2002 season. "This is a great start," safety Henderson. All have con­in New York. who get to watch 
"They'll have to move it . "We had 13 starters missing Brent Alexander said. "It does­tributed to 4-0, along with a two winning teams after sitting here," Barber said of airlifting last season," Giants receiver n't determine where you finish, healthy Pennington and re­through the misery of last sea­the title game from Amani Toomer said. "You look but it's a step in the right direc­energized Curtis Martin, who is son. Defensive end John Jacksonville, Fla., to the at every team in the league, if tion to get to where we want to off to the best start of his 10-Abraham is not surprised both Meadowlands in New Jersey. everything goes right and go." year career with 502 yards and teams are doing so well. 

NBA 
Crawford scored 19 points in Knicks 92-84 win over Nets 
Associated Press the game's opening moments ahead basket. Jefferson, who led the Nets with go. and another in the fourth quar­The Nets didn't score a fourth­18 points, turned in two high­Forward Brian Scalabrine 
WILKES-BARRE, Pa. -Jamal ter as New York turned a 74-63 quarter point until rookie guard light-reel plays during the quar­added 10 points for the Nets. Crawford had 19 points, and the deficit after three periods into a Alex Scales hit a free throw with ter. Kurt Thomas had 14 points New York Knicks scored the first 85-74 lead with 3:11 left. 3:11 left, and New Jersey didn't First, he finished off an alley­for the Knicks. 21 of the fourth quarter to Yin Baker and Michael make a basket until rookie for­oop pass from Zoran Planinic Rookie guard Trevor Ariza defeat the New Jersey Nets 92-Sweetney keyed the run for the ward Darius Rice hit an 18-foot with a reverse dunk to put the added 12 points, including eight 84 Thursday night in the exhibi-. Knicks. Baker scored seven jump shot with 1:28 to go. Nets up 57-51 with 8:35 left. in the fourth quarter. tion opener for both. points, including a layup with Led by nine points from Later, he took a no-look pass Knicks forward Tim Thomas 
Making his Knicks debut after 7:30 left that gave the Knicks a Richard Jefferson, the Nets took from Jacques Vaughn, made a and Nets center Jason Collins being acquired from the Chicago 76-74 lead. Sweetney made five control in the third quarter, tak­layup while being fouled and hit were in the starting lineup, but Bulls in an offseason trade, of six free throws and found an ing a 7 4-63 lead after the game the ensuing free throw to put the discord between them Crawford hit two 3-pointers in open Baker to assist on the go-was tied 4 7 at halftime. the Nets up 67-57 with 3:53 to showed no signs of flaring up. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All cla:Ssifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED PART-TIME WORK Great pay, flex sched..sales/svc.all ages18+.cand. apply, 273-4878  FoR RENT DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS- For Sale: ND football tix. Goad prices. 232-0964. Wanted: ND football tix. Tap$$$ 251-1570. ND ftbalf tix bought & sold a.m.  Ladies! Looking far a professional Full Body Waxing Dayspa? Kimberle Nicole uses only the best waxes that work far every type of hair.  Cold Season is here Flu-shot alter­native All Natural! Protect yourself from colds & flu. Contact Mandy Hosier 574-876­7525  The argo test wasn't sa bad . . was it? It is nat Catrina and Cristina Thampson... it is Catrina and Christian Thampsan .... aaps!  
BABYSITIER WANTED:  ES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7  232-2378 p.m. 288-2726  We specialize in Brazilian Bikini, Legs, Brows and much mare.  AdvaCare.cam or  That's his pimp stick  
22-month-ald twins. 5-6 hours, 1-2 weekdays. Occasional weekend evenings Call Kara at 574-621·  BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCESTAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS.  Buying and selling ND football tix, especially Baston College 574-289­8048  The Notre Dame MBA ladies rate us the #1 Dayspa far their waxing!  debtbusters@ ureach.com ONE MOTEL ROOM FOP ~ . WEEKEND.  The Cubs are still a great ball club. They made the playoffs in my mind.  
1540 DAMONS GRILL is now accepting applications far SERVERS AND HOSTS.  VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06  NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Calf Amy 219-872-5932 PERSONAL  Bring this ad and receive 1 0% off your visit. 57 4-257-3877 www.kimberle-nicale.cam  WALK TO CAMPUS, TWL .3, NON-SMOKING. $365 TOTAL FOR TWO NIGHTS. CALL STEVE:  50 First Dates really wasn't that great of a movie... Shippensburg I suppose isn't that horrible of a town  - 
These positions do not open up very often.  Walking distance from ND MMMRentals.cam 532-1408  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes  ADOPTION:  813-978-1001 YOU THOUGHT YOU WERE TOO LATE, BUT YOURE WRONG. Start  Tempe, Arizona is the best place in the entire world. Go Sun Devils! You're undefeated this season.  
Apply in person to join our award w~nning team 52885 US 933 N 574-272-5478 1  TICKETS  Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $1591  Help us complete our family, baby wanted.  that Kaplan MCAT class an Oct 24th! 272-4135 GRE GMAT LSAT MCAT OAT/OAT Home far Fall  Beat USC! Partabella Rassalini  
mile north of N.D. (next to Comfort Suites)  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIXPLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911  www.SpringBreakTravel.cam 1­800-678-6386  Jeanie & Dan 877-895-9790 Tall Free  Break? Ask your folks, get regis· tered. 1-800-KAP-TEST  Me?!  

--~--~----~~--·----------~~~----------·----------------------------------------------~--------------­
'' page 16 Friday, October 15, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 




Raiders must stop the run against AFC rival Broncos 

Oakland has allowed a league-worst 156.9 yards per game 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND. Calif. -The Haiders realize another bad day by their run defense won't cut it against the Denver Broncos. 
One of Oakland's top priori­tins in the offseason was to upgrade a unit that allowed a league-worst 156.9 yards per game on the ground. 
So far. it's been a work-in­progress mastering defensive coordinator Hob Hyan 's new 3­4 scheme. 
The next test will come Sunday. when the Raiders host their AFC West rivals in Oakland's first game against a divisionaf opponent. 
"There's no question, in our division we're going to have to stop the run to play," coach Norv Turner said. "We know the things we have to handle with Denver. We have to stop the run. Certainly they're very mobile at quarterback and do a lot of things with misdirection, bootlegs. reverses, fake revers­es. those types of things. We're going to have to have a plan to handle that." 
It will be tough. because the Broncos always seem to get a big performance from one of their backs. 
Denver coach Mike Shanahan doesn't have a simple answer as to how he's been able to get so much out of his running 
backsyearafieryea~ 
Heuben Droughns went off for 193 yards -the ninth­highest one-game total in Denver's regular-season history -in a 20-17 win over Carolina last Sunday. This week, it could be someone else to emerge. 
"It's a combination of every­body," Shanahan said. "To get close to a couple hundred yards, you've got to have every­body play good." 
The Haiders gave up 312 yards rushing over the last two wm~ks. including a career-high I05 yards by llouston 's .Jonathan Wells. then 136 to Edgerrin James in a 35-14 loss to the Colts last week for Oakland's 12th straight road defeat. 
Denver (4-1) has already run for 656 yards. and the Broncos also have Tatum Bell and Garrison Hearst healthy and ready as options this week. 
"It doesn't matter [who]. They just do what they do best," Haiders defensive end Bobby Hamilton said. "We know up front we've got to play ball this week." 
They've got to be smart, too. 
The Haiders (2-3) have already been penalized 48 times for 335 yards, and they aren't taking care of the ball well. either. Oakland has lost five of its 10 fumbles and thrown nine interceptions, seven by Kerry Collins in the past 2 1/2 games. 
In two games against the Hroncos last season. Oakland

-
committed 13 penalties for 98 yards. 
The Haiders were flagged 11 times for 89 yards in a 22-8 loss to Denver at home last Nov. 30. prompting former coach Bill Callahan to call the Haiders "the dumbest team in America." 

team's one-year tender of $8.782 million Aug. 31. 
"I mean, why wouldn't he think that?" Bailey said. "He's had a great career so far. He's got every right to think that. Of course, I think that about myself. And if you want to get that top-paid corner spot, you definitely have to feel like it. or promote yourself like you are, and play like it. I feel like I'm worth what I'm making. and that's good enough for me." 
Turner .is sticking with Collins at uarterback des ite his struggles. The coach faced questions this week about giv­ing backup Marques Tuiasosopo an opportunity. 
"Each week I fen! more and more comfortable with what we're doing," Collins said. "''ve just got to make some bettnr decisions, and I will. Lih I said, each week that I'm out here I'm really concentrating hard in practice and getting to the point where I feel comfort­able going into games. I know it's going to get better for all us." 


"We just have to be sound in the things we're doing," Turner said. 
The Broncos acquired Pro Bowl cornerback Champ Bailey in an offseason trade with Washington, signing him to a seven-year, $63 million con­tract to be their shutdown cor­nerback. 
That should make for a chal­lengin'g day for the Haiders' young receiving corps, which seems to feature a new face in the primary role every week. 
Turner coached Bail for 

two seasons with the Hedskins. The coach said both Bailey and four-time Pro Bowler Charles Woodson of the Raiders are great athletes. but with differ­ent styles. 
They both .like their money, though. 
Woodson, the Haiders' fran­chise player in his seventh pro season. has said he wants to be the highest-paid cornerback in the league. 
He held out for four months hoping for a long-term con­tract, but finall si ned the 

NO UN· ANTED NOISES 
(lHArS WHAllKIH DORM WALLS ARE FOR) 
Dependable service. Simple plans. That's what we're for .. 
a..­

$20{,~2. fir.:t amonths, 
-..
SH.85 th•'*'ft•t,l 

Call and Text Plan 
• 1000 Anytim-6 r.tinu~ 
• Unlimit6d Call ral e r.1in utos 
• FREE lnooming Text r,tessagE~S 
• 250 Text r.1 ~t~~Qes a month FREE for 2 month$ 
Aska bout N19 hta & Weekenda 
starting at 7 p.m. 
*US.CeDular 
Umlted tme offw. 
1•818•1 UV•U see • OITU Se• eo II 

llrlll "*~····· ...:l,.n.h&l.llll•lllt(lollllllltll1 ..........................-..... et llr•••••••._,..,.,.rteA."h*a•••..l :~~a.,..._, II _..,,....,tll1DI'Ir•ll•lll•••••la!lld :ISI.lll*rllII •••.l'lftln,_.,,....• 
lloa,(lo,._...., .....,...llr,.lallaln•.>OIIII..,.:Mi:llleae,~llla•..., llrtMa.LII..,••11W.b•olll4 rill"'' a.,....., .....ll••••••rr'll
.... 

---~-~----------------­
Friday, October 15, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
LPGA 




Park holds a tw-o-stroke lead in Sainsung Chainpionship 

Her score was the lowest in tourney's 24-year history 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT. Calif. ­Grace Park capped an almost flawless round by rolling in a 25-foot birdie putt for a 10­under 62 Thursday that gave her a two-stroke lead after the first round of the Samsung World Championship. 
Park. looking frustrated moments earlier when her wedge shot missed the 18th grePn, beamed and waved to acknowledge the applause after her snaking, perfectly paced putt from the fringe dropped into the cup. 
Scores were low on the open­ing day of the tournament, with Park's the best in the tournament's 24-year history. The event is being played for the first time at Bighorn Golf 

Club, the 13th course used for the tournament. Sixteen of the 20 players in the field broke par. 
Catriona Matthew had a 64, while three-time champion Annika Sorenstam was tied at 66 with defending champion Sophie Gustafson. Lor,ena Ochoa and Cristie Kerr. 
Amateur Michelle Wie, who turned 15 on Monday, played with Sorenstam and shot a 74. She had a triple-bogey 8 on No. 12 when she hit into the desert shrubs along the fairway. 
Park was still beaming 20 minutes after she finished her round, which included one bogey, an eagle and nine birdies. 
''!' m extremely thrilled. It's my first time shooting 10 under, so I'm happy. Today was just an unbelievable day," said Park, who had a 61 earlier this year on a par-70 course in the tournament in Tucson, Ariz. 
Park won her first major title, the Kraft Nabisco, earlier 
this year in nearby Rancho Mirage. ''I'm a desert kind of girl, I guess," she said, laughing. 
She made an 18-foot birdie putt on No. 2. made two more birdies with a 15-footer on 4 and a 10-footer on 5 before three-putting the par-3 6th for the bogey. 
She had six more birdies and made a 2-foot eagle putt on No. 12. 
Then she finished the round off in style. 
"I had a horrible second shot [to the fringe on 18] and I was thinking I could two-putt. I would have been happy to fin­ish 9 under," Park said. "But I got a big bonus there." 
Wie lamented her bad drive on 12. 
"One swing. I was hitting the ball fine until that one shot," she said. 
Wie said she was trying to stay focused on her game, but that she also was watching Sorenstam. 


NFL 



Colts spend bye week trying to diversify offense 

Indy leads the AFC in yards and the NFL in points scored 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -By almost 
any measure the Indianapolis 
Colts have the AFC's most dan­
gerous offense. 
They lead the conference in 
yards and the NFL in points. 
They have the AFC's top-rated 
quarterback, the conference's 
No. 2 runner and three receivers ·ranked among the top 11 in receptions. Peyton Manning still believes they're improving. 
"We'd love to have no 
turnovers. but we want to kind of 
build on what we've started," 
said Manning, last year's co-MVP. 
Indianapolis ( 4-1) has spent 
the bye week refining some of 
the few kinks Manning has diag­
nosed before Jacksonville (3-2) 
visits next week in a game that 
could give the Colts a substantial 
edge in the AFC South race. The 
Colts already hold a one-game 
lead on Jacksonville and have 

beaten Tennessee and the 
Jaguars on the road. 

Five games into the season, the 
question is how much better can 
the offense can be? 

Edgerrin James has looked less 
like a man coming. bad from a""torn anterior "cfudaw"tigament and more like the runner who captured NFL rushing titles in 
1999 and 2000. 

Brandon Stokley and Reggie 
Wayne have become two of 
Manning's top targets. and 
although Marvin Harrison hasn't 
been getting as many balls 
thrown in his direction, he's still 
catching enough to top 90 recep­
tions at this pace. 

Stokley's 25 catches already 
are a career high and all three 
receivers are on pace to top 
1,000 yards. 

Around the locker room, 
nobody is complaining. · 

"As a whole, I think we're 
doing extremely well," Harrison 
said. ''I'm happy to be in the situ­
ation we're in." 

On the field, the Colts might be 
tougher than advertised. 

When opponents double-team 
Harrison, Manning has routinely 
hooked up with Wayne and 
Stokley for big plays. When defenses play man-to-man cover­age, Manning has been content handing off to James. 
The result is the Colts have scored no fewer than 24 points in a game. have topped the 30­point mark twice and 40 once. 
For coach Tony Dungy, who came to Indianapolis three years ago with a reputation for creat­ing stout defenses, this is the offense he's always envisioned. 
"We've been able to play all types of games and we're playing with patience," he said. "Even though we're playing with more patience, we're scoring more points. This is probably the best we've played [on offense] since I've been here." 
But there are a few areas Manning, a perfectionist, believes could use work. 
He entered the season with a goal of completing 70 percent of his passes. He's at 66.2 percent. The Colts have scored 15 touch­downs and two field goals on 20 trips inside the red zone, and Manning thinks they can become more proficient. 
The Colts have converted a conference-high 49.0 percent of third-down conversions. a num­ber Manning hopes to increase. 
And although nine of 16 AFC teams have committed more 
· turnovers than the Colts (six). Manning and the offense believe reducing that number will increase their overall output. "The key is not to say how many points or yards you have, the most important thing is how many times you turn the ball over." Harrison said. "I think that's the league's mind-set and that's Tony's philosophy." The warning for opponents is that the Colts are only getting started. Tight end Marcus Pollard has been slowed by a bruised left 
-
knee and tight end Dallas Clark has just two catches. Running back Dominic Rhodes has just started to emerge as another dangerous runner. and wide receiver Troy Walters hasn't played since breaking his right arm in the second preseason game. 


AP 
Indianapolis wide receiver. Brandon Stokley runs past Oakland defensive back Phillip Buchanon last Sunday. 
No cover ever with studet1tiU 

~t Sports Sar it1 South Set1d 204-6 South Set1d Ave ~ Across froift Martit1s Plaza 272~1766 
NU Football Headquarters -Ot1lit1e sports it1fo 

"G-reat Food, G-reat Futf Mon: Monday Night Football TUES: COLLEH NI~Hf ~ UJ 6-SPECIALS (SfAil.fiN& Af •t.OOJ Wed: TRIVIA Night -~ring your teams ~ Prizes THUU: UJ ~ fiUf THURSUAY EVEil.Y MONfH: JASSY 0.RAZZ Fri: live Entertainment fHURSUAY SPEACIALS Sat: NU games SfAil.f Af •2.001
Sun: Sports -14-screens 
DiscJ'I.'cr h~. Di.sc~vcr voursclf 

The JET Programme 
Sl"!)NS1ftED BY :TIE JA~·ANESl: GOV.ERN.\fir:-.!r 
EXPERIE....CE lik 111 h¢an •.>,ilil~ 1~(:])1~ Eiu;:li~ll Qi u"Oikin.,:. fuf ~ .kx:ll. J(o•~mo1. 
IJE'IEP'ITS: B,ii{.IO,OOD·~·r, ;:!IX·t'l'!t:; ro.~r~·lrif llirfilr>l!; heflllh n~anmt~; j!m-•mus o,oa.:;nlnn: T.t~;ninnu ll.hli"'(li lt::!i..,~. 
Qllb.J JUC-\Tl(INS; tiS. .;:ili..7::!).!;hip;. bl"!':h~ll)r'"' ~l..l:,l·,.,: i11 ;my n•~ti•Jr.· h ·'vly ! . 2(~:);1, •"'i.• ir41C"Ir.ii!J: t"-'­,....,,';m.c~ 41f llft"IM>JI"''W .(ljJR{Ym~ rl:'.flrtWM.1 
A~"I'LIIt.."AJ"IUI"!!'I: dn'l'tllniXI1l\."\CTI v.~w.uu~mh ~.,.,,_,~•.Jt• ,,. "''·.....rjiuH•""-I.~wd:k&l.li.-..mu 


lll!iUlUf\E: ("owutdt' al)lllinti~H. mnlt IH< r«~i.,.oo 011 or·IJtr.n;-~ twr h~2t1 
INFORM."~. TION :SESSION 

• S;ai!Lu·d~·. :.i<J\'. oil, ~5:(1t ~: J11.t:M lilforrn~.ion Co:n1t-r. 7J1 N. Mi.chi­_mn .,.,e., 'ir¢. Ilinn, ,-h~n,roll, II (...f.o·;f:•ll K~'lr"l'lo D<•u:.: m!icrns~·~n·,i·,o.'d_'lo;•:hi ,,.<11, c.­phrono:: t} 12) 2t)u~;o4-·:14 
Jf T t·.4Q~ wu"'..~' chil'.lf<"l.B,. emh-jn Nlli'P-l"'ji::.' ktt~q hnrt 





OUND THE NATION 

page 18 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc (41)  5·0  1,601  
2  Oklahoma (23)  5·0  1,582  
3  Miami  4·0  1,464  
4  Auburn  6·0  1,450  
5  Purdue  5·0  1,241  
6  Virginia  5·0  1,219  
1  Florida Stale  4·1  1,188  
8  California  3·1  1,094  
9  Texas  4·1  1,010  
10  Wisconsin  6·0  993  
11  Utah  5·0  979  
12  Georgia  4·1  963  
13  Tennessee  4·1  947  
14  Michigan  5·1  813  
15  Arizona Slate  5·0  631  
16  Oklahoma State  5·0  590  
17 18  West VIrginia Louisville  4·1 4·0  ~~· 54  
19  Minnesota  5·1  482  
20  LSU  4-2  450  
21  Boise Slate  5·0  413  
22  Florida  3·2  342  
23  TexasA&M  4·1  106  
24  Southern Miss  4·0  97  
25  Ohio State  3·2  90  

NCAA Football Coaches Poll 
team 
1 usc (45) 2 Oklahoma (15) 3 Mlaml(1) 4 Auburn 5 Purdue 6 VIrginia 7 Florida Stale 8 Georgia 9 California 10 Utab

I " 
11 Texas 

I 
I 
I 12 Wisconsin 13 Michigan 14 Tennessee 15 Oklahoma State I 16 West VIrginia I 
I 17 Louisville I 18 Boise State I 19 Arizona State 
20 Minnesota 21 LSU 22 Florida 23 Ohio Stale 24 Missouri 25 Soutbem Miss 
-· 
record points 
5·0 1,509 5·0 1,476 4·0 1,398 6·0 1,341 5·0 1,160 5·0 1,142 4·1 1,135 4·1 978 3·1 942 5·0 931 4·1 911 6·0 881 5·1 862, 4·1 1n 5·0 570 4·1 530 4·0 512 5·0 498 5;.o 486 
fH. 42t 
4~.5 
3~2 ·2gg··· .

···~ 
3·2 1Sl 
·. 4·l> 99 4-tl ···88 
·-·~:;-_:··~'"":":"~ 
Women's Volleyball.~:'top(1~:. 
~ . : ,. .· :. ·... ·.: ~:' ' 
team record points 
1 Washington (63) 13;.o 1,623 ' 2 Minnesota 16·2 1,496 3 Hawaii (2) 14·0 1,475 4 Nebraska 13·1 1,411 5 Penn State 14-1 1,324 6 usc 9·3 1,288 . 7 Colorado State 1,219
13-1 . 8 Ohio State 16·0 1;208 9 Texas 15·0 1,111 10 Florida 14-2 1,102 11 UCLA 11·4 923 12 Stanford 11·4 870 13 Ca!lfornla 8·6 761 14 St. Mary's (Calli.) 15·1 661 15 Santa Clara 11·3 634 

around the dial 
MLB 
Yankees at Red Sox 7:15p.m., FOX 

-
COLLEGE FOOTBALL TU at UAB 7 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF Chrysler Classic 3 p.m., USA 
BOWLING San Diego Classic 4 p.m., ESPN2 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Friday, October 15, 2004 
MLB 

AP Cardinals' Albert Pujols points to the dugout after breaking a 4-4 tie in the eighth inning of Game 2 last night. With the win, the Cardinals took a 2-0 series lead. 
Cardinals rain on Astros' early hit parade 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Rain or shine, the St. Louis Cardinals' big bats always seem to come through in the end. 
Albert Pujols led off the eighth inning with a tiebreaking home run, Scott Rolen followed with his second homer of the game and the Cardinals stormed back to beat Houston 6-4 on a miserable Thursday night for a 2-0 lead in the NL champi­onship series. 
The weather was awful all evening, with drizzle delaying the start for almost a half-hour and the rain lasting through the final pitch. By the time it was over, with tempera­tures falling into the mid· 40s, no one in the sellout crowd at Busch Stadium was complaining. 
Pujols and Rolen connect­ed for the first consecutive home runs in the Cardinals' long, proud postseason his· tory. Larry Walker also homered, enough to offset yet another shot by Carlos Beltran and a homer by Morgan Ensberg for the Astros. 
Now, the series shifts to Minute Maid Park for Game 3 on Saturday, with Roger Clemens set to start for Houston against Jeff Suppan. If the Rocket can pull the Astros close, then 20-game winner Roy Oswalt will have a chance 

to even it in Game 4. Still, the Cardinals hold a commanding edge. 
Of 61 clubs that have fall­en behind 0-2 in a best-of­seven postseason baseball series, only 12 have come back to win. 
Julian Tavarez got the victory in relief. Jason Isringhausen worked around two walks in the ninth, getting Ensberg on a long fly out to finish for his second save of the NLCS. 
Dan Miceli took the loss as the Astros' bullpen con­tinued to falter. He took over to begin the eighth and gave up home runs to the first two batters he faced. 
Rolen, nursing a strained left calf, was 0-for-14 in the postseason before hitting an RBI single in Game 1. 
He showed no ill effects in Game 2, as he, Rolen and Walker hit two-run homers that put St. Louis ahead 4-3 in the fifth. Rolen was the first batter Chad Harville faced after he relieved journeyman starter Pete Munro. 
Beltran's sixth homer of the postseason helped the Astros to a 3-0 lead off Matt Morris. 
Houston later made it 4­all in the seventh when Lance Berkman doubled. stole third and scored when Ensberg grounded a single past the drawn-in infield. The tying hit off Kiko Calero came against an especially odd backdrop. 

IN BRIEF Woods' yacht detained by
Coast Guard in Puerto Rico 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -Tiger Woods and his bride were briefly detained Thursday by U.S. Coast Guard officers on their yacht Privacy, then were turned away from San Juan's port because they had failed to notify authorities of their arrival. 
Since July 1. new security regula­tions require many boats to submit an arrival notice at least four days before entering a U.S. port, Coast Guard spokesman Lt. Eric Willis said. 
The 28-year-old golfer and Swedish model Elin Nordegren, 24, were mar­ried Oct. 5 at a luxury resort in Barbados and later set out on the Privacy, along with a crew. 
The yacht entered San Juan's port at about noon Thursday and a Coast Guard boat stopped it, Willis said. Five Coast Guard officers boarded the yacht and escorted it to port, he said. 
"They were not supposed to be here because they didn't notify us," Willis said. 
The captain said he decided to stop in San Juan only to refuel. Willis said. The Privacy was allowed to refuel as immigration authorities spoke with those aboard, including the newly­weds. Davenport regains topworld ranking 
MOSCOW -American Lindsay Davenport regained the No. 1 ranking for the first time since early 2002 by defeating Dinara Safina of Russia 6-4, 6-2 in the second round of the Kremlin Cup on Thursday. 
Davenport officially will overtake France's Amelie Mauresmo next week to move atop the WTA rankings for the fifth time. She trailed Mauresmo by just 15 points, 4,395 to 4,380, after winning the Porsche Grand Prix in Filderstadt, Germany, on Sunday. 
''I'm amazed that I was able to get back to No. 1 after a tough couple of years," said Davenport, who has struggled with assorted injuries since last being at the top on Jan. 13, 2002. She also had brief stays at No. 1 in 1998 1999 and 2000. PGA. rookie Dufner leads 

after one tound at Chrysler 
GREENSBORO, N.C.-Jason Dufner pointed to last week as evidence any­thing can happen on the PGA Tour. He hopes to prove it again. 
Mired in an awful rookie season, Dufner shot a 7-under 65 Thursday to match his best round of the year and take a one-shot lead after the first round of the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro. He has missed the cut in 15 of 26 tournaments, and with only two events left. he's 186th on the money list. 
Only the top 125 are guaranteed a spot for 2005. 
"It's been a tough year," he said. "I haven't played that bad for the year, but it's just not working out. I really need top fives or better to secure my card for next year." 

Friday, October 15, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOCCER 



Belles hope to extend their hotne win streak 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Writer 
Like most of the students heading out for fall break. the Belles couldn't be happier to be returning home. 
After an excruciating loss to Kalamazoo on Wednesday off a last-second penalty kick, the Belles will look to rebound Saturday when they take on Alma at home, where Saint Mary's holds a 5-0 record this year. 
"Alma is a strong team, so we'll be looking to bring our best game against them," sen­ior captain Jen Herdman said. "We're going to come out strong, and focus on playing as a team. It should be quite a game." 
The Belles tied Alma 1-1 in their first meeting this year, but will need to finish their opportunities against Kalamazoo if they wish to bring home a victory this time. "The loss to Kalamazoo was tough, and hard on the team; we're a very close team. thought, so we bounce back strong," Herdman said. "We're not going to let it get us down. We're just going to take it one gamP. at a time; we've put it behind us, and we're looking forward to the games we have left to play." 
Although the Belles were close the entire game, the Kalamazoo game still repre­sents an opportunity missed. 
"The loss to Kalamazoo was unfortunate," sophomore Ashley Hinton said. "We had our opportunities to put the ball in the back of the net, and we just weren't able to capital­ize on them." 

Wednesday's adds another chapter to the story of the Belles' woes on the road this year. 
"It was a tough game, and everyone played well, but the ball just didn't fall our way," Herdman said. "Don't get me wrong, Kalamazoo is a good team, but they got a great break to a get a penalty kick in the final 30 seconds. We played strong defense, and it was a 50-50 battle throughout the game, but luck just wasn't with us in the end." 
The Belles will look for a big advantage from the return to their home field. "We seem to be playing better on our home field, so we're really excited to play at home," Hinton said. "We still need to get our act together on the road as well, though." 
Despite the loss to Kalamazoo, which dropped the Belles down to third in the conference standings, Saint Mary's remains optimistic in its hopes for a MIAA title. 
"This conference isn't a typi­cal conference; no team domi­nates, and anything can hap­pen," Herdman said. "The great thing about soccer is, on any given day, any team can beat anyone. If we play the game we're capable of, we can definitely have a shot at con­ference." 
With the season winding down, the Belles will have to play their best soccer to win their conference. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy@nd.edu 
NFL 

'The Trade' leaves team.s optim.istic 

AP Chargers coach Marty Schottenhelmer gets his message across to defensive backs Quentin Jammer, right, and Jamar Retcher last Sunday. The Char.2'ers defeated the Jaguars 34-21. 
Chargers remain only one game offthe lead in the AFC West 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Three years after The Trade, neither team has any complaints. 
The Atlanta Falcons got Michael Vick, who quickly led them to the playoffs and became an icon for the NFL with his dazzling skills. 
The San Diego Chargers wound up with LaDainian Tomlinson and Drew Brees, along with Reche Caldwell and Tim Dwight. Not too shabby, either. 
"Let bygones be bygones," Vick said. "It worked out for both teams. They have a great running back and a good quar­terback in Drew Brees, who's playing real well right now. And I think the Falcons got what they wanted." 
On Sunday, the teams meet 
'!f..:a 

for the first time since their blockbuster trade. The Falcons (4-1) are trying to bounce back from their first loss of the sea­son, while San Diego (3-2) is just one game off the lead in the AFC West. 
Rest assured, someone involved in that 2001 deal will play a key role. 
''I'd say both teams pros­pered quite well from the trade," Chargers coach Marty Schottenheimer said. 
Atlanta set its sights on Vick after he put in two spectacular seasons at Virginia Tech, then entered the NFL draft. 
The Falcons were set to pick fifth. too far down to get one of the best college players to come along in years. So they called up the Chargers, who had the first overall selection, but were bogged down._trying to agree on a contract with Vick's agent. 
When the Falcons offered an attractive package of three picks and receiver-return spe­cialist Dwight, the Chargers accepted on the eve of the draft. 
The rest, as they say, is his­tory. 
Vick spent one season as a backup, then took over the starting job in 2002. He guided the Falcons to the playoffs, was voted to the Pro Bowl and set an NFL record for quarter­backs by rushing for 173 yards in a game. 
With the picks acquired from the Falcons, the Chargers got Tomlinson, Caldwell and cor­nerback Tay Cody. After pass­ing up Vick, they also used one of their own picks to take Brees, forever linking him to the trade. 
Cody started 11 games before he was cut last year. Everyone else acquired by the Chargers is sti!LG9n.tribu\ing, no one more than Tomlinson. 
He rushed for more than 1,200 yards as a rookie, then topped 1,600 yards each of the last two seasons. 
NBA 



Ming leads Rockets over Kings in 88-86 win in China 
Center had 14 points and seven rebounds 
Associated Press 
SIIANGIIAI. China -Yao Ming was the star in the NBA's first China game, scoring 14 points and grabbing seven n~bounds to lead the Houston Hockets past the Sacramento Kings 88-86 Thursday. 
There was a capacity crowd on hand at Shanghai's city gym­nasium to cheer the 7-foot-6 cnnter. whose return has domi­nated headlines in his home­town. The crowd chanted Yao's name repeatedly -even when he wasn't on the court. 
llowever. he missed his first two shots and was shaky defen­sively at the start. 

"I didn't play a great game. I was really nervous in the first half. It was almost like the feel­ing I had playing in my first NBA game," Yao said. "I felt suffocated and I just wanted to find an exit, but I just tried to focus on technical details and then things settled down." 
His first points came on a dunk 7 minutes into the game, and he brought the fans to their feet when he scored on an alley-oop pass from Tracy McGrady in the second quarter. 
Brad Miller led the Kings with 19 points, but the game was clearly a showcase for Yao. 
He was even tough on Liu Wei, his teammate on the Chinese Olympic team who. was invited to Kings camp in July. 
Liu made his Sacramento debut early in the second quar­
t 
! ! ! ! I 
! 
! j 
' ter, making a jumper moments after. But Yao fouled Liu with about two minutes left in the half, sending his former team­mate to the floor. When Liu looked for some help in getting up, Yao stood still, his hands on his hips. 
Still, he was gracious to Liu after the game. 
"He played very well and his performance was really up to his usual high standards," Yao said. 
Chris Webber scored 14 points for Sacramento, includ­ing a half-court buzzer beater that gave the Kings a 72-67 lead heading into the fourth quarter. 
McGrady had 12 points, seven rebounds and three assists for Houston. Still, Rockets coach Jeff Van Gundy is looking for more out of both McGrady and Yao. 
"I don't think either one played as well as they could have tonight," Van Gundy said. "But I think they'll have very good seasons, both individually and together." 
Sacramento led by as many as nine points in the final quarter before the Hockcts came back. With the crowd chanting "Yao Ming! Yao Ming!" Houston rlinrlwd tlw \\'in with two frnP thro\\'s by 'l~vronn !.uP. 



. I 

page 20 Friday, October 15, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish set to compete in invite 
After a two-week respite, golfers take the road for Lady Razorback invite 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish return to action Sunday after a two week break, playing in the Lady Razorback Invitational in Fayetteville, Arkansas. 
This event, hosted by the University of Arkansas, will run between Sunday and Tuesday. The Irish arc hoping this break will not affect the momentum they have accumulated in recent weeks. The team is coming off of two straight wins against strong competition, dominating at both the Shootout at Legends and the Jeannine McHaney InvitationaVCentral Hegional Preview. 
Despite the potential drawbacks that come with a break from com­petition, head coach Debby King welcomed the break. 
"I think it's good in one respect. because it gives [the team! a chance to take a little breather and catch up on some school work," she said. "It keeps you from getting burned out and keeps you hungry." 

The team will have to rely on that hunger for competition and good play to continue their streak, as they face another challenging field. The Irish will face three teams ranked ahead of them in the 18-team field -Michigan, Missouri and host Arkansas. 
However, because of recent suc­cess. the team's mindset going into events like this is beginning to ished the Shootout at Legends in an 8th place tie. 
Joining her will be sophomore Noriko Nakazaki and senior Karen Lotta. Nakazaki has been a staple in the Irish lineup, and Lotta has performed well for the Irish when she has competed. 
Rounding out the contingent will be junior Sarah Bassett and fresh­man Jane Lee. Lee has already made a considerable impact on the team in her rookie year, and 
change. 

''I'm getting a dif­ferent perspective as a coach," King said. "Normally, I would be happy with a top-5 finish, but t~ you look at the teams ranked ahead of us and we've beaten them already. We think we can go in and win again." 
Leading the effort for a third straight victory will be junior co-cap­
"Normally, I would be happy with a top-s finish, but then you look at the teams ranked ahead of us and we've beaten them already., 
Debby King Irish coach 
Bassett is competing in her first event after a strong week of qualifying. 
Over the break, the Irish spent lots of time on qualifying, in part to simulate competitive play. They have also worked extensively on the mental aspects of the game as a kind of insur­ance for the upcom­ing competition. 
"We've been prac­ticing with every 

tain Katie Brophy. Brophy has been a leader both on and off the course this year, and has per­formed exceptionally well in the last two weeks. After winning the Central Regional Preview, she fin-club, and trying to get everyone to practice like the way they play," King said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles face Adrian in season-defining game 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
SportS Writer 

The Belles upcoming match this Sunday. can either make or break their season. 
The Belles will travel to Michigan to take on confer­ence rival Adrian College who is currently 5-6 in the league. The Bulldogs are currently in fourth place in the MIAA, while the Belles stand in seventh with a 5-7 record. 
However, only one game separates fourth to seventh place in the division and with the season coming to an end, the Belles are hop­ing to take advantage. 
The Bulldogs defeated the Belles in their match-up earlier this season. Saint Mary's defeated Adrian in the first game, only to lose the following three consec­utive games. During the contest, Elise Rupright had one of her best games this year as she registered 14 kills on offense. Michelle Gary and Amanda David gave the Bulldog's offense headaches as both collected 17 digs apiece in the match. 
Rupright has consistently contributed to Saint Mary's this season. The senior cap­tain has totaled 101 kills on offense and is among the team leaders in attack per­centage. She has also played a valuable role on defense with 40 blocks. 
One positive factor for the Belles is Adrian's recent slump. Over the course of their last 10 games. the Bulldogs have only won three games and are 1-5 against conference oppo­nents. Fortunately for Saint Mary's, the Belles have improved since the first meeting by going 4-2 against MIAA teams. 
This game will be the fourth away game in a row for the Belles in the past two weeks. They have gone 1-2 in the first three games, but have played consistent­ly against strong opponents in the losses. 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 



Thompsons live their dreams at ITA Championships 
Twins became the first Irish team ever 
to reach the finals of a grand slam event 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sporrs Writer 
Make no mistake -sopho­mores Catrina and Christian Thompson are doers, not dream­ers. 
While doubles teams across the country aspire to compete in championship tournaments, the No. 7 Thompsons are living their dreams. 


The twins recently enjoyed their share of success at the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Women's All-American Championships last weekend. The duo was the first Irish team ever to reach the doubles fmal of a grand slam event. 
En route to the finals, the Thompsons upset the No. 6, No. 1 and No. 11 teams. Although they fell just short of a grand slam championship title, the twins secured a place in the National Intercollegiate Indoor Doubles Championships Nov. 4 and 5. 
"It was really dissapointing los­ing," Catrina Thompson said. "It bugged me all week. But we know we'll have another opportu­nity to win and prove ourselves." 
In the days leading up to the fmals, the pair proved that with a little confidence, there isn't any­

-
one they can't beat-including the country's top ranked team. 
University of Alabama's No. 6 Ashley Bentley and Robin Stephenson -who are ranked Nos. 49 and 16 in singles, respec­tively -were the frrst challenge for the Thompsons. After the twins trailed 4-3, Christian Thompson spearheaded the team's comeback, not missing a first serve in six attempts to even the score and jumpstart a scoring run. Bentley and Stephenson, who were undefeated this season, fell 8-4 to the twins. 

The next day, the Thompsons overpowered University of Arizona's No. 1 Dianne Hollands and Maja Mlakar in a tight 8-6 victory. After trailing 5-3, Hollands and Mlakar refused to surrender a win, tying the score at 6-6. However, their efforts proved to be futile as the Irish ral­lied and secured the victory as they broke Arizona's serve. 
Coach Jay Louderback attrib­utes the twins' complimentary playing style for their upset against Arizona. 
"Catrina has really improved her serve and hits the ball with a lot of speed and pace. She's becoming a weapon for the team," Louderback said. "And Christian has been a really con­sistent player. She's getting better at finishing off the point instead of keeping the ball in volley." 
Showcasing their strengths against University of New Mexico's No. 11 Maja Kovacek and Iva Gersic, the Thompsons collected their third win of the tournament 9-8 (7-5) in a closely contested match. 
"Every point was a great point," Louderback said. It was fun to see them play some of the top players in the country. They look forward to playing the best players they can." 
University of Florida's Whitney Benik and Lolita Frangulyan handed the Thompsons their only loss of the tournament in the finals 8-3. Christian Thompson 

Notre Dame Opera 


AUDITIONS 
Audition dates: October 29,2004 
3:00 pm to 5:30 pm 
SIGN UP IN CROWLEY HALL RM. 105 OR CONTACT JOHN RILEY-SCHOFIELD 631-5175 
Auditions will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, basement of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Please bring one prepared aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Opera performance dates are April 8-9,2005 
ALL ARE INVITED! ! 
said that the prestige of the title match -and the pressure that came with it -ultimately proved to be the twins' Achilles heel. 
"When you get nervous, you don't move your feet as well," Christian Thompson said. "A win would've been sweeter at the tournament, but that match helped us realize what we need to improve on." 
Catrina Thompson agreed. 

"It was just mentally frustrating because we had opportunities to get back into it, but we didn't cap­italize," Catrina Thompson said. "It was hard not winning because 
Rfver{Pl9'Jtt­
,-..h?& {!,fo

~/~,J/J coffeehouse ~~ & gift shoppe 
219 N. Front Street Niles, Michigan 269/684-2233 

www. N ilesRivetirontCafe.com 
Friday, Oct. 15th 
CD Release Party for 
Kennedy's Kitchen 

9 pm authentic Irish music, Irish dancers, Irish drink spe­cials and other Irish merriment! All ages welcome. 
Saturday, Oct. 16th 
Gypsey Faire Reggae 
Live from Chicago 

Jamaican Theme Night at the 
Cafe -Jamaican food and 
drink speicals. 
All ages welcome. 
they had all of the trophies out before the match. We really want­ed a gold one instead of silver." 
Despite the loss, Louderback praised the twins' performance, describing the tournament as a starting point for the season. 
"They will probably be ranked very high this season because of their play in the All-American tournament," Louderback said. "They will have to keep that high level of play because everyone will be out to beat them." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
-Accepting Reservations 
for Post-Game Dining -Light menu featuring 
gourmet soups, salads, 
& sandwiches -Featuring gourmet 
pizzas -Music is live on Fridays 
& Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time -Wine, microbrews, spe­cialty drinks & martinis, along with traditional cof­fee house drink menu items -Art Gallery 
Bring in this coupon and receive a free latte! 

-~---p-ag-e-: -l 

Friday, October 15, 2004 
============================================================================= 

Th, Ob''"'" + SPORTS -~---~---­
NO CROSS COUNTRY 


Irish com_pete in pre­NCAA cham_pionships 
Runners look to see how they compare to their competitors 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's nationally ranked men's and women's cross country teams will travel to the campus of Indiana State University to take part in the pre-NCAA championships this Saturday, Oct. 16. Several of the nation's top teams are look­ing to see where they stack up against each other at the site of the 2004 NCAA cham­pionship to be held Monday, Nov. 22. The sixth-ranked Irish women take to the course at 11:35 a.m., while the No. 9 men hit the path at 
12:50 p.m. This meet pro­vides a great opportunity for runners to earn at-large points, which are critical for qualifying for the NCAAs if they do not place as an auto­matic qualifier. 
The Teams 
On the women's side, 23 of the teams are ranked in the top-30 of the latest FinishLynx.com poll. includ­ing eight in the top-10. Joining Notre Dame in the top-10 are the No. 1 ranked Stanford Cardinal, Michigan (3), Colorado (4). Arizona State (7). North Carolina (8). Tennessee (9). and Missouri (10). Fellow BIG EAST mem­bers, Villanova (12) and Georgetown (28). will also take to the course alongside the Irish. 
The men's field features 24 

of the top-30 in the latest MONDO poll and as was the case with the women, eight of the top-10 will be on hand. Stanford (2). Iona (4). Michigan (5), Colorado (6). Georgetown (7), North Carolina State (8), and Butler 
(1 0) join the riinth-ranked Fighting Irish in what ought to be a highly competitive race. Villanova also cracked the ranks in the men's poll at 12th. 
The Lineups 

The Notre Dame women will be running at full­strength for the first time all season. Junior Molly Huddle (Elmira, N. Y./N otre Dame) headlines a group of runners that includes senior Lauren King (Toronto, Ontario/Lawrence Park Coli. Inst.). who is running her first race of the 2004 cam­paign. Huddle placed 10th at the 2003 pre-nationals and King collected a top-20 fin­ish, as she placed 19th. Senior Kerry Meagher (Allentown. Pa./Allentown Central Catholic) looks to repeat her success of a sea­son ago when she finished 12th overall for the Irish, who placed third out of 32 teams. Stephanie Madia (Wexford, Pa./North Allegheny). a winner earlier this year at the National Catholic Invitational, fresh­man Sunni Olding (Minster, Ohio/Minster). junior Jean Marinangeli (Arlington Heights, Ill./Buffalo Grove). and junior Elizabeth Webster (Dearborn, Mich./Divine Child) round out the runners for Notre Dame. 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
Notre Dame leads the pack of runners at a cross country meet earlier this season. 

Gold 
continued from page 24 
"RecSports told us that if we 
tied O'Neill, we'd get the 
fourth playoff spot," Griffin 
captain Yin Monaco said. 
Instead, the Griffins were 
informed after the game that 
their season is finished and 
the Morrissey Manorites will 
be playing the. Knights after 
fall break. 
As for the game itself, 
O'Neill opened the scoring 
with a 50-yard interception 
return for a touchdown, first 
points of any kind scored on 
Stanford since their first game 
of the season. 
The resulting two-point con­
version was controversial, 
however. 
"None of the refs signaled 
that they got it in," Monaco 
said. "Until halfway through 
the third quarter we thought 
it was 8-6 us. Then they told 
us it had counted." 
Stanford then mounted a 
long drive behind its suddenly 
powerful running game, 
which accounted for 101 
yards on the night. 
Part of the improvement in 
the running game was credit­
ed to fullback Eddie Medick, 
who started the season on the 
defensive line but was placed 
on the offensive side of the 
ball last week against 
Morrissey. 
The march was halted, how­
ever, by an interception at the 
Angry Mob six-yard line. 
The next play, O'Neill tried 
to run a reverse pass, but the 
play broke down and resulted 
in a safety. 
Stanford then proceeded to 
push the ball 50-yards in 10 
plays to tie the game. 
Once O'Neill regained pos­
session of the ball, their next 
drive moved quickly, aided by 
an unsportsmanlike conduct 
penalty against Stanford fan 
Trinidad Arredando. He threw 
a football onto the field and 
hit O'Neill quarterback Matt 
Hughie in the back. However, 
the Mob's hopes were dashed 
by another interception. 
After the half. both teams played conservatively, espe­cially Stanford, since the Griffins thought a tie was all they needed. A last ditch pass by O'Neill was completed but ·came up well short of the goal 
line. 
Dillon 6, Alumni 6 
After a bit­ter, hard­


case, we both wanted it really long to strike back, however. badly. Both teams gave 110 After recovering a fumbled percent," Alumni captain A.J. Alumni snap, Dillon moved Remen said. the ball deep into the red 
The Dawgs drew first blood 

in the game "Dillon has a really 
when Brent tough defense, Locey connect­
there is no denying
ed with Ryan 

that."
"King" McGet­tigan on a 57­yard bomb in A.J. Remen the first quar­

Alumni captain
ter, putting up the first points 
zone, eventually scoring on a 4­yard pass from Michael Johnson to Kenny Cushing. 
"The offensive line did a great job and Johnson had a lot of time to throw. Kenny found a hole in 
·-.
the Cover-2 that 

on a Dillon defense they were playing, and got that has been per­open, and Johnson made a 
fought  con­ "In this kind of  fect thus far this  
test, bragging rights have yet to be  game, the winning team is usually the  season. "Brent threw a perfect pass, and  
assigned  in  one who wants it  Ryan  just  got  
one of the biggest rival­ more.  behind their sec­ondary," Remen  
ries on cam­ said. "Dillon has a  
pus.  A.J. Remen  really  tough  
Meeting in the last regu­ Alumni captain  defense, there is no denying that. We  
lar  season  just ran a good play  

game of the year, Dillon (2-0-and beat them on that one." 
2) met Alumni (2-1-1) After a failed two-point con­Thursday night in a nail-biter, version attempt and a score­which ended in a 6-6 tie. less second quarter, the first 
"In this kind of game, the half ended with The Dawgs winning team is usually the leading, 6-0. one who wants it more. In this The Big Red wouldn't wait 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,0o'o Hardback and Paperback books in stock· 

• 
Out~of~Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesdax through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


good throw," Dillon captain  
Mike Roaldi said.  
The Big Red couldn't con­ 
nect on the two-point conver­ 
sion, leaving the game in a  
stalemate.  
Both teams have big hopes  "  
for the postseason, and look to  
make the necessary adjust­ 
ments to be successful.  
"I think our defense is really  
strong, but we're looking to  
work a few things out with  
our offense. We know we'll be  
playing some tough teams in  
the playoffs, and we want to  
make sure we're ready,"  
Remen said.  
Roaldi also felt that his team  
has a few things to work on,  
but feels good about its per­ 
formance tonight.  
"We've got to tighten up a little, and get really fired up  - 
for the playoffs," he said. "We  
showed a lot of heart and  
resiliency coming from behind  
tonight, and overall, I liked  
what I saw from the team  
tonight."  
Contact Chris Khorey at  
ckhorey@nd.edu and Brad  
Wallace at bwa1lace@nd.edu  

-------------------------------------------~-------------­

_ _..____ 

-------------------~-------------~--~ -~ -~-~ 
page 22 Friday, October 15, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 



TIM SULLIVANrfhe Observer 
Junior forward Tony Megna dribbles the ball down the field In a game against Pittsburgh last week. 

Challenge 
continued from page 24 
to look only at the next game on the schedule, the Irish fall break road trip is a tradition in the pro­gram. 
"This is typical fall break proce­dure for us," Sawyer said. "We know coming up to fall break we're going to be on a week-long road trip, playing three games, that's how it is every single year." 
However, a week away from campus isn't the chore that some might think. 

"They schedule it like that so we don't have to miss classes when we don't need to," Sawyer said. "But I think all the guys like beihgon the road together. If we're going to be off for fall break, we may as well be togeth­er on the road." 
The attitude of teamwork should help the Irish as they face the tough stretch of scheduling. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
BC 
continued from page 24 
East tournament" coach Randy Waldrum said. "They are a very athletic team and are going to match up to us very well." 
Despite the similarities between the teams, the Irish have some­thing that no other Big East team has earned -a freshman player receiving offensive or defensive honors for the Big East players of the week. 
Amanda Cinialli achieved this 
honor this week for the Irish. 
"Cinalli has been playing really well. She has gotten some great goals the past two games," Schefter said. "She has played so well for a freshman and stepped up and been rewarded with great goals and the league has noticed that and given her an honor that she deserves." 
Waldrum said Cinalli has played great soccer since she joined the team this season. 
"I've been really happy with her since day one. She has looked and played like a veteran since she's been here," Waldrum said. 
Last Sunday, Cinalli scored a clutch goal for the team to tie the score 1-1 against Georgetown last in the first half before going on to win the contest 2-1. 

During the fall break, the Irish also face challenges against two other conference rivals. Waldrum is slightly disappointed that the games are scheduled during the break. 
"They are going to be huge for us. I wish they fell on weeks our students were back on campus because they are big games for us," Waldrum said. 
On Oct. 22, the Irish will be competing against Rutgers, cur­rently 9-7. 
"This game be key for us," Waldrum said. "It is going to be huge." 
The players are just as aware ofthe importance of this contest. 

"They've had great players in the past and we are definitely going to be ready for them," Schefter said. 
The Irish will close out the break on Oct. 24 against Seton Hall (6-5-2). Although its record is barley over .500, the team is not looking past any Big East rival. 
"Seton Hall [is] going to throw everything they can at us. We played a close game last year," Schefter-said. "If we aren't on top of our game, each team will play their best." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo jtapetil@nd.edu 

finish sixth in the 2003-04 preseason poll and ending the
Hockey 

season in second place overall continued from page 24 just behind conference regular 
season champion Michigan. schedule that put us where we A big part of that success wanted to go last year," Irish was the play of three seniors coach Dave Poulin said. -Derek Edwardson, Mike "Obviously you'd like to ease Kompon and Greg Hogeboom. into it a little bit, All three ranked since we'll be ~in the top five in playing our first the CCHA in scor­
"Obviously we've 

five games ing, with
still got a lot we

against ranked Edwardson win­teams. still have to work ning the CCHA "It's also a on, but we've been Player of the Year great gauge, and award as a result
practicing a lot

last week I of his league-lead­
thought we and we'll be better ing 48 points. showed some­this weekend., All three seniors thing against are gone from this _ Duluth year's RedHawks
Dave Poulin

Obviously we've team, but they got a lot we still coach don't appear to 
have to work on. but we've been practicing a lot and we'll be better this weekend." 
Notre Dame was 0-2 at the Goggin Ice Arena in Oxford, Ohio, last year -losing its two games by scores of 5-2 and 2-0. The Irish stunned a capacity crowd in Chestnut Hill, Mass., defeating the then­No. 1 Golden Eagles in their home opener by a score of 1-0 after freshman goalie David Brown pitched a shutout. 
But memories of last season are erased from Notre Dame's mind. now.

• 
One factor that has loomed large so far for the Irish this season is the lack of produc­tion on the power play. That could prove to be a problem heading to Miami, where the Hedllawks are 2-0 on the young season. 
More notably. they have also yet to allow a power play goal by an opponent. 
"I look at our power play in the fact that we lost five tremendous seniors who all played a great deal of time on the power play last season," Poulin said. "We have to figure out what components fit

-
where. 
"We worked on it three days this week at practice, and I've never spent that much time on special teams since I've been a coach." 
The RedHawks were one of the surprise teams in the CCHA last season, picked to 

have missed a 
beat. Miami won the Lefty McFadden Invitational Tournament in Dayton, Ohio, knocking off Boston University 5-1 Friday and then defeating Northeastern 6-2 Saturday. 
The RedHawks and Irish are two of the youngest teams in the CCHA this season -Miami and Notre Dame each have just three seniors on its roster. 
"They're a team that's very similar to ours," Poulin said. "They lost five very very good seniors so th.ey're a team that really has to just get out there and skate. I'm hoping that both teams can just skate through the penalty situations this weekend and we can have a great series." 
Yet for the Irish so far the top player has been one of those three seniors. Goalie Morgan Cey started Notre Dame's 2-2 tie against Minnesota-Duluth Friday, making 38 saves on the way to be naming the Perani No. 1 Star of the Game. He is expected to start the first game against the RedHawks, as well. 
The senior has a 4-4-0 career average against Miami, with two shutouts. 
"[Cey] may have had as good a week [at practice] as any goalie I've ever coached here had," Poulin said. "He's been tremendous this week. He's stronger physically, really sharp mentally and just looks to be in tremendous control." 
After dealing with the RedHawks, the Irish return home to the Joyce Center to face Boston College in a one­game series for the John A. "Snooks" Kelly-Charles "Lefty" Smith Trophy. Notre Dame currently is the owner of that trophy, after their 1-0 'win last season, and they'd certainly like to continue owning it. 
Notes: 
Irish senior forward Brad Wanchaluk will no longer play for the Irish, Poulin said Thursday. 
"Brad is no longer with the team," he said. "It was my decision." 
Poulin declined further com­ment. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

CHUY BENITEZrfhe Observer Junior left wing Mike Walsh evades a Minnesota-Duluth defend­er during a game last week. 

Drunk Molly's doing the Irish and you can't stop her! Happy 21st! 

Love: Austin, Christy, Lauren, Kim, Casey, Sally, Christina, Katie H., et al 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 15, 2004 
Notre Dame needs to dominate 
Players and coaches ean earn a victory and still only hear "good, you should have." 
Notre Dame is in the dnad cent1~r of a thn~e-gamn stint against 

Stanford, 
Vanderbilt and Air Force. Navy and The bottom line is Notre Boston Dame should beat Navy. It College, should p,xpect to beat Navy. and Irish And unlike last season, the fans expect Irish should not be in a posi­their team tion where fans are rejoieing not only to at beating Navy. win all Pat Leonard "They're supposed to win," 
three con­
tests, but to Associate 
win con­.'>ports Editor vindngly. Notre Dame came out flat Saturday against the Cardinal at home but won the game anyway. A win is a win, as they say. But even Stanford's near-upsd of No. I Southern Cal does not give the Irish an excuse to be losing 6-3 at halftime. And now Notre Dame trav­els to face Navy, and a win is not just a win against Navy. A win is expected, and it should be expected. A win is the 41st straight victory over a team with less talent that plays lesser teams on the rest of its scheduln. "(;ames (we are expected to win( don't have anything to do with this game," coach Tyrone Willingham said. "We're going to play a Navy team that is a very goud football team. It's an untlefeated football team. Thny'vo earned the right to be 

where they are." 
Navy has earned the right to be undefeatP.d at 5-0. but the Midshipmen have earned that right against Duke, Northeastern, Tulsa, 
Navy coach Paul .Johnson said. "I don't know if we have anybody on our team that Notre Dame sent a lettnr to." 
As odd as it may seem, this is the game Notre Dame can regain some swagger and delivffl"'"lts own message: that Willingham's team will not let Navy even snifT victory. Notre Dame ean prove last ning attack, how Air Force was an unstoppable force on the ground. 
The Notre Dame defense received less recognition, though the Irish wen~ also an undefeated 6-0. 
And did those ESPN studios get quiet quickly. 
The seventh-ranked Notre Dame run defense held Air Foree to 1 04 yards rushing, '2.35 yards bnlow its average, in a 21-14 victory. The Irish ran for 335 yards of their own on 56 carries. The game was not a blowout, but Notre Dame provnd to itself and to the country -as it had the past six games-that Air Forcn was on a lower playing field. 
Notre Dame established superiority. And that is exactly the opportunity the Irish have 
Saturday at the 
Meadowlands. 

season's '2.7­ The bottom line is  . And they can­ 
24 nail biter -ended with a game­winning field goal by ILl.  Notre Dame should beat Navy. It should expect to beat Navy.  not do it by cred­iting their oppo­nent week after week and mak­ing dose games  
Fitzpatrick- sound justified.  

and the unimpressive 30-23 "I look at it as another chal­victory in 2002, were not the lenge, another outstanding best the Irish could do. football team we have to 
Think back two seasons. play," Willingham said. "If we 
Air Force was undefeated at don't play our best, we won't 6-0, averaging 339 yards win." rushing per game behind The Irish have to remember q uarterbaek Chanee llarridge. who they are, whom they are Analysts, partieularly on playing, and ultimately, what ESPN, ranted during the pre­they want out of this season. game about the Faleons' run-"Our ultimate goal isn't about keeping the 40-year 
streak alive," offensive line­
man Dan Stevenson said. 
"We're setting out to beat 
Navy and to focus on our task 
at hand, which is to go toa 
great bowl game." 
Major bowl games go to the 
best teams. With a dominant, possibly blowout win in New _Jersey, Notre Dame can inch closer to proving it is not just another 4-2 -and then 5-2 
-team. 
Navy's option offense is 
sixth in the country averaging 
267.4 rush yards per game . Notre Dame's mn defense is eighth in the nation, giving up 
86.8 yards per game. One of those averages has to budge come Saturday. 
Johnson said last season Notre Dame has parade All­Americans, Navy has guys that march in parades. The Irish must take their parade All-Americans, take their pride, take a swagger into stopping the run and trounce Navy until the message is delivered. 
That way, in the fourth quarter, Fitzpatrick will not even need to put his pads on. Because if Notre Dame plays like it should, Notre Dame won't need a hero. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu . 
gan1e hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
'1 hate playing Navy ... 1heir style ofplay is going to make it a defensive game." 

Kyle Budlnscak Irish defensive end 
'We will have somefans. We've had good support. Notre Dame will be the home team. 7hey usual(lf are. " "There can be no missing this one. It really demands that our coaches do a great job this week." 

Justin Tuck Irish defensive end 
'VWzen we had won ... we realized there was no excuse ... {and/ we were lucky to come · away with the win /against Stanford]" 



52750 IN 933 326 N. Ironwood 
Friday, October 15, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Only one option 
Irish must stop Navy's running game to have success against the Midshipmen 
what they do." six points for the Midshipmen. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Last year, when the Irish "They have to have all their 
Associate Sports Editor snuck by with a 27-24 win at responsibilities covered," Irish 
Notre Dame Stadium, Baer's head coach Tyrone Willingham 
Irish defensive end Justin defense knew exactly what the said. "That is very difficult for Tuck hates playing Navy, and Midshipmen were going to do modern-day defenses simply he'll tell you himself. -run and run often. because modern-day defenses 
"I hate playing Navy, not · Navy rushed 53 times in that like to gamble. because of the fac,:t that they game while throwing just five "That's where you have to be don't throw the ball," the sen­passes. The Midshipmen are careful. You have to build into ior said. "It's just the fact that an option team in every sense your system the ability to gam­their style of play is going to of the word, and they run their ble and be correct in your make it a defensive game. offense well. gamble. But yet at the same After this football game there So· far this season, the time not give our guys so much is going to be a lot of people Midshipmen are ranked sixth that they're thinking and can't banged up and bruised and in the country in rushing m(')ve and can't get lined up things like that. offense with an average of and can't figure things out. 
"Whenever you play an 267.4 yards per game. They That is very difficult." option team and they cut average 56.2 rushes per game The Irish have at least one [block] as much as they do, and only 9.4 passes per game advantage against the Navy you're going to -the fewest in run. Notre Dame's starters at come out of NCAA Division linebacker -Derek Curry, that game I. Brandon Hoyte and Mike
"You have to be solid 

worn out." Yet those 9.4 Goolsby -all are seniors who 
on the back end and

College passes per have seen Navy's option before coaches across defend the run, that's game have been and understand the impor­the country enough this tance in being sound against
no secret. Just make 

continually year to keep the run. 
sure you don't give 

harp about opposing "Discipline is the first key avoiding being up a big play in the defenses hon­and the biggest key in this a one-dimen­est, and Navy game, and the whole outcome
back row." 

sional attack. has a good of this game is determined on but that's enough quarter­how disciplined you are espe­
Kent Baer

exactly what back to make cially from a defensive stand­Navy is with its Irish defensive coordinator over-aggressive point," Curry said. "Everything option-based defenses pay. they do, all the misdirection offense. "If you under­they do you have to stay disci­
And they are 5-0 using it this stand that offense, they pass plined and you have to stay season. the ball off the option look," focused on what you have to 
"They are pretty one-dimen­Baer said. "They get somebody do. sional," Irish defensive coordi­running free, and that's where "It's really funny because as nator Kent Baer said. "You the efficiency comes up. This much as football is a team have to be solid on the back quarterback is a pretty good game this is the most individu­end and defend the run. that's thrower. A lot of times you see alized game that we are going no secret. Just make sure you option teams not throw the to play in that every person don't give up a big play in the ball very wflll because they may be doing a different thing, back row." don't have a quarterback but in order to execute the 
throw it well. defense properly and to win, A different kind of running "The same guy [senior Aaron everybody is going to have to game Polanco] played against us two do their own thing." 
One big reason for Notre years ago, the starter got hurt And if the linebackers fail, Dame's success so far this year and he came in to play, and he Notre Dame's secondary will has been its ability to stop the was pretty good throwing the have to be there to make the run. The Irish are currently football. They are much touchdown-saving tackles. 12th in the nation in rushing improved in that area." "It's really important to be defense, allowing just 86.8 disciplined in any game," Irish yards per game. Staying disciplined safety Tom Zbikowski said. 
But Irish coaches aren't get­One characteristic of Notre "But against this kind of ting overly confident that their Dame's defense this season offense you've especially got to previous track record will stop has been its opportunistic play be disciplined and make the the Navy running game in its while making a few gambles to tackle. tracks Saturday. create turnovers -15 take­"We've got to go out there 
"It's not the same," Baer aways through six games. But and play hard. It's Navy, a said. "It's so different. It's hard for the Irish defense Saturday, service academy, and you to explain. They are so good at a bad gamble could result in know that they're going to be 

CLAIRE KELLEYfThe ObseJVer Victor Abiamiri and the Notre Dame defensive line get a push against the Michigan offensive line earlier this season. The Irish held the Wolverines to 56 yards rushing on 30 carries. 

out there playing hard so we've got to match that inten­sity." 
Stopping the big play 
That discipline will be key for the Irish Saturday at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, 
N.J. The Midshipmen are cer­tainly capable of throwing the ball. having scored two pass­ing touchdowns of 40 yards or more already this season. 
But Navy is known for its running game. Being poised and under control will be a big factor in preventing the Midshipmen from getting free for big runs. 
So far in 2004, Navy has scored three rushing touch­downs of 20 yards or more ­and a big play in the dose Navy-Notre Dame game last year was a 65-yard touchdown run by Navy's Eric Rolfe after an Irish breakdown on defense. 

Early in the 2004 season, the Irish showed a susceptibility to giving up big plays. They will have to prevent those plays Saturday if they want a chance to win. 
"I just think you have to be sharper in what you do," Tuck said. "It takes away more of the risk that you'll take than against other teams. But in this game we know that we have to play our assignments. 
"We know that if you miss an assignment on any given play they can bust you for a long run. So we just have to be focused and geared in to play­ing them." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
by the numbers 
Number of consecutive Notre Dame wins against Navy, a streak that stands as the longest winning streak of one 
40
team over another in NCAA history 

714 
Cumulative winning percentage of teams on Notre Dame's 2004 schedule, the highest opponent winning percentage in • the nation 
Number of Notre Dame wins in 11 all-time games played at the 
11 

Meadowlands, including six matchups with Navy at the NFL venue 
Number of Brady Quinn's pass attempts in six games
193 

Number of pass attempts of Navy's leading passer, quarterback 
4 7 
Aaron Polanco 

2 6 8 • 6 Number of rushing yards Navy averages per game 
Number of yards the Notre Dame defense gives up per game 
86.8 

0 
Number of ranked teams Navy has played to begin its season with a perfect 5-D start. The Midshipmen have beaten Duke, Northeastern, Tulsa, Vanderbilt and Air Force 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 15, 2004 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEADT
Record: 4-2 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Tyrone Willingham third season at Notre Dame career record: 
63-48-1 
at Notre Dame: 19-12 against
Tyrone Willingham Navy: 2-0
head coach 
Roster 
No. Name I jared Clark 2 Frt.·ddil• Parrish 3 Darius Walker 
4 Rhan Grant 
5 R ema McKnight 6 Carlos Campbell 7 Carlyl<• Holiday 
8 Marty M<K>ney 8 Qwmtin Burrell 9 Tom Zbikowski 9 Pat Dillingham 
10 Rrady Quinn II Marcus Wilson 12 josh Schmidt 13 David Wolke 15 Prt•!'iton Jackson 
Pos. Ht. Wt. YR TE 6-4 250 SR DB 6-1 202 so RR 5-11 200 FR RB 6-1 218 SR WR 6-1 215 JR CB 5-11 195 SR 
WR/QB 6-3 215 SR QB 6-2 210 JR FS 6-0 195 SR DB 5-11 203 so QB 6-2 205 SR QB 6-4 224 so RB 5-11 202 SR FR 6-1 232 SR QB 6-4 205 FR CB 5-9 \80 SR 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 
2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 at BYU-L Sept. 11 MICHIGAN-W Sept. 18 at Michigan St. -W 
Sept. 25 Oct.2 Oct.9 Oct. 16 Oct. 23 Nov.6 Nov. 13 Nov. 27 
WASHINGT()N -W PURDUE-L STANFORD-W ofNAVY BOSTON COLLEGE at Tennessee PITTSBURGH at USC 

16 Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 243 SR 16 Stan Revell<• QB 5-11 195 SR 17 Geoffrt.•y Price r 6-3 190 SR 17 ).). Warn•n QB 6-1 184 so 18 QB 6-2 185 FR 18 ~~hrZ..~~;:~dukwt· DB 6-2 223 so 19 D.). Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 200 SR 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 227 JR 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 186 so 23 Chast• Anastasio WR 6-\ 202 so 24 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 185 SR 25 Natt• Schkcatano FB 6-2 242 JR 26 Wad<· lams DB 5-8 170 FR 26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 212 so 27 Lionel Bolen DB 6-0 210 SR 27 john lbons RB 6-1 192 so 28 Tn-gg )ucrson DB 5-10 170 FR 28 Cole l.aux FB 5-10 240 SR 30 Mik<• Richardson DB 5-11 190 JR 31 jak<•Camcy FS 6-0 192 JR 31 A.). Cedeno DB 6-0 191 so 32 Jeff jenkins RB 6-0 216 JR 33 Justin lloskins RB 6-0 195 FR 34 lt·rrail Lambert DB 5-10 190 FR 37 Jumor J,lbbit.• UB 5-11 190 I'R 37 Matt Mitchell CB 5-9 190 JR 3H l.t.•o Ft.•rrim• DB 6-0 180 FR 39 Rrandon lloyte LB 5-11 231 SR 40 Mr1urire Crum, Jr. LB 6-1 215 FR 41 Mikt.• (;uulsby LB 1\-4 242 SR 42 Anthtmy Vt•ma~lia Ul 6-4 220 Ff{ 43 Anthony Salva or LB 6-2 232 JR 
44 justin Tuck DE 6-5 261 SR 
c 
45 ('arl Gioia K/P 5-10 185 so 45 Rich Whitney DB 6-3 205 JR 
LLI 
46 l.ll 6-1 243 SR
CorL·~M~"i 
a:
47 Mite l'li omas LB 6-3 230 so 4H )l>romt.• Collin!-. TE 6-4 258 SR 
1­
0
49 il<•n•k Curry LB 1\-3 235 SR 
50 I>an Santucci 01. 1\-4 292 JR 
z
51 j,lmil' Ryan 01. 6-5 310 JR 52 Jm• Brockington l.ll 6-1 225 so 53 llan llick<•y 01. 6-3 224 )R 53 Jo><•ph Boland l.B 6-3 224 JR 54 n,lVid Fit~nt.·rald 01. 6-4 2H5 JR 55 L..1chary t.1 ("S c 6-3 281 SR '\6 Nick Borst'ti l.B 6-4 2.1H so 5H Ahd,•l Banda LB 6-2 215 FR 59 jarm•sllmt 01. 6-1 271 JR 59 D,m Chl•rvanick CJT/NG 6-2 265 JR 60 C'a:-~cy Culll'n LB n-2 212 so 61 J.J. J.msen LS 6-3 215 FR 62 Scott R.uidon or 6-6 310 )R 64 Cdst'Y Dunn ()[. 6-4 256 SR 65 Tim Critzman DE 6-3 210 FR 66 IJt>rt•k Landri NG 6-2 278 JR 67 John K.tdou~ OL 6-7 310 I'R 6H Ry.m /larris 01. 6-5 289 so 69 Darin Mitchell oc 6-3 290 SR 70 ( ·haunct•y lncamato 01. 6-6 280 FR 71 f,tmt·~ Bonl'lli 01. 1\-4 290 JR 72 OL 6-4 285 SR 

73 ~~~r~~~n~~lll or 6-7 310 SR 
74 I)an Stt:'vt•nson lX; 6-5 293 SR 75 Chris Fromt• DE 6-5 271 JR 76 Bob Morton cx;;c 6-4 300 )R 77 Crc~ l'.ruly DT 6-6 295 SR 78 John Sullivan c 6-3 295 so 79 Rricm Mattes OL 6-5 292 JR HO Chris Vaughn WR 6-4 205 FR HI Brandon Harris WR 6-1 190 JR 82 Matt Shelton WR 1\-0 175 SR 83 jl'ff Samardzija WR 6-5 215 so 1!4 Mike O'Hara WR 5-9 175 JR 1!4 Rob Woods WR 6-2 205 JR 85 Billy !'alm<•r TE 6-3 256 SR 87 Marcus Frct•man TE 6-2 248 JR 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 256 JR 89 John Carlson TE 6-5 248 so 90 Brian B<•idatsch [)[. 6-2 295 SR ~I Craig Cardillo K 6-0 169 JR 92 Kyle lludinscak DE 6-4 275 SR 93 Brandon Nicolas DL 6-5 275 FR 94 justin Bn.lwn DL/1.8 6-4 225 FR 95 Victor Abiamiri DE 6-5 269 so 96 Bobby Renh>s K/P 6-0 190 so 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 275 JR 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-0 285 so 99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 245 FR 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RusHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
:E 
<C 

Willingham and the Irish coaches seemed to have the team ready for Purdue, but the players did not execute. Against Stanford, Notre Dame looked flat in the first half. The option is  Quinn had an average game last week. lie did not see a ton of open receivers. But Quinn did not throw any intercep­tions, and he made the plays necessary for Notre  Notre Dame ran the ball 51 times last weekend against Stanford for 149 yards. The return of Grant and the consistent play of Walker have helped, but the Irish  Notre Dame's receivers got optm against Stanf(Jrd, even when Quinn did not see them. Depth at the recPivnr position with the return of Stovall from an injured foot. has obvious  
a diflicult offense to pre­parn for, but Willingham, Baor and the defense have done it before.  Dame to win. Quinn has thrown just five intercep­tions all season, making fewer mental mistakes. rushing with 464 yards. Teammates elected Polanco the captain at the beginning of the sea­without any inter­or coaxing from  only average 115 yards on the ground per game, The offensive line has struggled here.  effects on opposing sec­ondaries. The Irish tight ends have beeome a huge part of the ommse.  
Paul Johnson has a great deal of respect for Notre Dame but also a great deal of pride in the Navy program. Ile had the Midshipmen ready to son play both times he faced ference  Polanco leads Navy in Navy has given up an aver­The Midshipmen allow age of 143 rushing yards 179 passing yards per per game to mediocre, game. Thn highest output unranked teams. The in the air against Navy's Midshipmen do not have a defensn was 233 yards by strong run defense, giving Air Force. Opponents up a season-high 182 have seored five total  
Willingham in 2002 and 2003. Johnson's team is 5-0 and anxious to make it six in a row Saturday.  yards to Air Foree two passing touchdowns in weeks ago. Duke averaged five games against the 4.5 yqrds per carry earlier Midshipmen, though none the responsibility. in the season against Navy. of the teams were ranked.  
Willingham has beaten Navy the oryy two times he's fac1~~ t~i :s career, Qtl~ Na~g ~  coaches. In the option offense, the quarterback shoulders the brunt of Quinn has thrown for 1,529 yards in six games.  Notre Dame is 4-0 this season when it runs for over 100 yards. If the Irish win the battle of  If all goes well for Notre Dame, it will not have to throw the ball too often Saturday. But  
in h~\1, · ·' .t'-fl .. . · ' ~:.~.1~~~~ re' 0 wr~ingth · e · s "(j'ff the  Polanco has thrown for 563 yards in five games. The quarter ks' ptay ip. l~teJY f~ · es;J)ut aJrc 0 eir team s respective  stoppiQg the oppoi)ents' tun an:d ,$ u 6Med\p g in :tb,Q,ir. own rub.niug game, a win is almost guaran­ the option of the tight end~ has opened ;,the field for the Irish, who average 259.5 yards passing per game and  
coa .hes first. He and his siafl· must answer the call.  success. Quinn has played against better competition thusfar.  teed. This half of the bat­tle will be won, or lost, by the offensive line.  will look ,io go up early with big pass plays.  

True, Navy is 5-0. They've also played a sched­after 15 days of rest. The Midshipmen's cup-, 
Navy will come out too jacked up for this game 
ule that rivals an interhall football team in cake schedule catches up with them. 
terms of difficulty. The Midshipmen will definite­
Irish 

ly bring their best game, but Notre Dame is t.oo his third attempt, and the streak reaches 41 
Willingham gets a convincing win over Navy in 
good and too big and too everything to lose this years. 
game. Thn Irish keep the streak alive for anotll­
experts er year with a comfortable win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35,FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31,

Matt Lozar Joe Hettler Navy 17Navy 13
Editor in Chief AME 
Friday, October 15, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
OHEAD 
Navy Midshipmen 

NAVY 2004 Schedule 
MIDSHIPMEN RUSHING 
Notre Dame's rush defense is ranked No, 12 in the country, surren­dering just 86.8 yards per game on the ground. The defensive line and linebackers held Stan­ford to 67 yards on 25 carries, and the second­ary is ready to tackle the Navy option attack.  
This is what Navy does. Navy runs the football. The Midshipmen have run the ball 281 times this season. They have thrown the ball 4 7 times. The unconven­tional wing-T offense and the option create at least some problems for all defenses that face it.  

If Notre Dame wins this battle, it wins the game. But the Navy running game is No. 6 in the nation, !\,nd th~ Midsljipffie Yf not lo~ yet ;nsing cbaracteris~jc...... opt attack. Polanco and full­back Eckel lead Navy against an equally threat­ening Notre Dame defenSe. 

MIDSHIPMEN PASSING 
The Irish secondary has struggled, particularly against Orton and Purdue. The 'bend­don't-break' philosophy has given opponents loads of yards but few touchdowns. The pass defense must contain option passes and trick plays against Navy. 
Polanco has the talent and ability to throw the ball downfield and make opposing defenses pay for sneaking up against the run. He has thrown three interceptions in 4 7 attempts thus far this sea­son. The leading Navy receiver is Tomlinson, with eight catches for 173 yards. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Fitzpatrick averages 41 yards per punt. He has made 5-of-7 field goals. In short, the kicking game has improved for the Irish. Coaches have changed personnel on kick coverages to prevent big returns. Anastasio and Hoskins lurk as danger­ous threats on returns.  
Navy averages a paltry 35.3 yards per punt and has made 1-of-5 field goals so far this season. The Midshipmen return kicks for an average of 21.5 yards and punts for 5.2 yards. Navy's special teams are not game changing and shouldn't be again Saturday.  

The Irish special could, giVI'l them tum "early by play§_against age~Navy s unit. Ana"~"''"v Hos.kins Will 
kickoff ·· 
INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame will have more of a home crowd with alumni buying tickets to see the Irish at the Meadowlands. But the Irish are not playing well and are carrying a 40-game winning streak against a hostile and undefeat­ed Navy football team. 
Navy is 5-0 and probably tired of hearing about los­ing 40 straight to Notre Dame. The Midshipmen have played four average teams at best and aD I-AA program in Northeastern, so the Midshipmen are eager to prove what they can do against a national program like Notre Dame. 
r 
at a neu­is better than play­the road. 
z 
0 
-f
:::c 
IT1 
c 
)> 
s: 
IT1 
z 
~ 
-< 

Navy 

Midshipmen Record: 5-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Paul Johnson third season at Navy career record: 72-25 at Navy: 10-15 


against Notre Paul Johnson Dame: 0-2 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.,  Wt.  YR  
1 2 2  tson Monts arnarOwens tames Lee  OLB QB s  6-1 5-9 5-11  224 185 ffi 204 so  
3 4  rian HamJlton Keenan Li le  g~  6-0 6-0  202 194  so so  
5  Lord Cole  CB  5-10  191  SR  
5  jake Holland  WR  5-8  162  so  
6  Aaron Polanco  QB  6-0  208  SR  
7 8 9  Luke Penrose ~reme:MMcGown ddie artin  s WR QB  5-10 6-0 6-0  187 186 177  ~~ so  
9 10  ~ames Polanco ontavius Sin~eton  s CB  6-1 5-10  202 179  )R SR  
11  en Barkovic  OLB  5-11  215  SR  
11 13  Ian Townsend Hunter Reddick  g~  6-0 6-2  186 191  so so  
14 15  Billy Meraz Frank Divis  8f  5-10 6-0  195 225  SR SR  
15  Adam Niznik  OLB  6-3  216  so  
16  Dorian Smith  CB  5-8  180  so  
16  Russell Cook  p  6-2  185  so  
17  Amir {enkins  WR  6-1  208  SR  
18  Lione Wesley  WR  5-11  188  SR  
19  Clay Carter  s  6-3  204  so  
19 20  ~~~mys~g&  K CB  5-9 5-7  186 179  so so  
20 21  ¥:~lftK~~om  SB SB  5-10 5-9  199 195  so so  
21  Ma1t Garcia-Braigel  CB  5-8  175  so  
22  A.j. Walker  CB  5-11  175  SR  
23  Vaughn Kelley  CB  6-1  180  SR  
25  Dujuan Price  s  6-0  211  so  
26 26 28  {{son Robinson aanEHljle ase obby  s SB K  6-1 5-9 5-11  207 186 175  ~~ so  
28  Matt Dowler  OLB  6-3  234  SR  
29 29  Marco Nelson Chris McCarty  SB OLB  5-8 6-0  185 200  JR so  
31  Ron Kimbrough  FB  5-9  210  so  
31 32  Andrew Holmes Kyle Eckel  CB FB  5-9 5-11  185 240  ~1},_  
33  JfshSmith  s  6-2  201  SR  
34  ric Roberts  SB  5-10  194  SR  
35 35  Byron McCoyRtin McMenamin  SB LB  5-9 5-11  196 240  so so  
36 36 37  at! Hall Kenny Ray Morrison Ethan Gouge  FB LB K  5-9 6-0 5-11  221 227 169  so ~~  .....  
37  {1_ke Tenuta  LB  6-1  223  so  
38  ichael Brimage  FB  5-7  206  SR  
39 39 40  Marvin DingleRoman Rodriguez David Mahoney  FB s LB  5-11 6-Q 5-10  223 200 215 it  
41  CoryColistra  s  5-11  187  )R  
42  Rick. Amos  LB  6-0  212  so  
43  TyeAdams  OLB  6-2  217  so  
44  Lane Jackson  LB  5-11  217  SR  
44  Kristian Czaskowski  FB  5-9  215  so  
45  g}erTidwell  OLB  6-1  204  so  
46  ~an Barry  SB  6-0  212  SR  
46  yle Ellis  OLB  6-4  206  so  
47 48  Evan Beard Reggie Sealey  OLB OLB  6-0 6-0  238 230  ~I},_  
49 50 51  ~remr.Chase oeCylc obbY. McClarin  DE LB LB  6-2 5-11 S-11  250 224 225  ~~ SR  
52 53  l[cob Biles .). Costello  LB LB  6-0 5-10  225 230  ~I},_  
54  Adam Home  DE  5-11  236  SR  
55  Dustin Elliott  LB  6-0  235  SR  
56  Zach Robinson  LB  5-11  230  so  
56  Cole Smith  c  6-0  270  so  
57  Rob Caldwell  LB  6-2  2124  so  
57 58  lfe Person randon DigR,s  OT LB  6-3 6-1  260 222  so so  
59  Kevin Schw1 d  OG  6-1  280  SR  
60  Zach Gallion  OG  6-3  295  so  
61  ~son Stahl  OT  6-4  262  SR  
62  as~ Hughes  OT  6-4  252  SR  
63  ~ff  duset  DE  6-4  221  SR  
63  an Walker  OG  6-2  245  so  
64  Marshall Green  OT  6-1  265  )R  
65  Dennis Ray Phillips  OG  6-4  285  SR  
66  Brian Rutledge  OT  6-3  253  so  
67  Ryan Roeling  OT  6-4  282  so  
67 68  Andrew Cole Forrest Lehr  OL OG  6-4 6-2  231 296  ~~  
68 .  Ed Kotluski  DE  6-4  244  )R  
69 70 71  ~mes Rossi M_J;le Wr~ht att Me aughlin  c OG OG  6-T 6-4 6-6  279 292 295  so so SR  
72 73  rshOatesoshPridham  OG DE  6-4 6-4  289 262  so SR  
73  oel Carter  c  6-2  268  so  
74 75  ~~a~::vRB~~~1~  c LS  6-1 6-0  270 220  SR SR  
76  Scott Szurovy  OG  6-0  282  SR  
77  Sam Brown  OT  6-3  259  SR  
78 79  ~:ft~~P~fchett  DL OT  6-4 6-2  242 260  so-so  
80  Marc Lawson  WR  6-1  209  so  
81  Geoff Blumenfeld  K  6-0  169  SR  
82 83 84 85 85  Dan Gibbon Mick Yokitis Matt Williams Eric Shuey Keith ~acl<son  WR WR/P LS p NG  6-1 6-2 6-0 5-10 6-4  203 220 210 160 266 tl 
86 87  Mike rammer e-son Tomlinson  WR WR  6-0 6-2  175 189  {}6  
88 89 90 91  loyd Regas WR WR5~~eW~~~f;wski NG Babatunde Akingbemi NG  6-5 6-3 6-2 6-0  210 221 254 282  ~I},_ ~I},_  
92  Pierre Moss  DE  6-0  249  SR  
93  jeffVanak  DE  6-1  247  SR  
94  Anthony: Piccioni  LB  5-8  207  so  
94  Tim Washburn  p  6-0  182  so  
95  john Chan  DE  6-1  247  so  
96  Andrew Tattersall  DE  6-4  230  so  
97  David Wright  NG  6-3  250 . so  
97 98  lared Clifford arry CY.lc  K DE  6-1 6-2  170 255  {}6  
99  Sean McElhanon  DE  6-1  250  SR  





Navy runs the option to perfection, Anything short of a convincing Navy is 5-0, while the Irish have 
but Notre Dame stops the run. win Saturday should be a disap­shown very little consistency this 
Quinn will play well, and the Irish pointment for Notre Dame. 
season. But Notre Dame's 

defense will stop Navy's option just Enough of the close calls and strength on defense is stopping
enough to win. Navy is always a the hard-fought games with no the run -which just happens to 
tough opponent for Notre Dame, rewards. Notre Da:rne rolls Navy ' be Navy's strength on offense. but the Irish run the ball too well. It at the Meadowlands and takes 
The Irish offense is clicking well 

will be a close game, but the Irish a 5-2 record -and a swagger 
enough at this point that it 

will give Navy its first loss. -back home. 
should score enough.

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame Sports Editor 24, Navy 17 31, Navy 10 27, Navy 17 Heather Van Hoegarden Pat Leonard 
Associate Sports Editor 
Justin Schuver 

Associate Sports Editor 
' . 
. '' 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 15, 2004 
Sizing up the Irish and Midshipmen 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 
NAVY'S DEFENSE 

~59.51 ~I 
~ : 
punt return yards gained L___ 31 I punt return yards allowed_,--___. 
yards per punt punts blocked 

turnovers lost turnovers recovered total points scored L_ 25.5! total points allowed 

NAVY'S OFFENSE 
vs 
NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

~ltD 
263.71 
~ 
100.21 

~'----1-6-, 


.,. 
Notre Dame yards penalized 

~5o I 
Navy yards penalized 


NOTRE DAME 
RuN DEFENSE 
The linebacker·s; line and secondary all have the task of stopping the complicated option attack Navy runs to per­fection. 
Notre Dame's defense ranks No. 12 in the nation at stopping the run, giving up just 86.8 yards per game. And the Irish are also tied at No. 8 in opponent yards per carry with Iowa State, at 2.8. 
The linebacker corps of' Brandon lloytc [29 tackles). above, Derek Curry {33) and tackle­leader Mike Goolsby 1511 is the lynchpin of the Irish defense. 
Sure tackling and adherence to assign­ment<> will be key. 
NAVY 
RUNNING GAME 
Navy ranks No. 6 in the nation in rushing yards per game with a 
267.4 yard average. 
Quarterback and cap­tain Aaron Polanco, above, leads Navy in rushing with 464 yards. _Fullback Kyle Eckel is second on the team with 387 yards on the 
ground. 
Navy runs the wing-T 
offense and runs the 
ball 56 times per game. 
The rusti offense is 
essential to the team's 
overall success. 
Stopping the run equals stopping Navy, but that has been no easy task for opponents this season, as the Midshipmen have thrown just 47 times. 


NOTRE DAME DEBATE TEAM Congratulations! 
BOILERMAKER SPECIAL AT PURDUE UNIVERSITY WESTERN KENTUCKY BIG RED SWING Notre Dame Team Second Overall Out of 25 Schools 
Danielle Fundora and Andrew Wiechkoske Tournament Champions in Parliamentary Debate 
Meghan Callahan and Robby Davidson Top-seeded Parliamentary Team 
Meghan Callahan., Tim Fiorta., John Dickson Qualified for National Tournament in Lincoln-Douglas Debate 
Brodie Butland., Lindsay Miller., Matt Cahill., Marina Zavolock Brilliant Prelim Rounds 
With appreciation for all your hard work: 
.. -Susan Ohmer., Carey Chair in Modern Communication John Boyer.,·Notre Dame Debate Coach Kiley Kane., Assistant Debate Coach Sister Jean Lenz., Office of Student Affairs 
Friday, October 15, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Fitzpatrick becomes 'star' of special teams 

By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Last year at this time, he had just made a name for himself. 
D.J. Fitzpatrick helped Notre Dame beat Navy for the 40th consecutive time with his game­winning 40-yard field goal as time expired. 
Fitzpatrick was playing in place of Nicholas Setta, a senior who was a fourth-year starter until he got hurt earlier in the season. 
But this year is different for Fitzpatrick, a senior with one year of eligibility remaining. He started the season as the starter at both kicker and punter, and he has been solid at both posi­tions for the Irish. 
"When we started the season, I thought one of our areas of weakness would probably be our kicking game, that we need­ed to see it improve," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "We had questions as to who would be our punter. We felt pretty good with D.J. as our kicker, but we were also going to look and see there if we couldn't improve." 
Fitzpatrick competed with sophomore Geoffrey Price for the starting spot at punter and he emerged as the starter for the first game. 
"That just comes from all the hard work I put in this summer and also Geoff putting pressure on me," Fitzpatrick said. "Him and I have been battling, and he's made me a better punter ana I've made him a better punter. Right now I just feel comfortable going out there and. trying to be consistent week in and week out and trying to help out the team in that respect." 

Fitzpatrick is averaging 42.7 yards per punt, booting 15 punts inside the 20-yard line. This is a vast improvement from last year's 36.8 yard average and only seven kicks inside the 20-yard line in six more attempts. 
"What D.J. has done has real­ly just took the lead and put himself in a position where we feel comfortable with him doing both of our field goal and extra points and also doing our punt­ing," Willingham said. "He has continued each week to improve and get better, whereas I think he's almost an 8-yard improve­ment over how he finished last year in his punting." 
Special teams coach Buzz Preston called Fitzpatrick the "shining star" of the special teams unit. But Fitzpatrick is as humble as ever, attributing his improvements to hard work and dedication this summer. · 
"I think it's all technique," Fitzpatrick said. "I am th~ same size this year, it's just a matter of hitting the ball cleanly, like a golf shot. If you hit the ball square, it's going to go a lot fur­ther. Now that I can manipulate the ball away from the returner, that will protect against big returns. . 
Fitzpatrick's improvements in punting have helped the Irish significantly. They can count on him for a consistent punt each time he goes out on the field, helping Notre Dame win the battle for field position. 
"[Good punting] is critical because that is an area that you can exchange fairly huge chunks of yardage," Willingham said. "If you have that as a plus for you, that means thai's one more first down that the oppo­nent has to gain, and in his case he's done a great job of punting the ball inside the 20-yard line, inside the 10-yard line. So you are really gaining there when you can back them up in that manner." 
Preston is also impressed with Fitzpatrick, who has hit 5-of-7 field goal attempts this season, with a long of 45 yards. 
"He's made great strides," Preston said. "He's been the most consistent aspect lof spe­cial teamsJ." 
Fitzpatrick also kicked off in the second half against Stanford, but that might not happen against Navy, as the Irish do not want to overuse his right leg. 
"We just have to keep him going, not over-kick him, use him wisely during practice," Preston said. "And if that can happen, we know he can have a heck of a year." 
Fitzpatrick also said although he doesn't want to do too much, he loves being able to do both the kicking and punting for Notre Dame. 
''I'm going to try to do as much as my leg will let me," Fitzpatrick said. "A kicker's leg is kind of like a baseball pitcher. You just can't push it too far, or you're going to be hurt the rest of the season. I'm just trying to be careful with it and when I do feel good and when coach thinks it's appropriate I'll be kicking off. 
"I wouldn't have it any other way. I'm always getting ready for something. No time to get cold or get out of the game men­tality. It's fun. It's a lot more f11n that way and I love it." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Undefeated Navy seeks to end win streak 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Of the five teams Navy has beaten this season. one has a winning record -and that team is in Division 1-AA. 
The Midshipmen haven't exactly been world beaters en route to their 5-0 start, knock­ing off Duke (1-4), Northeastern (3-2 in Div. 1­AA), Tulsa (1-4), Vanderbilt (1­
4) and the Air Force Academy (3-3). But they enter Saturday's game against Notre Dame undefeated and eager to end a 40-year losing streak that dates back to 1963. 
That season, the Midshipmen were led by a quarterback named HogPr Staubaeh. Navy won the game 35-14, and Staubach went on to win the Heisman Trophy. 
Since then, there have been many rlose calls in the series, including 1997, 1999, 2002 and 2003. But each game, Notre Dame found a way to snatch victory from Navy's hands. 
During Monday's press con­fprence. Navy coach Paul Johnson blatantly downplayed Navy's chancps of beating Notre Dame this season. 
"People talk about the last 40 yPars, but the all-time series n~cord is 6 7-9-1 so it's not like [Navy wasl killing [Notre Darnel before the 40," said Johnson, who has compiled a 15-15 record during his two and half years at Navy. "There's a reason. We don't have anybody on our team that Notre Dame recruited." 

But Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham isn't buying Johnson's statement. 
"J look at it as another chal­lenge, another outstanding football team we have to play," Willingham said. "If we don't play our best, we won't win." 
The Midshipmen are ofT to a quick start thanks to an out­standing running game. They have run for over 200 yards in four of their first five games and are ranked sixth in the country in rushing, averaging 267 yards a game. 
To beat Navy, Notre Dame must stop the wing-T offense, which is based on a variety of misdirection runs and the option. Quarterback Aaron Polanco leads the team with 464 rushing yards, followed by fullback Kyle Eckel's 387 yards on the ground. 
Navy rarely throws a pass, as indicated by Polanco's numbers through the air this season ­30-for-47 for 563 yards, two touchdowns and three inter­ceptions. 
Notre Dame will counter that explosive Navy rushing attack with the nation's 12th best run defense, allowing just 86.8 yards per game. 
The Midshipmen have been involved in a variety of kinds of games this season, playing in three close games and two blowouts. 
Navy opened the year with a comfortable 27-12 win against Duke and followed that by slip­ping past Northeastern 28-24 on Sept. 11. 
They cruised past Tulsa the following week 29-0 and then squeaked past Vanderbilt 29­26 before facing their biggest game up to that point in the season -Air Force on Sept. 
30. ESPN was in Colorado for the Thursday night matchup broadeast nationwide. The Midshipmen used a last-minute field goal to escape with their second consecutive win against Air Force. 
With the win. the Midshipmen picked up more confidence heading into their bye week and Saturday's game. Navy fans in the stands held up signs during the Air Foree game saying, "We want Notre Dame." 
.Johnson is trying to keep expectations under control. But even he hinted that Navy has a chance to pull off one of the biggest upsets in their football history. 
"We aren't ever going to be on the same talent level as ~otre Damn, but sometimes the best players don't win, the best team does," Johnson said. "We 1-iave to try and get a plan and go try and be the best team." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


~----To-~---------,-------------------­
-a • •­

[ a page 8 Friday, October 15, 2004 _
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENTS 
! 
CONVENIEHIL.Y I nc{wfec[-witli rentfor a £19v1J<TfE(j) time I..OCA'IED AT'I'HE 
-{}"CJ{.C£C£ju[[pri:r;-i[ege mem6ersfiip to tlie

CORNEROP' IRONWOOD 8: Cast{e Point .1fea[tfi andcJqlcquet C(u6
a..EVEl.AND JUS1' 

r.INliiES PROM inc(uding: *Pitness Center *Outdoor OCJ{. UNIVERSITY MAU.. 
(lndoor) Poo(
MoNFA~: 
&T1 214 
*rBeacli o/o{fe_y6a(( *Sauna d ~1/liir[poo( 
*2 (j?gcquet6a((Courts *In/Outdoor 6ask._(}t6a[( *In/outdoor Liglited'Tennis Courts}lnd 
***:MO(}(~ ... 
HURRY IN FOR A TOUR OF THE MOST POPULAR APARTMENTS WHILE THEY LAST. 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE @ WWW.CASTLE..POINT.COM 
Heuer Ingredient!'!..
Bt'"tte r Pizza. 

Welcome New and Returning Notre Dame-St~ M'ary's. Students*Faculty'*Staff Notre Dame Papa John's St. Mary's Papa John's· 1823 South Bend Avenue North Village MaU 
271~1177 271~7272 
PAPA PREDICTS: ND 49 • NAVY 10 
Papa lohn's Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Official Delivery Pizza of NCAA Athletics. 
r------. 

r LUNCH SPEcW ..
1 IRISH SPECIAL 1 

I Small 1-t~ing &: 2 20-oz I
large 1-topplng,I Breadstlcks &: Coke 4-to-go I I cokes~B.BB I 
1 S14.BB 1 Iopen til 4:00 p.m. 1 
I ....._...,._.. ~-.....,.._cAs I I Coer~ ....,Nttl. l.aplres JO •r•-cAs I 
I 
on... vooo t~ • Mmlr.d rim. at pMtklp.ttlog rape Offer good t01' • lhTilted time N p.~f'tldpatJng ,..,. tottn·, l'lr11....,ilnt' CM'Ity A.ddiUonal lOppl"9" •Jdlra. I I Jot"'·~ retol4tl.W.nts only. AddHion•f topping~ extra. I NoC V.nd wfttl any OCJwi' COUpon1 Ot' diiCOI.lnb. Not valid Wllh .any OthiH' coupons or dbcounh Umtc.K tf.Mitv.ry .,.... cfMr~ru may •pply. lltTIUed dtafi¥1Jry •r••· ch•R.J"\ may apply. 
..Cud= r•:;...a.;;,;.•~';:. .. I.Cust=~=b&e:;.;: •'::'~ ':;.;. .. r------. r-----.. r -CHEEsEm-..1 r-----..
PARTYPAK LATE NITE
1 fAMILY SPECIAl. 1 

I 2 large 1-topplng, 2 I l Large Cheese and your I SPECIAL I
large Works and

I 1 large 2-topplng I I Breadstlcks, &: Coke 4 to I I choice of breadstlcks or I I Ex-large 1-topping for I Go for only cheesestlcks 
the price of a large only

I S'IB.!I!I I I $24.!1!1 I I S12.B!I I 
I SI1.!1BsAr I
lc___......,..., • ...,.,_sAs I gOz
I ~ ...........~.........o...,... I I c---...,..,..,10 ...,........1 I COcJpOfJ JO Up. I
~-l...p ..... ott.... good fO' • ltnh.ed Ume .. penklp4ttnQ ,.~ ottw good tor • tlmttftd Unw M pwt~ng P~ Offer good tor • "mlted tim. •t ~rtklp•tJog ,...JM otfe.r good kM" • flmtteri Urne .t partk&p.Ut"tg Pap• 
I fohn't. ,..,t.....,-.ntt onty AddtUo~l \opp'nqlo ••tra. I I )ohn't. rwst.aUf'anU only. Addlt6onal toppings utra. I John'~ ~...-ants onty. Additional topping• eJrtt• l _tonn's ,...u.,wr.,..ts CM"'ty. AddfUon•l toppfngi •Wa Not v.-Md wKh eny othe-r «JUp(wu Of' dl~ount'l. Not v.Gct wfth ..ny ot~ coupon• IW' dfKount'l. Not v.-fki wkh .any othc!t' coupon~ or dhcou"'-s.. N01 v..id W11h .ny other coupoq• or dl&c:ounh UnWr.d ~~~y anta. lh.lllr~• m•y •ppfy. L~n.lt•d a.ttv•ry •r••· ch•r!J4!'S m.y apply. UntUed dflt'A!ry •rfl!&,. ch•l'gtrs m•y apply. Llrnlt~H.i delh.tery ar••· ch•rg-.~ may •PPIY
I 1 1 
..Cus=re:;.WCW.:.:f~ t=. .. • eust;.:""::bie:,;:•:ee'::. • .Cust=re=ble:;.;:~::'-: • ..Cutt=r•:;.~:;.;: ~bte t::. .. 
SCHOOL HOURS SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS 
..... 
-----DVo -----• r ---C=a.7ota4-:::.o-Go--• Monday-Thursday Monday -Thursday 
Buy any Large of Ex-large Pizza at regular I I*Coca-Cola 4-to-Go Is 4 20-oz bottlesl 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 11 :00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. menu price and get FREE your choice of any 1 lfor the price of 3 Including 4 FREE 1 Friday -Saturday Friday -Saturday of our 3 OVDs. Titles change every two Music Match downloads I 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. months. Through December 2004. I I Sunday Sunday Noon to 1:00 a.m. Noon to 12:00 a.m. 
-----------~~----------·
If your group is having a meeting or planning a get~together, call for information on our large Order Discount. 
DELIVERY DELIVERY NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S
We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes 
271~1177 271-PAPA
Try our Chicken Barbeque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough nach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 



, I 
I' I • 

Friday, October 15, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
.DILBERT 
OUR NEW VICE 
PRESIDENT OF 
ETHICS WILL HELP 
YOU DECIDE WHAT'S 
RIGHT AND WRONG. 
PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
E 
& 

WHEN WE TALK TO WHICHEVER ONE
0
.. 
1§1 

HIM, WHAT CUS­WE HATE THE 
El 

TOMER'S PROJECT MOST.
" 

SHOULD WE CHARGE
" 
;: 
" 

FOR OUR TIME?
§ 
I. 
Charles Schulz 



HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
JJWilffil11E. 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 

It'll be fine to form four ordinary words. 
TANBO 
j 
~· 
rJ r 

©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. J Are yoU sure? _ It looks dead ~ to me ~ 0\.P>' 
'0!~{­

vC~'~I --"---10~~@ 
~ -'"-= 
WH~N THE TR~~ DOC.TOR PROMIS~
1 
rr J 
www.jumble.com 
TO SAV~ THE OAK H~--­
Now arrange the c1rcled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: Ar I r I 1r I I JON r I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: HENNA FORGO THROAT PLAQUEYesterday's I 
Answer: What the neighbors liked to do on laundry day-"HANG" OUT 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
llJe~.t\tt lorkame,

Crossword Edited by Will Shortz No.0903 
Playfully roguish Dora Flood32 Article'written5 One up 
by Kant 60 A famous Amos 11 Mountain pass 
33 Running things 61 Took the cake, 14 Owner of theY? 
in a bar say 15 Saint said to 62 Richard's "On
35 ln things
have been Your Toes" martyred by 36 Oddball collaborator Huns 
38 Ward of the 63 Sister on "The 16 Ex of Mickey screen Waltons" 
17 Ready to get 41 Like many 64 Marshaled drunk, perhaps hearths 
65 Unfortunate 
18 Sports film that 42 Court people, things to have was a 2003 for short to count Best Picture 
45 ls faithful (to) 66 Homes in thenominee woods47 Life saver
20 Like a smoker 49 Twin
21 Pollute, say 
DOWN 22 Winner of nine 
50 Code word 1 Rolled upgolf majors 52 Shake, to some 2 Old bar material23 Tough 53 lt's divided into 3 One working on25 Fox's relative 24 books the spot? 



27 Remote choice  55 Mend  4 Person who  
28 Like retirees  57 Berth place  won't commit  
5 Like a fox  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Country statistic 7 Bygone leaders 8 Abolitionist 
Harriet 9 Certain lvy Leaguer 10 Dermal development 11 "la Orana Maria" painter 12 Kept one's nose 
in the air? 13 Glib quality 19 Drive 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
24 Lose the  36 "Riverdance"  44 Short panties  
freshness of youth 26 Be out briefly? 29 Corporate inits.  composer Bill 37 Something to believe in 38 Extreme  46 Don Juans 48 Stewed 51 Lagomorphic leapers  
since 1924  39 Admire to a fault  54 29-Down  
31 Talking up?  40 Like Prometheus  competitor  
34 Retiree server:  42 Really regret  56 Corn  
Abbr.  43 Heart protector  59 Outback critter  

For answers, calll-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~ Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Stacy Keibler, Natalie Maines, Ralph Lauren, Sir Cliff Richard 
Happy Birthday: Uncertainties may cloud your year. Motivate yourself to act on your impulses. Don't let anyone hold you back or talk you out of doing wha't you know you must do. Take the initiative if you want to gain ground. Your numbers are 4, 18, 21, 24, 33, 35 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't take no for an answer. You can be on top if you are aggressive in a complimentary and persuasive way. Don't back down or give in. *** --­TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have what it takes to get things done, so focus on doing ~the best job possible and you are likely to advance. Don't be afraid to be a little different. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Social events and getting involved in challenging hobbies or activities will be beneficial. You can make new connections that can lead to either a personal or professional partnership 
***** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't count on anything or anyone and you won't be let down. You will probably feel used, but keep in mind that it takes two to tango and you probably should share the blame. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Communication will be the key to popularity. Your ideas will be well received and you can be in the spotlight if you take cha~ge and make arrangements for yourself as well as for others. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should be feeling the urge to step into a better position. If you haven't followed your professional goals, this is a good time to reevaluate and take action. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be in control and ready to take action. Poise yourself and prepare to take your friends and associates by storm. Present and promote your talents. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There will be plenty of action behind the scenes. Observe what everyone else is doing so that you are able to surpass even your toughest competition. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Help is on its way. The more you allow yourself to let others pitch in and offer favors, the sooner you will get everything back on track. A partnership is looking quite lucrative. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may end up in a difficult situation if you have promised too much to too many. If you leave yourself vulnerable to helping outsiders, you will pay the price. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do something nice for you. Book yourself for a massage or something that will lift your spirits and make you feel good about the way you look. Love and romance are in the picture. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Unusual circumstances may surround financial or legal matters. Keep an open mind. Time spent making chan,ges to your residence will be comforting. *** 
Birthday Baby: No one will deny you anything. You have an appeal that is unmistakably irresistible. You are a leader right from day one. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip_______ 

..
.. 
THE OBSERVER 

-
PORTS

Friday, October 15, 2004 
page 24 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Strong start, strong finish 
Team strives to play solid in all 90 minutes 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Spons Wrirer 
This Saturday, the No. 1 Irish will face conference-rival Boston College at Alumni Field with one goal in mind -to complete the game with a consistent high level of intensity. 


Boston College is ranked No. 20 with an overall record 9-4-0. 
This could be a challenge for the Irish, who have struggled offen­sively the past several games. The team has relied upon late game­winning goals. but is looking to come out and play strong throughout the contest. 
"Boston College is a quality team that beat us last year in the Big East Tournament," junior Annie Schefter said. "Our biggest challenge will be to play a full 90 minutes." 
ThL<> goal may prove to be chal­lenging for the Irish who are aware of the strong and physical style of play of the Eagles. 
"They like to get out and attack. They beat us last year in the Big

It 
see BC/page 22 


HocKEY 
Irish to face test at Miallli 
After last week's disappointing games, team looks for success in Ohio 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associare Sporrs Ediror 
Just because midterms are out of the way. doesn't mean the tests arc over for the Irish. 
A week after tying and losing to No. 4 Minnesota­Duluth at home, Notre Dame now travels across the border to take on No. 9 Miami (Ohio) in a two game series Friday and Saturday to open CCI-lA play for both teams. 
The Irish then return home Oct. 22 to take on No. 1 Boston College at the Joyce Center. 
"This is the same type of 
see HOCKEY/page 22 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Controversial game ends in stalemate 

2004 interhall season.
... Strange Stanford, 
The game featured four O'Neill matchup interceptions, including one returned for O'Neill's only
results in 8-8 tie touchdown, a safety, confusion over the score, a fan ejection and lots of mud.
By CHRIS KHOREY and 

Even stranger, Stanford
BRAD WALLACE 

played the entire game under 
Spons Wrirers 

the impression that a tie would give them a spot in the play­Stanford and O'Neill sloshed 
offs, most likely playing
their way to an 8-8 tie 
Keenan.

Thursday night in one of the most bizarre games of the see GOLD/page 21 
MEN's SoccER 

Irish anticipate challenges 
By KATE GALES Sporrs Wrirer 
They're on the road again. 
\'Vhile students depart for vari­ous fall break destinations, the men's soccer team will be en route to some of its toughest conference tests this season. 
On Saturday, the team faces St. John's in a rematch of last year's Big East tournament championship game. On Wednesday, they are scheduled to take on Seton Hall and fmish the break on Oct. 23 against Rutgers. 

"This road trip is probably going to decide who wins the Big East regular season," senior co­captain Chris Sawyer said. "We definitely are very much looking forward to St. John's on Saturday. We played them two ly at No. 22 last week. The Irish well, take care of business." tough games last year and we are on top of the Big East stand­· The Irish ride a six-game know they're going to be a very, ings, however, with a 5-1-0 shutout streak into the road trip, very tough team, so we're just record posted in conference play. most recently posting a 3-0 win looking forward to it and trying "We've set ourselves up to be over Michigan on Wednesday to get ready." in a really good position to take night. 
All three teams have been the league over the road trip," Although it is a team principle ranked at some point this sea­midfielder Greg Dalby said. "We son. with St. John's most recent-can clinch the Big East if we do see CHALLENGE/page 22 

en 

NO WOMEN'S GOLF
NO CROSS COUNTRY NO WOMEN'S TENNIS MLB IRISH INSIDERSMC SOCCER 

w 

Boston tries to z Indiana State 
1-
c.l Irish travel to 
Notre Dame takes 
Belles look toThompsons e~oy 

the road for invite 

rebound at homesuccess at IT extend home 
winning streak cc :3 University Championships 

The Irish take on allow the runners one Although the YankeesSaturday's meet will Twins became first 
The Irish hope to 
Navy this weekend. For more information, see lead the series 2-0, theIrish-team ever to reach 

thrive on the momen-
The team is set to 
tum they gained after 
rnliet Alma on Saturday. 

Red Sox remain hope-inside. 
' . =~ final test before the .the finals of the grand 
ful.

slam event. 
two straight wins. 
NCAA Championships. 
a.~ 

page 20 page 15
page 20 
page 19
en page 21 











