
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 7 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004 

Convention encourages students 
Students from both parties gear up for November election 

By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
Launching politically-minded Notre Dame students of all stripes into an autumn of cam­paigning for their respective parties in both national and local elections. the Republican National Convention kicked off this week with the challenge to reach a critical voting bloc of young adults. 
The elected officers of Notre Dame's College Hepublicans club made their allegiances clear. holding an informal con­vention-watch Monday night in the LaFortune Student Center. The group also plans to have a larger turnout for President Bush's upcoming speech on Thursday, with both past mem­bers and newcomers who joined at Activities Night Tuesday. 

Defense and national security, major themes of the convention and campaign, are important issues for them, group members said. 

"The speeches were amazing on their own in humor, logic and emotion, but as a whole they present an underlying corner­stone of the Hepublican Party," Notre Dame College Hepublicans secretary Jonathan Klinger said. 
One Notre Dame student has 

see ELECTION/page 4 

ERIC SALESffhe Observer At left, Notre Dame's College Republicans club passed out Bush-Cheney campaign materials at Tuesdan's Activities Nght. At right, club co-presidents Tom Rippinger and lan Rondevos join vice president Jaimie Feltault in recruiting new members. 
Teaching assistants lend classroom support 
By KEN WALSH 
News Writer 
While classes utilizing teaching assistants and grad­uate assistants have earned a negative reputation on other campuses, several Notre Dame students and faculty members disagree with this stereotype. 
Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Dottie Pratt praised small class sizes and one-on-one teacher-student interaction as benefits of the TA system. 
"It allows people to have more sections, so you are not 
in those huge, anonymous classes," she said. According to Pratt, the presence of teaching assistants allows professors to spread large classes into smaller, more personal, discussion groups. 
Although many classes uti­lize TAs, the majority of the schools at Notre Dame do not actually rely on teaching assistants to instruct under­graduates, but rather to aide the professor in running the class said representatives from the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Business and Architecture. 
"They assist the faculty member in the administration 
of the class," said assistant dean of the Mendoza College of Business Sam Gaglio. "They might grade papers, they might sit there for an exam, help grade exams." 
Teaching assistant involve­ment in class is not only sup­ported by busy faculty mem­bers looking for assistance in administering a class, but also by students. Students find they often relate better to teaching assistants, as they are closer in age, sophomore Tim Haren said. 
"I think they are very help­ful to every class, especially if it is in a language require­ment," senior Maria Garrido added. 
One of the greatest benefits of the presence of TAs is the real-life classroom experi­ence that the graduate teach­ing assistants receive, said chemistry professor Xavier Creary. 
"All professors, at least in our department, at one time were TAs. That's one of the ways in which they learned how to get in front of a class and give a presentation and how to organize," he said. "They learned the types of questions that students are going to ask by being TAs in a 
see TAlpage 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Parking rules cause tnixed reaction 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Writer 
With classes underway, abid­ing by parking regulations may be at the back of students' minds. But the hefty price tags accompanying Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) issued tickets may cause them to think twice. 
Though many students are unaware of ticket fines, NDSP has clear stipulations for differ­ent types of violations -$10 for improper or overtime park­ing, $15 for parking in unas­signed lots, $20 for driving on lawns and $30 for blocking a trash receptacle, amongst oth­ers. 
On Tuesday, senior Alissa Lemmon, an off-campus resi­dent, parked her car in a yel­low no-parking zone in the D6 parking lot without a decal, risking multiple fines. Luckily for her, she got to her car before NDSP did. "I think parking tickets are kind of stupid," she said. "I used to get tickets all the time for parking at Main Circle. It's not a big deal." 
Phillip Johnson, assistant director of Security/Police, said that NDSP is holding off for most students to register their cars before they begin issuing the steep $50 tickets for park­ing without a decal. 
Other students said they feel tickets are necessary to main­tain safety and fairness in the lots. 
"I don't mind if they start cracking down if that's what they need to do," said Ryann Swalling, a fifth-year architec­ture student who lives off-cam­pus. "People take advantage, so if a $10 fine is what they need, then that's fair." 
NDSP, however, insists there is no sudden crackdown and that parking regulations 
see PARKING/page 6 

Congregation changes leadership 
Sisters of the Holy Cross elect new president and council members 
campus. marked the addition of executive officer of Saint AgnesBy ASHLEY SANDERS 
Sister Ruth Marie Nickerson, Medical Center in Fresno,
News Writer 
Sister Geraldine Hoyler, Sister Calif., for 20 years, was elected Mary Louise Full and Sister 
as First Councilor. She will beThe Sisters of the Holy Cross 
Pusha Teresa Gomes to the 
joined by Hoyler in the General
welcomed new leadership on 
community's leadership.
Sunday at the swearing-in of Treasurer post. Hoyler was
The five new members were
order president Sister Joy president of finance and treas­
selected at the community's
O'Grady and four other mem­ury for Catholic Health
general chapter meeting last
bers. 
Initiatives in Denver for the The ceremony, which took 
month, where they laid out the 
past eight years.
place during Sunday Mass at Sisters' direction for the future. 
Full was elected to the com-
the Church of Our Lady of Nickerson, who previously Loretto on the Saint Mary's served as president and chief see SISTERS/page 4 

--------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 1, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Learning on the W"eekend 
"I had a crazy weekend." 
I am sure you have heard this 

phrase about 1,000 times since 
Monday, followed by a detailed story 
about an adventurous "Hally" experi­
ence. My weekend 
was about more Kelly Meehan 
than Rally, The 
Show or any off-
campus party. It Wire editor 
was about some 
important realiza­
tions I came to in my first weekend 
back. 
The first weekend on campus is a 

right of passage for any first-year col­
lege student. 
Being a sophomore, I could not help 
but envy the freshman as they "dis­
cover" all that college has to offer, 
with everything and everyone being a 
new face or experience. On the other 
hand, I was glad to be a sophomore 
and reassure myself that having been 
here for one year I would not make 
any "freshman mistakes" ... but I was 
very wrong. 
When I was heading back to cam­

pus Friday night I came to the horrid 
realization that I had lost my keys 
and wallet somewhere in the vastly 
congested alley at Turtle Creek. 
After a moment of panic in the real­ization I had lost not only my mail and door keys, but also my student ID, ATM card and $40 cash, I felt more helpless than any freshman might in his or her first few weeks at college. 
As the weekend progressed, I felt more at ease with my loss. Perhaps, you might say, I came to terms with having to cash out over $100 to replace my belongings. This stupid mistake made me realize that college is all about mistakes, and what really counts is how you deal with them. 
I knew I swore that I would not make any mistakes this year, but just like a freshman I did not know what life would have in store for me. If I knew coming to Saint Mary's last August what I know now, my life would have been much simpler. 
I guess someone should have told me winter can and will last for 80 percent of the school year, boys do really play video games all of the time, Instant Messenger will be equiv­alent if not more popular than the telephone and it is okay to eat cereal for every meal at the dining hall. 
No one ever told me that this week­end I would be saying goodbye to two of my best friends who would be studying abroad for the year. These are two friends who I did not even know existed merely one year ago, but by making it through our fresh­man year together we would become best friends. 
You will be glad to know that NDSP left me a voicemail on Monday morn­ing, reporting that someone had turned in my keys and wallet. 
When I picked it up from Security I felt more in control of things, like a real sophomore who knew what was going on. I could only hope that it was an honest freshman out there, about to experience one of the best and most challenging years of his or her life. who turned in my keys, wallet, and money all intact. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, an article in Tuesday's edition ofThe Observer about the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting incorrectly listed the date for the Senior Class Kick-Off event. It will be held Thursday at Opus Hall. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU EVER USE THEFACEBOOK.COM? 







Barry McKoklner Clare Charbonnet Chris Eiland Kate Bobo Kevin O'Sullivan Johanna Sloson 
Fisher Cavanaugh Off-campus Off-campus Off-campus PE Sophomore Sophomore Senior Senior Junior Sophomore 
"My photo is "No way. I "Hey, whatever "I've heard of "I met my wife "It's addicting, 
already up. already waste floats your 
Check it out, enough time on boat." ladies." AIM. But I like that my friends can stalk people 
on other campuses." 

that, but I'm on and I love that already too facebook. com. " about 20 new 
obsessive about people sign up my computer each day. It's and AIM to do like an online it." Dogbook." 
IN BRIEF 

The Office of Human Resources will offer free blood pressure and body fat screenings to Notre Dame faculty and staff today from 
11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the second floor of the security building. 
The much-talked about Michael Moore documentary "Fareinheit 9/11" will be shown Friday at 7 and 10 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The No. 2 ranked Irish women's soccer team takes on Stanford University Friday from 5 to 9:30 p.m. in the Adidas Classic. 
A panel discussion on "Economic, Operational and Ethical Implications of Outsourcing/Offshoring" will take place today from 7 to 
8:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. The panel is part 

JEFF HENNIG/The Observer 

Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame, pauses to smile as he helps out at the organization's booth at Activities Night In the Joyce Center. More than 250 campus organizations, local service agencies, club sports teams and special guests were represented at the annual event. 
OFFBEAT 
Nonagenarian celebrates birthday with plane jump 
CALDWELL, Idaho -A woman who has six chil­dren, 35 grandchildren, 75 great-grandchildren and 10 great-great-grandchil­dren jumped from an air­plane to celebrate her 93rd birthday. 
"Because it's a new adventure," explained Luree Kohtz, of Burley. 
After seeing a videotape of her great-granddaugh­ter doing the same thing, Kohtz set her mind to sky­dive in Caldwell. Her age wasn't a concern, she said. 
Thirteen cars full of 
TODAY 


family  and  friends  
watched  the  jump  
Saturday.  

Age hasn't slowed down Kohtz, who celebrated her 91st birthday by riding the automated bucking bronco at the Cassia County Fair. 
"She kept on telling the guy to speed it up," said John Price, a grandson-in­law. "She got so mad 'cause he wouldn't do it." 
Toilet paper gift raises city's spirits 
YORK, Pa. -York, a city struggling with its finances, has received a most practical gift. An unknown donor 
dropped off a case of toilet paper at City Hall on Sunday. The gesture was in response to a recent comment made by York Councilman Wm. Lee Smallwood, who wondered how the cash-strapped city would close a $25 million deficit in the police and fire pensions. 
"We can't even afford toilet paper," Smallwood said. 
Mayor John Brenner said the toilet paper was left at City Hall with a note from "a friend." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
..... 
cc 
(,) 



80 
62 

82 61 

78 63 


80 
59 

HIGH LOW 
.9 HIGH 81 LOW 62 

Atlanta 85 I 70 Boston 77 I 59 Chicago 831 65 Denver 83 I 58 Houston 92 I 69 Los Angeles 87 167 Minneapolis ao 1 62 New York 81 I 64 Philadelphia 83 I 62 Phoenix 108 I 83 Seattle 67 I 55 St. Louis 87 162 Tampa 92 175 Washington 83 166 of the O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics. 
An open house for the European Studies program will be held Thursday from 4 to 6 p.m. in 211 Bronson Hall. 
Today is the last day for all class changes. 
Krispy Kreme Donuts will be sold from 8 a.m. to 12 
p.m. Friday on DeBartolo Quad for 50 cents each. All proceeds will go to benefit Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an euent to obsnews@nd. edu. 
---~---~~-~ 
---~~--1 
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page3 
Security, post office anticipate m_ove 
By ELIZABETH CHEFFERS 
News Writer 
While students may agree that the new security building/post office complex being built on Holy Cross Drive has already vindicat­ed its existence by hiding Stepan Center. the postal workers and security officers who work there welcome its opening for more basic reasons. 
The existing security building was built as a temporary struc­ture in 1944, and Notre Dame Security/Police officers on campus have waited 60 years for a per­manent home. The new building will include more room for offices, training space for the South Bend police and even some classrooms. 
"It will be great to have students come in here when they are not having problems," said Rex Rakow, NDSP director. Other than adding classroom space, the move should have no effect on student services or response time as offi­cers usually respond from patrols on campus and not from the secu­rity building, he said. 
The new building has 40,000 square feet, only 5,000 of which will be used by the post office, which will occupy half of the lower floor on the side of the building that faces the nearby power plant. 
The post office will gain only 44 square feet in the move, but workers remain enthusiastic about the new facility. 
"We are especially excited about adding three new enclosed load­ing docks," said Ellen Bystrom, 

MICHELLE OTIO!The Observer The University security and post offices prepare to relocate to a new facility on Holy Cross Drive. 
the Notre Dame postmistress. 
The post office's current loca­tion, although sufficient to handle mail distribution, is also difficult to access with a vehicle and has only 10 parking spaces that it shares with McKenna Hall, half of which provide handicap-only parking. 
The new office will solve both of these problems by opening Saint Joseph's Road to Douglas Road as an access route and adding 13 "customers only" parking spaces. 
While both officers and postal workers said they are thankful for the space they will gain in the move, expansion of both facilities was not the primary reason the University decided to give priority to the construction, Bystrom said. 

The University plans to build new buildings where the security building and the post office are now located. 
"It was definitely the University's decision to move," Bystrom said. 
Rakow mentioned University plans to build a hotel where the security building now sits. The new hotel would eventually replace The Morris Inn. 
Bystrom said the new building is expected to be finished by Dec. 20 and will be fully operational by 
. the beginning of the 2005 spring semester. 
Contact Elizabeth Cheffers at echeffer@nd.edu 
There's still time to catch exciting Silver Hawks baseball at the Cove. 
Join TRANSPO in cheering on the South Bend Silver Hawks! 
Fair Trade coffee to be an option at ND 
Student government announces support of farmer frienly coffee addition to dining hall 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Writer 
Coffee grown under Fair Trade agreements will be offered this semester in addi­tion to the regular selection of coffee at North and South Dining Halls. 
According to a Student Government press release 
assistance in implementing new farming techniques and tools. 
Dave Baron, student gov­ernment's chief executive assistant, said the Fair Trade movement helps to develop many of the opportunities that farmers in our country e n j o y For these reasons, Fair 
Trade coffee may 
cost consumers 

announcing "The Fair Trade more than a reg­the decision, ular cup, but
coffee blend that 
the organiza­M a r c 
tion approved we,ve had for the Poklinkowski, 
a letter to past few years has general manager University for South Dining
been ... an 
President Hall said the Father extremely high financial benefits Edward quality coffee,, to the farmers Malloy "sup­are clear. Under porting the the Fair Trade
Jim LaBella 
dining hall's agreement, farm­
Huddle manager
addition of ers are assured a 
Fair Trade Coffee." 
The Fair Trade agreement was established to provide relief to coffee growers from stringent economic pres­sures. 
The Fair Trade agreement certifies that coffee farmers will be paid a fair price for each pound of coffee they sell and will also provide credit to farmers and technical 
m1mmum of $1.26 per pound of coffee that they sell. 
Most coffee farmers, Poklinkowski said, "will grow their product for, say, 76 cents and the market price will be 80 cents. Fair Trade pays [farmers] a decent liv­ing to grow their coffee." 
Huddle manager Jim LaBella said the LaFortune convenience store has been using both regular and Fair Trade coffee for the last three years. 
"The Fair Trade coffee blend that we've had for the past few years has been our French blend, and it's an extremely high quality cof­fee," he said. 
In its press release, Student Government urged all students to promote Fair Trade coffee. 
"The continued expansion of Fair Trade coffee is now in the hands of the students," the release stated. "It is up to the students to decide through their coffee choice, whether or not the dining halls and cafes across cam­pus make Fair Trade coffee their sole supplier." 
In addition to the dining halls, Fair Trade coffee is now offered in Waddick's in O'Shaughnessy Hall, the Cafe Commons in the Mendoza College of Business and Starbucks in LaFortune. Fair Trade will soon be the sole supplier of coffee at the 
Huddle Mart. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 1, 2004

page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS 

Election 
continued from page 1 
been able to participate in the political process in an excep­tional way. Senior Danny O'Driscoll has been working in New York for the convention this summer, and will remain there for the duration of the week. 
"There has been a lot of excitement," he said. "It's going to be a great jumping off point for the fall campaign." 
Like many politically-active students, O'Driscoll will contin­ue campaigning locally when he returns to South Bend. He has worked for Indiana Rep. Chris Chocola for the past three years. 
While Notre Dame Republicans and Democrats plan to support their candi­dates in the national election, they will devote special focus to the local Indiana elections. 
In the governor's race, Republicans will support Mitch Daniels while Democrats back current governor Joe Kernan. Democratic candidate Joe Donnelly challenges Republican incumbent Chocola in the race for Indiana's Second Congressional district. 
Both the College Democrats and Republicans clubs boast large memberships, and the groups are hesitant to specu­late on where the dividing political line of the student body lies. 
"I think all degrees of the spectrum of political thought are reflected at Notre Dame," said Professor William Schmuhl, faculty liaison to the College Republicans. ''I'm real­ly not sure that there are any studies done to indicate if the students are more conserva­tive than liberal." 
College Republican club offi­cials fall short of saying that Notre Dame leans conserva­tive, but say that they receive a better reception than their Republican counterparts on 
TA 
continued from page I 

smaller setting." 
Acting as a teaching assis­tant gives graduate students the chance to become more comfortable interacting with students, leading discussions and becoming aware of the needs of students, philoso­phy TA Jennifer Jensen said. 
Fellow teaching assistant Angela Smith agreed. "Since you are working so closely with the students you are able to see very clearly what works and what doesn't work, and what would work for you as a teacher," Smith said. 
According to Pratt, this preparation is important for molding the teachers and professors of the future. 
Despite the benefits pre­sented to students, profes­sors and TAs, there are still those who are skeptical about the use of teaching assistants. 
"[Teaching assistants] can help you prepare for tests, and they can help you in specific things," senior Claire Hagan said, "but pro­fessors are definitely better prepped." 
Hegardless of any criti­cism, it appears as though the use of TAs will persist. 
"We really appreciate the teaching assistants and the 
other campuses. Klingler says such reception "refutes the claim that if you are in college, you have to be a liberal." 
Notre Dame College Democrat Co-President Colin Taylor says that the number of independent students at Notre Dame will factor in heavily into this election. Taylor said the College Democrats gained a record attendance at last week's meeting, and believes the trend will continue. 
"This election is invigorating everybody, especially the Democratic base," Taylor said. 
Both College Republicans and Democrats agree this year's election has caught the attention of students in an unprecedented way. 
"This semester I am seeing many people come out of the woodwork and start taking a political stance," said Notre Dame College Democrats Co­President Nicola Bunick. 
To encourage political par­ticipation, the two clubs have planned two debates for Sept. 8 and Oct. 6. 
In addition, they intend to invite the editors of the liberal "Nation" and the conservative "National Review" publications to debate on campus, an event currently scheduled for late September. 
"Notre Dame is full of civi­cally minded students who will especially pay attention when the election is at hand," said Taylor, adding that auditorium viewings of the presidential debates are also planned. 
Students active in both politi­cal parties on campus will focus on voter registration this fall, particularly through the Rock the Vote effort. 
"So many college students and young people in general don't register or don't vote," O'Driscoll said. "I think that those who have interest should try to raise interest level in others." 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnl@nd.edu. 
job that the students do," Gaglio said. "I think it would be very difficult to teach the amount of classes we do without the great support of the students." 
Contact Ken Walsh at kwalsh7@nd.edu. 
Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information M with program returnees to hear about... 
e 



Langua9
portugueseanish an~ dprograllls
SP d Abr08 september 1, 2004 stu Y 155 ~:S~rtolo 
Fmi,Spring,Sununer,and 
Academic Year 2005-2006 Monterrey, Mexico PUebla, Mexico RiodeJaneiroand Saol-'aulo, Hra7il Santiago, Chile Toledo, Spain 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2004 
Sisters 
continued from page I 
munity's general secretary posi­tion, and formerly served as an area coordinator for the Holy Cross sisters in the southern United States and Mexico. Gomes, who was novice direc­tor for the Sisters in Deepaneeta, Dkaka, Bangladesh, will serve as first councilor. 
O'Grady said that the congre­gation desires to become "a witness to unity in a world that we experience divided by extremes and domination." They will go about accomplish­ing this objective, she said, by 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training sessions in September. 
Ifyou have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September sth, at 7:00pm and at 8:00pm in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The sessions will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467. 
"making good decisions through the lens of the Gospel" so that the "voices of people in situa­tions that aren't heard" can "discover and use their own power." 
O'Grady, who has been a part of the Holy Cross congregation since 1970, has focused her work on individual, family and marital counseling for almost 30 years. A Saint Mary's grad­uate who went on to pursue a master's degree in social work at the University of Michigan, she now serves as a therapist in private practice in South Bend. 
She is "humbled and excited to serve the Sisters in this capacity for the next five years," she said, and hopes to continue the work of the previ­ous administration. The persist­ent mission of the community, she said is to "promote non-vio­lent systematic change through pray, words and action." 
The congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross is the founding sponsor of Saint Mary's and otiginated in the 19th century in Le Mans, France. Today, the congrega­tion of the Sisters of the Holy Cross is an international com­munity with members in eight countries and on four conti­nents. The community focuses on ministries of community building, addressing the causes and concerns of poverty, and 
Contact Ashley Sanders at asandeO 1 @saintmarys.edu. 
L"NIVF.Il~ITYOF 
NOTRE OAMF.. 

lNn.ltNA"fiO~t.,.Yl D" 
f'IU"J(,a,\..f"i 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 CoMPiLED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
12 hostages slayed in Iraq 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A gruesome video posted on a Web site purported to show militants beheading a Nepalese worker and shooting 11 others in the first mass slaying of foreign hostages during the Iraqi insur­gency. 
If confirmed, it would raise the number of foreign workers known to have been slain by extremists to at least 22 in a terror cam­paign aimed at forcing foreign troops and contract workers out of the country. 
Interim Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad Allawi promised retribution. "The only solution with this unjust group is to make them face justice," he angrily told the Arab-language Al-Arabiya television station. 
In another hostage crisis, French officials held talks in Paris and around the Arab world in hopes of saving the lives of two journalists held by other insurgents in Iraq. The kidnappers set a Wednesday deadline for France to rescind its ban on Muslim head scarves in French schools, a demand France has said it won't meet. 
16 killed in Palestinian bombing 
BEERSHEBA, Israel -Palestinian suicide bombers blew up two buses in this Israeli desert city Tuesday, killing 16 passengers and wounding more than 80 in an attack that ended a six-month lull in violence. 
The buses exploded into flames just sec­onds apart and about 100 yards away from each other in the center of Beersheba the deadliest suicide strike in nearly a year. 
Israel had attributed the lull to its sepa­ration barrier, arrest sweeps and wide­spread network of informers. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
England military trial adjourns 
FORT BRAGG, N.C.-Prosecutors ended a military court hearing Tuesday for a soldier shown in infamous photos of naked Iraqi prisoners by requesting an additional charge of "maltreatment and cruelty" against Pfc. Lynndie England. 
The hearing to determine whether England should face a full court-martial adjourned without testimony from any of the high-level witnesses sought by the defense, including Vice President Dick Cheney and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. 
Investigating officer Col. Denise Arn said she would recommend within a week whether England should face a court-mar­tial. 
Terrorist may get new trial 
WASHINGTON -The Justice Department has asked a judge to throw out the convic­tions of a suspected terror cell in Detroit because of prosecutorial misconduct, revers­ing course in a case the Bush administration once hailed as a major victory in the war on terrorism, legal sources said Tuesday. 
The department told U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen that it supports the Detroit defendants' request for a new trial and would no longer pursue charges of material support of terrorism. That means the defen­dants at most would only face fraud charges at a new trial, the legal sources said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Two teens commit suicide 
KNOX, Ind. -Investigators on Tuesday were trying to figure out why two 13-year­old girls who were killed by a train deliber­ately walked onto the railroad tracks in the middle of the night. 
The train's engineer told police he saw the girls walk onto the tracks about 30 miles south of South Bend at about 3 a.m. Saturday but could not stop in time, Starke County Sheriff Bob Sims said. 
SUDAN 

US called upon to act in Darfur 
Former ambassador Richard Holbrooke expresses need for aid in Africa 
Associated Press 
AL-FASHER -The for­mer U.S. ambassador to the United Nations visited a displaced persons camp in the troubled Darfur region on Tuesday and sharply criticized Sudan, the United Nations, the U.S. adminis­tration and the internation­al community for doing too little to stem the humani­tarian crisis there. 
Richard Holbrooke, trav­eling with U.S. Sen. Jon Corzine, a New Jersey Democrat, visited the Krinding camp near El Geneina, the capital of West Darfur state. 
"What we have seen is very moving, very disturb­ing, and there is an enor­mous amount that needs to be done still in the humani­tarian area and beyond that," Holbrooke told reporters after the visit. 
"I do not think that any­one involved, the Sudanese government, the United Nations, the international community, my own coun­try, is yet doing enough," he said. "Everyone needs to do more. The core of this is a political problem and the humanitarian crisis will go on as long as the political issue is not resolved." 

The United Nations views Darfur as the world's worst was to brief the Security Sudanese aid workers. ment forces and the Sudan humanitarian crisis. Council on the Darfur situ­A U.N. security team Liberation Army. 
The Sudanese govern­ation Thursday. searched on the ground However, Minni Minnawi, ment is under intense After touring the and by helicopter Tuesday secretary-general of the international pressure to Krinding camp, Corzine but turned up no trace of rebel Sudan Liberation restore calm across the and Holbrooke met African the workers _ three from Army, denied his group swath of western Sudan Union cease-fire commis­the U.N. World Food was holding the aid work­where an 18-month insur­sion officials in Al-Fasher, Program and five from the ers. The Sudan Liberation gency has killed more than the capital of North Darfur Sudanese Red Crescent. Army is one of two African 30,000 people and driven state. The international aid rebel factions that took up more than 1 million from Corzine told The agencies said they lost arms in February 2003 their homes. Associated Press after the radio contact Saturday claiming discrimination by 
A 30-day deadline set by meeting there is still much with the workers, who the Arab-dominated gov­the United Nations for the work to be done. were registering displaced ernment in the capital Sudanese government to "Maybe 30 days was an villagers in rebel territory. Khartoum. rein in Arab militiamen unrealistic timetable," he Sudanese officials "We ourselves suspect accused of the violence said of the U.N. deadline. "I charged that the aid work­the government, and the against black African farm­think the security and .ers had been kidnapped by Janjaweed. The area in ers, or face penalties, political situation is almost rebels waging the insur­which they were kidnapped expired Monday. untouched at this point." gency against the govern­is not in our control. It is in 
The United Nations is The visit by the U.S. dig­ment. The region south of the control of the govern­now considering whether nitaries coincided with the al-Fasher where the work­ment and there are many to impose sanctions on third day of a fruitless ers went missing has in the Janjaweed in that area," Sudan. The U.N. special search-and-rescue opera­past two years seen fierce Minnawi told The envoy to Sudan, Jan Pronk, tion for eight missing fighting between govern-Associated Press. 

Female suicide bomber kills 10 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A woman strapped with explosives blew herself up out­side a busy Moscow subway station Tuesday night, killing at least 10 people and wounding more than 50 in the second terrorist attack to hit Russia in a week, officials said. 
Seven days earlier, almost to the hour, two Russian jetliners crashed within minutes of each other in what officials determined were terrorist bombings. All 90 people aboard were killed, and the investigation has focused on two Chechen women believed to have been passengers. 
A militant Muslim web site pub­lished a statement late Tuesday claiming responsibility for the sub­way bombing on behalf of the "Islambouli Brigades," a group that also claimed it caused the jetliner crashes with suicide teams in retri­bution for Russia's war with Islamic rebels in Chechnya. The veracity of neither claim could be confirmed. 

The statement said Tuesday's bombing was a blow to Russian President Vladimir Putin "who slaughtered Muslims time and again." Putin has firmly refused to negotiate with the rebels in predomi­nantly Muslim Chechnya, saying they must be wiped out. 
Several female suicide bombers allegedly connected with the rebels have caused carnage in Moscow and other Russian cities in a series of attacks in recent years. 
Mayor Yuri Luzhkov told reporters near the Rizhskaya subway stop in northern Moscow that the bomber was walking toward the station shortly after 8 p.m. but turned around when she saw two police offi­cers. 
She "decided to destroy herself in a crowd of people" in a busy area between the subway station and a nearby department store-supermar­ket complex, Luzhkov said, adding that the bomb was packed with bolts and pieces of metal. 


page 6 Wednesday, September I, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Parking 
continued from page 1 
remain the same year to year. 
"I don't think we're writing any more than we have in other years," Johnson said. "Sometimes a reminder from our ol'fice in the form of a tick­et is necessary." 
Suzanne Stryker. an off-cam­pus resident who drives to campus for class, echoed Johnson's point. 
"Especially during the winter when the snow hasn't been cleared in the lot. I think park­ing tickets are necessary," she said. 
Still, many people dismiss parking tickets as being minor problems, even the $50 fine. 
"To me, it's not a big deal because they just go on your student account," Lemmon said. · 
Many drivers have discov­ered that NDSP gives out warnings, not tickets, to first­time offenders. meaning that the assigned amount on the ticket becomes void. 
Kelly Hardy, a sophomore in Welsh Family Hall, received a warning last year for not hav­
• DESI!:;N CUT&. SlYL£ • ADVJ>-NC(D COLOJI-.JN!:; &. COJI-.JI-.£CliON • PJI-.OFEHIONJ>-L ~vtJ>-K(·UP • • MEN'S SlYLJNc; • AVEDJ>-SPJ>-lvtJ>-NICUJI-.H &. PEDJCVJI-.H • BODY&. F>-CJJ>-L W.A.XJNc; • 
Illusions·:> 
AYE~»..· 
CONCEPT St\LON 
OPEN MON THRU SAT GIFr CERTIFICATES
574-272-0312 
Designers Trained in London, Toronto, Los Angeles, Atlanta & Chicago tHE COJI-.NEJI-. OF St>-H RD. 23 &. 111-.0NWOOD BEHIND 5USW.A.Y = 
ing a decal on her car. 
"I know you get one warning per academic school year and that is understandable because obviously there have to be rules that need to be fol­lowed," she said. "But I got a warning during move-in this year. I forgot to move my car overnight. They were going to tow it in the morning, and I thought that was a little over­board." 
All tickets can, however. be appealed to a board of neutral members. 
"There are no NDSP people on the appeal review board," Johnson said. "It is made up of faculty, staff and students." 
Students receive written notification once their ticket is reviewed by the board, and if dissatisfied ~ith the citation, may re-appeal their case. The second finding, however, is final. 
Johnson said that if students pay their fine within 10 days and move their car to a legal spot, NDSP offers a 20 percent discount on the fine. 
NDSP traffic rules, which dif­fer from parking rules, are set by the law enforcement pro­gram "Click It or Ticket." Funded by federal highway safety grants, the program was initiated in an effort to enforce seat belt and car seat laws for adults and children. Supported by Notre Dame. the program's mission is clear ­either buckle the seatbelt or get a ticket. 
There has been a national reduction in the number of deaths by car accidents follow­ing the institution of the pro­gram, which also has paid tel­evision, radio, billboard and print advertisements. Deemed successful, "Click It or Ticket" has been initiated all over the country, including in Indiana's neighboring states of Michigan, Illinois and Ohio. 
To promote compliance with state jurisdiction, all traffic tickets issued at Notre Dame follow "Click It or Ticket" reg­ulations. 
Notre Dame students travel­ing off-campus should be aware of the strict enforce­ment of the program in the South Bend area. 
"Local departments have geared up their patrols for school zones in particular," Johnson said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu. 


SMC initiates school recycling cainpaign 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's began a cam­pus-wide recycling program Aug.18 in an effort to become more environmentally con­scious. 
Before the College officially took over recycling efforts this month, the Student Environmental Action Coalition ran the Saint Mary's recycling campaign. SEAC members were responsible for collecting and driving the recyclables to the closest col­lection center in their own cars. 
"The [Student Environmental Action Coalition] had done it for a long time, and it was time for the College to step up and be more conscience about recycling so that the club could do other things," pur­chasing director Dan Deeter said. 
-----------~iooFF-----------~ 
HI-LITE AND HAIRCUT PACKAGE! 
-Exclusively with our Designers, Creative Designers and selected Master Designers­
0Men'.! Styling 0Auvanceu Coloring anu Correction 0Duig_n Cut anu Style 0Aveua Spa Manicure<~ ani! Peuicuru 
0ProjuJional Make-Up 
Offer valid thru October 3I. 2004 
ILLUSIONS -AN IMAGE WE CAN CREATE FOR YOU! 
green recycling bins are locat­ed in nearly every building on campus near other trash receptacle and vending areas. According to Deeter, the College signed a contract with a company to pick up the recy­clable goods every Wednesday. 
"Plans for the College to take over the recycling effort start­ed last fall," Deeter said. 
Students will be able to recy­cle their aluminum and metal cans, paper products, glass and plastic bottles, jugs and containers. 
Along with the general recy­cling bins are "Paper Only" bins, and students are urged not to place anything other than paper products into these bins. Deeter said. All plastic containers and bottles must be rinsed clean of residue and food morsels before being placed into the recycle bin, he said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 173.92 +51.40 

}onesA~~.  ' Same:  ~: Composite Volume  
.2,3:22  154  •  1,128,649,600  
AMEX  1,232.41  +8..08  
NASDAQ  1,368.68  +0.74  
NYSE  6,454.22  +39.68  
S&PSOO  1,104.24  +5.09  

NIKK.El(Tokyo) 11,081.79 0.00.< fTSE IOO(London) 4,459.30 +30.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.44 -0.31 21.29 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 27.30 CISCO SYmMS (CSCO) -1.38 -0.27 18.76 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.38 -0.14 9.97 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) + 1.57 +0.06 3.87 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.02 -0.51 49.38 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.34 -0.56 41.32 5-YEARNOTE -1.92 -0.65 33.24 3-MONTH BILL + 1.69 +0.26 15.68 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.16 42.12 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) + 2.40 412.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.95 92.43 
Excha e Rates 

YEN 109.1700 EURO 0.8212 POUND 0.5548 CANADIAN$ 1.3124 
IN BRIEF 
Stocks rise despite low confidence 
NEW YORK -A late-session buying spurt gave stocks a moderate lift Tuesday as investors managed to overcome their disap­pointment over troubling readings on con­sumer confidence and manufacturing. But with volume extremely light, analysts said it was difficult to place any real significance on the upturn. 
The plunge in the Conference Board's con­sumer confidence index, which fell to 98.2 in August from 105.7 in July, kept stocks lower for much of the day and raised concerns on Wall Street that a lack of new jobs could extend the summer's economic slowdown through the third quarter, or perhaps longer. Data on Midwest manufacturing activity also showed a sharp decline for the month. 
With oil prices extending their losses, buyers did move back into the market at the end of the session. Still, the turnaround was likely exaggerated because of the light turnover; many investors have stayed out of the market entirely during the Republican National Convention. 
New iMac released by Apple 
PARIS -The latest computer in the iMac family literally puts Apple's trademark mini­malism on a pedestal. The processor and drives are built into a sleek flat-panel display. 
"A lot of people are going to be asking, 'Where did the computer go?'" said Apple Computer Inc. senior vice president Phil Schiller as he introduced the new iMac on Tuesday, the opening day of the Apple Expo in Paris. 
The announcement ended days of fevered speculation about the launch, postponed from earlier this year because of inadequate sup­plies of the G5 processors made by IBM Corp. 
Available in 17 -inch and 20-inch versions beginning in mid-September, the new iMac looks like a 2-inch-thick monitor. 
Inside, however, is a large hard drive, 256 megabytes of memory and an ultra-fast processor of the kind reserved until now for Apple's professional Power Mac desktops. COs or DVDs disappear into the side of the white panel. as they are fed into a drive behind the screen. 
BELGIUM 

Sanctions against U.S. allowed 
WTO authorizes fines for failure to comply with anti-dumping laws 
Associated Press 
. BRUSSELS -The World 
Trade· Organization 
authorized the European 
Union and seven other 
leading U.S. trading part­
ners Tuesday to impose 
more than $150 million 
worth of sanctions against 
the United States for fail­
ing to repeal anti-dumping 
rules deemed illegal by the 
WTO. 
The ruling by the Geneva-based organiza­tion allows the com­plainants to fine the United States up to 72 per­cent of money collected from foreign exporters under the so-called Byrd Amendment. 
That legislation, dating from 2000, empowers Washington to hand over to U.S. companies the duties imposed on foreign firms judged to be unfairly dumping cheap goods on the U.S. market. A state­ment from the eight com­plainants estimated that money totaled about $240 million last year. 
"It is clear that the Byrd 
Amendment is a WTO­
incompatible response to 
dumping ... and must 
therefore go," said EU 
Trade Commissioner 
Pascal Lamy. 

However, the EU and the the United States will had sought the right to the Bush administration 
other complainants repeal the Byrd increase import tariffs on hadn't pushed the WTO 
Japan, Brazil, Canada, Amendment at an early selected U.S. goods by the hard enough so that it 
Chile, India, South Korea date, so that we can avoid total amount collected in would accept the Byrd 
and Mexico indicated invoking our right to take fines against their Amendment. 
they would hold off from countermeasures," Japan's exporters in the previous "Once again the Bush 
imposing sanctions. economy, trade and indus­year. administration failed to 
Instead they are likely to try minister, Shoichi "The arbitrators' deter­stand up for American 
use the threat of retalia­Nakagawa, said in Tokyo. minations fell far short of companies and workers at 
tion to press the U.S Nakagawa was quoted the amount requested by the WTO, and as a result, 
Congress for an early by Japan's Kyodo News the complaining parties," unfair trade practices are 
repeal Of the legislation. service as saying that if U.S. trade spokesman hurting our economy and 
A joint-statement from the United States refuses Christopher Padilla said in middle-class families," 
all eight said they could to repeal the Byrd a statement. Kerry said in a statement. 
"exercise their retaliatory Amendment, Japan will He said the Bush admin­Named for its sponsor, 
rights, at any time deemed ask the WTO to approve, istration would work with West Virginia Senator 
appropriate." "possibly this fall," specific Congress to comply with Robert Byrd, the three­
EU and Japanese offi­retaliatory measures. the WTO "in a way that year-old amendment pri­
cials said they hoped quick U.S. officials pointed out supports American jobs marily benefited American 
action by Washington that the WTO's ruling did and American workers." steel manufacturers. Other 
would avoid sanctions. not fully meet the requests Democratic presidential recipients include makers 
"Japan strongly hopes of the complainants who nominee John Kerry said of pasta and candles. 


Report finds Hollinger CEO guilty 
the Chicago Sun-Times and The fiduciary duty." 
Associated Press 

Jerusalem Post, following initial The report was the latest blow to findings from the committee that he Black, a flamboyant media tycoon NEW YORK -Conrad Black, the and others improperly received mil­who has been steadily losing his grip former CEO of Hollinger lions in fees and payments that on his newspaper empire over the International Inc., conspired with should have gone to the company. He past year. Born in Canada. he associates to systematically loot the remains the company's controlling renounced his citizenship to accept newspaper publishing company of shareholder. the title of Lord Black of more than $400 million nearly all of The committee's 500-page report Crossharbour in the United its profits from 1997 through 2003, makes even more sweeping allega­Kingdom, where he moved in high­an internal investigation found. tions of wrongdoing, accusing Black level social circles. He also published 
The report, which was filed with and a senior associate, former chief a widely praised 1,280-page biogra­the Securities and Exchange operating officer David Radler, of phy of Franklin Delano Roosevelt Commission on Tuesday, was pre­milking the company to satisfy their last fall. pared by a special committee of "ravenous appetite for cash." The committee found that Black Hollinger's board which was formed In an introduction to their report, had Hollinger pay for at least $8.9 last year to examine concerns from the three-member committee wrote: million worth of FOR memorabilia shareholders about payments made "This story is about how Hollinger while he was working on the book, to Black and others. was systematically manipulated and as well as a number of perquisites 
Black has since been forced out as used by its controlling shareholders for himself, his wife, and other asso­CEO and chairman of Hollinger for their sole benefit, and in a man­ciates that were often not properly International, the parent company of ner that violated every concept of disclosed. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, September 1, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
n.r-....-....DPJr~~N-tr<P..•-'"""""'"'7'> 

The sum of ourselves 
PO. Box Q, Note¢ Damc. 1N 46~S6 024 South Dinin& Hall. N®l: Daflle, IN 46~~ 
EOitolt IN OUllF Martwzar 
MANAGING EorroR 8USlNl!SS MANAGlllt 
Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
ASS'l'. MANAGING EDlrolt Joe Hettlel' 
NEWS Enrrolb Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOib Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR• Hi:arher Van H~cn ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith . IN Focus Eorro~tt Meghan Martin SAINT MARY's EDn'OR: Angda Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDJTOib Mike Harkins ADvERTISING MANAGEJU C;ude FEllllklin AD DESIGN MANAC.ER: Kdly Nekon SvsTF.MS ADMINlSTRATOib Mary Allen CoNTROU.J!R: Paula Garda 
0FRC£ MANAGER & G~NERALINFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631~6927 AnV£RTISING (574) 63 t-6900 ob&emd@>nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63h43l4 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obmews.l®nd.edu. VIEWPOINl DESK (574) 631-5303 vl<::Wpoint.l®nd;edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spf)rrs.!@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 s~ne.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'$ DESK (S74) 631·4~24 s~"J@nd.cduPHaro Om . (574) 631·8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB Allr.IIIIIS'mAlOIIS (574) 631~$839 

THE .,,,,,,,,,.....,... 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observa' is the indepenlknr, daily newspaper publimed in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial conrt:nt, including advettiscmenu. i.$ not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeirher irutiturion. Tbe Observer reserves the right to refWie advertisements based on rontMt. 
The news is reporred as <lCCiltatdy and objectively as possible. Uruigned editorials represent me opinion of the majority ofme Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, AMismnr Managing Editor and. deparunenr edir<its. Commentaries. leaers and columns present the Views of the author~ and not nec=arily tho5e ofThe Ob.lerver. 
Viewpoint space is awilable ro .UI fWl¢tsc The mie 
ilression ofall opinions through letti::rs is encouraged. L~lters ru the Editor must be signed and must include wntaer information. 
~stiom "larding Obmvtr policits shouldb; dirrcud t<l EditQr i11. Chi6fMaffLt;zar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
,., Ob"'.wr~USPS)99 ~-~ il puhli<h<I4Mond>Yth""'p ~ri<by-<dwt~ cm~1n ..nd ·~~ciodt. A:Nb:ittf~Mioo: ~~:~.....,,a $-100 rot«bee:~~ ~:U~foronc~ · · · · ·· 
,.,ob""'"..,,_!,;.r~~o<;..,;..,. . ~· ~ ~"'4"''""' . ~,..,. . .· .·
r'"'vt:d. ... .·. . ... 
~ O..•mr«it p111b~'..(i' ·OOl!O>Q 
•ll~ lou<h Din0o1 H.tl onso.o.t>...,H>~~ 
N•t~< o .... , IN ~556-0n<J Nom: 0...:. IN ~~~~rn P<t><>di<.l-cf'lth<~l.l­v.d.uidic4o".l ~J:t,j8RI dfk.cw. 
PC);-r~~~ 
.~......~........_....., 
ll.<Oiucrl« 
Th< Ob.cro<r iJ • .,...~:o...r ..,Nooci...d f'l-Nl n:pn><lu<:""" riP~ "" 
""""'"· 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Meghan Martin Matt Mooney Megan O'Neil 
Ann Loughery Jeannine Privat Dan Tapetillo 
Viewpoint .\}\ Scene Maureen Becca Saunders Reynolds mustrator 
Eileen Duffy ''' ·· Katie Knorr 
::::!:::·
Graphics Desiree Zamora 
\~· 

I I I I 
L_ 
' 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
If you're new on campus -even if you're not-you are probably famil­iar with something the advertisements call the Notre Dame Experience. I've never seen it outside of the brochures (that should tip you 
Lance Gallop 
off), but it seems to consist of football games. praying at the The Third Way Grotto, scintillating lunch discussions with professors ­which neither I nor anyone else I know of have ever had -and doing your best to look like you stepped right out of an Abercrombie catalog. Also, if you're honest, for consolation on the long nights there is beer. 
Now a new band of neophyte stu­dents wanders among us, more than anything else desiring to taste experi­ences, and only too eager to drink in those at Notre Dame. That is, after all, probably why our new friends came here; they are paying a lot of money for the Experience, and they want every bead and sequin. Oh. and they would like to be the next models in those Abercrombie flyers too, please. 
Sometimes we try to give them good advice on living the Notre Dame life and capturing the Experience, and it is the same advice that we were told long ago. Notre Dame is family. Notre Dame is values. Notre Dame is laud­able. We come to believe that Notre Dame is sisterhood, brotherhood, aca­demics, achievement, spirituality, hope, love and goodness. Notre Dame is football. Notre Dame is wealth, achievement, success and happiness. So we come to understand the Experience, and we gain peace in having lived it. 
There is one minor problem with all of this. It is completely and utterly 

wrong. 

The Notre Dame Experience is not the same as Notre Dame. If you can leave here after four years and give it one, or any of these labels, you've never been to Notre Dame. Notre Dame is family. values and all those virtues I named a moment ago ­everyone can see that. But Notre Dame is also well leavened with its share of bigotry, pride, greed and vain foolishness. If you live only in the light of the Notre Dame Experience, you will never see enough of the true heart of the University to believe this, and you will never love it enough to change it. You might as well not love it at all. But these realizations, impor­tant though they may be, are still only halfway to my point. 
You see, Notre Dame is not an expe­rience at all. Notre Dame cannot even be defined, let alone experienced, any more than you and I can really be defined or experienced. For Notre Dame is you, and it is I, and it is all the things that we do every day, both good and evil. There is hope and sor­row, friendship and enmity. equal parts of lust and holiness. much petty greed and much compassion. If Notre Dame has vice -and do not for any moment doubt that it does -then it is because we have vice. If Notre Dame has virtue, it is our virtue. Notre Dame is tragic, just as you and I are tragic. It is exactly as broken as we are. It is exactly as divine. 
If you only look to the Experience, you end up experiencing nothing. The character of Notre Dame does not fit in a brochure, or even into one of Monk's stock homilies. There is good 
here, and the good is far better than 
anything you will find in the 
Experience. But it is human good, 
good that is messy, lived and earned. 
miserably misunderstood and even 
suffered (you won't find that in the 
advertisements). But if you avoid the 
pain, as the Experience urges, you 
avoid the human lessons and divine 
truth of Notre Dame. and you gradu­
ate from an illusion. 
The Experience glosses over the 
harder parts of Notre Dame. In the 
real Notre Dame, we all must take 
responsibility for what we all have 
become and what we all are becom­
ing. In the real Notre Dame we hurt 
and give hurt. In the real Notre Dame, 
though there are times when the 
Grotto is all of your soul and half your 
heart, and there are times when and 
you can't find peace for all the can­
dles. The real Notre Dame is harder 
to bear. yes. but all the more precious 
because of it, for. properly tended. it 
becomes a living truth. And left 
untended, it will die. 
I'd like to think that all alumni come 
to this realization eventually, if only 
deep within. I tell it to you now for 
only one purpose. that you open your 
eyes .to everything around you and 
within you, and that you scrutinize 
Notre Dame as you scrutinize your­
self. 
That's the first step. 
Lance Gallop is a fifth-year senior majoring in computer science, philoso­.phy and theology. He can be reached at lgallop@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
caglecartoons.com 

1 "'THINK rr'S 11AtG 1C S1"•? ~2-A'ftft.(~ li-fEt \1\~-fN.AM. WAfl-AI\![) '-61 O/'j 10 A'1ofa£ IMpoRTANT ""(~IN~~ ••. t. t~f5 A WlAfNIEJl·"'TA"e ...AU-MtJ[)-W~sTut¥4f,AA1t-H t;6rw.weN "Tf+e. \?ust\ .l>AtJ6tff~SR-S AN~ ~t4e; ~t;~"' t¥\u£:J\o\TE"£S. 
'. 
OBSERVER POLL 

Should Tariq Ramadan be allowed to teach at Notre Dame? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The essence ofmorality is a questioning about morality." 
Georges Bataille French novelist 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 
page 9 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community debates Tariq Ramadan's character 
Facilitate ecumenical process; contest Ramadan's exclusion 
The U.S. Department of Homeland ics of the current government of Security's de facto veto of Notre Israel. This tactic is also used by other Dame's appointment of the Islamic neo-con Likudniks, for example, scholar Tariq Ramadan to a chair in Daniel Pipes, founder of Campus the Kroc Institute for International Watch, which encourages students to Peace Studies is offensive, not least as report professors who contest Israel's a denial of academic freedom. This policies. In short, criticism of Israel is revocation of Ramadan's work visa now being equated with anti­(initially approved last May by both Semitism. (Ramadan's the Departments of State and of offense, inter alia, was to Homeland Security) bears the imprint have scolded French of a maneuver by those influential Jewish intellectuals supporters of Israel's right-wing gov­for their silence on ernment now ensconced in the Israel's murder­Pentagon. These pro-Sharon, neo-con ous tactics in the Likudniks have been at the center of Occupied the Bush administration's foreign poli­Territories.) cy. What is more, 
A close scrutiny of Ramadan's work it is not only reveals an erudite, provocative schol­Muslim lead­ar, one committed to the further evo­ers and lution of Islam's understanding of its other non­revelation and religious practice. Jewish Moreover. he is concerned to facilitate opponents the discussions that must ensue if of Israel's Judaism, Christianity and Islam are to continued build mutual respect en route to control and developing some common ground -settlement of perhaps even an irenic witness to the basic justice for our disastrously Territories polarizing world. who are tar­
At this particular moment in history, geted in this Notre Dame has no more important manner. Jews in task than to facilitate an ecumenical the peace move­process, an initiative of the sort called ments who protest for in the documents of Vatican II, but Sharon's policies not vigorously pursued in its after­also find themselves math. The exclusion of Ramadan from smeared as anti-Semitic, our community must be contested as it "self-hating Jews." thwarts the University's independence An essential part of Notre in reaching out to leading scholars in Dame's mission at the beginning of the Islam, as it has already reached out to 21st century is to stand firm against Jewish intellectuals. such hateful attacks and persist in 
Furthermore. we must examine the opening up a courageous ecumenical tactics of Ramadan's accusers. While dialogue, one that respects the revela­they offer no evidence that he is a tions of the three great monotheistic threat to U.S. security, he is readily faiths and their common yearning for charged with being anti-Semitic -a social justice. tactic widely used in recent years by pro-Sharon elements in the American Peter Walshe Israeli Public Affairs Committee Professor, department ofpolitical science (AIPAC) and those in the Pentagon Fellow, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies who would intimidate and silence crit-Aug. 30 
Examine the skeletons in Ramadan's closet before defending him 
I sincerely hope that Jean Porter is European intelligence services to be one not suggesting in his Aug. 27 letter that of the clandestine leaders of the Muslim just because Tariq Ramadan is a so­Brotherhood (an organization that sup­called "brilliant scholar" he should be ports the Palestinian kamikazes of given a free pass into this country. Adolf Hamas). Ramadan supposedly greatly Hitler was a brilliant orator, but Notre influenced Djamel Beghal, a French citi­Dame did not invite him to teach rheto-zen arrested for plotting to bomb the 
ric. The U.S. government has U.S. Embassy in Paris, and Ahmed every right to be suspicious Brahim, an al-Qaeda member arrested of Ramadan. And for in Spain. The Islamic Center of Geneva, those of you who think headed by Ramadan's brother, is linked that the U.S. to al-Taqwa Bank which is one of the Department of financial institutions that was used by Homeland al-Qaeda. The Bank's assets were Security is on a frozen after Sept. 11. witch hunt, Ramadan is held up as a moderate perhaps you Muslim. But if he tells his followers that 
will believe the way to impose the Islamic faith is our supposed not by throwing bombs, but rather by intellectually simmering down, and accomplishes the 
superior same end as the bomb-throwers and more through other, less violent means ­sophisticat­does that make him a "moderate?" ed friends Ramadan calls for an Islamic Europe. across the He sees the West in decline, writing, Atlantic­"And into the spiritual void left by the French. Judaism and Christianity, Islam can 
It was enter and overcome, no longer endur­reported in a ing modernity, but islamicizing it." Wow, French news-I guess we should all get our prayer paper in 2003 rugs out now. that Ramadan Has anyone given any thought as to was under why he moved from Switzerland to investigation by France? He tried unsuccessfully to con­European intelli­vert Swiss youth, but has achieved 
gence services. (And much more success in France among its the French are always large Muslim population. Is that why he right.) wants to come to the United States? The 
According to Roland question needs to be asked. After all, 
Jacquard, President of the the United States has a growing popula­International Observatory of Terrorism, tion of Muslims, and we could soon be Ramadan -although not directly experiencing the same problems as involved in terrorist activities -is France. linked to shady individuals and net­Let's hear it for Homeland Security for works. The French daily newspaper, Le doing its job. Whether the accusations Monde, reported that he is suspected of leveled against Ramadan are true or having links with al-Qaeda. In fact, not has yet to be determined, but Ramadan is said to have organized a America cannot take that chance. meeting back in 1991 between Ayman al Zawahiri, al-Qaeda's number two, Kathleen Sappey and Omar Abdel Rahman, plotter of the senior first World Trade Center bombing. Lyons Hall Ramadan is also considered by many Aug. 30 
U-WIRE 
Bush speech must have broad appeal 
In the midst of a tight race, President Bush will make his case to the nation on Thursday night, a mere nine days before the Sept. 11 anniversary. Four years ago, on a different stage (Philadelphia) and in a different time (pre­Sept. 11), then-Texas Edward Guest Governor Bush accept­ed the Republican Kentucky nomination. 
Kernel 

Bush's speech, laden with tough criticism of Democratic cen­trism and promises to unite the country, persuaded many that he had the capabili­ty to govern as an effective leader, even if some questioned his policies. The presi­dent, for his own political sake, must at least replicate that showing at his Madison Square Garden gala, ifnot reach the levels of his Sept. 20, 2001 address that followed Sept. 11. 
Bush did not give an effective State of the Union address in 2004, he did not per­form particularly well during Tun Russert's grilling on "Meet the Press," and he has not captured the imagination of anyone, save his hardcore political base, in quite some time. That might well change on Thursday, when, for all practi­cal intents and purposes, Bush must destroy the candidacy of John Kerry and establish an insurmountable lead. 
Kerry, all criticism to the contrary, has run a methodical ifnot brilliant cam­paign, as recent polls suggest his support growing in key swing states such as Pennsylvania, Florida and Ohio. 
More importantly, no polling consensus has yet established that a Gore state is trending toward the Bush column, which would leave Kerry with at least 260 elec­toral votes -10 from victory. Many liber­als and Democrats have argued that the 2004 election most closely resembles 1980, a year when the race remained close until the last week, when a decisive majority of independents and undecideds broke for Reagan. 
Despite my aforementioned disposition, I believe Bush has a much stronger chance at preventing Kerry from sweep­ing the late board. In doing this, Bush admittedly has a difficult task: He must persuade many of the same people who broke late for President Clinton in 1992 ­and likely had voted for George H.W Bush four years previous -to give him their support. Bush needs to persuade Gore voters, or the nominal Democrats that pushed the veep over the top in the national ballot, to join his camp. Even though many of these voters are not in sync with the president on court appointees, the environment or taxes, Bush might have garnered their vote with positive developments in education, cou­pled with Medicare reform. 

Unfortunately for the president, neither of these initiatives has turned out rosy. Many voters believe that Bush has under­funded his much-ballyhooed "No Child Left Behind Act" and are confused by the Medicare reform. 
Also, with ominous signs of stagflation approaching, the economy does not appear likely to win the president many votes. Foreign policy-specifically a detailed plan about how long and why Americans are to remain in Iraq, and how his counterterrorism plan supersedes Kerry's-represents Bush's best oppor­tunity to win new voters. 
The glow that surrounded the president post-Sept. 11 has faded away, but many Americans remember his words of reas­surance leading up to the Afghanistan invasion and that they supported Saddam Hussein's removal from power. 
But they want to know why Osama bin Laden has not been brought to justice, why al-Qaeda's presence in Iraq has intensely magnified since March 2003, and how the president, if re-elected, can bridge the deep chasm between the United States and almost all the rest of the world. IfBush fails to unfurl a new idea or articulate a coherent message to these concerned Americans, his Nov. 2 support is likely to crest at 45 percent. But more than anything else, Bush must convince the aforementioned American electoral bloc, who are more and more inclined to believe that his "Steady Leadership in Times of Change" is the wrong leadership for the United States. 
This article originally appeared on Aug. 31 in the Kentucky Kernel, the daily pub­lication at the University ofKentucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Wednesday, September 1, 2004 



Tips for Tailgating 
COLUMN HY MAUREEN MALLOY 

Football may be the main attraction on Saturdays in South Bnnd, but no gridiron spectator is complete without a drink in one hand and a brat in the other. Tailgating is the perfect way to stretch a four-hour game into an ali-day event. llow else are Irish fans supposnd to bnar the frigid Indiana mornings without some warm food and good drinks to numb the cold? Although this girl is going to Dublin and won't be near Notre Dame's parking lot in the fall, I will be tailgat­ing in spirit and still havn some good tips and recipes to share. 
Serve mostly linger foods that can be prepared ahead of time (except for the grilling) and eaten while standing up. If you want something a little dassier than tlw usual burgers and hot dogs but don't want anything too fussy, try a menu with hand-held delec­table such as bacon-wrapped scallops, shish kabobs or tomato, mozzarella and basil skewers. 
Try to lind a parking spot by the grass or at the end of the parking row so you have morn room. Jiang a bright llag from your car so family and friends can lind you. Be ready to serve the food at least an hour and a half before kick oil". 
BBQ Chicken Quesadllla 
4 r.hkken thighs, boned. (a.bou1 1 pQund), skin 
rmnovnd 
:~cups Mnsa BBO sauce or store bought, divided 
Salt and frnshly ground pepper 
24 (6-inchl flour tortillas 
2 cups shn!dde!iMonterey Jack cheese 
2· <~ups shredded white chnddar cheese 
I large red onion, thinly sliced 
1/4 eu p olive oil 
2 tablespoons ancho chile powder 
Place in a medium baking dish. Pour 2 cups of the barbecue sauce over chieken and let marinate for 2 hours in the refrigerator. Remove from marinade, season with salt and pepper to taste and grill for 7 to H minutes on both sides or until tender and cooked through. Transfer chicken to a plate and let cool. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. When chicken is cool enough to handle, slice. Toss with the reserved 1 cup of barbecue sauce. Place eight tortillas on a flat sur­face and sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of each of the cheeses and onion slices. Top with some chicken. Stack another tortilla on top and repeat. Top with the remaining eight tortillas. Brush the top of the tortillas with oil and sprinkle with the chili powder. Place tor­tillas on a lightly oiled baking sheet and bake for 5 to 7 minutes or until golden brown and cheese has melt­nd. (wrap in foil and serve either at room tempera­turn or warm up on the grill for a couple of minutes) 
Copyright 1999 Bobby Flay. All rights reserved. 
Toffee Chip Bars 
2 1/4 cups flour 
1 teaspoon baking powdor 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 sticks butter, softened 
1 1/2 cups light brown sugar 
2 eggs, lightly beaten 
1 tnaspoon vanilla 
2 cups crushed chocolate coated toffee bars (heath bars) 
1 cup chocolate chips 
Prdwat oven to 350 degrees. Butter a 9-by-13-inch baking pan. In a large bowl, combine flour, baking powdnr and salt. Using an electric mixer, beat until tlw butter and sugar are flufTy. Beat in eggs and vanil­la. Add in flour one half at a time. Stir in crushed tof­fee bars by hand and spread in baking pan. Sprinkle top with choeolatl~ chips. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes. Cool and cut into bars. 
Hoeipe Courtesy of Cathy Lowe. © 2004 Scripps Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloy@nd.edu 

Lucky at Legends 
Lucky Boys Confusion rocked a packed crowd at Legends Saturday night 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Writer 
Legends hosted its first con­
cert of the year Saturday, fea­
turing the band Lucky Boys 
Confusion. Due to the band's 
reputation and the unbeatable 
ticket price (the show was free). 
confusion abounded at Legends 
when a much larger number of 
studonts came out to see the 
show than expected. Students 
grew anxious waiting for the 
doors to open and feared they 
would not be admitted into the 
show. When the small club 
reached its capacity, the staff of 
Legends was forced to turn 
away many disappointed fans. 
Waiting for the show to begin, many commented that Lucky Boys Confusion should have played at a bigger venue on campus. Although it is unfortu­natp, that more students could not get in due to the club's size, the small setting afforded a more intimate atmosphere, allowing everyone to get close to the stage and rock out. 
And rock out they did. 
Lucky Boys Confusion took the stage opening the set with the appropriately chosen "Saturday Night." While some only recog­nized the band's 2001 single "Fred Astaire," die-hard fans surged to the front, never miss­ing a note. The set list was well balanced, showcasing songs from both their first record "Throwing the game" (2001), as well as the more recent "Commitment" (2003). Lucky Boys Confusion also played "Broken," "Hey Driver," "Bossman," "Something to Believe" and "Do you Miss Me". among others. Finally, in what very well could be an anthem to end parietals, LBC ended the show with "3 to 1 0/Cd 's Caddy, Pt. 1". During the song they reminded the sweat­soaked audience that when some thing stands in their way of a good time, "there's always the back seat." Overall, the concert seemed a success. Everyone appeared to enjoy the show and, since it ended by 11:30 p.m., the night was still young enough for revelry, debauchery and late­night Yahtzee games. 
The five members of Lucky Boys Confusion hail from Chicago, where they have culti­vated a diverse following consist­ing of fans of all different ages, backgrounds and musical tastes. Their sharp lyrics and innovative ability to combine rock with other musical genres like hip-hop and reggae, gives LBC a unique sound, preventing LBC from being shoved aside as just anoth­er pop punk band. As is clear from their performance on Saturday, LBC's music has the power to reach audiences on multiple levels. 
It doesn't matter whether someone is a "420 geek", a bro-


ken-hearted cynic or a kid that would rather "drink beer and play Atari" than face the respon­sibilities of adulthood, Lucky Boys Confusion can reach all those fans without compromising the intention of their music. According to their website, LBC named its new album "Commitment" to express its commitment to each other as a band, as well as its commitment to each and every one of its fans. Produced by Sublime's Michael Miguel, "Commitment" comes to term with issues such as suicide and spiritual uncertainty while continually blurring stylistic gen­res. 
If you missed Lucky Boys Confusion this time around, dry your tear-ridden eyes and uncurl yourself from your fetal ball. Lucky Boys Confusion has announced that it will be touring this fall with the Plain White T's, The Matches and Dropping Daylight on the Suburban Curse Tour. 
Legends brought a great show to campus and gave the Chicago crowd at Notre Dame an opportu­nity to enjoy a city favorite. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 

~---~-~-­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 
page 11 
Hip-hop frotn Notre Datne 
Jeffery Stephens talks about growing up in Chicago and the music he creates at Notre Dame 
By MARIA SMITH The student was inspired to come to Notre Scene Editor Dame after being taught by a Notre Dame graduate through the ACE program at Notre Dame isn't usually seen as the home Holmes Franciscan High School, a private of great popular music, let alone great hip-school in south Chicago. Stephens relied on hop. his job, inheritance from his great-grand­Jeffery "Da Natural" Stephens doesn't plan mother and help from administrators at the to let that stop him. school to pay the tuition to get his high school 
Since coming to Notre Dame last year, the diploma. Keenan sophomore's reputation has steadily "In my family there's no room not to go to increased. He released "I Can Only Get college now, because there's no one to lean Better," his first album, during finals week of on," Stephens said. "I have to work hard, last semester. and has performed at numer-there's no one to pay for college." ous campus events including the Keenan The sociology major has possible plans to Hevue and the BCAC Fashion Show. Last go to law school after graduation. With the week Stephens performed at The Palace on help of a law degree, he would hope to be 
U.S. 31 for a crowd of 600 people. able raise awareness of educational and job 
Stephens is working on a opportunities in neighbor-second CD with Poetic hoods around where he Productions, a label operat-grew up. Some of Stephens' cd out of New Jersey by high school friends headed recent Notre Dame gradu-"In my family there's no to college after graduation, ate Napoleon. Suarez. The but not everyone he grew up album. titlna'"From Here to room not to go to college with was even aware of the ·There," is scheduled to now, because there's no possibilities. ~orne out in. the sprin;r of one to lean on, l have to "Most people around th_ere 
~~ith'i~a~~;ic+~;...1t ·uu?~~71oo~,!,--~"B:si~~s !~~t ~~;J.~e ~~M~.~ 
hobby for Stephens. The to pay for college." Stephens said. "I want to let 
student first started writing them !know] there's things 
songs when he was eight, besides what they're doing." 
and developed an interest in Jeffery Stephens First and foremost, how-
hip-hop around seventh Hip-hop artist ever, the student hopes to be 
grade. His first recording able to make his money 
was made on a computer through his music. 
microphone during his "Honestly, it's what I think 
freshman year of high I was born to do," Stephens 
school. said. "I can't get away from it." 
Stephens' lyrics reflect his experiences at Students who have heard some of Stephens' Notre Dame, but a lot of what the student work in the past will have a chance to hear raps about in songs like "We Came Up" and more the student performs a full set of origi­"Open Fire" obviously goes a long way back. nal songs at Legends on Thursday. Yatta Stephens grew up in and out of public hous-Holmes, a hip-hop artist who has helped ing on the south side of Chicago, often in Stephens record in the past, will open the neighborhoods that suffered problems with show. The show will start at 10:00 p.m. and drugs and violence. is open to all students. 
The path to Notre Dame may not be easy for any student, but for Stephens getting to where he is today required an extra effort. Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

Photos courtesy of Jeffery Stephens Jeffery "Da Natural" Stephens, right, and Lawrence Santiago in 2004 after they took 3rd place in the Irish Idol Competition held at Notre Dame. 
Selected Lyrics from 
Jeffery Stephens 
"...How can people, help the poor if they never been poor Or ease the pain if they never been soar It's kinda hard to think, if u never been sure How can you get the picture if you never been shown 
...Living in today's world, its harder to feel black People lie, people cheat, we all conceal facts At the football games, people scream­ing the kill chant? Apparently we're free, but where is Emmit Till at?" 
-from "Wonder Why" 
"And feeling tougher than indestructible medel Watching the dust as it settles, I should be crazy cause I come from the ghetto But deep inside I be the humblest fel­low 
And that's strait from the heart, knew I was different, yea, strait from the start Kept participating and playing my part, some niggaz stay in the dark Life ain't easy but I'm playin my cards and eventually find my way in the stars Yea life ain't easy but keep playing your cards, you'll eventually find your way in the stars." 
-from "We Came Up" 
. -~ 
Wednesday, September I, 2004

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Questions abound for Tiller's Boilermakers 
Coach not sure what to expect for 2004 
Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS -It must be close to the start of the foot­ball season. Purdue coach Joe Tiller is getting nervous, and he would­n't have it any other way. "I think when I lose that, that's probably when I will quit coaching," Tiller said Tuesday. "I find every year exciting. I find the start of the year the most exciting part of the year." His eighth season with Purdue begins in a nationally televised (ABC) game against Syracuse on Sunday. The 24th­ranked Boilermakers were 9-4 last year and return eight starters on offense, including their quarterback, running 
back and a receiver who could set Big Ten records for career catches and yards. 
But Tiller is getting those familiar jitters. 
"I get nervous about the bezillion things that could g·o wrong or could go right to have us look like a football 
team," he 

s a i d "Nervous is perhaps not the word. Anxious, I think, is the right word. I'm anxious to see these 
Tiller guys play. 
"I have an opinion about these guys, but I have been around long enough to know that can all go out the door in a hurry." 
Like it did last year, when the Boilermakers were upset 

in their opener 27-26 by Bowling Green. Their only other defeats were at Michigan and Ohio State, which tied them with the Buckeyes for second place in the Big Ten, and in overtime to Georgia in the Capital One Bowl. 
Syracuse ended last season with a 38-12 victory over Notre Dame but finished just 6-6 and sixth in the Big East, failing to gain a bowl bid for the third time in four years. Sunday's game will be the first between the Orange and the Boilermakers. 
"I don't really know what to expect," Tiller said. "They've made an adjustment in their coaching on the offensive side, but I don't think their base offense is going to change much. They like to run, and have one of the top running backs in the country. If you have a talent like that, cer­tainly you're going to exploit that." 
Coach Paul Pasqualoni is also the offensive coordinator, calling all the plays for the Orange, who return two-time 1,000-yard rush-
from Cincinnati wanting to change its schedule in antici­pation of its move next year to the Big East. Syracuse then agreed to make the switch, and ABC offered to televise it if it was moved from Saturday to Sunday. That 

er Walter Reyes will give Purdue at tailback but "I get nervous an open week on have a trio of Sept. 18, the orig­
about the bezillion 
players still bat­inal date of its
things that could
tling for the game with quarterback job. go wrong or could Cincinnati. 
Purdue's top go right." Tiller said open­returning players ing the season on include quarter­a Sunday is no 
Joe Tiller
back Kyle Orton, big deal. 
running back Boilermakers coach "It's kind of a Jerod Void and bigger deal com-receiver Taylor ing out [the next Stubblefield, who needs 31 week]." he said. "In our sport catches and 1,255 yards of football. you declare an off­receiving to break former day and it stays that same off­teammate John Standeford's day all year long, and our off­Big Ten career records. day is Monday. We're not 
The Sunday game resulted going to change it." 

Friedgen building a winning legacy with 2004 Terrapins 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. -The challenge facing Ralph Friedgen this season is simi­lar to the one he tackled upon his arrival at Maryland. 
llis goal: To buck the odds and make the 22nd-ranked Terrapins a force in the pow­erful Atlantic Coast 
... Conference. This time, though, instead of trying to build a winner, the portly football coach will attempt to sustain an unprecedented run of suc­cess. He will seek to do so in a beefed-up conference and with the youngest team he's ever had. If he can win with this group, then Friedgen is worth every penny of an upgraded contract that will pay him an average of $1.5 million over the next eight years. The Terrapins have little game experience at quarter­back, one senior on the defensive line and just one returning starter in the sec­ondary. In addition, Maryland will be competing in an ACC that now includes Miami and 
Virginia Tech. 
"It's not going to be easy because we have a lot of young players," senior receiv­er and kick returner Steve Suter said. "We're going to have a lot of new players stepping into new roles." 
But the Terrapins have Friedgen, who knows a thing or two about overcoming adversity. 
Before he arrived, Maryland went 10 years without a bowl appearance and was 37-73-1 since 1990. Football games were poorly attended, and most Terp fans lost interest once the basketball team held its Midnight Madness ceremo­ny each October. 
Friedgen changed all that. He guided Maryland to the ACC title in his first season, took the Terrapins to the Peach Bowl the following year and last season capped another spectacular effort with a rout of West Virginia in the Gator Bowl. 
Now, after going 31-8 the best record by a coach after three seasons in ACC history Friedgen is looking to keep a good thing going. 

The key to the Terrapins' success is tied to the develop­ment of sophomore quarter­back Joel Statham, who takes over for the dependable Scott McBrien as the leader of an offense that also lost standout running back Bruce Perry. 
Statham got his experience under fire last year, coming in relief of an injured McBrien in a road game against Georgia Tech. He failed to produce a touchdown and Maryland lost the game, but the experience he's gained this summer has Friedgen thinking Statham might develop into a solid quarter­back. 
"His decision-making has been excellent. The ball's going to the right place a lot of the time," the coach said. "What we have to do better is finish the play." 
The oft-injured Perry will be replaced by Josh Allen, a junior who last year led the team in yards rushing (922) and touchdowns (nine). Allen will get help from Sammy Maldonado, whose 2003 sea­son was cut short by a knee injury. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886· Oscilloscope Digital 1 00 MHz 1 bedroom Topsfield Condo for WANTED: GA home footballtix. 4189 $1500. 273-2428. rent, 1 0 minutes from Campus, Call 276-8507. After 5 p.m. call 784· 
NOTICES $550/mo + utilities, modem, hard-TICKETS 8638. 
Looking for child care for 2 great 99 Red Toyota Corolla LE 4dr wood floors, washer & dryer and 
kids, 2-3 afternoons weekly. Good sedan.Excellent.5 spd. community pool. Available immedi-JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, Got Highspeed? Want WIRELESS? pay. Sunroof,AIC,Cruise. New ately. Will consider lease/purchase A businessman needs season tick-NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO Networks installed and secured. 233-2921. tires, 71 k. $7500. 272-2918. option. Call 255-5365. ets for clients. 277-1659 FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 
Dan 243-1515 NDDan03@yahoo.com LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club LaSalle are hiring for the following 
postions: 
Cocktail Server (Must be over 21) 

Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart-Main Dining Room Server (Must be ment. 1909 Lincolnway West 21) Flexible Hours available. Please $450/month. 246-4634 pick up applications at 115 West 
Colfax Avenue, any time after 2:00PM 

WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES • needed for FoR SALE 
south side elementary school local­
ed near Erskine HOUSE FOR SALE 915 E. 
Washing1on-close to campus; 3 

Golf Course on Miami Street. $30 bdrm 1.5 bath & lots of per soccer game. Call 574-291-closets/storage, 2 car garage Ph 4200. 289-5922 99 Red Toyota Corolla LE 4dr sedan. 5 spd. Sunroof,A/C,Cruise. New tires,71 k. 
Book value. 272-2918. 
FoR RENT 
APARTMENT FOR RENT IN MISHAWAKA Furnish and all utili­ties included. No smoking, 
No pets. Call 255-1738 for informa­lion. Single person, no children. $400 mo. 
4 bed 2 bath 925 No. Lawrence 876-7339 or 288-3613 

2 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND.CLOSE.IDEAL FOR 2-4 PEO­PLE. VERY REASONABLE RENT. 
277-3097. 

3 unit house.$550 per unit/mo. lncl water & elec. Each unit has full 
kitchen,bath & 2 bdrms. Off street parking. Can walk to campus. Property Management Services, 233-4590 
Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart­ment. 1909 Lincolnway West $450/month. 246-4634 
674-6593. 

BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-NO alum needs 2 tix for Michigan 3911 game on Sept. 11. Please call Mary 
at917-763-6B42. 

For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good PERSONAL 
prices. 232-0964. YoungNDalumsneedTURTLECREE Wanted: NO football tix. Top $$$ KAPTforMICHIGANwknd. Willpayto 251-1570. p$$$andfinancepartyforyouand­friends. Willacceptbestproposai.Cont NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. actCPOEMD@AOLCOM 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
2 bedroom apartment for rent.  Wanted: Football season tix or  Sister Locks by Phyllis 269-683­ 
$525/month. Students welcome!  Michigan tix. 233·3618  4426  
1909 Lincolnway West. 246-4634  

----~--­

---------------------------.. Wednesday, September 1, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Edmonds flying high as Cardinals keep soaring 
Prior hit hard as Cubs lose, continue slump 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS ~ Jim Edmonds homered twice, giving him seven in six games, and the St. Louis Cardinals powered past 
the  San  Diego  Padres  9-3  
Tuesday night.  
Albert  Pujols  and  Edgar  

Renteria each homered and had three hits for the NL Central leaders. Reggie Sanders also had three hits, and drove in a run. 
Woody Williams (1 0-7) became the fifth member of the Cardinals' rotation to reach double figures in victories. 
The Cardinals beat up on 13­game winner Brian Lawrence and the San Diego bullpen to win their fourth in a row. and lowered their magic number for clinching the division to 16. 
St. Louis also beat one of its potential opponents in the play­offs: the Padres are battling for the wild card spot and have won six of eight on a 10-game trip. 
Edmonds was 3-for-3 with his 37th and 38th homers, two walks and an RBI single. He connected off Lawrence (13-11) to lead off the second and again off Steve Watkins in the seventh on the front end of back-to-hack homers with Renteria. 
Montreal 8, Chicago 0 
Livan Hernandez allowed three hits in eight scoreless innings, and Brad Wilkerson and Maicer Izturis each hit home runs in the Montreal Expos' victory over the Chicago Cubs on Tuesday night. 
Hernandez (1 0-12) also had two hits including an RBI single for the Expos. He allowed Moises Alou's single in the sec­ond, Derrek Lee's single in the fourth, and Michael Barrett's single in the fifth. Hernandez also walked four. 
T.J. Tucker allowed Ramon Martinez's leadoff single in the ninth before getting three outs to complete Montreal's 1 at'h shutout of the season. 
Chicago, which began the day with a half-game lead over San Diego in the NL wild-card race, has lost four of five after losing just once in its previous nine games. 
Mark Prior ( 4-4) allowed four runs in the first, including Wilkerson's leadoff homer. 
. Izturis made it 5-0 in the fourth with his first major league homer. 
Houston 8, Cincinnati 0 
Jeff Kent homered twice and the Houston Astros hit three straight shots in the fifth inning Tuesday to defeat the Cincinnati Reds. 
Carlos Beltran, -Jeff Bagwell and Lance Berkman hit consec­utive home runs for the Astros, winners of a season-high five straight and eight of nine over­all. 
Brandon Backe (2-2) scat­tered three hits over six shutout innings to win for the first time in three career starts. He threw seven shutout innings in a no­decision against Chicago in his first career start on August 21. 
The ReQ.s got just on~ runner past second base against Backe. Barry Larkin went to third on Sean Casey's two-out double in the sixth, but Backe struck out Adam Dunn to end the threat. 
Atlanta 5, Philadelphia 3 
Mike Hampton has few expla­nations for the turnaround that's made him one of base­ball's best pitchers over the past few weeks. 
Hampton pitched two-hit ball over eight innings and Andruw Jones hit a two-run homer to lead the Atlanta Braves to a vic­tory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Tuesday night. 
"Confidence is pretty high and, in this game, when you've got confidence anything can happen," Hampton said. 
Eli Marrero went 3-for-4 and Julio Franco had two RBis for the Braves, who went 20-8 this month, marking just their sec­ond 20-win August since mov­ing to Atlanta from Milwaukee after the 1965 season. They also did it in 1999, going 21-7. 
Milwaukee 4, Pittsburgh 2 
The Milwaukee Brewers snapped a 12-game losing streak and avoided their worst month in franchise history with a 4-2 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Tuesday night. 
Geoff Jenkins' two-run double highlighted a four-run first inning off rookie right-hander John Van Benschoten, and Milwaukee's beleaguered bullpen turned in a solid per­formance after lefty Doug Davis was knocked out in the second inning with a bruised forearm 
The Brewers went 6-21 in August, barely avoiding their worst month in franchise histo­ry (6-22 by the Seattle Pilots in August 1969). Still, it was their worst month since moving to Milwaukee in 1970, displacing the 6-20 mark from July 2001. 
Matt Wise (1-1) pitched 3 2-3 scoreless innings for his first 



a..e you tbiDkiDg about beaoanlng Catbolla? 
from one an­
other. The RCIA gives you a chance to walk with some­one as you ex­plore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us 
For mare info. 
Contact: 
TamiScbmitz 
@ 
631-3016 
sclunitz.B@Jtd.edu 
308 Coleman. 
Monre Center 
Learn more about: 
* The Sacraanents oflnltlatloa Baptlsan, EucJ:aiU'Ist, & Co:nflnnatlo:n: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of 
the Catholic Church. 
*Full Coan.an.u:nlon: 
for baptized persons wanting full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
RCIA INFO SESSIONS Sunday, Sept. 5th 
Candidates and Sponsors 
l-2PM 330 Coleman~Morse Center 
Sunday Sept. 12th 
Candidates and Sponsors 
l-2PM 330 Coleman~Morse Center 

win since April 6, 2001. 
Florida 5, New York 0 
Josh Beckett saved his best for the Big Apple again. 
Beckett pitched a six-hitter for his first regular-season shutout, leading the Florida Marlins over the New York Mets 5-0 on Tuesday night for their fifth consecutive victory. 
Of course, it wasn't quite the finest performance of Beckett's four-year major league career. He threw two shutouts in the 2003 postseason, including a five-hitter in a 2-0 victory at Yankee Stadium in the World Series clincher. 
"Maybe I'm more comfortable here, I don't know," Beckett said. "I was just going to go at 'em today I'm not going to pick." 
Juan Pierre hit a two-run sin­gle and the Marlins took advan­tage of a career-high seven walks by Steve Trachsel, who lost his fourth straight start. Beckett drove in a run with a bases-loaded walk and Paul Lo Duca had an RBI single. 
Florida, which moved within three games of the NL wild-card lead, won for the eighth time in 10 games to improve to six games over .500 for the first time since June 24. 
"We're relaxed because everybody counted us out already. That's the way we like it," manager Jack McKeon said. "That's what happened last year they can't win. Fine, great." 
Beckett (6-8) struck out two and walked none to win for only the second time since May 20, when he beat Houston 4-3. The World Series MVP was 1-5 with a 5.21 ERA in his previous 10 starts, but he dominated New York's depleted lineup. 
"I wouldn't say he was as sharp tonight as he was against the Yankees. But it was good enough," McKeon said. 
Beckett threw 80 of his 116 pitches for strikes and retired 13 of his final 14 batters. 
San Francisco 9, Colorado 5 
Yorvit Torrealba and Marquis Grissom homered, and Ray Durham hit a tiebreaking three­run double to lead the San Francisco Giants over the slumping Colorado Rockies on Tuesday night. 
Barry Bonds went 1-for-2 with a double and remained at 696 career home runs, but the Giants got enough offense from other sources to move into a virtual tie with the Chicago Cubs for the wild-card lead, a half-game ahead of San Diego. 
Brett Tomko (8-6) won his third straight decision, which included his first career shutout last Thursday a four-hitter in a 5-0 win over the Florida Marlins. 
Dustin Hermanson relieved Jim Brower with two runners aboard in the ninth, then got three outs for his eighth save in 10 chances. 
Torrealba hit a solo homer deep into the left-field bleachers in the second off Jeff Francis (0­
2) his career-high fifth homer. Grissom chased Francis with a three-run shot to left on a full­count in the fifth. 
Vinny Castilla and Luis Gonzalez each homered for the Rockies, who lost their eighth straight and are off to an 0-7 start on their season-high 12­game road trip. 
Los Angeles 4, Arizona 1 
Steve Finley hit a three-run double in the 13th inning in his return to Arizona, lifting the Los Angeles Dodgers to victory over ._ the Diamondbacks on Tuesday night. 
Finley also homered off Randy Johnson as he faced Arizona for the first time since the Diamondbacks traded him on July 31. 
Brian Bruney (3-4) gave up a leadoff single to Alex Cora and, one out later, walked pinch-hit­ter Hee Seop Choi and Cesar Izturis to load the bases. Bruney fell behind Finley 3-0, got a strike and then threw a pitch down the middle that Finley drove into the left-field gap to score all the runners. 
Dodgers closer Eric Gagne (5­

3) pitched two scoreless innings for the win, and Giovanni Carrara pitched a perfect 13th for his second save. 
Johnson, 0-2 in three starts since pitching into the ninth in a 2-0 shutout win over the New York Mets on Aug. 15, struck out a season-high 15 and allowed three hits and one walk in eight innings. He increased his major league-leading strike­outs total to 242, and left him with 4,113 in his career 23 shy of tying Steve Carlton for the most by a left-bander. 





OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BsrRvnts WIRE sERVtcrs Wednesday, September 1, 2004 
team record New York 81-50 Baaton 71-5:1 Baltimore 69-71 rampaaay 59·72 Toronto 54·78 
team record Mlnneuta 73·58 Cleveland 67-66 Chicago 64·66 Delroll 6N1 Kansas City 46·85 
team 
Oakland AnabeiJn 
Texa' 
Seattle 
team St. Louis ellleaao .... 
Houston ?''' 
Cmclnuu 
Plltsblll'flh .,,,, 
Mllwaukae··'''·'· 
team losAnoelas 
San Diego 
San Fmnclsco Colorado Arilona 

around the dial 
MLB Chicago Cubs at Montreal 6:05 p.m., FSN Colorado at San Francisco 9:15 p.m., FSN 
TENNIS 
U.S Open Coverage 6 p.m., USA 
POKER World Poker Tour 5 p.m., ESPN2 
Getly 

Dany Heatley, left, of team Canada fires the puck as Brian Rolston, right, of team USA attempts to check him during the third period of their game In the World Cup of Hockey. Canada defeated the United States 2-1. 

Canada defeats United States in opener 
Associated Press 2002 Salt Lake City Wednesday. Canada will play its sec­
Olympics. Joe Sakic also scored for ond game of the round 
MONTREAL -Martin Canada's 38-year-old Canada, which controlled ro~in portion of the eight­St. Louis had a goal and captain Mario Lemieux the game at both ends of team tournament an assist to lead Canada to went after Steve the ice for the first 25 Wednesday night against a 2-1 victory Tuesday Konowalchuk when the minutes before the United Slovakia in Montreal. The night over the United American forward ran into States took back the United States will play States in the World Cup of Brodeur. Both teams also momentum. Russia on Thursday night Hockey opener for both lost players to injuries, as Bill Guerin scored for in St. Paul, Minn. teams. defenseman Ed Jovanovski the United States, which Canada was leading 2-1 
The game was fast­was knocked out of beat Canada 5-2 in the at 16:03 of the second paced and full of hard-hit­Canada's lineup, and the final of the inaugural period frame when ting, and featured stellar United States was without World Cup in 1996 in the Konowalchuk came in play by Canada goalie forward Mike Modano for same building. hard and bumped Brodeur Martin Brodeur and U.S. most of the game. "They came out hungri­in the crease. counterpart Robert Esche. As is typical with NHL er then we were, way Lemieux, not known for 
It took little time for the playoff games, neither more intense," U.S. coach fighting, especially due to teams to show signs of the team would give specifics Ron Wilson said. his fragile back, charged heated rivalry that has about the ailments. Both "Fortunately Robert Esche in and tussled with peaked since Canada beat were said to have lower was on top of things ... we Konowalchuk until line­the United States in the body injuries and were to needed our goaltender to mate Jarome lginla took gold-medal game of the be re-evaluated on keep us in there." over. 
IN BRIEF 
Brackett ready to step in 
for Colts 
INDIANAPOLIS -To some, he's too small to play middle linebacker in the NFL. 
But Gary Brackett, all 5-foot-11 of him thinks that he can be a force for the Indianapolis Colts this season. 
Brackett was a surprise when he made the Colts' roster as an undraft­ed free agent a year ago. 
The former Rutgers standout proved he could hold his own in the NFL. 
"A lot of people have talked about my size, but I've never seen it as a problem," he said Tuesday. "I think that I showed people last year that I could play in this league and play well if I was given the opportunity. The Colts gave me that chance last year, and I'm still here." 
He said he uses the talk about his size to his advantage. 
"The way the game is now, it's more based on speed and quickness than it is on size," he said. 

The Glassboro, N.J., native played in 16 games a year ago and had 16 tackles, mostly on special teams. 
He also returned an interception for a 31-yard touchdown against Denver Broncos quarterback Jake Plummer. 
He has been splitting time this pre­season with veteran starter Rob Morris, and that rotation could carry into the regular season. 
"Gary is playing well. We're alter­nating those guys. Gary's done a good job. Rob's done a good job. We feel like we have two pretty good players there," said Colts coach Tony Dungy. 
He said Morris is probably ahead of Bracket on the depth chart. 
"(Morris) was the starter there last year and has really done nothing to show that he shouldn't be," Dungy said. Knight in works with CBS to develop half-hour sitcom 
LUBBOCK, Texas -The life and times of Bob Knight could soon be right inside America's living rooms. 
The fiery Texas Tech coach met with television officials last month in Los Angeles and gave his approval for a sitcom deal. CBS and Paramount Television are exploring the development of a half-hour com­edy that could run by next year. 
Knight, 63, would serve as a con­sultant and said he might make guest appearances. 
"Right now it's still in an embryon­ic stage," Lindy DeKoven, who would serve as the show's executive pro­ducer, told the Lubbock Avalanche­Journal for Tuesday's editions. "Right now we don't have a writer yet, so we can't get into too much detail. But, it would be a half-hour comedy based on Bobby's charac­ter." 
Knight was out of town Tuesday and couldn't be reached for com­ment. The next step is for a writer will come to Lubbock to spend time getting to know Knight at work and at home. 

Wednesday, September I, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Tribe shells Bronx Bombers in record blowout 
and 19-1 at home against 2003.

Ichiro collects 3 more 
Detroit on June 17, 1925. Carlos Delgado and Eric hits in Mariners win, Previously, the Yankees' Hinske hit consecutive homers 
biggest shutout loss was 15-0 for the Blue Jays, who havehas 56 in August at home against the Chicago lost six of seven. 
White Sox on May 4, 1950. Baltimore 10, Tampa Bay 6 

Associated Press 
Seattle 7, Toronto 5 Melvin Mora and Jay Gibbons 

NEW YORK -With an epic Ichiro Suzuki got three hits to homered in the 12th inning and defeat, the New York Yankees' finish with 56 in August, the the ffaltimore Orioles outlasted hold on first place in the AL most in a month by a major Aubrey Huff and the Tampa East became increasingly tenu­leaguer in 68 years, and the Bay Devil Rays Tuesday night. ous. Seattle Mariners rallied past Huff homered twice. He hit a 
Omar Vizquel got six hits to the Toronto Blue Jays Tuesday tying home run with two outs tie the American League record night for their season-high fifth in the ninth, then tied it again for a nine-inning game and the straight victory. with an RBI single in the 11th. Cleveland Indians routed New The last player to get so Mora hit his 23rd homer York 22-0 Tuesday night in the many hits in a month was leading off the 12th against largest loss in the 1 01-year his­Cleveland's George Weatherly Lance Carter (3-3). After B.J. tory of the Yankees. in July 1936. Surhoff had an RBI single, 
Cleveland matched the Suzuki, chasing George Gibbons hit a two-run homer to largest shutout win in the Sisler's major league record for make it 10-6. major leagues since 1900. set hits in a season, finished 3-for-Gibbons· also homered in the by Pittsburgh against the 5 and has 212 hits. Sisler got third, and he tied a career-high Chicago Cubs on Sept. 16, 257 hits for the St. Louis with four hits. 1975. Browns in 1920. Surhoff hit a go-ahead single 
Yankees owner George Suzuki set a club recerd for in the 11th inning, giving Steinbrenner watched his team hits in a month, two more than Baltimore a 6-5 lead. Huff's fall in record fashion, then Alex Rodriguez had in August single off Buddy Groom ( 4-1) refused to answer questions as 1996. Suzuki is hitting .463 evened it. he left the ballpark. since the All-Star break. Jorge Julio gave up Huff's 
Cleveland's runs total seemed After Suzuki tied it at 4 with home run in the ninth. All to spin by on the scoreboard as an RBI single off Vinnie Chulk three of Julio's blown saves in fast as the symbols on a slot in the seventh inning, Randy 22 chances this season have machine. New York's AL East Winn singled to right to give come against Tampa Bay. lead, which stood at 10 1/2 Seattle the lead. Jose Cruz Jr. also homered games on the morning of Aug. Toronto's Alex Rios tied it at for Tampa Bay, which has lost 16, was cut to 3 112 games by 5 with an RBI single off Jamie four straight. Boston, which beat Anaheim Moyer in the seventh, but Oakland 7, Chicago 2 10-7 for its 19th win in 23 Seattle scored twice in the Rich Harden pitched seven games. eighth on Dan Wilson's RBI sin­solid innings to help the 
Javier Vazquez (13-8) was gle off Kerry Ligtenberg (1-6) Oakland Athletics extend their knocked out in the second and Suzuki's run-scoring sin­winning streak to eight games inning, Cleveland took a 15-0 gle. Tuesday night with a win over lead in the fifth and Jody Gerut Scott Atchison (2-2) pitched 1 the Chicago White Sox. and Victor Martinez hit three­1-3 innings for the win. J.J. Adam Melhuse went 3-for-4 run homers off Esteban Loaiza Putz got his sixth save. with a home run and Mark in the ninth. The Mariners won five Kotsay also had three hits for 
New York had never lost by straight for the first time since the A's, who matched their more than 18 runs, falling 24-6 recording a nine-game winning longest winning streak of the at Cleveland on July 29, 1928, streak from May 27-June 5, season and won for the 13th 

IBM+ND IBM ThinkPad R51-BTS2DD4 IBM ThinkPad 141-BTS2004 
FACUUY, STAFF. STUDENT ftATES 
1.6GHz Pentium® M with Integrated 802.11blg 1.5GHz PentlumR M with Integrated 802.11a/b/g Window. XP Pro Wirele•l!ll Networking Window• XP Pro Wlreleea Networking 
14.1 Inch •cre~m 66Kb• Modem 14.1 Inch acreen 56Kba Modem 40GB Hard Odve Ethernet NIC 30GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 266MB DDR SCRAM 3~year warranty 512MB OOR SDRAM 3-year warranty CO-RW/DVD Combo Drive CD~RW/DVD Combo Drive 
$1.649.00 $1.934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories tDiocounled Prica Ron.ct.dl 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash Drive $55.00 73P3599 $39.95 OlN1575 $314.00 73P2562 $49.95 08K821 4 
The featured models include: 3Year Parta & Labor Warranty (Battery: 1 Year), 24 HourToll-FreeTechnical Support, Rapid Restore Rescua and Racovery Software, Norton AntiVirus 2004 (OEM Edition), Internet Scroll Bar, Spiii-Reaiatant Keyboard, Touchpad andTrackpoint. Hard Driva Shock Absorber. 


time in 14 games. They also extended their lead in the AL West to three games after the Boston Red Sox defeated the Anaheim Angels 10-7. 
Harden (9-5) won his sixth straight decision and has not lost since a 10-3 defeat at Anaheim on June 21, a span of 13 starts. He allowed one run on four hits, while striking out five and walking none, and retired 11 of his last 12 batters. Boston 10, Anaheim 7 
Manny Ramirez homered twice, Curt Schilling moved into a tie for the major league lead with 17 wins and the streaking Boston Red Sox beat the Anaheim Angels Tuesday night. 
Boston won its season-high seventh straight and for the 13th time in 14 games to take a 2 1/2-game lead over the Angels in the AL wild-card race. Anaheim had won 10 of 11. 
The Red Sox were on track to cut New York's lead in the AL East to 3 1/2 games with the New York Yankees losing big to Cleveland; that would trim seven games from Boston's deficit since Aug. 15. 
The ovation Schilling (17 -6) received when he tipped his cap on the way off the field in the eighth inning was the only thing the crowd liked better than the highlights from the 
Indians'  bashing  of  the  
Yankees.  
That  game  at  Yankee  
Stadium  drew  spirited  

applause when it was shown on the Fenway Park score­board in the eighth, with fans laughing mockingly when a New York outfielder misplayed a ball over his head. When the camera cut to the 16-0 score on the scoreboard, Fenway erupted. 
Anaheim went 19-8 in August, almost keeping pace with the Red Sox, who finished the month 21-7. But Schilling shut Anaheim down on three runs and nine hits, striking out four over 7 2-3 innings to match Oakland's Mark Mulder for the major league lead in wins. Kansas City 9. Detroit 8 
Aaron Guiel's sacrifice fly drove in the winning run with one out in the bottom of the ninth inning, and the Kansas City Royals rallied to a victory over the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday night. 
With the Royals trailing by two in the ninth, Abraham Nunez hit a leadoff single the ninth for his fourth hit. Ugueth Urbina (4-6) walked Calvin Pickering and gave up a bunt single to John Buck, loading the bases. 
Ruben Gotay followed with an RBI single and Alexis Gomez grounded into a run-scoring fielder's choice to tie it at 8. Guiel. who was 0-for-5 and the only starter on either team without a hit entering the at­bat, then lifted a deep fly to center easily scoring Buck with the winning run. 
Jeremy Affeldt (3-3) allowed a run and two hits in the ninth, but got the win. 
Dmitri Young homered and drove in three runs, and Ivan Rodriguez went 4-for-4 for the Tigers, who blew an early 5-0 lead. 
Minnesota 8, Texas 5 
Torii Hunter hit a three-run homer with two outs in the bot­tom of the 11th inning to lead the Minnesota Twins to victory over the Texas Rangers on Tuesday night. 
Hunter drove in a career­high six runs and Justin Morneau also homered and had two RBis for the Twins, who maintained their seven­game lead over Cleveland in the AL Central standings. 
Juan Rincon (11-6) earned the win after getting two outs in the 11th. Joe Nathan got the first out. but had to leave when he tried to field a ball with his pitching hand and cut his ring finger. 
Alfonso Soriano and Rod Barajas had two RBis each for Texas, which dropped 4 1/2 games behind Oakland in the AL West the most the club has been out of first place this sea­
. son. The Rangers are also four games behind Boston in the AL wild-card race. With two outs in the 11th, Shannon Stewart singled off 

Wednesday, September I, 2004

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
TENNIS 
Roddick, Sharapova notch vvins 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Maria Sharapova nearly found out just how quickly one can go from diva to disaster. 
No reigning Wimbledon women's champion has lost in the first round of the U.S. Open, and Sharapova was just one game from that fate. Then she steeled herself to claim 12 of the last 14 points and got past Laura Granville 6-3, 5-7, 7-5 Tuesday 

AP 

Andy Roddick serves during his first round victory over Scoville Jenkins. Roddick won In straight sets. 
night. 
"My game went off for a while. 
I went to La-La Land," the 17­
year-old Siberian-turned­
Floridian said, "but I came back 
to Earth." 
She wasn't the only top player pushed to the limit on Day 2 at Flushing Meadows: 2000 Open winner Marat Satin and 11th­seeded Rainer Schuettler lost, while 2003 runner-up Juan Carlos Ferrero and No. 5 Tim Henman both needed five sets to advance. 
Salin, Schuettler and Ferrero were put in the same quarter of the draw as 2003 champion Andy Roddick, who followed Sharapova in Arthur Ashe Stadium and broke the tourna­ment record with a 152 mph serve during a 6-0, 6-2, 6-2 vic­tory over 17 -year-old Scoville Jenkins. 
One indication of how players slide from star to afterthought: While Sharapova was on the National Tennis Center's main stage, 2000-01 Open champ Venus Williams was in the last day-session match on another court. 
Made to wait until after 8:30 
p.m. to play, because she was scheduled to hit the court after Henman and Ferrero, Williams was broken while serving for the match but eventually pulled out a 6-3, 7-6 (3) win over 64th­ranked Petra Mandula of Hungary. 
"What I need to focus on for me right now is th·e second round," said Williams, seeded No. 11 after a year of injuries and earlier-than-usual.losses at majors. ''I'm not really thinking ahead too far." 
After cruising through the first set against 68th-ranked 
Granville of Chicago before a 
subdued crowd, Sharapova was 
suddenly in trouble late in the 
second. Down 6-5, Sharapova 
faced her first break point of the 
match, which she saved with a 
101 mph service winner on a 
second serve. But she double­
faulted to grant Granville anoth­
er break point, then slapped a 
forehand into the net. 
Granville never beyond the second round at the Open was within a game of a serious sur­prise, ahead 5-4 in the third set. That's when Sharapova took over, holding at 15, breaking at love with a superb cross-court backhand winner, then holding again at 15. 
All the while, the photogra­phers in their courtside pit trained their equipment on the 6-foot Sharapova, who's repre­sented by a modeling agency. Most of the time, about 40 cam­eras followed her, and one or two followed Granville. 
"Wimbledon was an amazing thing, winning it, but now I have to sort of move on," said Sharapova, who came to the Open just 3-3 since becoming the third-youngest champion in 127 years at the All England Club. "You're sort of a celebrity, and people want a piece of you." 
When she hit her 1Oth ace, fol­lowed by a service winner, to end it, her sunglasses-wearing lather jumped and pounded his list on his chest. Sharapova mimicked that gesture, then just as she did after stunning Serena Williams in Wimbledon's fmal in July went to grab her phone to call Mom. 
"It's all about the spirit," Sharapova said after her 2-hour, 9-minute adventure. "Hanging in there, and trying to do your best." 
NFL 

Baltimore tunes in to Prime Time 
Cornerback Sanders, 37, leaves retirement to playfor Ravens 
Associated Press 

OWINGS MILLS -Deion Sanders is back in the NFL, this time with the Baltimore Ravens. 
The seven-time Pro Bowl defensive back passed his physi­cal Tuesday and formally ended his retirement by signing a one­year contract laden with incen­tives. Sanders will practice with the team for the first time Wednesday, and expects to play in the Ravens' season AFC North title and advance to the Super Bowl. 
"Based on people we've talked to, opinions we trust, I'm sure there's no question he's going to be able to compete. At the level he competed before? There's very few of us that can do things as well as we did before. At 50, I can attest to that," Billick said. "But what he will bring to the table for us will be substantial." 
Sanders' experience will also be invaluable to a defensive unit that will look to him for guid­ance. During his days with the Atlanta Falcons, San Francisco 49ers and Dallas Cowboys when he was known as 

opener Sept. 12 "To have him here Prime Time 
against the Sanders was one
is an honor. " 
Cleveland Browns. of the best cover 
Sanders, 37. cornerbacks in the played cornerback Chris McAlister NFL. in his prime. but Ravens cornerback "To have him 
will be used as a fifth defensive back in Baltimore. 

"This game is not all that com­plicated. We're going to try to. ingrain him as quickly as we can," Ravens coach Brian Billick said Tuesday morning. "We have to make sure we know where he's at physically. He's here plen­ty early enough to have an impact." 
Sanders has not played since the 2000 season, which he spent with the Washington Redskins. He retired on the eve of the team's training camp in 2001, but the Ravens are convinced he's still got enough talent to con­tribute to their bid to defend the come here is an 
honor," Havens 
cornerback Chris McAlister said. "There's so much that you can learn from a Deion Sanders; he's the type of guy that can take a young DB and make him grow up mentally, and pre­pare him for situations he other­wise wouldn't get without having the experience himself." 
Said Billick: "What a resource. I can't imagine our younger play: ers or our guys that have not had a lot of playing time aren't going to hang on every word that this guy has to offer." 
Sanders will be used sparingly at f1rst, but that will change if he proves to be effective. 
~ Har POCKETS~ 
Br.md Stuffed S•ndwlches 
e LEAN POCKETS® 
Brand Stuffed S•ndwlches 

~ CROISSANT POCKETS® 
Br•nd Stuffed S•ndwlches 

~ Try our new HOT POCKEfS® brand Fruit Pashies 
All trademar1<s are owned by Societe des Produns Nestle S.A., Vevey, Switzerland 

1save"Slli.~-----------1 
I HOT POCKETs•, LEAN POCKETs•, I I CROISSANT POCKETS.Br...rstu~~..rs.n.rw~""" 1 
Co,IXJl"**N-~Di,pudlacllrlrfli«nnj,I!JIIilr9ldawhere~<lltiola
I 
'""'"" ll'f .. COIISliiER: Lir1l ... """' "" """"" •llliBrllJthisod 111& I 
I =.:.:::;::::::..-::.~~:'::':.~ I I ===-~~==·=~= I
1 ""GmdcrtyirlJSA sn-"'-"'--Coo!Jint·-­
~CioiSDoll ~~F-C>M.Diftl.Tl<7!6<() WI"'" lair ~ 1 
L------------------------~ 
The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
David Pearce Snyder 
The Futurist Magazine 
"Extra-Preneurship:·Managing to Prosper in Revolutionary Times " 
Friday, September 3 12:00-1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
BYU 
continued from page 20 
tackles last season with 116. 
BYU's retaining Francisco would be the equivalent of the Irish getting Courtney Watson at linebacker for one more year. 
The Irish had the Cougars scheduled to host a game Oct. 30 anyway, but a schedule change during the summer placed Notre Dame and BYU at the beginning of their respective schedules. 
Though Julius Jones and the Irish offense pounded BYU for 33 points, a different and more experienced Cougar team returns. Just as the Irish will seek revenge on teams like USC and Michigan, BYU will be out to prove last year's loss to Notre Dame a fluke. 
"BYU is a far better team at home than they were on the road ... last year," Willingham said. "I don't think there's any question in our minds that this is a very dangerous and very explosive team when they are playing foot­ball the way they can play it." 
In the preseason so far, BYU has had some trouble with con­sistency. In one team scrimmage, . the Cougars defense surrendered 

Observer File Photo 
Quarterback Brady Quinn looks for a hole In the Cougar defense during the game against BYU last season. 
580 total yards to the team's that stadium, be off to a quick offense. But a scrimmage is just start, get control of the game and that: a practice game. Notre then play our football," Dame knows BYU will distin-Willingham said. guish between practice and the real thing. Contact Pat Leonard at 
"What we have to do is go in pleonard@nd.edu 


rvlake your monthly tuition 
~ 

and rcom & beard payments~ get your hair cut and grab NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL 'CR!PrT UNION
lunch-all at LaFortune 
021 L<IFOI"'Un• SIU$MO.Mil student Center! $14jU1·1222 • Wl,V\V.r!ldfi::U.org 

FooTBALL 
Do the d-back shuffle 
Willingham names Jackson, and Ellick as starting DB's 
By PAT LEONARD 
Assistant Sports Editor 

After preseason InJury watches and practice obser­vation, Tyrone Willingham and his staff have deter­mined the defensive back­field starters. 
"I think right now we're leaning toward Preston Jackson and Dwight Ellick [at cornerback]," Willingham said. 
Senior Quentin Burrell gets the nod at f r c e safety after sit­ting out t h e majority of fall practice with an injury. T h e strong safety spot is up for g r a b s s t i l I between senior Lionel Bolen and sophomore Freddie Parish. 
And though the coaches have stepped up and defini­tively named three of the four starters in the defen­sive backfield, they acknowl­edge the uncertainty of a relatively inexperienced sec­ondary. 
"In terms of their passing game, we do have some inexperience in our second­ary," Willingham said. " W h a t we've got to 



"What we've got to do is ably say
do is count on our front count our front seven to there's still s o m e
seven to really be a force for us to 
really be a growth and
help out our secondary
force for us· learning to to help out get its feet on the take place," our second­ground." he said. ary get its "Some of feet on the [the fresh­ground." Tyrone Willingham men] are Jackson, head coach very close to 
Ellick, Burrell and Bolen are all seniors, but the playing time over the past few seasons has gone primarily to departed play­ers such as Shane Walton and Vontez Duff at corner­back, and Glenn Earl and Garron Bible at the safety positions. 
Burrell has the most expe­rience and is expected to be a secondary leader behind a defensive line that could help the rest of the defense handle passing attacks. 
"If we can count on the Justins (Tuck). the. Victors (Abiamiri). the Kyles (Budinsack). the Gregs (Pauly) to really apply some pressure to that quarterback and make it really uncom­fortable for him ... then Wl help our secondary out, Willingham said. 
Burrell finished fourth iL the Irish in tackles last sea­son· with 58 total and 3<:1 solos. He intercepted four passes and recovered tw• fumbles. 
Bolen started one gaml' last season against Florida State and played in 10 other games. collecting 12 tackles. 
Ellick played in 10 game~ in 2003, recording 21 tack­les. Jackson made 24 tackle~ last season and intercepted one pass. playing in all 12 games as primarily a nickel back. 
Notes 
+ Defensive backs coach Steven Wilks and defensive coordinator Kent Baer have rooted through their talent and pulled an interesting game plan out of fall camp. 
In a normal cover-two defense that features two cornerbacks, two safeties and three linebackers. Jackson and Ellick will get the start at the cornerback slots. But Jackson will shift positions when the defense changes. 
."Preston will shift to nickel back and [senior] Carlos Campbell will most likely be the cornerback," Baer said of when opposing offenses spilt three wide receivers outside. 
"In the dime [defense]. it will probably be Mike Richardson [in as the fourth defensive back]." Baer said. 
+ Though young players like Darius Walker and Justin Hoskins have impressed in practices and scrimmages, Tyrone Willingham said no fresh­man should see the field 
Saturday. ''I'd prob­
positioning 

themselves, but I think to start this opening ballgame, I would probably say zero [freshmen will play)." 
+ Willingham has not decided one-hundred per­cent on who will return kicks Saturday night, but he gave a hint of the personnel Tuesday. 
"Probably our starter in the punt return will be Rhema [McKnight] starting there, and our kickoff return we're still making that deci­sion," he said. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 1, 2004

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
EA Sports 
continued from page 20 
five games a week. He is in a "dynasty" with guys in Keenan, and the eight of them play fre­quently. But he had a scare in the second round. 
With just 30 seconds to play, he was faced with a fourth-and-11, down by seven points against Southern California. He converted the fourth down, went on to score and then won in overtime to keep his chances alive. 
"1 just got lucky," he said. 
For Ramsour. the dream of playing football for Notre Dame was only reachable via video games. 
"I figured since I'm not good enough to be on the Notre Dame team, I'd just get on the stick," he said. 
The contest, sponsored by the Student Union Board, was open to 128 students. However, due to a flaw in the online registration process of EA Sports, many stu­dents weren't given the ability to sign up. 
"We were very excited to work with EA Sports, but the sign-up process was flawed," said Ashley Sinnott, Student Union Board spe­cia! events programmer. "It's not SUB's fault. People who weren't students were allowed to enroll. It was a good event, and we wish there was a better turnout. It's unfortunate that's how it worked out." 
Notre Dame was the first stop on the tour for EA Sports, which is doing this contest for the first time. In the past, they have done the competition with Madden NFL games. 
"We're used to Madden," Trey Geiger, of the EA Sports lifestyle marketing department said. "So it's a high bar. It's the first event. You go back to our first-ever Madden Challenge, and it wasn't as high ~ you expected either." 
But Geiger wasn't discouraged by the relatively low turnout. 
"Everybody who came out had a good time," he said. "A lot of guys said, 'Hey call me when you're corning back next year.' You can't expect to come out of nowhere and have everyone know about it. But I think a lot knew about it, it was just they thought it was full." 
Regardless, Ramsour is going to Las Vegas with a chance at $10,000, and he is excited. 
"Vegas, baby, Vegas!" 
Contact Heather Van Hoegacden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu. 

Volleyball 
continued from page 20 

Including tonight's contest, the Irish will have four home matches in the next week. They will square off with Nebraska on Friday and Saturday while facing Valparaiso Tuesday. All matches begin at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish will look to duplicate much of the success of last year's team. The 2003 Notre Dame squad split the Big East regular season championship and finished second in the con­ference tournament while extending their streak of NCAA Tournament berths to twelve. 
Captain Meg Henican believes the Irish are ready to start the year ofT right. 
"Our goal every time we step on the court is to win," she said. "Obviously that won't be easy as Loyola is a great team." 
Four starters return from last year for the Irish -juniors Henican; Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbley along with sen­ior Emily Loomis. 
Loomis, Brewster and Kelbley were named honorable mention All-Americans last season and are the only trio in school histo­ry to record 350 kills apiece in the same year. As a sophomore, Loomis was named the Big East Tournament Most Outstanding Player. Brewster led the country in blocks last year with 1.78 per game while Kelbley holds a .325 career hitting percentage, the second best in school history. Henican is also a player to watch as she sports a 3.15 career dig average, which ranks as second-best in school history. 

After playing against each other during the preseason, the Irish are ready for some fresh competition. 
"I am excited that the team will finally get an opportunity to play," Brown said. "The presea­son is fine but there is nothing like getting the chance to play someone else." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
ond on the team with 223 kills and finished first with an

Belles 
impressive 104 total blocks. After performing strong as a

continued from page 20 
freshman, Anne Cusack will haven't focused on the outcomes assist in the defensive depart­of last year's matches, but ment along with Gary. Outside instead are going in with a hitter Stark and middle hitter stronger, quicker offense and Bender both finished among the really trying to focus on the team leaders last season in total 

team and tightening up our game." 
After losing a few key players, the Belles will look to sen­iors Gary, E I i s e Rupright and Stacy Stark to offer leader­ship, while 
juniors Shelley Bender and last year to Hope College meant Michelle Turley will add to an an early exit for Saint Mary's. already strong supporting cast. However, this year the Belles are "This year we have only lost out to prove they are good 
two players, which means that our tight-knit group from last year is still in tact," Gary said. "We have great com­munication on the court, and our 
attacks and will look to continue "This year we have only their success. The Belles
lost two players, which 
concluded the 
means that our tight-knit 
2003 season group from last year is with a record of 16-13 overall
still in tact. " 
and 5-10 in the MIAA stand­Michelle Gary ings. A first­senior round loss in the MIAA Tournament 
enough to take their play to the "There isn't a single team next level. 
"I believe we
in the conference that 
have a chance 
can defeat us ifwe play to win [the] con­ference this
our game. 
year," Rupright said. "There 
Elise Ruprlght 
isn't a single 
senior team in the con­ference that can defeat us if we 

returning players have allowed play our game." us to capitalize on each other's The Belles begin conference strengths and weaknesses." play Thursday at 7:00p.m. host­
Rupright has been chosen ing Alma College. again as team captain and remains positive going into the Contact Justin Stetz at season. Last year she was sec-jstctz@nd.edu 
-
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
AND IF I'M TOO BUSY,MY WEALTH-BUILDING WHERE CAN I FIND 

MY HUMAN CLONE

SYSTEM HAS BEEN AN UNETHICAL CAN DO YOUR INFO­VERIFIED BY ACTUAL SCIENTIST? 
MERCIAL.

SCIENTISTS. 
GOOD ( 
PRICES. o \ 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 

PEANUTS 
My Clients Didn't Understand Me 



HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
I I r XJ 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WHE:N HE: GOT A BOOME:R.ANG FOR. HIS BIRTH­
J I I I) 

DAY, HE: E:NJOYE:D 
www.jurTtlle.com 
MANY--­

tNEPAHP I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
riiiiJTIIIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: QUILT LOGIC PLENTY PARADE Answer: How the children learned to add before computers -"DIGITALLY" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS  33 Quattros, e.g.  65 Ste. Jeanne  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Richard Gere, Itzhak Perlman.  
37 Greet the day1 When doubled, a seafood 39 Take your pick? entree 41 Federico of the 5 Is visibly Clinton cabinet frightened 42 Touch up10 Off one's trolley 44 Up 14 "Yeah, right!" 46 Early fifth­15 Work century year 16 Pop's Brickell 47 Ridge of 17 Gigantic Homeland instrument? Security 19 "Take !" 49 Like some burgers(track coach's order) 51 Instrument 20 Holed up found at the Super Bowl?21 First name in 56 Donald, tohorror Dewey22 Actress Sorvino 57 Opposite of23 Instrument made paleo­in the lab? 58 Order of corn27 Straits of 59 "I'll be of a28 Tee follower? gun!" 29 Crew need 60 Missing 30 Set alight instrument? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  66 King of Thebes slain by Theseus 67 Inner: Prefix 68 January 1 song word 69 Surfer wannabe 70 Mail: Abbr. DOWN 1 Shelley queen 2 "_recall ... " 3 Arrogant one's place 4 More uncertain 5 Chips' place 6 1955 merger grp. 7 Eric Clapton hit with. a never;, end1ng chorus 8 Flynn of "Captain Blood" 9 Dumpster emanation 10 Request to the Enterprise  32 When repeated, a cry of approval 34 U.S. citizen-to­be  40 1991 Grammy winner Cohn 43 Point 45 Keepsake  53 Squirrel's find 54 Old, but new again 55 Like unpopular  James Coburn, Zack Ward Happy Birthday: This is a year to get back to your creative dreams and follow through with what you feel in your heart is best for you. Love is in a high cycle, and you should be able to resolve any issues you may have at a personal level. Your numbers are 6, II, 19, 29, 35, 49 ARIES (March 21-April19): Take a moment to realign your position. Once you realize that you don't need to do everything, your life will start to fall into place. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Sudden changes are likely to take place regarding your friends or children. Take a strong stance and let everyone know what you think and what you intend to do. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone is likely to give you a hard time if you try to push something that he or she doesn't want to do. Let others follow whatever direction they must, and take care of your own pursuits. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your fabulous memory coupled with the knowledge you've accumulated along the way will lead you to achieve your goals. A love interest will develop or become stronger today. ***** · LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be prepared to put a little time and effort in to benefit someone else. Be patient, do your best and you will be surprised by what you get in return. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have the potential to ruin a good thing if you are too critical or want everything done your way today. Expect to be put in your place by someone you think highly of. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Something very interesting will develop where your professional dealings are concerned. Don't be daunted by change; embrace it. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The more you have lined up for today, better. Socializing with friends will lead to interesting information that could change your direction abruptly. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful how you handle family and friends today. Don't be offended if someone is not willing to bend to your whims. Keep a low profile. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Accumulate as much information as possible about a project or person you want to pursue. Be relentless in your research. Charm will get you what you want, so don't hold back. ****  
pants performance 12 Papal wear 13 Calyx part 18 one 23 Miner's filing 24 Binding exchanges  umps48 Good guy35 The Dow, e.g. 61 Mauna50 Sanford of "The 36 Port _ (Suez Jeffersons" 62 Omega Canal city) 51 Thigh muscles 63 Orch. section 38 Door 52 Take back 64 Brillo rival For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Consider what your options actually are and compromise in order to move forward. Changes are corning your way, so leave as many avenues open as possible.*** PISCES (Feb.l9-March 20): You may be feeling very emotional about personal matters, but if you can put that behind you and focus on the positive you will accomplish far more. Don't settle for second best.*** Birthday Baby: You are energetic and can offer so much to others because of your strong desire to be loved and helpful. You will go beyond what is expected of you. You are a doer with a heart of gold. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com  
25 Magna _  crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000  
27 "Watch out!"  past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young  
31 P. C. part  solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.  


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ________ State ______ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Wednesday, September 1, 2004 
page 20 
VIDEO GAMES 
Vegas trip becomes a reality for champ Ramsour 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports EJiror 
lin missed band practice and Keenan football tryoul'i, but as a result, he is going to Las Vegas for 
li•et~. 
.Junior Bon Hamsour took home the 2004 EA Sports Football Challenge Tuesday night, winning the championship 10-7 as Louisiana State in the three-hour event. 
"I know if I played my game, I'd put myself in position to win," the Keenan llall resident said of the contest, which was played on Playstation2 systems. 
Hamsour defeated Knott Hall sophomore Trey Patrick, who played as Florida State in all his games, except for one. 
"I thought it was gonna take up too much time from school work," 


Hamsour was the winner of 50 participants, each of which could chose to be any team in the game. A'i a result, Hamsour will travel to Las Vegas Dec. 10-11, where he will face off against 15 other win­ners from schools such as Purdue, Penn State and Oklahoma, for a chance to win $10,000. 
''I'm pumped," he said. "I'll be 21 by the time I go, so it'll be even better." 
Hamsour played as LSU the 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
No time like the present for Irish 
Team is determined to focus on defeating 
Loyola despite ominous 
Nebraska match 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
With a dynasty like Nebraska waiting to eonverge on the Joyce Center later this week, it might be tempting for the Irish to over­look their opening match against Loyola Chicago tonight at 7 p.m. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, coach Debbie Brown won't let that happen. 
"There is a huge danger in looking past anyone," Jjrown said. "The resull'i will take care of themselves if we just take it one match at a time." 
The No. 25 Irish will need to keep that in mind as they face a talented Hamblers team that returns four starters, featuring two-time AVCA All-Midwest Hegion setter Lauren llolbrook. 
Observer File Photo 
Junior Lauren Brewster stretches to return the ball at a match against Stanford last see VOLLEYBALLI page 18 November. Last season, Brewster led the country in blocks last year with 1.78 per game. 

entire time, running the option like a pro. In the final game, he registered zero passing yards. In a game with only three minute quarters, it was key to dominating the competition. 
"I attempted to pass," he said. "But no one was open." 
Hamsour said he plays about five games a week. He is in a "dynasty" with guys in Keenan, 
see EA SPORTS/page 18 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles enter nevv season hopeful 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
A new season brings with it new hopn for the Saint Mary's volleyball team looking to improve upon last year's record. The Belles host the University of Chicago in a scrimmage tonight at 7 p.m. In the regular season last year, the Belles defeated the Maroons in three straight games. 
"Our scrimmages and games against the University of Chicago have always been a great addition to our schedule," senior Michelle Gary said. "Going into this scrimmage we 
see BELLES/page 18 


fOOTBALL 
Game against Cougars is not just a tune up for Wolverines 
college football is that everybody top preseason watch lists for By PAT LEONARD has got players," Willingham their respective positions. Associate Spores Ediror said, "and that's the thing that's Sophomore tight end Daniel 
changed over the years. If this Coats is one of 26 candidates for 
Notre Dame looks to its game were 20 years ago, there might the 2004 John Mackey Award. against BYU Saturday night as be some programs that ... don't All-America candidate and kick­the season opener. Many fans have any players. But right now, er Matt Payne has been selected view it as one week until with the way the balance is in as a candidate for the Lou Groza Michigan. college football, you've got to be Collegiate Place-Kicker Award, 
But coach Tyrone Willingham ready to play every weekend, and senior safety Aaron said in Tuesday's media telecon­and ifnot, you'll get beat." Francisco is a top-29 candidate ference that Friday's trip to BYU finished 4-8 last season, for the Jim Thorpe Award. Provo, Utah is not intended to just one game worse than the 5-Francisco led the Cougars in pad the Irish schedule. 7 Irish. Furthermore, the 
"The thing that you lind out in Cougars boast three players on see BYU/page 17 
en 
TENNIS
FOOTBALL 
NFL 

HOCKEY 
NCAA FOOTBALL
MLB 
LLI 
Deion Sanders comes 
Andy Roddick and 

The New York Yankees 
Joe Tiller remains uncer-

1-
Co) Coach Tyrone 
u.s. 2 

suffer worst loss in fran­
z Willingham selects 
out of retirement to play 
Maria Sharapova both 
tain about what to 
Canada 1 
won their first round 
PrPston Jackson and 
for the Baltimore 

chise history to 
expect from his 



a: s 
The United States edged 
Dwight Ellick as defen-
Ravens. 
matches in the U.S. 

Cleveland Indians. 
Boilermakers this sea­
~ 

out Canada's national 
Open. 
son.

C) <C sive backs. 
team to win the Hockey 
World Cup. 

a. ti 
en 
page 14
page 16
page 17 
page 16 
page 15 
page 12 






