
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Panel discusses 'Passion of the Christ' 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
Less than a week after "The Passion of the Christ" was released nationwid(l, Notre Dame students and faculty convened for a panel discus­sion entitled "Why All the Passion?" ln a packed DeBartolo auditorium, theolo­gy professor Habbi Michael Signer moderated a panel of Catholic and Jewish faculty members, who discussed the 
Professor 
•


reviews sex abuse 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 
In connection with Friday's release of two reports per­taining to sexual abuse alle­gations in the Catholic Church, the Diocesan Heview Board recently awarded spe­cial commendations to eight of the nearly 200 U.S. Catholic dioceses. The work was done in compliance with the Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People. Saint Mary's Heligious Studies professor Joe lncandela -along with several other members of the Notre Dame community ­sits on the 11-member com­mittee that makes up the Heview Board. 
"Our job is to review the past and present cases of sexual abuse and make a recommen­dation of what is to be done to Bishop [John] D'Arcy," lncandela said. "Ultimately, Bishop D'Arcy has the final say in what the course of action is going to be." 
In the reports. D'Arcy and the Heview board were compli­mented for their serious approach to the issues at hand. 
"This commendation was given to the diocese based on the programs that have been implemented that ensure a safe environment for kids," lncandcla said. "We arc taking precautions, and we arc in full compliance with the charter from Dallas." 
The Diocesan Heview Board formed in January 2003 to comply with the June 2002­issued Charter for the Protection of Young People. 
"When I found out this board would be forming, I expressed an interest in being a part of it," lncandela said. "You're either part of the problem or part of the solution, and I wanted to be 
see ABUSE/page 4 controversial Mel Gibson film. 

Signer prefaced the discus­sion by saying the movie should be deeply analyzed .. 
"To have seen the film is far from having come to an understanding of the film," he said. "We need to come to grips with this powerful cul­tural force." 
Panelists included Father Jerry Neyrey, a theology pro­fessor and Jesuit priest; Peter Holland, chairman of the film, television, and theater depart­ment; Father John Steele, Morrissey rector and assistant director of campus ministry; Larry Cunningham, acting chairman of the theology department; and Frank Santoni, coordinator of ecu­menical activities for campus ministry. 
Neyrey blasted the film's gruesome violence as unnec­essary and historically inac­curate. 
"Gibson has ~ucked all the meaning out of [the Passion]." 
he said. "This is excess. This is over the top." 
He said the film's focus on physical torture is misguided, and that the real suffering of Jesus was the shame he endured. 
Neyrey said that in the orig­inal Greek text of the Gospels, Jesus was crowned with acan­thus, a weed -not with thorns. 
"The Gospel writer does not 
see PASSION/page 6 

Cloning raises ethics questions 

By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
When South Korean scien­tists announced last month that they had cloned an early stage human embryo, some hailed the success as the first step toward "the age of human cloning" and subse­quent cures to ·debilitating diseases. But Notre Dame sci­ence and humanities profes­sors said the announcement also raises new moral and ethical concerns. 
Lead researchers Wook Suk Hwang and Sin Yong Moon of the Seoul National University made the announcement Feb. 12 at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Their findings were pub­lished the following day in the journal "Science." 
News of the cloning brought vocal but mixed 
reactions from fellow scien­tists, politicians and religious leaders around the world ­some wary of the implica­tions of such a breakthrough, others cautiously optimistic that the technology can be used to treat diseases like Parkinson's, diabetes and Alzheimer's. 
The scientists produced the clone by first collecting 
see CLONING/page 4 



For break, 'Survivor Days' mean safety 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
In an attempt to prevent health problems that result from stereotypical spring break activities like binge drinking and sleep depriva­tion, several University depart­ments have collaborated to organize "Spring Break Survivor Days." The event is sponsored by the Health Center, the University Counseling Center, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and RecSports. 

Since Monday, the lobby of the Health Center has housed information presented in the theme of the popular Birgit Heinisch and Pam Dorsey pick up care packages that "Survivor" television show. Health Services Is giving to students for safety over spring break. Wall displays exhibit vignettes 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Mooney gears for transition 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
While preparing for a smooth transition into office June 1, Saint Mary's President-elect Carol Ann Mooney continues to remain 
active both in the cam­pus commu­nity and in setting per­sonal goals. 
"I am pleased and excited by what I am 
I car n in g Mooney and look forward to the time when it is possible to spend full time at Saint Mary's," Mooney said. "Hight now, I have on-going duties at Notre Dame and need to attend to those responsibilities as well." 
Mooney. currently vice pres­ident and associate provost at Notre Dame. visits the Saint Mary's campus two or more times each week. Every visit varies, Mooney said, though each has included private meetings with current President Marilou Eldred, the Administrative Council and other members of the College with whom she expects to work. 
Mooney also met with sev­eral Saint Mary's College committees and has attended various student events since her Dec. 26 appointment. One of the most instrumental vis­its, she said, was spending two full days on campus when the Board of Trustees held its meeting last month. 
see MOONEY/page 4 

about healthy spring break activities that can help stu­dents be spring break "sur­vivors." as well as stories about unhealthy behavior that will get them "voted off the island." 
As a component of the pro­gram, students can enter a raffle for prizes and will receive free gift bags with items. such as sunscreen, that can help them have a safe spring break. Handouts with information about body image, alcohol abuse. sexual assault. sunburn and driving fatigue 
will also be available.  Free  
food and "mocktails"  - non­ 
alcoholic fruit drinks  - have  

been available throughout the week and will be served until 
see SURVIVOR/page 4 

page 2 Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

An unlikely superhero 
I'm afraid of you. I'm afraid of you, and I don't even know who you are. Worse yet, you don't even know who I am. So why am I afraid? I have a dirty secret. I, your faithful Tuesday­night Viewpoint Copy Editor, have Alyssa never written any­
Brauweiler
thing to be pub­lished. Nobody 
Viewpoint copy 
aside from my 
editor
English teacher 
has ever seen anything I've written. We desperately 
needed an Inside Column for today, though, so here I am, an entire para­graph done, and I haven't even said anything. Hey, this is easier than I 
thought. 
With the first paragraph done, I find myself curiously short on column fod­der. I can't use an entire column as an introductory paragraph, or the Assistant News Editor will have my head. What, then? And then, the Muse, that benevolent entity that watches over struggling copy editors everywhere, strikes me. It hurts. But more to the point, I've got an idea now. What if I write a whole series of columns, none of which has any con­crete point? I could call it "Brain Smatterings," or something to that effect, and just write a whole lot of nothing. There wouldn't even be a whole lot of "brain" around to smat­ter, come to think of it. 
I think this could work. I just write random, disconnected paragraphs and nobody notices it. Everyone is too dazzled by my creative writing prowess -usually hidden behind the meek exterior of a copy editor -to notice that I have yet to say a single thing worth reading. It's like I'm related to Superman. I'm not cool enough to be a super hero, but darned if I can't be that weird cousin that nobody talks about, right? 
And hey, now that I've established familial ties with another group of people, I kind of have two identities, just like Clark Kent. The only question I have is: Will FAFSA help me out any more now that I'm two people? I mean, Mom and Pop Kent don't pull in much cash out in the boonies. I'd need some pretty substantial scholar­ship help. It's only fair, right? I mean, it's not like I made up a whole new identity just so I could get more money out of good ol' Uncle Sam, right? I logically stated that I must be two people, and my second self was heretofore unacknowledged. What a shame. 
This little endeavor is fast becoming more of an anti-column than anything else. All right, raise your hand if you're still reading. If you've been foolish enough to venture this far, you may start wishing that those prover­bial hundred monkeys with their hun­dred typewriters (who, no doubt, could churn out a column far better than this one, if given the opportuni­ty) would come and bash me on the head a hundred times. Each. Then my brain really would be smattered. 
At least I would have injected a lit­tle creativity into the assassination process, though. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Alyssa Brauweiler at abrauwei@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH MALE ACTOR WOULD YOU HAVE LIKED TO WIN THE OSCAR FOR "BEST ACTOR?" 

Alejandro Williams Joanna Basile Laura Maclean Mayra Gomez Nick Shepard Vince Lyzinski 
Sophomore Sophomore Sophomore Junior Sophomore Sophomore St. Edwards Pangborn Farley Pangborn St. Edwards Keenan 
"Johnny Depp, "Johnny Depp, "Jesuszilla, son "John Cameron "Johnny Depp, "Steven Segal, definitely.,, but for 'Fear ofGodzilla. ,, Mitc.hel from because he is so because ifhe 

and Loathing in 'Hedwig and 
Las Vegas., I'm the Angry Inch., obsessed with He rocked the him.,, house!" 

Teacher bets student to jump out window 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. -A high school student jumped out a second-floor window to win a bet with a teacher, who has been disciplined, officials said. The teen was not injured. 
Miami Beach High School science teacher Yrvan Tassy Jr. has been reas­signed to a non-teaching job while police and school officials investigate the incident. 
Tassy's class was dis­cussing evolution last week when the student, who was not identified, talked about jumping out the window to 
TODAY a: 


porary license plate in the rear window discovered it was carrying 900 pounds of marijuana. 
"It was piled up in big bags," said Indiana State Trooper William Etter. "Once you first stopped it, it was obvious -you could smell it." 
The marijuana was com­pressed into about 900 bricks and wrapped in plastic, police said. The pot nearly filled the bed of the truck, and a drug-sniffing dog responded immediately to the scent, police said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
prove his point, police said. 
The teacher bet him $20 that he would be injured in the jump, according to police reports. 
The student then jumped out the window, landing on his feet in a patch of dirt and grass, police said. He returned to the classroom and asked Tassy for his money. Tassy said he would bring it the following day, students told police. 
Police seize truck with 900 pounds of pot 
INDIANAPOLIS -Police who pulled over a pickup truck because its load was blocking the view of a tern-
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


cool.,, hasn't won one 
yet, he should. Or a lifetime achievement award.'' 

IN BRIEF 
The film "Dr. Strangeglove" will be shown today in the Kroc Institute Auditorium in the Hesburgh Center at 7 
p.m. There will be a brief introduction by Professor Dan Lindley highlighting how the film's lessons about nuclear proliferation and nuclear accidents remain timely. This Stanley Kubrick film is the American Film Institute's third best U.S. comedy ever and the American Film Institute's 26th best U.S. film. 
Irish Idol 2 auditions will be held tonight from 8:30 to 
10:30 p.m. in the Crowley Hall of Music. 
Mitchell Scholarship infor­mation sessions will be held today at 10 a.m. in DeBartolo 217 and at 11 a.m. in DeBartolo 116. Anyone inter­ested in applying for the Rhodes, Marshall, or Fulbright at some point in the future is encouraged to attend. A representative of the program will be on hand to provide details and answer questions. 
Werewere Liking and the Ki-Yi Mbock Dance and Song group will perform tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Come hear Fran Day, who's son's fiancee was killed in the Sept. 11 WTC attacks, relay her story: how her family reached out from their sor­row to work for peace. The event will be held from 5 to 6 
p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

37 27 

39 30 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..J <C 
(,) 

0 

..... HIGH 48 
LOW 43 

HIGH LOW 

52 
40 

42 24 

Wednesday, March 3, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Anthony Travel brings students to destinations 
By LAUREN SIEGEL 
News Writer 
As midterms conclude and spring break draws ncar, many students take advantage of warmer climates, sandy beaches and sparkling waters. For Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, Anthony Travel -with agencies on both campuses -provides an ideal source to ensure a little fun in the sun. 
Both the Saint Mary's office, located in the Haggar Student Center, and Notre Dame's, located in LaFortune, house agents ready to help students find an affordable "hot spot" that can be booked individual­ly or as a group. 
In previous years, Cancun and the Bahamas have been the place to go, said Marcia Fewell of Saint Mary's Anthony Travel. But she said the hot spot varies from year to year. 
"Most .students are going on the Nordic Empress, which is a Hoyal Caribbean Cruise," Fewell said. "Anthony Travel had booked over 60 cabins for Spring Break and we have 111led them all." 
"It was at a great rate," she said of the cruise, which will depart from Tampa and make stops at Grand Cayman, Cozumel and Belize. 
According to Kayleen Carr of the LaFortune branch, Acapulco is the popular desti­nation of Notre Dame stu­dents. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
March 25 
Rabbi Michael Lerner, founder/editor ofTikkun magazine and leading Ameri­can inrellectual, will speak on "The Politics ofMeaning," a concept that he used for the tide ofhis 1995 groundbreak­ing book. 
Rabbi Lerner, one of the most important religious per­sons ofour time, will speak on 


Volunteer Opportunities 
Tutors are needed to work with Washington High School students Monday through Thursday &om 3-4 p.m. in the school's library. 
Daytime tutoring times are also available. Please contact Ann Power for more informa­tion 
To submit events for Happenings, send an email to commque@nd. edu. 

"Students want to go to a place that is sunny and hot to escape the South Bend weath­er," she said. 
Carr said the yearly change of a prime location is most likely due to the fact that stu­dents often choose to travel in large groups. 
"One person decides where they want to go, and there is a domino effect," she said. 
Fewell said another reason for the change in location is price. Saint Mary's senior Jessica Holloway agrees. 
"You go to the fun spot that is cheaper," she said. 
!laving Anthony Travel on both campuses also allows Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to vacation together conveniently. 
"An eighth of the students who go through us for spring break are mixed groups of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students," Carr said. 
While some students spend months planning exotic Spring Break vacations, others do not. 
"I am lucky that I can get a break from the South Bend weather and go home to Florida. It's great," said Saint Mary's sophomore Megan Carroll. "I d·on't have to pay any extra money to stay in a beautiful place because my hometown is considered a vacation spot." 
Contact Lauren Siegel at sieg4735@saintmarys.edu 






Senate gun control bill fails 
tial campaign as a bona fide issue as to whether the American people want AK47s, street sweepers and Uzis sold once again." 
The National Hifle Association, a political jugger­naut because of its four million members, e-mailed senators in both parties just before the final roll call urging them to vote against the bill after Democrats succeeded in adding the gun-control measures to the GOP-written legislation. 
A week ago, the bill prevent­ing lawsuits against gun manu­facturers and distributors because of gun crimes had 75 senators ready to vote for it. 
"While we will continue to work to save the U.S. firearms industry, we have said from the start that we would not allow this bill to become a vehicle for added restrictions on the law­abiding people of America," NRA Vice President Wayne LaPierre Jr. wrote in the e­mail. "Given this fact, we oppose final passage ... and will fight this issue another day." 
Hepublican senators said they also may attempt to revive the gunmaker-immunity bill. "We will see if we have enough time to get it out this year," said Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, the bill's sponsor who was forced to vote against his own legislation because of the Democratic amendments. "I learned years ago, 'Don't pass a bad bill."' 
Democratic senators were grudgingly prepared to accept the gunmaker immunity bill if they could get their two amendments along with it. 
"The immunity bill was a ter­rible bill." said Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. "We're better off at the end of the day than we were at the beginning of the day." 
Several Hepublican senators voted for one or both of the gun show and assault weapons ban amendments, enabling minority Democrats to change the GOP's bill. At their weekly caucus luncheon, Hepublican senators were told to sit tight until the NHA decided whether it would support the bill with the two Democratic amend­ments. 
After waiting for a couple of hours, Sen. John McCain, H­Ariz .. one of the maverick Hepublicans, said he was told the NRA wanted a no vote. "I voted yes," he said, beaming. 
On the final roll call, only two other Republicans voted for the bill: Sens. George Voinovich of Ohio and Richard Lugar of Indiana. Democrats who voted for the final package were Minority Leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota and Sens. Mark Pryor of Arkansas, John Breaux of Louisiana, Joe Lieberman of Connecticut and Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas. 
Underlining the importance of Tuesday's events to next fall's election, presidential con­tenders John Kerry of Massachusetts and John Edwards of North Carolina broke away from the campaign trail to cast their first Senate votes of the year in support of the Democratic amendments. 


Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Senate Republicans scuttled their elec­tion-year gun legislation Tuesday after Democrats suc­ceeded in winning approval of amendments to extend an assault weapons ban and require background checks on all buyers at private gun shows. 
The 90-8 vote against the bill handed Democrats and gun control advocates an unexpect­ed victory in the GOP-con­trolled Congress. It all but eliminated any chance for gun legislation this year. 
"Twenty-four hours ago, I knew of no one who would have said we would be sitting where we are right now," said Mike Barnes, president of the Brady Campaign gun-control group. "The NHA's highest leg­islative priority was just defeat­ed." 
Beginning in September, the gun industry can resume mak­ing, importing and selling mili­tary style semiautomatic weapons that were outlawed a decade ago. Nonetheless, Democrats say they now have the Senate on record as sup­porting the assault weapons ban by a 52-47 vote even though Hepublican leaders have vowed they won't allow the House to consider it this year. 
"Now we know we have our vote and we will come back," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D­Calif. "If we can't get it done by Sept. 13, then you can be sure it's going to be in the presiden-

Ganey Award and Grants
Rabbi Michael Lerner to Discuss the 'Politics 
Ganey Award Nominations Due March 22. 

ofMeaning'; the Election and Faith 
the challenges that people of 
faith face in this election year. 
Rabbi Lerner is author of a number ofbooks, including Jews and Blacks: A Dialogue on Race, Religion and Culture , Healing Israel/Palestine: A Path to Peace and Recon­ciliation , and The Politics of Meaning: Restoring Hope and Possibility in an Age of Cynicism. According to for­mer U.S. senator Paul Well­stone, "Lerner's ideas ought to inform our contemporary political discussion." 

The Center for Social Concerns is now acccepting nomi­According to Rev. Jim Wal­nations for the Ganey Award, a monetary award of $5,000.
lis, "Michael Lerner is one Nominees should be regular faculty who have completed 
ofAmerica's most important one or more research projects that address a need of a South 
spiritual teachers, a contem­
Bend area community based organization. To Learn more, porary prophet whose insight­
go to the esc website. ful and visionary thinking 
Nominations should be submitted by 5 p.m., Monday,has already had a profound March 22, 2004, 
impact on American culture and thought." 
Ganey Mini-Grant Applications Due March 22 
The Center for Social Concerns is now accepting applica~Don't miss this exciting dons for two mini~grants of $5,000 each. Awarded in two 
event. 
phases, the mini-grants support joint faculty-student-com­munity research partnerships that address a social challenge When :Thursday; March articulated by a community organization. The purposes of 
25 at 5:00pm the mini-grants are to foster faculty-student-community parmerships that result in measurable, positive impact 
Where : 101 DeBartolo 

in the South Bend area; reflect the investment of faculty Hall 
expertise in the local community; and offer students com­mu,nity-based learning opportunities that promote civic 
responsibility. To Learn more, go to the CSC website.

Applications for Teamwork 
The proposal should be submitted by 5 p.m., Monday, March 22, 2004. 

for Tomorrow Due March 19 
Teamwork for Tomorrow please visit the Teamwork 
September 11 Families for Peace 
is an after-school menroring website at www.nd.edu/ program that serves in two ~teamwork or email Sarah 

Speech Held March 4 
Peace Fellowship. 
When: Thursday, March 4 at 5:00pm 
Where: Center for Social Concerns 
sites; one site serves a predom­Finch, recruitment coordina­inancly Hispanic community tor, at sfinch1@nd.edu. A member ofSeptember and the other an African­11th Families for Peaceful
Applications for fall2004 are

American community. Tomorrows will speak on
available on the website and 
working for peace in a post­Both sites run four hours a due by March 19, September 11th world. Theweek. For more information, event is sponsored by the ND 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
read in the newspaper or ''I'm certainly a person who said. "It's a new wrinkle for 
of the research. in the historical sense," Bender 
learned through the


MooneyCloning 
grapevine provide a broad ic research, but I think there with." 
is pro-science and pro-scientif­[moral ethicists] to grapple 
continued from page 1 or deep picture of the cur­continued from page 1 
rent reality at the College." donated human eggs. Each egg nity needs to impose on itself," brings exciting new possibili­
are limits the scientific commu­The news, Bender said, also 
In addition to increasing Upon entering office, contains what is called a hap­Sloan said. "What is the line ties for medicine. 
her familiarity with the Mooney said her first priori­loid nucleus, composed of half that separates the kind of "[The goal is to] develop spe­
College, Mooney also sees ty is to increase her depth of the chromosomes found in cloning that has been devel­cific tissues to overcome defi­
the importance in broaden­knowledge about the Saint somatic or body cell nuclei. oped by the Korean team for ciencies in patients suffering 
ing her understanding of the Mary's community. She cred­During fertilization, this nucle­medical benefit and a subse­from [diseases like] diabetes 
presidency itself. In early its het. regular visits to cam­us fuses with that of a sperm quent growing of embryos to a and Alzheimer's. The idea is 
February, she attended the pus as having provided her cell to regenerate a complete later stage of development to replacement tissue rather than 
Association of Catholic with information about what genome. harvest other parts for medical replacement people," he said 
Colleges and Universities' faculty, staff and students The Korean team instead use?" "There are hundreds of 
annual meeting to learn consider to be the next steps removed the haploid nucleus The advancement could also patients with hemoglobin prob­
more about prominent taken. and replaced it with one from a lead rogue scientists to pursue lems -to be able to overcome 
issues facing today's Catholic Mooney said her top prior­surrounding cumulus cell using reproductive cloning -an that is very exciting." 
higher education institu­ity as president is to ensure somatic cell nuclear transfer unlikely but possible conse­Still, Sloan cautioned, the 
tions. She also plans to that Saint Mary's will contin­(SCNT) technology. quence of the new technology, announcement may push 
attend two summer semi­ue to attract "talented young The cell divided and grew said Harvey Bender, a biology future research down a slip­
nars designed specifically women." Focusing on indi­until it became a blastocyst, an professor and director of the pery slope. After Dolly the 
for new presidents as they vidual attention and prepar­early stage of embryonic devel­Human Genetics Program at sheep was cloned in 1997 the 
transition into office. ing students for a challeng­opment, at which point the Notre Dame. assumption -at least within 
Despite means of prepara­ing future are two aspects researchers harvested a "Is there going to be some the United States and European 
tion, Mooney said it is too that Mooney plans to main­pluripotent embryonic stem cell unscrupulous, idiot dictator Union -was that human 
early to begin thinking about tain at the College. These line. that would use it to copy him­cloning would not be pursued, 
what changes need to be aspects must remain faithful The results are significant self? It's possible," Bender said. he said. Now it has been done, 
made at Saint Mary's. to the mission set by the because the derived stem cell "It would be excruciatingly raising possibilities of harvest­
"I think it is very unwise Sisters of the Holy Cross, she line can potentially develop expensive to use this willy-nilly ing tissue from later stage 
for someone to enter into a said. into almost any tissue within for reproduction," he said, embryos or even reproductive 
new community and attempt "Saint Mary's is an educa­the body through the use of adding that the low success cloning in the future. 
to make changes before hav­tional institution so, first therapeutic cloning. The same rate of the process -about And while Sloan said he 
ing the opportunity to get to and foremost, we must con­technology, however, could con­one in 20 in the Korean prefers that the scientific com­
know the community from tinue to provide an excellent ceivably be used in reproduc­research -presents additional munity implement some form 
the inside out," she said. "I academic experience and tive cloning to generate a difficulties. of internal regulation, more 
have the advantages of being constantly strive to improve human clone. But the issue raises more announcements like that from 
an alumna and of having and fine tune it," Mooney "I think this opens up a new practical moral questions, as the Korean team could prompt 
lived and worked in close said. "Our goal is to be set of issues," said Phillip well. The cloned blastocyst, for outside intervention. 
proximity to the College for excellent in everything we Sloan, chairman of the example, represents a sort of "The ball is in the scientists' 
a long time, so I will begin do, and my job is to help Program of Liberal Studies and curve ball to moral ethicists. court right now," he said. "If 
my presidency with a strong keep us on that course and a specialist in the history and Because the cells contain no there isn't sufficient self-regu­
knowledge base." make it possible to achieve philosophy of life science. genetic contribution from lation and a recognition of the 
"But," Mooney added, "I the next level of develop­The announcement raises either a sperm or an egg, some moral questions now raised by 
need to be careful not to ment." ethical concerns about the could question whether it was humanists, then it is [likely] 
assume that Saint Mary's is morality of creating an embryo even an embryo at all accord­that external legislation will be 
the same as when I was a Contact Anneliese Woolford at for the sole purpose of harvest­ing to the traditional definition. needed." 
student or that what I have wool8338@saintmarys.edu ing tissue and fears that the "In the case of the Korean scientific community may be cloning, there is no dad or Contact Andrew Thagard at unable to control the direction mom. There is no fertilization athagard@nd.edu 

Abuse 
continued from page 1 
part of the solution. I wanted to try to do something to advance the Church to do the right thing." 
Incandela said he believes that some people fail to give Bishop D'Arcy and the dio-


Survivor 
continued from page 1 
9 p.m. tonight. 
According to Pat Brubaker, assistant director of Clinical Services, the need for such an informational program has been apparent for years at Health Services and the Counseling Center. 
"We found that when spring break was over, there was a huge increase in needs related to unhealthy behavior," Brubaker said. "We decided to get into preventive medicine." 
Brubaker said a census was taken to determine the most common student needs that arise as a result of spring break. The response is those issues currently targeted with the Survivor event. 
The pre-spring break health event debuted last year, and Helen Bowden of the Counseling Center said it resulted in a decrease in the number of students that returned from break with ill­nesses and other problems. 
"We want students to 'sur­vive' spring break healthy and safe," Brubaker said. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 

cese the credit they deserve 
for what has been  accom­ 
plished.  
"I  believe  that  Bishop  

D'Arcy responded in a com­passionate, pastoral manner to the victims that have come forward," he said. "As far as the Charter goes, we are ahead of the curve in the country, and we're only going to progress forward." 
Members of the Notre Dame community that are a part of the Review Board include Susan Steibe-Pasalich, assis­tant director of Notre Dame Counseling Services, and graduates Lisa Everett, Frank Byrne and Ann Firth. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rebel leader takes charge in Haiti 
POHT-AU-PHINCE, Haiti -Hebel leader Guy Philippe declared himself the new chief of Haiti's military, which was disbanded by ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, and pledged Tuesday that rebel forces will dis­arm. 
Philippe then said he would arrest Prime Minister Yvon Neptune on corruption charges. 
lie said he was "not interested in politics" and was ready to follow the orders of interim President Boniface Alexandre, chief justice of the Supreme Court, who was installed Sunday. 
China to legalize property rights 
BEIJING -Communist China is changing its constitution to embrace the most basic tenet of capitalism, protecting private prop­erty rights, for the first time since the 1949 revolution. 
China's parliament is meeting in an annual session starting Friday to endorse the change, already approved by Communist Party leaders who tout privatization as a way to continue the country's economic revolu­tion and help tens of millions of poor Chinese. It will bring China's legal frame­work in line with its market-oriented ambi­tions by providing a constitutional guarantee for entrepreneurs, once considered the enemy of communism but now pivotal in generating jobs and wealth. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mayor charged in gay weddings 
NEW PALTZ, N.Y. -The village's mayor was charged Tuesday with 19 criminal counts for performing marriage ceremonies for gay couples. 
Jason West was charged with solemnizing marriages without a license, a misdemeanor under the domestic relations law, according to Ulster County District Attorney Donald Williams. 
Although West could face a maximum penalty of a year in jail, Williams said a jail term wasn't being contemplated at this point. 
West performed wedding ceremonies for 25 gay couples Friday, making him the sec­ond mayor in the country to perform same­sex marriages. More than 3,400 couples have been married in San Francisco. 
GOP senators drop J!un bill 
WASHINGTON -Senate Republicans scut­tled an election-year bill to immunize the gun industry from lawsuits Tuesday after Democrats amended it to extend an assault weapons ban and require background checks on all buyers at private gun shows. 
The National Hille Association began pres­suring senators to vote against the bill after Democrats won votes on the two key gun control measures. The 90-8 vote against the bill virtually ends any chance for gun legisla­tion to make through Congress this year. 
Democrats won close votes on their amendments to change the Republican legis­lation, a strategy aimed at pressuring the GOP-dominated House to accept the restric­tions to gain passage of the gunmaker-immu­nity bill. 
STATE NEWS 
Students begin lunchtime walks 
GAHY -Children are walking away from the vending machines as part of a new pro­gram at Gary's elementary schools. 
As part of the "Walk for Good Health" pro­gram that began Monday, students are encouraged to walk for 30 minutes during their daily lunch hour. The program is spon­sored by the school district, area ministers and the Urban League of Northwest Indiana. 
About 475 students took part in the pro­gram's first day at Locke Elementary School. All 20 Gary elementary schools are expected to participate. 
Urban League Chairman Oliver Crawford developed the concept about six months ago to help reduce child obesity. 
IRAQ 

Terrorists kill143 on holy day 
Suicide attacks hit Shiite religious sites; U.S. officials probe al-Qaida connection 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Suicide bombers carried out simul­taneous attacks on Shiite Muslim shrines in Iraq on Tuesday, detonating multi­ple explosions that ripped through crowds of pil­grims. At least 143 people were killed and 430 wounded -the bloodiest day since the fall of Saddam Hussein. 
Unofficial casualty reports, however, put the toll in Baghdad and Karbala as high as 223. 
U.S. officials and Iraqi leaders named an al­Qaida-linked militant, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, as a "prime suspect" for the attacks, saying he seeks to spark a Sunni-Shiite civil war to wreck U.S. plans to hand over power to the Iraqis on June 30. 

But some Shiites lashed out at U.S. forces. Iraq's most powerful Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al­Hussein al-Sistani, blamed in Iraq represents," Vice the Kazimiya shrine in pilgrims were used instead the Americans for not pro­President Dick Cheney told Baghdad when the explo­as impromptu gurneys, viding security on the holi­CNN. sions went off about 10 stacked with the wounded est day of the Shiite calen­The devastating explo­a.m. and dead. Torn bodies dar. sions carne on the climac­In Karbala, women were sprawled across the 
The blasts fanned fear tic day of the 10-day Shiite tripped over their long, mosaic-walled courtyard and anger at a time when mourning festival Ashoura black robes as they ran. inside the Kazimiya shrine, leaders of the Shiite major­commemorating the 7th Police wept at the sight of and thousands of shoes ­ity are pressing for more century martyrdom of the the mangled and torn bod­left at the shrine's doorstep power in a future govern­prophet Muhammad's ies of pilgrims, their blood as the faithful prayed ment after years of oppres­grandson Hussein. pooling in the streets. inside -were blown sion under Saddam. The The bombings also hap­"I was walking away across the square. attacks forced the delay of pened about two hours from the tea stand. when I "I heard a deafening a milestone in the path before an attack on a heard someone shouting explosion and bodies toward the U.S. handover Shiite procession in Quetta, 'Allahu Akbar.' I turned my began to fly and land next -the planned Thursday Pakistan, that killed at head and saw a tall, to me," said Arnar Dawas. signing of an interim con­least 42 people -includ­bearded man," said Ali sitting atop a pile of tan­stitution approved by the ing two attackers -and Haidar. "A split second gled mattresses, head U.S.-appointed Governing wounded over 160. later, he exploded, his down and scratching his Council. Tens of thousands of pil­clothes flying upward. The left heel. 
"What we've seen today grims from Iraq, Iran and sound was deafening. "There were also hands in these attacks are des­other Shiite communities Bodies, feet, arms were and legs which we had to peration moves by a! were massed around the everywhere. Pieces of flesh bring down from the roof." Qaeda-affiliated groups golden-domed Imam flew at me." said the 24-year-old work­that recognize the threat Hussein mosque in the In Baghdad, wooden er, whose white T-shirt that a successful transition holy city of Karbala and carts for ferrying elderly was stained with blood. 

Kerry seals nomination, Edwards out 
front against Bush in the fall. years to come." 
Associated Pnoss 

He called his Senate colleague Edwards appealed to independents 
ATlANTA-John Edwards, whose from Massachusetts an "extraordi­and other potential swing voters who Southern charm and oratorical flair nary advocate for jobs, better health could be instrumental in a close con­transformed the Democratic presi­care. a safer world." test in the fall. Although he made dential contest, finally gave in to the "These are the causes of our party, millions as a plaintiff's trial lawyer inevitable math of the primary con­these are the causes of our country, before running for the Senate for the test on Tuesday, bowing out with the and these are the causes we will pre­first time in 1998, Edwards empha­same unbridled optimism that has vail on come November," Edwards sized his humble origins as the son of characterized his candidacy. said. a textile mill worker who had lost his 
"We have been the little engine He credited Kerry with running "a job when his factory closed. that could," the North Carolina sena­strong, powerful campaign." That, and his ability to clearly lay tor told supporters as he signaled he In a telephone call to Kerry, out issues, enabled Edwards to con­was abandoning his challenge to Edwards implied that he would drop nect easily with most audiences. I lis front-runner John Kerry. He planned out and told Kerry he wanted to sit campaign pitch that there are two to formally announce he is dropping down and talk with him about unify­Americas -one for the rich and out of the race on Wednesday in ing the party, said Kerry spokesman powerful and one for everybody else Haleigh, N.C. David Wade. The two also talked -resonated with audiences. 
Edwards won his native South about how they "rode out the tough Several Democrats said Edwards' Carolina and managed to come from times" and the contributions and campaign skills and performance the backfield in a once-crowded sacrifices that their wives had made should earn him consideration as Democratic race with a string of throughout the campaign, Wade Kerry's vice presidential running strong second-place finishes to be said. mate. the last major challenger to Kerry. Kerry, in turn, credited Edwards Edwards did not specifically 
Edwards congratulated Kerry in a for bringing "a compelling voice to address his status in his Tuesday speech to supporters, signaling that our party, great eloquence ... and night speech to supporters, but left Democrats would present a united great promise for leadership for the no doubt that he was dropping out. 

Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalis01 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 

For a nomination form, please visit our website 
at: 

http:IIosa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by March 16, 2004. 



Passion 
continued from page 1 
see it as a painful imposition upon Jesus," Neyrey said. "It was mockery." 
He also criticized the film's lack of attention to Jesus' min­isterial life. 
"Little or nothing is said about imitating Jesus in disci­pleship," Neyrey said. 
Holland said the film was remarkable because of its focus on visual images. 
"We go to see a film; we don't go to hear a film," he said. "One of the primary effects of having the movie in Aramaic and Latin is to make sure we're just watching." 
Holland, who is Jewish, also addressed the controversy sur­rounding the movie. Some prominent Jewish leaders have denounced the film and its director, saying "The Passion" is meant to inflame sentiment against Jews. 
"Did I see the film to be anti­Semitic? No," Holland said. "Do I think the film could be used anti-Semitically? Absolutely. I worry about what power this film will have." 
Signer said the film contains inaccurate representations of the high priest and other offi­cials in the Jerusalem temple. 
"I think the film is anti­Judaic in that it exaggerates the divisions among the Jewish people," he said. "Caiaphas and those who surround him look like caricatures from Der Sturmer," an anti-Jewish newspaper in Nazi Germany that gained notoriety for its cartoons of Jews. 
"Gibson continues to testify that he is not an anti-Semite," Signer said. "As a Jew wit­nessing that film, I think his actions and his pictures speak louder than his words." 
Cunningham said the con­
cerns about anti-Semitism are overblown. 
"In this country, this film is not going to trigger anti­Semitism, except in those peo­ple who are predisposed to be anti-Semitic," he said. "But [Gibson] certainly deals out some stereotypes." 
Cunningham warned that the movie should not be taken as the definitive version of the Passion narrative. 
"This is one way of under­standing the Passion, but it's not the only way," he said. "There are many different ways." 
Steele said the film's per­spective springs from Gibson's practice of Catholicism. 
"What we know about Mel is that he's a Tridentine Catholic," he said. "The pri­mary theology of the Tridentine Mass is that it's a sacrifice." 
Gibson is a member of the conservative Tridentine branch of Catholicism. Followers still attend Mass in Latin and reject the reforms instituted in the 1960s by the Second Vatican Council. 
Steele said that by having the Roman characters speak Latin rather than Greek, Gibson is taking subtle jabs at the modern Catholic Church. 
"It should have been in Greek and Aramaic, but he's engaging in an argument between Tridentine Catholics and the rest of us," Steele said. 
Santoni said Catholics should intelligently discuss the movie, rather than letting it speak for itself. 
"It's a great conversation starter, but make sure it's just that," he said. "It's just the beginning. It is our responsi­bility to continue the conversa­tion." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

Court strikes doW"n FCC rules 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A federal appeals court on Tuesday struck down rules designed to foster competition for local tele­phone service, handing a major victory to Verizon, SBC, BellSouth and Qwest. 
A three-judge panel of the 
D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously overturned the rules adopted last August by the Federal Communications Commission. The judges said the FCC acted improperly by leaving it to state regulators to decide whether to spur compe­tition between the former Bell companies and others wanting to provide local phone service. 
It is the third time courts have invalidated FCC attempts to write rules for local tele­phone service competition. The judges decried the FCC's "apparent unwillingness to adhere to prior judicial rul­ings." 
The court put its decision on hold for 60 days to hear motions to reconsider its deci­sion. 
Congress mandated in 1996 that the FCC write rules to 

Nuclear w-eapon talks progressing 
encourage competition with the former Bell phone companies, which have held a near monop­oly in local markets. In a bitter­ly contested 3-2 decision last August, the FCC voted to let state regulators require Verizon, BellSouth, SBC and Qwest to lease parts of their networks to competitors like AT&T and MCI at low prices. 
The idea was that competi­tors couldn't afford to build their own networks, but allow­ing them to use existing infra­structure would make it attrac­tive to get into local markets. The former Bell companies say that left them at a competitive disadvantage and took away the incentive to build better networks. 
The court said the responsi­bility for encouraging competi­tion rested with the FCC, not the states. "It is clear here that Congress has not delegated to the FCC the authority" to pass the responsibility elsewhere, the court said. 
The FCC commissioners who backed the new rules ­Republican Kevin Martin and Democrats Michael Copps and Jonathan Adelstein -said they would appeal to the Supreme Court. 
"In the past, the Supreme Court has made clear that the FCC has significant discretion in ensuring that the local tele­phone markets are open to competition," they said in a joint statement. 
FCC Chairman Michael Powell, who was on the losing side of the decision to enact the rules, praised the court's deci­sion and said he already has ordered the FCC staff to begin work on new rules. 
He said the court "restored the opportunity to bring about new advanced services and true competition that will bring consumers choice and innova­tion" because new companies would have to offer something different, rather than sell the same local service on the same phone lines as the Bells do. 
Verizon also welcomed the decision. "Today's court deci­sion is an important step toward getting the telecommu­nications industry back on a sound footing," said Mike Glover, the company's senior vice president and deputy gen­eral counsel. 
Heferring to the U.S. part­ners in the six-nation talks that recessed last week in Beijing, Powell said the United States, South Korea, Japan, China and Hussia "have made it clear to North Korea that a better future awaits them, that none of these nations is intent on attacking them or destroying them." 
There was a gooct deal of progress at the latest round, Powell said. "We haven't got­ten where we need to be," he said, "but what I am especial­ly pleased about is that we have institutionalized now the process with working groups and we're already getting ready for the next meeting." 
Only Monday in Seoul, how­ever, South Korean President Hoh Moo-hyun spoke of cre­ating a foreign policy more independent of the United States. "Step by step, we should strengthen our inde­pendence and build our strength as an independent nation," he said in a national­ly televised speech. 
On Tuesday, the new South Korean foreign minister, Ban Ki-moon, met with President Bush and Powell at the White House. U.S. officials provided no account of the meeting. 
Tur11ing 2 I ... So Hot Right Now 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATIE! Love, Your Roomie 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -North Korea agreed in the latest nuclear weapons talks to consider a U.S. demand that it dismantle its programs based both on plutonium and uranium, the chief U.S. nego­tiator told lawmakers Tuesday. 
"The North Koreans came to the table denying a urani­um enrichment program," Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
But, in a reversal, he said, "It was clear by the conclu­sion of the talks that this is now very much on the table." 
Kelly cited the develop­ments in Beijing as evidence of "a very different, promis­ing atmosphere" in the latest round of negotiations. 
As Kelly spoke, Secretary of State Colin Powell avoided specifics but offered an upbeat assessment of the talks and said cooperation at the negotiating table with South Korea and other allies was unprecedented. 
In a speech to an Asian studies group, Powell said North Korea can expect good relations with its neighbors in the North Pacific once it ends its program and embraces a policy of political and economic openness now sweeping the area. 
While the Bush administra­tion has ruled out conces­sions to North Korea as a payoff to end its nuclear weapons program, Powell said without elaboration: "We want to help the people of North Korea, who are in such difficulty now." 
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------~----~-~ 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow

}ones 10,591.48 -86.66 
.&.. Same: Down,: Composite Volume: t-;J36 175 • 1,479,4!)1,088 
AMEX 1,272.72 -3.24 l NASDAQ 2,039.65 -18.15 NYSE 6,717.13 -49.43 S&PSOO 1,149.10 -6.87 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,361.51 0.00 mE IOO(London) 4,540.10 +3.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.16 MAMMACOM INC (MAMA) +149.38 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.30 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.12 ORACLE CORP (ORCL} -0.76 

Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0,89 I0-YEAR NOTE +I .35 5-YEARNOTE +2.06 3-MONTH BILL +0.64 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($ffroy oz.) PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) 
-0.31  26.39  
+6.05  10. I 0  
-0.09  29.60  
-0.50.  23.03  
-0. I 0  12.98  

+0.43 49.0 I +0.54 40.46 +0.61 30.22 +0.06 9.42 
-0.20 36.66 -5.80 393.80 +0.25 97.55 
Excha Rates 

YEN 110.1 EURO 0.8186 POUND 0.5436 CANADIAN$ I .343 
IN BRIEF 


WorldCom ex-CEO to stand trial 
NEW YORK -Former WorldCom CEO Bernard Ebbers was indicted on federal fraud and conspiracy charges Tuesday, accused of orchestrating the biggest accounting shell­game in corporate history. His chief financial officer, Scott Sullivan, will testify against him in a plea deal. 
The charges push Ebbers, who amassed a personal fortune exceeding $1 billion while building the giant telecommunications compa­ny now called MCI, into the swelling ranks of corporate chieftains facing criminal prosecu­tion and possible jail time for financial mis­deeds. 

Economy continues to gain steam 
WASIIINGTON -The economy is in recov­ery, a trio of reports released Monday suggest. with manufacturing activity and consumer spending on the rise and construction spend­ing solid yet slightly lower. 
I Iigh energy prices and slow job creation are areas of concern for economists, but overall they remain upbeat about the nation's finan­cial condition. 
The nation's manufacturing sector grew for the ninth consecutive month in February, the Institute for Supply Management reported Monday, but the expansion was at a slightly slower pace than expected. 
$300M EU sanctions hit U.S. firms 
BHUSSELS. Belgium -The European Union sought to pressure the U.S. Congress into quickly changing its export subsidy laws by imposing sanctions Monday which could total $300 million in key industrial sectors by the end of the U.S. election year. 
The 15-nation EU said it had run out of patience with the United States for failing to repeal the Foreign Sales Corporation legisla­tion two years after the tax breaks it offers to exporters were ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization. 
The sanctions will hit an array of industries, ranging from jewelry to textiles and agricul­tural goods. Since the sanctions arc gradual, they will increasingly hurt as time ticks down to congressional elections in November. 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
CORPORATE SCANDAL 

Stewart lawyer wraps up case 
Defense attorney says Martha is innocent; prosecutor blasts 'phony cover story' 
Associat~d P~ss 
NEW YORK -The gov­ernment has wrongly accused Martha Stewart of participating in a laugh­able "confederacy of dunces," her lawyer said Tuesday in closing argu­ments at her federal stock trial. 
Lawyer Robert Morvillo tried to turn to his advan­tage a key part of prosecu­tors' case -that Stewart and broker Peter Bacanovic told inconsistent stories about a supposed plan to sell her ImClone Systems shares. 
"Nobody could have done what Peter Bacanovic and Martha Stewart are alleged to have done and done it in a dumber fashion," he said. 
Stewart and Bacanovic gave investigators difl'erent times for when they decid­ed they would sell her ImCJone shares when the price fell to $60. 
Stewart placed the con­versation in October or November 2001, Bacanovic in late December. 
"What you have here is the conspirators forgetting to tell each other the cru­cial element of the conspir­acy -when did it take place?'' Morvillo said. 
Stewart faces four feder­al counts and Bacanovic five related to the sale of about $225,000 worth of ImClone Systems stock on Dec. 27, 2001, the day before the stock tanked on news that the government declined to review the firm's cancer drug. 
Jurors are expected to begin deciding the case Wednesday. 
While Stewart is not charged with insider trad­ing, the government says she lied to investigators about the sale by concoct­ing a cover story -that they had struck a deal before Dec. 27 to sell Stewart's shares when ImClone stock dropped below $60. 

On Monday, prosecutor Michael Schachter called that story "phony," "silly" and "simply an after-the­fact cover story." 
"Martha Stewart proba­bly thought she would never get caught," Schachter said during clos­ing arguments. But she "left behind a trail of evi­dence." 
Schachter said that trail included contradictory statements, an altered phone Jog and the testimo­ny of Bacanovic's former assistant, Douglas Faneuil. 
Faneuil, the star prose­cution witness, testified that at Bacanovic's request, he told Stewart that ImClone CEO Sam Waksal and his family were dump­ing the stock. 
But Bacanovic's lawyer attacked Faneuil's credibil­ity for more than two hours Monday, saying his cooper­ation deal with the govern­ment to avoid prosecution gave him "an incredible motive to lie." 
As he continued closing arguments Tuesday, lawyer Richard Strassberg sug­gested that Bacanovic would also have turned against Stewart if he were actually guilty of the accu­sations against him, because the government's real target has been Stewart all along. 
"He's here because he's not a liar," lawyer Richard Strassberg said in his clos-
APPAREL 

Blue jean maker slips into the red 
Associat~d P~ss 
SAN FRANCISCO -Troubled Levi Strauss & Co.'s losses continue to mount amid sloppy accounting prac­tices that forced the long-struggling jeans maker to erase a big chunk of its previously reported profits. 
San Francisco-based Levi's said late Monday that it lost $245 million in its fiscal fourth quarter ended Nov. 
30. That contrasted with a $21 mil­lion profit during the comparable period in the previous year. Fourth­quarter sales declined 5 percent to $1.2 billion. 
It capped the seventh consecutive year of declining sales for Levi's, whose revenue peaked at $7.1 billion in fiscal 1996. For all of 2003, the company lost $349 million on sales of $4.09 billion compared with a 2002 profit of $7 million on sales of $4.15 billion. 
Last year's sales erosion was worse than those figures made it appear. Levi's said its 2003 sales would have decreased by 6 percent if not for favorable currency fluctuations. 

Levi's is privately held, but files its financial results with the Securities and Exchange Commission because some of its debt is publicly held. 
Monday's bad news wasn't con­fined to the company's 2003 results. 
Levi's also revealed that accounting problems first disclosed in October forced the company to adjust its pre­viously reported results by a wider margin than management originally warned. 
Prodded by an extensive audit, Levi's restated its results for a 10­quarter period dating to the start of its fiscal 2001. The revisions wiped out 2001 and 2002 profits totaling $75 million and widened the compa­ny's losses during the first half of 2003 by $62 million. 
Levi's traced the $137 million reversal of fortune to a tax deduction for losses on plant closures that was mistakenly claimed twice on its 1998 and 1999 returns. 
The shoddy accounting isn't related to allegations of financial chicanery raised in a wrongful termination law­suit filed last year by two former tax managers. The former employees, Richard Schmidt and Thomas Walsh, allege Levi's created illegal tax shel­ters in foreign countries and falsified financial statements dating back to 1997. 
Levi's continues to vigorously deny those allegations, Phil Marineau, the company's CEO, said in an interview Monday. 
The accounting blunders drew a rebuke from the company's inde­pendent auditor, KPMG, which cited management for "material weak­nesses in internal controls." 
Levi's has changed chief financial officers since the accounting problem cropped up, replacing Bill Chiasson with Jim Fogarty in December. 
Fogarty joined Levi's as part of a turnaround firm, Alvarez & Marsal, hired to help save the 151-year-old company. 

ing argument. "And so his top count against Stewart, life is on the line here, securities fraud, last week, ladies and gentlemen, jurors were left with before you." charges of conspiracy, 
Strassberg also stressed obstruction of justice and Bacanovic's reputation as a lying to investigators. trustworthy, meticulous The remaining counts broker and said Bacanovic against Stewart carry up to never would have risked 20 years in prison, his career for the Stewart although federal sentenc­trade, which earned him ing guidelines could mean just $450 in commissions. a sentence of just a year or 
Taking such a risk so if she is convicted on all "makes no sense," counts. The charges Strassberg said. against Bacanovic carry 25 
After U.S. District Judge years, but the guidelines Miriam Goldman would similarly reduce his Cedarbaum dismissed the sentence. 



---~~---· ----------------------------,...--~---,---------... 

page 8 
MANAGING EOtTOR ..•. S~ott Bthdfu..,h:rcr · 
~ ~GfN'<> E(llroa 
Sheila Flynn 
SAINT MARY's EorroRJ Anneli..,seWoolford 
·_·_._..· News .. 
.. rumellese 
Woolford 
Matthew .
. 
Smedberg Matt Bramantt•-···· Viewpoint Alyssa Brauweiler Graphics 
PaulRoncai··· 


THE 0BSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 

Du Lac, spring break, and 'Dave' 
After fantasizing all winter about slender, bikini-clad vixens basking in the scorching Caribbean sun, deli­cately oiling their gentle skin while slowly applying chapstick to their 
soft, crimson  
lips ... Where was I  Joey Falco  
going with this?  
I don't even  
remember. The  Forty Ounces  
point is, Spring  ofFalco  
Break 2004 is  
finally upon us,  

and in the tradition of classic televi­sion masterpieces like "MTV Spring Break 2001," "MTV Spring Break 2002," and "Bosom Buddies," many Notre Dame students will be packing up their green T-shirts and shower sandals and heading for a hedonistic, Flex Point-free world of decadence and debauchery where the only cur­rency is plastic beads and the only source of salivary nourishment comes in a shot glass. 
However, not every Domer shows up at Miami Beach or South Padre Island expecting to be rolled up into a human taco with a half-naked 14­year-old named Stacl. Believe it or not, not every Domer even stamps her passport with cities like Cancun or Mazatlan in the hopes of donning a dripping whipped cream bikini in front of thousands of horny onlook­ers. 
On the contrary, at least one Notre Dame student, hypothetically using the pseudonym Domer Dave, will cer­tainly attend this spring's festivities with the full intentions of abiding by the divinely-mandated covenant that binds all Darners to the moral stan­dards of the University-du Lac. This is Domer Dave's heart-wrench­ing story. 
Upon stepping onto the blistering, vomit-stained sand of a Cancun beach, Domer Dave's mind could not stray from a single phrase that was implanted in his head with the per-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

sistence of an Ace of Base song. "These policies and procedures apply to all students ... whether the behav­ior occurs on or off campus." Yes, he thought to himself, I will remain loyal to du Lac throughout Spring Break. 
Moments later, his friends emerged bearing gallons of the sweet ambrosia of the Mexican gods, better known as tequila. However, just as Domer Dave was preparing to quench his longing with a serving of the gold­en nectar, he recalled, "Intoxication by any student, regardless of age, whether in public or private, is pro­hibited." Instantly, he turned his back on this vile temptation and instead extinguished his thirst with a rasp­berry iced tea. 
Later that day, Domer Dave and his posse came across a rabble of uncon­scious females that clearly appeared to be about as sober as the Bush twins. As they approached the volup­tuous mound of vulnerability, one of the young temptresses awoke from her drunken stupor and confronted the horde of pleasure-seekers. Upon seeing the cheap green beads hastily strewn about Domer Dave's neck, she proceeded to unlace her already­revealing, leopard skin bikini top, but luckily another passage from the sacred text prevented the eager Irishman from extending his jittery hand. "Sexual conduct, including unwelcome touching ... is a serious violation." Reflecting on these words, he remorsefully pulled away from a score so easy that it would have made a University of Colorado foot­ball player jealous. 
As night approached, the thankful gang of Notre Dame men returned to their hotel with their fortunate dis­covery of semi-conscious females, and for the rest of the evening, they made Turtle Creek seem like a Buddhist temple. Domer Dave had never enjoyed himself more, and was quite relieved upon realizing that du Lac failed to mention anything about eating the worm at the bottom of the bottle. As he gleefully tilted his head and digested the legless annelid. the clock ominously struck two, and as if in a hypnotic trance, he fell into a Druid-like chant of "Visiting hours for guests of the opposite sex are not to begin before 9 a.m. on any day and are not to extend beyond 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights." Immediately, with all the candor and spunk of an H.A., he ushered the unwelcome females out of his hotel room and breathed a hearty sigh of du Lac relief. 
As his friends stormed off in com­plete contempt, Domer Dave suddenly found himself alone with one stun­ning beauty who clearly appeared to have overworked her liver over the course of the night. With the hotel room to themselves, she slyly manip­ulated him into derobing and slipping under the covers with her, and Domer Dave soon became privy to her hedonistic intentions. 
As he, too, prepared to give new meaning to his "Here Come the Irish" T-shirt, he dejectedly recalled d u Lac's message, "Because a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage." 
Reflecting on these words, the eager young man dropped to his knee and cried out, "Naked chick in my bed, will you marry me?" 
And the moral of this story? Have a fantastic, du Lac-free Spring Break! Just try not to pull a Britney Spears and get hitched in the process. 
Joey Falco is a freshman political science and Spanish major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAYOBSERVER POLL 
"Anthropology is the most humanistic ofthe sciences and the most scientific ofthe humanities., 
How many midterms do you have? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

Alfred L. Kroeber www.ndsmcobserver.com 
second Ph.D in anthropology in the United States 

THE ()BSER\'ER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
page 9 
. 
.-----.--, 
~ 
Break the habits of everyday life 
It's a Monday morning on the campus choose to forgo the raised eyebrows grace of the friendships that you the towel and finally admitting, "OK. of Notre Dame, and I'm walking to class and the wordle~s question of "Who is already have. Every once in a while, yes. I want to meet you"? thinking about which classes I don't this guy?" in favor of my cold and gray, you see a familiar fac~. smile and say It should be worth the threat, espe­want to go to and the work that I yet nonetheless comforting, side­
the standard, "Hey, how are cially during a time of your life that should have done weeks ago. I'm in no walk. you," maybe throw in a warrants meeting new and interesting particular hurry, · Their silent rejection, "You feeling alright" or people. even though the without even trying to "Keep it real," and So what's wrong with that? Why can't 
Adam Cahill

rain is steadily get to know the per­then move on. But we just go up to someone without hav­pil!rcing the materi-son that I am, is what of the unfa-ing to overcome the social stigma of an al of my gray hood­hard to bear. The miliar faces? ulterior motive? And on the flip side, if ed sweatshirt, and A Domer's fact that you What would we are ever the recipient of such an I'm relieved that Outlook know there happen if I introduction. most of us assume the there are only a few are only good just said worst. 
days before Spring intentions 
Break and the Mexican sunshine. I've behind the got a hat on, and it suddenly appears to smiling me that the most interesting things at face that the moment arc the characterless side­you hope walk and the easiest way to keep from to get a walking in the lakes that have accumu­warm lated on South Quad. welcome 
I have a few more minutes before from is class, and I tend to walk more slowly to not reflect on things happening in my life enough. when I have time. But the slower I in most walk, the more I look around and sec cases, to hundreds of people, just like me, hus­get you tling toward their next class, oblivious to all the potential friends they arc 

~;%~~~r­

walking by. in-the-
Why is it that I never say hello to any headlights of these people? They dress like I do, go look of fear to the same school as I do, party like I and uncer­do; well, maybe not party like I do. But tainty. And 
Q:·..·
...· 

"hello" to a Why is that? new per­The reason: fear. We live in a society son each today that presumes the worst. expects 
day? It the nightmares we see on the nightly 
could news. and demands a written contract 
change of good intentions before we begin to 
a lot in trust anyone. 
the And of course, some instances pro­
grand mote that kind of behavior because we 
scheme have been hurt by those we have trust­
of ed in the past. It is called a defense 
things. mechanism. Simply put. the past will 
Or it always continue to haunt the future. 
could And it gives us all the more reason to just be a buckle down and continue to shun peo­new and ple because they are unfamiliar and 
interest­therefore are untrustworthy. ing way to So, how do we cast aside this socially make the debilitating trend? Either I need a trek to class friendlier face or a new approach. each day. Either way, we need to loosen up, cut 
if you arc like me, you tend to shy away even if you do But the through the confines of our social from any potentially awkward situation say up front that greater ques­groups and open up to one another. I'm because you're scared of the perception all you want is tion is not what not sure how, but I'd be open to any of being the random person on the another friend, it is the result of the suggestions that you might have. quad who said hello to a complete automatically introduction is; it is stranger and welcomed possible embar­assumed that by friend 
why we choose to let Adam Cahill is a senior history and rassment. Or even worse, you could be you mean "friend." And our fears of embarrass­American studties major. 1/is column Ia9~le~, ~s,~/1(\t ~\rfll1~f-, PHrs~n who when that assumption is made, ment and acceptance ruin any appears every other Wednesday. He can stalks rather'than goes to class ·each it's as if you've contracted a serious chance we have of meeting people that be contacted at cahill@nd. edu. day, which would in turn become sui­case of the plague and have been black­could potentially turn out to be great The views expressed in this column cide for your reputation. No, I suppose listed from certain circles of existence. friends. Shouldn't it be worth the risk of are those of the author and not neces­it's safe to say that most of the time I Of course, though, there is the saving embarrassing yourself by throwing in sarily those of The Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 




Gays have the right to marriage 
I've heard arguments from people opposed to gay marriage, but I am still not convinced. Most of.all, I cannot understand why President George W. Bush, with as much power and time he has ,in office, refuses to understand SQmething fundamental about human beings who also deserve America's "defense" 
Daniel Avlssar

and "protection." But to 
instead threaten them with a 
constitutional amendment 
banning gay marriage, as he The Chronicle did last Tuesday, is a fla­grant violation of civil rights and an insult to the integrity of this country. It's wrong. One argument against gay marriage is that the family is the basic unit of the traditional social fabric. But this is 2004. We've redefined reproduction with contraception, alterna­tive methods of fertilization and adoption. 
The availability of disease prevention has increased to just about every corner store (the knowledge of which President Bush seems intent on keeping out of public schools). The feminist and civil rights movements have helped open doors to all kinds of social liberation. The rising divorce rate not only attests to the limits of marriage, but it is also proof that the fundamental unit of the social fabric, the heterosexual family, is changing drastically. So if the social fabric is changing, and we are so advanced, then why should we not have the right to marry who we want, when we want and if we want? 
Another argument is that gay marriage does not function within the parameters of "legal'' marriage, in that the purpose of "legal" marriage is to legit­imize children. But because this is obsolete in the case of homosexuals, it would be absurd to use the legal definition as an excuse to deny them the right to marry. Therefore, not only should homosexual marriage be protected by the Constitution, but to prohibit it would also be unconstitutional. President Bush's threat to work "the constitutional process" based on his ideas of "the sanctity of marriage" will conflict heavily with the First Amendment, which states. "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion." 
The 14th Amendment makes the Bill of Rights applicable on the state level, and because the Defense of Marriage Act of 1996 is in technical vio­lation of both of these amendments (its definition of marriage as the "legal union b'etween one man and one woman as husband and wife" is in and of itself undeniably based on traditional religious practice). the states therefore have the constitutional right to veto this act. As a suggestion, perhaps President Bush needs to focus less on the definition of mar­riage, and more on the definition of "activist judges," "the people" and "irony." 
But I also refuse to believe that all those who are against gay marriage are against homosexuality in general. President Bush himself told us that he believes, "We should respect individuals as we take a principled stand for one of the most fundamental, enduring institutions of our civilization," while tak­ing a clear stand on the issue. Some people, while a.ccepting that consenting adults have the right to do what they want to do, are simply not comfortable with seeing it "being flaunted." Perhaps this is because they are uncomfortable with public displays of affection in general. or that the concept of homo­sexuality is so alien that it is difficult for them to understand or maybe they are simply homophobic. But the myth that gay people are all as flamboyant as the guys on "Queer Eye" needs to be dispelled. 
Furthermore, sexuality is something that a person is born with -not a "decision" as President Bush inferred last Tuesday. Most gay people will tell you that they have always been gay, but have faced an unbelievable amount of social pressure to stay "in the closet." These social pressures were made 
prevalent even by President Bush's speech last 
Tuesday night, where the same words he used to 
refer to homosexuality as a threat to the social fab­
ric were used to refer to terrorism as a threat to 
homeland security: "Our nation must defend the 
sanctity of marriage," "America will ... defend the 
security of our country." It is irrational and cruel to 
think that the two are equally dangerous. 
A couple committed to spending their lives togeth­
er is very different from a group of men committed 
to hijacking four commercial airlines full of hun­
dreds of innocent people and suicide bombing them 
into buildings full of more innocent people. I have 
friends who saw people jumping out of the top floors 
of the World Trade Center, and you want to tell me 
that a gay couple produces the same effect? 
I believe that every human being has basic wants: 
to be loved, to have enough to feed themselves and 
their families and to live life with as little inconven­
ience as possible. People don't really care about 
hurting one another if they are just left in peace 
with their wants fulfilled. As far as I understand, 
this is the basis of all human relationships, includ­
ing marriage: A strong relationship is not built sole­
ly on love, but also on respect and the willingness to .sacrifice pride for companionship. As people, we 
have to make sacrifices. For those of us who oppose 
gay marriage, I suggest we show some respect. 
swallow our pride and let us all be civil with one 
other. There is no reason why homosexuals should 
be denied the right to legal marriage. 
This article originally appeared on March 1 in 
The Chronicle, the daily publication at Duke 
University. It is reprinted here courtesy of U­
Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSER\'ER 




CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
DVD REVIEW 

Don't pass it off as a ~romantic comedy' 
By CHRIS KEPNER 
Scene DVD Critic 

Lost in Translation documents the experiences of two Americans in Japan, where the culture shock forces them both to look at their lives a little differently. Charlotte (Scarlett Johansson) is a recent Yale graduate and wife of two years who is strug­gling to find her calling in life and finding that she and her husband (Giovanni Ribisi) might not have been the best match. Bob Harris (Bill Murray) is a moderately successful actor who says he's in Japan for a few reasons: "Taking a break from my wife, forgetting my son's birthday and getting paid two million dollars to endorse a whiskey when I could be doing a play somewhere." Sounds like your typical love story, right? 
It shouldn't come as much of a sur­prise that writer and director Sofia Coppola (The Virgin Suicides) won this year's Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. The dialogue is superb. There isn't a single line in the film that sounds awkward or in any extremely impressive to watch. She plays Charlotte with such gracious realism that it takes a great deal of effort on the part of the viewer to avoid falling in love with her. Giovanni Ribisi (Boiler Room, Saving Private Ryan) also plays his role wonderfully as Charlotte's husband, John, the pho­tographer who gradually alienates his wife as he becomes more and more full of himself and his work. 

The video and audio qualities of the DVD are both fantastic, as can be expected from most DVDs these days. A few deleted scenes are available, but nothing terribly exciting. In the actual film, Bob Harris appears on a Japanese talk show called Matthew's Best Hit TV. On the DVD, one of the bonus materials allows you to watch the talk show as it would have been broadcasted, which is actually really funny. There is also an interesting conversation with Murray and Sophia Coppola that gives their personal insights into the film. 
Lost in Translatian"'tst·a .lJ.ighly"feciJ· ommended addition to your DVD col­lection. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 

way unnatural. The themes are dealt with tastefully and the points driven home w-ithout being overdone. Coppola should be applauded for cre­ating a romance that is surprisingly original among a seemingly endless drone of formulated cheese. 
The beautiful imagery will both shock and inspire you. The skyline shots of Tokyo are simply amazing, and Charlotte's curious explorations provide a provocative glimpse of the country and its culture. These days, too many American films that take place in cities outside of the United States either depict the culture in a disgustingly American way"or ignore it entirely. It is obvious that Coppola's intention was to go against this trend. and she certainly succeeds at doing so. She must have spent a great deal of time in Japan prior to making this film. 
Lost in Translation is neither pro­Japanese nor anti-Japanese, but it strives to portray Japan as a place that, as Bob says, is "very, very differ­ent." It is left up to the viewer to judge for him or herself one way or the other. 
Bill Murray puts on a performance that was worthy of an Oscar nomination, and for­many he was the pick to win Best Actor. One opinion as to why Sean Penn was picked over him is that Bob Harris' character is too similar to Murray himself. Johansson (The Horse Whisperer, The Man Who Wasn't There) is 
MOVIE PREVIEW 

'Elephant': A film you won't soon forget 
By MEEG CONROY Scene Writer 

It's been almost five years since the tragic events in Littleton, Colo. at Columbine High School, but the memory and impact of those events still live on. Through similar events depicted in both books and films, society continues to deal with the issue of school violence. In 2003, director Gus Van Sant released Elephant, a film commenting on high school violence that won the best picture and best director awards at the presti­gious 2003 Cannes Film Festival. His film brings the audience back to high school to try to understand how and why we react to violence. Van Sant looks at how explanations are made and scape­goats created. 
Elephant is set in a small high school located in Portland, Ore., where Van Sant lives. Completely furnished with the archetypal jock, nerd, popular girl and goth, the film brings the audience back to the pressures of high school. We can remember the same jocks with letter­men jackets, the same nerds with Ti-83 calculators, and the same girls dressed in the latest fashions. Maybe a little less familiar to some are the quiet, distant students -the kids who always kept to themselves, living in a world as dark as their exterior. In Elephant, Alex Frost 

and Eric Deulen exhibit these qualities. 
Within the 
to boldly provide a single answer for the problem of school violence but rather deals with the issue through multiple perspectives. • 
This film helps audiences reevaluate school violence and its ongoing impact on society. Although Columbine may have occurred over 4 years ago, issues of school violence continue to persist across the globe, the country and even in South Bend, raising various questions. And as Van Sant suggests with his film, there may not be a definitive answer. It's usually impossible to allocate just one 
cause for violent 

plot's 48 hours, actions. Humanity,
"Elephant"
Van Sant looks at as Van Sant shows, the social and is unpredictable.
Director: Gus Van Sant

family lives of The only things
Writer: Gus Van Sant

Alex and Eric. that can be attrib-
Starring: Alex Frost, Eric Deulen, John
The film unfolds uted to all issues of 
Robinson, Elias McConnell and Jordan Taylor
on an ordinary school violence are day, filled with March 4, 2004 at 7 p.m. their destructive the usual class Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh library psychological and 
emotional power 
and the need to 
prevent them. 

Elephant runs 81 minutes and will be shown at 7 p.m. tomorrow evening in Carey Auditorium, located in the Hesburgh Library. This film is part of the NO Cinema series and is sponsored by the Film, Television and Theatre depart­ment. 
Contact Meeg Conroy at mconroy1@nd.edu 
work, gossip and Runtime: 81 min socializing com­mon in high school. The film observes its characters from a removed distance and for each student we meet, high school is a differ­ent experience. 
Van Sant forces the audience to con­sider the common motives of "violent children" such as poor parenting, neo­nazism and violent video games. The audience is challenged to decide why these boys kill -and, on a larger scale, why anyone kills. The film does not try 
THE ()BSER\TER 



CENE
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
page II 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Humor takes a vacation from 1 Club Dread' 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Movie Critic 
It seems that llw comedic inspiration behind 2001's .'·iuper Troopers went on vacation for llw production of comedy troupe Broken Lizard's rnuch-anticipat­Pd follow-up, Club Dread. 
Tlw plot of Club /Jread comes out of a B-movie basement. A group of partiers arriv•~ for a wnekend of H&R -and T&A -at the never-ending booze fest Pleasure Island run by the Jimmy Buf'fest-esque Coconut Pete. But when Prnployees start turning up dead with cryptic messages etched into their flesh, the staffers realize that they must lind the killer beM)re 
Super Troopers, was discovered by Fox Searchlight pictures at that year's Sundance Film Festival and received limited national distribution, inspiring a cult following as well as pulling in over $18 million at the box ofl'ice. Banking on the indie success of Super Troopers the group got a real budget from Fox and began work on Club Dread. 
Though much anticipated by fans, Club Dread is an unfortunate over­hyped follow-up to the underappreciat­ed Super Troopers. One of the major problems with Club Dread is that moviegoers have seen this movie twice before and have see it done better. Club Dread doesn't muster either the screw­ball zaniness of slasher spoofs like the 
Scary Movie series 
it's too late. or the self-reflec­
"Club Dread"
Booze, boobs tive ironic wit of and blood follow 
the Scream series. -but not many Club Dread is laughs. somewhere in 
J a y between, some­Director: Jay Chandrasekhar
Chandrasekhar, times going for the 
Writer: Broken Lizard
Steve Lemme, gross-out gag and 
Starring: Elena l,yons, Kevin Heffernan,
Kevin Heffernan, sometimes for 
Jordan ladd, Nat Faxon and Bill Paxton 
Paul Soter and deliberate absurdi-
Erik Stolhanske, the fivo members of Broken Lizard, met at Colgate University, where they start­ed a comedy sketch troupe called Charred Goosebreak. After college, the group made a short film for an NYU f'ilm student. In 1996, the group made their first feature length film. Puddle (.'rusher, which went on to become an oflicial selection at the 1997 Sundance Film Festival. The group's second ntrn, 200·~ '•s lllho(ISLring"budget >()t\lp spo'Of ty. 
Club Dread isn't brimming with the all-too-quotable lines that made Super Troopers a college stoner-cinema favorite. In part, this is due to the who­done-it storyline that actually requires a bit of attention from the audience and is partly due to a less than compelling script. 
Unlike the Scary Movie series, Club Dread is partly a real horror movie, including a number of jump-out scares 

and graphic images. In one scene, a decapitated head bleeding from the eyes is found revolving on a turntable while creepy, distorted music plays over the speakers. It's hard to go from that image to laughing at one-liners. The result is a half-campy, half-morbid movie that leaves the audience unsure of whether they should be laughing or not -most will choose the latter. 
The Broken Lizard boys do, however, manage to demonstrate that they are versatile comic actors. Each member of the group takes a severe turn from the roles played in Super Troopers and turns in a unique performance. 
In the end, Club Dread looks like a cookie cutter llollywood comedy, almost completely lacking the quirky, intensely self-serious sense of humor that rocket­ed Super Troopers to indie success. Hopefully it will be chalked up as a symptom of a burgeoning comedy troupe's growing pains as they expand into full-fledged llollywood production and corruption. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

Beating the conventions of a genre 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene DVD Critic 
Oh, the irony of movies. Only in the entertainment industry will we ever lind loveable criminals. Over the past decade, various criminal roles have been brought to the silver screen. John Cusack was. great as a hitman in (;rosse Pointe Blank. Stnvn Martin and Michael Caine were ter­rific con artists who the audience loved in /Jirty Rotten Scoundrels. The list goes on and on. 
Somehow, llollywood always makes us root for the bad guy, something that can be hard to do. It is hard because real life pervades into the movie. The con viewers worn just laughing at hits horne suddenly as tlwy rncall a time someone when took advantage of them. If you've ever met a con artist, I sympathize. If you've ever met a hitrnan, I'll send flowers. 
llowcver, there is a trick that llollywood us•~s to make the viewer sympathize with tlw criminal, and that is to make him a reluctant one. The latest foray into this cliche is Hidley Scott's Matchstick Men. 
Matchstick Men 
Video and sound wern both up to the industry 
standards. They did not stand out in any particu­Widescreen Edition lar way for either being really good or bad, so in a Warner Bros. way they accomplished their goal. This movie was not one based upon fancy special effects or moody backgrounds; it was a character-based 
Nicolas Cage, a man known for playing reluctant criminals, plays yet another in this con movie. The cons in this movie seem to be recycled from other movies. The whole father-daughter relationship shown in this movie has been done before. On the surface, this entire movie seems to be just an exercise on how to base a film on a criminal's life -which is why I lind it really surprising just how much I enjoyed the movie. 
Cage turns in a phenomenal role as the quirky conman Roy. His nervous twitches really endear him to the viewer. His quirks also allowed another staple of the genre to enter the fold, which would be Hoy's psychiatrist, played by Bruce Altman in a very standard performance. 
llowever, what really makes this movie special is its use of the typical Hollywood conventions. It takes everything that is expected from the viewer and then plays these expectations for a huge twist at the end. The twist, although quite obvious after the fact, is appropriate and helps the viewer to sympathize with Cage's character. The ending may leave some people unsettled, but nevertheless it ties 
everything together in a 
logical manner. 
movie, one that accomplishes its goal well. 
The special features follow the theme of the movie by ripping off the viewer. It comes with a feature called "Tricks of the Trade," which is not about how to con people but rather about how the film was made. There is also a commentary track featuring the director and two writers. Sadly, there was no track featuring Cage, the other stars, or all the other things that people have come to expect from a DVD -no deleted scenes, bloopers, interviews, etc. l suppose it makes sense, as the making of the documentary was 71 minutes long and the movie was almost two hours long; the space on the disc was probably running short. 

Matchstick Men plays with tlw conven­tions of the genre and subsequently turns out to be a decent film in the end. All of the actors do a great job of building sym­pathy for their characters. If you have spare time during break, go outside and get a tan. If it's raining, however, consider checking this movie out. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

49ers release Garcia, allow Owens to seek trade 
Receiver pursues trade after missing contract deadline 
Associated Press SANTA ClARA, Calif. -Terrell Owens has been given permis­sion by the San Francisco 49ers to seek a trade after the four­time Pro Bowl receiver forgot to become a free agent. San Francisco general manag­er Terry Donahue also will try to trade Owens, who missed a deadline last month to void the final three seasons of his con­tract. He still is under contract to the 49ers, pending a grievance filed by his agent, David Joseph. "I think it's very improbable that he would be back," Donahue said Tuesday. "Both parties have agreed to pursue a trade very actively in the next 72 hours." Donahue dismissed a report that the 49ers would accept a draft pick at the end of the first round in exchange for allowing Owens to become an unrestrict­ed free agent. Owens caught 80 passes for 1,102 yards and nine touch­downs last season -his lowest totals since 1999. He has been selected to the last four Pro Bowls while feuding with team­mates, coaches, the 49ers' front office and the media. 



Quarterback let go after five-year tenure with team 
Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. ­Quarterback Jeff Garcia was released by the San Francisco 49ers on Tuesday, ending his five-year tenure with the team. 
The 49ers also released two­time Pro Bowl guard Ron Stone in an attempt to get under the salary cap. 
Garcia, a three-time Pro Bowler, was unable to agree on a restructured contract with the 49ers, who wanted to reduce his salary from the $9.9 million he was scheduled to earn in 2004. 
Instead, San Francisco will save $1.7 million against the salary cap by dropping Garcia, a local product who holds the franchise's single-season record for passing yardage. He has been the 49ers' starter since 1999, but Tim Rattay is expected to take over next season as San Francisco clears room under the salary cap. 
The 49ers waited until the last possible day to make their deci­sion, since Garcia was due a $500,000 roster bonus Wednesday -the first day of the free agent signing period. 
General manager Terry Donahue delayed his expected Monday announcement to hold a last-ditch negotiation session with Garcia's agent, Steve Baker. 
"We made this decision based 
primarily on cap ramifications," Donahue said. "The reality of it is we're going along with a plan we've established. In our view of things, we took the long-term view. This isn't anyone's fault, .there are just things we've got to 
do." 
Garcia was about to enter the 
fourth season of a six-year con­
tract. Instead, he becomes one 
of the most attractive free 
agents on the market. 
Rattay, Garcia's longtime back­
up, probably will lead a rebuilt 
San Francisco squad that will 
bear little resemblance to the 
team that won tfie NFC West 
and reached the conference 
semifinals in 2002. 
"As we see it, the future looks 
really bright," Donahue said. 
"This team now belongs to 
[Rattay]. the job is his to keep." 
Four-time Pro Bowl receiver 
Terrell Owens is all but certain 
to depart, while running back 
Garrison Hearst and offensive 
lineman Derrick Deese also have 
been waived. More veteran 
starters, including safety Zack 
Bronson, are expected to be 
released soon -and others will 
leave as free agents. 


Manning agrees to contract with Indianapolis COltS 
Associated Press Manning's entire bonus is guaranteed, Wednesday deadline to comply with next 
and he can earn another $19 million in ros­year's salary cap of $80.6 million. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning and ter bonuses. "There was a lot of pressure because the Indianapolis Colts agreed Tuesday to a But on a day that the four-time Pro we're getting close to the Super Bowl," $98 million, seven-year contract that Bowler signed the richest contract in team Irsay said. "If you don't get it done, we're includes an NFL-record $34.5 million sign­history, Manning refrained from discussing going in a dramatically different direction, ing bonus. how he felt about being one of the NFL's and our chances are reduced." 
The deal will drop the NFL co-MVP's highest-paid players. He said he didn't even By agreeing to a deal before March 17, salary cap number to $8.3 million, saving like the word money. the Colts can remove the exclusive fran­the team more than $10 million and giving "I've never felt comfortable talking about chise tag they put on Manning last week. If the Colts more flexibility to sign players it and I'm going to continue that policy," he they had to keep the tag, it would have cost when the free-agency period opens said. the Colts a league-record $18.4 million Wednesday. Irsay had hoped an agreement could have against the cap. 
''I'm happy to be a Colt for life," Marining been reached earlier. Last week, Polian set a Monday deadline said after signing the deal Tuesday after­The deal came just hours before the Colts for finishing Manning's deal and Tuesday noon. "Everybody's happy, and like I said, may have been forced to make some tough morning, the two sides agreed to the deal. I'm just relieved it's over with." decisions about their own players. Team "Now we can look ahead and start talking 
Two days after the Colts lost to the president Bill Polian said last week that .if about the draft, getting a couple guys in Patriots in the AFC championship game, Manning didn't agree to a new deal that here that they're interested in that I'm kind team owner Jim Irsay promised to make there would "major revisions" involving the of curious about myself," Manning said. Manning the highest-paid player in NFL roster. Polian was expected to talk at a news history. Indianapolis also was racing against a conference later Tuesday afternoon. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SUMMER  CAMP  POSITIONS:  DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8  VERY NICE 3bdrm home  
NOTICES  Make a difference in the life of a child! Located on the shore of  FOR SALE  BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE  in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system incl. Nice yard for vol­leyball etc-lull bsmt.  PERSONAJ,.S  
need math tutor ASAP.  Lake Superior  3 BEDROOM CONDOS  Walk to Corbys&StJoe Church. Call  
call574-247-0242  in Big Bay, MI.  1995  AVAILABLE FOR THE  JoeCrimmins@574-514  
Positions available for  Red Chevy  2004-2005 SCHOOLYEAR ....WE  0643(cell)or574-273-0002(home)  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  Camara V6.  ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE  not go it alone. If you or someone  
WANTED  for Nature/Arts&  33,290 actual miles.  FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR... CONTACT  2 bdrm apt. for rent. A/C, WID, dish­washer, spacious,  you love needs confidential support or assistance,  
Cra Its/Recreation/Canoeing,  Original  KRAMER AT OFFICE  close to campus.  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
Wanted-Old paintings,  Nurses, Therapists,  owner,  234-2436  New appliances. $650/mo. Available  CSC,at  
especially Indiana  Food Service, and  excellent condition.  OR CELL  4/1 but flexible.  1-7819. For more information, see  
and Notre Dame  Auxiliary  654-7439.  315-5032  Call Paul514-3188.  our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV­ 
(574) 286-9359  Must be enthusiastic,  FOR SHOWINGS  ER.  
responsible, and love children.  COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  
Summer Camp counselor for children w/disabilities.  June 13 through August 8. Salary, room & board, and experi­ FoR RENT  New 3/4 bdrm homes  LEASE 2004-2005. Academic year -Available June 1.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY SCOTT B.  
$7-$11 hr.,  ence of a lifetime provided.  close to ND,  2bdrm-2 bath.-Fully Furnished - WE MISS YOU.  
35 hr/wk,  Call or write for  2-6BEDROOM  31ull baths,  Security System. (626)441-1275 or  
summer only.  application and information.  HOMES  2-car garage,  salvaty @earthlink. net  Dewdrop, tookray  
5 sites in  Bay Cliff Health Camp,  WALK TO  frpl,  
Summit County, Ohio.  P.O. Box 310, Big Bay, Ml 49808,  CAMPUS  skylights.  Niles, 5 bed, 2 bath home, 15 min to  Wait, the Oscars  
Visit www.akroncyo.org ­ (906) 345-9314,  MMMRENTALS.COM  $1640/mo.  Notre Dame, tranquil wooded set­ and the Academy Awards  
download an application.  e-mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com.  mmmrentals@ aol.com  Call574-232-4527  ting, avail  are the  
EOE  Visit us at www.baycliff.org  272-1525  or 269-683-5038.  now, $1150/month 269-349-7334  same thing?  


Wednesday, March 3, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 13 
Dav.id HeUstroiD 
Presenting: 
TheCo~edyand~mBa 
of a Problem Drinker 





NCAA BASKETBALL 

Saint Joe's finishes with flavvless record 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA -Un-de­
feat-ed! 

Jameer Nelson scored 25 
points and Chet Stachitas 
added a career-best 16, lead­
ing second-ranked Saint 
Joseph's to an 82-50 victory 
over St. Bonaventure in the 
Hawks' final home game 
Tuesday night. 

"They're far from finished. 
We got nine games loft," 
Hawks coach Phil Martelli said. 
Only the Atlantic 10 tourna­
ment stands in the way of a 
perfect season for Saint 
Joseph's (27-0, 16-0 Atlantic 
10). The NCAA considers con­
ference tournaments part of 
the regular season, though no 
one associated with the school 
seemed aware of tho fact. The 
A-10 tourney starts March 10. 

That didn't stop the frenzied 
fans at Alumni Memorial 
Fieldhouse from chanting: 
"Un-de-feat-ed!" They started 
with 3:27 left and kept going. 
Then they started yelling, "We 
want Stanford!" 

No team has entered the 
NCAA tournament unbeaten 
since UNLV in 1991. Top­
ranked Stanford (25-0) has two 
games remaining before it 
starts the Pac-1 0 tournament. 

"It's been a special season, 
but we have unfinished busi­

ness here," said Nelson, who 
learned after the game that his 
Patrick Lottin and Ahmad 
Smith each had 10 points for 
St. Bonaventure (6-20, 2-13). 
which has lost 11 straight. 
The 3,200-seat Fieldhouse, 

which included hundreds of 
standing-room-only fans, was 
jammed with crimson-wearing 
rowdies who refused to give up 
their tickets for any price. 
The excitement surrounding 
the game engulfed this tiny 
campus. Fans lined up 4 1/2 
hours before tipoff to get into 
the arena, and some began 
tailgating two hours earlier. 
Extra lights were put up in the cramped gymnasium, and nearly two dozen seats wore lost because of makeshift con­struction to accommodate TV. The university considered moving the game to another site, but Nelson wanted to cele­brate Senior Night at Hawk Hill. 
Nelson and three other sen­
iors were honored in pregame 
ceremonies. After the game, 
Martelli announced Nelson's 
number will be retired on April 
23. 
"One day his records will be broken, but no one will ever wear the No. 14 again," Martelli said. "He's the great­est player to ever wear a Saint Joe's uniform." 
A priest grabbed the micro­phone with more t11an three minutes to go and implored the crowd not to rush the court after the game so Nelson, Martelli and soni or Tyrone Barley could address the fans. They listened and stayed in their seats. 
"These nets will come down," Martelli said, concluding his speech. "We're practicing for Dayton. We're practicing for the Meadowlands. We're prac­ticing for the Alamodome. We will get it right." 

Led by Jameer Nelson, Saint Joseph's finished the regular season undefeated Tuesday. 
No. 6 Pittsburgh 88, No. 12 
Providence 61 
PHOVIDENCE, H.I. 
Pittsburgh looked nothing like it 
did in its last game. Not even 
close. 
The sixth-ranked Panthers 
did everything well. oven shoot­
ing free throws, to beat No. 12 
Providence and move into a tie 
for first place in the Big East. 
Just two days after a 49-46 
overtime loss to Syracuse that 
snapped their 40-game home 
winning streak, the Panthers 
were an offensive machine, 
while still playing the defense 
they are known for. 
"I can't say enough about how 
our guys responded and 
stepped up," first-year coach 
Jamie Dixon said. "Obviously 
we played a very good game 
against a very good team and 
executed everything we had to." 
There wasn't much to com­
plain about. 
"We always think we can play 
better," Dixon said. He smiled 
and added: "We'll look at the 
tape and find something we 
didn't do right." 
Pittsburgh (26-3, 12-3) moved into a first-place tie with No. 7 Connecticut and both have one game remaining. The Panthers are home for Villanova on Saturday, while the Huskies are at No. 24 Syracuse on Sunday. They have both clinched byes into the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
No. 17 Wisconsin 68, 
Michigan State 64 
EAST LANSING, Mich. Wisconsin kept Michigan State's Big Ten championship banner rolled tight. 
Devin Harris scored 18 points and Clayton !!anson made a key 3-pointer in the extra period to give tho 17th-ranked Badgers a win over the Spartans in over­time. 
The Badgers (20-6. 11-4 Big Ten) kept their hopes alive for a third straight conference cham­pionship on a night the Spartans (17-10, 12-4) could have clinched at least a share of the title in their regular-season finale. 
Michigan State had a champi­onship banner ready in tho rafters -near Wisconsin's bench-but the Badgers didn't let it unfurl. 
"I never saw it," Wisconsin coach Bo Hyan said. 







OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's wnu sERVICES Page 14 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Michigan at Indiana 6:30p.m., WHME Georgia Tech at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN Missouri at Texas Tech 7:30p.m., ESPN2 Illinois at Purdue 9 p.m., WHME 
NBA 

Chicago at Hornets 9 p.m. FOX LA Lakers at Houston 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Barry Bonds walked silent­ly through the San Francisco Giants' bustling clubhouse. Asked about a report that he had received steroids and human growth hormone from a nutritional supplements lab implicated in a drug-distribution ring, Bonds softly replied: "Get out of my locker." 
Similar scenes were repeated Tuesday at other major league teams' sites. From Florida to Arizona, the focus at spring training was on steroids again. 
Citing information it said was given to federal inves­tigators, the San Francisco Chronicle reported Tues­day that Bonds was given the substances by his per­sonal trainer -who got them from the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative. 
According to the newspa­per, investigators also were told that steroids were given to New York Yankees stars Jason Giambi and Gary Sheffield, three other major leaguers and one NFL player. 
Trainer Greg Anderson gave the players the drugs from BALCO, according to information given to the government and shared with the newspaper. The report did not say how fed­eral investigators received the information. 
Bonds, Giambi and Sheffield have repeatedly denied using steroids, and last week Bonds said base­bill could "test me every day if they choose to." 
All testified last year before the grand jury that indicted Anderson and three others in the alleged steroid-distribution ring. 
THG, one of the steroids in the investigation, was not made illegal until recent months, and while the possession and sale of human growth hormone without a prescription is a crime, its personal use is not. 
Steroids were not banned by major league baseball until late 2002 and testing with penalties didn't begin until this month. Human growth hormone is not banned by baseball because there is no test for it, according to Rob Manfred, baseball's execu­tive vice president for labor relations. 
Still, major league base­ball was concerned about the implications of the newspaper report. 
"We are very distressed about any situation that calls into play the integrity of our players," said Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer. 
IN BRIEF 
Bryant returns for hearing Pamela Mackey were expected to sold controlling interest in the club in . EAGLE, Colo. -With his accuser's summon acquaintances to discuss her October 1999. She remained a limited testimony delayed, Kobe Bryant sexual past to lay the groundwork for partner in the team's ownership returned for a closed-door hearing the next hearing. group, but had no say in the team's Tuesday in which attorneys were But frrst, arguments were scheduled operations. expected to argue over whether his on whether Bryant was illegally ques­She loved to mingle with fans and statement to police should be barred tioned by investigators July 1, the day gave generously to charitable causes, from his sexual assault trial. after the alleged assault at the posh but got in trouble because she couldn't 
The 19-year-old woman accusing Vail-area resort where he was a guest watch her words. She reportedly used the NBA star of rape had been sched­and the woman was an employee. racial slurs to describe her players uled to testify, but the judge late and repeatedly praised Hitler despite Monday said he will reconsider Cincinnati's Schott dies admonitions to keep quiet. whether the defense will be allowed to CINCINNATI -Marge Schott, the "I guess I always thought of her as a ask detailed questions about her sexu­tough-talking, chain-smoking owner of tragic figure," former baseball com­al past. Her testimony was postponed the Cincinnati Reds who won a World missioner Fay Vincent said. "I think until a March 24 hearing. Series and was repeatedly suspended she tried very hard to do the right 
Bryant, 25, has said the two had for offensive remarks, died Tuesday. things for baseball, but she had some consensual sex. The Los Angeles She was 75. enormous limitations and she had Lakers' All-Star could face four years Schott was hospitalized about three some difficulty overcoming them." to life in prison or 20 years to life on weeks ago for breathing difficulties Her outspokenness as the Reds probation if convicted of the felony and repeatedly needed treatment for owner became her legacy and her sexual assault charge. lung problems in recent years. Christ downfall. "I think people are remem­
The accuser was still expected to be Hospital spokeswoman Dona Buckler bered for the good things they do a key part of Tuesday's hearing: did not release a cause of death. when they're gone," Reds shortstop Defense attorneys Hal Haddon and Schott kept a low profile after she Barry Larkin said. 
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page f5 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
exploits of the Notre Dame fencing team have gone largely unnoticed. The lack of attention gr.ts frustrating for seniors like Danielle Davis. 
"I think sometimes people don't understand the sport that well," she said. "They take for granted how much work we put into it and how hard it is to be the national champion in fenc­ing." 
Freshman foilist Frankie Bontempo hoped that corning to a school with a track record of success like Notre Dame would provide him with a more knowl­edgeable fencing environment. 
"I figured that most people would make an efTort to go out and watch just because it's like a big dynasty that we have," he said. "The fencing team is always really. really good, so I kind of expected that more peo­ple would have gone to see it or know a little bit more about it." 
Even the more knowledgeable fans like senior Sarah Fournie do not have much of a grasp beyond the basics. "I know that there are three kinds: epee, foil and saber," she said. "They're hooked up to these electric wires so that every time they get touched it makes a light go ofT. [I knowl slightly more than average, just from knowing [the managerI." 
What makes this general lack of awareness even more per­plexing is the popularity of the fencing elective included in the physical education program. 
"It was one of those things [I'd] never tried and being from the West Coast fencing isn't that big of a thing," sophomore Dan Carey said. "It was a new chal­lenge [but] I loved every minute of it." 
However, Carey said the appeal soon wore ofT, saying, "[I follow it] a little bit, just the articles that I read and just through The Observer basical­1y. " 
The lack of exposure to fenc­ing appears to be one of the biggest hurdles in overcoming various preconceptions. Bontempo felt some enthusiasm sprouting among his friends who came to watch the Irish fence in their lone home bout of the season on Jan. 31. 
"I thought people were really surprised about what they saw," he said. "Once they saw it, they were all pretty excited about what was going on once they started to actually under­stand it a little bit." 
But even fencing at home was not enough to stimulate a fenc­ing revival. 
Another factor working against the fencers is that their sport does not have a substan­tial following in America com­pared with other sports. Most fencers hone their skills at pri­vate clubs, outside of the public eye. And most of what the pub­lic eye ever sees is dramatized in Hollywood. 
"I think it is an interesting sport," Keough junior Joe Harmon said, "but more in James Bond [Die Another Day] -it was kind a cool." 
Irish fencing, despite all of its success -the women are ranked No. 1 -still remains in the shadows. The Irish would have a chance to emerge from that darkness as they host the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships at the Joyce Center on Saturday; however, the hosts will be without a large student contingent to help kick off their postseason bid for a repeat title, as the student body will be gone on spring break. 
But for these fencers, going alone is the way it has always been. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


For faculty interested in incorporating social concerns into their courses through community-based service and research projects. 
For more information go to 
centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/sub_faculty_coursedev.html 
Due date for proposals is April 19, 2004 
Direct questions to Mary Beckman at mbeckman@nd.edu 


~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Hollowell 
continued from page 20 
couraged early on and we cap­
tains always try to give them 
encouragement and keep them 
going." 
As a high school scholar-ath­
lete at Roncalli High in 
Indianapolis, Hollowell partici­
pated in football, wrestling and 
track and field. As co-captain or 
his school's football team, 
Hollowell helped lead Honcalli to 
an undefeated state champi­
onship his senior year. 
Other honors I Iollowell collect­
ed during high school included 
advancing to the semi-state 
round in wrestling and being 
named the city pole-vaulting 
champion in his senior year. 
His freshman year, Hollowell 
advanced all the way to the 
finals before losing to Josh 
Coleman. In a previous round, 
Hollowell had defeated team 
captain and former champion 
Matt Fumagali. 
"My loss freshman year was 
tough," Hollowell said. "But it 
got me motivated for the next 
year. If I had won, it would have 
maybe gotten to my head. 
"It kept me intense, focused 
and motivated to get after it the 
next year." 
During his sophomore year, Hollowell again fell short of the championship, losing to eventual champion T.J. D'Agostino in the second round. Again, llollowell was further motivated by the loss and was determined not to fall short next year. 
All that preparation and hard work finally paid off in Hollowell's junior year, as he was named captain for the first time. 
"Being a captain for the first time was great," he said. "There is a level of respect from the guys that can make you pompous if you aren't careful, but it is an awesome honor if you take the job with humility." 
In addition to his first time as team captain, Hollowell finally got his championship as well, defeating Bill Wuest in the final round. 
"It was a great feeling," Hollowell said. "At the same time, though, it wasn't the most euphoric of experiences. Even though I like my championship jacket, five years from now that won't be what I remember about the Bouts. 
"What I'll remember is going down to practice every day, hearing the crack of the punch­ing bag and seeing my friends and cracking a few jokes. That's what I'll remember most." 
Although having to live with the fact that he will be unable to defend his title is difficult for Hollowell, he won't complain. lie hopes to take his degree in Environmental Science and Technology and eventually become either a high school teacher or coach, or perhaps enter medical school following his years at Notre Dame. 
Hollowell said that his time with Bengal Bouts has made a big impact on his overall work ethic and outlook on life, even when he leaves the ring. 
"There's no doubt that the Bouts build character," llollowell said. "They teach you how to respond to challenges, how to prepare and how to respond to adversity and hardship. 
"Plus, there's the camaraderie and friendship that you get, you see these guys every day and you really care about them and become close friends. That sort of thing is something you can't learn in a classroom." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


page 16 Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
The Observer +SPORTS 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Seniors 
continued from page 20 
underclassmen and brought this team together. 
"This is a group that has been just tremendous," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said after Thursday's 

practice. two rounds of
"We have been so
"They have the NCAA
fortunate to have this 
provided tournament, tremendous group and their which gives dedication, leadership. , the Irish sen­great work ior class at ethic, positive least one, and 
Muffet McGraw
attitude, com­maybe two, mitment­Irish coach more chances 
everything you could ask for, they've got it. We have been so fortunate to have this group and their leadership." 
Anne Weese was playing at a community college in the middle of Kansas two years ago before transferring to Notre Dame. She made the Irish squad halfway 

through last sea­"This is a group each senior pro­son and gained vided to this
that has been just
her first start year's team.
tremendous. , 
Tuesday night But she'll be against Syracuse. hard pressed to Her layup with .3 Muffet McGraw find four players seconds left got that will mold a
Irish coach 
the crowd on its feet for the first time all game. Weese has given the team a veteran on the bench, some­one the younger players could look up to for advice. 
Jeneka Joyce has played through just about every nag­ging injury a player can have during her career for the Irish. Even after leg and ankle injuries forced Joyce to miss her junior season, the 3­point specialist was deter­mined to come back this year and help Notre Dame any way she could. She's knocked down over 40 percent of her 3-point attempts as the pri­mary outside threat for the Irish. 
Monique Hernandez didn't play for much of her sopho­more and junior seasons ­she actually left school for a time last year -before returning to this year's team. Her scrappy play and hustle has helped earn Hernandez 14 starts this season. 
Two-time captain Le'Tania Severe has been a mainstay at the guard position for the last four seasons, leading on and off the court -with her play and attitude. She is the calming force on the court and has the ability to occa­sionally give the team an offensive spark. 
This group of seniors does­n't have a Jacqueline Batteast-type player -some­one who is relied on every night for 15 points and 10 rebounds. But these four have each brought their own con­tributions in work ethic, defense.and hustle. 
Tuesday night, in an other­wise boring and uneventful game against dismal Syracuse, the Irish seniors played in their last regular season home game. Notre 
Dame will 
host the first 
to play at the 
Joyce Center. The seniors will be looked upon to lead this team into the later rounds of the NCAA Tournament -a place where all four have been before. 
Whenever the season ends, 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw will find some­one to replace the stats that 
team like Weese, Joyce, Hernandez and 
Severe have this season and throughout their careers. 
The views of this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu. 


Undergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian,
Gala 2004 
and bisexual community
Greencroft Senior 
are invited to apply for membership on the 
Center Benefit 
Standing Committee 
Saturday, March 20, 2004, 8:00 p.m. 
for ·(J-ay and Lesbian
Goshen College Music Center 
Tickets are $35. On sale at 
Student Needs.
Goshen College Welcome Center, 1700 5. Main, 
Goshen, (574) 535·7566. 
•APPLICATIONS arc nmv available in the Oftice of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the
GR.EENCR.OFT. www.greencroft.org 
Standing Committee web site http://wvl\V.nd.cdu/-·scglsn/
Major sponsors: First State Bank liberty Homes 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Friday,
Media sponsors: 
March 5, 2004, and can he submitted at the 
~h~ ~usbttt Ntm 
Oft1cc of Student AiTairs. 

·,.8.8Lw..vE~ lJrudt 
C.O»~U'f'"Tt!:-e 0~

l'l>nr NI'Jt Stttti(m • ::--­
) ..........-liial4'!11L£ii!WI 
il'lliiR1tT H:a:o' 


8-ball 
continued from page 20 
(6-20, 3-13), 54-33. 
With the win, Notre Dame finished the regular season undefeated at home and fin­ished second in the Big East Conference. 
But on a night that honored the four Irish seniors, Notre Dame didn't win pretty. 
"I thought that was a diffi­cult game to play with the pace of the game," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 

Jacqueline Batteast recorded 
"We wanted to control the 
her 10th double-double of
tempo and I thought offen­
the season with 13 points
sively we really tried and 
and 11 rebounds.

they pretty much stuck to their tempo." 
Seniors Weese, Le'Tania "I thought Breona gave us a Severe, Monique Hernandez great lift off the bench," and Jeneka Joyce started for McGraw said. "She came in the Irish. Weese, a fan and hit some shots when favorite, scored two points in nobody was able to make a eight minutes of action and basket at key times. I was was greeted warmly by the really pleased with her offen­Joyce Center crowd each sively. I thought Breona did a time she entered the game. great job." Severe scored 12 points, Both teams struggled to including 8-for-10 from the score from the start. free throw line. Hernandez Syracuse shot an abysmal played a tough, hustling 16.7 percent, including 1-for­game, scoring six points to go 12 from beyond the arc in the along with six rebounds and first half. Notre Dame shot five assists. Joyce, battling only 38 percent (8-for-21) injury, only saw 12 minutes from the field in the first of action. half. 
Other than the seniors, the "It took us a while to get Irish were led by junior into gear," McGraw said. Jacqueline Batteast, who But when the Irish finally recorded her 10th double­got it going, they were able double of the season with 13 to pull aw.ay from the points and 11 rebounds. Orangewomen, as they went Freshman defensive special­on a 15-8 run to go ahead ist Breona Gray added a 41-24 in a game that they career-high 11 points on 4-never trailed. They also held for-4 shooting. the Orangewomen scoreless for the last 4:06 of the game. 
Gray was able to help hold the Orangewomen's leading scorer, Julie McBride, to 12 points on 6-for-18 shooting. The rest of the Orangewomen shot only 22.4 percent, which is a season low by an Irish opponent. 
With the win, the Irish will have a No. 2 seed in the Big East tournament this week­end and a bye in the first round. 
"Now to look at the stand­ings and say we finished sec­ond, I think we're in a pretty good place right now," McGraw said. 
NOTRE DAME 54, SYRACUSE 33 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (19-9, 12-4) Batteast 5-16 3-6 13, Weese 1-4 0-0 2, Severe 2-3 8-10 12, Joyce 0-2 0-0 0, Hernandez 3-5 0-0 6, Powers 0-0 0-0 0, Borton 1-2 2-2 4, Duffy 0-1 0-0 0. Gray 4-4 3-5 11, Flecky 1-2 0-0 2, Erwin 1-3 0-0 2. LaVere 1-6 0-0 2. 
SYRACUSE (6-20, 3-13) Wegrzynowicz 0-7 0-0 0, Nwagbo 2-10 1-1 5, Kohn 1-7 0-0 2, McBride 6-18 0­1 12, Harbut 1-7 2-3 4, Coleman 1·4 1­2 6, Norton 2-5 1-2 6. 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 26 28 54 SYRACUSE 14 19 33 
3-point goals: Notre Dame 0-4 (Joyce 0-2, Hernandez 0-1, Batteast 0-1), Syracuse 1-16 (Norton 1-2, McBride 0­7, Wegrzynowicz 0-3, Kohn 0-3, Coleman 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 44-12 (Batteast 11), Syracuse 37-15 (McBride 8). Assists: Notre Dame 13 (Batteast 5), Syracuse 4 (Harbut 2). Total fouls: Notre Dame 12, Syracuse 19. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 3, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
BASEBALL 
Gaston honored for stellar weekend debut
.. 

seven runs and stole two bases in two victory over Minnesota Sunday, Gaston By CHRIS FEDERICO games in his first weekend of collegiate led the way for the Irish by hitting 5-for-
Spores Writer 
baseball action. 6 with a pair of doubles, three runs "It was a pretty awesome start to a col­scored and three RBI. Sean Gaston isn't off to a bad start with lege career," Irish coach Paul Mainieri In that game, Gaston became the first the Irish. said. "If he gets 10 hits out of every 12 at Irish freshman to get five hits in a game 
The National Collegiate Baseball bats, I'm going to go out on a limb and since 1994. He also became the second Writers Association named the freshman say that's going to be a pretty good freshman to earn Big East Player of the catcher the National Co-Hitter of the career." Week honors. 
Week for his 1 0-of-12 hitting perform­Gaston, currently the Irish backup at ''I'm not surprised at all that he got off ance in Boca Haton, Fla., last weekend. catcher behind senior tri-captain Javi to a good start," Mainieri said, "but I'm 
"I never would have thought this would Sanchez, was 4-for-5 with an RBI and surprised that anybody would go 10-for­have happened this fast in my career," three runs scored Saturday against 12. That's ridiculous." Gaston said. Florida Memorial in his first game. In 
Gaston also collected six RBis, scored Notre Dame's come-from-behind 19-7 Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
All our desks come with a view. 
Join us, and we'll put some of the most exciting challenges in business in front of you. Opportunities to work on some of the biggest, most prestigious brands in the global market. And we'll put the knowledge, experience and support of the best talent in the industry behind you. Get the big picture. 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish dotninate Spartans-
By KATE GALES 
Sports Wri tcr 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss described his team's play with one word -"great." 
After a pair of close losses last weekend, the men's tennis team bounced back to crush rival Michigan State 7-0 in the sea­son's last home match. 
"For several guys, it was the best match of the year," he said. ''I'm pretty ecstatic." 
Senior tri-captain Luis Haddock and the freshman dou­bles tandem of Hyan Keckley and D'Amico had all suffered injuries recently and were ques­tionable for Tuesday's match. 
"[D'Amico] had shin splints. his forearm was sore and during the match, his hip was bothering him," Bayliss said. "But some­how he was able to summon the ability to play his best." 
The Irish came out strong in doubles, sweeping all three to clinch the point, and never looked back. At No. 3, the Stephen Bass-Eric Langenkamp duo remained undefeated with four wins. D'Amico and Keckley clinched the point for the Irish at No. 1, and Haddock and fellow senior tri-captain Matthew Scott put up a 9-7 win for the Irish. 
"We really set the tone in dou­bles, and it carried over to sin­gles," Scott said. "It was nice to see us win out and use our momentum." 
Keckley was the first off the courts at No. 5, despite his ques­tionable status due to a quadri­ceps injury, recording a 6-1. 6-3 win. 
Senior tri-captain Matthew Scott, who has seen significant playing time at No. 1 this sea­son, was next, with a 6-1, 6-2 win at No. 2. Haddock clinched the match for the Irish at No. 1, winning 7-5, 7-5 after missing the last three matches due to injury. 
Bass remained consistent with a 6-4, 6-4 win at No. 4 and Eric Langenkamp won 6-0, 7-6 (7-0) at No. 6. D'Amico was the only three-set match, coming back from losing the first set to win 3­6, 6-3, 6-4 at No. 3. 
''I'm glad we're going to end up winning," Haddock said of the shutout, his last match at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Bayliss said it is unlikely that the match with Kentucky canceled earlier in the season will be rescheduled. 
SINGLES No. 1: Luis lladdor.k (NDl d. Andrew Formanczyk (MSU) 7-5. 7-5. No. 2: MatthE-w Scott !NDl d. Cameron Marshall (MSUl 6-I. 6-2. No. 3: Brent D"Amico (ND) d. Chris Mitchell (MSU) 3-6. 6-3, 6-4. No. 4: Stephen Bass (ND) d. Eric Simonton (MSUl 6-4, 6-4. No. 5: Ryan Keckley (NDJ d. Joseph McWilliams (MSUJ 6-1,6-3. No. 6: Eric Langenkamp (ND) d. Micha11l 
Flowers (MSU) 6-0,7-6 (7-0).  
DOUBLES No. 1: D' Amico/Keckley Marshall/Simonton (MSU) 8-3. No. 2: Haddock/Scott Formanczyk!Mitchnll (MSU) 9-7. No. 3: Bass/Langenkamp Flowers!McWilliams (MSU) B<l.  (ND) (NDl (ND)  d. d. d.  

Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
.. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
BENGAL BouTs 

Competition intensifies during semi-final matches 
By LUKE BUSAM 
Sports Writer 
135-pound class 

Action kicks off tonight at 6:30 with the first fight of the 135-pound weight class. No. 1-seeded junior Jon Valenzuela will meet a serious chal­lenge in senior Pedro Alves. Alves' dis­missed his quarterfinal round oppo­nent, Tim Jaeger, in two rounds. 
In the second 135-pound bout, sopho­more Bobby Schmitt takes on senior Lawrence Hofman. Both have already beaten ranked opponents in the tourna­ment this year. Schmitt overcame third­seeded Andrew McGill and Hofman beat No. 2 seed Michael Feduska on Monday. Both wins came in split decisions, and this fight should be a close one. 145-pound class 
Two experienced, skilled fighters meet in the first bout of the 145-pound division. Luke Dillon, who received the lone bye for the division, beat James Russell on Monday in a unanimous decision. Dillon takes on fellow senior Mark Pfizenmayer, who used his reach advantage to secure a unanimous-deci­sion win over Ed Liva Monday. Neither of the veterans have advanced to the finals. 
Todd Strobel has been impressive in his first Bengal Bouts, beating Matt McConnell in the preliminaries and edg­ing Chip Marks in Monday's quarterfi­nals. He will face his most difficult opponent, Paul Robinson. Robinson has been tough as he moved through the early rounds and stands firmly in the way of Strobel's finals hopes. 150-pound class 
Freshman Jordan Runge has proven he is a contender thus far in the tourna­ment by beating junior Kevin Rycyna and senior David Harmon. He faces one of the best in the bouts, senior T.J. D'Agostino, who danced his way past freshman Clayton Lougee Monday. 
In the other semi-final, junior captain Galen Loughrey established himself in last year's tournament as a superb defender, rarely taking an uncontested shot to his head. He faces Jon Pribaz, an opponent who has shown he can capitalize on an open punch opportuni­ty. Pribaz floored his opponent, Jon Brewis, just 40 seconds into round one on Monday with a left hook that is the strongest punch of the tournament thus far. Loughrey has put in extra time working with left-handed fighters to prepare for the fight. 
153-pound class 

Ryan Duffey is looking for his second career trip to the finals this year, but junior Bobby Gorynski currently stands in his way. Last year, Duffey lost a split decision to law student Paul Harris in the 145-pound finals. On Monday, Duffey defeated sophomore Michael Dolan and Gorynski earned a win by beating Nathan Schomas. 
Tim Huml and Corey Harkins received first-round byes and showed spectators why with convincing unanimous deci­sions victories on Monday night. Huml beat senior Don Zimmer and Harkins defeated sophomore Joe Rehmann. Both have similar styles and should match up well in tonight's semifinal. 
155-pound class 

Junior captain Nathan Lohmeyer was relentless in a unanimous decision vic­tory over sophomore Paul Hagan on Monday night. Lohmeyer is the No. 1 seed in the 155-pound division and that victory was his first fight of the tourna­ment. He faces sophomore Mark Basola, who beat senior Sean Tucker in the quarterfinals. Both fighters are seeking their first career trips to the finals. 
Both junior Mike Panzica and senior Brandon Gasser beat tough opponents in the quarterfinals to advance to the semis -Panzica won against veteran 
Shortcut 
SpringBreak 
Gary Chicago Airport to St. Petersburg/Tampa 
ople *Herve--............~..... * Seven Jeans * 
A Contt:?mp()r;.lry \Yom~n's Boutiqttt' Spt'ci~dizing in Designer Clothing ~md Gifts 

312 \V. Cleveland Ave. Granger, IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 
Ted Volz and Gasser held off the rush­ing freshman Adam Burns. A win for Gasser would mark his second trip to the finals in the Bengal Bouts. 
160-pound class 
Colin Kerrigan looks to secure his sec­ond career trip to the finals. Last year, Kerrigan won his first championship in the 155-pound division. Tonight, the experienced junior takes on senior Alex Roodhouse. On Monday, Roodhouse defeated freshman Nathan Dyer in two rounds and has fought well in the early matches of the tournament. 
Senior Bill Phillip faces his last chance to make it to the finals, but must overcome junior Justin Alanis to do so. Phillip has been one of the pre­mier fighters in this year's bouts, beat­ing senior Peter Boldin and sophomore Brian Flaherty. Alanis has looked strong with an impressive win in the prelims, beating Charlie Gough on Monday. 165-pound class 
The matchup between Alex Fergus and Ross Bartels is the first of two great fights in the division. Fergus is the defending 165-pound champion and looked good in his win over Jesus Bravo on Monday night. Bartels defeated law student Billy Hederman and freshman Preston Carter, establishing himself as a strong contendllr for the title. Both fighters' long reaches and similar fight­ing styles should make for an excellent fight. 
Craig Thompson used his jab well in defeating sophomore Alex Borowiecki on Monday. He will have to utilize that same potent jab in his fight against sen­ior captain Pat Dillon. Dillon was assertive and comfortable in his first appearance in this year's tournament, beating the brawling Pat McMorrow Monday. In order to qualify for finals, he will need to stay defensively focused. 170-pound class 
Se.nior captain Tommy Demko is a skilled fighter who has fallen just short of the finals in his career. Matthew Smith, a law student, hopes to make that happen again. Demko, who earned a unanimous-decision victory over freshman Brian Sefton Monday, should match up well with the taller Smith. 
Senior James Ward will face Brian Nicholson in the next 170-pound bout. On Monday Ward overcame a skilled senior in John Wahoske and Nicholson beat a stiff competitor in Matt Knust. 
180-pound class 

Junior captain Jim Christoforetti faces a tough opponent in senior Denis Sullivan. Both are skilled veterans with several years of experience and this fight is guaranteed to be excellent. 
Eric Callahan will meet senior fellow senior Larry Rooney in the second bout of the 180-pound class. Both are great fighters, making the 180-pound class one of the toughest in the tournament. Light heavyweight class 
Senior captain Billy Zizic established himself as one of the best with his per­formance on Monday night. He faces sophomore Brian Bylica, who overcame Padraic McDermott Monday by unani­mous decision. 
Sophomore Chris Cavanaugh faces one of the best natural fighters the Bengal Bouts has seen in years in Johnny Griffin, a first-time fighter who moves with years of experience. Heavyweights 

Captain and returning heavyweight champion Stefan Borovina makes his first appearance in the tournament tonight. Borovina faces fellow senior Doug Pope to start ofT the heavyweight division. 
On Monday. Nathan Schroeder won the lone quarterfinal heavyweight match, overcoming Mike Tennant. Tonight he faces Daryl Burton, who faced Borovina in last year's finals and seeks to reach the finals again this year. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 3, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 Ancestry record 61 Swiss chard, e.g. 
SHARING YOUR BIRTHDAY: Jean Harlow, Jackie Joyner-Kersec, Mary
1 Nerd 36 Clue for 17-, 25­
Page Keller, John McLaughlin, David Faustino, Nicolas Freeling 
, 43-and 62 Did a send up of (old riddle 55-Across 63 Golden Hind 
Happy Birthday: You can have the best of both worlds if you are prepared to answer) work hard this year. You have the stamina coupled with brilliant ideas: now all 
6 "When it's 38 Weight captain 
you have to do is believe in yourself and forge ahead. You're the only one
10 Corp. money 
391mpart holding you back. You must get motivated and take a confident approach to all 
managers 
that you want to accomplish this year. Your numbers: 8. 14, 28. 35, 37, 48
40 Shine, in DOWN 14 Midway alterna­ad-speak 
1 North Carolina ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have a problem with your lover if you
live 
41 Jack_ ("24" senator forgot to do something you promised to do. Channel your energy into making15 Fix up agent) things be!ter. Don't get angry without due cause.***
2 "Kapow!" 
16 In ecstasy TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will need to pick up additional knowledge.
42 Relative of -trix 

3 Canal sites Go to the source in order to get the most current information. You will be able
17 See 36-Across 
43 See 36-Across to ask for a raise or put your name up for a promotion. ***** 
4 Fraction of a
20 Modem termini? GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Too much too fast. Take your time. You don't 46 Starlet's dream joule have to make decisions now. Don't let others push you into doing things you
21 Icky stuff 
5 "Night Fever" would rather not do. Blow-ups in your domestic scene are apparent. • • 
47 Winner of a

22 No-goodnik CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should take some time out and re-evaluate
posthumous group 
your emotional situation. You may want to confide in someone you respect
23 Smoked delica-Pulitzer 6 Melodic pas-
and trust who will give you a better understanding. **** 
cies 
48 Sydney senorita sage LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money-making opportunities are present. Make your 24 One of the Gulf decision quickly if you don't want to miss out. Problems with equipment may
7 Yo-yo51 Son of Seth
States set you back if you have neglected maintenance. *** 52 Jazz grp. 8 Put on VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Someone around you may not want to do you a
25 See 36-Across 
favor. Empty promises will lead only to frustration. It is best to do things
9 Utility bill sharer
55 See 36-Across Washington 10 Debate airer LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Disharmony in your personal life will make it 
29 Ridge in yourself rather than depend on someone else. ••• 
58 Is addicted to, 

difficult for you to get things accomplished. It is best to pamper yourself and
32 Feet, of sorts maybe 11 Spore producer 
not worry about what you are supposed to be working on. **" 33 Take in 59 Actress Skye 12 "That's SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Legal problems may surface if you forgot to haven't heard" tend to some small but important details. You will have to backtrack if you
34 Helen, to 60 Steve of country 31 Big-city newspa-44 Prohibited 50 Abbe de I' 
wish to clear these matters up once and for all.****
Menelaus music 13 Sebaceous per department (pioneer in sign 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let someone take advantage of
gland woe 45 Wide-eyed language)
34 One known for your good nature. You must not allow others to railroad you into spending 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Flax pod spouting off 51 German article money or making promises. ** 46 Mark McGwire's CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may get your dander up due to a
19 Cause of cold 36 Many a dicta-
position 52 Writer Ephron misunderstanding. Find out more before you decide to disown the party
--:-4.:-:+..:+'*=+~ sweat tor's problem 
involved. Chances are you will be wrong and owe an apology. ••++•
53 Like some mail
48 Much-used pen-AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your deep need to learn all you can ahout
-=++.:<-+-:~ 23 Fell away 37 Balm ingredient 
cil 54 To_ (exactly) something you have recently become interested in will lead you into a 24 Shimmering 41 Like holy water relentless search for truth. You may even question your own direction in life. 
stone 56 Keystone _ •••
43 Onetime White 49 Engine attach-
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look into all the financial ventures presented
25 Dame, e.g. House pooch ment 57 DeSoto, e.g. 
to you today. One will be a real money-maker. You should confine yourself to -=-t...t:=+=-:+:-:-1-::i 26 Things to hawk deals where you don't have to rely on someone else. ••• 27 Signs to heed For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
Birthday Bahy: You will need to pay close attention throughout your life to ..
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
28 " the Beat" what others are doing and what they need. If you can offer a helping hand to
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
(1982 Go-Gos others, you will get all the help you need in return.
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
hit) 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Visit Eugenia's Web site at www.eugeniala.w.com.-:+;:;t-;=i 29 Highway past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
headache 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 30 Have for sale nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
DILBERT 
CAROL, TWO THING5: E8 FIR5T, I GOT TRAN5-2 FERRED TO A NEW JOB, l AND THAT MEAN5 YOUR " JOB HERE I5 ELIMIN-i AIED. £ 
FIVES 
SCOTT ADAMS 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 

to form four ordina words. Wewonl 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Servk:es, Inc. All Alghla Reserved. 
PODEK j
I I r t) 

I DECAFE t HOW THE L.A5T­MINUTE FIEL-D OOAL. 

1 
rJ J 
AFFEC.TEO ll-I.E VIC.­


(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: PHOTO CROAK BUTANE TARTAR Answer: What the homeowner did when the plumber botched the remodeling job-TOOK A "BATH" 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
-
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year
I 

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______ State _____ Zip_______ 
WHY MU5T I 5UFFER. FOR YOUR MA55IVE INCOMPETENCE? YOU WORTHLE55 PILE OF 5TINKIN' CRUD! II I'LL NEED A 5ECRETARY AT THE NEW JOB. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
' ... ... ~ ./' . 

. , .......... !' •• "' -_..,.. .. ..., .. -o--.._... ' .. _,. -..... """' ........ -.. " ,., •• tl ...
~.,...

:x·n;,;r;,_~·r:f.F;;t;.c..r.J:r;:;~.:. ~;.:;:.-taJ.;o..-::~<.J.t.-..-:..-:o ..•·..·,.t.ui.; ~ ;.;~ .,' -~ \.(_, • ... . ... "' ... ........... ~-"' 
THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 3, 2004 
page 20 
FENCING 
Faceless chatnpions 


CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 
Few students acknowledge the accomplishments of Maggie Jordan and her fenc­Ing teammates, even though the Irish won a national title a year ago. 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
For over a year now, the super-sized numeral atop Grace Hall has remained an illuminat­ed fixture in the night sky of Notre Dame. It serves as a bea­con of achievement, proclaiming to the Irish faithful that one of their teams is the best in its field. 
But despite the notoriety of igniting the No. 1 and maintain­ing a spot atop the polls, the 
see FENCING/page 15 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish lock up flawless home season in ugly 

Senior Night win 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

Poor shooting and a slow 
tempo can spell doom for a 
women's basketball game, 
and Tuesday night's game 
seemed doomed after 39­
plus minutes of dull basket­
ball. 

Cue Irish senior Anne 
Weese. With .3 seconds 
remaining in the game, 
Weese laid the ball up and in 
while falling underneath the 
basket to send the Irish fans 
out of their seats for the first 
time all night.. 

"I don't really know what 
happened on that last play, 
but the ball went in, so that 
was exciting," Weese, a 
walk-on, said of her only 
basket of the game. 

In their senior night and 
final regular season home 
game, the Irish (19-9 over­
all, 12-4 in Big East play) 
prevailed against Syracuse 
see B-BALLI page 16 
Perfection 

Seniors leave their mark on teammates, not the stat book 
There are no All­Americans in Notre Dame's senior class. 
Just like there are no Big East first-or second-team candi­
dates, and no consis­tently dominat­ing play­ers. 
This group won't be 


remem- Joe Hettler  
bered for  
having the most skill  Sports Editor  
or talent,  
but rather  

for providing the leadership -in different ways-that has helped make Notre Dame a serious threat to travel deep into the NCAA Tournament. Each of the four seniors has provided something different that has molded and shaped the 
see SENIORS/page 16 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Sitting this year out 
Injuries keep Hollowell from boxing, but haven't knocked out his spirit 
through your head to where you wonder if you could win another title now that your competition is a year older and better. 
"There's always 'that nagging feeling that maybe you've left some unfinished business." 
Despite the fact that he has been unable to fight in the ring, Hollowell has continued with the rest of his normal captaincy duties. 
"It's sort of nice to just watch the other guys and hope they do well," Hollowell said. "As a cap­tain, you really want to go out there and get these guys to appreciate the sport. 
"A lot of guys get dis-
see HOLLOWELL/page 15 
FOOTBALL 
Assistant flying to NFL' s Eagles 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 
Trent Walters, who has coached the Irish second­ary since Tyrone Willingham was named head coach, resigned Monday to take an assistant coach­ing job with the Philadelphia Eagles, the NFL team announced TQesday. 
Neither Walters nor Willingham could be reached for comment, and it's not clear when the Irish plan to name a replacement. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Walters coached for eight years with the Minnesota Vikings and spent a year with the Cincinnati Bengals in 1984. But 27 seasons of Walter's long coaching career have been spent at the college level. 
With the Irish, Walters coached cornerbacks Shane Walton and Vontez Duff, both who reached All-American status. 
He will join a team that has reached the NFC Championship game the last three years. Walters may also have to coach against his son, Troy, who is a receiver for the Indianapolis Colts and who played for Willingham at Stanford. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
For 140-pound weight division captain Tony Hollowell, this year's Bengal Bouts will be the first time he watches as a spectator. 
Hollowell, currently a Stanford resident assis­tant, did not participate in the Bouts this year because of a concussion he suffered a week before the physical. It has been a dif­ficult experience for Hollowell to accept the fact that he can't fight this year.
-"It was kind of a shock," Hollowell said. "You go out there and watch the com­petition, and you just kind of get thoughts going 


BASEBAll BENGAL BOUTS MEN'S TENNIS COLLEGE BASKETBALL NFL 
Freshman catcher Sean Semifinals Notre Dame 7 Saint Joseph wraps While one quarterback ­Gaston's spectacular college 6:30p.m. Michigan State 0 up perfect season the Colts' Peyton Manning ­debut, when he went 10-for-Only 44 boxers remain The Irish crushed the The Hawks blew out St. signed a record-sized con­12 from the plate over the from the original field of 135. Spartans, even though three Bonaventure to lock up the tract, another -the 49ers' weekend, earned him nation-Tonight, that field will be of Notre Dame's top players first perfect regular season in Jeff Garcia -was released by a! hitter-of-the-week honors. whittled to the 22 finalists. were injured. college basketball since 1991. his team. 
page 17 page 18 page 17 page 13 page 12 




