

---------------·-------------------------------------~ 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 8 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER2, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Participation lags among young voters 

Turnout on decline since 1970 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
As the nation and its media gear up for a closely fought presi­dential campaign, another group -young people -will largely tune out this fall's election drama. 
Since reaching a peak in 1960s and 70s, political participation, and specifically voter turnout, has declined steadily among young people as well as the nation at large. 
For the most part, Notre Dame students tend to mirror the national trend of low political involvement, according to politi­cal science professor Peri Arnold, whose research focuses on the American presidency. 
"Even among relatively sophis­
see VOTING/page 4 
SENATE 

Renaming debate 
postponed for SUB 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
A communication error limited discussion to com­mittee project agendas at the first Student Senate meeting of the year, held Wednesday night at LaFortune. 
At the opening of the ses­sion, student body vice pres­ident Karla Bell told sena­tors that because an email with information about the proposed new business was never sent, debate and vot­ing would have to be pushed back to next week's meeting. 
The issue in question was an amendment to change the name of the Campus Programming Council back to the Student Union Board in the Student Union Constitution. Bell reported that representatives from SUB were prepared to pres­ent their argument and sug­gested that senators should take the extra time to thor­oughly review the proposal. 

In their reports, student body president Adam Istvan and chief executive assistant Dave Baron spoke with opti­mism on student govern­ment's prospects and poten­tial. 
Istvan emphasized the successful efforts to imple­
see SENATE/page 6 


Voting Turnout 
Voter Turnout Among 18-25 Year-olds Turnout of Voting Age Population in Selected Presidential Elections in Selected Presidential Elections 


7 


ROTC graduates fight in Iraq 
Students from ND, SMC serve in war 


By TRICIA de GROOT News Writer 
For ROTC members of the class of 2004, graduating meant more than just burst­ing the Notre Dame bubble. Several of last year's grads -who enrolled in the ROTC programs prior to the September 11 attacks -are now stationed in Iraq, serv­ing their nation in a time of global war. 
"When I got out [of col­lege,] it was peace time in the Reagan years," said Major Gary Masapollo, who just returned from serving a year in Iraq. 
Laundry, vending prices hiked 
By ANNA GELHAUS News Writer 
Not until most students are waist deep in dirty laundry do they realize just how pre­cious quarters are, but with this year's increase in vend­ing prices, spare change has become even more valuable at Notre Dame. 
Washing a load of clothes is now $1.50 and drying is $1.00. Each price is increased 25 cents from last year. Some vending machine beverages have also gone up by a dime. 
Price increases on campus are ultimately decided by 
see LAUNDRY/page 6 


Students may stray from apathy in 2004 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Touted as a national epidemic, young voter apathy may be slow­ly eroding at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
As most undergraduates find themselves voting in their first presidential election this November, the level of interest varies, but is rarely at zero. 
Alicia Heimann, a Saint Mary's junior and declared Republican, isn't directly involved in cam­paigning for the candidate of her preference, but emphasized the impact young voters can make. 
"[Many] don't realize how many of us are in our age group, and that their vote can help to make the decision," Heimann 
see APATHY/page 10 

Times have changed. 
"It is very difficult for these students. They are 22, and their first job is in the military," said Masapollo. "When they started in the fall of 2000 there was no war. Now, they have graduated, and their country is in a global war on terrorism." 
Although the attacks of Sept. 11 created a very dif­ferent national mentality, many ROTC students and grads don't feel as though the war has changed their sentiments about joining one of the services. 
see ROTC/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Lighting up 
It was everything a first time is sup­

posed to be -exhilarating, spur of the 
moment, a bit hypocritical. Clumsily 
ignoring the skeptical glances of silent, 
more experienced onlookers, defiantly 
squeezing my eye­
lids shut, I took a 
deep breath and lit 
the match. 
My eyes opened 

to a tiny spark and 
a rapid prayer I'd 
done it right. I still 
felt sorely out of 
place. 
Any moment 

now, I'd be found 
out as the abortion 
rights advocate, 
the "why not" 
voice on gay mar­
riage, the Christmas-and-Easter 
churchgoer. My disdain for dogma is 
only equaled by my fervor for a mar­
ried priesthood. Lighting up at the 
Grotto isn't for people like me. 
Is it? 
Notre Dame wears its Catholicism on 

the walls of its classrooms, the necks 
of its administrators, the rising tide of 
its library. Seeping from the 
University's roots and pulsing to its 
core, that much faith can be as intoxi­
cating as it is inspiring. . 
It can also be intimidating. Non­Catholics here -not to mention those who check the box but are Jess than convinced -are, deliberately or not, an afterthought. 
True, students and professors of other faiths make their presence felt on campus. True, the University is tak­ing steps towards diversity. But for now, homogeneity still reigns. For now, the name "Notre Dame" still implies "Catholic." 
And there's nothing wrong with that -until "Catholic" starts to imply other connotations. Like Catholic bishops who refuse communion to John Kerry, condemning the Democratic candidate and his pro-choice political peers as killers unworthy of the body of Christ. Like Catholic bishops who cover for abusive priests, shuffling them from parish to parish while shushing vic­tims as a crisis of public relations, not irreversible pain. 
In their crusading, they have lost the Church's essence. 
But at the Grotto, the essence refus­es to fade. Because at the Grotto, the essence is the whole point. Even for first-timers -especially for first­timers -its welcome is universal. 
Setting down my candle and backing away, I watched as my flame flickered next to hundreds of others. 
Just as brightly as the most vehe­ment pro-lifer's. 
Eyeing the wax trickling down the sides, I smiled as it created ridges and ripples. 
Just as smooth as the holiest priest's. 
I still felt hypocritical, or cynical at the very least. But what mattered was that I felt included. A far cry from bishops' politicized agendas and priests' muffled regrets. the Grotto's simple serenity packs a powerful mes­sage. 
Candles don't judge. 
Neither should Catholics. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 

Tho Observer regards itsdf as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will mdke mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Thursday, September 2, 2004

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU PLAN TO VOTE? 



Andrew Sheenan  Christina Pelka  Jamie Blanke  Joey Carucci  Mariana Montes  Sarah Waller  
Junior  Freshman  Sophomore  Junior  Freshman  Freshman  
O'Neill  Lyons  Keough  O'Neill  Lyons  PW  
"Yeah, because  "Yeah, because  "Only ifmy  "Yes. I like  "Yes. I just  "I don't really  
it's important to  I want to make  absentee ballot  complaining  turned 18  want to but I  
exercise your  sure Bush  comes."  about politics,  so why  think I am."  
right to vote. "  wins.  and ifI want to  wouldn't I?"  





complain I better vote. " 


Thelf runs awaY with hun­
dreds of bridal gowns 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -Call it the case of the runaway bridal gowns. 
Hundreds of wedding dresses worth more than $230,000 were stolen from a store in the city's upscale South Granville neighbor­hood, police said. 
Investigators were seeking clues at consignment shops, 
-weddi.ng stores and other businesses after the heist was discovered Monday at lisange Wedding World. Police Inspector Tim Laidler said he had never heard of so many dresses being stolen at once. 
"What are you going to do with 300 wedding dresses?" Laidler said. "They're going to have a Jot of problems sell­ing them. It's not something you can sell at a flea market ... It's not the sort of thing you buy off the back of a truck." 
Sexually frustrated chimp takes up smoking 
BEIJING, China-Sexual frustration has turned a Chinese chimpanzee from a mild-mannered simian into a problem primate who smokes cigarettes and spits at visitors, the Xinhua news agency says. 
Felli, a female chimp in the city of Zhengzhou in the cen­tral province of Henan, picked up her nasty habits by imitating visitors who behaved "improperly" around her, Xinhua quoted zoo director Liu Bing as say­ing on Sunday. 

But, Liu said, the root cause of Feili's transforma­tion from a "gentle girl" into a "shrew" Jay with the inabil­ity to fmd her a satisfactory mate. 
A male chimpanzee at the zoo has failed to live up to Feili"s sexual demands, and she has snubbed other poten­tial suitors. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The much-talked about Michael Moore documentary "Fahrenheit 9/11" will be shown tonight at 7 and 10 p.m. in the 
Browning  Cinema  at  the  
DeBartolo  Performing  Arts  
Center.  
The  No.  2  ranked  Irish  

women's soccer team takes on Stanford University Friday from 5 to 9:30 p.m. in the Adidas Classic. 
An open house for the European Studies Program will be held today from 4 to 6 p.m. in 211 Bronson Hall. 
Krispy Kreme Donuts will be sold from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. Friday on DeBartolo Quad for 50 cents each. All proceeds will go to Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids. 
David Pearce Snydar of The Futurist Magazine will lecture on "Extra-Preneurship: Managing to Prosper in Revolutionary Tunes" from 12 to 
1:15 p.m. Friday in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
The women's golf team will host the Notre Dame Invitational all day Saturday and Sunday on the Warren Golf Course. 
Notre Dame will host exhibits of large scale prints by Richard Serra, in the Snite Museum of Art and the O'Shaughnessy Galleries West, and of photographs by Ansel Adams from the collection of the John and Barbara Glynn family, in the Snite Museum. Both exhibits begin Sunday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

77 
57 

76 60 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
8 ::c :: 
...J 
~ 
0 


72 62 


82 63 

83 
64 

0 
..... HIGH 80 
LOW 62 

Thursday, September 2, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Facebook.corn comes to ND 
because you can get help with workBy EILEEN DUFFY 
from classmates that you wouldn't 
News Writer 
have known before thefacebook." Thefacebook also offers a link to all
"Someone has requested you as a 
registered graduates of the same
friend." 
high school. 
This coveted phrase is music to the "I love thefacebook because it is a ears of users of thefacebook.com. It 
great way to connect with peopleis a new means of communication 
from your high school," said sopho­
and is quickly sweeping across the more Katie Baron. "For example, I
nation. 
have gotten in touch with about 10
Thefacebook.com is an online 
people from my high school who godirectory that connects college stu­to other colleges on thefacebook net­
dents through social networks. 
work. I'm not interested in using it as
Founded in February 2004 by 
a way to meet guys, just as a way to
Harvard junior Mark Zuckenberg, 
catch up with old friends." 
thefacebook has now expanded to 58 Facebook's connections can be evencolleges and universities, the latest of further reaching.
which -added Aug. 22 -is Notre 
"Thefacebook helped me find an
Dame. 
old buddy from England who is at
Call it the dogbook on steroids. 
[the University of Southern
After registering, users can upload 
California]." said England nativetheir pictures, create profiles and 
Mike Burkesbegin adding friends -from Notre Revealing relationship status on aDame or from any other participating 
profile can also be a bit personal.
university. From there, they can mes­Users can post whether they're inter­sage friends, "poke" another user if 
ested in meeting others for friend­
he is also logged in, or visualize their ship, dating, a relationship, "random
social networks (friends, friends' play" or even "whatever [they] can
friends, and so on). 
get."
Users' profiles can share everything Not everyone, however, loves the­
from their political views to their 
facebook. Anne Dalebroux, a Bostonrelationship statuses to their current College student who has been usingclass schedules. For those interested thefacebook since May, expressed herin meeting single conservatives who growing dislike for the craze.
enjoy watching "The Shawshank 
"It is really stupid," she said. "I
Redemption" or those who are des­think it stretches even the lowest of perate for help in Accounting 231, a lows in wasting time."
list of people who vote the same way, Whether a curse or a blessing, the­play the same sports, enjoy the same facebook is rapidly spreading. Thereactivities or take the same classes is 
are over 220,000 network-wide
just a click away. 
users, and after little more than a"It has never been easier to find week, Notre Dame already has over
people that are like you," said sopho­
1,000. 
more Simona Fernandes. ''I've found female math majors that I never Contact Eileen Duffy at knew existed. It's just so great, eduffy I @nd.edu 
College opens revatnped service center on campus 
Call said. 
By APRIL THOMAS The office keeps contact with several in­

News Writer 

town agencies, including the Advocacy Center in South Bend, the Center for the Saint Mary's community service head­Homeless and Saint Margaret's House, a quarters received a little aid of its own in favorite among students. 
its recent renovation from the former Spes A psychology professor herself, Call has Unica Resource and Volunteer center to taught at Saint Mary's for two years and the Office for Civic and Social served as a Center for Women's Engagement. 
Intercultural Leadership fellow before tak­And with the new name comes a new ing on her directorial position at the OCSE. 
attitude. 

In her current Social Psychology course,According to new director Carrie Call, Call offers students the option of partici­
the program's modernized feel will 
pating in the CWIL-sponsored Catalyst emphasize other aspects of involvement Trip over fall break, a 15-student journey besides individual aid. 
to Loveland, Ohio to interact with area "Volunteer work is great, but we wanted women leaders through dialogue and to expand the activity and focus of the workshops.
office," Call said. 

The OCSE will soon find a home in the 
This means a greater concentration on progressing Saint Mary's student center,community engagement and service learn­due to open in March 2005. For now, Call ing programs within Saint Mary's courses. 
and her crew remain in 20 Le Mans 
Inclusion of service learning means faculty Basement -what was once the collegewill expect students to get involved in vol­beauty parlor. 
unteer work to complement and expand The Office now faces a demand for on­
the standard learning process. 
campus tutors to assist both Clay High Business department faculty member School students and reading tutors to sup­Jack Ruhe requires 10 service learning port the "Indiana Reads" program. There hours in his Personal Ethics and Corporate are additional South Bend agencies seek­Culture course. He said this experience ing volunteers, and commitment time is plays a vital role in the understanding of not necessarily important, Call said. 
both his course material and in each stu­
"Agencies appreciate one hour per
dent's life. 

month as well as weekly volunteers," she "Service learning's purpose is to expose said. "We want to help fit your schedule." 
us to people outside of our comfort zone," As with SURV, student transportation is Ruhe said. "It helps us develop compas­still provided. OCSE volunteers can sched­sion for those less fortunate than we are. 
ule to "check out" a designated vehicle, For some students it's a real awakening." 
given they have a valid driver's license and 
The OCSE will assist professors in 
complete the appropriate paperwork. 
organizing this requirement. "We help connect faculty to resources in Contact April Thomas at case they want to do service learning," thom3549@saintmarys.edu 


Thursday, September 2, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 




Levi's 
FOR YOUR BUSINESS AND FRIENDSHIP WHILE AT THE SAME TIME ACCOMPLISHING OUR GOALS. 
SINCERELY, ALL 
Sa...~ 
SAM MERCANTINI SOl's
OWNER 
$26.89 

Win A FantasticPrize! 
• 
No purchase necessary to register 

• 
No luck involved to win 


• 
Limited to registrants at the sponsoring store Approx. value 


1. NC 27" Flat Screen T.V. 

$279·84 
ALL Levi's Red Tab Panasonic Mini-Stereo $138.76 
505 & 550's

Sylvania DVD;VCR Combo $89.87 
$24.19

Nintendo Game Boy Advance $84-81 Philips Coffee Maker $lry.88 Big & Tall $33.19 Traditional Ice Cream Maker $49·8! 
7· Sharp Microwave $44·36 
8. NC Personal Stereo $40.86 $39·97 $34.86 
ALL Socks 20% OFF Date: Sep. 25 Reg. Retail 
Date: Sep. 25 Date: Aug. 26 
RETURN THIS COUPON FOR A SPECIAL BONUS 
State:__Zip:___ 
Limit one coupon per person per day. Expires 9/8/04 

e Blue Jean Store 
1516 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46613 


said. "That extended to 1972." tant issue that caught young peo­Exactly why young people, and ple's attention at the time. 

Voting 

the American nation. fail to go to However, Arnold said the the polls or pay attention to cam­newly enfranchised 18-21 year­
continued from page 1 

paign politics in the way they did olds tend to vote in very low ticated kids, there isn't a lot of 40 years ago remains the subject numbers. Their inclusion in the impetus to vote," he said. of much debate. "young people" category, gener­
Both Arnold and fellow Some commentators claim this ally 18-25 year-olds, may have American government professor trend results from the Jack of depressed turnout numbers. Leon Roos said major, divisive "The most regular voters in the they would suspect issues -such as electorate are the old -over 50," Notre Dame stu­"When people the Cold War, Arnold said. dents participate begin to feel they Vietnam and civil Arnold said parents' political and vote at levels rights -that gal­participation is key in determin­
have more ofa
relatively compara­vanized Amer­ing whether a person is likely to ble to other young stake, they vote. " icans, and young vote or pay attention to politics. people. No specific people especially, "To a certain extent, we learn data about student in the 1960s and [to] begin to Jearn politics from
Perl Arnold 
voter turnout over 70s. our families," he said. "It would 
political science
the decades at "When people seem apparent that an awful lot
professor
Notre Dame were begin to feel they of young people are growing up available. have more of a without a lot of political partici­
Roos has taught at Notre Dame stake .... they begin to vote. pation." since 1970 and was a student at Young people don't feel they have Basically, people who grow up Notre Dame in the 1960s. much of a stake," said Arnold. watching the political conven­
"I think the high point [of stu­Some students said they feel tions on TV are likely to watch dent participation] was the elec­the same way about this year's the conventions when they are tion of 1970," he said. election. older -and to 
In making this assessment, "I feel like it's vote, irrespective
"/feel like it's 

Roos cited the Kent State shoot­pretty important," of how partisan 
ings in May 1970 as an event senior Sean Weller pretty important. I their parents that resonated with college stu­said. "I don't like don't like the way were, according dents in particular, and at Notre the way the country to Arnold.
the country has 

Dame. has been run." Some analysts "That was a really galvanizing However, Weller, been run." predict that voter event on campus," he said. who is from turnout among As a result, Roos said a large Kentucky, said he Sean Weller young people will number of students became didn't think he was continue drop,
senior

involved in the 1970 midterm registered to vote but Arnold said election, especially, and to some and did not vote in that might not extent in the 1972 presidential the 2002 midterm election. happen. He also pointed to election. Like Weller, Notre Dame senior increased political involvement 
Shortly after the shootings, Jennifer Manahan said she did among music artists, suggesting Roos became involved with the not vote in 2002 but hoped to this trend might serve to draw Committee for a New Congress at this year. more young people to politics. 
Notre Dame. The committee, "I was too late [in 2002)," she "[Election 2000] was not an based at Princeton University. said. "I couldn't get my absentee election of burning issues," was part of a national effort to ballot." Arnold said. "[This year], there's involve college students in 1970 In addition to large national Iraq and issues of the war on ter­congressional campaigns. issues, Arnold cited the 1971 ror." 
"There were literally hundreds debate over the 26th amend­of [Notre Dame] students ment, which lowered the voting Contact Teresa Fralish at involved in local elections," Roos age from 21 to 18, as an impor-tfralish@nd.edu 
Afghanistan in a very short amount of time," Millanes said. 
ROTC 

"It only encouraged me to work harder and it confirmed my
continued from page 1 

decision to join the Marine "Those who want to serve Corps and serve my country." 
their country and the greater Masapollo encountered two good will continue to do so of his former students while despite our situation overseas," serving in Iraq, and expressed said Second Lieutenant Jessica his satisfaction with the work Millanes, a 2004 Saint Mary's of these two graduates. He graduate. "There may be more also commented on the fluid to consider. And I certainly had warfare that troops are experi­
more family pressure not to encing in Iraq, and how it dif­join because of the war, but I fers from "black and white" had to follow what was in my wars in the past. heart and decided to serve." "They are in situations where First Lieutenant Patrick there's not a definition," 
Murphy, a 2002 Notre Dame Masapollo said. "It is great that graduate, said despite mixed we made our students thinkers media portrayals, his experi­at Notre Dame and it shows ence in Iraq has been reward­now in the army. This is a ing. reflection on ROTC and Notre 
"The media sensationalizes Dame, specifically the academ­many things that happen here, ics at Notre Dame." and tend not to focus on the Though American involve­progress that is happening," he ment in Iraq has drawn much said. "Americans have to real­heated national debate, several 
ize this is not an immediate members of the service said 
thing, and it takes time to they remain unaffected by any rebuild a country. Granted, the negative sentiments. resistance that has occurred "Marines work hard to was not expected, but that accomplish the mission regard­
doesn't mean it's time to turn less of what the public opinion and run away." of the war is," said Millanes. 
Notre Dame's ROTC pro­Hool said he welcomed vary­grams have actually had some ing opinions. of their highest recruiting num­"I feel very supported. People bers over the past few years, speaking their mind is a good Masapollo said. However, he thing," he said. attributed this increase to For cadets still on campus, more positive training pro­the war remains a motivating grams and did not necessarily t h 0 u g h t 
correlate it with the war. "It's in your mind, you think Still, the possibility of being about it because it would affect sent overseas hangs closely us more than the typical Notre over cadets' heads. Dame student," said sopho­
"There was not a day that more Emily Ledet. "But most of went by [at Officer Candidates are in it because we feel we School] that we weren't have a duty to serve." 
reminded of the fact that we 
Contact Tricia de Groot at

could end up in Iraq or 
pdegroot@nd.edu 









ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Head scarves ban gets first test 
PARIS -School doors open for 12 million French children today, but there is far more at stake this year than back-to-school jitters. 
An already contentious ban on Muslim head scarves and other religious signs faced its first test in France's public schools ­under the cloud of Islamic radicals holding two French hostages in Iraq to press their demand that the law be scrapped. 
"In the circumstances we are facing, I hope this return to school will take place under the sign of fraternity," Education Minister Francois Filion said Wednesday. 
The law forbids all conspicuous religious signs or apparel in public schools, including Jewish skull caps and large Christian cross­es. But it is aimed at Islamic head scarves and means to counter what many people fear is a rise in Muslim fundamentalism in schools. 
Several Muslim organizations set up hot lines to counsel girls in a quandary over the law. 
The law, passed in March, brought heated arguments over religious freedom, free expression and France's much cherished principle of secularism, which is seen by authorities as under threat. 
President Fox urges democracy 
MEXICO CITY -Acknowledging the frus­tration of thousands of protesters, President Vicente Fox spent much of his fourth state­of-the-nation speech Wednesday urging Mexicans to not give up on democracy, say­ing its "inherent problems are not cause for discouragement." 
For the second year in a row, Fox acknowl­edged his government had fallen short of its goals. He promised to create jobs and clean up government, especially rampant crime and kidnappings. 
NATIONAL NEWS Pentagon censors videotape 
WASHINGTON -The Pentagon censored some footage in public versions of a Humphrey Bogart-themed videotape that cost $70,500 to produce and was intended to teach government employees to respond to citizens' requests for information. 
Parts of the training video, "The People's Right to Know" were blacked out and replaced with the message, "copyrighted material removed for public viewing." Defense Department officials said they did so because they worried the government did not have legal rights to some historical footage that was included. 
Marine says he never hit Iraqi 
CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. -A Marine reservist at the center of an Iraq prisoner­abuse case took the stand Wednesday and denied landing a powerful karate-kick in the chest of a 52-year-old Iraqi who later died. 
Asked repeatedly at his court-martial whether he had hit, kicked or kneed any prisoners last year at a Marine detention facility, Sgt. Gary Pittman had a consistent reply: "Negative, sir." 
Speaking calmly and wearing a uniform loaded with military ribbons, Pittman described a prison camp run in a profession­al manner _ not the "terrordome" jailhouse where prisoners were beaten without provo­cation, as other Marines have testified. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bush grants aid for Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS -President Bush on Wednesday declared a disaster in several Indiana counties hard hit by severe storms and flooding in July, clearing the way for fed­eral aid to assist recovery efforts in the region. 
The declaration includes 20 counties that were hit by thunderstorms, tornadoes and flooding from July 3-18, the White House said in a news release. 
Severe storms in southern and western Indiana that began in early July. 
RussiA 



Attackers bomb Russian school 
Suicide bombers kill 2 at school, take hundreds hostage in southern Russia 
Associated Press 
BESLAN -Armed mili­tants with explosives strapped to their bodies stormed a Russian school in a region bordering Chechnya on Wednesday, corralling hundreds of hostages -many of them children -into a gymna­sium and threatening to blow up the building if surrounding Russian troops attacked. At least two people were killed, including a school parent. 
Camouflage-clad special forces carrying assault rifles encircled Middle School No. 1 in the North Ossetian town of Beslan. Earlier, a little girl in a flowered dress fled the school holding a soldier's hand; officials said about a dozen other people man­aged to escape by hiding 

,1 in a boiler room. A militant sniper took position on a top floor of the three-story school, and hours into the stand­off Russian security offi­cials used a phone num­ber they were given and began negotiations with the hostage-takers ­widely believed linked to Chechen rebels suspected in a string of deadly attacks that appeared station that killed at least Putin for the second other issues. connected with last nine people, and just over time in a week interrupted From inside the school, Sunday's presidential elec­a week after near-simulta­his working holiday in the the militants sent out a list tion in the war-ravaged neous explosions blamed Black Sea resort of Sochi of demands and threat­republic. on terrorism caused two and returned to Moscow ened that if police inter­More than 1,000 people, Russian planes to crash, to deal with the unfolding vened, they would kill 50 including many distraught killing all 90 people on crisis. children for every parents, crowded outside board. President Bush called hostage-taker killed and police cordons demanding The recent bloodshed is Putin and "condemned the 20 children for every information and accusing a blow to President taking of hostages and the hostage-taker injured, the government of failing Vladimir Putin, who other terrorists attacks in Kazbek Dzantiyev, head of to protect their children. pledged five years ago to Russia," White House the North Ossetia region's "I've been here all day, crush Chechnya's rebels spokeswoman Claire Interior Ministry, was waiting for anything," said but instead has seen the Buchan said. Bush offered quoted as telling the ITAR­Svetlana Tskayeva, whose insurgents increasingly "assistance" to Russia in Tass news agency. grown daughter and three strike civilian targets dealing with the crisis if Sporadic gunfire and grandchildren aged 10, 6 beyond the republic's bor­requested, but that no explosions could be heard and six months were ders. request had been made so throughout the standoff. among the captives. "In essence, war has far, the White House said. One girl lay wounded on "They're not telling us been declared on us, At the United Nations, the school grounds, but anything.... It's awful, it's where the enemy is Russia called for an emer­emergency workers could frightening." unseen and there is no gency meeting of the not approach because the The hostage-taking front," Defense Minister Security Council, which area was coming under came less than 24 hours Sergei Ivanov told scheduled consultations fire, said regional after a suicide bombing reporters before the _for later Wednesday on Emergency Situations outside a Moscow subway hostage-taking. the school seizure and Minister Boris Dzgoyev. 




Hurricane causes evacuation in Fla. 
ing Category 4 storm could hit on still have blue tarps patching holes in 
Associated Press 
Labor Day weekend as early as Friday their roofs after Charley, and some 

MIAMI -Nearly a half-million peo­night, less than three weeks after streets remain full of storm debris that ple were ordered to evacuate as Charley raked Florida's western coast could become wind-blown projectiles. Hurricane Frances swirled toward with 145 mph wind, causing billions of "We've just gone through 2 1/2 Florida on Wednesday just weeks after dollars in damage and killing 27 peo­weeks of torture trying to get our lives Charley's devastating visit, threatening ple. back to some sense of order," said to deliver the most powerful one-two "I can't emphasize enough how Punta Gorda retiree Tom Hamilton. punch to hit a state in at least a centu­powerful this is. If there's something Evacuation orders were posted for ry. out there that's going to weaken it, we 300,000 residents in coastal areas of 
Those planning to ride out the storm haven't seen it," National Hurricane Palm Beach County, and nearly snapped up canned food, water and Center director Max Mayfield said. 200,000 were told to leave mobile generators, while military helicopters Gov. Jeb Bush and Georgia Gov. homes and low-lying areas of Brevard, and planes were flown out of the area Sonny Perdue declared states of emer­Martin and Indian River counties, and Cape Canaverars Kennedy Space gency, activating the National Guard. which could be hit by tremendous Center said it would close on Bush also warned more evacuations ocean waves. The evacuation orders Thursday. may be ordered. were set to take effect Thursday after­
Forecasters said the still-strengthen-Many homes in southwest Florida noon. 
page 6 Thursday, September 2, 2004
The Observer + NEWS 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
ment the DVD rental in 
LaFortune, which he pre­dicted will soon be self­sufficient, and offer the option of Fair Trade coffee on campus. 
B a r o n reported the strong interest that the stu­

"At this rate, we'll have to make up ad hoc committees to keep them busy. " 
Dave Baron chief executive assistant 
dent government booth at Tuesday's Activities Night garnered. 
"We had over 200 people sign up to receive e-mails. At this rate, we'll have to make up ad hoc committees to keep them busy," joked Baron. 
He also mentioned the Student Government 101 night on Sept. 8 that he will hold in conjunction with Class of 2007 secretary Megan Spokes and judicial council president Brin Anderson. Its purpose is to introduce the role of student government and the issues it faces for those interested in becoming a part of it, said Baron. 
Committee chairs also pre­sented their current agendas and projected goal for the next few weeks. 
Academic affairs chairman Vijay Ramanan outlined three goals he wants his committee to achieve by the end of October. 
"We want to organize a Majors night. like the Activities Night, with all the department heads and some upperclassmen in the major passing out information, and we would like the dorms to do a similar event," he said. "It would also be great to create a booklet with infor­mation on all the different majors, because right now all of that is in 50 different places." 

The opening of the Gender Resources Center on Sept. 13 will be the main focus of the Gender Issues committee, said chair Lizzi Shappell. She added they are currently posting sexual assault I awareness posters in dormI· bathrooms, and hope to I I expand the effort to academ­
ic buildings. 
The committee for 
Residence Life -one of the 
largest under the Senate ­
will be taking on a wide vari­
'Itlnight! ill & Specials ALL DAY 272-1766 


ety of projects, according to chair Sarah Bates. She listed a number of the issues the committee will be looking at, including creating a "Flex 10" meal option, securing a 
student discount at the Bookstore, looking at the way football tick­ets are distrib­uted, installing cable and satel­lites in dorm 
rooms  and  
increasing  the  
availability  of  

technology in res­idence halls. 

Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Laundry 
continued from page 1 
Food Services, said director David Prentkowski. 
"We work with the manu­facturers, who recommend prices, but we establish [them]." he said. 
There are 988 vending machines on campus and about 300 sell food and bever­ages with the rest used laun­dry and change machines. 
~After paying for expenses, machines are quite expen­sive," said Prentkowski, point­ing to the costs of purchasing the machines, products, labor and machine replacement as high expenses. Extra revenue keep pace with the manufac­from sales goes to. the turer. We try not to do it too University's general education often." fund. Junior Elizabeth Goers, who 

"Adjustments [in pricing] does her laundry in Welsh 
coincide  Hall,  said  she  was  
with  the  "quite surprised" by  
costs  we  "It doesn't look like  the price increase.  
receive," he said. A price  a lot, but I think it will add up. "  "I just learned about it when I came down here," Goers said. "It  
increase  doesn't look like a lot,  
can occur  Elizabeth Goers  but I think it will add  

after high­
junior
er manu­facturer's suggested prices, increased cost of labor and even increases in employee bene­fits, such as health insurance. 
"It just keeps going up," said Prentkowski. "But we 
up." 

Prentkowski said it 
has been several years since there have been price hikes for any vending machines on campus. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 
$20{,~t~e first 6 months, 
$39.95 thereafter) 
Call and Text Plan 
• 1 000 Anytime Minutes 
• 
Unlimited Call Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FREE for 2 months 


Ask about Picture Messaging 
and Nights & Weekends starting at 7 p.m. Limited time offer. 
Airtime and text messaging offer valid on two-year consumer service agreements of $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months of a 2 year contract. Unlimited Call Me Minutes are only available In the local calling area and are not deducted from packaged minutes. 3000 Nights and Weekends are available in the local calling area for $4.95 per month. -rext messaging 250 package is $5.95 thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing message beyond 250. Must call to cancel. Offers may expjrelf you change your calling plan. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Umited time offer. Roaming charges, fees. surcharges and taxes may apply, Including a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes. 1Cl2004 U.S. Cellular Corporation 


"f< U.S.Cellular 
SIMPLICITY IS CALLING 
1-888-BUY·USCC • GETUSC.COM 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, September 2, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 168.46 -5.46 
}ones ' 
•. Same: Composite Volume 

NASDAQ  1,377.96  +9.28  
NYS£  .·....  ~iflfil~!ll21fl'!!tj!~i~~-ll  
S&PSOO  1,105.91  +1.67  
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11;120.~'Q*' ..  -7:~~2f ..  

fTSE IOO(london) 4,502.00 +42.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.66 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.33 SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) 0.00 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.76 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +1.01 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.08 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.22 5-YEARNOTE -0.54 3-MONTH BILL -1.34 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
+0.14 21.43 +0.09 27.39 
0.00 3.87 +0.33 19.09 +0.16 16.05 
-0.04 49.34 -0.09 41.23 -0.18 33.06 -0.21 15.47 
+ 1.88 44.00 -1.60 410.80 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.725 95.15 
Excha e Rates 
YEN I 09.4300 EURO 0.8201 POUND 0.5574 
IN BRIEF 
Rise in manufacturing activity 
NEW YORK -Manufacturing activity rose in August for the 15th consecutive month, but at a slower rate than in July, according to a monthly report released Wednesday by the Institute for Supply Management, a research group. 
The ISM's index for manufacturing activity stood at 59 in August, 3 points below the 62 recorded iri July and just below the level ana­lysts were expecting. 
Contractors help small business 
NEW YORK -Many business owners find there are great benefits in using independent contractors, especially when their work tends to be on a project-by-project basis. They can hire people with different specialties accord­ing to the demands of each job. Using contrac­tors also allows small businesses to save on overhead, because unlike employees, contrac­tors aren't paid benefits. 
But there are also some drawbacks -inde­pendent contractors are free agents, and, some business owners find, not always reli­able. And owners need to be careful that in using contractors, they don't treat them in a fashion that could land the company in trouble with federal and state tax authorities. 
Owning a pet can add up quickly 
NEW YORK-Kittens and puppies at the pet store or local pound may tug at your heart­strings, but new pet owners soon find that ani­mal companions can also tug at their purses­trings. 
Caring for a pet can be expensive even if the animal has no serious illnesses or special medical needs, which can add considerably to the cost. It's something many families overlook when they're adopting or buying a pet. 
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which is based in New York, says the cost of maintaining a large dog can run about $660 a year. That would cover food, routine veterinary visits and miscella­neous expenses, such as leashes, bedding, toys and treats. A medium-sized dog can cost about $450, while a small one will run about $300. 

Overtime pay creates frustration 
Employers take unexpected heat from workers unhappy about overtime policies 
Associated Press The complaints began even before University of Missouri administrators e-mailed more than 400 employees to confirm what might seem a harm­less change soon, the memo said, they'd be eligible for overtime pay. It was not what Mary Porter want­ed to hear. It had taken Porter 35 years to climb the 
pocketbook issue, but the workers' objections are largely rooted in the immeasurable. For many, the change amounts to a difficult-to-define feel­ing that their work and status is cheapened. 
"Not every company saw this com­ing, and I certainly don't think the regulators had a sense that this was going to happen," said Jonathan Sulds, 
an attorney with cor­
"Not every company 
university's ladder, porate law firm Akin from the copy saw this coming, and I Gump Strauss Hauer machine operator's 
certainly don't think & Feld LLP in New 
job she started just York.
the regulators had a
out of high school, to Employers, anxious a position with the sense that this was to turn the tide on a salary, benefits and 
going to happen. " swelling wave of 
responsibility certify­expensive lawsuits by ing her as a profes­workers claiming
Jonathan Sulds 
sional. Now the they've been unfairly grandmother of corporate attorney denied overtime pay, 
three saw the uni­versity, armed with new government rules on overtime pay, pulling the ladder's top rungs out from under her. 
"It just feels like, in a sense, I've had something taken away from me," said Porter, an administrative associate who half-jokes that she's "trained" the last fQ6lr chairmen of the university's anthropology depart­ment. "I had that (salaried) status because I worked my way up.... It made me feel personally like I had accomplished something." 
The Bush administration's new rules on overtime pay have been at the center of a furious, and still unresolved, debate over charges they will cost millions of workers the right to overtime pay. But some employers are catching flak of a variety few expected not from work­ers angry about losing overtime pay, but from some irritated about a change that gives them the right to receive it. 
Overtime pay is the quintessential 
largely favored the 
administration's overhaul of wage laws. The changes, which took effect Aug. 23 despite vehement criticism by labor unions, are focused mainly on complex and leave much to interpre­tation. Nobody really knows how many workers will be affected, or how they will be impacted. 
The debate has included estimates that anywhere from 107,000 to as many as 6 million workers will lose overtime eligibility. Estimates of how many will gain eligibility vary from almost none to 1.3 million. It could be some time before the reality becomes clear. 
Employers, though, say strong reactions from some workers whose jobs have been reclassified from salaried to hourly -giving them access to overtime pay -has already created awkward situations. 
At Missouri, administrators are shifting between 400 and 500 salaried workers to hourly status, eligible for overtime pay. Not one of the school's 19,000 employees is los­ing the right to overtime, said Ken Hutchinson, vice president of human resources. 
The change has generated com­
plaints from many of the affected employ­ees, including administrative associates -the office managers for many aca­demic depart­ments -execu­tive assistants, and computer workers. A series of meetings held on the Columbia, Mo., campus in skilled and white-collar jobs, exempting many such positions from eli­gibility for overtime pay. 
Some of the changes are straightforward. Workers earning less than $23,660 a year must be paid for over­time under the new 
"It just feels like, in a sense, I've had something taken away from me. I had that status because I worked my way up. " 
Mary Porter administrative associate 
rules, almost triple the old salary requirement. Workers earning more than $100,000 and whose jobs regularly include at least one administrative or professional responsibility will now be excluded from overtime eligi­bility. 
But the new rules, part of the fed­eral Fair Labor Standards Act, are recent months drew up to 100 workers and professors who back them, criti­cizing the administration's plans. 
"Many have come up through the ranks and finally reached a point where they were considered to be an executive, administrative or profes­sional employee," Hutchinson said. 
Stock prices mixed as oil prices climb 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks staggered to a mixed finish Wednesday as lower-than­expected manufacturing activity and rising oil prices chilled an early spate of bar­gain hunting, but technology shares posted a modest advance. 
Adding an element of gloom to a market already made sluggish by lackluster trading, oil prices settled higher for the first time in seven sessions. Government data showed a steep drop in 
U.S. oil inventories last week as imports fell and refiners continued to operate at unusually high rates, send­ing light crude for October delivery soaring $1.88 to $44 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Underscoring how exag­gerated market moves can be when volume is light, the major indexes sank at mid­day on reports of a possible terror attack in Washington, 
D.C. The market stabilized after it became clear the incident stemmed from the accidental release of pepper spray in a restaurant near the World Bank and 
International Monetary 
Fund, which are under 
heightened alert. Still, Wall 
Street never fully regained 
its earlier momentum. 
"When you combine the 
rise in oil prices with the 
false-alarm bioterrorist 
alert, both of those events 
really took the steam out of 
the market," said Michael 
Sheldon, chief market 
strategist at Spencer Clarke 
LLC. 
According to final results, 
the Dow Jones industrial 
average closed down 5.46, 
essentially flat, at. 
10,168.46. 
Broader stock indicators · were narrowly higher. The 
Standard &Poor's 500 index 
rose 1.67, or 0.2 percent, to 
1,105.91. The tech-focused 
Nasdaq composite index 
gained 12.31, or 0.7 per­
cent, to finish at 1,850.41. 
With trading light, as it 
has been all week due to the 
Republican National 
Convention and the upcom­
ing Labor Day holiday, the 
markets were slow to react 
to the Institute for Supply 
Management's manufactur­
ing index for August. 
Manufacturing activity rose 
for the 15th consecutive 

AP 
Stocks closed lower Wednesday due In part to low manufacturing reports and rising oil prices. 
month, suggesting healthy pants were looking ahead activity in the sector, but the to Friday, when the Labor reading of 59 was three Department was to release points lower than the one its data for August. After recorded for July, and fell two months of anemic short of economists' expec­employment growth, Wall tations. Street is hoping for a surge 
Many market partici-in new jobs. 
page 8 
MALAYSIA 
Court ruled 2-1 to reverse the conviction against Anwar. lie was expected to travel to Germany for sur­gery to treat a back injury stemming from a police beat­ing in 1998. 
Anwar was once consid­ered the heir apparent of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, but Mahathir fired him and touched off widespread political turmoil. 
Prime Minister Ahmad Abdullah Badawi, who suc­ceeded Anwar as Mahathir's hand-picked heir, had been expected to take a softer line toward Anwar and put the divisive issue behind Malaysia after he took office last year. 
Judge Abdul Hamid Mohamad read out the ver­dict over 1 1/2 hours. As it became apparent that 

MISHAWAKA $0UTH 8t:ND 
~PREMIER 514 W. McKinl-ay ! 17 North M.oi!l 
Cq-ner MdCi~ley & Grape I blk. $(10~1 .of Cdf~x
r.?' LOCATIONs• 
574.2!i2..5B20 574.288.9450 
46l S ~ami ROQd 
Miami & Ireland AUTB&IItll8 AlliiiT 574. 29'9.2860 
1<:us.Cellulm: 
~~~·W."'~~~(>~~"*~m<J·~~;,.~,..,.~~ ~ml~~·'""tlt<!'oll...-.~rtt4~~~--~··"'*''·;;<o'»>:>'l'!'l'<m',...., i6«<:e ~11"*-''-"'licl·l:l<t~J·'!folo ~1!¥1¥</~~;t>><o.;<~l '!113tl>~ ~"'''>'~&' (<1<~1'fftfll<>'~t<J~"i<<. Lmti'~T~~~ 1*'1'1\!"~"" ~~~fl<l'~~la<~ IOftlJltJ.l<>:·.""""'~'~'i''l <~;too ,.,. • rt<~ ;iot·<1l.~*'*lli'~iltti ,l;tt><Nit>l<e,.~ al i>~'f<I>'J:~ !Kt/. ?¥::~1t·)O)re~j«l.l> tit:tl~. ~f'i-3~i~a-~trm:>r: to>-.,ll>lao>it;oj tl:<!V:<$'~ !>Jt!f.: ~Sim£..!'4lt.ll'\C! -111<1 ·*~w. ;n ><l!'id 1M~ ~"'r,.~{ll! ~'"'*' <1~ c1<1;· ~41\' ;MOt S.n!it; ~ta*' '>~~ ru:="" Md~ ~' ~ ..;t~ -{~ (\t.o:._ l'l.'~<ilr; <~31 ~P'Mg ws n1~ !>! \1$ ·!:<:t•.w oomm ~~; ·«~ 1>> M:~t.~t®l:likrn ~J.<b*>I!M~n~~~<.<!~-~<1»1<! :l'l« ~~~r<>:lf>mt US.{:al<l:1 W'l:f.N} lffi'~ f<:l ~~ ll·~d~~l::lM:-bj;, t!M:AA>;mm.·!<), :!ti<S! '4J:&>X!llr~~>.> *tl IJ:~ "'llmJ<UMot>;,t>t~<)l.~.~-•>sl ~...,.,:t':l m><.il'll.'>t-.... J»;.tc<.,;t·t;o;tt~• ~«Y;;:., ,,.,ij ~;:aw ww...• il¥1<ii•'"''''*'aw6Jt.; ~~-aJ·I.Ust><.>~i"1-·.,,l ~ "'"";;J"'~.'~ '#<¥> ...~ &'1..,-:ltll '"'"""~!"'*' "''*-•~ n..w.......,•.,~ •r.ln<·W>i• t:.:'i'~'"'"""""" ~~~t! ~..,~,~ """· ..JJ.-.:po o:oJ ~.... ~ '*-#-! ~--"' ~i'l(: JJ "'""<>1...,..•t< '""'t*• <~<t>Jit'*<-..al>J>·Iw i~~"'""""'~"l!·tWI! Si!em.-;$A·>1-;I.~:I;.jj~(....S<~<>f!<. 

High court overturns sodomy conviction 
Anwar, 57, would be freed,
Associated Pn:ss 
the former deputy prime 
PUTHAJAYA -Malaysia's minister -wearing a neck highest court overturned the brace and confined to a sodomy conviction of former wheelchair -exchanged deputy prime minister excited glances with family Anwar Ibrahim on Thursday members and gave a and freed him from prison, thumbs-up sign. exactly six years after his fir­"We are not prepared to ing ignited the country's uphold the conviction," worst political crisis. Abdul Hamid said. "We 
A panel of the Federal therefore allow this appeal 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Volunteer Opportunities 
After-school Program and Tutoring 
Volunteers are needed to tutor kids in an after school program sponsored by the New Jerusalem Baptist Church. The program, called Kids Youth Ministry, runs on Mondays and Thursdays from 
5:30 to 7:30. You must be able to provide your own transportation. If interested, contact Beverly Beck at 299-7142. 
Volunteer with Catholic Charities 
Catholic Charities needs your help. They offer an emergency food pantry and assist low-in­come residents with basic necessi­ties, such as rent and utilities. If you would like to donate food, 
organize a food drive or make 
a financial gift, please call Rob 
Ercoline at 234-3111. 
Hospice Training 
The Center for Hospice & Pal­liative Care will hold a training course in September for persons who wish to volunteer for the center's programs. The course in­cludes seven three-hour sessions covering the hospice philosophy, communication skills, spiritual­ity, family dynamics, patient care and bereavement. Contact Jackie at 243-3100, ext 3127, if interested. 
and set aside the conviction and the sentence." 
Abdul Hamid said that con­viction was flawed because the chief prosecution wit­ness, Azizan Abubakar, had repeatedly changed the dates of that he claimed Anwar had committed homosexual acts with him. 
Azizan had been the driver for Anwar's wife. 
Hundreds of Anwar sup­porters cheered outside the court building after the ver­dict was announced. 
The verdict closed the final chapter in Anwar's struggle against convictions for sodomy and corruption. He claimed the charges were rigged and meant to prevent him from challenging Mahathir -who retired last year -for power in this Southeast Asian country. 
Vehicles Available for Students 
Vehicles are availabe free of charge for student service and social action groups. In order to use a vehicle, students must attend a vehicle training session. Bring your driver license and a pencil. This is not required ifyou attended a session within the last two years. 
When: September 5 at 7:00pm and 8:00pm 
Where: 102 DeBartolo Hall 
Once you've completed the training, pick up a vehicle request forms at the CSC. Before completing a request, the esc policies and procedures docu­ment must be reviewed (available at the CSC website). A quiz, available at the esc, must be completed and attached to the first request form. 
Urban Plul!g_e Task Force Meeting 
Interested in being part of this year's task force for the Urban Plunge? Positions on the task ·force require weekly commit­ment. 
Ifyou are interested, email Peter Kralovec (pkralove@nd.edu.) 
Join the Vote Campaign 
Interested in being part of an  groups and organizations, will  
exciting movement on campus  sponsor voter registration drives,  
to increase voter participation  debates, panel discussions and  
and engagement? This semester,  more as the election season heats  

the Center for Social Concerns, up. Contact Peter Quaranto at along with a number ofstudent pquarant@nd.edu. 
Rock the Vote Event 
When: September 2, 7:00 pm, South Dome Joyce Center 
Academic Convocation "Election 2004: A Watershed?" (nd.du/ -fyconvo ) featuring Thomas Patterson author of "The Vanishing Voter" (http://www.vanishingvoter.org ). 

"Reflections ofa Studebaker Champion" 
Lecture by Dr. John Brademas, former Indiana Congressman, on the legacy ofSouth Bend's Studebaker car company. Presented by the Avanti Project. 
When: Tuesday, September 7 at 5:00 Where: Decio Theatre in 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Annan says Sudan hasn't stopped attacks in Darfur 


YOUR CATERING SOLUTIONIll 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 
FREEBIES ISUB$ & CLUB$ ONLVI Onion, lettuce. alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. 






liVE DELIVER 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 574.277.8500 "YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!'' © 
But his report made clear much more needed to be done. 
"The displaced have been ter­rorized and traumatized, and have lost confidence in the authorities," Annan said. They don't trust the police and the situation is exacerbated by an "increasing level of animosity between different communities and tribes in Darfur" and "a breakdown of traditional mech­anisms to resolve differences." 
To help provide security, he told the council "a substantially increased international pres­ence in Darfur is required as quickly as possible." He said an expanded force could decrease the level of violence and enhance the protection of civil­ians, particularly refugees, pro­viding a respite that would allow the people of Darfur to start reconciliation. 
Last month, the African Union proposed sending nearly 2,000 peacekeepers to Darfur, a move strongly backed by the United States but rejected by the Sudanese government. The organization is expected to make its recommendation on an expanded international presence in the coming days, the U.N. diplomats said. 
In an interview last week, 
U.S. Ambassador John Danforth warned that if Sudan resisted an expanded international presence, "then in my view the United States will have been given no choice but to support sanctions." 
While the report appeared more negative than positive, Sudan's U.N. Ambassador Elfatih Mohamed Erwa said "If it's read objectively I think it's balanced." 
Erwa told reporters Sudan has no objection to increasing the cease-fire monitoring force -"whether it is 300 or 3,000, if it helps, that's fine." But Sudan would oppose an inter­national force with another mandate, for example to disarm militias or other groups because that could lead to mili­tary confrontations, he said. 
British Foreign Secretary 
Jack Straw, who visited Darfur 
last week, said Wednesday that 
the U.N. report confirmed "the 
modest improvements" he saw, 
which he said were the result of 
international pressure. 
"But we need to do much 
more," Straw said. "A culture of 
impunity continues, with no evi­
dence that the perpetrators of 
these appalling attacks are 
being brought to justice." 
The Sudanese foreign minis­
ter, Mustafa Osman Ismail, sent 
a letter to Security Council 
members outlining what Sudan 
has done to comply with the 
resolution. It also reiterated his 
government's "readiness and 
dedication" to abide by the U.N. 
resolution and to reach a politi­
cal settlement. 
But, he added, "practical diffi­
culties are encountering the 
implementation." 
He appealed for humanitarian 
aid, support for the 10,000 
police officers deployed to 
Darfur, and rehabilitation of 
Sudan's railway, including 
spare parts for its U.S.-built 
locomotives. 
Ismail said the government 
had stopped "all military offen­
sive acts," was setting up safe 
areas for refugees, and had 
instructed militia leaders to 
abide by U.N. agreements. 
"The disarmament process will gain full swing in tandem with the collection of arms from the rebels and other irregular armed ground," he said. 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Wednesday that Sudan's government has not stopped attacks on "terrorized and trau­matized" civilians in its Darfur region and urged the speedy deployment of an expanded international peacekeeping force. 
Annan did not say how large a force he wanted, but U.N. diplomats said a U.N. plan pre­sented to the African Union called for about 3,000 peace­keepers. The 53-nation African organization now has about 80 military observers in Darfur, protected by just over 300 sol­diers, monitoring a rarely observed cease-fire signed in April. 
Annan's report was called for in a Security Council resolution that was adopted July 30 giving Sudan 30 days to demonstrate it was curbing nomadic Arab tribes accused of killing thou­sands in attacks on African farm villages and also improv­ing access for aid groups. The resolution threatened punitive economic and diplomatic meas­ures if Sudan didn't move quickly. 
The secretary-general didn't mention or recommend sanc­tions, which many council members oppose at this point. His call for an expanded inter­national force, by contrast, was likely to get strong support, especially from the United States. 
The 15 Security Council mem­bers are to be briefed Thursday by Annan's top envoy to Sudan, Jan Pronk, whose observations form the basis of the report's conclusions and recommenda­tions. 
The report criticized the Sudanese government for fail­ing to meet its key obligations under agreements with the United Nations to rein in the Arab militias, which are accused of killing up to 30,000 people and forcing 1.5 million to flee their homes in the vast and arid Darfur region. 
Stemming from long-standing disputes over scarce water and arable land, the conflict erupted when two African groups rebelled last year accusing Sudan's Arab-dominated gov­ernment of siding with the Arab herders. Aid groups have accused the government of encouraging and supporting the militia attacks, a charge Sudanese leaders deny. 
"The most critical commit­ment that has yet to be imple­mented relates to the armed militias which continue to pose a serious threat to the civilian population," Annan's report said. "Attacks against civilians are continuing and the vast majority of armed militias has not been disarmed." 
On the positive side, Annan cited "some progress" by the government in improving secu­rity in newly designated havens for refugees, the deployment of additional police, the beginning of disarmament, and the lifting of restrictions to aid shipments. He also noted the government kept its promise to resume peace talks with the rebels. 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 2, 2004 
Apathy 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Even with voting power, some 
students are wary of publicizing 
their politics. 
"It seems whenever I try to bring up something political in class, people squirm," Saint Mary's senior Mercera Payne said. 
This squirming could reflect the apathy that has wrapped itself around collegiate youth. 
Notre Dame junior Peter Quaranto is the student coordina­tor for the Rock the Vote cam­paign at Notre Dame believes there is a "tremendous amount of apathy" among college-aged vot­ers. 
The Rock the Vote campaign focuses on all collegiate youth and tries to create a climate in which students can talk about issues. 
"One important thing is to get people to look at the whole spec­trum of issues," Quaranto said. 
Peter Kralovec, a member of the planning committee for the Rock the Vote campaign, works specifically with mobilizing voters. 
Kralovec said he too believes it is important to focus on all aspects of politics, not only a few. 
"Catholic voters tend to empha­size the notion of a seamless fab­ric of life that only deals with life, choice and abortion." Kralovec said. "Catholics have to start vot­ing on international peace and economic justice." 
But many disagree. There are some students who care so pas­sionately about only one issue, it becomes their entire basis for vot­ing. 
Junior Angie Schuemann falls 
into this category. For her, one 
issue overshadows the rest. "The 
biggest thing for me is abortion," 
Schuemann said. "That automati­
cally makes me Republican." 
s the election draws closer. 
many people are realizing this 
election affects not only America, 
but the world as a whole. 
Saint Mary's senior Kelly Hradsky believes this election could have implications world­wide. 
"For now, other countries believe that the government is dictating foreign policy that they don't necessarily agree with, and people are waiting to see if [Americans] re-elect Bush in order to gauge if the voters in the United States really believe and support the policies Bush is rep­resenting," Hradsky said. "Our votes count. Just look at the last election." 
But students cannot affect the vote unless an effort is made ­which can be increasingly difficult when they attend schools away from home. 
"Students will have to go the extra trouble of getting an absen­tee ballot, which I think many will simply not do," Notre Dame sen­ior Bryce Cooper said. 
Quaranta implored all students to take the time to get informed and make the effort to vote. 
"If history tells us one thing, it is that the students' votes won't count because students don't vote," Quaranto said. "When we stop participating, we begin to go down an ugly cycle that tears away at our democracy." 
Contact Teresa Nowakowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 

Virginia flood death toll reaches seven 
Associated Press carrying armloads of hand 
tools from a company van 
parked in a condemned 
HICHMOND, Va. -Police and garage. 
fire officials escorted Richmond We're trying to salvage any­
residents and business owners thing we possibly can," said 
into their flood-ravaged homes Regina Bowen, company vice 
and shops Wednesday, but only president. "It's horrible in 
to allow them to retrieve pets there -a lot of mud." 
and essentials such as pre­The sixth and seventh con­
scription drugs. firmed victims were found 
Flooding touched off by the Wednesday, more than a day remnants of Tropical Storm after the heavy rains ended Gaston on Tuesday left at least and floodwaters receded. seven people dead in Virginia Authorities in Dinwiddie and devastated a historic County, south of Richmond, Richmond district that was the found the body of a person who heart of the Confederate capi­they said was swept away in tal during the Civil War. rushing water while trying to 
Cleanup and rescue others. No restoration in the other details were Shockoe Bottom immediately avail­
"We're trying to
neighborhood of able. restaurants. salvage anything Earlier in the shops and loft day, a woman's
we possibly can." 
apartments will body was found in have to wait a a wooded area 
Regina Bowen
day or so until east of the city, the buildings are Bowen Building after she appar­deemed safe, said Systems vice ently was swept City Manager away while driv­
president
Calvin Jamison. ing. The other vic-He said 19 of 230 tims included two buildings inspect-people who may ed by midday were con­have been part of a human demned. chain trying to reach people 
The damage was estimated stuck inside a van. at a preliminary $15 million The state reported 120 roads and is likely to go higher. remained closed. Many were 
Shops and restaurants were still under water. At least six a watery, mud-caked mess bridges were washed out. Wednesday, and cars that had "There may be a few more. crashed into each other as they but until the water recedes, washed down streets were we're not going to know," said mired in mud or overturned. Linda South, a Transportation 
A small group of employees Department spokeswoman. of Bowen Building Systems "That's how bad it is out carne out of the closed area there." 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September sth, at 7:00pm and at 8:00pm in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The sessions will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and · staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467. 

Make your monthly tuition 
0
and room & board payments, 
NOTRE DAME
get your hair cut and grab 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION

lunch-all at LaFortune 
021 LaFortune Student Center 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org

Student Center! 

· 
...532·3· 
.. . . ...• 


page 11 
Vets polite to Kerry after hearing Bush 
fACUUY SlAH STUDENT RATES 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -John Kerry's speech to the 5,000 members at the American Legion national convention Wednesday was received polite­ly but less enthusiastically than President Bush's the day before. 
Kerry focused his speech on what he would have done dif­ferently to respond to the ter­rorist attacks of Sept. 11, and tailored many of his remarks to the veterans, stressing the country's debt to them does not end when the fighting ends. 
"You know our duty does not end on the battlefield, it begins there," he said. 
Kerry focused on the need for better health care for veterans, which many said was a topic close to their hearts. 
"He embodied a lot of con­cepts that are fundamental," said Ed Lowery, a veteran from Powder Springs, Ga., outside Atlanta. 
Lowery said he thought Bush's speech on Tuesday was good, but that Kerry "did a bet­ter job [Wednesday] as far as getting his points across. His stage presence was outstand­ing. He had a whole range of topics I think are all important to us." 
Lou Dimmerman, a veteran from Cincinnati, said he thought Kerry's speech was excellent, and added, "but I'm one of the few Democrats here." 
"His points were absolutely germane to the Legion, but they all make so many promises to us we don't know if they're really going to come through with it," he said. 
Whether Kerry could make good on his promises also was on the mind of Kenneth Dowden of Indianapolis, an Army World War II veteran. The Legion's national head­quarters are in Indianapolis. 
"I don't see how he's going to do all he said, economically, unless you get back to socialism like the other countries do," Dowden said. "His ideas are wonderful, but I don't think we can do it from an economic standpoint." 
Others were less impressed, even on a theoretical level. 
"All people have to do is look in the Congressional Record. Everything he promised (Wednesday) he voted against," asserted Ray White, an Air Force veteran from Huntsville, 
Ala. 
James Robinson of Stockbridge, Ga., a retired Air Force veteran, said he liked the speech and intended to support Kerry. He said the war records of the two candidates were irrelevant. 
"That's not a factor for me," he said. "I believe more in the issues he [Kerry] presents. The war record, even though I'm a retired veteran, is not a factor. What they're saying and doing for Americans, for my family, are the things that concern 
me." 


APPUCANT ~to be completed by Furniture-les..s .student! 
Laat name: 
Ml: -----------------­
:1004 2C(l-:S 211011 :!007 J:!".o::ra .2009 Sex: L MAU LIFEMAU Expected gracfuatiOf'l date: ~)IC· WII 2012 :!CJH :i-<lR4 :IDI!i Dorm room: tq/ft W1ndow: r"]y&s 0No (tint. Mel ZOto 101 :r 2U It1 2{1 19 2<120 2021 

IKIA price YOU SAVE
FURNITURE 
Lounglng/Entertainlng 
1. Dr<! you choose lfli!. school bas.e<l 011 on odvanlcgeou!-mole to female rafio~ 2 Doel your school rank. i11 th., ~party school" lop len? 
3. De you lib l!l;o.perimM~Iiflg wilh new things~ 
If you ofl.swered YES on. the previcu!!. queshcns, :SIN! below: If you answered NO, you might need a change o • .sc.enoery, see-below: 



[5 'iJ 

0 'fES ONO 
OVES ONO OYH ONO 
$466.63 ~$199 
IICU,AN Mlfa 
$114.99 ~.$4.99 
M6RK1!1. lamp 

$46.63 -~-$19.99 
KIMMI 'hair 
$31.65 • $3.99 . 
GIU.NIIoT !lltkl­
(-lill) 

5
$71.98 $4.99 
Moli..NTA lVTA I'.AG lVI 
$369.33 f!$59 

Enter lo win an IKIA $1 000 Fumiture Scholar.dtip Fill out lt.-1!' s.::h.olorlhip oppllcatton ot ikeaRnancialakl~com, prml d out and brlns •t 1o l~e slore Don'! be surprised If yau win f11rnih1re lhal w1ll dreu up yovt darrn lo; as. loBg a1 your e.xpen::led 9roduabon dole. 
8CIA.ftomiu Cool furnllllr~ co-sb yau less mo~. lhef'eby IHVInf;l you wilh l!!lltl:'oi!!J~ ca~h IChe&dar, .t:dle, c.r.~.o.m., deod 
1
pres•dent.s, elc I More cosh th.or you can spend on on 1C:e croi!!'Om llool with friel'lds. And !!iame p•:tzo. And chK:bn Wlrtgs. Anrd o ~rtlto as big l1l your head. AFter 11Kl1 yolr can 90 lit~ dowWJ on :!tOme of tl.ot cool furniture !ht.P 1.0~ you all lht.t money. 
Promluory N~e Promis.e-to !.ave: I promise to save money by goll'lf;l lo the near~~~ IKEA st-ore lo bu:; my furnahrre All .saving~ under t~ term~ of this Nole, plus any olhef' sav.ngs that may oc:c:~rr wtth IKEA rne-rchor.dise not mentioned on lhi!. Note may mcrea!.e my ability Jo do thin.a:s other tl.an sit 1., my dorm and store of t+.~ ~wmdowless~ wall. IKEA furnt~ ..11ngs may provtde lertover money for o lnp-to the m-ovitH or lhe obligcrtory colf.e.ge tattoo failure to shop at II(£A stort:s. may roeduce frequl!!ncy af these or sim1lor e:drac:urriculat ochvihe:5. I undenlond lhot I may cancel or re-duce 1he s.l.z.e of the sovma s. I r.e<:eav& at any hme, by ehoos.lng not to go Ia lt::EA ~tore:s. 
My signarure cetflfies tflol I hove rl!!ad, urKiersl-oo.d and agreed !hot II<EA sl-or-e5 ore my be!ol bet fer S(IViAg money on college cub furni s.hi "'9 !.. 
------------· 

Dale IMM/DD/YY) 
* ,-.;... lo; ofllll(•<i ,,J.,_ No ~doale ,_...,.., (()( 4N•r-tM.4or .._~ l.,.:t So>1ot pt(loJo<l~ ,...,.,. oo...,•l:oly 
o ,,.,, IQA .s,-, l!o v :I.(Q;I_ Y11• ·~ \)_.,.,.,.,. ·-~.:.lnoroeo~~it(o.., 
For o ~fler life of college, Vi!!.l~ ikeafinandalaAcl.com 
DO NOT WRIU. OJIPICI USI ONL"t. 



~•••Aj. 
OWNU'S COI'Y 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Dog that picked up Peterson's scent failed training 
Search and rescue handler admits Labrador had failed a videotaped practice exercise 

Associated Press 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -A search dog handler who provid­ed key evidence against Scott Peterson acknowledged Wednesday that her canine had failed a videotaped training exercise. 
Jurors looked on as the defense in Peterson's murder trial played the video of the dog's test, made before the dog was involved in the Peterson investigation. 
Dog handler Eloise Anderson, of the Contra Costa County Search and Rescue team, had 

Interested in making a difference in the Notre Dame experience? 
The Student Alumni Relations Group strives to link students with alumni in meaningful ways: 
Student Mentorship Program 
Alumni Lectures and Dinners 
Alumni Club Contacts 
AlumniAssociation Campus Events 
Alumni Club Care Package Program 
Ifyou would like to learn more about how you can assume a lead role in any ofour current programs, please attend our organizational meeting. 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 at 6pm Eck Visitors Center (next to the bookstore) Questions? Contact Mirella Riley '94 at 1-6ooo or !fur.J8@nd.edu 

~IJNIVI!IlSJTY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Aluoml Auociadoe 100Ed<Ce""" 
. ,, .....,,. »··~ .••.,, ,. ".,... ..-.••u ••.·. ••' •.•• ''''· ·;· ' ••.,, •.• ...•.; 
testified that the dog, a Labrador named Trimble, had picked up Laci Peterson's scent at the Berkeley Marina four days after she was reported missing in December 2002. 
The defense is trying to show that scent-sniffing techniques are unreliable and not based on science. 
On the video shown by defense attorney Mark Geragos, Trimble, trying to track a sub­ject, is seen wandering in and out of bushes along the road, sniffing the sidewalk and turn­ing in the opposite direction before stopping and barking. The dog later circles back in the opposite direction and the test was stopped. Anderson acknowledged the dog failed the test. 
Geragos pointed out for jurors that during a pretrial hearing, Anderson testified she could not recall her dog performing the unsuccessful test. However, prosecutors noted on redirect that the dog did eventually pick up the search subject's scent at the command center where the exercise began. 
Geragos also brought out that at the marina, Anderson did not perform a procedure intended to help rule out the possibility that the dog was smelling Scott Peterson and not his wife. Anderson insisted that the step was not necessary. 
Geragos implied that only after he issued a subpoena to Contra Costa County authorities on Aug. 3 did the tape surface. 
Prosecutors allege Peterson killed his wife in their Modesto home on or around Dec. 24, 2002, then drove to the marina and dumped her body in San Francisco Bay. Her remains and those of the couple's fetus washed ashore in April 2003, not far from where Peterson launched his fishing trip. 
Defense lawyers contend someone else abducted and killed Laci, then framed their client after learning his . widely publicized alibi. 
In her testimony Tuesday, Anderson said the dog followed the scent from the marina's parking area, along a tree line and down a pier, where the dog 
The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 



David Pearce Snyder 
The Futurist Magazine 
'' Extra-Preneurship: Managing to Prosper in Revolutionary Times'' 
Friday, September 3 12:00-1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium 



Mendoza College ofBusiness 
stopped at a pylon at the water's edge, she said. 
The dog then "stopped, checked out over the water, the wind was coming into her face ... turned around and gave me end-of-trail indication," Anderson said. 
Judge Alfred A. Delucchi ruled during pretrial hearings that jurors would hear some, but not all, details gathered by the scent-sniffing police dogs. 
Calling the details "iffy, at best," Delucchi in March tossed out claims that other dogs had detected a broken trail of Laci Peterson's scent leading from the Petersons' home to the warehouse where Scott Peterson kept his boat . 
THE ()BSERV'ER 

IEWPOINT
page 14 Thursday, September 2, 2004 
THE OBSERVER. 
,..,,...,._,.~~~.v;.~~~~~ .... P.O:.ll<# Q, N~tA ~~Thl46;5li, H .' i( 
o:z:4 Scuth.Dinlllt}:IJdl.•w~~~m •6~w: EoJroR -:r~l-CMln':::. ::::.:.:·.: ·:·· :.:::~:~:~:~fj:~:::::::::::::-.-:-·. 
Matt toW•·. 8~ M.m\Glllt .•..•. \
hUNAGJNG EDrroR Mtghannc: Do~ Mike Fl~ ). ) ; ,j; 
AS$r.. MANAGING Eotroa ._ · ..: >::.: ·.:..:::~ :~\ 
Joe Her:dt:t 
NEWS Enrro.Rl ClaiieH~nger . VIEWPOINT En!TO.Rl SarahVabulas 
srons EDw~~; H¢;~.r~rvan li~n 
) SaM£nrro11: Marl<l Smith IN Focus EDrroRi MeghanMartin ··· 5AJN'r MAII:Y's EDw~~; Aiigda Sa"'Ud l'noro Enrro~~: Claire JQiiey GRAPHICS Eorrolb MikC!Harlciiu ADvDrr!SJNG MANAGERs Cacti~ franklin AD Dl>SlGN MANAGElu KdlyNelson SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR! Ml&lj' Allen CoN'rROW!II: Paula Garda 
Ofi'ICE MANAGEII &G~MEIIAL IN~ (574)631..7471 fAX 
(574){)$i~~9~t···· 
ADVI:RTI51NG . . (574} 6;i1-6900 cbs~h'ad@nd,d~,~ . 
EDITOR IN CHIEF • (574) 631·4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6:;1.4541 op~nj~~d.edu 
AssiSTANT MANAI'IING E111111R 
(574) ~3F43t4 < < 8USIN£SS 0ffleE '· ; • ••• ,·;·•·.·;·•·•· 
{57:i.:~~!q < ..• ··:·····..•..·. i >•·······;. 
(574) 631~5323 -~.t@nd;edi{ · 
· VIEwPOINT DesK . 
(574) 631"5303 viciWp6iittil@nd;edu SPORTS D£$1t 
(574) 631-4543 spoit:$.t®nd.~du · 
SCUIE DE$K 

(574) 631-4540 ~M<l@rid.edu 
SAINT MARY'$ DESK 
($74) 631·4~24 &mc.l~nd.c:dil 
PKOTO DESK. (574) 631·8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &Wu ADMIMISUIA1'0RS (574) 631·8839 
oB~tRVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobservetcom 
POLICIES 
The Observer ~ the indepemlror; daily MVJSP~P:t published lri print and online.by the students1:lf ~!i.e University ofNom: Dame duLac ~d Saini~~ CoU!lge. Edirorial t:Qt1tet~4indudi~ga4~1!1;•~ not governed by policies1:lftheadministration ofel~ irutitudon.The Observer reseM:s thetight to refule·•. 
advertisctncnts b~ on rontili'lt. · ·· ····· 'l1le (le!W$ is (eported as ~id.y land obi&ti~ a$ possible. Umi~ editorials represent the opinion of, · the majority ofthe Editoriri Cbld';Managing Ediroi, A#l$tant Man"!ling Editor and de~t ¢&ri:!ts. Commentaries, lerters and Coluii)I'IIi pre5ent the vi¢Ws ofthe authors and not necessarily thmie OfThe 
Observ~r. 
Viewpoint $p>W: is av;Ut.&l>le w~I ~~~t$.The ~ expression ofall opinioru through letters is enc«~raged. Letters to the Editor must be sigMd and must include <;()n~t infottlllltion. 

POST OFfiCE INFORMATION 
Tho Olomot{U5Pli ~99l·-) it pW>Ikhild ~tb"'"$1> ~iid>y~i d•tb.$ .. ..... ..,~ ....tlOtif<liod<.A>ul!onlj>ilon,.Tlio~~i;,$100T......;.~o. Y<"dSHo<o;..-... 
1'1l<O~""""""'•~•fdoc""""'o:4l't<M.M'I<p"'~"'"""rlc!><>.,..
........~. 
Tho~~p.t>li<.... "' 
QU !o•m DW•s H.U N.,., tJ....,, li><~S~ 

1\l•i<>dit<l~•l"'id"Noa.tP...., 
and uldicioA.i tlii.IB•W ofb. 
PQ~M•.s:rn 
....~,.,~.......""'""""' 
Th<OI.""" 
........a.


How Buffy became literature 
When Oxford introduced English as a degree-subject in the late 19th Century, Edward Freeman, the Regius Professor of Modern History, objected that while literature may cultivate taste and enlarge our sympa-Peter Wicks thies, it was not appropriate to award Englishman degrees in the sub-Abroad ject because "we cannot examine in tastes and sympa­thies." In the absence of objective cri­teria of assessment, Freeman warned, the academic study of English literature would amount to "mere chatter about Shelley." If only it had. 
During the infancy of the discipline the focus was largely historical and philological-and hence exam­inable. That type of criticism never completely disappeared, but it was overshadowed by a series of new crit· ical approaches to literature. This is not the place to list the order of suc­cession, which would resemble the sort of genealogical table found in Genesis-"and Structuralism begat Poststructuralism"-which even the pious reader may be forgiven for skipping over. 
For understanding the malaise in literary studies, knowing the family tree of critical schools is less impor­tant than understanding the economy of prestige in academia. Within high­er education, and especially at the most eminent universities, hiring and tenure decisions depend much more on published work than on teaching abilities. Those hoping to ascend the ivory tower must publish or perish. 
But whereas in the sciences there are always new experiments to be done and it is relatively easy to con­tribute to original research in one's twenties, in literary studies it is hard for a PhD student or young professor to find something original to say about John Milton, which has not already been said by a professor who has devoted a lifetime to reading Milton's work. 
The two most influential innova­tions in the scholarship conducted in English departments, Critical Theory and Cultural Studies, are best under­stood as solutions to this problem. 
Critical Theory originally named a philosophically informed sociology practiced by a small group of Marxist thinkers associated with the Institute of Social Research in Frankfurt, Germany. Since the late '70s, in English departments across the coun­try their work was combined with ideas drawn from Marx, Freud and a number of French philosophers. 
It was a heady cocktail, and under its influence literary criticism became a diagnostic exercise in which the psychological and ideological defi­ciencies of the great authors of the past were exposed or "unmasked" [from the Latin, literally this means "I've read Nietzsche"]. Literary criti­cism degenerated into complaints that authors failed to meet the exact­ing ideological standards of enlight­ened late 20th Century professors of literatures mixed with praise if they appeared to anticipate whatever bro­mide was currently in fashion at the Modern Language Association. That is to say, literary judgment ceased to be literary at all. 
I do not subscribe to the view that English departments are full of tenured radicals indoctrinating stu­dents with their ideological preju­dices. When a professor argues that the war against Saddam Hussein could have been avoided if everyone involved had read Wallace Stevens, even freshmen know enough to smile politely while silently marveling at the inanity of the view that there are no enemies, just book circle members we haven't met yet. The real problem with the professors who preach their politics is not that they are indoctri­nating students, but that they are wasting time that could be spent teaching them to appreciate litera­ture. 
Cultural Studies provided the other opportunity for young scholars to produce original work, by expanding the scope of literary scholarship to include film, television, airport fiction and contemporary music. And so in 1990 it was possible for Henry Louis Gates, Jr., professor of English at Duke, to testify in the 2Live Crew obscenity trial as an "expert wit­ness." 
In his testimony Gates compared the rap group's lyrics to Shakespeare's "My love is like a red, red rose" -a comparison that would have been only marginally less absurd if it actually had been Shakespeare who wrote the line, and not the Scottish poet Robbie Burns. 
The following year, Harvard offered Gates a professorship. 
This semester at Notre Dame stu­dents can take a course in which they will use feminist theory to analyze Buffy the Vampire Slayer or another with a syllabus that includes Basic Instinct.· 
What those who read classic litera­ture as food for political and philo­sophical rumination have in common with those who have given up reading it at all in favor of the works of Joe Eszterhas is that neither betrays any sense of the pleasure of literature, any hint of why anyone who isn't try­ing to make a career writing about literature would ever read it. 
Literature is for amateurs, in the original and best sense of the word, which is "lovers." It is still possible to love literature and be an English pro­fessor, but as a result of the trends I have mentioned it is becoming harder for those who love literature not to hate the profession. 
We should not be surprised if some who in their youth take pleasure in books find, that in their middle age, they are more engaged by politics or television. But those who teach poli­tics and television under the guise of literature are like those priests who have ceased to believe the creeds of the Church and who instead of renouncing their priesthood convince themselves that their doubt is true faith. 
Peter Wicks is a Jraduate student in the Philosophy Department. He wrote this column to annoy Kristin Mahoney. Peter's review of "Fahrenheit 9111" can be found on his Web page. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News . Sports 
Oaire Heininger HeatherVa:tr·· 
NiroleZook Hoegarden 
"When you go into court, you are putting
Kelly Meehan Mike Gilloon 
Should Tariq Ramadan be allowed to teach 
yourfate into the hands of12 people who 
Viewpoint Steve Coyer 
at Notre Dame? 
weren't smart enough to get out ofjury
Sarah Vabulas Scene 
Lauren Galgano Kenyatta Storiri 
duty." 
Graphics mustrator 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at
Mike Harkins Katie Knorr 
Norm Crosby 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
author 

---------=-...~----­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 2, 2004 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Screening wisely 

On Aug. 30 in New York City, Senator John McCain of Ariz. and former mayor of New York City, Rudy Giuliani, addressed the American people in heartfelt, moving speeches that unfortunately went unnoticed by most Americans. Appearing only on public tele­vision and the cable news networks, both McCain and Guiliani jointly and eloquently spoke of the concept of freedom, what McCain called the, "one big idea that freedom is our birthright and its defense is always our first responsibility," and what Guiliani hailed as "what the Republican Party does best when we [Republicans) are at our best." 
Reading The Observer Monday afternoon, I noticed an adver­tisement for upcoming events at the brand-new Marie P. Debartolo Performing Arts Center. On Thursday, Sept. 2 at 7 p.m., and again at 10 p.m .. Michael Moore's controversial film "Fahrenheit 9/11" will be shown as a part of an ND Cinema series, which began last week. Coincidentally, the Moore film will screen simultaneously with President George W. Bush's primetime address to the dele­gates in New York and the American people at large. 
Let me be clear. I do not object to ND Cinema's choice and right to screen Michael Moore's documentary. In fact, I believe that it is worthy of academic discussion; clearly "Fahrenheit 9/11" has indelibly influenced the genre of documentary filmmaking and the larger political debate in which America is currently engaged. Moreover, on the basis of the Michael Moore film that I have pre­viously seen, "Bowling for Columbine," I would venture to suggest that it is probably an interesting and captivating film, although most certainly worthy of critical analysis -and careful fact­checking. 
To use tonight's words of Senator John McCain, "Let us argue our differences." But let us give the President a chance to make his case to the American people and not let a "disingenuous film­maker" upstage the President of the United States. 
It is blantly irresponsible to show Michael Moore's film on Thursday evening. Please show the President's speech on Thursday night live in the Marie P. Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Please show the Presidential debates in September live in the Marie P. Debartolo Performing Arts Center. And please show Michael Moore's film "Fahrenheit 9/11" in the Marie P. Debartolo, just not on Thursday night, Sept. 2, 2004. I can think of no better venue (and if someone will buy me a ticket for Friday's screening I will go). 
Henry Scott 
senior 
Alumni Hall Aug. 30 
Don't pitch the good stuff 

How welcoming the fall colors and cool breezes were during my return to campus this fall. How welcoming also the promise of a pitcher or two of satisfying Legends import brew with my long-lost friends. Or so I thought ... 
Perhaps the reader's thoughts echo those of my friends, "No pitchers at Legends? What?" What indeed. What, pray tell, were they think­ing? 
On Monday, Aug. 30, in his article entitled, "Legends Revamps Restaurant and Club," Torn Tiberio failed to mention the biggest revamp of all: the abolishment of pitcher sales of import and domestic beers. While Tiberio highlights numerous sound improvements in the culinary experience and social scene provided at Legends, he neglects to address how the social atmosphere will be drastically impacted by the absence of shareable pitchers. 
After all, that's what makes pitchers so great. For many of us, Legends is about sitting down with some good friends, spending a few uncounted hours in meaningful conversation and probing the intellects and personalities which bring meaning to this university. It is precisely this capacity to facilitate the union of groups to partake in lively banter that defines pitchers as a vital ingredient in the recipe for a successful campus bar. 
To outline the atrocities: included in so­called "improvements" at Legends are a 21.43 percent increase in the cost of import pints (from last year's $3.50 to the current $4.25) as well as the abolishment of $8.50 pitchers of the same imports. 
I had a pint with a friend recently and the bill reached $10 with tip. Students complained about prices before, now the beer becomes downright unaffordable. When pressed for motivations behind the changes to our on-cam­pus haven, Legends personnel mentioned only financial consultation in the summer months after a review of the previous year's business. 
But if cost is truly the issue for Legends, then why not cut down on some of the options? Many people I talk to wouldn't mind drop­ping the Dreadnaught IPA among other offer­
ings in order to keep the pitcher option open. As a friend pointed out, "You don't need 100 different beers. Sacrifice a few, keep the pitch­ers." If prices must be raised on the pitchers, so be it. I see no circumstance to validate their complete removal. Perhaps a survey of the most popular imports could be undergone in order to maintain both student satisfaction and sales while still guaranteeing pitcher servings. 
Legends management, including the quoted Jim Quirk, should realize the bar's primary role as a student hangout and not as some upscale restaurant powered by an executive chef with "28 years of experience." There's nothing wrong with striving for culinary excel­lence, but remember that Legends is a student place and their prices should reflect a student budget. One way to keep the drinks affordable and maintain a student social scene is to rein­istate pitchers. 
In my fifth year at Notre Dame-now as a grad student -I certainly know of no place where one can sample such a plethora of spe­cialty, quality brews in South Bend, much less within walking distance of every dorm on cam­pus. However, I know of few students who are willing and able to pay $10 for two beers. Legends has the potential to be an integral part of campus, and as it did my senior year, Legends can make a wholesome contribution to student life. 
According to Tibiero's account, Legends is still in the process of implementing its new "improvements." The changes are scheduled for completion at the end of the month. 
So now is the time to act. Ask your server or bartender for a pitcher of London Porter or Robert the Bruce next time you stop south of the stadium. Let Legends management hear our battle cry: bring back the good times with good friends, bring back the cornraderie that every domer has come to expect, bring back Legends pitchers. 
Travis Douville Gradute Student Sept. I 
U-WIRE 
Apathy fosters apathy 
There is a stereotype mumbled about campus that generates a quick response from students saying they do not care about what happens around them. 
Stereotypes have a funny way of becoming self-fulfill­ing prophecies. 
College embodies a certain culture Staff Editorial of experiences that range from sleep, homework and class to parties, alco­North Carolina hol and drugs. Students can partici­State pate in either end of the spectrum, Technician but at what level do students care about others when it comes to illegal substances like drugs? 
Marijuana and opium are considered "soft" drugs and "hard" drugs are in the same category as crack cocaine and heroine. 
Students are pretty clear about their personal choice involving both areas. But at what point does another's choice to partake in such activities become an inhibit­ing factor to those who choose not to? 
For example, let's say a student goes to a party that has marijuana and is offered it. He says no. Does he leave the party because there is marijuana, even if there is alcohol? Or does he stay and not care about what the other person chooses to do with their life? 
Because ultimately, when someone says they do not care about another's choice, they are letting that per­son take whatever road they will take, and if they go downhill with their life, that is their fault. 
Regardless, the student would probably stay. 
He would also prefer that the marijuana wasn't there to begin with and if they are going to smoke, that they do it at another location. But that choice is theirs and it's OK if it takes them downhill -he sure isn't going with them. 
The drugs are going to be around. Even harder drugs tend to receive public interest in curbing their traffick­ing but there is a general apathy towards softer drugs like marijuana. Students simply don't care about what other students are doing unless it begins to invade per­
sonal space -only if the other individual is not their roommate, best friend or brother. Not like the other isn't any of those things to some­body already. 
There is a ridiculous amount of time and energy (and probably money) wasted policing drug use, which is in alignment with the law. Maybe students don't care for that reason, so they don't get caught. That's OK but someone else is. 
Students who have any sense of morality and human­ity would not let another person waste their life if they felt like it was being wasted. This is not just with drugs, but with homework, driving and alcohol as well. 
Otherwise, stereotypes become truth. 
This article originally appeared on Aug. 31, 2004 in the Technician, the daily publication of North Carolina State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSER\'ER 
CENE
page 16 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Pied Piper has lost his touch 

By BRODERICK HENRY 
Scene Music Critic 
For more than a decade R. Kelly has been the King of R&B. 
The Pied Piper, the moniker which Kelly currently uses, has more No. 1 hits than any comparable artist of his genre and has won numerous Grammys and Soul Train Awards along the way. Much like his literary coun­terpart, Kelly has enchanted the public with his music. By exploring such top­ics as sex. lust, love, gang violence and Christianity, he has gained a diverse following including devout R&B fans and teeny-boppers. The same man who created the raunchy sex-anthems, "Bump and Grind," "You Remind of Something" and "Feelin' on Yo Booty" also generated such inspirational hits as " I Believe I Can Fly" and "The World's Greatest." Still, with so much success, Kelly has had his fair share of problems. The much-publicized R. Kelly Sex Tape of 2002 accompanied his recent indictment for sexual mis­conduct with a minor. Such transgres­sions have done much to damage the singers' reputation and ultimately jeopardize his career. 
H. Kelly's new work, "Happy People/ U Saved Me," represents an emphatic appeal to the public for a second chance. The double CD, unlike his previous efforts, attempts to reconcile Kelly with his fans by avoiding all sex­ual overtones and ramping up the "I am a sinner and God is good" mantra. The balladeer tries his best to let the listener know he is sorry for his mis­takes and grateful for the opportunity to redeem himself. Nevertheless, since the CD is so unlike Kelly's other works, one is never really sure if it's a public relations move or an actual movement towards Christ by the Pied Piper. 
At any length, the first album, "Happy People," displays why Kelly has clearly lost his way. The album is a collection of 11 songs whose main purpose, as stated by Kelly too many times in the introduction of each song, is to make the listener dance. Nearly every song employs what has become known as the Chicago step beat: a slow relaxed groove reminiscent of some of Frankie Beverly's work. With his songs titled "Love Street," "Love Signals" and "Steppin' into Heaven," Kelly makes it obvious that by loving and "stepping" everyone can be happy. Despite the subject matter, every track ends ups sounding like a remix of the remix of "Step in the Name of Love" from Kelly's last release, "Chocolate Factory". 


The lone standout on "Happy People" is Kelly's tribute to Marvin Gaye, "If I Could Make the World Dance." With its relaxed mellow beat and smooth melody, the song sounds a lot like Gaye's "Mercy Mercy Me." Even the lyrics are reminiscent of Gaye's call to peace: "Picture us in a land I where there is no more war I shakings hands with my brother I respecting my sister I I'm offering a dance that heals I a melody that you can feel I love is the key all it takes is you me I If I could make the world dance." If only Kelly would realize how to make more songs like this song, he might actually get the listener to dance without having to ask or tell him or her to. 
"U Saved Me," the second disc, is what one might consider Kelly's heart­felt apology. Each and every song is a gospel testimony for 2004. They use the lyrical styling often found on Kelly's urban hits while surrounding them with lush contemporary R&B beats and melodies. Many of the songs focus entirely on the power of prayer. For example, "Prayer Changes" tells the story of a family suffering from numerous issues such as alcoholism, domestic violence, marital troubles and difficulties performing in school. 
The refrain of prayer changes lets the listener know prayer can make all things possible -even Kelly shedding the old role he embraced as a smooth­talking sex addict. 
Overall, "Happy People I U Saved Me" reveals two significant things about Kelly. First, even though he is not quite the artist the world knew before the sex scandals, he is still capable of stringing together not one, but two albums that are below his old standards but not bad to listen to. Although the songs on both albums are somewhat repetitive in terms of both sound and message, the message itself will appeal to Kelly's core listeners and will even get a few people to dance. 
Nonetheless, these albums demon­strate Kelly's difficulty in reconciling his past transgressions and his Christian faith with his pop icon status. No longer is he willing to explore sex in a manner few have ever attempted before or even move H&B in a slightly different direction. Thus Happy People/ U Saved Me begs the question: Will the Pied Piper ever be able to redeem him­self after leading the children so far astray? 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenry1 @nd.edu 
OutKast not allowed in Kansas libraries 
Missouri.
Associated Press 
Whitney Watson, a spokesman for 
KANSAS CITY, Missouri -The Kline, said the attorney general would Kansas attorney general has withheld not discuss the screening of the CDs more than 1,600 compact discs from but said the decision to remove some distribution to state libraries because albums was made to ensure state offi­officials determined the albums pro­cials were not disseminating objec­mote violence or illegal activity, tionable material. records show. Watson said the office's consumer­
The albums removed by Attorney protection and antitrust division vet­General Ph ill Kline's office were part ted the list. In some cases, they were of 51,000 discs given to Kansas as familiar enough with the albums to part of a nationwide settlement to determine if they had questionable resolve allegations of price fixing. content. In others, they looked at 
The CDs included recordings by 25 Internet databases of lyrics. musicians, including rap artists such "We don't have the manpower to as OutKast and Notorious B.I.G., rock look at every album and every song bands Rage Against the Machine and lyric, but we feel we removed most of Stone Temple Pilots, and even older the albums that did not mesh with the acts such as Lou Reed and the 1980s values of a majority of Kansans," he experimental group Devo. said. 
The list of albums was obtained by Kansas is one of 40 states receiving The Associated Press last week the tree COs for public libraries as through an open-records request. part of a 2002 court settlement 
The American Civil Liberties Union with the music industry over claims of said the decision amounted to censor­CD price-fixing. ship. Attorneys general in several other to receive. Rosanne Siemens, the group's execu­
"What he's doing is enforcing his states also have screened their COs, The Kansas Library Association, tive director. "It wasn't so much an concept of decency on libraries often removing controversial artists which advocates for public libraries, issue of taking things out but deter­around the state of Kansas, and that's or albums including explicit lyrics. said it had no objection to the attor­mining what would be best. They did not his business," said Dick Indiana Attorney General Steve Carter ney general's actions. libraries a big favor by selecting these Kurtenbach, executive director of the removed 5,300 discs, or 5 percent of "This was very similar to what CDs because there's no way libraries ACLU in Kansas and western the 107,000 his state was scheduled libraries do all the time," said could have said what they wanted." 


--------~--------------------------------~----­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, September 2, 2004 
page 17 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Hives keep rocking in latest effort 
By MIKE TENNANT Scene Music Critic 
From the depths of Sweden come five men with names like Dr. Matt Destruction, Chris Dangerous and Vigilante Carlstroem. They are led by the energetic Howlin' Pelle Alqvist and they all adhere to a strict dress code of matching black and white dress suits or jogging outfits. 
No, these are not new comic book characters. These are the Hives. 
"Tyrannosaurus Hives," released this summer, is their first album since 2000 and their third full length since the band formed in 1993. It stays with their for­mula of mixing garage rock and punk that helped them gain popularity during the garage-rock revival that brought bands like the Strokes and the White Stripes into the public eye. While their 
TVrannasaurus Hives 
The Hives Interscope 
2000 release, "Veni Vidi Vicious," was more a show of garage rock than any­thing, this new release showcases more of the punk side of this Swedish band. Containing highly-compacted and very aggressive songs, it is easy to see the influence that both the Stooges and the Clash have had on the Hives. 
"Tyrannosaurus" features twelve intense songs revolving around the theme of rebelling against the hollow and robot-like dealings of everyday life. As Alqvist fills the album with brash and aggressive wails, he makes himself a candidate for the new voice against normalcy. 
The band wastes no time as the album leads off with the strong "Abra Cadaver" in which the guitars of both Carlstroem and Nicholaus Arson work with Alqvist's voice to shatter the mold of corporate America. "They wanted to stick a dead body inside of me," he yells, " ... I tell no lies, wanted to stick an office worker inside of me." This thought continues through "Walk Idiot Walk," the first single released from the album. This is another aggressive and borderline angry song about the "idiots" who believe whatever anyone tells them and cannot think for themselves. Held together by the drumming of Dangerous, "Walk" is the catchiest song on the album, and thus a likely candi­date for radio play. 


One of the more interesting songs rounding out the end of the album is "Dead Quote Olympics" in which Alqvist and company urge others to think for themselves, instead of relying on what others have written. "You had enough of their thoughts, have your own," he scolds. "Yes they were smart but they are dead," Alqvist says over more hos­tile guitar work. 
On the whole, the album is violent and abrasive. Sometimes it feels like a band member is going to leap through the stereo and kick you in the head. The rough-around-the-edges style of the Hives fits well with the rebellious themes though, and creates an album that leaves one sweating by the end. Although only about 30 minutes in length, "Tyrannosaurus Hives" packs more punch then some seventy-two minute productions. The Hives go in hard, and then get out, making their point and usually breaking something along the way. 
Maybe this is the way rock music is supposed to be. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Sweden's Concretes craft lovelorn, urban pop 
By MATTHEW L. SOLARSKI Scene Music Critic 
Let's face it: love receives bushels (and pecks) more than its share of consideration on the vast pop music landscape. If your senior prom OJ tried to play every love song ever writ­ten in succession without stopping, it would double as your diamond anniversary gala and then some. 
Heck, South Bend boasts an entire radio station devoted to such music. So it comes as a most-welcome breath of fresh air when a band like Sweden's The Concretes quietly introduces such a stellar self-titled debut. 
The Concretes, presently eight-mem­bers ~· '"~ng and naming itself after the most :.1 .Jiquitous building material in its nadve Stockholm, concoct love songs of a different sort. Album-open­er "Say Something New" sets the tone, as chanteuse Victoria Bergsman laments, "And all the things I I had in mind I for you and me ... " The narra­tor's moribund romance is accentuat­ed perfectly by the introduction of a woozy horn section. This and the songs that follow provide the yang to love's yin, documenting the subtleties of the no-man's land between romances, all to the tune of gorgeous, sophisticated pop arrangements. 
Bergsman addresses each of the stages of non-love in turn on "The Concretes". In "Chico," she coos about seeking companionship in the title pet cat, while on "Diana Ross" she sings of the solace she finds in the diva's songs, proclaiming, "I didn't know what I feel I but you know what I feel." 
"You Can't Hurry Love," an energetic two-minute romp and one of the album's standout tracks, deals with the frustration and desire to hastily 

reclaim love once one has lost it. Other tracks explore contradictory impulses: the singer despairs over her ex­lover's new flame in "New Friend," while hinting at a fling of her own on the piano-and­vocal ditty "Foreign Country." The album's centerpiece and anoth­er of its finest moments is the waltz "Warm Night," which finds Bergsman hopeful, yet cautious as she waxes romantic once again. These stages culminate in the tellingly-titled penultimate track "Lonely As Can Be" before at last drifting into calm uncertainty with the enigmatic closing lines, "Here comes the dark I He knows the dark." Perhaps Bergsman is invoking the image of her lover-to-someday-be, one who has shared her experience in the bleak realm of non-love? 
Musically, The Concretes' jungle of orchestration is lush yet navigable. Guitars, horns, strings, a xylophone and an electric organ swirl into a rich pop mosaic, punctuating the moods and cadences captured in Bergsman's lyrics. At the same time, The Concretes exercise a restraint seldom seen in bands half their size -sever­al songs here barely cross the two­minute threshold, and never do the arrangements stray far from each song's emotional and thematic core. 

The result is something imminently memorable, a series of impressions that remain with the listener long after harp and strings dance to a finale on the album's closer, "This One's For You." As far as characteriz­ing the band's sound, musical points of reference include fellow Swedes The Cardigans and chic popsters Ivy, as well as simple-yet-sophisticated sixties acts like The Mamas and the Papas and The Beach Boys. 
If Diana Ross proved panacean to the lovesick generation that spawned The Concretes, these Swedes may indeed have created the cure for romantic maladies of the post-modern age. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Wolverines' Jackson to start at cornerback 
Defensive back hopes to start off on the right foot after a shaky offseason 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Like he's a freshman getting ready for his first start, Marlin Jackson can't wait to play Saturday. 
After the year he went through at Michigan, it's understandable. 
"Last year I had a lot of off­the-field issues going on," he said. "This year there is a lot of clarity -just school and foot­ball." 
Jackson was suspended for the 2003 opener after pleading guilty to an assault charge, missed three more games due to injury and failed to shine at a new position. 
Despite the rough season, he had a chance to skip his senior year with the Wolverines to enter the NFL draft. but came back to redeem himself as a per­son -and a player. 
Jackson is ofT to a good start. 
His teammates voted him cap­tain, he's healthy and after one lackluster year at free safety, he's back at cornerback. Jackson is also slated to return kickoffs, for the first time since his fresh­man year, next to Steve Breaston 
"Comparing this year to last year is like night and day," Jackson said.'Tve matured so much on and ofT the field. I knew I needed to come bac·k to do both." 
Jackson and the eighth­ranked Wolverines open their season at home against Miami of Ohio. The RedHawks (1-0) have the nation's longest winning streak at 14 games. 
"It's easy to respect them because you know what a great team they had last year," Jackson said. 
Miami lost its star quarter­back, Ben Roethlisberger, to the NFL draft, but Josh Betts threw for three touchdowns and ran for a score in a 49-0 win over Division 1-M Indiana State last week. 
"He has a nice arm and looks off the defensive backs well," Jackson said."He's a first-year guy, but he has a little bit of experience, so he'll be a great quarterback to go up against. He moves the pocket nicely." 
Jackson tarnished his nice-guy image a year ago. 
He was sentenced to a year of probation and ordered to spend 10 days in a jail work program after pleading guilty to a misde­meanor assault charge. He was accused of hitting another stu­dent in the face with a bottle, but said he only threw a punch. 
After escaping trouble whiie growing up in a rough neighbor­hood in Sharon, Pa., Jackson said he made a late-night mis­take. 
"I put myself in a bad situa­tion, but in the long run, it's going to help me a lot," he said."Everything means so much more to me now after going through what I did last year." 
The Wolverines had more tal­ent at cornerback than safety last year, so Jackson agreed to switch positions after being sec­ond-team All-American as a sophomore. 
After standing out for two seasons at corner, the preseason Big Ten defensive player of the year merely blended in as a solid free safety for the conference champions last year. 
"That's a fair assessment," he acknowledged. 
The 6-foot-1, 199-pounder made 50 tackles," two intercep­tions and broke up four passes. In his first two years, he had six interceptions and broke up 25 passes. 
"All season, I wanted to be back at corner, but I fought through it and bit my tongue," Jackson said. 
Well, Jackson did hide his true feelings until the season was over. 
"If I'm back here, I'll be at cor­ner," Jackson said after USC beat Michigan in the Rose Bowl. 
He now calls that an irrational moment. 
"That was all my frustration built up from the whole season," Jackson said."J didn't tell any­body how upset I was about playing safety -until then." 
One look at the ever-present smile on Jackson's face shows how happy he is to be playing cornerback again. Michigan coach Lloyd Carr is glad, too. 
"He has got great quickness. He's tough. He's smart," Carr said."He's not a cover-corner. 

He's a cornerback. He's going to tion. tackle you." "He can lock down a whole 
Michigan strong safety Ernest side," Shazor said."He just had Shazor said Michigan's defense to get his swagger back, and he's got better the moment Jackson got it. It didn't take him that moved back to his natural posi-long." 

Air Force cadet found innocent on charges of steroid use 
Prosecutor Capt. Garrett the steroid was illegal. years' imprisonment if he had scandal last year. 
As1ociatcd Press 
Condon had accused Spence of Air Force coach Fisher been convicted. The reversal was recommend­
AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. -engaging in "a locker room drug DeBerry testified that when Three other cadets, including ed by a panel that reviewed the Air Force linebacker Overton deal" that went bad. Spence told him he was being running back athletics depart­Spence was found innocent of Spence had signed a statement investigated, the cadet said he Matthew Ward, still ment, the acade­drug charges Wednesday after admitting he bought and used thought the supplements were face steroid "/never intended my said in a telling a court-martial he thought the steroid methandrostenolone legal. charges. Ward's to possess or had statement. the steroids he had taken were but testified that he did not know "He maintained his total inno­court-martial is Academy spokes­
knowledge of
legal. he had broken the law. cence as to his not knowing what scheduled next woman Pam Spence wept and hugged team­"I never intended to possess or he was taking," DeBerry said. month. possession of Ancker said she mate Jon Wilson when the ver­had knowledge of possession of Spence, 20, was a backup who Also, Air Force illegal steroids" did not know the dict was read. He declined to illegal steroids. I only intended to played mostly on special teams said Wednesday its reason for the speak to reporters, but his civil­possess legal steroids that you last season. He was suspended athletics director recommendation.
Overton Spence 
ian attorney, Serge Herscovici, could buy" in any health special­from the team after the charges will report directly The change, said Spence hopes to return to ty store, Spence said. were filed. Jeff Howard of the to the school's top Air Force linebacker one of 15 sug­the academy football team. His defense lawyers accused NCAA said it would be up to the officer instead of the gested by the 
Barring any other issues, he investigators of jumping to con­academy whether Spence could second-in-com-panel after a five­likely will be allowed to play, said clusions and interrogating rejoin the team. mand, reversing a reform month study, was effective imme­athletic director Hans Mueh. Spence before lab tests showed Spence, a junior, faced up to 10 imposed after a sexual assault diately. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Looking tor child care tor 2 great 1 bedroom Topsfield Condo tor rent, JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, 
kids, 1 0 minutes from Campus, $550/mo NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND NOTICES 2-3 afternoons weekly. FOR SALE +utilities, TICKETS FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 
Good pay. modern, hardwood floors, washer & 674-6593. 
233-2921. dryer and community pool. Got Hlghspeed? Want WIRELESS? Oscilloscope Digital 1 00 MHz Available immediately. A businessman needs season tick-ND alum needs 2 tix tor Michigan Networks installed and secured. LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club $1500. 273-2428. Will consider ets tor clients. 2n-1659 game on Sept. 11. Please call Mary Dan 243-1515 LaSalle are hiring tor the following lease/purchase option. Call 255-at 917-763-6842. NDDan03@yahoo.com postions: HOUSE FOR SALE 915 E. 5365. BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX 
Cocktail Server (Must be over 21) Washington-close to campus; PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES Need BC GA tix. Will be used not Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apartment. Main Dining Room Server (Must be 3 bdrm 1.5 bath lots otclosets/stor-3 unit house.$550 per unit/mo. lncl 273-3911 resold. 269-684-6102. 1909 Uncolnway West $450/month 21) age, 2 car garage Ph 289-5922 water & elec. Each unit has full 246-4634 Flexible Hours available. kitchen,bath & 2 bdrms. For Sale: ND football tix. Good 
Please pick up applications at 99 Red Toyota Corolla LE 4dr Off street parking. prices. 232-0964. PERSONAL 115 West Colfax Avenue, sedan.Excellent.5 spd. Can walk to campus. any time after 2:00PM Sunroof,AIC,Cruise. New Property Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ YoungNDalumsneedTURTLE 
WANTED tires,71k. $7500. 272-2918. Management Services, 251-1570. CREEKAPTforMICHIGANwknd.Will Stay-at-home mom needs help in 233-4590 paytop$$$andtinanceparty1ory­Granger home (close to campus) ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-ouandfriends. Willacceptbestpropos 
Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886-with 3 kids (13,10,5). Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apartment. 2378 p.m. 288-2726 al. ContactCPOEMD@ AOL. COM 4189 Help needed with driving to activi-FoR RENT 1909 Lincolnway West $450/month. ties and with homework. Own trans-246-4634 Wanted: Football season tix or Sister Locks by Phyllis 269-683­SOCCER REFEREES -needed for portation a must. 2 bedroom apartment tor rent. Michigan tix. 233-3618. 4426 
~. south side elementary schoollocat-Hours: 3:30pm-7:30pm (Tues.&/or 2 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF $525/month. ed near Erskine Golf Course on Thurs.) ND.CLOSE.IDEAL FOR 2-4 PEO-Students welcomel WANTED: GA home football tix. CONGRATULATIONS, ROBIN, Miami Street. $30 per soccer game. $40/day plus dinner In our home. PLE.VERY REASONABLE RENT. 1909 Lincolnway Call 276-8507. After 5 p.m, call 784-FOR MAKING THE BAND. Cogan Call 574-291-4200. 247-1897. 2n-3097. West. 246-4634 8638. and Fallon Families 

Thursday, September 2, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Sanders back in NFL -with Ravens 

After the brief workout, Sanders was ushered into a packed media trailer. Wearing a Ravens hat, a black Ravens T­shirt and a bulky gold chain, Sanders promptly answered this pressing question: Why come back? 
"I wanted the opportunity to win it all, and that's it," he said."That's the only reason I'm here." 
Sanders didn't believe the 2001 Washington Redskins had a chance to reach the Super Bowl, which is why he chose to retire before the beginning of training camp that season. 
Sanders will begin his career with the Ravens as a nickel back. If he shows that his body can stand the rigors of the NFL, he could spend some time at his familiar cornerback position and, as he hinted Wednesday, might even play a little offense. 
''I'm willing to do what I can to help this team win, whatever that entails," he said. 
A month ago, as he began to work out at his Dallas home in preparation for a possible return, Sanders never doubted he was coming back. 
"I just felt the adrenaline, I felt the fire, I felt that passion," he said."I felt that dog in me, and I knew right then I had to do what I need to do to help this team win." 
The Ravens needed a nickel back after another veteran, Dale Carter, developed a blood clot in his lung just before the start of training camp. At that point, Lewis and Fuller got on the phone and dialed Sanders. 
"I said, 'I want to run some­thing by you. I want you to come play with me,'" Lewis recalled. 
"From there, we just ran with it," Lewis said."He's just coming to have fun with his brothers." 
The potential to earn $2 mil­lion probably didn't hurt. Sanders was released from his job on the CBS pregame show after he asked for more money than the network was willing to shell out, but he pointed out Wednesday that he had no shortage of lucrative opportuni­ties, including a couple of tele­vision shows. He also intended to coach his son's sixth-grade football team. 
"Even at 37 years old this guy can come back and do things that have never been done, even when he was younger, because now his mentality is different," Lewis insisted. 
208 E. Sample St. South Bend, IN 46601 288-7555 
9 0 PAYS FREE COOLER 
·RENTAL 20 ~ALLONS OF WATER FREE 
*New customers only *Deposit required expires 9/30/04 

At age 37, Sanders seeks Super Bowl ring with Baltimore 
Associated Press 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. -Deion Sanders insists he didn't come out of retirement for money, accolades or to prove he's still got a wealth of talent at age 3 7. 
He wasn't bored, either. 
The man known as"Prime Time" ended his voluntary three-year hiatus simply because he wanted to win a third Super Bowl ring -this time with a couple of friends who pleaded with him to help the Baltimore Ravens win another championship. 
Wearing a purple jersey with the No. 2 (his customary No. 21 belongs to Pro Bowl cornerback Chris McAlister). Sanders prac­ticed Wednesday with the Ravens for the first time. He then moved to a side field and worked an extra 15 minutes with secondary coach Johnnie Lynn and safety Corey Fuller, who, along with linebacker Ray Lewis, convinced Sanders to return to the NFL. 

Automation Alley Technology Center 
Fundirg and resowces to Epeffi new technology to rna1ket 
!Hhtwtntur:t, t:IIMIIII IMat'htt:U:t, eGNp~~n1•• w'loft hlfh-pDitn&l tKhnalotY 141M:~:: 1l1e .~rb:m<tt'on .0Jie"J T0dwolou,• Cetr~r ·IS 1!1e L(fmme res.:urce hr ~c:elet<'lfng yoLr 
ron:;€1)t to m'!l'ket 
Camtd: 11'lllt ~ Cifi'P11'Ut'llu­'Nt!J'II help yeti ·rdent'lfj <m:l <~PI~~ fa' •iml 1:n~-seed in"KI'ng fa· d9·ielo1~n911hml ll'O'b\p'ng. <'IS •JI'ell <'IS post-de"Jelq)J'09Jrt irndng fa' o::mrnen::'r<f~<~mn Fundng ·IS 
.,.....,.•?hie 'lll'OL{Ih ou· S'bong 1>0111'hersl1ps 
•A'1111 1l1e ~J.,mnal ,.q,'brrofrJe 09nt:er <nd t1e l'll'~:h'{l<~1 Econ:mic Oe"ieloprnent Capcn'!fla1 <IJ'KI rel<~mnsh·,)s •.~~t'lll <~lgsol 
·n~esta-s. ·~entn-e a~1>'mi'!SB <"~HI b'!11ke~-a 
DOll 

D•wlop ~ tltd111~y1dM M:I"­Our •~ta1d-d<~ss I<'P·.:~ rornmJ'C·J<·f~<~mn proc:$8:8: <"~HI eli:Eons'r~e J19MN of profes:S.Ql~ ·Jdwr~er sa•ice J~"O·iKiers del'r~e~· t1e tcds, e:.,perflse '!lld e:"per'~er"Ce fa· de"Jelq)··l.l lle'.llt 'ed1mlogy sdufQlS <II HI gsoit'ng 1l18m to rmr'ket (~r'dd~ 
For tlo:. fusBsi: mm i'c~Yl o:n:l!lpt 'b m~'ket ·..;sit LIS .-,h~Jf.~am:nmim~le"fEo:hcenta:oon ore01'11800.~7.!3100. 
·-··­

.. 
page 20 Thursday, September 2, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Yankees players still embarassed by Monday's 22-0 rout 

Division leaders say the record loss to Cleveland was afluke 
A..sociatcd Press 
NEW YORK -When Derek Jeter got home after the historic 22-0 loss to Cleveland, he had no desire to tune in to replays of the latest installment of the Slide of the Yankees. 
"I've got cable problems in my apartment right now," New York's captain said Wednesday, a day after the most one-sided defeat in the 1 01-year history of baseball's winningest team. 
Much of New York was shocked by Tuesday night's loss. which matched the biggest post­1900 shutout margin in the major leagues. The Yankees' AL East lead, 10 1/2 games on the morning of Aug. 16, was cut to 3 112 games over second-place Boston. 
"STINKEES" blared the back page of the Daily News. 
"WORST LOSS EVER!" read the sports page headline of the New York Post. 
On the sign boards outside Yankee Stadium and on some of the scoreboards inside, fans were greeted before the game by various messages, including: "When the going gets tough, the tough get going." 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner chimed in with another of his statements. part 
of which appeared on some of Their starters have won once in the boards. 16 games since Aug. 13 and 
"Sure, we got punished badly their 5.41 team ERA in August last night, but winners never was 24th among the 30 major quit and quitters never win," league teams. It's starting to look Steinbrenner said. "New Yorkers like a reverse of 1978, when the never quit, and we reflect the Yankees trailed the Red Sox by spirit of New York." 14 games after play on July 19, 
Combined with the Mets' 5-0 then rebounded to win the AL loss to Florida across town at East in a one-game playoff. Shea Stadium, it marked the first Boston has won 19 of its last time both New York teams were 23 games, and the swift turn­blanked on the same day since around made Red Sox fans giddy 
Sept. 17, 1989, according to the 
Elias Sports "We didn't win too Bureau. The much in high 
Yankees (81-50) 
school, but I don't 
have never failed to finish in first remember getting place after leading beat like that by at least 6 1/2 
before." 
games. 
''I'm not sure if I woke up this morn­Derek Jeter ing or I didn't go to Yankees shortstop sleep," Yankees manager Joe Torre with hope that this will be the year their team reverses the curse. 
"Contrary to the opinion of a lot of people in this region, the Yankees don't suck," Boston pitcher Curt Schilling said. "Their shortstop's got four rings, 
joked before saying he went to they have probably one of the bed about 2 a.m., as usual. best managers in sports. I don't 
At Yankee Stadium, where expect them to fall down on the even minor matters are magni­job." fied, Steinbrenner took the loss Cleveland's victory is unlikely calmly, according to Torre. No to wind up as an instant classic blood was visible on the club­on the Yankees' YES Network, house carpet, and vultures were where pinstriped players are not circling above the ballpark. treated like gods and opponents Torre said Steinbrenner spoke are expected to bow to the jug­with him by phone and offered gernaut. "support, keep-your-chin-up­"We didn't win too much in type stuff." high school, but I don't remem­
They all know pitching prob­ber getting beat like that lems are the cause of their ills. before," Jeter said. 


FREE FOOD FROM
LaFortune 

N' 
Cleveland Indians centerflelder Coco Crisp, left, stops running as New York Yankees pitcher Orlando Hernandez waits to tag him. 
FEATLIRtNG 
BurgerKing Legends Sbarro Starbucls Subway 
Brought to you by the Student Activities Office, the Huddle, and Legends of Notre Dame. Questions? 631.7308
Ballroom 
OPEN TO All CURRENT NOTRE DAME STUDENTS WITH VALID 10. 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI-IL 0BSERVuts wuu: SERVICEs Page 21 



around the dial 
MLB 
Chicago Cubs at Montreal 6:05 p.m., Fox Sports Anaheim at Boston 6:05p.m., ESPN Colorado at San Francisco 9:15p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS 
U.S Open Coverage 6 p.m., USA 
NBA 

Associated Press 
EAGLE, Colo. -The Kobe Bryant case collapsed Wednesday as prosecutors said they had no choice but to drop the sexual assault charge against the NBA star because the alleged victim did not want to testify. 
With the parents of the 20-year-old accuser looking on, District Judge Terry Ruckriegle threw out the case under a deal that means no charges will be reflled. 
"The people have filed a motion to dismiss this case based on the fact the sole· victim at this time is unable to go forward," District Attorney Mark Hurlbert told the judge. He said the alleged victim did not want to participate in the trial, including taking the stand. 
The woman's attorney, John Clune, said his client has been through an extremely difficult time over the past 14 months and was disturbed by a series of courthouse mistakes that included the release of her name and medical history. 
"It is in her sincere belief that when this case ends she does not want to be brought back into the crimi­nal process," Clune told the judge. "The difficulties that this case has imposed on this woman the past year are unimaginable." 
Ruckriegle admitted mis­takes had been made and took full responsibility. 
The prosecution dropped saying prosecutors had the case as jury selection refused to turn over details was beginning to wrap up. that could suggest Bryant Opening statements had is innocent. Court rules been expected next require prosecutors and Tuesday. defense attorneys to 
Bryant, 26, has said he exchange evidence and had consensual sex with a witness opinions before then-19-year-old employee trial. a process called dis­of a Vail-area resort where covery. he stayed last summer. Had In a motion made public he been convicted, the Los Wednesday, defense attor­Angeles Lakers star would neys said a forensics have faced four years to life expert whom prosecutors in prison or 20 years to life had planned to call as a on probation, and a fine up witness had information to $750,000. that "undermined the 
Bryant still faces a federal accuser's allegations and civil lawsuit filed by the -the prosecution's case, and accuser that seeks unspeci­corroborated Mr. Bryant's fied damages. defense on a central issue 
Defense attorneys this -the cause and signifi­week asked the judge to cance of the accuser's dismiss the assault charge, alleged injuries." 
IN BRIEF 
Pennington sig_ns seven­the end of the pres~ason, which is play. at the high level he has in the year extension with Jets after Friday night's game against past." 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. Chad Philadelphia, for a new deal to be The center, who had signed with Pennington agreed to a $64 million, finalized. He did not want negotia­the Nets before last season, played seven-year contract extension with tions to stretch into the season, nor only 12 games before retiring Nov. the New York Jets on Wednesday did the Jets, who didn't want to 24 because of complications from a that includes $23 million in guaran­chance losing him as a free agent. kidney disease, focal segmental teed money. glomerulosclerosis. He was diag­
A source familiar with the negotia­MourninJ! to attempt NBA nosed before the 2000-01 season, 
tions, speaking on the condition of comebacK this season when he was with the Miami Heat. anonymity, said that Pennington will EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­
average $9.172 million a year. The Seven-time All-Star Alonzo Mourning Jail sentence upheld for quarterback, entering his fifth sea­will attempt a comeback with the Dodgers' Bradley son, also receives the second-largest New Jersey Nets this season, less AKRON, Ohio-An appeals court amount of up-front money, behind than a year after a kidney trans­has upheld a three-day jail sentence only Indianapolis quarterback Peyton plant. Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Manning, who got a $34.5 million "I am feeling great and am excited Milton Bradley was ordered to serve signing bonus earlier this year. The about attending training camp and for driving away while being issued total value of Pennington's deal is possibly resuming my career," the a speeding ticket. $64.197 million. 34-year-old Mourning said in a state­The Ninth District Court of 
Both of those contracts were nego­ment released by the Nets on Appeals ruled Wednesday that the tiated by Tom Condon, who was not Wednesday. tri.al judge did not unfairly sentence available for comment Wednesday. "We look forward to Alonzo joining Bradley after he pleaded guilty earli­The Jets do not release contract the Nets in training camp, "Nets pres­er this year to a charge of obstruct­terms. ident Rod Thorn said. "Hopefully, he ing official business, a second 
Pennington had set a deadline of will be able to resume his career and degree misdemeanor. 

page 22 Thursday, September 2, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hurricane Frances may postpone FSU-Miami game 


Associated Press 
MIAMI -Florida State and Miami may have to wait a few days before playing their sea­son opener. 
School officials were strong­ly considering postponing the game five days from Monday to Sept. 11 because of Hurricane Frances. They were expected to announce a decision Thursday. 
"We'd like to play it, but I'm not sure it's in the cards," Florida State president T.K. Wetherell said Wednesday. 

Wetherell said evacuations along Florida's east coast would cause travel problems for fans, band members and others heading south to the Orange Bowl. The hurricane also could be moving through Tallahassee on Sunday or Monday. 
''I'm not sure we want to be gone with all that going on," Wetherell said. 
ABC executives and officials from both schools were dis­cussing proposals Wednesday for 
rescheduling the "/ hope it still No. 11 Florida game. A likely hosts Middle
works, but it sure
scenario would Tennessee State
doesn't look good. " 
move it to on Saturday Saturday, Sept. night, while 
11. T.K. Wetherell Savannah State Miami has had and Bethune­
Florida State 
two other games Cookman play in
president
postponed Jacksonville. 
because of hurri­canes in the last seven years. 
The Hurricanes had a game against UCLA postponed more than two months in 1998 because of Hurricane Georges, and had one against Temple delayed nearly three months in 1999 because of Hurricane Irene. 
The game between No. 5 Florida State and No. 6 Miami was scheduled to be the only prime-time game on Labor Day. 
SUB PRESENTS 
we come wee 
2004 
Florida International also plays against Jacksonville on Thursday in Miami. 
In baseball, the Florida Marlins had not decided whether to postpone any of this weekend's three-game l)eries against the Chicago Cubs. A possible solution could be a Friday doubleheader, with the third game played when the Marlins travel to Chicago for a scheduled three-game series Sept. 10-12. 
"I hope it still works, but it sure doesn't look good," Wetherell said. 
Frances, a Category 4 hurri­cane with 140 mph top sus­tained winds, was due near Florida's Atlantic coast late Friday or early Saturday. 
The threat of the hurricane forced Hampton and Jackson State to move their season 
opener  Saturday  from  
Orlando's Citrus  Bowl  to  
Virginia.  

Other Florida schools were waiting to see Frances' progress before deciding what to do about their season openers. 
The Florida State League canceled its final three days of games in the East Division, starting Friday, but play in the West will continue. Daytona Beach-Vero Beach playoffs were to start Tuesday, but league president Chuck 
k 
Murphy said that could change if Frances damages stadiums. 
Also Wednesday, the University of Florida men's basketball team postponed a weekend trip to the Bahamas. The trip will be rescheduled after this year. 
HTTP:/NNVW.NO.EOU/~SUB/ for other great SUq events! brought to you by the student union board. 
Thursday, September 2, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 

MLB 
Cards' Ankiel may be ready for postseason play 
"It was an impressive throw. go through it." 
Lefty hopes to join 
by the way," La Russa said. Ankiel said, simply: "You Even though 25-man rosters know what, let's talk about
team soon after stint 
were frozen Tuesday, Ankiel. 25, now."
in minor leagues is eligible for the playoffs Last month, the comeback because he was on the disabled began. In seven starts at three Associated Press list. When he takes the mound, minor league levels he showed it will be his first action in the he was ready for another shot, 
ST. LOUIS -Next spring, the majors since May 2001. going 2-1 with an 0.79 ERA, no St. Louis Cardinals expect Rick Much has happened since the wild pitches and only two walks Ankiel to compete for a spot in second-round draft pick arrived in 22 2-3 innings. the rotation. Next month, he with the Cardinals in 2000 as a "It's been good and I think the could show up on the postsea­19-year-old phenom with 11 main thing is to make sure I can son roster. wins and 194 strikeouts in 17 5 go out there and throw pain­
For now, just being in the innings to help St. Louis win the free," Ankiel said. "It's been major leagues is enough for the NL Central. going that way and I just want left-hander whose once-promis­"The fact is, we don't win to continue." ing career was derailed for without him," La Russa said. The Cardinals will treat Ankiel more than three years by wild From the 2000 playoffs, when just as they did Matt Morris in pitches and reconstructive he threw nine wild pitches and 2000 following his reconstruc­elbow surgery. September walked 11 in four innings, it's tive elbow surgery, pitching him serves as bonus time for the for­been almost all bad news. He every few days. Just like Morris mer bonus baby, and for the was 1-2 with a 7.13 ERA and 25 then, whatever happens now team with the best record in walks in 24 innings when he with Ankiel, 2005 is more baseball. was demoted to the minors in important. 
"Coming up here. it would be May 2001, and he missed the "Remember that Matt's future good to get back in a rhythm, entire 2002 season with a was as a starter, so we didn't get back in the game," Ankiel sprained elbow. want to do anything during that said Wednesday after being acti­In July 2003, he was 2-6 with period of relieving that would son that could help erase his there shouldn't be any pressure. vated from the 15-day disabled a 6.29 ERA at Double-A take away from him getting into 2000 misadventures. "It's like a dream. the things list. "I think looking back on it Tennessee when he found out he the winter with a full program ''I'm not really going to look these guys are doing day in and I'll be more proud of myself needed reconstructive elbow and being able to come to spring that far down the road, I'm just day out," Ankiel said. "It's like when I look back 10 years from surgery. training ready to go," La Russ a going to try to look at now," they haven't slowed down one now and say, 'Wow,' you know." Some of Ankiel's teammates said. "So that means we're Ankiel said. "I can't control the bit. It's unbelievable for my 
There's already a definite wow are on the lookout for reporters going to watch him closely here past and I can't control the eyes." feeling around the Cardinals -who won't let the past go. and use him hopefully with good future, so I'll just try to worry All the better scenario for witness manager Tony La "I think, speaking for myself, if sense. about today." Ankiel to clean the slate and Russa's extremely rare presence that happens it's going to be "It's for now and for later." It helps that he's not really begin his second career. in the bullpen for Ankiel's ugly in here,'' center fielder Jim After his ordeal. the present is needed. The Cardinals had a 15 "I was always impressed his throwing session about 3 1/2 Edmonds said. "I don't think our plenty for Ankiel. He can't day­1/2-game lead and a magic rookie season," La Russa said. hours before St. Louis played guys are going to stand for it, dream about completing his number of 16 in the NL Central "He was special then and he's the Padres. and hopefully he won't have to climb with a successful postsea-going into Wednesday night, so special now." 

Thursday, September 2, 2004 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 

COLLEGE ATHLETICS 
Indiana expected to name new AD 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana University President Adam Herbert is expected to name a new athletics director at a news conference Thursday on the Bloomington campus. 
Media reports indicated the finalists included Army's Rick Greenspan and Wisconsin's Jamie Pollard. 
IU officials could not be reached for comment Wednesday night. Earlier this week. search committee chair­man Ken Beckley said Herbert was waiting to make his deci­sion until several references returned from the Athens Olympics. Beckley did not identify any of the candidates. 
Both Greenspan and Pollard would bring strong fund-rais­ing skills to Bloomington, where the athletics depart­ment faces a $2 million deficit. 
Greenspan has led Army's athletics department for six years. During his tenure, Army has upgraded its facili­ties, adding a multimillion­dollar football press box and lights at Michie Stadium. He also signed a radio deal that expanded Army's reach into the New York market. 
He served as Illinois State's athletics director from 1993 to 1999. lie also spent one year as associate athletic director at the University of Miami, eight years at California­Berkeley, three years at Wisconsin-Milwaukee and a year at the University of New Hampshire. 
Pollard has served as the senior associate athletics director at Wisconsin and is credited with devising a strat­egy that helped increase rev­enue by more than $6 million. 
The search for Indiana's fourth athletics director in five years began in May, when Herbert announced that Terry Clapacs would return to his primary job -vice president for administration. 
Clapacs was named interim athletics director in November 2002 when Michael McNeely resigned after 16 months on the job. Clapacs continued to do double duty after interim President Gerald Bepko gave 
him the job for  an  additional  
year in April 2003.  
McNeely  had  replaced  

Clarence Doninger, who retired at the end of the 2000­01 school year. 

MLB 
Ichiro's total only most since '38 
Associated Press 
TORONTO lchiro Suzuki's 56 hits in August are still impressive -only they're not the most in a month by a major leaguer in 68 years as originally report­ed. 
According to ongoing research by the Elias Sports Bureau, Suzuki's total is the highest in a month since Jeff Heath got 58 for Cleveland in August 1938. 
When Suzuki got his third hit of the game Tuesday night for Seattle against Toronto, it was announced at SkyDome that he had matched the most since Cleveland's Roy Weatherly also got 56 in July 1936. 
The Mariners based their information on work by inde­pendent researcher David Stephan. Elias. baseball's statistician, found Heath's mark on Wednesday. 
"Either way it's phenome­nal." Seattle manager Bob Melvin said. "Fifty-six hits in a month just doesn't hap­pen." 
The major league record for hits in a month is unknown, Elias said. 
Coincidentally, Heath and Weatherly were longtime teammates in the Indians' outfield. They both made their big league debuts in 1936 for Cleveland at age 21. 
Weatherly got off a great start after joining the Indians in late June 1936. The next month, he got those 56 hits on his way to batting .335 that season. 
Heath was a two-time All­Star with Cleveland. Boosted by his big month, he hit .343 in 1938 with 112 RBis. and led the AL with 18 triples. 
Heath and Weatherly 
WORLD CUP OF HOCKEY 
Canada wins second in 2 days 

played together in the Indians' outfield through the 1942 season. 
With 212 hits through Tuesday night, Suzuki is pur­suing George Sisler's major league record of 257 hits in a season, accomplished in 1920 with the St. Louis Browns. The Mariners had 31 games left going into Wednesday night's game at Toronto. 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -Ryan Smyth scored two goals to lead Canada to a 5-1 victory over Slovakia on Wednesday night in the World Cup of Hockey. 
Canada, which beat the United States 2-1 on Tuesday night, improved to 2-0 in the tournament and is now guar­anteed a home game for the quarterfinals next Wednesday in Toronto. 
Martin St. Louis of the Tampa Bay Lightning had a goal and an assist while Boston Bruins center Joe Thornton and Philadelphia Flyers forward Simon Gagne also scored for Canada. 
Martin Cihak scored in the third period for injury-riddled Slovakia, playing its first World Cup. 
Canada played without defenseman Ed Jovanovski, who will miss the rest of the tournament with a strained right knee. Defenseman Wade Redden also left the game early in the third period with an undisclosed injury. 
The Slovaks, already miss­ing Zigmund Palffy, Michal Handzus, Peter Bondra and Ivan Majesky to injuries, got another setback on Wednesday when Montreal Canadiens forward Richard Zednik was hospitalized with food poisoning. 
Slovakia made a surprise decision to start Rastislav Stana in goal instead of usual No. 1 Jan Lasak and saw him beaten twice in the first five minutes. 
Thornton stripped defense­man Zdeno Chara in front of the Slovak net and scored 
3:02 into the game. Smyth added his first goal when he beat Stana at 4:43, and the route was on. 
Canada closes out round robin play on Saturday against Russia in Toronto. Slovakia plays the United States Friday night in St. Paul, Minn. 
Sweden 4, Czech Republic 3 
Peter Forsberg, Mattias Ohlund and Henrik Zetterberg each scored on the power play for Sweden, which nearly blew a four­goal. third-period lead before holding on for a win over the Czech Republic in the World Cup of Hockey on Wednesday. 
The victory clinched home­ice advantage for Sweden in the quarterfinals. Sweden is 2-0 in the four-team European pool going into Saturday's round-robin finale against archrival Finland, which shut out the Czechs 4-0 Monday. 
Finland plays Germany away in Cologne on Thursday. The Czechs close out the round-robin portion Friday at home in Prague against Germany. 
All four teams advance to the quarterfinals after round­robin play. 
The Czechs had a chance to tie the game when, already with a man advantage, they pulled goalie Tomas Vokoun for an extra attacker with 
1:48 left. 
But the Czechs failed to capitalize on the two-man advantage. Mikael Tellqvist made two superb saves as the Czechs pressed in the Swedish zone. 
The Czechs, now 0-2 in the tournament, outshot Sweden 18-2 in the last period and 40-20 overall. 
MLB 
Colangelo 
•
restgns ahead of schedule 
Associated Press  
PHOENIX  Jerry  
Colangelo resigned  as  chief  
executive  officer  of  the  

Arizona Diamondbacks on Wednesday, four months ahead of schedule. 
Colangelo, who agreed last month to leave on Dec. 31, will remain as chairman through the 2005 season and then serve as emeritus team executive, the club said. lie also will have duties as a liaison between the team and major league baseball. 
Colangelo was forced out on Aug. 6 by four business­men who became majority owners two years ago. In the same power move, player agent Jeff Moora-d was hired as Colangelo's replacement. 
Moorad, who wasn't sched­uled to become the CEO until Jan. 1, will now take over on Oct. 15. 
"After spending time with Jeff and upon further con­versation with the team's general partners, I am confi­dent that Jeff is up for the task and am comfortable with him taking the reins of the organization." Colangelo said in a statement. 
Colangelo brought a major league baseball franchise to Arizona in 1998, and the Diamondbacks won the World Series three years later. But he plunged the team into debt to sign the veteran players who beat the New York Yankees in the 2001 World Series. 
That opened the way for partners from outside his personal circle to sign on. and eventually to his ouster. 
Utilityman Greg Colbrunn, acquired from Seattle last winter for his second stint with the Diamondbacks, said Colangelo deserves to be remembered for his winning touch. 
"He not only brought big­league baseball to Phoenix, he brought three division titles and one world champi­onship, and it was while he was in charge," Colbrunn said. "The respect that he commands was well-earned." 
Injured left fielder Luis Gonzalez, a former client of Moorad. had mixed feelings about the development. 
''I'm excited for Jeff, and I'm going to miss Jerry at the same time," Gonzalez said. 




AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees recover and defeat Indians 5-3 
Associated Press limited the Indians to three hits lead against Anaheim at Williams singling and Jeter dou­Justin Speier pitched the in seven innings and Posada hit Fenway Park, New York's AL bling him to third. But Blake ninth inning for his second save
NEW YORK -The score­
a go-ahead, two-run homer that East lead over the Red Sox threw out Williams at the plate in five chances.
board was reset to zero, all the 
runs and hits from the previous led the New York Yankees over looked to be in danger of on Gary Sheffield's grounder to Bush pitched five scoreless 
day wiped away. Orlando the Indians 5-3 Wednesday. shrinking to 2 1/2 games, down third, and Alex Rodriguez innings before Suzuki led off the 
Hernandez and Jorge Posada When Travis Hafner hit an from 10 1/2 on the morning of struck out on a 3-2 pitch in the sixth with a single. One batter 
then went out and restored RBI single in the first inning, Aug. 16. dirt. After Posada's walk loaded later, Boone homered off the 
some order at Yankee Stadium. the Yankees left the bases But the Yankees. sent to their the bases, Hideki Matsui facing of the second deck in A night after Cleveland's loaded in the bottom half and most lopsided loss ever in a 22-grounded out. right field to give Seattle a 2-0 lead.
offense set records, El Duque Boston spurted to a four-run 0 rout Tuesday night, rallied Sabathia, 1-6 against the 
when Posada homered off C.C. Yankees in his career, allowed Delgado singled in the bottom Sabathia (1 0-9) in the fourth. three runs and five hits in six half before Alex Rios chased 
John Olerud added a solo innings. Seattle starter Gil Meche with an RBI triple. Eric Hinske fol­
homer later in the inning, and 
Blue Jays 4, Mariners 2 
lowed with a sacrifice fly off
Miguel Cairo hit another in the 
Frank Menechino hit a 
Villone to tie it a 2.
seventh ofT David Riske for a 4­
tiebreaking horner in the sev­1lead. enth inning, and David Bush Orioles 8, Devil Rays 0 Hernandez (6-0), becoming pitched seven strong innings to Javy Lopez drove in four runs, 
the Yankees' ace at age 38, was help the Toronto Blue Jays beat Daniel Cabrera became the first 
just the second New York the Seattle Mariners 4-2 rookie to win 10 games this starter to win in 1 7 games since Wednesday night. season, and the Baltimore Aug. 13. Pitching against the Ichiro Suzuki, chasing George Orioles held the Tampa Bay team he beat in the key fourth Sisler's major league record for Devil Rays to two hits in an 8-0 game of the 1998 AL champi­hits in a season, went 2-for-3 victory Wednesday night. 
onship series, he struck out and has 214 hits. He has 30 Cabrera (10-7) sent Tampa seven and didn't allow a runner games left to break Sisler's Bay to its fifth straight loss. He past second base after the first mark of 257 hits set in 1920 allowed two hits, six walks and inning. with the St. Louis Browns. struck out three in 6 1-3 score­
Following Tuesday's shocker, Bret Boone hit a two-run less innings, an improvement fans were greeted by inspira­homer for the Mariners, who over his last three starts. He tional messages on Yankee had their season-high five-game had allowed 20 runs and 20 hits Stadium sign boards and score­winning streak snapped. over his past 8 2-3 innings. beards, including:"When the Menechino homered off Ron Val Majewski and Jose Leon going gets tough. the tough get Villone (5-5) to lead ofT the sev­each had RBis in the ninth. going." Yankees owner George enth. After Vernon Wells walked Cabrera departed after load­Steinbrenner released a state­and advanced to third on ing the bases with one out in ment, part of which appeared Villone's errant pickoff attempt, the seventh on three walks. on some of the boards. Carlos Delgado hit an RBI single Williams entered and induced 
"Sure, we got punished badly to give Toronto a 4-2 lead. an inning-ending double play last night, but winners never Bush (3-3) allowed two runs from Julio Lugo. quit and quitters never win." on five hits, while striking out The Devil Rays also loaded Steinbrenner said. "New Yorkers six and walking three. The the bases in the third with two never quit, and we reflect the rookie right-hander has allowed outs, but failed to score when spirit of New York." three earned runs or fewer in Jose Cruz Jr. struck out. 
New York got off to a fast each of his last six starts, and in Tampa Bay was 0-for-10 with start at the plate, with Bernie nine of 11 outings overall. runners in scoring position. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 26 Thursday, September 2, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Coleman-Morse Center 57 4-631-7800 
Campus Ministry 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
Main Offi~e (CoMo 319) & Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Wel~ome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations...
friday o9.oJ sunday 09.05 (cant) 
rl:F'CIDWJ/Jrl~ 
., 

/Four:7/ is a Xot•·•· I>am<' mi<I-WPI'It praiS<• and worship sPrvieP, f<X'IISI'<I on <•xplor-ing tlw ~unity in <livprsityM pn>s<>nt in Christinnity, and J'<KJt<•<l in pra_vPJ' and fpllowship. 
•Join us \V<><Im•S<Ia~· night;; at 10:00 pm in tlw ColPman-1.\'lor...• firstr fl<Kll" loung<•, IK•gi nn i ng S<•ptl•mlK•r 1"1·! 
('ontm·t: Bn•tt PPrldns (a) 1-iJ250' l!<'rltim; )!{i<:f!)nd.Pdn or s1x·•u·..•· :\t..sol'll'.v cw 4-tH4o 1 "'"u·sor·l!·<fi)•l!I....hCr1 
"1;,. •. ~.' 
mass schedule 
Fulfillment, Completeness Ei: Trips to Meijer... 
by Brett J. Perkins Director, Protestant Student Resources tt Peer Ministry 
Along with those important decisions about just how to arrange your furniture and when to make yet· another run to Meijer, another thought might have crossed your mind. Maybe it came to you last Sunday, as you heard the Basilica bells out your open window at the seemingly ungodly hour of 
10:00 am. Perhaps it came to you when you were daydreaming in one of your classes, and found your gaze unexplainably transfixed on the Man hanging upon the cross. Or maybe you heard the stomp of men and women heading downstairs toward your hall chapel last Sunday night. Regardless of when it hit you, the question is the same: 
"How is God going to fit into my new life now that I'm away at college?" 
For many students, given the newfound freedom you have at college, you are no longer under the watchful gaze of your parents. No longer are they close by so as to assure your spiritual nourishment each week. But now what? What will you do now that nobody is "taking attendance"? I propose three responses to the above questions: 
Option #1. Do nothing. Now that your family is out of the picture, cease and desist all faith-based activities, whether out of rebellion, protest against some Church teaching you find particularly unsettling, or simple indifference to organized religion. 
Option #2. Continue with the bare minimum. Make it to Sunday services, barely squeaking in before the Gospel reading. Whatever you do, don't sing. Daydream through the homily. Receive Communion, but then leave immediately following. From the time you leave the church or chapel, do nothing to deepen your faith until the next Sunday, at which time you might decide to venture back to chapeL 
Option #3. Embrace the Decision to GET INVOLVED. You realize that now is the time for you to take on the yoke of faith for yourself. You realize that at an institution so steeped in faith, surrounded by so many resources devoted to supporting the choice you've made to follow Jesus, you are more poised than ever to take on the responsibility for your faith. You understand the loss that it would be to graduate from the world's foremost Catholic-Christian university, with a degree that shows your developed aptitude in your area of study, while still possessing the same level of faith development that you had when you first arrived. 
Over the course of this year, take the time lo commit yourself to exploring all that Notre Dame Campus Ministry has to offer you. Challenge yourself to experience new forms of prayer and praise, perhaps by attending /Four:7/ on Wednesday nights (IO:OOpm, CoMo Lounge). Search out traditional forms of prayer that might be new to you ...the rosary, Bible study, Eucharistic Adoration, singing in a choir. Learn more about your faith and why you hold to the beliefs you do. And if you're not Catholic, don't fall into the trap of thinking that there's nothing for you at Campus Ministry. Learn about the many programs we offer for prayer and fellowship with other Christians. Attend our "What if I'm Not Catholic?" session this Sunday afternoon from 2:00-4:00pm in the CoMo Lounge. And if you want to find a church off-campus, we can help with that too. 
As a Notre Dame graduate, I know well the stress that accompanies the rigorous academic programs offered at our university. I know the added burden of trying to maintain a social and extracurricular life. I know the headaches that can sometimes be caused by family and friends, roommates, and residential life in general. But despite all these stresses, a greater question emerges: how will I find fulfillment and completeness during my years at Notre Dame? All the elements you need are here; knowledge, faith, understanding, and a deeper sense of self-identity and self­worth are all within your grasp, surrounding you in this place. 
As you finalize the floor plan that is just right for that closet-sized room, as you make that last big trip to Meijer, I challenge you to open your eyes to the many opportunities available for you to embrace all that Christ Jesus has in store for your life. As you continue to seek fulfillment and completeness in life, keep in mind one insightful prayer by St. Augustine, written in 397: 
"Our lives are restless, Lord, until they rest in You." 
Latino Freshman Retreat Friday -Saturday Oakwood 
saturday o9.o4 
Asian/Asian-American Retreat Saturday-Sunday Fatima Retreat Center 
Mass 5:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
sunday 02. o5 
Mass 1O:OOam & 11 :45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Info Session 1 :00-2:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
special events 
-------~.·. ~~::t!:lb".• 
"Wbat if I1m Not catbolic]n An Information Kickoff Session for Protestant Stuoonts 
-, 

Protestant Student Information Session 2:00-4:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
tuesday 02. oz 
Lector Workshop 8:30pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Ministers Workshop 10:00pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
wednesday o2.oB 
/Four: 7/ 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Sunday, September 5, 2004 2:00-4:00 PM Co-Mo Lounge 
Twenty-third Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Around Campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. 5:00p.m. 10:00 a.m. Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass Rejoice! Mass Rev. Patrick H. Maloney, esc Rev.Patrick H. Maloney, esc St. Edward's Law School Commons Mendoza COB Coleman-Morse 
11:45 p.m. Hall Chapel Faculty Lounge Chapel 
Rev. Paul F. Doyle, esc 
Sunday's Scripture Read;ngs 1st: Wisdom 9: 13-18b 2nd:Philemon 9-10, 12-17 Gospel:Luke 14:15-33 

TENNIS 
Williams' outfit catches attention 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Wearing what she described as her "micro-mini" outfit, third­seeded Serena Williams advanced to the third round of the U.S. Open on 

thing." 
Williams said she felt at ease in the first two rounds of the open, relaxed and calm with nothing to lose. 
And as for her outfit -'-a black, studded tank top that revealed her midriff and matching tight shorts -she simply smiled. 
"I have another surprise for the next match," she said. 
Second-seeded Awelie Mauresmo almost got sur­prised, dropping the first set to Julia Vakulenko. But Mauresmo recovered to win the match 3-6, 6-2, 6-2. 
Mauresmo overcame 34 unforced errors and 10 dou­ble faults and finished the match with her fourth ace. 
"L started very slow in the first set," said Mauresmo, who won the silver medal at Athens. ''I'm looking forward to improve my game because I am not satisfied now." 
Gustavo Kuerten, the for­mer French Open champion who was seeded No. 20, was a first-round loser, beaten by Kristian Pless 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 7-6 (4). Kuerten was done in by 40 unforced errors. 
Wednesday with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over Lindsay Lee­Waters. 
It was not easy, the former Open champion said. 
"It was a great test," Williams said. "She hits the living daylights out of the ball. She was killing every­
There's still time to catch exciting 
Silver Hawks baseball at the Cove. 
Join TRANSPO in cheering on the South Bend Silver Hawks! 
Earlier, fourth-seeded ations on his left knee and he Lleyton Hewitt began his has synthetic cartilage in the Open with ·an efficient 6-1, 7-knee. Tendinitis in the knee 5, 6-4 victory over Wayne led to a first-round defeat at Ferreira in the 57th and final the Olympics against Oliver Grand Slam tournament for Rochus, but this time the the veteran South African. trouble was in his left hip. 
Hewitt prevailed comfort­After winning the first set ably and when it was over, 6-1, Philippoussis split the Ferreira, 32, confirmed that next two. At 4-4 in the he's done with tournament fourth, he called for the tennis. trainer. Laying face down on 
''I've been doing this a long the court, he grimaced as the 
time,"  he  hip  was  mas­ 
said.  "It's  saged. He lost  
difficult  to  the set and it  
get up and train as hard as I'd like to. It's time for  "It was a great test. [Lee-Waters] hits the living daylights out of  just seemed a matter of time before he would be  
me  to  move  the ball.,  forced to  re­ 
on  and  do  tire.  
something else."  Serena Williams  Once mis'Sed  dis­as a  
F e r r e i r a  former U.S. Open champion  serious player  

made 43 unforced errors and never had a break-point opportunity against Hewitt, the 2001 champion who arrived at the Open coming off two straight championships and has won four events this year. 
Just as Hewitt was finish­ing off Ferreira, Mark Philippoussis w s forced to retire in the fift set against Nikolay Davyden o when his body betrayed hi again. 
Philippous;;is, finalist at the Open in 1998, has battled a litany of kne InJuries. There have been three oper­
when he lost 
21 straight matches, No. 23 Vince Spadea posted his first win at the Open since 2002 by defeating Luis Horna 6-7 (3). 6-2, 6-4, 6-4. He has lost in the first or second round of this Grand Slam event seven times, including his last three appearances. His ranking dipped to 229 in 2000, in the midst of his losing streak. 
But Spadea stayed with his game, battling his way back. He won his first career title at Scottsdale earlier this year and even though he made 50 unforced errors, he won the match and that was some­thing he wasn't always able to say. 
Earlier, Daniela Hantuchova took another step back up the tennis rank­ings ladder, defeating No. 17 Alicia Molik 6-4, 6-3. 
Ranked as high as No. 5 in the world last year, Hantuchova had tumbled to No. 32 and was facing a for­midable opponent in Molik, who came into the Open with the bronze medal from the Athens Olympics. 
But Hantuchova, a runner­up at Eastbourne and a quar­terfinalist at the Open warmup in New Haven, used effective drop shots and played confident, aggressive tennis to pull off the upset. She was almost flawless on her approaches to the net, winning 17 of 20 points. 
Beat!)n by Patty Schnyder at Athens, Hantuchova looked steadier than she had in her first-round match, when she dropped the first set and then came from behind to defeat Camille Pin, winning the last two sets in tiebreakers. 
There was no need for those kind of dramatics against Molik. 
Hantuchova next plays No. 15 Schnyder, who defeated Iveta Benesova 6-4, 6-1. In other early matches, No. 31 Maria Vento-Kabchi defeated Julia Schruff 6-1, 2-6, 6-2 and No. 12 Ai Sugiyama defeated Gisela Dutko 6-2, 6­
4. Dulko beat Martina Navratilova at both the French Open and Wimbledon this year. 
No. 14 Fernando Gonzalez, a double medalist at the Olympics, made a quick exit, losing to Robin Soderling 6-1, 7-6 (3), 6-7 (4), 6-1. Gonzalez won the doubles gold with Nicolas Massu and the sin­gles bronze at Athens. 

Thursday, September 2, 2004 


Thursday, September 2, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 

Backs 
continued from page 32 
caught a 59-yard touchdown in which he amassed several yards after the initial reception. 
''I'm ready to play," he said. "''m trying to do it all now. They have me in there in all kinds of situations, but I just want to go out there and make plays." 
Schmidt, a former walk-on who got his start playing inter­hall football for Zahm Hall, emerged last year as a receiv­ing threat -making 13 recep­tions for 125 yards-while also showing his skills as an aggres­sive blocker. He figures to battle Powers-Neal and junior Nate Schiccatano for playing time at fullback this season. 
"It's definitely friendly compe­tition [between Rashon and 1]," 
Schmidt said. "That's not to say we don't try hard and get after each other everyday, but we go out there and our mind­set is to go out and play hard and let the coaches decide who plays." 
Schmidt, whose Briar Crest High School (Tenn.) 
team went to the state finals three years in a row, was not recruited by Notre Dame, but elected to attend the school anyway for its academic reputa­tion. 
"Honestly, when I came here, I wasn't planning on playing football," Schmidt said. "When I walked on I didn't think I'd make the team, when I made the team I didn't think I'd ever get to play, so I'm very happy with where I am. 
"The coaches here are great. They tell you when you first get here, they don't care who you are, the best player is going to play. So being a walk-on, it's encouraging for you, because you know if you go out there and work hard, and if things fall into the right places that they're going to give you a 
shot." 
Schmidt maintained his scholarly apti­tude even after JOimng the team in 2001, and was awarded the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Knute Rockne Student-Athlete Award in 2003. 
''I'm ready to play. I'm trying to do it all now. They have me in there in all kinds of situations, but I just want to go out there and make plays." 
Rashon Powers-Neal Irish fullback 
"I just want to improve as a blocker because I know that's something I need to improve on coming out oflast year. " 
Josh Schmidt Irish fullback 
For this season, though, 
Schmidt would like to focus more on brawn than brains. 
"I just want to improve as a blocker, because I know that's something I need to improve on coming out of last year," he said. "I want to improve as a lead blocker and also get a little bit better 
at catching the ball out of the backfield." 
Notes 
+ D.J. Fitzpatrick, who kicked two 50-yard-plus field goals in Friday's scrimmage, is expected to be the starting kicker and punter when Notre Dame kicks off its season against BYU Saturday. 
"We are still analyzing our position and looking at each of the candidates day-to-day, but I believe that right now our punter in this ballgame would probably be D.J. Fitzpatrick," Willingham said. 
Fitzpatrick, who started eight games in 2003 as the kicker and punter, was expected to compete for the starting posi­tion with sophomore Geoffrey Price. 
+ Notre Dame is tentatively 
Dame has maintained its policy of playing a roughly equivalent number of home and away games, but that policy might be in the process of changing. 
"I would think it's a great advantage to have another home game," Willingham said Tuesday. 
+ It was still undecided as to whether linebacker Brandon Hoyte, who injured his arm in a recent practice, would start the BYU game as of Willingham's conference Tuesday. 
Corey Mays is expected to replace Hoyte if he is unable to perform Saturday. 
"Corey has been a real delight in our program," Willingham said. "He's willingly [improved his knowledge of the defensive scheme] and put himself in position, where now if you looked at our linebacking corps, we would have a rotation of four and not just three starters." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

looking at a plan that might increase the number of home games from six to seven, begin­ning in 2009. 
Teams such as Nebraska and Ohio State have recently sched­uled as many as eight home games in a sea­son, while Notre 


page 30 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 2, 2004 


DAVE ROONEY/The Observer Meg Henlcan serves Wednesday night In a match against Loyola. The Irish won their season opener at home. 
Freshntan 
continued from page 32 
contributing four kills and 14 
digs. 
Brown said her combined 
efforts spurred the Irish on to 
victory. 
"She plays defense as 
== well as any­one in the program," Brown said of the fresh­man who was a four time All-American in Stasluk high school. "We really struggled in game three because she felt a little sick and had to sit out. She does a lot of little things that make a difference. We really noticed the difference when she was out." 
Despite such a poised demeanor on the court, Stasiuk admitted that inside, she was full of pregame jitters. 
"I was really, really nervous and anxious because it was my first collegiate game," the Park Ridge, Ill. native said. "When I was sitting in class at the end of the day, I kept thinking about the match." 
On Brown's wish list for Stasiuk this season is minimiz­ing this sense of anxiety. 
"I want her to be more com­fortable with her role on the team so she can do what we need her to do on the team," she said. "It's really important for our freshmen to realize that it's still volleyball. While the balls are hit faster at this level, it's just a game at the end of the day." 
The freshman's next test will come in this weekend's match against No. 2 Nebraska. It's no secret that defeating the Cornhuskers will be a daunting task. 
But Stasiuk anticipates the challenge. 
"We're really excited for the Nebraska match," she said. ''I'm not as nervous anymore because we're the underdogs in that match, so we don't have anythin2 to lose," 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

DAVE ROONEY /The Observer Adrlanna Stasluk passes the ball against Loyola. The fresh­man played well In the opener. 
Win 
continued from page 32 
"We were just out of rhythm," she said. 
Loyola continued its strong play and exploited Notre Dame's lack of cohesiveness to post a 30-17 game three victo­ry. 
Game four was by far the most hotly contested of the 
night as the Irish won a squeaker, 30-28. Kills by Loomis and Henican helped the Irish stay just ahead of the Ramblers as Notre Dame clung on to leads of7-6and11-9 early on in the game. 
#2 Women's Soccer Day One: Adidas Classic Tournament 
5 pm: Santa Clara vs. SMU 
7:30 pm: Notre Dame vs. Stanford (Alumni Field) 
*:First soo fans will receive a schedule glass sponsored by Between the Buns and Coke
..
~. 
er 3r #25 Volleyball Gold Game 
7 pm vs. Nebraska (Joyce Center) 
*First 500 fans will reeeive a team pu:z.zle sponsored by Famons Dave's *First 200 fans will receive a Gold Gamest-shirt sponsored by SBO 
"/anticipated that [Loyola] would play well. They are a good team. " 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
brated the win by singing the 
Afterwards Brown said that she wasn't surprised by the good showing from Loyola. 
"I anticipated that [Loyola] would play well," she said. "They are a good team." 
The middle combination of Loomis and Brewster gave the Ramblers fits all night long and Brown was impressed with their play. 
"It's hard when you're a hit­ter on the other team to go up against them," she said. 
Another aspect of the game Brown was happy with was the fan support, especial­ly that shown by the vocal Irish men's swim team. The swimmers cheered wildly for the Irish all night long and cele­
An ace by Lauren Kelbley Victory March in their gave the Irish a solid 24-19 Speedos. lead late. However, Loyola "It was a good atmosphere forced Notre Dame to work for here tonight," said Brown. the win as the Ramblers made "The swimmers especially had it close. Fortunately for the a lot of enthusiasm." Irish, Emily Loomis scored the final point to give Notre Dame Contact Mike Gilloon at the third game and the match. mgilloon@nd.edu 
An Irish Athletic Packed weekendl 
11 am: 
.. Students are invited to take part in "A Conversation with Tom Mendoza" on Thursday, September 9, 2004 from 3:30 p.m. -s:oo p.m. in Giovanini Commons A Oower level Mendoza, across from the BIC). 
is the first event in the Mendoza College of Business' Vocation & Ambition conversation series for 
2004-2005. The series will offer students a unique opportunity to consider the role of vocation in 
uu•::>n.l'~"" and the meaning of ambition within the world ofwork. This series provides a forum to ask: 
t does it mean to be a success? Must one choose between the material and the moral? What does it ......~uu to be called to vocation in business? How will my career expectations, and those of others, shape life decisions? Sessions are designed to allow extended time for questions and personal reflection. 
Mendoza and colleague Mike Riley are the kick off speakers. Tom Mendoza (ND '73) is President of Network Appliance, a leader in the growing network-attached storage market. To support higher education and the University of Notre Dame, Tom Mendoza and his wife Kathy endowed the College in March 2000. Mike Riley, a top systems engineer at Network Appliance, and a 1986 graduate of Notre Dame, will join him. 

o facilitate maximum dialog, the event will be limited to 40 students. We will accept tions on a first come, first serve basis by email to jcalder2@nd.edu. 





EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Tissue: Suffix 67 Freud's home 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gloria Estefan, Barry Gibb, Lil} 1 Artist Chagall 34 Handwriting on 68 Number for one 
Tomlin, Conway 1\vitty the wall
5 Put on hold 69 Shooting site 
Happy Birthday: You will have to take better care of yourself this year if you 11 Internet letters, 38 Hollywood 70 Went for a bite want to be able to finish all the projects you've started. Be firm when dealin~ favorite with people who have taken you for granted too long. Learn to say no. YoUJ
and a hint to 
71 Dermatologist's 
numbers are 7, 16, 21, 24, 38,42
this puzzle's 40 Socialite Brooke 
concern 
theme 
42 Memorization ARIES (March 21-April19): You may be on edge and ready to yell but thai 14 It's sold in bars technique won't solve the problems you face. Making rash decisions will only lead tc DOWN greater problems. ** 
15 Two-legged 43 Withhold from 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Consider doing something physical that will salamand~r 44 Vaughan of jazz help tone down that anxious feeling you've been harboring. Until you hav( 
1 Mineral hard­
ness scale 
sorted out your game plan, it is wise to wait and watch. ***
16 Source of heat 46 "On the double!" inventor 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make things happen if you have tunnel 17 Nirvana, essen-47 draft 2 Others, in Latin vision but continue to work as a team player. The results will be direct!}tially? linked to your organizational ability.**** 
50 "Au revoir!" 3 Certain delivery 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Consider the consequences if you should mak( 
19 Potassium 
51 Small colonist 4 They may be a move or a change of any sort today. You may want to stay put and let thing! 
hydroxide 
cracked unfold naturally. **
52 Long forks, for
20 Right and left LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be prepared to follow through with your plans and
example? 5 Western Athletic 
take matters into your own hands. You look so good in the limelight thai
21 Anonymous Conf. school
57 1967 Oscar win-someone is sure to notice you. ***** 23 Dealership that ner Parsons 6 Home for a her­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your mind should be on money matters sells old investments and what you can do to secure your position in life. Conside1
mit
58 Toys sometimes 
ways to raise the value of your property or how to invest in yourself to mak(
Troopers? 
stuck in trees 7 Shogun's capital you more appealing in the job market. *** 27 Handsome LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Avoid someone who always upsets you. If you
61 Shoe part 8 Constellation 
prints? position yourself with people who think the same way you do, you will be abk
known as the
62 Certain 
to avoid disharmony. ** 
29 Easy win Hare
Hawaiian instru-SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have what it takes to move into a mor(30 It ends in Oct. ment? 9 Like marble responsible position. You are in a creative cycle today. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will need a little excitement and
31 Question from 66 2002 British 10 Herd in Africa 35 Quiet home, 48 "One great face 56 Purple shade 
adventure in your life today, so plan something unique. Love and romanc(
Miss Piggy Open champion usually deserves anoth­
11 Buck Rogers's 59 George and should be scheduled in. Everyone will be eager to spend a little time with you 
er'' sloganeer,
lady friend 36 Royal educator George W., e.g. ***** 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE once CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Problems are likely to surface in yoUJ
12 More twisted 37 Witches' brew 60 Musical chairs 
personal life. Don't make decisions without the approval of the people in yoUJ
";T~::-r.::'1 
49 Cafe specifica­
-=+=+-:-+.:::-! 13 Groundskeep­necessity tion goal life that will be affected by what you do. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Hang out with people you consider to lx
er's bane 39 Old "Hollywood 63 Game with a
52 Swanky dos wise and knowledgeable in areas that you are lacking. You will be able tc
Squares" regu-108-card deck
.:.:+~::+:,-! 18 Assume come up with some valuable ideas that could lead to a money-makin~
lar 53 "_Mio" 
64 Burma's first opportunity. **** 41 "Doggoneit!" 54 Explosive trial P.M. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A chance to work alongside someone you 
-=*=+=+'=-,-! 22 One with a part 
admire will be a positive step. You have a lot more going for you than you
9lno••• 24 Defender of
-=-+-=+.,.,I!IP!JI!I.:. Manet's work 45 Three-line work 55 Snicker 65 Kit give yourself credit for. *** -=+~:-:+::-i 25 Minutemen of 
Birthday Baby: Your mind is quick, but sometimes you take action before
coli. sports For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
you should. You must learn to take better care of you instead of focusing sc
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
26 Like Albany and much on what you can do for everyone around you. 
Chicago Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialas/.l'om.
27 In the thick of 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -=+:-:+.::+.:::i 28 Went on past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -:-+:::+:::+.::1 33 Capone rival Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young known as Bugs solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
PEANUTS 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 2, 2004 
page 32 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
.... Striking first 
No. 25 Irish prevail in season opener against Loyola at home 
By MIKE GILLOON SportS Wrirer 
It's a start. That's one way Irish coach Debbie Brown might describe Wednesday night's opening victory over Loyola Chicago. 
"We were a little inconsistent tonight but I also saw a lot of good things," Brown said after watching her team win the first two games. then lose the third before finally finishing off the Ramblers in a four-game victo­ry at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame appeared ready to steamroll its way to an easy match win as aces from Adrianna Stasiuk and Meg Henican helped them to take game one, 30-24. 
Outside hitter Emily Loomis had two key spikes to put the Irish ahead 14-8 midway through game two as her team­mate Lauren Brewster aided the Irish attack with an impres­sive kill. She extended her whole body backwards to make solid contact with the ball and send it flying over the net giving Notre Dame a 22-11 lead. The Irish cruised from there to win game two 30-19. 
"I thought in game two we came out really, really strong," Brown said. "Emily Loomis was hitting the ball really well, and I thought she showed good prom­ise." 
Game three was a totally dif­ferent story for the Irish as Loyola played with much more intensity than they had in the first two games. Though small­er and less athletic than Notre Dame, the Ramblers used hus­tle and strong serving from out­side hitter Courtney Ashley to take an early 20-10 lead. Brown took a couple of time­outs to try and rally the Irish, but they didn't work. 
see WIN/page 30 

Freshman hitter Stasiuk steps up in first college game 
By ANN LOUGHERY Spores Writer 
Adrianna Stasiuk doesn't look like a freshman. 
Judging by her performance against Loyola Chicago Wednesday night, Stasiuk could have easily been mistaken for a seasoned veteran. The fresh­man starter played fearlessly, diving and pivoting for each loose ball as if it were a fragile commodity. 
"She has great instincts for the game and she's very, very quick," Irish coach Debbie Brown said of her 5-foot-10 freshman. "It's her agility and quickness that make the plays. She sets a lot of balls and her serving, passing and defense are all very strong. She's a real­ly steady player all-around." 
Stasiuk made an impact in all corners of the court Wednesday 
night. In addition to serving five aces -the most made by an 
Irish  player  since  Kristen  
Kinder  had  five  against  
Kentucky in 2001  - Stasiuk  

frustrated the Rambler offense with her presence at the net, 
see FRESHMAN/page 30 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Chicago defeats Belles in 3 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Belles got their first taste of competition Wednesday night as they took on the University of Chicago. 
The game was a good way for the team to see where it stands going into the 2004 season. A year ago, Saint Mary's started its preseason against the Maroons and faced them again during the regular season -winning in three straight games. 
"Tonight, the score really didn't show what the team was trying to accomplish," defensive specialist Michelle Gary said after the match in which the Belles were swept in three games. "We we're just trying to mix up the offense and find out our strengths." 
A few bright spots were especially seen in the play of a couple of much improved juniors. Outside attacker Michelle Turley, who did not see much action last year, had a very good game. Middle hitter Bender also did a great job, picking up right where she left off at the end of last season. Bender ended the 2003 campaign with 510 total 
see SMC/page 27 
FOOTBALL 
Fullbacks must be multi-faceted for Irish 

ented, able to do one of the two
"Everyday, I try to
much more than starting fullbacks just act as a lead get something to in the 2003 sea­blocker. work on. son. "There's 
This is especially always some true in Notre aspect of my
Rashon Powers-Neal
Dame's pro-style game to improve, offense, which Irish fullback whether it's involves the full-blocking, catch­back in a variety of ing or running running and receiving plays. with the ball." The fullback is seen as a safety­Powers-Neal. who rushed for valve receiver, or a way to 15 yards on four rushes last 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Fullback is one of those posi­tions that sounds easier than it is. An accomplished fullback has to be multi-tal­
change up the running game ­and proficiency in all aspects of the position is key in the Irish offense this year. 
"Everyday, I try to get some­thing to work on," said Rashon Powers-Neal, who along with 
Josh Schmidt was year and made seven receptions for 50 yards, is a former tail­back who ranked second on the team in rushing in 2002 behind Ryan Grant. Powers-Neal changed positions last season and could perhaps see spot duty as a reserve tailback this year. 
Whatever the position, Powers-Neal is ready to con­tribute to the offensive side of the ball and has done much preparation in getting ready for the season. 
Widely considered to have been one of the standouts of 2004 spring practice, Powers­Neal showed his versatility in the Blue-Gold Game, where he 
see BACKS/page 29 
en 
TENNIS 
MLB 
NCAA FOOTBAll 
MlB 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA fOOTBALL 
1-u LLI 
Monday's season 
Michigan defensive
z Serena Williams, 
Rick Ankiel hopes he 
Air Force football
The Yankees are still 
opener for Miami and 
back Marlin Jackson
dressed in another 
can return to the 
embarrassed by 
player found not guilty
cc ::5 
Florida State may be 
hopes to improve on
flashy outfit, wins again 
Cardinals in time for the 
Monday's rout by the 
on steroid ,charges. 
c:s 
postponed due to Hurr­
last season. 
at the U.S. Open. 
playoffs. 
Indians.
c c:s: 
icane Frances.
a. =:
en 
page 27 
page 22
page 23 
page 20 
page 18 
page 18 



