
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 1 
Class size decreases atSMC 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
At a time when Notre Dame is struggling to find room for all of its admits, its sister school is facing the opposite problem -an enrollment drop of 12.7 percent. 
The Saint Mary's class of 2008 is down 51 students from the previous year. But according to Mary Pat Nolan, admissions director, Saint Mary's is not alone in its decreasing numbers. 
"Many of the schools that our applicants apply to were also having challeng­ing years and there was a considerable amount of movement among wait­Usts," Nolan said. "Choosing a state university, whether regional or flagship. seems to have become an accept­able option for students wanting to stay closer to home or for students want­ing to find a lower cost edu­cational option," many of whom would have selected Saint Mary's in the past. 
Nolan said Saint Mary's docs not usually compete for students with other small private colleges or women's colleges. Nation­ally only two percent of stu­dents consider attending a women's college. 
The Admissions office will not know the exact cause of the decrease until it has 
see SMC/page 13 
SATURDAY. AUGUST 21.2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND, SMC freshmen flood campuses 
By MEGHAN MARTIN News Writer 
A small gold helmet sits perched atop a shelf in Tim Gritzman's dorm room, both a remnant from childhood and a symbol of the future. 
"I've had this thing since I was five," said the Stanford Hall freshman as he picked up the replica of the helmet he will wear as a tight end for the Irish this year. 
Although he arrived on campus nearly two weeks ago to begin fall football practice, Gritzman moved into his dorm room Wednesday, just days before his fellow classmates are scheduled to arrive. And despite the jersey waiting for him in the locker room, Gritzman is eager to experi· ence orientation weekend with the rest of the freshman class. 
''I've talked to my roommate about three times, but I'm looking forward to meeting him," Gritzman said. "The 
see MOVE-IN/page 13 
OLYMPICS 

Students impact business 
-

By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
As if the van-fuls of stere­os, clothes, hangers and televisions arriving on campus this weekend weren't enough, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents also flock to area stores to pick up other last­minute college essentials. 
"We gear up for this like we gear up for Christmas," said Bob Tharp, assistant manager at the Grape Road Meijer store. 
This weekend. about 10,000 students descend on the Notre Dame campus as well as several thousand more at Saint Mary's, Bethel College and Indiana University-South Bend. Naturally, the economic impact on the local busi­
see BUSINESS/page 9 

New Domers bring more than just stats 
Notre Dame Class of 2008 1,991 incoming freshmen 
• 
Mean SAT Score-1367 

• 
Mean ACT Score -32 



By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Notre Dame's 1,991 incom­ing freshmen may boast the most staggering academic statistics of any class in its history, but the University isn't boasting -yet. 
"If you brag too much about the class, it's like a hospital bragging about the health of the patients coming in," Dan Saracino, assistant provost 
• 
Average Freshman ranked in the top 5.5% of high school graduating class 

• Ethnic minorities-22:X, 

• 
Children of alumni -22'/;J 


MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 

for admissions, said. "The mark of the school is what they've done when they leave." 
And the mark of an incom­ing class, he continued, lies not in the test scores and the scores of extracurriculars stu­dents bring to campus, but in how well this brew of poten­tial and experience will fit into what Saracino likes to call "the story of Notre 
see FRESHMEN/page 9 



Crowding squeezes freshmen 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
Almost 70 freshmen had a dubious welcome this week, as they found them­selves cramming their car­loads into spaces smaller than the average shoebox­size room. 
Due to rising numbers of both seniors staying on campus and accepted female freshman, most women's dorms faced an overcrowding crisis this year. 
Subsequently, the Office of Residence Life was forced to convert every available study lounge into an inhabitable space, and 
see HOUSING/page 9 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Too fast 
This weekend you and the rest of the smartest class ever at Notre Dame -at least until the class of 2009 arrives ­leave a world of comfort you've known for 18 years. Waiting with open arms is a new home inside 

the proverbial bub­ble where you'll spend the next four years. 
And that's the problem -four years. 
It seems like an eternity as you ser­

enade dorms, meet  Matt Lozar  
people who only  
want to know your  
name, hometown and dorm and play  Editor in Chief  
games that seem  
like you're back in  
summer camp.  

It seems like a welcome change after those crowded high school highways, fill­ing out a myriad of scholarship and col­lege applications and praying one of those envelopes in the mail is thick and not thin. 
It seems like a world of freedom with no parental supervision, the availability of "libations" for 21-year olds and a speedy Internet connection that allows you to procrastinate by amassing a mas­sive mp3 collection. playing addicting mindless games and endlessly checking your buddies' away messages. 
But one day you'll wake up a senior like me and realize those four precious years arc down to a lonely one. 
That might look like a big jump-and you probably think I'm crazy for men­tioning graduation before you've taken a class here -but it happens faster than freshman engineers can switch to the business school (as I can attest). 
Okay, it might not happen that quickly. A lot goes on during those three years. There is experiencing that first football season, attending your first SYH (where finding a date is more about Screwing Your Hoommate) and braving the first round of lake-effect snow. You fear telling your parent<> about changing your major (don't worry Mom and Dad, more than half of us change it at least once), whine about parietals and can't stand your roommate. You complain about the lack of gender relations and realize there isn't a whole lot to do in South Bend­on or ofT campus. 
As all that and countless other things transpire. and you get trapped in a fast­paced, jam-packed daily routine, some­thing horrible happens. 
You forget what Notre Dame's all about. 
At the conclusion of not only a week­end, but also a summer where everyone is giving a piece of advice to make col­lege those so-called "best four years of your life," here's mine-take a step back every once in awhile. Take in the moment and appreciate what's happen­ing. 
Whether it's being thrown into the air by your friends for push-ups at football games, staying up until4 a.m. for no apparent reason or making a fool of yourself at Bookstore Basketball, the world's largest outdoor 5-on-5 tourna­ment. 
Whether it's singing in a choir, going to Mass at the Basilica or doing some sort of service. 
Whether it's cheering your friend at Bengal Bouts (a student boxing tourna­ment that raises money for the Bangladesh missions), playing an inter­hall sport or starting the weekend on Thursday night. 
Whether it's reflecting at the Grotto, jogging around the lakes or walking up God Quad as the sun shines down on the Dome and goose bumps line your arms. 
Always remember -this is a special place. Just don't start realizing that before it's too late. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ADVICE DO YOU HAVE FOR INCOMING FRESHMEN? 


Henry Scott 
Senior Sarin 
"Enjoy your time here, it goes by really quickly." 
TODAY 
a: 
IJ.I 
:c 


:: ~ 
..... 
c( 
CJ 

0

.... HIGH 71 

Arthur Lam 
Sophomore Fisher 
"Enjoy the weather as much as possible." 

Barbara Greves 
North Dining Hall employee 
"Just be patient. Let people help you ifyou are nervous on your first day. " 


WEDNESDAY 

HIGH 81 LOW 64 

ORIENTATION ACTIVITIES 
Patti Phan 
Senior Farley 
"Don't spend too much time studying because it's not worth it." 
Adam Record 
Sophomore Fisher 
"Meet as many people as you can. 

Greg Durm 
Senior Zahm 
"Hang out at Zahm a lot. " 
TONIGHT SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 74 HIGH 80 HIGH 79 
LOW 52 LOW 52 LOW 53 LOW 60 LOW 62 
Atlanta 82 I 69 Boston 82 I 64 Chicago 73 I 52 Denver 78 I 54 Houston 91 I 73 Los Angeles 78 I 60 Minneapolis 74 I 58 New York 82 I 67 Philadelphia 84 I 66 Phoenix 101 I 78 Seattle 73 I 61 St. Louis 77 I 53 Tampa 88 I 74 Washington 85 I 67 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ND freshmen focus on election 
Assigned reading explores U.S. voting trends 
By AMANADA MICHAELS Associate News Edicor 
In keeping with the elec­tion buzz charging the nation. the second annual First Year Academic Convocation, "Election 2004: A Watershed?," asks fresh­men to exam­ine the trends of voter apathy in Thomas Patterson's book "The Vanishing Voter." 
Along with "The Vanishing Voter," the University Committee for the First Year of Studies selected an inter­view with Robert Putnam regarding the theories in his book, "Bowling Alone: America's Declining Social Capital," to prepare students for the mandatory convoca­tion on Sept. 2. 
Due to concerns voiced by current sophomores, this workload is a decrease from last year's, when students were asked to read four arti­cles and three Web sites in addition to the "Heart of Islam," which is approxi­mately 300 pages. 
The idea of the program is to allow students to explore a pertinent topic through a set of readings culminating in a discussion of the issue, and was deemed a success after its inaugural trial. 
At last year's convocation, "The Heart of Islam" sparked debate on the reli­"We're not planting ques­gious and political conflicts tions this year, but we cer­between the United States tainly don't want silence," and the Middle East; now she said. "But given the "The Vanishing Voter" is amount of chatter on the intended to bring the focus Web site, I don't foresee that to the role of citizenship in happening." democracy and the state of The convocation is also voter participation in the being held earlier in the 


country.  semester than  
"Last year,  last year's, so  
the  Middle  ''The election seems to  the  subject  
East was certainly in everyone's  be such an active topic this year nationally,  matter will be fresher in the students'  
mind, and everything we did was  and especially among young people."  minds, Kolman. More  said class  
good  back­ time will also  
ground  for  Eileen Kolman  be devoted to  
the  things  dean of First Year of Studies  working with  

happening today," said E i I e e n Kolman, dean of the First Year of Studies. "This fall, the November elections will be a top concern, and we hope to be part of the buzz on campus over them." 
Rather than the original three-panel discussion that received some criticism for its length, this year's event will center on an interview with Patterson by Matthew Starin, Associate Vice President for News and Information and a past edi­tor of the Boston Globe. 
There will be an extended question and answer session after the interview, and Kolman said that she is encouraging the 400 stu­dents who have been posting on the convocation's online discussion board to come with strong inquiries for Patterson. 
the book and 
topic, specifi­
cally in First Year Composition courses, and attending at the convo­cation will most likely be an assignment for those cours­es. "Voting Irish" T-shirts will also be distributed to encourage attendance. 
Kolman said she hopes the changes in format and sub­ject matter will draw more students to the convocation. 
"The election seems to be such an active topic this year nationally, and especially among young people, and the literature seems to indi­cate that there is probably going to be more voter par­ticipation than in 2000," she said. "This is a topic that everyone is getting involved in, and that affects every­one." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu.edu 

JOANNA PAXTONffhe Observer 

International students take a break from orientation after listening to talks about campus security and culture shock. 

Notre Dame targets international students 
University credits financial aid, recruiting efforts with increased enrollment over the past five years 
dents have shown consistent By TERESA FRALISH academic improvement. Associate News Edicor At most universities, inter­
As freshmen from all 50 states pack up their boxes and make the trip to South Bend this weekend, they are joined by a similar group of freshmen following much the same routine. But in addition to leaving behind friends and family, these freshmen will change countries and cul­tures as well. 
There are 76 international students, who compose 3.6 percent of this year's fresh­men class. 
As part of its goal to create a 

Get lnvolvell in Irish ltthleti£s! The Sports lnforfllation Office is looking for student assistants for the -04 ol year. Any s in be-

international students. 
"We're doing extensive travel internationally. We've raised the awareness of Notre Dame," said Dan Saracino, director of under­graduate admissions. 
While the percentage of these students in freshmen classes has doubled overall since 2000, it has hovered around 4 percent for the past three years. Ultimately, the University hopes to see that number rise to 5 percent. 
These increases come as a result of financial aid for international students and intensive recruiting efforts in Europe, Asia and Latin America Saracino said. And following the trend of their American peers, these stu­national students must find their own funding. But in fall 2002, Notre Dame first began offering financial aid to inter­national applicants in hopes that it could draw more stu­dents from developing coun­tries to the University. 

Specifically, the University targeted Latin American countries because of their socioeconomic standing and predominantly Catholic cul­ture. 
"Roughly half of the finan­cial assistance goes to that 
area," Saracino 
said.

"We're doing
more culturally Though proud diverse student extensive travel of the strides body, the internationally. ,, made toward 
University has increased inter­placed special national enroll­
Dan Saracino
emphasis on ment, Saracino recruiting and director of said limits for accepting high­undergraduate financial aid and er numbers of competing pres­
admissions 
sures on avail­

able University money would likely keep the international student percent­age at around 4 percent. 
"We could be at 6 [or] 7 percent for international stu­dents if we had enough finan­cial aid. You can't issue a visa to an international student unless they have enough resources," Saracino said. 
Instead, he said the University hopes it can moti­vate international alumni to contribute resources for incoming freshmen -and provide new generations of students with the same Notre Dame experience they once had. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu.edu 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Saturday, August 21, 2004 
Transfers find housing at SMC 
ND welcomes students despite crowding 
peers and the University, the women will 
By ANGELA SAOUD have plenty of opportunities to get comfort­
Saint Mary's Editor able thanks to the orientation program 
designed by the Admissions Office. 
As if transferring to Notre Dame wasn't Transfer orientation co-commissioner complicated enough, it just got a little Kevin Keller is helping to acclimate students stranger for 17 women, who found off-cam­to Notre Dame through a variety of activi­pus housing not at Turtle Creek or College ties. But the weekend dubbed "An Irish Park, but at Saint Mary's. Beginning" will not be the end of the road 
Though many of the 124 transfer students for the students and the counselors who were able to secure on-campus housing, the greeted them. crunch forced some to seek lodging else­"This year, we're starting a big brothers where. To hHip alleviate the situation, rooms [and) big sisters program where any trans­in Hegina North Hall were offered as an fer student who wants to buddy up with an alternative. orientation counselor ean," 
"All the transfer students, Keller said. "Often times, most of them being juniors, "It's not something I transfer students don't get to will be living on the l'ifth would anticipate live on campus and that can floor of Hegina North leave them alienated from the
becoming a regular
togRther," Michelle Bussell, experiences here. This pro­direetor of Hesidence Life occurrence. This has gram will hopefully help them at Saint Mary's said. "Tlwre happened very recently, get them involved and keep will only be Notre Dame them connected with campus
and we are still
students on this floor." so they can go to an SYH or 
Students won't get the working on some of the another campus activity if chance to get too comfort­details." they want." able, however, because the Although his job is to help situation is only temporary. make the students' transition
Michelle Russell 
As spaee becomes available to Notre Dame as smooth as at Notre Dame, they will be Regina hall director possible, for Keller, it is some­~'¥,, Above, Notre Dame transfer able to move thing bigger that brings him
to their own Connie Slobach moves into 
campus. satisfaction. 
Regina Hall. At right, Todd
Bussell said she does not believe students "I was in their shoes once before, and I living at one sehool while attending another want to be able to provide them with the 
r:, •__-_·•···__·___.·____·_.·_ .. .,.~_--_-_ Torres gives transfer 
will become a trend between the campuses. help that I wish I'd had," he said. "These 
ur~,,,,,~ students a tour ofcampus.
"We had an opportunity to help out a diffi­students are in a special category all their cult situation for Notre Dame students for a own, and being able to help them transition semester, and we did," Hussell said. "It is from their old school to ours and show them 
•
PHOTOS BY

not something I would anticipate becoming a the true Notre Dame experience is a rare regular occurrence. This has happened very opportunity." CLAIRE KELLEY & recently, and we are still working on some of 
CHUY BENITEZ 

the details." Contact Angela Saoud at .~ .. *-1 Despite the physieal separation from their saou0303@saintmarys.edu ...•...•. l 
.. . <-------~<! 


2004 NOTRE DAME SOCCER IRISH vs. NORTHWESTERN 
7:00PM ALUMNI FIELD 
TICKET FREE! (MUST BE PRESENT TO WIN!) 
PRE-GAME TAILGATE FOR 
ALL FANS! THE FIRST 600 STUDENTS RECEIVE A 30-MINUTE PHONE CARD COURTESY OFSAINT (iJOSEPH 


FREE ADMISSION 
'~¥idfielder 
<-·Kevin Goldthwaite

FOR ALL FANS! 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 




*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo and Business to find out what you could do for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily student newspaper. 





Please Join Us for 
:• 
The Observer Open House Monday, August 23 

4:00 p.m. -: 6:00 p.m. Basement of South Dining Hall 
Food will be served. 
Saturday, August 21, 2004

page 6 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
Frustrating football season prompts fan outcry. Offour players accused ofrape, Elam convicted ofsexual battery. 


By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
Football frustration 
Talk about a sophomore slump. 

In his second season as Irish head 
coach, Tyrone Willingham followed a 
surprising 10-3 campaign and Gator 
Bowl appearance in 2002-03 with a 
disappointing 5-7 record last fall, as a 
trio of embarrassing losses to 
Michigan, USC and Florida State 
sealed the team's fate. 

Despite battling the toughest sched­ule in the country -Notre Dame opponents finished with an 86-43 record -and juggling a quarterback controversy that shaped up between junior Carlyle Holiday and freshman Brady Quinn, the Irish players and coaching staff received scarce off­season breathing room from frustrat­ed fans. 
In February, more than 400 alumni signed a letter to the Board of Trustees blaming the University's pri­orities for the football program's sus­tained woes. Principal letter author Tim Kelley attributed Notre Dame's decade-long disappearance from the national championship hunt to prob­lems in the structure of the athletic department, particularly the influ­ence athletic director Kevin White has over football coaching hires. 
The criticism turned uglier in late March and early April, when 1956 Heisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung's racially charged com­ments about the University's strict admissions requirements fueled a national debate about standards, stereotypes and the impact of acade­mics on recruiting top players. 
Through a year of disappointment and finger-pointing, Willingham, White and associate athletic director John Heisler have tried to keep the focus on improving on the field, and students have tried to be patient while the team continues to adjust to the pro-style offense -but a perfor­mance outstanding enough to silence the critics remains to be seen. 
Sexual assault trials end In one conviction 
More than a year and a half after a female Notre Dame student accused then-football players Lorenzo Crawford, Donald Dykes, Abram Elam and Justin Smith of sexual assault in March 2002, only Elam was convicted on criminal charges. 
A jury found Elam guilty of sexual battery, a class D felony, but acquit­ted him of conspiracy to commit rape and criminal deviate conduct on August 30. Elam's sentence -origi­nally delayed until after a conclusion was reached in the other three trials -will not include jail time, but will require two years of probation and 200 hours of community service, as mandated by St. Joseph County Superior Judge Roland Chamblee in October. 
Special prosecutor Maureen Devlin dropped pending lawsuits against Crawford and Smith after another jury acquitted Dykes of rape, conspir­acy to commit rape and sexual bat­tery on September 15. 
That trial sparked celebration on the part of Dykes' family, but signifi­cant backlash from the victim's par­ents, who remained in the courtroom to argue angrily with jurors and media members. More than six months later, on April 1, the alleged victim and her parents filed a civil lawsuit against both the players and the University, seeking from the four players an unspecified amount of damages for her physical pain, post­traumatic stress and medical bills, and claiming the University had a legal duty to protect her. Filed in St. Joseph County Superior Court with­out a lawyer and under the names "Jane Doe and Mr. and Mrs. Doe" on court documents, the suit is still pending. 
Ten-Year plan 
Praising Notre Dame's strong financial base, exceptional faculty and significant potential for growth, the University's ten-year strategic plan was released last fall with a title that reflected its pledge to move con­fidently into the future. 
"Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise" emphasizes academic development through the reaffirma­tion of outstanding undergraduate teaching, as well as a renewed com­mitment to graduate education and research. Increasing the balance between the University's undergrad­uate colleges and enriching and expanding the quality of academic programming are identified as key goals for the next decade -as is ele­vating at least 25 percent of doctoral programs to the national top quar­tile. 
However, the plan reaches beyond the academic sphere, encouraging Notre Dame to apply Catholic values to its policies and to embrace its identity as the premier center of Catholic intellectual life. Significant attention is also devoted to integrat­ing academics into student residen­tial life, including plans for a resi­dence hall environment that encour­ages students to discuss moral and ethical issues. 
Though four new residence hall 
2003. 
complexes are included in the stu­dent affairs section of the plan ­which also explores experimental options such as coeducational hous­ing and senior apartments or suites -"Fulfilling the Promise" reflects a broader focus than previous con­struction-based strategic plans. This time, the University also hopes to expand student organizations and improve health services to elevate the overall on-campus experience. 
The Board of Trustees officially approved the plan at its spring meet­ing. 
ND administrator chosen as next SMC President 
After a nine-month search follow­
ing the retirement of Saint Mary's 
President Marilou Eldred, the 
College's Board of Trustees found its 
next leader across the street. 
Notre Dame vice president and associate provost Carol Mooney was officially selected as the 11th presi­dent of the College on Dec. 26, after a Saint Mary's search committee worked in tandem with executive search firm Korn!Ferry International to invite four candidates to campus in November. During their visits, Mooney and the other candidates ­Gail Baker, vice president of public relations at the University of Florida; Josefina Baltodano, executive vice president for strategic planning at Alliant International University; and Susan Keys, an administrator at Johns Hopkins University-met with faculty, staff and students to solicit feedback for the committee. 
Mooney, a 1972 graduate of Saint Mary's, received high praise from administrators at Notre Dame when they learned of her departure after seven years in the provost's office. She will take office June 1. 
Juniper Road 
When Notre Dame unveiled its plans to close Juniper Road in January, the proposal was met with applause from the University commu­nity but resistance and skepticism from many South Bend residents. But through a series of town meetings designed to hear and incorporate the residents' opinions, Notre Dame expressed the importance of commu­nity input as it finalized the plan ­closing Juniper in a move toward a safer pedestrian campus. 
Equally important in the proposal was maintaining a relatively small campus size, as the University could construct new buildings, such as two new residence halls, in the space the street occupies instead of being forced to expand its boundaries. 
The proposal would redirect 


Donald Dykes is acquitted of Notre Dame unveils its proposal
October29

rape, conspiracy to commit to dose Road.
The late Joan Kroc leaves
rape and sexual battery. 
$50 million to the Kroc institute for peace studies. 



December26 October 
Carol Mooney is named the 11th "Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise," 
president of Saint Mary's College. the University's new 10-year strategic plan is presented to the Board of Trustees. 

February 27 The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops discloses two reports detailing nearly 11,000 child sexual abuse allegations made against priests since 1950. Bishop D' arcy of the Ft. Wayne-South Bend diocese is complimented for his cooperation throughout the scandal. 
March 17 
A Notre Dame senior falls from a second floor balcony at College Park, prompting police to make six arrests. 


Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW page 7 
New 10-year plan released. Saint Mary's elects new president. Malloy steps down as Notre Dame president. 
e 
e 


ID ev1ew 
•2004 
Juniper's traffic -which typically includes 8,100 vehicles a day-to a new four-lane road that would run between Edison and Douglas Roads near Ivy Road. University Architect Doug Marsh explained further details, including modifications to Edison and Douglas Roads in April. 
The St. Joseph County Council heard a presentation from Notre Dame on May 11 and could vote to finalize the plan as early as their June 8 meeting. And unlike previous discussions about closing Juniper, the University intends to finance all improvements. 
Student Govt. restructuring 
The work of the student union this year was primarily occupied with its own restructuring. 
In recent years, student govern­ment's performance had suffered due to poor communication and an ineffi­cient organizational structure. During student body president Pat Hallahan's report to the Board of Trustees in October, several board members asked that student leaders eliminate ineffi­ciencies in the student union before bringing significant requests to the trustees. 
In proposals that began to emerge early in the first semester, student leaders agreed to rework the two major bodies of the student union, pol­icy and programming. Executive Cabinet became the Council of Representatives, reflecting its composi­tion of the top members of all student government bodies. Over the course of the spring semester, the council worked to produce a completely over­hauled student body constitution that details the responsibilities of those bodies. 
The result was a constitution, approved March 31, that provides for more representation of the student body, as well as improved communica­tion across student government. 
The Campus Programming Council will now function with representatives from each residence hall to avoid scheduling conflicts, a problem often experienced by its Student Union Board predecessor. 
Student leaders also cut thousands of dollars in spending from the policy side, aiming to create a leaner student union that can more effectively com­municate students' concerns to the University's administrators and trustees. 
Gay? Fine By Me. 
Despite Notre Dame students' reputa­tion for apathy, another reputation ­that they live on the most homophobic campus in the United States, according to The Princeton Review -proved alarming enough for the largest show of dissent toward a University stance in recent memory. 
On March 18, approximately 1,700 blaze orange T -shirts with the message "Gay? Fine by Me" were distributed to students and scattered faculty mem­bers. Not only did the shirts represent full support and acceptance of homo­sexual members of the campus com­munity, the show of solidarity also aimed to point out the discrepancy between the students' opinions and the administration's policies. 
Two policies in particular were ques­tioned -the University's March 4 refusal to recognize the proposed gay/straight alliance United in Diversity and its sustained rejection of sexual orientation as a category in its official non-discrimination clause. 
Though neither policy was changed as a result of the students' efforts ­which also included inviting Boston College's director of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Issues to speak on campus and holding a second day to wear the shirts on April 21 ­their initiative created a University­wide dialogue about homosexuality, Catholicism and Notre Dame's role to mediate between them. 
Taco Bell 

Alleged discrimination against homosexuals was not the only University stance that sparked pas­sionate student opposition in 2004. The athletic department's contract with local Taco Bell restaurants also came under fire, albeit from far fewer public demonstrators. 
Members of the Progressive Student Alliance began to publicize their dis­like of the $50,000 sponsorship agree­ment during the National Student Week of Action in early April, deliver­ing letters to University President Father Edward Malloy's office. Demanding that the administration issue a statement against renewing the contract because of alleged unfair wages and labor standards held by the corporation's tomato providers, the letters promised that students would continue to fast until Notre Dame spoke publicly. 
After approximately 30 students approached Malloy's office in person April 14, Vice President and General Counsel Carol Kaesebier -who had been in contact with both the PSA and Taco Bell's parent company, Yum! Brands Inc., since the fall -placed several follow-up calls to Taco Bell. 
When the University did not receive specific and timely answers, Notre Dame issued a public statement April 27 that postponed renewing the con­tract and expanding it to $75,000 by next fall until Taco Bell delivers a sat­isfactory response. 
Monk to move on, Jenkins elected successor 
When Father Theodore Hesburgh decided his term as University President was nearing its close, the search for his replacement unfolded before a public audience. Input came from administrators, faculty and even a student committee as the Board of Trustees narrowed the field to five can­didates before its much-anticipated decision in November 1986. Even before he was officially named Hesburgh's successor, Malloy was already in the public eye -having been announced as the next president in a controversial Chicago Tribune arti­cle twelve days earlier. 
But when Malloy made his own choice to step down -announcing at the board's April 30 meeting his intent to retire in July 2005 after he serves his 18th year as president -the change seemed to come out of nowhere. While Malloy informed the Board in October 2003 that he wanted to step down after his current term and said in an April 23 Observer article that he was not seeking to stay on, the search process stayed behind closed doors. A committee met in January, February, March and April, Board Chairman Patrick McCartan confirmed, and chose Father John Jenkins from among several candidates. 
The 50-year old Jenkins, a current vice president and associate provost and former religious superior of priests and brothers at Notre Dame, will have 14 months to absorb Malloy's experi­ence as he prepares to become the University's 17th president. 
Executive VP saga resolved 
The year-long vacancy in the position of executive vice president was finally resolved April 30 when the Board of Trustees elected John Affleck-Graves, whose appointment was immediate. 
The hole in the University's third­highest leadership slot had existed since Father Timothy Scully resigned in May 2003. Scully, whose resignation preempted a scheduled Board report clearing him of wrongdoing dating back to a confrontation with a WNDU reporter and cameraman in January of that year, remained a political science professor but left his duties to Malloy. 
In a decision delayed to coincide with the appointment of Jenkins -who, fol­lowing the traditionally close ties between president and executive vice president, offered his formal and infor­mal endorsement for Affleck-Graves ­the 53-year old South Africa native became the first layman in University history to hold the position. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Apri121 ;··· Students and facult)i again don their "Gay? Fine by Me." T-shirts. 
April.!?.... ..........•.. 
ThePiiiversity announces in a public statement that negotiations have been pos•tponed vdth Taco.Bell. 

April 30 ...The Board of trustees elects Johri Affleck• Graves to assume the post ofexecutivevice 
president after a year-long vacancy in the 
p~ition. 
page 8 Saturday, August 21 , 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

for the 2004-2005 Academic Year 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 
Ms. Ann Firth  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C.  Mr. William Kirk  Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F.  Dr. G. David Moss  
Associate VP for Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  Associate VP for Residence Life  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  
316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  
631-2685  631-5550  631-6144  631-5550  631-5550  
Ms. Jennifer Monahan  

Executive Assistant to the Vice President 316 Main Building 631-5550 
ALCHOHOL &DRUG EDUCATION CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Ms. Gina Firth. Director Rev. Richard V. Warner. C.S.C.. Director 311laFortune Student Center 316 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7970 631-7800 
CAREER CENTER INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES &ACTIVITIES 
Mr. lee Svete. Director Mr. Bong Miquiabas. Director 248 Flanner Hall 204 LaFortune Student Center 631-5200 631-3825 
MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGRAMS &SERVICES RESIDENCE LIFE &HOUSING 
Ms. Iris Outlaw. Director Mr. Jeffrey Shoup. Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 305 Main Building 631-6841 631-5878 
SECURITY STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
Mr. Rex Rakow. Director Mr. Brian Coughlin. Director 101 ESecurity Building 315 LaFortune Student Center 631-5555 631-7308 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
Ms. Ann E. Kleva. Director Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich. Director 217 Student Health Center 322 Student Health Center 631-7497 631-7336 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Housing 
continued from page 1 
raise many double occupancy rooms to triples. 
"We've had this problem in the past, and it's about the same this year for the men, but it's more pronounced in the women's dorms this year," director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing Jeff Shoup said. "The men still have a few lounges available, but for the women, we've had to use study lounges we've never used before for new student housing, and had to bump many rooms to an occu­pancy level that they haven't been at for a few years." 
Because room sizes vary markedly from hall to hall, ResLife had to go through each lounge individually to 
determine whether they could be converted, or if there was space for another set of furni­ture. 
"We wanted it to be a situa­tion where we could easily convert the room back, so you have to make minimal changes while making it a liv­able space," Shoup said. "It was generally pretty easy, because you add an extra set of furniture, and put a little bit of work into the built-in carrels." 
Walsh and Breen-Phillips were the only two women's halls to escape the crunch, explained Shoup, but only because the size and configu­ration of the rooms made the chanJes impossible. 
The former study lounges are, on average, smaller than normal rooms and lack sinks, so many were set aside for upperclassmen who floated for a single. 
Shoup said freshmen are more likely to end up in increased occupancy rooms, though without their hall staff informing them of their situa­tion, they won't know the dif­ference. 
Response from the rectors have been mixed, said Shoup, with some expressing signifi­cant concerns about stretch­ing space to the limit, and others accepting the fact there is no other feasible option. 
"I'm not any more con­cerned than I was last year when my study lounges were converted, but we'll deal with it," Welsh Family rector Candace Carson said. "You know what they say, the more the merrier." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@r .edu 

FreshiDen 
continued from page 1 
Dame." 

"If we effectively tell the story of a faith-filled com­munity, bright students who love community service, who have a certain spirit about them, then the right stu­dents will hear the story and want to be part of it," he said, highlighting the 92 
percent of incoming fresh­men who par­ticipated in high school community service -and more impor­tantly, the more than 80 percent who plan to continue volun­teering at Notre Dame. 
"Too often, when people talk about a class, they just 

"If you brag too with a black 
football

much about the 
team." 

class, it's like a "One of my hospital bragging goals is to 
blast those

about the health of 
stereotypes,"

the patients he said. coming in. "Why don't you let the black stu­
Dan Saracino 
dents make 

director of admissions 
that deci­

look at test scores, and it really is a great disservice to students because they're so much more," Saracino said. 
Not that the class of 2008 doesn't have plenty of num­bers to brag about. 
The average freshman enters the University this year having ranked in the top 5. 5 percent of his or her high school class, and with a mean SAT score of 1367 and ACT score of 32 in tow. Seventy-three percent of the class also earned Advanced Placement credit. 
Amid such impressive sta­tistics, however, is one num­ber that Notre Dame does not find as satisfying. Only 22 percent of the class of 2008 comes from an ethnic minority background, a one 
percent increase over the 
previous  class  but  still  
nowhere  near  the  
University's target.  

"If we want to claim we're educating the leaders of tomorrow, or the Catholic leaders of tomorrow, it's not accurate with a 21, 22 per­cent minority [population]." Saracino said, dismissing the excuses that minority students aren't interested in Notre Dame because it lacks an urban setting, or because of its reputa­tion as "a white school 
sion?" 
While Sara­cino identified another of the University's goals as moving "further and further away from having a photo­graph" that represents the typical Notre Dame student, a composite picture of the class of 2008 does emerge: 
+ 
Eighty-two percent of enrolled freshmen are Catholic. 

+ 
Twenty-two percent are children of alumni. 

+ 
Seventy-five percent par­ticipated in varsity athletics. 

+ 
Twenty-three percent are children of educators. 

+ 
Thirty-five percent ranked in the top five in their class. 

+ 
Fifty-two percent partici­pated in the performing arts. 


Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Welcome Back, ~tudents! 
Whatever your financial needs, we are always as 
~ 
close as wwwMndfcu.. org 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREOrT UNION Yoo can bonk on us to be better 
514/631·!222 • www.ndku -1tg 



Business 
continued from page 1 
nesses is one of the year's biggest. 
''The impact for our store is incredibly high," said Scott Giese, assistant manager for the Super Target store on University Park Drive. "Our sales peak this week and early next.' 
Both Meijer and Target said they began to see students in early August 
through early "We typically build September. extra displays. Eighty 
Tharp said the 

percent ofeverything
back-to-college weekend was the in [the} center aisles store's second 
is for back-to-school." 
biggest impact period after the 
Bob Tharp 
Christmas sea­son. Meijer typi-Meijer assistant manager 
cally begins planning for col­lege move-in weekend several weeks before the majority of students arrive in South Bend. The store stocks up on com­mon dorm room items such as hangers, pillows, sheets and notebooks as well as food items such as bottled water and ramen noodles. 
"We typically build extra dis­plays," Tharp said. "Eighty percent of everything in [the] center aisles is for back-to­school." 
Tharp also said bakery items had been especially popular this year with parents moving students in. 
Super Target coordinates its back-to-school strategy at the corporate level and uses sales from the previous year to plan future marketing strategies Giese said. This year, the store sent about 13,000 back-to­school flyers to the Notre Dame campus. 
In addition to offering poten­tial shoppers plenty of dorm essentials, Meijer also plans a variety of special promotions specifically targeted at college students. 
"On Saturday we're going to 
have karaoke," said Trish Swartz, back­to-school coor­dinator for the Grape Road Meijer. "On Sunday we're going to do our ever-popular goldfish eating contest." 
Students seeking con­venience also 
have the option of stopping by 
the student government-spon­
sored Fall Mall in the Stepan 
Center, which offers Notre 
Dame students a variety of 
dorm supplies from local 
stores. Bed, Bath, and Beyond 
has participated for the last 
several years, said assistant 
manager Doug Sibberson. 
Since the store opened six 
years ago, Sibberson said his -store has seen a gradual increase in the number of stu­dents shopping at Bed, Bath 
and Beyond. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

page 10 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 21, 2004 



PPlek·UP Tlekii.PIII:IUID 
ND On-Campus Undergrad (except Freshmen) In vour mailbox 
I 
ND First Year Students On .August 22 at 6:00p.m. in the Joyce Center 
ND Off..Campus Undergrads On EnroJlment Monday at the Stadium Box Office 
ND Law/?villA/Grad From your college Saint Mary's students FromS:MC 
OblaiDJIUflllllnnumber•EDI'III•aot S llldBJ,AIUIID,Ia•-tnll, ...................·· .. ·..... IDXIIftce 
Students will be seated by class. Each student may bring up to SIX applications. You MUST have a lottery number in consecutive numerical order with your group in order to be able to sit with them. 
The starting lottery number will be drawn at 8:30p.m. on Monday, August 23. E~mail andphone announcements will be made following the lottery ofthe number. The sequence number can also befound at sao.nd.edu after 9:00p.m. To reflect the smaller class size, Law/MBA/Grad students will have aseparate lottery number. 

Purchase vour •ason dckets atleStadlu• Bax Otnca 
Guidelines for Ticket Distribution Schedule: If your number is -within: 
*400 of the selected n1Ullber, show up at start time 
*400-800 of the selected lottery number, show up 20 minutes past start time 
*800-1200 of the selected lottery number, show up 40 minutes past start time 
*1200-1600 of the selected lottery number, show up 1hour past start time 
*Ifyou have no seating pteference or no lottery number, show up 3 hours after start time 
Check calendar belowtor stan times bv class 
Bring Ticket Applications and I.D.s. Cashor checks only. Checks must have the studenfs phone number on them! Each student may bring up to six I.D.s. 

time for ticket purchases at the Notre Dame Stadium Box Office. 
time for ticket purchases at the Notre Dame Stadium Box Office. 
1:00pm Law/MBA/Grad start time for ticket purchases at the Notre Dame Stadium Box Office. 
start time for ticket purehases at the Notre Dame Stadium Box Office. 
1:OOpm FRESHMAN start time for ticket purchases at the Notre Dame Stadium Box Office. 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 page 11
The Observer + NEWS 


Freshmen ROTC cadets test their new skills during training week.
•
PHOTOS COURTESY OF ARMY ROTC 
ROTC conducts frosh training on catnpus 
By ]EN ROWLING 
News Writer 
From waking up at dawn for intense training to bonding over pizza parties in the evening, freshman ROTC cadets collaborated on cam­pus for the first time this week. 
Comprised of students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Indiana University-South Bend, Bethel College and Valparaiso, the three ROTC divisions -Air Force, Army and Navy ­facilitated individual orienta­tion week schedules. 
Thirteen Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students com­pose this year's freshmen Army ROTC class. While their orientation began with the issuance of cadet uniforms, a pizza party and a game of football, the excitement was soon replaced with physical training at 5:30 a.m. the next morning. Endurance activi­ties, including rock climbing and rope climbing across St. Mary's Lake, challenged the young cadets. A Humvee mili­tary vehicle equipped with a missile launcher, machine gun and grenade launcher was also on display for the incom­ing class. Throughout the week, freshmen learned important skills with gas masks, hand grenades, cam­ouflage and night vision. 
"When the freshmen first got here, they were shy, [but] as the week went by they opened up," said Army Second Lieutenant Mike Bielecki. "They do have trouble getting up early -it is a big change from high school sleeping in." 
Commander Mike Zenk of the Air Force division said incoming freshmen are required to take a standard­ized test similar to the SAT. This assessment includes evaluation on pilot and navi­gation skills. 
"They seem like a good motivated group of students, I have seen progress in just a few days," Zenk said regard­ing the incoming Air Force class which includes approxi­mately 30 students from SMC and ND. 
Cadets appeared anxious and excited about their new positions in ROTC. 
"I want to become an officer, I will probably end up making a career out of it," said Lance Lovejoy of the Army division. 
"I am having a blast," said Hayden Piscal of the Army division. "The army will teach me important leadership and discipline skills assisting me in whatever I decide to do with my life." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu.edu 

STUDENT COMPUTING SERVICES 
EVENTS SCHEDULE AUGUST 2004 
INFORMATION FAIR 
INCOMING FRESHMEN Attend this Q&A on Saturday, August 21, 4:30p-6:00p in Rooms 116 and 
117 DeBartolo Hall. Members of the OIT staff will be on hand to answer questions about student computing at Notre Dame. 

RESNET FAIR 
NEW STUDENTS 

The ResNet Configuration Fair provides computing assistance for all Notre Dame students living in residence halls on campus. Please visit http://oit.nd.edu/start/resnet.Jair.shtml to find out when we will be in 

INFORMATION FAIR 
TRANSFER STUDENTS 
Scheduled for Saturday. August 21, I:OOp-3:00p in Room 200 Main Building. This event will provide students transferring from another college or university to Notre Dame to learn about campus computing services. 

SOLUTIONS CENTER SALE 
NEW STUDENTS 
learn about new computer equipment and purchase laptops and accessories at Notre Dame's on-campus store. THURSDAY August 19 9:00a-6:00p FRIDAY August 20 9:00a-6:00p SATURDAY August 21 9:00a-12:00 noon SUNDAY August 22 I:OOp-S:OOp 

IT SECURITY SESSIONS 
NEW STUDENTS 
Mandatory 30-minute Security Information Sessions will be held for incoming students on Monday, August 23 in Rooms 141 and 155 DeBartolo Hall. Sessions will start every 15 minutes during the period 9:00a-4:45p. 

CONTACT INFORMATION 
OIT HELP DESK 
Phone: 574.631.8111 Email: oithelp@ nd.edu 
SOlUTIONS CENTER 
Phone: 57.4.631.7477 Email: solution@ nd.edu 
~· ----­
page 12 Saturday, August 21, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




WIN PRIZES: 
Sonv Plavstation2 MSU tootballtix TheShowtix 
and much more... 


MONDAY, AUG 23 4:30pm-6:30pm 

Presented by the Student Activities Office and the departments, organizations and business~s_Qf_t_be__Lafortune..Student.Center-----­
·------------------­

Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 13 

percent of the class of 2008 are children of alumnae. 
Although 7 5 percent of Saint Mary's students come from the Midwest, the incom­ing freshman class will repre­sent 34 states and two foreign countries -Afghanistan and Bulgaria. 
"The Saint Mary's commu­nity looks forward to the con­tributions that the class of 2008 will make at the College and in the world far beyond our campus," said Nolan. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 
SMC 
continued from page I 
analyzed the data from the College Board Admitted Student Questionnaire, which will help the College learn more about perspective stu­dents' choices. 
But despite weaker num­bers. the class of 2008 is aca­demically strong. 
"Our new students bring diverse interests, skills and talents. These women are artists, athletes, scholars, 
CLASS OF 2008 
musicians, student leader and community volunteers," Nolan said. 
The middle 50 percent SAT range for the class of 2008 was 530 to 610 on verbal and 510 to 630 on math, and a middle 50 percent score of 22 to 27 on the ACT. 
The middle 50 percent had a final grade point average of 
3.38 to 3.9, with ranking in the top 21 percent of their classes. 
Seven women were valedic­torians of their high school graduating class and three were salutatorians. About 21 
Move-In 
continued from page I 
only freshmen I have interacted with so far are the ones who have moved in recently that I've seen walking around the dorm. It will be nice when everyone gets here." 
Breen-Phillips freshman Adrianna Stasiuk, a volleyball player from Park Ridge, Ill., agreed. 
"Now that people are starting to arrive, it's getting more and more exciting," she said. 
Stasiuk, who has been on campus since Aug. 9 for volley­ball practice, said a certain amount of trepidation goes hand-in-hand with anticipation for newly arrived freshmen. 
"Being away from home for the first time is always intimi­dating," she said. 
As of Thursday, Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions expected 1,991 freshmen to arrive on campus for the 2004-05 academic year. While the majority of incoming students hail from the Midwestern United States, 89 will converge under the Dome from locales abroad. 
One such student, Gritzman's Stanford hallmate Hudson Sullivan, arrived on campus Wednesday after a seven-hour drive from Toronto. 
''I'm a bit nervous," he said, echoing the sentiments of many of his freshman colleagues. "I was so excited, but we were in the car on our way here, and all these questions come up ... and then when I saw the room, I thought, 'This is so small' ­it's smaller than my room at home!" 
Sullivan, an avid hockey play­er, already has plans to join his dorm's interhall hockey team. A sports fan, it was the school pride he observed in the Notre Dame student body during his two campus visits that sold him on the university. 
"Everything was so intense down here. Everyone gets involved," he said, remember­ing scenes of students across campus attired from head to toe in Irish gear. 
"It was that atmosphere that was really attractive to me," Sullivan said. "l knew those were the kinds of people that I wanted to be around for the next four years." 
ln dorm rooms across cam-

A Keough Frosh-0 staffer helps unload Thursday. 
pus, incoming freshmen will continue to run the gamut of emotions from excitement to apprehension this weekend in variations of the same scene over and over again. 
Across U.S. 31 at Saint Mary's College, the feeling among freshmen is very much the same. 
"The best thing is watching them walk up to the dorm," said Holy Cross Hall resident assistant Jill Vlasek, who spent most of Thursday morning behind the welcome table inside the dorm's foyer. "You can see everything on their face. You can see all that they're going through." 
From 8 a.m. to around 5 p.m. Thursday, Saint Mary's fresh­men were greeted by orange­clad welcome staff members waving and blowing bubbles at the College's stone-walled main entrance. They entered their new homes for the first time, meeting hall staff, roommates and the people with whom they will share their lives for the next nine months. 
''I'm really excited, because my roommate is phenomenal," said Holy Cross Hall resident Rachael Schermitzler, a fresh­man from Buffalo Grove, Ill. "Both of us have clicked at once." 
The first in her family to attend Saint Mary's, Schermitzler said she is enthu­siastic about beginning her year at the College. 
"My roommate is a legacy ... I'm new and she's old here, and that's a great combination," she said. 
McCandless Hall roommates Elizabeth Johnson and Anita Moo, both the first in their fam­ilies to attend Saint Mary's, were equally enthusiastic about their decision to join the College's 351-strong class of 2008. 
"When I checked it out, it was just so pretty," Johnson, a prospective nursing student from Fort Wayne, Ind., said. 
Her roommate agreed, adding that only hours into her arrival on campus, she was confident in her answer to the question her Saint Mary's and Notre Dame counterparts will inevitably try to answer them­selves. Becoming a Belle, she said, was the right decision for her. 
"It's hard to know. but when you're here, you just know," Moo said. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@od.edu 


•CARPET 
•VINYL 
NOTRE DAME 
Students by region 
Midwest 847 ·.:::::::::::::::::::· ~~rrrfi~Northeast 431 
ll'~;~t 
230 • Southeast 228 • Southwest 166 I Outside the U.S. 89 
Students by gender
-l::tiiBiiiiii!III:::::::ilii:; SAINT MARY'S 
Students by region 
Northeast 4 Outside the U.S. 2 

•WOOD •CERAMIC 
•AREA RUGS 

Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 
tum right for the best deals on carpet.

50% OFF 

MON.-FRI 9:oo-8:30 SAT. 9:00.5:30
277-9711 
·SUN. 1:0();;5:30 

Douglas Road east to Grape, tum right (south) onto Grape Road, 3/2 mae on left at stoplight. 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

wattt a futon for those aftemoon naps? need soi\te carpet for that floor? a few posters for the wall? look no further that1 SUJ~s annual... 

Stepan Center ... located east of the new securHy buildit1g ot1 the raorth side of ca~t~pus 
going OFF cai\tpus to get your dorrrt supplies? don"t bother! everything yOu need is convenierrliy located ON cat~tpus! 
cotMe see all the great deals frotM 
"s ·~.lub$ Jed Jath attd Jeyottd, Jeyottd the Walt and Ca eta d file Pep 
August 19th -Noon -1pi\t August tOth -latH -7pt~t August tlst -latH -7pt~t August Und -Noon -Spt~t 
brought to you by the student union board. www.nd.edu/-sub 


~--------~--­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 21, 2004 page 15 
THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MattLnar 

MANAGlNG EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Meghanne Downes Lori LeWalski 
AssT. MANAGlNG EDITOR Joe Hettler 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWJ>OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vahulas SPOIITS EDITOR: Heather Yllll Hoegacden 
ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smirh IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin: SAINT MARY's EDrroR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kdley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 

AoVEimSlNG MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTilMS AoMINtSTRATORl Mary ADen BuSlN£55 MANAGER: Mike Flanagan CoNTROLLER: Paula Gatcia·•·. 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL IMFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Eight weeks. What I did not know was how much my that Christmas break -my parents and I 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 It doesn't seem like a long time, but parents' lives had changed as well. had a new relationship. MANAGING EDITDR eight weeks changed my life. I found that my mother had not cooked Sure, we were still parents and child, 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu I didn't realize at the time what was a single meal in eight weeks -that is, of but we were also friends. The argu­
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOfl 

happening; I never even anticipated that course, until the night when I came home ments, discussions and secrets that rid­
(574) 631-4324 

it would. to my favorite meal of green bean casse­dled my high school years had faded
BUSINESS OFFICE 

In eight weeks I role and chicken and rice with mush­away.
(574) 631-5313 

NEWS DESK had begrudgingly rooms. While I had grown and changed that 
(574) 631·5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu become accus­I discovered that after holding on to me fall, they came to accept that I was grow­VIEWPOINT DESk tomed to the idea tightly, shuflling me back to the car and ing up and we both realized the dynam­
(574} 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 

of showering with pleading with me to come home, my par­ics of our relationship had changed for­
SPORTS DESK 

flip-flops and ents had driven the 92 miles back to ever.
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu 

adapted my only­Chicago in silence with tears in their When my mom and I made chocolate 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 
631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu child lifestyle to eyes. chip cookies for Christmas, she did not SAINT MARY'S DESK incorporate living I learned that each time they called my cry and she did not tell me I had to stay 

(574) 
631-4324 smd@nd.cdu with a roommate. room and I was not there, their worry at home. But she did eagerly ask me to 


PHOTO DESK 

In eight weeks I level rose five notches. explain in detail-just like "one of the 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 

had cautiously For the next nine days of fall break, my girls" -everything that had happened
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

(574) 631-8839 shed my shy parents tried to talk me out of returning since fall break. demeanor and to Notre Dame. My dad tried to lay one of My dad no longer tried to control every passed through the his infamous guilt trips on me, saying, aspect of my life -granted, he still likes 
OBSERVERONLINE doorway into a "Now you don't really want to leave, do to have a say in my decisions -and www.ndsmcobserver.com sweaty 11-x-14 you? What's better than being at home?'' what used to be unbearable one-sided room blaring Bon Jovi's "Livin' On A My mom even tried to bribe me when, discussions became actual conversations. POLICIES Prayer" -a scene known only as a as mother and daughter, we baked I did not realize in August 2001 that The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper freshman dorm party -and eaten my chocolate chip cookies together for the what I know now was even possible ­published in print and online by the students of the first chocolate-chip cookie ever (sparking first time. As the mother, she reasoned, that eight weeks would change not just
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
a mini-obsession with everything of the she could tell me what to do. As the my life, but my parents' as well. 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
chocolate-chip cookie nature). daughter, I would have to listen. Sure, my parents still struggle with me 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
In eight weeks I had seamlessly per­As fall break drew to leaving for school and 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
fected the art of pulling all-nighters for a close, my dad sur­they still regard me as
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as my first round of midterms and haphaz­prised me with a trip "In eight weeks I had their little girl. possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of ardly balanced classes, intramural flag to Krispy Kreme cautiously shed my shy Just last Sunday, my the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, football (this a feat in itself, given I am (though it's one of my mom gave me her
demeanor and passed
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. quite possibly the most un-athletic per­favorite guilty pleas­habitual bear hug and Commentaries, letters and columns present the views son at Notre Dame) and working at this ures, he is not the through the doorway into shuffie-shuflle saying, 
of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe newspaper. biggest fan). As we a sweaty I I -x-I4 room "C'mon just get back Observer. 
But in these eight weeks I had not drove to my doughnut in the car, come home
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free blaring Bon Jovi's "Livin'
anticipated that as I carefully charted my mecca he told me with me, you don't 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include own course in life, independent from that something I had heard On a Prayer"-a scene need to go back. You contact infOrmation. of my family and home that I left behind, countless times before, known only as a freshman are growing up too that the world I left behind was changing but that now had a fast."
dorm party -and eaten 
~ticns regarding Observerpolicies shrudd be as well. different impact. Three years later, as directed to Ediwr in G"hiefMtttt Lozar. Before that Friday morning in mid­As he told me he my first chocolate chip I stare with bewil­August three years ago when my parents loved me, I immedi­cookie ever. " dered eyes at my sen­POST OFFICE INFORMATION and I loaded up the family conversion ately responded that I ior year and beyond Th, 0~ (USPS 59'12-4000) is puhhsho.l Monday th<ottgh l'tiohy ""'J><Jurl"ll van with more stuff than could fit in my loved him too, but he that my future, I have eum and V20ltiPn pentl(k A sub.Gtiptim'l rn-The O!arvt:t"is. $100 fot one ~tt 
yar: $~'5 lOr oJK 5mlGter. miniscule dorm room and headed to stopped me mid-sentence and said-as collected countless unforgettable memo­
The: C'llntrvct is publi~ a;t; Notre Dame, everything had been about most parents do -he loved me more. He ries but hold dearest my unexpected new 024 Sduth Diffin& Hall Scnr.l ~dtt» .rnrr~dmu tQ! ~11tt Dame, JN 46~~(1-0719 l'boO~ 
me and only me. About me getting into said though he loved me, it hurt him to friendship. While I will leave behind the ~rkJJ~cal po..~ug.r-patd a1 Nu~re 0aS'I1f' PO.&.Q college. About me graduating from high see me leave and he would prefer to keep flag football field (probably a great idea), 
lllld .~~ddJ~itm.d mailmt nftk~ oi4 SouthDinll1(l H,;ll No•t1'>o...;1~ 445~6'tm9 school. About me preparing to go to me a little girl forever, he knew Notre the dorm parties and the all-night study 
Notre Dame. Dame was the place for me. sessions, I will never have to say goodbye 
·rta Ob~ i:J • member of the J\uocl.a{td l"m5. All rtprod.uc:timJ rights: aJ'(: 
,.,,,,,,~. 
Then came eight weeks of me trying to Eight more weeks later, with my first to the life-changing-mine and theirs ­define me. semester as a college student behind me, effects of those eight weeks. Eight Fridays after the first one in I returned home once again. August I found myself sitting at my own This time things were just a little differ­Meghanne Downes is a senior political 
TODAY'S STAFF 

kitchen table during fall break eagerly ent. science and peace studies double major relaying stories about college life to my Much to my disappointment, I discov­with a journalism minor. An only child 
News Sports 

parents. ered that the dog-a rather large and hailing from Chicago, she never had a
Amanda Michaels Heather Van 
It was then that I saw the look in my unruly German Shepherd named Bailey cookie until the first week offreshman Angela Saoud Hoegarden father's eyes -a sentiment that could -had essentially replaced me in the year. Thanks to the endless encourage­Teresa Fralish Justin Schuver not be detected through an e-mail or Downes household. My mom goes shop­ment and persistance ofher roommates, phone call. ping for her and buys her toys. My dad she continues to discover other foods 
Viewpoint Pat Leonard 
I knew that my college experience (who learned early on that I was not the such as tacos, cucumbers, Thai food, 
Maureen Reynolds Dan Tapetillo 
would be bittersweet for my parents -most coordinated person in the world) peanut butter andjelly and most recent­
Sarah Vabulas Ann Loughery 
they would be happy to see me experi­taught her to play catch with a basket­ly, the pita. Contact Meghanne Downes Graphics Scene encing new things, but they would be sad ball. And both of my parents decided that at mdownesl@nd.edu. Mike Harkins Maria Smith to see me leave and know that I was hav­my room should now be hers. The views expressed in this column are ing these experiences without them there But there was a much more important those ofthe author and not necessarily 
illustrator 

to guide me. discovery that I came face to face with those ofThe Observer. 
Katie Knorr 




....----~--------------------­
--~------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 16 Saturday, August 21, 2004 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2008 
Welcome to Notre Dame. You will find that we have a beautiful campus and a talented faculty. If you take advantage of the many opportunities that we have here, I am confident that you will grow in every way as a thoughtful and reflec­tive person preparing to make your way in the world. We are very proud of our 
residence tradition on campus and the many activities avail­able for you to use your God given talents in leadership and service. 
It is my hope that during your time with us you will make some of the best friends of your life. We welcome students from every State in the Union and from a wide array of for­eign countries and cultures. We are enriched by the different experiences and perspectives that you bring to our common life. 

I will have the privilege of teaching some of you in my sem­inar class. Others I will come to know through my residing Malloy in Sorin Hall. I hope to have a chance to interact with all of you in some way or another during your time at Notre Dame. 
Once again welcome to -Notre Dame! I trust that this will be a great year for all of us. All best wishes as you make this important transition and may God bless our life together. 
Father Edward A. Malloy President University of Notre Dame August 20, 2004 
On behalf of the faculty and staff at Saint Mary's College, I extend a warm welcome to the class of 2008 as well as to our transfer students. As a graduate of Saint Mary's and now its 11th president, I care deeply about this special place and about you, our students. By choosing Saint Mary's you are following in the footsteps of generations of 
remarkable women before you, and like them, your distinct talents will leave your mark on the College. 
At Saint Marys College we will challenge you. We will help you learn the extent of your capabilities and to use them well. I urge you to stretch and to take advantage of the many opportunities open to you here. With a 160 year old tradition of educating women to make a difference in the world, we provide an excellent education in the context of developing the whole person. 
As a Catholic College, we cherish intellectual pursuits because 

they enrich our understanding of God and God's creation, which in turn helps us build and sustain more just and equitable com-Mooney munities. We hope that one result of your Saint Mary's education is that you develop a sense of obligation to the common good and that your life and work will reflect that understanding. 
As you and I begin our time here together, I welcome you to Saint Mary's and the greater educational community to which we belong. I hope your time here will be rich with possibilities. 
Carol Ann Mooney President Saint Mary's College August 20, 2004 

I would like to extend to you a warm welcome on behalf of all of us who work in the Division of Student Affairs the Offices of Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus Ministry, the Career Center, Counseling Center, Health Services, International Student Services and Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Security, Student Activities, and the staffs of your residence halls. Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do every­thing we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and personal growth. 
We extend a special welcome to our new stu­dents first-year students, transfer students and new graduate and professional students. We welcome back the sophomores, juniors and sen­iors, as well as the returning graduate and pro­fessional students. As a community, we draw our strength from the unique and diverse gifts offered by each of you. We hope that all of you both those who are new and those who are returning will be able to achieve the goals you set for yourselves this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's blessings. 
Father Mark Poorman Vice President for Student Aff.llrs University of Notre Dame August 20, 2004 
Welcome to the Notre Dame family. Ahead of you lies perhaps the most invigorating, exciting, and indeed forming years of your life. Get excited! The expe­riences and opportunities awaiting you are truly a gift. 
Your years at Notre Dame have a potential for greatness; make the most of your time here. The first and most impor­tant thing to remember is to always have fun. Take classes you enjoy, select a major that makes you happy, find a club or activity that excites you, surround yourself with wonderful friends, and make everything you do here something you can value and remember fondly in the years to come. 
It is the support of others that helps you accomplish your goals. Never lose sight of the true value and significant roles of your friends, family and class­mates in your life. They are the most valuable resources you have; it is they who will help you through the rough times and celebrate the amazing times. Treasure every moment with them. 
The next few years will challenge, develop and amaze you to extremes you can barely imagine possible. Never in your life will you find a place so filled with spirit, love, family, wonder and tradition. Embrace these years. The University of Notre Dame is truly an amazing and beautiful place-not only because of the breathtaking landmarks, but because of Her people. You too have been presented the opportunity to explore and embody the Tradition that is Notre Dame. We believe in you and we are all here to help you on your jour­ney. 
We wish you the best of luck. God Bless. On behalf of the Notre Dame student body, welcome home. 
Adam Istvan Notre Dame's student body president Karla Bell Notre Dame's student body vice president August20,2004 
Welcome to Saint Mary's College! We are all so pleased that you made the choice to attend Saint Mary's and know that you will indeed find your home away from home with us. You are begin­ning a journey that will last far longer than four years. This next step in your intellectual growth and personal develop­ment will provide the foundation for you as you establish learning habits that will last a lifetime. You will be challenged to be a woman of distinction. That distinction will have a different meaning for each of you. You will find your leadership skills sharpened every day through your interaction with faculty, staff, administrators and your student peers. You will explore new academic subjects that will open doors to worlds you never consid­ered. As a Catholic college we honor and respect the 
journey each of us makes as we find God's grace in our lives. We will support you as you explore the hard questions of faith and we will cele­brate the answers with you as you form them. 
In between all these opportunities you will have fun! There are so many activities, clubs, organizations and athletic events to attend. You will have no problem finding ways to exer­cise your Belles school spirit on campus. And. you will have the opportunity to join your col­leagues at the University of Notre Dame and 
Holy Cross College for their activities too. 
Reflect on the knowledge that thousands of women have walked these same paths and halls before you. They like you, are women of faith 
who came here to develop the talents God had given them so that they could make a difference in the world. You will benefit from their legacy and experience and you will add to the legacy that is Saint Mary's College. 
Linda limm Vice President for Student Aff.Urs Saint Mary's College August 20, 2004 
On behalf of the Saint Mary's student body, it is our pleasure towel­come you into our community. During your time at Saint Mary's, you will 
experience challenges and achievements. You will encounter new ideas, receive new opportunities, and shape new dreams. Yet, more importantly you will grow at col­lege surrounded by those who will inspire you to believe in yourself! 
You have arrived at an exciting time in our college's history. With our new president, a new student. center and new apartments, your years here will allow each of you to engage in the opportunities they will offer. Furthermore, you will have a role in shap­ing their future. 
Over the next four years, you will have the chance to grow in an environment that will expand your intellectual growth in the classroom. However, college is also a time to expand your horizons and get involved outside of the classroom. The Saint Mary's Student Government Association and numerous campus clubs offer wonderful avenues to explore and pursue. We encourage you to take advantage of these opportunities. 
We are lookjng forward to learning about you and the rest of the Class of 2008. We are confident you will treasure your first four years as a Saint Mary's woman. Please do not hesitate to contact us if we can do anything to ease your transition. Congratulations and we wish you the time of your life! Again it is a pleasure towel­come you horne. 
Sarah Catherine White Saint Mary's student body president Mary Pauline Moran Saint Mary's student body vice president August 20, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 21, 2004 
page 17 
All you need to know 
Working in the so-called "real world" in my hometown of Canton, Ohio as a reporter for the Repository newspaper taught me a very important lesson this summer -stay in college. Stay in col­lege as long as possi­ble, even if Notre Dame graduate school is $45,000. 
Anyone who's ever worked 40 hours a week (i.e. your par­ents) understands this. Just ask them. Sure, they may like their jobs (I loved my internship), but there's just some­thing to be said about staying up with friends until 4 a.m., sleeping through that worthless calcu­lus class or breaking parietals for the first time. 
College is just something that can't be duplicated -that's why it really is the best four years you'll proba­bly ever have. 
Think about it. What's your job at college? Go to class, don't flunk out and learn as much as you can from being in the classroom and, just as impor­tantly, out of it. Geez, tough job. 
Keep that in mind when you're decid­ing between going out on a Tuesday night or studying for some midterm. It's all about perspective. Grades are important, and Notre Dame is a place where you'll have to earn your As and Bs. But it's just as impor­tant to experi­ence college here for much more than the textbooks and lectures. Notre Dame has countless opportu­nities. 
As a freshman I worried about grades a lot. But as I got older, I realized that there's too much at Notre Dame to dwell on whether I get a 3.1 or a 3.3 grade point average. Plus, ask any college graduate with a job, they'll tell you grades don't matter that much. Just get a degree and have a 2.5 or higher. (Suddenly, at the same time, all freshman parents cringe and hate me for saying that. Sorry, but, it's true.) 
You won't know anyone or anything when you get to campus. That's OK. Remember, no one else does either. Be yourself, be friendly, and soon enough you'll start meeting people and making friends. 
Make sure you give this place a chance. If things don't seem too great at first, don't panic, it should get bet­ter. Some people take longer to adjust to college life than others. 
Love your dorm -even if it is Keenan. Always go to dances too, espe­cially if you're asked. As a freshman in Zahm House, the RA's gave us this advice and it's definitely something to remember. Who cares if your date isn't that cute? Her friend might be. Plus dances are just fun, whomever you go with. 

Go to the grotto as much as you can. Religious beliefs aside, it's too beauti­ful not to see every day. 
Get involved with something you love. I love college basketball and writ­ing. So some friends and I started a basketball fan club here my freshman year. l also began working for The Observer, which has opened up a lot of doors. Students even started a Texas club and a club for girls named Katie for goodness sake. The possibilities are endless. 
There are two things to never, ever do during your four years here. Don't walk on the grass on God Quad (the area in front of the Dome). I don't care that it's a football weekend and every­one else is doing it, just stay on the sidewalk. 
And please, for George Gipp's sake, don't walk up or down the staircase of the Main Building before you graduate. Ever. I mean it. Tradition says students 
should only do that once they've completed their degree at Our Lady's University. If you have already, may God have mercy on you. Finally, live every day keeping in mind that you're probably the luckiest person in the world to 
be here. Enjoy the time. There are 
thousands of kids that would give 
up so much just to have the opportu­nity you do. Not to get too sappy or corny, but it's true. 
Notre Dame isn't Harvard or Purdue. 
It's different from any other school in the country. Some aspects of the school may seem ridiculous and stu­pid -parietals, the drinking policy or the entire Frosh-0 week­end -but don't let that stuff overshadow all the good things about Notre 
Dame. This is a place people respect because of its academic and athletic reputations. Some of you might have already seen the effect the words "Notre Dame" have with other people. Almost every time I tell someone where I go to school, they seem impressed. 
There's some advice from a senior who wishes he was a freshman again. Take it for what its worth. Just learn as much as you can from the Notre Dame experience. 
And get something out of the classes, too. 
Joe Hettler is a senior marketing major and journalism minor. He's scared to death of graduating in the spring. getting a real job and not living offhis parents dollar. He claims to know more about Notre Dame football than anyone on campus and he'll prob­ably glue himself to the benches inside Notre Dame .Stadium after the last home game so he doesn't have to leave. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

If you are reading this column, you are owed a congratulations and an explanation. First, congratula­tions on being accepted to (in my opinion of course) one of the great­est colleges this 
nation has to offer. But now you need to know that your situation is one that will surely be of great adjust­ment. 
I could write today about how 

different college is Angela Saoud from high school, 
Saint Mary's 

how it's going to 
Editor

take a while before you adjust to living away from your parents, how for many of you, it will take all year to adjust to the edible delights of the dining hall. But this is not going to be that kind of column. 
The fact of the matter is this: as a student at Saint Mary's, you have an opportunity to take part in a unique college experience. Going to a small, all-female liberal arts col­lege directly across the street from a larger, co-ed university, you have the chance to utilize both campuses for your greatest benefit. 
You have essentially two choices in this matter. You can stay at Saint Mary's, meeting friends at only our institution, which is fine. But as easy as it is to pick a comfy spot in your dorm room among your mask­ing-tape-colored walls, it is worth venturing out of them occasionally. 
Because if you choose to do so, you can utilize Notre Dame as a resource to expand your horizons. Through Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, there are countless joint activities in which you can get involved. Even if you choose not to get involved in an activity, make an attempt to get over to the campus across the street. 
And don't let the fact that you actually have to cross a road get in the way. You'll hear a lot of talk about "the school across the street." But the fact of the matter is, we are part of a community, and every community requires work to be a cohesive network. 
Your college experience is going to be what you make of it. And here, you have an opportunity that I've yet to see anywhere else. Take it from me, the easy thing to do is stay in your dorm. It's easy to call your parents and your friends from home and cling to those connec­tions. It is so much harder to leave the dorm, to get out of your comfort zone, to talk to someone you might not normally talk to. But it will be so worth it. 
During my freshman year at Saint Mary's, I was content to spend most of my time there. Being from South Bend originally, I had many male friends from high school still living in town, so I told myself there was no need to befriend boys from Notre Dame. And with a boyfriend at Purdue, I figured there was real­ly no reason to get involved across the street because Saint Mary's was providing me with everything I needed at the time. 
But during the middle of my sophomore year, with many of the male friends having moved away to go to school, the relationship with my boyfriend hit a road block it never recovered from. Suddenly I found myself struggling to find relationships -any kind of rela­tionships-with the opposite sex. And it was difficult. 
Since other Saint Mary's women had taken the time to meet their guy friends early on, they had been able to grow and foster those rela­tionships. I had been left out of the loop, and I had no one to blame but myself. 
And that's when The Observer walked into my life. After spring break my sophomore year, I received a mass e-mail inviting all interested writers to attend an informational meeting to write for the paper. I had nothing to lose and a knack for writing, so I gave it a try. 
A year later, I was the Saint Mary's Editor. Through my involve­ment with the paper, I am able to spend a lot of hours weekly across the street, and have made some fabulous friends. And although I wish I had done it sooner, I have in fact done it, and it's better late than never. 
You have an amazing four years ahead of you. What you do with it is your own choice. But make sure you don't take a single moment for granted. Before you know it, you'll be gearing up for your senior year. And it will pass in the blink of an eye. 
Angela Saoud is a senior English writing major and a secondary edu­cation minor who, although she complains about things she has done, wouldn't change a thing about her college career. She is from South Bend, but resents being called a townie. Angela has no idea what job she will do or where she will live after graduation, but she will figure it out when the time comes. Contact Angela Sooud at saou0303@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 18 
Saturday, August 21 , 2004 
--~====================================================================== 
Getting out from 
A guide to food, shopping a: 
,:, Eating Late 
Nick's Patio 

One of South Bend's 24 hour hotspots for Domers and locals. Show up around 3 in the morning to catch the post­party crowd. Coffee refill limit is two cups at peak hours, but at less busy hours or if you're nice to the waiter they may be unlimited. This is also a great spot for a greasy Saturday or Sunday morning breakfast. 
Denny's 

If you find yourself needing a Lumberjack Slam breakfast in the middle of the night, think Denny's. If you're worried that late night-or very early morning-pancakes will wreak havoc on your waistline faster than you can say "Freshman Fifteen," then you'll be glad to hear that Denny's has jumped onto the low-carb bandwagon and now offers "Carb-Watch" and "Fit Fare" selections. 
Steak 'n Shake 

Like Denny's, this Midwest chain is open 24 hours and serves up steakburgors and hand-dipped milkshakes all night long. Their latest campaign, "Side-by-Side" milkshakes that combine your two favorite flavors, could be worth a try when those lines at Heckers reach Disney World lengths after pari­etals on weekends. 
Boracho Burrito 

Boraeho is such a cult favorite for students' post-midnight cuisine that you should get into the habit now of telling the cabbie to take you to this 3 a.m. hotspot for enormous burri­tos. The restaurant, which was created by recent Notre Dame graduates, is also popular for tailgates, so tell your family to order ahead for a home game. 
Weekends 
Blockbuster 

There are several Blockbuster locations around South Bend and Mishawaka, so you can take advantage of having movies and video games as entertainment if your dorm doesn't have cable TV. Henting DVDs of The Sopranos and Sex and the City might also be easier than installing that satellite dish out­side your third-floor dorm window. DVDs and VHS new releases eost $2.99 for two days. Older videos cost $.99 for five days. 
Family VIdeo 

Pamily video has lo,~ations on U.S. 31 and Main Street. The selection is similar to Blockbuster and prices may be better depending on whieh movies you want to rent. New releases are $2.00 for one night and $2.75 for five nights. Older movies rust $1 for two nights and $2 for seven nights. 
Movies 14 

If you pref1•r to catch new nicks instead of renting old ones, Movies 14 on Edison Hoad shows popular Hollywood hits. Student discount tickets cost $5.75. Go before 6:00 p.m. for $5 tickets. 
Strikes and Spares 

South Bond's newest entertainment center offers arcade games and regular and cosmic bowling. During the week before 5:00 p.m. bowling costs $15 per lane per hour for up to six people. Evening bowling costs $22 per hour, and Saturday bowling costs $25 per hour. Cosmic bowling on Fridays and Saturdays costs $30 per hour. Bowlers are eharged for the exact amount of time played. 
Beacon Bowl 

Beacon Bowl ehurges $1.89 per person per hour before 
5:00 p.m. on weekdays, and $3.09 for evenings and week­ends. Thn bowling alley is also a popular venue for dorm dances. 

Shopping 
Meijer 
It doesn't get much better than Meijer for groceries, school supplies and almost anything else you need for the dorm. It's open 24 hours and only a short drive away from campus, so stoclk up here on snack foods, posters, deaning supplies, notebooks, ete. Walmart and Target superstores nearby offer similar selections, but are less of a regional specialty. 
Martin's 
For "service and savings," Martin's Supermarket is anoth­er grocery store option. Martin's is also close to campus, so there's never a need to feel restricted by the limited selec­tion on campus. It's also cheaper than spending all your Flex points on Ben & Jerry's and Goldfish at the Huddle. 
University Park Mall 
UP Mall offers a variety of stores including Express, Abercrombie, American Eagle, The Limited, Gap, Banana Republic, Victoria's Secret, Lids, The South Bend Chocolate Factory and several department stores like Marshall Field's and L.S. Ayres. Make friends with a dormmate with a car or take the bus from Library Circle. It takes you directly to the mall to get a quiJrky SYR gift or a Cinnabon. 
_________.I 
Chicago 
The possibiliti nightlife. The d Saint Mary's lnr 
Lake Michigan 
Lake Michiga11 Drive north on { New Buffalo. H< sign for Warren 
Windsor 
Farther away trip to Canada f tions like galle1 north to get to [ 
Cedar Point 
Also quite a d Point has roller well into fall. C: signs north on l 
---·---­

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Saturday, August 21, 2004 
Page 18 
under the Dome 
d entertainment off campus 
New Flavors 
Star of India 
When you're in the mood for ethnic dishes outside of the dining hall, the Star of India serves up tasty Indian food that is also easy on the wallet. If you are unsure about what to order, go for the fantastic lunch buffet and try everything, especially the desserts, for only $6. 
La Esperanza 
If you're tired of Taco Bell chalupas or freezer Mexican food from Hacienda, try heading to La Esperanza. Whether you're looking for a jalapeno omelet or steak fajitas, the restaurant offers more authentic Mexican food at affordable prices. 
Toyo Grill 
Toyo Grill offers Japanese cuisine, especially sushi, for more adventurous eaters. The restaurant is a little on the expensive side for everyday eating, but is a tasty option for an occasional break from the dining hall. Martin's Supermarket Mikado Steakhouse on U.S, 31 also offer a selection of sushi. 
Hanayorl of Japan 
Head to the Japanese restaurant for a rare chance to see your food cooked in front of you on a hot sheet of metal. The restaurant is a little pricey, but it's worth it to see the chef make an onion volcano or toss your food through the air. If you feel like trying a spicy tuna roll or another seaweed­wrapped delicacy, Hanayori also offers sushi. 
CJ's Pub 
CJ's is famous for its burgers and is a favorite spot for stu­dents to grab a bite off campus. The pub also offers a one pound burger dubbed the Golden Dorner, a challenge to finish no matter how big your appetite is. 
Transportation 
Michlana Regional Airport 
The South Shore rail line provides an easy way to get to Chicago for flights or day trips. Tickets for the South Shore cost $9 each way. If you can't find rides to the airport, ABC Cab Company and Yellow Cab offer the best deal for more than two passengers at $12 for one and $2 for each addition­al passenger. Express Cab also offers $10 cab fare to the air­port for single passengers and $12 for two. 
Road Trips 
Taxis
es in Chicago are endless, including parks, shopping, restaurants, museums, music and 
dve is anywhere from two to three hours on 1~80. Enter the toll road from U.S. 31 by the ·.and head west to head straight into the city. 
Ace Cab Lines City Cab 
295-6886 233-2020
might not quite measure up the coasts, but it's a close second for those missing the water. .S. 31 into Michigan, turn left onto Highway 12, and drive until the highway ends to get to ,ad left into New Buffalo for the closest beach. Turn right and head north until you see a A-B-C Cabs Express Cab Dunes State Park on the right side of the road for sand dunes and camping. 
233-4000 233-6000 
but just as full of possibility, if not more, is Windsor. Two years until you're legal? Take a American Cab Michiana Taxi r gambling and nightlife, even for college freshmen. There are also more cultural attrac­ies, monuments and amusement parks, all only four hours away. Take 1-80 east to 175 
259-5554 233-4040
etroit, then follow the Windsor exit. 
Checker Cab Shamrock Cab 
ive, but well worth it for thrill seekers, is Cedar Point. Located in Sandusky, Ohio, Cedar coasters that put other amusement parks to shame, and the park stays open on weekends 288-7777 243-5500 eck for times before heading out, at www.cedarpoint.com. Head east on 1-80 and follow 
.s. 250. Yellow Cab 
Information compiled by Christie Boisen and Maria Smith 
233-9333 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
Sa[urday, Au gus[ 21, 2004
page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MEN's CRoss CouNTRY 
Runners strive for more 
Failure to qualify for NCAAs in 2003 
serves as incentive for this year's team 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Edi ror 
Last year's performance at the Great Lakes Regional Championship may be all the motivation the Irish need to climb back into the elite of collegiate cross country. 
In 2003, the 18th-ranked Irish failed to qualify for the NCAA Championship after taking second place at the Big East Championship. They took eighth place at the Great Lakes Regional, and failed to receive an at-large bid. 
"Last year, they were up and down," women's cross country coach Tim Connelly said of the team coached by Joe Piane, who was in Athens as of press time. "If they ran the same way at 
regionals as they did at the Big East, they would have qualified 
Instead, the Irish find themselves looking to avenge what turned out to be a dis­appointing season. But they will have to do it without four-year contributor Todd Mobley. 
"He's really the big loss," Connelly said of the 2003 graduate. 
Mobley was named an Academic All-American in June after posting a 3.83 grade point average, but his accolades were not limited to academics. Mobley posted four top 30 finishes in 2003, including two in the top 10. He also earned All-American honors for the second time in his career, finishing 27th overall at the NCAA Championship. 
Connelly said seniors Eric Morrison and Sean O'Donnell, juniors Kaleb VanOrt and Tim Moore and sophomore Kurt Benninger will help replace Mobley. 
Moore finished sixth at the Big East Championship in 2003, and has earned All-Big 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer Kalab VanOrt runs In the National Catholic Tournament last September at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The junior Is one of several runners returning for the team this year. 
East honors his last two sea­sons. VanOrt earned All-Big East honors last season for the first time, finishing 12th. O'Donnell and Benninger finished 20th and 21st. respectively. At the Great Lakes Regional, Moore fin­ished 15th overall and Benninger finished 38th. O'Donnell rounded out the scoring with a 41st place fin­ish. This group will be key for the 2004 season. 
'These are the guys that will really be expected to carry the load," Connelly said. 
And the load will be signif­icant, as the Irish expect to compete with the best teams in the country. 
"The big focus is on the Big East, regionals and nationals," Connelly said. "That's the main focus." 
But the most important thing for this year's Irish team to be successful is con­sistency. 
"More than anything, they need to be more consistent in the way they compete," he said. "Consistency of effort is really important." 
Also hoping to make an impact is the brother of Luke Watson, one of the most suc­cessful runners in Irish his­tory. Jake Watson may con­tribute early, Connelly said. 
"He's a very good cross country runner," Connelly said of Jake. "We have some freshmen that could help." 
Connelly said the team has been training as individuals this summer, some running as much as 85 to 90 miles each week. And that is what needs to be done so the Irish don't repeat last year's dis­appointment. 
"We have a pretty strong tradition in cross country here," he said. "Last year was a big disappointment. They expect more of them­selves." 
This year's team hopes to be one of the 31 teams that go to the NCAA Championship. Connelly acknowledged that they have "by far the toughest region," but he thinks the Irish can do it. 
"We've got a group that's capable of being in the top 30," he said. 
The Irish kick off the sea­son Sepi. 10 with the Valparaiso Invitational. However, Connelly said the top runners probably will not run until Oct. 1 at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu. 
NO WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish return majority 
cJf team this season 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer M.erry Meagher, left, and Maggie Nelson run In the National C:athollc Championship at Notre Dame last September. 
1\lotre Dame hopes to improve on last year's 10th-place showing at NCAAs 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sporrs Wrirer 

The Notre Dame women per­formed well last season, taking home a Big East Championship, and finishing 1Oth in the NCAA champi­onships. The team will look to improve upon last year's suc­cess this fall. 
The Irish return many of last year's starters, which should be a key fac­tor in their Year last season, expects a lot from his team coming into the season. With the growing strength of the program and the subsequent attention it is garnering, Connelly is looking forward to great things. 
Connelly said that while 1Oth place at the NCAA Championships was good, it was a bit of a disappointment. This year, the coach is setting his sights a bit higher. 
"We return most of our team from last year that finished 10th in the NCAAs," Connelly said. "The expectations are to be a minimum top 10 team if not better." 
Connelly also said he is excit­ed about the talented group of freshmen, especially Sonni Olding. He hopes she can 
success. "The expectations are to contribute Senior right away.
be a minimum top 10
Lauren King In high 
a.nd junior team, ifnot better. " school, Olding Molly Huddle was ranked will be the No. 1 in the
Tim Connelly
main compo­nation in the
Irish coach 
nents. King 
is coming off 
a. year in 

· which she earned Academic All-American honors, for only the third time in Notre Dame history. King has also been an All-American three times. Huddle captured the Great Lakes Regional Cross Country Hunner of the Year. Huddle a.lso finished 7th at the United States Olympic trials. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly also stressed that runners outside of King and Huddle will have 
a.n impact on this year's team. Kerry Meager, Stephanie Media and Loryn King, who is coming off of knee surgery, will a1ll be key runners for this year's squad. 
The Irish will open their sea­son Sept. 9th, when they travel the Valparaiso Invitational. 
Connelly, who earned Great Lakes Region Coach of the 
two-mile run 
with a time of 
10:25.82. 

Connelly said progress and development will be more focused on the track for the younger runners. 
"We've got some kids that, with time, are going to con­tribute," Connelly said. 
Following the Valparaiso Invitational, the Irish will com­pete in the National Catholic Invitational and the Notre Dame Invitational before the Pre-National Championships, the Big East Championships, the Great Lakes Regional, and the NCAA Championships. 
If all goes well, last year's 1Oth place finish will only be a stepping-stone for the talented group of 2004. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edir all classifiech for conrenr withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED SOCCER REFEREES -needed lor south side elementary school locat­ FoR SALE 7 H. blue couch $150 & 4 x 4 enter­tainment center $75. Excellent con­ FOR RENT 4 bed 2 bath 925 No. Lawrence  1 bed Topsfield Condo for rent, 10 min. from Campus, $550/mo+utilities, modern, hard­wood floors, washer & dryer and community pool.  TICKETS A businessman needs season tick­ets for clients.  Jack the Observer driver needs two or three tickets to any home football game. Call674-6593. PERSONAL  
ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street.  dition. 257-0781  876-7339 or 288-3613  Available immediately.  277-1659  Josh, have a great time at Notre  
$30 per soccer game.  RELIABLE RIDE 96 Honda Accord EX sedan, A/C, moonroof, airbags, cruise, 85,000 miles. Power win­dows and locks. Very good condi­ APARTMENT FOR RENT IN MISHAWAKA Furnish and all utili­ties included. No smoking, No pets. Call255-1738 for information.Single  Will consider lease/purchase option. ·  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES.  Dame. Remember to work hard and then play hard. Love you, Mom & Dad  
Call 574-291-4200.  tion. $6,250 OBO. 277-691Q.  pers.on. no children. ~109 'Jl~·, .. , , , qall ~5,5-,5i6~ .• • • 1 .. • 1 • ,  t  t  ,  f'Pi:Jil\1 t  t  t  t  • • • • ,  • • • • • • 't'~l~oP'Iv 4~i1J'rV!Q. • • • • • • • • • • ,  

Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SMC VOLLEYBALL
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Replacing Playko biggest 
Irish ready to avenge last year 
Team hopes for better performance after last year's early exit from the NCAA Tourney 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sporrs Writer 
For the freshmen, the num­bers alone can be intimidat­ing. 
Last year, the volleyball team finished the season with a 23-7 overall record and a No. 24 ranking. The Irish also earned their 12th consecutive bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Their success last season placed them at No. 25 in this year's preseason USA Today poll. They were also picked to win the Big East Championship. Senior hitter Emily Loomis and juniors Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbley were named to the preseason All-Big East team. All three were honorable mention all-American selec­orable mention All­tions in 2003. Americans -for facilitating 
Needless to say, expecta­the newcomers' transition tions are high for the team and for providing a competi­this season. tive atmosphere at practice. 
But that hasn't intimidated "The more scrimmaging we this year's freshman. do, the better [the newcom­
"They're all really talented ers] look. We're teaching and doing a great job at them the systems in practice practice," for the most junior part." 
L a u r e n 'The more scrimmaging Helping the 
Brewster we do, the better [the freshmen gain s a i d experience is
newcomers] look. ,,
"They're of utmost really soak­importance, ing every­Debbie Brown Brown said, thing in and Irish coach especially applying it." since the Irish 
Brewster will face led the nation in 2003 in Loyola University Chicago blocks. She was named hon­Sept. 1. This year's team fea­orable mention all-America tures strong blocking, solid and first-team all-Big East as ball control and defense. well. However, backcourt defense 
This year, five new players is one area that Brown says will step onto the court to needs improvement, and the compete for the Irish -four Irish must replace setter freshmen and a sophomore. Kristen Kinder, named first Coach Debbie Brown praises team All-Big East and honor­the team's veterans -three able mention All-American. of which are returning hon-"We'll get things done 

OfficelVIax® 
\Jh~h. !jOW ~-r 
Don't waste time running from store to store... OfliceMax has the tools you need to help you do your thing: 
• 
Note/Jooks, pttll$, paper. bindea • Cttmputers, Ptfnters, copiers 

• 
PDAs, ca/Clllators, phones • Software and computerttccessories 

• 
Desks, chairs, bookcasss 


All at Guaranteed Low Prices! Plus FREE delivery on most ordetrs of $50 or more. And don't forget: our in-store CopyMax Genter can handle all your printing and copying needs including color copies. lamination, book binding, and digital photo prints. Check out \he special CopyMax offer below...vaHd !or the entire school year! 
Save now t>y tJringing ttta enclosoo coupons to this OfficeMax store: ! $!.,. Hq'": $un: 1loilgliili IIOn:fri: aati8ili,. SOl: bm-!!p'" 
MISHAWAKA/SOUTH BEND Wilshire Plaza. Grape & Douglas Ads., next to Media Play (574) 273--0328 
test for Belles this season 

Saint Mary's will lose sophomore offensive leader as she elects to study abroad in Austria 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
When the Belles hit the court to start the 2004 sea­son, they will be short one star player. 
Sophomore Kristen Playko, who led the team with 496 kills and 54 service aces last year, will not be returning to the team in 2004, instead choosing to study abroad in Austria. 
"When we first signed Kristen, I knew there was a possibility that she might study abroad," Belles coach J u I i e Schroeder­
played together like a team," Schroeder-Biek said. "It was nice to move up in our con­ference and to double our wins from the year before." 
After starting the 2003 season 0-2, the Belles won four straight matches and advanced to the final of the Wooster (Ohio) Invitational before losing in the final match to Marietta. 
A key win for the Belles came in the last regular sea­son game of the season, when Saint Mary's defeated Albion in four sets. 
Albion had defeated the Belles in the first game of the season. 
The win against Albion was enough to move the Belles into sixth-place in the eight­team MIAA conference. 
No. 6 Saint Mary's faced No. 3 seed Hope in the first 
round of the 
M I A A before we play Loyola. People ask me 'So do you think you're ready for Loyola?"' Brown said. "I tell them that we're not ready now, but we definitely will be." 

Brown added the hours the team puts in now should pre­pare them for the rigorous schedule they face this sea­son. Following the Loyola match, the Irish face No. 2 Nebraska and seven other ranked teams, three of which are recent national champi­ons. Twelve of their oppo­nents made the NCAA Tournament last year, as did the Irish. There they lost in the first round to No. 19 
Biek said. "I fully support [Playko] Tournament
Louisville, a disappointing 
"I fully sup­and fell in
finish for a good team. 
in this decision -these 
port her in straight sets,
"We're hoping to finish 
girls are students first 
this deci-28-30, 18-30,
strong this year -stronger 
sion and athletes second., 28-30, spelling
than we did last year -and I 
these girls an end to the
think we'll have a lot of 
are stu­2003 season.
opportunities to prove our­
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
selves," Brown said. 
dents first A l i s o n 
Belles coach 
and ath-Shevik is the 
letes sec­alougher@nd.edu. 
Contact Ann Loughery at 
ond. 
"She still has a great love 
for the game, and was torn about studying abroad, but this doesn't mean her inten­sity is any less." 
While the Belles losing a key piece in Playko, they will also gain one in junior Michelle Turley. 
Turley, who transferred from Division-! Marist College last year, was injured in the first scrim­mage of the 2003 season and missed the entire year. 
She is now healthy, and will step into a team that has more depth and experience than last year's Belles, according to Schroeder-Biek, 
"I really like our team this year. It hurts losing Kristen, but we're also gaining Michelle." 
Saint Mary's finished 2003 with a 16-13 record (5-10 in the MIAA). which improved tremendously from its record of7-21 in 2002. 
The Belles hope to repeat the success of last season, when they increased their win total in conference games from one in 2002 to five in 2003. 
"Last year we had a really good gro.up of girls who 
only player 

from that 2003 team that graduated, but Schroeder-Biek said that the team would have a hard time replacing her contributions. 
"Alison was a great leader," she said. "Even though we're only losing one senior, she was a big part of our team's success last year and will be missed." 
In addition to the players returning, Schroeder-Biek has also added some talent­ed freshmen to the mix this year. 
Elizabeth Stohl and Stephanie Bauer both join the team as setters, which should help sophomore Lauren Temple who served as the team's only setter in 2003. 
"Lauren did a great job for us last year, being the only setter on the team," Schroeder-Biek said. "But it's really nice to have sever­al setters this year with tal­ent. It's nice for me to have choices." 
The Belles open their sea­son Sept. 1 at home against the University of Chicago. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu. 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISE~fENT Saturday, August 21, 2004 

@~ ~ @~ff ~0liJ 1JU]tJ ~@)1)!1 ~0 
w~mw lf@JJ!J rP~ 11~ ~0 ID'm 'i1IDffiL\ @JJ rrun f!l@Xru"L1 ~u@X!JYf!8 0~\9f!J 
At your ampus bookstore we "WOrk directly with your professors to ensure we only order the exact books thC'y plan on ustng. Buy your book, !Somewhere else and you may 01" may not gee wh:..c you'r-e r~lly after. And ae (:'fol.lett.c:om yoo can order your books onfiM and pkk them up rn nor.:, so there's no wai(ing or sh1pplng co pay. So if you're lOoking for J de:~l. now yoo know whert to look. 
( Your campus bookstore has the right book ) 
HAMMES 


Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

. ' ... 
.
head·bopping, foot~tapping, sertous f u 11 ~ 


dc.h as any Vanor~gh, Marsalis Will turn the Leighton Concert Hall into the coolest place on the planet as pur• joy erupt$ from the $tage. 
,i 
INAUGURAL, CONCERT .ON SALE NOW Wyn t 0 n Marsa I is Sundayt September 19 at 8:00 p.m. -Judd and Ma.ry Lou L$ighton Concert Hall ""' Q~n~r~l P\,tbH¢. $Vo -NlJI$MC!H<:; Staff $eo -All $tud~nts $2t) IJHH:;ouotod tickets {\Pl und~lrwdtten by the Marie P, DeBartolo (h:ultor lor the p.,Hlc1nnitHJ Arts, There ate a lirnit~d iHHllber f.)f stud$tl1 disCI)UtltS available, c a II 574.6 3 1 • 2 s 0 0 

2 6 Au Q 2 s (: P· I 3 s e p t 9 s (~ p 1  T H T H ....f T H  c 0 n t t () I R() Q tU ,.F a () f A.... n h e t 9 I 1 i * f a h t e n h e f t 9 I 1 '1 s u p ¢ s i l e Me*'  l l l I  Oocurnet1tary ab{lut Atdazt3et·a Qot,':lO.umentary kY Michaf>:f Mol)t~ llfJcumentary by f•Aichael MfJO*'e 0\H)utn#ntary about hHH food  l I I I  $ 6 $ 0 $ e $ 6  I 1:  $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5  I  $ 3 $ a $ 3 $ a  
G  (t  n  t}  f  a I  p  u  * b I j  c  $  t~  J  NOlSMCfHC  Staff  $5  


For up·tfl·dat(t inft~rmatlon fltl ovonts at th·o D~tBaftvlo .P~trlot·minq Art$ C~lntor· 
please visll h tIp:// perform ·1 n 9 a r Is. n d. e d u 


~-----------------­
page 24 Saturday, August 21, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Three new players make the Irish deep and dangerous 
~ofuttoh~ Ct?ht&r 
BACK-TO-SCHOOL SALE 
Orientation Weekend at the Solutions Center 
Where:  IT Center Building  
When:  Thursday  August 19  9:00a-6:00p  
Friday  August 20  9:00a-6:00p  
Saturday  August 21  9:00a-12:00 noon  
Sunday  August 22  I:OOp-S:OOp  



GATEWAY APPLE 
450 POWERBOOK G4 





• I.SGHz Pentium Hwith Intel® Centrino TM Hobile Technology • Windows XP Pro • 14.1-inch screen • 256HB DOl IOlAH  • I.IGHz Pentium Hwith Intel® Centrino TM Hobile Technology • Windows XP Pro • 14-inch screen • 256HB MH  • IJJGHz G4 • 01 X • 12.1-inch screen • 256HB DDRJJJ lORAH  
• 40GB ultra ATA hard drive • CDlWIDYD • Ethernet NIC I0/100/1 000 • lntegr01ted 802.11b/g wireless networking • v.92 16K modem • 4-yur w01mnty  • 40GB hard drive • CDRW/DYD • Ethernet NIC I0/1 00 • Integrated 802.11b/g wireless networking • v.92 16K modem • J-year wamnty  • 60GB ultra ATA h;ud drive • CDlW/DYO • Ethernet NIC 10/100 • Airport Extreme built-in • v.92 56K modem • firewire 400  
• Preluded from ISH with VST Dassie Books  • J-year Apple(are  

NEED ETHERNET CABLES OR OTHER PERIPHERJ~LS? WE HAVE THOSE TOO! 
I Dennis Latimore shoots during practice. He Is joining the Irish as a transfer this season. 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Spans Editor 
Mike Brey was not allowed to observe his team in scrimmages this summer, but he knows the team has improved. 
Guards Chris Quinn and Chris 

Thomas told him so. 
"I can't watch the summer pick­up games, so those guys are my eyes," Brey said. "[But] when 


you think of Kurz 
our current 
roster, you have to get excited." 
His eyes see potential major improvement for the program's 1OOth anniversary season in the form of three newcomers to com­plete a possible nine-man deep rotation. 
Quinn and Thomas told their coach that the additions of red­shirt freshman Omari Israel, sen­ior transfer Dennis Latimore and true freshman Rob Kurz have made the Irish a better team despite the loss of Tom Timmermans and defensive ace Torrian Jones. 
Moreover, the elders of the team think all three should play, even the young Kurz. 
"Talking to the older guys, when they say, 'He can help us right away coach,' that's 90 per­cent of what I need to hear," Brey said. "If Chris Thomas and Chris 
Quinn say [Kurz is] ready to play, 
he's ready to play. 
Kurz, a 6-foot-9, 215-pound small forward, averaged 18.5 points, 12 rebounds and 4 assists in his senior season at Penn Charter just outside of Philadelphia last winter. 
He attended Germantown Academy for the first two years of high school and then transferred to Penn Charter and played three seasons. An extra year could help the freshman with in-game matu­rity. 
"In Rob Kurz, our lone incom­ing freshman, you're talking about a guy who has good size but a really good feel for the game at 6-9," Brey said. "He steps out and shoots the ball. He plays older. He plays more experi­enced and more poised than his classification says he should." 
Brey compares Kurz's style of play to that of senior forward Jordan Cornette, a tall and athlet­ic player who can jump for rebounds with big men and play outside the three-point line. 
Cornette, Thomas, Quinn and center Torin Francis will captain the Irish this season. Other key contributors in the 100th anniver­sary season will be sophomore shooting guard Colin Falls and power forward Rick Cornett, who underwent surgery on a stress fracture in his left foot July 23 but is expected to return in time for the first official practice Oct. 16. 
As is the case with Kurz, returning players from last sea­son will split minutes with two other additions to the roster. 
Omari Israel, a 6-foot-8, 232­pound, recovered from knee sur­gery during his red-shirt 2003 season that stemmed from a torn ACL surgery in February of 2003. 
The Irish sat him out, feeling comfortable with players like Jones and Cornette in the lineup. :But Brey now compares a healthy J[srael to one of the Big East's most durable players. 
"I'd compare [Israel] to [Pittsburgh guard] Jaron Brown," Jh.e said. 
Brown averaged 11.7 points, :5.4 rebounds and 2.8 assists per ~~arne last season for a 31-5 IPittsburgh team, playing 34.4 minutes per game. Brown shot jjust 21.5 percent from three-point range but compensated for a lack of outside shooting threat with a 
48.8 overall field goal percentage and 65 steals on the defensive end. 
"Omari gives us the big three man," Brey said. "He has good size and really can handle the ii:Jasketball. He's more of a slasher and a driver, and when he is that third perimeter guy it's tough to guard and block out because of lllis size." 
Brey does not only liken Israel 1to Brown on the offensive end, either. 
"He has the ability to be a lock­down defender," Brey said. "He has to get the mentality to defend much like a Torrian Jones could. [Jones] did it physically but dove i.nto it and embraced another aspect of his game." 
While Israel could contribute on both ends, a complete player the Irish also welcome with open arms is Latimore, a 6-foot-8, 235­pound transfer from Arizona. 
"We expect [Latimore] to be a key part of things," Brey said. "He is very skilled and talented around the bucket, very smooth. The challenge with him will be playing hard every play. But as far as the physical gifts, he had a great summer." 
Latimore averaged 24 points as the Kansas 3A Player of the Year for Halstead high school his sen­ior year. He then played less of an offensive role in two seasons at Arizona, primarily because the teams were loaded with talent. Latimore averaged 3.2 points and 
3.1 rebounds for the Wildcats in 2002, playing just 12 minutes per game. 
His role this season, will be increased. Latimore and junior center Torin Francis will team up in an imposing frontcourt that Thomas and Quinn will look to often." 
"Dennis is in the best shape of his life," Brey said. "And he is very focused." 
So, too, are Brey's eyes, though they take the form of his two top guards. 
Notes 

+ Chris Thomas underwent knee surgery at the end of last season and did not go full speed in practice until he was cleared by doctors last week. Thomas has not complained about the knee so far. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Come to this special sales event to learn more about the computer you purchased or to choose from a limited number of computm that we will 
~UNIVERSITY OF
have in inventory. Pmonnel from Gateway, IBM, Apple and GovConnection have been invited to be on hand to chat and answer your questions. 112 IT Center
WNOTREDAME 
http://solution.nd.edu

Office of Information Technologies 
Phone: 877.561.7477 

Solutions Center
DON'T MISS THE GIVEAWAYS AND PRIZES 
L____________ -------­

Saturday, August 21, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
are 
...... ·.g.'... ·•·· r···a:d: e·.·... d.··•i?....•• · 
. . . . . . . . .·-. . . . . . .
UP 
friday august 27th 2004 live at the Joyce Center www.nd.edu/~theshow $1 0 t icketson sale to Sbldants oniJ atlila laforblna Box Omca 
must have valid NO, SMC, HCC to purchase ticekts and to enter the event 
-.--·---... -... -......... --..... -.. -.. -----------..... -.. -­

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 21, 2004 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish hope for bigger and better things 
After graduating seven letterzvinners, coach Bobby Clark looks to veterans to take the spotlight 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Assicuare Spom Editor 
One goal for Michigan meant the end of a goal for Notre Dame. 
With the Irish poised for a his­toric season and perhaps even a national championship at the end of 2003, Michigan's Mike White put a dagger in the hearts of the Irish faithful with a penal­ty kick that eluded goalie Chris Sawyer and gave Michigan a 4-3 victory in the decisive shutout after a 1-1 regulation tie in the Sweet 16 round of the NCAA Championships at Alumni Field. 
"It's never nice when you go out of the NCAAs," coach Bobby Clark said. "But you have to learn to take what you get. You're especially sad for the sen­iors because it was their last chance at it, but you hope that the other lads can maybe use [that loss[ as inspiration for this year." 
The Irish have grown into a dominant program under the tutelage of Clark, who carne to Notre Dame in 2000 in hopes of putting the Irish on the college soccer map. 
Last year might have been the culmination of that goal, as the Irish had an impressive season despite the loss to Michigan in the Sweet 16. 
At one point in the year, Notre Dame was ranked No. 3 in the nation, and the team pulled off three straight shutouts to win the Big East Championship and earn home-field advantage through the NCAAs. 
The biggest goal for the 2004 Irish squad will be keeping up that momentum from last year's successful campaign. Notre Dame must replace seven letter­winners from last year. including two MLS draft picks in Justin Detter and Kevin Richards. 
Five of those seven seniors -Detter, Richards, Greg Martin, Chad Riley and Devon Prescod ­were also All-Big East selections. Out of the 38 goals the Irish scored in 2003, those five seniors scored 35. 
"That's a lot to replace," Clark said. "But you're not going to look to the freshmen to replace those players, you're going to look at the guys who are older to step up and provide that immedi­ate impact." 
The Irish have a trio of seniors who should provide leadership both on and off the field in goalie captain Chris Sawyer and defensemen Kevin Goldthwaite and Jack Stewart. Sawyer and Stewart were both named to the preseason watch list for the Hermann Trophy, awarded each year to the best player in college soccer. 
"That is a great honor for those guys, but all it really says is that they played well last year," Clark said. "The real test is whether they can repeat that performance this year. 
"I really feel that Goldthwaite could have been on that list as well, and it shows you the real talent we have this season." 
With Sawyer, a three-time All­Big East selection and All­American in 2003, between the pipes and a defense led by Goldthwaite, Stewart and sopho­more Greg Dalby, the Irish could be one of the top defensive teams in the country. 
Clark brought in another tal­ented freshman class. with the Irish adding seven players from five states and England. 
"It's too early to say that this is going to be a great class," Clark said. "But at the same time there's definitely a lot of poten­tial. This looks to be a very good class." 
The Irish open their season with an exhibition game Monday at Alumni Field against Northwestern. Kickoff is sched­uled for 7 p.m., with proceeds from donations going towards Grassroots Soccer, an organiza­tion for kids ages 10 to 17 that is dedicated to AIDS awareness and soccer instruction in Africa. 
Clark is asking each fan at the game Monday to donate $1 to the cause, in hopes of matching the $2,000 the team raised at its summer camp. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Junior defenseman Dale Rellas perfects his footwork at Wednesday's practice. The Irish hope to surpass the success they achieved last season, when they earned a spot In the Sweet 16. 
AUDITIONS 
for the 

University of Notre Dame Choirs 
ND Chorole • ND Glee Club • ND l.iturgirol Cht.J<ir ND Women's Liturgical Chm"r• ND Basilica Schola 
CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer 

Si:gn rup :in Cro\.vlt-")' Hall!
Senior goalkeeper Chris Sawyer juggles the ball at practice as junior mldflelder John Stephans 
looks on. Sawyer Is a three-time All-Big East selection and was an All-American In 2003. 
Aud1hon Times: Sun_. Aug.. 22: 3~{) pm,, 7~1 0 ptn Mon. Aug. 23: 9 am-il1 prn. I~4:30pm. 7-10 pm 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Y:~:~=U ~N: ~rQOal)· ~~mliii&J:~ "fii 11.lf ~ ~~ ~~~.~ iWUWoo d~~­Ttlen! will be Dll a.rlutku!J held 001 Thelflhr, >Wgn!L1'!!it 
11Jj_j ~tliioo =~Xm~l~ Qf ll ~mwl~ hymn 1~· • tx~t~ fltl)l.O:(t, ~-af ~).enlr.nm, ,-oc;ali~ mcbe;:k lriUlge, W1d lll ,~hurt r.1sht$in~ cqmple. 
A~~.t~ti';~ will oo lW!Jd ~~ l~ ·t~k.)' H~IJ Pt~ cwl l·$.14~ ityt:* nn-e any ~OO!l\. 
..,_ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 



Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 
-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-· 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs welcomes the class of2008. 
What is the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs? 
We members ofthe Standing Committee are administrators, gay and lesbian students, and faculty who are a resource in identifying the ongoing needs ofour gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues, the Committee strives to eliminate homophobia and make Notre Dame aplace that accepts andprizes the uniqueness ofall its students. For more information, consult our web pagewww.nd.edu/-scglsn. 
Current members: Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC Asst. VP for Student Affair(Standing Committee 
Chair)  
Joanna Basile  Junior, English and Gender Studies Major  
Fr. David Burrell, CSC  Professor, Philosophy and Theology  
Robby Davidson  Senior, Political Science Major  
Mayra Gomez  Senior, Political Science Major  
Ed Mack  Rector, O'Neill Hall  
Andy Magee  Junior, Organ Perf. and Computer Science Major  
Fr. Richard Warner, CSC  Director, Campus Ministry  
David (Day) Zimlich  Senior, Anthropology Major  

RECEPTIONfor Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual First-Year Students 
WHO: Gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning first-year students at Notre Dame WHAT: Drop-in Reception WHEN: Monday, August 2Jd, 1:30-3:30 p.m. WHERE: 316 Coleman-Morse (Jd Floor Lounge) 
I I 
WHY: Come meet members ofthe Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student --l I Needs and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
For more information, please visit our web sitewww.nd.edu/-scglsn. Check under "Current Events." 
2.....,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_, 
---·--··-----­

page 28 Saturday, August 21, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 

Returning players will lead Belles this fall 
Team has high hopes for title after (osing just three players 
By I-I FATHER 
VAN 1-IOEGARDEN 
Spom Fditur 
Tlwir starting dd1~nsn is returning, tlwy haw a rww coach and they lost just thme seniors. In Jen Concannon's opinion, there is no reason this team shouldn't compete for the MIAA title. 
"This year, we're looking at top one or two in conference." the senior said. "We're just that much better. We should have done it last year." 
Last season. the Belles finished fourth in conference with a 6-4-4 record in the MIAA and a 10-5-4 record overall. 
Concannon when she played at Marian High School in South Bend. 
"It's weird, but I like it," Concannon said of playing for, instead of 

Concannon led the team in 11 goals and seven  "We're really excited. We have the chance  against, Mackenzie. "''ve always thought  
assists. She was named first team All-MIAA, along  to be something very good."  she's done great things with her teams. I respect  
with junior Carrie Orr. This  Jen Concannon  Caryn a lot." Concannon said  
duo will be joined  Belles co-captain  her team is excit­ 
by senior Katie  ed to play under  
Taylor  on  Mackenzie, who  

defense, who was named second also coached at Notre Dame soc­team All-MIAA last year, and cer camps. They started working Carolyn Logan who was named with her in the spring, and the to the second team. Logan first day of fall practice was recorded nine goals as a fresh­Wednesday. man. "We have a very talented group 
The 2004 Belles will also be of upperclassmen," Mackenzie under new leadership. Caryn said. "I look forward to their Mack1~nzie enters her first year at influence on the underclassmen." Saint Mary's aH.er coachi1 girls Mackenzie said there is not a soccer at John Ac lligh finalized roster, so it is unclear School in South Bend since 1993. which freshmen, if any, will make She brings her long-time assis­an impact. The coach is looking tant Hamzi Bualuan. who is also forward to nwshing the girls into the director of undergraduate a team. studies in computer science and "We want to have a good team engineering at Notre Dame. morale," Concannon said. "Caryn 
"I couldn't be more jammed will point us in the right direc­about coaching tion, but it's a these women, team effort to go
"We're cautiously
Mackenzie said. out and do it." "We're cautiously optimistic. " The Belles open optimistic." their season Sept. 
Mackenzie 7 at home with the 
Caryn Mackenzie
coached against University of St.
Belles coach 

Francis. 
Concannon said the late-starting season should prove advantageous. 
"We have plenty of time to get in shape," she said. 
"As far as it goes for me, it's great," Mackenzie said. "I get a better handle on the talent." 
Concannon hopes to guide this experienced Belles team, as she is a co-captain, along with fellow seniors Jen Herdman and Katie Taylor. 
"We're really excited," Concannon said. "We have the chance to be something very good." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

t ..• -­
Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
INTRAMURAL$ 
Yet another reason to love Notre Dame 
"Everyone plays intramural sports [at Notre Dame]."-The Princeton Review 
Everyone knows about the football Saturdays, the green shirts and most of all the student sections. But what happens to the 75 percent of the student population who played sports in high school? After all, not every­one can run out of the tunnel...or can they? 
At Notre Dame, any­thing is possible in the world of intramurals. 
The dorm league games may not earn the recognition of Notre Dame's 24 Division-1 sports. Participants won't be contributing to a 24th national championship for the Irish. The dorm leagues might not be as prolific as the Big East and dorm teams won't be renewing any contracts with NBC, but that doesn't mean intramurals aren't important. To students here, winning an intramural championship is a great achievement. 


Full-contact intramural foot­ball. This is where it begins. The only non-service academy uni­versity in the country with such a program, Notre Dame is home to a dorm league each fall. Men from each hall suit up just as they did under the Friday night lights for their high school team. 
But this time, it is different. More is at stake. A chance to play in the championship game at Notre Dame Stadium, the House that Rockne built, awaits those good enough. There may not be 80,000 screaming fans, but these athletes become a part of Notre Dame football, even if it's just because they played on the same field as the likes of Joe Montana and Jerome Bettis. They run out of the tunnel, and it becomes their Stadium too. But they aren't the only ones. 
Meanwhile, the women are busy competing for a shot in the Stadium as well, with their own interhall flag football league. It is the one chance they get to set foot on the legendary field. 
But don't worry, Notre Dame isn't just about football. There is basketball, volleyball, even 


CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Non-scholarship athletes have the opportunity to compete at high levels, like these residents of Dillon and Keough Hall. 
makes this place special. Both of 
those games are important. Both will have fans, and both will have stars. After all, it is the same game. 
But then you say, intramural athletes don't receive recogni­tion like varsity athletes. Wait, they have that covered. The annual "RecSpys," modeled after ESPN's ESPYs, honor ath­letes of the year, a team of the year, fans of the year and a game of the year. There's even a dinner reception for the winners and nominees. 
So just when you thought your athletic career was over, coming to Notre Dame as a "former" athlete isn't so bad. Really, it's just a way for you to have a fresh start. And besides, how many people can say they com­peted on the varsity field or arena at one of the greatest sports schools in the country? 
It's a once-in-a-lifetime oppor­tunity, so don't pass it up. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer.  
Contact  Heather  Van  
Hoegarden  at  
hvanhoeg@nd. edu.  

RecSports Fall Intramural Sports 
• 
Badminton 

• 
Baseball 

• 
Basketball 

• 
Broomball 

• 
Cross Country 

• 
Football 

• 
Hockey 

• 
Horseshoes 

• 
Lacrosse 

• 
Racquetball 

• 
Soccer 

• 
Softball 

• 
Squash 

• 
Table Tennis 

• 
Tennis 

• 
Ultimate 

• 
Volleyball 

• 
Water Polo 



CHIP MARKS/The Observer Badin Hall football players charge the field after capturing the 2003 Women's lnterhall championship inside Notre Dame Stadium. 

THAI RESTAURANT 
NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED WAIT STAFF 
horseshoes. And if those don't suit your fancy, you can play racquetball or even bowl. And of course, don't forget broom­ball and badminton. This vari­ety of over 20 sports each year could be the reason that 80 per­cent of students participate in intramurals. 
Or it could be that the cham­pionship of both the men and women's basketball leagues is played in the Joyce Center. And when these athletes play here, they can think of the great play­ers who made the JACC their home -Matt Carroll, Troy Murphy, Ryan Humphrey and many others. 
Or they could remember what has happened on the same court. Just this year, the Irish women upset then-No. 4 Connecticut Jan. 13, giving the Huskies just their fourth loss in three seasons. And the Irish men did the same a month later, defeating then-No. 5 Connecticut Feb. 9. And don't forget about 2001, when now­Olympian Ruth Riley led the Irish to a National Championship season. 
All of these games occurred on the same court as an intra­mural game. Ridiculous, don't you think? There should really be some kind of rule against that. 
But at Notre Dame, there isn't. Ivy Field, home to the Irish softball team, becomes home to the Pasquerilla West softball team, the Welsh Family softball team and every other women's dorm team, for that matter, in the fall. Each fastpitch softball intramural game is played on the varsity field, from the first game to the championship game. 
Maybe that's why Notre Dame was ranked No.1 by the Princeton Review this year in the category of "Everyone plays intramural sports." And Notre Dame was also the top dog in "Students pack the stadiums." 
So you wonder how do they do it? One night it's a bitter rivalry of Siegfried versus Knott and the next it's a Big East matchup of Notre Dame versus Connecticut. But that is what 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
SAY... 
''Cheesecake'' 
COFFEE & WINE 
Proudly Serve 
Domestic & Imported Wine Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee & The Republic of Tea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
Mon-Fri 7am-1 Opm/Sat I Oam-1 Opm 
(Special Hours to Accomodate Events at Morris Performing Arts Center) 
213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend (Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233-CAFE NOV/ Hiring 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 
232-4445 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 
page 30 The Observer+ SPORTS 
CHECKING OUT THE TEAMS 
Football Men's Basketball 


ND Women's Soccer 

coach Randy Waldrum's grasp with the return of eight starters and loss of just four letter win· ners. Seniors Mary Boland, Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and Melissa Tancredi wiU captain the squad. 
The Irish open the season with four straight home games, host­ing Baylor in the opener at Alumni Field Aug. 27. 
The first league game wlll occur at Connecticut on Sept. 17. and the much-anticipated remateh against Michigan will conclude the season on Oct. 28. 
ayers to Watch 
ThtfJmmtlos>€e~~~~~fj~~\1:~: Pruzinsky on defense, and defenders Candace "' Shaner and Gunnarsdottir return to anchor a J.:mu~,;~nuei Erika Bohn. Chapman looks to make an entllie20C>3 season due to a knee injury. rel)aqyes Amy Warner and Amanda Guertin from Thorlaw~on will take charge up front. Kim Lorenzen will control the midfield. 
Fencing Hockey 
•.·i'i·Itliiiki ng third-pi team, rish look to make a run at their second national title in three years. Coach Janusz Bednarski had six freshmen on that team. so his 2004-05 squad will have more college experience. 
One major story. to watch is sen· ior foilist Alicja Kry~zalo who will be going for her f6urth national 
title in as  many  .  Krycza.lo  
faced  teammat  te  
Andrea  the  
second time  

Olympic J!:Ujla.:.'rn~~a!~;J,.:;:ooa 
finish in 2002 ;: '' 
Bed n a~~!i.~i@~i1 his men's a national since the qualified five {of a m 

six) for the NCAA Ch<uHlJH>*':.'·"ll"' and only had two on the men's team five on the women's u::CJ,IIIJ•:••\•:•::.:.•.•····· 

-------------------~---. 
Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 31 

ND Volleyball Men's Soccer 

SMC Cross Country Men's Cross Country Women's Cross Country 


Men's Golf ND Women's Golf SMC Golf 
The Irish came just four strokes short of qualifying for the NCAA Championship as they finished in 12th place at the NCAA Central Regional in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Narrowly miSsing tournament put a sour finish to wh a successful sea-
SMC Volleyball 



Stephanie Bauer. 
The Belles open their season Sept. 1 at home against the University of Chicago. 
---~----------------------~--------------------------------­
page 32 


Brazil 
continued from page 36 
last game too," she said. "Your whole life you dream about putting on that Irish uniform and when that finally happens. you're shaking." 
Coach Randy Waldrum told Notre Dame's athletic Web site that he was pleased with the results, especially from his younger players. 
"We didn't have too many bad performances over the course of the six games," he said. "It was great to see how the freshmen can fit in. We found out that our depth is going to be tremendous." 
The depth will be particular­ly tremendous at the goalkeep­er position. Three differ­

ent players "Your whole life you ing last year's saw signifi­dream ofputting on that leading scorer, cant playing Amy Warner,
Irish uniform and when
time in net to graduation.
that finally happens, 
over the Warner helped course of the you're shaking." lead the 2003 six games. Irish to a near Waldrum has perfect regular
Ashley Jones 
made it clear season and a 
Irish freshman
that junior No. 2 ranking. 
"We talked a lot about school and stuff, what to expect being a student athlete," Jones said. "[They told me] don't worry, just go out there and be your­self. just play hard and that's really all you can do. You can't worry about things you can't control." 
NCAA rules permit every school team to take one for­eign trip every four years. The Irish last left American soil in the summer of 2000 (also for Brazil) and finished that year as one of the best teams in school history. Ranked No. 1 for most of the season, the team's only loss came in the NCAA semifinals to eventual national champion North Carolina. 
If the Irish want to improve from last season, they will 
need to be 
deep after los­
Erika Bohn, sophomore Nikki Westfall and freshman Lauren Karas will all be on call to defend the Irish goal when the regular season begins. 
"I've never had three keep­ers as good and as close in performance as these three," Waldrum said. "We have to make the kids understand, because we play so many games in a short period of time, that some may have to sacrifice some minutes to help keep the team fresh." 
Work and practice have been a big part of the team's jour­ney to the southern hemi­sphere, but the foreign envi­ronment provided a great opportunity for the team to bond with the upperclassmen getting the chance to impart some useful advice to their freshmen teammates. 
But the team lost three of its last live games including twice to Michigan, once in the season finale and then again to eliminate the Irish in the second round of the NCAA tournament. Notre Dame will meet the Wolverines again in this year's final regu­lar season contest Oct. 28 in Ann Arbor. 
Before the team concen­trates on revenge, the team must focus on first things first. namely sorting out the lineup. 
"We haven't really talked about [playing time]." Jones said. "The Brazil trip was just to see where everyone fit in." 
If Jones and the rest of her new classmates continue to perform well, they may lit in sooner than they think. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

Saturday, August 21, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

{'I\v~[y (··:lle~c~<f·:arcl is ft::)rall..Y 
... 

·ll)<")tJ·r c·1rrvir1o c<tsl··l <iJ"1'\lfi1c;re '~
'·· •. .... .. . . .. . .. t,.. . .. ./ ... ,.. ·o ... ~.. -~.. ·..·. .. '"· ... ,/ . ... .... ... 
Free Student Chec.king 
• No minmnum h.'llatl:{:I:• 
• UitlitAited trahS<ld.itlfl~ 
• 
No Ched:Card traniiat.tkf.'l f(~ 

• 
Canveni~nt act:e~s to Na1tlonilil City ATMs ahd htanthes lNh>ffthN y,tHJ'"te !ill hom~, wthncd, or m~ Uw road 


• Free OrdliH~ B<u-Jki,ng ~· cho:H:k b~)l<mt>£:$ diiHy, h'ansti?'r funds tH?h~tei:·fi ao::oJJJ'eh; and \ile\v onlin~.:< sbternt:•hh ~md {hN:l: irtldgt?S 
• Free OtdirH:· Bjll f'ayrnent 

Open any Free Student Ch&king account and get a 1ree bad~.pack 

St~p by any National City bank bra nth, 't'is.it Natior.a!Cety.wm Of call 8{l(J<:J47-5626. 
SOVJ1-i ~(f-;:1) ((HT!O;AJ QA¥ UNM flSlTY <;iAKDHfS. ~ W Nbrth t.~bt~"'!tl~ t: i'l$}} Cii"~i<:l,Jr.:l:l R\J.<t;t ~)(;t4(J 1ilw.th M.~ir; '~~~t: 574·).:l7·47l~ $74 ~ Jl-4!.\.8$ 574-)r;<'A7~0. 
s~w~ pmm"~Ut\<11 ·-*~~·~ :!l'$f~" 'il<:~ >W~#-AmHrnt~ ill~lli~".! br (~<,i<Z\ 1S{j-·i1J~ (1~<11\'l.>~IIXI i-}:'!gcl~<t! (W.!tlclit!! '"'lll-wii(:Ji.~ t<w.> ~M·J. ()nliW &II P.r~nmll r~rittl!i Ofllitw itlnci~. Gitl ..#~1 Wit><., -~t-f to rnw ft>W 5-ilwt~t Clmkll9 >itt"->\ltlh ~uoo •,>~.ift"1 :rrnt~-r ~·ttl ~~il .at f4.1tit.u.il Cit!f. ;!~il ~oo !J'~! ~ !t::t1~1l(!~~ v.tiik: tl~>hl1 ~~t fllillil~!o:tl {:itt m~o<3!V~ lh~ 1iljht lu ~>Jb~tilult~ .u1 imn <"il ~m~a~ k<11>-ll>. ,_~llbi:-I'HlK ~ . :ftiii:Km;~l (~>·l~l'~·IIW 
'~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------__. 
Saturday, August 21 , 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 33 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Andrew MacKay swam for the Cayman Islands in the Olympics. 
Record 
continued from page 36 
liked to go a little faster, but with all the nerves at the Olympics, l was happy." 
MacKay's quick start in the 200-meter individual medley helped him distance himself from the field, as his start was .02 sec­onds faster than anyone else in the field. 
''I've always had a pretty good start," he said. "Playing a lot of sports growing up, I guess you just develop a quick reaction." 
MacKay will enter Notre Dame this fall as the only Notre Dame men's swimmer to have partici­pated in the Olympics. lie also holds the Cayman Islands nation-a! records in the 100-meter but­terfly, and several other record in the backstroke, breaststroke and individual medley events. 

He reached the Olympics after earning an invitation in both the 200-meter individual medley and 400-meter individual medley at the 2003 Pan Am Games. 
"It was huge," MacKay said of the Olympics. "You're up against the best in the world." 
MacKay said he will be in South Bend the day after the closing ceremonies, which are August 30. He will be flying from Athens straight to South Bend to join the rest of the class of 2008. 
"I can't wait to get there and enjoy the campus," MacKay said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Gold 
continued from page 36 

We.·.l,.. .. .. ·.· ··e·
·.·c···o··.\m·
: : ; I. i '•. . ; ··· •.• ,, ... 
Students 
For your convenience the following Student Service Offices will be open under the "Golden Dome" 
Saturday (8/21) from 9:00 a.m. to Noon and Sunday (8/22) from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m 
Student Accounts  100 Main Building  
Registrar  105 Main Building  
Financial Aid  115 Main Building  
Student Employment  115 Main Building  
Immigration Services  121 Main Building  
Undergraduate Admissions  220 Main Building  
Residence Life and Housing  305 Main Building  

he was recruiting the star jun­ior fencer two years ago. 
"She had to take a leave for the Olympic games that she wouldn't be able to make it with the crazy schedule," Bednarski said. 
But Bednarski also had to sell Zagunis and her family on the ability to continue fencing at a world-class level while surviving in the classroom. 
"The academic challenge of Notre Dame sometimes makes athletes frightened because they know the daily schedule is very tough," Bednarski said. "I think it's a challenge for us and for her. We have to take care of her. She is a talented kid." 
While Zagunis didn't attend Notre Dame for a year, she wasn't even on the U.S. Olympic team until June. Zagunis lost in the semifinals of a tournament in March to Sada Jacobson by one touch (a point in fencing). 
That loss dropped Zagunis to No. 11 in the world rankings and left Jacobson's sister Emily at No. 10 in the world. The qualifying system left Zagunis as the Olympic's first alternate and both Jacobson sisters going to Greece. 
When the Nigerian team declined its Olympic spot, Zagunis claimed the spot at the top-ranked fencer in the April 1 rankings not currently qualified for the Olympics. 
The fateful turn of events paved the way to Zagunis' gold medal. 
''I'm just happy in the first place that I was able to come here and compete," Zagunis said. 
Bednarski said Zagunis was initially slated to return to South Bend on Friday. With her success, those plans could change as the United States Olympic Committee might want Zagunis to participate in the closing ceremonies Aug. 30, meaning Zagunis would get to campus a few days later. 
Regular business hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

·-------------------------·----------~-----­
page 34 Saturday, August 21 , 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
Backs 
continued from page 36 
son Grant ran as the feature 
back for 1,085 yards and 
became the seventh player in 
Notre Dame history to eclipse 
the 1 ,000-yard mark in a sea­
son. llis experience and knowl­
edge of the system makes Grant 
{6-1, 218 pounds) the penciled­
in starter, at least for now. 
"We got a lot of guys who can 
play," Thomas said. "But start­
ing oil', it's [Grant's] to lose. Ile 
knows the system well so he 'II 
start the season off as the 
starter, but anything can hap­
pen so I just got to be ready for 
my time." 
Thomas missed all of spring 
practice with an injured ankle 
after red-shirting the previous 
season. The fall repetitions are 
working him back into a system 
coaches feel he fits. 
"Travis has looked good, but that's not any different from how he looked last fall," Willingham said after Tuesday's practice. "We think Travis can be a good back. lie's got enough shiftiness, elusiveness ... speed, and he is big time tough. Those arc pretty good ingredients." 
While Thomas is beginning to create a buzz with his play in practice, Walker has en tcred Notre Dame with immediate expectations. 
No one expects Walker to start, but after breaking the Georgia State Association sin­gle-season touchdown record with 46, a record formerly held by Herschel Walker, the 5-foot­11, 200-pound back could chal­lenge for playing time. 
"I came here because I felt the opportunity [to play[ was here," Walker said. ''I'm confi­dent in myself that hopefully I'll get a chance to sec the field, and those are my plans." 
Walker admits, however, that he must first adjust to the col­lege game and playbook schemes before he makes an impact. 
"Hight now it's just me com­ing in trying to learn the system as best as possible, which has been the hardest thing for me," Walker said. "We ran sort of the same stulT in high school, but now you have protections with Mike linebackers and safeties ... which is a lot different from high school." 
Willingham sees the learning 
curve ahead of Walker, but he 
also sees a desire to conquer 
that learning curve as soon as 
possible. 
"Darius is not any different 
from any of our freshmen in 
that he's also learning," 
Willingham said. "But when 
you look at the basic skill of 
being a good runner, he seems 
to be indicating that he has a 
vision. That is always a key 
asset if you're going to be a 
very good runner." 
Willingham said I loskins and 
Walker have had parallel expe­
riences in fall practice. 
"[Hoskins] is similar to 
Darius. There are some good 
things that they're doing and 
there are some days where they 
are ... wondering what this 
offense is all about. But they 
seem to be progressing well." 
Hoskins has had a nagging minor injury and could not be reached for comment. At 6-foot, 195 pounds, the three year, two-way starter from Creston High School in Grand Rapids, Mich. rushed 209 times for 1,621 yards and 19 touchdowns his senior year. He also caught 20 passes for 134 yards and two touchdowns and threw a perfect 3-for-3 for 71 yards and a touchdown. 
Other potential backfield con­tributors include 5-foot-11, 202-pound senior Marcus Wilson and 6-0, 216-pound jun­ior Jeff Jenkins. Wilson played in 11 games last season and carried the ball 14 times for 29 yards, a 2.1 yards per carry average. Though he has received sparing playing time, Wilson has the most game experience in the Irish back­field after Grant. 
Anybody could potentially receive the nod at running back, with the depth of the backfield and also with the nature of the position. 
"I think the running back position is very physical, any­body can go out in any play," Thomas said. "So if you're one, two or three, you got to be ready to go." 
Backfield bullets 
• Senior Ryan Grant needs only 295 yards to become the 13th player in Notre Dame history to rush for 2,000 yards in a career. He has rushed over 100 yards in a game four times for the Irish and has a career rush­ing total of 1,705 yards and 13 touchdowns. 
Phone 
(574) 
232-4570 
.We run errands~ 

do laundry; deliver birthday cakes and goodie bags, take you to the Dr. and drug store, or Kinko's at la_m__ Most anything to make your life easier! 
Roce,o!¥ WELCOME, FRESHMENI HPsla u J'aJJI 
'First Oriaina( Pizza in Town! 
Since 1D5l Specializing in Italian ~lll.l'ees Tues. -Thul's.: ~:OOPM -II :OOPM FJ'i. -Sat.: ~:OOPM -I:OOAM ;n7 1\orth Sl. Louis South Bend, II\ 
Proprietors 

574-23'{-24()4 
Warren & Linda 


• Freshman running back Darius Walker could be attract­ing even more attention to him­self with his choice of jerseys. Well, that is if it had been his choice. Walker dons the famous number three worn traditional­ly by Irish greats, including Rick Mirer and Joe Montana. The most recent player to wear No. 3, converted wide receiver Arnaz Battle, is returning kicks for the San Francisco 49ers. 
"I was No. 7 in high school and I was hoping to try to get that this year," Walker said, "but Carlyle Holiday moved to wide receiver and he still want­ed to keep his number. I wanted a single-digit number, and it was really one of the only sin­gle-digit numbers available. So it just worked out that way, I guess." 
Injury report 
• 
Ryan Grant appeared to tweak his left hamstring Monday morning and did not practice in the afternoon or on Tuesday. "It's a minor injury," red-shirt freshman Travis Thomas said. "It's not serious so he'll be ready to go." 

• 
Red-shirt senior linebacker Brandon Hoyte has stood on the sidelines for the major part of the week with his right arm in a sling. Hoyte was second on the team in tackles last season with 74, including 48 solo. Courtney Watson led the Irish with 117 tackles 

• 
Defensive linemen Justin Tuck and Kyle Budinsack are coming back from off-season ACL surgeries and have sat out most of practice. 


Contact Pat Leonard at pleonacd@nd.edu 
COVIliSill STADIUM 
South Bead. IN 
SUNDAY AUGUST 22, 2004 •6:30pm 


Tickets available at The Cove Box Office & All Ticketmaster Outlets, Charge-By-Phone: 574-235-9988 or 574-272-79'79 Online at www.silverhawks.com or www.tickelmaster.com 

www.jamusa.com 

FOOTBALL 

Fall practices split up after rule change 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

After a mandatory five-day breaking in period, teams were restricted on how many two-a­days they can have and may not allow any practice of three hours or more. With that in mind, Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham split his team into two groups when fall practice started for practices that lasted an hour and a half. 
"I think has been advantageous to us because it has allowed almost every player on the squad repetition and that's the one thing you need to get better," Willingham said. 
During the first split squad practice Aug. 10, the team was divided into two groups. The first consisted of mostly first stringers and the second group was com­prised of reserves and freshman. Both groups met for 30 minutes for special team work near the end of practice. When a group was not on the field, they did a variety of activities such as lifting or riding the exercise bike. 
Willingham said he and the other coaches are hoping the new format helps the team, although he has never run prac­tices this way in the past. 
"You don't know," he said. "This is the frrst time we've done this. You're learning as you go in terms of what effectiveness it 
Pacific Coast Concerts 
Proudly Prcsqnts In South Bvnd 
has, what impact it has on your team. We'll know once we get into the season exactly how it's impacted our team. With the other schedule, you knew after doing it for years and years you knew exactly where things were going to fall. You knew exactly where your team would be and how to respond to it." 
After implementing the new format for more than a week, Willingham has been pleased with the results. 
"We've got a lot of work done," Willingham said. "When we started one of the main focuses of the team was to get everyone a lot for repetition. I think we've achieved that so from that stand­point it's been a good week we've made progrnss." 
But the third-year coach also said there are some shortcom­ings to any practice that can be worrisome. 
"What coaches always strive for and what you probably never get until they actually get to the game and really get the produc­tivity in a game is execution," he said. "As you know from listening to me before, we struggle because as coaches if one side does well then one side isn't doing well because you're work­ing against yourself and that makes our practices very com­petitive." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Saturday, August 21, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 29 Shrimp 57 Country lass 
Celebrities born on this day: Wilt Chamberlain, Kenny Rogers, Princess 
1 Athletic support-30 Those with 58 Rush hour, in 
Margaret, Count Basie er? 48-Acrosses adspeak 
Happy Birthday: Minor setbacks should be expected. Nothing will go
10 Electric meter 32 It may have so 1,000 millimes 
according to plan, so be prepared to think standing up. You'll have to watch out
inventor reservations 
61 Ride for individuals who may want to hold y~m back. It's not be the year to cut Thomson comers. Your colorful nature may foq! some of the people you meet, but it
34 Vital 

62 Catcher won't fool those who are perceptive and watching you from afar. Be honest and 
15 Viniculturist's 
36 Most numbers true to yourself if you want to prosper. Your numbers: 8, 12, 17, 26, 35, 44
sampling tube 63 Horoscope data 
have two or 

16 Join securely more ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't rush. It's important to complete unfinished business. Take part in social activities and you'll meet intriguing mates. Travel 17 It remains effec-39 Enliven DOWN opportunities will be present through work-related matters. ***** live until filled or TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your household may be up in arms if you plan
1 Affirmed in court41 Gym amenities
canceled on making changes that others just can't relate to. Be careful not to offend 2 "Put a lid on it!" individuals who are established in your field. **
43 Year in

18 Places to set 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have to speak your piece. Problems with 
geraniums Severus's reign 3 Not as a group 
your partner will be due to untruthfulness. Travel will allow you to meet new 19 Hardly a 46 Letterhead?: 4 TV dog lovers. Love triangles must be avoided. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your lover will upset the apple cart today. Be
Abbr.

Yankee fan 
5 'Vette option prepared to step back and watch for the time being. Things may not be as they 20 Flatten, in met-48 See 30-Across appear. Get all the facts. *** 
6 Bit

alworking LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love connections can be made. Your colorful way of
49 Pros at increas­

7 Those who wait entertaining everyone will attract all sorts of different mates. Use your
21 Near ing profits 
discrimination, or you may pick the wrong person. *** .8 Play again VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Deception involving co-workers or employers
22 Brand in the 52 Railroad neces­
may put a dent in your plans. You should work on your own and avoid getting 
freezer section sities 9 About 20% of 
dragged into idle chatter that could be incriminating. *** 
the earth's land:
24 Prima donna 53 Series finales LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to consider making changes 
Abbr. 
regarding your residence. You need to get involved in some form of physical26 "The Neon 54 Guffaw 1 0 Footnote abbr. activity. You will be in a kc:;y position to present creative projects. **** Bible" novelist SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make major advancements if you are
56 Setting for St. 35 Flashy basket 44 Finished 55 Play directors
11 Disco-era duds willing to speak your mind. Career opportunities will unfold just by utilizing
28 Union foe Paul: Abbr. 
your widespread knowledge.** 
12 Rather than, 37 Seductive 45 ''The Third Man" 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do some research regarding your future
with "of' setting
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 38 Drummer intentions. You may want to look into working in foreign countries or picking 13 "Stalag 17" star, 47 Three-person 58 Infielders' stat. up additional knowledge about different governments. ***** 
40 Male character 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will want to spend too much on
1953 team
in French pan-frivolous items. This will be a good day to work at home. Look into ways of 14 Still waiting to tomime improving your personal situation. ***
50 Three-time 
go out AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Passionate encounters can be yours if you are
42 Some stanzas World Cup ski-
willing to make the first move. You will find a need to travel and should be 43 Ochlophobist's looking into different destinations. *** changed fre­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will make headway at work if you are 
21 They're ing champion 59 Honey eater of 
quently creative in your approach to business. Don't let others dramatize situations that may bring accusations. Look out for No. I. *** 
23. Option for some For answers, call1·900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with along trips 
Birthday Baby: You'll be eager to entertain right from day one. Your family 
credit card, 1-800-814·5554. 

and friends will welcome your company and believe in all that you profess to
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
be able to do. You are a born actor and a colorful little character. You will
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
always follow the most exciting pathway throughout your life. 
Planeten Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com
31 Antique photos 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 33 Stink maker solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

DILBERT 
CATBERT: EVIL DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
HOW DO I TELL PEOPLE THAT THERE WONT BE ANY ANNUAL RAISES? 
PEANUTS 
I JUST DON'T KNOW ~OW TO WRITE A LOVE LETTER 
IF SOMEONE TRIES TO RAISE THE TOPIC, GUIDE THE CONVERSA­TION AWAY. 
W'"'AT CAN '(OU SA'f TO A GIRL T'"'AT SHOWS YOU 
SCOTT ADAMS 
...AND THAT'S WHY 
MY OUTFIT IS MADE 
OF CAFETERIA NAPKINS. 
DO YOU THINK WE'LL EVER COLONIZE MARS? 
\._ 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 
I-lOW ABOUT,''Et-.!CLOSED PLEASE FIND A COOKIE"? 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ZAUER 

1 
I I [ (] 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LIDUF 

I I I 
RESTUM 1 I [I I I 

www.jumble.com 

~ GUDEMS ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

J I [ J I 
Answer:"( I I J-[ I I I I I J" 
(Answers Monday) 

I Jumbles: LIMIT SOAPY MOTION BECAMEYesterday's Answer: 
What she was fishing for on vacation-"COMPLI­MENTS" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Saturday, August 21, 2004 
page 36 
OLYMPICS 
Domers shine in Athens 

Zagunis captures sabre fencing gold 
medal in Athens for U.S. team 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Winning an Olympic gold medal is a pretty unique answer to the standard ques­tion of "llow was your sum­mer'?" 
•. Incoming freshman fencer Marie! Zagunis can now say just that. Zagunis won the women's individual sabre competition Tuesday in Athens, Greece becoming the first U.S. fencer to medal since 1984 and the first to win a gold medal since 1904. 
"I don't nven know what to say right now," Zagunis told the Associated Press. "I'm so happy." 
Zagunis defeated China's Tan Xue 15-9 in the sabre final. Tan beat U.S. fencer Sada Jacobson -who went on to win the bronze medal -in the semifinals. 
The U.S. team appropriately rushed the strip when Zagunis scored the winning point. 
"There's no better feeling than being thrown up there after becoming champion of anything," Zagunis said of her teammates tossing her in the air. ''I'm glad they could get on stage and celebrate with me like that." 
Zagunis had the opportunity to win the gold medal after deferring her enrollment to Notre Dame. Signing with Notre Dame in November 2002, Zagunis didn't enroll in August 2003 because of the rigorous and demanding Olympic qualifying schedule. 
That was something Notre Dame fencing coach Janusz Bednarski knew about when 
see GOLD/page 33 Marie! Zagunis kisses her gold medal In individual sabre. 
Irish freshman records fastest start in 200-meter individual medley 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
, 
Sports Editor 
Andrew MacKay has always had quick reflexes. But it wasn't until the Olympics that the Cayman Islands competitor was really able to show them off. 
The Notre Dame freshman got ofl' the starting block in the 200­meter individual medley Wednesday morning in just 0.59 seconds, the fastest time in the 2004 games by any non-back­stroker. A<> a result, he finished 41st in the 50 swimmer field­six places higher than his seed­ing. 
Sunday he broke his own national record with a time of 
4:32.38 in the 400-meter individ­ual medley, good for a 33rd place fi·nish. Wednesday, he swam the200-meter individual medley in 2:07.65, a personal best. 
"It was my best time, so I can't complain about that," MacKay said from Athens. "I would have 
see RECORD/page 33 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish don't lose ontrip to Brazil 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 

6Freshman Orientation was a little different this year for the newcomers on the Notre Dame women's soccer team. 
Instead of packing their bags for South Bend, the Irish took their game south of the equa­tor to Brazil for six exhibition games against local semi-pro­fessional teams. 
With the freshmen joining the rest team for the first time, Notre Dame meshed well on its way to an undefeated 5­0-1 record. The Irish encoun­tered little trouble with the opposition, outscoring their international counterparts by a combined 16-3 margin. 
Senior Candace Chapman, sidelined for all of last season with a knee injury, led the team with four goals while first-year players Jannica Tjeder and Ashley Jones both got their feet wet with five points apiece. 
Jones tallied two goals and three assists despite getting a few butternies in her first col­legiate action. 
"I was definitely extremely nervous for at least the first couple games and even the 
see BRAZIL/page 32 
FOOTBALL 
Young running backs hope to make impact 
212 pounds] has received first 3.6 yards per carry. Thomas By PAT LEONARD 
team duties behind the starting hopes to contribute at least as Associate Sports Editor 
Irish offensive line over the past much as Grant did last season. few days. "Within the last year and this 
In the first week of fall prac­Thomas, Walker and Hoskins year, you usually rotate backs a tice, freshman running backs are all preparing as if the next little bit one and two, [like) Darius Walker and Justin carry belongs to them. Julius and Ryan !did last year], Hoskins received the opportunity "Last year was a learning and I think we're going to do to showcase talent that made stage, the red-shirt year," some of the same this year." each a state Thomas said. "I took a lot from Coach Tyrone Willingham did G a t o r a d e See Also Julius [Jones] and Ryan [Grant). not dispute Thomas' claim that Player of the This year we got a few guys he could see the field early and, 
"Fall practices
Year in bumped up [in the rotation] and possibly, often. Georgia and split up after I know what I'm doing. So "We'll let the players deter­Michigan, rule change" they're throwing me in there mine what happens," respectively. and giving me that experience, Willingham said. "But the truth 
page34
But another and hopefully I'll be ready to go is if we can be our best -I think freshman in the first game." it's usually when you have the back looks to Notre Dame out-rushed its opportunity to have two backs ... prove just as much as the highly opponents 1,887 yards to 1,526 that are always fresh and always touted incoming players. yards last season, though the attacking the defense, I think 
With a reported tweaked left bulk of those yards came in you have your best chance to be hamstring sidelining starter explosive outings from Jones. successfuL" Ryan Grant from practice for Grant ran for 510 yards and During Willingham's first sea-several days last week, red-shirt three touchdowns on just 143 freshman Travis Thomas [6-foot, carries last season, averaging see BACKS/ page 34 

en 
SMC SOCCER 
MEN'S SOCCER 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND CROSS COUNTRY
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
LLI

1-
c.,:) 
The Irish celebrate the 
Notre Dame vs. 

lOOth anniversary of
z After losing just three 
Northwestern 

The Irish return most 
The men's and
After losing their best 
men's basketball this
seniors from a year ago, 
Monday, 7 p.m. 

offensive player, Kristen 
of their starters and 
women's teams return
cc ::5 
season. Newcomers
the Belles hope to 
Playko, who chose to go 
hope to build on last 
most of the key runners
Cl 
c::l 
Dennis Latimore, Omari 
improve on last year's 
The Irish and the 

abroad, the Belles must 
season's loss in the first 
in 2004.
cs: 

Isreal and Rob Kurz will 
fourth-place finish in 
Wildcats square off in 

find a source of offense. 
round of the NCAA 
contribute.
the MIAA. 
an exhibition. 

Tournament.
a. =: 
en 
page 24
page 28 
page 26 
page 22 
page 22 

page 20 



