

Ebersol, Istvan tickets advance to run-off 
Winning tickets vow to step up 
Losing tickets express no regrets, campaigns for Thursday election endorse Istvan-Bell team 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS By AMANDA MICHAELS Associare News Ediror News Writer 
The tickets of Charlie Ebersol-James Leito and The Ryan Craft-Steve Lynch and Mark Healy­Adam Istvan and Karla Bell will advance to a Mike Healy tickets will be excluded from runoff election for student body president and Thursday's run-off election after receiving 14 per­vice president on Thursday after Monday's pri­cent and 11.4 percent of the primary vote, respec­mary. tively. 
The two tickets in the run-off election, Ebersol Both tickets endorsed Adam Istvan and Karla Bell and Leito and Istvan and Bell, received 46 and after learning the results, citing the pair's strong 
21.4 percent of the vote respectively. The policies and similar goals as their reasoning. remaining tickets, Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch "We believe they have the best platform to sup­and Mark and Mike Healy, received 14 and 11.4 · port. It focuses on getting things done that the stu­percent of the vote, respectively. A total of 3,496 dents will see, and I like its feasibility. I think students cast ballots in Monday's primary, with they'll do the best job in office," said Mark Healy. 
7.3 percent of voters abstaining. Lynch agreed. 
Residence hall loyalty played a role in the "We all had pretty similar platforms," he said. "I elections, as Craft and Lynch won their home would rather see them in office. Everyone should 
see RESULTS/page 4 see ELECTION/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Quaranto advocates voter registration drive 

Trustees reach no decision on vacancies 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
At a time when several top­level University positions are empty or in transition. the Board of Trustees made "no major decisions" last week at their meeting on campus, University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
A trustee said previously the board intended to discuss strategic planning, specifically the. University's the most recently launched 10-year plan. 

"Obviously, they had produc­tive meetings," Storin said, but no significant decisions were made regarding executive offices. 
The status of these executive offices remains uncertain. The University has yet to fill the position of executive vice pres­ident, empty since June ,30, when the resignation of Father Timothy Scully took effect. Carol Mooney, vice president and associate provost, will be 
see TRUSTEES/page 4 

VICTORY! 
TIM SULLIVAN/The 

Ushers attempt to prevent students from rushing the court after the men's basketball team beat the No.5 Huskies 80-74. Exactly one year ago Monday, the Irish defeated No.4 Pittsburgh. 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Members of the Council of Representatives convened Monday evening in LaFortune Student Center to discuss a voter registration drive. 
Peter Quaranto, a sopho­more who works at the Center for Social Concerns in the justice education pro­gram, spoke to the body regarding a proposed voter registration drive. He said there is significant room for improvement in political awareness among students. 
"Notre Dame has typically had a very bad record of political engagement and voter turnout during election 
years," Quaranto said. 
He encouraged student leaders to assist in the "Rock the Vote" effort, with the goal of registering students and distributing absentee ballots, allowing them to vote in hometown elections while at Notre Dame. 
In literature accompanying his presentation, Quaranto cited a study indicating that 92 percent of registered vot­ers between 25 and 29 regis­tered during their college years. 
Quaranto proposed includ­ing th~ drive's effortsin cam­pus events, like lectures, Student Union Board concerts and other programs. In his 
see COUNCIL/page 4 


Tuesday, February 10, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Mind wanderings 
Ahhh, it's about that time of year. 
No, I don't mean spring-c!eaning­just a bit of a refresher for the Inside Column. A pine-green £lir freshener, if you will, provided compliments of The Observer along with a pile of inky, stinky newsprint. 
What happened to those days when the most serious topic to invade the sacred shrine of Page 2 was the complete lack of personal monkey assistants? Ah, for the glory of cam­pus elections past. Now, ifwe all got a Hummer, that would top the monkeys. Just barely. 
I think it's pretty much de rigueur nowadays for any column worth its salt to mention that absolutely nobody reads the Inside Column. There may or may not be some truth to that-when asked if he'd ever read it, a 17-year-old freshman from Zahm with false buck teeth, a cowboy hat turned sideways and the name "Pancho Spilla" said he could neither confirm nor deny reports that he'd been known to read one on occasion. 
That's no excuse, though. There's got to be some denia -err, I mean, accountability here! Self-deprecating humor only goes so far before someone just has to stand up, clear the air and then apologize for baking the beans. 
On a completely unrelated note, since of late the Irish seem to be under pres­sure to become more research-orient­ed, I vote we make the unofficial motto • IHTFP. Hey, ifM.I.T. uses it, it can't be all wrong ... right? 
Speaking of notes, I'm sure Notre Dame has some more harmonious ones planned for the Stadium than U2 and the Boss. Something like ... The Show 2007, featuring Yo Yo Ma and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. Of course, security will still have to be on guard with Breathalyzers at the entrance. Can't have any intoxicated first flutes wandering in, now can we? 
This above all, to thine own advice be true, and then it shall follow, as the night the day, something something. I really should listen to my own advice, shut my yap, and spend more time har­monizing my inner peace quotient with campus norms. By that, I mean it's time for me to hit the Huddle for some matches, a tree for some sticks, and a lake for an experiment to see ifPlato sinks or swims. Er, whether he's imag­ined or not. If only ... 
Kind of sad that I don't know the lakes apart yet, isn't it? I confess, I just walk by them. I'm like "Hey, lake!" and go on by. I'll never know the lake's name. But the lake is not however therefore nameless ... but blameless is the Willy all the same. 
If you read that last paragraph and laughed, you really should quit leaving in the middle of class to go to the bath­room. If you didn't laugh, well, ditto. Sort it out amongst yourselves while I microwave some grapes and see what 
happens.  ,  
Contact  Will  Puckett  at  
wpuckett@nd.edu.  The  views  

expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irsdf as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: DID YOU VOTE .IN THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS? 




Karla Bell  Pat Mlllea  Jesse Beery  Saira Khan  John Koreckl  Mark Ersfeld  
Junior  Senior  Junior  Junior  Junior  Senior  
Walsh  Offcampus  Keenan  McGlinn  Stanford  Off-campus  
..That•s today? ..  "'No. I'm too  ..What. and  "'Yes! I don •t  ."Yes because I  "'No. I had no  
jaded about  take time away  want Charlie  wanted to  idea who ran. ··  

student from my bio government. •• studying and 
NCAA football 
recruiting? 
That•sjust 
dajtt•• 

.Norwegian man pilfers women's high heels 
OSLO, Norway-A bold 
thief with a penchant for 
high-heeled shoes has been 
keeping women on their 
toes in the western city of 
Stavanger. 
The thief, described as a 
male in his 30s, boldly 
enters homes, sometimes 
when the owners are there, 
and makes off with 
women's high-heeled shoes, 
the Stavanger Aftenbladet 
newspaper reported 
Monday. 
He knocked on the door of 
one woman's home last 
month, and asked to check 
a number in her telephone 

Ebersol to win cancel out my ... anyone but roommate•s 
him.·· 

MICHELLE OTIOffhe Observer 
Chuck Klosterman, author of Fargo Rock City and a senior writer for Spin magazine, speaks to members of the Notre Dame community In the South Dining Hall Oak Room. The event was part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival. 
OFFBEAT 
"I think it was a great success," said Sharon Ehasz, 24, who owns the African leopard tortoises with her husband, Bobby Ehasz. "I think they're going to be a little confused -the world as they knew it is going to be somewhat tilt­ed." 
Veterinarians Jay Johnson of University Animal Hospital in Tempe and Jim Jarchow of Orange Grove Animal Hospital in Tucson worked for about three hours to separate the tortoises. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
book. She left briefly to get it and he jotted down a number. It was only after he was gone that she noticed all her high-heeled shoes were gone from the entry­way. 
Another woman told the newspaper that high-heeled shoes had been stolen from her house five times. 
Conjoined tortoises separated In Arizona 
MESA, Ariz. -A pair of conjoined tortoises were separated Sunday at a Tempe animal hospital in what is believed to be the first surg~ry of its kind in Arizona. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI 
::z::: 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
.... 
c( (.) 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

28 15 
0 
HIGH 23

.... 
LOW 21 

vote ... 
IN BRIEF 
Kathleen Bruhn, a visiting Kellogg Fellow from the University of California Santa . Barbara will deliver a lecture titled "Partisanship and Protest in· Brazil and Mexico." The lecture takes place today at 12:30 p.m. in room 103-C of the Hesburgh Center. The event is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Attend a writer's workshop hosted by Chuck Klosterman today in the Foster Room of LaFortune at 2 p.m. 
Omolola Eniola of ·the Department of Chemistry and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania will present a lecture titled "Design and In Vitro Charact­erization of Biodegradable Drug Delivery Vehicles within the Adhesive Properties of Leukocytes." The lecture begins at 3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 14i. 
Those interested in the Gov. Bob Orr Entrepreneur Fellowship are invited to an information session scheduled for 5:30 p.m. this afternoon in DeBartolo 131. 
The International Student Services and Activities is spon­soring a showing of the film "Heaven" at 7 p.m. tonight in DeBartolo 117. 
Auditions for "The Taxi Cabaret" by the Farley Hall Players will take place tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Farley Hall chapel. 
7b submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH 22 LOW 13 

Atlanta 50137 Boston 43131 Chicago 29114 Denver 35112 Houston 56142 Los Angeles 74 I 48 Minneapolis 18111 New York 47 I 32 Philadelphia 48 I 32 Phoenix 64 I 41 Seattle 50 I 36 St. Louis 38 I 25 Tampa 80 I 64 Washington 48 1 34 
Tuesday, February 10, 2004 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Women's Concern Week commences 
By STEPHANIE YAHN 
News Writer 
Cavanaugh Hall kicked off their annual Women's Concerns Week Monday evening with a viewing of "Whale Rider," a film that explores one woman's struggle to redefine traditional female roles. Women's Concerns began five years ago as a one night event featuring five Notre Dame women of different walks of life and has now evolved into a week-long series that explores a variety of issues. 
"[This year's topics] are a lot broader than what you might expect from the title of Women's Concerns," said Rebecca Chimahusky, program coordina­tor. 
This week's talks and events will focus on the ideas of female empowerment and the roles of women in politics, the Catholic Church and cultures other than our own. 
Monday's movie provided a powerful example of what it means to break cultural barriers, Chimahusky said. 

The story told of the life of a girl named Pai in the patriarchal New Zealand tribe of the Whangara people. Pai believed that she was destined to be the new chief, a role traditionally given to the first born male of the family. She had to fight against the customs of her culture, which were preventing her from fulfilling her calling. Thirteen year old Keisha Castle­Hughes, the main actress, is a nominee for Best Actress in for this year's Academy Awards. 
Following the movie, the week's events continue tonight with a talk by Layna Mosley, a Political Science assistant professor at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. An open discussion on the role of Women in the Church will be held Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall and the final event, Thursday night, will take place at 6:45 p.m. in Coleman-Morse Lounge and fea­ture four international graduate students speaking about their lives as women in their native countries. 
Cavanaugh traditionally spon­sors Women's Concerns Week during the month of February, • which is Women's Concerns month but this is the first year that the talks and discussions have been this open to the cam­pus community. Chimahusky and Sister Patricia Dearbaugh, the rector of Cavanaugh, said that they hope that by spreading the events out beyond Cavanaugh to different forums throughout the campus they will encourage both men and women from across campus to attend. 
Contact Stephanie Yahn at syahn@nd.edu 
SMC gears up for board elections 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Presidential elections for Residence Hall Association and Student Diversity Board, two of Saint Mary's most active student government branches, will be held online today via PRISM. 
Juniors Martha Hottenstein and Jill Funnell are running unopposed for the respective RHA president and vice presi­dent positions. 
Hottenstein, Little Sibs Weekend co-chair, and Funnell, health and wellness chair, currently serve on the board under president Shay Jolly and vice president Jackie Zins. This is Hottenstein's sec­ond year as a board member. 
"Watching two presidents prior to running has helped me see what the job entails," she said. "My experience gives me a strong base for the posi­tion and it helps to know that if I have any questions, Shay will still be around to answer them." 
Perhaps the largest respon­sibility on Hottenstein and Funnell's platform is that of providing Opus Apartments, Saint Mary's new on-campus housing complex, a represen­tative voice on RHA. Other platform goals include strengthening the bond between Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross and increasing awareness of intra­mural sports. 
Hottenstein said that the ticket plans to make no changes to the current struc­ture of the board, a:1d instead hopes to expand upon strides already taken. 
Juniors Ashley Doughty and Adriana Puente will also run 
Doughty describes herself as a strong leader, primarily due to her work as a board mem­ber and as a tutor at the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
"I've had good experiences and I'm ready to step up to the 
unopposed in today's election for the positions of SDB president and vice presi­dent. 
Both candi­dates have held positions on the board for one year under cur­rent president Veronica Saavedra and vice president Anne marie Marquez. 
"'Despite only having one ticket, it is important for students to have a voice in their leaders for next 
, 

year. 
Nicole Haeberle elections commissioner 
challenge of lead­ing Student Diversity Board," she said. 
According to elections commis­sioner Nicole Haeberle, it is a common trend that just one tick­et is running for each of these presidential posi­tions. Candidates 
typic a11 y rise 
Doughty now serves as public­ity and journalistic relations chair and Puente as admis­sions commissioner. 
Doughty describes the two as having formed an "instant friendship" through their work on SDB. 
"I felt she had the same pas­sion for the board and similar ideas for continuing to build upon where we've come from," Doughty said. 
Some of the ticket's platform ideas include increasing the participation of faculty and staff at events, increasing work with student admissions and broadening aspects of diversity beyond those associ­ated with race and ethnicity. 
from within the 
board and are encouraged to run by the per­formance of the president that they served under, she explained. 
This, however, should not deter students from voting. 
"In each election there are three options: a vote of yes affirming the candidates, a vote of no signaling a lack of confidence in the candidates and an abstention signaling ambivalence in the election," Haeberle said. "Despite only having one ticket, it is impor­tant for students to have a voice in their leaders for next year." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

·... 

LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME 
INFORMATION SESSION FOR MAY, 2005 & MAY, 2006 
• 
ATTEND OUR DROP-IN SESSION ON 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004 BETWEEN 5:00 -6:30 P.M. 140 DEBARTOLO HALL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME RUNS FROM MID-MAY TO MID-JUNE 
. . . . . . . . . . 
page 4 . -The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS ~'fuesday, Febtlfaty 10, 2004 
Results 
continued from page I 
dorm of Keenan. Istvan and Bell won Bell's dorm Walsh, Healy and Healy won Mark Healy's dorm Zahm. and Ebersol and Leito won Leito's dorm Siegfried and Ebersol's former dorm Keough. Overall, Ebersol-Leito garnered the highest percentage of votes from 22 of the 27 dorms, in addition to Old College. 
Both Ebersol and Istvan expressed confidence in their ticket's ability to win the runoff election, and each said they will be stepping up cam­paigning within the next few days. 
Istvan said his confidence comes from the support he will receive from both Craft and Mark Healy, who is endorsed 
his ticket,  as  well as  good  
campaigning.  
"I  think  we  have  a  good  

shot," he said. "Both the. Craft and Healy tickets have said that they'll endorse us. I feel confident that with their sup­port and continued campaign­ing we can move forward with this election." 
Istvan said a focus of the remainder of his campaign will be to explain the extent of his platform to students. 
"I plan on visiting a lot of people," he said. "I feel I need 'to explain to people our plat­form. I've been seen as a one­line election, only about the SYRs ... And we've been played as a ticket that has no experience, and that's not true." 
Ebersol said that while he feels good about the results, his goal is to make sure stu­dents continue to stay interest­ed. 
"I think that we're going to try to maintain the number of 

Election 
continued from page I 
get out and vote in the second election." 
Despite their loss, Healy and Healy said they had no regrets for running, adding that it was an experience they would not have given up. 
"If I had the chance, I would definitely run again," Mark Healy said. "The issues we brought to the table were con­sidered when they might not have before. We also showed that freshmen can be involved in student government too." 
"Besides, Alexander the Great was never elected to anything," Mike Healy said. 
Lynch, also speaking for Craft, who was not in atten­dance, said that the pair would run their campaign dif­ferently had they the chance to start again. 
"I wish we would have cam­paigned a little harder and focused on contacting more people," said Lynch. 
Though Craft and Lynch will 
PART-TIME WORK 
~9.00 base-appt. 
• 
flex. aro.und classes 

• 
Cust. salesjservice. 

• 
Scholarships, All majors 

• 
Conditions Apply 


Vector "Skills for Life" 
282-2357 
www. workforstudents.com 

Charlie Ebersol awaits the election results on Monday. 
voters that came out ... make sure students stay involved in the election," he said. "We'll be in dorms -as many as possible -and we 'II be increasing the amount of pub­licity to focus on the difference between [our ticket] and Adam's ticket." 
Ebersol also emphasized the need for the next student body president to be prepared for the office. 
"I just think the single most important thing is for [a candi­date] to be prepared to take over the presidency. It's about understanding how the University works," said Ebersol. "I think that Adam thinks that because he's worked at the University he understands how to work with the University. They're com­pletely different things." 
There will be a second round of debates between the rema1mng candidates Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
be seniors next year and thus ineligible for election, Healy and Healy will be sophomores, and have the chance to run again. 
"We did not rule out running again next year," Mark Healy said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Trustees 
continued from page I 
leaving her office June 1 to take over as the eleventh presi­dent of Saint Mary's. 
;'[Provost] Nathan Hatch has begun a search process in which he will consider candi­dates both inside and outside the University," Storin said of the quest to replace Mooney. "He has asked the deans and department heads to suggest candidates, and he has a search consultant assisting him. The opening will be 

Council 
continued from page I 
proposal, student volunteers will host tables at those events, offering voter regis­tration forms that are valid in most states. 
Senior class president Jazmin Garcia said register­ing voters at campus events will broaden the range of students Rock the Vote can reach. 
"That way it's open to all students who are interested in going to class events, SUB events, and dorm events," Garcia said. 
The· senior class council is co-sponsoring the initiative, along with the College Republicans and College Democrats. 
Quaranto asked student 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has received a significant gift from a trustee and his wife for the Chris and Anne Reyes Organ and Choral Hall in the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Elected a trustee last June, Reyes is chairman of Reyes Holdings, a Rosemont, IlL-based beverage and food distributor. 
"I consider my selection as a trustee a tremendous honor and embrace the opportunity to be advertised in the Chronicle of 
Higher Education." 
And while the hunts for Mooney and Scully replace­ments proceed, the term of University President Father Edward Malloy is scheduled to 'expire in 2005 -and the Board plays an integral role in deciding whether or not he will 
retire from the office. 
Malloy has held the post 
since 1987. and, in 2000. he 
acquiesced to a request from 
the Board ofTrustees to contin­
ue as President for another 
five-year term until 2005. 
The Board elects the presi­
dent, who must be a priest 
leaders for their support in registering as many voters as possible. 
"We're looking for funding, support and leadership from student government," he said. "Student government would be the perfect place to take the lead on this sort of thing." 
Several council members agreed, expressing interest in the drive. Hall Presidents Council co-chair Sarah Keefer invited Quaranto to address an upcoming HPC meeting, in order to promote the drive. 
Members also discussed the ongoing restructuring of the student union constitu­tion. As the discussion began, however, judicial board president Elliot Poindexter moved to close the meeting. The motion passed without opposition or 



Choral hall to bear donors' names 
associated more closely with Notre Dame, as well as to help enhance the University's grow­ing commitment to the perform­ing arts." Reyes said. "Anne and l are thrilled that our benefac­tion will allow us to give some­thing back to such a wonderful institution." 
The 100-seat organ and choral hall has been designed to showcase a new, handcrafted pipe organ. Its three-story inte­rior calls to mind a neo-classical chapel and lends itself equally from the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross order -unlike the executive vice president, who can be a lay person. Presidential candidates are recommended by the Board's governance and nominating committee. 
Last week's agenda at the Board's meeting, however, indi­cated nothing about the Office of the President. The Board will convene again in the spring, when decisions and announcements will be more likely. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
debate. 
In other COR news: 

+ 
Sophomore class president James Leito encouraged stu­dents to attend a Valentine card-making session in LaFortune's Dooley Room on Feb. 12. Leito suggested the men in his class might even find their Valentine there. "There's usually about a 10­to-one ratio of girls to guys," Leito joked. 

+ 
Student body vice presi­dent Emily Chin announced that members of the office of the president's diversity council will address the Student Senate regarding recent affirmative·action debates taking place in the Viewpoint pages of The Observer. 


Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

well to recitals and to the cele­bration of Mass. 
"This performance space ­especially notable for the way in which it unites Notre Dame's commitment to the performing arts and its Catholic character -will quickly become the cen­terpiece of the University's pro­grams in sacred and liturgical music," said John Haynes, Judd and Mary Lou Leighton Director of the Performing Arts and executive director of the DeBartolo Center. 


The Office ofStudent Activities is currently accepting new club proposals. If you have an idea for a club, whose pu~se is not currently served by an existing club, the Club Coordination Council encourages the submission ofa new club proposal to the Student Activities Office for review. More information can be found at: W\\'\N·.nd.edu!-sao:clubs!newciub.htm All requirements must be completed before the new club proposal will be reviewed. including: 
-Budget  List ofplanned events/activities  
- Advisor  - List ofofficers  
-Bylaws and purpose statement  


Submit the required information to Amy Geist, 314 LaFortune, by 5pm Friday February 13, 2004 for review this year. The next new club review will not occur until January 2005. Contact the Student Activities Office with any questionsl 

Tuesday, February 10, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's \VIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Japan nears N. Korea sanctions 
TOKYO -Japan passed a law Monday making it easier to impose economic sanc­tions on impoverished North Korea, prompt­ing the communist country to demand that Tokyo be barred from future multilateral talks on its nuclear program. 
The law allows Japan to impose sanctions on countries without a U.N. resolution. It does not specifically mention North Korea, but lawmakers have said it is aimed at the reclusive state. 
Tokyo could use the law to take steps such as banning North Korean imports and freez­ing remittances from North Koreans living in Japan -all desperately needed to help the North's devastated economy. 
. 

Woman survives week in rubble 
ANKARA, Turkey-A critically injured 24­year-old woman was pulled out alive Monday after a week buried in the rubble of a col­lapsed apartment building -a dramatic res­cue that came after teams heard her scrap­ing her finger nails against shattered con­crete and pleading, "Water, water." 
Yasemin Yaprakci, covered in dust, was carried on a stretcher into an ambulance as relief workers applauded. The rescuers worked for four hours to free her feet, which were trapped under decaying bodies. 
She was rushed by helicopter to a military hospital in Ankara where she was in critical condition, ·suffering from gangrene, internal bleeding and broken ribs. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bishop claims innocence in trial 
PHOENIX -Catholic Bishop Thomas O'Brien testified at his hit-and-run trial Monday that he heard a loud crash on the night he struck and killed a jaywalking pedestrian but never saw anyone in the road. 
O'Brien, speaking publicly for the first time about the accident that ended his 21-year career as head of the Phoenix Diocese, said he winced and put up his right hand upon hearing the noise on the passenger side of his car. 
He said he looked around the car and saw his windshield had been damaged but did not see anyone. The accident caused a spi­der-web crack over much of the passenger side of the windshield. 
Had he seen the pedestrian, "I would have stopped because that's the human thing to do," O'Brien said. "I couldn't imagine not stopping." 
Greyhound bus crash hurts 17 
WOOD HIVER, Neb. -A Greyhound bus veered ofT an icy highway and rolled into a ditch Monday morning after the driver swerved to avoid hitting a jackknifed tractor­trailer rig, sending 17 people to hospitals, authorities said. 
One passenger was in critical •..:ondition. Many of the others injured suffered. cuts and bruises. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Guard unit returns from Iraq 
INDIANAPOLIS -Several hundred mem­bers of an Indiana National Guard unit that was activated for the war in Iraq more than a year ago will be returning home over the coming week, military officials said Monday. 
About 220 soldiers from the 152nd Infantry are scheduled to arrive early Thursday at Indianapolis International Airport, with family and friends invited to attend the arrival. 
The next groups from the unit returning ­about 250 members of the 152nd's Alpha and Charlie companies -are scheduled to arrive in Indianapolis on Sunday. 
Arrival dates have not yet been confirmed for the remainder of the battalion's some 650 members. 
The 152nd Infantry has companies based in Vincennes, Jasper, Washington, Linton, Martinsville and Tell City. 


Kerry took $120K for speeches 
Records show candidate raised money from companies, lobbyists while in Senate 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-John 
Kerry took a small amount 
of political action commit­
tee money during a race 
for the House three 
decades ago, and later col­
lected more than $120,000 
in speaking fees from com­
panies and lobbying groups 
as a new senator, records 
show . 

Between 1985 and 1990, 
when Congress outlawed 
speaking fees, Kerry pock­
eted annual amounts 
slightly under the limits for 
speaking fees by lawmak­
ers. Unlike many col­
leagues, he donated a 
speaking fee to charity only 
once, according to annual 
financial disclosure reports 
reviewed by The 
Associated Press. 

The fees came from 
interests ranging from 
Democratic groups and 
unions to oil companies 
and the liquor lobby. 
One of the companies to Kerry's ethics reports Monday. abandoning such donations pay Kerry $1,000 for a show he made more than Kerry has railed against starting with his 1984 run speech in 1987, Miami­90 paid speeches between the influence of special for the Senate. based Metalbanc, was later 1985, when he first took interest money on the pres­"In his first public race indicted, along with two office, and 1990, when idential campaign trail and 32 years ago, John Kerry executives, on charges it Congress began the move frequently boasts he has took money from helped the Cali drug cartel to end honoraria. never taken a dime from autoworkers, teachers, in Colombia launder money The senator's campaign PACs, the donating arms of electricians, and in the United States. The said he accepted the speak­special interest groups, Democratic groups that charges eventually were ing fees, but also gave sev­since he joined the Senate. account for 5 percent of the dropped because the firm eral speeches a year for But records from his money he raised in a losing was defunct. free. unsuccessful race for the House race," the spokes­
At the time of the 1987 Kerry said he refrained House in 1972 show Kerry woman said. "That was 32 speech to Metalbanc, Kerry from accepting money from collected about $20,000 years ago. The difference was chairman of the organizations that from PACs, most of them now is Bush doesn't go 32 Senate subcommittee that appeared before his Senate associated with labor minutes without taking investigated drug traffick­committees. He said he unions. For instance, the PAC money." ing and money laundering. stopped taking speaker AFL-CIO's PAC gave him When Kerry joined the 
Kerry, now the front-run­fees before Congress enact­$3,000, and the railway Senate in 1985, senators ner for the Democratic ed its ban because he clerks', autoworkers' and could still accept speaking presidential nomination, wanted to avoid the state, county and municipal fees but were forced to said he didn't learn about appearance of money in workers' PACs donated abide by annual limits, the drug connection to the politics. $500 apiece. which ranged from company or its executives, "I personally stopped Kerry · spokeswoman $26,568 to $35,800. who also gave him political accepting any honoraria Stephanie Cutter confirmed A number of veteran law­donations, until The Boston because I came to think it Kerry took the PAC money makers often collected Globe informed him of it in was inappropriate and I in 1972, and another small more than $100,000 in a 1996. He donated several stopped voluntarily before amount in 1982 when he single year but had to give thousand dollars to chari­it became the law," Kerry ran for Massachusetts lieu­everything over the limit to ties to make amends. said at a press conference tenant governor, before charity. 

IRAQ 

Letter says Osama low on recruits 
Associated Press the steady killing of U.S. troops were McClellan said that the letter, first 
failing to shove the Americans from reported Monday by The New York 
BAGHDAD -A letter seized from Iraq or spark massive discord. Times, shows that "Iraq is the central an al-Qaida courier shows Osama bin The letter was believed written by front in the war on terrorism." Laden has made little headway in Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian "There are foreign terrorists who recruiting Iraqis for a holy war suspected of al-Qaida links. Al­realize the stakes are high and they against America, raising questions Zarqawi is the chief suspect in sever­seek to do everything they can to about the Bush administration's con­al recent bombings, and the Bush undermine the aspirations of the tention that Iraq is the central front administration cited his presence in Iraqi people," McClellan said. "But in the war on terror. Iraq as evidence of Iraq's terrorist democracy and freedom are taking 
The 17 -page letter, cited as a key connections even before the war. root in Iraq and there's no turning piece of intelligence that offered a Having found no weapons of mass back." rare window into foreign terrorist destruction in Iraq, the administra­The letter, as quoted by the Times, operations in Iraq, appealed to al­tion has been shifting the reason for acknowledges problems in recruiting Qaida leaders to help spark a civil going to war to the fight against glob­Iraqis to join the fight against an war between Iraq's two main Muslim al terrorism· and to oust Saddam American force "growing stronger sects in an effort to "tear the country Hussein. day after day." apart," U.S. officials said Monday. Military and coalition officials who "Many Iraqis would honor you as a 
One senior U.S. officer, Brig. Gen. rarely speak about intelligence infor­guest and give you refuge, for you are Mark Kimmitt, warned the plea could mation were quick to describe the a Muslim brother," it said. "However, mean more "spectacular" attacks letter as proof of a terrorist role in they will not allow you to make their because the rebels were despairing the Iraqi resistance. home a base for operations or a safe that their devastating car bombs and White House spokesman Scott house." 
,..~~-.. 

page 6 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 10, 2004 
HAITI 

Rebel uprising spreads, death toll rises to 41 
Associated Press 
ST. MARC -An armed uprising spread to nearly a dozen towns in western and northern Haiti on Monday, the strongest challenge yet to President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. At least 41 people have been killed in what the govern­ment says is an attempted coup. 
After sporadic gunbattles, police regained control of the important port city of St. Marc, 45 miles west of Port-au-Prince. At least two men were shot and another was allegedly shot and killed by Aristide supporters. His body was left at the side of the road. 
In the frrst visit by a senior gov­ernment official to any of the 11 affected towns, Prime Minister Yvon Neptune inspecfed the charred remains of the St. Marc police station Monday. 
Neptune called on Haitians to help restore calm. 
"The national police force alone cannot re-establish order," Neptune told The Associated Press. He told state television on Sunday that "the violence is tied to a coup d'etat." 
The uprising, which began last week in the city of Gonaives, sig­nals a dangerous turning point in Haiti's longtime political crisis. A similar revolt in 1985 also began in Gonaives and led to the ouster a year later of dictator Jean­Claude Duvalier and the end of a 29-year family dictatorship. 
··we are in a situation of armed popular insurrection," said oppo­sition politician Himler Rebu, who led a failed coup against Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril in 1989. He said Monday he had no part in the current uprising. 
Tension has mounted since Aristide's party won flawed leg­islative elections in 2000 and international donors blocked mil­lions of dollars in aid. Misery has also deepened with most of the nation's 8 million people living without jobs and on less than $1 day despite election promises from Aristide, a former priest who had vowed to bring dignity to the poor. 
With no army and fewer than 5,000 poorly armed police, the government is ill-equipped to halt the revolt. Police stations have been a major target because they symbolize Aristide's authority and officers are accused of siding with government supporters in a wave of protests that began in mid­September. 

Since capturing Gonaives, a city of 200,000 people, on Thursday, the rebels have spread to towns to the west and north, including the Artibonite valley that is the bread­basket of Haiti. 
In the western town of Grand­Goave, some residents fled with belongings perched on their heads. Insurgents also torched police stations in the northern towns of St. Raphael and Dondon. 
· The United States condemned the violence and called on Aristide 's government to respect human rights. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Haiti's problems will be solved by dialogue, negotiation and com­promise, not violence and retribu­tion. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said the United Nations "will be stepping up our own involvement fairly soon" but did elaborate. 
The rebels are led by several factions, including former Aristide supporters, former soldiers who helped oust Aristide in a 1991 coup and civilians frustrated by deepening poverty. 
Aristide won Haiti's first demo­cratic election in 1990 and was then ousted months later by the army. He was restored in a 1994 
U.S. invasion, and later disbanded the army. 
Rebels have clashed with police in at least 11 towns, stealing weapons from police stations before setting them ablaze. In three towns, rebel leaders said they appointed mayors and police chiefs. 
Rebels and residents have set up barricades of flaming tires, wrecked cars, and felled trees on roads leading to Gonaives, St. Marc and the northern city of Cap-Haitien, preventing trucks from delivering fuel for electric power generators. With no fuel, the towns could lose power by late Tuesday, said a power com­pany official who declined to be named. 
It was unclear how many peo­
2003-04 

THE BEST OF NOTRE DAME THEATRE 

Actors FroTrl Tl1e Tnr1dor1 St<-lge Romeo and Juliet 
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, February 11 .......7:30 p.m. Friday, February 13............ 7:30p.m Thursday, February 12 ............7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 14 .... 7:30 p.m. 
• 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-81 28. 
The Actors residency IS supported 1n part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 

ple have been killed but tolls put together from witnesses, Red Cross officials, rebel leaders and radio reports indicate at least 41 have died. 
Reporters watched as crowds mutilated the corpses of three policemen in Gonaives on Saturday. One body was dragged through the street as a man swung at it with a machete, and a woman cut off the officer's ear. Another policeman was lynched and stoned. 
"Aristide can no longer save the situation for his regime. The end is looming," former President Leslie Manigat said by telephone Monday. The army ousted Manigat in June 1988, after five months in office. 

Why does God allow suffering? Is there hope in grief? 
Con1e to Legends tl1is Wednesday to hear jennifer Sands, a victitil of 9/11, discuss her experiet1ce witl1 finding l1ope in l1er faith in tl1e n1idst of tragedy 
/o· ~~ 
'Q} lJs Cit X~ Legends onWednesda~' 

Doors open 9:30. Speaker begins 10:15. 
Brought to you by Campus Ministry 
visit us on the web: http://campusministry.nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 10, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks· 

Dow 10 579.03 -14.00 
}ones ' 


it~.~~ 
AMEX  1,227.08  +3.68  
NASDAQNYSE• .  2,060~57 6,641.82  -3.44 +9.15  
S&PSOO  1,1_39.81  -2.95  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  10,453.61  +51.00  
FTSE IOO(London) 4,434.40  +31.70  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JUNIPER NTWKS ONPR)  -11.16  -3.29  26.18  
NETSCREENTECH (NSCN)  +36.14  +9.54  35.94  
CISCO SYmMS (CSCO)  -0.28  -0.07  24.67  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.66  -0.18  26.90  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +2.03  +0.11  5.52  
·  ·  Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.43  -0.21  49.09  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0/59  -0.24  40.65  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.00  -0.31  30.60  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.55  +0.05  9.12  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.35  32.82  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  + 3.30  407.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  0.30  94.325  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  105.9  
EURO  0.788  
POUND  0.5382  
CANADIAN$  1.329  

COMPANY BRIEFS 
Juniper to buy NetScreen for $3.58 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Juniper Networks Inc., a 
rival of networking gear giant Cisco Systems 
Inc., is buying security technology company 
NetScreen Technologies Inc. for about $3.5 
billion in stock. 
The deal, announced Monday, expands 
Juniper's product portfolio so that it can better 
compete for business from service providers, 
government agencies and enterprises, ana.­
lysts said. 
Sunnyvale-based Juniper, the No. 2 network 
equipment maker behind Cisco, reported last 
month that its quarterly sales surpassed $200 
million for the first time since September 
2001. 
Kodak sells unit for $725M 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. -Photography icon Eastman Kodak Co., realigning its holdings as it launches full-steam into digital imaging, is selling its historic remote-sensing-systems unit to liT Industries Inc. for $725 million. 
liT Industries, based in White Plains, N.Y., is the leading developer of space-based sen­sors and image information processing servic­es. The deal, announced Monday, is aimed at strengthening its presence in the $6 billion remote sensing market, which includes devices used in space exploration and spy equipment. 
Hasbro posts higher Q4 earnings 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -Hasbro Inc., the nation's second-largest toy maker behind Mattei Inc., said its earnings rose 23 percent in the fourth quarter due to strong sales of new products, classic board games and core brands. 
The Pawtucket, R.l.-based toy maker on Monday said it earned $76.6 million, or 43 cents per share for the three months ended Dec. 28. That compared with $62.16 million, or 36 cents per share, for the same period a year ago. 
The earnings results included charges of $18.4 million related to severance payments stemming from the cessation of toy manufac­turing operations at its Valencia, Spain, facility and $14 million related to exiting leases and severances for employees of the remaining Wizards of the Coast retail stores. 
INSIDER TRADING 
Martha aide weeps on stand 
Secretary breaks down as she recalls relaying tip to embattled domestic maven 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Martha 
Stewart's secretary broke 
down in sobs on the witness 
stand Monday as she 
described thanking the 
homemaking mogul for a 
gift of plum pudding just 
before relaying a broker's 
prediction that ImClone 
Systems stock would drop. 
The judge overseeing the 
trial sent jurors home 15 
minutes early when secre­
tary Ann Armstrong could 
not continue her testimony. 
Armstrong was answer­ing questions from a prose­cutor about messages she relayed when Stewart checked in on her way to a vacation in Mexico on Dec. 27, 2001. It was the first time they had spoken since Christmas. 
"I thanked her for the plum pudding she sent home," Armstrong said through tears. Stewart appeared to take ·a deep breath, blowing her nose on a tissue and taking sips from a bottle of water. 
Another of the messages Armstrong gave Stewart that day had been left by her stockbroker: "Peter Bacanovic thinks ImClone is going to start trading downward." 
The government claims Bacanovic was trying to get word 'to Stewart that ImClone founder Sam Waksal was dumping his shares. Stewart and Bacanovic say they had a pre-existing deal to sell ImClone when it fell to $60 per share. 
Prosecutors. trying to undercut that theory, intro­duced two message logs that showed Bacanovic sometimes called Stewart to tell her the exact ImClone stock price. But Armstrong said Bacanovic 
left no such information on 
Dec. 27. · 

Just hours later, Stewart 
called Bacanovic's assistant 
and sold her 3,928 shares 
in the company -avoiding 
a steep drop in the stock 
price when the company 
announced negative news 
the next day. 

Prosecutors called Arm­
strong to testify after the 
government's star witness 
-former Merrill Lynch & 
Co. assistant Douglas 
Faneuil, who handled the 
ImClone sale -finished his 
testimony after four days 
on the stand. 

Faneuil has insisted that Bacanovic ordered him to tip Stewart about Waksal. He says he never knew of any pre-existing arrange­ment between Stewart and the broker to sell ImClone when it fell to $60. 
On Monday, under ques­tioning from Stewart lawyer Robert Morvillo, Faneuil said he did not believe at the time that he was doing anything wrong when he passed her the tip about the Waksal sale. 
Faneuil also testified Stewart never encouraged him to lie. 
Faneuil was asked by Morvillo whether he knew he was violating Merrill policy by relaying the tip. The company forbids its employees to give informa­tion about one client's account to another client. 
But Faneuil said he only thought about the violation later, and he repeated that Stewart's broker at the time, Bacanovic, had ordered him to give Stewart the tip and encouraged him to lie about it later. 
"I would say because Peter told me to do it, I did not think I was doing any­thing wrong," Faneuil said. 
Faneuil, 28. was cross-examined by Morvillo for several hours. 
On Dec. 27, 2001, Faneuil handled both Stewart's sale of ImClone and an earlier request by Waksal's accountant to transfer Waksal's shares into the account of his daughter, Aliza. 

Faneuil has testified both events made him uneasy. But Morvillo, trying to dam­age the witness' credibility, questioned why he did not immediately alert Merrill officials that there might have been wrongdoing. 

PERSONAL fiNANCE 
IRS has $2B in unclaimed refunds 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Nearly 2 million 
--students, retirees and other taxpay­ers stand to lose $2.5 billion in refunds if they don't act quickly to claim the money. The Internal Revenue Service said Monday that anyone who should -have gotten a refund for taxes paid in 2000 but didn't file a return must file and claim the money by April 15. "Don't wait until it's too late," said IRS Commissioner Mark Everson. "We want all taxpayers to get the refund they're due." Half of those taxpayers could claim refunds of $529 or more, the IRS estimated. That calculation does not include the earned income tax, which could make the refund even larger for some low-wage workers. "That's not chump change," said 
Fred Grant, a senior tax analyst at Intuit. Inc., who urged taxpayers to file the returns before the law stipu­lates that the money goes to the U.S. Treasury. ''I'm sure they'll gladly take it," he said. 
Individuals owed a refund have three years to claim it. This year's tax filing deadline is the last chance to claim 2000 refunds. 
Students, retirees and anyone who worked part-time or for only part of the year are among those most likely to be owed money. Those individuals typically did not have enough income to be required to file a return, but they may have over­looked the taxes withheld from their paychecks or payments for self­employment taxes. Since they didn't file a return, they never got the refund due them. 
In 2000, the IRS did not require 
individuals with income less than $7,200 and married couples with income less than $12,950 to file a tax return. Those age 65 or older could receive a little more before they had to file a return. 
Dependents, a category that includes many students, were not required to file a return that if they earned $4,400 or less or received $700 or less in interest, dividends and capital gains. 
A refund for taxes paid in 2000 will be held at the IRS if the taxpay­er did not file a return for 2001 and 2002, in case the taxpayer owes taxes for those years. There is no penalty for filing a late return to claim a refund. 
Eric Hayes, senior tax analyst at TaxBrain.com, said a refund check is not the only reason to file a tax return. 
Tuesday, February 1 0, 2004
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
. 
. : : 
_:: 
.
• . 

International Study.Programs 




NI:W O[AOLIN[S 

~ay 1 , 2004 DUBLIN[ 
for Spring 2005 applications to : 
Athens Beijing· Berlin Cairo  .. Monterry Santiago (and A Y) Puebla Shanghai Rio/Silo Paulo (and AY) Fokyo Russia  
APPLICATIONS AVAIL ABLE · WWW.ND.E DUI-INTLST UD  
Nov. 15, 2004 DUBLIN[  

ACADEMIC YEAR 05-06 FALL2005 SPRING2006 Angers Angers Angers Athens Athens Berlin Bologna Cairo Cairo Dublin Dublin · Dublin 
Freinantle Fremantle. Innsbruck Nagoya Paris 
Monterrey Puebla Puebla 
Perth Rome. Rome Rome Russia Russia Santiago Santiago Tokyo Shanghai Toledo Toledo Toledo 
Applications open August, 2004 
-~. -·_ >:<:_:::_:­
: . : ·::···:_::::::. . 
•. ·. ·: . :. 
: • _: t 
.·· 
,. _...... 
. · ...... 
• 
.. 
Tuesday, February 10, 2004 

The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Killer given stay of execution Jury names secret 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -A con­victed killer whose plea for clemency was rejected by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger won a stay of execution Monday, hours before he was to die by lethal injection for hacking four people to death. 
The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals granted the stay to consider whether DNA evi­dence connecting Kevin Cooper to the crime should be retested amid repeated claims that Cooper was framed by law enforcement. 
Cooper, 46, had been set to die at 12:01 a.m. Tuesday in California's first execution in two years. 
The appeals court did not say when it would hear the challenge. 
Hours after the ruling, and with no word from the 9th Circuit, lawyers for California Attorney General Bill Lockyer petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to vacate the stay. 
A deputy to Lockyer said the law does not allow Cooper to reopen his case so close to his execution date, calling the court's order "an unwarranted intrusion on California's ability to carry out a lawful and final judgment." 

Late last month, Schwar­zenegger denied Cooper's bid for clemency, the first such plea to cross the governor's desk. Schwarzenegger said the evidence of Cooper's guilt was overwhelming. 
The appeals court decision was welcomed by Cooper's celebrity supporters, including actor Denzel Washington and the Rev. Jesse Jackson. But prosecutors and family mem­bers of the victims were out­raged. 
Cooper was convicted of stabbing and hacking to death Douglas and Peggy Ryen, both 41, their 10-year-old daughter, Jessica, and 11-year-old Christopher Hughes after escaping from prison in 1983. The Ryens' son, Joshua, then 8, survived a slit throat. 
Cooper claims DNA evidence was planted, but the courts have balked at new tests, say­ing there was no evidence of tampering. Cooper's attorneys also insist they have new evi­dence, producing a woman Sunday who said that on the night of the murders, she saw two men covered in blood at a bar near the scene. 
On Sunday, a three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit refused in a 2-1 ruling to stop the exe­cution. But on Monday, the court agreed to rehear the case in front of 11 judges. 
The court will decide whether the law authorizes renewed DNA testing of blood evidence linking Cooper to the crime, and whether he can seek testing of hair found in one of the victims' hands. The hair has not undergone foren­sic testing. 
John Kochis, the prosecutor who tried Cooper, said that the hair was from the victim's own head. However, DNA testing was not available in 1984, when authorities came to that conclusion. 

in Peterson case 
Associated Press 

REDWOOD CITY, Calif. ­The judge presiding over Scott Peterson's murder trial ordered Monday that the wit­ness lists and names of poten­tial jurors remain confiden­tial, despite protests by the media. 
Judge Alfred Delucchi, who said he hopes to begin jury selection in about two weeks, told attorneys at a pretrial hearing that he had "nothing against the press. I have a responsibility here to see that Mr. Peterson gets a fair trial." 
He ruled that the question­ing of potential jurors will be open to media coverage under the condition that the poten­tial jurors' names not be released. He also ordered that the list of witnesses stay sealed. 
Karl Olson, who represented the San Francisco Chronicle, Los Angeles Times and The Associated Press among other media outlets, argued that "justice works best when exposed to public scrutiny." 
Both prosecutors and defense attorneys disagreed. 
"The media has taken great steps to place themselves in the middle of this case," said prosecutor David Harris. "The media has a right to gain information, but they don't have the right to interfere with a criminal trial." 
Peterson's lawyer, Mark Geragos, said he was con­cerned the media would harass witnesses, citing examples of Web sites publi­cizing witnesses' names, addresses and phone num­bers. 
Peterson, 31, who wore a light gray suit and smiled at family members as he entered the courtroom, said nothing during the 40-minute hearing. 
First lady donates red suit 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -First lady 
Laura Bush lent a crimson silk 
and taffeta suit Monday to a 
collection of red dresses being 
used to highlight an educa­
tional campaign on women's 
heart disease. 
Bush wore the suit as she 
joined its designer, Oscar de Ia 
Renta, at Fashion Week, which 
began Friday in tents set up in 
a midtown park for designers 
to preview their clothes for 
next fall. 
The suit, which Bush has 
worn to meetings with heads 
of state including former 
Chinese President Jiang 
Zemin, will be added to a col­
lection that will be shown in 
Chicago, Dallas, Miami, 
Philadelphia and San Diego in 
March and April. The tour will 
also provide health screening 
and information on heart dis­
ease. 
"Nothing attracts attention like a red dress, so designers have united to bring attention to heart disease with these beautiful dresses," said Bush. 
The suit will join strappy gowns, jeweled frocks and eye-popping mini-dresses cre­ated by 26 designers, includ­ing Vera Wang, Marc Jacobs, Diane von Furstenberg and Ralph Lauren. 
"Fashion Week is about see­ing great beauty on the out­side," said Fern Mallis, who oversees the weeklong event, "but we all know that being healthy on the inside is what matters most." 
Heart disease is the No. 1 killer of women; 366,000 women died from it in 2000, according to the National Heart. Lung and Blood Institute, which is promoting the awareness campaign. By comparison, 42,000 women died from breast cancer that year. 



p 
THE OBSER\'ER 
page 10 
Tuesday, February 10 2004 

THE OBSERVER 


Believing in a thing called love 
P.O. Box Q,Norre Dame;IN 46;% 024 South DiningHall; Notre Dam~. IN 46~56 EOITOR lN CHIEF . Andrew Soukup MANAGING EnrroR · BUSINESS MANAG£ll s,otr BtQdflleh:rcr l.Qd LeWalski • 
AsST. MAN.\GtNG Eorroa ·· Sheila Flynn 
. .. ·.···.. · ..···.··.·.·· 
..SCilNll EDrroR; Mari:l Smith . 
SAINT MARrs EDITOR: Anneli.e.SeWoolford PHOTO EDITOR: Tjan Kacmar. · 
.t\DVERJ1SlNG .MANAGER: 1\<talllfa 1Qm1edeJh(/ > AD DESIGN MANAGER:. 1;ilm •.H<~Jt<>ht · 5ml.M$ APMINtSTMro~ · 
POLICIES 

During Black History Month in February, my mind turns towards the abominable legacy of discrimination against African-Americans in this coun­try. While racism remains a crippling poison infecting our national and Notre 
Kamarla Porter
Dame community, open and hateful attacks have inten­sified against homo­Breaking the sexuals. On the Habit national plane, the debate over the ability of homosexuals to build a family unit recognized by the government rages from Massachusetts to Florida ­centering on the proposal of the Federal Marriage Amendment. Locally, after receiving the shameful brand by The Princeton Review of being the least welcome institution for alternative lifestyles, our University must contem­plate the authenticity of its "Notre Dame Family" image, which seems so central to its character. 
As a cultural institution, marriage not only serves the individual desire to share a life with another and build a family unit, but it also functions as a visible sign of commitment between two people. Additionally, civil marriage grants couples around 1,049 federal benefits plus state level privileges. 
In my opinion, the denial of same-sex civil marriage is outright discrimina­tion. To prevent one section of society from participating in national institu­tions and gaining the rights associated with it negates its citizenship and per­ceived worth in the country. 
Yet opponents of civil marriage for homosexual couples appeal to various ideological arguments to hide their intolerance. While some religious com­munities, like the Catholic Church, do not support homosexuality in practice, a civil marriage would not interfere with doctrine-save for on an"individ­ual basis. Thus, the United States, unconnected to any religion, could rightly acknowledge gay marriage. 
Others argue gay marriage threatens 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
the integrity of marriage between a woman and man. Heterosexuals do enough on their own to devalue the sanctity of marriage with infidelity, divorce and domestic violence. 
Many also criticize comparisons of denying homosexual marriage to the historical interracial marriage bans. The chief impetus behind anti-misce­genation laws that prohibited blacks and whites from cohabiting, marrying and starting a family was solely racial discrimination. 
In 1958 Mildred and Richard Loving. -a black woman and a white man, were exiled from Virginia after being convicted of miscegenation. The couple brought a case against the state in 1963 and won in 1967, overturning the remaining interracial bans in 16 other states. Critics declared the impossibility of producing mixed progeny was ample reason to outlaw interracial marriage. While this argument was obviously false, the racist climate in America led citizens to believe the claim. 
Opponents of gay marriage also argue the inability of same sex couples to start a family. Understanding that homosexual couples are biologically unable to produce offspring alone, in­vitro fertilization and adoption refute these claims. However, there also exists opposition to same sex adoptions. part­ly based on the inability of a gay couple to model both sex roles to children. The image of family, excluding homosexu­als, has expanded itself over the years to include many diverse compositions. Instead of being preoccupied with a child's socialization into rigid sex roles which are mostly used to narrow the understanding of gender, we ought to look at a parent -gay or straight ­and their ability to love, provide and model themes of fairness and caring to their children. 
Court victories, as in Massachusetts, are encouraging and allow these issues to surface, but it is only the first step. We all know the law exudes a limited influence on people's long held preju­dices. Therefore, while working to defeat legal measures of discrimination, all communities need to adopt a true spirit of inclusion for our homosexual sisters and brothers, bringing their lifestyles and images out from the mar­gins. 

The growing presence of homosexual images on television is extremely encouraging. Shows and mini-series like Will and Grace, Queer as Folk, Angels in America -along with gay characters on ER, Friends and NYPD Blue -feature people dealing with uni­versal experiences and challenges who happen to have a different sexual orien­tation. Also, these programs highlight concerns of homosexuals creating empathy and marginal tolerance in het­ero viewers. 
As a Notre Dame student, it bothers me to hear the University formally acknowledged as intolerant. While I have experienced racial and ideological prejudice here, the unabashed hostility toward gay people and issues on cam­pus disturbs me. Yet two developments give me hope. The possible formation of a gay-straight alliance here would culti­vate cross-lifestyle unity in our student body and possibly assuage the negative climate. Secondly, the Queer Film Festival which runs Wednesday through Saturday, promises to be a great event featuring acclaimed films and directors. The festival focuses on the human experiences of people who also happen to be gay. I urge everyone to patronize the event to broaden her or his under­standing of gender, sexuality and the human condition. Plus, it is a chance to see great movies for free and meet some famous filmmakers. Sounds fine by me. 
Kamaria Porter is guided by the rhythm ofher heart, which is on fire in the Ignatian way. And she really dis­likes those candy hearts with words on them. Happy V-Day. She can be contact­ed at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
QriestifJns regarding ObsrrverpolWs 1haUidbr Jiweutl. to EditM in Chit[Andrew Soukup. 
·Post OFFICE INFORMATIOlf . 

.···.• •~~WSI'Sm M&cHill. ~M<.n<i.r ~rri<ior..A<qx d"'~ •· . . . .~...,.~~ii<>AP"i94i;ll~w'JU~d;llo&:«ii~~..nr<··· ;,.,..:$~~ for..,;,..........ii. ·.··.. •. · 
t:h<Obom~~P~"-"~'· ~:H ~~rh O~lli, Holl .· . N-nrt o.-. IN ~%,ti77'l . 
l'tt~~j>Oidoc~D.m, 
..,A .adlllil<i..U rt>allibj <ofll.:tt~. ••• • 

News Sports······ ..•..•. Andrew Thagard Matt Lozar > Amanda Dan Tapatillo 
..'>. . Michaels Steve Coyer 
··· <Matt BraiJlanti · Scene····· 
Viewpoint• -Julie ·Bender Cheryl Barker . mustra:tor Graphics Katie Knorr Graham Ebetsch 


OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think Notre Dame should host the "Queer Film Festival" and "The Vagina Monologues?" 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My advice to you is to get married. Ifyou find a good wife, you'll be happy; ifnot, you'll become a philospher., 
Socrates philosopher 
• 


p 
THE 0BSER\'ER 
Tuesday, February 10, 2004 


page 11 
Explaining Church's view on gay marriage 
Today I am going to address homo­sexuality. What does that have to do with Oxford? Nothing. Actually, I have nothing interesting to say about Oxford this week (no surprise) and so I picked a scrap of paper out of the 

Geoff Johnston 
random-idiotic­rants hat, opened it and found this topic written on it. A Domer at 
More specifically, Oxford let us talk civil unions. I am not going to attempt to render a verdict; all I want to do is state what and why the Church believes what it does­which will admittedly consume most of the piece -and what objections can be raised. I will let you decide. 
Now, the Church opposes the recog­nition of civil unions between homo­sexuals if these unions are equivalent -in terms of benefits, rights, legal recognition-with traditional mar­riage of members of the opposite sex. The Church does advocate that sin­gle-sex couples receive some bene­fits, namely, those that are directed toward the well-being of children, as opposed to the marriage itself. 
Why is this the belief of the Church, or at least, many of its leaders? The Church relies on the twin pillars of scripture and tradition. However, these two sources of data may conflict, or at least present the appearance of doing so, or may be difficult to contex­tualize into modern life. This problem of reinterpretation is aided by models, which are ways of viewing these sources in a larger philosophical and moral context, and some of these models exert a great influence over Church teaching. One model which is very prominent is that of St. Thomas Aquinas, who inherited his model from Aristotle and subsequently applied it to the twin pillars of Catholicism. Now, this model posits that for every existing being, there is a good, a fitting end. This end is 

inherent in the species of the being's existence and is ordained by God. Now, the end for humans is eudemo­nia, i.e. human flourishing. This is a state of happiness and goodness, and all other goods to which humans are ordered are directed toward achieve­ment of this final end. One of the goods for humanity is procreation. In fact, the Catholic Church believes that sex is inherently ordered toward pro­creation as the goal of its activity, and thus sexual acts which are not ordered to this proper end are-to quote the 
Catechism 
s.v. homosexu­ality-"disordered." 
This is, in a nutshell, why the Church opposes homosexuality. But why does it oppose civil unions? After all, civil unions are a state's recognition of certain rights and this recognition might not concern the Church. Well, here my knowledge grows a little hazier, but let me take a crack at it. Now, the Church believes law and society should be oriented 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 




'Stop, collaborate. and listen' 
As a student body that is commit­the monologues, I ask that you lis­ted (I hope) both to a fuller under­ten to t)10se who oppose them. They standing of our sexuality in a very are not opposed to them because real sense and to allowing those they are bad people or because among us who have been hurt by they are in favor of violence against sexual violence an opportunity to women; instead they see something express their pain and grief, we in the monologues that promotes a cannot allow the Vagina secular understanding of sexuality Monologues to become an issue of and negates the beauty that comes good versus evil. from understanding our bodies in 
To those who oppose the mono­the way that John Paul II calls us to logues so vehemently, I would urge in "The Theology of the Body." you, do not be content to simply I see no reason for Notre Dame to label them as something awful and have to conform to V-Day as it is fight against them. Read them prescribed on the national level. (most people I know who are Instead, something new and better opposed to the monologues have can come from the monologues if not done so). and then listen to the we listened to one another and cre­women around you who have been ated here, for our Notre Dame com­hurt. The majority of them that I munity something that allows for know are in favor of the mono­women to express themselves and logues, not because they have been heal without compromising our led astray or because they are stu­identity as Catholics. This can hap­pid, but because something in the pen, but first we would have to monologues resonates with them (and I apologize for the reference, and starts them down road to heal­but I could not pass it up), "Stop. ing. There is a reason these mono­Collaborate and Listen." logues are so popular, and it is because of the good that they do. Chris Scaperlanda To simply do away with them sophomore denies this good. Keough HaU 
To those who fight for and put on Feb. 9 
toward the good of all, toward aiding all in their quest for flourishing. Since the Church views homosexual acts as disordered, these actions cannot be (or are not) for the betterment of soci­ety, for these actions are ordered toward something improper to them, and thus cause harm. This harm may be evidenced in the disintegration of the nuclear family, since, the Church believes, marriage is oriented to fos­tering the unity of a procreative cou­
ple, and marriage between homo­sexuals violates the principle that marriage is for pro­ere­
ation. Thus the family will suffer, since children living in a 
family should be living with two parents of opposite sex, as proper marriage is essential to a family: 

Thus the Church's argument against recognition of civil unions boils down to the fact that homosexual marriages inherently violate the function of a family, since a family presupposes marriage, which presupposes hetero­sexuality-assuming, of course, that 
the law is to be ordered to the com­
mon good. 
Is this a valid concern? One objec­tion runs as follows. Many homosexual couples are in love, as much as any humans can be, and they desire to raise children well. There are many cases of homosexual parents raising children who are as well-adjusted as any other children. Thus the Church, in assuming the function of the family. is gravely diverted by homosexual parents, is mistaken. This objection tries to prove the Church wrong by disputing its conclusion. This argu­ment could continue: Is not the burden of proof on the Church to show that homosexual marriages are not as functional as heterosexual ones? After all, people are autonomous, rational entities, who should be allowed free­dom to express their own natures and choose their own paths, and there must be heavy evidence against them if they are to be denied this right. But 
how can the Church prove that homo­
sexual marriages are not as function­
al as heterosexual ones, without 
assuming Catholicism; what research 
studies can they quote? After all, the 
Church believes that faith and reason 
cannot conflict, and if the damage is 
as grave as the Church claims, there 
should be evidence in its favor. 
I do not have space to address this last point, other than saying that the Church has quoted scientific evidence in previous debates -specifically contraception -to try to prove its point. What should a good Catholic believe? What should a non-Catholic, rational person believe? Now that I have laid out the groundwork, I will leave it up to your good judgment. 
GeoffJohnston is a junior currently studying at Oxford University. His col­umn appears every other tuesday. He can be reached at gjohnsto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those tof the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Defending a fundraiser 
for a worthwhile cause 
I am sure I echo the sentiment of many er the stadium to be "sacred" ground, but students who grabbed The Observer I have a hard time using this defense in Monday only to read that a possible U2 saying no to a concert to raise money for and Bruce Springsteen concert was nixed research that may ultimately save lives. I by the University. My initial reaction was just do not see any bad that could possi­one of disappointment. I figured it was bly come out of this: millions raised for a just not doable due to financial reasons or wonderful and worthy cause, raised some other typical, somewhat legitimate awareness among the student population excuse. But after I read the front-page here and among the general public of the story, I realized this was far from a typi­modern-day plague of HIV/AIDS, world­cal situation. famous musicians coming to Notre 
This was not to be merely an average Dame's campus to perform for students entertainment event. This could have and the public, not to mention interna­been an outstanding opportunity for a tional 11\edia coverage that would ensue, number of parties. First and foremost, and free publicity for Notre Dame -icing millions of dollars could have been raised on the cake! You would think it would be to be used in the fight against HIV/AIDS. easier to put on something of this magni­Though it is a disease not encountered tude because the University ha;; done so often within our bubble, every six sec­for so many football weekends. If the onds, a person is infected by HIV. I am no musicians are willing and the money is social rights fighter or hero, but it seems available, I cannot see any legitimate rea­to me that ifstudents and the public son for the show not to go on. Sacred could help in the fight by merely attend­ground or not, if my going to see U2 and ing a concert, people would more than the Boss at the stadium can contribute to jump at the opportunity. Second, even as the fight for a cure and the raising of a casual observer to the situation, I am awareness, I will be first in line for tick­sure there would be plenty of obstacles in ets. putting on a concert of this magnitude ­financing, crowd control, security, accom­lim Masterton modations ... doesn't Notre Dame find a freshman way to do so~ething similar six Knott Hall Saturdays a year? Many may also consid-Feb.9 
THE 0BSER\'ER 

Tuesday, February 10, 2004 Tuesday, Fe
page 12 








Cooking -up a tasty V-day 
Valentine recipes that will warm your heart 
To the aggravation of singles everywhere, Valentine's Day is fast approaching. Instead of watching your roommate and her oh-so-perfect boyfriend go out for a night on the town (in Mishawaka, so you can't be all that jealous), invite some 
other dateless friends over and have an Anti-Maureen Malloy 

Valentine's Day soiree. Trust me, it's much better than wallowing Scene Columnist 
over a pint of B.en & Jerry's. Show your love to your friends and make them some scrumptious treats. Paula Deen's Is It Really Better than Sex? Cake is to die for, and you're sure to love the Double-Dipped. Strawberries. 
And if you want to be extra festive ... Make a mix with such songs as "Love Stinks" by J. Geils Band and "Why Do Fo'ols Fall in Love?" by Diana Ross. Or you could add a few drops of red food col­oring to light colored drinks, such as 
champagne or Sprite for a rosy hue. 
Is It Really Better Than Sex? Cake 

1 (18.25-ounce} box yellow cake mix, plus ingredients to prepare 
1 (20-ounce) can crushed pineapple 
1 1/3 cups sugar 

1 (3.4-ounce) box French vanilla pudding, plus ingredients to prepare 
1 112 cups heavy cream 

1 cup flaked, sweetened toasted coconut 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Prepare yellow cake mix as directed using a greased 13-by-9-by-2-inch pan and bake for 30 to 35 minutes. ·while cake is baking, combine the pineapple and one cup of sugar in a saucepan, and bring to a boil over medium heat stirring constantly. Remove from heat and allow to cool slightly. Remove cake from oven and using a fork, pierce holes into cake. Pour pineapple mixture over hot cake and set aside. Prepare pudding according to package directions. Spread pudding over cake and refrigerate until thoroughly chilled. Whip heavy cream and remaining sugar until stiff. Cover top of cake with whipped cream and sprinkle toasted coconut on top. 
Courtesy of Paula Deen. 
Double Dipped Strawberries 

36 strawberries (about two 1-pint baskets), unhulled 
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 9 ounces) 
1 tablespoon vegetable shortening 

1 1/2 cups chocolate sprinkles (about 6 ounces) 
Line large baking sheet with waxed paper. Wipe strawberries clean; dry with paper towels. Stir chocolate chips and shortening in top of double boiler set over simmering water until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Place chocolate sprinkles in shallow bowl. Holding one strawberry by its green top, dip 3/4 of berry into melted chocolate. Let excess chocolate drip off, then dip into chocolate sprinkles. Place on waxed-paper-lined sheet. Repeat dipping remaining straw­berries into chocolate, then into sprinkles. Refrigerate until chocolate coating is firm, about 1 hour. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Keep refrigerated.) 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authore and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl@nd.edu. 





Notre Dame's F: 
This four-day festival offilms, events, and speak 
By PATRICK VASSEL 
Scene Writer 
As nearly every student knows by now, one of the more dubious distinctions given to Notre Dame this year was Princeton Review's top rated school w h e r e "alternative 
'film festival came up and they ran with it. Dacey says the idea of the event is to "normalize the existence of gay students on this campus and offer to the entire community the opportunity to enjoy and study the extraordinary accomplish­ment of gay cinema artists in the United States." This is the story behind the First Annual Queer Film Festival, 
lifestyles 
which runs are not an ·wednesday alternative." through While the Saturday in University t h e has worked Hesburgh 'to change Library this percep­Auditorium. tion with The events t h e I planned are Standing not simply Committee screenings on Gay and of gay films, Lesbian but discus­Student sions and Needs, the workshops administra­with the tion still people who refuses to made them. approve as T h o s e an official involved in c 1 u b the event Outreach hope to cre­NO, the ate "discus­independent sion, aware­gay student ness and 
group on The Opposite of Sexatocounesyafwww.imbdcam acceptance" of 
campus. Many on campus, such as Badin freshman Anne Kroeger, still feel the University isn't doing enough, "If the University was actually open minded and willing to change things then it would be a different story." 
Senior film major Liam Dacey decided to do something after a conversation with the president of the Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GALA-ND/SMC). The idea of a the issue of homosexuality, according to a 
statement from Dacey, the festival chair, and Mairead Casey, the publicity chair. While .acceptance may be hard to garner from 
many students, the festival is sure to be a huge step in terms of awareness. All films have been honored by many different organizations and received critical acclaim both· nationally and internationally. In addition, there are several special events involving the filmmakers, 

including some Notre Dame grads. 
Wednesday's film is "Jim is Bold," a documentary about the life and untimely death of Jim Wheeler, a gay teenager who committed suicide. The hope shining through this tragedy comes from Young Gay America, a group the film follows as they travel to conservative areas to talk to other gay teenagers struggling with the attitudes around them. Malcolm Lazin, producer of the film and executive director of the Equality Forum will join Benjie Nycum, Mike Glatze and Scott MacPhee from Young Gay America to answer questions afterwards. According to the festi­val's web site, www.queerfilmfesti­val.com, Lazin's Equality Forum is the "world's largest annual gay, les­bian, bisexual, and transgender gath­ering." 
"Hedwig and the Angry lnch," an "anatomically incorrect rock odyssey" based on the off-Broadway musical, will be shown Thursday· night . Winner of the Sundance Film Festival's "Audience Award" and "Best Director," the film also won a Grammy award. Following a drag queen from East Berlin touring the United States with her band. it is con-
Photo counesy of www.imdb.com sidered by most critics to be one of the most influential and innovative
Go Fish 

gay films of the last several years. 

""·-'--­
souRCE 

THE 0BSER\'ER 
E

Tuesday, February 10, 2004 


.page 13 


's First 
ueer Film Fe-stival 
'Jnd speakers hopes to bring more awareness to alternative lifestyles to campus 
aware­ness and acceptance" of 
the issue of homosexuality, according to a 
stival chair, and 
r. 
·d to garner from re to be a 
;. All films y ran with it. The acclaimed 1994 film "Go Fish" will be Center Auditorium. In addition to "The Opposite of 
,s to "normalize presented on Friday night. Winner of the Sex," Roos has directed the film "Bounce" and 
his campus and "Best Feature Film" award at the Berlin written the scripts for "Diabolique, boys on the 
l opportunity to Film Festival and a nominee for the "Grand Side" and "Single White Female." 
.ry accomplish­Jury Prize" at Sundance. the movie is about Ron Gregg of the University of Chicago will dis­United States." a beautiful young lesbian's search for love in cuss the most significant films in the development 
· First Annual Chicago. of gay sexuality with a panel of four GALA-ND/SMC Queer Film The romantic comedy "All Over the Guy," speakers on Friday from 2 to 4 PM in the Festival, written and Hesburgh which runs starring 
P e a c e Wednesday D a n Center 
tthrough Bucatinsky, Auditorium. Saturday in is being D a c e y t h e s h o w n hopes the 
. Hesburgh Saturday festival. will ~-L i b r a r y afternoon be "a posi­~--Auditorium. as a part of tive event The events t h e that every­planned are Festival. one can not simply Described enjoy: stu­·screenings on the festi­dents, alum­of gay films, val's web­ni, and but discus­site as a members of siOns and film about the commu­workshops "the quest nity. We with the to find 'the want to people who one' when s p r e a d made them. 'the one' awareness T h o s e doesn't in a positive involved in know he's way about 
the event 'the one,'" the reality of hope to cre­it is sure to gay students ate "discus­please on campus." sion, everyone in With one

Hedwig and the Angry Inch 
In what is definitely one of the highlights of the festival. the director and star of "Hedwig," John Cameron Mitchell, will be in attendance to hold a question and answer session following the screen­ing. 
different 
night is "The Opposite of Sex," one of sexuality, and help to make Notre Dame a place al acclaim the most well-known and acclaimed where all lifestyles are welcome. mally. In films of the week and the only one with al special a very close Notre Dame connection. Contact Patrick Vassel at pvassel@nd.edu nmakers, The director and writer of the 
grads. film is Don Roos, a graduate of is Bold," a Notre Dame. The film is the win­life and ner of "Best Feature Film," "Best eler, a gay Screenplay" and "Best Female :l suicide. Lead" at the Independent Spirit 

JIM IN BOLD 
1ugh this Awards and "Best Actress" in the >ung Gay National Board of Review, Golden follows as Satellite Awards, and Seattle s areas to International Film Festival. The struggling film stars Christina Ricci and Lisa nd them. Kudrow both won awards and >f the film wide critical acclaim for their te Equality roles. Ricci plays a teenager who ~urn, Mike. destroys the lives of everyone rom Young around her, from her gay brother questions and his lover to their friend, the festi­played by Kudrow. Roos will also rfilmfesti­be answering questions after the 
Forum is screening. .l gay, les­In addition to the screenings nder gath-and the question and answer ses­
sions following the films, several 
Inch," an special events are planned for the k odyssey" week as a part of the Festival. y musical. On Thursday from 4 to 5:30 p.m. y night . in Debartolo 216. Notre Dame 1ce Film graduate and celebrity expert 
ard" and Tom O'Neil. a senior editor of In lso won a Touch Weekly magazine, will host ng a drag a panel discussion entitled "Gay >Uring the Hollywood: Still in the Ooset." 
I. it is con-Friday from 11 a.m. to 12:30 be one of p.m. screenwriter and director rtnovative Roos will discuss the screenwrit­years. ing process in the Eck Visitor Jim in Bold 
the audi­of the most 
Photo courtesy of www tmdb com
e n c e . impressive Afterward, All Over the Guy lineups of Bucatinsky will films and answer questions speakers to from the audi-come to ence about both his performance and the writing campus in some time, this first annual event hopes process he went through before the film was pro-to turn the heads of students and administrators. duced. Dacey and others believe this is the way to change Closing out the Festival on Saturday people's minds and people's attitudes about homo­


Tuesday, February 10, 2004 
'·-" NCAA BASKETBALL 
Seton Hall upsets No.4 Pitt in double overtime 
the conference on Sunday coming off goals over a 13-minute stretch of the 
Barrett scores 20 points 

a loss. The Huskies, who handed Pitt second half as it rallied from a 43-35 in leading the Pirates to its other loss, fell 80-74 at Notre deficit. Krauser scored th~ Panthers' Dame earlier Monday. last eight points of regulation, includ­6-3 in the Big East Pittsburgh and Seton Hall came ing a free throw with 1 9 seconds left into the game ranked 1-2 in the Big that tied it at 57. Seton Hall didn't get 
Associated Press 

East in scoring defense and both lived off a shot on the final possession. 
up to that stat, finishing regulation Each team scored four points in the 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Andre 
tied at 57. first overtime, the last a rebound bas­
Barrett made one free throw with 9.6 
Barrett had 20 points and six ket by Taft that tied it at 61 with 3:01 seconds left in the second overtime to assists for the Pirates, who last beat a to play. 
give Seton Hall a 68-67 victory over 
team ranked No. 4 in 2000 with a win Taft scored on a rebound with 47 
No. 4 Pittsburgh on Monday night, 
at Syracuse. Kelly Whitney and J.R. seconds left in the second overtime to 
just the second loss of the season for 
Morris added 10 points each. tie the game at 67. After a timeout,
the Panthers. 

Carl Krauser, who picked up his Barrett drove and the seemed to have 
Barrett had five of the seven points 
fifth foul on the call that sent Barrett the ball knocked away but Krauser 
the Pirates (16-5, 6-3 Big East) 
to the line with 9.6 seconds left, had was called for the foul. Barrett 
scored in the second overtime as they 
23 points for Pitt. Freshman Chris missed the first free throw but made 
won their fifth of six and improved to 
Taft had 16 points and 15 rebounds the second. 
11-1 at home. 

and Chevon Troutman had 10 points· Freshman Antonio Graves, who 
The Panthers (22-2, 8-2) had won 
and 10 rebounds for the Panthers. played a total of 3 minutes and came 
four straight and four of their last 
Taft had seven offensive rebounds in when Krauser fouled out, got off a five against Seton Hall. and the Panthers finished with a 46~ runner in the lane just before the 
Pittsburgh and No. 5 Connecticut 
38 advantage on the boards. final buzzer but it bounced off the 
enter their matchup for first place in 
Pitt held Seton Hall to three field rim. 

REC SPORTS 

,·
Women's water polo team finishes 2-1 over the weekend 
Special to The Observer well-played games against weekend. Saginaw Valley 5th, class 8 Elizabeth Bell 3rd, O'Brien, Cecelia Torres, Kellly Northern Michigan this week­State, one of the premier teams Julie Burke 5th, class 9 Pirozzi, Wendy Syetanoff, 
With its take on all comers end, by scores of 4-3 and 5-2. in the country, finished first. In Freeman 4th, Ostberg 6th; Lucianna Ravasio, Maura Steed 
attitude, Notre Dame's ninth In the opener, Northern normal tournament play, the intermediate flat class 11 and Susan Jennings all con­
ranked women's water polo Michigan skated to a com­nine games are bowled over Chelsea Brown 4th; novice flat tributed points to the Irish 
club opened its season by chal­manding 4-0 lead after two two days. This weekend, the class 12 Catherine Linn 6th, score, but there were no indi­
lenging three other top 10 periods before the Irish struck team bowled all nine games in class 13 Oliverio 1st; advanced vidual first place finishes. 
ranked teams in the country back. Emmy Venechuk scored one day. walk trot canter class 15 Skiing 
this weekend at the Michigan on a low, hard shot from the Steve DePoy finished 12th to Kristen LaSota 2nd, class 16 A wipe-out fall by star Leigh State Invitational. point just four minutes into the lead the Irish with a 188 aver­Marta Ascadi no placing, class Hellrung this weekend only cost The Irish played very well in final period. Jacky Kehler age and a high-game of 228. 18 Lauren Croall 5th; beginning the women's squad of the Notre all three games. Kimmy made an outstanding play on Other averages and high games walk trot canter class 19 Alexa Dame ski cl.ub a drop to third­Moore's two goals were not the penalty kill to score just for the Irish were Van Garot 2nd; walk trot canter place in the slalom. The team enough to offset a strong 2:30 later. Tori Blainey scored Koppersmith, 162 avg. and 222 class 21 Ann Trout no placing. needs to perform well next Spartan attack in the opener, as the third unassisted goal for the game; Jason Raver, 159 avg. Individual results for Sunday week at regionals because a fall the Irish fell 8-3 to second­Irish with 2:13 remaining on a and 195 game, Dan Martin 151 are as follows: open fences would prove too much to over­ranked MSU in a hard fought power play. With time running avg. and 197 game; Jim class 1 Claire Freeman 2nd, come if the club is to advance game. out the Irish fired a flurry of Talamo, 141 avg. and 169 class 2 Baron 2nd, Ostberg 1st; to a repeat appearance in the 
In the second game, the Irish shots on goal to close the game game, Vance McClenton 140 intermediate fences class 4 Nationals. The club rebounded hung a 9-6 loss on fifth-ranked but were unable to knot the avg. and 166 game. Oliverio 2nd; novice fences to capture the giant slalom the Purdue, the Irish first win over score. Equestrian class 6 Linn 4th; open flat class next day. Alanna Lungren, the Boilermakers in over a Two games and numerous The Notre DameJSaint Mary's 7 Freeman 3rd, Burke 5th, Molly Butler, Danielle Clements, year. Moore was joined by penalties took its toll on an equestrian club tied for fourth class 8 Baron 2nd, Bell 6th, and Rita Morgan also finished Bridget 0 'Neill and Kristy underhanded squad in the sec­with Illinois on Saturday and class 9 Ostberg 2nd, Kopacz in scoring for the team.. Bohling as all three scored a ond game. The Irish only had placed third on Sunday in a 4th; intermediate flat class 11 The men's slalom race on pair of goals. M.C. Cimino and two lines available for the pair of IHSA shows at Purdue. Oliverio 3rd, class 12 Brown Saturday was the worst team Katie Lanco had great games, weekend and spent a great deal Purdue and Indiana took first 4th, novice flat class 14 Linn performance the club had as did Brigette Alge in goal. of energy killing penalties. and second each day. On 5th; advanced walk trot canter experienced in recent memory. 
The third game was against Northern Michigan h(,l.d ten Sunday, Kelsey Ostberg earned class 16 Croall 4th, class 17 Due to spectacular falls by Joe bitter conference rival and power plays in the two games, Reserve High Point honors for LaSota 2nd, class 18, Ascadi Payne, Jon Pribaz, Brian eighth-ranked Miami (Ohio). but was only able to score the club as the Irish finished 4th; beginning walk trot canter Hedges, and Leif Eric Petterson After jumping out to a 4-0 first twice. In the second game, with 27 points, two points class 19 Alexa Garot 1st; walk in their second runs, the men's quarter lead, the Irish held on Kehler and Blainey scored a behind Indiana and six behind trot class 20 Anne Trout no team finished a distant last for a 7-6 victory. Bohling, pair of unassisted goals in the Purdue. placing. place and got dominated by the Moore, and Allison Gienko first period, but the Irish were Individual results for Gymnastics Michigan schools. Fortunately scored two goals apiece in the unable to keep up the pace the Saturday are as follows: open The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's there was a bright side to the balanced attack. Alge contin-final two periods. fences, class 1 Claire Freeman gymnastics club's women's slalom race: fifth-year senior -ued to establish herself as one Bowling 4th and Kelsey Ostberg '5th; squad placed seventh out of Mike Ryan finished in third of the best goalies in the coun­Notre Dame's bowling club class 2 Katie Baron 3rd; inter­eleven teams at the Miami of place. This was the best finish r.· try. finished 15th among 17 teams mediate fences, class 3Andrea Ohio Invitational this weekend. by any men's team member Women's Ice hockey at the Great Heartland Olliverio 2nd; class 4 Chelsea Miami (Ohio) and Penn State since Ryan won a race last sea­Notre Dame's women's ice Intercollegiate Bowling Brown 5th; open flat, class 7 claimed the top two places. son. Regionals will be held next 
hockey club dropped a pair of Conference championships this Katie Baron 4th, Molly Kopacz Mary Blazewicz, Caitlin weekend at Marquette, Mich. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ac che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

) 
Wanted· Old paintings, especially Rental House, 2004·05@ 911 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do I loved your pink shorts with the Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM not g..> it alone. If you or someone green striped top. 9359 firs, new windows,AC,washldry & mmmrentals@aol.com you love needs confidential support 
NOTICES 

alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is 272·1525 or assistance, please call Sr. Mary They were like ripping my pants off. COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! HIRING AT BOOKMAKERS PUB, ND Alum. Contact Lisa @ theem Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! SERVERS AND BARTENDERS. urphs @ hotmail.com/619-804-3359 MOVING TO CHICAGO? more information, see our bi-weekly It actually was only one person who S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com EXP. GOOD BUT WILL TRAIN. Condo for sale by 2ND 1995 grads. ad in THE OBSERVER. was ripping her pants off. 
APPLY IN PERSON 2046 SOUTH DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8 Bright 1-bedroom condo on 24th Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 0 min BEND AVE. SHELLY, MISSY, OR BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM floor in secure building steps from #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Sting is hot and so is Boss. from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes PAT. HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... lake & public transportation. 1 0·15 Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & less than rent 574-299-4997 AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON-minute walk to grocery & Wrigley Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Dan, I can't believe you had my 
DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004· Field. May 2004 closing. Best Prices! Book Now! 800-234-credit card. Freshmen check out 2005 SCHOOL YEAR. ... WE ARE 773·929-3178 or 7007
FoR RENT
www.nd2007.com ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR nasserweiss@ hotmail.com endlesssummertours.com Go Eagles. 
THE 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. B&B for JPW/gradlfootball for up to CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE Congrats to Matt, Meghanne and Grow a stash. 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email 234-2436 OR CELL 31 5-5032 FOR Joe. Joe is now 21, by the way.
WANTED domercondo@ yahoo.com SHOWINGS PERSONAL . He's now legal. Destiny has chosen us. 
Tuesday, February l 0, 2004 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
• 
PGA 



Singh closes in on record after Pebble Beach finish 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. -Vijay Singh is starting to hear his name associated with some of golf's greatest players. 
His victory at the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am was his 12th consecutive finish in the top 10. leaving him two short of the modern-day record set by Jack Nicklaus in 1977. 
The streak includes three victories in his last nine starts, allowing him to nudge closer to replacing Tiger Woods at No. 1 in the world ranking, a spot no other player has occupied since 1999. 
But what pleased the big Fijian the most was a reference Sunday to Ben Hogan. 
Along with winning nine majors, Hogan was known for his endless pursuit of perfec­tion, a man who was at peace on the practice range as he repeated the most envied swing in golf. 
In some respects, Singh is cut from the same cloth. 

"I never met the person." Singh said. ''I've read every book he wrote, and there's so many stories about him. He never stopped practicing. And not that I follow his footsteps -I don't think I can ever fol­low his footsteps -it's good to be recognized in the same room with his name. 
"There is a guy who worked. He found it in the dirt. That's the way I want to be." 
Singh always leaves his sig­nature on the range. 
He digs so many balls out of the dirt in marathon sessions hitting balls, that when he finally leaves, his divots form a series of 3-foot trenches. You can easily find where he was long after he's gone. 
"There is a lot more satisfac­tion when you try to find it, and you find it yourself," Singh said. 
His practice has taken Singh to heights he never imagined. Already regarded as a great 
player with his two majors. the 1998 PGA Championship and the 2000 Masters. Singh has emerged as the closest anyone has come to Woods in the last five years. 
Phil Mickelson has won as many times on the PGA Tour since 1999. Ernie Els has won more around the world. 
But the best measure of Woods is his consistency. 
That's where Singh is. 
It started with a tie for sixth in the NEC Invitational at Firestone the week after the PGA Championship. 
He challenged on the back nine the next week at the Deutsche Bank Championship outside Boston, and did it again the following week in Canada after recovering from an open­ing-round 75. 
With a chance to win the PGA Tour money title -a trophy Woods had owned the last four years -Singh won the John Deere Classic, finished two behind Woods at a World Golf 


Granger, IN 46530 
(574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 

I I .. · 1
o1reei 

AValentine's Dance 1 • • 
Dress To Impress!! ! 
Friday, February 13 10 p.m.-2a.m. La Fortune Ballroom 
ALL WELCOME! FREE ADMISSION! Sponsored by Le Cercle Fran~is 
Championship, won at Disney and finished two strokes behind Retief Goosen in Tampa. 
The only time he hasn't con­tended during the streak was at the Tour Championship, where a final-round 68 gave 
• 
I 
• 


ENJ/JRONM£N1:S OFECUADOR {3 CR} 
6ALAPA60SISLANDS, ANDES.MOUNTAINS CLOUD FOREST, AMAZONRAINFOREST 
AreYo..u readyfor adventure? 
JULY 26 -AUGUST 9, 2004 
INFORMATION SESSION THURSDAY FEB. 12 6:30P.M. SCIENCE HALL 286 SAINr·MARY'S COLLEGE 
******** 
For more information contact: Thomas Fogle, Ph.D 
284-4675 
tfogle@saintmarys.edu 
' . 
,. -.:­

him a tie for fifth; and the Sony Open, where he tied for 10th. He has good friend Paul Azinger to thank for that -Azinger missed a 4-foot putt on the final hole that would have bumped Singh down to a tie for 11th. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Longhorns regain first inAPpoll 
Associated Press 
Say howdy to the new No. 1 team in women's basketball. After a long absence, the Texas Longhorns and coach Jody Conradt are back on top. 
Texas replaced Tennessee at No. 1 in The Associated Press women's basketball poll Monday -the school's 46th appearance as the leader, but its first since the week of Dec. 28. 1987. 
"I've been feeling for a while this is a good team," Conradt said. "This is a team that I think deserves some recogni­tion for their hard work and talent. 
"I don't get up every day and look at the poll and it doesn't change what we do. It's just something the players and the fans take pride in." 
The Longhorns' move kept the revolving door at the top of the poll spinning. It was the third time in six weeks the lead changed hands, an abrupt switch after two-plus seasons of Connecticut hogging the No. 1 spot. 
A path to the top opened after Tennessee lost to Connecticut and last week's No. 2 team, Duke, was upset by Florida State. 
Texas (21-2), moving up from third, received 29 of the 47 first-place votes from a national media panel and had 1,154 points -11 more than Connecticut. UConn (18-2), fourth last week, received the remaining 18 first-place votes. 
"It's got to be a motivating factor for us," Texas guard Jamie Carey said. "There has been such a high turnover rate at the top this season it's going to be hard to stay there." 
Tennessee (19-2), which had been No. 1 for two weeks, dropped to third. Duke (18-3) slipped to fourth. 
Tuesday, February 10, 2004 
page 16 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
:·· :<,.... 

Apartments are available for '04-'05 and are filling up for '05-'06 
Call to get the REAL story and to find out why you should live at Lafayette Square. 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
.f PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
.f 24-HOUR EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE 
¥' THE LARGEST STUDENT APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 
.f 4-AND 5•BEDROOMS UNITS 
v" WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY UNIT 
.f ADT ALARM SYSTEMS 
v" DISIIWASHER 
..; CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
../ THE BEST VALUE PER STUDENT BY SIZE AND AMENITY PACKAGE 
V PROUDLY SERVING THE NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY 
Refer aperson or group tlzat leases an apartment and receive a $500 referralfee!* 
(One referral fee paid per apartment leased. Call Real Estate Management for full details.*) 
Lease an apart1nent between February 1 & March 1, 2004, and receive a free nzontlz 's rent!** 
Call Real Estate Management Corp for Complete Details** 
You have looked at the rest, now lease the best! 
For more information, call 574-234-9923 and ask for Justine 
Call now! They won't last long! 
-
Tuesday, February 1 0, 2004 page 17 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Roddick leads U.S. to a 5-0 win over Austria in Davis Cup 
Associated Press not anything that we talk 
UNCASVILLE, Conn. about. It is real," McEnroe Patrick McEnroe made one said. thing perfectly clear when he "The bottom line is you have replaced his brother John as to be great tennis players. We 
U.S. Davis Cup captain in 2000: all know that. But the fact that He wanted a roster of players the guys enjoy it and like being eager to play in the event. around each other, and like 
And he hoped to assemble a being part of a team in a sort 
team in the truest  of a  broader  
sense, rather than  concept,  is  
a collection of indi­ refreshing."  
viduals.  "The bottom line is  This group  
Well, it looks as though his plan is coming together. Led by Andy Roddick, a formi­ you have to be a great tennis player. ..  is pretty solid when it comes to the bottom line, too. Roddick  
dable U.S. team completed a 5-0 first-round sweep of Austria on  Patrick McEnroe U.S. Davis Cup captain  powered his way to two straight-set victories and  
Sunday. The play­ers' camaraderie  set a by  record hitting  

and passion for Davis Cup, not serves at 150 mph, the doubles just their tennis talent, impress team of twins Bob and Mike their captain. Bryan breezed through their 
"There's a lot of frivolity with match, and Robby Ginepri this team. They have a good became the first U.S. rookie in time. They get along well. It's Davis Cup history to win after dropping the first two sets. 
"It excites Patrick. like it does the rest of us. that we have a pretty young core of guys who are very willing and very eager to play," said Roddick, who beat Jurgen Melzer 6-4, 6-2 on Sunday. "So I only see our team getting bet­ter as the years go on." 
First, though, the Americans will try to get to the semifinals by beating Sweden at home in April. The other quarterfinal matchups are: Belarus vs. Argentina, Switzerland vs. France, and Netherlands vs. Spain. 
Sweden advanced by knock­ing off defending champion Australia 4-1. The Swedes have won the Davis Cup seven times, including a 5-0 victory over the United States in the 1997 final. 
"We are going to be tested against them," McEnroe said. "But I certainly like our chances, especially playing at home." 

He's trying to lead his team "When I first started this, the to its 32nd Davis Cup title -only question I was asked is, and first since 1995. That's the 'How come Sampras and longest drought for the country Agassi don't play?"' Patrick since the 11-year gap between McEnroe said Sunday. "I said, victories in 1926 and 1937. 'Well, I am interested in the 
In the 1995 final against guys that want to play.' Russia, Pete Sampras won two Because those are the guys you singles matches and the dou­are going to build around." 
bles.  He  also  Roddick is not  
helped win the  a  bad place to  
1992  title,  start. He likes to  
while Andre Agassi was on three Davis Cup champi­onship teams.  ..We are going to be tested against them. But I certainly like our chances. "  play for his country, and he likes to be around his team­mates. Oh. yeah,  
But  both  and  he  ended  
played only sporadically Iater in their  Patrick McEnroe U.S. Davis Cup captain  last season ranked No. 1. Roddick and  
careers,  with  the Bryans got  
Agassi  last  a  matching  buzz  
member of the  cuts  Thursday  

team in 2000. John McEnroe and traded good-natured barbs cited an inability to get those during Davis Cup news confer­two stars to play Davis Cup ences. Ginepri kept his long regularly as a reason for step­locks, but he did join the other ping down after just 14 months players for raucous pingpong as captain. games. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Hall looks towards Olympics 
Associated Press 
ISLAMORADA, Fla. -Six 

months from now, his body 
must be ready, his mind rested, 
his stroke at its sharpest. 
That is why Gary Hall Jr. isn't 

overly concerned about win­
ning or losing at the U.S. Spring 
National Championships, which 
open in Orlando on Tuesday. 
His thoughts are on the 

Athens Olympics, where he can 
become the most decorated 
American men's swimmer in 
history. 
This prospect once seemed 

farfetched. 
Should he match the four 

medals he won in Atlanta in 
1996 and Sydney four years 
ago, he'd have 12 -one more 
than Mark Spitz and Matt 
Biondi. 
That provides far more moti­vation than a U.S. national meet certain to be forgotten in an Olympic year. 
"I use meets like this as a 

barometer of where I am with 
my training," Hall said. "I've 
climbed Mount Olympus twice 
now. I know the path I have to 
take. I could swim really fast at 
nationals, but it's going to be 
detrimental to my performance 
at the Olympic trials and 
Olympic Games." 
The Spring Nationals run through Saturday, featuring more than 1,000 swimmers, ranging in age from 12 to 42. 
Hall is entered in the 50­meter freestyle, his premier event and one where he's the Olympic champion, plus the 100-meter free. 
Among those expected to compete at one of the major tuneups for the Olympic trials at Long Beach, Calif., in July are 2000 gold medalists Lenny Krazelburg. Michael Phelps, Tom Malchow, Brooke Bennett, Misty Hyman, Diana Munz, Lindsay Benko and Courtney Shealy. 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 18 Tuesday, February 10, 2004 
... 
·­

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Alabama at Kentucky 7 p.m., ESPN Colorado at Missouri 7 p.m., ESPN2 Michigan State at Illinois 9 p.m., ESPN 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Purdue at Iowa 8 p.m., FOX Sports Net 
NBA 

Detroit at New Jersey 7:30p.m., TNT Toronto at Phoenix 10 p.m., TNT 
·~ 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press The NFL cleared the way high school for three In 2003, Fitzgerald for Fitzgerald to enter the years. caught 87 passes and led
PITTSBURGH -Heis­April draft because he is The 20-year-old Fitzger­all NCAA receivers with
man Trophy runner-up 
three years past his senior ald was a dominating 1,595 yards. He had 22Larry Fitzgerald will enter year of high school. receiver for the Panthers touchdown catches, at
the NFL draft and not 
The league's decision on last season. He finished a least one in each of Pitt's return to Pittsburgh for his Fitzgerald came on the close second to Oklahoma regular season games.
junior year. 

same day a federal judge quarterback Jason White He played in all 13The star receiver made 
ruled running back in voting for the Heisman games as a freshman and
the announcement Mon­
day, four days after he was Maurice Clarett could also Trophy, nearly becoming became a starter in his declared eligible by the turn pro despite playing the first sophomore to win third game. In 2002, he NFL for the draft. He is only one season at Ohio the award. had 69 receptions for expected to be among the State. He was the most profi­1,005 yards, easily sur­
first picks in the draft. In that ruling last cient receiver in Pittsburgh passing Antonio Bryant, 
Fitzgerald left the Thursday, the judge said history with an NCAA­who caught 51 passes for Academy of Holy Angels in NFL rules regarding its record 34 touchdown 844 yards as a freshmen in Richfield, Minn., midway draft violate federal catches in his freshman 1999. through his senior year in antitrust laws. The ruling and sophomore years. He also broke a 22-year­2001 and transferred to overturned the league's Fitzgerald also holds the old record with 12 touch­Valley Forge (Pa.) Military rule barring players from NCAA record for touch­down catches, beating Academy to boost his being eligible for the draft down receptions in 18 con­Dwight Collins' record of grades for college. before they were out of secutive games. 10 TD catches in 1980. 
IN BRIEF 

Panthers hire third head Dudley, who said he accomplished Academy, where he's been living for his goal as their coach. the past two years while attending
coach this season 
"I felt they needed an avuncular school and training with the U.S.
MIAMI -Rick Dudley left his job 
type who patted them on the back under-17 national team. He waited
as the Florida Panthers' coach 
and told them they were all right," patiently for the rest of the United toMonday to focus on his duties as gen­he said. "They enjoy coming to the arrive in three large vans after flying eral manager. Assistant coach John rink. They enjoy playing. They're a into Florida. 
Torchetti will coach the team the rest team that really, really wants to Coach Peter Nowak and assistantof the season. 
win." Tommy Soehn were the first to greetDudley timed the move so he could Adu, who signed a six-year contractattend this week's meetings of NHL 
Adu, 14, joins D.C. United 
that will pay him about $500,000
general managers in Las Vegas. 
BRADENTON, Fla. -Freddy Adu 
annually. They met in the middle ofTorchetti will make his debut as an 
sat on a golf cart, fiddling with his 
the field, where Adu was alone,NHL head coach Tuesday at home 
cell phone, and waiting for the start 
against Montreal. stretching and listening to music.
of his first professional practice. 
Torchetti becomes the Panthers' "You'd think they would have Practice was scheduled to begin at 4 p.m., but was pushed back an hour
third coach this season and their called me," the 14-year-old soccer 
fifth since 2000. He most likely will phenom joked Monday. to give the players an opportunity to return next season if the team plays Adu's first official day on the job settle into condominiums that will house them during a two-week stay. 
well in its final 27 games. Dudley for D.C. United began with nearly an 
said. hour wait for his teammates. It Adu, who will graduate from high At 38, Torchetti becomes the ended with the first pick in last school next month, will become the league's third-youngest coach. month's MLS draft pulling a water youngest player in MLS history if he 
Florida went 5-8-2 in their first 13 cooler away from the 75-minute gets on the field this season. He games this season under Mike workout. immigrated to the United States from Keenan before he was fired Nov. 9. The 5-foot-8, 140-pound forward Ghana in 1997 and became a U.S. The Panthers went 13-15-9-3 under walked to the workout at IMG citizen last February. 
Tuesday, February 1 0 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

Jacqueline Batteast drives Feb. 4 against Georgetown. 
Scoring 
continued from page 24 
team has struggled to a 3-8 road record and hasn't had consistent offensive production. 
McGraw said the team will work on offense during the two practices before the Providence game. 
"We're really having trouble scor­ing," McGraw said. "We're holding the ball. No one is playing well in terms of scoring." 
Notre Dame averaged only 64.8 points heading into its games against Georgetown and Seton Hall last week. The Irish scored 66 and 45 points in those games, respectively. 
The toughest part of Notre Dame's schedule is now behind them, after 


• Includes Natior~'x·•,dd~ long Distaru:e­
• Unlimited Nights and Week('&rn:fs 
facing Virginia Tech, Connecticut, team couldn't find any offensive Miami, Villanova and Boston College rhythm and lost by six. No Notre in a month. The Irish play no ranked Dame player scored in double figures opponents the rest of for the game. 
the season. Notre "We're playing well Dame faces three defensively, so we are in
"We didn't handle
teams with losing every game but we need records in their last Seton Hall.,, to play equally as well five games. on both ends," McGraw 
However, McGraw said.
Muffet McGraw 
said no matter who After beginning the
Irish coach 

season with a difficultthe competition is, her team must improve on the road. 
"We didn't handle Seton Hall," McGraw said. "I'm concerned about us on the road. We're trying to get everybody's 'A' game, every night." 
Sunday was a typical road game for the Irish. Despite playing excellent defense in the first half and holding the Pirates to just 17 points, the 
,........·~ 
I 
'·'4 
. 
. 
.
I~ 
• Free Roadside Assistan<:~ for 1 rnonth""' 
• Free MQt~..nol<l T'l31  ~US. Cellular  
<~~' ·no itl<~'H-hl  r~boste)  
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM  

., 

• t monl'lne 1nal avaJiabl9 to l'liW Roeds!OeAsslstance :!Ubscrd>«s only First monltl• $2 95 a moot! mealier ~cal 1o cancel Other reslridms ~ Alrilme and ph:Jne offers valid M 2 year cuslooter sen~~ce a!Jeenwlls o1 $40 and h!}her ~ a
acc&SS ~t uahd lor tte first 6 moolhs of a 2~-wnent 50% off otler not valid 1n combination wtth any olher spec~ at offer IX promo'M Promolronal phcne Stbject 1o change 
0Jslan91' 1s responslllle lor all sates tiles Otfws 111ay expre rt you ch&Me YOU' calling plan N and weekend mll'lll* are valid M-f 9 pm 11> 5 59 am and a1 day Sab.rdilly and SundatJ Nlgll and weekm mrnules are awadable lfl tle local cllltng area only Roan!~ ~-~3. IIMs. SIJ'CtWges IM'ld taxe3 111111 IIPOl¥. a Federal and Otter AeOOatctY Fee c:tw.rga of J55 All sentee agreem81'lls subjeCt to 110 early termrnaaon lee Acha.aM lee IS 130 OMers valid 1ft lllloos and~~ Ni>fualtd "'RiOclc Island IX Hertty Cwriies rn ltnas Lrnrled time olter C2QO.C US Cellular Corpcnkn 
schedule, the Irish are 
looking to end the sea­son strong and make a push for a higher seed in the Big East and NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame hosts the first two rounds of the NCAA Tournament at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Manship 
continued from page 24 

four months without throwing a 
baseball. 

When Manship threw again, 
he said his arm felt fine. But 
two weeks ago when he took 
the mound against live batters, 
Manship said his arm tightened 
up again. After an MRI, doctors 
determined that he would need 
the surgery. 

Tommy John surgery has 
occurred more frequently with 
professional and collegiate 
pitchers in the last several 
years. The surgery involves 
removing a tendon from anoth­
er part of the body and attach­
ing it to the elbow to function 
as a ligament. The recovery 
time is usually one year and, 
according to Mainieri, the play­
er can even come back stronger 
and healthier than before the 
surgery. 

"There's no question in my 
mind Jeff has the mental tough­
ness and the desire, and he will 
do everything he can do to get 
himself back to being healthy 
and strong," Mainieri said. 

Manship is a two-time high school All-American, who went 22-2 with a 0.65 earned run average in his final two sea­sons. He had almost an 8-to-1 strikeout to walk ratio and allowed just 2.2 walks per nine­innings in 2002 and 2003. 
The Irish are now without 
two of their top pitchers. 
Manship joins Axford on the 
injured list and both pitchers 
were expected to see significant 
innings this season -likely in 
the starting rotation. 

Mainieri said he needs his 
other pitchers to improve their 
game to help Notre Dame have 
success this season. 

"With Jeff and John Axford now both out, other kids are getting a chance to step up and they need to take advantage of it," Mainieri said. 
Mainieri has never seen this many players on one team need "Tommy John" surgery in such a short period of time. He said the Irish staff continues to monitor players and does not push players over any limita­tions they may have during practice or a game. 
"There's not a school in the country that takes better care of their pitchers or shows more concern for the health of their pitchers," Mainieri said. "They don't ever pitch on short rest and we do everything we can do to ensure their health. So when these things happen it's so frustrating and discouraging because we know we're doing everything we can in our kids' best interest." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

":\ ' .

. ' The Observ;r + SPORTS Tuesd~y, February. 10, 2004 
Victory 
continued from page 24 

seven first-half minutes due to back spasms, Notre Dame guard Chris Thomas put the Irish on his back and scored 31 points, highlighted by 6-of-10 shooting from 3-point range. 
To cap the night off for Thomas, he broke David Rivers' career assist record by feeding Chris Quinn on a jumper with 
9:37 remaining in the first half. 

"If it was going to happen, it just so happened tonight was the night," Thomas said. "It's a special night not only for myself, but for the team, for the program, for the guys in here who have worked so hard." 
Knowing the Huskies would try to rush the tempo of the game, the Irish came in with a game plan to slow down the con­test and not let the Huskies score in tran­sition. The Iric;h were successful, as each team only scored five transition points. 
"I think what we did a good job is that they didn't hurt us in transition," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "When they get running, and they ran on us last year early, we never get in any rhythm run­ning. We did a very good job getting back." 
Besides Thomas, the Irish offense was led by Quinn's 17 points and Torrian Jones, who had 14 points and a game­high 12 rebounds. 
The big moment on the night came after Connecticut tied the game at 69 with 3:06 remaining. 
A 3-pointer from Thomas sent the Irish on a 9-0 run and put the finishing touches on Notre Dame's best game of the season. 
"That's where I thought we took a big step," Brey said. "I kept talking to them in the huddle and told them I didn't want to see any weak body language. We just had to keep fighting." 
On a night playing against one of the top teams in the country, the Irish didn't play a perfect basketball game to pull the upset. Connecticut shot better from the field, got more rebounds and domi­nated inside the paint. 
But the Irish played an intense and focused 40 minutes for the first time this season and earned their first big win on the season. 
"We did what we needed to do to win," Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette said. "That's what great teams do. " 
NOTRE DAME 80, CONNECTICUT 7 4 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (11-9, S-5) Cornette 2-5, 0-0, 6, Francis 0-3, 0-0, 0, Thomas 9­21, 7-8, 31, Quinn 5-11, 5-8. 17, Jones 5-11. 4-7. 14, Cornett 2-7. 2-4, 6, Falls 0-2, 0-0, 0, Timmermans 2-4. 2-2, 6 
CONNECTICUT (19-4, 7 -2) Villanueva 4-12, 1-2, 9, Brown D. 1-7. 1-2, 3, Okafor, 10-17, 4-4. 24. Gordon 8-16, 2-2. 22, Brown T. 2-7. 0-0, 4, Armstrong 0-0, 0-0, 0, Boone 2-5, 0-0, 4, Tooles 0-0, 0-0, 0, Anderson 3-7, 0-0, 8 
1st  2nd  Total  
NOTRE DAME  35  45  80  
Connecticut  38  36  74  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 10-20 (Thomas 6, Quinn 2, Cornette 2), Connecticut 6-16 (Gordon 4, Anderson 2), Rebounds: Notre Dame 39 (Jones 12), Connecticut 44 (Okafor, Villanueva 9), Assists: Notre Dame 11 (Thomas 5), Connecticut 20 (T. Brown 9). Total fouls: Notre Dame 11, Connecticut 23 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Valentine's Day·is Coming! 
To find the perfect gift for your snookurns, come to 
Irish Gardens 
Ftowers ~Balloons~ Potpou.m-~Betta Fish* Chocotate 
Pre orders accepted until Thursday, Feb. 12 Walk-in orders after Feb. 12 are limited to roses and pre-made bouquets. Preorder Today! 
Irish Gardens 

1ocated on the Low{ffL(?rHt1 of Lajonune 574-631-4004 flowe:rshop.nd.f?du MCjV1"sa accgpted 


· SAINT MARYS COLLEGE INTERNATIONAL STUDYPROGRAM 
IN 

SEVILLE, SPAIN 
A NEW OPTION FOR NOTRE. DAME STUDENTS•
. ,......_. . 

Fall 2004··Spring2005 
.·· 


Information Meeting Wednesday, February 18, 2004 7:oop.m. DeBartolo Center 117 University of Notre Dame 
Course Offerings: Spanish languager civilization and literattire, and general education· courses 
Application Deadline: l\1arch 30, 2004 Contact: Professor Isis Quinteros iquinter@saintmarys.edu. 
~----------··-·----------....... ----·-. ···--·----------------~ -===---~~.....::::::-:::-________--­
----------------------···· 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Quinn leaves with ankle injury, returns 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Mike Brey was talking to his Notre Dame players during a TV timeout, but he knew nobody was listening to him. 
Instead, Brey saw the eyes of Chris Thomas and Torrian Jones looking past him at Chris Quinn who lay on the Joyce Center court grabbing his leg. 
A little under six minutes into the second half, Quinn drove into the lane, fired up an off-balance jumper, and landed awkwardly on the same ankle he injured during a loss at Rutgers a week and a half ago. 
"It was really hurting at the beginning," Quinn said. "I didn't hear anything pop, but it was really hurting." 
Notre Dame played without him for exactly two more minutes, until the next media timeout was called with 11:53 in the game. Suddenly, Quinn jogged out of the Irish tunnel across the court to a deafening roar from the crowd, taking his spot on the Irish bench with a grin on his face. 
"I've never had anything hap­pen like that before," he smiled after the game. "It was crazy." 
Although he returned to the game around the halfway point of the second half, Quinn didn't score. He finished with 17 points on 5-of-11 shooting. 
Back Injury limits Francis 

Tarin Francis, who left Saturday's game against 
Pittsburgh midway through the first half with back spasms, start­ed but couldn't finish Notre Dame's win against Connecticut Wednesday with the same injury. 
But the Irish weren't expecting much out of the sophomore, who didn't practice Sunday. 
"We prepared yesterday like Tarin wasn't going to be here," Brey said. "At 8 a.m. no way, at 3 p.m., maybe, [and] I said warm up and tell me if you can go. If you can go, we'll start you. And he gave it a try, but he's not ready. We need to get him some rest." 
Francis was adamant that he would be ready to play Saturday against Seton Hall, but he also said that he would probably not practice for the next few days in order to get better. 
Graves returns to South Bend 
Former Notre Dame guard David Graves, who graduated in 2002, attended Notre Dame's win Monday night. 
Notre Dame's 80-74 victory against Connecticut Monday sum­moned images of Graves' sopho­more year, when the Irish beat the No. 2 Huskies in Hartford. Notre Dame then knocked off Connecticut again a month later in South Bend, touching off a court-rushing scene similar to the bedlam that ensued after the fans rushed the court Monday. 
"This brings back good memo­ries," Graves smiled . 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 10, 2004 page 21
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

r 
I 
'i 
I 
l 
i 
I 
\, 

The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 10, 2004 
when Thomas drove into the lane and passed to Quinn, who nailed a 3-pointer to draw the Irish to 28­
27. 

"Thatjust showed right there us growing up and maturing," Jones said. "Earlier. we'd be whining at the refs and complaining about the call instead attacking after the ball. Tonight we did what we have to do, we hit every big play, got every loose ball, did everything we have to do to get the '\V'." 
llkc when Notre Dame got a defensive stop, passed to Thomas, who simply stood and let the other nine players on the court sprint up in transition. Or when the Irish answered Connecticut down the stretch shot for shot. 
This was the Notre Dame team Irish players had been trying to convince reporters existed during a stretch when the Irish had lost six oftheir last eight. This was a 
Notre Dame team that exuded the right now," Jones said. "You might be the team's toughest. confident attitude of the top­understand what you have to do But as Brey said ofThomas ranked team it was supposed to and what is important in the after the game, "He is our pro­be all season long. _ game. If we start building on gram." 
Fans who left the Joyce Center tonight's points of emphasis. we'll And after Monday, nobody scratching their heads had to be 
be ready right now." doubted either of them. wondering two things. First, why Jones may be the team's most did this team pick tonight to show vocal player; Quinn may be the The opinions expressed in this up? And second, where was this team's most efficient. Francis 
column are those ofthe author team all season long? might be Notre Dame's best big and not necissarily those ofthe "If I could pick any part of my man, Cornette may be the team's Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup life, it feels like I'm hitting puberty most versatile and Timmerman's at asoukup@nd.edu. 


THAI RESTAURANT 
NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED 
WAIT STAFF 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 
232-4445 NDPRESENTS: OPERAAT THE MORRIS 
DIRECT FROM EASTERN EUROPE OPERAVERDI EUROPA 
A company of 100 performers,

P£Rf0 RMIN G PUCCI N I'S LA B0 HEME including singers, chorus, and orchestra 
Wednesday, February 11 7:30 PM 
Morris Performing Arts Center For tickets, call 57 4-235-9190 or toll free at 800-537-6415 Sponsored by or you may order tickets at www.MorrisCenter.org f<US.Cellular 
($1UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 

page 22 
Thomas 
continued from page 24 
head coach for the calm way he directed Notre Dame's thrilling 80­74 upset of No.5 Connecticut. 
"When Thomas' demeanor is like it was tonight, we can play with anybody," Brey said. "But he struggled a little bit, he hadn't shot well. If he doubts, we kind of doubt a little bit. 
"As a matter offact, ifhe doubts, I doubt. Because he's very important to us." 
There was no doubting Thomas -or the rest of the Irish ­Monday night as they played arguably their best game ofthe season. For a Notre Dame team that had come so close, yet never beaten, top-ranked teams, Monday's efforts showcased a team sick of losing and a player sick of being criticized. 
"This past summer has made me more patient and play with a lot more poise," said Thomas, who helped the Irish commit zero ­yes, zero -turnovers in the sec­ond half. "It took me 20 games to show it, but at least rm showing it now." 
Those who claim Notre Dame would be better without Thomas than with him are sadly mistaken. When Thomas struggles, as he has most ofthe season, Notre Dame struggles as well. But when Thomas is on fire, as he was against the Huskies, Notre Dame can compete with and beat virtu­ally every team it plays. 
"Chris is capable of 30 every night," Huskies coach Jim Calhoun shrugged after the game. 
He's also capable ofstruggling, as Notre Dame fans have seen all too well. Before Monday's 31­
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish in fifth place at opening tournament 
By ANNIE BRUSKY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team heads into today's final round of the Rice Intercollegiate in fifth place -and only 13 strokes behind the leader ­after a strong performance by the team in yesterday's after­noon round. 
After shooting the best team score of the tournament, a one­over par 289, in the second round yesterday, the Irish sit point, 60-percent-from-3-point­range effort, Thomas wa..<; only shooting a meager 30 percent from behind the arc. 

He could have blamed his bum knee, but he didn't. He could have lashed out at the fans who booed him in Notre Dame's win against Miami two weeks ago, but he did­n't. 
He went to the gym, worked on his shot, and rallied the Irish when they needed it most. 
"We've been hearing that Chris Quinn and I can never play good together on the same night," Thomas said. "We figured this was our last stand, and we couldn't take it any more." 
Notre Dame entered Monday's game believing Francis wasn't going to play, something Brey thought made the rest of the Irish focus more. But they couldn't have expected Chris Quinn to tumble to the Joyce Center in pain midway through the second half. 
But as hard as Thomas and Torrian Jones watched Quinn writhe in pain on the floor, they refused to back down. 

Want examples ofNotre Dame's composure? There are many. 
In the first half, Emeka Okafor swatted Rick Cornett's shot against the backboard and earned a buzz of boos from fans who thought it was goaltending. On the sideline, Brey looked as ifa vein in his head was about to burst as he angrily danced in front ofNotre Dame's bench. 
But in a strange ironic twist ­and Monday night was filled with them-the coach who preached composure all year lost his while the players on the floor rallied. 

Even as the crowd jeered, Jones stole the ball and threw it back to Thomas at midcourt. The crowd was still booing the missed call 
with a 597 team score after 36 holes at the par-72 Blackhorse North Golf Club in Cypress, Texas 
Freshman Cole Isban leads the way in sixth place, with 145. 
Sophomore Tommy Balderston is tied for 11th place after shining in the second round and tying his career low with a four-under 68, the best individual score of the tourna­ment. 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
2046 8outh Perl A'\e 
272-1766 

Open for lunch, dinner and late night fun There is always action at Bookmaker's Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 
Man Tu e s 
Wed Thurs Fri, Feb 13 Sat, Feb 14 Sun 

Etffials all d:¥ :lay 
a.e:y Tu:s. is ID Ni.g:Jt, ill' arrl 
~a1s start:rrg at $1.00 all d¥ lay ~ ~12 ern all cEy ~als Im:h arl drily Ep:"Cials Li.·\:e m.Eic with Blu=s k. 
Li.~ rrusic with Hi~ Life ~ all ~ arl all }0.1 CH1 Eat B.rf fa:. $.9.3 
Tuesday, February 10, 2004 

The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
E 1 
I FINISHED THE PROTO-~ IT USES GPS NAVI-ie TODAY I LEARNED TO TYPE FOR THE WIRELESS ! GATION TO STALK ITS ::~ AVOID THE WORDS HASSOCK-BUDDY. ~ OWNER AND DEMAND '$ "STALKN AND "AAAGH· 

~=~ ,,,,,;, :km~~t~t~J~.mH~E~R~E~s~T~H~I~s~~~ ~~E~:N~~~~~~NT 
CJ 
t: 
~~~----~~~~~ 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

r find i+s cornm(rthu-y 
T"'e. Mon~lojut.s is "
lhe Va.~rta. Mor~of"5 

Yov'rt.. rig'M+ Sr-~++ > 
very wc¥~~d.f... ~~ he. ,
('vt 

+ew.ihi$m q~d
is"-po$11-ive o.ddi+icH'l 

! CAVIl-s~y i+ all 
OJ. very .. • \-\A HA HA1
(:),W .1-Y't.YlC SL.. ..,., ~c. \oc,. •••
to O..Yl'f c.oHe~e C4Mpv:s... 

wHh A s-tmid~f ~,~!
~4 \-,<. ~~ \4.A HA HA f 
\ 
e~'\lcrt+. 
\ \ 1014 yov. \ 
I 






HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary WIJrds. 
Nice game 
Er...about that traffic \ 

ticket, your honor...
TAFUL 
j

I I r (] 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All RighiB Reserved. 
RAPAT 
I I I 

WHY THe TeNNISCUSCOT ± 

C.HAMP PL-AYeD A MATCH WITH THE: JUDGe. 
www.jumble.com 
YORPOL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Jumbles: GULLY HELLO JOBBER BEDBUGYesterday's 
I > 
Answer: What the king did when the castle was remodeled 

-HE "RULED" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  36 Like a fast driv­ 69 Tourist's aid  
1 Louganis who  er  70"  homo"  
did gainers  40 Way to learn,  (Pilate's words)  
5 Gelled garnish  after "b~  71 Television  
10 Greenish-blue  42 Concur  award  
14 Back 15 Animal life  43 Prime-time time 44 Tyrannical  72 Playful animal 73 Suggestive look  
16 Vice president under Jefferson  46 Real heel 47 Gras  DOWN  
11 Gymnast Korbut  48 Invitation nota­ 1 "Ewww!"  
18 Place to say "I do"  tion 51 Computer pro­ 2 Like twice­smoked cigars  
19 Lacking spring or curl, as hair  gram suffix 52 Wicked  3 American sym­bol 4 Driveway sur­ 
20 Eloquent  56 Wipe out  face  
23 He's no bull 24 Kind of sign  60 Possible title for this puzzle 64 Famous cookie  5 Off in the dis­tance 6 Sodium chloride  
25 Uncooked  guy  7 Pretense  
28 Reason to call a plumber  66 Mischievous one  8 Foolish  
31 Jeweled head­dress  67 Stopgap meas­ure for a 28­ 9 Freight 10 Competent  
33 "60 Minutes"  Across  11 Algebraic equa­ 
network  68 Sticky stuff  tion 12 Large coffee  34 Cleansing agent  45 Feudal land  58 Pie portion  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  holder  35 Pantry  49 Neckline type  59 Sniggler  
13 Biblical boat  37 "If the  is  50 Urge onward  61 Spot 
21 Before, once 22 Golden rule  concealed, it succeeds": Ovid  53 Sign of summer  62 Dapper fellow  
word  38 Bambi, for one  54 Going either  63 Equal  
26 Sports venue  39 D. E.A. employ- direction  64 Get older  
27 Went in ankle­ ees, e.g.  55 Kosher  65 May honoree  
deep  
29 _Mountains,  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with anear the Tian · credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Shan range 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 30 They're found crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. under the count­
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
er at bars 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 32 Charged parti-Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, cle nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Robert Wagner, Roberta Flack, Laura Dem, Greg Norman, Dame Judith Anderson, George Stephanopoulos 
Happy Birthday: This will be a great year if you exercise extra discipline. This is the time to focus on your true desires and to push yourself to achieve the goals that have been out of reach for so long. It is your turn to stand up and be counted and to let others know that you mean business. Speak your mind, follow your dreams, and you won't be disappointed. Your numbers: 5, 8, 13, 17,23,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):You can gain the most through business engagements or conversations concerning work. Push your ideas past important people. Your practical approach will pay off. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your efforts have not gone unnoticed. Family outings will bring you closer together. You can make a big difference to kids if you spend time helping them with their goals. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your feelings will be easily hurt Excessive eating and drinking will only add insult to injury. Delay or postpone important social activities. You need some time to yourself. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will get along well with your partner. Don't let friends or relatives know too much about your personal life. Rumors will hurt your reputation. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be afraid to spend a little money on worthwhile causes. You need to get involved in fund-raisers that will enhance your reputation and allow you to mingle with important people. Play the game, and you'll be sure to advance. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take trips to visit old friends. Relaxation and social activities should be penciled in. You need to get away from the humdrum of your everyday routine. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let others in on your secrets. You can arrange something very special for the one you love. Visitors in your home may be more than you can handle. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel and entertainment will go hand in hand. 
. New romantic encounters will be stimulating. Fund-raising events. will lead to interesting connections. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): This is not the day to push your beliefs or attitudes on others. Do your own thing, but don't be offended if others would prefer to forgo your challenge. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put yourefforts into creative endeavors or activities with children. You need to lose yourself in events that will take your mind off your wonies. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look into ways to turn your financial situation around. Don't hesitate to sign deals that involve other people's money or property. You need to market yourself. You have a lot to offer, but you have to convince influential individuals to use your skills. **'• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You're in the mood for love. Channel your energy into special interludes with your mate. Spend quality time together, and you won't need or want company. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are inventive, proactive and definitely ahead of your time. You can set riew trends and persuade others to follow your dreams. You are powerful, progressive and positive. · 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eu.genialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
•

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Plea.se complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1\tlake checks payable to: The 0 bserver and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip________ 
. I 


THE 0BSER\'ER 
p
Tuesday, February 10, 2004 

page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

No doubtingThotnas 


Junior guard shows composure all night 
There were no boos for Chris Thomas Monday night. 
Just polite applause when the public address announcer told the Joyce Center crowd Thomas had 
broken the  
school record  
for career  
assists mid­ 
way through  
his third year  
of college bas­ 
ketball.  
Just gasps of  
dismay fol­ 
lowed by yells Andrew  
of disbelief Soukup 
when Thomas·  -----­ 
buried basket  Sports Writer  
after basket  
with the shot  

clock winding down. 

Just a deafening roar when the junior guard left his hand hanging in the air nanoseconds after he hit a 3-pointer from the right wing to brtlak a 69-69 tie. 
But most telling of all, Thomas just received quiet praise from his 
see THOMAS/page 22 
I ' ' 

31-point effort leads to 80-74 upset of No. 5 Connecticut 
By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
One year later, it happened again. 
Exactly 365 days after No. 4 Pittsburgh fell 66-64 and the stu­dents rushed the Joyce Center court, Notre Dame (11-9, 5-5 in the Big East) defeated No. 5 Connecticut 80-74 last night and its players was mobbed by the student body once again. 
The win was Notre Dame's first on national television and against a ranked opponent this season. Connecticut (19-4, 7 -2) lost for the first time in five· games and for the first time this year after leading at halftime. 
"Not many people gave us a chance, but the 13 guys in this locker room believe we can play with anybody," Notre Dame guard Chris Quinn said. 
With Notre Dame forward Torin Francis only able to play 
see VICTORY/page 20 

,,. BASEBALL 
Manship will miss entire 2004 season 
Manship is the fourth Notre Dame player, and third pitcher, since April 2002 to require the season-ending operation. 
· Shortstop Matt Macri and pitchers Grant Johnson and John Axford have all had the same injury. While playing summer ball with the U.S. Junior National Team, Manship threw 130 pitches in a seven-inning game. He then threw four days later, but had to leave that game in the fourth inning with soreness in his elbow. "It just tightened up on me. It didn't feel right at all," Manship said. "I knew some­thing was wrong." · Manship did not pitch again until coming to Notre Dame in the fall -one month later. He then began throwing with the Irish, but felt pain again once he threw from the mound. Mainieri and the Notre Dame coaching staff decided to shut Manship down and he went 
see MANSHIP/page 19 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Weary Irish relish week-long break 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spores Editor 

With the tank nearly empty, the Irish finally get a break. 
After playing at least one midweek game since Dec. 29, Notre Dame has the week off before facing Providence Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
"It's a great thing," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We've been going since Christmas break anq this [break] couldn't have come at a better time. We really need it. It could really rejuvenate us." 
The team will not practice until Thursday 
The Irish (14-8, 6-3) are coming off a 51-4 5 loss at Seton Hall Sunday. The defeat dropped the team to third in the Big East, two games behind Connecticut for the conference lead. 
Notre Dame has beaten five straight ranked teams, is 10~0 at home this season and has used outstanding defense to shut opponents down. But the 
see SCORING/page 19 

.. 
,.'­
' 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame freshman pitch­er Jeff Manship is rated as the third highest freshman prospect in the nation. Unfortunately for the Irish, they won't see his abilities until the 2005 season. 
Manship will undergo "Tommy John" surgery -an operation to repair the elbow -Feb. 11 and miss the entire 2004 baseball season. Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said Manship is expected to make a full recovery. 
"This is a big blow to us," Mainieri said. "We felt really good about Jeff Manship join­ing our program and felt that he was going to step in as a freshman and be one of the top pitchers in our program. Anybody you talk around the country that's seen him pitch knows what he is capable of doing, and he'll do it, it's just not going to be this year." 

en 

MEtfS GOLF 
SWIMMING 
TENNIS 

NCAA BASKETBALL
PGA 

WOMEN'S HOOPS 
1--u u.l 

. The men's golf team 
Gary Hall Jr. looks to 

Andy Roddicks leads 
Vijay Singh completes 
The Texas Longhorns 
Seton Hall 68 

heads into the final 
become the most deco-

the U.S. to a 5-0 victory 
his 12th consecutive fin-
replace Tennessee 
Pittsburgh 67 

round of the Rice 
rated American men's 

over Austria in the 
Volunteers at No. 1 in 
ish in the top 10 as he 
Seton Hall upsets No. 
a: z ~ 

Intercollegiate in fifth 
swimmer as her pre-
Davis Cup. 

finished first at Pebble 
the latest AP rankings. 
4 Pittsburgh to give the
c c:s 
place. 
pares for the next 

Beach last Sunday. 
Panthers its second loss 
'J 
., c 
Olympics. 
of the season. 

~­
a. 

!:i page 22 
page 17 

page 17 
page 15 

page 15. 
page 14
en 






