
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 36 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12,2004 

Closet demonstration cancelled 
AllianceND told South Quad display could result in disciplinary measures 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's News Editor 

Members of the unrecognized student group AllianceND, who had planned to display a super­sized Coming Out Closet on South Quad Tuesday, were told Monday that disciplinary actions could result if the closet appeared. 
The University saw it as a demonstration of an unrecog­nized student group," said proj­ect coordinator Anna Gomberg. "Student Affairs did not give us the approval to put the display up, and I was told through one of our co-sponsors, the Sociology department, that dis­ciplinary action would most likely be taken." 
Project co-coordinator Anna Gomberg said the closet, sched­uled to appear from 4:30 to 
8:30 p.m., was meant to serve as a "coming together of the community" and to highlight National Coming Out Day. 
The Graduate Student Union was also one of the event's co­sponsors. 
University spokesperson Matt Storin said Student Affairs debated the event throughout the afternoon. 
"All I know is Student Affairs followed the policy of DuLac and other University policies," Storin said. "The decisions made were consistent with these policies." 
Attempts to contact the Office of Student Affairs were unsuc­cessful. 
According to statement from AllianceND, the three purposes of the event were to recognize National Coming Out Day, emphasize the term "coming out of the closet" and celebrate "the processes of growth and discovery critical to develop-
see CLOSET/page 4 

ND Habitat breaks ground for ne-w house 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
After six months of fundraising, Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity chapter officially broke ground Monday on its 11th home. The house, located at 2350 Linden Street, will be 1000 square feet in size and will feature three bedrooms and one bathroom. 
At least 15 volunteers are signed up to build on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday, but the first Monday of fall break kicks off Blitz Build -a five-day event in the construction process that combines the efforts of students and alumni. 
"I think Blitz Build really marks the beginning of the 
Notre Dame students help build the previous Habitat for Humanity home. The club broke ground on its new house Monday after six months of fundraising. see HOUSE/page 4 

Chocola speaks to students at Saint Mary's 
Indiana House member discusses· campaign politics 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 

Congressman Chris Chocola, Congressional rep­resentative for the 2nd dis­trict of Indiana, spoke to the Saint Mary's community Monday about his experience in federal government and his re-election campaign. 
The event, sponsored by the Political Science Club, followed a visit to campus by Chocola's Democratic oppo­nent Joe Donnelly last week. 
After losing to Democrat Tim Roemer in 2000, Chocola said he did not intend to run again. But when Roemer announced his retirement two years later, Chocola chose to hit the campaign trail again, in one 2002's closest House races, and defeated Jill Long Thompson. 
Chocola said Washington 
D.C. was full of individuals talking about job creation but lacking people who had ever actually created one themselves. 
"I thought we need more people with a business per­spective and not just a lot of lawyers," Chocola said. 
Chocola, who sits on the transportation, agriculture and small business commit­tees in the House of Representatives, said eco­nomic concerns are most pressing for Americans. 
"When people wake up in the morning the first thing they ask themselves is 'Do I have a job?'" said Chocola. "For most people economic issues really drive the day." 
According to Chocola, small businesses are particu­larly important in Indiana 
see CHOCOLA/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

JOANNA PAXTON/The Observer 

Student body vice president Karla Bell speaks at Monday's COR meeting. 

Meinbers talk about BOT report 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives met Monday night to discuss the Board of Trustees' response to their pro­posal about off-campus safety for Notre Dame students. 
Student body vice president Karla Bell and chief executive assistant Dave Baron summa­rized their presentation for the council members, noting that the trustees were very receptive to the idea, in their opinion. 
"The presentation went very well. Contrary to what was said in the campus media, it was very well received. They said it was the best presentation they'd seen in a few years," Bell said. 
Bell explained to representa­tives that the proposal consisted of four main points, all relating to off-campus safety. The four points included a required sem­inar for off-campus students, the participation of off-campus council representatives in South Bend council meetings, the par­ticipation of NDSP to help pro­mote community relations and the creation of the Notre Dame Safe Bus. 
Representatives raised sever­al questions about the purpose of off-campus seminars. 
Bell said the seminars would likely take place at the end of this school year or the begin­ning of next and would teach those students planning to live off-campus how to be a good neighbor and follow the rules and regulations of the South Bend area. 
Baron also said he was pleased by the positive feedback they received from the Board of Trustees. 
"The trustees were impressed with the proposal to use a semi­nar to promote neighborhood involvement. The Board said it 
see CORlpage 4 

page 2 Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

You can quote this 
In my hallway, 22 dry erase 

boards proudly display the thoughts 
and witticisms of those who live 
within. From the short but prophet­
ic "at lunch. be back later," to my 
most recent 
favorite. "I Tim Luebbert 
Purdon't want to 
talk about it," 
everyone (in Photographer 
Dillon. at least) 
seems to have 
something to say. 
If you don't have a white board, 
you are missing out on the very 
definition of self-expression at 
Notre Dame. 
Having examined white-board 

communication for two months 
now. I realize there are four major 
groups of expression: Pragmatics 
("strictly business" notes, like "tak­
ing a shower, help yourself to Little 
Debbies"). Profundities (expres­
sions of higher truth. like "Studying 
is our destiny"). Pranks (ransom 
notes for office supplies) and The 
Void (that is, a nothing on the 
board whatsoever). Let's examine 
each one individually. 
Pragmatic messages often reflect 

the practical nature of those who 
write them. Especially this, the last 
week of midterms in ordinary time. 
onlookers will find an excess of 
such demanding and emotionless 
statements as. "David. help me with 
my calculus," and "Parents coming, 
sweep your side of the floor, [exple­
tive)." Pragmatics are known to 
rationalize their way out of using 
verbs, prepositions. and articles as 
in. "Gone. CoMo. Dinner 6:00." 
Engineers. this should sound famil­
iar. 
Profundities, by definition, tell us something that was not as apparent before. Sometimes, this means a realization about one's personal identity, like this one from my hall­way: ''I'm not a nerd anymore! I do mathematical Biology!" Profundities may also take the form of syllogisms: "If Chuck Lennon raises the roof, and the roof, the roof, the roof is on fire, and we did­n't start the fire (but we tried to fight it). then Chuck Lennon is in grave danger." Essentially, white­board profundities track the progress of human wisdom. 
Pranks: The best indicator a mes­sage is a prank comes through the little discrepancies: "Why does the cute girl from Philo who left me this message have my roommate's handwriting and a 1-900 phone number?" Pranks hold the most potential to provoke a laugh or a slap in the face, but it is up to the designer to weigh the risks. 
As for the blank white boards, I can't say I approve. Some justify it as a "sacred silence," or "bold blankness." but this idea goes stale quickly. If nothing else, do it because everyone else is. Also, to whoever keeps quoting "The Teletubbies" on my white board ­it's no longer funny. 
Contact Tim Luebbert at tluebber@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can corrccc our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE WORST CLASS YOU'VE EVER TAKEN AT NOTRE DAME? 



Ashley Burtner Gina Bufalini 
junior junior Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla East 
"No. there "Will this affect wasn't one . ., my final grade?" 
Washington man grows1,229 pound pumpkin 
HALF MOON BAY, Calif. -A retired Wash-ington state firefighter who grows giant pumpkins in his spare time produced the winning pumpkin Monday at the 31st annual Safeway World Champi­onship Pumpkin Weigh­Off. 
The pumpkin, grown by 55-year old Joel Holland of Puyallup, Wash., tipped the scales at 1,229 pounds -49 pounds heavier than last year's winner. Its cir­cumference was 13 feet. 7 inches. 
Holland, whose prodi-



Houston Hum Himanshu Kothari 
sophomore O'Neill 
"Organic chemistry . ., 


who fled from court 
authorities while facing 
charges of domestic and 
animal abuse was found a 
short time later in a dog­
house. 
Paul Oakley, 43, was in court Friday for a prelimi­nary hearing on three domestic abuse charges and one of animal abuse for allegedly abusing his girlfriend and her pet kit­ten. 
Authorities said he briefly escaped and was captured minutes later in a doghouse in Jackson. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
gious pumpkins won the contest three years in a row, from 1992 through 1994. planted this year's winning pumpkin plant in May. He transported the giant gourd to California on a huge flatbed pickup truck, covering it with towels and blankets to protect its skin from dehy­dration. 
Contest spokesman Tim Beeman said 80 pumpkins competed for the top prize, and eight weighed more than 1,000 pounds. 
Man found In doghouse after fleeing court JACKSON, Mo.-A man 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

...I 
c( (J 






.9 HIGH 65 68 HIGH 50 LOW 45 48 LOW 35 
HIGH LOW 
60 
43 
HIGH LOW 
junior Zahm 
"That's a terrible question . ., 

IN BRIEF 
Alvin Holm will give the lec­ture "Hemembering the Maiden of Corinth: Inspiration for a Classical Career." tonight at 6 
p.m. in Hoom 104. Bond Hall. Holm is a classical architect and the principal architect of Alvin IIolm AlA Architects. 
rld Mandell of the Department of Film. Television, and Theatre will speak Wednesday at 4 p.m. about "Truth, Heality, and Advocacy: 'Fahrenheit 9/11' and 'The Passion of the Christ."' The lec­ture will be held in the Law School courtroom. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will face off against Illinois State on Wednesday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will take on Michigan at Alumni field at 7 p.m. Wedn­esday. 
Novelist Maxine Hong Kingston will give the lecture "Writing Peace," Wednesday at 
7:30 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. The subject is her novel. "The Fifth Book of Peace." A book signing and reception will follow. 
Linda Malkas. professor of medicine at Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, will give the lecture "Hevealing Cancer's Secrets," Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Concourse. Head coach of women's basketball, Muffet McGraw will be the event emcee. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 
50 

LOW 
40 


Atlanta 70 I 58 Boston 60 I 48 Chicago 68 I 50 Denver 63 I 41 Houston 78 156 Los Angeles 74 158 Minneapolis 72 147 New York 64 I 52 Philadelphia 70 I 50 Phoenix 87 I 66 Seattle 66 I 50 St. Louis 60 149 Tampa 85 172 Washington 72 1 50 

Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Mendoza rises 
SMC to discuss its itnage during forutn 
in rank to 24th 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
Board of Governance members discussed plans for a campus-wide forum to discuss the image of Saint Mary's at Monday's m~eting. 
The forum, which was originally scheduled for today, has been post­poned until after fall break. 
The event's purpose will be to address student interests and look at the identity of a Saint Mary's woman, said student body presi­dent Sarah Catherine White. 
"The senior board is very inter­ested in participating in this forum. We want to define what a Saint Mary's woman is without offending anyone," said senior class president Jacqueline Cuisiner. 
The exact date of the forum will be decided after fall break. 
Speech Language Pathology club members Kara Flynn and Lynn Cooper asked the board to co­sponsor their trip to Purdue for a Crossroad Conference on speech language pathology. 
"Speech Language Pathology is a very fast growing career. By going to this conference we cannot bring anything back but a positive expe­rience," said Flynn. 
BOG voted to approve its co­sponsorship for $800 or the initial $1,000 they originally asked for, on the condition that they hold a forum to discuss what they learned at the conference upon their return. 

"Dessert with Dr. Mooney," a pro­gram where students can discuss topics with College President Carol Ann Mooney, was held Sunday night in McCandless Hall. 
"I strongly encourage everyone to attend this event in their Residence Hall. Dr. Mooney is so candid and great to talk with," said White. 
Sophomore class president Claudia Toth said the class board is presenting artist Jesse Young at 
Dalloway's on Oct. 28 from 6 to 8 
p.m. The class also successfully participated in career planning evaluations last week, said Toth. 
BOG members said they would meet after break to discuss meth­ods of saving energy on campus and to plan the upcoming forum on defining the identity of a Saint Mary's woman. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Special to the Observer 
The Mendoza College of Business MBA Program rose five spots to 24th in BusinessWeek maga­zine's biennial survey of the top 30 business schools in the nation. The rankings are in the current issue of the magazine, avail­able on newsstands Monday. 
Notre Dame's five­place jump in the rankings tied with Purdue and Geor­getown Universities for the greatest improvement. Notre Dame was rated sixth in addressing ethical issues in business and ninth in its rapport with corporate rec­ruiters. 
"As we celebrate this ranking result, it is important to step back and note our general attitude toward rankings," said Carolyn Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of Business. "It isn't rankings that we strive for, but rather, our energies and actions are focused on the quality of our stu­dents, curriculum, teaching, research and services. Rankings are a reality, and they do provide valuable feedback. But our position is that if we aim for excellence, seek feed­back, go through hon­est evaluation. and take actions to improve, rankings will follow." 
Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management was ranked first by BusinessWeek. In addition to Notre Dame and No. 21 Purdue, the state of Indiana also was rep­resented by Indiana University's Kelley School of Business at 18th. 
The BusinessWeek survey consisted of 45 questions sent to 18,052 Class of 2004 MBA graduates from 94 schools worldwide. In addition, the maga­zine surveyed 223 companies that regu­larly hire MBA gradu­ates and calculated each school's intellec­tual capital by evalu­ating the public reach of faculty members. 


page 4 Tuesday, October I2, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 

Chocola 
continued from page I 
because they account for 70 percent of new jobs created in the state. Chocola said he is currently sponsoring a House bill that would give small busi­nesses a $3,500 tax break for every new job created. 
When asked by one student about raising the minimum wage, Chocola said the issue was highly political and increasing it nationally could be problematic. According to Chocola, those who use low paying jobs to supplement their incomes or to support themselves in college could 

House 
continued from page 1 
year for Ilabitat and gets the ball rolling," said Pete Mahoney, co-president of NO Habitat for Humanity. "On Monday, it's a foundation ­all of a sudden, on Friday, it's a house." 
The Notre Dame chapter of Habitat has been working to raise the $60,000 dollar mini­mum since the dedication of its last house in April 2004. 
"Some people think in gen­eral that Habitat is just going out and building houses, but there's so much more ­especially at a collegiate level -because we are entirely autonomous in funding our house," said Mahoney. 
According to University policies, the club may not independently solicit corpo­rate donations and often looks to alumni groups. 
Colin Dowdall, who also served as co-president of the club last year, organized the Blue and Gold luncheon in the spring 2004 for alumni supporters of NO Habitat for Humanity. The luncheon, held 


Closet 
continued from page I 
ment across the lifespan in many 
domains." 
Before the Purdue football 
game, AllianceND handed out 
orange armbands for students to 
wear during the game. Because 
of this event's success, Gomberg 
said she was surprised that the 
closet was not approved. 
"I thought that was a pretty big demonstration, but there did­n't seem to be any opposition about it," Gomberg said. "This makes me worried about stu­dents' academic freedom. I just hope this isn't going to become a trend." 
Gomberg said the event was largely intended to be just a dis­play. 
"We had really planned to do it in good spirits and good fun and also in support of gay and les­bian students," Gomberg said. "We had a good handout pre­pared with a lot of information on it, but we refrained from dis­tributing it until we knew whether or not we were going to get approval." 
Gomberg said AllianceND does not intend to reschedule the event. 
In addition to the closet event, the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Students distributed information and rainbow ribbons in support of gay and lesbian students in LaFortune Monday. 

loose those job opportunities. 
Instead, the focus should be on educating people properly to prepare them for high salary positions. 
"The goal is that the people who are providing for families are not depending on mini­mum wage jobs," he said. "We need to make sure we focus on how we create better paying jobs." 
Chocola also discussed the possibility of a future draft. 
"There is not going to be a draft. I get asked that a lot," he said. "There has been this effort to scare, I think, college­aged students." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
at the Morris Inn during the Blue and Gold game week­end, raised $7,000 for the club and came at a pivotal time. 
"[The Blue and Gold lunch­eon] came at a time when we were in the red," Dowdall said. 
lle came up with the idea freshman year and made it a priority as president. 
"It was kind of a way of saying thanks to all the alum­ni who support us," Dowdall said. "We wouldn't be here right now if it weren't for them." 
The club also holds conces­sion stands on football Saturdays, the most recent of which netted $3,600. Total donations are about $2,200. 
The house will be finished and dedicated in April 2005, at which time fundraising will start again. 
"Our goal is to make sure that the next generation, after we graduate, will con­tinue to build a house each year, and establish an alumni network to build, possibly, two houses a year." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's also sponsored events Monday for National Coming Out Day. 
College psychology professor Catherine Pittman said opinions on the events were mixed. 
"Several students e-mailed us negatively after a mass e-mail we sent last week announcing the Coming Out week events were received," Pittman said. "That concerns us. If it were stu­dents responding to a racially­diverse week e-mail, most every­one would say that was wrong, but people seem to get away with it when it's a sexually­diverse topic." 
Pittman said the events, including a guest speaker, con­cert and an ongoing display on sexuality in the Cushwa-Leighton library were organized to try to embrace acceptance and aware­ness at the College. 
"One of the important parts of our campus is to be accepting of all people. It's in our mission statement," Pittman said. "We are supposed to be supportive and loving but for some people, it's challenging dealing with peo­ple who are different. Part of campus diversity is dealing with those who are different than ourselves and it's important to recognize that these students, while in the minority, are always here. It's important to make them feel like they are part of a community too." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
COR 
continued from page I 
was the first time they had seen the idea," Baron said .. 
He said that though the off­campus safety plan was not formally approved. the discus­sion with the Board was suc­cessful and useful. 
"I was disappointed in the coverage. We didn't go into the meeting expecting to get rub­ber stamp approval. We left the meeting feeling positive. We knew we had a solid dis­cussion and we are very satis­fied with that," Baron said. 
Senior class president Darrell Scott raised questions about how the Notre Dame Security/Police was involved with the proposal that was presented. 
"We did not propose having NDSP patrolling the area. We want them to recognize what we are looking for and help us put our plan into action to bet­ter the relationships between Notre Dame students and their neighbors," Baron said. 

Bell said the Board liked the proposal of NDSP involvement, and a meeting with them is being planned. 
The representatives also asked how trustees responded to the SafeBus proposal. 
"The trustees spoke of two main concerns. First, was that they did not want employees of the University condoning underage drinking," said Bell. "The second regarded finding a bus company to provide the buses and take on the liability of transporting students on and off campus." 
Off-campus representative Dave McGowan expressed the need for COR to respond to the Board's concerns. 
"We need to tell them that we not supporting or facilitat­ing underage drinking. It is important to stress to them that that's not what we're doing," he said. 
Baron agreed and empha­sized that when the bus starts running at 1 a.m. most stu­dents would be heading home. 
"We responded to their doubts by stating that after 1 
a.m. most students are going home anyway. Also, we emphasized that the bus stops that are at bars are pick-up only," Baron said. 
Baron concluded the meet­ing by noting the success of their presentation to the Board. 
"We think we helped to raise awareness of a significant problem," Baron said. 
Bell also told members that plans regarding the SafeBus will proceed. 
"We are going to continue working on it. The next step will be to take it to the Senate, then the Campus Life Council and finally the Office of Student Affairs. We're not stopping," she said. 
In other COR news: 
+ The Council voted and approved the appointment of Carsten Steinhaeuser and Meagan Powers to the posi­tions of vice president of elec­tions and vice president of peer advocacy, respectively. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmaloneS@nd.edu 



Union changes Kroger contract 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -The union representing 8,500 workers at 70 Kroger Co. stores in three states including Indiana has revoked a contract exten­sion with the company, a union spokesman said late Monday. 
Leaders of Local 1099 of the United Food & Commercial Workers will rec­ommend that members reject Kroger's latest contract offer and authorize the union to strike, if necessary, said union spokesman John Marrone. 
The union's move to revoke the contract Monday night means its current contract will expire about 10 p.m. 
Friday, Marrone said. 

The union and Cincinnati­based Kroger had agreed to indefinitely extend the cur­rent contract, which was set to expire this past Saturday, at the urging of a federal mediator. 
The union revoked the con­tract extension because the two sides remain far apart on issues including wages, health care and pensions, Marrone said. 
Kroger wants workers to start paying some of their health-insurance premiums. It also wants to eliminate some situations where it pays overtime, cap the number of full-time workers and liberal­ize work rules. 
"We have provided the 
union with what we think is a balanced contract that gives our employees the good wages and health care that's important to them at a cost that's fair to everyone, includ­ing our customers," Kroger spokesman Gary Rhodes said. "We're hoping we can get this worked out because no one wins in a strike." 
Cashiers, grocery baggers and clerks in meat, produce and delicatessen departments at 70 stores in the Cincinnati area, northern Kentucky and southeastern Indiana are cov­ered by the contract. 
The union will vote on Kroger's latest proposal on Wednesday. A two-thirds majority of members voting is needed to authorize a strike. 

TURTLE CREEK ,t\PART11ENTS Stop in this week BEFORE FALL BREAK! 
You ca.n pick up the applicatiors you will need and take them home over FALL BREAK!. Turn them in whenlasses resume and have your housing tep for 2005-20061. 
We al50 h9.ve floor plans aWI:Die for tre 2005 sprirg semester. 
www t urt ecreeknd com info @tu rtlecree !sod. com 574-272-8124 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Saudi women limited in elections 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -Women may nei­ther vote nor run in Saudi Arabia's first nationwide elections, the government announced Monday, dashing hopes of pro­gressive Saudis and easing fears among con­servatives that the kingdom is moving too fast on reforms. 
Some women considered the move yet another indignity in a country where they need their husbands' permission to study, travel or work. But others said they wouldn't trust themselves to judge whether a candi­date is more than just a handsome face. 
The religious establishment had been lob­bying against women's participation in the elections, diplomats said. 
But an electoral official cited administra­tive and logistical reasons Monday for the decision to ban women from the municipal elections, scheduled to be held in three stages from Feb. 10 to April 21. 
Uganda claims upperhand in war 
GULU. Uganda-Through the dense brush of Uganda's northern savanna, Patrick made a desperate flight for freedom. 
Kidnapped five years ago at age 13 by cult­like rebels calling themselves the Lord's Resistance Army. beaten regularly and forced to maraud through villages in a pack of boy soldiers, Patrick decided he'd rather die than take part in another massacre. 
"If I lost weight I was beaten and yet they never gave us food. We received beatings over petty things," said Patrick, whose sur­name was being withheld to protect him. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Congress approves $14.5 billion bill 
WASHINGTON -Congress sent President Bush a $14.5 billion disaster bill Monday designed to help hurricane victims and pro­ducers of everything from cotton to clams harmed by drought, flooding and other emergencies. 
The election-season package was attached to a $10 billion military construction bill and approved by the Senate by voice vote. The !louse gave it initial approval on Saturday by 374-0. 
The bulk of the aid-$11.6 billion-was to help Florida and other East Coast states rebuild from Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Jeanne and Ivan, which roared through dur­ing a six-week period in August and September. Congress last month approved an initial $2 billion request from President Bush. 
Teen survives at bottom of ravine 
SEATTLE -After eight days, Laura Hatch's family had almost given the 17 -year­old up for dead, and sheriff's deputies had all but written her off as a runaway. Then she was found, badly hurt and severely dehydrated, but alive and conscious, in the back seat of a crumpled car, 200 feet down a ravine. 
A volunteer searcher who said she had had several vivid dreams of a wooded area found the wrecked car in the trees Sunday. 
Hatch, who remained hospitalized Monday in serious condition, was last seen at a party on Oct. 2. report. When she did not show up by the next day, her family filed a missing person's report. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Motorcyclists killed in Brown County 
BEAN BLOSSOM. Ind. -Seven motorcy­clists have been killed since Memorial Day driving through the rolling hills of Brown County, with six of the deaths on a stretch of a state highway. 
The latest deadly accident happened on Sunday as the tourist destination enters its busiest time of year with the fall leaf-viewing season. 
Motorcycle ownership in Indiana has increased 31 percent since 1997. 
IRAQ 
Shiite militia turns in weapons 
Exchange seen as an important step to end fighting in militant stronghold 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD-Followers of radical cleric Muqtada al­Sadr trickled in to police stations in Baghdad's Sadr City district to hand in weapons Monday under a deal seen as a key step toward ending weeks of fighting with U.S. and Iraqi forces in the Shiite militant stronghold. 
The arms transfer came after U.S. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, mak­ing an unannounced visit to Iraq, said that Iraqis must take "the seeds of security" that the U.S. military has planted and grow their political and economic sys­tem. 
"We can help, but we can't do it. You have to do it," Rumsfeld told senior Iraqi commanders on Sunday. 
In preparation from the turn over of weapons, checkpoints were set up along the roads to three Sadr City police stations, and Iraqi National Guard members took up position on the surrounding rooftops. 
At al-Nasr station, Police Maj. Kadhim Salman said fighters had turned in machine guns, TNT paste, land mines and other explo­sives. 
Fighters are supposed to 
be compensated for the Associate Press Television followers, provided they did This is not the first time weapons they turn in, but News footage showed. Guns not commit crimes. It has Iraqi authorities have tried Salman said those responsi­and explosives were spread also suspended raids in the to make peace with the ble for the payments hadn't out on the ground. U.S. sol­northeastern Baghdad dis­Mahdi Army. A peace deal turned up yet. So, receipts diers supervised the process trict. brokered after heavy fight­were issued instead. from a distance. Vice President Ibrahim al­ing in the holy city of Najaf 
Malik Jomaa walked up to Al-Sadr's Mahdi Army Jaafari welcomed the han­in August allowed the mili­the station with a white bag agreed over the weekend to dover Monday as a "good tia to walk away with its containing two grenade hand in its medium and and positive initiative," weapons and clashes con­launchers slung over his heavy weapons in Sadr City. telling APTN that he hoped tinued in Sadr City. shoulder. The arms transfer is sup­other insurgent enclaves So far, al-Sadr has not 
"God willing, there will be posed to last five days, after would follow Sadr City's pledged to disband his mili­no more fighting and Sadr which Iraqi police and example. tia, a key U.S. and Iraqi gov­City will live in peace," said National Guardsmen will Prime Minister Ayad ernment demand. But the 20-year-old fighter in a assume security responsi­Allawi's interim administra­American and Iraqi authori­track suit. bility for the teeming Shiite tion has committed more ties are eager to end the 
Outside the Habibiya slum, which is home to than $500 million to clashes in the Shiite strong­police station, a pickup more than 2 million people. rebuilding Sadr City, scene hold so they can concen­truck offloaded some 20 In return, the government of heavy clashes between trate on suppressing the grenade laun{;hers and has promised to start U.S. troops and al-Sadr's country's more wide­dozens of mortar rounds, releasing detained al-Sadr militia. spread Sunni insurgency. 

Activists rally for gay marriage 
sex marriage. rally. Many of them signed a petition Associated Press 
Washington was the final stop for asking Bush to reconsider his 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. Capitol the eight-day bus tour, organized by stance. Some couples held placards at their backs, supporters of gay Marriage Equality California, that declaring the years they have been marriage pleaded, demanded and traveled from Oakland, Calif., stop­together. And together they sang the 
sang out for equal rights Monday, ping in 10 cities along the way. Burt Bacharach-Hal David classic: hoping they will succeed in the long "I don't want to be demonized any­"What the world needs now, is love, term but mindful of the hostile polit­more," said Kati Debolt of San sweet love ... not just for some but ical environment they face today. Diego, who traveled to Washington for everyone." 
Opponents of gay marriage, led by with her lesbian partner of nine "Our country does not always get President Bush, are trying to amend years. it right the first time," said one the U.S. Constitution to outlaw gay Opponents say recognizing same­organizer, Molly McKay of Oakland, and lesbian marriages. Voters in 11 sex unions would undermine tradi­Calif., who dressed in an off-white 
states will consider such amend­tional marriage between a man and wedding gown and veil for the occa­ments to state constitutions this fall, a woman, and they contend children sion. 
and most, if not all, are expected to are better off with a mother and a Same-sex marriage is legal only in pass. Even many politicians friendly father. Massachusetts, the result of a state to gay rights say they oppose same-About 200 gathered for Monday's court ruling. 
page 6 Tuesday, October 12, 2004
The Observer + NEWS 



Strike shuts dow-n Nigerian city 

Protesters fight high There was only partial com­from a government push to cut pliance with the strike call in subsidies and deregulate thefuel prices in streets of Ahuja, the capital, and some economy. The hikes set off 
other cities, where many shops widespread protests 
commercial capital opened and taxis cruised the A coalition of civic groups streets. But businesses and and opposition parties. includ­schools did not open in the ing the main opposition All 
Associated Press 
northern city of Kaduna, and Nigerian People's Party, protesters burned tires in the expressed support for the 
LAGOS, Nigeria -As world streets. strike. oil prices again hit new highs, The price of crude oil, mean­Seeking to resolve the crisis, Nigeria's biggest labor federa­while, surged to another record President Olusegun Obasanjotion launched a four-day high Monday, to $53.64 a bar­held a meeting Monday with nationwide strike Monday to rel on the New York Mercantile government officials and labor 
protest the rising cost of fuel at Exchange, with traders leaders, including Olusegunhome. shutting down huge expressing concern over possi­Obasanjo, head of the National 
swathes of Lagos, the country's ble supply shortages from Labor Congress. largest city and its commercial Nigeria. But Information Obasanjo said the partici­center. Minister Chukwuemeka pants were appointed to a 33­There was no immediate 
Chikelu and executives at member committee to search impact on the flow of oil from multinational oil companies for measures to "bring about 
this volatile West African said the strike had not hurt short-term relief and medium­nation, which is Africa's largest Nigeria's daily output of 2.5 term positive impact on the 
oil producer and the fifth­million barrels. effects of high oil prices."
biggest source of U.S. oil "Our people are working. Afterward. Oshiomhole said imports. 
There's been no impact," said the strike would continue. "We 
Union militants smashed car Udom Inoyo at Mobil Producing need to see proof that the windows to keep people home Nigeria Unlimited, a subsidiary grievances of the Nigerian peo­in Lagos, and the streets were of ExxonMobil, the second ple are under consideration,"
nearly empty of traffic except biggest oil producer in Nigeria. he told reporters.
for soldiers and anti-riot police Hoyal Dutch/Shell, which The· strike was the latest oil­in armored vehicles. Banks, accounts for roughly half of related challenge to Obasanjo's stores and schools remained Nigeria's oil exports, said its government in just a few shuttered. In the northern city executive offices in Lagos were weeks. Late last month, a mili­of Kano, police said a 12-year­mostly empty but its "oil pro­tant group declared "full-scale 
old boy was killed in clashes duction and exports are going war" on the oil industry to between police and protesters. ahead." 
press its demand that more of 
"The strike is on. Nigerians Union leaders 'demanded a Nigeria's oil wealth be funneled are united over this," said Owei rollback in last month's jump in to the poor of the oil-rich Niger Lakeml'a, a spokesman for the price of gasoline to about Delta. The group withdrew its Nigeria Labor Congress, an $1.50 a gallon from $1.19, the threat after reaching a deal umbrnlla group of 29 unions. latest in a series of increases with Obasanjo. 

College students fail to apply for federal aid 
Associated Press 

A new study says hundreds of thousands of college students who may be eligible for federal financial aid don't get it for a simple reason -they don't apply. 
The study released Monday by the American Council on Education, which represents colleges and universities, says that half of the 8 million under­graduates enrolled in 1999­2000 at institutions participat­ing in federal student aid pro­grams did not complete the main federal aid application form. 
Many were well off. and cor­rectly assumed they wouldn't get aid. But the study found 1.7 million low-and moderate­income students also failed to fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Two-thirds of community col­lege students did not apply for aid, compared to 42 percent at public four-year colleges and 13 percent at private colleges. 
The study concludes 850,000 of those students would have been eligible for a Pell Grant, the principal federal grant for low-income students. 
The findings underscore a point often made by educators: Even as college costs rise, stu­dents often miss financial aid opportunities because they aren't aware of how the system works. 
"It's frustrating when you know someone could be eligible and they just don't do it for vari­ous reasons," said Tammy Capps, financial aid director at Shawnee Community College in Ullin, Ill., where about YOO of the 2,500 students receive l'ell Grants. She said complexity of the form is often a reason stu­dents don't apply. 
"We'll even help them fill it out," she said. "But we have to talk to them face to face to give that information and that does­n't always happen. They don't think to call and ask." 
Few students with more than $40,000 in family income get Pell grants, said Jacqueline King, director of ACE's Center for Policy Analysis. But they can get other federal aid like subsi­dized student loans. And FAFSA forms arc often the first step in applying for other types of aid, such as support from states or their schools. 
The study acknowledges some poorer students might skip FAFSA forms because they line up adequate funding elsewhere. But King said many would have ended up with more aid if they had filled out the form. 
"Everybody assumes the money is for someone else," King said, adding focus groups her organization has conducted reveal wide misconceptions about financial aid. 
-Accepting Reservations 
for Post-Game Dining -Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, 
&sandwiches -Featuring gourmet 

pizzas -Music is live on Fridays & Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time -Wine, microbrews, spe­cialty drinks & martinis, along with traditional cof­fee house drink menu items -Art Gallery 
Bring in this coupon and receive a free latte! 
#9 MEN'S SOCCER VS. MICHIGAN 
Rcg:U~~:.1l Ml.Jkal c~nter  @ 7 PM AT ALUMNI FIELD ~  
Breast Cancer Awareness  6w4~ ~. ,..~l:lb -l~<llf~\l  GOLD GAME  
~  First 300 fans will receive a special edition volleyball shirt  First 200 fans will receive a gold games shirt  
"':.  ft,  and special shrits for cancer survivors sponsored by St. Joseph Regional Medical Center  sponsored by South Bend Orthopaedics  ..;-o<.  
~  Free genetic counseling and screening information prior to the match  ~.~~~  
~  First soo fans will receive a Krispy Kreme doughnut  ~  Ice Cream sampling from Cold Stone Creamery  

FREE admission with a valid Student ID and check out www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
page 7 


MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10,081.97 +26.77

} ones 
A,
Up: Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1,129 161 • 940,13~912 
AMEX 1, 284.73 -0.47 NASDAQ 1,928.76 +8.79 NYSE. 6,643.17 +6.75 S&PSOO 1,124.39 +2.25 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 11,282.53 -66.82 FTSE. IOO(London) 4,685.50 -13.40 
COMPANY %"CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -4.86  -0.18  3.52  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +0.29  +0.06  20.61  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.25  +0.07  28.06  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0.49  +0.08  16.29  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +0.25  +0.03  12.20  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.08  +0.04  49.06  
10-YEAR NOTE  0.00  0.00  41.3 3  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.06  +0.02  33.96  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  16.5 7  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.40  53.34  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  -I. I 0  423.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.90  95.50  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  109.5000  
EURO  0.8081  
POUND  0.5568  
CANADIAN$  1.2537  

IN BRIEF 
High number ofworking poor in U.S. 
WASHINGTON -One in every five U.S. jobs pays less than a poverty-level wage for a family of four, according to a study by the nonpartisan Working Poor Families Project. 
The result of so many low-paying jobs is that nearly 39 million Americans, including 20 mil­lion children, are members of "low-income working families" -those barely have enough money to cover basic needs like housing, gro­ceries and child care, the study found. 
The study classified a "working family" as one in which there was one or more children and at least one family member had a job or was actively seeking work. 
Besides staying current on bills, many of these folks also struggled to save up for a bigger home or for a child's college education, said Brandon Roberts. one of the report's authors. 
"These 20 million children are the future of our workforce," Roberts said. 'Their future eco­nomic abilities are at risk growing up in families that don't have the resources to support them." 
Chrysler recall due to air bag failure 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -Chrysler is recalling 955,000 minivans because an electrical prob­lem could cause the driver's side air bag to fail. 
The vehicles affected are the Dodge Caravan and Grand Caravan, Plymouth Voyager and Grand Voyager, and Chrysler Town and Country from the 1998-2000 model years. 
Four people have been injured in crashes because of the defect, according to records sub­mitted to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. There also have been 782 com­plaints about the defect to Chrysler and NHTSA. 
The defect involves a clockspring that sup­plies current to the driver's side air bag, the horn and the cruise control. If the clockspring is working properly, the air bag warning light will illuminate for a few seconds when the vehi­cle is started. If the air bag warning light isn't working properly, the clockspring may have failed. 
Chrysler said dealers will replace the clock­spring for free on vehicles with less than 70,000 miles. The company will extend the warranty on the clockspring for vehicles with more than 70,000 miles. 

Nigeria unites against oil prices 
Commercial capital shut down due to nationwide strike by labor federation 
Associated Press 
LAGOS, Nigeria -As world oil prices hit new highs, Nigeria's biggest labor federation launched a four-day nationwide strike Monday to protest the rising cost of fuel at home, shutting down huge swathes of Lagos, the country's largest city and its commercial center. 
There was no immediate impact on the flow of oil from this volatile West African nation, which is Africa's largest oil produc­er and the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports. 
Union militants smashed car windows to keep peo­ple home in Lagos, and the streets were nearly empty of traffic except for soldiers and anti-riot police in armored vehi­cles. Banks, stores and schools remained shut­tered. 
"The strike is on. Nigerians are united over this," said Owei Lakemfa, a spokesman for Nigeria Labor Congress, an umbrella group of 29 unions. 
There was only partial compliance with the strike call in Ahuja, the capital, and some other cities, where many shops opened and taxis cruised the streets. But businesses and schools did not open er in Nigeria. expressed support for the told reporters. in the northern city of Royal Dutch/Shell, which strike. The strike was the latest Kaduna, and protesters accounts for roughly half Seeking to resolve the oil-rela,ted challenge to burned tires in the streets. of Nigeria's oil exports, crisis, President Olusegun Obasanjo's government in 
The price of crude oil said its executive offices in Obasanjo held a meeting just a few weeks. Late last surged to $53.42 a barrel Lagos were mostly empty Monday with government month, amilitant group 
in Europe, with traders but its "oil production and officials and labor leaders, declared "full-scale war" expressing concern over exports are going ahead." including Olusegun on the oil industry to press possible supply shortages Union leaders demanded Obasanjo, head of the its demand that more of 
from Nigeria. But a rollback in last month's National Labor Congress. Nigeria's oil wealth be Information Minister jump in the price of gaso­Obasanjo said the par­funneled to the poor of the Chukwuemeka Chikelu line to about $1.50 a gal­ticipants were appointed oil-rich ~iger Delta. The and executives at multina­lon from $1.19, the latest to a 33-member commit­group withdrew its threat tional oil companies said in a series of increases tee to search for measures after reaching a deal with the strike had not hurt from a government push to "bring about short-term Obasanjo. Nigeria's daily output of to cut subsidies and relief and medium-term In La.gos, soldiers and 
2.5 million barrels. deregulate the economy. positive impact on the police were out in force, 
"Our people are work­The hikes set off wide­effects of high oil prices." patrolling in armored ing. There's been no spread protests. Afterward, Oshiomhole vehicles through the city's impact," said Udom lnoyo A coalition of civic said the strike would con­deserted central business at Mobil Producing groups and opposition tinue. "We need to see district. Nigeria Unlimited, a sub­parties, including the proof that the grievances Union militants, too, sidiary of ExxonMobil, the main opposition All of the Nigerian people are were out in large numbers 
second biggest oil produc-Nigerian People's Party, under consideration," he to enforce the strike. 




Yukos to pay part of 2001 tax claims 
Yukos officials have repeatedly lion tax bill for 2000 by the end of 
Associated Press 
warned that the vast tax bills could October. 
MOSCOW The Moscow drive the company into bankruptcy The 2001 bill -of which the core Arbitration Court ruled Monday that unless compromises are reached, such amount of $2.7 billion was already the embattled oil giant Yukos must pay as allowing it an extended payment payable before Monday's widely $1.34 billion in fines and penalties as schedule for the arrears. Yukos pro­expected ruling -raises the compa­part of a $4.1 billion back-tax claim for duces about 2 percent of the world's ny's total liabilities to some $7.5 bil­2001, Russian. news agencies reported. oil and the monthslong legal assault lion. 
The decision was the latest of many has raised fears of supply interrup­Although the court reduced the bill to go against Yukos during a more tions, one of the factors contributing to to $1.34 billion instead of the original than yearlong legal campaign against recent high world oil prices. $1.39 billion, Yukos lawyers said they the company and its former chief exec­Adding to the company's woes, its would recommend that the company utive Mikhail Khodorkovsky. His ongo­main subsidiary Yuganskneftegaz was dispute its decision, the ITAR-Tass ing trial on tax and fraud charges is last week handed a separate, nearly news agency reported. expected to drag on for months, and $1 billion tax claim for 2002. The unit, Monday's decision came after the analysts expect more claims against which is being evaluated for sale deputy chairman of the court threw the company he built to follow-even­against the company's debts, pumps out a request by Yukos lawyers seek­tually pushing the final bill to well 60 percent ofYukos' oil. ing the appointment of a new judge in beyond $10 billion for 2000-2003. Yukos is struggling to pay a $3.4 bil-the case. 
Tuesday, October 12, 2004
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 

T-wo professors -win Nobel in economics 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -An American and a Norwegian won the 2004 Nobel Memorial Prize in eco­nomic sciences Monday for research on how government policies affect economies around the world and why sup­ply-side shocks like high oil prices can dampen business cycles. 
The work by Norwegian Finn 
E. Kydland and Edward C. Prescott. a professor at Arizona State University at Tempe, has led to reforms at many of the world's central banks, the citation said. Their research also has given aca­demics better tools for under­standing what causes economies to boom or go into recession, it added. 
The two professors, who both earned their doctorates at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pa., have collabo­rated on work since the 1970s. They will share an award worth 1 0 million Swedish kro­nor, or about $1.3 million. 
Kydland. who is 60, teaches at Carnegie Mellon and at the University of California at Santa Barbara. Prescott, 63, has taught at a number of uni­versities, including the University of Minnesota, the University of Chicago and Northwestern University. Besides teaching at Arizona State, he also serves as an adviser to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm. which oversees the prize, said that the professors' research showed that governments and central banks could be more effective if they adopted con­sistent, long-term rules and followed them. It was pub­lished in the late 1970s when many Western economies were shifting from one policy to another as they grappled with both slow growth and high inflation, or "stagflation." 
"The research shifted the practical discussion of econom­ic policy away from isolated policy measures [and] towards the institutions of policymak­ing, a shift that has largely influenced the reforms of cen­tral banks and the design of monetary policy in many coun­tries over the last decade," the academy said. 
The academy also praised the pair for "transforming the theory of business cycles by integrating it with the theory of economic growth." 
While most economists at the time looked at how changes in demand like consumer spend­ing affect the economy, Kydland and Prescott looked at supply-side changes, such as advances in technology or changes in oil prices as driving forces in business cycles. 
Prescott's 2000 book, "Barriers to Riches," made the argument that a key reason for the disparity in the standard of Jiving among countries world­wide is impediments to adopt­ing technology. 
Washington volcano releases Inore steaiTI 
Associated Press 
MOUNT ST. HELENS, Wash. -Mount St. Helens vented more steam Monday as new thermal images revealed that parts of the lava dome in its crater are piping hot, a sign that magma continues to rise within the volcano. 
Scientists said an area on the south side of the old dome, where a large uplift of rock has been growing, now appears perforated as if magma has been hammering at the surface. 
"The magma is not just pushing up but pushing out." John Pallister, a U.S. Geological Survey geologist, said at a news conference Monday. lie said scientists believe the magma is less than a half-mile below the surface. 
Fast-moving magma would cause greater concern because explosive gases would not have time to dissipate. A team in Denver is evaluating photos taken from the air to gauge how quickly the magma is ris­ing. 
The alert level remains at "volcano advisory," but scien­tists have said an eruption could occur with very little warning. 
Pallister said the most likely scenario remains an explosion with a few inches of ash spreading within a 10-mile radius of the crater. Such an event could happen in days, weeks or months -or not at all, he said. 
Scientists believe the chances are slim of a larger eruption like the one on May 18, 1980, which killed 57 peo­ple. But Pallister was cautious nonetheless. 
''I'm a fairly conservative guy, and I don't like a one in 10 chance," he said. 
Any eruption would likely be vertical instead of the devas­tating horizontal blast that lev­eled old-growth trees for miles in 1980. 
Willie Scott, a U.S. Geological Survey geologist, said earlier Monday that tem­peratures in some spots could be as high as 400 to 570 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Scientists could not get pre­cise temperatures for the hottest parts of the lava dome -on the south side ~ because the instruments weren't calibrated high enough, said Jeff Wynn, chief scientist for volcano hazards at the USGS's Cascades Volcano Observatory. 
"They didn't expect it to get that hot," Wynn told The Associated Press. 
For more than a week, the restless mountain has sent steam, sometimes mixed with ash, venting from bulge of rock on the south side of the lava dome that's risen to at least 330 feet since scientists first spotted it Sept. 30. 
A  V  E  C  R  U  X  SPES  UNICA  
The  PRIESTS  &  BROTHERS  of  
The  CoNGREGATION  

of HoLY CRoss 
invite you, the Notre Dame community, to join us in celebrating 
c5MASS 
for 




FOUNDER'S DAY 
and THE FEAST of 
ST. EDWARD 
the CONFESSOR 
PATRON SAINT OF REV. EDWARD SORIN, C.S.C., FOUNDER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 at 5:15P.M. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


l I 





ELECTION 2004 
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 page 9 

CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Objections rise over anti-Kerry film 
WASHINGTON-The Democratic Party and 18 sena­tors are objecting to a broadcasting company's plan to air on 62 TV stations a critical documentary about John Kerry's anti-war activities after he returned home from Vietnam three decades ago. 
Sinclair Broadcast Group has asked its television sta­tions -many of them in competitive states in the pres­idential election -to pre-empt regular programming to run the documentary as part of an hourlong pro­gram two weeks before the Nov. 2 election. 
Based near Baltimore, the company owns or man­ages affiliates of major broadcast networks in several states, including Ohio. Florida and Pennsylvania. 
Mark Hyman, a vice president of corporate relations for Sinclair who also is a conservative commentator for the company, said Monday the show would contain some or all of the 42-minute film as well as a panel discussion of some sort. He said final details had not been worked out. 
The documentary, "Stolen Honor: Wounds That Never Heal," chronicles Kerry's 1971 testimony before Congress and links him to activist and actress Jane Fonda. 
Edwards calls for greater efforts to 
combat methamphetamine epidemic 
WASHINGTON -Democratic vice presidential nomi­nee John Edwards called Monday for tighter restric­tions on the sale of nonprescription cold medicines that could be used to make methamphetamine. 
"It's part of our plan to deal with what we sec as a cancer on rural America. which are these metham­phetamine labs and the impact that methamphetamine has had on so many families in rural America," Edwards told reporters in a telephone conference as he campaigned in Newton, Iowa. 
The North Carolina senator eited a 79 percent increase in the number of illegal meth labs that have been discovered since President Bush took office in January 2001. He also criticized the Bush administra­tion for trying to cut law enforcement programs that fight trafficking in the Midwest of the addictive, illegal stimulant. 
Authorities say meth addiction is a growing problem because it is easy to make with household chemicals and over-the-counter cold medicines. The epidemic is spreading quickly, particularly in rural areas like southern Missouri, which shut down nearly 3,000 meth labs last year, more than any other state. 
Cheney argues Kerry's view of terrorism 
MEDFORD. N.J.-Vice President Dick Cheney, pur­suing Republican votes in a reliably Democratic state, said Monday that Sen. John Kerry's view of terrorism reflects a naivete and an inability to recognize the seri­ousness of the threat. 
Echoing President Bush's criticism, Cheney focused on a comment Kerry made in an interview with The New York Times Magazine on Sunday that the nation has "to get back to the place we were, where terrorists are not the focus of our lives but they're a nuisance." 
Kerry suggested that terrorism, like prostitution, ille­gal gambling and organized crime, will never be eradi­cated but can be reduced so "it's not threatening the fabric of your life." 
Cheney told a few thousand Republican supporters that Kerry's interpretation was "naive and dangerous, as was Senator Kerry's reluctance earlier this year to call the war on terror an actual war." 
The vice president said that if the United States fails to prosecute aggressively the war on terror, "the ter­rorists will escalate their attacks, both at home and overseas, and the likelihood will increase that they will acquire weapons of mass destruction to use against us." 
Candidates' flaws shown in d~~bates 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -After two debates, voters have seen President Bush look peevish and heard him pass the buck. They've watched Sen. John Kerry deny he's a Oip-flopper and then argue that Saddam Hussein was a threat -and wasn't. 
It's no wonder so few minds have changed. 
Three weeks and one debate from Election Day, the vulnerable incumbent and his flawed chal­lenger are struggling for the upper hand. Private and public polls show Bush and Kerry neck-and­neck for the popular vote, and the all-important race to 270 Electoral College votes is just as close. 
Bush has all the advantages of incumbency, an electoral map that favors Republicans and a chal­lenger whose voting record is arguably one of the most liberal in the Senate. Sounds good on paper. 
But so does Kerry's case for a new course. More than 800,000 jobs have been lost during Bush's term, and his main justification for invading Iraq -the assertion that there were weapons of mass destruction -has been discredit­ed after the loss of 1,000 Americans lives. 
While most voters picked sides long ago, those in the wavering middle are trying to decide between a challenger who promis­es change and an incumbent who warns of its risks. 
"At times you wonder whether either one of these guys is up to the task," Charles Franklin, politi­cal science professor at the University of Wisconsin, said after the second of three presidential debates. 
Bush turned in a disastrous per­formance in the first faceoff, gri­macing and fidgeting while Kerry criticized his Iraq policies. To some voters, and even his own supporters, Bush looked like a man spoiled by success. He entered politics late in life, sped to the top and has rarely had to pub­licly defend his policies. 
In the second debate, Bush struggled to name three wrong decisions. His initial response was to talk about unidentified person­Hussein "was trying to get rid of Early in the second debate, the nel appointments. sanctions so he could reconstitute Democrat summed up Bush's 
Later, when forced to defend a weapons program." strategy nicely ·-"He wants you troop deployments in Iraq that With those words, Bush expand­to believe that I can't be president. critics say were too low, Bush ed a pre-emptive strike doctrine, And he's trying to make you pointed the finger at U.S. generals. suggesting that a military invasion believe it because he wants you to 
The CIA report that concluded is justified when a nation intends think I change roy mind. Well, let there were no weapons of mass to do harm -even lacking the me tell you straight up: I've never destruction in Iraq was, in Bush's means or evidence of an imminent changed my mind about Iraq. I do mind, justification for his action attack. believe Saddam Hussein was a because it showed that Saddam Kerry didn't help his own cause. threat." 


Kerry hits Bush on energy, Bush strikes back on terror war 
Associated Press 
SANTA FE. N.M. -Bracing for their final debate, John Kerry accused President Bush of favor­ing "friends in the oil industry" over consumers strapped with rising fuel bills on Monday while Bush said his challenger so mis­understood the war on terror that he thought it could be reduced to "a nuisance" akin to prostitution or illegal gambling. 
Both candidates campaigned in the West ahead of their third presidential debate, which will take place Wednesday night at the University of Arizona in Tempe. Kerry focused on domes­tic issues -the subject of that debate -and criticized Bush and the Republican-led Congress for not doing more to reduce U.S. dependance on imported oil. 
Bush mixed domestic policy with national security, criticizing Kerry as a tax-and-spend liberal while questioning anew the Democrat's fitness to lead the war against terror. 
At a rally in Hobbs, N.M., the Republican incumbent ridiculed Kerry for saying in an interview in The New York Times Magazine, "We have to get back to the place we were, where ter­rorists are not the focus of our lives but they're a nuisance." 
In the interview published Sunday, Kerry compared the anti-terror battle to efforts by law enforcement to root out prostitution or illegal gambling, knowing such an activity could never be ended but could be reduced to where "it isn't threat­ening people's lives every day." He cited his experience as a for­mer prosecutor in Massachusetts. 
"I couldn't disagree more,".­Bush said. "Our goal is not to reduce terror to some acceptable level of nuisance. Our goal is to defeat terror by staying on the offensive." 
The Bush campaign also takes on the "nuisance" comment in a new television ad. And Vice President Dick Cheney, cam­paigning in Medford, N.J., called Kerry's remarks "naive and dan­gerous." 
Phil Singer, a Kerry-Edwards spokesman, said the Republicans took Kerry's single sentence out of context. "Considering that George Bush doesn't think we can win the war on terror, let Osama bin Laden escape and rushed into Ir.aq with no plan to win the peace, it's no surprise that his campaign is distorting every word John Kerry has ever said," he said. 

.---------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
~----~ 

THE OBSERVER 
1!0. Box Q, No<re 0dme, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Mau Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
Ass·l: MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Heuler  

NF.Ws EDITOR: Claire Heininger VI~:WPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EDITORt Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin All DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROIJ.ER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
{1-74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4S41 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
{574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
{574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
{574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-454.'\ >pores.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by rhe students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is 
nor governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdirorials represent rhc opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A'iSisranr Managing Editor and department editors. Commenrarie>, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe aurhurs and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro rhe Editor must be signed and must include conrace information. 
Q:umions regarding Obmwrpolides sho11ld be direcud to Editor in ChiifMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
rhc Olncrvt't (USI'S 'Wt) 2·4000) i• publiJhcJ MonJAy through l:rido~~y CXCCf'l Jurmg cum ar•J vaut1on prriods A•ubMipriou to Th" ONcrv~·r i• Sl(){) for Pllt' ~eadt'mic )'Ut: S~~ fur 01\C' M'lnttltr, '!'lit Ot.K'rvt"t •• .a mcmherofrhe Auouatn! Pro•. All ~prod~U:1ion n&h" .II'(' r~nvrd. 
l'hr Olnnvcr •• pub!LJhcil •r· r.o. HoJCQ 112-4 ~uurh OminJ H.all 024 ~·ulh Dinins H.UI Nun~ l>o~mc, IN 4MS6-0771J Nor"' t>un(", IN %556-lln? l'l-llll<l,"al r•ou•g(' l'~hl •t Nunc~ L>.une 
•ml iHitliuuu.d nulling "ftkn:. 
Pt>STMASTI\R .\t·ml 11Jtltt'u o..urm:tiun' II;)' l'hc Ohs.Tvrr 
'I he Ohtt'ht't i~ • me~nl>e:t of rhc As..xi11tW 1~.. All rcproJuo.:llon righr• uc rt'w.•rv...J. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Kerry and Bush on health care: inadequate responses to the nation's problem 

health care, and, to 

Katie Boyle
my great dismay, 
I've discovered that I 

am far too stubborn For What It :., 
to either cral't or put Worth 
my name on an col­

umn with which I don't entirely 
agree. 

To be completely honest. I don't like all aspects of Kerry's plans for health care. I don't particularly agree with all of President George W. Bush's ideas either. Refusing to toe a prover­bial party line on this issue is having an extraordinarily negative effect on my midterm week workload. So if anyone has extra time to work on my thesis, let me know. 
I admit that my idea of integrity isn't the only concern I have in writ­ing this column. Additionally, fall break is approaching, and my room­mates, along with many others in the senior class, are road tripping it out to New Jersey for the Navy game. I, on the other hand, am going home to that land of milk and honey-other­wise known as beer and cheese ­Milwaukee, Wis. 
My dad works in health care, and if I pretend for an instant that I don't recognize inherent problems in the Kerry-Edwards platform on this issue, I may as well prepare myself for a lonely stay at College Park next week, watching obscure foreign films and reading novels. As entertaining as this idea sounds (no, I'm not jok­ing). I'd also like to enjoy my mom's cooking and see a few high school friends. 
The topic of health care has been somewhat lost during this election cycle, taking second place to a flurry of speeches about the war in Iraq. While foreign policy is of great importance, the well-being of our nation's citizens is just as critical. Kerry and Bush outline highly differ­ent plans to cope with the system's rampant problems. 
Health care today is in dire straits. According to USA Today on Sept. 28, over Bush's past four years in office "average individual earnings" have risen 12.4 percent, while the costs of "private health insurance coverage" has escalated 35.9 percent. As a result, health care has become increasingly unal'fordable. 
Five million, two-hundred thousand Americans have also lost health insurance since the year 2000. 
Surely these statistics demonstrate a failure on the part of the Bush administration. Ilow can the presi­dent be trusted to improve health care when one considers his blem­ished record? 
Despite this rather abysmal history, some of Bush's health care proposals are both valid and necessary. In par­ticular, he advocates medical liability reform, which will limit awards in medical malpractice cases. This change will not only benefit doctors, ensuring that their insurance premi­ums remain somewhat reasonable; it will also benefit the American public in general. 
As the situation stands, prohibitive­ly high health care liability awards threaten the American health care system. Neither Kerry nor Edwards have supported federal legislation limiting such awards. Without this limit, docto"rs will no longer be able to perform high-risk procedures such as caesareans. In addition, the already high costs of health care for average Americans will skyrocket, as they will also be forced to bear some of the cost of excessive awards. 
While ·Bush may be correct on this issue, his overall plan for health care is sadly insufficient. He appears well able to take into account the needs of companies. but, in contrast to Kerry. neglects the consumer. 
Showcasing this phenomenon, Kerry and Edwards' plan for health care brings up many valid points that are not present in Bush's proposals. Unlike Bush, they have supported Americans' right to buy their pre­scription drugs from Canada, which can often save patients a significant amount of money. For example, in my home state of' Wisconsin. senior citi­zens currently must take the 'HX Express' over the border in order to fill their prescriptions. thus avoiding the higher prices in the United States. Edwards has also colla~orat­ed on legislation to allow gnnnric (and generally cheaper) drugs to come to market in a shorter time period. 
Essentially the Kerry plan !'or health care will provide many more Americans with insurance than Bush's outline. The American Enterprise Institute estimates that Kerry's plan will ensure 27.3 million new people over the next ten years, costing approximately $1.5 trillion. Bush's ideas are, on the other hand, much less expensive, insuring 6.7 million new people with about $128.6 billion in costs. 
Kerry focuses on using government to make sure the poorest Americans have access to health care, while Bush believes that reducing govern­ment intervention will improve the situation. Kerry will obtain money for his ideas by repealing a portion of' Bush's tax cuts. while Bush advocates tax cuts as a means of' lowering the cost of health care. 
Both of these men's proposals have some merit. Your opinion on the situ­ation will probably depend upon your view or the importance of govern­ment intervention versus providing the greatest number of people with health care. 
The significant problems discussed, however, should not be ignored. 
In short, on the issue of health care Americans deserve better. Neither candidate has the record nor the pro­posals, which indicate he will be able to adequately mend the current prob­lems in the system. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English. political science and Spanish major. She supports John Kerry. She can he reached at khoyle2@nd.edu . 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

News Sports Teresa Fralish Heather Van OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Tricia DeGroot Hoegarden Kate Antonacci Eric Retter 
What are you doing for Fall Break? 
Viewpoint Chris Khorey 
"So many ofour dreams at first seem impossible. 
Katherine Rowley Scene 
then they seem impossible. and then. when we 

Graphics Ham a Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
summon the will. they soon become inevitable. " 
Graham Ebetsch Gottumukkala 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Illustrator 
Christopher Reeve 
Katie Knorr 
actor 
THE 0HSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 page 11 
We must be the vanguards of liberty 
While the media focuses on their critiques of President George W. Bush through the lens of hind­sight, little attention is devoted to looking into the real reasons the United Nations and its friends opposed this war. As confirmed in the Duelfer report, Saddam bought support. particular­ly among French. Russian and Tom Rlppinger Chinese officials to whom he would donate oil "vouchers" that could be 
Confessions of 

resold for large prollts. One recipi­
a Campus

ent was Benon Sevan, former U.N. 
Conservative 

official in charge of humanitarian relief and the Oil for Food program itself. The scandal has gone all the way to the top, to 
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan's son. His son, Kojo, was a consultant for a company that later won a questionable $4.8 million U.N. contract. It's quite the coincidence that Kofi Annan suddenly came out with a press release calling the U.S.-led invasion "illegal" just as the press began to leak about the involvement of his son in the kickbacks under Oil for food. Needless to say, the countries and organiza­tions that benefited most from these vouchers were also the countries that were most adamantly opposed to the Iraq invasion. 
Britain, the United States, and other nations within the coalition were not involved with Saddam's kick­backs through the U.N. Oil for Food program. Instead, our "kickback" was Saddam shooting at our fighters almost daily in a de facto war over the no-fly zones. As is usually the case in U.N. action, British and American lives were put on the line before French. German or-God forbid -the Chinese. That is why we supported the enforcement language in H.esolution 1441. while France vigorously lobbied to change the language to "harsh consequences". For those that don't understand French that is synony­mous with "do nothing and continue to receive kick­backs from the Oil for Food arrangement." Then of course. Phase II is a halfhearted inspections process that finds nothing and lifts the sanctions so French oil com panics can benefit from pre-existing contracts with the existing regime. 
However, Sen . .John Kerry believes the problem is with the United States. He has stated that the corner­stone of his foreign policy is to extend our alliances to other states in Europe. The truth is that this cur­rent president has effectively used multilateral means when the world community has been willing to cooperate. Saying that his "respectable demeanor" will suddenly convince nations to suddenly support us in these endeavors is lunacy. Of course, Jacques Chirac said he would help if Kerry were elected, adding him to other prominent international support­ers of Kerry that have spoken out against Bush including Kim Jong II, Fidel Castro and Hezbollah. Kerry has finally decided on an Iraqi policy that seems to look back in hindsight and declare how, "He would have done things differently, and been more prepared." Yes, John. if we could go back in time we would do a lot of things differently, but unfortunately that is not an option in winning the war now. In reality, Bush had the same intelligence in front of him that you and Edwards did when you both voted to authorize action. Saying you would not in hindsight only displays weakness to our ene­mies. 
Kerry's second pil­
lar of foreign policy is his assertion that Bush isn't fighting the real War on Terror. He seems to ignore the accom­plishments of Afghani elections, Iraqi elections and Libya completely giv­ing up its nuclear weapons program. Kerry dismisses six party talks with North Korea as ineffective, and believes we have turned a blind eye to Iran. Departing from his policy of multilateral international rela­tions, he wants to engage in bilateral talks with North Korea, giving Kim Jong II just the opportunity to blackmail the United States into an aid package he has been looking for to keep his miserable tyranny alive. Contrary to his asser­tion that we "forgot about Bin Laden," the U.S. gov­ernment is using its close working relationship with the Pakistanis and others to track down Bin Laden. The IAEA is making a stand in preventing Iran from developing a nuclear program, and the country's young and moderate student base gives hope for future reform without intervention 
Kerry would have my vote if he could deliver on his promises. Of course we would love to see our Special Forces double in size, add three new combat divi­sions, have Europe behind our efforts and see the terrorists suddenly refrain from their "glorious" efforts in decapitating or blowing apart those that have come to rebuild their country. If Kerry could do all this with his magic wand and a rollback of the tax cuts, then he would have my vote in a heartbeat. I 
don't know if I'll ever make $200,000 a year, and I'd love cheap health care, more Social Security and a clean environment with no economic 
consequences. The fact is this is planet Earth, and we are under 
siege by an enemy of rad­ical Islam willing to decapitate people with hacksaws, murder 
children and send 14­year-old suicide bombers with back­
p.!lcks of high explo­sives and flesh-pierc­ing shrapnel into busses of civilians in Israel. While some 

Europeans sit on the sidelines debating the war, our soldiers are dying for the noble cause of freedom in the Arab world. I support the Democratic Party of old that believed in the idealistic dream of a world that embraces liberty. "Let every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall 
pay any price, bear any burden. meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe, in order to assure the survival and the success of liber­ty," President John F. Kennedy said. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He supports President George W Bush and is the President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tearing down the little, white crosses 

In response to Cole Milliard's letter to the editor, the out against it. But then again, your first amendment first thing I want to say is this. The attacks on Sept. 11, rights probably supersede theirs. the senseless death in Iraq, and perhaps, the Holocaust To diverge, take this example: a 16-year-old girl is are more deplorable, reprehensible and "as raped by her father. Her sexual organs are so far from the traditions of this University," damaged, and so much blood is lost that then the removal of crosses from it is determined that she cannot sus­South Quad. Cole, they were little tain her own life if she attempts to white symbols ... calm down and keep her unborn child alive. She think about what you are saying. 
decides to have the abortion, And Dave Daley, are you really and then years later she comparing the removal of lit­arrives at Notre Dame with tle white crosses from South her family for the Notre Quad to scaling the Dome Dame vs. Stanford game and tearing down Mary? Do where she is met with your you think that might be a bit graveyard. What is she sup­of an overstatement? posed to think? It should be 
"Regardless of how you me in the graveyard instead feel about abortion, every of my unborn child? single man and woman on Just remember in your this campus should condemn rhetoric that this is unfortu­this act," Milliard writes. nately not as black and white as Milliard is not living in reality. As some may have you think. far as I am concerned, one display Sometimes being delicate with a of the freedom of speech deserves delicate issue will lead your oppo­another. Both Daley and Milliard said 
nents to do the same. Should some pre­that the act of tearing down the crosses sume to condemn others, they should 

was a suppression of free speech. Wrong. If the University had stopped this protest-as they have done with almost every pro-homosexual event and was sug­gested in these very columns last week -that would have been your first amendment rights being stepped on. Another student removing the signs is another act of free speech. By creating such a presentation, there must be an understanding that others may decide to "speak" 
expect condemnation in return. While I did not commit this act, I do not and will not condemn those responsible. 
Charlie Ebersol 
sent or 
off-campus Ocr. II 

As a pro-choice professor who respects the pro-life position, I too condemn whoev­er attacked and vandalized the "abortion cemetery." American debates over abor­tion are already far too polarized and acri­monious. Vandalism leads only to anger, never to understanding or reconciliation. 
Students at any great research universi­ty, including Notre Dame, ought to have complete academic freedom. That includes the freedom to express their views on any subject, including abortion, no matter what position they hold. Currently, pro­choice students do not have the right to organize or hold evems, as pro-lifers do. Yet pro-choice students' lack of freedom does not make the pro-life students' state­ments any less deserving of respect. 
The vandals may have been attempting to make a political statement about abor­tion. or they may simply have been drunk­en louts. Either way, what they did was reprehensible. In short, I agree with the sentiments of the students interviewed in Monday's edition of The Observer: Nobody has the right to curtail freedom of speech on a university campus, and we desperate­ly need more open, free, and respectful dialogue about the complex and divisive issue of abortion. 
Gail Bederman associ are professor of history . Ocr. II 


THE ()BSER\'ER 




CENE 
Tuesday, October 12, 2004

page 12 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Duff gives stirring performance in new film 
surprise here because otherwise, there 
By SARAH VABULAS would have been no movie. She tricks 
Scene Critic him with the help of her mother and 
aunt, so he doesn't even know that 
I'll admit that prior to seeing the she's in Los Angeles. credits roll at the end of this film, I As one can guess, "Haise Your Voice" had my doubts. Whiln I am a llilary also becomes a coming of age story for I>uf'l' fan, I also do believe she has Terri Fletcher, living in the "big city" selected both good and bad projects for the first time in her life. She meets for lwrself. This movie was a wond£1r­eclectic people. falls in love, all the ful choice for Duff. while struggling to learn music and 
The role of Terri Fletcher, a 16-ycar­make up for her lack of formal music old, attractive, innocent girl with a training that keeps her behind in her beautiful voice, seems to rcsonatn studies. what many view Duff to be in real life. Terri meets a nice, British hottie of 
S!1t in Flagstaff. Ariz., thn l'ilm opens sorts named Jay (Oliver James), who is on tlw last day of school with Terri's warm and encourages her to sing with brother. Paul. graduating high school. joy. ThC' two even write a song togeth­Terri secrntly applies to a summer er, which they perform at the conclu­music program in Los Angei!~S at one sion of the film. of the best music cons!1rvatorics in the There is also an inspiring music country, d!1spite her father's edict that teacher (John Corbett). who wants to shn not apply. find the best in T!~rri's mother; her, and doesn't
Raise Your Voice 
aunt and brother have to look very are adamant on 
deep. gPtting TP.rri to While these this program, no parts of the l'ilm mattt1r what it seem to be Director: Sean McNamara
takns. cliche, the film 
Writer: Sam Schreiber and Mitch Rotter
But before even really is not the 
Starring: Hilary Duff, Oliver James,
getting very far trite, teen-age
David Keith, Dana Davis and Rita Wilson 
into the plot, Terri monstrosity crit­suffers a personal ics have made it loss, which keeps out to be. her from singing anymore. This movie The film is full of humor and sad­is truly not a movie for the faint of ness. The entire movie the viewer is on !wart. or really, it's not for the people an emotional rollercoastcr, even at who liV£1 for touching moments in life. times. finding the need to cry. 
Tlw conservatory accepts Terri into Maybe the plot has been done a mil­its sumnwr program and she attends, lion times before, but it is worth going !Wen against her father's denial -no to see, if not in the theatre, then defi­_ 
. nitely as a rental. It's a feel-good movie, which makes one appreciate music and want to go out and sing. If anything, this film exhibits Duff's vocal talent and promotes her new album, which came out on Sept. 28. 

Nearly all of my friends hassled me about the fact that I volunteered to review the film and was actually going to sit through all 140 minutes of it happily. One of them even suggested I buy a large popcorn, not to cat, but merely to use as ammo at the screen. 

However, this was not necessary. I liked "Raise Your Voice" and I think you will, too. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 


Zombie corned y succeeds in both genres 
completely doesn't see the carnage
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
unfolding around him. It is not until Scene Critic 
the zombies come knocking on his win­
dow. literally, that he notices the 
The new British zombie comedy unfolding chaos. Once that occurs, "Shaun of the Dead" combines the Shaun and his nat partner decide they conwdy and horror genres brilliantly. must hide from the zombie tide. Any01w who has a love for either the Logically, they decide that the local zombie horror genre or British comedy bar would be the safest·placc. in gmwral will not be disappointed by But they can't go immediately to the "Shaun of the Dead." bar. First Shaun must pick up his 
!'laying ofT or the 1CJ7H cult-favorite mother, along with his ex. This scene "!lawn of the where they I>Pad," "Shaun of decide where tlw lkad" manages to go and
Shaun of the Dead
to rofnrPncn almost whom they will !'Very ZOIIl biP lllOViP pick up first is PVnr releasPd, from particularly "2H Days Later" to humorous. The
tTe'wlf iJfe'"II< 
"l~vil Dead." This is rest of the
Director: Edgar Wright
a trna t for tho s £~ movie basically
Writer: Simon Pegg and Edgar Wright
w h o h a v !~ k n ow 1-follows their
Starring: Simon Pegg, Kate Ashfield, 
ndgn of tlw chn!~sy progression to
Nick Frost, Lucy Davis and Dylan Moran
B-zombin movi!~S of the bar, picking tlw 19H0s. llownver, up random this does makc tlw people along movi11 fall more into the niche catego­the way, and then the subsequent ry. assault on the bar. 
llowevor, it is a comedy as well, so Although this is a horror-comedy, it thosn turnnd off by its horror nature is horror first, comedy second. There should take that into account. The is quite a bit of gore in the movie, as comedy is a mix of the obvious, from the zombies are in various states of ill­Monty Python to Michael Jackson. being. But the comedy in it is quite There are also elements of "Office funny, and doesn't clash with the vibe "Club Dread," this movie was created zombie humor, be sure to check this Space," as wnll as a variety of other of the movie. by a comedy troupe. However, the out in select theaters around the coun­movins. The closest equivalent to this movie British comedy troupe responsible for try. There are a lot worse movies out 
Tlw plot is rnlativnly simple. Shaun would be the somewhat recent movie, this film relies upon more sophisticat­in theaters right now and "Shaun of (Simon Pegg), our hero, is a :{0-some­"Club Dread." However, while "Club ed humor than the one that wrote the Dead" is a welcome change. thing-year-old stuck in a dead-end job Dread" had its genuinely funny "Club Dread" and "Super Troopers." at the local small grocery mart. After moments few and far between, "Shaun "Shaun of the Dead" only received a his significant other breaks up with of the Dead" remains consistently limited release in the United States. So Contact Mark Bemenderfer at him. lw becomes so withdrawn that he funny and enjoyable throughout. Like if you're in the mood for some British mbemende@nd.edu 

-

---------------------------·------------. 
THE ()BSER\I£R 

CENE
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
page 13 
DVD REVIEWS 
'Chappelle's Show' ushers in new era of cotnedy 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
It is not often that a season of sketch comndy is great. In fact, it is rare if it even elicits laughs at all, as the current seasons of "Saturday Night Live" can attnst to. The paucity of laughter is why SNL choosP.s to release "The Best of..." series and why late night talk shows have celebrity interviews and pnrformances from bands interspersed between sketches. "Chappelle's Show." though, has changed the landscape with its bold and hilarious take on comedy, and has proven that we should nxp(~Ct more from sketch comedy. Dave Chappell(~ takns more risks and gets more laughs than any other comedian currently on teJp,vision, and "Chap pe II(~ 's Show: Season 0 ne Uncensored" reveals why. 
Not for the easily offended, Chappelle is a risky comedian who isn't afraid to deal with issues of race. gender or sex­uality in unusual ways. Comedy Central, a channel known for its edgier shows like "South Park" and socially aware shows like "The Daily Show," has allowed Chappelle to keep his comedic bite. 



Season One includes a host of now infamous skits, including: "The Mad Real World," which turns MTV's "The Real World" on its head by having one white guy living with six black people instead of the other way around; "The Black White Supremacist," which cen­ters on a blind member of the Ku Klux Klan who is unaware that he is black; and Tyrone Biggums, a "recovered" crack addict who gives anti-drug talks at schools that seem more commercials than condemnations. 
The show typically opens with a monologue from Chappelle, and often features musical guests like Talib Kweli, but most of the musical acts have been cut from the DVD release. 
Chappelle was a stand-up comedy prodigy at the age or 14, and because he was underage, his mother, an ordained Unitarian minister, would take him to performances. lie got his start in film with Mel Brooks' "Men in Tights" and has gone on to appear in movies such as "The Nutty Professor," "Undercover Brother," "You've Got Mail" and "Half Baked," which he also 
co-wrote. 

Season One of "Chappelle's Show" only contains 12 episodes, but it comes with enough bonus material to make up for the short season. Chappelle and co-creator Neal Brennan provide commentary tracks for five of their favorite episodes, there is a half an hour of deleted mate-
Fourth season of 'Futurama' remains original 
geek. This episode is a wonderful defamation of "Trekkies" everywhere. Or "Less Than Hero," in which a topical cream gives Fry super powers. The show even makes an adventure of each char­acter spending a $300 government refund check. These goofy episodes are totally unpredictable and contain a lot of laughs. 
The cast of characters makes this pro­gram. Fry's boss is a senile and bitter 100-year-old man with no regard for the wellness of his employees. His best friend is a binge-drinking, womanizing robot with kleptomania. Then there is Fry, who is a borderline degenerate. Although this may sound like a bit too much to handle in one show, "Futurama" elegantly weaves hilarious relationships between all of its charac­ters. In season four these relationships have become more developed and more intense, which makes them more inter­esting to watch. 
Character interaction is the heart of this program. The futuristic setting is fun but it is often pushed to the back­ground to focus on the characters. 
"Futurama Volume Four" may not be as strong as other DVD col­lections of this program but it is exceptional regardless. The show derives its comedy through satirical means; much like "The Simpsons" but it also plays with the viewers' concept of comedy. What this means is "Futurama" 
By RYAN ROGERS Scene Critic 
Matt Groening ("The Simpsons") demonstrates another stroke of genius with "Futurama Volume Four," the fourth and final season of the program. 
"Futurama" is an animated television Sf'ries about a modern day loser, Philip J. Fry (voiced by Billy West). who is acci­dentally frozen cryogenically while deliv­nring a pizza. Fry wakes up a thousand years latnr to find just how much or, in many cases. just how little things have changed in the year 3000. Settling into tlw fourth snason. Jory works at Plant l~xpt·nss (an intnrpla1wtary FedEx. only more inept} and copes with all of the hilarious unpleasantries that come with his dead end job. The concept of this program allows Fry to go on all kinds of quirky adventures on all kinds of quirky planets. 
"Futurama Volunw Four" features a number of memorable adventures. In "Wiwrn No Fan lias Gone Before" Fry goes to a planet run by a "Star Trek" rial and bloopers and there is unaired footage from one of the recurring sketches, "Ask a Black Dude with Paul Mooney," which is essentially a ques­tion and answer session between Mooney and people on the street. The blooper reel isn't as funny as it poten­tially could be, but the unaired footage from "Ask a Black Dude" is very enter­taining. 

The audio and video for "Chappelle's Show" are satisfactory. "Chappelle's Show" is redefining 
comedy by doing something that is rare on television today -making people laugh. 
If you've never seen Chappelle, Season One just might make a fan out of you, and if you're already a fan, it just might tide you over until the new season of his show comes to Comedy Central. 
Contact MoUy Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

sets up a joke with an extremely obvious punch line. However, just when the viewer thinks they know the joke "Futurama" takes the gag in a complete­ly unexpected, yet hilarious, direction. 
The biggest problem with "Futurama" is that it requires very careful viewing. Due to its intelligent nature and the way that it builds jokes "Futurama" cannot be watched casually. For these reasons a good deal of viewers are turned off to the series. Fans of traditional sitcoms may find "Futurama" tough to swallow, after all the show did not have the mass appeal to stay on air for more than four seasons. 
This DVD looks sharp and sounds crisp. The special features are a "Futurama" fan's dream. Each episode comes with a full length commentary and most episodes have a deleted scenes library. There are a sic\\ of storyboards, character art and other features to satis­fy all of your "Futurama." needs. Not to mention the collection's running time is 414 minutes 
Fans of quirky, intelligent comedy should look no further. "Futurama Volume Four" is brilliant. 
Contact Ryan Rogers at rrogers2@nd.edu 
Tuesday, October 12, 2004

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Titans pummel Packers at Lambeau Field 
Only eight teams in NFL his­
Brown scores two 
tory have overcome a 1-4 start touchdowns, leads to reach the playoffs, includ­ing the Titans two years ago.Tennessee to the win "It's something you want to avoid at all costs," Titans 
Associated Press 
coach Jeff Fisher said. 

GHEEN BAY. Wis. Tennessee scored on five of Lam bnau Field is now a its first six possessions with desired destination. as Chris Brown, who had 27 carries, Brown and the Tennessee going in on its first two series, Titans wnre the latest to learn. from 37 and 29 yards out. 
Brown ran for 148 yards and Only Na'il Diggs' block of Gary two long touchdowns, and Anderson's 42-yard field goal Tonnnssee cruised to a 48-27 prevented the Titans from rout of the stumbling Green scoring the most first-half Bay Packers on Monday night, points -28 -by an opponent scoring more points than any in Lambeau Field's 47-year visitor ever at history. the famed stadi-"To come in ll Ill. here and have a 
The Titans (2-"This is unfamiliar chance to win, 
3) snapped a territory." you have to run three-game los­the ball and get ing strnak and turnovers,"
Mike Sherman 
sent thn Packers Fisher said. ( 1-4) to their Packers coach The Packers' fourth straight hopes for a come­loss. This is back were killed Green Bay's first by four second­four-game losing streak since half turnovers. They had six 1991 and its 0-3 start at home overall. since 1988. The Titans didn't turn the 
From 1996 to 2002, Green ball over at all. Bay was 53-7 at home, includ­"This wasn't season-saving, ing the postseason. The but it got us back on the right Packers lost to Atlanta in a track," Titans safety Tank playoff game in January 2003, Williams said. starting a LambPau slump that Steve McNair (chest, ankle) n~aclwd 6-7 with the loss to returned after missing Tennessne. Tennessee's last game. and 
"This is unfamiliar torrito-threw two touchdown passes, ry, Packers coach Mike including an 11-yarder to Sherman said. Eddie Berlin in the third quar-ter after Brett Favre's third 29-yard scamper to beat the minutes left in the first half. interception. blitz on the Titans' second After Anderson was good 


Favre extended his NFL possession, after which from 38 but missed from 42. record with his 213th consec­Sherman chewed out his Longwell's 53-yard field goal utive start, including playoffs, defenders on the sideline.. with 2 seconds before halftime despite numerous injuries, But soon his wrath was madeit27-13. including a mild concussion he focused on Green. Favre was picked off twice suffered last week. Favre also The Packers' fumble-prone by Lamont Thompson. whose played after the death last running back coughed up the second interception set up week of his 24-year-old broth­ball at the Green Bay 34 with McNair's 11-yard touchdown er-in-law in an ATV accident nose tackle Kevin Carter strike to Berlin that made it at the family home in recovering for Tennessee. 34-13 in the third quarl!~r. Mississippi. Green, whose habit of always Antonio Chatman's muf'fed 
Both teams had lost three carrying the ball in his left punt was recovered by straight, and much of the arm not only gives tacklers a Tennessee's Darrell Hill at the blame went to poo·r run true target but doesn't allow Green Bay 23, leading to widP defense, which showed up him to stiff-arm defenders, receiver Drew Bennett's 26­right away again for Green has fumbled four times this yard touchdown toss to Bay as Brown carried nine season. Derrick Mason for a .41-13 times for 90 yards in the first Green finished with 33 yards lead in the fourth quarter. quarter. The early deficit on 10 carries. Thompson also forced a fum­altered Green Bay's plan to Anderson converted Green's ble. give the Titans a steady diet of gaffe into a 36-yard field goal Anderson's kick following Ahman Green. that made it 17-0 with 6 min­Antowain Smith's 15-yard 
The Packers had just 5 yards utes left in the first quarter. At touchdown run with 2:34 left rushing on five carries in the that point, the Titans had out­made it 48-20 and broke the first half. gained the Packers 145 yards record for visiting points that 
Packers cornerbacks to 4. Washington set in a 48-47 loss Michael Hawthorne and After Sherman successfully at Green Bay in 1983. Ahmad Carroll made the challenged an interception by Packers' backup quarter­crowd miss the traded Mike Samari Rolle in the end zone, back Craig Nail threw his first McKenzie right away. Ryan Longwell's 39-yard field career touchdown pass on a 1­
Hawthorne capped a poor goal made it 17-3. yarder to Javon Walker with a first series by missing the The Titans responded with a minute left. tackle on Brown's 3 7 -yard 10-play, 80-yard drive to make The 48 points were the most touchdown run and Carroll, it 24-3 on fullback Troy allowed by Green Bay at home the Packers' top draft pick, Fleming's 14-yard catch-and­since Detroit's 52-17 win at coming back from a groin run in the second quarter. old City Stadium in 1952. injury that sidelined him for Favre completed all five of "I expect us to play better," three weeks, was targeted his passes for 70 yards, cap­Favre said. "I don't think it's a aplenty whenever he got onto ping the drive with a 1-yard lack of preparation. I think we the field. toss to tight end Bubba Franks were ready to play. Maybe my 
Brown made it 14-0 with a that made it 24-10 with 6 1/2 expectation is too high." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

WANTED 
PART-TIME WORK Great pay, flex sched ,saleslsvc all ages18+, cond. apply, 273-4878 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS 
www 
WORKFORSTUDENTS.COM 
BABYSITTER WANTED: DAMONS GRILL is now accepting applications for SERVERS AND HOSTS. These positions do not open up very often. Apply in person to join our award winning team. 52885 US 933 N 574-272·5478 1 mile north of N.D (next to Comfort Suites) 
FoR RENT 
2-6 Bedroom homes tor 05-06 Walking distance from ND DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED­HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCESTAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWWDO MUSKRAMER.COM OR CON­TACT KRAMER (574)234-2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232­2378 p.m. 288-2726 
Buying and selling NO football tix, especially Boston College 289-8048 
1 BC ticket tor sale. Call Kim 512­656-3452. 
For Sale: ND football tix. Goodprices. 232-0964. 
Wanted ND football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
PERSONAL 

Mom or Grandma. Simple.lnspiring. Conversational. Inexpensive. Check it out at www.mothert eresasdoor.com 
ADOPTION: Help us complete our family, baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan 877-895-9790 Toll Free 
SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring Spring break 2005 Challenge ...find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-7710 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1·800­678-6386 

22·month-old twins. MMMRentals.com TICKETS Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Go Braves. Ha. 5·6 hours, 532-1408 FOR SALE Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun & Cabo. 1-2 weekdays. Occasional weekend BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIXPLEASE Book by Oct 31 =FREE MEALS & Wanna date? evenings NO Football housing. CHECK MY 2003 Dell lnspiron Laptop Brand FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group-I'm serious this time. Call Kara at Walk to game. PRICES new-price negotiable! Contact GO FREE! 800-875-4525 or 574.621·1540 . 574-315-3215. 273-3911 Kathleen at ktallmad@nd edu www.bianchi-rossi.com I love working with Eric Retter 
••-.•t•fCiifHiJiiiitii44i¥i¥f+i+i+i+i+ittt.•ft*ifiil •. i.W¥illK¥.9•i ¥.¥it4i, i i ... 4"'',.,..·~-~.,.,.....,..,..+O'T¥4.,,,_,,,..,.., ,.,.,....,•..,,,..,.,,...,....,.,..,.•• ,•.• , r P*PP,.WiPfl' ,..,. ...................... I •. WW. ¥ • *; u • .. ...-......--.-.-..,.......__,....,.--.-..--.---r-.r-r-.-...:..._ 
~---------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 12 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Grieving Rivera comforts family members in Panama 
Closer expected to return for Game 1 of the American League Championship series, which begins Tuesday 
Associatod Pross in Panama on Tuesday in time 
for Game 1 of the AL champi­
NEW YORK -Yankees closer onship series against Boston. Mariano Rivera said he plans Rivera flew home to comfort to return from a family funeral relatives after two members of his wife's family were electro­cuted in his pool. The ALCS begins Tuesday night at Yankee Stadium. 

"I am going back to New York tomorrow. after the funeral. and rejoin the team." Rivera said Monday outside his home in Puerto Caimito. the fishing village where the accident occurred. 
"At this moment. my family is my priority." he said. "I stopped thinking about base­ball the moment I got on the plane." 
Early Tuesday. Rivera will attend the funeral of Victor Dario Avila. a cousin of Rivera's wife. Clara. and Avila's 14­year-old son. The father was electrocuted when he tried to save his son. also named Victor. while cleaning the pool at the pitcher's home. officials said. 
The Yankees have arranged for a private plane to bring Rivera back to New York. 
"I don't want to say he's going to be back tomorrow." Yankees manager Joe Torre said earlier Monday. "If he's here tomorrow. wonderful. If he's not. then we understand that." 
Rivera's agent. Fernando Cuza. told The Associated Press in an e-mail that the pitcher "should be back in time" for Game 1. 
The local police log on the accident said that a suspended electrical cable fell into the pool while the younger Ayala was in the water and the father jumped in to try to rescue him. 
The chief of the local fire department. Luis Felipe Caceres. said the only witness was Denis Ballestero. brother­in-law of Rivera's wife. Ballestero suffered shocks and was released from a hospital. 
On Monday, a tarp had been raised in front of the Avila fam­ily's small zinc-roofed. con­crete-walled house next door to Rivera's mansion. 
Eight children. some bare­foot. played baseball on a bas­ketball court nearby, using the basket stands as bases. A heavy downpour soon drove them away. Many of the men from the town of 3,500 were at sea. fishing for shrimp. 
Rivera's father was a fisher­men, as was Avila, who also cleaned and maintained Rivera's home. 
"There's great pain in Puerto Caimito because Victor was a very well-liked person in town." said a neighbor. Arnulfo Vega, 52. also a fisherman. 
If Rivera doesn't return. it will be the first time since 1997 that Torre won't be able to call on the player who is widely regarded as the best closer in postseason history. 
Rivera saved a postseason-

Law& • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
October 13, 2004 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
"Truth, Reality, and Advocacy: Farenheit 9/11 and The Passion of the Christ" 
Presenter Ted Mandell 
Department ofFilm, Television, and Theatre 
Commentator James Seckinger 
The Law School 
record 23 straight games beginning with the first of three straight championships in 1998 and ending in Game 7 of the 2001 seri·es. Rivera has failed to close out a game only three times in :13 postseason opportunities. including Game 2 of the division series against Minnesota last Wednesday. 
While it will b,g a huge blow to the bullpen if Rivera is unavailable. Tone does have Tom Gordon. who led the league with 46 saves in 1998 for Boston. 
"We get too late in a game and Mariano is not here. obvi­ously we know what we're going to do," Torre said. "If he's not here tomorrow, and we're in position to save the game. it will be Tom Gordon." 
Gordon has be,gn Rivera's pri­mary setup man this season. going 9-4 with a 2.21 ERA and four saves in 80 appearances. With Gordon and Paul Quantrill in the bullpen. Torre was able to limit Rivera's eighth-inning appearances and helped the closer save a career-high 53 games. 
Gordon didn't use the work­out day to prepare any differ­ently than he ha> all season. 
I went out and played catch," Gordon said. "I've closed before. I'll just prepare like I do. I just hope everything goes well with his family." 

S~in:: 
Bellini Tuesdays 
Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®) ­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;:>-Ie'n.e (Bellini)­
A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERYTuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelint Bellini Tuesdays! 

NFL 
AFC East 
team New England NY Jets Buffalo Miami  record 4·0 4·0 0·4 0·5  perc. 1.000 1.000 .000 .000  PF 105 98 51 42  PA 63 75 73 87  
team Pittsburgh Baltimore Cleveland Cinnclnatl  AFC North record perc. 4·1 .800 3·2 .600 2·3 .400 1·3 .250  PF 112 97 82 66  PA 94 79 96 95  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Houston Tennessee  record 4·1 3-2 2·3 2·3  perc . .800 .600 .400 .400  PF 159 73 118 104  PA 106 86 127 118  
AFC West  
team Denver San Diego Oakland Kansas City  record 4·1 3·2 2·3 1·3  perc. .800 .600 .400 .250  PF 99 140 95 89  PA 74 115 119 110  
NFC East  
team Philadelphia NY Giants Dallas Washington  record 4·0 4·1 2·2 1·4  perc. 1.000 .800 .500 .200  PF 107 104 67 71  PA 55 72 91 85  
NFC North  
team Detroit Minnesota Chicago Green Bay  record 3·1 3·1 1·3 1-4  pen. .750 .750 .250 .200  ·PF 78 112 68 99  PA 72 94 76 135  
NFC South  
team Atlanta New Orleans Carolina Tampa Bay  record 4·1 2·3 1·3 1·4  perc. .800 .400 .250 .200  PF 98 92 69 69  PA 66 127 88 89  
team Seattle St. Louis Arizona San Fran.  NFC West record perc. 3·1 .750 3·2 .600 1-4 .200 1·4 .200  PF 92 116 87 91  PA 46 113 87 137  

Women's Soccer Top 25 
1 NOTRE DAME 12·0·0 2 North Carolina 10·0·1 
3 . Penn State 9·1·1 4 Portland 10·2·0 5 Washington 9+0 6 VIrginia 9+0 7 TexasA&M 10·3·0 8 UCLA 7-3·0 
g 
Duke 10·2·0 10 Kansas 11·2·0 11 California 7-1·1 12 Princeton 7-1·0 13 Tennessee 1-2·2 14 Florida 8·3·1 15 Michigan 7·3-2 16 Stanford 8·2·1 17 Florida Stale 7·3·0 • 18 Santa Clara 6·3·2 19 Ohio State 6·2·3 20 West Virginia 9·3·0 21 SMU 6·2-2 22 Boston College 8·2·0 23 Illinois 10·2·0 24 Auburn 8·2·1 25 Pepperdlne 7·2·1 
around the dial 
BASEBALL PLAYOFFS Red Sox at Yankees 7 p.m., Fox 
WNBA FINALS 
Sun at Storm 8:15p.m., ESPN2 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
AP Atlanta Braves first baseman Adam LaRoche hangs his head as a home run by the Houston Astros' Jeff Bagwell sails over the fence. The Astros won the game 12-3 to clinch the first postseason series win in team history. 
Astros rout Atlanta to n1ove on to NLCS 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -It took 43 years, but the Houston Astros are finally postsea­son winners. 
Carlos Beltran hit two more homers and drove in five runs, while original Killer B's Craig Biggio and Jeff Bagwell chipped in during a five-run seventh inning that carried the Astros to a 12-3 rout of the Atlanta Braves on Monday night in the deciding Game 5 of their first-round NL playoff series. 
The Astros snapped an 0· for· 7 record of futility in the playoffs against their longtime nemesis. The Braves eliminated Houston in 1997. '99 and '01, but they couldn't escape their own postseason demons this time. 
Atlanta has lost Game 5 of the division series three years in a row -all at Turner Field. The second­largest crowd in franchise history. 54,068, saw anoth­er familiar ending. 
The team that proudly displays 13 straight divi­sion titles still has only one World Series to show for it. This marked the fifth straight year that the Braves' season ended at the Ted. 
This one was especially dismal. equaling the worst postseason loss in fran­chise history . 
Next up for the wild-card Astros is a matchup against Central Division rival St. Louis in the NL championship series start­ing Wednesday night at Busch Stadium. 
Houston jumped ahead 3-0 on Braves starter Jaret Wright, scoring two in the second and adding to their lead when Beltran home­red into the Atlanta bullpen in the third. 
The Braves had the big crowd roaring in the fifth. Rafael Furcal led off with a homer against Roy Oswalt, and Johnny Estrada hit another into the seats with two outs, pulling Atlanta to 3-2. 
But Beltran, acquired from Kansas City in .June, quickly turned the tide back in Houston's favor. 
He started the sixth with a towering drive off Wright that just cleared the right­field wall. 
The Astros were back in control. The Braves were done. 
Unlike Los Angeles a night earlier, Atlanta play· ers didn't come out when it was over to shake the vic­tors' hands. 
Oswalt, pitching on three days' rest for only the sec­ond time this season, made it through five innings. 
IN BRIEF 

No end in siJ;!ht for 
Dolphins' QB problems 
DAVIE, Fla. -Injuries to Jay Fiedler and A.J. Feeley left Miami's unsettled quarterback situation more muddled than ever. 
Fiedler was sore after aggravating a rib injury in Sunday's 24-10 Joss at New England, and he's unsure whether he'll to play when Miami visits Buffalo in a matchup of the NFL's only winless teams. Feeley suf­fered a concussion on Miami's final offensive play against the Patriots, but he said he felt fine Monday and would be ready against the Bills. 
Coach Dave Wannstedt said that both would be re-evaluated Wednesday, and that Fiedler would start if healthy. 
If neither Fiedler nor Feeley is available, Sage Rosenfels will make his first NFL start. 
"The ribs are tender right now," Fiedler said Monday. 'Til take it day by day and see how it goes." 
Fiedler's agent, Bnan Levy, said the quarterback cracked a rib. 
Feeley was in the game for only two plays and walked off the field in a daze after being hit by Roosevelt Colvin after throwing a fourth-down pass that fell incomplete. Feeley said he didn't remember the play after the game, but remembered every· thing_ MondayEnd to Uodgers' season ends Ventura's career 
LOS ANGELES-Robin Ventura retired in a fashion befitting his 16· year career -timely and with little fanfare. 
Ventura told teammates of his deci­sion last week, but waited until the Dodgers' postseason run ended Sunday night to make his announce­ment public. ''I'm absolutely positive. I've realized that it's time to go, and that's it," Ventura said after the Los Angeles Dodgers lost to St. Louis 6-2. eliminating them from the NL play­offs. 
Ventura, 37, played nine years with the Chicago White Sox, two with the New York Mets and 2 1/2 with the Yankees before finishing up with 1 1/2 seasons in Los Angeles -less than 200 miles from where he grew up.American swimmer breaks 
own world record 
INDIANAPOLIS -Aaron Peirsol of the United States lowered his own world record in the 200-meter back­stroke at the Short Course World Championships on Monday night. 
Peirsol's time of 1 minute, 50.52 seconds bettered his mark of 1:5.0.64 set in March at a short course World Cup meet in East Meadow, N.Y. lie also won the 100 back during the 25­meter competition. 
Matthew Welsh of Australia was second in 1:52.54 and Arkady Vyatchanin of Russia was third in 1:54.20. 
Peirsol, of Irvine, Calif.. swept the backstroke events at the Athens Olympics. He also won the 200 back at the 2002 short course champi· onships. 
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE WRAPS 
Siegfried stolllps St. Ed-ward's 
Carroll pulls out an improbable last-minute comeback against Fisher 
By THOMAS BARR, KYLE 
CASSILY and PETE 
CRACCHIOLO 
Sporrs Writers 
It had been a quiet game. 
There had been a combined 39 yards of total offense mid­way through the second. But now St. Edward's was rolling on a 69-yard drive. A questionable spot made what looked to be a first down into fourth-and-one on the 22. The momentum. was stopped and St. Ed's offense was unable to recover for the rest of the game as they lost 20­0 to Siegfried. 
No longer hampered by penalties (25 yards on the first possession), Siegfried's offense came alive. They capitalized on the turnover and marched 78 yards down the field in a drive that lasted just under five min­utes. With 30 seconds Siegfried completed a 35-yard pass for 6 points. 
St. Ed's looked to hit a deep one just before half, but Si(~gfried was not done. On the first play from scrimmage. the Ramblers forced and recovered a fumble. But with only seconds left, the Hamblers were not able to hit the more than a 40-yard field goal. 
At half. St. Ed's coaching staff recognized that Siegfried would have to go the air as their ground game had been stag­nant, saying, "They are going to keep it in the air." 
This is exactly what Siegfried did scoring twice more through the air and racking up 192 passing yards on 11-15 passing for the game. 
St. Ed's did have some bright spots, especially on defense. The team allowed Siegfried only to ramble for 8 yards on 12 car­ries aftnr sacks. It was also able to pick off Siegfried's backup quarterback and block an extra point. 
Siegfried's defense also had good showing. The Hamblers gave up only 77 yards (28 in the S(~cond half). Carroll 17, Fisher 10 
There was nothing stopping 
Submit to ... 

the oll'ense of Carroll Hall in the final minutes of this contest as they charged 80 yards down­field with time running out to complete a comeback win. 
A 15-yard touchdown pass completed by Carroll quarter­back Kory Wilmot to wide receiver Kyle Kownacki com­pleted the drive with a touch­down and almost guaranteed victory for the Vermin. 
The drive that led to a Vermin victory began with under three minutes remaining in the game and Carroll backed up on its own 20-yard line. Wilmot went 6-for-7 on the drive, amassing 65 yards in the air, and 15 yards on the ground. He hit three different receivers to carry the Vermin down the field. Mike Versagli caught two passes for 25 yards and Kownacki caught the final pass to win the game. Also in on the drive was freshman wide receiver Mike Valuzzo, who caught three passes for a little over 30 yards. 
Carroll was down by 10 near the end of the first half, but a 24-yard field goal by kicker Preston Carter put the score at 10-3 at the end of the half. Then late in the third quarter, Carroll drove down the field sparked by a 31-yard pass to Versagli. The drive ended with a 1-yard run by Wilmot for a touchdown. 
The extra point that followed did not find the uprights howev­er, and Fisher remained in the lead at 10-9. Several three-and­out drives followed for both teams, until the 80-yard drive that ended the game. 
"! knew there was a long way to go, but it was just a matter of time and finding the open guys," Wilmot said. 
Carroll tries to complete its season undefeated on Wednesday against Sorin, although it also is guaranteed an appearance in the postsea­son. Knott 7, Sorin 6 
Knott saves face this season, improving to 2-2; and Sorin missed another close one and slips to 0-3. 
The outcome of the game was decided during the first half where both teams made their scores. Knott struck first with a 58-yard rush from .John Lyons. Lyons finished as the game's leading rusher. 
Sorin made countered with a drive of its own during the last minutes of the first half. Quarterback and captain Collin O'Keefe hooked up with Chris Paley for a 30-yard touchdown pass to close out the half. However, the Otters missed the extra point. 
The second half was lacklus­ter in scoring and the missed extra point came back to haunt Sarin. 
Despite this, there appeared to be hope during the last drive of the game by the Otters. In the last minutes of play Sorin nailed two first downs and was in striking distance of the end zone. However, an interception by Knott's Trey Patrick ensured a Knott victory. 
In what appeared to be a sloppy game, there were some bright spots. Sarin's quarter­back, Collin O'Keefe passed for 148 yards, completing 10-of-21 pass attempts. However, the final interception may have cost the Otters the game. 
"There were a couple balls I missed," O'Keefe said. "I proba­bly made the wrong call there at the end." 
Knott's defensive line played a great game. They racked up four sacks and caused Sorin to incur negative rushing for the game. 
Sunday's victory makes the Juggs eligible for the playoffs. It depends on how other teams finish off their seasons. Even though this could have been the last game of the season for Knott, captain Joe McCarthy is looking ahead. 
"Our offense struggled," he said. "We really need to get our offense back in sync. Our goal all season has been dorm champs, that hasn't changed." 
Contact Thomas Barr, Kyle Cassily and Pete Cracchiolo at tbarr@nd.edu, kcassily@nd.edu and pcracchi@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Water polo wins with short bettch 


Special to The Observer 
A short-handed Notre Dame men's water polo club won three of four Great Lakes Conference games this weekend at Toledo. The Irish only had one player on the bench when they opened play against the host Rockets. Led by Matt McNicholas and Mike Grow, the Irish rolled to a 17-6 victory. Greg Szewczyk, Zhan-Wei Khaw, Colin Dunn, and Steve Shepard all scored as 
well in the rout, while Jay Nunez filled in at goal for Scott Tagwerker. 
In Saturday's second game, the No. 17 Irish squared off against nemeses No. 4 Grand Valley State. As usual, the game came down to the closing sec­onds. Goals from McNicholas, Shepard, Khaw, Szewczyk, and Grow kept the Irish close throughout the entire game, but with time running out. McNicholas narrowly missed a shot from two meters as the Irish fell 14-13. 
The Irish rebounded on Sunday, cruising to victories over Western Michigan, 22-8, and Ball State, 24-5. Mike Grow moved to goal and Nunez returned to field play where he was among the scoring leaders. 
This weekend, the Irish will head to Northwestern to chal­lenge a field featuring many of the nationally ranked top-25 teams. Men's Rowing 
Sixty club teams descended upon Rockford, Ill., this weekend for the Head of the Rock Regatta, where the Notre Dame men's rowing club had a day of great performances. The varsity squad competed in open dou­bles, open eight, open four and lightweight four events on the 
2.75 mile river course. 
The highlight of the day was the stellar performance of the lightweight four wltlich came in fourth out of eight teams and medaled with a time of 17:58. The open fours also had a strong showing against intense competition from the University of Michigan, Purdue and Northwestern. Michigan won the event with a time of 15:42.28 and the three Notre Dame boats took 16th, 22nd, and 27th with times of17:16.19,l8:10.91, and 19:17.91, respectively. 
The Irish also pulled competi­tive times in the men's double event with Evan Donoghue and Dave Mercante taking fourth place with a time of 17:42. The other men's doubles had great rows as well putting up scores of 18:37, 18:52, and 18:56 taking sixth, seventh and eighth place. The open eight was a hotly con­tested race with the University of Michigan claiming the victory with a time of 14:05. The top NO varsity boat was not far behind with a time of 15:02 taking tenth place and the other two boats rowing a 15:40 and 16:31 to take 13th and 20th place. 
The Novice Crew had a stellar showing for their first race of the fall season. In the Novice fours the rowers came in with a time of 19:36.12 to take tenth place in a field oil strong com­petitors including the winner. the University of Minnesota. In the eights the men proved to be tough competition with times of 
17:29.64 and 18:09.24 to take 12th and 16th places in a field of 23 strong novice boats. 
The team had a strong show­ing and expects to build on their successes at the Head of the Elk race in Elkhart on Oct. 31st. 
Field Hockey 
Notre Dame's field hockey club played host to Buffalo and Ohio State this Sunday at Riehle Field. The Irish split their two games, beating Buffalo 3-0 before dropping a 1-0 defensive struggle against a Buckeyes squad that included seven men on the field in their coed lineup. 
In the opener, Flebecca Mosca and Eleanor Bradley fired_home first half goals and Kaitlin Moran registered an insurance goal in the second half to secure the victory. Coalie Leigh Madeira stopped all three shots on goal. 
Madiera anchored a rock solid defense that w.:ts pressured throughout the game by a physi­cal Buckeye attack, and had eight saves. only giving up a goal at the close of thf: first half. The Irish made some adjustments at the half and forced several scor­ing chances of their own after intermission, but could not get a shot past a strong Ohio State goalie. The Irish will next travel to Kent and Ashland for a pair of games in three weeks. 
Do you have a short story. poem. painting or photograph? Submit your work to The Juggler, NO's student literary. art and design magazine. and "we'll see what to do with it"... i1: might ~ppear in the Winter 2005 i~ue! 
Please bring artwork to 213 Riley Hall. Put in Juggler drawer or give to Mary Prenderxast. Supply s.lides for pieces larger than II "x17" or 3-D work. 
Wntten work can be submttted to the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dm•ng Hall ore-mailed vii attachtrnlnt to juggler@nd.edu. No entries of moro than lSOO words ple<lse. Nl submissions should tndude title of piece, allthorlartist's name and an e-mail address. 

Tuesday, October 12, 2004 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD WRAPS 
Defense carries Lyons to victory 
Howard gets first win; Lewis and Welsh Family battle to scoreless tie 
By TOM DORWART, RAMA 
OOJTUMUKKALA and KATE 
SERYAK 
Sports \~'mus 
Defense wins championships. 
Lyons' defense, at least. boost­ed them into the playoffs. The steady unit. for the third game in a row, gave up fewer than seven points. 
Lyons beat Badin 6-0 Sunday at the West Quad fields in the final game of the regular season for both teams. 
"Our defense has been strong all year." freshman linebacker Judith Kaczmarek said. "We were motivated." 
When the clock hit zero. the celebration began. 
"When we won. everyone just rushed onto the field and was screaming and cheering," Kaczmarek said. 
Deadlocked in a 0-0 defensive battle with Badin. Lyons punched in the game's only score with minutes remaining in the first half. Quarterback Traci Kazrnerski connected on a 15­yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Meghan Regan. 
Six points was enough to hold off the defending champs of Badin as both defenses contin­ued to dominate. Minutes into the second half. Badin drove to the Lyons 2-yard line. Lyons' unwavering defense made a goal line stand to keep the lead. 
"Their defense played well." Badin captain Stephanie Heath said. "Our offense didn't play to its potential. We've played much better than that." 
Now, Badin must play the waiting game to find out if its 3­3 record earns them the final playoff spot. 
"We're just waiting to hear. [The season) is a little disap­pointing," Heath said. "We weren't really consistent. Corning off of last year. we lost a lot of starters. Hopefully we'll still make the playoffs." 
Lyons (3-1-2) secured a playoff berth with the win. They pre­pare for the postseason with great confidence. 
''Welsh Family was ranked No. 1 in our league, and we only lost to them by six, so we know we're going to be really competi­tive in the playoffs." junior line­backer Mosey Nuccio said. 
With a two week lay-off before the frrst playoff game. the Lyons players are eager to get back on the fteld. 
"It's weird not to have prac­tice," freshman Joanna Collins said. "At least our season can keep going." 
Howard 12, Off..Campus 0 
AndJhen there was one. 
With their 12-0 victory over Off-Campus on Sunday, Howard (1-3-1) got their frrst win of the season and left Off-Campus (0-5) as the sole winless team in the women's Gold League. 
Putting together an impressive defensive stand. the Ducks recorded their first shutout in three years. Howard's defensive unit remained sharp throughout the game. 
"Defensively. we really came together." Howard captain Callie Whelan said. "We were on the ball all the time and shut them down as a team." 
The Ducks did most of their damage in the frrst half. scoring on a touchdown pass from quar­terback Laura Plis and taking command when Catherine Krug intercepted an Off-Campus pass and took it back more than 20 yards for a back-breaking touchdown. 
Although Howard's offense cooled off in the second half. their defense remained alert. Giving up only a few first downs from quarterback scrambles. the Ducks kept Off-Campus out of the end zone. 
Playing a conservative game that slowly wound down the game clock. the Ducks closed their season with three consecu­tive quarterback kneels on their last possession. 
Although the Ducks didn't get their first win until the last game of the season. they played pro­gressively better throughout the course of the season. A late sea­son tie with Welsh Family. the No. 1 team. was just one memo­ry that the lloward players will be able to cherish from thL<> sea­son. 
"It was great seeing the improvement of the entire team." Whelan said. "Girls who had never touched a football before. in the end carne togeth­er, and it really gives us a lot of hope for next season." 
With a yotmg team consisting of only three juniors and one senior, the Ducks will look to reload next season and improve on a season where the team continued to gel with each game. 
"Probably the most exciting thing is that we're only losing one senior," Whelan said. "We're going to recruit girls right off the bat during Frosh-0 next year and then play with what we have already. And that should be really good." 
lewis 0, Welsh Family 0 
Four years ago, Lewis and Welsh met for the championship game in the stadium. Welsh Family won by a point that day and Lewis players have vowed that this will never happen again. 
On Sunday, they played true to their word. Sunday's showdown between 

the league-leader Welsh Family and No. 10 Lewis was a draw. l11is is the second 0-0 game for Lewis this year. who also tied with Lyons last week. Welsh also had a tie previous to this game. but it could lose the No. 1 rank­ing to Cavanaugh. who won this weekend. 
The tie, however, can be attributed to both teams' defens­es. 
Lewis had three interceptions. while Welsh had four. Welsh came the closest to scoring a touchdown right before half­time. The Whirlwinds success­fully completed a long pass to position themselves right in front of the goal line. but time ran out before they could score. 
Lewis played a solid defensive game, shutting out the No. 1 team when they were clearly the underdogs. 
"For defense, we came in knowing that we were going to have to play tight on the quarter back and receivers if we wanted to win or tie," Le·wis captain Julia Burke said. "We followed through with our plan and played a really clean game in general. Both teams played well." 
The only reason Lewis was unable to score any touchdowns is because this is a rebuilding year for their offense. according to Burke. 
"After last season, we lost our quarterback, several receivers and our coaches." Burke said. "So we were prepared to consid­er this a rebuilding year and in that light. I think we've done a wonderful job." 
Last year. Lewis was the run­ner-up in the stadium and surely this years· team will grow into a stadium-worthy. championship winning within the next four years. 
"It was a tough season for us. but we're really happy with how it turned out," Burke said. 
Contact Tom Dorwart, Rama Gottumukkala and Kate Sa-yak at tdorwart@nd.edu, rgottumu@nd.edu and kseryak@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles looking for vvin to raise tea111 111orale 
ByJUSTIN STETZ 
Sports Writer 

Never underestimate your opponent. 
The Belles must keep this in the back of their heads today as they prepare to take on Tri­State University. lliC Thunder is still in search of its first MIAA win of the year having now gone 10 straight games without a victory. Meanwhile. the Belles cannot afford to drop another conference match if they hope to improve their current standing in the league. 
Saint Mary's comes into the contest with a record of 4-7 in conference play and 4-1 0 over­all. The Belles thumped Tri­State earlier this year when they dorrtinated the Thunder in the Saint Mary's Triangular. The victory marked their first win of the season after losing five straight to begin the 2004 campaign. 
In the contest. the Belles controlled the tempo through­out and swept the Thunder in three straight games. However. the team realizes that they 
No cover ever with studentlU 


#} Sports ~ar it1 South ~et1d 2046 South ~et1d Ave -Across frot\1 Martit1s Plaza 272--1766 NU Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
N(}reat Food, (}reat Futf Mon: Monday Night Football TUES: COLLEGE NIGHf -UJ &-SPECIALS (SfARfiNG Af ~ 1.00) Wed: ntiVIA Night -~ring your teatMs -Prizes THURS: UJ -fiRSf THURSUAY EVERY MONfH: JASSY GRAZZ Fri: live £ntertaintMent 
THURSPAY SPEACIALS 
Sat: N~ gatMes 
srur M ~2.00!

Sun: orts -14-screens 

We're just minutes north ofcampus! 
52313 St. Rte. 933 North • 272•9608 
Mon-Fri lOam to 6pm • Sat lOam to 5pm • Closed Sunday 
must come into this game pre­pared and ready for anything. 
"We expect to see the same team as in our previous meet­ing," middle hitter Elise Rupright said. "We expect to win and nothing else. but we cannot come into the game and lie down." 
In their first meeting with the Thunder, Saint Mary's was led by the play of Shelly Bender and Elise Hupright on the offensive side of the ball. Bender put on a show against Tri-State University as she col­lected 18 kills in the match. Elizabeth Stohl and Anne Cusack supplied most of the damage on defense for Saint Mary's and helped the team cruise to an easy victory. . 
·i1le Belles are coming off of two straight losses against the number two and three teams in the MIAA. Before their recent skid, Saint Mary's was on a three-game winning 
streak and looking like a team ready to make a strong nm as they sat as high as fifth place in the conference. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

S~ ry L~ ..so--Mucht Mor£?/ ~Ct/ GlftShopplV. .. 
V{M:;t ~for lMitiq~ a:-~ {or-decor~~y01A¥ dorWtt r-001'11/or et:p~! 
, Create your own space with the wonderful fragrances of popourri and Yankee Candles. Accent your room with great new home decor selections and special seasonal floral arrangements. At Sugarberry Lane we have hundreds of ideas to decorate your dorm or apartment or for gift suggestions. And when you to step out onto campus, step out in style with bags by 
VERA~BRAOLEY, 
Back Packs • Purses • Duffel Bags 
Including the newest patterns 

Tuesday, October 12, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE WRAPS 
Cavanaugh dominates Breen-Phillips 21-0 
PW edges McGlinn, Walsh dominates PE 
By BRAD WALLACE, ABBY 
RICHARDSON AND BRlAN CARDILE Sports Writers 
Like an army heading into battle. Cavanaugh marched to the West Quad with intensity and the will to win. and for 40 minutes showed a crowd of classmatr~s and families the way football is supposed to be played. 
From the first whistle. the game belonged to the Chaos (4-0-1 ), who dominated the highly-anticipated contest, boating Brcen-l'hillips (3-2), 21-0. 
Cavanaugh got started early. scoring on their first drive when quarterback Lisa Huffer hit Hache! Byrne for a quick touchdown. 
"Hight off the bat. we moved the ball all the way down the field." Huffer said. "Hache! was playing line, and I saw that she got open, so I hit her with the pass." 
The Chaos completed the two-point conversion, taking an 8-0 lead. The scoring con­tinued with a 3-yard touch­down pass from Huffer to Nancy l'owaga at thn end of the first half, and a 17-yard completion to Janice Flynn for the game's final score. 
"Tiw receivers did a great job getting open all game," Huffer said. "They adjusted to the defense well and ran pcr­fnct routes. This was a great game. Everyone played really well." 

lJNIVEH.SITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PH.OGH.AMS IN 
RUSSIA 
FALL 2005, SPRING 2006, A Y 2005-6 AND SUMMER PROGRAMS 2005 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH GRAHAM HETTLINGER AMERICAN COUNCILS FOR INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION, AND PROF. TOM MARULLO DEPARTMENT OF RUSSIAN, NOTRE DAME 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2004 
4:00 PM 205 DBRT 
Due to excess hype sur­Pasquerilla West 7, McGlinn rounding the Breen-Phillips 0 defense, the Cavanaugh It looked like it would be a offense felt that they had a lot scoreless game, but that all to prove Sunday. changed in the last four min­
"We came out really wanting utes of the game. to play a great game," Huffer Sunday afternoon on the said. "We've been hearing that West Quad field, Pasquerilla Breen-Phillips has the best West (3-1-1) and McGlinn (1-4) defense in the league, and we fought the whole game with wanted to show what we could the Purple Weasels emerging do against them. We didn't on top. feel like the rankings on "It took a while to get Friday were right. and we rolling," Pasquerilla West cor­hope that this win is enough to nerback Annie Brusky said. convince people that we "We were confident. We knew belong on top of the polls." we had to win." 
The Cavanaugh defense con­The game started off slow, tinued its impressive play, with sloppy offense by both holding the strong Breen­teams. Each team turned the Phillips offense ball over scoreless. once. But as Babes coach "It took a while to get the half pro­Steve Mattingly gressed, so
rolling. We were 
felt that his did the
confident. We knew we
team showed teams. great effort. had to win." In the first but simply half, McGlinn 
came up short Anne Brusky s a c k e d when it count-Pasquerilla
ed. Pasquerilla West cornerback 
West quar­

"This was a terback tough loss," Heather Van Mattingly said. "Cavanaugh is Hoegarden, and put pressure a great team, with a good on her the entire half. The quarterback and good Weasel offensive line had receivers. They made a lot of trouble preventing McGlinn's big plays that really hurt us. defense from getting to their Our girls played really hard, quarterback. but we just couldn't get things "The second half. we figured going against their defense." out how to block on offense," 
Though disappointed with said Brusky. "Our offense is the loss, Mattingly feels that awesome. I felt like our some good can come out of defense stepped it up. We Sunday's game. held them the whole game." 
"This gives us some motiva­Brigid Bulfin picked off a tion," he said. "We don't want pass in the second half for the to back into the playoffs; we Weasels and ran a short dis­need to go in with some tance before getting stopped. momentum. because that's After the interception, like a whole new season." Pasquerilla West began trying new plays. Van Hoegarden fourth down pass to an open broke a run for about 15 yards receiver in the back of the end to set up the ensuing touch­zone. down. Van Hoegarden rolled "We came out with enthusi­out to the left under pressure asm determined to finish the and tossed it to Brenna season on a positive note," Mannion, who broke a tackle Walsh coach Kevin Poppit and scored the said. touchdown. The The quick start extra point was provided the Wild
"We're just going
scored by Women with a 
Maureen Spring to keep having fun. lead they would on a pass from And maybe win a not relinquish. Van Hoegarden. After the
championship. " 
McGlinn came Pasquerilla East back strong and offense failed to came very close Kevin Poppit gain a yard on to scoring but Walsh coach the · ensuing they were denied drive, Walsh had that chance when a chance to add time ran out and Pasquerilla to its lead. This time Sullivan West grabbed the win. completed three consecutive 
"We have our heart set on passes, the last being a 15­the playoffs," Brusky said. yard post route that resulted "We knew we had to beat in a touchdown. This was McGlinn to get there." repeated as the futile Pyro 
Both teams have one more attack went three and out game before the playoffs, once more, giving the ball which will take place after fall back to Sullivan who again break. found an open receiver and Walsh 33, Pasquerilla East 7 delivered a 30··yard dart for 
The Wild Women of Walsh the score. concluded a perfect season The second half witnessed Sunday with an impressive 33-two more Sullivan touchdown 7 drubbing of Pasquerilla strikes as the winless Pyros East. were left in the dust. 
Citing the mercy rule, refer­The 33-7 final gives Walsh ees ended the game with over (4-0-2) confidence heading a minute remaining in the sec­into the playoffs. ond half, but the outcome was "We're just :~oing to keep decided much earlier than having fun," Poppit said, "And that. maybe even win a champi­
The Walsh defense set the onship." tone early on, sacking the Pyro quarterback on the first play and then intercepting her on the ensuing snap. Walsh Contact Brad Wallace, Abby quarterback Mary Sullivan Richardson and Brian Cardile at capitalized on the great field bwallac2@nd.edu, position, calling her own num­aricharOl@saintmarys.edu and ber twice before lofting a bcardile@nd.edu 
MLB 
Schilling set to take on Yanl<ees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Curt Schilling signed with Boston for this very reason -to silence the hated Yankees and pitch the Red Sox to that elusive World Series title. 
''I'm not sure I can think of any scenario more enjoyable than making 55,000 people from New York shut up," he said Monday, a day before starting the opener at Yankee Stadium against Mike Mussina. 
Before the first pitch was even thrown, the AL championship series had players buzzing. They thought back to the 45 intense meetings between the rivals dur­ing the past two years, to the on­field fights and the clubhouse boasts. 
But in a series that seemed predestined since Aaron Boone's Game 7 homer off Tim Wakefield won last October's playoff in the 11th inning, there was an ele­ment of uncertainty for the Yankees this time. It centered on the status of closer Mariano Rivera. who returned to Panama on Sunday after two of his wife's relatives -a cousin and his son -were electrocuted in his swimming pool. 
Though Hivera said he'd be on hand for Tuesday night's game -"l am going back to New York tomorrow, after the funeral. and rejoin the team"-manager Joe Torre wasn't ta~ing anything for granted. 

"If he's here tomorrow, obvi­ously, it would be wonderful." Torre said. "Li not, we under­stand that." 
Tom Gordon, his left eye still a little blurry after it was hit by a champagne cork in Saturday's clubhouse celebration at Minnesota, would take over as the· closer if Ii:ivera is absent. Tanyon Sturtze and Paul Quantrill would replace Gordon as the setup man. 
While Gordon's good, he's not Hivera. No one else is. 
"I never had a problem with it. I enjoyed closing," Gordon said. "Whatever it takes for this team to get a win." 
Following Boston's first-round sweep of Anaheim and New York's 3-1 win over the Twins, Schilling and Mussina are rested heading into the opener. The Red Sox rotation has Pedro Martinez pitching Game 2 on Wednesday, followed by Bronson Arroyo on Friday at Fenway Park and Wakefield the following day in Game 4. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
page 20 Tuesday, October 12, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
and against a defense that has Ending the season on a good struggles lies in inconsistency there and have a good time," played poorly against the pass note is certainly forefront in the and meager offenses. · Zehrbach said. "Our seniors are
Interhall 

continued from page 24 
offense and our defense made two important stops Sunday," Spring said. 
Even if Pasquerilla West loses, the Weasels may be able to sneak in if the chips fall in their favor. 
Although the team will know whether it needs a win to make the playoffs by the beginning of the game, the Weasels want to stay in control their own des­tiny. 
"We'd like to get that No. 3 seed on our own." Spring said. 
That will be a tall task for the WeaS<~Is. as they face a Breen­l'hillips team whose only two losses have come against unbeaten opponents. 
While Sunday's 21-point defeat stings, Feltault credits the point differential to an excellent Cavanaugh team, not to a poor performance. 
"We played a great game," she said. "but they are an excellent team." 
The Babes expect to balance the running and passing games to keep the Weasels off-balance. 
Quarterback lleather Van lloegardtm for the Weasels will have to continue her stellar play to lead Pasquerilla West to victory. 
First snap is at IJ:OO p.m. at Hichle West Field. 
Cavanaugh vs. 
Pasquerllla East 
Only one game remains on the schedule for the women of Cavanaugh and Pasquerilla East: only one more opportunity to show something before the regular season ends. With the playoffs looming, this rivalry game is all about who has shown the most improvement over the course of the regular season. 
"In previous years !Cavanaugh! has peaked at the wrong point in the season, but right now is a really good time for us to be hitting our stride," Chaos captain Sara Gilloon said. 
Coming into Tuesday's game against Pasquerilla East. a con­fident Cavanaugh boasts an undefeated 4-0-1 record, with a shutout in last Sunday's game against Breen Phillips. Helying on a team mentality, the Cavanaugh defensive squad has been strong all year, and is looking for another shutout 
.,.._­
against the rival Pyros . 
On the opposite end of the spectrum are the Pyros, who have struggled all season. Already having been shutout multiple times this season, the Pyros offense is looking to turn up the intensity, and put some points on the board, for this final game of the season. 
Even though they have already secured a spot in the playoffs. Cavanaugh refuses to look past Pasq uerilla East. Vowing to play the game like any other, the Chaos will hold nothing back in their quest to reach the stadium. 
On the offensive side of the ball, junior quarterback Lisa Huffer has been the key to Cavanaugh's success all year. 
"She is not only very accu­rate, but also one of the fastest players in the league," Gilloon said of Huffer. 
It will be up to the Pasquerilla East defense to try and shut down Huffer, but this may prove to be too tough of a task for the Pyros. Double-digit loses have plagued the Pyros all season, but they are still looking to fin­ish the season on a high note. 
With Huffer running the show, 
this season, the Cavanaugh  minds of each team.  Farley's  "Our offense has struggled  ...  looking to milk it, and  we  are  
receivers will look to have a big  Finest  and  the  McGlinn  it is just not clicking right now,"  going to get a  little crazy. It's  
game.  Shamrocks will wrap up their  Farley  captain  Angelina  going to be backyard football,  
"We have really been working  respective seasons tonight at 7  Zehrbach said. "We get it down  and  we  are just going to have  
on our pass-catching in prac­ p.m. on  the Biehle  there  but  we  fun."  
tice." Gilloon said. While this may not look like  West fields. Although the win  "We are looking to  can't in."  punch  it  Expect McGlinn to have a similar mindset heading into  
much of a contest on paper, the women of Pasquerilla East know that games are not played  column may look bleak for both teams, each team's  go out there and have a good time."  Despite want­ing to finish strong, the  their final game. Even so. McGlinn captain Liz Maher will undoubtedly have her team  
on  paper, and  are looking to  schedule  could  Finest will not be  revved up to get one more win.  
play the role of spoiler Tuesday night at Hiehle West. McGlinn vs. Farley  rival any other in degree of difficulty. Both Farley and  Angelina Zehrbach Farley captain  taking the game too seriously, as this will be the  The one thing this game defi­nitely will not lack is excite­ment.  
With both teams going into  McGlinn have lost  last time all the  
their final game knowing that  once  each  to  seniors will be  
the playoffs are virtually out of  Breen-Phillips, Walsh,  and  able to play with each other. Do  Contact Ken Fowler, Nathan  
reach, the McGlinn Shamrocks  Cavanaugh; all three of those  not be too surprised to see new  Dyer and Tom Stiles at  
and Farley's Finest will each be  teams have recently resided in  plays and players playing new  kfowler 1 @nd.edu,  
playing for the same thing - the top five.  positions for the first time.  ndyer@nd.edu and  
pride.  The  story  of both  teams'  "We  are  looking to go out  tstiles@nd.edu  

At Ernst &Young the climb starts here. 
You've just completed four years of college and the last thing you want to do is end up in amindless job. At Ernst &Young we challenge our employees from the start and then encourage them to grow throughout their career. We offer some of the best professional development programs in the country. And we've built an inclusive 
environment-one that Fortune* magazine has recognized as one of the "100 Best 
Companies To Work For'' six years In arow. So if you're not interested in starting at 
the bottom, think about starting at one of the Top 100. ey,com/us;careers 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg
TO WORKFORN 
............... --.• .... ~-___.. ..... --.. .,..----• ~-~.-: . ---r---­


Tuesday, October 12, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE WRAPS 
Stanford escapes with 0-0 tie against Morrissey on Sunday 

Knights take down Dawgs, Big Red shuts out Kangaroos 
By MIKE TENNANT, CHRIS 
KHOREY AND MIKE LASKEY 
Sports Writers 
Football is a game of inches, and Morrissey was just a few inches short Sunday. 
In what was a must-win game for both teams, Stanford and Morrissey battled to a 0-0 tic in a game full of strong defense and missed opportuni­ties. 
"It was the hardest we played all season," Morrissey captain Aaron Honsheim said. "Both teams couldn't put it in the end zone." 
The Manorites came within less than a yard of breaking the deadlock on the final play of the game. 
With 10 seconds to play, Morrissey quarterback Pete Spreitzer lined up at the Griffin 35-yard line and took one last shot at the end zone to receiver Tim Kenney. 
"We just had everyone go deep and make something hap­pen," Kenney said. "Pete just threw it up." 
Spreitzer connected with Kenney on the goal line, but the receiver was forced to lean forward to catch the throw, leaving the ball and the victory only inches away as time expired. 
The Manorites had a number of other opportunities to score, thanks to a defense that forced two fumbles and blocked a field goal. Ronsheim also had an interception. 
INFORMATION .fEfnON 
"Our secondary really stepped it up this week," Ronsheim said. "I think we held their passing attack in check." 
Leading the way for the Morrissey defense along with Ronsheim was Kenney at safety and Tony LoGuidice. 
"We just couldn't get our run­ning or passing game going," Griffin captain Vin Monaco said. 
The Stanford defense was equally impressive, forcing two Morrissey turnovers and stop­ping the Manorites twice inside the 10-yard line, including a goal line stand at the end of the first half. 
Instrumental in the stand was lineman Eric Medrick, who pulled double duty as both a defensive lineman and fullback for the Griffins. Monaco and fellow linebacker Brandon Bludau both had strong games as well. 
The Stanford offense just could not get going. 
"We have to start scoring touchdowns," Monaco said. "If our offense doesn't improve. we're toast in the playoffs." 
The Griffins still have post­season hope, and have one last game with O'Neill Thursday night. The Manorites, mean­while, ended their season against Stanford. and most likely will not make the play­offs. Keenan 13, Alumni 3 
Both Keenan and Alumni came into Sunday's contest highly regarded among inter­hall football teams. However, after the Dawgs limped off the field with a 13-3 defeat, there was no question that Keenan had the better team. 
Keenan held Alumni's power­ful running game to only 17 yards and allowed the Dawgs to move the chains just three times. The Knights' defense also forced five fumbles and recovered four of them. 
"It makes me really comfort­able to get a lead and let our defense do its job," Keenan captain Pat Downey said. 
Downey said his team doesn't work on forcing fumbles in practice, but he instead credits the turnovers to hard work. 
"We just play hard and try to make things happen," he said. 
Keenan was equally impres­sive on offense, rushing for 115 yards led by Alex Staffieri's 72 yards on 15 carries. 
Quarterback Eric Laumann completed 5-of-8 passes for only 68 yards, but did complete a 41-yard pass to set up the Knight's first touchdown. 
"We've been an aerial show the last couple weeks," Downey said. "We showed our balance this game." 
Keenan started the game with the ball and moved it quickly upfield with running by Staffieri, but a fumble gave the Dawgs possession. 
Alumni, however, returned the favor and coughed up the ball on their first play from scrimmage. The very next play, Laumann completed the pass for a 41-yard gain to the Alumni 15-yard line. 
Four plays later, Laumann carried the ball over the goal line on a naked bootleg. 
The teams exchanged punts until halftime, with Alumni fail­ing to make a first down until the last play of the half. 
In the second half. Alumni used at 39-yard pass to set up their only points of the game, a 44-yard field goal. 

After stopping the Knights on fourth-and-inches the next drive, the Dawgs fumbled again and Keenan ran out most of the rest of the game with a 14 play, 55-yard touchdown drive. 
"In the fourth quarter, we had a lead and we put it on the offensive line," Downey said. "We just said 'We're going to run the ball right at them' and we took up most of the fourth quarter with that drive." 
Fullback Reid Langdon, who finished the game with 38 yards rushing, had two impor­tant third down conversions on counter plays. 
"He broke a lot of tackles," Downey said. "Those two first down runs were key." 
Dillon 20, Keough 0 
Defensive dominance and efficient offensive production led the Dillon Big Red to a 20-0 pounding of the Keough Kangaroos on Sunday. 
The victory improved Dillon's record to 2-0-1, while the set­back for Keough marked its fourth in a row, ending the Kangaroos' season without a victory. 
Dillon was most impressive on the defensive side of the ball, not allowing a first down all afternoon and forcing four Keough turnovers. 
"Every game, our goal is to go crazy," linebacker Dan Avants said, who contributed a forced fumble and an intercep­tion to Dillon's defensive effort. "We want to come out defen­sively prepared." 
After losing its two running backs early in the season, Keough has been forced to rely on its passing game, which Dillon effectively subdued the entire game. 
"This was the third team that believed that they could pass on us," Avants said. "And this was the third team that we shut down." 
The Big Red's defensive line harassed Keough's quarterback all afternoon, forcing despera­tion passes toward receivers who constantly found them­selves shadowed by Dillon's secondary. 
The Dillon squad took advan­tage of good field position, gar­nered by Keough turnovers, to reach the end zone three times. Running their trademark t­wing offense, the Big Red kept the ball on the ground, capped off by John Leyhane's 35-yard touchdown run in the third 
quarter. 
"[That hole) was open all day," Leyhane said. "I just fol­lowed my block5." 
Keough's struggles against Dillon could be attributed in part its severely limited roster. which included just 14 players on Sunday. 
"It's hard to keep up the intensity when your front eight guys have to play both ways," Keough captain Brian Kusper said. 
With the victory Sunday, Dillon all but wrapped up a spot in the playoffs, set to begin after fall break. However, the Big Red has one regular season game remaining that has been circled on its sched­ule since the first week of the season. 
Thursday night, Dillon will take on the Alumni Dawgs, the Big Red's archrival. Yearlong bragging rights will be up for grabs when the two teams square off in this annual match-up. which kicks off "Rivalry Week" between the halls. 
Avants, a freshman, is excit­ed to become a part of the longstanding ri,valry. 
"I came onto this team for two reasons from Day 1." Avants said. "One was to make the playoffs. and the other was to beat Alumni. We have the first one taken care of, but I won't be satisfied unless we take care of the second one too." 
Contact Mike Tennant, Chris Khorey and Mike Laskey at mtennant@nd .edu, ckhorey@nd.edu and mlaskey@nd.edu 

TU~AY.OCTOBER12rn 
6:00 -7:00 PM 
AT THE CENTER FOR JOCIAL CONCERN/ 
FIND IUT HIW YOU CAll SPEIID 8WEEKS IN I SOCW SERVICE AIENCY AND EARN 
• 
$!000 TJmlll SCIIOLABSHIP 

• 
3S/U THEOLIIY CREDITS 

• 
WIJID YIUI EIICAniJI 

• 
MEn PEOPLE STBIGBUIII Will HCIAl ISSUES AIID IIIJUSnCES 

• 
MEn WOIIDEBFUllliMIIJ/E IIISTS WII PROVIDE BOOM IJID IIAID 



[RIJ 
CENllR FQR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

~--------~ 
----------~-~-------------~---------~­

page 22 

TIM KACMARffhe Observer 

Chris Thomas drives last season against Kentucky. Thomas Is returning this fall from off-season knee surgery. 
Men 
continued from page 24 
out of .Jordan Cornette's hands during a team picture. Players took jump shots one minute and sat down with reporters tlw next. But the playfulness shifted more towards business when anyone -player, coach or reporter -mentioned the NIT. 
"Those three letters are out of our vocabulary. that's for sure," forward Jordan Cornette said. "But I'm break­ing it down. Look. there are a couple goals we want for this team. First. we're starting with the early non-conference stuff. The llarvards [and I the IPFWs. We've got to take those u~ams like they're any team. We've got to take care of them. Tlwn we look into the confer­Pnce sclwdule. 
"Then we want to get a con­f'l~n~nce tith~." he said. "We want to hang a banner in here. Then we want to move on in tlw tournanwnt and sec how far we go there. But nobody's sitting here saying Final Four right now. I mean that's in our heads, but there's a couple steps you've got to take bnfore you get thnrc." 
Those steps include road vis­its to Michigan (Dec. 4) and Indiana (Dec. 8) on the 2004­05 Irish schedule. Notre Dame is sr.t to play Connecticut, Gtwrgetown, Pittsburgh, Syracuse and Villanova all twice on its Big East confer­ence schcd ule. 
The formidable schedule provides the Irish with quality oppmwnts to boost their HPI (Hatings P1~rcentage Index). 
"That's what we want to do," Brey said. "We want to get an automatic bid or an at-large bid. Let's boil it down to brass facts here." 
Notre Dame finished the 2003-04 season with a 19-13 record and worked through injuries to key players in sum­mer practice. Chris Thomas had arthroscopic surgery on his left knee and Francis had surgery to repair a herniated disk, among other ailments to forwards Rick Cornett and Rob Kurz. 
Notre Dame begins practice Saturday on the first day the NCM allows teams to practice with coaches. Brey said not all injured players are 100 per­cent but the team has recov­ered well enough. 
"I think when we practice Saturday morning, we have 10 scholarship guys. everybody but Kurz will be on the floor," the coach said. 
Brey has his first chance Saturday to see the cntirn team. including the additions of forward Omari Isreal ­who rcd-shirted as a freshman -and Arizona transfer Dennis Latimore. 
The practice begins a cam­paign Brcy and the players said they look forward to. Some players called the team thny saw in the summer "spe­cial." 
On Saturday, the anticipation ends. 
"With Thomas. Cornette and Francis, Quinn, especially, I've kind of Jet them dictate the goals a little bit," Brey said. "And if they say [the team is ready) now. we're going to make them back it up." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

.... 
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 

The Observer + SPORTS 
confidence is really high right 
now and that was a problem I had going into last year. The continued from page 24 confidence is good. I'm just ready to get started." 
The Irish. who are ranked in McGraw said the Irish will the top 15 in three preseason rely on Battcast again this basketball publications. took a year. but also have many team photo and answered other players that will be questions from about a dozen expected to significantly con­media members. When they tribute. weren't being intervicwnd. the "This is the best I've ever players mostly stood around seen her play," McGraw said. talking and jok-''I'm just thrilled ing. with the way 
After taking a she's come 
Wo01en 

'Tm trying to 
photo. Batteast, through the sum­a first-team Big continue doing mer. She's been East selection what I did last unstoppable." last season. was "We dnfinitely
year.

swarmed by want to take the about eight pressure off reporters. After Jacqueline Batteast Jackie. Every averaging 16 Irish forward defense coming points and 8.6 in here is going rebounds as a to try and figure junior. the 2003 honorable out how to stop her. So we mention All-American is have to get Courtney LaVere, expected to be one of the best Teresa Borton, Megan Duffy players in the country this -they've really got to pick up season. the slack." 
''I'm trying to continue doing Duffy is coming ofT an excel­what I did last year," Batteast lent season, when she aver­said. "The last six or seven aged 9 points per game. ran games last year. it just felt like the Irish offense and was I could do anything. So my named Big East Most 
said. "Our ultimate goal isn't about keeping the 40-ycar
Navy 

streak alive. It's about what we want to do this season.
continued from page 24 

"We're not setting out to try the pasf and you can't really and keep the 40-year streak say they are the Naval alive. We 'rc setting out to Academy and they don't have beat Navy and to focus on our the talent because they do. task at hand, which is to go to They're undefeated and they a great bowl game." are a tough opponent." Navy and Notre Dame are 
The Irish arc coming off a the only two remaining inde­narrow 23-15 victory over pendent programs in NCAA Stanford this weekend, where Division I. and are also well­Notre Dame was outgained on known for their academic and offense by the Cardinal and all-around excellence. Irish trailed 6-3 at linebacker halftime. Brandon lloyte
"It's always good to 
Notre Dame feels that the knows that keep streaks alive N a v a I they're going to Academy's rig­
and things like that 
have to pick up orous discipli­
but I don't think it's 
the intensity nary curriculum against a Navy something that we transfers to the team that football field as
focus on." 
played the Irish well. down to the "I would say wire last year what they stand
Dan Stevenson at Notre Dame Irish guard for and I think Stadium. A 40-that helps to yard field goal propel their by D.J. Fitzpatrick proved the players and that's hard. cmo­difference as the Irish won by .tiona! play every single down the final score of 27-24. regardless of the score," Last year, though, the Irish lloyte said. "I think that's were unable to parlay that something every team envies Navy win into getting a bowl and every team strives for invitation. At 3-2 coming into and their team definitely has Saturday's matchup with the that character." Midshipmen, Notre Dame The Midshipmen run a com­doesn't want to miss the post­plex triple-option style offense 
season again. that almost completely 
"It's always good to keep ignores the passing game, and streaks alive and things like the Irish defense knows they that but I don't think it's will have to be disciplined and something that we focus on," on top of' their game to stop lr'ish guard Dan Stevenson the potent Navy attack. 
Saint M!!!Y's Collegg 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
6:00p.m. Mon., Oct. II in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, NO, QB. 6:00p.m., Wed., Oct. 13 in Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin. India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Beijing, Xian, Chengdo, Tibet, Bnngkok, Saigon,Vietnnm, Delhi, Agra(Taj Mahal), Fatehpur Sikri, Jaipur, Khajuraho, Varanasi (Banares), Calcutta, Darjeeling, Madras, Mahabalipurnm, Bangalore, Mysore, Kodaiknnal, Periyar (Wild Lire Sanctuary), Munnar, Cochin, Bombay; optional tra,·elthrough Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 
SUIESTF.R AIUH:ND TilE WORI.Il PROGRAM (574) 2H4-446H OR 4473 • FAX (574) 2H4-4H66 
e-mail: pullapil(tilsaintmatys.edu; 

Improved Player. Borton and LaVere combined to score over 17 points a game last season. Duffy. along with Borton and Battnast will cap­tain the 2004-05 team. 
In total. the Irish return seven players from last sna· son's 21-11 squad that reached the Sweet 16 lwl'ore losing to No. I Penn Stall). They also add four fn)shnwn in Chan~! Allen. Mnlissa D'Amico. Tulyah Gaines and walk-on Amanda Tsipis. 
Notrn Dame begins the sna­son with two hom1~ exhibition contests before playing Illinois State in thn first round of the Women's Preseason National Invitational Tournament at the Joyce Center Nov. 12 at !J 
p.m. If they keep winning, the Irish could play up to four games in the tournanwnt. 
From Jan 2. to Feb. 2, Notre Dame plays seven of 10 games at the Joyce Cenwr. when~ it was a perfect 15-0 last season. The team then ends tlw regular season with five of their last seven ganws on the road. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
"(There's! a lot of prepara­tion. Navy drives the coaches nuts because it's such a com­pletely different type of offense to prepare for." Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby said. "It's fun. I'm looking forward to Kyle Eckel. their fullback. lie's a lheckl of a player so we're going to have to get ready for him this week." 
Navy also has one additional advantage over Notre Dame 
a bye week. The Midshipmen will have not played a game in 16 days by the time they meet the Irish Saturday. 
"It's a pretty big advan­tage," Goolsby said of Navy's bye week. "But I know a lot of times in my experiences sometimes the longer you have to prepare for a ganw it gives you that many morP things that the coaclws ran throw at you to get n~ady for. 
"It can work with you and it can work against you at tlw same time because you have so much more to digest men­tally to get ready for a game. They're going to come out ready and I'm sure they'll be more than prepared so we have a big challenge ahead of' us." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 12, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CATBERT: EVIL DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES 
GOOD NEWS ABOUT EMPLOYEE TURNOVER.,. 
PEANUTS 
I'M POSTPONING MY PLAN TO BURY POOR PERFORMERS IN SCENTED KITTY LITTER. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

IS IT JUST ME OR HAS THE QUALITY OF GOOD NEWS GONE DOWNHILL? 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
NO,TI-lANK YOU.J'M NOT 
INTERESTED IN AWAR.DIN6 
TI4E WINNING TROPI.N.. 
HENRI ARJ\TOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGJ.RION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DYNOS 

( J I 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc~ All Rights Reserved. 
SABIN 
j
I I r []tREPTIL ± 
J 1 r J 
www.jumble.com 
I SEXOUD ± I (l J I 
Answer: 

rI I I J''(I I I I IJ" 
{Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: PECAN GAMUT ALIGHT POPLINYesterday's 
Answer: When the recruit was assigned a top bunk he was-"UP" ALL NIGHT 

WHAT HE: 010 
A.T THE: L-ONDON CASINO. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 New stable 
arrival 5 Wrigley team 9 Beginning 
14 Old Dodge model 
15 Pronto! 
16 Captain Nemo's creator 
17 Jared of "Panic Room" 
18 "A formality!" 19 Chip away at 20 Winter accessory 23 Up to, in ads 
24 CoiL, e.g. 25 However, informally 
28 Caffeine source for many 
33 Learn about 
35 The whole shebang 
36 Forest canine 38 Sailing hazards 41 Geo. W Bush 
has one 42 Artfully dodge 43 Simple door 
fastener 46 Price word 47 Black-and­
orange songbird 48 Polite drivers, at merges 51 Columbia Univ. locale 52 Something to 
shuck 54 _ de Cologne 55 What the ends 
of 20-, 36-and 43-Across suggest 
61 Language of India 64 Actress Malone 65 Tea time, perhaps 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and _mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


30 Frock wearer  45 Like many MTV  57 Get  the  
31 Arm or leg  viewers  ground floor  
32 Perth _,N.J.  49 Slip behind  58 Gooey stuff  
34 Piercing tool  50 Camper's bag  59 Sharer's word  
37 Java neighbor 39 To's partner 40 Element #34 44 First wife of  53 Indian prince 55 fixe (obsession)  60 "Dang!" 61 Is afflicted with 62 Actress Lupino  
Jacob  56 Toy block maker  63 Zip  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michelle Trachtenber~;. Luke Perry, Joan Cusack, Dottie West 
Happy Birthday: It won't take much to get everyone thinking along the same lines as you this year. Drum up support and enthusiasm and you will get the results you are looking for. Set a budget and move forward w: th your most creative ideas. Your numbers are 2, 5, II, 28, 32, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Promote your talents and get moving in an upward motion. Your ambitious and competitive nature must be put to good use. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Check out auction purchases that will grow in value. Today can be a perfect day to make a physical change. Don't be shy. 
***** 

GEMINI {May 21-June 20): Watch out --someone may be looking for ways to get you into trouble or steal your ideas. It may be difficult for you to keep a secret, but today you must do just that ** ... CANCER (June 21-July 22): Rely on your friends to help me-!t new people. If you are looking for love, you shouldn't have to look far. Your great sense of humor and genuine warmth will attract friends and lovers. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Start thinking about your future. Con~;ider taking on a part-time job or applying for a position that will P''Y more. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make all the noise you want, but if you don't have the approval of the ones you love, it won't mean much in the end. Consider the consequences of not compromising. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's time to get yourself organized :md switch into fast mode. There is cash to be made and, if you are prepared, you will be the one to line your pockets. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Mingle and you will discover a new way to seal a deal. Your secretive nature may have caused you to lose out in the past, but by sharing just enough information, you can be everyone's best connection. 
**** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't rock the boat if it could cause problems at work. Be a team player. The allies you conjure up along the way will be valuable. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have the charisma 1:0 get your way, so don't hold back. Do your thing and do it well. The acknowledgement you get will be worth it ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Legal, financial or health matters will be important to deal with. Don't let anyone bamboozle you into doing something you don't feel right about *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Tread carefully if you don't want to upset an important relationship. You may have to promise something that will be an effort on your part, but it will be worth your while. *** 
Birthday Baby: You can charm anyone into doing anything you want You have a very charismatic appeal that will aid you in reaching your goals. You are sophisticated, intelligent and very outgoing. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
66 French farewell 67 Wide-eyed 68 Book after 
II Chronicles 69 1692 witch trials 
city 
70 Fine-tune 
71 For fear that 
DOWN 1 Arlo Guthrie's 
genre 2 Spilled salt, say 3 Pro's foe 4 Ray of 
"GoodFellas" 5 The Kennedy years, 
figuratively 6 Played for a sap 7 3 Musketeers 
units a Eyeglasses, informally 9 "Yoo-hoo!" 
10 Soft ball material 
11 Sellout indicator 
12 Cut short 13 Pigskin prop 21 Part of three-in­
a-row 22 Yearn (for) 25 Minstrel show 
group 26 Player in extra­point attempts 27 Job seekers' good news 28 Graphite element 29 Legendary Mrs. who owned a cow 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
page 24 

N 0 BASKETBALL 
Optimistic beginnings 
Men look to bounce back after injuries, disappointing season 
By PAT LEONARD Associat~ Sports Editor 
Tlw men's basketball team had serious smiles on their faces Monday. And their coach was tho one who set the mood. 
"Everybody ready?" Brcy said at tiH~ start of the season's first press conference during Media Day. "You ready to go? Okay." 
lle paused. 
"Wo've got to get back in the NCAA tournanwnt. it's real sim­ple." he said. "Questions." 
Hcporters laughed. and even Brcy had a smirk on his face. but tlw lifth-ycar Irish coach was not kidding. 
Notn~ Dame did not qualify for the top postseason tourna­ment last season and lost to Oregon (>5-61 in th1~ National Invitation Tournanwnt quarter­linals. 
Bn~y and tho Irish players w1~rP available for tho first time as a group to media nwmbers Monday, and a lighthearted natun~ permeaLPd tlw air as the program's lOOth anniversary season neared its opening. 
Torin Francis slapped tho ball 
sec MEN/page 22 

FOOTBALL 
Irish hope streak doesn't end 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

Forty years, forty wins. And the Irish would like to keep it that way. 
Notre Dame faces Navy Saturday in East Rutherford, 
N.J. in a matchup that has been won by the Irish since 1964. 
The Midshipmen certainly appear capable of ending that streak this season, however. Navy has started the year 5-0 and currently has the nation's sixth-best running attack at an average of 267.4 yards per game. 
"They have the talent and they are a good team," Irish guard Dan Stevenson said. "The thing that they do is that they never quit playing. They'll play you until the very end. You can't really look at 
sec NAVY/page 22 

Irish women have high hopes after last year f s successes 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
The atmosplwre was light, to say the least, during Notrn Dame's Media Day on Monday afternoon at tho Joyce Cenll~r. 
Courtney LaVere placed a microphone in front of Jacqueline Batteast and began a mock interview for a lor.al news station. Breona Gray blew kisses to a teammate. Associate r.oach Carol Owens used her phone to take funny pictures of Megan Duffy. among others. 
llead coach Mul'fet Mr.Graw and hnr 2004-05 edition wen~ all smfles. and for good n~a­son. 
"I think we havn a very VPt­eran team. which reminds mP a little bit of our 120011 cham­pionship tnam," said Md;raw. who is entering her 1Xth sea­son as Notre Dame's hPad coach. "We have gn~at loadPr­ship, wn havn a great point guard, we have a great insidn game. 1 think a lot of thl' pieces arc in placn for us to have a good year." 
sec WOMEN/page 22 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
PW and BP battle for playoff position 
By KEN FOWLER, NATHAN DYER AND TOM STILES Sports Writers 
When Pasquerilla West meets Breen-Phillips tonight, Weasel receiver Maureen Spring expects emotions to run high for both teams. 
"Both teams have three wins and are battling for a playoff spot," she said. "We're coming off a good win, and hopefully we'll cap­ture another one." 
Babes captain Jajmie Feltault agrees on the analy­sis, but hopes for a different outcome. 
"It's a crucial game," she said. "We're looking to rebound from our loss [on Sunday to Cavanaugh] and take home a strong win to end the regular season." 
As for post-season possibil­ities, Feltault knows that there is slim chance of Breen-Phillips making the round of' eight without a vic­tory tonight. 
"It would be helpful to just win tomorrow so we don't have to worry about that pos­sibility," Feltault said. 
At 3-2. Breen-Phillips is currently fourth in the league. closely trailing Pasquerilla West's 3-1-1 record for third place. . 
Coming off a 7-0 win Sunday against McGlinn, Pasquerilla West hopes to capitalize on its momentum and secure the third seed in the Women's Blue League. 
"We executed very well on 
sec INTERHALL/pagc 20 

en 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
CLUB SPORTS

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Lyons 6, Badin 0 
Stanford 0, 
Cavanaugh 21 

Saint Mary's at 
Sie~ried 20,
--~ Morrisey 0 
Breen-Ph111ips b 

Tri-State 
St. dward's 0 
The Notre Dame

Howard 12, 
water polo team won

The Belles hope to
Off-Campus 0 
c:a:s w Keenan 13, 
Pasguerilla West 

Carroll17,
knock off the Thunder 
three of four games this 

Alumni 3 
7, McGlinn 0 

just as they did earlier 
Fisher 10 
weekend in the Great

Lewis 0 
Lakes Conference. 

this season. 
Welsh Family 0 
Dillon 20, 
Walsh 33 
Knott 7,

-a..= Keough 0 
Pasquerilia East 7 
Sorin 6 
page 18

en page 21 
page 17
page 18 
page 17
page 19 








