--~~~~--------------~~-------------~------., 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 29 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1. 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Students, professors react to Bush-Kerry debate 
Darners watch and respond to presidential candidates' primetime face-off 
By TERESA FRALISH A"ociatc News Editor 

As presidential candidates Senator John Kerry and President George Bush sparred over foreign policy topics Thursday evening, student and faculty viewers said the debate had no dear-cut winner, though both men demonstrated individ­ual strnngths. 
The 90-minute debate between Bush and Kerry, mod­erated by PBS news anchor Jim Lehrer. took place at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Fla. All topics and ques­tions were chosen by Lehrer. 
"Certainly tonight nobody lost this debate," political professor David Campbell said. "I don't think there were many surpris­es here." 
Political science professor Peri Arnold, who specializes in presidential politics, agreed that the debate had no over­whelming winner, but said Kerry emerged with a clear edge. 
"I think Kerry did very well and played against form," Arnold said. "I think that he was extremely successful in his presentation." 

Given Bush's current lead in the polls, Arnold said he was most surprised by Kerry's per­formance against Bush, espe­cially on foreign policy issues. 
"I think Kerry was the superi­or candidate in that he did bet­ter than expected. I think this is a format that served him partic­ularly well," Arnold said. 
In contrast, Arnold said Bush tended to repeat much of what he has said already throughout the campaign. 
"What he did was to read the 
see DEBATE/page6 


First Year of Studies to undergo transition 

HILLARY THORNTON and CECELIA HILLARD!The Observer Freshmen wait outside of the main desk for the First Year of Studies office in the Coleman-Morse Center. Eileen Kolman, dean of the First Year of Studies, announced that she will retire in June. 
Former dean looks at program's history 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
The second floor of the Coleman-Morse Center is a famil­iar place for the newest Domers. The First Year of Studies office is housed there and advisors are found shelling out support and guidance daily to Notre Dame's freshmen. 
The nationally renowned and much lauded FYS program first took flight under Dr. Emil Hofman, professor emeritus. Every day, Hofman can be found at his "field office," a bench conveniently situ­ated in front of the Dome on God Quad. He claimed this spot nearly 14 years ago, after retiring from 
see FYS/page 4 


Bookstore gears up for gan1e day 
Employees stock up for expected buying boom 
By TRICIA de GROOT News Writer 
In the minds of many stu­dents. alumni and fans, there is no better time to be on campus than home football weekends. Visitors, both friend and foe, nock to cam­pus to see the Dome, the sta­dium. Touchdown Jesus and not least of all. the Hammes Bookstore. 
The bookstore. which nor­mally employs about 200 people, about 80 of whom work full-time, has upwards of' 500 employees on home football weekPnds. 
"It is a significant opportu­
see BOOKSTORE/page 6 




Irish an1bassador to deliver keynote speech 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Irish ambassador to the United States Noel Fahey will inaugurate Notre Dame's new Irish language and literature 
department with a keynote address today at 3 p.m. at McKenna Hall. 
According to Eamonn O'Ciardha, 

professor in Fahey the Keough Institute for Irish Studies, Fahey's discussion of "Ireland, Europe and the United States: A Post-Presidency Perspective" is of great relevance. 
"It's a very important topic because the relationship between the greatest military superpower [the United States] and what is becoming the greatest economic superpower [the European Union] is of great consequence for the rest of the world," O'Ciardha said. 
Along with the address, Fahey is scheduled for a meeting with Christopher Fox, director of the Keough Institute for Irish studies and University President Father Edward Malloy and lunch with the faculty fellows of the Keough Institute. 
On Saturday, Fahey will be attending the tailgate of Thomas 
see FAHEY/page 4 

Friday, October 1, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Why I hate parietals 
I hate parietals. No, I don't have a significant other on campus and no, parietals are not restraining my sex life -but I do believe that parietals have altered my college career in an extremely nega­
Eileen Duffy 
tive way. 
First of all, they 
don't work. I News 
don't think I'm Production 
letting out any Editor 
secret here. Not 
only are Notre 
Dame students penalized quite often 
for parietals infractions, but I've 
seen many a person get away with it. 
If I wanted to spend the night in a 
guys' dorm. I could-side entrances 
can be opened from the inside in the 
middle of the night, and not going to 
the bathroom for seven hours isn't 
that difficult. Or so I've heard. 
Although they can be easily bro­ken, I would now like to discuss why the ineonvenience of parietals ought to bn abolished. I will start with the sibling argument. I can't believe that this University would force my room­mate's innocent, freckled-face 11­year-old brother to sleep in a strange boys' dorm during a visit. Heally, Notre Dame, he is not going to have sex with anybody, and I highly doubt his presence would bother any of the other girls in our dorm. Plus, I think slr-cping on the futon in his sister's clean room (as opposed to some of the other frighteningly disgusting guys' rooms I've seen) would proba­bly he a healthier environment. 
Next up: The off-campus argu­ment. Notre Dame cares a lot about entertaining its students on campus, and about keeping them in the dorms. 
Thn endless array of SUB movies, Flipsidc events and dorm happenings am evidence to that. Ilowever, when a co-nd group is enjoying itself tognther, especially on a weeknight, the dreaded parietals inevitably force this group to move ofT-campus for continued coed fun in a relaxed atmosphere. 
As much as I like playing foosball with my guy friends in the glaring light of the 24-hour lounges, I'd probably rather be sitting in a pri­vate dorm room, listening to music and chatting. Which brings me to my final (and most important) argument: Parietals hinder healthy relation­ships with members of the opposite sex. I'm not referring to sexual rela­tions at all. I'm talking about friend­ships. 
A person lets down his guard in the comfortable surrounding of his dorm room. Once the makeup, nice clothes and party atmosphere are gone, there remains just the person, flaws and all. Plus, to develop a good friendship or relationship, sometimes a late-night dorm room chat (not on a bench outside, or in Hecker's, or in LaFortune) is necessary-and I don't sen why that must be limited to members of the same sex. 
I would just like to watch a movie with my friends on, say. a Tuesday night. I don't see why it should mat­ter that they are male. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Fileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu. 
CORRECTION 
In rhc Sept. 20 issue ofThe Observer in rhe article "Neighbors sue coach over fence", rhe reporter was provided wirh incorrecr lllforrnarion about the type of perimeter fence permirrcd hy Quail Ridge Homeowners Association rules. A splir-rail fence wuh chain link is nor, in fact, allowed. In dw same arridc, ir was reported rh.u Willingham w.ts provided the opportunity ro subrnir a new pro­pmal bdi>re the lawsuir was flied. The information is ol1so incorrl!ct. 

r·'... •·.·•...•. -·. .·)·.·:··•.·..II.~ ...II"'l""' {r  
Becky Byers  Jamie Martinez  Jim Molani  John Skakun  Patrick Lasseter  Rocco Gallzio  
senior  SDII  senior  senior  freshman  sophomore  
Howard  employee  Fisher  Keough  Dillon  Dillon  
"Notre Dame,  "Notre Dame is  "Notre Dame,  "Notre Dame  "ND, 28. Un-due  "/think they'll  
30. Purdue, I 7·"  going to kick  2 7· Purdue, 24. "  will win 35-3 I."  Perversity, I 2. "  stop counting  

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 
l-.• 
butt!" 


HILLARY THORNTON and CECELIA HILLIARDfrhe Observer Chad Wagner, left, and Ryan Scholz film a segment about Notre Dame for the College Football Tour 2004, "Tailgates, Tradition, and Touchdowns", on the first floor of the Hammes bookstore Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 

The big 'Baby' Is back 
BAY ST. LOUIS, Miss. ­Keith Berg's 17-foot Burmese python came out of hiding after a long weekend. 
Baby had been missing since Thursday, and reap­peared Monday when the smell of rabbits became too much to resist. Berg used the bunnies as bait. 
Baby slithered out from underneath insulation in the attic of Berg's apartment building and back into cap­tivity. The snake was being kept in Berg's bathroom, but escaped when the door was left ajar. 
Julie Lawhead, who lives relieved and looking forward to a full night's sleep. 
across  the  street,  was  
TODAY  
a:::  

"When I first heard that the snake was missing, my three children were playing in the back yard and my youngest is 2 years old," Lawhead said. ''I've even looked under the kids' bed at night. I know that's being paranoid, but you don't always use logic in times like these." 
Men get up In arms over poultry preparation 
BLUEWELL, W.Va. -A family meal erupted into a gun battle after a father and son clashed over how to cook chicken. 
The two men argued over the best way to prepare skinless chicken for dinner. 
"It started out as a physi­cal confrontation, but it escalated until both of them were shooting at each other," said Detective Sgt. 
A.D. Beasley of the Mercer County Sheriff's Depart­ment. 
Beasley said each man fired a .22-caliber handgun at the other. Harley Shrader was struck by a bullet that went through the upper part of his right ear and lodged in the back of his head. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI :::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...J 
ct 
(.) 0 


...J HIGH 77 HIGH 67 HIGH 60 HIGH 58 LOW 50 LOW 50 LOW 40 LOW 37 
when we are up I00-0." 
IN BRIEF 

The Student Union Board will sponsor a screening of "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" tonight and Saturday at 8 and 10:30 p.m. The movie will be shown in 101 DeBartolo for $3. 
Irish ambassador to the United States, Noel Fahey, will give a lecture on the relation­ships among Ireland, Europe and America to inaugurate the University's new Department of Irish Language and Literature today at 3 p.m. in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
The 119th Sorin Talent Show will be presented tonight from 8 to 10 p.m. outside of Sorin Hall. The show will include "Dinn with an Otter" auction for charity. 
The men's and women's cross country teams will run in the Notre Dame Invitational today from 4:15 to 6:15p.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The men's and women's swimming teams will race against Evansville today from 4 to 6 p.m. at the Holt's Aquatic Center. 
The Saturday Scholar Series continues this weekend from 10 to 11:30 a.m. before the football game. FTT professor Donald Crafton will present a lecture on "The Movie Mogul: Joseph P. Kennedy's Film Career". The location has been changed to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 60 HIGH 68 LOW 35 LOW 40 
Atlanta 83 I 64 Boston 70 I 56 Chicago 74 I 44 Denver 48 I 33 Houston 88 I 69 Los Angeles 74 I 58 Minneapolis 58 1 36 New York 74 I 60 Philadelphia 76 I 58 Phoenix 92 I 68 Seattle 70 I 46 St. Louis 73 I 48 Tampa 91 I 74 Washington 76 162 
Friday, October 1, 2004 

1'h, Obm·va + NEWS p•ge :1 
====================================================================================================== 
Ra111adan speaks out in interview-
Scholar claims his visa was revoked for political reasons, not terrorism 
was barred from working in is nothing in my file; I am
Associated Press the United States just -days totally transparent. There is before he was to begin teach­no link with terrorism." NEW YORK -A Muslim ing at the University of Notre· Ramadan said he had trav­scholar whose work visa was Dame. The Department of eled to the United States 13 revoked with little explanation Homeland Security cited secu­times within the last three by the U.S. government said rity concerns for the decision. years and said he is well­Thursday he believed he was but released no specifics. · known to western govern­being targeted because he That silence has sparked ments as a peaceful scholar. encourages 
...,..........,..,..~ protests from at least four U.S. "It is as if we have to blindly Muslims to scholars' groups. led a United support policies to be trust­be outspo­Nations-spon-ed." Ramadan said. ken about sored institu-"When a vocal government tion to issue an Muslim speaks, he is
"When a vocal 
policies they academic free­not trusted."
Muslim speaks, he
oppose. dom alert and Matt Storin, a T a r i q inspired is not trusted. " spokesman for Notre Ramadan. in appeals on Dame, said a phone Ramadan's Ramadan is prepar­
Tariq Ramadan
Ramadan

interview behalf from ing to reapply for

scholar
from Berlin. some Jewish his visa at the sug­said he had no ties to terror­groups. gestion of the State ists and that he had con­Many who Department. demned terrorism even before have rallied in support of "We don't know any more the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Ramadan believe the scholar's than we knew in the past Hamadan said he suspected sharp criticism of Israel, the about the substance of the the U.S. govern-war in Iraq and complaint or the objection ment was pres­U.S. policy in the that caused the revocation of sured to keep him the visa," Starin said. "We
"You should be able Mideast were the 
out of the coun­reasons for the remain optimistic about his try, but does not to express your revocation. eventually getting here." know by whom. "I don't know Ramadan spoke by telecon­
own views when 

"You should be where this deci­ference last Tuesday to the 
you think your 

able to express sion came from," students who had been sched­your own views government isn't Ramadan told uled to take his Islamic stud­when you think reporters at a ies class, but Storin was
doing something 

your government seminar organized unsure whether. those lectures
the right way." 

isn't doing some­by the Western would continue. thing the right Knight Center for Ramadan said if he is even­way," Ramadan Tariq Ramadan Specialized tually permitted to return to said. "There is a Journalism, the the United States, he will work

scholar 

difference Social Science to improve interfaith relations between a strong Research Council and strengthen ties between voice and an extremist voice." and The New York Times immigrant Muslims and U.S.­
Ramadan, a Swiss citizen. Company Foundation. "There born black Muslims. 
jI 
I




Notre Da111e alu111, Life Trustee dies 
Special to the Observer Association, member of 
the advisory council for 
Edmond Haggar Sr., a the Mendoza College of Life Trustee and alum­Business. and chair of nus of the University of the Sorin Society, the Notre Dame, died development organiza­Tuesday in his hometown tion composed of bene­of Dallas. He was 88. factors who contribute 
Haggar, who earned $1,000 or more annually his accountancy degree to Notre Dame in unre­from Notre Dame in stricted gifts. 1 9 3 8 ' On behalf of the was the 
Haggar Foundation, retired Haggar and his brother chair­Joseph made a $750,000 man of gift to Notre Dame in t h e 197 2 in honor of their b o a r d father, J.M. Haggar. a n d The gift made possible presi­the renovation of the dent of Haggar Hall of t h e Haggar Psychology on the North Haggar Quadrangle of the Notre Clothing Co., the Dallas­Dame campus. based apparel company Haggar is survived by founded by his father. his wife, Patricia. five 
Ehicted to Notre children, eight grand­Dame's Board of children, and four great­Trustees in 1976, grandchildren. Haggar served until A Memorial Mass is 1987, when he was ele­scheduled for Saturday vated to Life Trustee. He at Christ the King also served the Catholic Church in University as a director Dallas. Burial will be of the Alumni private. 


You've Loved Parisi's Italian Ristorante For 25 Years 


Now Try Our Second Location Thanks for Making Us Your Home Away From Home!




e race 
The Bistro Proudly Offers: Dry-Aged Prime Steaks 
•
Market Fresh Seafood 
"With a European Flair" 
•
Potato Encrusted Tilapia
•
501 N. Niles Ave. 

Braised Osso Bucco 
South Bend, IN 46617 
•
And Much More ... 
•
Largest Wine Selection in the Midwest

For Reservations: 
Over 350 Varietals To Choose


{574) 233-5000 
Enjoy Live 50's 60's 70's
Roberto Parisi -Owner 
In Our 

"That's Amore Too" 

Martini Ultra-Lounge 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October I, 2004
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
identical today. program and the Learning As outlined on the current FYS Resource Center [LRC] were
FYS 

Web site, "Students are encour­created. Offering free support 
O'Ciardha said the consul gen­eral and Irish government's rep­


Fahey 

resentative in Chicago, CharlPs Sheehan. will also be present. 
continued from page 1 

The planning for this event 
began about six months ago 
and Kathleen O'Donnell an·d after Fox invited tho ambassa· 
then the football game against dor O'Ciardha said. 

Purdue. "Obviously. a lot of choreogra­
"It is indeed fitting that a phy goes into this," O'Ciardha Roscommon man should repre­said. crediting Pam SpencP, sent Ireland on such an historic Notre Dame's director of special occasion," O'Ciardha said, refer­events and protocol. for the ring to Fahey. event coordination. "You have to 
O'Ciardha recalled the visit of organize accommodations for Dr. Douglas the ambassador, Hyde of Trench consul general. P a r k . "You have to their guesl<> and Roscommon, drivers. This is a
organize

who visited difTicult thing to Notre Dame in accommodations for do. especially on 
1906. Hyde was the ambassador. a weekend like the founding this, one of the 
consul general, their

father of the most eagerly­Gaelic League, guests and drivers. anticipated foot­the organization This is a difficult ball gam os." which saved O'Ciardha
i'hing to do,

Irish from said the Irish extinction, the especially on a ambassador's author of the weekend like this, visit was a gmat first literary his­honor, but notPd 
one ofthe most 

tory of Ireland " numerous and the nation's eagerly-anticipated luminaries" first president. football games." have visited 
A career diplo­Notre Dame mat, Fahey recently. includ­
Eamonn O'Ciardha

served as the ing Gerry
professor

Irish ambassa­Adams, Seamus dor in Germany lleaney, Dr. before becoming Garrett the Irish ambassador to the Fitzgerald and Fahey's prede­United States in 2002. He got his cessor, former Irish ambassador start by joining the Irish Foreign Sean O'Huiginn. Service in 1974, completing In addition, there will be a assignments in New Delhi and reception to celebrate the open­Brussels. ing of the department as well as 
According to O'Ciardha, Fahey the publication of two books also played a major part in written by Irish Studies profes­treaty negotiations for the sors. European Union, including the Treaties of Maastricht and Contact Maddie Hanna at Amsterdam. mhannal@nd.edu 
agt~d to use the first year as a time
continued from page 1 of exploration and discovery. 

Experience in a broad range of his 20-year tmmre as dean of the courses will enable students to First Year of Studies pro~-,rram. compare areas of study before 
The Freshmen Year of Studies, choosing the program they wish to as it was called under Hofman's pursue. Those interested in a spe­leadership, was started in 1962 cific area will be able to take under the guidance of the Vice courses during the first year to President of Academic Affairs. affirm that interest and to focus who thought that first-year stu­study toward that program." dents needed to be given better FYS has always tried to encour­tnmtment. age students to 
Under its first think logically, dean. Prol't~ssor "You should plan to communicate William Burke, the effectively ,and
do in life what you

FYS program was develop a passion. more of a prowssing can do and what "You should plan station with no for­you like to do. " to do in life what nJal structure, you can do and aimed mostly at what you like to

Dr. Emil Hofman

rdieving the individ­do," Hofman said. ual departments of professor emeritus In the FYS pro­
work. 
In I 'J71. however. as the University made plans to co-educate. I lofrnan. who was a clwmistry professor and a..o;sistant dean of the College of Science at the time. was asked to become the program's next dean by University President Emeritus Father Theodore I lesburgh. 
Ile accepted under certain con­ditions. 
"I would insLo;t that it become an autonomous academic unit," I lofinan said. 
Since ilo; inception, the program maintained the goals of emphasiz­ing a solid general education and the exposing of students to a wide variety of fields before they ehoose a particular major. 
"All took the same format of courses," Hofman said. "They had a chance to sample a great deal before they made a decision." 
The mission of FYS is nearly 

gram. each stu­
dent is required to take one semester of writing, one seminar, two semesters of mathe­matics, two semesters of science, one semester of history or social science. electives and two physical education requirements. ThLo; pro­gram was designed under llofman over 30 years ago. 
'That curriculum is the reason why we have the very low attrition rate that we do," Hofman said. "It was easier to pass the course than it was to fail a course." 
According to the First Year of Studies Web site, 99 percent of students finish their first year suc­cessfully and 97 percent return to Notre Dame as sophomores. 
Notre Dame currently ranks fourth in lowest attrition rates for freshmen, after Harvard, Princeton and Yale, according to llofman. 
Under Hofman, a guidance 
for all freshmen, Notre Dame 
and its FYS program became 
the "envy of every school in the 
country," Hofman said. 
Today, the LRC is equipped with study tables, tutoring class­rooms and a computer lab. and offers collaborative learning, help sessions. learning strategy and tutoring for freshmen, all free of charge. Over 80 percent of first-year students take advantage of the program's services. 
The First Year of Studies office employs 14 advisors, hired specifically to guide freshmen through their first year. 
According to the First Year of Studies Web site, "Academic advising is the centerpiece of the First Year of Studies Program. Throughout the year. advisors are available to assist students with academic con­cerns. These include awareness of support systems and other resources available on campus and in the surrounding area, as well as ongoing guidance regarding academic goals and eventual choice of college pro­grams." 
In 1990, Hofman decided to retire, hoping to give a younger person the chance to run the FYS program. 
Eileen Kolman was chosen as his successor and she has over­seen the program for the last 14 years. 
Under Kolman's guidance, the First Year of Studies' Academic Convocation was born in the fall of 2003. A strong peer-advising program has also developed. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 



len's &#4 Women's 
$QI,J'I"H OE:~O ORT>iOPAEOICS 


Cross Coumn tiD Invitational 
Burke Golf Course 4:15PM First 100 fans receive a Gold Games t-shirt sponsored by South Bend Orthopaedics! 

#9 len's Soccer n. BC 
@ 7:30 PM Alumni Field First 250 fans receive a megaphone w/ popcorn sponsored by Marathon Oil! 
Sand1J10/3
#1W.Soccar 
Hoclev 

VI. Provld8DC8 
#lien's soccer vs. 
Blue/Gold
1:00PI-Alumni loJOI•ChiCIID ScrimmageReid 3:30 PM-IIumnl Reid 
4:05PM 
Pre-game

Pre-game tailgate Free La Esperanza tailgate while 
by Mazatlan pre-game tailgate supplies last, Authentic while supplies last! 
courtesy of Mexican. First 
First 100 fans will re­
Famous Dave's 250 fans receive a ceive a coupon to La BBQ!

Viva Los Irish 
Esperanza! t-shirt sponsored 
d
by McDonald 
~ 
Physical Therapy! 
~~ 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 1, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
CIA director makes changes at top 
WASHINGTON -New CIA Directo.r Porter Goss has ;eplaced the agency's No. 3 official and made several other changes as he closes his first week on the job. 
Goss announced Thursday that Michael Kostiw will replace A.B. "Buzzy" Krongard as the agency's executive director. Kostiw, a former vice president at ChevronTexaco, previously served in the CIA for roughly a decade and ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1986. 
Krongard, known for an oversized person­ality, was a senior adviser to the agency's former director George Tenet. A wealthy martial arts expert, Krongard took the job after a successful career in investment bank­ing. 
Cuba criticizes U.S. trade embargo 
HAVANA -In communist Cuba, milk rations for children stop at age 7, blackouts stop the fans in sweltering homes, and it's anyone's guess whether there'll be cooking gas this month. 
Such banes of daily life are the product of the U.S. trade embargo and could be removed in a year of sanctions being lifted, Cuba's foreign minister said Thursday as he launched the island's annual international campaign against the embargo. 
Cuba has lost an average of $1.8 billion a year in trade since the first sanctions were imposed in 1960, a year after the Cuban rev­olution thrust Fidel Castro into power, Felipe Perez Roque told a news conference. 
Steadily strengthened in subsequent years, the embargo now prohibits virtually all trade between the two countries, except for the sale to Cuba of some U.S. food and medicine. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
EPA report critical of Bush 
WASIIINGTON -The Bush administration's push to case a clean air rule hampered the set­tlement of pollution lawsuits against utilities, according to federal agency watchdog's report Thursday. 
The Environmental Protection Agency said the findings by il<; inspector general were inaccu­rate. misleading and based on a misunderstand­ing of the agency's enforcement activities. 
The internal report also said enforcement offi­cials at the EPA strongly argued that the rule changes would set such lenient requirements so as to jeopardize the prosecution of many of the cases. 
U.S. visitors face additional security 
LOS ANGELES -Tightening its defenses against terrorism, the United States on Thursday began fingerprinting and photographing visitors from some of America's staunchest allies upon their arrival in this country. 
The Homeland Security Department estimated the new requirements would affect 33,000 visi­tors a day but would add only 15 seconds to the processing time. The fmgerprinting is done digi­tally, sparing travelers from getting their fingers smudged with ink. 
Ana Hinojosa. area port director for U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the Los Angeles International Airport, said the addition­al screenings "will significantly enhance our security posture." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Toddler dies in house fire 
MUNCIE-Fire swept through a house on the city's north side today, killing a 2-year-old boy who was trapped inside, authorities said. 
The child was pronounced dead at the scene, apparently from smoke inhalation, Delaware County Coroner Jim Clevenger said. 
Fred Cler. a Fire Department battalion chief. said investigators believed the fire started in the living room next to the bed­room where the boy was found. 

Bush, Kerry clash on Iraq war 
In first of three debates, presidential candidates discuss foreign policy issues 
Associated Press 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. ­Sen. John Kerry accused President Bush Thursday night of a "colossal error in judgment" by ordering the invasion of Iraq. "The world is better off without Saddam Hussein," the pres­ident shot back in cam­paign debate, adding his rival once said so himself. 
"I agree with him," the president added sarcasti­cally, emphasizing his cam­paign's contention that Kerry is prone to flip-flops. 
In a 90-minute debate dominated by a war that has claimed more than 1 ,000 American lives, Kerry called the conflict a diver­sion in the broader struggle against terror and the hunt for Osama bin Laden. 
The four-term Massachusetts senator said he could do a better job than Bush of protecting the nation against another Sept. 11-style attack. and pledged to be strong and resolute in fighting terror­ism. 
"But we also have to be smart ... and smart means not diverting our attention from the war on terror and taking it off to Iraq," Kerry said. 
"This president, I don't know if he really sees what's happening over invasion in March 2003, Kerry often took notes Edwards of North Carolina. there," Kerry said of Bush, many of them by insurgents when the president spoke. hold their only face-to-face the two men standing battling American forces. There were few light debate of the campaign behind lecterns 10 feet Not long before Bush and moments, the most promi­Tuesday in Cleveland. apart on a University of Kerry strode on stage, U.S. nent when they exchanged The polls gave Bush a Miami debate stage. and Iraqi forces launched a courtesies about their 20-slight advantage, with sev­
Bush swiftly returned to major attack against the something daughters. eral key battleground states his theme of Kerry as a insurgents in Samarra. The "Trying to put a leash on exceedingly close. man who changes his mind U.S. command said govern­them," Bush quipped of Bush and Kerry differed too often to be president. ment and police buildings twins Jenna and Barbara. over North Korea, Iran and 
"He voted to authorize had been secured in the The 90-minute debate Russia as well as Iraq in a the use of force and now city. unfolded scarcely a month debate limited to foreign says it's the wrong war at Both men used well­before the election. the first policy and terrorism. the wrong time.... I don't rehearsed lines during their in a series of high-stakes Kerry charged that North think you can lead if you face-to-face encounter, but encounters between the Korea and Iran both have say wrong war, wrong time, this was the first time each president and his advanced their nuclear wrong place. What message had to listen to the criticism Democratic challenger. The weapons programs during does that send to our at close quarters. two men meet Oct. 8 in St. the Bush administration troops?" said the Bush appeared perturbed Louis and again on Oct. 13 and that both countries are Republican incumbent. when Kerry leveled some of in Tempe, Ariz. more dangerous now. "As 
More than 1,000 his charges, scowling at Vice President Dick president I'll never take my Americans have been killed times and looking away in Cheney and Kerry's run­eye off that ball," the sena­in Iraq since the U .S.-led apparent disgust at others. ning mate, Sen. John tor said. 

IRAQ 

Bombings kill35 children, wound others 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -A string of bombs killed 35 children and wounded scores of others as U.S. troops hand­ed out candy Thursday at a govern­ment-sponsored celebration to inau­gurate a sewage plant. It was the largest death toll of children in any insurgent attack since the start of the Iraq conflict. 
Grief-stricken mothers wailed over their children's bloodied corpses, as relatives collected body parts from the street for burial and a boy picked up the damaged bicycle of his dead brother. 
The wounded were rushed to 
Yarmouk Hospital, where angry rela­tives screamed for attention from the overwhelmed doctors, many of whom wore uniforms covered in blood. One woman tore at her hair before pulling back the sheet cover­ing her dead brother and kissing his body. 
The bombings in Baghdad's west­ern al-Amel neighborhood-at least two of which were in cars -came amid a series of savage attacks that killed at least 51 people and wound­ed 230 nationwide. At least one U.S. soldier was among the dead and 13 were wounded. 
Jordanian terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's Tawhid and 
Jihad group claimed responsibility for bloody attacks in Baghdad on Thursday, according to a statement posted on a militant Web site. 
The authenticity of the statement could not be verified, and it was unclear whether the three "heroic operations" it cites -attacks on a government complex and "a convoy of invading forces" -included the bombs that killed the children. 
Early reports said a U.S. convoy was passing by the celebration when the attack occurred. The U.S. mili­tary said later that American soldiers were taking part in the celebration but that no convoy was passing through the area. 

Friday, October 1, 2004
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
script which we've heard so 
much," he said. 
Political science professor Alvin Tillery said Bush's repeti­tive answers stood out to him as well. and could pose a major problem for Bush in later debates on domestic issues. 
"You can't just repeat your­self over and over." Tillery said. "!Bush's! domestic record is very weak." 
However, Campbell. a spe­eialist in political participation, said this repetitive tactic may have been beneficial to Bush since many viewers do not actually watch the entire debate. 
"[The debate! demonstrated that contrary to his critics, George W. Bush is able to think on his feet and form an answer that is quite compelling," Campbell said. 
Tillery said the debate gen­erally provided viewers with a furth1~r look at the already established views and person­alities of both Bush and Kerry. 
"I thought both candidates delivered performances that were within their range," he said. "!Bush! definitely played to the strengths that incum­be~t presidents always play to. 
Students watching the debate agreed that no candi­date overwhelmingly outper­formed the other. 
"As a Kerry supporter. it reaffirmed a lot of the things I liked about Kerry." sophomore Katie Kemnetz said. "As for issues. it's basically stuff we 
know already but it was good 
to have it in that format." 
As a student from the United 
Arab Emirates, Kemnetz said 
she was particularly interested 
in this debate and its focus on 
foreign policy issues. 
"I like the way [Kerry! focused on allies," she said. ''I'm very interested to see what Bush comes up with in the next debate." 
Sophomore Chris Harris said Bush and Kerry's performanc­es appeared similar. 
"I don't think either one real­ly outshined the other." he said. "I think they were even on major points." 
Though Harris said Kerry spoke strongly, he gave a sight policy edge to Bush. 
"It really was even in terms of presentation, but I think President Bush has a much better policy. His agenda for America seems a lot more realistic," Harris said. 
Though she found the debate engaging, sophomore Sarah Miller said she noticed a signif­icant lack of specifics in both candidates' discussion of the issues. 
"There was a lot of rhetoric 11ying from both sides and a lot of skirting of the issues." Miller said. 
In particular, Miller said the issue of genocide in Darfur deserved greater attention from Bush and Kerry. 
"I wish the Sudan had been better addressed," she said. "I really think it's something that both candidates need to make a statement on." 
Arnold, Tillery and Campbell said it would be difficult to assess at this point what impact the debate might have on undecided voters, or the 

"Feeling at home while away"
IIiJJt SCOTTISH "-' 
2180 Miami Hwy 
BED 81.. BREAKFAST 

Bremen, IN 46506 
574-220-6672 

• 30 m1n from Notre Dame· ·-·-·-~-·-·-·-·-·-· . lwww.scottishbb.com 
• Indoor fuII-s1ze poo1 ~--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· 
• 
Free continental-plus breakfast 

• 
Park-like country setting for relaxation 

• 
King & Queen Select Comfort Mattresses 

• 
Indoor smoke-free • Washer & dryer access 

• 
TV/DVD in every room • Putting Green 

• 
Com uter, co , fax, & mail service 


Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2005/6 and 2006/7 school years. 
Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 
57 4-532-!895 


'DEiiGN CUT&. STYLE' ADVANCED COLOI'-.ING &. COI'-.1'-.ECTION 'PI'-.OFEHIONAL MAKE-UP • 'MEN'! !TYLING 'AVEDA !PA MANICUI'-.E! &. PEDICUI'-.fS' BODY&. FACIAL WAXING' 
Illusion~:> 
AVEDA.· 
CON'CBPT SALON 

OPEN MON TIIRU SAT GiFT CERTIFICATES
574-272-03I 2 

D<".slgn~rs Train~d in I ondon, Toronto, Los Ang~l<".s, Atlanta & Chicago 
THE COP-.NEP-. OF STATE RD. 23 &. 11'-.0NWOOD BEHIND SUBWAY 
presidential campaign as a whole. 
''I'd say that it depends on how many people watched," Tillery said. 
Campbell said while voters who lean toward one party may have chosen a candidate Thursday, gauging the debate's impact on entire campaign would not be as simple. 
"[Kerry) needs to gain more votes," Campbell said. "For those pure independents, it's hard to say." 
In assessing the first debate's impact on future debates. Arnold said Kerry could build momentum from his performance Thursday. 
"All the pressure tonight was on Kerry -he's behind in the polls." Arnold said. "President Bush has got to come back in the next debate." 
Thursday's debate was the first in a series of three presi­dential debates and one vice presidential debate. The next debate will take place in town hall format next Tuesday, while the final Bush-Kerry debate will focus solely on domestic policy issues. 
The debates are organized by the non-partisan Commission on Presidential Debates, which has overseen televised presidential debates since the 1972 election. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
nity for the community and for students," bookstore director Jim O'Connor said. 
This year's version of The Shirt -the kelly green T­shirt saying "We are ND" ­has already been off to a great start in sales, O'Connor 
said. He attrib­uted it largely to the spring unveiling. 
In 2002, 150,000 units were sold and in 2003, 130,000 units were sold. This year, the book­store has already man­aged to sell 60,000 shirts. 
In addition to adding more bookstore more of a depart­ment store feel. This allows the bookstore to create sec­tions specifically for women, children and alumni, he said. 

When deciding what kind of merchandise to stock the store with, the bookstore looks at both the previous year's sale records and the football schedule. 
In short, what is displayed in the bookstore in early 
September is dif­
ferent from the 
"Last year we merchandise shown in late
were able to 
November.

respond to The "Last year we 
Shirt demand were able to respond to The
because we had 

Shirt demand
three home games 

because we had 
in November. " three home games in November." O'Connor said.
Jim O'Connor 

However the 
bookstore director 
employees to the bookstore staff, the store is also rearranged for easy shop­ping. 
"One of the beauties of the new facility is flexibility," O'Connor said. "/\II of our fixtures are mobile." 
O'Connor also said after the students' back-to-school needs were mostly accommo­dated, the layout geared toward academic products was changed to give the 

bookstore has already sold this year's allotment The Shirt. 
O'Connor also said the bookstore looks at what teams will be playing. how far they arc traveling to come to the game and if they are a team that Notre Dame has rec1~n tly played. 
He explained many Washington fans made book­store purchases because of these factors. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
"All the fun of college,
View photos and floor plans at 
without the education"
www.REMCl.com
u...-------.11 
=> Proudly Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community => The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Avail­able => 4 & 5 Bedroom Units ND 
AV 
=> WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit E => Dishwasher 
E D 

=> 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 
D y 
;=> ADT Alarm Systems => Close to Campus 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Col]loration P.O. Box 540 
CEDAR
South Bend. IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rludwig@cbr""b .corn 

Notre Dame Apartments 
=> Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus => Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue => Current 1-year & 1 0-month Leases Available => On-Site Laundry Facility => 2 Closets and 1Desk in Each Bedroom => Private Parking Lots => 24-hour Emergency Maintenance => Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment => Double vanity/sinks in bathroom 


For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 South Bend. IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 

NEW CLIENTS so% OFF DESIGN CuT & STYLE! 
-Exclusively with our Designers, Creative Designers and selected Master Des(qners­
•/vf e-1'\.o'.1-' StyU.~ *Ad'V~ C&lcr~ cwui-Corre.d"i-0-1'\.o *Ve.-~1'\.o Cu-t' ~StyLe­
•A ved.a.-Sp""' /vf ~1?/.1-' ""ltd, Pe.dwwr~W *Profe,w~ /v1~-Up 
Offer valid thru October 31. 2004 
ILLUSIONS-AN IMAGE WE CAN CREATE FOR YOU! 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Friday, October 1, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,080.27 -55.97
}ones 
rr~..  
Up:  sOme:  Down: Composite Volume:  
1,981  163  .,  1,749,438,848  

AMEX 1,271.83 +7.45 NASDAQ 1,896.84 +24.07 NYSE 6,570.25 +9.57 s&PSOO 1,114.58 -0.22 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,823.57 0.00 
FTSf IOO(London) 4,570.80 -17.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +5.96 +0.18 3.20 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.05 -0.01 20.06 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.25 +0.07 27.65 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.3 I -0.15 11.28 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -I. I 5 -0.21 18.10 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.62 +0.30 48.91 10-YEAR NOTE +0.71 +0.29 41.19 5-YEAR NOTE +0.36 +0.12 33.70 3-MONTH BILL -0.36 -0.06 16.74 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.13 49.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.70 420.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.65 97.375 
Excha Rates 
YEN 110.0700 EURO 0.8042 POUND 0.5515 CANADIAN$ 1.2615 
IN BRIEF 
Microsoft: Sharing could expand 
LUXEMBOURG -Microsoft Corp. said in 
court Thursday that it had been prepared dur­
ing settlement talks. to share more software 
code with its rivals than the European Union 
ultimately demanded. 
Nevertheless, the company argued that it 
would still face irreparable harm if forced to 
comply with a landmark antitrust ruling. 
.Judge Bo Vesterdorf grilled EU officials 
about whether "less forceful" means could 
have achieved the same effect as they defend­
ed their order during the first public hearing 
in the more than 5-year-old case. 
The software giant is asking Europe's sec­
ond-highest court to suspend the EU's far­
reach-ing antitrust order, which would force 
dramatic changes in Microsoft's business 
practices. 
Vesterdorf must decide whether to grant a 
stay while Microsoft's appeal is being heard, a 
process that could take years, or allow it to 
take effect immediately as the EU and 
Microsoft critics want. 
Dollar falls against major rivals 
NEW YORK -The dollar fell broadly 
Thursday, pressured by positioning before the ·end of the month and quarter. a key business gauge to be released in Japan Friday and jitters ·ahead of a meeting of Group of Seven finance 
ministers. 
The dollar's decline brought the euro to the 
upper extremes of the range that has confined 
the two currencies for seven months. The dollar 
also reached its lowest levels in six days against 
the yen despite a rally in oil that brought the 
front-month crude contract up 13 cents to $49.64 
a barrel. 
Expectations for strength in the Bank of 
Japan's quarterly tankan business sentiment 
index were a factor in the yen buying. If the index 
comes in as exp!\Cted. the dollar may rise versus 
the yen. said Meg Browne. curnmcy strategist at 
HSBC in New York. 
Comments made by Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas Pn~sident Hobert McTeer exacerbated the 
dollar's decline Thursday, Browne said. McTeer. 
who is not a voting member of the policy-setting 
Federal Reserve Open Market Committee this 
year, indicated that persistently high oil prices 
have the potential to weigh on the economy. 

Vioxx woes weigh on stocks 
Merck/s removal ofdrug from market signals end ofpoor quarter on Wall Street 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Wall Street closed out a dismal third quarter with a mix.ed per­formance Thursday after Merck & Co. said it would be forced to remove its best­selling Vioxx arthritis drug from the market. Merck's unexpected bad news left blue chips with a loss for the day, while high-tech stocks got a lift from bar­gain hunters. 
Merck's troubles-Vioxx was found to carry an increased risk of heart attack and stroke -were magnified because the com­pany is part of the Dow Jones industrials. Analysts said the Dow likely would have been nat to slightly higher without Merck's announcement. 
Bad economic news also weighed on stocks as the Labor Department reported the highest increase in weekly first-time j'obless claims in seven months, and-· the Commerce Department reported consumer spend­ing was flat for the month of August. 
"I think the Merck bomb­shell has certainly super­seded anything else we might have gotten today," S(!id Bryan Piskorowski, market analyst at Wachovia Securities. "Merck is going to keep us in the trading ceutical stocks were mixed since the third quarter of short term. The Commerce range we've been in all to slightly lower on the 2002. Department reported that week, and I think we'll be in news -it was just one of For the month, the Dow business spending grew at a that range for the short many pressures on stocks lost 0.9 percent-the sixth 3.3 percent annual rate in term. at least until earnings throughout the third quar­consecutive September loss the second quarter, an come out in a few weeks." ter, whiCh saw oil prices rise for the index -while the improvement on a previous 
The Dow fell 55.97, or 0.6 past $50 per barrel, an S&P 500 gained 0.9 percent estimate of 2.8 percent but percent, to 10,080.27. unexpected slowdown in and Nasdaq added 3.2 per­still lower than the 4.5 per­Merck represents 3.27 per­economic growth and a cent. cent increase from the first cent of the Dow, and Dow series of negative earnings In other economic news, quarter. Jones & Co., which manages warnings from top compa­consumer incomes rose 0.4 "We're definitely seeing the index, said Merck's tum­nies. percent in August, but some mixed economic data. bling share price equated to The major indexes ended spending I"emained flat as which is consistent with the at least an 88 point drop. the quarter substantially consumers contended with worries we've been having 
Broader stock indicators lower, with the Dow losing higher fuel prices through­over the economy and con­were narrowly mixed. The 3.4 percent, the Nasdaq out the summer. A barrel of sistent with companies that Standard & Poor's 500 tumbling 7.4 percent and light crude settled at have pre-announced warn­index was down 0.22, or the S&P 500 dropping 2.3 $49.64, up 13 cents, on the ings for the third quarter," 
0.02 percent, at 1,114.58, percent. The Dow's losses New York Mercantile said Jack Caffrey, equities and the Nasdaq composite from July to September was Exchange. strategist at J.P. Morgan index gained 2.90, or 0.2 the biggest quarterly With consumer spending Private Bank. "That mixed percent, to 1,896.84. decline since the first quar­in a lull, economists said it message could continue 
While Merck's troubles ter of 2003, while the will be up to businesses' until we get better economic seemed to be limited to the Nasdaq's losses for the · capital spending to push the data and, eventually, better company itself -pharma-quarter were the worst economy forwaFd in the earnings." 


Fannie Mae undergoes investigation 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The Justice Department has begun a criminal investigation into mortgage giant Fannie Mae: which has been accused of earnings manipulation and ordered to revamp its accounting. it was learned Thursday. 
An accounting crisis emerged last week at the government-spon­sored company, which finances and guarantees the most home mortgages in the country. 
A federal agency that oversees Fannie Mae and its sibling compa­ny, Freddie Mac, cited serious accounting problems after eight months of investigating. Also, the Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting a pre­liminary inquiry. 
Fannie Mae shares, which fell more than 13 percent last week, declined by $2.85 on Thursday to close at $6~.40 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The Justice Department's inves­tigation was confirmed by a per­son with knowledge of that probe, first reported in .Thursday's Wall Street Journal. The person spoke on condition {)f anonymity. 
Department spokesman Bryan Sierra declined comment, as did Brian Faith, a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae. 
Regulators from the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight have provided their find­ings about Fannie Mae to the Justice Department and the SEC. The agency cited in a report an instance in 1998 in which account­ing for $200 million in expenses was put off to a future reporting period so executives could receive full bonuses. 
"The government could use the bonus plan to help show a motive for overly aggressive accounting," said Richard Carnell, a law profes­sor at Fordham University. lie was an assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions in the Clinton administration. 

page 8 Friday, October l, 2004
The Observer + NEWS 
KoliDan 
continued from page I 
expires. 
"[University President] Father Malloy and I are leav­ing together, I suppose," Kolman said with a laugh. "Though, in terms of transi­tion, a new president really outshines a new dean." 
Modesty aside, Kolman's absence will be keenly felt as she vacates a position com­fortably filled for the last 15 years. Under her watch, the FYS program has grown to be recognized for excellence by reputable organizations like the U.S. News & World Report and Hispanic magazine. 
"I received the First Year program in good condition. My hope is that I strengthened it and contributed to the experi­ence that students have here," Kolman said. "The retention rates have spoken to that -we graduate more students than almost every com­parable college." 

In 1989, Kolman "It's my hope that I ed Sept. 23 by was hired as asso­helped make the the Academic ciate provost with 
Council, and
First Year an 

include philoso­responsibilities for 
exemplary model 

women's concerns, phy professor academic affirma­to help students Cornelius tive action, faculty Delaney, history
make the 

grievances and professor Olivia transition from R e m i e
appeals, HOTC and the needs of handi­high school to Constable, Arts capped students, & Letters dean
college." 

Ava Preacher, taught finite math engineering as a concurrent Eileen Kolman professor Panos assistant professor First Year of Studies Antsaklis, of mathematics dean 
and occasionally chemistry and 

She served in that 
capacity for a year 
until she was offered the FYS 
deanship, which she called 
her "perfect job at Notre 
Dame". 
"When I took the position, a lot of people asked me why I left the Provost's Office," she said. "lFYS) may be a smaller boat, but it's my boat. As Dean of the First Year of Studies, I get the chance to work with students and be involved in academic life." 
Kolman earned a master of education degree from Boston College and a doctorate in higher education from Loyola of Chicago, and held adminis­trative positions at several smaller colleges before com­ing to Notre Dame. 
ller original career aspira­tions were to teach high school mathematics -which she did for four. years -but soon she was drawn to cam­pus ministry. Never, she said, did she sec Notre Dame administration in her future. 
"Coming to Notre Dame was a big move, because I had always wanted to be at small colleges," Kolman said. "It was a great opportunity though." 
Kolman relieved Emil Hofman after his 20-year tenure as FYS dean, though the program was operating under the name 'Freshman Year' at the time. The nominal switch to 'First Year' was just one of the changes Kolman presided in the last decade and a half. 
The University Seminar pro­gram was instituted to foster discussion among freshmen students and faculty in small classes, collaborative learning groups were formed to bring students together to work through more challenging class work and First Year Composition courses switched to a more workshop-oriented methodology. 
Kolman was also heavily 

involved in the creation of the 
Kaneb Center for Teaching 
and Learning, and worked to 
increase diversity of the advi­
sors within the First Year of 
Studies department. 

"I've been a part of great things and worked with a lot of other people to make things happen," Kolman said. 
One of Kolman's rationales· for retirement, however, was to bring in new leadership to keep the program dynamic. 
"[FYS) needs to continue to grow and change, because students are different than they were, they have different aspirations, and the University is different than it has been," Kolman said. "We need a new vision of the future. I helped put many of the current facets of the program in place, so it's not easy to say that it's time to do things differently." 
A panel made up of five fac­ulty members and one stu­dent, chaired by University Provost Nathan Hatch. will nominate Kolman's successor. 
Panel mem­
bers were elect­
biochemistry 
professor Richard Taylor and senior Jeremy Staley. 
Kolman said that she has no firm plans for retirement aside from travel, but said she does not foresee continued involvement in the University. 
Her legacy in the First Year of Studies, however, will be indelible. 
"It's my hope that I helped make the First Year an exem­plary model to help students make the transition from high school to college," Kolman said. "That can be sensitive to developmental issues while at the same time give students challenging academic experi­ence." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at arnichael@nd.edu 

Texas A&M cares for orphan pets 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas­Fifteen cats, 11 dogs, a pony and a llama live here, but this is no shelter, kennel or hobby farm. 
The 8,300-square-foot ranch on the sprawling campus of Texas A&M University is an orphanage of sorts, a place for pets whose owners have died. Its caretaker, one of the coun­try's top veterinary medicine schools, runs the place like a home, just what the pets' own­ers wanted. 
Its success has been so great in its 11-year history-primari­ly from word-of-mouth by vet­erinarians -that the university on Friday will dedicate a 3,500­square-foot expansion financed by $600,000 in contributions.. 
So far, 94 owners from 18 states have made arrangements for 250 animals to live at the Stevenson Companion Animal Life-Care Center after they're gone. Among them is Elise Lee Wear, a retired University of Wisconsin nursing professor who has enrolled her two dogs. 
"It's very hard to say to a friend or somebody: 'Will you take my dog?"' Wear said. "My dogs are extraordinarily impor­tant to me, and I want to be sure they are really well taken care of, both medically and psycho­logically." 

Each owner pays an endow­ment that begins at $10,000 and varies based on his or her age and the pet's size. It can be paid up front or as a bequest through a will or trust. The total amount collected to date is $4 million. 
The center is named for Madlin Stevenson, an early sup­porter of the project. Her family name is half of Houston-based Stewart & Stevenson, a billion­dollar century-old corporation that grew from carriage repairs and horseshoes in the early 1900s to diesel engines and diesel-powered equipment for the automotive, defense and oil­field industries. 
Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is 
to know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report provide~ insight you can't get anywhere else. For only $45.95 receive 21 comprehensive issues, published weekly during the football season, monthly after the season. In addition, our annual Notre Dame Football Preview is included. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports fans. 
-Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
-Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, & samdwiches 
-Featuring gourmet pizzas 
-Music is live on Fridays & Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time 
-Wine, microbrews, specialty drinks & martinis, along with traditional coffee house drink menu items 
-Art Gallery 



Friday, October 1, 2004 

The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Mount St. Helens part

Metnorial tnade to honor soldiers 
three-fourths of "The Aleutians are Canada to the world's active Northern 

7:30-9:30p.m. 
one of the most 
and dormant vol­California. two
vigorous volcanic 

316 Coleman-Morse 
canoes, scientists of the tallest say. parts ofNorth peaks -Mount 
Most of the America., Rainier in activity is related Washington to shifting in the state and Mount 
Jim Luhr 
vast sections of Shasta in

The Standing Committee on Gay and 
the Earth's sur­volcanologist California 
Associated Press 
PAPILLION. Neb. -For months now. Bill Deane has been building an 8-foot-tall tree made of copper leaves, each engraved with a name of a U.S. or coalition soldier killed in Iraq. 
He started with just a few branches. He's since added four or five more and nearly 1,100 more leaves. 
"It makes the war real for me," Deane said. 
Children in his suburban Omaha neighborhood ride by on bikes and ask Deane when he's going to finish the tree. He responds, "hopefully soon." 
sleeping giant is but a part of 
a volcanic "ring of fire" so 
vast that it encircles the 
Pacific Ocean. Indeed, the other 12 major 

Convesratio 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning volcanoes in the Cascade Range of northern California,
Students at Notre Dame 
Oregon and Washington state lie within this geological phe­nomenon as well. 
The entire ring -from the tip of South America up through Alaska, Japan and the Kamchatka Peninsula of Russia, down through the

Tuesday, October 5th 
Philippines and Indonesia into 

(and everyfirst Tuesday of the month) 
New Zealand ­includes about 


Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
face known as 
tectonic plates, continent-size chunks of crust 

lesbian, and bisexual members of. 
the Notre Dame family, their 
that float atop the planet's 
molten core. Mount St. Helene and the 

friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Cascades lie near the edge of the Juan de Fuca plate, which is diving under the North American plate to create a 700-mile long "subduction zone" along the ocean floor that triggers earthquakes and

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
pushes molten rock upwards. Called magma underground

*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
and lava when it surfaces, the molten rock is forced up 
THE STANDING 
through fissures and weak 
COMMITTEE ON 
spots in the crust. 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
Mount St. Helene lies along
STUDENT NEEDS 
a particularly weak area of the crust, causing it to be the 

Create your own space with the wonderful fragrances of popourri and Yankee Candles. Accent your room with great new home decor selections and special seasonal floral arrangements. At Sugarberry Lane we have hundreds of ideas to decorate your dorm or apartment or for gift suggestions. And when you to step out onto campus, step out in style with bags by 
~BRADLEY,. 
Back Packs • Purses • Duffel Bags 
Including the newest patterns 
We-'re just minutes north ofcampus! 
52313 St. Rte. 933 North • 272•9608 
Mon-Fri lOam to 6pm • Sat lOam to 5pm • Closed Sunday 
Lately, it's been hard for Deane to keep up with the num­ber of soldiers dying in Iraq. Each month since the June han­dover of sovereignty to the inter­im government, the number of American troops killed in Iraq has grown. 
In June, 42 soldiers were killed. In July, 54 died. In August, 65. At least 74 died in September, marking the first time the U.S. death toll has risen in four consecutive months. 
Every five days or so, Deane prints out the pictures and biog­raphies of the latest U.S. and coalition soldiers killed. He binds them together in an old white folder that has "Fallen Soldiers" written in black on the 
of Pacific 'ring of fire' front. Almost every day, he sits in his garage, cuts a leaf from a sheet of copper, facets it with a 
Eruption may be in volcano's near future 
hammer and then reads a biog­raphy, looks at a face and 
Associated Press engraves a last name and age. 
"It's almost like I'm touching PORTLAND, Ore. -Three them [soldiers] when I put the 
or four times every minute,
leaves on," Deane said. "They're 
Mount St. Helens shivers. 
becoming part of my life. It's Sometimes the majestic peakreal tough." 
even shudders, the trembling
A sheet metal worker for beneath reaching a crescen­
much of his adult life, 56-year­
do, a magnitude of 3.3. old Deane said when the war 
The earthquakes that start­
started, he felt he had to do 
ed a week ago Thursday ­something. Working with metal 
almost certainly precursors
is all he could do, he said. 
to an eruption -are a reminder that the 8,364-foot most active volcano in the Northwest over the centuries. said Jon Major, a U.S. Geological Survey researcher in Vancouver, Wash. Its most spectacular showing was in May 1980, with an eruption that blew the top 1,400 feet off the mountain. 

"It sits near the St. Helene seismic zone, an area where the crust is pulled apart a lit­tle bit," Major said. "That Jets magma push up and explains why it's so active and others are not so active." 

For example. Mount Adams lies only about 50 miles east of Mount St. Helene but has not erupted in thousands of years. Major said. 
Mount Jefferson, which lies between Mount Hood and the T}l.ree Sisters in the Oregon stretch of the Cascades, appears to have been dormant since the last Ice Age despite relatively recent eruptions on neighboring peaks, he said. 
In the rest of the Cascade 
Range, which 
stretches from 
both have erupt­

ed at least once in the past 200 years and have. had several more over the last 2,000 years. Most were con­sidered minor, according to USGS figures. 
The Northwest, in turn, has been relatively quiet com­pared to other areas of the ring, according to Jim Luhr. director of the global volcan­ism program at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. 
The Aleutian Island chain in Alaska, Central America, Japan and Indonesia have all been more active recently. Luhr said. 
"The Aleutians are one of the most vigorous volcanic parts of North America," he said. 
But he noted that other parts of the world have plen­ty of dormant volcanoes, including France and Germany. 
Luhr recently returned from a trip to Armenia where ancient petroglyphs show evidence of eruptions. 
"There are relatively young volcanoes all over Armenia," he said. "None have erupted in the last 4,000 years, but clearly ancient peoples have seen them." 
There is a chance that other Northwest volcanoes could erupt. But like Mount St. Helene, it will probably be mostly rock and ash that spew forth. not the dramatic, fiery rivers of lava that a_ccompany eruptions in Hawaii, scientists say. 
The Mount St. Helene erup­tion in 1980 killed 57 people, but other volcanoes have taken a deadlier toll. 
In January 2002. lava rolled down the slopes of the African volcano Mount Nyiragongo and flooded the streets of Goma. Congo. killing at least 7 5 people. 
~ ~ -~­

page 10 Friday, October I, 2004
The Observer+ NEWS 

House ethics cotntnittee criticizes DeLay's persuasion 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House ethics committee said Thursday that Majority Leader Tom DeLay acted improperly whnn he tried to persuade a Michigan Hepublican to change his vote from "no" to "yes" on a bill to provide a Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
Thn committee approvnd an investigative report that snrvns as "a public admonish­ment" against DeLay, H-Texas, llnp. Candice Miller, H-Mich., and the lawmaker they were trying to influence, Hep. Nick Smith. 
DeLay and Miller linked a favorable vote by Smith to support of the House candida­cy of Smith's son, the commit­tee said. Smith made exagger­ated statements about the attempts to influence him and failed to fully cooperate with the investigation, the commit­tee said. 
The majority leader said he accepted the committee's 11nd­ings, and its guidance that linking official actions with political considerations is impermissible and violates 
Scientists attetnpt to recover space capsule 
the cargo. They plan to ship
Associated Press 
the samples to Johnson 
SALT LAKE CITY-Three Space Center in Houston for weeks al'ter the Genesis decontamination -the space capsuln slammed into disks were splattered with the Utah desert after its mud, salts and splintered parachutes failed to deploy, capsule parts in the crash. NASA scientists remain Eileen Stansbery, astro­hopeful they can salvage materials curator for tho mission and revnal Johnson Space Center, said cluns about the origin of the the crash. which left the solar system. capsule's sample canister 
The scientists are nearly "contaminated and rum­finishnd picking apart the pled," will make the analy­capsule's mangled inner sis difficult but not impossi­canister, which housed ble. disks of exotic materials "There is nothing that is a used for 2 1/2 years to cap­total loss. We've been able ture solar atoms outside to recover every different the Earth's magnetic collector type" that was shield. unfolded in the solar wind, 
A few disk fragments have Stansbery said Thursday. been sent to California She was at Utah's Dugway researchers, but NASA sci­Proving Grounds as part of entists are still working in the team conducting the Utah to preserve the bulk of tedious salvage operation. 
............F •o1a 

~©IT~(g @£~(g w~ rP(!!J~@OlJ(g 
:.:-0 s -r -c;;. .a. D'J[ E: 
@@[J! @00@\W 
Featuring: 
~@ fftfi)~~[fl)~® (ND) 
War:~· 
(ND) 
THE ATARJ STAR (P) KQ (P) Playing at 9pm
C~eers cf;eunse 
Just past the 1-80/90 ramp on Michigan Ave.. less then 3 minutes from campus. 
-wv-wv. CheJE~J:rsLe»"&1:E1geJ. c e»ll:.lt1 
Fi~~leu~s 
Heautb 
South Bend's Only Authentic Irish Pub 
Z5% off o• Food &Soft Dri•ks wit• Valid St•de•t ID 
Shepherd Pie "" Fish & Chips "" Bangers & Mash Guinness BBQ Ribs "" Steaks -" Salmon _,. Oyster Shooters Traditional Breakfast (all day every day) ""Sunday Brunch Buffet Fair Trade Coffee "" Perfect Pints Certified by Guinness 

Wbat's Happening at Tbe HeaRth ... 
Uve Cettic Music Friday & Saturday nights starting at 9:00 pm 
Tills S•nday noon-1:00pm ••. "Talking Irish" 
With local sportsjoumMists on NO FootiJaJI atile weeki!Yid's 6ame 
127 N. Main Street (between Colfax cf Wil5hington) 
(574) 232-2853 "' WNW.fiddlershearth.com"' Open Daily lunch &Dinner 
House rules. 
"During my entire career I have worked to advance my party's legislative agenda. However, to this end, I would never knowingly violate the rules of the House," he said. "I deeply believe that as mem­bers of the House we must conduct ourselves at all times in a manner that reflects creditably on this institution." 
Miller said she also accepted "their 11ndings that I may have committed a 'discreet viola­tion of the rules.' I also agree with the committee's finding that there was no evidence adduced of a pattern of mis­conduct." 
The investigation, by a four­member subcommittee, was triggered when the retiring Smith said that unidentified lawmakers and business interests promised substantial money to his son's congres­sional campaign if he voted for the Medicare legislation. Smith said the same interests threatened to support other candidates if he didn't change his vote from "no" to "yes." 
The committee found DeLay "offered to endorse Representative Smith's son in exchange for Representative Smith's vote in favor of the Medicare bill. In the view of the investigative subcommit­tee, this conduct could sup­port a finding that Majority Leader DeLay violated House rules." 
Miller made a statement to Smith "that rel'erenced the congressional candidacy" of Smith's son, the report said. "Representative Smith fairly interpreted Heprescntative Miller's statements to him during the vote as a threat of retaliation against him for vot­ing in opposition to the bill." 
Casino -workers prepare for strike 
15,000 Atlantic City jobs may be affected by employee walk-out 
Associated Press in 1999. A strike would affect 10 of 
Talks were held Thursday the city's 12 casinos, forcing 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -with representatives of Resorts cutbacks in housekeeping, Casino hotel workers geared Atlantic City and Trump Hotels restaurant offerings and other up Thursday for a strike that & Casino Resorts, which runs services. could deal a blow to New three casinos here, but a strike "It"ll be pretty ugly. I'm glad Jersey's $4.4 billion casino seemed all but certain. I won't bn here," said Kathie industry. "It is inevitable," said AI Stokes, 40. of Yorktown. Va., 
About 15,000 workers -Tabei, a member of the union's as she checked out of the from bell captains to bar­negotiating committee. Tropicana Casino. tenders, pastry chefs to Chanting and singing, union The union has remained on porters -were poised to walk members working in a strike the job since the expiration of off the job Friday barring a headquarters tent in Local 54's a 11ve-year contract Sept. 15, last-minute breakthrough in parking lot prepared picket promising to strike Oct. 1 if no contract talks between casinos signs. "If we don't go on strike, new contract was n~ached. and Local 54 of the Hotel what's at stake is the potential At issue is the practice of Employees and Restaurant eradication of the union," said subcontracting by casinos. Employees union. Carla Corr, 43, a banquet serv­which lease space to restau­
The last time Local 54 er at Tropicana Casino and rants and bars without requir­walked out was for three days Resort. ing them to use union workers. 

PRESENTS 

Kennedy's Kitchen and Celtic Fire ioin Sean Ryan, Danielle Svonavec, and the O'Neill Brothers in acelebration of the opening of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
KENNEDY'S KITCHEN • CELTIC FIRE DANIELLE SVONAVEC • SEAN RYAN THE O'NEILL BROTHERS 
Friday, October 1at 9p.m. • leighton Concert Hall Tickets $19, $15 Faculty/Staff, $10 Students Casual Attire: Come os You Are 
Here Come the Irish, aspirited concert of Notre Dome alumni who ore now professional musicians, will be a community celebration of our new home at the DeBartolo Perrorming Arts Center. Join us as our favorite musical Darners come home to celebrate the opening of the PAC. 
For tickets, call 574.631. 2800, Noon-6p.m., Monday through Saturday. http://performingarts.nd.edu 

Friday, October 1, 2004 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Energy Department m_oves nuclear matter 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUEHQUE. N.M. ­Federal officials said Thursday that the first shipment of wnapons-grade nuclear mate­rial has been sent out of a steep canyon at Los Alamos National Laboratory that some warned was vulnerable to a terrorist attack. 
The Energy Department has been working since December 2002 to move the highly enriched uranium and plutoni­um from Los Alamos' Technical Area 18 to the Device Assembly Facility, a high-security storehouse in a remote area of the Nevada Test Site, northwest of Las Vegas. 
The first transfer was com­pleted Thursday. 
TA-18 was built in the 1940s at the bottom of a steep canyon. and critics have raised security concerns about the site. Lab officials have said they are able to protect the material, but add that the cost of maintaining security there is high. 
The transfer is aimed at consolidating the National Nuclear Security Administration's nuclear materials in a newer, more secure facility, officials have said. The NNSA is an arm of the Energy Department responsible for overseeing the department's nuclear complex. 
Lab watchdogs have pushed for the transfer, arguing it will improve national securi­ty and save taxpayers money. 
It was temporarily put on hold last summer when cost estimates soared to $310 mil­lion -a more than threefold increase from initial esti­mates. 
The NNSA plans to relocate the most sensitive weapons­grade nuclear material by September 2005 and move the remaining material by 2008. 
, 
Schwarzenegger v~toes drug bill 
Governer keeps Canadian medicines from California residents 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. ­Issuing a flood of last­minute vetoes, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger struck down bills Thursday that would have helped Californians buy low-cost Canadian drugs, given some protections to car buyers and limited some home foreclosures. 
He also vetoed bills that would have required com­panies to give consumers at least 30 days to claim rebates, made it easier for reporters to interview prison inmates, and boost­ed penalties for employers who violate equal pay requirements. 
Altogether, the Republican governor reject­ed 71 bills on the last day for him to sign or veto leg­islation passed during the closing hours of the Legislature's 2004 session. He signed 50 bills, includ-


WITH YOUR COLLEGE ID 
ANYTIME on Monday thru Thursday (Oct. 4-7)* *With the exception of 6 pm-9 pm on Tuesday & subject to lane availability 5419 N. Grape Rd., Mishawaka, IN~6545 *PHONE: (574) 243-BOWL *FAX: (574) 243-2696 
e Henry Lee Shattuck Professor ofGovernment John F. Kennedy, School ofGovernment Harvard University 
e Director of the Program on Education Policy and Governance at Harvard 
e Editor In Chie.f of Education Next 
PROGRAM IN~-------­
AMERJCAN DEMOCRACY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE' DAME 
iNSTITUTE FOR EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES 
ing measures to allow some former drug offenders to qualify for food stamps and to cover the medical costs of victims of pesticide spraying. 
His most controversial move of the day may have been to veto 
''The governor ofthe auto 
bills that interest rates, 
would have Golden State had a set standards required the golden opportunity to for "certified" state to used cars and
stand with California 
establish a required dis­Web site that consumers and closure of cer­consumers seniors and tain "add-ons" could have to car sales
implement these 
used to buy contracts.
critical reforms" 
lower-cost Schwarzeneg­prescriptions ger said he through would be will­
Fabian Nunez 
Canadian ing to recon­
assembly speaker 
pharmacies. 
"The gover­nor of the Golden State had a golden opportunity to stand with California consumers and seniors and implement these critical reforms," said Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez. a Democrat. "Instead, he chose to side with pharmaceutical com­panies. That is a shame." 
Schwarzenegger said the bills would have violated federal law and "exposed the state to civil, criminal and tort liability." 
"We all would like to see low-income, uninsured resi­dents have access to more affordable medicines, but 
!II!EJICIIJ iFO/fll 71!1111! c~'Jff/lffl 
~ SOUP FOR YOU! 
The Broadway Theatre League is tcatning up with Sunny 
101.5 mtd Larry TI1omas. Seinfeld's Soup Nazi to bring Soup to South Bend. Ifyou buy tickets to anyp~..,-ronnancc of The Odd Couple, you'U receive $5 offeach ticket with every non-perishable soup ingredient you donate. Soup ingredients would include but not be limited Lo cam1cd broths. packaged noodles nnd canned vcgctn.hlcs. The Brondvvay Theatre League will then donate these itetn::; to the First United Methodist Church Soup Kitchen, who•s 

been feeding the body and soul of South Bend fbr over 20 years. 
Tickets ara on sale now al the Morris Pcrfonning Arts Center Box Office. You must bring your donation to the Box Office to receive this discount. The Box Office is open Monday tlu-ough Friday fro1n 10 an1 to 6 pm and on Saturdays from I 0 atn to 2 pm. necau.">e this offer is good on any seat in the house including the Orchestra and Mezzanine. don't wait too long to buy your tickets! So" go to the Morris Box Oftlce today to help n local soup kitchen by buying tickets to see the Soup Nazi_ You can learn more about this show at www.Bt·ondwayThcatrci..caguc,com. 
measures such as this over­simplify the complex safety, trade, supply and pricing issues involved in this mar­ketplace," he said. 
The car buyers' protec­
tion bill would have capped car dealers' markups on 
loan 
sider the issue, 
but contended 
this year's leg­islation probably would have forced the state into "costly investigations over unenforceable and conflict­ing definitions." 
Assemblywoman Cindy Montanez. another Democrat, accused Schwar­zenegger of caving in to pressure from auto dealers. She said she had agreed to several changes sought by the governor's office, including dropping a provi­sion that would have given used car buyers three days to return an unsatisfactory vehicle. 
The home foreclosure bill would have required the 37,000 homeowners associ­ations in California to go to small claims courts to recover unpaid debts of less than $2,500 from their members. 
The bill was prompted by the case of a Calaveras County couple whose $285,000 home was auc­tioned by their homeowners association to recover a $120 debt. 


-------------------------~---------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 
Friday, October 1, 2004 
j 
THE OBSERVER 
l!O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Note< Dame, IN 46~56 
EDITOR IN CHU:F Matt Lozar 
... 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Mcghannc Downes Mike Flanagan 
A.\ST. MANAGING EDriUR Joe Herder 
NJ-.WS ElliTOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus ElliTOR: Meghan Martin SAINT MARY's ElliTOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDI'IUR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYST~:MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROIJ.ER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

Letter to the community 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinc.l@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l (!!)nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
•mc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES The Observer is rhe independcnr, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the srudenrs of rhe Univcrsiry of Norre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertiscmenrs, is nor governed by policios of the administration ofeirhcr insmurion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisement\ based on conrcm. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi.rorial> represent rh~ opinion of rhc majoriry of rhe Ediror in Chief, Managing Ediror, 
Assistam Managing Ediror •nd dcparrmenr cdirors. Commcnrarios, lcrrers and columns present rhe views of rh~ authors :Uld nor necessarily rhose ofThe 
Observer. 
Vic-wpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. Leners ro rhc Editor musr lx signed and must include cunracr information. 
(j11ntiom rrgarding Observ/!1" policitt should br din:cttd to Editor in Chiif Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The OhK"rwr (USl"S '\99 2·4000) 11 publiJhtd MonJ~y rhrouzh hiday cx"epr Junng 
r:u.m .and v.acnion pcrUMU. A tubsuipuon w "rhco Oluerw.'f i1 $1 (}{) for one o\C..dnnic ynr, $1~ for ont" ..rmc:JU'r rhc Ohtcrvcr II j m<mbcr oftM ~l.crd l'feu. All R'pmdocrion riahu .ift' rnervrd. 
ThrOhwtvM'upublid'l<tl.r· P.O.HoxQ Ol4 \ouch llinma Hdl 02<4 South l)inina; Hall NPrr\· D.-m<. IN 46S56-0n9 Noln' Dome. IN <16556-0779 l'rrwdiLIIII'nll<f.Jt' ra.iJ .at Nom: Oarnr and adthnnnal mailina oftk-ft 
l'<l!n'MA."iTER !lmd ,.,..J&Itt'~ ..:ur'"tiPn• l<t' Thr-Ohwt:rver 
Th~ ObKTvcr i• • mcmhn of rhc As~•rcd ()m.'" Ail rcprud.u.:nuu ri,hu ue n"KTval. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Amanda Michaels Justin Schuver Ken Walsh Ann Loughery Maddie Hanna Maggie Oldham 
Viewpoint Scene Maureen Molly Griffin Heynolds Illustrator 
Alyssa Brauwciler Graham Ebetsch Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

Visualizing the costs of Iraq 
Can anyone actually fathom the $200 bil­lion cost of Iraq? After all, it is an insanely huge amount to skim from American tax­payers. It, and the $422 billion federal budget deficit, an~ enormous drains on our family ways of life. 
Gary Caruso 

Voters this fall should have a visual picture of just how Capitol much President 
Comments 
Bush and his 

Hepublican-controlled 'Tax Cut and Spend" Congress are squandering. It is no 
wonder that Yugoslavia, when asked to join the "Coalition of the Willing," offered 
to bring a ca<;serole. 

ThL'i column will be submitted before, but published alter the initial presidential debate between President Bush and Senator John Kerry. Since the media has yet to graphically display huge federal costs so that Americans can comprehend their magnitude, the debates are the per­fect platforms to unveil those expenditures. 
If I was coaching Kerry, I would first pre­pare visual images of how much the cost of Bush's war and the Hepublican federal deficit are draining the American taxpay­ers' pocketbook. Secondly, I would suggest that Kerry call the cost of the war "foreign aid," because Republicans hate the notions of paying for the United Nations fee or for charity to other countries to buy their friendships. Finally, I would point to how the president speaks out of both sides of his mouth when he says Kerry would spend $2 trillion more on newly proposed programs while the president advocates private accounts in Social Security that require a transition cost of $1 trillion. 
Once those arguments were framed in a debate, visually fun facts could bolster images in the voters' minds as they pre­pare for their treks to the ballot box in November. The $200 billion cost of Iraq could extend dollar bills 79 times to the moon. If that seems like a fun ride, imag­ine extending dollar bills to represent the 
OBSERVER POLL 

How many of the Presidential debates do you plan on watching? 
• Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 265 responses. 
federal budget deficit of $422 billion for just next year alone. Now we can extend those deficit dollar bills 16 7 times to the 
moon. 
The cost of Iraq could also extend 758 times around the Earth. If that sounds like excitement, take the $422 billion federal deficit ride -for next year only -and surround the Earth 1,599 times. 
Ra ther than orbit the continents, why not stay in the good ole U.S.A. lor your magic $200 billion Iraqi ride? You 
can ride from New York City to 179 layers of dollar bills. Los Angeles (as the bird llies} The mon1~y stacked in these 6,061 times. Frequent flyers state examples is your tax dol­could ride the deficit dollars lar, or in most eases, your a mere 12,789 times from childn~n·s money. I haw~ New York City to Los said it early and often that Angeles. this election will not be a 
I prefer blankets of dol­dose race. It will be inter­lar bills since the chill of esting to see just how this the Bush administration prnsidcntial election plays has blown throughout the out after the debates since world for nearly four the president must be per­years. The cost of "foreign fect in those debates. I~~~ is aid" Americans paid for curnmtly running the Iraq could cover every nation and should know square inch of the United "wazzup." States more than one and a Another term of Bush will halftimes. The "burden" of the certainly guarantee many more Republican federal deficit for one layers of spent greenbacks as high 
year could cover every square inch of this nation almost three and a half times. 
I chose to calculate my native state of Pennsylvania along with my good neigh­bors in West Virginia (whom I hope will come back home to the Democratic party this year) as well as Michigan and Florida. The foreign aid we are paying to Iraq would cover every square inch of Pennsylvania with dollar bills 121 times. The federal deficit for one year would blanket every square inch of Pennsylvania with 255 layers of dollars bills. 
My West Virginia neighbors would have to slog through 230 layers deep of dollar bills to pay for Iraq. The federal deficit dol­lars would cover every square inch of West 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"History is a vast early warning system." 
Norman Cousins author 
Virginia piling 485 times high. 
The cost of Iraq would cover every square inch of Michigan 58 times with dol­lar bills. To pay for the li~deral deficit, Michigan would be covered 122 times. 
Florida would be covered slightly more, 85 layers of dollar bills for Iraqi lilreign aid. To pay the federal deficit of$422 bil­lion, every square inch of Florida would be covered with dollar bill<> 179 times. Imagine how difficult it would be lor the 
gators to catch their prey through 
as an elephant's eye. Voters should sift past each candidate's rhetoric and look at the facts on the ground, both in Iraq and in the federal bank. Auother four years of this president may just exhaust my deficit cal­culator, which is a sad commentary on the record of the incumbent's so-called leader­ship. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His col­umn appears every other Friday. lie can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

With the presidential election rapidly approaching, college campuses can be a hotbed for political discussion in the class­rooms, dining halls, dorm rooms or even on the quads. For many Notre Dame students, this is the first time they will be able to vote in a presidential election, and it is not surprising that many feel called to express their civic duties. Members of The Observer stafl' are not immune to these discussions or calls to duty. 
While The Observer does strive to maintain professional stan­dards, the reality is that staff members are students first and shouldn't be inhibited from expressing their views both in and out of the classroom. At a professional mainstream newspaper, we acknowledge these practices would be unacceptable. There is a gray area we frequently encounter on a variety of issues concerning where the ethical line falls for student journalists who express political views, are involved in particular groups or are aligned with certain ideals. 
We recognize we have a commitment to our readers to pub­lish a balanced newspaper every day and believe that trans­parency can only strengthen The Observer's credibility. The Observer's news and editorial pages lose both validity and value if writers and editors do not have credibility. To ensure this credibility, we take several precautions and have implemented multiple safeguards. 
With concern for The Observer's news pages, it is standard practice to avoid assigning articles to writers whose credibility could be questioned by either editors or readers due to conflicts of interest. Articles, columns and letters to the editor are edited on a nightly basis by several editors to prevent biases from appearing in The Observer's pages. We have romovnd writers from stories, and we have also pulled stories and columns from 
pages that were questionable. 
With regard to The Observer's Viewpoint pages, then~ aro several members of the Viewpoint stall' who work in consulta­tion with members of the top editorial stall' to ensure the pages present a balance of views and expressions. These individuals come from different backgrounds. haVf~ compnting ideals and are not afraid to challenge the merits of whether a column or letter to the editor should be printed. 
The Observer strives to meet its own standards and those that are demanded from the community. We as editors have set these standards high for a student newspaper and acknowlt~dge The Observer has made mistakes in the past and could do so in the future. The Observer's standards arc evolving, and we acknowledge this system will neither be perfect nor immune to problems. We believe it would be unreasonable to ask our stafl' to observe strict professional and ethical guidelines that are found in typical mainstream newspapers because doing so would force our staff to place The Observer before their student lives. With that in mind, The Observer still expncts its stall' to act in a fair and objective manner. 
Matt Lozar 
Editor in Chief 
Meghanne Downes 
Managing Editor 
Joe Hettler 
Assisranr Managing Ediror 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, October 1, 2004 
page 13 
A sidewalk embarrassment 
Pop quiz: what do you get when you combine peace activists, chalk and a self-righteous urge to sell out one's intellectual gifts that led to a place at Notre Dame? The answer, of course, is a campus defiled by tacky sidewalk artists that causes more people to pray for a graffiti­cleansing rainstorm than to pray for peace. Bill Rinner 
If this home football weekend fol­lows the same pattern as the last A Voice ofReason two, then these rogue artist-activists will scrawl powerful messages in chalk across campus like "Thou Shalt Not Kill-God" or "Love thy Enemy," which undoubtedly resonate in the minds of those with an equally puerile understanding of global afl"airs. Now. before the peace activists put a ransom on me and my name becomes synonymous with "ironic death," I offer the following disclaimer: I savor the ideal of peace as much as any d!~odorant-averse Dennis Kucinich supporter. My neoconservative bent does not preclude me from praying for an end to war, and those who claim the moral high ground without knowing its location may freely condemn my approach. While one could write volumes about the misguided advocates of non-violence, their underlying flaw is an utter failure to comprehend the nature of the enemies facing America. We face terrorists who have hijacked a peaceful rdigion, silenced the moderates and are willing to strap bombs on young children, and no amount of American love can cure their virulent strain of hate. Some may argue a more peace-oriented approach to for­eign policy could serve American security and add stability to the Middle East with varying degrees of success, but presuming that a tolerant approach to sworn jihadists who routinely indoctrinate their young with a matching hatred 

for Western society is precisely the mindset that prevailed up until the events of Sept. 11. 
After President Clinton's legacy-building attempt to rec­oncile Yasser Arafat with Prime Minister Ehud Barak dis­mally failed, lost was the notion that the PLO would be willing to settle on dual Israeli and Palestinian states. Clinton convinced Barak to offer so many concessions to Arafat that he claimed the deal was "so good [he] couldn't believe anyone would be foolish enough to let it go." 
Palestinian terrorists now celebrate their fourth year of the Ararat-condoned Intifada against Israel that has claimed thousands of innocent lives and prompted the con­struction of Israel's security fence in retaliation. Arafat rep­resents one of the only Palestinian representatives willing to negotiate prospects for peace, but his dismissal of the offered terms lends credence to the notion that the PLO will only accept a Palestinian state that pushes Israelis out into the sea. 
Most galling about the peace activist rhetoric is their naive linkage of religious tenets to complex foreign policy issues. An argument for following the Catholic just war doctrine is admirable and compelling, but viewing the multi-colored question "Who Would Jesus Bomb?" on the sidewalk should insult the sensibilities of anyone who graduated the fifth grade. Holding the teachings of Christ in mind when weighing the costs and benefits of military actions abroad is a noble endeavor, yet a blanket condem­nation of using military force is so dangerously irresponsi­ble that I sleep safe at night knowing a strong level of insu­lation exists between strict religious and political interests. 
Local campus activists would benefit to realize that peace can be attained without discontinuing nuclear pro­grams or replacing guns with bouquets of flowers. I offer a variant of a traditionally employed phrase: if you want peace, fight for victory. Simple enough, this approach ensures peace through superior strength, a successful con­cept not foreign to modern American history. 
No doubt, the prospect of utilizing American military power to ensure domestic safety and international peace may cause Notre Dame's peace advocates to cringe like a Frenchman at the Republican National Convention, but the simple truth of the international system is that a large part of the world exists under the security umbrella of American supremacy. 
Peace activists can sleep comfortably tonight because the evil military industrial complex exists not only to defend the country from immediate threats, but also to prevent the formation of challenges to the American-enforced peaceful order. 
What to do if a terrorist camp has acquired plutonium through the black market and hopes to sneak it across the 
U.S. borders? According to the chalk-yielding peaceniks, we must embrace these enemies to somehow deter their insidious plots. 

Both political candidates have converged to similar rhetorical stances on American military power, with each attempting to outmuscle the other with promises of more troop funding and the traditionally leftist party ensuring "A Stronger America." Perhaps these developments are a fleeting sign of the times. but the sensible ones who shake their heads at the sight of sidewalk chalk can take comfort knowing that the perpetrators deserve little more than a pat on the head for their efforts that will prove about as effective as the invention of New Coke. 
Bill Rinner is a senior economics major. He can be con­tacted at wrinner@nd.edu, and his column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Bush, Kerry, Catholics and children 
"You Catholics are the Marine Corps of religion." 
Sweating and red-faced in the Congo heat, I looked up. The Kinshasa pastor had just heard I was Roman Catholic. 
"Our Kimbanguist Church is the Army. But you people are the Marine Corps. You put your bodies on the line. Against abortion, racism, war, killing criminals. 
Kristin Shrader­
For children, workers, the poor. the 
Frechette
oppressed." These are not "Catholic issues." But, 
Science Watch
taken together, my African friend real­ized their difficulty. Especially now for Catholic voters. 
Network, the national Catholic social-justice lobby, says neither Bush nor Kerry always takes stands consistent with Catholic doctrine. Analyzing positions and votes, Network says Kerry does so 80 percent of the time. Bush, 20 percent of the time. 
Should one follow the numbers and vote for Kerry? Or support Bush because of abortion? 
On one hand, several bishops identify law with personal morality. Disturbed by 1. 3 million U.S. abortions each year, they want Communion denied to Catholic politicians, like Kerry, who are personally anti-abortion but say democrat­ic pluralism requires their defending pro-choice. 
On the other hand, in their 2003 guidance, "Faithful Citizenship," U.S. bishops as a group emphasized seven themes: safeguarding families, social justice and global sol­idarity and protecting against abortion, euthanasia, the death penalty and preemptive military force. They did not endorse Communion denial. 
They could not. Catholic doctrine requires the primacy of conscience. It requires informing one's conscience but pro­hibits ever violating it. 
Besides, in Catholic natural-law ethics, the only absolute­ly certain moral norm is "do good and avoid evil." As one defines "good" and "evil" more precisely, in specific actions or situations, certainty diminishes. Right reasoning, not merely rule-following, dominates Catholic morality. Thus, as Catholic theologian/philosopher Thomas Aquinas warned, not everything immoral can or should be made illegal. "When a Catholic does not share a candidate's stand in favor of abortion and/or euthanasia, but votes for that candidate for other reasons," said Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, Head of the Congregation for the Faith, that vote "can be permitted in the presence of proportionate rea­sons." 
Some voters' proportionate reasons might focus on pro­tecting children. Sixty-two million U.S. children are under age 15. The U.S. EPA says 30 percent of them, 18 million, must breathe air that violates public-health standards. And 
U.S. air pollution annually causes at least 30,000 prema­ture deaths. One million U.S. children, mostly minorities, live within a mile of a Superfund site. One in 12 childbear­ing-age women has blood levels of mercury high enough to cause developmental/neurological problems in her chil­dren. 

President Bush says voluntary emissions controls are the most cost-effective ways to reduce such pollution. He wants market trading of "pollution rights" and weaker standards that could triple mercury releases. He says U.S. economic welfare requires relaxing the Clean Air Act. Already Bush has reduced Superfund cleanups by 50 percent, shifted Superfund-remediation costs from polluters to taxpayers and cut millions of dollars from health/safety enforcement. 
Kerry rejects relaxed mercury standards. When develop­mental/neurological toxins, like mercury, threaten children, Kerry rejects buying "pollution rights." He says protecting children is mandatory. not voluntary, and promises full enforcement of health laws. Instead of taxpayers, he says polluters usually should clean up their own messes. 
Abt Associates, Bush's chosen environmental-audit firm, says Kerry's air-pollution plan costs polluters more, but taxpayers less, than Bush's plan. Compared to Bush's plan, Abt says Kerry's would annually provide $34 billion more net and prevent tens of thousands more deaths. 
Medical care could prevent some deaths. But 9 million 
U.S. children are uninsured. Many lost insurance when their parents lost their jobs. Over the last four.years. 3 mil­lion U.S. private-sector jobs disappeared; long-term unem­ployment increased 177 percent; workers' health care costs increased 50 percent; median household income decreased 
3.5 percent. The result? Nine million children are "canaries in the coal mines" of poverty and unemployment. 
Both candidates promise help for the 45 million unin­sured Americans. Comparing their plans, the (conserva­tive/Republican) American Enterprise Institute says Bush would cover 2.5 million uninsured people and Kerry, 26.7 million. 
Although the numbers of hungry and uninsured U.S. children rose by millions over the last four years, Network says the President has cut children's health/nutrition pro­grams by millions of dollars both for the United States and for programs abroad. At least 1 million children die each year, just in developing nations, because of malnutrition. 
Bush says cuts are necessary to curb the deficit. But he gave one-third of his tax cuts, $175 billion, to America's wealthiest one percent. Why are millions of dollars from children's health/nutrition programs, like Head Start and WIC, necessary to curb the deficit, while billions of dollars. for rich people, are not? 
One million three hundred thousand U.S. abortions are a tragedy. But so are the slow deaths of 18 million U.S. chil­dren. And the 1 million deaths of children in developing nations. 
Professor Kristin Shrader-Frechette teaches in the department ofphilosophy and the department of biological sciences at Notre Dame. Her column appears every other Friday. She can be reached at 1-2647 or through www.nd. edu/-kshrader. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Band focuses on one trip 

You may remember the 2002 Notre Dame-Florida State game. It was perhaps one of the best Notre Dame football/band experiences that we have ever had. For 60 minutes, the team, the band and the Irish faithful in attendance worked together to electrify an opponent's stadium and create a "home field advantage" 950 miles away from South Bend. It was.a huge victory for the football team, the band and the whole student body. 
In order to make the Florida State trip a reality, the band members had to return from Fall Break early, ride buses for over 40 hours, and eventually return to Notre Dame late on the Sunday before classes. It was not easy to fund or plan this trip. but it was well worth it for both the team and the band. This trip became a reality only through the efforts of people in Student Affairs, Development and generous band support­ers. 
For a number of years, the band has nor­mally attended two away football games during the regular season. As you can imag­ine, it's costly to undertake such trips, so these trips have generally been to places where the band could travel out and back on the same day. Due to the visibility and importance of the Tennessee game, it was decided this past summer the band would focus all of its regularly allotted resources to take a two-day trip to support the team in Knoxville, Tenn., voluntarily forfeiting its ability to travel to another game this year. We hope to help create the same electric atmosphere in Knoxville that was generated two years ago in Tallahassee, Fla. 
Thank you for your enthusiastic support of the band. We want to provide the extra "edge" that allows our student-athletes to perform to the best of their ability. This is the best student body in the land, and it is our pleasure to motivate, inspire and cheer Notre Dame on to victory. 
Go Irish! 

Ken Dye 
Band Director Sept. 30 

THE OBSERVER 

CENEpage 14 
Friday, October 1, 2004 
'Here Cotne the Irish' show-cases talented alutnni 
Kennedy's Kitchen, the O'Neill Brothers and others will perform tonight in the Debartolo PAC 
By PATRICK VASSEL 
Scene Writer 
The phrase "Here Como the Irish" h as IHHHI u s e d a II ove r cam p u s to describe the ranks of the Notre Dame football team. While the team does play Purdue Saturday, a different group of' Irish will be coming to the stage of tlw Marin 1'. Debartolo Contor l'or the Performing Arts tonight. These Irish are alumni of' the University who are now nationally and internationally n~nowned Irish 
musicians and pn rl'orrn­ors. 
T lw Iinn up in clu dn s l'ivo diiTMnnt groups set to showcase thPir tal­ents while cn!Phrating tho nnw building and exr i ti ng tlw camp us on tlw e v 0 () r t h n g a Ill {) . 
Bringing a uniquP bl«•nd of' truly traditional but also original Irish music 
"We're always traditional, but with a unique 
energy. 
Dr. John Kennedy Kennedy's Kitchen 
w i II lw K o n IIP dy ·s Ki t c h n n . In d by Notre Damn grad Dr . .John Kennedy. Togntlwr since 1 91JS, tlw band resides in South BPIHI and regularly plays both on campus and at local plac(~S such as Fiddler's Hearth. 
"We're very excited to have tlw opportunity to play in such an extraordinary space," Kennedy said of the new building. "The entire com­munity is very lucky to have such a facility and to play while it's still fresh and new should be great." 

Described on their Web site as playing "tear up the floor and heart thumping Irish music: traditional, pub, original, songs, stories, jokes and astonishingly large lies," Kennedy said the sound and the songs change every night. 
"Whatever the day, the audience and the music demands, we just go 
with it," he said. "We're always traditional, but with a unique energy that makes it difficult to classify. We just like to have a good time." 
Kennedy has long played Irish music in the area, beginning with the band featured in the movie "Rudy." He has grown to become friends 
with many other musically inclined alumni and is excited at the opportu­nity to play with so many of them tonight. 
"My only regret is that more people can't be here. A lot of the people that helped with the O'Neill Brothers 

Kennedy's Kitchen was founded In 1998 by Notre Dame graduate Dr. John Kennedy, who can be seen in the band in the feature film, "Rudy". The band resides in the South Bend area and perform their rousing Irish music at many local venues, including the Notre Dame campus and Fiddler's Hearth. 
music aren't able to make it, and that's the only downside," Kennedy said. "But the rest of us plan on having a lot of fun." 
Perhaps the best known musi­cians in the group, the O'Neill Brothers rose to prominence in the last year on cam­pus with the release of their CD for which the event this evening is name, "Here Come the Irish." While they will focus primarily on that material and other Celtic songs they have perfect­ed over the years, the brothers are extremely versa­tile and have suc­ceeded in a vari­ety of musical areas. 
With 18 CDs 
released, and 
recently celebrat­
ing the sale of 

the 1 millionth Notre Dame graduates Tim and Ryan O'Neill have provid­album, Tim and 
ed music for NBC, HBO and ESPN. The O'Neill Brothers Ryan O'Neill have have also performed for President George W. Bush, and enjoyed a great have released an album entitled "Here Come the Irish." 

deal of success since their days of playing piano as young boys. Forming their own label, Shamrock-n-Roll after gradu­ating college, the brothers have pro­vided music for NBC, HBO, ESPN and recently had the honor of per­forming for former President Bush. Taking orders and corresponding through their Web site, the O'Neill Brothers are excited to come back to Notre Dame and partici­

ments at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart as a cantor. She also performs in the South Bend area with Fleur De Lys, a Baroque ensemble. 
Chicago students will be proud to hear Sean Ryan, a former Notre Dame basketball team walk-on, play the uilleann pipes. Growing up play­ing the f1 ute and the tin whistle, Hyan moved to the pipes and quickly became a master musi­
pate in tonight's con­"We just like to cian. Competing in cert. have a good time. " Ireland on several occa­
Beyond the music of sions, Hyan won the the evening, the Celtic prestigious All-Ireland 
Dr. John Kennedy
Fire Irish Dancers will Championship in 1998, be performing through­Kennedy's Kitchen the first American ever 
out the night. The four 
girls perform original 
choreography designed 
and developed by another Notre 
Dame alumnus, world champion 
Irish dancer Paul Cusick. Regularly 
performing with Kennedy's Kitchen 
throughout the South Bend area, the 
group will have the opportunity to 
be the first Irish dancers to grace 
the stage in the new building and 
will be a wonderful addition to all 
of the musicians. 
The concert is rounded out with two exceptional soloists, both of whom are recent graduates. Danielle Svonavec will be giving a special performance to complement her already regular vocal engage-
to do so. He has been 
featured in concerts 
throughout the Chicago area and performs regularly with the acclaimed Trinity Irish Dance Company. 
From very different backgrounds and with very different styles, all the performers tonight share the impor­tant bonds of the Notre Dame Irish family and of beautiful Irish music. The performance begins at 9 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are $10 for students and may be purchased at the door. 
Contact Patrick Vassel at pvassel@nd.edu 


, ~--------------------------------------------------·------~ THE OBSERVER 
CENE Fem.ale 'Odd Couple' opens at the Morris Inn 
Friday, October 1, 2004 
page 15 
'I Dream ofJeannie' star Barbara Eden and sitcom actress Rita McKenzie headline theatre production 
roommates with extremely dif­the success of By JONATHAN RETARTHA ferent living habits. both the play and 
Scene Writer 

While Florence tends to be a the film led to neat freak around the house, the creation of a 
Stars of both the stage and Olive remains slightly more television series screen come to the Morris unkempt and lackadaisical in starring Tony Performing Arts Center this regards to housekeeping. Eden Randall and Jack weekend in a revival of Neil agrees her real life living habits Klugman which Simon's "The Odd Couple" which mirror those of Florence. enjoyed equal debuts with a few new twists. "My sock drawer is very neat," success from Thn most notable change in the she said. 1970-75. mvisnd edition is the replace­It is fitting that Eden, an actor Ten years after mnnt of the two male roles, Felix who has added variety to her the finale of "The and Oscar, with two female career with numerous television Odd Couple" tel­characters, and stage roles, evision series, Flornnee and would take a lead Simon sat down
"It's a lot offun, a

Olive. The role of role in a work with and revised his Olive is played by wonderful, an equally varied popular work by Hita McKenzie, history. The origi­switching the
wonderful piece of 

whom audience nal version of, male characters
work."

nwmbers will "The Odd Couple" with female remnmber best debuted on ones. Many of from rolns on such Barbara Eden Broadway on the classic lines popular tP-Ievision March ·10, 1965, and jokes n~main
Actress 

sitc.oms as. and ran for dose the same. but "Caroline in the to 1,000 perform­many new ones City" and "Frasier". Barbara ances. Walter Matthau, who are added that Eden. the international star of originally played Oscar in the appeal to a thP hit television program, "I Broadway production went on to female audience. Drnam of Jeannie," plays the star with Jack Lemmon, 25 Eden noted the charactnr of Florence. years before they gained Gen-X changes are, 
"It's a lot of fun, a wonderful. fame together in "Grumpy Old "many, especially wondnrful piece of work." said Men," in the film version of the the card game. Eden of the classie story of two Neil Simon play. Two years later They don't play 
bridge, they 
courtesy
play Trivial Pursuit." 
Another revision is the chang­ing of the 
Pigeon Sisters characters when she signed onto the roll. Dimes, The American Heart that live upstairs from "She said, Have as much fun as I Association and Save the Children.
Oscar and Felix. Those two did."' 
have now become the Eden's career is marked by ''I'm lucky that I'm able to," Costazuela brothers, played several famous stage and screen Eden said. "It's fulfilling, and I by David Castro ("Days of roles, the most get something out our Lives") and Larry famous being of it too." One of Thomas, most famous for Jeannie in the Eden's fondest
" They're very
his role as "The Soup Nazi" smash television memories in her in the classic "Seinfeld" series, "I Dream much like [the male career was helping episode. The production of Jeannie." The characters]." to entertain the also features Elizabeth show, focusing troops with Bob Alley, Allyce Beasley, Mary around a NASA Hope during the
Barbara Eden
Pat Gleason and Shirley astronaut (Larry Persian Gulf War. 
Actress
Prestia. Hagman) and his "It was thrilling ... absolutely wonder­
As Notre Dame students relationship with from any dorm can agree his own personal ful," she said. 
on, roommate difficulties 2015-year-old genie enjoyed a Backed by big stars and a fun, can exist regardless of gen­five-year run from 1965-70. fresh script, the revival of "The der. Eden also returned to the role of Odd Couple" will draw both fans "As far as the relation­Jeannie in 1985 and 1991 for of Eden and the original televi­sion series, as well as contempo­
ships, they're very much two reunion specials. 
After, "I Dream of Jeannie," rary fans of such female-orient­
like [the male characters], 
Eden went on to star in both the ed shows as "Sex and the City."
getting on each others 
film and television versions of Performances are tonight and
nerves, having completely 
"Harper Valley PTA," the 198 7 Saturday night at 8:00 p.m.,
different personalities and 
sequel to "The Stepford Wives," Saturday and Sunday afternoon
living habits," Eden said. 
and had a brief stint on the tele­at 2:00p.m. and Sunday evening 
Sally Struthers, famous for 
vision drama, "Dallas," to name at 7:00 p.m. Tickets range from
her similar misadventures 
a few of the over 50 roles on her $20-$55 and can be purchased
in family living during her 
resume. through the Morris Performing
time on the television 
One of Eden's most fulfilling Arts Center Box Office. 
series, "All in the Family," 
activities, however, is to help was the first actor to play 
those in need. For years, she has Olive in 1985 when Simon donated her time and celebritydebuted the revised "Odd to such causes as The American Couple." Eden recalled Cancer Society, The Wellness Contact Jonathan Retartha at Struthers advising her Community, The March of jretarth@nd.edu 
The success of the original play, "The Odd Couple", led to its adaptation into a both a successful movie and television show. Creator Neil Simon reworked the original concept and swapped the male roommates, Oscar and Felix, for female ones, Olive and Florence, in the Morris Inn's new production. 



Friday, October 1, 2004
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Prior pitches well, but Cubs lose 2-1 to Reds 
Ichiro moves one hit closer to Sisler's mark 
Associated Press 
Mark Prior pitched his best 
game of the season. Still, he 
couldn't stop the Chicago Cubs' 
final-week slump that has dam­
aged their chances of making 
the postseason. 
"It's not from a lack of prepa­ration. It's not from a lack of trying. It just hasn't worked out. I don't have a philosophical quote about it. We lost," Prior said Thursday after the loose and pressure-free Cincinnati Hods beat the Cubs in 12 innings for the second straight day. 
Chicago fell for the fifth time in six games and dropped a game behind idle Houston for the NL wild card with three games left. 
Javier Valentin hit a two-out 
double in the 12th to give 
Cincinnati a 2-1 victory. wasting 
Prior's stellar nine-inning effort 
that saw him tie his career high 
with 16 strikeouts. 
"I think we all know where we're at right now," Prior said. "I could care less about me per­sonally. It's not about me." 
It's mainly about the Cubs' offense -or lack of it. 
Chicago had the bases loaded three times and didn't score, and stranded 12 runners. 
"It's tough to lose two 12­inning games in a row, especial­ly when we had opportunities to win the game," a dejected Cubs manager Dusty Baker said. 
"It's tough to lose like this down the stretch." 
Yankees 6, Twins 4 
Bernie Williams sent a drive soaring to left-center field, raised his right arm in triumph and circled the bases. 
Pretty soon, he was home ­and so were the New York Yankees. 
Williams hit a two-run homer in the ninth inning and the Yankees clinched their seventh straight AL East title, beating the playoff-bound Minnesota 1\vins for their 100th victory of the season. 
"This time of year seems to bring out the best in him," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. 
With the crowd already stand­ing and hollering, Williams con­nected with one out to set ofl' an enthusiastic celebration. 
"''ve been through it so many 
CLASSIFIEDS 

times. I was picturing it in the 
on-deck circle, taking it all in, 
thinking it would be nice for me 
to end it," Williams said. 

Williams missed much of 
spring training following an 
appendectomy. He struggled at 
times during the season, and 
even was benched late in the 
year for a big game against 
Boston. 

But he was in the lineup for 
this one, right where his team­
mates wanted him. 

Captain Derek Jeter and Alex Rodriguez were the first players to greet Williams at home. The Yankees enjoyed the moment, gathering for a group hug near the plate. 
"It was fitting. Bernie's been here the longest," Jeter said in the champagne-filled Yankees clubhouse. "He's been through a lot this year." 
Williams' homer was the 
Yankees' major league-leading 
241st of the season, breaking 
the franchise record set in 
1961. 

llideki Matsui and John Olerud also homered for New York, which won the division by overcoming an 8-11 start that included six losses in seven games against Boston. 
"The things that happened early in the year when we were roughed up by the Red Sox I think galvanized this ballclub," Torre said. 
Giants 4, Padres 1 

Thanks to a right-hander who hadn't started in two months, the San Francisco Giants head to Los Angeles with two playoff options intact. 
Jerome Williams pitched seven strong innings in his first start in two months and the Giants jumped back into a tie for the wild -card lead by beat­ing the San Diego Padres. 
The Giants (89-70) tied the idle Houston Astros in the wild­card race, one game ahead of the Chicago Cubs (88-71), who were swept by the Cincinnati Reds. 
San Francisco remained three games behind the NL West­leading Los Angeles Dodgers (92-67), who rallied to beat Colorado 4-2 in 11 innings. The Giants and Dodgers end the season with three games this weekend in Los Angeles. A San Francisco sweep would either force a one-game playoff for the division title or give the Giants the NL West championship based on a 10-9 season record against Los Angeles if Houston loses at least once. 
"We have two chances now," manager Felipe Alou said. "In the wild card, and we'll have something to do with the pen­nant race." 
The Padres, playing their home finale, were pushed to the brink of elimination, falling three games back in the wild­card race with three to play. 
Barry Bonds beat out an infield single in the eighth, making him 1-for-1 0 in the series. With runners on first and second and two outs in the fifth, Bonds hit a high fly to cen­ter that Jay Payton caught on the warning track. 
Athletics 3, Mariners 2 
Ichiro Suzuki went home qui­etly, still waiting for the big hit he's been chasing. 
Bobby Crosby sent the Athletics into a decisive week­end series against Anaheim with the biggest hit of Oakland's season. 
Suzuki got his 256th hit to move within one of George Sisler's record, but Crosby homered in the ninth inning to give the A's a victory over the Seattle Mariners. 
With yet another dramatic hit by their rookie shortstop, the A's (90-69) moved back into a tie with the Angels atop the AL West. And there won't be a one­game playoff, either: The divi­sion champion will be deter­mined in a season-ending three-game series at the Coliseum. 
"That's the perfect way to end the season -just perfect," Crosby said. 
Crosby first thought about being a hero during the eighth inning, trying to ignore thoughts of a heroic trot around the bases while playing in the field. After fouling off a bunt attempt in the ninth, he pound­ed a one-out pitch from Scott Atchison (2-3) over the high fence in left for his 22nd homer. 
With his grandparents in the screaming crowd, Crosby raised his fist and rounded the bases. His teammates mobbed him at home plate in a scene reminis­cent of the A's triumphant win­ning streaks of Septembers past. 
Rangers 6, Angels 3 
The AL West title is down to a best-of-three series for the Anaheim Angels. 
Anaheim's one-day hold of sole possession of first place in the West ended with a loss in Texas -and the Oakland Athletics' win over Seattle a couple of hours later. 

The AL West-deciding series begins Friday in Oakland, which won 3-2 Thursday on Bobby Crosby's homer in the ninth inning. 
"We're still in the thick of a pennant race," Angels manager Mike Sciascia said. "We're starting to think about it. ... A lot of things are going in the right direction, so we're really confident." 
Before losing the series finale against the Rangers, the Angels (90-69) had won five in a row ­three against the Texas after the last two in their series last weekend against the A:s. 
Vladimir Guerrero went 4-for­4 on Thursday with two more homers for the Angels, who regained sole possession of first place in the West by winning the first three games in Texas. 
It was the second two-homer game this week for Guerrero, who has 38 this year and is hit­ting .338 with a team-record 123 runs and 124 RBis in his first Anaheim season. He was 12-for-17 with five homers and nine RBis in the series. 
The Rangers left a positive impression at home a day after being eliminated from playoff contention. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


WANTED 
PURDUE TICKET PLEASE Help my newlywed husband see his first ND game STUDENT SECTION GA OK Kate 702-249-7974 
Hacienda 100 Center wants YOU I Need weekend servers &Line Cooks Apply in person between 2 & 3 p.m. 700 LWW. MISH.IN 46544 
2 ND ALUMS LOOKING FOR BABYSITIER FOR 18-MO. OLD FOR 3-4 HAS. IN A.M. PLEASE 
CALL HEIDI OR DAVE AT 246­9883. 
FoR SALE 
Apartment building. (Ten 1-bdrm furnished units). 4 miles from ND. Great investment. Tax write-oils. For details call Larry 574-257-0039 or 255-9363. 
COND0-1434 Marigold Way #114­Large 1 bedroom w/garage, perfect condition,most appliances stay, Open House Sun. 1 0/3,2-4pm. Near entrance of North Shore Condos on Right. $73,000. 
Call Reed 276-4131. 

1952 ranch house, lower level walk-out,4 bdrms, 3 baths, frpl, approx. 1/2 acre. $175,000.574-287-9794. 
FoR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT 
NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY­ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
ND Football housing. Walk to game. 574-315-3215. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIXPLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273 3911 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ 251-1570. 
ND ltball tix bought &sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, 
NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND 
FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674­6593. 
Buying and selling ND football tix, especially Boston College 574-289­8048 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com. 

SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS I The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun &Cabo. Book by Oct 31 =FREE MEALS & FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group-GO FREEl 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, 
Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City &Daytona 

$1591 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Happio six monthio, sweet peal 
Good luck to all those taking the LSAT this weekend, including me. 
Friday, October 1, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 Friday, October 1, 2004


The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Rookie steps into spotlight 
Roethlisberger makes early debut as Steelers' starting quarterback 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -When Ben Roethlisberger was a senior at Miami of Ohio, he made the short drive to the Cincinnati Bengals' training camp. Watching practice from a roped-off area, he remembers thinking they were doing exactly the right thing with quarterback Carson Palmer. 
Rather than throwing the No. 1 draft pick into the lineup, unpre­pared and unequipped to deal with sophisticated NFL defenses, the Bengals gave Palmer time to learn their system and the league while Jon Kitna played. 
The Pittsburgh Steelers intend­ed to bring Roethlisberger along the same proven path that NFL star quarterbacks Chad Pennington and Steve McNair once traveled ahead of Palmer. They had veteran quarterbacks Tommy Maddox and Charlie Batch ahead of him, so they felt no need to rush their frrst-round draft pick no matter how much his poise, maturity and strong right arm impressed them. 
So much for planning. So much for patience. 
When the Bengals (1-2) and Steelers (2-1) meet Sunday, Palmer and Roethlisberger will be on the field -Palmer by design, Roethlisberger out of necessity. For a matchup that fig­ures to take place for years in the AFC North, the only surprise is it came so soon. 
Even if the man who chose to sit Palmer all last season doesn't think it's a calamity for the Steelers that injuries to Maddox and Batch conspired to make Roethlisberger their starter for at least another month. 



"That was not quite their plan, (but) it is a good thing," Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said. "I don't think it will be too big for him. Every chance I've had to be around him, to listen to him. watch his mannerisms and see how he presents himself ... I think he will be fine." 
Roethlisberger did something in his first career start Palmer couldn't in his third start Sunday: lead a touchdown drive. It was only one touchdown during a rainy, 13-3 victory in Miami, but 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 

....~~a_---~~---------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. I Jam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Talce-Out • Catering 
------~~------­

We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: I 15 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 

A*l Sports ~ar in South ~end 2046 South ~end Ave -Across frotM Martins Plaza 272-1766 NP Football Headquarters Onlit~e sports info "O.reat Food, O.reat Futf 
.­
Mon: Monday Night Football&-Specials starting at •1.0 Tues: College Night -PJ 6-Specials Wed: TRIVIA Night -~ring your teatMs -Prizes Thurs: PJ -First Thursday every tttonth: Jazzy O.rass Frl: Live £ntertalntttent Sat: NP gatttes 
it helped make for the frrst suc­cessful debut start by a Steelers rookie quarterback since Mike Kruczek in 1976. · 
Roethlisberger's numbers weren't sensational (12-of-22 for 163 yards, one touchdown and· one interception) but he hardly looked overwhelmed -especial­ly considering his first NFL start came barely 12 hours after a hurricane swept through the city inwhich he was playing. 
He didn't lose the game, or his sense of humor. 
"It's good to get that game out of the way, in case we ever play in a hurricane again -which I doubt we will," Roethlisberger said. 
For the FIRST 10 DAYS 
ONLY, the Magna Carta, 
1300 A.D. (the "Great Charter" of English liberty); an original 1777 broadside 
of our Declaration of 
Independence; a first 
edition of the Federalist 

Baltiinore predicts hardship for Holmes 
Ravens say they don't plan on easing up on former running back 
Associated Press BALTIMORE -During his five years with the Baltimore Ravens, right tackle Orlando Brown has opened many a hole for Priest Holmes and Jamal Lewis. He's seen enough of both to know that when the opening is tiny, Holmes will slither through the gap. Lewis will look at the same slice of day­light and plow forward like a bull through an unopened gate. It is why each is among the best running backs in the NFL and shared the backfield on the 2003 All-Pro team. "Both of them can cut back, both can run inside," Brown said. "But they're two different guys. Priest is more finesse, and Jamal's got a little bit more weight and power." At the end of the 2000 sea­son, when the Ravens had Holmes and Lewis, they opted for weight and power, letting Holmes sign as a free agent with the Kansas City Chiefs. Baltimore has no reason to regret the decision, because Lewis last year had an NFL­best 2,066 yards rushing and carried the Ravens into the playoffs. "We're winning with Jamal. Who's to say if we'd be win­ning with Priest?" Brown said. The Chiefs couldn't be happi-
THEDEADSEASCROLLS 
To-rut: nnu.t: x-s;;qllt-ertct'V
---_, 

er with Holmes, whose 4. 941 yards rushing since the start of the 2001 season is tops in the NFL. He was the NFL Offensive Player of the Year in 2002 and Lewis won it last year. 
Holmes. who played four seasons with Baltimore, returned to town in '03 and failed to reach the end zone while rushing for only 90 yards in 22 carries in the Chiefs' 17-10 victory. The Ravens expect to experience similar success against him in the rematch Monday night. 
"Yeah, we know how good he is, but we just don't let run­ning backs get 100 yards against us," linebacker Ray Lewis said. "We have a lot of great young talent, a lot of young guys ready to step up and make plays. We're going to show the world that we're back again to make a playoff run." 
Holmes is ready for the chal­lenge. 
"Ray Lewis does a wonderful job of getting his guys excited and· ready to run, and they're definitely going to attack," Holmes said. "They're going to have eight-man fronts, and they dare you to run the ball on them." 
The Havens (2-1) allowed only two rushers to top the 100-yard mark last season, and are well aware of how dangerous the Chiefs (0-3) can be if Holmes gets loose past the line of scrimmage. The defensive game plan for Monday is predicated on two simple words: Stop Holmes. 
The Observer 




OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 1, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's wiRE SERVICES page 19 

AP 

Tiger Woods finished with a four-under 68, placing him two shots behind leader Todd Hamilton after one round of the American Express Championship in Ireland on Thursday. 
Tiger tvvo shots behind Open cha111p 
NCAA Mens' Socce 
team 
1 Santa Barbara 2 North Carolina. 3 Penn State 4 Creighton 5 New Mexico 6 Indiana 7 Duke 8 William and Mary 9 Boston 10 California 11 St. John's 12 Old Dominion 13 Michigan 14 Maryland 15 South Carolina 16 Santa Clara 17 southern Methodist 17 Hartwick 19 south Florida 20 Brown 21 Seton Hall 21 VIrginia 23 NOTRE OAME 23 Tulsa 25 Coastal Carolina 
Major League Baseb;1U 
AL EastB team record perc. GB .. Streak NY Yankees 99·59 .627 W·2 
Boston 95·63 .601 4.0 l·l Baltimore 76-81 .484 22.5 W-2 Tampa Bay 68·90 .430 31.0 W-1 Toronto 65·92 .414 33.5 'l-2 
team 
Minnesota Chicago Cleveland Detroit Kansas City 
~e~.ql > 
Anaheim .· Oakland Texas SeaHie 
team 
Atlanta Plliladelphia Florida NY Mets Montreal 
team 
. . 
St. Louis 103·55 .652 L.~3 Houston 89·70 .560 14.5 W·4 Chicago 88·71 •553 15.5 l•3. Cincinnati 75·84 .472 28.5 W·3 Pittsburgh 70~88 .443 33.0 l·2 Milwaukee 65·92 .414 37.5 W·1 
NL West 
record perc, GB .• ··· Streak.•'!'; 
team record perc. GB los Angeles 91-67 .576 San Fran. 88-70 3.0
.557 San Diego 86-72 .544 5.0 Colorado 6&-90 .430 23.0 Arizona 49·110 42.5
.308 . 

around the dial 
BASEBALL Braves vs. Cubs 2:20 p.m., WGN Marlins vs. Phillies 6:00 p.m., CSN 
2004 WORLD SERIES OF POKER 
11 :00 a.m., ESPN 3:30p.m. and 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
PGA TOUR 8:00a.m. and 12:00 p.m., ESPN 
PGA TouR 


Associated Press 

THOMASTOWN, Ireland -Tiger Woods pursed his lips and cursed under his breath as he stood over his first tee shot, feeling spasms in his back and knowing the sharp pain that was coming with each shot. 
He yelped after his second drive. His knees buckled after making contact on the sixth tee. He stopped a half­dozen times and lifted his shirt so his caddie could rub heating cream between his shoulder blades. 
What he didn't expect was the score -a 4-under 68 that left Woods two shots behind British Open cham· 
IN BRIEF 

Reds' Dunn sets major
league strikeout record 
CHICAGO -Cincinnati Reds slug­ger Adam Dunn set the major league record for strikeouts in one season with 190, when he fanned in his first two at-bats Thursday against the Chicago Cubs. 
Dunn struck out against Chicago starter Mark Prior in the second and fourth innings, breaking the previous mark for whiffs of 189 set by Bobby Bonds in 1970. Dunn struck out swinging in his first at-bat and look· ing in his second. He got No. 191 by striking out a third time against Prior on a checked swing in the seventh. 
"At least that is one Bonds I have a record over," Dunn said after the Reds beat the Cubs 2-1 in 12 innings Thursday as he scored the go-ahead run. 
Dunn wasn't upset at all by setting the record, actually joking with reporters at first. 
"It's great. I'm the only person that actually has claim to that record. 
pion Todd Hamilton after one painful round in the American Express Championship on Thursday. 
"I thought it might loosen up a little bit, but it didn't," Woods said. "I was hoping the spasms would go away, but that didn't happen, either. I just had to get through it somehow and post a number." 
Woods hurt his back when he fell asleep in an awk­ward position while flying home from New York last week in his private plane. He said on the eve of the tournament that he might not be able to play, an injury report met with skep­ticism until he showed up 
Now I'm just going to try to add on to it before the year is over," he said. Injuries force former Laker, 
current Celtic Fox to retire 
LOS ANGELES -Rick Fox retired Thursday, ending a 13-year pro career during which he was part of three NBA championship teams with the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Fox, beset by injuries last season, was traded by the Lakers to the Celtics on Aug. 6. It had been expect­ed he would retire rather than report to Boston's training camp beginning Monday. 
The Celtics, who were aware of Fox's injuries when they made the trade, waived him on Thursday to facilitate his retirement. 
The 35-year-old forward, who played high school bask_etball in Warsaw, Ind., averaged a career-low 
4.8 points last season, when the Lakers were beaten by Detroit in the NBA Finals. 
Fox was bothered by foot, neck and back injuries that limited him to 38 on the practice range and went 20 minutes before tak­ing a full swing. 
By the end of a cool, over­cast day at Mount Juliet, only the score next to his name looked normal. 
"Quite nice," Hamilton said. "Even if the guy is healthy or hurt, he's got a big heart. He can be hitting the ball all over the place ­which he's done a lot lately -and still shoot 2, 3, 4 under. The guy never gives up." 
Injury aside, Woods was just one of the guys in a round where 48 of the 68 players in the $7 million World Golf Championship broke par. 
games. He spent the summer rehabil­itating, but never fully recovered, his ~okeswoman Staci Wolfe said. Hoots save pitcher from 
serious shotgun injury 
MINNEAPOLIS -Cleveland Indians pitcher Kyle Denney shrugged off being hit in the leg by a bullet, and said Thursday he was grateful he may have been protected by white cheerleaders boots he was wearing as part of a hazing ritual. 
Denney was shot Wednesday night when a bullet pierced the team's bus as it drove to the Kansas City International Airport after a game with the Kansas City Royals. 
Team trainers removed the bullet from Denney's right calf. He stayed overnight at a Kansas City hotel after being treated at a hospital and arrived in Minneapolis a few hours after his teammates for a series with the TWins that begins Friday. 
"As soon as the skin heals, it should be fine," Denney said at a news con­ference. 
The course played longer because of the damp air and soft fairways, but the greens at Mount Juliet are among the purest in golf and are always accommo­dating. 
Hamilton took advantage with four straight birdies down the stretch before he made his only bogey of the day on the final hole, going from rough-to-rough and having to chip to 4 feet to limit the damage. He wound up with a 66 and a one­stroke lead over a half­dozen players. 
Woods was among eight players at 68, including U.S. Open champion Retief Goosen and Lee Westwood . 

page 20 Friday, October 1, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary's faces Calvin tomorrow 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Spom Wri rer 
For the Belles, this isn't the time for celebration. It's time to get back to work. 
After posting their biggest victory of the year Wednesday. a 2-0 win over Hope, Saint Mary's will once again face a challenging opponent when it takes on Calvin College on the road Saturday. 
"They [Calvin] are another high level opponent who will give us a tough match," said coach Caryn Mackenzie. ''I'm sure they are as eagerly awaiting this contest as we are." 
The Belles enter the game in a three-way tie for first place in the MIAA with rivals Hope and Calvin. To earn a victory and sole possession of first. Saint Mary's will need to control Sarah Weesies, the star sophomore forward for Calvin. Weesies was the MIAA Most Valuable Player last year despite only being a freshman. 
"She [Weesies] will be extremely dangerous. Ilopefully she won't be too much to handle, but she could pose a problem," Mackenzie said. "I feel confident in our goalie and our defense that we can defend her." 
The Belles played Calvin to a tie twice last year, a demon­stration of just how evenly matched the teams are, but with a much improved team this year, Saint Mary's will look for a better result this time around. 
"We're playing good soccer right now, and we've gained some confidence from the !lope win," Mackenzie said. "But the MIAA is full of sur­prises, and any team is capa­ble of winning on any day. If we can play the kind of soccer we played against Hope. I'm confident we'll stay in the game and put ourselves in position to win it." 
The Belles will look to gain an edge over Calvin with the play of their upperclassmen, who have led them all season. 
"We have great team chem­istry. and that starts with the upperclassmen leading us," Mackenzie said. "The seniors have been very instrumental in the team's success to this point. This team is very focused, and it starts with the seniors." 
With their best team in four years, the seniors have set high standards for themselves and their squad. 
"They've set standards that require a level of discipline and sacrifice; they're willing to put their teammates first." Mackenzie said. 
Despite making some changes to the defensive scheme for the Hope game. the Belles are confident that their flat-back four defense will yield similar results against another strong team. 
"We're going to try to play our brand of soccer. and let it stand on its own," Mackenzie said. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles hope to prolong winning streak 
sixth spot. 

By JUSTIN STETZ There is plenty on the line for 
Sporrs Wrirer the Belles in this match Not only 
will they be seeking revenge 

This Saturday the Belles will against Albion after dropping put their two-game winning the first match, but they will also streak on the line against Albion. look to move farther up in the 
In their first meeting. the standings. Belles battled the Britons to a As long as they can keep on fourth game. only to lose the winning. they still have a good match. Albion comes to Saint shot in a league where a num­Mary's with a 4-4 record in the ber of teams are within one or MIAA and 7-9 overall. two games of each other. Meanwhile, the Belles are cur­In the first Albion match, rently 3-5 in the conference and Michelle Turley played excep­tied with Hope College for the tionally well on offense. collect­ing 17 total kills. Elise Rupright wasn't far behind as she finished with nine of her own that day. 

Suffering an ankle injury dur­ing the University of Chicago match. captain Elise Rupright was absent for the Hope Triangular last Saturday. However. she plans on being back for this weekend's contest. 
"Our mindset has not changed after the victories on Saturday." Rupright said. 
During their last match. Saint Mary's defense finally played as a unit and held their opponents in check. This was especially obvious in the second match as Olivet College scored just 34 points in the final two games. 

"Both defense and offense con­tributed to the team's success. but defense is what won the game," Hupright said. 
The Belles will need to play on a four cylinders if they plan on stealing one from the Britons. 
Saturday's game begins at 11 
a.m. at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 


NO UN ANTED NOISES 
(THAT'S WHAT THIN DORM WALLS ARE FOR) 
Dependable service. Simple plans. That's what we're for. 
Came111

$20~~t~e first 6 months, Pilona 
$39.95 thereafter) Call and Text Plan 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
Unlimited Call Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FREE for 2 months 


Ask about Nights & Weekends 
starting at 7 p.m. 
Y.US.Cellulru: 

Umited time offer. 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 

.-Jrtlme and text messaging offer valid on l'Ml-year consumw service agreements at $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months at a 2 year contract Unlimited Call Me Minutes are only available In the local calling area and are not deducted from packaged minutes. 3000 Nights and Weekends are available In the local calling area for $4.95 per month. "Text messaging 250 package Is $5.95thereafler, $0.10 per outgoing message beyOnd 250. Must call to cancel. Offws may expore ff you change your calling plan..-JI service agreements sublectlo an early termination fee. Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Umited time offer. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges and taxes may apply, lndudlng aFederal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. Customer is responsible lor all sales taxes. C2004 U.S. Cellular Corporation 


Friday, October 1, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles ready to begin year 
nity to challenge a number of Division I programs, includ­ing Notre Dame, Illinois State and Valparaiso and Wisconsin-Milwaukee, a top 25 Division III program. 
"With a majority [of the teams] being Division I pro­grams, it provides us with great challenges," Petcoff said. "Competitive-wise, as a team everyone is walking into this meet thinking 'Oh, Saint Mary's. Well we should outpoint Saint 
want to put some our swim­mers up there where we they can measure themselves against the Notre Dame, Illinois State and Evansville scholarship swimmers." 
Led by senior co-captains Michelle Stanforth (breast­stroke, individual medley) and Ashley Dyer (freestyle sprint). Saint Mary's deep but young team tackles a tough schedule this year that includes the 2004 and 20­time Division III national champion Kenyon College. The two teams will face off Nov. 13 in the Maroon Division III Invitational. 
"This is a very young team and, if anything, our only disadvantage is that we have less experience at the colle­giate level," Stanforth said. "But I think this can also be an advantage because it means that we have a new team that can have a new and positive outlook." 
The Belles take to the water at 6:30 p.m. for the Stark Relays in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports Writer 
Coming off a season when six seniors helped account for eight Saint Mary's team records. the Belles will look to rebuild with a youthful team that will try to usher in a new era for the program. 
"We've got a very different team this year," Belles coach Gregg Petcoff said. "We lost six seniors and 
"We've got a very
together within Mary's."' that six-member different team this But the class, their Belles see
year.
names were up these Relays as on the record an inviting board 21 times. Gregg Petcoff opportunity to So the goal for Belles coach challenge 
this season is to reestablish with the large fresh­men class the direction that the program goes. Given our circumstance we've got a lot of inexperience -talent but inexperience." 
The Belles will be tested today as they participate in the annual Dennis Stark Relays. The relays present the Belles a unique opportu­
scholarship 
swimmers 
from a number of Division I programs while gauging their individual and team development early in the season. 
"We're going to looking at it from the bottom up, trying to do some damage on some of these programs and see how competitive we are [with them]." Petcoff said. "We 




To Live as Variously as Possible: In Praise ofFrank O'Hara 
A staged reading and panel discussion ofthe life and work ofpoet Frank O'Hara 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 7:30p.m. 
Regis Philbin Studio Theatre Marie P _ DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
Tickets are available at: 

Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts Ticket office -631-2800 $3 students, $5 faculty/staff, $6 general public 
Sponsored by the Departments of Art, Art History and Design; English; Film, Television, and Theatre; Music and Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts 
NO SWIMMING 

Irish open season at the Stark Relays today 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Writer 
With a running joke that "the last easy day of practice was yes­terday" pervading the locker room, there is an air of determi­nation in the swimming program to surpass last year's accomplish­ments and achieve new levels of success in the water. 
Both the men's and women's teams open the season today playing host to Evansville and then taking part in the Dennis Stark Relays later in the evening. Coming off successful seasons with first and second-place finish­es for the men's and women's teams, respectively, in the Big East Championships, the bar has been set high for this year's squads. 
"We'd like to move up and cer­tainly improve on last year's standing but I think we can have our best NCAA finish ever," women's coach Bailey Weathers said. "We'd like to win another Big East championship which I don't think is a foregone conclu­sion." 
Today's Stark Relays i'its the Irish against tough teams from Evansville, Illinois State, Valparaiso and Wisconsin­Milwaukee, a top 25 Division III team. With a mixture of solid teams to race against, Notre Dame will have an opportunity to test both its individual and relay lineups against different oppo­nents. 
"It's kind of a reality check for us," men's head coach Tun Welsh said. "We've been training for a month and [today] is going to be a reality check to ask 'okay, where are we guys?' And it will be good to measure ourselves against the clock and against an outside team." 
Tonight's dual meet against Evansville provides the Irish with an opponent they have not swam against since both teams were members of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference before Notre Dame joined the Big East in 1995. Although Evansville has a much smaller roster than the Irish, it placed fourth in the Missouri Valley Conference cham­pionships last spring and could pose some challenges. 

"It's been a long time since we met them but what we know about them is that they're a very solid team," Welsh said. "They're not as large as us numerically but if you compare their performance last spring with our performance last spring, it's a pretty good match. We think Evansville will challenge us straight up and down the program." 
The Dennis Stark Relays, a Notre Dame swimming staple event for the last 40 years, brings · a fun atmosphere for the first relay test of the season. Consisting of 11 relays, the event includes a few unique races such as a "crescendo relay" that consists of a 50-meter leg, a 100-meter leg, a 200-meter leg, a 100-meter leg and concludes with a 50-meter leg. 
Expectations are high for this year's meet after the men's and women's teams set eight and six meet records, respectively, en route to winning the team crown in last year's Stark Relays. 
"We'd like to break at least four of the 11 [meet] records," Weathers said. "That's kind of been our average over the last few years." 
With almost a month break between today's dual meet and the third meet of the season, both Irish squads will have a solid chunk of time for improvement before facing their next oppo­nents. 
Just don't expect them to breeze lightly through those weeks. 
"Obviously we'll want to adjust to what we see [tonight]," Welsh said. "But in the grand plan, training gets harder before it gets easier. We think that we're a tun­ing team and that every one of the guys on the team can get faster." 
The Irish will face Evansville at 4 p.m. and then take part in the Dennis Stark Relays at 6:30 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Rarna Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

THAI RESTAURANT 
NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED WAIT STAFF 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 
232-4445 


page 22 Friday, October 1, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
• SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles travel to Loyola for _race 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Spores Wricer 
The Belles have two races left before the MIAA cross­country championship on Oct. 30. They will travel to Loyola University Saturday 
• to compete in the Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational. After last week's Jamboree at llope College, the team will return to its 'work-out' mindset -using use th·e next two races primarily to prepare for the conference meet. Coach Dave Barstis wants to use the time to build the runners' stamina for their last critical compe­tition. 
"We're back to our 'the race is a work-out' mentali­ty for the next two races before the conference cham­pionship," he said. 
pionships can still get us a fourth-place overall finish," Barstis said. 
In order to achieve that strong showing, the team has upped the intensity on its daily workouts and may find the race this weekend to be somewhat of a chal­lenge. 
"This was our first week [of high intensity workouts] and most of the runners are pretty sore, but they are supposed to be sore," Barstis said. 
Their primary goal is to maintain their focus so they can peak by Oct. 30. Everyone is running with a mindset of avoiding injuries and making the most out of the experience they can gain from the two non-confer­ence races they have left. 
The Lakefront Invitational 
will provide 
plenty of 
The team 
"We're -back to our 'the 0 P P 0 rtu n i ty
has good rea­for competi­son to work tion for the
race is a work-out' 
hard for the mentality for the next Belles. The next four race draws
two races."
weeks. An upwards of 40 unfortunate teams from injury helped Dave Barstis around the to deter Saint Belles coach region. This 

Mary's from the fourth-place finish it hoped for Saturday. 
Megan Gray was forced to complete the race on a twisted ankle after injuring herself part way through the meet. However, Barstis is 
year, the 
5,000-meter race will be divided into two divisions, based on the divi­sion of the school. Saint Mary's will run in the maroon division on Saturday; the race will begin at 10 a.m. The Belles will be 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Stedsmen set to face Vermin 
By PETE CRACCHIOLO, 
KYLE. CASSILY and JOHN 
EVERETT 
Spores Writers 
A rocky 0-2 start is hounding St. Edward's. 
Despite loses to Knott and Zahm, captain Matt Weber isn't worried. 
"We're not going to really change anything, just go out and play hard," Weber said. 
Carroll, on the other hand. is otr to a rip-roaring start this sea­son, defeating the defending champion Siegfried last week 7­0. 
"We were really strong on defense," captain Kory Wilmot said. 
Carroll's strategy for this Sunday's game is to adapt its offense slightly. St. Edward's defense is slightly different com­pared to other teams: but Carroll will be ready. 
According to Weber, a key player to look for is St. Edward's running back, Chris Wagner. 
On the other side, the Vermin are on top of the world. Shocking Siegfried last week may be just what Carroll needed to turn around its season. 
"The biggest thing is getting · everyone healthy," Wilmot said. 
Carroll suffered some injuries during its game last week, but Wilmot is confident everyone will be suited up and ready for action Sunday. 
Despite being the smallest hall on campus, the Vermin have shown they can compete this year. They've bounced with the best and are determined to walk over St. Edward's on Sunday. Knott vs. Fisher 
Reminiscent of last year's AFC Championship Game in which a highly-touted Indianapolis Colt · offense took on a similarly­esteemed New England Patriot defense, so will be this week's interhall match-up between offensive Knott and the tough defense of Fisher. 
The undefeated Green Wave will take on a Juggs team thai put 28 points on the board in its previous game against St. Edward's. 
Fisher's defense hopes to be up to the challenge, as it has allowed only seven points in the past two games. 
Green Wave captain Jerremy Moreno is confident that his line­men and linebackers are ready for what the Juggs' offense brings. 
"Whoever controls the line this weekend will win the game," Moreno said. 
The Knott offense is led by freshman quarterback Justin Gillett, who got the start last week against St. Edward's. 
"Our offense is really coming together and clicking as a unit," Knott captain Drew Donovan said. 
On the offensive side of the ball for Fisher the unit will be led by quarterback Pat Gotebeski. 
The Juggs' defense is by no means weak, as it has only let up 13 points in the past two games. Sorin vs. Zahm 
In an interesting twist, this game turns out to be a match of two teams both coming off a loss to the Green Wave of Fisher Hall. 
Sorin went first, losing its opener before a bye last week. Zahm suffered a disappointing turnabout from its opening rout of St. Edward's, and was shut out by Fisher in week 2. 
Sorin is 0-1 and looking to get 

··Men's InterhaU Football 
Te:uiJ cank (record) Last week 

L Fisher (2~0). 6 2iA!umn1 (1-0). 4 ~tCarroll (1-0) · · 14 .; 4.Knott (1~1) 5 5. Dillon (0~0-1) 1 6, Kc:enan (2-0) 7 7. Stanford (0-0~1) 9 8. Siegfried (1•1J 2 9. Morrissey ( 1 ~ 1) 3 Iq;Zahm (1~1) 8 11. O'Neill (1-1) 12 
12. Sorin (O~l) ·· 11 13; Keough (0·2) 10 14; St; Ed's (0-2) 13 

lnfQ~Ion. pi'OII!di!ll by Q PQII cf inle.rhall caplatll$ 
back to the .500 level. The Otters, if they expect to win. must do a better job of protect­ing their quarterback. In their last game, Collin O'Keefe was sacked twice and pressured on nearly every play. 
In addition, Sorin must hold on to the football. 
Fans of the Habid Bats pre­sumably held high hopes for their team's offense after Zahm poured it on against St. Edward's. Zahm cruised to a two-touchdown win, putting up 20 points utilizing their veer­option offense. 
These hopes were tempered by last week's inefficient perform­ance against Fisher. 
Zahm, like Sorin, has also struggled to keep its quarterback standing upright. Wieland was sacked four times last week, los­ing precious yardage each time. 
Contact Ryan Cracchiolo at rcracchi@nd.edu, Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu and John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 
confident Gray will be com­pletely recuperated for the conference meet. 
"Megan is close to 100 percent and will be racing this weekend," Barstis said. 
And the sixth-place finish that the team achieved has­n't changed their outlook for the season. 
"It only counted for one­third of the points so a strong showing at the cham­running against schools such as Grand Valley State University, Malone College and Western Ontario. 
With their eyes set on Oct. 30, the team will go into this race looking to use the diffi­cult competition to prepare for the end that is quickly approaching. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
FOR SALE 
A NOTRE DAME FAN'S DREAM 
FULLY FURNISHED 2 ·oEDROOM/2 FULL BATH CONDOMINIUM wtTH 2 CAR GARAGE, DECK, FIREPlACE & SWIMMING POOL AN EASY WALK FROM THE NOTRE DAME STADIUM THE FINEST ACCOMMODATIONS THIS CLOSE TO THE ACTION READY FOR OCCUPANCY -SLEEPS 1 0 PEOPLE A8-IS BUILT-IN VACUUM, WHOLE HOUSE ELECTRONIC AIR FILTER DINING AREA OVERLOOKS QUAINT PERENNIAL GARDEN W/PATIO 
FINISHm BASEMENT with WASHER & DR'VER, 2-PERSON JACUZZI & 48" TV NEW APPLIANCES, LINENS, KITCHENWARE, PAlNllNGS AND SCULPTURES INCLUDED CLUB HOUSE AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES ASKING $235,000.00 SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONL'V PLEASE· CALL (574)277-5631 FOR AN APPOINTMENT 



.. 
NO PARKING. NO TRAFFIC•. 
NO PROBLEM! 
Leave the hassles behind and take the Stadium Express to the game. Offering direct~us service to NO Campus for all home football games, shuttles begin 3 hours before kickoff and provide prompt returns following the game! Convenient pickup locations include: 
SB Regional Airport * Studebaker Museum College Football Hall of Fame (South Bend) Town & Country Shopping Center (Mishawaka) St. Mary's College *Holy Cross College *St. Joseph H.S. Downtown South Bend & University Park area hotels 
$2.00 Each way, St. Mary's/Holy Cross/St Joe HS $3.00 Each way, with advance tickets $4.00 Each way, at time of boarding 
(For cash fares, correct change is required) 
For advance ticket & pickup locations call: 
233-2131 
Wherever life Takes You 
Friday, October 1, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Morrissey and Dillon set to clash 
By CHRIS KHOREY, MIKE 
LASKEY and MIKE TENNANT 
Sports Writers 
Morrissey looked like champi­onship contenders after their sea­son-opening 14-6 win over O'Neill, but suddenly they are searching for answers after losing 18-7 to Keenan in Week 2. 
This week's opponent, Dillon, has some questions of its own, and the direction of both teams going into the last weeks of the season and the playoffs will be decided when they square off at 2 
p.m. Sunday at the south Riehle Field. 
Dillon's offense was totally shut down by Stanford, as the tradi­tionally-potent ground attack was held to 68 yards and only 2.4 yards per carry. 
"Not seeing that whole game speed [because we had an open­ing bye] makes a huge differ­ence," Big Red captain Mike Roaldi said after the game. "I think we were a much better team on offense in the second half." 
Dillon did improve after the half, recovering from a dismal negative-2 rushing yards in the first two quarters. 
"We don't think Morrissey is as strong as Stanford against the run," Roaldi said. "We had some backs who didn't know the offense very well. This week they should make their cuts better." 
Roaldi is also expecting to take advantage of Morrissey's under­sized defensive backs. 
"They have some small defen­sive backs. [Aaron] Ronsheim, their captain, is quite small," he said. "We have some tall receivers that we're going to try to isolate against them." 
The Manorite pass defense has been suspect this season. They gave up a 48-yard gain on a wag­gle pass that led to O'Neill's only score and allowed 174 yards through the air against Keenan. 
After looking impressive against O'Neill, the Manorites failed to take advantage of four Keenan fumbles. 
"We came out strong in the first half and forced some turnovers, but Keenan was able to recover," Ronsheim said after the game. Alumni vs. O'Neill . 
With fall break fast approach­ing, the push towards the interhall football playoffs begins this week­end with an exciting slate of games, including Sunday's Alumni-O'Neill match-up in the men's gold league. 
Alumni heads into Sunday's game, scheduled for 1 p.m. at the Riehle Fields, with a 1-0 record after defeating Keough 6-3 in the season's first week. The Dawgs secured the victory on the game's fmalplay. 
Coming off their own 7-6 victory over Keough in Week 2, moving its record to 1-1, O'Neill is looking for a boost in offensive production against a tough Alunmi squad. 
"Our offense has been the team's most disappointing aspect so far," captain Mike Milligan said. 
After a week of strong practices, Milligan is confident the offense will display needed improvement against Alumni. 
"The effort has been great, and everybody's been giving 100 per­cent," the captain said. "Our strength is running the football." 
The play of its special teams was one factor that keyed the Angry Mob's victory over Keough. 
With such a short regular sea­son, it can be difficult for any team to establish an identity and develop team chemistry, essential aspects for success. After its first two games, it seems like the O'Neill team is still working on getting to know themselves. 
"It feels like we have a good team," Milligan said. "But it all comes down to execution. " Keenanvs.Keough 
Last week Keenan and Keough combined for 294 yards and three touchdowns through the air. 
This might not be a good week­end for defensive backs. 
As the Knights and Kangaroos square off Sunday at Riehle field, both teams will again look toward their respective quarterbacks for leadership on offense. 
Keenan sophomore Eric Laumann is coming off a banner week in which he threw for 17 4 yards and two touchdowns and ran for a third late in the game. Senior captain Pat Downey believes Laumann will again be the key for the Knights' offense. 
"Eric had a really great game; he managed it well," Downey said. "It all starts with him." 
Keough will also look to its quarterback for leadership this week. After throwing the ball 25 times for 120 yards and a touch­down last week, senior Brian Kusper could give the stingy Keenan defense some problems. 
Kusper would like to see his Kangaroos come out with a more balanced attack though. 
"We'd like to run more, but we're going to have to look at the defense we're up against," the senior quarterback said. "Our defense as a whole will be the key." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu, Mike Laskey at mlaskey@nd.edu and Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish open Big East play against Orange 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
A jet carrying the Notre Dame volleyball team will fly to Syracuse, N.Y. today. The Irish are hoping their season will get off the ground with it. 
After dropping their last two matches to South Carolina and Michigan, Notre Dame will open Big East con­ference play against the Syracuse Orange at 2 p.m. Saturday in Manley Field House. 
"I think we're ready to go," captain Meg Henican said. "We're really excited, and we know it's an important game." 
. Irish coach Debbie Brown is confident her team. the preseason pick to win the conference, will play to their potential. 
"I think we're looking to get back on the winning track," Brown said. 
That will be a difficult task as the Orange are 13-4 so far this season. They have played a rather challenging schedule highlighted by a 3-1 win over Washington State two weeks ago. 
Syracuse is powered by outside hitter Kristen Conway and middle blocker Kelly Duan. Conway leads the team with 193 kills on the year while Duan has tallied 167. Conway also was first on the team in 2003 with 414 kills while Duan Jed the Orange with 41 aces. 
Morgan Jones is another strong player the Irish will have to contend with as she leads returning Orange play­ers with a .244 hitting _per­centage. The senior was sec­ond on the team last season with 362 kills. 
Syracuse finished 4-8 in Big East play last year and was only picked to finish ninth in the conference this season. 
They have also suffered defeat at the hands of Penn and Albany in their previous two matches but Brown and the Irish are not taking any­thing for granted. 
"Syracuse has struggled in their last four or five matches but they've played a real tough non-conference sched­ule," Brown said. "I know they'll be feeling pretty confi­dent." 
Despite the recent losses, Notre Dame has a reason to be optimistic in the play of Lauren Kelbley. The presea­son all-Big East outside hitter had a career high 24 kills to go along with a .404 hitting percentage against the Wolverines. 
"This is a new position for [Kelbley] this year. She has been getting better and bet­ter and looking more com­fortable out there," Brown said. "I like her ability to hit such a wide variety of shots." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


r~fo~tto~ Mut~~s SPM ~ ttAyes-t f5ALY 
MONDAY, OCTOBER+ 
No prior stud~ ot Japanese necessar~ torTok~o 
ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? NOTRE DAME MEN'S WATER POLO TEAM is ranked 16th Nationally and is searching for good, hard-working players for their run at the National Title this November, hosted here, at NO. Experience is a plus!  
0 Moreau Art Galleries §)atsaint M::;~:~~!t!~oe 0 Leticia BajuyoG0 in Liffie Thea;;;~~s;i:~;; ceramic sculpture by0 Rebekah Wostrel in Hammes Gallery Exhibition Dates: October 1-29, 2004 Opening Reception: Friday, October 1st from 5-7pm Artist Lecture: Friday, October 1st at 6pm in Moreau 232 (adjacent to gallery space) All events are free and open to the public The Moreau Art Galleries are located in the Moreau • Center for the Arts on the Saint Mary's College Campus , Gallery Hours: M-F, 1 Oam-4pm For more Info, visit m.a.g. at: www.saintmarys.edu/-gallery  


page 24 Friday, October 1, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Winless Howard faces No.2 Welsh Family 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA, 
ABBY RICHARDSON, THOMAS STILES, KATIE SERYAK and TOM DORWART 
..: 
Spores Wriccrs 
An 0-2 record means two things in interhall football. 
One, a team's season is on the brink and, two, emotion will drive a team to pick up that all-impor­tant lirst win. 
As I Ioward (0-2) tries to right its ship, Welsh Family (2-0), currently ranked No. 2 in the interhall polls, is approaching the game with cau­tion, recognizing the danger of an 0-2 team. 
"I think Howard is probably very hungry to win a game," Welsh Family captain Mary Pendergast said. 
The Whirlwinds have played very well in the early weeks of the season, displaying both offensive variety and defensive tenacity. 
"For us, it's really just a matter of executing," Pendergast said. 
But don't count the Ducks out of this game. Howard has been training hard the last couple of weeks, tweaking their offensive sets and receiver routes. 
"We've been working a lot more on our routes which are a lot crisper," lloward captain Callie Whelan said. ' 
On offense, Howard must also lind a way to cut through a Welsh Family defense that has confused their opponents with multiple defensive formations early on in the season. 
The Whirlwinds and Ducks face off at 1 p.m. on Sunday at the Hiehle West field. 
Pasquerilla East vs. McGlinn 
Neither of the teams has won a 
game yet, but this Sunday, that 
will change for one team. 

Pasquerilla East and McGlinn 
will be playing each other on the 
West Quad field at 3 p.m .. 

Pasquerilla East has played 
three games. facing Farley, 
Pasquerilla West and Breen 
Phillips. McGlinn has played two 
games, against Breen Phillips and 
Walsh. Neither team has secured 
a win, although coming close at 
times. 

"We have a lot of freshman and 
a lot of inexperience," Pasquerilla 
East's captain Allison Ferber said. 
McGlinn has had some bad 
luck. They lost a very close game 
against high-ranked Walsh and 
lost a close scrimmage against 
Breen-Phillips. 

"We've been trying to solidify the offensive," McGlinn captain liz Maher said. 
Although neither team has been able to grab a win, they have not given up. 
"We need something to click," Ferber said. This weekend each team faces the other with confidence. 
Some of the players to watch out for on the Pasquerilla offense are the senior running back, Stephanie Adams and freshman wide receiver Caroline Nally. On defense, Kendra Simpson has been a strong player. 
"[Kendra] holds the defense together," Ferber said. "[She is] the strength of the defense." 
Some of the players that have played well on McGlinn's offense are quarterback and co-captain junior Bridget Meacham, running back Raquel Ferrer and senior receiver Onkay Wong. 
These two teams will come head to head on Sunday, and a winner will be decided. 
Cavanaugh vs. Pasquerilla West 1\vo strikingly similar teams will face each other this Sunday at 2 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway, Mishawaka • 574-271-1692 
p.m. when the Cavanaugh Chaos (1-0-1) take on the Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels (1-0-1) at the West Quad fields. Each is unde­feated with a tie and coming ofT an emotional win, and both teams win with tough defense and an offense led by a talented quarter­back. 
The Chaos come in having just picked up their first win with a dominating performance over Farley, reaffirming their umber­one preseason ranking. The Weasels enter Sunday's game with a solid come-from-behind victory from a week ago, over their sister dorm and rival Pasquerilla East no less. Both teams will certainly come out looking to remain unde­feated. 
"After the comeback against Pasquerilla East, we are really excited for this season," Pasquerilla West captain Abby Nerlinger said. 
Cavanaugh quarterback Lisa Ruffer will look to lead an offense that finally got going last Tuesday after being shut out in the season opener. Her ability to throw the deep ball and scramble when put under pressure will undoubtedly test the Weasel defense. The Weasel linebackers will be key in containing Ruffer. 
"We have some really strong linebackers, so we usually look to blitz," Nerlinger said. 
The highly-touted Chaos defense will have to deal with the green, but promising, Heather Van Hoegarden, the Pasquerilla West quarterback. 
She played quarterback last Sunday having no prior experi­ence at the position, but still man­aged to lead a second-half come­back. 
"We will still rotate at quarter­back, but I'm guessing Heather 
&ood Luck Irish! 

Visit the restaurant voted Best Breakfast and Best Lunch by the readers of the South Bend Tribune in either of our two locations: 
•Downtown South Bend across from the Hall of Fame 288-PE.E.P 
•Mishawaka off Main St. next to Super Target 
271-PE.E.P 
6:30am -2:00pm Mon-Fri 7:00am -2:00pm Sat & Sun 

·-------~----------------------------------~ 
~uy otte etttree get asecottd half off 
· (valid anytime but not with any other offer) Observer coupon • expires 10/8/2004 

~------------------------------------------~ 
will start," Nerlinger said. 
With the offenses apparently in 
high gear and the defenses' abili­
ties proven, Cavanaugh and 
Pasquerilla West will likely put on 
quite a show this Sunday. 
Lyons vs. Lewis 
With Lyons coming ofT of a dis­appointing loss to Welsh, Lewis better watch out on Sunday. The two teams will battle it out to decide who gets in the win column and who gets a loss. 
Lyons came out strong against the No.1 team on Thursday, block­ing all but one touchdown attempt. They were, however, unable to put any points on the board. Lewis also suffered a loss to Pangborn on Thursday, a team which Lyons tied earlier this sea­son. 
"We'll come out ready, play our best and work with what we've got," Lewis Captain Julia Burke said. "Our defense is returning though, and they are beginning to really step up during games" Burke said. 
Lewis has one win and two loss­es so far this season, while Lyons boasts a 2-1-1 record. 
"I didn't really look past the [Welsh] game, but now that its over we can think about Sunday's game and prepare," Lyons Captain Traci Kazmerski said. 
Pangborn vs. Off-Campus 
Pangborn (2-1-1) attempts to continue their surprise season and position themselves for playoff seeding, and the OfT-Campus team (0-3) shoots for its first win Sunday at 4:00 at Riehle fields. 
"If we win, we'll get a better seed in the playoffs," sophomore Caitie MacCourtney said. 
Faced with an entirely different situation than their opponent. the OfT-Campus squad looks to get in the win column. 



"Hopefully we'll put it all togeth­er and win," senior captain Lauren Blum said. "We've strug­gled. We don't practice at all because most of our team is sen­iors, and we're pretty busy. Every game is a practice." 
Off-Campus comes ofT a tough loss to Badin, while the Phoxes roll into the matchup after winning two straight. 
"We were missing a few players [against Badin]. Fatigue was an issue because we had players playing both ways: offense and defense," Blum said. 
With three games left on their schedule, Off-Campus vows to keep fighting. 
"We're defmitely not giving up. We have the potential to win a few games," Blum said. 
Contact Rarna Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu, Abby Richardson at arichaO 1 @nd.edu, Thomas Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu, Katie Seryak at kseryak@nd.edu and Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Friday, October 1, 2004 page 25 
The Observer+ SPORTS 



To enter, call 
574/283-1115 
or visit www.salmonchase.org 1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka 


New for ~COL!: 
Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 

2004-FALL tJl.ASS/tJ 50-yard GLtppy RLtn 
(574) 256-1444 
SK RU1J •/OKRUIJ • 5K WALK 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for

for kids ages ~-8 f 
2.5 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from

Saturday, October 16, 2004 • 8 a.m. 
Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and

N~.EXTR.EM£
/Burkhart/ 
your guests.

AstraZeneca<'ft lhllCOMMUNICATIONS 
www.burktt.rbi:IIV.o~m 
• c;r.o.phic d"i<l"' • 
\\VJEJLCOMUE lFOOTJB\AILlL lFlR.J[lEND§ AND IFAM(UJLY~
J(OO$itf 
RACING TIRE 
Tuesday-Thursday 
Full bar available
s:oo-9:00 
U S 
Business 
Friday & Saturday Free bruschetta with ad
• • Systems Inc. 
s:oo-1o:oo 
-··-----·.tiJHCwr~rtdtAftl.:i."---­
Frat1cesc~ t1eeds servers 
BC 
continued from page 28 
the Irish lock horns with a struggling Loyola-Chicago squad for a Sunday non-con­ference matinee. 
While the Ramblers haven't exactly set the soccer world on fire this season, Clark and the Irish certainly aren't underes­timating them. 
"It will be a tough game," Clark said. "For teams that aren't doing well -it doesn't look as though they've got a squad that will make the tour­nament -the thing that would make their season is taking a few good scalps. They'll be very excited to come into South Bend and play Notre Dame, so we've got to make sure that we don't add to their excitement." 
As was the case with Boston College, the last time Notre Dame played Loyola-Chicago -November 2002 -the Irish escaped· with a hard-fought 1-0 victory on a late goal, this time off the foot of graduated mid­fielder Greg Martin with just under 12 minutes to play. 
Notre Dame enters this weekend's play on the heels of its first conference road trip of the season. 
The Irish suffered their first Big East loss of the season Sept. 24, drop­ping a 1-0 deci­

sion to West "We found out just away from West that we beat Villanova -got a 
Temperatures are expected to Virginia on a sec­how hard it is to Virginia, but I good victory there," Clark said. 
drop into the 50s at host ond half goal by just don't think "We found out just how hard it 
University of Wisconsin-Fond du
win games in the 

t h e our focus was as is to win games in the Big East. 
Lac's golf course. However, Mountaineers' Big East." good as maybe it Every game, be it home or 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton Jerrod Smith. should have been away, is very difficult." 
believes coping with the chillyWhile the Bobby Clark for that game." After battling Boston College 
temperatures will be a source of rough road con­Despite the set­and Loyola-Chicago this week­
opportunity than a hindrance.
coach

ditions undoubt­back, the Irish end, Notre Dame hosts 
"This meet is a chance for us edly factored into wasted little time Pittsburgh Thursday night in 
to gain mental. toughness,"the equation, Clark doesn't righting the ship, gutting out a game three of a five-game 
Hamilton said. "We want to believe they were the only rea­1-0 shutout of Big East-leader homestand. 
prove that we can play under son Notre Dame came up Villanova on forward Justin 
tough conditions and come out short. McGeeney's unassisted game­Contact Matt Puglisi at 
ahead. It makes you better,"I think maybe we didn't winning tally two minutes after mpuglisi@nd.edu 
makes you stronger." 
Weather conditions aside, Hamilton said that the team has also focused on mentally prepar­ing for this weekend's invitation­

JUST FOR TI-ll: RUN OFIT! al. The Belles have been working 
in practice to improve their sand play and their ability to work around visual hazards. 

Proceeds benefit: 
"This course has a lot of visual hazards," Hamilton said. "We've been telling the girls to pick a
• 

more specific target on the course when aiming. It's easier 

MADISON 
CENTER 
to look at where you don't want to hit than focusing on where 
Invite 
continued from page 28 
Brigham Young. 
An equally strong field awaits the women's team as it faces No. 1 Stanford and No. 6 Michigan. While the Irish women currently are ranked fourth, the team knows the race will be a battle. , 
"We have our work cut out for us despite our national ranking," Connelly said. 
The Irish women will be led by junior Molly Huddle, who. took first place at the 2003 Notre Dame Invitational. Senior Laurie King was expected to be the No. 2 run­ner for the women but she will not compete today. 
"We felt that [Laurie] King was not quite ready to race," Connelly said. "Her absence will definitely hurt us but we need her at full strength later in the season." 
SMC GoLF 
Team. 'weathers' adversity 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Senior midfielder Jack Stewart heads the ball in a game ear­lier this season against Cal State. 
By ANN LOUGHERY 

Sports Writer quite get our focus right for the halftime. West Virginia game," Clark The victory left the Irish with 
The weather may be one of the said. ''I'm not a 1-1 mark on the trip. 
Belles' fiercest opponents at this taking anything "The positive was obviously 
weekend's Oshkosh Invitational. 
After a first-place performance at the National Catholic Invitational, Tim Moore looks to be the lead runner for the Irish men. Moore also finished third last sea­son at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
In addition to the Division I teams that compete in the blue division, there will also be a gold division comprised of Division II and III teams. The Irish will field teams in both divisions. 
. "There will be a good opportuni­ty in the gold division for our more-inexperienced runners to race against strong competition," Connelly said. 
The Notre Dame Invitational 
begins at the Burke Memorial Golf 
Course today at 2 p.m. A total of 
five races will take place with the 
women's blue division starting at 
4:15p.m. and the men's race at 5 
p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
you do." 
This meet will serve as a test not only in regards to the weath­er and course conditions, but in the team's depth. Earlier this week, captain Chrissy Dunham sprained her foot. Although her condition has improved, Dunham's participation in the meet is uncertain. 
"Hopefully she'll be able to walk the course," Hamilton said. "Her foot has improved, but we'll be roughing it until we get up there. If her foot's bad, and she can't go full-strength, our No. 5 and 6 players, Nicole Bellino and Kirsten Fantom, will really have to step up." 
Despite all of the challenges Saint Mary's will encounter this weekend, Hamilton remains optimistic and expects the Belles will be contenders for the cham­pionship title. 
"There will be a lot of teams we've played before there, and· they're all looking to beat us," Hamilton said. "But I think our team has more talent than other teams there. It will just be a mat­ter of whether they can show how talented they are in the bad weather." 
Contact Ann Loughery alougher@nd.edu 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October I, 2004
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
The fact that we were able to hold four plays off on the 10 is 
No. I
Gold 

huge for us," Welsh captain Mary Prendergast said. 
continued from page 28
continued from page 28 Badin 31, Off-Campus 6 

mor11 Caitie MacCourtney said. Any doubt about Badin's ability 
yourself tn. but it's stuff you've At a turning point in the inter­to defend its championship was 
got to get over and just go out hall nag football season. the erased Thursday night. The 
and play," she said. Phox11s improw~d to 2-1-1, while Bullfrogs rebounded from 
Waldrum has his own con­the Chicks fell to 1-2. Sunday's loss and returned to 
cerns about West Virginia and Key turnovers set up the last season's form with a con­
seedings for the Big East Phoxes' two touchdowns. After vincing 31-6 win over Off­
Tournament. an interception with 10 minutes Campus. 
"The thing that we've got to left in the first half. quarterback The Badin offense struck early 
recognize in the Big East, you Katie Mooney launched a 30-and often, registering four pass­
really don't want to lose to a yard touchdown pass to wide ing touchdowns. Quarterback 
West Virginia or a Villanova receiver Mary Davis to put her Stephanie Heath found a bevy of 
because even if they have a team up 7-0. receivers over the course of the 
loss, they [still) have the head­Early in the second half. evening completing 7-of-14 pass­
to-head over you," he said. Pangborn cornerback Alison es for 95 yards and three touch­
Defense has been the staple Cenforsman picked o!f a Lewis downs. Her 29-yard bomb broke 
of this year's Irish squad. pass and returned it to midfield. a scoreless tie midway through 
Opposing teams have strug­setting up a drive and another the first half and opened the 
gled to get a shot on goal touchdown pass to Davis. !'loodgates for the Bullfrog 
against Notre Dame. much With less than two minutes offense. Badin scored on three of 
less a goal itself. In 10 games remaining in the game, from the its next four possessions. 
this season. the Irish have Phox 1-yard line, Lewis threat­Heath said that her team's 
allowed only 24 shots on goal ened to tie the game at 14. The focus this week was to play with 
while yielding only seven actu­resilient Pangborn defense made more intensity and motivation. 
al goals. The team has only ter, more knowledgeable ed to be a part of that up until one final stand. The intensity was evident as the 
trailed in a game twice all sea­defender in the country." the end of the year." Welsh Family 6, Lyons 0 Bullfrogs cheered each other on 
son. Waldrum said about Tancredi. Thorlakson followed the lead Last night. the Whirlwinds and from the sideline, especially dur­
"All the problems we had "I think this whole back four is of teammate Jen Buczkowski. the Lyons met for what proved to ing critical defensive plays. 
last year are totally ironed out going to be up there in that who, over the spring, also be the most-difficult game so far Off Campus's lone score came 
now," Tancredi said. "We area with the best we've ever decided to play for the Irish for each team. Top-ranked WeL'ih on a six-yard pass from Lauren 
anticipate much better as a had here at our program." instead of the U.S. Under-19 Family scraped by with the win. Blum to receiver Megan Furman. 
unit this year and we're much The Irish will see the return National Team. For Waldrum. narrowly slipping past Lyons by This tied the game 6-6 with 1:34 
-more cohesive." of starting defender Gundrun the two commitments are both a touchdown. The final score to play in the first half. but Badin 
Tancredi anchors the defen­Gunnarsdottir after she a relief and a sign his program read 6-0, after Welsh failed to would go on to score 25 unan­
sive unit, often providing vet­missed last weekend's games has reached a new level. make the extra point. swered points en route to a 
eran leadership for the with an ankle sprain. "The way Katie's been play­Welsh scored their touchdown blowout win. Off-Campus tried to 
younger defenders like sopho­Notre Dame also received a ing and scoring goals, kind of within the flfSt three minutes of expand its offense with screen 
mores Christie Shaner and further boost last week when leading the way for our young the first half. never to near the passes, reverse passes, and other 
Kate Lorenzen. This past leading scorer Katie players up front, it's a huge goal line again. trick plays, but it was unable to 
week, Tancredi was named Thorlakson announced her relief to have her decide to The Lyons' defense responded move the ball effectively for 
Big East Defensive Player of decision to stay on with the stay," he said. "It just says automatically. denying several much ofthe night. 
the Week for the third time Irish for the entire season. loads about their commitment flfSt down..c;; to the No. 1 ollense. The Bullfrogs' scoring barrage 
this season. Previously, Thorlakson had level to the program." As the first half neared close, was led on the receiving end by 
During Sept. 24's match intended to leave the Irish for But Waldrum also knows Welsh called a time out in an Ashley O'Keefe, who caught two 
against Pittsburgh, Tancredi three weeks to play for the their presence doesn't guaran­attempt to convert on a fourth touchdown passes and threw for 
showcased her offensive abili­Canadian Under-19 National tee anything. down. They were unsuccessful. a third. 
ties in addition to her solid Team. Had she done so, "The biggest part of that is During the second half, Lyons' Defensive back Cailin 
defense. Tancredi scored her Thorlakson would have missed to let these kids know what's defense came out stronger than Shannon's 15-yard interception 
second goal of the season to any games Notre Dame played in front of them," Waldrum they did in the flfSt half. almost return for a touchdown put the 
tie the game against the during the first four rounds of said. "I don't think there's any intercepting a 40-yard pass and game out of reach. 
Panthers and then assisted on the NCAA Tournament. room to slack off." denying the first down. Off Campus's quest for its first 
the last Irish goal to help put "I feel like we have some­As the second half counted win continues when they take on 
the game away. thing special here at Notre Contact Matt Mooney at down. the Lyons offense made a Lewis next Thursday. Badin 
"I don't think there's a bet-Dame," she said, "and I want-mmooney@nd.edu push deep into the Whirlwinds' enters a critical stretch of its territory. They made a short­schedule as it takes on Welsh yardage pass play to convert on Family next Thursday and Lyons the fourth down. positioning a week from Sunday. Coach themselves at first and goal. Paley likes his team's chances. 


"Tai'~~b,~Dt easy! With Welsh returned with a quarter­"If we bring the same intensity back sack, pushing Lyons back. and motivation we brought 
ninet1ATMs on cam"' 
In the last 30 seconds of the tonight every game, we can play 
. PY~r ~ptre Dame
game, Lyons had the ball with with anyone in the league," he the opportunity to score. On their said. 

······ Federtll Credit Union first possession, however, Welsh's Daphne Zeringue intercepted the Contact Tom Dorwart at tdor­
··. '01'is ·rl~htiten~re rrieea··· 
ball, ending all hopes Lyons had wart@nd.edu, Kate Seryak at 
,w:.tharn.•·a~~~i' · · 
ofscoring. kseryak@nd.edu and Ryan "We consider ourselves lucky. Kiefer at rkiefer1@nd.edu 







------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, October 1, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

DILBERT 
TOMORROW I'LL TELL THE STOCKHOLDERS THAT WE EARNED 
$100 MILLION! 
PEANUTS 
11M SORI<.'I' YOU DIDN1T 6Ei ELECTED CLA55 PRESIDENT, ''PIGPEN'' 
... -, . 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WE HAD SO YOU 
TO BE WOULDN'T 
INCEN­
TAKE THEIR 
TIVIZED. 
FURNITURE, TOO? 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
I Tl-lOU61-lT 1-tAVING A 
NOBOD'I' VOTED FOR ME ..TI-lE'(
CAMPAIGN Pl-lOTO OF" ME 

ALL VOTED F"OR TI-lE DOG! AND A DOG WOULD DO IT... 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAWRD 
I I rj (] 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~fftxJ 
BUSTIM j
rxx 
www.jumble.CQm
tKELNER I
) () (] 
Answer: 
A ''( I I I ) " ( I I I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: BOOTY NIECE PARODY VACUUM Answer: What he realized when she declined the kiss at midnight -THE "DATE" WAS OVER 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 They may be 56 Classic Frank draining Loessersong
1 Like some from a 1950doughnuts 33 Counter's start 
musical 16 It'll do your 34 They're fed at heart good curbside DOWN
17 They have to 
37 War game listen 1 Distinguishing 
41 Unearthly 
marks 42 Italian pronoun 18 Letters of 
royalty 2 Court no-no, 19 Doesn't get 43 One who made usually everything one Ulysses fit to be 
3 "Father Murphy" wants 
tied 
extras 20 Mushroom part 44 Pitcher Maglie 
4 Simple sack 
and others
21 Those in La 5 Eastern ties 
Mancha 45 Emulates a 6 Video game
43-Across
23 Breeds allotment 
47 Prefix with 24 Runner's goal 7 Thinner 
language
25 Chief Justice in components the Dred Scott 
48 Radar, e.g.: 
8 Where drammi Abbr.
case are performed 27 Some are odd: 
49 Cloak 9 Crows Abbr. 
51 Harris of 10 Yields
28 Stuff in a closet Hollywood 11 "... it me?" 
29 Blood pressure 52 Choice words readings 12 Rare driving 
55 One with a poll 
result
31 Pulled tight position? 13 They inspired Andy Warhol 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE "":"T::-r:::--r.::~ 14 Coop flier 
15 Hysteria area *±~r.:-1 22 Parlor fixtures 
-=+~+=--~ 24 1960's falsetto singer 
26 Colloquial possessive 
28 Actress Headey l!l!l!tl~;..;+;=+::::-1 and others 
-:-:+:~-+::-t:-7-1 30 Abbr. for dumbbells 
..:+:+.:+.:-! 31 Thrice: Lat. 
-=+-=+-:+::~ 33 Tchotchke holders 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


34 It may run in the 39 Pay someone 49 Latin quarters rain back 50 Composition of
40 Watching35 Ran out 
some beds 42 Stamped out, in36 Farmer's a way 53 Lacking value 

fieldwork 45 Longtime
37 Open 54 Boy whose 
Chicago name ismaestro 

38 Taker of a repeated in a religious vow 46 C.D. source nursery rhyme 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kieran Culkin, Lacey Chabert, Jenna Elfman, Marty Stuart 
Happy Birthday: Don't be too quick to tum a blind eye or forget what you've been through. The time to learn from your past experience is now. If you have learned your lessons well, you will not have to worry about losing again. Your numbers are5, 12, 16, 22, 31,42 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): A lot will be up in the air today, making it important to be precise and detailed in all you do. Do not let personal problems interfere with what needs to be done. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Put your efforts into a job well done and you will avoid feeling anxious about matters that you have no control over. Your suggestions will help you make improvements.*** ·,_ GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Not everything will be out in the open, but if you rely on your own steam and knowledge, you will do what's right and best for you. Make personal or physical changes today. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your efforts into partnerships, group endeavors or travel. Someone you know through work may cause you grief. Keep your professional and personal life separate. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22}: You may have to rely on friends, relatives or neighbors to help you out of a sticky situation today. Don't trust someone you know through work. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22}: Business trips or gathering information that can help you get ahead will result in financial gains. You may discover a new hobby through one of the people you meet today. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Protect your health and your finances. Someone may try to convince you to spend too much on something that you don't really need. Offer suggestions, not cash. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be emotional about personal matters. Don't leave yourself in a vulnerable position. Secrets must not be revealed at this time. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The way you interact with peers, colleagues or clients will make a difference to the outcome of a deal you are involved with. Don'ttake sides; diplomacy will count. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Nothing will be too much trouble for you, however, if you do put yourself out on a limb, the backlash may be severe. Physical or mental changes will tum out well. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may feel uneasy about your personal life. Don't start a discussion that could end up fueling a fire. Play it safe and say as little as possible. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Travel will bring about new friendships or business connections. You should be able to present and promote whatever you are working on. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are in control and you instinctively know what must be done to get what you want. You are intelligent, intuitive and very in tune with the universe. 

·­
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, October I, 2004 
page 28 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Defending their ranking 
Irish hope to remain ranked by beating No. 9 Boston College and Loyola-Chicago this weekend 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Wri rcr 
The No. 23 Irish (5-2-1 over­all, 2-1-0 in Big Eastl look to "stay in the spotlight" -and stay ranked -when they host Big East rival and eurrent eon­fnreJu:e lnader No. 9 Boston College (6-l-0, 3-1-0) tonight at 7::~0 p.m. befow welcoming Loyola-Chi1:ago (1-6-l) to Alumni Field Sunday aftl~rnoon at 3:30 p.m. 
After starting the season ranked No. IJ, losses to No. 1 Indiana and West Virginia have steadily droppt>d the Irish to th1~ No. 23 spot. 
Led by preseason Big East defender of the year Guy Melamed and freshman plw­norn Charlie Davies, the Colden Eaglns are baek on traek after finishing ninth in eonfornnt:!~ play (6-7-4 overall, 3-5-2 in Big East) and missing the NCM tournarn1~nt for the nrst time in four years last season. 
"I would say it's the best Boston College team there's bonn in quite some time," t:oaeh Bob by Clark said. "Thny're ranked as high as ninth in thn eountry, and I think that's a des1~rved rank­ing. Thny'rn the best team in Nnw England now and one of the best in the country." 
Boston Collegn has hit the ground running thus far, rip­ping ofT four straight victories before sturn bling against Villanova in a 2-1 loss Snpt. l S. The 1\aglns immediately rebounded, topping a pair of Big East opponents 
Providence and No. 11 St. John's -to move into a first­place three-way tie with Villanova and St. John's head­ing into tonight's showdown. 
The Irish currently sit in a four-way fourth place tie, thnw points behind the confer­enee leaders. 
In the last matehup between the Irish and Eagles in 2002 ­the squads did not meet last season -Notre Dame edged Boston College in a thrilling 1­


0 overtime victory at Alumni Field. 
Arter nearly netting the game-winner 13 minutes into the second half, the Irish wait­ed until three minutes into the first overtime period to take the eontest. Heceiving a pass down the left sideline from graduated senior Justin Detter, current senior Luke Boughen hammered a shot into the right eorner of the net for the victo­ry. 
Boasting eight international players, Boston College's ros­ter is anything but ordinary. 
"They've got a lot of interest­ing players," Clark said. "For the first time, [the Eagles! have taken a lot of foreign players, some of them a bit older. They're a very good team, and everything points to it being a fabulous game." 
Following tonight's contest, 
see BC/page 25 
WoMEN's SoccER 

No.1 Irish stick with form_ula 
Team continues to solidify defense, create scoring opportunities 
By MATT MOONEY Sporrs Wrirer 

Having just passed thn halfway point of the season, No. 1 ranked Notre Dame is not about to ehangn a formula that brought about an undn­feated 10-0-0 start. 
"I don't really know that thnre's going to hn mueh in terms of trying to change things," eoaeh Handy Waldrum said. "Our philoso­phy is still the same, to eon­centrale on solidifying things [on defense I and trying to ere­ate goal seoring ehanees." 
The Irish resume thnir con­ference schedule this weekend making a quick trip out to No. 20 West Virginia for tonight's 7 p.m. game. Notre Dame will then turn around and head home for Sunday's 1 p.m. game against Providence at Alumni Field. The Irish defeated West Virginia last year by a 2-0 seore and did not play Providence. 
Defender Melissa Taneredi said the unusual scheduling of both a road and a home game in one weekend is a ehallenge for the players. 
"[All the travel is[ just an uncomfortable situation to put 
see NO. 1/page 26 

ND CRoss CouNTRY 

Invite draws 95 tean1s 
Notre Dame to host one of the oldest and largest collegiate races 
By STEVE COYER Sporrs Wrirer 
The top <:ross country runnBrs in the nation will assemble today at Notre Dame for one of the oldest and largt~st intercollegiate races. 
With a total of 95 teams partici­pating, the 49th annual Notre Danw Invitational fnatures somn of the bnst taltmt in both Division I and II <Toss country. The women's race will feature nine Division I teams ranked in the top 30 with eight ranked men's teams inducted. 

'The eompetition is a whole dif­lenmt world in this meet compared to what we have seen so far," women's coach Tim Connelly said. "At the same time we need to face this challenge if we want to sueceed later in the season." 
The Irish men have already won two invitational meets this season but will have a eonsiderable chal­lenge to continue their streak. Ranked No. 29 in a preseason poll, the men's team will run against the likPs of No. 2 Stanford and No. 9 
see INVITE/page 25 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Pangborn shocks Lewis 
By TOM DORWART, KATE SERYAK AND RYAN KIEFER Sporrs Wrirers 
In their last game, No. 10 Pangborn shocked top-ranked Badin 26-0. The Phoxes con­tinued their surprise season Thursday at Hiehle fields with a 14-7 victory over the Lewis 
Chicks. 

"Pangborn has had a bad history with football. We won our first game in four years at 
CHUY BENITEZ!The ObseJVer the end of last season," sopho­
A Lyons player races down the field In a game against Off-Campus earlier this season. see GOLD/page 26 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
NO SWIMMING
en 
GOLF 
SMC SOCCER 
IRISH INSIDER
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Irish anticipating 
Team looks to 
Saint Mary's gets
1-u Belles compete in 
Team seeking 
z Oshkosh invite 
success on road 
extend streak 
back to business
competition 

Look inside for full
a: s 
Saint Mary's hopes to
The teams are set to
The Belles travel to 
The Belles are focus­
=c::l Chilly weather conc!i­

coverage of Notre
continue two-game win-
participate in the Stark 
ing on their game
tions and a difficult 
Loyola to compete in 

Dame's upcoming game 
ning streak against
relays to open the sea-
against Calvin this
< course are expected to 
the Sean Earl Lakefront 
against Purdue. 
Albion.
son. 
weekend.
Invitational.
a.. tc challenge the Belles. 
en 
page 25 
page 21 
page 20 
page 20
page 22 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 1, 2004 

Irish haven't forgotten last year 

Joe Hettler 
."iports Writer 

Notre Dame's playnrs did pushed around on both sides one more crucial aspeet of have a very realistic chance their best to mask any of the ball. Brady Quinn Saturday's contest-the of starting the season 7-1. undorlying dislikn for threw 59 passes in his first repercussions it will have on For now, it's unlikely Notre l'urduo this wnek. earner start because of a both team's seasons. Dame's players are thinking 
But it non-existent running game, "A lot of times, whoever that far ahead. The Irish was clear Purdue quarterback Kyle wins this game; it has a big simply remember the thn Irish Orton eonneeted for two impact on your season," Boilermakers as the team hadn't touehdown passes and the Budinseak said. "There's a that disrespeeted them a forgo ttn n. Boilermaker defense lot of animosity between the year ago. 
"I got to grabbed four interceptions. teams. It's one of those "I definitely have a chip on lw care­Saturday, the Irish get games where you're like, my shoulder from last year's ful." their payback opportunity. 'Hey guys, you better bring Purdue game," offensive ddensive They also get a ehanee to your best game because we lineman Dan Stevenson said. end Kyle continue making this season don't want to "Obviously Budinscak a special one. lose this."' there were said, for­The 76th meeting A win for A win for either things they did mulating between these intrastate either team that we didn't
team should be

tho politi­rivals has as many, if not should be piv­like, and we
pivotal.

cally cor­more implieations than any otal. haven't forgot-red other in the recent series If Purdue can ten about answer. history. Purdue is ranked beat Notre them," Quinn "They're not our favorite 15th in both national polls, Dame on Saturday, it'll pick reiterated. team ... this is a gamn avnragcs around 50 points up more eonf1dence heading "There's definitely some wlwrn evnrybody on our per game and has an early into the toughest part of its animosity between the two team wants to gnt after lleisman candidate in Orton. schedule. The Boilermakers teams," linebacker Mike these guys." Notre Dame has recovered have three difficult games Goolsby said. 
Asidn from the 23-10 loss nicely from an embarrassing remaining against Notre Dame hasn't forgot­a year ago, it was the opening-game loss to Wisconsin, Michigan and ten the teams that embar­Boilermakers disrespect Brigham Young with wins Ohio State. But all three rassed them during a 5-7 during that game that ticked over then-No. R Michigan, games are in West Lafayette 2003 campaign. This sea­the Irish i1IT morn than any­Michigan State and all three son, the Irish continue thing else. and are winnable. crossing opponents off their 
It began when Purdue ran Washington. Meanwhile, a payback list.
Notre Dame hasn't 
through Notre Damn's Purdue's Notre Dame Michigan? Cheek. prnganw warm-ups. offense has forgotten the teams victory moves Michigan State? Got'em. "Ynah, that bugged me a been nearly the Irish past Purdue? That opportunity
that embarrassed 
lot," Budinscak said. "I think unstoppable in their toughest waits.
them during a 5-7 
that bugged nveryonn. the first three opponent For Notre Dame, Saturday That's in tlw back of my games. Notre campaign. before.travel­can't come soon enough. mind, certainly." Dame's ing to The opinions expressed in 
It ended whon thn defense has Tennessee in this column are those of the Boilermaknrs celebrated been equally as dominating. November. The team will author and not necessarily t.hnir first victory over the Something has to give. likely be favored in every those of The Observer. Irish since llJ<JCJ. Behind all the intriguing game leading into the Contact Joe Hettler at 
In lwtwenn. the Irish were matchups and statistics, lies Volunteers·matchup and jhettler@nd. edu 
gaine hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"It's an in-state rival, so we are going to have to expect the unexpected." 

Dan Stevenson Irish offensive lineman 
"It seems like Notre Dame and Purdue have been playing forever, and they should continue playing forever." 

"This may be the best football team we play this year. I know this is probably the best quarterback." 
Carlyle Holiday Irish wide receiver/punt returner 
"One ofthe main things we focUs on is setting up a score or getting ourselves in the endzone." 





Friday, October 1, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Tinte to shine 
Defensive backs face ultimate challenge in Purdue's Reisman Trophy candidate Kyle Orton 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Cornerback Shane Walton bat­ted down John Navarre's two­point conversion pass attempt. Then. he intercepted the Michigan quarterbaek on a last­minute, desperation drive. Walton's plays sealed the 25-23 victory over No. 7 Michigan at Notrn Dame Stadium. 
The 2002 secondary -com­posed of Walton, Vontez Duff, Gerome Sapp and Glenn Earl ­led a team with little offensive firepower to a 10-3 season and a Gator Bowl appearance. 
Walton collected seven inter­ceptions on the season. Earl, Sapp and Walton finished in the top live on the team in tackles. The defense intercepted a total of 21 passes. 
In short, the Notre Dame sec­ondary of two years ago made plays. 
Meet Preston Jackson, Dwight Ellick, Tom Zbikowski and Quentin Burrell. 
After a slow start against Brigham Young -who notched three deep pass completions ­the 2004 Irish secondary has become the unifying link in the chain the defense has symbolical­ly, and physically, carried around its necks. 
"Being in the secondary is not just about covering receivers," Jackson said. "You also have to eome up and make the hit, the tackle, when the time presents itself. And when you get a hand on the wide receivers and you beat them up a little bit. it starts making them look around." 
Opponents now cannot look around any part of the defense, as the emerging secondary com­pliments a strong line and line­backer corps to form one of the more formidable defenses in the eountry. 
The cause 
Notm Dame reeruited most of the talent lurking in the defensive backfield before Steven Wilks arrived to take the job as defen­sive backs coaeh. But in his first year under head coach Tyrone Willingham. Wilks' presence did not take long to influence the sec­ondary play. 
"He's a very aggressive coach, always upbeat and energetic," Jackson said. "You need that kind of energy to coach a group of guys like us. Because of the nature of the position, we can become lackadaisical at times when the ball isn't thrown [our way] every play. So when you have that coach who always gets you on your toes, he keeps you going and makes sure you're playing at your best." 
Wilks is in his lOth season as a college assistant coach, most recently coaching the defensive backs at Bowling Green. In 2003, Wilks helped Bowling Green jun­ior defensive back Keon Newson lead the Mid-American Conference in forced fumbles (6). All-American cornerback Janssen Patton led the league in interceptions with seven. The Falcons ranked second in the MAC in both total defense and scoring defense. 
Backup Irish safety Freddie Parish acknowledged the aspects of Wilks' coaching that earned him such success. 
"He and I defensive coordina­tor] coach [Kent] Baer have tried real hard to put us in positions to make plays," Parish said. "So I think they went about that in a good way, and doing that each week is a hard task but they've been able to put us in those good positions." 
Notre Dame surrendered 37 points to Florida State last sea­son. The Irish gave up 45 points to rival USC. 
Most of the points came in the air. 
So what is it about Wilks that has the Notre Dame secondary so improved? 
Jackson said aggressiveness. Parish said Wilks preaches doing "the little things." 
"He stresses fundamentals," cornerback Mike Richardson said. 
Members of the secondary do not have to agree on the exact main message and methods Wilks employs, but they do have to agree on his positive influence on the final line of Irish defense. 

The effect 
The 2002 Notre Dame defense -the same one with Walton's seven interceptions and a record amount of turnovers -forced 17 fumbles and recovered 12 of them. This season, the Irish have forced 15 fumbles and recovered 10. 
"You may say we've surprised a lot of people, but I don't think we've surprised ourselves," Wilks said. "And that's one of the things if you watch each and every one of them, they're not surprised in where they are right now. And they also will tell you they're not where they need to be. We're still getting better each and every week." 
But the secondary play thus far, to the outsider, has been a pleas­ant surprise. 
Just ask Jason Teague. 
Two weeks ago, the Michigan State tailback was carrying the ball on second-and-10 deep in Notre Dame's territory when Zbikowski blew up the Spartans' option play, ripped the ball from Teague's hands and returned the so-called 'fumble' 75 yards for the touchdown. And just like that, the score was 14-7 Notre Dame. 
"That's our approach. That's Notre Dame defense right there," Wilks said about creating turnovers. "That's how we're going to approach each and every week. Our main goal is to try to be physical ... with receivers and create turnovers. And with that mindset as you can see the last couple of weeks, Zbikowski [and] Dwight Ellick being physical, going for the foot­ball [and] making things happen. It's benefited us." 
Notre Dame's defense has scored only one touchdown on a turnover, but the defense has forced 16 turnovers that have led to 52 of the 115 total Irish points. 
Ellick has intercepted two pass­es. Zbikowski, Jackson and Richardson have all intercepted one. They are forcing turnovers. But true to Wilks' fundamental approach, the secondary is also doing the most crucial of tasks for a fmalline of defense-mak­ing tackles. 
In 2002, Earl ]811, Sapp [701 and Walton [68] wrapped up opponents in the backfield and on pass plays. The 2004 defen­sive backfield has been no differ­ent. After the first three leading tacklers on Notre Dame's defense -starting linebackers Mike Goolsby, Brandon Hoyte and Derek Curry -the following top tacklers rank, in order: Burrell [21], Ellick [20], Zbikowski [20], Jackson [151 and Carlos Campbell [14]. 
"We know if we miss the tack­les, teams are going to make us pay for it all day," Ellick said. "We've been emphasizing wrap­ping up and driving through peo­ple." 
Wilks emphasizes aspects of play in practice, but individual players have to do their parts. Ellick has been the epitome of such a player. 
"Dwight has improved tremen­dously, without a doubt," Wilks said. "I think Dwight has accept­ed a challenge that I put on him each and every day ... He's play­ing the deep ball. lie's challeng­ing it, trying to go up and com­pete. And he's doing it in practice so therefore it's showing up in and making plays on the run." 

The game plan 
Run-stopping was contagious on a defense that averaged only 85 yards per game allowed on the ground in its first four games. The game plan this week, then, against a team with a Heisman candidate quarterback and one of the nation's most potent pass­ing attack, is to-stop the run? 
"I think the most important thing every week ... is to stop the run," Wilks said. "That's what we havl;) to do first, try to make these guys one-dimensional. You say, well they're going to throw the football anyhow. I think they're pretty good running the ball too, so we have to at least take that away from them and force them into spreading the field and throwing the football and putting ourselves in a good position to make plays." 
Hichardson and Campbell will enter the game Saturday when Notre Dame goes to nickel and dime pass coverage situations, which should be often against a spread Boilermaker offense. 
Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton has thrown 13 touchdown passes in three games. He has thrown zero interceptions. But just as the Irish have not seen a quarter­back like Orton, Orton has riot seen a secondary like Notre Dame's. 
"We're looking forward to this," Zbikowski said. ''They're saying he's the best quarterback in the nation. They got a good receiving corps, a good offense. But we've got a pretty good defense, too. 
"So we're going to be looking to prove something, especially in our house." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
by the nulllbers 
number of yards passing that Purdue's Heisman candi­date Kyle Orton is averaging per game 
356 
average points per game that Purdue scores, including out­bursts of 51 and 59 points
49.3 
the last time Purdue beat Notre Dame at home, good for a13­
1974 
game Irish winning streak 
0 
number of turnovers committed by Purdue in three games this season 
number of turnovers recovered by the Notre Dame defense in four games this season 
16 
14 
number of receivers Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn has completed passes to, including himself 
after Saturday's game, the number of times these two teams will have played each other 
76 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer the games. He's trying to be more Dwight Ellick, left, and Quentin Burrell take down a Washingon physical at the Line of scrimmage number of miles that separate Notre Dame (South Bend) wide receiver in last weekend's win. and, definitely for us, coming up and Purdue (West Lafayette)
150 

page 4 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October I, 2004 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEADT

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

Tyrone Willingham third season at Notre Dame career record: 
62-47-1 
at Notre Dame: 
18-11 
against Purdue: 1-1 Tyrone Willingham 
head coach 

NOTRE DAME 2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 at BVU-L Sept. 11 MICHIGAN-W Sept. 18 at Michigan St. -W 
Sept. 25 Oct.2 Oct.9 Oct. 16 Oct. 23 Nov.6 Nov. 13 Nov. 27 

WASHINGTON -W PURDU STANFORD at NAVY BOSTON COLLEG 
at Tennessee PITISBURGH at USC 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE II!:'.,....,.  
TAILBACK 4·Grant 3·Walker  FULLBACK 16·PDWB!"·Neal QUARTERBACK12·SchmJdt ~ RIGHT GUARD 74·Stevonoon 51·Ryan  I c~)  


WIDE RECEIVER 
21-Stmn 
82-Shel\on 

CORNERBACK 
33·Hickman
LEFT TACKLE 
24-Pelty66·Harrls 
62-Raridon 
RIGHTEND ~ 

c 
10·Edwards • INSIDE 45·Brighl u-LINEBACKER
t,'__~) };\ 1 ~~:~~~1fhukwu 
ii:~., ft(J fil 
9&·McGowe: :!J. ' )7;~
f ·I 
No. 
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 H 8 9 9 10 II 12 13 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 19 21 22 23 24 2..'i 2n 26 27 27 2H 28 30 31 31 32 33 34 37 37 38 39 40 41 42 4J 44 .J'i 45 411 47 
4H 
4'1 
51l 51 
52 5.1 5.1 
'i4 
'i'i 5n 'i8 59 
5'1 no hi 62 64 ns 6h n7 h8 n'l 70 71 72 73 74 
75 
76 77 78 74 80 HI 82 8.1 84 H4 
H5 
H7 HH 
8~ 
YO Yl 92 Y3 Y4 95 % 97 '18 9Y 
Roster 
Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR jared Clark TE 64 250 SR Frt•ddie Parrish DB 6-1 202 so Darius Walker RB 5-11 200 FR Rhan Grant RB 6-1 218 SR R ema McKnight WR 6-1 215 JR Carlos Campbell CB 5-11 195 SR Carlyle flohday WR/Qll 6-3 215 SR Marty Mooney QB 6-2 210 )R Qut•ntin Burn"li FS 6-0 195 SR Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 so Pat Dillin(l:ham QB 6-2 205 SR Brady Qumn QB 64 224 so Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 202 SR josh Schmidt FB 6-1 232 SR David Wolke QB 64 205 FR Preston Jackson CB 5-9 180 SR Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 243 SR Stan Revelle QB 5-11 195 SR Geoffrey Price r 6-3 190 SR j.j.Warn•n QB 6-1 IH4 so 
1 QB 6-2 185 FR 
g~r~~~~ ;::~dukwc DB 6-2 223 so D.). Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 200 SR Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 227 )R Ambrost• Wooden CB 5-11 186 so Chast• Anastasio WR 6-1 202 so Dwi~ht Ell irk CB 5-10 185 SR Natt• Schiccatano FB 6-2 242 JR Wade Iam!'i DB 5-8 170 FR Travis Thomas Rll 6-0 212 so Lionel Bolt•n DB 6-0 210 SR John l{;ons RB 6-1 192 so Trt·~g ta~rsnn IJB 5-10 170 FR Colt•LlUX Fll 5-10 240 SR Mikt.• Richardsc.m DB 5-11 190 jl{ Jake C.1rney FS 6-0 192 JR A.).C<•d<•no DB 6-0 191 so )<off )..nkins Rll 6-0 2In JR justin lloskins l~ll 6-0 195 FR Tt•rri1il l.ctmbt•rt IJB 5-10 191) FR Junior ),tbl'tit• lJI! 5-11 190 I'R MaiiMitcht•ll CB 5-9 190 )R l.t'C.)h•rrin<.• lJII 6-0 IHO FR nr.mdtm llnytt• II! 5-11 2..11 SR Milurict•Crum,jr. 1.11 h-1 215 FR M i k<· Coolsby 1.11 h-4 242 SR Anthony Vl'nM~Iia 1.11 64 220 FR Anthony SttiVclt or 1.1! h-2 2.12 )R Justin Tud.. DE 6-5 2nl SR Cctr!Gioirl K/1' 5-10 185 so Rich Whitney Ill! 6-J 205 JR Con.•v M,lV.!> Ill h-1 24.1 SR Mitdwlll'homa~ Ill h-3 2..10 so ]t'n.lmt•Cllllins IT: 64 z..o;x SR ll<•rt·kCurry l.ll 6-3 2..15 SR f),m S.mtucri 01. 64 292 JR j.Hnit• Ry.m 01. 6-5 310 JR )lll' Bn1rkinRhlf1 II! 6-1 22..'; so IJ,m llirk<•y ()I 6-3 224 JR Jo!it.•ph liol.md I.B 6-3 224 )R I )avid Fittgt•rald ()I 64 285 JR ZcKhdry Cilt•s l 6-3 281 SR Nick Borst•ti !.B 64 238 so Abdelll.md" I.B 6-2 215 FR ).tmC's Bl'nt 01 h-1 271 )I~ IJHn Cht.•rv,mick DT/NC 6·2 265 )R Casey Cull,•n !.ll 6-2 212 so J.J.J.mst•n IS n-3 215 FR Scutt Raridon or n-o 310 JR Case(; l>unn 01. n-4 25n SR 
Tim ;ritzm.m IJE 6·3 210 FR J)ert~k Ltndri NG 6-2 278 )R John Kcldou~ 01. 6-7 310 FR Ryan llctrris OL 6-5 289 so Darin Mitchell OG 6-3 290 SR ChdUill't•y lncarnatn Ol. 6-6 280 FR Jctmt•s Bom•lli 01. 64 290 )R OL 6-4 285 SR~~~rl~~:~~m or 6-7 310 SR Dan Stcvt•nson ex; 6-5 293 SR Chris Fmml' DE 6-5 271 )R Bob Morton lX,;/C 6-4 300 )R Crc~ P.tuly DT 6..0 295 SR 
john Sullivan c 6-3 295 so Hridn Matte~ OL 6-5 292 JR Chris Vau~hn WR 6-4 205 FR Brdndon ll.uris WR 6-l 190 JR M.lttSh<oittm WR 6-0 175 SR jl'ff Samard1.ija WR 6-5 215 so Mikt• ()'liMit WR 5-9 175 JR Rob Woods WR 6-2 205 JR Billy P.lim<•r IT: 6-3 2..'\6 SR M,ucus Fn•eman TE 6-2 248 JR Anthony Fasano TE 64 2..'\6 JR John Cttrlson TE 6-5 24H so Bri~tn Bt•id,\tsch Dl. 6-2 295 SR Crai~ Cardillo K 6-0 169 )R Kyl<• lludinscak DE 64 275 SR Brandon Nit-nlcls Dl. 6-5 275 FR Justin Brown Dl./1.11 64 225 PR Victor Abidmiri DE 6-5 269 so Bubby R<•nkt•s K/P 6-0 190 so Travis Lt•itko DE 6-6 275 )R Tn.•vor Laws [)[. 6-0 285 so Ronctld Tctllcy Dl. 64 245 FR 
e,~··~. ~ . l/ c' ~··I ~~~~,~~::: 
~~~:.~~~, );G~·
t )
c 1 
69-Tull , '· 
P ..__ . OUTSIDE ' LINEBACKER 59·Koglar Bl·Royal 
' 


CORNERBACK 12-Rogors 
PURDUE
25-Long 
DEFENSE 
, ( 

ff!l~:ms 
FREE SAFETY 31·Pollanl B·Walkar 

CoACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LIJ 
::?! 
< 
Q 
LIJ 
a:: 
..... 
0 
z 
LIJ ::J 
c 
a:: 
::J 
c.. 

Willingham, Diedrick and Baer have been solid since the loss at Brigham Young. Diedrick's ollcnse is showing signs of life, and Bam·'s dnl'ense is as good as it's over been.  Quinn is coming ofT a game where he tied a scho<il rncord with four touchdown passes. llowever, he struggled in the sm:ond half' alter put­ting up 21 points in the  Walker is the new starter for a deep Irish rushing attack. Grant's status is unknown, but he complements Walker's attack with his pownr game. Wa.lknr  Quinn was dominant in the l'irst half' against Washin!-,rton, but struggled in the second hall'. lin has completed passes to 14 dill'nrent rnceiwws on the season, and the Irish  
Willingham has gotten his tnam ready to play lat1~ly, and that must con­tinuo.  f'irst quarter against Washington. lie is still young, but improving as a sophomore.  has run for 294 yards and throe touchdowns in three games this sea­son.  passing attack is diversi­fied. Fasano adds a key receiving component at tight end.  
Tiller is tho face of Purdue football. In his eighth season there, he has taken the Boilermakers to seven bowl games. Tiller is experienced and a proven leader of the team. His offense runs efficiently and his defense is solid.  Orton is one of the nation's best at the quarterback position. Willingham said he is probably the best quar­terback the Irish will face this year. Orton does it all for Purdue, leading an eflicient and, more importantly, potent offense.  Purdue's defense has givnn up just 95.3 yards per game on the ground. llowevnr, they have yet to be tested, facing just Syracuse, Ball State and Illinois. They are led by linebackers Iwuchukwu, who has 25 tackles in three games, and Hall, who has 24 tackles.  Purdue's secondary is solid, but with the loss of Schweigert, they had a big hole to fill. They give up an average ol' 166 yards per game in the air, against weak opponents. They gave up 215 yards in the air last week, but that is the highest this season.  
Tiller is experienced and Purdue's mainstay in the coaching staff. lie knows  This one is easy. Although !il«<lnn is much better thafjt't'fte freshman  Purdue's defense is like that of the !~;;-+-it stops the run. Th: )h rushing  Quinn will have to play well if he is to be suc­cessful against this  
what it takes to win, and win he does. Willingham is stlll trying to prove himself at Notre Darrie. Tiller is a proven winner,  who ihr. , ' · ·· ssHs last yelfl" a . ­)is not at 0 ··, .·s lev~ . , _r_tyn is a s~~onfld ~eteran "'ith t.on'&:'d{ talent He wiU}vin  attack has' ed suc­cess"th ibi.<>.§sasmi, and l -•s defense .,fill ,_p,te~nt a problom'-fr theml: Grant could'tie'a  solid secondary. The sophomore;'ave rages 231 passing yards per game. +I .,.J~owever Boilermakers' safety  
but he can't win at Notre Dame.  the qilru'terback)fattle ~asily, d~~it!), (luinn's lillprovemeri~  valuabli'l"asset)nnt it is unknown irt\e i&. healthy enough to contrll'ltt.e.  SQlith and company will look to limit Quinn's success.  



Kyle Orton and Purdue's oll'ensn haven't liu:ed a Notre Dame's season-either competing for 
This game will determine the course of 
defense as good as Notre Dame's this season. a BCS bid or just hoping for a New Year's 
The Irish haven't faeed a quarterback as exp!~ri­
Irish 
' 

enced or talented as Orton, either. Sorm~thing
0

Day bowl berth. Solid tackling by the Irish 
;,...,t<f,:. ·'?· 

will give Saturday. Hemember, too, Joe Tiller son and another solid output by the Irish 
defense, Purdue's first turnovers of the sea­
:-::,~1 

always finds ways to lose in South Bend and the
experts Irish have tho horne crowd behind them, which should be a big advantage. 
offense vaults Notre Dame into the top 25. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28,

Matt Lozar Joe Hettler Purdue 24Purdue 17
Editor in Chief AME 
~~~~-~~----~~-~~---------~---­

Friday, October 1, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS 

HEAD 

Purdue Boilermakers 
WIDE RECEIVER 
2·Willlams 
SO-Hare 
PURDUE -~ 
OFFENSE -· 
CORNERBACK 
24-EIIick 
6-Campbell 
TAILBACK 
32·Vold 
27-Jones RIGHTENO 
92-Budlnscak 

INSIDE LINEBACKER NOSE 
39-Hoyte52-Brocklngton
~95-Abiamiri 
GUARD 
66-La.ndrl --' 
98-Laws •
I ~ 

INSIDE 
STRONG LINEBACKER SAFElY 
41·Goolsby 9-Zbikowskl 
46·Mays 2-Parish
·-" ~ 
DEFENSIVE 
TACKLE 
TI-Pau 


FREE SAFElYOUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
11-Burrell 49-Curry 
9·Zbikowski 47·Thomas 
~i~u~~o dJ 
75-Frome 
CORNERBACK 15-Jatkson 

NOTRE DAME
3D-Richardson 

DEFENSE 

BOILERMAKERS BOILERMAKERS 
PURDUE 2004 Schedule 
Sept. 5  SYRACUSE-W  
Sept. 11  BALL STATE-W  
Sept. 25  at Illinois -W  
Oct. 2  at Notre Dame  
Oct.9  at Penn State  
Oct. 16  WISCONSIN  
Oct. 23  MICHIGAN  
Oct. 30  at Northwestern  
Nov.6  at Iowa  
Nov. 13  OHIO STATE  
Nov. 20  INDIANA  



SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
RUSHING PASSING 

Notre Dame's run defense •  Zbikowski is the energy  
has proven itself each  and playmaker of the  
wenk. Defensive end  Irish secondary. Ellick  
Budinscak is a run-stopper,  joins him as the leader  
and tim linebackers are the  of the cornerbacks.  
hPart of the Irish defense.  Notre Dame's secondary  
They give up an aVf~rage of  has held its own against  
RR.R yards per game on the  Michigan's Braylon  
ground, and the most they  Edwards, but this will be  
haV!~ given up is 165 yards  the ultimate test for  
to Mic:higan State.  them.  
Although listed as the starter, Purdue running back Void will be joim~d by another back. Brandon .Jones. Jones i.'i an agressivn back who ran lbr 77 yards last week. The duo gives Purdue a balancnd rn'>hing attack, similiar to Walker and Grant for Notre Dame.  Orton finds Stubblefield all the time, as the two have connected for eight touch­downs in three games. Stubblefield is the big play receiver for the Boilermakers, who throw the ball early and often. Orton can pick apart defenses at will, and his receivers arc solid.  
The linebackers have  Orton is a, 1-Ieisman  
dominated opposing run­ Trophy caJ18idate. He is  
ning attacks for Notre  ~onsid(:)reJlo bh,e,'pf the best  
Dame. Purdue has a  m tqe: cqqptry, and has not  
solid rushing game, but  thro'1'4),an il)terce,ption  
Notn~ Dame's defense is  this sc<!Son. The Irisbtec­ 
just better. The Irish will  ondary is still inexperi­ 
win the battles in the  enced', but they ~e  
trenches with their solid  improviiig. HQ-Wever,  
defensive line and line­ Orton will get, thP best of  
backers.  them this time.  

Fitzpatrick has been a solid kicker and punter for the Irish. Holiday has been solid as a punt returner. Hoskins could make big plays returning kicks alongside Anastasio. This group has blocked a punt, but not made big plays other than that.  
·Ben Jones is one of the best kickers in the coun­try. He is 3-for-4 this sea­son with a long of 45 yards. Brytus is a solid punter, but averages just 39.3 yards per punt. The Boilermakers have not scored off any returns, but have blocked three kicks.  
Both teams are solid, but not spectacular. Fitz­patrick and Brytus are two solid punters, and -!Bfles is ap 9Utstatilfing ll;ieker. Tlje Irish retUrn ·ga,QJ,Jl istilnpt9¥i,pg, bl;it they have not shown any­thing too impressive. It is too early to say which team will win this battle.  

It was 30 years ago the last time Purdue beat the Irish on their home turf. The players and coaches know this and want to keep it that way. Notre Dame is rid­ing a three-game win­ning streak, and has won six of its last eight, dating back to last year.  
Purdue needs. to win at Notre Dame. They have been waiting for this game, and it is the first test of the season for this team. Orton, a senior, wants nothing more than to knock off the Irish. But Tiller has never won at Notre Dame Stadium in his eight years as coach.  
Purdue is ranked No., 15 in the country•in btth polls. However;No~_re Dame wants to aveng,e last year's 23-10 loss m West Lafayette, one that almost everyone on this year's team remembers. This teatn lbves pla)i'lng at Notre Dame Stadium.  

z 
0 
-4 
:::c 
ITI 
c 
l>
s: 
ITI 
"tJ 
c= 
:::c 
c 
c= 
ITI 



Orton is the best quarterback the 
Kyle Orton is a legitimate Notre Dame will come out earlyIrish have seen so far. He will get 1-Ieisman candidate and the sec­and stop Purdue's running game, his numbPrs, but the Irish defense ondary will not completely shut allowing the secondary to key in onwill keep him out of the end zonp, down the Boilermaker passing Orton. After not throwing an inter­enough. Quinn will have another attack, but key stops and a suf­ception so far this season, Orton'ssolid game, and the Irish will be ficient Notre Dame offense will luck will run out and the Irish one step eloser to that perfect help the Irish pull out a nail­defense will make kPy takeaways to game. Notn~ Dame finds a way to biter at Notre Dame Stadium. 
put thi'i game into blowout territory. 

beat Purdue at home, as always. Pat Leonard FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame Associate 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23, Purdue 20

25, Purdue 23 Sports Editor 30, Purdue 13 
--_l ~ 

Heather Van Hoegarden 
Sports Editor 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October I, 2004 
Sizing up the Irish and the Boilerm.akers 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 

PURDUE'S DEFENSE 

~231 


punt return yards gained L 44.. 81 punt return yards allowed~o.l..-3_._7_____
__:___c.:.....:_j 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
total points scored total points allowed 

~3 
37.21 
....,--------"9I l___ 28.51
--,----------' 
PURDUE'S OFFENSE 
vs 
NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

~105.5 ~20.51 

Notre Dame yards penalized Purdue yards penalized 



NOTRE DAME 
SECONDARY 
Tom Zbikowski (above), and the Irish secondary must play well for Notre Damn to win. 
Corners Preston Jackson and Dwight Ellick cannot give up the big play, espneially to Kyle Orton's favorite target, Taylor Stubblefield. Last week, Orton passed for 366 yards and four touchdowns against Illinois, and the Irish cannot let this happen again. 
Against Washington, this group gave up 223 yards in the air. They have been solid this year, and must contin­ue to be if the Irish are to win this ono. 
PURDUE 

PASSING OFFENSE 
Everyone knows who Kyln Orton is. Orton. (abovo), is a lleisman Trophy candidate who has picked apart defenses in his first three games this sea­son. 
Taylor Stubblefield is his favorite target, with eight touchdowns in just thro(l games. Last week, he caught 11 passes for 115 yards and three touchdowns. 
So far this season, Purdue's passing game has been dominant, avMaging 356 yards per game with 14 pass­ing touchdowns on the season. 
Orton is tough to stop, and no tnam has yet to contain him. 

~ ­
Friday, October 1, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Fasano brings talent and depth to offense 

Tight end plays an integral role as a receiver and blocker 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN SportS Editor 
After missing all of spring practice and playing catchup in the fall, Irish tight end Anthony Fasano has arrived. 
Against Washington last week­end, the junior caught three passes for 41 yards and two touchdowns, his first scores of the young season. 
"It was a good feeling to con­tribute and finally help out this offense," the redshirt junior said. 
Fasano might be the complete tight end that the Irish have been looking for. To start the season, six tight ends were com­
peting for playing "/ thnk that he's been time, and it 
very solid. He's done a

appeared that 
tremendous job of

Marcus Freeman had won the job. being physical and Offensive coordi­
blocking as a tight

nator Bill 
end, which we ask."

Diedrick thinks Fasano was forced to play Bill Diedrick 
catchup with the Irish offensive coordinator 
rest of the team after missing all of spring workouts with an injury. 
However, Fasano's play of late has catapulted him into the top spot. What makes him so valu­able is not just his ability to block, but to catch passes as well. 
"[Fasano] has been a real strength for us as tight end," 
Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said after Saturday's game. "He's doing a good job blocking and we know that he can catch it." 
Fasano has seven receptions thus far this season for 101 yards and two touchdowns. This year's touchdown output is already as tight end like Fasano who can do so many different things is key to the offense being success­ful. 
"I think it gives you another opportunity to stretch the field a little bit and not just rely on your outside receivers," Diedrick said. Fasano is on track to be even 
many as last year's. better than last
"/don't feel like 
He has made a year, as he
I've [played] to my
significant impact caught 18 balls on the offense, but full potential." for 169 yards in Willingham thinks his first year of he and the tight action last sea­
Anthony Fasano 
ends want even son. He played in
Irish tight end
more passes 11 games, start-
thrown their way. 
"Our tight ends are probably still claiming they are an after­thought," Willingham said. "They are looking for a little bit more action, but we've been very blessed. We've got, at this time, a pretty deep tight end 
corps." 
Fasano leads a group, along with Freeman, that combines experience and youth. Seniors Billy Palmer, Jerome Collins and Jared Clark are also part of that group, as is redshirt fresh­man John Carlson. 
" ... We have 
got a pretty good group. Anthony [Fasano] and Marcus Freeman have played as well as the other members of the group. And when we play well, it allows us to involve them more in our system, and in most defenses, that is one area that is difficult to defend, a good tight end." 
The fact the Notre Dame has a 
ing three for the Irish.. But his pass-catching abili­ty isn't the only thing that has impressed Irish coaches. 
"I think that he's been very, very solid," Diedrick said. "He's done a tremendous job of being physical and blocking as a tight end, whiCh we ask." 
Even with the Washington game being a positive, Fasano feels he has more to contribute to this offense. 
"I just have to put together all assets of my game, blocking and passing into one game to really help this team," Fasano said. "I don't feel like I've done that to my full potential." 
Diedrick also expects more from Fasano in his second year of action. 
"I think he's really stepped up his ability as a receiver," Diedrick said. "We knew he had the ability to make plays, even from a year ago. I think we've worked him in, he had a good game last week, and I think we expect that performance every week." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Boilermakers hope to break streak at ND 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Four years ago, Purdue came into Notre Dame Stadium ranked higher than the Irish. They had a Heisman Trophy candidate under center. The Boilermakers were undefeated. 
It ultimately didn't matter onee Nicholas Setta booted a 38-yard field goal to defeat Purdue 23-21, sending quar­terback Drew Brees and the rest of thn Boilnrmakers back to West Lafayette with their lirst loss of the year. 
Purdue eoach Joe Tiller has probably replaynd Setta's kick numerous times in his dreams, a memory of a rivalry that has been one-sided when played in Notre Dame Stadium -the Irish haven't lost to Purdue thern since 1974. a pnriod of 14 straight vietorins. 
"We've worked hard at trying to be eompetitive eaeh time we play Notrn Dame," Tiller said at a press eonference Tuesday. "We try to not emphasize this . great rivalry to the players. It seems like Purdue and Notre Dame havn been playing forev­er. and they should continue playing fonwer." 
Notre Dame lost on the road to Purdue by the. score of 23­10 last season, as Irish quar­terbaek Brady Quinn made his first start under eenter and threw 59 passes, the sncond­most in school history. 
The Boilermakers come into Saturday's game ranked No. 15 in both polls, coming off a 38­30 victory on the road against Big Ten-rival Illinois last Saturday. Purdue also defeated Ball State and Syracuse earlier in the season, outscoring those two opponents 110-7 combined in those games. 
That potent offense begins and ends with quarterback Kyle Orton, who is considered one of the best at his position and has put up impressive stats so far this season, albeit against poor defenses -all three Purdue opponents so far have averaged allowing more than 380 yards a game on defense this season. 
Orton is 7 4-for-1 06 and has thrown for 982 yards. Perhaps the most impressive statistic, however, is Orton's touchdown­to-interception ratio -the senior has tossed 13 touch­downs and has yet to throw a single interception. 
"Quite a bit of the success lwe have on offense] can be directly traced back to the quarterback, and we have great confidence in our sys­tem," Tiller said of his signal­caller Monday. "In a quarter­back, we look for competitive­ness, intelligence and a_guy with a good demeanor, some­one who understands the team concept. Kyle lOrton} is that guy." 
Orton is aided by a bevy of talented receivers, highlighted by senior Taylor Stubblefield. Stubblefield has already scored eight touchdowns this season, making 21 catches for 324 yards and averaging 108 yards receiving per game. 

The Purdue passing attack is complemented by a rushing offense that is currently ranked third in the Big Ten with 205.7 rushing yards per game. 
Jerod Void is the team's starter, but backup Brandon Jones has done his share of damage on offense as well ­primarily through the receiv­ing game where he is third on the team with nine catches for 129 yards and two touch­downs. 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham is well aware of the potential that Jones has when he gets the football. 
"He is that added dimension that they need in that system," he said at a press conference Monday. "Because you hear so much and see so much about their passing attack, you kind of become deceived. What he does is add that aggressive dimension to their running attack. 
"So he has the real teeth to their offensive attack, when yo,u add that factor of being able to run the ball and then complement it as well as they throw it." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 1 , 2004 



Bettc...r Ingredient~. Better Pizza. 

Welcome NeW' and Returning Notre Datne -St* Mary's Students•Faculty*Staff Notre Dame Papa John's St. Mary':S Papa John's 1823 South Bend Avenue North VHJage MaU 271~ 1177 271~7272 
PAPA PREDICTS: ND 37 • PURDUE 13 
Papa John's Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Official Delivery Pizz.a of NCAA Athletics. 
r-----• r PHAT TUESDAY • w•caSPRW ..
~ ......-THURSDAY~ r
1 IRISH SPECIAl. 1 

I Any Spec:ialty pizza & I I small 1-toS ing & 2 2o-oz I
large 1-topplng. large Thin _crust C~eese I
I breadsticks I
I Breadstlck<; & Coke 4-to-go I I P1zza I cokes 8.!18 I I $14..!1!1 I S14..!1B Iopen til 4:00 p.m. 1
1 SB.B!I 1

I add a Cinnapie $2.99cOs I ~~~·_.........,..sA I 1.--__..b....-30...... 'I I ~-----:'IO .......aDr I I c_.......,._ .........,JO....,.. ....... I 
I 
.,.... 9""" ..... _ ...·-.. _.,.._...,-on.... voac:t ICK • Umfted ume .n p.-tktp.atif'9 PatH Offfl ~Jot" • hrnlted Ume .. pMtk.tfMtll)l} ,..,_.. Otrw good fOf' a Umll.-d tlm• •t pMtk tp.UOQ P'Afla tnhn'• fW'SI...,...-.t1o only Addfraon.l 'OfJ'Pinvl. •atr• I l lohn's r«tn.UC'Anb unt)' Addltiun.llf tof4Mn.rp; extnl I I john'1o re,..,..,•nU onty Addlt~l toppings t!:'xtra I I John'1o ~.,.., only. AdttiUon•l lopping-. walr• Hoi Y.ad wtl:h ...,. otfMr '"O"P"'"' or dl...:aunts Not •Aild ,....., ~ ochrr COUrpelfa c:w dl.count:s.. ~t ..ad wtth aft)' otn.r c~s Of' cJk.counl~ Not v..nd wtth An)' oth• c-oupon• or ttiKuuna l._....-d .....,.fJ .,••~ chM.., AWy ~ UmHit'CI drltwory ...... ~ ft14l' ~ LJmlt"d d...nVfl'Y ...... ch•ng." may apply. LJmltHt dHiv..-y ar••· c:h•r9C'• may AJ..Jiy 
1
.. cu: --=..-:.:"":.-';;. .. r-----•.~~=-=~t=-.• •c'"':~~:.::~:t~ .I ..Cus=nt=bW:,:••p=l,.~ • 
r-----~
r-----• PARTYP.. 
LATE NITE1 FAMII.Y. SPECIAL 1 
I 2 large 1-topping,. 2 I I SPECIAL I
la~ge Works and 

I Breadstlcks, & Coke 4 to I 
Ex-Large 1-topping forI 1 Large 2-topping I 1 1 

• Go for only the price of a large only
1 SIB.BB 1 

I S24..BB I I _SII.!I!Ie11t&l
1.----...,.._ .....,._cOr I I ..__._..._,._cOs. I c...., I
............... laplru 10 c&.ya. Oft"' qc;Md for • ~unw • porrtklt••tn.J ,..,. Olt.w good for II """-d tlnw • pwtk~~NtJn.g P'~ Off.-r qood few a Un'llted lklw IIIII p.llrtk'lp.aii"Q P~.. I tohn'• ,.,....,.-:~~,.on.,._ Addll..... toppings ..u.a I )Dhn't. nto~•uranh opnloy. AddtUoncl toppk1gs ...tT•. l f!John's r-•~--"" unty. Addlrlon•l tupp~~Mp eJrtra..
I 

...,, ,.ad wtUI ....,. ot._. '"nurporn or dhuMinl'l. Hot valid .-h ...,. .t.her coupon1o or dkt()Unb Not ...,,... .,.th .ny ottwr-couporn Of' diKUuMs.. UrnU..cl ·~ .rt•. ct~'l ......, ~ Umtt•d ct.l""-1")' -··~ ChW9ft m.11Y •pply. 1 1
llmlt.ol Ck-INery •r••· d1•rqes nwy •PfJIY 

..c...=--=..-;;;,;""::"1=.. .. •c'":~Mbl.:.:~:=;. ~ .c~ rw=~ ::;.:•ap=•;::. .II 
SCHOOL HOURS SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS 

r -----DVo-----"W r ---c=a.:c'oi:'~o~o--"W Monday -Thursday Monday -Thursday 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.

I Buy any large of Ex-large Pizza at regular I l•coca-Cola 4-to-Go is 4 20-oz bottlesl 
Friday -Saturday Friday -Saturday

1menu price and get FREE your choice of any 1 lfor the price of 3 Including 4 FREE 1 of our 3 ovo... Titles change every two Music Match downloads I 11:00 a.m. to 3:00a.m. 11:00 a.m..to 1:00 a.m. I months. Through December 2004. I I Sunday Sunday Noon to 1:00 a.m. Noon to 12:00 a.m. 
~-----------~~----------~
If your group is having a meeting or planning a get-together, call for information on our large Order Discount. 
DELIVERY DELIVERY NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S

We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes 271-1177 271-PAPA
Try our Chicken Barbeque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough Try our Spinach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 
Fall 2004 Schedule 
"' \0 

Experience an intimate discus..wn with Notre Dame's most engaging If'. 
~ ,,..
faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues ofour times.

"The Movie Mogul: Joseph P. 
"" 
~

Kennedy's Film Career" 9/11 -Michigan ~ ~ 
jamt'S VanderKam. Rw jobn A. () 'Brlfm Professor of Tbeo/Og)' 
z
·The Dead Sea Scrolls and Christian Origins" ~ 

9/25 -Washington Q)Donald Crafton R<.>v. Richard McBrien, CrowfeJ•·O'Brien Professor of ~ Profes110r ofFilm. Television. and Theatre Roman (.,atbolic Tbeology ...J 
~ 
Valerie Sayers, Professor ofEnglisb 
<:
Robert Coleman. A..WJCiate Professor ofArt History ·Tbe Da ViPld Oxie: An Assessmen( c 
~ 
10/2-Purdue ~ Dooald CraJion, Professor ofFilm, Telet•ision, aud Theatre 0::: "The Movie Mogul: Joseph P. Kennedy's FUm Career•

"Tile Monc Mecal: Jotcp~ P. Ke..cdy's Fil• Career," with Donald "' f-< Crafton, professor of film, television, and theatre. Best known as a 
~ 0
10/9.:.. Stanford

successful baoker and U.S. ambassador to Great Britain, the Kennedy 
z
George Marsden, FranCis A McA1la1ltry' Professor ofHistory

family patriarch also made his mark on the fledgling Hollywood movie ~ 
~Another Kind of Founding Farher: Jonarhan Edwards and rhe

business of tile early 20th century. From 1917 to 1931, Kennedy owned 
American Heritage

movie theatres, controlled three film studios and was instrumental in the '( • traasitiou from sileut films to talkies. ;-...
10/23-Boston <:Olkge 
'./';

Maureen Hallinan, W'iOiam P. & Hazel B. White Crafton. a film historian, will survey Kermedy's exploits in show Pmfessor ofSodology, Direc«>r of/.be Ct>nler for Research 011 ~'./'; 
business md offer insights into his little-known aspirations as a movie ~
Educational Opportunity 

mogul. This ledure will be held in Notre Dame's new Marie P. ·Amcrica's Largt"S£ Private School System: ALook Inside Q z DeBartolo Cmter for the Performing Arts. Catholic SchooL~· 
::c 
Q) v
11/13-PiMmrgh 
..,
E. Mark Cummings, Notre Dame 0Jair in Psychology ,_. "Childn."!l and Marital Conflit1" 
~< ~ ::c

10:00 a.m. 3-1/2 hours hefore kickoff at the auditorium in the Hesburgh center for Imemational Studies. For more infonnation, visit ~ rr. 
Saturday, October 2 
htqrJ/wnlaysdwlar.Bd.edu 
~ 0

Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
~UNIVERSITY OF () 
0 0
WNOTREDAME \) ,..... 








