
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students search for jobs at fair 
Despite weather, organizers pleased with turnout 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
New' Writer 
!Ieavy snow and biting winds didn't stop Notre Dame students from attlmding Tuesday's Winter Career and Internship Fair. 
The Camer Center sponsored the annual event. offering a forum for students and employ­ers to interact. Students from all majors and levels were encour­agPd to attend. 
Anita Hees. associate director of the Career Center. described Tuesday's turnout as "A-plus" and "No. 1." She said that a few employers had to cancel bt~cause of the weather. but praised the commitment of those who struggled to arrive. 
Jim lleffernan. a representa­tive from Travelers, approximat­ed his involvement with the fair at 10 years. lie described this year's experience as successful. 
''I've seen a lot of students," llnll'ernan said. "Many Lof them! seniors. but also many other lev­els." 
Nathan Frisbee, a representa­tive from Schlumberger Technology Corp .. also praised the event. ''I'd say that Notre Dame students present them­selves very professionally," Frisbee said. "Much more so than public school ones." 
Hees was happy with what she 
saw. "I (saw( resumes piled on tables, superb resumes, long lines and rather lengthy conver­sations between students and employers," she said. 
She added that even if a stu­dent fails to get a job, "They have still learned valuable skills and developed relationships" in their field. 
But in terms of trying to land a job. Hees advised students to "study and research employers," Hees advised job-seeking stu­
see FAIR/page 6 

By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 
Tuesday's Winter Career and Internship Fair brought thoughts of the future job market to many Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students' minds. 
While students waited in lines to meet with prospective employ­ers, they found time to consider jobs after graduation and ques­tion whether the search would be as difficult as it has in past years. 
President George Bush's State of the Union Address said that "economic growth in the third quarter of 2003 was the fastest in nearly 20 years ... and jobs are on the rise." Yet, his confi­dence in the job market has not carried over to all job-seekers. 
Seniors Christa Moen and Sarah Lathrop both agreed that the state of the economy left them "defmitely afraid." Lathrop explained that "the market is saturated," resulting in difficulty finding jobs. Moen added that level jobs, to which Lathrop cited that "most people don't want entry level jobs" coming out of a university. 
Other seniors did not have the same feelings of a quickly approaching job market. Andrea Manka, an economics major, plans on attending law school after graduation and therefore, is not as worried about the market. 
Sophomore Trey Williams also attended the career fair, saying 
chances are slim, even for entry see SENIORS/page 6 

Judge signs order to disllliss tribe suit 
Dismissal would require settlement or land grant 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
A federal judge has signed an order to dismiss the lawsuit tiled by the Hannahville Indian Community against Notre Dame and the U.S. Government once either a settlement is reached or the government granlo; additional land for the tribe's reservation. 
The lawsuit claimed that part of Notre Dame's campus belonged to the tribe, which is a successor of the Potawatami Tribe. The suit claimed the state of Indiana ille­gally transferred land belonging to the Potawatami to Notre Dame. 
Under the first option, Notre Dame spokesman Matt Starin said that if a settlement is reached, it would likely not require payment by the University. 
The second option for dismiss­ing the suit would require the President of the United States to issue an Executive Order directing the Secretary of the Interior to give non-contiguous land to the tribe in Michigan. Indiana and Illinois to be added to the tribe's reservation. 
The tribe's reservation is cur­rently located in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, where it owns and operates Chip-In's Island Hesort and Casino in Harris, Mich. 
Robert Miller Jr.. the chief judge for the South Bend division of the United States District Court, signed the order of dismissal Monday. It followed a stipulation of dismissal that was tiled Jan. 22 by Michael Walleri and John Hamilton, attorneys for the tribe, 
see LAWSUIT/page 4 

Law students support spouse's polar bear jump, charity 

By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
Although it's been pretty chilly in Indiana lately, South Bend proves more hospitable to leprechauns then the 21-degree water of Alaska's Resurrection Bay. 
Tom Redmond, husband of Notre Dame law student Sonja Redmond, tested the waters himself -in a leprechaun cos­tume, no less -to raise money for the American Cancer Society. Tom leapt with 33 oth­ers in Seward, Ala. and raised over $750 dollars for charity. 
Appropriately named "Polar Bear Jump-Off," the fundraiser took place Jan. 17. 
"Basically, it's a bunch of insane peo'ple getting together to jump in icy cold water in the middle of January," Sonja said of her husband's leap. This is his fourth year participating in the event. 
Tom chose to dress as a lep­rechaun in acknowledgement of the Notre Dame law students who gave generously to the cause. Sonja made the costume while home over Christmas break. 
"I asked them to support his insanity -and the American Cancer Society," she said. "Students contributed and helped make it possible for him to [participate] ... and be our mascot this year." 
According to the Seward Chamber of Commerce, the first Polar Bear Jump-Off was held in 1986. It has since grown into a statewide winter festival where the main event is still the jump, in which all participants are required to wear costumes. 
"We live 80 miles from Seward," Sonja said, "and when I called my husband on Saturday to offer moral sup­port, he said the temperature at our house was reading -31 degrees." 
"The water is so cold, they keep Coast Guard Divers in the water in heated suits the whole 
see JUMP/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Nutcase or scumbag? 
The results from New Hampshire are in and former Vermont Gov. Howard "Mad Howe" Dean got drilled. But why? I don't think the voters are looking at policy. They're looking at the candidates' personalities. So, 
what's wrong with Howard Dean? 
Is he a genuinely evil person, or does he just suffer from serious psychiatric disorders? There are some pretty strong arguments 

either way. That's Matt Bramanti why I'm happy to 
present the Scumbag or Wire Editor Nutcase Scorecard. 
First, let's look at the good doctor's reaction after the Iowa caucuses. You might have heard Dr. Dean's audio clips on the Internet the next day. 
"We're going to California and Texas and New York, and we're going to South Dakota and Oregon and Washington and Michigan!" Dean exclaimed. "And then we're going to Washington, D.C. to take back the White House!" 
Okay, sounds like a standard rally-the­troops speech. Until the primal scream. That's right, after "take back the White House," Dean let out a guttural holler that The New York Tunes dubbed simply "The Scream." Verdict: outcase. 
Which brings us to the Dean deli caper. The NBC affiliate in Des Moines, Iowa reported that the Dean campaign bought 200 lunches from the Brown Bag Deli, and then walked on the check. The deli's owner, Scott Hoffinan, said the Dean workers stiffed him for $963.01. Let me repeat this: the man stole hundreds of sandwiches. This event brought to you by the man who wants to preside over a $10 trillion economy. Verdict: scumbag. 
And now on to the war. Dr. Dean said the standard of living ofthe Iraqi people "is a whole lot worse now than it was before." I guess rape rooms, torturing soccer players for losing games, and exe­cuting political opponents are the hall­marks of a high standard ofliving. Verdict: nutcase. 
Let's analyze the deeply seated reli­gious beliefs ofthe man who would lead the free world. About 25 years ago, he left the Episcopal Church. Was it a com­plicated theological issue? Ordaining women, perhaps? Nope. He changed religions over a bike path. The city of Burlington wanted to build a municipal bike path on the church's property. Church leaders said no. So Dean became a Congregationalist. The man renounced his religion over a strip of government concrete. Verdict: scumbag. 
In an interview with People magazine, Dean revealed a history of anxiety and panic attacks, including one when he was elected governor of Vermont. Now, for the ordinary person, I guess that's not so bad. But we're talking about the guy who can push the nuclear button when­ever he feels like it, and I don't want the jumpy type. Verdict: nutcase. 
Ok, there you have it; the Scorecard never lies. Howard Dean appears to be completely off his gubernatorial rocker. 
Sorry, Howe, but it's not my fault you're stark raving mad. Please don't go on a multi-state killing rampage. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at mbra­mant@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

-----------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE GOLDEN GLOBES? 
"Is that the ''I'll show you "/thought the
"/just looked at "/was sitting at same thing as my Golden the outfits. ,, the edge ofmy show went well the Emmy's?" Globe., seat expecting and everyone 
some conflict looked really between Nicole nice. Kidman and Tom Cruise. but /was disappointed. , 








small explosion. 
"The explosion scalded my buttocks, while there were burn marks on the mattress and the waiL" Mohamed Radzuan told Bernama news agency. 

"At first I was confused about what had exploded, but I realized it was my mobile phone when I saw it was shattered in pieces," he said. 
He received treatment for the injury at a hospital and subsequently filed a police report concerning the inci­dent, Bernama reported. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
OFFBEAT 

Rescued cat saves man 
from fire 

HUDSON, N.H.-A man who rescued a stray cat from the cold got the favor returned on Sunday when the cat woke him as his house filled with smoke. 
Rioux, 76, who lives alone, fell asleep watching televi­sion, but was jolted awake when the cat, named Munchkin, jumped up and landed on his chest with all fours. 
Rioux was able to get up in time to call the fire depart­ment and evacuate safely. 
Rioux put the cat in the garage and in the confusion, Munchkin bolted. Rioux and his family are asking for help finding the black-and-white cat. 
Cell phone explosion burns man's buttocks 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -A Malaysian man was shaken and scald­ed Tuesday after his mobile phone exploded beside him while he was sleeping, the national news agency reported. 
Mohamed Radzuan Yasin said he was recharging his cell phone and placed it on his bed near him before he took a nap. Three hours later, he was jarred awake by what he described as a 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::c 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( (.) 


23 19 

17 11 


0 

...I HIGH 20 HIGH 16 LOW 6 LOW 3 IN BRIEF 

Theology on Tap will take place today from 9:30 to 11:30 
p.m. at Legends. At Theology on Tap, you have the chance to hear speakers talk about current issues in the Catholic Church. 
Participate in a "Sustained Dialogue" information session tonight from 7 to 8 p.m. in Coleman Morse Lounge. The dia­logue is a national social move­ment to increase awareness and understanding about the existing strained relationships on college campuses. This process has been successful across the world, in businesses, and at Princeton University and the University of Virginia. 
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" will be presented tonight from 7:30 to 10 p.m. at Washington Hall. Admission is $5. 

Attend a gallery talk on the "Rick Bartow: My Eye" exhibit tonight at 7 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. The talk will be given by Rebecca Dobkins, Ph.D., curator of the exhibit. 
Legends will sponsor a Senior Night Thursday from midnight to 4 a.m. 
Come to the Peace Corps information session Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Lounge. All are welcome to attend. 
SUB is sponsoring a showing of "School of Rock" Thursday, Friday and Saturday. There will be two showings each night at 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 15 HIGH 
22 

LOW 12 LOW 
14 

Wednesday, January 28, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 

Keough, Welsh Family win LNO 
Over $8,000 raised for St. Joseph's County Special Olympics 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Nows Writ« 
The 1.100 students who partici­pated in Friday's Late Night Olympics miscd approximately $8, 100 for the St. Joseph's County Spm:ial Olympics charity, an assis­tant dirc~ctor of HecSporL'i said. 
Bill Hnagan said that the funds raisNI nxcneded last year's by nearly $1.400. The all-night event !'natured competition among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dorms in an array of athletic activities. 
"We went for nine hours in the middle of the night with no behav­ior incidents, a lot of great compe­tition. a tremendous amount of fun and very few injuries," Heagan said. "I continue to be amazed by the depth of the gen­erosity in terms of time, effort and funds on behalf of our students for special causes." 
For the third consecutive year, the Keough/Welsh Family Hall team won the event and raised a total of $825 to be shared b1~twecn their dorms. O'Neill and Lyons finished in second place, while a team of MBA students took third place. This year was the first that a graduate school team participated. 
Members of both Keough and Wehih Family attributed their suc­cess to tho publicity that occurs and the excitement generated among their dorm residents. 
"With all the promoting that we do in our dorms, people get very excited about the event and look forward to going," said Melissa Sands, Welsh Hall athletic com­missioner. "It was especially enjoyable to watch everything come together so well after spending a couple of weeks pro­moting, collecting money and get­ting things organized." 

Students said that knowing the money donated went to charity contributed to their participation in Late Night Olympics, but many also cited the sense of dorm spirit and bonding that accompanies the competition. 
"It is a great event for a good cause," said Nick Dobbertin, Keough Hall athletic commission­er. "I think the awareness that people have for Special Olympics is one incentive to participate, but what is more important is the pride that people have for their dorm and the draw of athletic competition. There is some kind of special bonding when the same six guys are running around from one event to another at 3 a.m." 
Keough Hall co-presidents Chris Duve and Joseph Sweigart said that they had not yet determined what the funds would be used for but said that they would somehow re-invest them into the dorm. They noted that in the past, win­nings have been used to fund pro­gramming events and jerseys for the IIall's athletic teams. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Former business school dean dies 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 

James Culliton, the former dean of Notre Dame's busi­ness school, died Jan. 23 from a heart-related illness at the Moorings of Arlington Heights retirement communi­ty. He was 92. 
Culliton joined the faculty of the College of Commerce ­soon to be called the College of Business Administration ­in 1951 and held the position of dean from 1955 to 1962. During his tenure, he revolu­tionized the College, starting a small, experimental pro­gram called the Program for Administrators that combined a mix of liberal, business and professional work with dis­cussion-oriented classes, which would become the col­lege's educational foundation, author Kerry Temple said in his book O'Hara's Heirs: Business Education at Notre Dame, 1921-1991. 
After earning a master's and a doctorate from Harvard Business School, Culliton taught at both Boston College and Harvard before coming to Notre Dame. Considered to be one of the elite minds of the time, he was appointed to the U.S. tar­iff commission by President John F. Kennedy, and contin­ued to serve under President Lyndon Johnson after Kennedy's assassination. 
"My father was a very intel­ligent but gentle person," Stephen Culliton, a DuPage County judge and 1964 Notre Dame alum, told the Daily Herald. "One day, he literally received a call from the White House to meet Kennedy. I thought it was a big deal, but my dad isn't easily overwhelmed by any­one." 
In 1968, Culliton and his family moved to the Philippines so he could become the first president of the Asian Institute of Management, an academic venture among the Ateneo de Manila University, De La Salle College, the Harvard Business School and the Ford Foundation. 
After retiring, Culliton dedi­cated his time to help individ­uals open their own business­es by volunteering for SCOHE. a national small business counseling organization, reported the Daily Herald. 
Culliton, whose wife of 48 years died in 1985, is sur­vived by sons William (a 1960 alumnus), Edward (a 1962 alumnus), Steve (a 1964 alumnus) and Hichard, 13 grandchildren and 17 great­grandchildren. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.cdu 

CINTI!I FOR 


THEHAPPENINGSSOCIAL CONCERNS 
January 28, 2004 centerforsocialcanerns.nd.edu 
Presentation discusses "The
Bro. Toomes Spring Break Seminars
Everyday Face ofGlobalization''
to Speak on Appll~tion~ d1leJanuaey28. . . · · 
'Jtavel toApp~achia, Washington, D.C., NewYork City,

Come listen to Francisca (CIW). Sponsored by . Fl9rida, and Jl}ote to study issues, such as Children andGang Life Cortez, a 21 year-old Progressive Student Alliance. 
,...,...,..nv Fait:lt1Ul Citizenship, the I!Arche community, andfarmworker leader from 

•· ·.• · · and Applications Available online or at

Oaxaca, Mexico talk about When: Wednesday, January
Come hear Bro. Bill 

her experiences and struggles 28 at8:00 pm
Toomes, founder of Broth­
as a member of the Coalition Where: 155 DeBartolo Hall 
ers and isters of Love, speak 
oflmmokalee Workers with 8 ex-gang members 
about gang life and gang Sign up for the Swmner Service 
rehabilitation. 
Project Internship 
When: February 14 at 3:00PM Earn $2000, get r:hree 4. to employ a service­f'+~,u~"'"" students .the opportunity 1/M!t/!N~j1V<*l~;~ 9.1teXJ)~fil~nrt;JH~~~·~m..Jr·..11t··. iri Mexioo City (and
Theology credits and get the learning pt>dagogy that links
Where: Center for Social organizations. This
experience of a lifetime with student experiences with 
Concerns involves exrensive.sru~
the Summer Service Project. a rigorous set ofacademic ~!t~m9 p·l~t'lry!l'l~ r~:sotltce devdopment, and reflec~
readings, reflections and
The application deadline is 
Free Burma writing.
February 20. With the SSP Coalition to Hold Internship students spend More information is available eight weeks over the summer from the esc or online at 
First Meeting working with a service www. nd.edu/s0cconcn organization. SSPI has the following goals: 
Come learn more about the struggles of the Burmese 1. to allow Notre Dame Peace Corp people and how you can take students to serve the needs of 
Info Session
acrion in this fight for free­disadvantaged people in cities dom. For more information, where there are alumni clubs; 
Peace Corps recruiter Sophia 
go towww. ffeeburmacoalirion. Volunteer with Take 10
Kamp will lead this informa­
2. to provide an opportunity
org or email Maureen Fitzpat­A great way to help children further information, go to
tion session for those inter­
for alumni-student discussionsrick or Kate Belden. 
ested in this two year interna­and reduce violence in the http://www.nd.edu/-raketen.
ofsocial concerns; 
South Bend community. You Click on the volunteers link 

VVhen: Monda~ February tional program. 
3. to contribute to the will be assigned to a team to apply online and for the2nd at 7:30 
When: Thursday, January 29
continuing value education and spend an hour a week training dates. For furrher VVhere: CSC Coffeehouse of the student, the alumni from 6 -8 p.m. with a group of children, informacion please contact and the total Notre Dame teaching them positive Kim or call631-9424.
Where: esc, Lounge community; alternatives to violence. For 
, I i I ~ , 
I 




page 4 Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 

SMC emergency calls now sent to dispatcher 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
In an adjustment designed to improve emergency response time to campus, all 911 emergency calls made from Saint Mary's are now automatically forwarded to the St. Joseph County's office dis­patcher. 
Prior to the change, whenever 911 was dialed from an on-cam­pus phone, the call was sent directly to security who then would contact emergency servic­es. 
According to Telecommunications Director Sandy Handley, Saint Mary's recently updated the appropriate technology that enabled the new procedure to occur. 
"Whenever 911 is dialed a screen will pop up on the Security Department's computer notifying them of the exact location from where the call took place," Handley said. 
Saint Mary's now joins Notre Dame, whose emergency calls are also directly sent to emergency dispatchers. This is partly due to 

ND professor natned finalist for book a-ward 
By K. AARON VAN 
OOSTERHOUT 
News Writer 
After six years of research, George Marsden received an unexpected recognition for his most recent book, "Jonathan Edwards: A Ufe." 
Though unaware of how he was nominated, the Notre Dame histo­ry professor is one of the five final­ists for the National Book Critics Circle Award for 2003. This award has been given annually since 1981 to those authors that write, "the finest books published in English," as the committee's Web site describes the award. 
His book, a biography of the 18th century Christian Reformed preacher, will go before a review committee in March, and the awards ceremony will be broad­cast on C-SPAN on March 4. 
Marsden is competing against four other authors in the biogra­phy/autobiography division of the national prize, and, if selected, will join past winners, who include Frank McCourt for "Angela's Ashes" and Sylvia Nasar for "A Beautiful Mind." 
Marsden wrote the biography in lieu of 27 volumes of Edwards's writings published recently by Yale University Divinity School. Marsden said his writings provid­ed a new angle from which to 
Lawsuit 
continued from page 1 
and University Deputy General Counsel William Hoye that called for dismissal if either of the two options were met. 
Storin said the University does an FCC ruling that will eventually mandate all 911 calls be sent directly to the local dispatch sta­tion. 
With all calls going directly to the St. Joseph County's office dis­patcher, Handley stresses the importance ofstaying on the line if 911 is dialed accidentally. Hanging up on the dispatcher's office will prompt them to imme­diately call the number back and alert Saint Mary's security to dis­patch an officer. It is best to stay on the line and state that calling was an accident to avoid wasting the time of security and the 911 dispatchers, Handley said. 
The College's new service is equivalent to what that used when dialing 911 from home. Saint Mary's security will avoid a poten­tially delay in the emergency response process through the for­warding of calls from the student to the dispatcher. 
"Our goal is to provide even quicker service to our campus by getting the call out to an ambu­lance more quickly," said Handley. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 
examine the preacher's life as an academic biography of Edwards has not been written since 1940. 
Marsden said this recent addi­tion to his library reflects his deep-rooted interest in the Protestant tradition. 
"Being in the [Christian] Reformed tradition myself, I was trying to understand what it would be like to be Reformed in that time," Marsden said. 
This is not the first time Marsden has received recognition for his work. In 2000, Christianity Today added Marsden's Fundamentalism and American Culture to its list of the top 100 Books of the Century, sandwiched between Sigmund Freud's tome "Civilization and its Discontents" and Aldous Huxley's dystopian groundbreaker "Brave New World." 
Marsden, who joined Notre Dame 12 years ago, specializes in American Protestant history, and has taught at many other Protestant-affiliated universities and colleges. 
He said Notre Dame attracted him because it was an excellent academic institution and retained its religious background and is interested in seeing if and how Notre Dame will continue to main­tain its Catholic tradition. 
Contact K. Aaron Van Oosterhout at kvanoost@nd.edu 
not have a preference for either option, but would be happy to see the lawsuit end. 
"We have from the beginning had every confidence that we have proper title to the land," Storin said. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
be unable to get back out of the water [unassisted]." she
JuiDp 
said. "Everyone wanted to stroke 
continued from page 1 
him for Irish good luck," said 
Sonja. "He was on the evening time ... in case a jumper news in Anchorage three should experience distress and nights in a row." She said the 
organization was expected to raise $75,000 to $80,000 from the jumpers. 
"It's courage or insanity ­one or the other." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

RICK BARTOW: MY EYE 
Jan 18-March 14 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
invites you to the following events for this exhibition: 
Wednesday, January 28, 7 p.m. Gallery Talk by Rebecca Dobkins, Ph.D., curator ofthe exhibit. 
Thursday, January 29,7 p.m. Lecture by Barry Lopez, National Book A ward winner, Notre Dame alumnus, and short-story writer. Reception and book signing to follow. 
This exhibition & lecture are free 
s~~
and open to the public. Museum c/ART 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arabs, Westerners deny oil bribes 
AMMAN, Jordan-Arabs and Westerners accused by Iraqis of receiving Iraqi oil pro­ceeds in exchange for supporting Saddam Hussein denied Tuesday they had accepted bribes or participated in illicit deals. 
The accusations surfaced this week in a report by one of the dozens of new newspa­pers that have begun publishing in Iraq since Saddam was ousted last March. Since, mem­bers of the new provisional Iraqi government and Saddam opponents have distributed a list of the accused, based on documents from the Iraqi Oil Ministry. 
About 270 former Cabinet officials, legisla­tors, political activists and journalists from 46 countries are on the list. suspected of profiting from Iraqi oil sales that Saddam had allegedly offered them in. 
Canadian serial killer found 
VANCOUVER. British Columbia ­Canadian police on Tuesday said they found the remains of nine more women for a total of 31 at a pig farm owned by the man alleged to be Canada's worst serial killer. 
Authorities said six of the women had van­ished from the city's seedy drug-infested eastside of downtown Vancouver. Three oth­ers have not been identified. 
Hobert William Pickton, 54, has already been charged with 15 counts of first degree murder in the disappearances of women over the past 20 years. and he's expected to be charged with seven more counts. No court date has been set. 
The remains of those 22 victims were also found at the farm. Cases involving the nine newly discovered victims are not included in those 22 counts. 
Eleven bodies found near border 
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico -Police have dug up 11 bodies in the backyard of a house in this Mexican border city, in what they called the latest evidence of a growing drug battle being waged along the U .S.-Mexico frontier. 
The victims were apparently rivals of the Vicente Carrillo drug gang, and were execut­ed with "extreme violence" as long as six months to one year ago, Attorney General Hafael Macedo de Ia Concha said. Several of the victims had been strangled or suffocated. 
"This is a war among drug traffickers," Macedo de Ia Concha said. "It is a confronta­tion between cartels for territory." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
New TV show fined by FCC 
WASIIINGTON -The government cracked down on indecent programming Tuesday, proposing a record fine against the nation's largest radio chain for a show titled "Bubba the Love Sponge" and only the second fine ever for a TV broadcast. 
The FCC proposed a $755,000 line against Clear Channel Communications for sexually explicit segments of the radio show aired on four Florida radio stations between 6:30 a.m. I.Uld !J a.m. It was the single largest fine ever proposed for indecency. 
The commission also proposed a $27,500 rine against Young Broadcasting of San Francisco Inc. for airing a man exposing himself on its "KHON 4 Morning News" show. 
STATE NEWS 
Company pays settlement 
INDIANAPOLIS -A state safety agency on Tuesday fined a painting company $21,000 in a settlement over a truck fire last year that trapped 13 painters in a mov­ing inferno, leaving two of them with fatal burns. 
HPT Painting of Franklin also agreed in the deal with the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Administration to donate $4,000 to Wishard Memorial Hospital, where one of the painters injured in the July 29 fire was still being treated Tuesday. 
Kerry wins in New Hampshire 
Dean's rally gives him second place finish in primary; Clark and Dean tie for third 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, N.H. ­John Kerry overpowered Howard Dean to win New Hampshire's primary Tuesday, scoring a second­straight campaign victory to establish the four-term sen­ator as the Democratic Party's presidential front­runner. 
"I ask Democrats every­where to join us so we can defeat George W. Bush and the economy of privilege," Kerry told supporters, promising to "reduce the poverty of millions rather than reducing the taxes of millionaires." 
Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina and retired Army Gen. Wesley Clark were in a distant race for third. Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecticut, sagging to fifth place, rejected advice from some advisers to abandon his bid. 
After trooping through coffee shops, country stores and livings rooms of Iowa and New Hampshire, the candidates now move to the cold realities of a national campaign -airport rallies and multimillion-dollar ad buys in seven states holding contests next Tuesday. 

Kerry, who reshaped the race with his stunning win in Iowa's caucuses Jan. 19, steams toward the cross­needed for a complete America." paign toward South country contests embolden rebound or to erase doubts Edwards, who finished a Carolina, Delaware and with the aura of success to about his viability. surprise second in Iowa, Oklahoma. argue that he is the candi­He did manage about said his double-digit finish Looking toward next date best suited to oust twice as many votes as is an improvement over his week, Dean insisted he will President Bush in either Edwards or Clark, standing in polls before "play to win in every single November. and found solace in gaining Iowa. He's staking his can­state," overruling aides 
With 87 percent of the a bit of ground since his didacy on South Carolina, a who urged a more cautious precincts reporting, Kerry disastrous Iowa finish and centerpiece of next week's approach. The former had 39 percent, Dean had shrill election-night contests. "Beyond South Vermont governor plans to 26 percent, Clark 13 per­address. Carolina, I don't want to compete in South Carolina, cent, Edwards 12 percent, Dean kept his emotions in make any predictions," he Missouri, New Mexico and and Lieberman 9 percent. check Tuesday night, telling said. Arizona, which holds con­
Dean, the former five­supporters. "The people of Ignoring his fifth-place tests next Tuesday; term governor of Vermont New Hampshire have showing, Lieberman Michigan and Washington who finished third in Iowa, allowed all of you to hope declared, "We're in a three­state four days later; and lost New Hampshire by again that we're going to way split decision" and Wisconsin, with its contest double digits-less than he have real change in pointed his ragged cam-Feb. 17. 

Bush attempts to justify Iraq war 
know today. And the world is better President Aleksander Kwasniewski, Associated Press off without him." said he had "great confidence in our Kay believes his team's failure to intelligence community," and he dis­
WASHINGTON -President Bush find banned weapons in Iraq points played no interest in such an said Tuesday that Iraq undoubtedly to problems in the intelligence sug­accounting from the CIA. posed a threat to America last year gesting they were there, and he said The president said he wanted to Jet and the U.S.-led invasion was justi­over the weekend that the CIA owes American weapons inspectors com­fied. despite his outgoing arms Bush an explanation. plete their search in Iraq before inspector's conclusion that Saddam The chairman of the House drawing conclusions. That work is 85 Hussein had no weapons of mass Intelligence Committee, Rep. Porter percent complete, Kay has said. destruction. Goss, said in an Associated Press Last year, the president made 
But Bush and his aides backed interview Tuesday that Kay was Iraq's alleged weapons cache a cen­away from often-stated predictions doing a favor for the nation's intelli­tral rationale for the Iraq invasion. that such weapons will eventually be gence system with his harsh criticism On Jan. 22, 2003, Bush told an found in Iraq. And the president of the CIA's flawed prewar estimates. audience in St. Louis, "The dictator deflected questions about the dis­Goss blamed the problem on of Iraq has got weapons of mass crepancies between his dire warn­underestimation of the fear and destruction." On the eve of the war ings on Iraq and former chief inspec­repression in Saddam's Iraq and in March, he said, "Intelligence gath­tor David Kay's findings. insufficient intelligence budgets dur­ered by this and other. governments 
"There is no doubt in my mind that ing the 1990s. He said the intelli­leaves no doubt that the Iraq regime Saddam Hussein was a grave and gence system needs more resources. continues to possess and conceal gathering threat to America and the "I already knew it, but I know it in some of the most lethal weapons world," Bush said. "And I say that a more reinforced way now, and I ever devised." based upon intelligence that I saw figure Dr. Kay has done me a favor," Sunday, after nine months of prior to the decision to go into Iraq Goss said. searching, Kay said, "I don't think and I say that based upon what I Bush. during a meeting with Polish they exist." 
---I 


page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 28, 2004 



Fair 
continued from page 1 
dents. "Know something about them, so they know why you want to join them." 
Rees also said that studen.ts are encouraged to use the Career Center, located in Flanner Hall, to review their resume or attend workshops. 
Schlumberger Tech specifically attended the fair in search of students who are "decisive, adventurous, and highly mobile," said Frisbee. 
Barb Naperalsky, who represented Walgreens, said that her company looks for students who are "ambitious, aggressive individuals who want to suc­ceed." 
"We've seen a nice diversity with majors," she said. While looking for retail managers, she said was glad to find so many students with technological and business backgrounds. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 
Seniors 
continued from page 1 
he wanted to take a look at his opportuni­ties and get a feel for the possibilities in his future. 
He agreed that there is some fear when it comes to getting a job after graduation. "I feel I have a lot in my favor, with the school I'm at and being a minority," Williams said. 
"In the grand scheme of things, I think a lot of people are scared." 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 

Attendant on Sept. 11 plane cal111 in tape 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Shortly before Flight 11 slammed into the World Trade Center, the American Airlines operations center received a calm phone call from one of its flight atten­dants. 
"The cockpit is not answering their phone," said Betty Ong. "There's some­body stabbed in business class and, we can't breathe in business. Urn, I think there is some mace or something. We can't breathe. I don't know, but I think we're getting hijacked." 
Ong, 45, known as "Bee," was on the American Airlines Boeing 767 flying from Boston to Los Angeles on Sept. 
Panel said FAA tninitnized attack scenarios 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Federal Aviation Administration focused on the danger of explosives aboard planes rather than a suicide hijacking before the Sept. 11 attacks even though its own security offi­cers warned terrorists might try to crash an airliner, a federal panel said Tuesday. 
The FAA's Office of Civil Aviation Security considered the risk of a suicide hijacking at least as early as March 1998, says the preliminary report by The National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States. 
The commission report acknowledges there was no specific intelligence indicat­ing suicide hijackings would occur but says the FAA still had a responsibility to protect the flying public against such a threat. ' 
The commission wrapped up two days of hearings that focused on aviation and 11, 2001, before suspected 9-11 ring­leader Mohammed Atta and four oth­ers took over the plane and crashed it into the North Tower of the Trade Center. 
The Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States heard portions of her 23-minute conversation with the American Airlines operations center on the second of its two-day hearing Tuesday. 
Nydia Gonzalez, who was on duty at the operations center that morning, told the panel how she received Ong's call at about 8:20 a.m. 
"Several media accounts of what occurred on Flight 11 claimed that Betty was 'hysterical with fear,' 
border security lapses. The panel. which has been investigating the Sept. 11 attacks for a year and has held seven public hearings, wants Congress to extend its May 27 deadline by at least two months, saying it needs more time to review all the material. 
At Tuesday's hearing, the commission provided documents showing the FAA was aware of the possibility of suicide hijackings but did not pass the informa­tion along to airlines. 
In a presentation to airline and airport officials in early 2001, the FAA discounted the threat of a suicide hijacking because there was "no indication that any group is currently thinking in that direction." And when the agency issued a terrorism warning to air carriers in July 2001, it noted the risk of explosives inside luggage but did not mention suicide hijackings. 
At a commission hearing, panel mem­ber Timothy Roemer read from an FAA 'shrieking' and 'gasping for air,' she said. "Those accounts were wrong." 

"In a very calm, professional and poised demeanor, Betty Ong relayed to us detailed information of the events unfolding on Flight 11 ,'' Gonzalez added. "I honestly believe after my conversation with Betty that the 81 passengers and new crew members on Flight 11 had no idea of the fate they were to encounter that day." 
In the tape played before the com­mission, Ong tells the operations cen­ter her flight and seat number and describes the scene on board. 
"We can't even get into the cockpit. We don't know who's there," Ong says, before the call ends in a dial tone. 
document published in the Federal Register on July 17, 2001, stating that ter­rorism could occur "anytime, anywhere" in the United States and cautioning that the risk "needs to be prevented and coun­tered." 
"The dots are connected and they're large," said Roemer, a former Democratic congressman from Indiana. "Why didn't they result in a change in policy?" 
Catha! Flynn, former associate adminis­trator of civil aviation security at the FAA. responded that the agency only had a generalized sense of the risk and that security efforts were hampered somewhat by poor communication with the FBI. 
"It isn't that we disregarded them. There were disconnects," he said. "How would you coerce a pilot to fly into a building that's got people in it? ... How would you do that? The notion of a full­fledged al-Qaida member being a pilot ... did not occur to me." 
-Lelfi:.. e···
......:n.,·,.·s··.·
... ~ .. ·-. 

Doors open a.'t 9=,30_.. s,_pea.ker begin.s ci:~~·ca 
B.t"'Ot.r;o.1tt t~) j~(t'J,.f, b;· (:]..:ilJ1iry:US l\l:ir.thttt·..'l.t
o :«· ~ r;·-~ 
·""'~i sit us ,ct-:t~ .,:Ill~ '\Al..;~l:n: IJift.lt._l:tt"' ..." <~a:txij' u!iin;ii tJ.ist r.·y·... -.·•d.:c,d. u 



~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,609.92 -92.59

jones 
·~. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite VolumE 1,421 147 • 1,626,316,160 

AMfX 1,218.65 ~4.32 NASDAQ 2,116.04 -37.79 NYSE 6,639.78 -32.26 S&PSOO 1,144.05 -11.32 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 10,928.03 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,447.00 +1.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE QDSU)  -3.64  -0.19  5.03  
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -2.94  -0.09  2.97  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.91  -0.55  28.25  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -2.47  -0.80  31.63  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -2.48  -0.70  27.50  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.84  -0.42  49.49  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.28  -0.53  40.87  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.86  -0.58  30.60  
3-MONTH BILL  +1.70  +0.15  8.97  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.35  34.12  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +3.40  410.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.35  83.85  
Exchon  Rates  
YEN  105.6  
EURO  0.7909  
POUND  0.547  
CANADIAN$  1.306  

IN BRIEF 
Kraft cuts jobs, closes plants 
CIIICAGO -Kraft Foods said Tuesday it will eliminate 6,000 jobs, or 6 percent of its work force, and close 20 plants worldwide after more than a year of disappointing sales and earnings for the biggest U.S. food company. 
About 1,300 salaried positions in North America will be eliminated in the first quarter. with the remaining cuts occurring over the next three years. Kraft said. 
Kraft's brands include Oreo cookies, Jell-0 desserts and Oscar Mayer hot dogs. Sales have been particularly sluggish for cookies and pizza. 
The company has about 50,000 employees in the United States and slightly more than I00,000 worldwide. 
The job cuts were announced as Kraft reported fourth-quarter profits of $869 mil­lion, a drop of 7 percent from a year earlier. 
Whistleblower beaten with brick 
WASIIINGTON -lie was dragged from his car and beaten with a brick after confronting an investment-company superior about trad­ing abuses in mutual funds, Peter Scannell told Congress Tuesday. 
His complaint about abuses was brushed aside by federal regulators but eventually helped lead to civil fraud charges against fund giant Putnam Investments. 
At the hearing where he testified on Tuesday, New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, R-Ill., the head of a Senate panel, denounced what they called hidden and excessive fees that gouge millions of mutual fund investors. Spitzer also. said it is unfair that mutual funds charge ordi­nary shareholders much higher fees than pen­sion funds and other big investors. 
Fitzgerald called the fund industry "the world's largest skimming operation ... a trough from which fund managers, brokers and other insiders are steadily siphoning off an excessive slice of the nation's household, college and retirement savings." 
Putnam, meanwhile, announced that it would cut fees paid by shareholders and pro­vide investors more information on fees and fund managers' compensation. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

IrishAngels receive accolade 
Gigot Center recognized as finalist in National Outstanding Pedagogy contest 
USASBE is a major tion and research." fulfilling its mission to 
By MATT BRAMANTI 

national network for Theresa Sedlack, pro-students and young 
News Writer 

profession-gram direc­alumni." 
als in entre­tor at the She went on to say that The IrishAngels flew preneur­"There isn't G i g o t the recognition shows back to South Bend with ship, includ­Center, said the quality of entrepre­
another 

another accolade for the ing educa­the Angels neurship education at
organization that

Gigot Center for tors, policy­provide a Notre Dame. 
Entrepreneurial Studies. makers and has built its own powerful "There isn't another 
The IrishAngels net­researchers. network and used resource to organization that has work, made up of entre­According to the center. built its own network
it so broadly.

preneurial-minded Notre its Website, "We've and used it so broadly," Dame alumni and USASBE's worked Sedlack said. "To be rec­friends, was a finalist in mission "is Theres Sedlack really hard ognized as a finalist vali­the 2004 U.S. to advance program director on the dates what we've known Association for Small knowledge lrishAngels to be an extremely valu­
Gigot Center 

Business and and foster network," able resource." Entrepreneurship's business Sedlack National Outstanding development through said. "It's an integral 
Contact Man Bramanti at 
Pedagogy contest. entrepreneurship educa-part of the Gigot Center. 
mbramant@nd.edu 
CORPORATE SCANDAL 
Testimony begins in Stewart trial 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Martha Stewart sold stock based on "a secret tip" that no one else had, then told an avalanche of lies to save her reputation and enormous fortune, prosecutors said Tuesday as they laid out their case against the homemaking queen. 
Stewart's attorney insisted the case was based on "speculation, surmise and guesswork" and suggested the government's pursuit of the domestic style-setter was reminiscent of George Orwell's Big Brother novel "1984." 
The jury of eight women and four men listened to three hours of open­ing statements that outlined starkly different portrayals of Stewart's sale of nearly 4,000 shares of biotechnol­ogy company ImClone Systems on Dec. 27, 2001. 
The government contends Stewart, on her way to a vacation in Mexico, was tipped that ImClone founder Sam Waksal was trying to dump his shares, then ordered the sale of her own stock. 
Federal prosecutor Karen Patton EPA 
Martha Stewart arrives at the Federal Court of Lower Manhattan on
Seymour said Stewart then conspired 
with her stockbroker, Peter Tuesday to hear the opening statements of her securities fraud trial. Bacanovic, to tell a series of cover-up lies about the sale. stock plummeting. election. "The reason that Martha Stewart Stewart attorney Robert Morvillo "Same government -leak it on dumped her shares is because she pointed out that 7 million shares of one side, prosecute it on the other," was told a secret," Seymour said. "A rapidly falling ImClone were sold on Morvillo said disdainfully. "I think secret tip that no other investors in the same day Stewart unloaded hers. that George Orwell was just about 20 ImClone had." And Bacanovic attorney Richard years too early," he said, alluding to Stewart was almost motionless as Strassberg said the broker made a the novel "1984" that described an the arguments unfolded in front of paltry $450 on the sale. all-intrusive government. her, resting her chin on her hand and "They have rushed to judgment to Morvillo never flatly denied that occasionally tapping an index finger bring a case against Ms. Stewart, and Stewart was tipped to the Waksal against her lips. in that rush to judgment they have sale. But he described Stewart in Stewart faces up to 30 years in charged an innocent man," December 2001 as weary from the prison on charges that include Strassberg said. holidays, and finally willing to follow obstruction of justice and securities Morvillo's strategy was clear: His Bacanovic's repeated suggestions to fraud, but would get a far lighter face red and voice rising, the defense get rid of 1mClone. penalty if convicted. Bacanovic is lawyer demonized Waksal, the feder­He also said Stewart was telling the also charged with five counts and al government and Doug Faneuil, the truth in an April 2002 interview with faces 25 years. former brokerage assistant who will investigators in which she said she Attorneys for Stewart and be the star prosecution witness. did not recall such a tip. Bacanovic aimed to convince jurors At one point, Morvillo banged his When testimony began Tuesday that the two defendants had done fist on the front rail of the jury box afternoon, jurors heard from two nothing out of the ordinary for a dili­and said there was no record Stewart prosecution witnesses. gent broker and responsible client, and Bacanovic had talked after the A Merrill Lynch official discussed arguing they had decided six days stock sale to discuss their supposedly the firm's requirement that it keep its before the lmClone sale to get rid of cooked-up $60 story. clients' transactions confidential -a the stock if it fell to $60. He also lashed out at Congress for rule prosecutors say Bacanovic Waksal later admitted he was leaking in the summer of 2002 that broke. Also, acting ImClone CEO tipped that federal regulators were Waksal had directly tipped Stewart Daniel Lynch briefly discussed the about to issue a negative report on about the Erbitux decision, suggest­mechanics of the company's applica­ImClone's star product, the cancer ing it was the work of politicians tion for government approval of drug Erbitux. That report sent the hungry for attention in the midterm Erbitux. 

Wednesday, January 28, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
UNITED NATIONS 
Iraq team restores presence 
Team to help organize election and transition 
Associated Press 
PARIS-In agreeing Tuesday to send an election team to Iraq, 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan took the first major step to rflstore his organization's influ­ence i11 the country. 
The prominent U.N. role ­helping resolve a dispute over the best way to transfer power to Iraqis -marks a significant reversal. Washington drew up its transition plan for Iraq last year without mentioning the United Nations; U.S. officials now see the world body as their best hope for a compromise. 
Annan said he would agree to a coalition and Governing Council request, made in a Jan. 19 meet­ing, that he dispatch the team to see whether a direct vote for a transitional government is possi­ble. 
He also suggested that a multi­national force could be deployed but ruled out the idea of U.N. peacekeepers in Iraq. Annan withdrew all international staff in October after deadly suicide bombings of U.N. headquarters in Baghdad. 
"I believe what we can antici­pate would be a multinational force authorized by the Security Council, which could h.elp and work with Iraqis to stabilize Iraq and make it safer," Annan said at a press conference with President Jacques Chirac. "This would be a multinational force, with the sup­port of the Security Council, and not 'blue helmets' per se." 
Staking out his independence from the coalition, Annan said he will seek out Iraqi opinions. 
"I strongly hold to the idea that the most sustainable way for­ward would be one that came from Iraqis themselves," the sec­retary-general said in a state­ment. 
Annan said the team will go to Iraq once the U.S. -led coalition assures its safety. In Baghdad, coalition spokesman Dan Senor welcomed Annan's decision and said the coalition would take "all necessary measures" to provide the U.N. team's security. 
edgment of the Shiite cleric's influence. Al-Sistani has said he would back the findings of the 
U.N. team, provided it offers a good alternative if it rules out direct elections now. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said Saturday he had been in touch with Annan almost every day recently and also met with Annan's special adviser, Lakhdar Brahimi. 
For no·w. Annan said he has ruled out sending in a U.N. spe­cial envoy to succeed Sergio Vieira de Mello, who was killed in 
an Aug. 19 suicide attack on U.N. 

The United "This would be a headquarters States hopes U.N. along with 21
multinational force, 
intervention will other people. 
break a deadlock with the support of In New York, with Grand the Security Council, U.N. spokes-Ayatollah Ali al­woman Marie
and not 'blue hel-
Husseini al­Okabe said a U.N. Sistani, the pow­mets' per se." security team erful cleric who arrived in wants direct elec­Baghdad on
Kofl Annan 

tions for a transi­Tuesday to begin
U.N. Secretary-General
tional legislature. The United States says there is not enough time before the legisla­ture takes power June 30 and wants it elected by regional cau­cuses. 
Annan said the team would try to determine what alternatives there are if an election cannot be held. 
"I have already made clear that in my view there is no single 'right way,"' he said in Paris. 
Al-Sistani's call for direct elec­tions has been backed by tens of thousands of protesters, and the 
U.S. decision to turn to the United Nations is seen as an acknowl­
assessing safety 
ahead of the elec­

tions team. She declined to say how long the security team was expected to be in Iraq or how big the team was. 
A separate two-member U.N. security team went to Baghdad on Friday for talks with the coali­tion about the possible full return of U.N. employees. 
In Baghdad, Mahmoud Othman, a Kurdish member of the Iraqi Governing Council, called Annan's decision "a posi­tive one" and noted the Iraqi leadership had been urging a greater role for the United Nations. 


IRAN 

Election crisis leaves government in chaos 
Associated Press 

TEHRAN -Iran's president has refused to accept the mass resignation of top government officials, state-run media report­ed Tuesday. Reformists spoke of a compromise to resolve the country's worst political crisis in years. 
The crisis began Jan. 11 when the Guardian Council, a power­ful, unelected body that super­vises elections and approves legislation, disqualified more than a third of the 8,200 candi­dates registered for the Feb. 20 vote. That included more than 80 sitting lawmakers. 
Last week, the government announced that most of Iran's six vice presidents and 24 min­isters had tendered their resig­nations to protest the disqualifi­cations. They were not identi­fied, and the resignations need­ed President Mohammad Khatami's approval. 
Khatami, refusing to accept the resignations, called on the ministers and vice presidents to "proceed with their services to the people," according to the Islamic Republic News Agency. 
More than 70 top civil ser­vants also had threatened to resign if free and fair elections were not guaranteed. Khatami himself also had done so, but later said he would continue in his post. 
"Of course, we will insist on the need to hold a free and fair election as the symbol of democ­racy and make sure that the process will lead to a fair result," Khatami was quoted as saying. 
Top reformist and hard-line leaders met into early Tuesday to try to resolve the crisis. Parliament Speaker Mahdi Karroubi said four Cabinet min­isters had been assigned to investigate the disqualifications and reach a compromise with the Guardian Council, IRNA reported. 
The announcement was the frrst signal that the crisis, which has threatened to lead the coun­try toward political chaos, might be resolved soon. 
Karroubi announced that he, Khatami and the hard-line head of the Judiciary, Ayatollah Mahmoud Hasehmi Shahroudi, had met Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Monday evening. Khamenei has fmal say on all state matters and his direct intervention has in the past resolved deadlocks. 
The speaker said the Cabinet team, headed by Intelligence Minister Ali Yunesi, would meet with the Guardian Council in the next few days to "resolve the problem appropriately." 
State-run Tehran radio quot­ed Karroubi as saying that a compromise was in the making. 
"We will witness a good understanding between the gov­ernment and the Guardian Council in the next two days," Karroubi was quoted as saying. He said that by late afternoon Thursday, "some good news will be announced." 


HOUSE4SALE 
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 
+ newly remodeled + one bedroom cottage with buildable lot + wood burning stove 
19433 Auten Road South Bend, IN 
Call today to see: 269-683-8336 $38,900 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
• Only 9 Blocks from Campus• Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer• Fully Equipped Kitchen Including Dishwasher and Garbage Disposal• Private Patio • ADT Alarm System (Optional Monitoring) • Central Air Conditioning • Assigned Parking • Energy Efficient G-elS Heating• Professionally Managed• 24-Hour Emergency On-Call Maintenance 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Jblad@cbresb.com 
• Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus 
+ Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue 
• Current 1-year & 10-month Leases Available 
+ On-Site Laundry Facility 
• 2Closets and 1Desk in Each Bedroom 
+ 
Private Parking Lots 


+ 
24 -hour On-Call Emergency Maintenance 


• Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 
.lbl~Q@_«_bresb.com 

Wednesday, January 28, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
' 

It's not the Super Bowl without Sbarro. · 

SUPER BOWl SPECIAlS AT SBARRO 
OUR 1811 SUPER PIZZAS ARE lARGER THAT MOST 

PICK UP SPECIALS 
Call ahead and pick up at Sbarro starting at 5pm Super Bowl Sunday Super Size 18" NY Style Cheese ~6.99 Super Size 18n NY Style Pepperoni $7.49 

DELIVERY SPECIALS 
Super Size 18n NY Style Cheese $8.99 Toppings 1.00 each 20 Wings $9.99 10 wings with PiZza order $4.99 3Super Size 18" NY Cheese Pizzas $19.99 

Call631.2924to order. 
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 

page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• 
BRITAIN 
Blair narrowly wins key vote 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Prime Minister Tony Blair narrowly defeated a major rebellion within his gov­erning Labour Party on Tuesday, winning a key vote on university fees that severely tested his authority. 
Lawmakers voted 316-311 in favor of the legislation, offering Blair a welcome boost before Wednesday's publication of a report on the death of a weapons adviser, which added to a furor over the govern­ment's case for the Iraq war. 

Blair sat on the government front bench in the House of Commons as the result of the vote was announced to loud cheers from Labour lawmak­ers. 
Ministers had embarked on an intense last-minute cam­paign to win support for the bill, which is the centerpiece of Blair's legislative program. 
Many Labour lawmakers had viewed the proposals as a betrayal of a 1997 election promise that there would be no tuition hikes, and the bill crys­tallized party divisions over the direction of government policy. A defeat would have been Blair's first in Parliament since taking office in 1997. 
Clare Short, an outspoken critic of Blair since she quit the Labour government last year, said the bill on university fees was a "breach of trust with the electorate" and "very foolish politically." 
An early edition of Wednesday's Sun newspaper said it had obtained details of the report, saying it clears Blair of any dishonorable conduct, rebukes the Ministry of Defense for failing to let Kelly know that his name would come out, and harshly criticizes the BBC for failing to check facts before broadcasting its report. 
Under the bill approved Tuesday, universities would be able to charge students up to $5,500 a year, to be paid after they leave school and start earning wages. 
Colleges currently charge a flat-rate fee of $2,025 which is paid up front. The government says the increase would pr'ovide an extra $1.8 billion a year for higher education. 
Education Secretary Charles Clarke has also pledged schol­arships for poorer students and promised a system to help ensure that more people from working class backgrounds enter higher education. 
Clarke conceded that his authority and that of the prime minister had been on the line over the proposals to increase university fees. 
"I am delighted at the result," Clarke said. "Had we lost it would have been a very serious state of affairs." 
Tuesday's vote meant the bill passed its second reading, which is an agreement on its basic principles. It next goes before a committee of lawmak­ers who consider the legislation in detail and suggest possible changes before submitting it to a third reading in the Commons. 

UZBEKISTAN 
Investigators blallle crew for crash 
Conroy. 
The crew dido 't actually see the run­way at the minimum height required but continued landing anyway, "overesti­mating its profession­al skills," the commis­sion said. Apparently realizing their mis­take, the pilots tried to climb again. 
The plane crashed into a concrete wall surrounding the air­port. 

The commission said the plane was in good technical condi­tion and the crew had been properly trained. 
Prosecutors have opened a criminal probe, the commis­sion said. 
Uzbekistan Airways has suspended all flights of Yak-40s since the crash, a 
measure  that  
remained in  effect  
Tuesday.  

All our desks come with a view. 
Join us, and we'll put some of the most exciting challenges in business in front of you. Opportunities to work on some of the biggest, most prestigious brands in the global market. And we'll put the knowledge, experience and support of the best talent in the industry behind you. Get the big picture. 
Crew blamed for Uzbek plane crash 
The Uzbekistan government announced Tuesday that a pilot error caused an airliner to crash Jan. 13, killing all 37 people on board, including the head of the 
U.N. mission in the country. 


er landing proce­dures, even though heavy fog limited visi­bility at Tashkent's international airport at the time. The three-engine jet, bou-nd from the town of Termez on the Afghan border, over­shot the runway and crashed near the air­port. 
Among those killed was the head of the 
U.N. mission in Uzbekistan, Richard 

Associated Press 
TASHKENT -Pilot error caused an air­liner to crash Jan. 13, killing all 3 7 people on board, including the head of the U.N. mission in Uzbekistan, the gov­ernment commission investigating the acci­dent said Tuesday. 
The crew aboard the Uzbekistan Airways Yak-40 jet failed to follow prop­
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
CHINA 





Bird flu reaches populous nation 
Associated Press suspended chicken imports from household" in nearby Hunan contaminated with bird drop­China. its third-largest supplier province had been diagnosed as pings. BEIJING -Bird flu reached of chicken meat and products. "suspect" bird flu. It emphasized In Thailand, officials con­
China confirms China, the world's most popu­The cases involved ducks in those diagnoses were prelimi­firmed that a 6-year-old boy lous nation, as officials acknowl­the southern region of Guangxi, nary. died of the disease, the country's 
Asian bird flu 
edged Tuesday that at least one on a farm 60 miles from the The type of avian influenza in second known flu death. Eight 
The world's most populous 
duek was infected with the dis­border with Vietnam, where much of the current Asian out­people have died in Vietnam, 
country, still shaken by last 
ease and opened an investiga­avian influenza has killed six break is fearsome for two rea­where the fast-food chain KFC 
year's SARS outbreak, is now
tion into suspect cases of other people. Two people have died in sons -its virulence and the said it would offer its customers 
uneasy about its food supply 
dead poultry. Thailand, and tens of millions of possibility it could mutate into fish instead of fried chicken. 
with Tuesday's confirmation of
The announcement opened a birds have been slaughtered. something that can jump from So far. 10 governments have 
bird flu in at least one duck.
potentially fearsome new front Nearby Laos also reported its human to human. Thus far, the reported some strain of bird flu 
Bird flu has now affected 10
in the fight against the virus first cases in birds on Tuesday. only known transmissions to -Cambodia, China, Indonesia, 
Asian nations. 
that now has appeared in 10 Chinese authorities isolated humans have been from birds. Japan, Laos, Pakistan, South Asian nations. the area around the farm, in a The World Health Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and 
Vietnam reported Wednesday town called Dingdang. Some Organization said Tuesday there Vietnam. that two more people died as a 14,000 birds within a two-mile was a good chance of keeping As protective chicken slaugh­result of bird flu. bringing the radius were slaughtered, and the disease from taking root in ters increased, the World Health total number of deaths in the poultry for three miles around the human population. Dr. Klaus Organization warned workers to region to 10. Officials had had was quarantined, the govern­Stohr. the agency's project don protective clothing and earlier confirmed six deaths in ment said. leader for influenza surveil­masks. Bob Dietz, a WHO Victname and two in Thailand. "Local governments have lance, said he was encouraged spokesman in Hanoi, said it 
In Atlanta, the head of the made necessary measures of by the relatively small number "wouldn't be surprising" that 
U.S. Centers for Disease Control slaughter or quarantine to pre­of human cases, even though bird flu could travel across the and Prevention urged American vent a spread," the official the virus may have been circu­border into China. doctors to test patients with flu­Xinhua News Agency said. "No lating in birds for some time and China's openly aggressive like symptoms if they had people have been found infected humans have been exposed to it. campaign to combat the disease Still, there were contradictions recently been to areas with bird so far and the epidemic has "We have a window of oppor­starkly contrasts with the gov­in the government's account. flu outbreaks. been in control." tunity to deal with this disease," ernment's initial secretive While Xinhua said anti-flu 
Asian countries ravaged by What authorities don't know is said Stohr. "We have a good response to SARS. Severe acute efforts had been going on at the bird flu sent ministers to significant as well: how and chance of controlling this." respiratory syndrome killed 77 4 duck farm since Friday, Yan Bangkok for an emergency where the birds were infected. The head of the CDC, Dr. Julie people worldwide, including 349 Qibin, an official with the Food meeting Wednesday on how to Animal smuggling is common in Gerberding said anyone with people on the mainland, before Quarantine Bureau, said ke!lp the virus from becoming a Guangxi; last week, piglets spir­flu-like symptoms who has been retreating last June. Tuesday that his agency was global pandemic. The United ited in from Vietnam were to affected countries should be On Tuesday, after the con­investigating whether any ducks States and European Union also burned in their cages by quar­tested for the virus. firmed case of bird flu. had actually died there. sent representatives. antine officials. International "It appears to be very unlikely Agriculture Ministry spokesman Also Tuesday, other Chinese 
China's announcement also health officials also say they [that they would have the dis­Jia Youling vowed to "strength­quarantine officials said they created unease about the food believe the virus could be easel. but we want to be very en monitoring and increase would impose poultry bans on supply for Chinese still shaken spread by migratory birds. vigilant," Gerberding said. international cooperation to Pakistan and Indonesia, bring­by last year's SAHS outbreak. Xinhua also said reports of She also urged people who prevent further spread." WHO ing to eight the number of coun­Chicken is No. 2 only to pork as bird deaths in a "chicken-rais­travel to areas with outbreaks to spokesman Roy Wadia in Beijing tries whose bird products have a staple m!lat for China's 1.3 bil­ing household" in central Hubei stay away from poultry, live ani­said the Health Ministry had been banned from the region's lion people. Japan immediately province and a "duck-raising mal markets and any surfaces informed his agency. largest economy. 

Thi§ Week At Leeend§ 
Pre-uame: 
*Bebop &Rocksteadv liVe! 
*Win aPS2, DVDs, and Video 
Gaines counesv ol Media Plav 
*Door PRIZES and RAFFlESf!l 
Specials: 
*2 hot dogs lor $1 *Team-themed drinks 
Doors open 9:30pm 5111. II Tlllll. 
( t=I21[)A~ ) ( §U~[)[)A~ ) 

r-----------------~~~=---------------~~=--==~-------~~------------------------------~~-----------------------------.~------------~------~ 

page 12 

CONTACT Us 
1lr.c Oblef.V.i-di ru~~·~ ~:. ·.·. U~4 s.••• OioliRI Hotll ·.. '. No,.,o,;,., tlll~~%-om ~~·-"' ~pd...Nott< v..,.. 
-.md -addltiQb~ ..~ti~l:!~.~: 

THE 0BSER\'ER 






IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
Going for the extra point 
It would have been the perfect story. The headline would have read "McNabb Tells Rush to Hush." The opening lead would have begun, "If your definition of overrated is leading your team to the Super Bowl, than Donovan McNabb 
Joe Licandro
is guilty as charged." But the sports world does 
The Licandro 
not always have 
Non-Factor
happy endings. 
For the third straight year, the Philadelphia Eagles and their dynamic quarterback fell just short of reaching the Super Bowl in a devastating 17-3 NFC Championship loss to the upstart Carolina Panthers. In the post-game press conference, the downtrodden sig­nal caller -ever gracious in defeat ­refused to blame a blatant late hit in the first quarter that left his ribs bruised and battered for a sub-par performance and eventual removal from the game in the fourth quarter. 
Not to take anything away from the Panthers' decisive victory, but let's play the "what if' game. What if Carolina linebacker Greg Favors had not delivered a cheap shot to McNabb that left the quarterback writhing in pain? What if McNabb had a receiver with even aver­age speed? What if these receivers could actually catch the ball? Maybe the Eagles would be playing in the Super Bowl this Sunday instead of the Panthers. Maybe sports radio talk shows would not have been flooded with simple-minded callers this week claiming "Rush was right." And just maybe, McNabb would have silenced all of the doubt and the contro­versy that will unfairly haunt the rest of his career unless he wins a Super Bowl all because of some ignorant comments conservative talk show host Rush Limbaugh made on ESPN's NFL Countdown a few months ago. 
"Unless" is the operative word in the previous sentence, as opposed to "until," because there are no guarantees in sports. At age 27 and through only five years in the NFL, McNabb has a lot of football ahead of him. As far as quarter­backs go, he is just now entering the prime of his career, but he may never again reach the NFC Championship and have an opportunity to play for a berth in the Super Bowl. Unfortunately, no other quarterback -not even the great Peyton Manning, who carries on his shoulders the stigma that he cannot win the big game-will have to endure the same degree of scrutiny and skepticism as McNabb on the grueling quest toward a coveted Lombardi Trophy. 
We all remember a few months back when Limbaugh claimed that despite having lead Philadelphia to two consecu­tive NFC Championship games, McNabb was highly overrated and that his sparkling reputation on the field was undeserved. 
The mouth that refuses to quit went on to say that the "liberal left-winged" sports media had a hidden agenda to laud McNabb and other African­American quarterbacks even if their play on the field did not merit such high praise. 
Sadly, Limbaugh's co-hosts on the pop­ular pre-game show that included ex­NFL stars Tom Jackson, Michael Irving and Steve Young-all of whom seeming­ly would have more expertise on the game of football -remained silent, not offering a single word of protest to dis­pute the absurd accusations. In response to a storm of criticism, ESPN fired Limbaugh a few days later. The net­work's shameless efforts to bring in a polarizing news figure to drive up their television ratings had backfired. 
Whether or not one agreed with ESPN's decision to axe Limbaugh is real­ly beside the point. Limbaugh's com­ments were unquestionably dumb and downright insensitive, but the remarks in and of themselves do not make him a racist. He is certainly entitled to his own opinions, but this does not make him above any potential backlash for expressing them. The real lesson to be learned here is that ESPN never should have hired Limbaugh in the first 

place. He is a political pundit, 
Eagles might be in the Super not a football analyst. Bowl and McNabb might 
When I watch football, I 
do not want to hear 
Limbaugh, Chris 
Matthews or Bill 
O'Reilly. I want to 
hear John 
Madden, Dan Fouts or Troy 
Aikman. Of all the net­
works, ABC, as 
the parent 
company of 
ESPN, should 
have known better. Comedian 
Dennis Miller's 
biting wit and 
clever satire 
might be the 
best shtick going 
these days, but it 
has its time and 
its place. The 
broadcast booth on 
Monday Night 
Football alongside AI 
Michaels was not one of them. Dennis, I love ya 

babe. But come on now. The 
ient! average football fan had no Brady had every right to 
idea what the hell you were talking about. Your new show on CNBC is where you belong. 
Truth be told, Limbaugh had as much business being on ESPN as actor Sean Penn did traveling to Iraq a little over a year ago as a self-appointed American ambassador. When Penn returned home warning the American people if the United States went to war against Saddam Hussein that the blood would be on our hands, not the homicidal dicta­tor's, the actor deservedly had to suffer some consequences for his stupidity. Even some Hollywood big shots of all people found Madonna's ex-husband a little too extreme for their taste. Penn sued producer Steven Bing claiming he lost a role in the film "Why Men Shouldn't Marry" for his outspoken oppo­sition against the war in Iraq. Bing coun­tered claiming Penn was irresponsible and irrational. Really? 

Sean Penn is a critically acclaimed actor paid to entertain. not to make polit­ical commentaries and petty remarks about President Bush. "Mystic River" and his latest movie, "21 Grams," are, according to movie critics, two of the best movies from 2003. Each might haul in some Academy Awards this March, and Penn might even win the category for Best Actor. Perhaps it is my loss. but I am not going to see either of these movies any time soon. Why should I put money in this guy's pocket and hear him bash my country? For that matter, I will not be listening to Rush Limbaugh, either, after he carelessly sabotaged McNabb's career. 
Any football fan with even a passing interest (no pun intended) in the game knows that Donovan McNabb is one of the premiere players at his position. At 
this time a year from now, the 
find himself seated next to the First Lady at the State of the Union Address just like New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady. 
That Tom Brady ... he's so hot right now. It 
was quite a shrewd political move by the 
!J3tj.sh""~ · ..,1!
Admm1stratwn to invite America's No. 1 heartthrob with that cute little 
cleft in his chin to last Tuesday's speech. As itjust 
so happens. 
Brady plays foot­
ball in the histori­cally liberal state of Massachusetts where 
current Democratic frontrunner John Kerry hails from. How conven­

attend the event. and he has every right to campaign for the President's re­election. But if anyone votes for President Bush merely because Tom Brady says so, than this column fired a blank. 
If I were wagering, this would be my Super Bowl prediction -not that you should listen to me. Brady is just too cool under pressure. so I gotta go with the Patriots 24, Panthers 13. 
Jof! Licandro is a senior political sci­ence major. /lis column appears every other Wednesday: He can be contacted at jlicandr@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
.. News 


OBSERVER POLL
Arrnelie$e Woolford Meghanne 

Downes Should Saint Mary's continue to host the Kate Gales 
Keenan Review? 
Viewpoint Alyssa Brauweiler 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at
mustrator 

www.ndsmcobserver.com.
Katie Knorr 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'To confine our attention to terrestrial matters would be to limit the human spirit . ., 
Steven Hawking cosmologist 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 page 13 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Debating the merits of affirmative action 
Benefits are misdirected 
As someone who has worked as a tutor for the one of the SAT services Andrea de Vries men­tioned in her Jan. 27 letter, I was absolutely astounded by her claim that such services can be bought to improve scores by hundreds of points. I had never heard of that before. As a matter of fact, we routinely inform stu­dents. many of whom are des­perate for such a fantastic bounce, that such results are astronomically unlikely, and that it is far more realistic to expect an improvement of 50 points or less. There is no system I know which can take someone from a 1000 score to a 1500. I would like Andrea to provide some names, for otherwise it is pretty clear that she made the claim up herself. 
Aside from the SAT, however, I found it interesting how she avoided the other arguments altogether. Greg Parnell indicat­ed, in his Jan. 26 column, for instance, that poor whites per­form better academically than middle-class blacks (this is well­documented in the works of John Ogbu and Abigail Thernstrom), yet for Andrea it is all still just a matter of socioeconomic class. 
The issUI(of class, it seems to " me, is quite prone to exploita­tion. especially when discussing the black community. I live down the street from a massive subsi­dized housing project, inhabited solely by blacks (llispanics and others do not dare live there). lwrc in Annapolis. I suspect everyone there would be classi­fied as impoverished. by American standards. 
Yet, if you visited, you would sec lots of cell phones, cars with bizarre and costly modifications, very expensive footwear, extraordinary obesity and wide­spread usc of walkmans and cig­arettes. Empty beer and liquor bottles and potato-chip bags lie everywhere; drug arrests and shootings are almost weekly events. None of this suggests to me an inability to afford books, or tutors if needed. I doubt the projects of Annapolis are unique; 
If I could suggest reasons why children from these communities do so poorly in school and on standardized tests, it would not be because there is no money for them. As Parnell pointed out, immigrant children frequently excel with far less than these have. No, the reasons are more likely dysfunctional families, crime and total immersion in a crude pop culture wholly incom­patible with anything like responsibility or scholarship. Pumping 50 Cent into your ears all day will keep you from ever learning at all. 
Throwing money at the black community to assuage our feel­ings of guilt is what has created the culture of the projects, where so many blacks languish. To suggest that the solution is to throw even more money at it is ignorant and pathetic. Yes, those blacks are victims, but not vic­tims of racism. They are victims of patronizing whites who would rather exacerbate the problem and feel good about themselves than actuaUy face the problem and help solve it. 
By the way, research also shows that poor blacks are rarely the ones who benefit from affirmative action -sadly, none of the kids up the street are get­ting pulled into Harvard, I can guarantee. No, it is the middle­class black children who are outperformed by lower-class whites -these are the ones get­ting into the schools of their choice. Nor do I blame them-I would underperform too, if I knew I would be rewarded for it anyway. 
Patrick Duncan class of 200 I Jan. 27 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Minorities deserve to attend Notre Dame 
After reading Greg Parnell's Jan. 26 col­umn, I was disturbed by the images it por­trays of African-Americans. Parnell's myopic view of the race issue in America is as igno­rant as it is wrong. Yes, there are minorities enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities with lower scores than their white counter­parts. But there are also whites enrolled in 
U.S. colleges and universities with lower scores than their minority counterparts. Why did you not also single them out? What about alumni, athletes, females and Catholics? Please believe that MIT-caliber students have been denied admL>sion to this university, to admit Joe Quarterback and Sam Legacy. I do not see you protesting their presence. Then why protest mine? 
I am hurt by your comment that immi­grants "face even harsher disadvantages" than the ones African-Americans "claim" to face. By traveling to a foreign land, immi­grants should expect to have a difficult time adjusting·. This discomfort is purely a func­tion of displacement. Anyone who moves from his or her homeland to a foreign place is going to face certain barriers in order to survive in that new society. 
But we are not foreigners. We were born here, and yet there still exist barriers to our success. That is a problem. I agree with you that immigrants do not expect the country to conform to their ways and customs. They should not; they are foreigners. This is not their homeland. Yet what can be said for African-Americans? This country was built on the sweat and blood off our ancestors' brows. Yet we still cannot live without the impending threat of ignorant whites who are oblivious to their privilege demeaning our successes as handouts and our failures as a character of our blackness. 
Though their hands are no longer bound in chains, African-Americans still do not reap the benefits of what "being an American" means, even now, almost 500 years after that first slave ship left Africa. We are not clinging to the past, as you claim in your article. The past is clinging to us. We did not create the system of inequality that has per­meated the social landscape of this nation since its founding. Yet we have been adversely affected by it ever since. 
Affirmative action's goal is to rectify this imbalance. It does not, as you say, "lower the merit bar so that they [African-Americans) can compete." By law, as written in execu­tive orders and interpreted by the courts, to benefit from affirmative action, one must have relevant and valid job or educational qualifications. Therefore, affirmative action's goal in college admissions is to bring stu­dents who are both equipped academically and can contribute to the diversity of the campus. Each student has a gift to bring. Do not for one second think that you are more entitled to be here than any minority, simply based upon your high school scores. In the essence of diversity, minorities are a valued presence on college campuses because of first their intelligence and second their unique perspective. 
Lastly, you say "Racial minorities are not less qualified, talented or capable than the majority," but you end stating, "Minority groups can only advance after accepting that the means to progress is by increasing their own merit, not robbing it from others." You just contradicted yourself. If the merit is equally distributed among races, as you first claim, then there is nothing to be increased; there is nothing to be robbed. There is only that which ceases to be acknowledged. As a program, that is what affirmative action does. It acknowledges the value of minority groups in this nation that have historically been suppressed by the overwhelming white majority. 
I leave you with one last thought: I resent your claim that African-Americans are "agi­tating the system, demanding reparations and relying on pity in order to achieve." I am sure that there are students who applied to Notre Dame and had better scores than you, but were denied. Does that mean you got a handout? Then why, as an African­American, did I? If you think there are African-Americans on this campus that are unqualified to be here, I challenge you to talk to them. 
I know I would be more than happy to tell you why I deserve to be here. 
Rhea Boyd sophomore Lewis Hall Jan. 27 

White guilt pervades 
This letter is in regards to Greg Parnell's Jan. 26 column, "Acting out against affirmative action." Mr. Parnell should familiarize him­self with the notion of"white guilt" as coined by Stanford professor Shelby Steele. 
Due to the historical and cultural force of slavery and its dark aftermath (where just 40 years ago black men were still being hung from trees). we are forced to examine the painful truth of how entrenched we are in the race debate and how the hateful ghosts of our heritage continue to plague our institutions -universities included. 
In the age of white guilt, universities are compelled to prove that they are not racist by expounding statistical evidence that they admit a high percentage of minorities. Trying to prove what you are not is futile, but it is a consequence of our painful, segregated past. Neither genie lamps nor reparations will make up for the injustices thrust upon blacks in this country, but healthy, accurate and sensi­tive debate are fair starting grounds. 
Speaking from the privileged halls of one of the whitest campuses in the United States, Parnell abuses the thrust of Martin Luther King's message, compares affirmative action to professional basket­ball and offers no significant evidence that non-white immigrants are more succesful than blacks. Shame on The Observer for abusing the beauty of King's message by placing his image as the centerpiece of Mr. Parnell's insensitive article. 
Jeff Robinson 
Law studcnr Jan. 27 


THE 0BSER\'ER 





CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Cold mountain of emotions 
Photo courtesy of www.imdb.com Ada Monroe (Nicole Kidman) presents Inman (Jude Law) with a book and small portrait to remember her by as he prepares to leave for service In the Civil War. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Go on a date with Tad Hamilton 
Pete (Topher Grace) meets his competition (Josh Duhamel) for the heart of Rosalee Futch (Kate Bosworth) In the comedy "Win a Date with Tad Hamilton!" 
By JULIE HYNES 
Scene Movie Critic 
Win a Date with Tad Hamilton! 
starts out with. two solid minutes of quality alone time with half-naked stud muffin Josh Duhamel which is sure to quickly win over the female members of the audience. The rest of the movie is equally entertaining for both sexes, but one can not help spon­
taneously flashing back to those unforgettable initial moments throughout the remainder of the film. 
From Robert Luketic, who directed Legally Blonde, comes the feel-good romantic comedy Wzn a Date with Tad Hamilton!. Kate Bosworth of Blue Crush plays Rosalee Futch, a small town Piggly Wiggly cashier who hopes to someday meet famous Hollywood beefcake Tad Hamilton who is played by Josh Duhamel. Rosalee enters an online contest to win a dream date with hunky Tad, despite numerous sarcastic remarks supplied by her manager Pete and largely unfavorable odds. Topher Grace of "That '70s Show" is Pete, a highly regarded Piggly Wiggly manager who has been offered a great new job in the city, but needs to make known his long held secret feelings for Rosalee before he makes the move. 
Rosalee is the lucky winner of the online contest and flies out to 
Los Angeles for "Win a Date with doesn't want to 
her date with believe that some
Tad Hamilton!"

dreamy Tad. day he will feel Although the 
this way about a date starts out girl? with some awk­Profanity is a ward vomiting rarity in Win a and verbal stum­Date with Tad
Director: Robert Luketic Writer: Victor levin 

bling, Tad and Hamilton!. as are 
Starring: Kate Bosworth, Josh Duhamel,

Rosie have a sexual innuendos, 
Topher Grace and Ginnifer Goodwin

good conversa­so the film is defi­
tion during din­ner where Rosalee makes an insight­ful comment on the fast-paced life of a Hollywood actor, saying it is "just a recipe for an unsatisfying life." 
This "resonates" with Tad and he decides to spend some more time with Rosalee so that he can figure out how to find fulfillment in his life. Tad arrives at the Piggly Wiggly just as Pete is about to make his feelings known, and thus begins the love trian­gle which Win A Date revolves around. 
Deciding how things should play out in Win a Date is not as easy as in most chick flicks because Tad isn't the typi­cal shady hot guy. Audience members will be torn between sexy Tad and endearing Pete. Sean Hayes of "Will and Grace" has a supporting role, so "Will and Grace" fans should be sure to check out Win a Date. 
Everyone will get a kick out of this movie! While this movie is the ulti­mate chick flick. guys will be able to enjoy the movie as well because most of them will be able to identify in some way with Pete. What guy 
nitely an option if you are looking for a clean movie to take your younger sibling to a movie that he or she will also enjoy. You may even choose to see this movie with the parental units. 
This movie is really very touching. Audience members will be floating out of theatres with light hearts and a refreshing new outlook on daily life. perhaps giving that slightly dorky guy in your chemistry lab who keeps giv­ing you the eye a second look. 
Contact Julie Hynes at jhynesl@nd.edu 

By MICHAEL P. BARRETT Scene Movie Critic 
Too frequently, a great novel is con­torted on the silver screen to fit the desires of the Hollywood business. But that is not the case with Cold Mountain, a modern classic based on the 1997 bestselling novel by Charles Frazier (his first). Directed by Academy-Award win­ner Anthony Minghella (The English Patient, The Talented Mr. Ripley). the film has already garnered seven Academy Award nominations, including best actor and best actress. 
Although there are a couple minor characters and scenes left out in order to further develop the story, the movie stays true to the book's original inter­twining and heart­
wrenching plot. interesting

"Cold Mountain'!
Several actors with characters, many awards to 
ranging from their credit portray the dangerous characters with and deserter­stunning feeling, hunting Home 
Director: Anthony Minghella
adding to the film's Guard to 
Writer: Chartes Frazier
credibility: Jude Law, friendly
Starring: Jude Law, Nicole Kidman, Renee
Nicole Kidman, strangers who
Zellweger and Philip Seymour Hoffman
Renee Zellweger, help him along 
Donald Sutherland, and Natalie Portman top the impressive list. 
Set in the latter days of the Civil War, the story tells of a wounded Confederate soldier, Inman (Jude Law), who seeks to return to Cold Mountain, North Carolina to his love, Ada Monroe (Nicole Kidman), a young educated woman who is struggling to adjust to farm life after growing up in the city of Charleston. Although somewhat drawn out, the movie has flashbacks and parallels their lives as they both struggle with their personal journeys. Wounded and realiz­ing that he would soon go back to the front lines, Inman decides to desert and to make the long return to Cold Mountain, the place he sees as a para­dise after witnessing the horrors of war. 
During this time, Ada is taking care of her father, Reverend Monroe (Donald Sutherland), who had moved with her to Cold Mountain in hopes that the fresh air would help his tuberculosis. After his death, she is left on her own and begins her own adventure of sorts in trying to survive. It is at this time that a mountain girl named Ruby Thewes (Renee Zellweger) arrives at the Monroe farm to help Ada. 
While on his journey back, Inman 
meets several 
the way. This calls to mind "The Odyssey," and indeed there are striking similarities. One of the first persons he meets is Veasey (Philip Seymour Hoffman), a former town official who travels with Inman for a time. Later on, Inman meets Sara (Natalie Portman), a yoJ.lng widower and mother who longs for a man. Back in Cold Mountain, Ruby and Ada work together on the farm and are aided by Sally Swanger (Kathy Baker), but they encounter several hardships mostly caused by Teague (Ray Winstone), a bit­ter bounty hunter. Later they are joined by Ruby's father, Stobrod (Brendon Gleeson), with his band that features Georgia (Jack White of the White Stripes in his acting debut). The movie contin­ues in this alternating sequence, which adds to the uniqueness of the war and romance tale. 
As Inman nears Cold Mountain, he and Ada grow spiritually. together in. their hopes of the war's en<;i and their being together. This all -leads to an awakening conclusion that brings forth both tears and smiles. 
Cold Mountain is one of the best works of cinematography in recent memory and it is fitting that it is based on one of the most acclaimed modern novels. One may think of the story as a hybrid of Saving Private Ryan and Gone With The Wind because it exposes the bloody anguish and suffering of the Civil War while it discloses the longing for love and peace between individuals. It is a testament to the power of the human soul in the IlliQs~ of Imrds.Q_i.p.,. luJUidUHJ o·" 
Contact Michael P. Barrett at mbarret5@nd.edu 

courtesy www.i 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
1 Fish' a splash in storytelling 
Ed's stories are truly depicted as a By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
kind of modern fantasy. Using the reli­s~cnc Movie Critic ably dreamlike atmosphere of the South (ala 0 Brother. Where Art As llollywood and college students Thou?), the narrative takes the audi­alikP embark upon the stretch that ence through the adventures of a lwgins with Golden Globes propaganda young Edward (Ewan McGregor), as he in film advnrtismnents and ends in the tangles with a friendly giant (Matthew Oscar awards ceremony, there seems McGrory). becomes lost in the eerily to br. a division between the two kinds pleasant town of Spectre and commu­of films madn in the past year-name­nicates with Siamese Asian twins ly. '/'he lletum of the King, and every through an Asian-to-English dictionary. otlwr film. /Jig Fish. the latest project The clearness and quality of the colors from director Tim Burton. may not with which the film was shot will prob­stork up in special-effects arms against ably stand out the most to the viewer; l'der .Jackson's r.pic. but rather instills Spectre's bright green lawn sets the colorful. provocative scenery and tone for the action that takes place images to support a highly enjoyable there, while lavish and contrasting red narrative. colors make up Edward's stint at a car­The majority of the film is told in nival. The usage of color (as well as the flashbacks by the purposefully ailing Edward ludicrous infla­
"Big Fish"
Bloom (Albert tion behind the 
Photo counesy of www.1mdb.com 

Finney). Edward has 
circumstances 
A. young Edward Bloom (Ewan McGregor) finds himself In a predicament In one
always had a knack of Edward's for storytelling, even tales) aides the of his many adventures from the new dramatic fantasy film "Big Fish." 
if his stories seem plot, perhaps
Director: Tlm Burton
outrageously lavish even tricking in a smaller role, playing a close play from Daniel Wallace's novel) aims 
Writers: Daniel Wallace and John August
and incomprehensi­the audience at acquaintance to the young Edward. chiefly at the film's father-son relation­
Starring: Ewan McGregor, Albert Anney,
ble. II is personality times into sim-McGregor is also solid, but his ever­ship, and doesn't pull the trigger on
Billy Crudup, Jessica Lange, Alison Lohman
is so amiable that he ply admiring smiling, always optimistic outlook resolving its conflict until the viewer
and Helena Bonham Carter
has little trouble the sentimen-towards the problems he faces is frus-has seen the entire account presented connecting with peo-tality of the trating at times; sometimes it just by Edward. The subsequent conclusion ple -except for his single son, Will stories of the 'big fish'-when perhaps seems too obvious to the audience that may surprise some audience members, (Billy Crudup). who struggles with the we should be looking at the tales a lit-he's going to find a solution, regardless but it's satisfying in the long run. It belief that he has never known the kind tie more closely. of its obstacles, and there isn't any-knots up a colorful and immensely of person his father was really like. Finney is the most fun to watch, thing that truly challenges the kind of entertaining film, and it appears that Upon hearing of his father's undergo­which will come as no surprise. His character he is. the always-creative Burton has finally ing chemotherapy, Will returns to his Edward is allowed to play off the often This, however, is not a fundamental found his kind of Btory. parents' home, not only to console quizzlt'al 'l'ook~ 'his famHy-'a.rt'd fr!Mds ''"):)robl'em·ftir th'e· fi'lrrt; betause ·tt is'n 't them as Edward reaches the end of his often give him. For him, it's all part of the central thesis intended by the life. but to finally get the truth out of the game. Helena Bonham Carter also script. Burton (along with screenwriter Contact Brandon HoUihan at him as well. gives her usual solid acting job, albeit John August. who adapted the screen-bholliha@nd.cdu 
Lord of the Oscars: Trilogy finale gets 11 nods 

Auociatcd Press sy classic. Iranian immigrant fighting for 
Return of the King Jed last possession of a home in House 
weekend's Golden Globes with of Sand and Fog; Murray as a 
The Lord of the Rings: The four wins, including best dra­has-been actor shooting a com­lletum of the King. the final matic picture and director, and mercial in Japan in Lost in chapter in Peter Jackson's its broad critical and fan sup­Translation; and Penn as an majestic fantasy trilogy, led the port give the film the inside ex-hoodlum out for revenge Academy Awards race Tuesday track at the Oscars. over his daughter's death in with 11 nominations. including Besides Jackson and Master Mystic River. best picture and director. and Commander director Peter Nominees for lead actress 
The Napoleonic era naval Weir, the directing nominees included a surprise pick, adventure Master and included Sofia Coppola for Lost Keisha Castle-Hughes as a New Commander: The Far Side of in Translation, only the third Zealand girl who bucks tradi­the World was right behind woman ever nominated for tion to become leader of her with 10 nominations. among best director. The previous Maori tribe in Whale Rider. them best picture and director. nominees were Lina At 13, she's the youngest per­
Bill Murray, Diane Keaton, Wertmuller for 1976's Seven son ever to be nominated for Sean Penn and Charlize Beauties and Jane Campion for lead actress. the Academy said. Theron -all Golden Globe 1993's The Piano. Both lost. The film's distributor had been winners Sunday -were Coppola, the daughter of pushing her in the supporting among the leading acting nom­Francis Ford Coppola, also category. inees. The most notable snub earned an original-screenplay The other best actress nomi­came for the Civil War saga nomination for Lost in nees: Keaton as a down-on­Cold Mountain, which failed to Translation. love playwright unexpectedly get nominations for best pic­The other directing nomi­romanced by two men in ture, director Anthony nees: Clint Eastwood for Mystic Something's Cotta Give; Minghella or lead actress River and a surprise choice, Theron as real-life serial killer Nicole Kidman. Fernando Meirelles for the Aileen Wuornos in Monster; 
Other best-picture nominees Brazilian film City ofGod. Samantha Morton as an Irish !'or the 76th annual Oscars Cold Mountain did get seven immigrant mother in In includ1~d l.ost in Translation, nominations -among them, America; and Naomi Watts as a about two lonely Americans in best actor for Jude Law as a grieving wife and mother seek­Tokyo; the brooding murder Confederate deserter making ing vengeance in 21 Grams. thriller Mystic /liver; and the his way home to his sweetheart Contenders for supporting horse-racing drama Seabiscuit. and best actress for Renee actor were Alec Baldwin as a 
Along with best picture and Zellweger for her role as a no­sleazy casino owner in The director. the nominations l'or nonsense Confederate woman. Cooler; Benicio Del Toro as an !ietum of the King included Along with Law. the actor ex-con whose effort to go original score and song, visual nominees were Johnny Depp as straight ends in tragedy in 21 
76TH ANNUAL ACADEMY AWARDS 
'The Lord of the Rings' reigns 
"The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King." led the Academy Awards race Tuesday with 11 nominations. including best picture and director. 
Picture Director "Lost in Translation" Sofia Coppola, 'Lost in "Master and Commander: Clint Eastwood. "Mystic River" The Far Side of the Peter Jackson, "The Lord of the Wortd" Rings: The Return of the King" "Mystic River" Fernando Meirelles, "City of God" ··seabiscuit" Peter Weir, "Master and "The Lord of the Rings: Commander: The Far Side of the The Return ot the King" World" · 
Actress Supporting Actress i<eisha Castle-Hughes. Shohreh Aghdashloo, "Whale Rider' "House of Sand and Fog" Diane Keaton, Patricia Clarkson, ~$omethlng's Gotla Give• "Pieces ofApril" ·Samantha Morton, Marcia Gay Harden, "In America'' "Mystic River'' Chartize Theron, "Monster" Holly Hunter, 'thirteen" NaomiWatts, "21 Grams• Renee Zellweger. 'Cold Mountain" 
Actor . Supporting Actor .Johnny Depp, ;,Pirates of the Alec Baldwin, "The Cooler" ,_...-J<-... c:~ribtl!ffln: The Curse of1tte..... Djimon HQunsou. "111 Am.etlca" . 
Robbins, "My$1.ic River" >< t,,i::t>'//f/'••i B•3rlicio· DelToro; 

niTects, film editing and adapt­a wiiy buccaneer in Pirates of Grams; Djimon Hounsou as a a man tormented by childhood tling Western influences among ed screenplay for the script the Caribbean: The Curse ofthe standoffish artist dying of AIDS abuse in Mystic River; and Ken his countrymen in The Last based on J.H.H. Tolkien's fanta-Black Pearl; Ben Kingsley as an in In America; Tim Robbins as Watanabe as a samurai bat-Samurai. 
~----­
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
NBA 
New Jersey's Frank off to good start, Nets crush 76ers 
Associated Press a rise out of what was left of the crowd. 
PHILADELPHIA -Richard The basket gave Jefferson 30 Jefferson and the New Jersey points. but left him one-point Nets made Lawrence Frank's shy of his season high. first game as interim coach a The Nets are 23-20, but have success. won two straight games and 
Jefferson scored 30 points to hold first place in the Atlantic lead the Nets to a victory over Division as its only above-.500 the Philadelphia 76ers on team. Tuesday night. 
Frank, the 33-year-old former Suns 89, Hawks 85 assistant promoted to interim Shawn Marion scored 18 of coach after Byron Scott was his 22 points in the second half fired Monday, paced the sideline and the Phoenix Suns snapped
---
down to midcourt, flapped his a three-game losing streak with arms and shouted direction the an victory over the Atlanta entire game, but he had had lit­Hawks on Tuesday night. tle to worry about. The Hawks, coming off a 91­
Jason Kidd, whose mid­82 victory at Detroit on Sunday, December screaming match have not won consecutive with Scott weakened the games this season. coach's standing in the locker Joe Johnson added 20 points room, had 13 points and 10 for the Suns, Casey Jacobsen assists. had 13, and Howard Eisley 
Kenyon Martin also scored 13 scored all of his seven points in points. the final 3:15. Stephen Jackson 
The Nets opened on a 26-6 led the Hawks with 19 points, run, getting easy alley-oops, and Shareef Abdur-Rahim and reverse layups and fast-break Theo Ratliff each had 16 points. dunks off 11 first-quarter With the score tied at 67, turnovers by the Sixers. Kidd, Jacobsen scored on a layup Martin and Jefferson combined with 6:58 to go to give the Suns for 22 points in the quarter. the lead for good, although 
The Sixers had four straight Atlanta got within two points on turnovers late in the first quar­several occasions. ter, including two straight steals Leading 75-73, Phoenix got in the backcourt by Kerry two free throws from Eisley Kittles. with 3:15 remaining. After a point total. quarter put San Antonio ahead the Bulls, who have dropped 
The Nets had 17 assists on dunk by Marion made it 79-73, Duncan had 30 points and 19 47-39, and the Knicks didn't their last 21 road games against their 18 first-half field goals. Eisley connected on a 3-pointer rebounds but did little in the catch up until Michael Doleac Western Conference teams. Philadelphia matched a sea­with 1:50 left and then added fourth quarter, failing to score hit a jumper with 8:47 remain­They began a seven-game trip son-high with 23 turnovers. two free throws 23 seconds until 1:01 remained. By then, ing in the fourth quarter to with their fifth straight loss 
The Sixers played without later. however, Ward, Tony Parker make it 57-57. away from home. Allen Iverson, who was still Marion made two free throws and Manu Ginobili had hit Ward, a member of the The Clippers have beaten bothered by a right index finger with 10.3 seconds left to give enough timely shots to. put the Knicks for 9 1/2 seasons who Chicago. seven ·straight times.··
·-· 
sprain. Even Iverson and his the Suns an 87-83 lead. Spurs comfortably ahead. was sent to Phoenix in the only the fomth time they have NBA-leading 27.2 points would The Suns, who trailed 42-36 Ginobili, starting his second Stephan Marbury trade, then had that long a streak against not have helped against the at the half, rallied in the third straight game with Hedo broke the tie with a 3-pointer. one team during their 20 sea­Nets. period. Turkoglu sidelined, had 14 A three-point play by Ginobili sons in Los Angeles. They had 
The Sixers missed their first Marion scored 11 of his points points, seven rebounds, six was followed by a 12-foot cor­winning streaks of 11 against six shots of the game, 10 in a 22-4 run capped by assists and three steals. ner jumper by Bowen from an Dallas, 10 against Minnesota straight over the first and sec­Jacobsen's basket for a 60-50 Parker added 10 points for angle behind the backboard to and eight against Denver. ond quarters and shot 29 per­lead with 3:55 left in the third. the Spurs, who won despite put the Spurs ahead 65-59 with Robinson, who missed the last cent in the first half. Marion, the Suns' leading having almost as many 5:39 left. two games with a strained 
The Philadelphia boo birds scorer and rebounder, had only turnovers (26) as field goals The Knicks got no closer than groin, made three outside came out early and often in one four points in the opening half, (27). four the rest of the way and jumpers in the first two minutes the smallest crowds of the sea­going 1-of-8 from the field. He Stephan Marbury had 19 were booed offthe court at the of the fourth quarter as the son. was 7 -of-11 in the second half. points and eight assists for the end. Bulls kept chipping away at a 
The Nets capitalized on the Knicks, who got little produc­19-point deficit. poor shooting, fast-breaking Spurs 77, Knlcks 67 tion from anyone else. Allan Clippers 102, Bulls 92 A 3-pointer by Rick Brunson and dunking their way to a 56-Charlie Ward returned to Houston, flustered by Bruce Corey Maggette scored 28 brought them to 90-78 with 7 35 halftime lead. Madison Square Garden and Bowen's defense, shot 2-for-13 points and Elton Brand had 20 112 minutes remaining but 
Willie Green led the Sixers put the Spurs ahead for good on and committed six turnovers. points and 11 rebounds to lead would get no closer than 10 with 20 points and Eric Snow a 3-pointer early in the fourth Keith Van Horn scored five the Los Angeles Clippers past after a 3-pointer by Los had 13. quarter, and San Antonio avoid­points in just 18 minutes. Chicago Tuesday night, the sev­Angeles' Chris Jeffries made it 
Jefferson scored 10 points in ed another tight finish in a vic­The game was a turnover-fest enth Joss in eight games for the 98-88 with 1:31left. the third quarter -sinking two tory Tuesday night over New early, with San Antonio commit­Bulls. The Clippers Jed 51-43 at 3-point attempts -when the York. ting nine and New York seven in It was the Clippers' second halftime after opening the game N'ets shot 58 percent from the After losing two straight close a first quarter that ended with wire-to-wire victory this season. with a 20-8 run. fi~ld and stretched their lead to games-one on a buzzer-beat­the Knicks head 17-12. The other was Dec. 15 at home, Corie Blount grabbed eight ~~-er, the other on a dunk by Tim Both teams had more when they beat New Orleans rebounds in the second quarter 
Jefferson was the lone Nets' Duncan that didn't beat the turnovers than field goals at 109-80. to help Chicago close the gap to starter left in the game midway buzzer in Milwaukee on halftime, and San Antonio led Eddie Robinson came off the four with a minute left in the through the fourth quarter, and Monday night, the Spurs con­38-35 behind 21 points and bench to score 17 and Marcus half, but Quentin Richardson completed a high-flying alley­trolled the fourth quarter and eight rebounds from Duncan. Fizer scored eight of his 10 and Maggette responded with oop down the right side that got held the Knicks to a season-low A 9-2 run early in the third points in the fourth quarter for 3-pointers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 0 min 4 bedroom house. AC, garage, 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CUBS: Completely Useless By from Univ. All App. Pool great location, ample space, nego-CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM September 
NOTICES Lbw taxes FoR SALE liable rent. Contact Mike 216-408-mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525 less than rent 0780 or Matt 216-408-4744 if inter-Only a few more weeks before 574-299-4997 TOP GUN SELLING The six selling ested pitchers and catchers report 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! systems that are used by virtually 
PERSONAL

Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! everybusiness in American and LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION-Any more handouts and I just might S&H calculated. WANTED Europe. Reference STU ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF NO lose it www.bookhq.com 466:Student Special: $49.97 IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
includes the full Selling System 2773097 not go it alone. If you or someone He said get big ... FREE MONEY Between the Buns Avon/Mark Prospecting, Account Management you love needs restaurant is oHering clubs and 50/40% Earnings and Closing.www.sales-job-train-New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2-confidential support or assistance, Hey Dan and Ed: Taylor's waiting organizations the Call Karen ing.com car garage, fireplace, sky lights, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, opportunity to earn free money. 1-866-780-28661ndependent Sales close to campus $1640 monthly, call CSC,at Break out the waterguns Hold a 'Kickback" night at the Rep. 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 1-7819. For more information, see "Buns" and FoR RENT our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV-Bigger evil: underage binge drink-receive a 15% donation from what Babysitter wanted. 2 kids. Tue & B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to ER. ing or free cable? is spent that evening. Call Phil for Thurs 1-4 pm. Call Susan. 3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email more details. 247-9293 271-9634 MO.,FURN.272-6306 domercondo@ yahoo.com Get ready for D. Walk And of course, Muck Fishigan 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, January 28, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
-
Indiana tops Purdue, remains atop Big Ten 
Associated Pre.. fall with his left arm, then struggled since the start of writhed in pain before being league play. In the last five
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -A.J. 
helped to the bench and eventu­games, he averaged just 11.8
Moye scored 15 points and 
ally into the locker room. points and even started oneHoderick Wilmont added all six Purdue took a 45-43 lead on contest on the bench. 
of his points on a pair of 3s in 
Austin Parkinson's third 3-His shooting was especially
the final minute Tuesday night, 
pointer of the season with 11:23 abysmal -15-of-49 from the
leading Indiana to a 63-58 
to go and the teams traded field, 30.6 percent. From out­ups1!t of No. 21 Purdue. 
leads until the final minute side the 3-point line, he wasThe Hoosiers (11-6, 5-1) beat when Wilmont made back-to­only 7 -of-24 (29 percent). 
a ranked team for the first time 
hack 3s. That all changed against
this season. They remained 
Coach Gene Keady is now 1-5 Clemson. He finished one pointatop the Big Ten standings by 
against Indiana since Mike shy of the school record for
beating the rival Boilermakers 
Davis took over the Hoosiers in points in an ACC game, a 37­at home for the fourth straight 2000-01. point effort by Dennis Scott intime. 
1990. Still, it was the highest­
Purdue (14-5, 4-2) dropped 
scoring game by an ACC player
out of a first-place tie with Georgia Tech 76, Clemson 69 
this season, surpassing 30 by
Indiana and Wisconsin, which So much for B.J. Elder's 
Florida State's Tim Pickett in an
plays Wednesday night at Ohio slump. 
upset of North Carolina. 
State. The Boilermakers were Elder scored a career-high 36 
Elder carried the Yellow
led by Kenneth Lowe who had points to lead No. 14 Georgia 
Jackets in the first half, scoring 
13 points despite not playing ·Tech to a victory over Clemson 
18 of his team's 22 points in one
the last 15 minutes because of on Tuesday night, hardly 
stretch. He finished off that
an injured left elbow. resembling the guy who was Wilmont was the surprise shooting less than 31 percent in spurt with a three-point play, putting Georgia Tech ahead to
star. I lis 3-pointer with 58 sec­Atlantic Coast Conference games. stay at 24-21 with 7:35 remain­onds left gave Indiana a 59-55 
lead. After David Teague The Yellow Jackets (16-3, 4-2 ing in the period. answered with a 3 for Purdue, ACC) bounced back from a Appropriately, Elder finished Wilmont hit a 3 from the corner weekend loss at North Carolina off the half with a dunk, giving 
to make it 62-58 and seal the State, handing Clemson (8-10, the Yellow Jackets a 40-34 lead. victory. 1-6) its fourth straight defeat. After Clemson closed to 53-49 
Moye did the rest-hitting Elder had 20 points in the with just under 11 minutes left, shots, diving for loose balls, first half and surpassed his pre­Elder took over again. He lighting for rebounds and giving vious career best of 25 with scored 12 straight points for the 
poor shooting (3 5. 5 percent) each other's eyes and knew wehis teammates the dose of ener­nearly 10 minutes remaining. Yellow Jackets, capped off by a 
By the end, he had the most and 19 turnovers, which led to needed to get this road victory." 
gy they needed against a 3-pointer that pushed the lead 
Purdue defense that entered the points by a Georgia Tech player to 65-51 -Georgia Tech's 22 points for Georgia Tech. Alabama (11-6, 3-3) overtook game ranked second in the Big since James Forrest scored 36 largest lead of the night. Mercer 73, Georgia State 55 Florida briefly on Kennedy 
Ten. against Maryland in 1994. The Mercer Bears inaugurat­Winston's 3-pointer off a nice
The Tigers chipped away at 
Elder connected on 12 of 20 pump fake with 6:48 left for a
And the Hoosiers survived ed a new arena Tuesday night
the margin, getting as close as 
72-71 lead.

despite shooting 37.9 percent in shots from the field, including with a upset victory over
six points. 
the second half and having the six 3-pointers. Atlantic Sun Conference rival Then, Roberson hit a basket 
But Georgia Tech sealed the 
and a free throw, and it was

conference's No. 2 scorer, lie wound up with nearly half Georgia State, ending the
victory at the foul line in the 
Lee's turn again.

Br.Afil\¥1 "Y~igp~.~JlW4, ~9. j~;>L1Q J of.R~orgia Tech~ points; ,Marvin Pan.thers' seven-game winning
final minutes. Lee hit two free throws after
points-half his average. Lewis, with 11, was the only streak. 
Shawan Robinson led rebounding Matt Walsh's miss
Lowe was hurt on a driving teammate in double figures. Delmar Wilson scored 18 layup in tho midst of a 7-0 run Elder was one of the reasons Clemson with 21 points, and points to lead Mercer (8-12, 5-6 from the line and added a bank 
that got the Boilermakers with­Georgia Tech got off to a school­Sharrod Ford added 19. But A-Sun) before 2,850 in the new shot. 
The pair combined for 15

in 41-38. He tried to brace his record 12-0 start, but he had the Tigers couldn't overcome University Center Arena. 

Saint Mats Colleg~
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
The Nation~ PFemHKCo~~.thollc Wom~·s Collf4f}6 
31st ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 

1

Comses offered in His1:ory, In:ter:n.at:ional Business, Educat:ion, and Social Work. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint l\1ary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (574) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc(a!.saintmarys.cdu Fax: European Summer Study Program (574) 284-4866 
Georgia State (13-5, 8-3) lost for straight points for the Gators, just the second time in the past who had no problem scoring 10 games, sho.oting just 35 per­against a team giving up a cent (23-of-65) and 17 percent league-best 59 points in SEC from 3-point range. play. Alabama had won 11 in a 
The Bears also used 23-of-32 row at home. free throws to advantage as "We played with so much Panthers starters Nate Williams toughness and heart and energy 
and Herman Favors fouled out. and we just came up a little bit GSU shot just 5-of-1 0 from the short," Tide coach Mark charity stripe. Gottfried said. "We were play­
Mercer, which led just 32-31 ing as hard as we could. at halftime, grew a one-point "We didn't make as many lead at 40-39 with 15:10 to play plays as we needed to late in 
into an eight-point lead as the game. We just didn't make Williams exited with a fourth them at key times and they foul at 12:17. 
did." Georgia State battled back to Antoine Pettway hit two free 50-44 with 6:00 left when 
throws to cut it back to 80-76, Mercer ran off 11 unanswered 
but Hoberson answered with his points. final 3-pointer. The Panthers did not have a 
Lee was 8-of-12 from both the field and the free throw line

player in double figures. Trello Galloway and Lamont Mcintosh and had four offensive 
-
rebounds. On the perimeter,

scored nine, and Williams had Hoberson repeatedly confound­
eight in 20 minutes on the 
ed the Tide defenders. 

court. 
"He was coming off screensJames Odoms added 14 points and making open shots," saidfor Mercer. 

Pettway, who had 12 points. "Every open shot he got, he

Florida 88, Alabama 78 
made. It came back to haunt usWith Anthony Roberson firing 

at the end." 

away from outside and David Walsh added 13 points for the
Lee hammering away on the Gators, who committed only
inside, No. 22 Florida withstood seven turnovers.
every challenge from Alabama. 
Winston hit five second-halfHoberson made six 3-pointers 3-pointers, including three in a

and scored 26 points and Lee matched his career scoring high row to bring Alabama back 
with 24 in a victory Tuesday from a 13-point deficit in the night. opening minutes. 
The Gators (13-4, 4-2 He finished with 25 points, 21 Southeastern Conference) held after halftime. Alabama to four points in the Gottfried wasn't even sure final 6:31 and their two stars Winston would be able to play seemed to take turns hitting the until shortly before the game big, rally-ending shot. because of a sore knee. 
"We pulled together," said Florida coach Billy Donovan Hoberson, who made 3-of-6 3-praised the shots Winston made pointers in each half and had with the shot clock winding five assists. "We looked into down. 

Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
page 18 The Observer ~ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Dear Students: 
' 
' I ' 
I I I ~­
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
' 
I I -­
1 
I 
' 
' 
I I I I I 
' 
I 
t 
I ··­
~ 
I 
I I 
' 
I I 
' 
I I I I 
' ­
' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I I 
' I 
I 
I' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
I want to thank you for an incredible performance Sunday during our KentUcky game. You were great through­out the entire game and really gave us a 
chance to win. You truly are the 6th Man. 
We need you now more than ever to help keep the energy level up in the Joyce Center for the rest of the season, starting tonight with our game against Miami. You can see the effect your cheering has on the rest of the crowd, as well as our team. I really appreciate all that you do for us and look forward to another great month in the Joyce Center, working together to get some key conference wins. 
Thanks again and Go Irish! 
Coach Brey 
.. a.-... -•. ,.._·-... • • --­

Wednesday January 28, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
-

O'Brien resigns

O'Neal to return to action today 
Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -Shaquille O'Neal went through a light practice Tuesday and might play in the Los Angeles Lakers' next game after missing the last 12. 
"I feel pretty good. We didn't really run that long," O'Neal said. "Hopefully, I can play tomorrow. If not, hopefully I can play Friday night. I'm a little winded. I can still do damage out there." 
The Lakers (26-15) host Seattle on Wednesday and Minnesota on Friday. 
Karl Malone, meanwhile, isn't expected to return until after the All-Star break, so he will probably miss another nine games with a right knee injury. 
O'Neal has been sidelined since straining his right calf Jan. 2 in the second quarter of a 111-109loss at Seattle. 
lie missed two games in late November because of a similar injury. 

O'Neal was examined Tuesday morning by a team doctor and cleared to practice. 
"We had to kind of twist the doctor's arm to get him out here to run full-court," Lakers coach Phil Jackson said .. 
"He looked fine -he was light on his feet. We didn't run too hard. 
"He's moving fine. He's pretty 

as Celtics coach 
Associated Press Assistant coach John Carroll will take over for the 
WALTHAM, Mass. -Jim rest of the season, Ainge said. O'Brien quit as coach of the Another assistant coach, Dick Boston Celtics on Tuesday, Harter, was let go. after half a season under new Ainge said that he took a boss Danny Ainge. more long-term view of build­
Ainge said O'Brien told him ing the team, while O'Brien he wanted to resign at a was more concerned with meeting short-term 
Tuesday morn-results. ing, one of "Jim did not their regularly "He was not sure see that long­scheduled sit­term vision that I
he's the man for 
downs to dis­saw," said Ainge,
that job." 

cuss "philo­who took over as sophical differ­the team's direc­much in a position where he 
ences" on run­Wyc Grousbeck tor of basketball ning the team. operations dur­can play. We'll have to see what 

team owner
"The philo­

tomorrow brings." 
sophical differ-

O'Neal will see the doctor 
ences, I

again before the Lakers' 
thought, were much smaller

shootaround Wednesday. 
than Jim thought," said

He plans to play if the doctor 
Ainge, who announced

clears him, saying, "The true 
O'Brien's departure at a news

test is in the morning." 
conference at the team's

The Lakers are 5-7 during 
practice facility. 

O'Neal's absence. 

PEOPLE ALWAYS TALK ABOUT IT, BUT NOTHING SEEMS TO CHANGE... 



Sustained Dialogue 
Are you ready to change_ the culture at Notre Dame? 
Information Session: 
Wednesday, January 28 Thursday, January 29 7-Spm at Coleman Morse 
For More Information contact: 
Kickoff Retreat: 
Saturday, Febuary 7 2-spm at Coleman Morse 
Tessa Garcia: tgarciat@nd.edu or Eve Thomas: ethomas@nd.edu Sponsored by Student Government 
ing last season's 
playoffs. 
Ainge, who 
appeared at the news confer­
ence with one of the team's 
owners, Wyc Grousbeck, was 
also trying to add more 
offense to the team, while 
O'Brien had always placed a 
heavy emphasis on defense. 
"He was not sure he's the 
man for that job ... he didn't 
want to take our money and 
our time under false pretens­
es," Grousbeck said. 
Ainge, who said he was 
surprised by O'Brien's deci­
sion, also said he had had dif­
ferences with O'Brien over 
whether to play some of the 
older players on the team. 
"We felt that there was a 
ceiling on the success of the 
old players ... so we did not 
always agree on the players 
who should be on the court," 
Ainge said. 

-
A call placed to O'Brien's 
agent, Lonnie Cooper, wasn't 
immediately returned. 
The Celtics are 22-24 after 
reaching the playoffs the past 
two seasons. 
O'Brien's resignation came one day after Byron Scott was fired as coach of the New Jersey Nets, the only team ahead of Boston in the Atlantic Division. 
The Celtics lost five of their 
last seven games, including a 
110-91 setback at New Jersey 
on Sunday. Boston trailed by 
17 at halftime and sank just 
36 percent of its shots for the 
game. In those last five loss­
es, star Paul Pierce, who has­
n't gotten much offensive 
help, made just 27 percent of 
his shots. 
Since being hired, Ainge has made numerous changes, trading Antoine Walker to Dallas before the season and Eric Williams and Tony Battie to Cleveland on Dec. 15. The first deal deprived the Celtics of a second scoring threat to go along with Pierce. The second took away two veter­an leaders and keys to O'Brien's defense-oriented approach. 
Ainge, hired May 9, gave O'Brien a two-year contract extension running through the 2005-06 season. Before granting the extension, how­ever, Ainge met with O'Brien and considered potential replacements among current college coaches, pro assis­tants, retired players and for­mer NBA coaches. 
O'Brien became coach when Rick Pitino resigned in January 2001. He took the Celtics to the Eastern Conference fmals in 2002 and the conference semifinals in 2003. 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
-NHL 
Thrashers' winger Heatley returns tonight 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Dany Heatley's quick return to the ice couldn't come at a better time for the Atlanta Thrashers. 
The star right wing plans to play Wednesday night for the first time since surviving a car wreck in September that killed teammate Dan Snyder and left Heatley with serious injuries. 
His scheduled return against St. Louis at home will cap a recovery from two torn knee lig­aments and a 
"It's nice to help, but at the same time, that has no bearing on whether I was ready to play or I wasn't ready to play." Heatley said. "It's going to be fun to get going in the middle of a playoff run." 
Coach Bob Hartley and Heatley decided on the move after practice Tuesday. Heatley skated for the first time follow­ing surgery on Dec. 23, then joined his teammates in a pregame skate about 10 days 
ago. 
"I've seen Dany 
skate lots of miles 

broken jaw. He ''There's going to out there, and had surgery in be some rust, but I we've put him 
October to repair through full-con­
feel like rm ready
the anterior cru­tact drills and
to go.,,
ciate and medial practice," Hartley collateral liga­said. "There's ments in his right absolutely no pain.
Dany Heatley
knee. 
"I met with the doctors Saturday for about the 17th time about his status," Thrashers general manager Don Waddell said Tuesday. "They assured us he was 100 percent." 
After leading the Southeast Division for much of the season, Atlanta has dropped to second place, six points behind Tampa Bay. The Thrashers were tied for ninth in the Eastern Conference with the New York Rangers entering play Tuesday night, four points behind the eighth and final playoff spot. 
[Wednesday] night 
or two months 

from now won't make his knee any stronger." 
Heatley was charged with vehicular homicide after Snyder died from head injuries. Test results showed Heatley con­sumed a small amount of alco­hol before the crash, with his blood alcohol content less than 
0.015 percent, below Georgia's legal limit of 0.08 percent. 
Because Heatley wasn't drunk and Snyder's relatives said they forgave him, prosecutors could decide the crash was an acci­dent, with no need to pursue 
felony charges. which carry sentences from three to 15 years. 
The case remains under investigation and a final deci­sion on charges has not been made, Erik Friedly, a spokesman for the Fulton County district attorney, said Tuesday. · 
Heatley hasn't played since the season finale last season, a 6-2 victory over the Lightning. He had two goals and an assist in that one. 
''I'm coming into this like a regular game last year," Heatley said. "I want to play. There's going to be some rust, but I feel like I'm ready to go." 
"It's been a long time. I'm anxious to get out there." 
The Thrashers won't work Heatley in slowly. He'll resume his spot on one of the top lines and log a Jot of ice time. 
Heatley was the MVP of last year's All-Star game and fin­ished as the ninth-leading scor­er in the NHL with 89 points. In 2002, he was the NHL Rookie of the Year. 
"There's no doubt when you have a player of his stature on the bench, he's going to play," Waddell said. "He's not a player that's going to play 10 minutes a game. Once you put him _back on the bench, the coach is going to play him as he normally would." 
That his return came so 

quickly seems very surprising. Other players in different sports generally miss an entire season after similar injuries, and Waddell initially expected Heatley to miss four to six months. But Heatley started his rehab three days after surgery and beat every timetable throughout. 


Wednesday, January 28, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Tribe's Tadano sorry for gay pornography 


Auociated Press 
CLEVElAND -Indians minor lt~aguer Kazuhito Tadano is asking for forgiveness for what he called a one-time mistake ­his appearance in a gay porn video in which he engaged in a homosexual act. 
Tadano took part in the video three years ago when he was a college student. Sitting in the Chweland clubhouse Tuesday, the pitcher said he hoped to put his actions in the past. 
"All of us have made mistakes in our lives," Tadano said, read­ing a statement in English. "I lopefully, you learn from them and move on." 
Shunned by Japanese base­ball teams. the 23-year-old Tadano signed with the Indians last March. They think he can make their club this spring. 
Tadano gave few details about the video. which he made after his sophomore year at Hikkyo University. 
"I did participate in a video and I regret it very much," he said. "It was a one-time inci­dent that showed bad judgment and will never be repeated. I was young, playing baseball, and going to college and my mature and had really thought about the implications of what I did, it never would have hap­pened." 
teammates  and  I  needed  
money.  
"Frankly,  if I were  more  

Through an interpreter, Tadano added: ''I'm not gay. I'd like to clear that fact up right now." 
Tadano's admission will cer­tainly draw attention to homo­sexuality in baseball, a sensitive issue that most players prefer to not even discuss. 
In 2002, All-Star catcher Mike Piazza felt the need to hold a press conference to profess his heterosexuality after a newspa­per gossip columnist suggested that one of the New York Mets' top players was gay. 
There are no op~nly gay play­ers in the llig leagues today. The same is true in the NFL, NHL and NBA. 
Tadano was one of Japan's top college pitchers and expect­ed to be a high first-round pick in 2002. But after a Japanese tabloid published photos of him in the video a month before the draft, pro teams in Japan did not select him. 
"The commissioner of Japanese baseball came out and said, 'You will not draft Tadano,'" asserted the pitcher's agent. Alan Nero. "But this kid didn't assault anybody. He did­n't commit murder." 

WOMEN'5 AUSTRALIA OPEN -
Clijsters earns semis spot 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Kim Clijsters aggravated an ankle injury in her Australian Open quarterfinal victory over Anastasia Myskina on Wednesday, leaving the sec­ond-seeded Belgian star ques­tionable for the semifinals. 
Clijsters, a semifinalist in all four majors last season but still without a Grand Slam title, beat Myskina 6-2, 7-6 (9) to set up a semifinal match against Patty Schnyder of Switzerland. 
Schnyde~ seeded 22nd, advanced to her first Grand Slam semifinal with a 7-5 (2), 6-3 victory over Lisa Raymond. 
Clijsters lost the first four games of the second set against Myskina and needed a medical timeout for her left ankle after holding in the fifth. 
"I'll have to see how it reacts," Clijsters said. 
''I'm going to have a week off after this anyway, so I might as well go for it and give myself a shot. But, on the other hand, if I can't walk tomorrow, it's stupid to go out there." 
Clijsters won five of the next six games after getting court­side treatment in the second set and had two match points on the sixth-seeded Myskina's serve in the 12th before the Russian held to force a tiebreaker. 
Clijsters had three more match points in the tiebreaker and saved two set points before the match in 90 min­utes when Myskina's back­hand shot drifted wide. 
Clijsters, who injured her left ankle at the Hopman Cup and was sidelined for two weeks leading into the tourna­ment, said she'd ice her ankle, 

-
take painkillers and get the area taped before deciding in the morning if she can play in the semifinal Thursday. 
In the other semifinal, top­ranked Justine Henin­Hardenne will face Colombia's Fabiola Zuluaga, seeded 32nd. 
Henin-Hardenne and Clijsters met in two all-Belgian Grand Slam finals last season, with Henin-Hardenne winning in the French and U.S. Opens. 


What does the Bible have to say Join us. as we continue our alJout unity arnong beU~vers in discussion and prayer 
_...
Jesus? ~ .. , around Christian unity . lnrerfaltll Chrlsuan lliUhl Prarer 1 Wednesda1s 1·111:011 11.11. 1 Coleman-Morse Lououe 
-
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 

MEN'5 AUSTRALIA OPEN 
-. 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Andy Roddick was gone by the time the crowd began serenad­ing Marat Safin with "Happy Birthday." 
Roddick smashed his racket and headed off the court, losing his shot at an Australian Open title and his No. 1 ranking, too. 
He was beaten 2-6, 6-3, 7-5, 6-7 (0), 6-4 Tuesday by Satin in the quarterfinals, falling to a player ranked 86th who limped and winced, called for the train­er and needed a painkiller to make it through the match. 
But Satin delivered an unmis­takable statement on his 24th birthday: He is back on his game after upsetting the reign­ing U.S. Open champion. 
"People think of Marat and they think of temperamental," Roddick said. 
"He is all those things, but at the same time when it comes down to it, he wants to win and he's competitive." 
The Russian's performance was not lost on the stadium crowd, which admired his grit and heart and was in full voice after a victory that sent Safin into the semifinals against Andre Agassi. 
"I can't ask for anything else," said Satin, the 2000 U.S. Open champion. "It's probably the best birthday I ever had, espe­cially when 15,000 people are singing." 
Agassi, the defending champi­on, practically had the day off. He advanced when ninth-seeded Sebastien Grosjean retired after 10 games with a recurring groin strain. Agassi was leading 6-2, 2-0. 
On the women's side, No. 32 Fabiola Zuluaga of Colombia had it even easier. No. 4 Amelie Mauresmo, the 1999 Australian Open runner-up, forfeited to Zuluago because of an injured back muscle. · 
She was in tears after hitting for 10 minutes and deciding she injured left wrist. There was some question if he would ever return to tennis' elite. 
On Tuesday, he appeared in trouble early as Roddick zipped through the first set in 26 min­utes. 
In the second set, Safin clutched his upper left leg after halfheartedly chasing a passing shot in the opening game. 
Satin was getting just half his 
first serves into 
play and won only 
couldn't play, once on 11 second
"/ didn't think 
missing a chance serves. for a first Grand about stopping. " "I was just as Slam tournament confused as any­title. one," Roddick said. 
Marat Satin 
She will rise to "You know, I was 
tennis player 
a career-high No. thinking he was 3 when the next quick to call the rankings are trainer. He was released. stretching a lot in 
Zuluaga will meet top-ranked that one game. Then I guess he Justine Henin-Hardenne, who just decided he was going to beat fifth-seeded Lindsay play through it, you know, and Davenport 7-5, 6-3. Henin­suck it up." Hardenne, the only woman left Coming back from the medical in the tournament who has won timeout, Satin was a new man. a major, improved to 2-5 against He raised his winning first-serve Davenport, including 2-for-2 at percentage to 82. the last two Australian Opens. He had winners eight of the 
Roddick was the first of the nine times he went to the net, reigning Grand Slam champs putting Roddick off his baseline among the men to exit the tour­game. nament. "I didn't think about stop­
Wimbledon champion Roger ping," said Satin, who said his Federer and French Open strained groin was bothering champ Juan Carlos Ferrero now him at the start. will compete for the No. 1 rank­"Then just when I was return­ing. ing the serves, I pulled a little 
Federer, seeded second, faces bit," he said. "Then I took some David Nalbandian on painkillers, and that's it." Wednesday in the quarterfinals, Roddick couldn't tell how bad and Ferrero plays Hicham Safin was hurting, but he sus­Arazi. pects the timeout helped. 
Satin was the 2002 Australian "Maybe that relaxed him, Open runner-up, but he missed maybe that let him play a little most of last year because of an bit more carefree because he started hitting the ball great," he said. "He was a lot better than me for that second and third set." 

Safin broke Roddick in the ninth game of the deciding set and then faced two break points serving for the match. 
He saved one with an ace, Roddick dumped a return into the net, and Safin finished things off with an overhead. 
"The most important thing is: I'm back," Satin said. 
Satin has spent more than 15 hours on court and disposed of four Americans in five matches -Brian Vahaly, Todd Martin, James Blake and Roddick. 
Agassi hasn't dropped a set and is on a 26-match winning streak at Melbourne Park that started with his second title in 2000. 
With Grosjean's default, Agassi gets extra rest for Satin. Still, he was not happy about the way he advanced. 
THE.CAREERCENTER 248 Flaliner Hall www~careercenter.mLedu 

.. Up and Coming Employer Presentations: 
Location 

...·.:·:.:. 
1120/04 
DeBartolo Hall 7-9 p.m. 
1/20/04 l\forgan Stanley Stadium Room, University Clqb 6-8 p.m. 
1/21/04 Kell~g-(CFO will be here) Lower Level, CCE 5-6 p.m. 
1122/04 Citigroop ND Room, Morris lnn 6:30-8 p.m. 
1/26/04 
Room 112, CCE 7-8 p.m. 1/28/04 KPNJG..Take aBteak.-O~iJ House Room 210, CCE 


.l/03/04 t~ach for AmtrlC..CNN Screening< DeBartolo Hall 7•9p.m. 2/04/04 
Aluntni Room, Morris Inn 6-9 p.m. -2/U/04 ·-····Solin Room, .LaFortune 6-7p.m. 
...·· Roonrll2,-Mendoza 6:30-8 p.m. 

: ::···::;_ '_\:::::·:.::· ·. 
Check The Career Center website daily for additional companies that are coming to campus and to sign up for iilterviews. 

Wednesday, January 28, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 

Brady not fazed by the spotlight 
-
Smart to the Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
-
HOUSTON -The XFL's bold­est name is playing well on the NFL's biggest stage. 
The media magnet? He Hate Me, of course. 
The obscure running back with the unforgettable monick­er is making the Super Bowl his biggest marketing coup. Rod Smart's mischievous, stub­bled face was one of the most photographed Tuesday on media day. 
He was hoping something like this could happen three years ago when, in a moment of inspiration, he made a name for himself and became the symbol of an anti-establish­ment league. 
"The name helped," Smart readily acknowledged. "Would you guys be here today if I did­
n't have the name? Let's face league, the one with the black­Feb. 4, 2001, beating the New it." and-red ball and pro wrestling York/New Jersey Ilitmen 19-0 As Hod Smart, he's just a showmanship. The XFL was in front of 30,389 fans. Carolina Panther kick returner. For the league, it was down­
looking for players. Smart was As He Hate Me, he's an icon for looking for a paycheck. hill from there. Smart was just those.who love the brashness getting started. 
"At first, I really thought that of a cellphof!e celebration and withVince McMahon, wrestling Before the second game, he the theatrics of a World decided to adopt the equivalent 
was going to be involved," Wrestling Federation match. Smart said. "That would have of a stage name. No one drafted him out of been fun, but there would have He thought about how a Western Kentucky, leaving him been a lot of injuries. I would­defender might feel as he ran n't mind jumping off the top
to beg for an NFL job. San past him. Diego gave him a chance and He Hate Me.
rope, though." got rid of him after three The 357th player taken in It was on the back of his 
weeks. Even the Edmonton the XFL draft, Smart got black, red and gold uniform for Eskimos cut him. $45,000 for its first and last the second game. It became an 1\vo leagues, two rejections. season. overnight hit, the best-selling 
Along came promoter Vince His Las Vegas Outlaws played jersey in the league's one-year McMahon's Xtremely different the league's inaugural game on existence. 


Associated Preas 
HOUSTON -Tom Brady sidestepped questions about his love life, his politics and the Carolina Panthers. 
But he couldn't get away from "Pick Boy." 
Wearing an orange cape and green tighl'i, the pseudo super­hero quizzed Brady on such issues as helmet hair and why football players often pat each other on their backsides. The Patriots' quarterback answered whimsically before turning his attention back to football. 
But only for a moment. Then it was back to his picks in the New Hampshire primary. 
"After today, it gets more normal. Then you get ready and prepare to play," Brady said from his perch at Reliant Stadium, where on Sunday he will try to lead New England to its second NFL title in three years. "After today, things will start settling down a little bit." 
But first: media day, the Super Bowl's spectacle of silli­ness held on the Tuesday before the championship game on the field where it will be played. Although the event always draws more than its share of actual sports reporters. it's the others who make it unlike any other news conference in sports. 
Brady's sudden success and boyish good looks made him a superstar in Boston. 
"You know. he's got it. He's got the charisma and the fatal charm, but he is a great leader, too," linebacker Ted Johnson said. "He gets it done at work, and that's the main thing: He comes to work." 
And he's pretty good once he gets there. 
Brady is 34-12 in the regular season as a starter -the best winning percentage of any active quarterback. 
He is an unblemished 7-0 in overtime games and 5-0 in the playoffs. 
He has led the Patriots to vic­tory 14 times when they were losing or tied after the start of the fourth quarter. 
"I think we're fortunate to have him, for what he does on the field and the respect he has in the locker room," Patriots owner Robert Kraft said .."He's clean-cut, and every female I know would like to have a connection with him. With all his notoriety and foot­ball skills, he's a star who doesn't want to be a star." 
That's one thing Brady hasn't been able to control. 
"You want to go to the movies. You want to have fun. You want to run around like 
Looking To Intern Or Teach This Summer? 
Spend your summer in London, PolancL Ireland, Chile, and moref 
-
Sponsored by the Student International Qusi~ess. Council www.nd.edu/-sibc 
. . -..."'~1.~ .. ,~"';~~ #' .................................... . 





-OUND THE NATION 
page 24 Cn\1PILED FROM THE OBSERVERs WIRE SERViCES Wednesday, January 28, 2004 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL North Carolina State at North Carolina 
7 p.m., ESPN 

-
NHL 
Philadelphia at Florida 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Chicago at Denver 9 p.m., FOX Sports Net Sacramento at Houston 9 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS Australian Open 9:30p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Associated Press sibility with our team," everything is going to be after the game he was 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Pitino said in a statement fine." going to take a leave and Louisville coach Rick Pitino Tuesday. "It is not a can­Holy Cross coach Ralph put Kevin in charge of the might rejoin his team by cer-related or life-threat­Willard, Kevin's father and team. this weekend after treat­ening matter." one of Pitino's best friends, Ralph Willard said his 
Assistant coach Kevin said Pitino has been com­28-year-old son was reluc­
ment Tuesday for an undisclosed condition that Willard is leading the team plaining about the worsen­tant to embrace the sud­has caused him pain for in Pitino's absence. The ing discomfort for the past den opportunity. months. No. 4 Cardinals (15-1) month. "Kevin loves Rick. He's 
Pitino, 51, said Monday have home games against "I told him, 'Get it done. like a second father to he was taking an indefinite Houston on Wednesday You have to get to the bot­him, as well as being his leave of absence to deter­and Marquette on tom of this before it mentor as a coach," mine the cause of the Saturday. becomes debilitating,"' Willard said. "Rick being "urological-related" pain "Right now as a team, said Ralph Willard, who ill is something nobody in his left side. our main worry is coach talks to Pitino daily. wants. It was more a mat­
He arrived at the Pitino," Willard said "That's what concerned ter of holding down the Cleveland Clinic Iate Tuesday night, after telling me." fort and keeping things Tuesday morning for a the team that Pitino might The Cardinals beat together and praying he'll battery of tests. be back as soon as this Tennessee 65-62 in be back." 
"I hope to be back weekend. Knoxville on Sunday for "It's more of a challenge coaching by this weekend "We know he's going to their 15th consecutive vic­taking over for Rick and resuming full respon-come back healthy and tory. Pitino told Willard Pitino," Kevin Willard said. 

IN BRIEF 

Capitals owner apologizes derisive chant directed toward the sidelined four-to-six weeks. 
WASHINGTON -Washington owner during the game and held a The Dodgers also announced they Capitals owner Ted Leonsis apolo­sign that read: "Caps Hockey; AOL had signed pitcher Jose Lima and gized to a fan who accused him of Stock-See a Pattern?" infielder Jose Hernandez to minor grabbing his neck and throwing him Hammer said he did not intend to league contracts. to the ground after a game. press charges. Cora was injured sliding into sec­
Capitals spokesman Kurt Kehl con­"I think both he and I are going to ond base trying to break up a double firmed Tuesday that Leonsis -who drop it and continue on and have it play Sunday while playing for is a vice chairman of America Online be like that," he told the newspaper. Caguas, Los Angeles spokesman -called-Jason Hammer, a 20-year­Leonsis, 48, has a reputation as John Olguin said Tuesday. old season-ticket holder who had one of the more fan-friendly chief The Dodgers report to spring train­taunted the owner. executives in professional sports. He ing Feb. 18 in Vero Beach, Fla. 
"He's embarrassed. He regrets the often can be seen personally greeting The 28-year-old Cora played in a incident happened," Kehl said. "He spectators at Capitals home games career-high 148 games last season, 
reached out to the fan." and he answers fans' e-mails. hitting .249 with four homers and a 
Hammer told The Washington Post Sunday's game was the team's first career-high 34 RBis. He played in that Leonsis placed his hands on his at home since it traded star forward 115 games in 2002, hitting a career­neck and tossed him down after the Jaromir Jagr to the New York best .291 with five homers and 28 Capitals' home loss to Philadelphia Rangers. The Capitals have lan­RBls. on Sunday. guished at the bottom of the NHL Cora has a .241 average in 546 big 
"The security guards came and standings this season. league games, all with the Dodgers. broke it up and pulled me away to Lima, 31, was 8-3 in 14 starts for the side," Hammer said. "But Ted Dodgers Cora breaks hand the Kansas City Royals last season, was still trying to come at me again." LOS ANGELES -Dodgers second winning his first seven decisions and 
Other witnesses offered different baseman Alex Cora broke his right earning AL pitcher of the month hon­versions to the Post. arm playing in the Puerto Rican win­ors for July when he was 5-0 with a Hammer told the Post he led a ter league and was expected to be 1.44 ERA in five starts. 
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 


\tJnat would you say if. ... tWere your LAST LECTURE1 





Professor Walshe 
Political Science Dept 
Topic: God Made Me Democratic Socialist 

Wednesday, Jan. 28th 
8:00 pm At Keough Hall 
Sponsored by Student Government and Keough Hall 
Canes 
continued from page 28 
Irish forward Jordan Cornette said. "We had a good practice Lon Tuesday]. We met at 7 a.m. [Tuesday] morning, went over some stuff and made sure every­one was alert and ready for the game [tonight]. 
"It starts in practice, you have to be intense during stretching all the way through until the free throws that conclude practice," he said. "If you can do that for the hour, hour and a half. two hours in practice, then 
-
-
which avP.rages 75.2 points per game, good for third in the Big East. One player who has really improved this year is guard Robert Hite. The 6-foot-2 sopho­more leads Miami with an aver­age of 17.3 points per game and is second in the Big East in shooting at 56.1 percent. lie is the only Hurricane to score in double figures in every game this year. 
Combine Bite with preseason all-Big East first-team selection Darius Rice and the Hurricanes are a formidable offensive threat. They will provide the Irish defense with a major test -a test 

you can do that in "[Miami] is equally that will require 40 minutes in a a full 40-minutc
as big, ifnot bigger,

game." effort.
than the UK game. " 

The Irish need "It's going to to win games at be a test for our home like tonight's Jordan Cornette defense and how contest against strong we are
Irish forward 

Miami to stay in the upper echelon of the conference. Five teams currently sit at 3-2 in the Big East, and three other teams only have one loss. 
With two of those five teams playing tonight at the Joyce Center, the importance of this game is bigger than it appears on the surface. 
"To be honest. it's equally as big, if not bigger than the UK game," Cornette said. "In terms of getting to 4-2 in the Big East and staying on the top tier in the league, in terms of making a quest and stride for the Big East Championship. I think it's a huge game to get to 4-2 and not move back to .500." 
The Irish will be tested tonight by the Hurricanes' offense, 
and if we can 
get the stops we 
need to get," Cornette said. "They arc going to come to the gut every time and crash the boards. We need to prove we arc strong defensively and strong rebounding wise. 
"Their kind of style is going to make us play for 40 minutes because they are run-and-gun," he said. "They get up and down the court. Their big guys run. Their guards move. They are a guard-oriented team and they are very talented. 
"If you don't give it to them for 40 minutes, they can nip you in the butt." 
Contact Matt Lozar at miozar@nd.edu 


Happy 21st to our favorite photopollerl 
love, Seth. Juan. Michael and Katherine 

Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
-

Wo01en 
continued from page 28 
offensive attack. 
"We have to defend, rebound 
and stop their transition,"

-

McGraw said. 

Leading the way for the Irish has b e e n Jacqueline Batteast 
(15.6 points, 8 4 rebounds per game). and Megan Duffy (11.1 points, 4.7 
assists per game). Batteast has stepped up her play in Big East games, as she averages 17.2 points and 9.8 rebounds in those contests. 
But the Irish have only won two road games this season, and Miami presents a significant obstacle, as they are undefeated at home. The Irish must defend well if they want to win, but it will be more than a challenge. 
"We don't matchup well with them in man-to-man, and I don't know if we do in zone either," McGraw said. 
However, after two straight wins, the first coming on the 

"We have to defend, rebound and stop their transition. " 
Muffet McGraw Irish head coach 
road at Syracuse and the second over Villanova, Notre Dame hopes they can contin­ue their winning ways. 
"We're confi­dent," McGraw said. "We feel like we're able to win on the 
road. The Syracuse game has given us that confidence." Tip-off is 7 p.m. at Miami's Convocation Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Senior Le'Tanla Severe drives to the basket against Wisconsin. 

Baker 
continued from page 28 
one, 175 pound cornerback, because they will take a chance on any remaining prospects who could possibly help turn a struggling program around. 
It was obvious over the last few weeks that Tyrone Willingham and Notre Dame wanted Baker, but it is even more obvious that Baker wants Notre Dame. 
"The school was a great fit for me," Baker said. "There are great people on the team. I like the players. I like the atmos­phere. I like the overall demeanor of the people [on campus]." 
Baker hails from Bishop Chatard High School. where he played with present Notre Dame freshman baseball player and pitcher Mike Dury, a for­mer quarterback. 
Baker said Tuesday night that he is looking forward to attend­ing Notre Dame, in particular because of the leadership he will have. 
"Coach [Tyrone] Willingham is a very positive person," Baker said. "He's going to push me to be the best studenVath­lete I can be." 
Baker's concern with academ­ics definitely had something to do with his commitment to the Irish. though the high school senior's main concern is still football. 
"I know I have a lot of work to do," he said. 'Til have the chal­lenge of playing with such great players, and I'll have to com­pete. It'll be a lot of fun, com­peting against and playing with guys like [Justin] Tuck and [Victor] Abiamiri." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 28, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
ALICE, IF I FAIL TO ~ BLOW THE WHI5TLE ON ! OUR PRODUCT'5 5AFETY ~ PROBLEM, I WILL BE j LIKE A MURDERER! j 

fiVES 
~ NO, TECHNICALLY YOU'D ~ BE MORE LIKE A KILLER, :t 
YOU WU55. ! 

i 
I 
~ ~ 
g 
I 

SCOTT ADAMS 

MY GUT5 FEEL LIKE YOU HAVE I SWAL _ TOTALLY 
LOWED A 5UCKED 5QUIRREL. THE FLAVOR 
OUT OFI THI5 5CONE. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Notre Dame students prepare for Spring Break... 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

-

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold ond Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form tour ordinary words. 
REMEG 

I I I 
C2004 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. Ajl Rights Reserved 
YORAF 
I I 
lu 
AMLAMM 

rJ 
1 

www.jumble.com 
DRATOW 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

(IJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
rn (IIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: FEWER RAVEN CABANA ADMIREYesterday's Answer: 
His family looked on proudly because the baker was their-"BREADWINNER" 

WILLSHORTZ EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Sushi option 59 With 41-Across, 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Alan Aida, Barbi Benton, Susan

location of the
1 Way out West? 34 Length unit in 
Howard, Nick Price 
Jirst successful6 Expert, maybe, Lyon 
25-Across Happy Birthday: Your inquisitive mind will lead you down all sons of new
on the I.R.S. 
35 One with a ring: 60 "Oh my heav· avenues this year. You will be open to suggestions and quite willing to add your 
code 
Abbr. thoughts and ideas to any project you gel involved in. You will find
ens!"
9 Head cover the success you're looking for as long as you don't try to take on more than you36 Craft wood 61 Tee's predeces­can handle. Your growing need for excitement may take you off the beaten
14 Early venture 
sor track. Your numbers: 4, 6, 15, 23, 33, 42 
38 Rocker Nugent 62 Like some tree 
for the 
21·Acrosses 
39 Flat hat ARIES (March 21-April 19): Rearrange, reorganize and re-evaluate. Quiet
trunks
16 Court site, with time is in order. After all, you must rest up in order to have the energy to make
40 Once in a blue

"The" your dreams, hopes and wishes a reality. **** moon TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is not the day to stir up trouble at work. No
DOWN17 Not eager 

one will be prepared to put up with discord. Take a break and look into
41 See 59-Across 

1 Lively, especial·
18 Like a saw's necessary changes concerning your personal paper. *** edge 45 Historical divi· ly for one's age GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get-togethers should be planned in advance. sions 2 Corner 
Don't hesitate to invite friends over for some fun. You need mental stimulation.

19 "Indubitably" 
Pick your friends carefully and you'll learn a lot from them. *** 20 Bonehead 46 Bibliographic 3 Afflicts CANCER (June 21-July 22): Visit someone who has been stuck inside due to abbr. 4 African grazer health problems. You can make favorable changes in your home or just get 
21 Name associal· 
things back in order. *** 

ed with 25· and 47 Year of the 5 Series ender: 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can stabilize your personal life if you are willing

59-Across 21-Acrosses' Abbr. 
to make a solid commitment or make legitimate promises to your lover. Maners 22 Review a first 25-Across 6 Pure as the relating to work will be lucrative for you. **** review, say 50"_ Maria" driven snow VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get prepared to work hard. You should get involved in the projects youngsters in the family are having a problem with.
24 Deserve 7 Bridge: Lat.
51 Key letter Travel will be most interesting. *** 25 Famous Dec. 17 8 Pertinent LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may have put on a couple of unwanted pounds. 
54 "Home

venture for the Get physical if you wish to be comfortable about the way you look. You have
9 Children's writer 
21-Acrosses the discipline to quit bad habits or over-indulgences. *** 
55 Christmas deco­
L Smith 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may tend to hold back where your30 Thin porridges ration site 10 Compassionate 30 Clock standard: 40 Jaffrey of the 50 #2, famously emotional feelings are concerned. You can't solve problems if you don't face the 31 Newt-born? 58 Skin cosmetic 11 Wide-eyed Abbr. Jaffrey Ballet issues. ** 
51 Stew veggies SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful not to start a family feud. Some
33 Assign, as 42 Checked, with
12 Late-afternoon members of your clan may not be receptive to your opinions. Gossip will only
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE traffic, e.g. responsibility "in" 52 Cuts down create more problems. *• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Although it will be difficult to get time
13 Podiatry matters 35 PC alternatives 43 Judges, e.g. 53 Black 
alone with your mate, your passionate desires will make you detcnnined to do 36 "Road" film des· 44 Small fasteners so. Don't be hesitant to rent a nice room at your local hotel. 4 stars
55 Squeeze (out)
native tination 47 "G'day, _!" AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You love company, especially if they can 56 Court site provide you with stimulating conversation. Love affairs can develop if you
21 Disney, for one 37 Gobi-like 48 Thick-soled 
socialize with friends. **** 

shoe
22 Water carrier 39 King Bhumibol 57 Fraternity PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your health may suffer if you have been Adulyadej, e.g. 49"_ Lisa" letter somewhat overindulgent over the past few months. Take care of yourself and 
23 Remove, to a 
your family. *** 

typesetter 
For answers, call 1·900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a Birthday Baby: Bright-eyed and eager to try anything that's new and promises 25 Fix just right credit card, 1·800-814-5554. you a thrill, you're a fun-loving child who is prepared to suffer the consequences in order to experience something new. You're innovative, trendy 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday26 Best 
and full of unique ideas that will baffle the people you encounter throughout life. 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
27 Body layer Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com

28 Euripides play past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 29 Induction motor Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, inventor nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
.... 

Name---------------------­
Address _____________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip_______ 
-----· --... ------.. --.. -------.----.... ---------·--.. -------------......... -----.. -___.,._-----.... --------------.. -.. ..--_.,..____ ·------------.. --------·-----­
-----~ 

THE OBSERVER 



PORTS
Wednesday, January 28, 2004 
page 28 
Blizzards and now Hurricanes 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Miami visits Joyce Center tonight 
By MATT LOZAR Associale Sports Edi1or 

Irish coach Mike Brey knew back in September that the schedule would be difficult. He anticipated his team would have to bounce back at least once this season from a game like Sunday's loss to Kentucky. 
But right now, the Irish can't focus on getting a win against one of the top teams in the country, but they can take care of business in games they should win -especially with a 9-6 record. 
Tonight against Miami (13-6, 3-2 in the Big East) is one of those games. 
"We can't talk about another ranked team, we have to be ready to play Miami," Brey said. "Our group has been pretty resilient. I've said that from day one. And they are going to have to con­tinue to be resilient. That could be a theme for us, how they have to bounce back." 
After another frustrating loss Sunday, the Irish talked about carrying over their second-half effort against the Wildcats into tonight's game against the Hurricanes. tice. 
Brey said he didn't have any ideas for At this point, the Irish are willing to try getting the Irish to play at the top of their anything. game for 40 minutes at home, so he fig­"I don't think you can really talk about ured maybe an early-morning team so much as put it into action in practice," meeting would keep this team focused around the clock, and not just at prac-see CANES/page 25 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big East road games momentous 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Spons Wri1er  
Anytime a Big East team plays a con­ 
ference game on the road, it's almost  
guaranteed to be a battle. Tonight's  
game is no different for the Irish, as  
they travel to face conference leader  
No. 18 Miami (16-1, 5-1 in the Big  
East).  
"At this point, every game is a big  
game for us," Irish coach Muffet  
McGraw said.  
The Irish (11-7, 4-2), come off a big  
home victory over Villanova 38-36, a  
win that was key i·n the Big East.  
Villanova knocked off Miami Jan. 7 at  
Villanova 58-55. But the Hurricanes will  
be ready for the Irish.  
"Miami is a great team, extremely  
athletic, and they have two really good  
players Tamara James and Chanivia  
Broussard," McGraw said.  
CHIP MARKSfThe ObserverJames (16.3 points, 4.8 rebounds per Center Jacqueline Batteast leads the 
game) and Broussard (14.2 points, 6.5 Irish with :1.5.6 points per game.  
rebounds) are among four Hurricanes  
averaging in double figures. They are  
joined by Yalonda McCormick (13.2  Notre Dame, Miami scored 80 points en  
points. 5.1 assists per game) and  route to a 80-70 victory over the then­ 
Shaquana Wilkins (11.8 points, 7. 9  No. 16 Irish Jan 11 at the Joyce Center.  
rebounds).  So if the Irish want revenge, they  
These four players are a main reason  must stop the high-powered Miami  
why the Hurricanes average 75.3 points  
per game. In last year's matchup with  see WOMEN/page 26  

SMC BASKETBALL 

Weather forces postponement 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Spor!S Wriler 
Saint Mary's was supposed to travel to Albion Tuesday night for an MIAA league game, but Mother Nature seemed to have other plans. 
Albion College, located in Albion, Mich., was hit with the same snowstorm seen in South Bend, and the match­up between Saint Mary's and Albion was cancelled. A game that was supposed to tip off at 7p.m. Tuesday night will now take place tonight at 5:30pm. 
The Belles, who found out about the cancellation this morning, were not all that surprised. 
"We kinda figured," junior Emily Creachbaum said. 
The Belles used the post­poned game to their advan­tage, practicing Tuesday evening to better prepare for the Albion squad (14-4) who earlier this year defeated the Belles 51-40 on Saint Mary's home court. 
"We worked on the press break," Creachbaum said. "We got some shots up." 
Nothing about the cancella­tion changed the Belles' atti­tude going into tomorrow night. The Belles are still coming off a solid win against Tri-State. They will look to continue to play the good basketball that has been characteristic of late. 
"We have to play our game and finish our shots," Creachbaum said. "We have been working hard, [but we haven't been] winning." 
The Belles are looking to change that tonight and gath­er some momentum to finish out the rest of the season. Back to back wins would be something the Belles have not seen since Dec. 12 and Dec. 5 when they defeated Andrews and Illinois College. The Belles looked dominant in those wins, beating Andrews 72-26 and Illinois College 82­67. 

"I think if we get a win [against] Albion, our confi­dence will go up," Creachbaum said. "I know we can beat these teams." 
This positive attitude will be important if the Belles are to escape with an upset win tomorrow night. Albion has been tough all season, espe­cially at home where they are 
7-1. Saint Mary's,  on  the  
other hand, is 2-6  on  the  
road.  

Coming off a 26-point, 10­rebound game against Tri­State, Creachbaum's contin­ued solid play will be impor­tant for the Belles. This, com­bined with a minimum amount of turnovers, could spell an upset road win for Saint Mary's. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at bgriffin@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Baker joins Irish, as does Ferrine 
By PAT LEONARD 
Spons Wri ler 
A week remains and the slow-starting Irish are crawl­ing their way to Feb. 4 player by player. 
Defensive end Ryan Baker from Indianapolis gave a ver­bal commitment to the Irish Sunday night, though the announcement was kept under the radar. Confirming the beliefs of ESPN recruiting ana­lyst Tom Lemming, cornerback Leo Ferrine from New Jersey committed Sunday, as well. 
Notre Dame has sixteen commitments with a week remaining before signing day, but not many of the players are in the top tier of heavily recruited players. Baker is also not in the top tier, but he is as close as any remaining player the Irish will find. 

Oklahoma, Michigan, Boston College and Purdue were all after the 6-foot-6, 225 pound strongside defensive end, rated 11th at his position on Rivals100.com. It was down to Notre Dame and Purdue after Baker's official visit to South Bend on Jan. 16, and the Boilermakers had an advan­tage in that they had shown more interest. 
"Notre Dame wasn't after Baker as early or often as Purdue," Irish Insider colum­nist Mike Frank said. "(Baker's decision] was a matter of ask­ing 'how much do they want 
?'"

me. The Irish wanted Baker and players like Ferrine, a 6-foot~ 
see BAKER/ page 26 
en 
-
NFL 
TENNIS 

MlB 
NCAA BBAll
NHl 
NBA 
w 
Satin defeats 
Indiana 63

Heatley returns to 
Celtics' O'Brien 

Player apolo~izes
S~er Bowl
1--u z X VIII 
Roddick 

the ice 
resigns 
Purdue 58

for gorn 'mis ake' 
A leveland Indians' 
The Boston head 

The Hoosiers upset
Thrashers' right wing 
a: ::5 

The Panthers' Rod 
Martin Safin beat the 

minor leaguer apolo-
Dany Heatley returns 
coach relinquished 

the Boilermakers in
~

C) Smart and the Patriots' 
No. 1 player in the 

gized Tuesday for his 
for the first time since a 
Bloomington, Ind.
charge of a 22-24 team.

< Tom Brady deal with 
world in Andy Roddick 

appearance in a gay 
tragic car accident in 
Tuesday night. 

the media and hype. 
at the Australian Open. 

porn. 
September.
a. =: 

page 23
en 
page 22 
page 21 
page 20 
page 19 

page 17 




