
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 82 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2004 COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members debate change~ 
Constitutional changes create new councils 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writ<r 
Student leaders from the Council of Hepresentatives met Monday evening to dis­cuss issues related to the pro­posed student union constitu­tion and student body presi­dent Jeremy Lao's upcoming report to the University's 

Campus ATMs shutdo-wn 
By WILL PUCKETT NcwsWrit<r 
Studcnl'i reported several inci­dents of malfunctioning ATM machines on campus over the Super Bowl weekend, reporting they were unable to withdraw money from them. 
The malfunctions were report­t!tl to have occurred in Beckers, LaFortune and North Dining Hall, primarily on Saturday, although the exact extent of the malfunc­tions is unknown. 
These problems were not part of a planned outage. nor were they part of a system-wide prob­lem, said to Wade Yoder, vice president and chief information officer at the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
"The outages were just a set of coincidences, since we don't schedule maintenance on the weekends, and we received no notice that there was a larger out­age," Yoder said. 
According to Siegfried freshman Matt Brannon. the malfunctions were a large inconvenience. 
"I just wanted to get my money out, and I couldn't, which really 
see ATM/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group discuss.es campus diversity issues 
that The Observer has taken 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
actions that counter the devel­
Associate News Editor 
opment of a positive attitude 
toward diversity on campus, 
Following Student Body citing a response in Monday's President Jeremy Lao's advice "Question of the Day" that on using the Campus Life included the words "Mexi-can" Council as a forum for discus­and "Mexi-can 't" in the sion, members debated diver­response and a perceived lack sity at Notre Dame during of coverage of diversity events their meeting Monday after­on campus. noon. "There arc a number of 
The debate was initiated instances of insensitivity on when an emotional Leah the part of The Observer in McGee, a representative from publishing insensitive materi­the Diversity Council, criticized als," she said. what she perceived to be a McGee and other CLC mem­negative stance taken by The bers expressed concern that Observer during a series of some of the Viewpoint letters Viewpoint letters debating the demonstrated ignorance of merits of affirmative action. diversity and were hurtful to 
McGee criticized a column racial and ethnic groups on written by Greg Parnell on campus. Jan. 26 that argued against "When something is written affirmative action and featured under the guise of affirmative a layout with an illustration of action and instead attacks a Martin Luther King, Jr. specific minority group, it can­
"The Observer supported it not be tolerated," said Jordan by placing a picture of Martin Bongiovanni, a senator for Luther King in the center," Cavanaugh Hall and a member McGee said 
McGee also said she believes see CLC/page 6 Board of Trustees. 
Leaders continued to debate the creation of a pro­gramming body to coordinate events on the campus and dorm levels. 
Under the proposal dis­cussed Monday, a Campus Programming Council would have representatives from each dorm, and would create campus-wide events, fulfilling a role similar to that of the current Student Union Board. 
In addition, a Residential Programming Council would coordinate in-hall events, assuming the Hall Presidents Council's responsibilities in that area.·An executive cabi­net would oversee the work of both bodies. 
see COUNCIL/page 4 

SMC students experience teaching 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Writer 
For Saint Mary's students looking toward a future in teaching, the teacher educa­tion program at the College provides a rigorous training program designed to height­en experience in the field before graduation. 
Student teachers are encouraged to develop over­arching "big ideas" in which an important lesson is taught and the technical and normal curriculum requirements are taught within that idea. Students are required to observe and gain experience in the classroom beginning their sophomore year, which leads to greater confidence 
in student teaching as  well  
as  going into the field  as  a  
licensed teacher.  

This year's teacher educa­tion program includes 52 elementary, three elemen­tary-middle school, six mid­dle school-secondary and 23 secondary education student teachers. 
Kitty Green, an assistant professor of education and the program director, said that each of the students "have the right motivation and disposition to be great teachers." 
Senior Anne Courtney began teaching kindergarten at Darden Primary Center this semester. 

"A student teacher must have the right tempera­ment," she said. "Not just anybody can be a teacher; you have to be open to so much." 
A different disposition is 
required when observing and teaching in middle school versus high school. Junior Lindsay Downs has been observing in the classroom and finds that with "older kids, you're allowed to be more yourself." which leads to an increase in security and trust. Lindsay Evans, a senior student teacher placed with 9th and 12th graders at Clay High School, said that younger students typically exert higher imma­turity levels, thus leading to 

see TEACHERS/page 6 
Tuesday, February 3, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Lamenting half-time 

It has come to our attention that MTV is deeply and fundamentally incapable of putting on a halftime show. 
We will pass over. for the moment, the rather injudicious wardrobe change effect­
ed on Janet  Matthew Smedberg  
Jackson by  
our friend  
Justin. For  Wire Editor  
the moment,  
our attentions  

will be directed at a more pressing issue, of greater cultural import, and of wider scope in its commentary on ­nay, indictment of-American culture. 
Let us recall the cast of characters which filled that wooden "0" Sunday night: we saw, as mentioned, Ms. Jackson and Mr. Timberlake. We were presented with two rappers, one of whom does not profess to own a last name and another who insists on changing his bi-annually. We endured Mrs. Simpson-or is it Lachey? And lastly, we were visually and aurally assaulted by the all-American badass­ness of Mr. Rock, whose act's only redeeming quality may have been the post-menopausal aggressiveness of its drummer. 
On their own, these entertainers ­let us rephrase that, "professionals of the entertainment industry" -each merely leave us wishing for a real artist to fill the void they occupy. But when such a lineup is presented as the entirety of the night's musical output, it is not only we who shudder: Nature herself abhors such a vacuous display of bad taste and artistic incompetence. 
Those who seriously value popular music for its potential as an art form have long since learned that MTV will merely provide them an outlet for repressed masochism. MTV glorifies two things: MTV and the current fad. If your product does not tithe at the altar of popularity it is tossed out onto the trash heap; if it sold well last month, then the market is exhausted and it is time for something new and equally mindless. 
What is most disturbing, however, is not that MTV could produce, and CBS air, such a display without a single musician in the lineup (with, perhaps, the exception of the aforementioned drummer); no, what fills us with trepi­dation are the screaming mobs which surrounded Messrs. Combs, Haynes, Timberlake and Ritchie and Misses Jackson and Simpson, eating up their every offering as ifit were the latest chapter of divine revelation. These paragons of democracy are skilled beyond belief in doing exactly as they are told, enjoying everything they are instructed to enjoy, and voting with their dollars to ensure that no Billboard Top Hits list in the foreseeable future will be dominated by artists with any measure of articulation or idea content in their music. 
We greet with open arms the announcement that the Super Bowl has learned its lesson and will leave MTV to run its own competing program­ming. We only wish that it had been the debacle of the halftime show as a whole, rather than a celebrity wardrobe malfunction, which brought that decision about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.l @nd. edu 
CLARIFICATION 
In the Jan. 29 edition ofThe Observer, senior Joe Dickman was quoted as proposing to the Student Senate "... the possible forming ofa University club for homosexual students." However, Dickman pro­posed a club to promote dialogue between gay and straight students. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE SUPER BOWL MOMENT? 


Jackson." was sleeping. " missed two field goals." 
Camel roams Sweden road during snowstorm 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­It took some convincing before police would respond to reports of a camel on a southern Sweden road in the middle of a snowstorm. 
"We were somewhat doubtful at first," said police spokesman Sten-Ove Fransson in Skoevde, 162 miles south of Stockholm, of Friday's incident. "But then more people called, so we were finally convinced that there really was a camel gone astray on the road." 
Before police arrived, friends of the camel's owner came and led it back to a stable, where it has been kept while awaiting a home in a new barn. 
Owner Anneli Arvidsson said in a telephone inter­view that the 22-year-old Siberian camel, Emat, might have wandered off because of the absence of his usual companion, a horse. 
"On Friday, the horse had been taken inside the stable and the camel was left alone in the pasture, which proba­bly made him feel lonely," she said. 
Colorado woman survives ride In runaway car DENVER -A woman was shaken but unhurt after a 


PAMELA LOCK/The Observer 
A student Is thrown Into a snow bank outside of Badin Hall during a snowball fight. Students all over campus have been taking advantage of the winter weather and enjoying the snow. 
OFFBEAT 
wild, 75-mile ride at speeds over 100 mph that began when her brakes failed and . her car accelerated out of 
control. 
Police finally stopped the 
car on Interstate 70 in west 
Denver by getting a cruiser 
in front of it, slowing gently 
till their bumpers touched, 
then bringing both vehicles 
to a stop. 
"It had a mind of its own," 
20-year-old Angel Eck said 
Sunday. The car "kept 
accelerating, and my foot 
wasn't even down on the 
gas." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



Jackson's surprise appearance. " 
IN BRIEF 
Learn about careers within the State Department from Ambassador Curtis Kamman today from 4:30 to 5:40 p.m. The information session will be held in 114 Flanner. 
Check out the latest install­ment of NDTV on Cable Channel 3 tonight from 11 to 
11:30 p.m. This episode offers highlights of the Keenan Revue, a look at the candi­dates for student body presi­dent, an interview with a stu­dent filmmaker, a visit from the Humor Artists and a look at some former attempts by students to climb the steps of the Main Building. 
Come cheer on the women's basketball team as they take on Georgetown. The game will take place in the Joyce Center Arena Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Come enjoy the next install­ment of Theology on Tap enti­tled "Does God Really Listen?" with Lawrence Cunningham tomorrow from 9:30 to 11:30 
p.m. in Legends. The night consists of a short presenta­tion followed by plenty of time for questions and honest, straight-up conversation. 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company presents West Side Story Thursday through Saturday in Washington Hall from 7:30 to 10 p.m. 
Laugh with your friends at Student Stand-Up Comedy Night on Thursday at Legends. The events take place from 10 ~ 
p.m. to midnight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

~ 
HIGH 20 HIGH 
22 
LOW 10 LOW 
13 
Tony Jannazo Junior Fisher  Nell Vargas Junior Fisher  Colin Kerrigan Junior Fisher  Ray Kllway Junior Fisher  Pedro Engel Freshman Morrissey  Daniel Negret O'Neill Freshman  
"Janet  "I don't know. I  "When Vzniterri  "Boob!"  "The halftime!"  "Janet  

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 0::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
<( 
(.) 

...I 0 HIGH 30 HIGH 20 HIGH 25 HIGH 25 LOW 8 LOW 2 LOW 10 LOW 15 

Atlant~ 48 I 39 Boston 38 I 34 Chicago 30 I 10 Denver 40 I 22 Houston 62 I 38 Los Angeles 59 1 45 Minneapolis 14 1-6 New York 40 I 37 Philadelphia 40 I 32 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 45 I 34 St. Louis 35 I 18 Tampa 73 I 56 Washington 40 135 
~--:--------~-~----~ -~--­

Tuesday, February 3, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Dillon Hall sprouts moustaches for charity 
By KATE GALES  of the bash two years ago, when he was an HA at Dillon discussing  a moustache to look like an idiot, but it's another thing to do it for a  moustache is coming along nicely, "but also gets us all looking as  ter." "Hight now, I'd say the majority  
News Wrircr  possible dance ideas.  good reason ... [Dillon rector]  manly as Burt Reynolds."  of the guys are !participating]."  
"It took two years to get this all  Father [Paul] Doyle wanted it to  Dillon strongly encourages each  Pagnani said, adding that, "most  
c;roucho Marx would be proud  done,"  he  said.  be men's cancer to  of its residents to support this  of the moustaches are god-awwl  
of tlw men of Dillon I fall, whose  "This year, I got  connect to growing  endeavor. As members of the  -in a fantastic sort of way."  
2004 "'Stache Bash" encourages  hired  to  come  "Now with 300  moustaches."  largest residence hall \m campus,  "We're doing it for charity,"  
each resident to grow facial hair for charitable donations. Thn fundraiser, which started  back as an AH, so we finally man­ag!)d to convince  guys doing it, we all look goofy, and  According to the Sexual I lealth Peer Hesource Center at  they have the chance to make a difference. As an added incentive, prizes will be awarded for the  freshman Tom Bradley said. "I just don't shave my moustache, but I can't grow much of one, so I  
Jan. 21, will continue until Feb.  the hall govern­ when I found out it  Stanford University,  best and worst mustache growth.  just look dirty." lie added that his  
13. HnsidenLo.; will accept pledges for each day of moustache growth. which will be donatnd to  ment to do it. The guys who are the presidents of the  was for cancer, it made it that much  men between the ages of 15 and 24 have the highest risk  Additionally, the hall-maintained Web site recognizes two residents each week for their outstanding  efforts were "for our dance ­it's the theme." Pagnani said he has seen a  
a testicular cancer awareness  hall  now  were  better"  of developing testic­ participation.  change for the better already on  
group.  freshmen  when  ular  cance~  "I got into [the event] initially  the campus of Notre Dame.  
Assistant Hector Alex Pagnani, however, who is the brains behind the 'Stache Bash, said there are  we started to throw this idea around; they  Peter Schroeder Sophomore  Although the disease has a 97 percent cure rate if caught  because it sounded fun -you always wonder what you look like with different facial hair going on,  "A couple of nights ago, I actu­ally had a girl tell me that because of Dillon Ilall. she's start­ 
otlwr motives f(Jr the fundraiser.  heard  about  it  in the early stages,  but you  never  want to  do  it  ing to like guys with facial hair,"  
"We're really trying to change  back  then,  but  many  men  ignore  because of that awkward growing  Pagnani said. "''m proud that  
public opinion about the  mous­ now they can finally grow mous­ symptarus until they have pro­ stage,"  sophomore  Peter  we're converting the women of  
tache," he said. "Ever since Tom  taches."  gressed.  Schroeder said. "Now with 300  Notre Dame. one by one."  
Sdlack went away, the moustache  "It's a good cause -good rea­ "The 'Stache Bash not only  guys doing it, we all look goofy,  
was going out of style."  son to do it," Pagnani said of the  helps us raise money for charity,"  and when I found out it was for  Contact Kate Gales at  
Pagnani came up with the idea  fundraisnr. "It's one thing to grow  said Tom Draths, who says his  cancer, it made it that much bet­ kgales@nd.edu  

Jablonski-Diehl, Brown attend leadership conference 
regular conferences around the into event coordination as student state representatives and senators vate and public and large andBy lAUREN O'BRIEN country for residence hall and stu­government leaders, as well as spoke about their experiences of small schools in Indiana attended. 
NcwsWrirer 

dent activity boards, a conference transferring that to a more per­incorporating faith and values The diverse attendance allowed 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and for executive leadership is difficult sonal level before and after grad­into their careers. Jablonski-Diehl and Brown the Sarah Brown attended the to come across, Hosenbush said. uation. \ On Saturday, the focus was ser­chance to compare the integration Indiana Student Leadership "We've been looking at different "At Saint Mary's, we're lucky vant leadership through three of faith and values into student Forum on Faith and Values in leadership conferences for because we can count on faith service projects at a food bank, government at the College. Indianapolis this past weekend. awhile," Rosen bush said. "We and values being pretty consistent Good Shepherd Community "Saint Mary's is definitely right 
As Saint Mary's student body thought this one might provide across the campus," Jablonski­Center and Wheeler Mission on track and even serves as an president and vice president, they them with the opportunity to net­Diehl said. Ministries, a homeless shelter for example to other schools." Brown were nominated to represent work with peers across the state." The conference opened Friday men. said. Saint Mary's at the Forum by Hosted by Rep. Mike Pence (R­with a tour of the State House, fol­All culleges and universities in Georgeanna Hosenbush, director Ind.), the forum centered on lowed by dinner in the House of Indiana were invited to nominate Contact Lauren O'Brien at of student activities. In contrast to incorporating faith and values Representatives Chamber. Several student participants. A mix of pri-obriI648@saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, February 3, 2004
page4 The Observer + NEWS 
ATM 
continued from page 1 
annoyed me," he said. 
Brannon said he attempted to use the North Dining Hall ATM on Saturday and the lower LaFortune ATM on Sunday. Both times, the machines displayed messages say­ing the transactions could not be completed, despite the fact he had adequate funds in his account. · 
"It looked the same as it always does, but then it was giving me errors," Brannon said. 
The credit union hires a mainte­nance company to provide immedi­ate service to each ATM if it should malfunction, Yoder said. 
"The machines are all set up automatically, so that if anything goes wrong with them, they call the service line and a service crew is sent out within two hours," Yoder said. "If it were to take longer than two hours, we would get a call." 
No such call was received this weekend, and Yoder said that, in quickly looking through his logs, the only thing that immediately attracted attention was one ATM that had a card jammed in it. Yoder said one machine in LaFortune has been having trouble with its receipt printer and that may have been a problem as well. 
"That receipt printer has been giving us trouble," Yoder said. "It's old and needs to be replaced." 
In addition to these two possibili­ties, there is one caveat that may have trapped some students. Yoder said the maintenance company does not make service calls after 10 
p.m. until the next morning. Thus, some students may have attempted to use the machines after service hours, especially on Saturday evening. 
Further analysis of ATM logs as to the specific causes of the outages was unavailable, but Yoder expressed confidence in the main­tenance company and quoted the uptime of the machines across campus as being from 98 to 99 per­cent. 
"We've been able to increase the uptime of the ATMs drastically ... which really only makes it easier for students, faculty and staff to use the machines when they need to," Yoder said. 
The credit union maintains 11 ATMs in a variety of locations on campus and regularly reevaluates where machines should be placed. As part of this, two ATMs were moved from the football stadium to the Joyce Center this year at the conclusion of the football season. The ATM in the Hammes ]3ookstore is also slated to be moved up to the front foyer from its current loca­tion. · 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 


Council 
continued from page 1 
SUB manager Charlie Ebersol said the new pro­gramming body would be more representative of the 
student body,  as  well  as  
more efficient.  
"Dorm  involvement  is  

what this is all about," Ebersol said. "It will be a coordinating body, so that calendars don't overlap." 
Lao also addressed his upcoming report to the Board of Trustees. In the report, to be presented at Thursday's board meeting, Lao will ask the University's governing body to establish a programming endowment. 
Proceeds from the endow­ment would be used to fund high-dollar concerts, promi­nent speakers and other big-ticket events. Lao said board members will see a rough sketch of the propos­al, but he vowed to flesh out his plans over the remain­der of the semester. 
"The endowment proposal will be coming more solidly in May," Lao said. "We want 
The future relies on 
. . .. 

> inventions from GE. 
something where we can guarantee approval." 
Student body vice presi­dent Emily Chin said she and Lao needed more time to develop the plan. 
"We only have one shot at this," she said. "We need to get it done right for the stu­dents." 
In the meantime, class councils will have access to new program funding. Lao said Father Mark Poorman, vice president for student affairs, has reserved addi­tional money to assist in programming events on the class level. 
·Lao encouraged-class presidents to apply for the $20,000 in new funding. "You guys have an extra $5,000 each in your budg­et," Lao said. · In other COR news: 
+ Hall Presidents Council co-chair Sarah Keefer announced that the HPC would no longer accept funding appeals from stu­dent clubs. 
She said frequent requests distracted the_ body from its mission of coordi­nating programming in resi­dence halls. "We allocate money to dorms for dorm events, for the benefit of the residents," Keefer said. 

She went on to say that HPC will continue to collab­orate with clubs on staffing, promotion and other non­monetary matters. 
+ Senior class president J azmin Garcia said the class of 2004 will sponsor voter registration initiatives for the remainder of the semes­ter. Garcia said the class will coordinate with the College Republicans, College Democrats and other groups to register vot­ers and supply absentee ballots. 
"With the presidential elections coming up, we want to get as many people registered as we can." Garcia said. 
+ Off-campus president Sarah Blake said her coun­cil will sponsor an off-cam­pus dinner this Friday from 5 to 7 p.m. at Boracho Burrito. The event will be free to off-campus resi­dents. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Is it the wind that generates electricity? Or is it the idea to harness it? At GE, we believe in the power of ideas. Ideas that not only turn wind into electricity but 
make the world a better place than it was the day before. If you have those kinds ofideas, we hope you contact us. 
GECareers gecareers.com /notredame 
For more information email us 
a.t GEND@ge.corn 
GE Information Session Februa&l6, 2004 117 DeBartolo Hall 6:30-8:30 PM 
Tomorrow, Wednesday, February 4th, is 
the last dayto submit yourresume on 
GoIrish to apply for an on-campus 
interview with GE. 

imagination at work •
• . 
r 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 3, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Britain to probe Iraq intelligence 
LONDON -The British government said Monday it was prepared to follow the U.S. lead and investigate the intelligence on which Prime Minister Tony Blair based his decision to join the United States in going to war with Iraq. 
Blair was expected to announce on Tuesday an oflicial inquiry in an appearance before a parliamentary committee, just days after a senior judge cleared the government of allegations it distorted what it knew about Iraq's weapons programs to build a case for war. 
"Mr. Blair will announce on Tuesday morn­ing some sort of inquiry about the intelli­gence of Iraq's weapons before the war," a Blair spokesman said on condition of anonymity. 
Pakistani nuke boss sold secrets 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -The admission by Pakistan's nuclear founder that he spread weapons technology to Iran. Libya and North Korea raised questions Monday about whether military ligures knew of the trans­fers. 
Officials said for the first time that two for­mer army chiefs have been questioned in the scandal but weren't implicated. 
The revelations Monday came as Pakistan completed its investigation that began in late November after Iran provided relevant infor­mation to the U.N. nuclear watchdog, the ollicials said. 
President .Gen. Pervez Musharraf was expected to announce the results of the nuclear probe in an address to the nation after a period of national holidays ends Thursday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Feds accuse man of al-Qaida link 
MINNEAPOLIS -A man who authorities say admitted to attending a training camp in Afghanistan at the same time Osama bin Laden was there appeared in court Monday to hear charges that he conspired with the terror network al-Qaida. 
Mohammed Warsame answered "Yes" when the chief magistrate judge asked him if he understood the charges against him. 
A federal grand jury last month indicted Warsame on conspiracy to provide material support to al-Qaida. FBI agents arrested Warsame in December on a material witness warrant issued in New York. 
Man indicted in kidnapping 
MILWAUKEE -A man accused of abducting his family and beating his ex-wife with a base­ball bat was charged Monday with kidnapping and attempted homicide. 
A federal complaint said David Larsen, 39. told investigators he hit his ex-wife, Teri Jendusa-Nicolai, in the head with the bat after she threatened him with a hammer. 
.lendusa-Nicolai, 38, was in serious condition at an Illinois hospital. where she was being treated for blunt force trauma, hypothermia and frost bite. a hospital spokeswoman said. 
Larsen was charged in Racine County with attempted first-degree intentional homicide. kidnapping and two counts of interfering with child custody. IIe was also charged with a fed­eral kidnapping count. 
STATE NEWS 
ABA says defenders overworked 
INDIANAPOLIS -Hundreds of Marion County juveniles arc wrongly sent to deten­tion because their public defenders must handle too many cases. the American Bar Association says in an upcoming report. 
With caseloads numbering as high as 800, public defenders have no time to prepare for trials, the director of the group's Juvenile Justice Center wrote in a preliminary report obtained by The Indianapolis Star. 
"A child's access to counsel and the quality of representation he receives is significantly compromised by the caseloads of the defend­ors," l'uritz wrote. 
Ricin found in Senate building 
Army biochem lab investigates; multiple tests indicate powder is deadly toxin 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Preliminary tests of a white powder discovered in a Senate office building Monday were positive for the potentially deadly poi­son ricin, the U.S. Capitol Police chief said. 
Two out of three tests indicate ncin, Chief Terrance Gainer said at a late-evening news confer­ence. The third test came out negative, and a fourth, more definitive test was under way, with results expected Tuesday. 
Sixteen people who were on the floor where the white powder was discov­ered on mail were being decontaminated and would be allowed to go home, Gainer said. 

"At the moment we're in a wait-and-see position from an analytical point of view in what next steps we may take," he said. That included what. if any decontamination of the Dirksen Senate Office the Dirksen Building, Ricin, derived from the Greenville -Spartanburg Building would be needed. Gainer said. A congres­castor bean plant, can kill International Airport in 
Senate Majority Leader sional official had said ear­within days. Twice as South Carolina in October. Bill Prist, R-Tenn.. also at lier the powder was found deadly as cobra venom, An FBI official said the the news conference, said in Prist's office suite. ricin is relatively easily bureau was awaiting the no symptoms were report-. Another government offi­made. It may be inhaled, result of tests at the Fort ed by those near the pow­cial said lab tests were ingested or injected. Detrick laboratory before der. "Everybody's fine" and being conducted at Fort Police found traces of deciding whether to get there is "no cause for Detrick in Maryland, but ricin in a north London more fully involved in the alarm," he said. Gainer refused to give any apartment last January case. 
"Nobody is sick, we don't location. and arrested seven men of Mail to congressional expect anybody to get Authorities do not know North African origin in offices has been irradiated sick," said Prist, who was a if the substance was found connection with the viru­since deadly anthrax was surgeon before his election on a letter or a package, lent toxin that has been found in letters sent to the to the Senate. the chief said. linked to al-Qaida terror­offices of Sens. Tom 
The powder was discov­The Homeland Security ists and Iraq. Daschle, 0-S.D., and ered at about 3 p.m. in a Department is monitoring A package containing Patrick Leahy. D-Vt.. in mail room near Prist's the situation, spokesman ricin was also found at a 2001. one was arrested office on the fourth floor of Brian Roehrkasse said. post facility serving 
cidents. 

THAILAND \ 
I 


Bird flu claims two more victims 
Autopsies confirm deaths in Vietnam, Thailand; China says virus is spreading 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK-Asia's bird flu death toll rose to 12 with the announce­ment Monday of two additional deaths, while China said it suspect­ed the virus has reached poultry in one of its most remote corners. 
U.N. officials warned the out­break was far from over. 
The latest victims were an 18­year-old man in Vietnam who died Monday and a 58-year-old woman in Thailand whose death was con­firmed Monday to be from bird flu following an autopsy. 
"Bird flu remains a serious public and animal health threat and con­tinues to spread," said He Changchui of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization. "The eruption of new infection cases in Thailand, China and Vietnam shows that the disease is far from being under control." 
FAO officials said they believe the disease is spreading in Thailand and Vietnam. but the situation is less clear for China. where investi­gators may only now be picking up previously undetected cases. 

The U.N. agency announced it was hosting an urgent three-day meeting in Rome beginning Tuesday on the bird flu crisis. 
Bird flu has struck poultry in at least 10 Asian countries, but infec­tions in people have been reported only in Thailand and Vietnam. 
Doctors in Germany were await­ing test results on a woman who recently returned from Thailand complaining of nausea, dizziness and fever. However, Herbert Schmitz, a virus expert at the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine in Hamburg, played down chances the woman has bird flu. 
The World Health Organization continued investigating the possi­bility two Vietnamese women caught the virus from a relative in what would be the first human-to­human transmission in this year's outbreak. But WHO said there was no evidence of a new straiQ that can easily be passed among people. 
Witness accounts were not con­sistent, but WHO investigators say the most likely centers on a family wedding. ' 
On the day of thft' wedding, Jan. 3, the groom and one of his sisters prepared a duck. The groom fell ill Jan. 6 and was hospitalized the next day. On Jan. 10, both the sis­ter who helped prepare the duck, as well as the bride -who did not -fell ill. The next day, a second sister got sick. 
The groom died Jan. 12 and the bride and two sisters were hospi­talized a day later. The two sisters died, but the bride survived. 
Investigators could not trace the infections of the second sister or the bride to exposure to birds. Neither human-to-human transmis­sion nor direct contact with sick poultry can be ruled out, WIIO said. 
Health officials may never be able to confirm what happened, in part because the brother's remains were cremated and because family accounts were conflicting. 
No other cases of people catching the virus from other people have been suspected anywhere else. 


Tuesday, February 3, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Teachers 
continued from page 1 
difficulty when attempting to manage a classroom. 
Managing the classroom is one of the bigger fears that student teachers hav­ing. Upon entering the field professionally, senior Lizzie Siefert worries most about developing interest­ing curriculums while maintaining classroom control. 
Like Siefert, many sen­iors worry about finding a job in the school in which they want to teach follow­ing graduation. 
"The schools that are more attractive are more attractive to teachers," Courtney said. 
Often, teachers have to take jobs in schools that they did not necessarily want. Some teachers also worry that the "big idea" curriculum taught at Saint Mary's is so new and dif­ferent from that taught in other states, it will not be well received. 
However, student teach­ers' excitement and drive shines through worries they may have. 
Senior Mary Kartheiser admitted she had no desire to accompany friends at Heartland on Thursday's nights while she taught at St. Anthony de Padua Elementary School. Instead, she was "excited to be planning the next day's lesson." 
Some advice these stu­dents would give to other aspiring teachers? 
"Appreciate every moment you have in the classroom with the stu­dents," said Siefert. Most agree with Evans that, "if you can get one student to change themselves some­how, then you've done something." 
Contact Teresa Nowakowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
of CLC. 
"It's clear that a lot of these comments are coming out of a lack of education," McGee said. 
To combat this, McGee said that she and others are work­ing on a proposal to bring before tonight's Student Senate meeting that would form a task force to investigate the feasibility of mandating a semester-long required course for all Notre Dame undergrad­uates that would focus on diversity. 
Members-used the remainder of Monday's meeting to view a video recounting a trip taken by Emily Chin, student body vice president, and other Notre Dame students to Nigeria for a conference on increasing dia­logue with Africa and to receive updates from the com­mittees. 
The RA training and gender relations committees did not meet last week and had no news to report. The CLC pur­pose committee continued to explore ways in which the 
organization could be used more effectively, Lao said. 
Wyatt Maxwell updated members on the success of a senior night held at Legends on Thursday that he and the senior privileges committee helped to organize. 
"[Senior night] was well received," he said. "[Legends] ran out of Corona and were two handles away from run­ning out of margaritas." 
Chin briefed the CLC on progress being made toward providing transportation serv­ices to students with tempo­rary disabilities. 
"We're continuing to look into increasing services for temporarily disabled stu­dents," she said. 
Chin cited free scooters available to students with tem­porary disabilities as proof of the committee's work on the issue but then retracted it after learning students pur­chased the scooters by stu­dents using their insurance and not through the University. 
"I must have been misin­formed," Chin said. "We were under the impression that the Provost's Office would now take care of it." 
Charlie Ebersol, a member of 

Mass to honor Stri tch 
Special to The Observer 
A memorial Mass for Thomas Stritch, professor emeritus of American studies at Notre Dame, will be celebrated today at 3:30 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., professor of history at Notre Dame, will preside at the Mass, and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president emeritus, will give the homily. 
Stritch, who died Jan. 22 in . Nashville, Tenn., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1934, joined the faculty the following year and remained at Notre Dame for the rest of the centu­ry. 
A Nashville native, Stritch 
came to Notre Dame as a stu­dent in the fall of 1930, received a master's degree and joined the faculty in 1935. Interrupted only by four years of naval serv­ice during World War II, he made the University his home for the rest of the century. 
He taught journalism, English and American studies at Notre Dame, chaired the Journalism Department from 1946 to 1957 and the Department of Communication Arts from 1957 to 1970. 
He retired in 1978 and contin­ued to live and work at Notre Dame, publishing a popular memoir, "My Notre Dame: Memories and Reflections of 60 ¥ears," in 1991. 
NDPRESE:~~TS: OPERAAT THE MORRIS 

For tickets, cal 574-235-9190 or toll free at 800-537-6415 or you may order tickets at www.MorrisCenter.org 
r:JiJUNIVEilSITY OP 
.NOTRE DAME 
~ Sponsored by " US.Cellular 




THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, February 3. 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 499.18 +11.11
}ones ' 
-"~ • Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1,181 ISS • I,S18,106,112 
AMfX 1,201.84 +4.67 NASDAQ 2,063.15 -3.00 NYSE 6,568. 70 +17.07 S&P 500 1,135.26 +4.13 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,761.45 -15.28 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,381.40 -9.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.91 +0.49 26.20 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.66 -0.20 30.32 JDS UNIPHASE QSDU) 0.00 +0.00 5.10 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.90 -0.25 27.40 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.84 +0.20 5.49 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.40 +0.20 49.85 10-YEAR NOTE +0.3 I +0.13 41.5 I 5-YEARNOTE +0.29 +0.09 3 1.59 3-MONTH BILL +0.56 +0.05 9.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.93 34.98 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -3.60 399.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.075 84.85 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 105.6 
EURO 0.8046
. 

POUND 0.5492 CANADIAN$ 1.3218 
IN BRIEF 
Bush seeks rise in SEC funding 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush is seeking a 13 percent increase in the budget for the Securities and Exchange Commission, includ­ing $18.7 million for new staff to work on its huge caseload of corporate and mutual fund misconduct. 
The $913 million request to Congress on Monday for the budget year starting Oct. 1 includes $20 million that the SEC was unable to spend last year because it couldn't hire new accountants and attorneys fast enough. 
Under landmark anti-fraud legislation enacted in 2002 amid the corporate scandals, Congress gave the SEC expanded powers and almost doubled the budget of the traditionally low-profile agency with 3,300 employees. 
ImCione employee testifies in trial 
NEW YOHK -Martha Stewart called lmClone Systems headquarters and demanded to talk to founder Sam Waksal to find out "what was going on" with Imclone's falling share price on the day she dumped her stock in the company, a former ImClone secretary testified Monday. 
Emily Perret, a former secretary to the now­jailed Waksal, said Stewart was "very hurried and harsh and direct" in the call on Dec. 27, 2001. 
The government says the call happened just after Stewart sold 3,928 shares of ImClone stock -the sale that triggered the investiga­tion that now has Stewart on trial for obstruc­tion of justice and securities fraud. 
Treasury to borrow $1778 
WASlllNGTON-The government expects to tap $177 billion from the credit markets this quarter, which would mark the largest amount ever borrowed in any quarter, the Treasury Department said Monday. 
The new borrowing estimate for the January-to-March quarter is bigger than the previous projection of $160 billion made in November. 
"This increase in borrowing is due to lower receipts, primarily from an increase in tax refunds, and higher outlays," the department said. Officials would not provide more detailed information. 
•••••*·~·.. I 
Bowl boosts local businesses 
NFL's big game brings increased fan businesss to area restaurants, retail stores 
Associated Press 
The New England Patriots weren't the only big winners in Sunday's Super Bowl. Local business­es -both on campus and in the surrounding area ­experienced higher-than­usual customer volume during the biggest televi­sion event of the year. 
CBS said about 143.6 mil­lion people watched at least part the game held in Houston's Heliant Stadium, with an average of 89.6 million tuned in at any given moment. 
If local businesses are any indication, those people ate and drank -a lot. 
The Subway store in LaFortune Student Center delivered eight 6-foot subs 

for Super Bowl parties on Legends manager Larry Briggs said the establishment benefited from hungry fans campus, said manager Jim watching Sunday's Super Bowl. The game also brought higher customer volume to Labella. He said volume other businesses on campus and across Michiana. 
rose significantly in the afternoon. but dropped off Tim Corbett, manager of a boost from customers Internet gambling sites once the game was well the Meijer superstore on hoping to see the game on a also reaped windfalls from underway. Grape Hoad in Mishawaka, larger screen. ' the close game, which came 
"Before the game and said customer traffic was "We had a sale on 30" down to a last-minute New during the first half, it was up · significantly on TV's and we sold an abnor­England field goal. really busy," Labella said. Saturday. mally high number of Christiansen Capital 
Larry Briggs, manager of ''I'd say about 30 percent those," Corbett said. Advisors, a market Legends, said although higher than normal," he Local retailers weren't research firm specializing Sunday is generally a slow said. the only ones celebrating in the gaming industry, esti­day at the restaurant and Corbett said the increase the game. Domino's Pizza mated that more than $375 pub, the game brought fans was mainly due to cus­sold more than 1.2 million million was wagered on the in. tomers buying snack foods pies during the game, a 42 Super Bowl through online 
"We had some giveaways, and beverages for the percent increase over a typ­sports books. and a fair amount of busi­game. ical Sunday, said Holly The Patriots won 32-29, ness," Briggs said. "It was He also said the store's Hyan, a spokeswoman for but did not beat the seven­up from most Sundays." electronics department got the 7 ,300-store pizza titan. point spread. 

U.S. EcoNOMY 

Plants, consumers drive recovery 
Manufacturing index shows broad improvement; new homes reach record high 
Associated Press  those projects also rising to a record monthly high.  mally indicate modest growth in facto­ry jobs, economists said.  
NEW YOHK ­ The economic recov­ Meanwhile, the ISM report offered  But long-term changes in manufac­ 
ery is showing new signs of staying  upbeat news from a sector that was  turing ­ including increased automa­ 
power, a trio of reports said Monday,  one of the hardest hit by the recession  . tion and the relocation of factories  
with a pickup at the nation's factories  and one of the last to recover.  overseas ­ appear to be limiting new  
complemented by robust consumer  "The manufacturing sector gained  job creation. The index shows only  
spending and construction activity.  momentum in January," said Norbert  that more industrial employers arc  
The  Institute  for  Supply  Ore, chairman of ISM's manufacturing  adding jobs than those who are cut­ 
Management said its manufacturing  business survey committee. "Both new  ting workers, but does not show how  
index rose to 63.6 in January from a  orders and production remain quite  many absolute jobs are being added.  
revised 63.4 in December. The read­ strong, indicating that the manufac­ It appears, however, that some labor­ 
ing signals a recovery that is broaden­ turing sector is experiencing a much­ intensive manufacturers like apparel  
ing across manufacturing industries, although it is still not generating many  needed recovery." An ISM index reading above 50 indi­ makers continue to cut large numbers of jobs, while more technology-driven  
new jobs, analysts said.  cates expansion; one below 50 indi­ manufacturers are adding relatively  
In  other  economic  news,  the  cates that..manufacturing activity is  small numbers of jobs, Vitner said.  
Commerce Department reported that  contracting. From March through  "While the sheer number of employ­ 
consumer spending rose by 0.4 per­ June, the manufacturing index was  ers adding is larger, the absolute num­ 
cent in December, after a 0.5 percent  below  50, but  the  new  reading  ber of jobs is still declining," he said.  
rise  the  previous  month.  The  marked the eighth consecutive month  Manufacturers' order backlogs  
November reading was better than  ofexpansion.  increased in January, a positive sign of  
the government previously estimated.  Economists said the January read­ future factory activity, ISM said. A  
Consumer spending rose solidly in  ing indicates a rebound that is spread­ sub-index measuring new orders  
both November and December, better  ing throughout the sector.  declined to 71.1 in January from 73.1  
than earlier in the fall when spending  "This isn't just some flash in the  in December, but the reading still indi­ 
was flat.  pan," said Mark Vitner, senior econo­ cates sustained and strong activity.  
The government also reported Monday that construction spending in  mist with Wachovia Corp. "When you look at all the components it's hard  While many purchasing and supply managers tapped for the report indi­ 
December rose to its highest level ever.  not to come away with a more opti­mistic assessment of the manufactur­ cated they are experiencing record sales and orders, others say their  
The total value of building projects  ing sector."  business has yet to experience a  
under way rose 0.4 percent from  One of the few exceptions is employ­ recovery.  
November to a seasonally adjusted  ment. The ISM index measuring  "It is obvious that certain sectors  
annual  rate  of  $933.2  billion.  employment  settled  at  52.9  in  are lagging the rest of manufacturing  
Hesidential  projects  by  private  January, down slightly from 53.3 in  as we start the  new year," the ISM  
builders led the way, with spending on  December, a reading that would nor- report said.  

~ • • • • • • • • •" • ~ !-~-!!.! i-.=-t~t.i.t."""''=·~-~-t.r_;_.L:t...=:.o::~ ...• ..:.~ •• ·.-:·-=-""C_.-1 
THE ()BSERV'ER 


IEWPOINT
Page 8 Tuesday, February 3, 3004 

Priests should have been contacted 
To our readers: correct this oversight, The Observer printed a letter from 
A letter to the editor from Edward Fitzpatrick in the Jan. McBrien on Jan. 30 in which the Notre Dame professor 29 edition of The Observer criticized Father Richard addressed Fitzpatrick's claims. Today, The Observer is McBrien and Bishop Daniel Jenky, implying that both publishing a letter from Jenky, currently the bishop of McBrien and Jenky were aware of and covered up sexual Peoria, Ill., responding to the original Jan. 29 letter. abuse allegations. 
We apologize to both McBrien and Jenky that they were Andrew Soukup, Editor in Chief not contacted and given a chance to respond to Scott Brodfuehrer, Managing Editor Fitzpatrick's claims before his letter appeared in print. To Sarah Vabulas, Viewpoint Editor 
Bishop responds to assertions 
Having been away from Peoria for a week, I was aston­ished and horrified to read upon my return home, the Jan. 27 letter from Edward Fitzpatrick which asserts that I was somehow a part of a cover-up regarding the conduct of James Burtchaell. I would like to say for the record that in the years when I s~rved as Rector of Dillon Hall (197 5 thru the early 1980's), I never had any knowledge of sexual mis­conduct on the part of Burtchaell. If I had, I would have immediately reported this to my superiors. During that era, Burtchaell was not only the Provost, but he was also a widely admired preacher, teacher and author. I like most others at Notre Dame would never have imagined him to be capable of misusing his ministry. I should also like to say that while we were both religious confreres, we were not close friends. Even the most clueless freshmen at Dillon Hall would have rather quickly noticed that there was per­sistent tension between Burtchaell and myself regarding all kinds of dorm issues, especially discipline. It was only some years later during my tenure as Religious Superior that I became aware of allegations being made against Burtchaell. I was a part of both the investigation and the subsequent process of his removal from public ministry. 
Even for a publication as notoriously without standards as the Notre Dame Observer, printing unsubstantiated and libelous charges against someone's good name is simply unconscionable. Your complete lack of professional judg­ment has now enabled some special interest groups here in Central Illinois to gleefully announce: "Bishop Jenky of the Catholic Diocese of Peoria has a history of covering up sex­ual abuse." You have done me a serious injustice that in the current climate will negatively effect my service as a bish­op. 
Most Reverend Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Bishop of Peoria Feb. 2 

Where Have All the True Patriots Gone? 
When the New England Patriots won the first Super Bowl after the terrorist attacks of September 11th, many peo­ple, especially embittered St. Louis Rams fans, alluded to a government Peter Quaranto conspiracy theory of rallying patriot­ism. Such ground­A call to less rambling Action ended this Sunday with the Pats' sec­ond Super Bowl win in three years, but questions of patriotism continue to hold relevance in our post-September 11th world. 
Since the terrorist attacks on that Tuesday morning, our world has never been the same. The question, though, that follows is this: Can we step out­side our culture enough to compre­hend how our world has changed? I fear that too many of us have neglect­ed to be critical of the forces at work in this new world. 
Responding to this changing world, the mass American populace has ral­lied around the flag and danced to the hit tune "Everybody get together, try to love George W. Bush together right now." Embracing nationalism, perpet­uated in "city upon a hill" language and wrapped in a dubious patriotism, the average American has played right into the Fox News "culture of fear." The clearest political consequence has been the current administration's blank check to "shock and awe" the world, as in Iraq, while avoiding the many pressing socio-economic reali­ties that plague our country and world, such as world hunger and poverty. 
The "culture of fear" is perhaps the most alarming of all these trends. In his 1933 Inaugural Address, Franklin Delano Roosevelt said the following, which is often overused in the senior quotes of high school yearbooks, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." A society driven by fear is not one that can adequately address the many needs of civil society .. 
More and more American citizens are beginning to realize these prob­lems, especially with the recent news of faulty intelligence about Iraq, but such citizens often have to face claims that they are anti-patriotic and anti­American. This then brings this dis­cussion back to where it began: ques­tions of patriotism. 
In the modern "you're.either with us or against us" age, perceptions of patriotism re11ect a divided society. For some, patriotism means a faith in and devotion to the goodness of America as the "city upon a hill" to prevail against all evil in this world. Yet for some others, patriotism means a commitment to actively call our country to higher ideals, particularly being a force for peace and justice in the larger world. 
As you can probably guess, I sub­scribe to the latter school of patriot­ism. American history, when not coat­ed in tall tales of Christopher Columbus finding America, is a history of mistakes and people rising to the challenges of such mistakes to move our country back to its ideals. 
In many ways, American history is a sad history. Ours is a country, founded on the genocide of Native Americans and the economics of the slave trade, which has been through and continues to go through battles over racism. women's rights, workers' rights, mili­tarism, systematic poverty and more. Such battles have only given way to justice when citizens have called our country to live up to its ideals, which is showing the greatest respect for our country. Hence, patriotism implies an active cynicism, rather than a blind passivity. 
Relating this to our world and the coming presidential election, it is imperative that each of us be critical of the present forces. We cannot allow a "culture of fear" to destabilize and pacify us into blind obedience to state. We have to truly evaluate our times in order to use our gifts and energies to set our country in the right direction. 
On Sunday, the New England Patriots showed us that true patriots. when they come together and believe in something, can achieve great things. This year, may we come together and believe great things, not out of fear, but out of hope that a bet­ter future is possible. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore polit­ical science and international peace studies major. As a Massachusetts cit­izen, he wants to thank and praise the New England Patriots for their second Super Bowl victory in three years. The Red Sox are next. Contact him at pquarant@nd. edu. 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What new residence hall options would 
"You. cannot escape the responsibility of
you like to see at Notre Dame? 

tomorrow by evading it today." 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Abraham Lincoln 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
president 

THE ()BSER\'ER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 3, 2004 page 9 

Real men of genius at Notre Dame 
Today we salute Notre Dame's Real Men of Genius, without whom college 
would simply not be the same. They are one of a kind. They make us smile, 
they freak us out, they push the limits of acceptable behavior, and we love 
them for it. llerc is to you: 
Mr. Prankster Who Poses As A Pizza Guy. You carry a pizza box. Somehow 
you come attired in full Papa Johnissucd apparel. You 
guarantee it hot, and you have the pizza warmer to 
David Barrett 

prove it. Arc you really a pizza delivery guy, or did you 
make a few free throws and win that snazzy number as 
part of a promotional give-away? You wait until we are 
A Domer's 

really hungry to knock on our door. You come to our 
party and say, "Hey it's me, the pizza man!" You make Outlook 
us laugh crazy pizza man, and you make us cry when 
you show us the pizza box in fact contains no pizza at 
all. but just a few cans of Keystone Light. We do not know you, but believe 
me when I say that we all love you. Here is to you: 
Mr. Cheerleader with the Spiky Hair. You cheer so hard, but you look so good. Your round-offs are flawless, and trust me when I tell you that you belong on the top of those pyramids. Go Irish? No, Go You! Go you cheer­leader man! You arc in the choir, and I have heard your voice above the rest. our passion is contagious, and you truly are the sixth man. Thanks for cheering, for getting me to cheer even when I have lost all desire to do so, and for looking so good in the process. Here is to you: 
Mr. Cabbie Who Owns the Company. You pick us up at 4 a.m., even though you have an MD from Harvard and a garage full of Porsches. You do it for the kids. When all your drivers are busy, it is you, the big boss who runs the show, who answers our prayers and brings us home. Thanks for caring, and thanks for cleaning up the mess my roommate left in your backseat on his birthday. You are never out of business cards, and you guarantee the best prices in town. $3 flag drop? You scoundrel, you have kids to feed and patients to perform on. Here is to you: 
Mr. Deion from the Linebacker. You are a legend man, and I will remember the nights we have spent together. You are the king of cool and the sultan of swing. Your rhythm is intoxicating, your cadence unrivaled. On anybody else, a bike helmet and a Bears jersey would look silly. You never get sick of the high five, and we love you for it. You picked the Panthers in October, you raving genius. \'f,U arc mad I tell you, mad. Thanks for making me dance, for letting us circle around you and emulate your moves. You never stop danc­ing, and you always make us smile. I'll pick you up tomorrow. Here is to you: 
Mr. Metrosexual. In a world where black roll-neck sweaters raise eye­brows, you wear them with grace. Is it 'okay if you dance with my girlfriend? I would rather you did not. You buy girls drinks and make them uncomfort­able. You subscribe to Maxim and the Playboy Channel. You demean women, but we love you anyway. You are our roommate, our friend since freshman year, and we will always have your back. Here is to you: . 
Mr. Crew Member from Connecticut. You eat lunch at 8:30 in the morning, but make sure to tell the class that you have three-a-days this week and need your nourishment. But do not worry, even if the University does not recognize your varsity athlete status. we all do. So do our friends at Grab & Go. Somehow you are allowed eight sides to my four, but I would not think of; holding that against you. You have restored our rowing program to national prominence and catapulted Notre Dame up two spots in the Sears Cup. When I see the number one lit up on top of Grace Hall, I will know whom to thank. Last. but not least, here is to you: 
Mr. 30 Year-Old Who Cannot Let Go. You went to school with my dad, but drive up every weekend to party with us and relive those glory days. You bring us Mad Dogs and buy us shots. You reminisce on that day when our women's basketball team finally beat UCONN and you rushed the floor. You were always the craziest. The key is under the mat and the couch is always open. We love you man. Here is to you. 
I do not know what we would do without you guys. You are the best. Here is to all of you. 
David Barrett is a senior economics and philosophy major. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contacted at dbarretl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necces­sarily those ofThe Obs~r:v.er. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A Superbowl peep show 
Like it or not America finds itself at war. Many have criticized our actions abroad as threatening America's "moral authority" around the world. Regardless of one's political views on the War on Terrorism. Iraq, etc. I would like to approach this lapse in "moral authority" in a.' different light. On Sunday, 140 million people in the United States and millions more worldwide watched this year's Super Bowl as well as the Halftime Show, which will go down as the most con­troversial ever. Justin Timberlake, while finishing his song with the lyrics ''I'll get you naked by the end of this song" proceeded to expose Janet Jackson's bare breast. While Timberlake claims it was a "wardrobe malfunction," CBS and my genera­tion's beloved MTV (both owned by Viacom) have apologized "to anyone who was offended" by the "unre­hearsed, unplanned, completely unin­tentional" actions. Yet MTV's own Web site produced an article entitled "Janet Jackson's Super Bowl Show Promises 'Shocking Moments"' posted last Wednesday, four days before the embarrassing moment. Meanwhile, 
MTV has pulled the article from its website (although you can still access it using Google). It is a sad day when the Super Bowl can no longer be a family show. 
All of which brings me to America's standing around the world. With mil­lions watching the Super Bowl inter­nationally, what message does the Justin-Janet peep show send to those around the world who wonder for what America is lighting? Are these the 'values' for which the brave men and women of our armed forces arc shedding their blood daily? When we talk about the ideals that serve as the cornerstone of this blessed nation, how do we expect to be taken serious­ly around the world when the percep­tion is that we fight for the right to televise a worldwide peep show? Worse yet, the executives at MTV and CBS do not have the courage to take responsibility for their actions. No wonder public opinion of the media is at an all-time low. 
Michael Derocher 
JUnior 
off campus 

Base Presidential vote on 
facts, not purely faith 
I would like to thank Bill Rinner for his effort to inform -and instruct ­the Catholic voting populace. Unfortunately, however, I did not understand some of his argument. For instance, he asserts that Bush "facili­tated what Catholic social teaching considers an unjust war in Iraq." I have seen this claim made many times, but I have yet to see it defend­ed. I wish Bill Rinner had bothered to explain in exactly what way or ways the war in Iraq has violated clear Catholic social teaching. There has been plenty of disagreement over this issue among serious Catholic thinkers, so I find it odd for him to make it sound like a matter of accept­ed fact. The war was declared by competent authority, other means had been exhausted, and the good done has clearly outweighed the harm. Help us out here, Bill; we are not all as fluent in Catholic social teaching as you. 
Even if the war was unjust, though, one could hardly claim that unjust war is a core Republican value. Indeed, numerous prominent Republicans have questioned the war, including Senator Hagel, who may well be a strong contender for the nomination in 2008. The world will end, though, before a Democrat is nominated who would support any restrictions on abortion whatsoever. Abortion is the very heart of the Democratic platform; dissent from party policy on other issues can be tolerated, but not on abortion. That is why Senator Bayh, according to some reports, was not chosen to run with AI Gore, though Bayh would have helped the ticket much more than Senator Lieberman did. 
It is true, neither party is a perfect example of Catholic values, but that does not mean one is not far worse than the other. I cannot think of a sin­gle Republican plank that runs plainly contrary to Catholic teaching. You may suggest the death penalty. or free enterprise, but these are not categori­cally opposed to Church doctrine. 
What is really disturbing is that Rinner seems to be aggressively argu­ing that how we vote does not matter anyway. "No single vote will ever make you more or less of a Catholic," he claims. What if I vote for a skin­head? What of German Catholics who knowingly supported the Third Heich? An extreme example maybe, but rele­vant. 
The hostility Rinner shows toward people who consult their faith in moments of uncertainty is also alarm­ing. Heaven forbid we should ask our­selves what God would want us to do, when we cannot figure out what to do otherwise. "Listen to your conscience regarding political issues, not your religion," Rinner pontificates. Well, yes, sir! What if, however, our intel­lect has convinced us that Christ is who He claimed to be. and that the Church is what it claims to be ­would we not then be obligated to respect His teachings, as delivered by the Church, over our own views? 
Finally, Rinner commands us not to vote based on some "utopian religious view of how America should be that is inconsistent with the reality of the modern world." This seems to be an excellent recipe for not improving the world at all. If civil rights leaders had adopted that attitude, perhaps we should still have lynching. 
Ultimately, we all have to decide for ourselves how we vote, as we have to decide how we act in general; and we will be judged for all we do. The Church recognizes this, and provides us with guidelines, for our benefit. We can accept or reject them as we wish. For people like Bill Rinner to insist, though, that it is wrong for the Church to provide such guidelines, or for individual Catholics to consult them, borders on the very closed­minded intolerance he seems to con­demn. 
Jack Remmert Alumni Class of 2000 Feb. 2 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, February 3, 2004 
page 10 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Mae shows promise with live show 
At a concert in Toledo, Mae and other opening acts rocked fans 
By MAUREEN BUSH 
Scene Music Critic 
Luke's Barn was filled past capacity as more than 400 kids packed the tiny Toledo, Ohio venue Jan. 31 to see one of the most well-crafted concerts on the road right now. Mae, the headlining band took up­and-coming artists Copeland, The Working Title, and Slow Coming Day out for a nation-wide tour, hitting almost every major city in the United States. 
The show opened with What's the Point, who were celebrating their CD release party that night. These three gentlemen from Toledo had a fast-paced style with vocals and music seemingly representative of the latest trend in "scremo" rock. They put on a decent show and are likely to become more popular in their area, though their music was not particu­larly consistent with the rest of the musical acts of the night. 
Next was Slow Coming Day. This southern California quartet, made up of Orion Walsh on vocals and guitar, Brad Smith on guitar, Dave Stoots on bass and Jason Sheets on drums took the stage and began their set for their first time ever in Ohio. Though Walsh did not say a lot between songs dur­ing their seven-song set, the music spoke volumes. 
The band had impressive timing, knowing when to speed up and when to back down. "Behind Blue Eyes," the final song on their full-length release, Farewell to Familiar, was an excellent way to end a very good set. Slow Coming Day are incredibly tal­ented and will only improve with time. 
The Working Title from Charleston, S.C., was the next band to grace the tiny stage that night. It became evident before their set that lead singer Joel Hamilton was ready for a good time as fans responded to what he was saying during his sound check. Hamilton's unique voice and his rocking acoustic guitar were a very pleasant surprise. They played most of the songs off their EP, Everyone Here Is Wrong. 
The night kept improving as Copeland took the stage. Hailirig from Atlanta, Ga., Copeland has been gaining national recognition as of late for their newly released music video, "Walking Downtown," off their Militia Group-released, full-length titled Beneath the Medicine Tree. 
The band opened their set with intensity and it was incredible how well the music flowed. There was never a dull-moment as their full and melodic brand of music kept the audience on their toes throughout the whole set. 
The pinnacle act of the night was Norfolk, Va.­based quintet Mae. Made up of Dave Gimenez on vocals and guitar, Zach Gehring on guitar, Mark Padgett on bass, Rob Sweitzer on keyboards and back up vocals, and Jacob Marshall on drums, Mae pulled out all the stops for their first ever nation­wide headlining tour. 
The sound this band has developed is incredible. Playing like veterans, no two songs were similar, and each song portrayed a different aspect of emo­tion with its own personality. 
They began their set with an unreleased and rarely played song, "Tisbury Lane," then quickly 
sped up the tempo by breaking into the spectacular drum beats of "All Deliberate Speed," followed by "Runaway," both from their full-length Destination Beautiful. 
A beautifully crafted piano solo led the band into "Sun," during which technical difficulties ensued. Gimenez's microphone cut out toward the beginning of the song, and the crowd was left with only an instrumental version. The silence did not last long, as everyone in the room raised their voices to fill the void. The microphone was fixed just in time for Gimenez to dedicate "Soundtrack For Our Movie" to all the ladies in the room and then to play their catchy first single, "Summertime." 
They then finished up their set with current single "Embers and Envelopes," the melodic "Giving It Away" and fittingly "Goodbye, Goodnight." 
Anyone would be hard-pressed to find a band of this caliber. Mae played an excellent show to the well over-capacity crowd in Toledo. If they are this tight on their first nation-wide headlining tour, it will be interesting to see how they will progress to stardom and pow quickly it will come. Mae is an incredibly enjoyable band to watch perform. Their live show is one of the best out there, above and beyond expectations. 
Every band on this tour had innumerable amounts of talent that shohe through quite clearly to the audience. Not only did every band play well, they also stayed long after the show ended to meet their fans. The worst part of this show was that it had to end at all. 
Contact Maureen Bush at bush3328@saintmarys.edu 

Photo courtesy of Maureen Bush Photo courtesy of Maureen Bush 
Orion Walsh of the Southern California band Slow Day Coming gave a rousing The Working Title with drummer Ross Taylor, a band from Charleston, SC, performance with their seven-song set for their fans at Luke's Barn In Toledo, Ohio. performed many songs off their latest EP In an acoustic set. 
-~ ---­
--·~----­
.I'' 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, February 3, 2004 
page 11 
AUTHOR PROFILE 
Frolll baseball to books: a moment with John Grishalll 

By JOE HETTLER 
Scone Writer 
John Grisham always dreamed of playing professional baseball, beginning with his childhood days of listening to St. Louis Cardinal games on the radio. 
For two reasons, however, he never did. 
"1 played little league ball, high school ball and tried to play college ball, but I was scared of a fastball and couldn't touch a curve." Grisham said. "So that kind of nar­rows it down." 
So Grisham turned to writing novels ­his second dream. Sixty million books later, this dream has turned out just fine for the retired lawyer from Mississippi. 
"!Writing) was a secret hobby; nobody knew about except my wife," Grisham said. "Once I realized I was actual­ly going to finish ("A Time to 
Kill"). I thought it would be "Writing was a it around the house like any nice to write full-time -other kid."
secret hobby 
that's a dream come true for Grisham's love for baseball anybody." nobody knew led him to build his own little Grisham's 17th book, "The about except my league ballparks. He is the Last Juror," is available at commissioner of the league in
wife."
bookstores today, and the the summer and also travels to author will be visiting cam­his children's baseball and pus Thursday to speak at the John Grisham softball games in the spring third annual Notre Dame author and summer. Grisham's son, 
baseball banquet. This is 
Grisham's fifth such event in 
the past 10 years at various locations. 
"They're just wonderful events," he said. "I have a great time, and it's total fun. It's great for the players, because it gives them a Jot of attention and raises a lot of money." 
Grisham will be the keynote speaker at the event, which starts at 7 p.m. Former Notre Dame player Steve Stanley will also be at the banquet. 
Grisham worked as a lawyer for ten years before beginning his first novel. Once he started composing his first book, how­ever, Grisham said he woke up every day at 5 a.m. to write before heading into the courtroom. 
As his fans know, Grisham's consistency is one of his greatest abilities. His books have landed him on the national bestseller list nearly every year. After finishing his first book, "A Time to Kill," in 1987, he has produced a book almost ever year since, and he has been acclaimed by Publishers Weekly as"the bestselling novelist of the 90s." 
II is latest book, "The Last Juror," is about a young newspaper owner who nxposes the gruesome details of a murder. When the convicted murdercr is released from jail. he seeks revenge on the owner of the newspaper and the jurors that put him behind bars. 
Grisham said that. though writing novels is never easy, the finished product is usual­ly rewarding. lie and his family vacation every summer before he begins a new book, and he usually finishes the novel around Thanksgiving. 
"There is no shortage of ideas." Grisham said. '"The Last Juror' is number 17, and !novels! arc still fun to write. The words and ideas are still coming pretty fast." 
With Grisham's success has come addi­tional pressure, but Grisham thinks that pressure can only help his writing. 
"There's always pressure to deliver a good book," he said. "When I start writing a book, I want it to be the best thing I've ever written. Pressure is healthy because it keeps you honest. I'm serious about what I do, and I want to get better." 
Writing has not gotten in the way of Grisham's continued love of baseball. From his time as a child working on his parents' farm in Arkansas to working all day as a lawyer, Grisham always has looked for­ward to listening to the St. Louis Cardinal games on the radio. He used these experi­ences in his novel, "A Painted House." 
"The St. Louis Cardinals were on the radio every night, and that was our only contact with the outside world," Grisham said. "There was no television, so that was the highlight of every day -sitting on the porch and listening to the Cardinals. As soon as I could, I picked up a baseball and started throwing 
Ty,  plays  baseball  at  the  
University o f Virginia ­ where  
former Notre  Dame  assistant  Brian  

O'Connor took over as head coach last year. 
Grisham said he and his son have attend­ed thousands of college baseball games and have traveled to Omaha, Neb. for the College World Series on several occasions. 
"Over the years, he and I have gone to thousands of college baseball games because that's our favorite sport. That's why I'm coming to South Bend -because I love college baseball," he said. 
Tickets still remain for Thursday's event. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of www.amazon.com 

John Grisham's dream life In baseball was never realized, but his fall back profession as an author Is working out. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Mona Lisa doesn't smile big 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Movie Critic 
The 1950's, an all-girls school, Julia Hoberts, Kristen Dunst, and Julia Stiles -no one expected an Oscar, but this attempt at a female­focused ver­sion of "Dead Poet's Society" is much more disappointing than anyone expected. 
"Mona Lisa Smile," known by most as the latest Julia Hoberts film, is a movie with a good message that is nice to watch, but it is far from being called a great and entertaining film. 
Set in 1953, Julia Roberts plays the part of Katherine Watson, a lib­eral. Bohemian professor from California who moves to New England to teach at the prestigious female school Wellesley College. Watson is greeted by snobby girls, strict rules and heavy judgment from her stu­dents and the school. The snobbiest girl is Betty Warren, played by Kristen Dunst. Friends and roommates are played by Julia Stiles, Maggie Gyllenhaal and Ginnifer Goodwin. Watson expects to find intelligent and driven women in the students at Wellesley, but instead she finds intelligent girls focused on fitting into the societal mold for woman at that time. Watson then goes forth on her mission to convert the assumptions of the girls, and the film ends with a mix of tears and happiness -big surprise. 
Although the costumes are terrific and Roberts' character is inspir­ing, not much of a message is conveyed in "Mona Lisa Smile." Roberts's character is seemingly contradictory, as she chastises the girls for settling for a life dictated by men, while at the same time she pursues a relationship with the male teacher known for affairs with his own students. While this imperfection does make Watson a bit more real as a character, it works more to make her seem hypocriti-

Mona lisa Smile 
Sony Pictures 

cal. Watson seems too noble to be so easily drawn into a relationship with the smooth­talking, war-hero Italian pro­fessor. The love story element seems thrown into the plot and hurts the cohesiveness of the storyline. 
As far as the acting itself goes, Roberts does a generally good job, playing a variation of the same character she plays in most of her movies: the unique, quirky, beautiful (insert profession here). 

Dunst and Stiles, the two other major stars in the movie, arc simply awful. They are awkward, not believable, and just plain annoying to watch. The motivations of their characters are unclear, and although the script left much to be wished for, the poor-caliber acting by these two is just inexcusable. Gyllenhaal and Goodwin, on the other hand, do a terrific job with their characters. Gyllenhaal shines as the fiery Giselle, and Goodwin is adorable as the quiet Constance. The rest of the acting is summed up in one word: bad. 
While "Mona Lisa Smile" is a poor-quality film in many ways, it does maintain some endearing elements. Sitting through it is not painful; it does bring a bit of laughter and a touch of tears to any person willing to invest himself in the .storyline. The film, however, by no means deserves to be recognized as a great movie. The only motivation to go see jt would be a love for Julia Hoberts and a discovery of $6 on the ground. Otherwise, just rent the good version with Hobin Williams. 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.8@nd.edu 
Tuesday, February 3, 2004 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

O'Neal suspended one game for criticizing officials 

Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Shaquille O'Neal was suspended without pay by the NBA on Monday, one day after using obscene language and publicly ·criticiz­ing the officials during a televi­sion interview. 
The suspension was announced just hours after O'Neal issued a statement apol­ogizing for the comments he made following the Lakers' 84­83 victory over the Toronto Raptors on Sunday. 
O'Neal will serve the suspen­sion Monday night, sitting out a game against the Eastern Conference-leading Indiana Pacers. It will cost him nearly $295,000. 
Lakers coach Phil Jackson called the punishment "rather severe and childish in some ways." 
Jackson said he thought a fine would have been appropri­ate and that the fans would be penalized by not being able to see O'Neal in the Lakers' lone trip to Indianapolis 
"The league is known for its vindictiveness," Jackson said. "But we didn't anticipate a sus­pension." 
O'Neal scored a season-high 36 points against the Raptors in his third game back after missing 12 because of a strained right calf, but was angered by the officiating. 
He made that clear in his postgame interview on KCAL­TV -conducted almost imme­diately after the game. 
"My message to [commission­er] David Stern is get some people in there that under­stand the game and don't try to take over the ... game because people pay good money to see good athletes play," O'Neal said. 
When reminded he was on live TV, O'Neal responded with another profanity before the interview continued. 
"My comments were made out of frustration in the heat of the moment," O'Neal said in the statement released Monday by the Lakers. "But I realize that my choice of words was inappropriate and again, I would like to apologize." 
The game in Indiana was the second of a seven-game road trip for the Lakers, who played without injured stars Kobe 
Bryant and Karl Malone,  as  
well as O'Neal.  
Jackson said "there was  no  

precedence" for the suspen­sion, but that the team will accept it and move on. 
General manager Mitch Kupchak informed Jackson of the news hours after the team was game-planning to get O'Neal the ball early and oft!Jn against the Pacers, Jackson said. 
"I didn't get any satisfaction from their reasoning," Jackson said. 
It was the latest in what has been a season full of injuries and drama for the Lakers. 
"There's never been anything like this in my tenure," Jackson said of the injuries and Bryant's legal troubles. 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Knight gets into verbal argument with chancellor 
Associated Press Tuesday night at home against 
Baylor. 
LUBBOCK, Texas -Texas Gerald Myers, the university's Tech coach Bob Knight got into athletic director who was a verbal spat with the universi­instrumental in bringing Knight ty chancellor at a grocery store to Tech in 2001 after he was Monday, prompting a review by fired at Indiana, witnessed the school officials. encounter, Post 
School spokes-said. woman Sally Logue The men were Post said she did getting food
"It took place 
not know details of around lunchtime
very quickly. , 
the encounter at Market Street, between the bas­an upscale grocery ketball coach and Dan Sanders store about two David Smith. No miles from the uni­
United Supermarket 
one was injured, versity, said Dan
marketing officer 
she said. Sanders, chief 
Smith declined to elaborate on what happened. 
"This is obviously an issue that is internal to the universi­ty," the chancellor told The Associated Press. "Right now the athletic director and the president's office at the univer­sity are looking into the inci­dent. We'll wait to hear more in the next few days about their review." 
Asked whether there was any discussion of removing Knight, Smith said: "I can't comment on any of those things right now." 
The No. 19 Red Raiders play 
marketing officer 

. for United Supermarkets, which owns the store where the incident occurred. 
"Apparently, there was some sort of disagreement," Sanders said. "It took place very quick­ly." 
Neither Myers nor sports information director Randy Farley immediately returned telephone messages Monday night. 
While still at Indiana in March 2000, Knight was inves­tigated by the university after former player Neil Reed said the coach choked him at a practice in 1997. 
In May 2000, Knight was fined $30,000, suspended for three games and placed under a "zero-tolerance behavior poli­cy." 
In early September 2000, Knight was accused of grabbing a student by the arm, cursing and lecturing him about man­ners after the coach was addressed "Hey, Knight, what's up?" 
In September 2000, Knight was fired from Indiana for vio­lating the behavior policy. Indiana's president Myles Brand, now president of the NCAA, fired him for what Brand called a "pattern of unacceptable behavior." 
In late December, Knight went into a profanity-filled tirade after an ESPN reporter asked about his relationship with former player Steve Alford, who was also partici­pating in the interview. He later apologized for the incident. 
Texas Tech is 4-2 in the Big 12 Conference this season. The Red Raiders had been unbeaten in the league until last week, when they lost to Texas and Oklahoma State. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

-
NOTICS  LOST & FOUND  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  LOST: 2 Keys • one a Mercury key and the other a Honda key -on a round ring Friday night between the parking lot in back of the band building and the Joyce Center hock· ey entrance. lease call Gary at 247· 0560.  

Large 1 Bedroom Condo 

WANTED 
1 0 min from Univ. All App. Pool Low WANTED ARCHITECT STUDENT TO HELP WITH CREATIVE IDEAS FOR A REMOLDELING PROJECT. NO DETAILED PLANS. SMALL$. NANCY 273-0322. 
FOR RENT 
LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION­ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF NO IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS 2773097New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2-car garage, fireplace, sky 

taxes less than rent Wanted-Old paintings, especially lights, close to campus $1640 Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-monthly, 574·299-4997 9359 call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 
............... £~ ................ ~ ...... ~. 
B&B tor JPW/grad/tootball tor up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to NO, 
email domercondo@yahoo.com 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMM­RENTALS. COM 
mmmrentals@aol.com 272·1525 
Rental House, 2004-05@911Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd firs, new windows,AC, wash/dry & alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is NO Alum.Contact Lisa 
@theemurphs@hotmail.com/619· 804-3359 
·~·JI·-~~····,.······· 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...  
HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2  PERSONAL  
BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM  
DUPLEX AND THREE 3 BED­ 
ROOM CONDOS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
not go it alone. If you or someone  
AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005  you love needs confidential support  
SCHOOL YEAR...  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
Louise Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. For  
WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO  more information, see our bi-weekly  
LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
SCHOOL YEAR ..  
Chance is a great name for a dog  
CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE  
234-2436  Thanks Christian.  

OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOW­INGS School of Rock Rocks. 
.. " ... . . .. . . . ... . . ........... . 
'1 
. 

Tuesday, February 3, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NCAA BASEBALL 
Former team manager becomes player for Stanford 
Matthews, from nearby 
Mountain View, didn't get on 
the field this past weekend dur­
ing his team's three-game 
sweep of Cal State Fullerton to 
start the season. 
He knows that will often be 
the case. But sitting on the 
bench sure beats the alterna­
tive. 
"I've got a ways to go," 
Matthews said. "I don't think 
I'm done yet. I've still got confi­
dence -maybe false confi­
dence -that I can help this 
team on the field." 
He certainly saw his share of frustrating times as he tried to prove he can do more than just carry bats from one hitting sta­tion to another. 
Matthews was a two-sport athlete at Los Altos High School, hitting .361 with two homers and 36 RBis in his two varsity baseball seasons. He led the team to its first playoff appearance in 15 years. In bas­ketball, he was an all-league selection three times. 
So, not making the Stanford team wasn't easy on his ego. Marquess offered him the job of manager because Matthews wanted to be involved in some capacity. 
"I was discouraged, but this has been my goal for a long time," he said. "I grew up in this area as a fan of Stanford baseball, and I decided to stick it out." 
He even grew up on campus. 
Matthews' mother, Tracy Schwartz. attended Stanford to get her master's degree in com­puter science when he was a boy. Matthews' father, Stephen, also has a Stanford degree. When MattheWs was about 8, they all lived in student hous­ing, within shouting distance of Sunken Diamond, the school's baseball stadium. 
"He just loved living there, and not just because of all the sports," his mom said. "He and my husband used to try to go to one match of each varsity sport. lie always looked at Stanford as being kind of a sec­ond home. We knew he kind of had a soft spot for it." 
Both his parents remember when their son called home with the news that he'd made the team. 

"We're especially proud that he has the stick-to-itivenss when it could have been dis­couraging," his mom said. "With various things, I'd say that's always been a character­istic of his." ·-­
Matthews is working toward a double major in economics and archaeology, so he stays plenty busy. Since he is a walk­on player, he doesn't have a baseball scholarship. IIe relies on financial aid and loans like most college students. 
"It's a mixed blessing," his dad said of baseball. "There are a lot of opportunities at Stanford that he has to pass on. He is interested in going to some archaeological digs and he's had to forego a number of opportunities. It's actually a choice between good things. 
"He used to get notes on his report cards that he was work­ing too hard on projects." 
His teammates don't doubt it. "He's a special guy," outfield­er Sam Fuld said. "You just don't see that very often. If you asked me two years ago if I thought he would be a member ·of the team, I would have said 
you are crazy." 

Associated Press 
STANFOHD, Calif. -For two years, Cameron Matthews hauled bats and helmets, raked second base during sliding drills. warmed up pitchers and shagged flies in batting practice -all the typical jobs of a team manager. 
Whenever Matthews had a moment to spare, he'd hustle to the cage for some swings or practice taking grounders. 
Stanford coach Mark Marquess noticed. So did 
Matthews' teammates, who have considered him a member of the roster all along. 
And now. Matthews gives new meaning to the term utilityman, as a full-fledged player for the Cardinal. 
"It's a great story," Marquess said. "I said at the end of the year, 'Do you want to try out?' He came out in the fall and was a player." 
Last summer, Matthews played on three different teams to improve his game-a men's team in San Francisco, another 
in San Jose and one at nearby 
De Anza College made up of 
collegiate players. There were 
doubleheaders both days of 
every weekend and scrimmages 
during the week, and practice, 
too, if his schedule allowed. He 
also found time to lift weights · at Stanford. His family barely saw him over the· break. 
Matthews believed all along 
he could play for the Cardinal, 
who have reached the College 
World Series a school-record 
five straight years. 

During fall ball, he hit .207 (6-for-29) with a home run and four RBis. He can play several positions and is listed as an infielder/outfielder. 
"I knew I could play at this level." said Matthews, who eats peanut butter and jelly sand­wiches as a game-day ritual. "I had the confidence building for a while. I'm glad I got the chance to show I could play." 
Pulling on the uniform as a player -the team manager wears the same gear -is a much better feeling. 
All our desks come with a view. 
Join us, and we'll put some of the most exciting challenges in business in front of you. Opportunities to work on some of the biggest, most prestigious brands in the global market. And we'll put the knowledge, experience and support of the best talent in the industry behind you. Get the big picture. 

r--r-------------­
page 14 Tuesday, February 3, 2004
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
COME TO THE INVESTMENT CLUB'S INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
WEDNESDAY FEB. 4TH +129 DEBARTOLO + 7:00PM 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME 

''Ever wonder why fund managers can't beat the S&P 500? 'Cause they're sheep, and<.sheep get slaughtered'' -Gordon Gekko Wall Street 

I I 
I -• Over$275,000 ofREAL money 
• 
·. Investipg Experience 

• 
Resume Building 

• 
.· Networking 

• 
·Trips to the CME (MERC) 

• 
Cash-award stock picking contest 


*Ifyou havepast experience and would be interested in becoming adivision leader, contact invclub@nd.edu. 
Tue~day, f~ebruary 3, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Indianapolis seeks a deal to litnit the costs of the Colts 
Associated Press negotiations on a long-term 
deal to resume soon after 
INDIANAPOLIS -City ofl'i­Sunday's Pro Bowl and that cials hope tlwy can work out a the city wanted to find a way deal that reducos the cost of that would restructure the h1~ping the Colts in money it will owe to the Colts. Indianapolis. "It's either reduce or replace 
The team's lease at the HCA or restructure," Campbell said Dome runs through the 2013 Monday. "What we want to fig­season, but it could exercise ure out is a creative way to do an escape clause as early as this but where the city gets 2007 unless the city pays the something in return." diff1~rence between the Colts' After the Colts season ended revenues and the NFL's medi­with a 24-14 loss at New an income. England in the AFC champi­
The city would have to begin onship game on Jan. 18, Irsay making payments after the reiterated his desire to keep 2005 season and would be the team in Indianapolis. required to make payments During the past two years, two of every three years there has been speculation through the end of the lease. that if the Colts did not get a 
According to 2002 NFL fig­new stadium, lrsay might ures, the one-year total would move the team to Los Angeles have been $10.6 million -the country's largest televi­although team owner Jim sion market without a team. lrsay has estimated that two­lrsay has made no such year cost could increase· to threat publicly although he about $30 million. said two weeks ago that any 
Steve Campbell, a new contract with Indianapolis spokesman for Mayor Bart should include plans for a new 
Peterson, said he expected stadium, referabl with a 
2TI03~,D4 

THE BEST Of NOTRE DA.ME TH£.ATRfi 

!\c I ·· ·s ·1~' ···· ··· ·· '1"1· f' 1· ·· ··· ··J··· ·.··. •~·(· ~·. O'fJ
i ·. OL I<Hll .. L .AHIL ou L. tlh 
Romeo a·n<l Jt1liet. ·· 

'Wr"*"!f~)'. Nlbi'IIOIPJ11-...7;30 p.m. Frid;~y, f1;~ t:L,_,,. 7:30 p,m, Th.m~::la)'· h~~rf t 2 , ..~...7:30p.m . S>~>t~td.ay, f:~~t>.I;);1'J' ·14 ~,1:30 p,m, 
• 
P1ayir'g Qt W,a~hin9t0l'l Hall ~ Re~~v~d &la1s. $HJ ~nh>r:!S $14 • Nl Stwd,;.n1f> $l2 Tk.!i;..:!tll-avm~o.bli:l Q1 h;fortuno Stud<Jnt CA;noor. T:.-::km CJftkR• 
Mar~1nrC~rd ~nd VhOt ard1"'r.~;, <:i!H 6:l1·81 29. 

S1z~lene (Sizzlelini8}­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.951 /, sizzling skiHet of tender chickc!\ 
5avory sausage or both served w1th a zestv tornilto sauce accented with ~~eppers and onions on lop cf a generous portion df spaghetti. 
s~-tefie (Bellini} ­A frosty, peach Italian work 
of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERYTuesday for lunch or d:r.net· to celebrate 

retractable dome.  
"I think, obviously, we have  
to get to a new stadium even­ 
tually," Irsay said. "When you  
see old domes coming down, I  
think that is where it is head­ 
ed."  
The RCA Dome's seating  
capacity of 55,506 makes it  
the NFL's smallest stadium and  
it's the sixth-oldest facility  
among the AFC's 16 teams.  
Campbell said Indianapolis  
officials would discuss stadium  
plans in conjunction with  
other projects, such as an·  
expansion of the city's conven­ 
tion center.  
So far, though, Campbell said  
the city has not conducted any  
stadium studies or even deter­ 
mined possible building sites  
and that the city would not  
agree to a contra-ct without  
knowing the cost.  
"We're looking at everything  
-can we expand the conven­ 
tion center? -this is tough  
stuff," Campbell said.  
Either way, it's likely to be  
expensive.  
Campbell said the $10.6 mil­ 
lion figure was only a barome­ 
ter of what the city might owe  
the Colts and that the number  
was likely to increase when  
inflation and other factors  
become part of the equation.  
With local opinion polls  
showing opposition to finance  
EPAa new stadium with tax  
Colts quarterback Peyton Manning looks for a pass during theincreases. Campbell ruled out  
AFC Playoffs. Officials want to reduce the team's costs. a property tax increase. He  
said any tax hike would likely  
be in the form of hotel taxes  both sides.  ests for the team and the city  
and those applied to ticket  "We could  follow  the  to get a long-term deal. For  
sales.  Goldsmith deal  to a  tee,"  them, it's about being competi­ 
Irsay and Campbell both said  Campbell said, referring  to the  tive. For us, it's about keeping  
the negotiations were pro­ deal signed by  then-Mayor  an Indiana business here and  
gressing and that they were  Steve Goldsmith in 1998 . "But  making sure the taxpayers get  
seeking a deal that benefits  we think it's in the best inter- a fair deal."  

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
f-<\\'\.eol~gyon 'tctp_, 
~God,
" 

Prof. Lawrence Cunningham visits Theology on Tap this week to discuss the meaning of prayer. Join us Wednesday to find out 
Does God really listen? 
./ro'.l :qlts ilt'-e· 

~el)d . 
s 011Wednesday,feb l\th J?oors open at 9:30. Speaker begins 10:15. ~;·l . Brought to you by Campus Ministry
'-\'\1\.,_ 

-~··~--visit us on the web: http:/ /campusministry.nd.edu 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
page 16 Tuesday, February 3, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Okafor scores 25 points in Connecticut victory 
Calhoun earns 665th career win to place him No. 20 on the all-time win list 
Associated Press 22 3-pointers. Gordon had two od against Warrick, who had held guard Gerry McNamara to ing Hall-of-Fame coach John 
of them and finished four 16 points in the half, nearly all nine points, eight below his Wooden of UCLA for sole pos­
HARTFORD, Conn. points shy of his average. from strong inside moves. He average. session of 20th place on the Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun "The guys didn't need me to was the only Syracuse player "They've stopped everybody; all-time win list. was pleased with the way his have a big scoring game," who finished in double figures. they are a good defensive ''I'll remember this night," Huskies .handled Syracuse. Gordon said. "I just tried to get Villanueva finished with 12 team," Syracuse coach Jim Calhoun said. "To be men­
Emeka Okafor had 25 points, involved doing other things, points and nine rebounds. Boeheim said. "If you do get tioned in the same breath with 11 rebounds and four blocks rebounding, setting people up. The Orangemen were still by, they've got the shot blocker John Wooden is incredibly spe­and No. 5 Connecticut cruised That seemed to work." without starting point guard down there." cial to me because of who and to an 84-56 win over the 18th­The Huskies' post players Billy Edelin, who sat out for With the win, Calhoun picked what Coach Wooden repre­ranked Orangemen on Monday. struggled for much of the peri-personal reasons. The Huskies up his 665th career win, pass-sents." 
"That was one of the best 

combination games we've played," Calhoun said. "We 'were tough and we were good. And that's a nice combination. Coming down the stretch in February every game is big and you want to start proving 
things to yourself." 
The Huskies (18-3, 6-1 Big 

East) held the Orangemen to 
31 percent shooting. 
Okafor had his 14th double­

double of the season, and 43rd 
of his career. Ben Gordon fin­
ished with 13 points, 10 
rebounds and eight assists for 
the Huskies, winners of eight 
of their last 12 meetings with 
the Orangemen. 
Hakim Warrick led Syracuse 

(14-4, 4-3) with 26 points and 
11 rebounds. He had 16 points 
in the first half, but was held 
without a field goal for the 
first 11 minutes of the second 
half. UConn was able deny 
Warrick the ball inside and 
made him catch it a little deep­
er. 
"He still beat us because he's 

a terrific player," Calhoun 
said. 
UConn has struggled all year 

from the line and was last in 
the Big East (58 percent) com­
ing into the game, but turned 
in a solid performance. The 
Huskies made 24 of a season­
high 40 attempts (60 percent). 
Okafor found himself on the 

line several times because of 
physical play inside and hit 7­
of-13. 
"That's the Big East. I was 

expecting that going into con­
ference play and that's what I 
got," Okafor said. "People [are] 
going to be physical. You just 
need to need to be physical 
and strqng and stay with it." 
UConn led 41-31 at the half 

and put the game away with a 
22-5 run in the first 12 min­
utes of the second half. 
The teams changed leads 

three times in the opening 
seven minutes of the first half. 
Huskies reserve forward 
Charlie Villanueva hit all four 
of his free throws on consecu­
tive possessions to give UConn 
the lead for good at 17-14 with 
12:24 remaining. 
Villanueva got more playing 

time after freshmen forward 
Josh Boone injured his left 
shoulder and left the game 
with 5 minutes to play in the 
first half. 
Villanueva and Okafor com­

bined for five of UConn's seven 
first-half blocks. 
The Huskies made just 4 of 




•
lndudes N~tJq~twhk~ ~Jw19 f.'lh;·t,~~;~«l 

•
Unlimited N~ht~• i~Ht.1 Wi%d~;Mlth 

• 
free mt!~:;:f,~)~~ AHt!}t~'tnU.' hii 1 w~o~~th"' 



Y.us.Cellular 

--.-.~.--. '-c--~-­
OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 3, 2004 Cotv\PtlED FR0.~1-THE ()HSfRVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Divi$lrin \ team record ptsJ > 14$tlO > Philadelphia 26·1lH1·5 68 . 6~3clc0 ..•·.·•· 
New Jersey 27·13·10•1 65 6"38~0 ·.·· .· 
NY Islanders 25·20·5·2 ·.. 57 :HMM •• /
NY Rangers 20·23-7-4 >51 ·. 2~ntH1 
Pittsburgh 11-35·5·3 ·· 30 .Q•tQ~tHI ·······•·•• 
Eastern Conference, Northeast•. Divi~i9n ) 
team  rocord  pl.$;  J~stJJ>  
Toronto  2g·13-8•3  •69  6-4...(1-(1  
Ottawa  21H4·7·3  66  H~14l ...  
Boston  25·14·11·4  65  ··  6-3~1;o  
Montreal  26·20·6~2  60  &4.-'FO  >  
Buffalo  23·25·5·1  52  ·  6~4NI  

Eastern Conferencer Southeast [)Jvl$iort 
tt1am record• ·.. pts.···••· l~tlQ·•••··· Tampa Bay 27·16·6·3 .{13 <18~~o8 ? Atlanta 21-25·6·2 · 50 .·• 2•6%0 Florida 17-22·11-3 ·· ·· 48 ·· ··· • 3~4·2~1 Carolina 17-24~10·2 46 · 3~smo Washlnglon 16·30·5·2 39 >. 4+1A · 
·.:...·.······ 
., 

Western Conference, .C~otr~I•·•Q!YI~I91t•·• 
team rocord •Pts: last~() Detroit 29·15·8-2 · 68 3~2441 Nashville 26·18·6-2 .· 60 H~2dl St. Louis 25·19~74 68 z;~2;n Columbus 15·27-7·3 . 40 4~4.-2"(1 Chicago 13-29-H 38 }~;;o::o 
Western Conference,·Northwest Divisi()ll team reeord. •·•p1$~>···········1astto······ 
~~~~~:~r ~~:~~:;:~ ~; ··).::lf~~~ ) 
Calgary 26-19-4·a 59• ···.•.·••·•··· ~~~189 .. ) ~~~~~~:~ ~~~~~~2 •• :: .·.··•· 1~::~~~ 
Western Conference~ Pa~ific Divlsl<~~ / tnam rec()rd •p~?> ·····•··f~~~)Q ... < 
~:~~:'e ~~!;~9:: ···········~ ~ft~ (. Anaheim~~::;i~ele' ~:~::~~:~··16·23·8-6 · ~;::[~·······••
·· ·······• :~ •••••••••••••••••• 3+jj}\ >
••·'?46 

Men  
team  
1  NOTRE  
2  Ohio Slate  
3  Penn Stale  
4  St. John's  
5  Columbia  
6  Princeton  
7  Pennsylvania  
8  Air Force  
9 10  Harvard•· NYU ·..  

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Illinois at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN Cincinnati at Xavier 7 p.m., ESPN2 Kentucky at Florida 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Chicago at Toronto 7:30 p.m., FOX Sports Net 
MLB 


Geny Ivan Rodriguez talks with reporters after signing a four year $40 million contract with the Detroit Tigers. Rodriguez, who led the Marlins to last year's World Series title, joins a team which lost 119 games last season. 
Rodriguez signs with Tigers for $40 million 
Associated Press I don't think of the Tigers Their new catcher is a option for 2008 with a $3 
DETHOIT Ivan as a losing team. I think 10-time All-Star, a 10-time million buyout. Hodriguez stared through the Tigers just had a bad Gold Glove winner and Hodriguez would get $50 a window at the snow­season. It's going to be was the MVP of the NL million over five years if blanketed ballpark he will completely different this championship series last the option is exercised or now call home and year," he said. season. $40 million over four if it's answered the question The Tigers who haven't "If you don't mind for a declined. many have asked. had a winning record since moment I'm going to soak Detroit has protection 
Why would he go from 1993 lost an American this up a little bit," said against lower back the World Series champion League-record 119 games Tigers manager Alan injuries. If Hodriguez goes Florida Marlins. to the last season. They were one Trammell, who indicated on the disabled list for five worst team in baseball. the loss short of baseball's Rodriguez could hit third of more weeks, the Tigers Detroit Tigers? post-1900 record for futili­in his revamped lineup. would be able to end the 
"The owner showed me ty, set by the 1962 New It didn't come cheap. contract after two or three respect, and that is the York Mets. Rodriguez gets $7 mil­seasons. reason I'm here," But thanks to owner lion this year, $8 million in Scott Boras, Hodriguez's Hodriguez said Monday Mike Ilitch's checkbook 2005 and $11 million each agent, said his client was after finalizing a $40 mil­and general manager Dave in 2006 and 2007, accord­excited about playing in lion, four-year contract. Dombrowski's leadership, ing to contract information the AL Central. 
"Everybody is saying I'm the Tigers appear to have obtained by The "Pudge said to me. 'I going from a World Series a chance to be respectable Associated Press. The know that division. That team to a losing team, but in 2004. Tigers have a $13 million division could be mine."' 
IN BRIEF 
Super Bowl ratings up from last year 
NEW YOHK-An estimated 89.6 million people watched the New England Patriots' Super Bowl victory over the Carolina Panthers. a slight increase from last year's game. 
During the fourth quarter. which was capped by Adam Vinatieri's win­ning field goal, the audience swelled to 98.5 million, according to Nielsen Media Hesearch. 
Last year's Tampa Bay-Oakland matchup was seen by 88.6 million people, Nielsen said. 
It was the most-watched Super Bowl since the 1998 Green Bay· Denver championship was seen by 90 million people. 
Nielsen estimates that 143.6 mil· lion people watched at least some part of the game, the most for a Super Bowl. The 89.6 million figure is the average audience size during a given minute and is the number accepted in the industry to convey 

how many people watched a pro­gram. 
ISU suspends basketball star 
TEHHE HAUTE. Ind. -Indiana State leading scorer David Moss was suspended indefinitely from the team Monday pending the outcome of a battery charge involving a female student who accused him of attack­ing her. 
Moss, 20, was released on his own recognizance Monday after making his initial appearance in Vigo Superior Court. The judge in the case found probable cause to support a battery charge against Moss. 
The sophomore from South Holland, Ill., was initially charged with domestic battery after his arrest early Saturday. 
A 19-year-old woman told police officers she had been in an argument with Moss in a university dormitory and that he had choked her. leaving bruises on her neck. She refused medical treatment. 
The 6-foot-5 shooting guard leads the Sycamores in scoring, with 15.1 points a game, and in assists, with 
3.3 assists per game. lie won the Missouri Valley Conference's Freshman of the Year award last season. 
Purdue schedules Syracuse 
WEST LAFAYET'TE, Ind.-Purdue has dropped Cincinnati from its 2004 football schedule and will open the season Sept. 5 against Syracuse in a nationally televised game at Hoss· Ade Stadium. 
The Boilermakers were to have played Cincinnati on Sept. 18. Instead, they will have a bye that week before playing three straight games on the road. 
"The opportunity to play a nation­ally prominent program such as Syracuse and to get on national tele­vision was too good to pass up," Purdue coach Joe Tiller said Monday. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 3, 2004 
Ranked 
continued from page 20 
think mental toughness is something that last year peo­pie questioned our toughness and this year I think we've proven time and time again that we are a very, very tough team." 
Now the Irish look forward to a schedule that sees them face just one more ranked opponent, No. 22 Miami, for the remainder of the regular season. After playing so many difficult teams in January, Notre Dame should face an easier stretch in 
Skating 
continued from page 20 
the Irish had a strong skate, and recorded a personal best for the team. Bridget Purcell and Kristi Allmandinger were selected at team MVP's for the competition. 
The Irish will next compete in a field of eighteen schools at the national championships in San Diego. Skiing 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ski club's women's squad captured its second con­secutive first place team finish, and third in four races this year in this week's MCSA com­petition. In Saturday's slalom event, Leigh Hellrung finished first, Alanna Lungren fourth, Molly Butler sixth, Danielle Clements eighth and Rita 
February and into early March. 
The latest string of wins has Notre Dame thinking of a Big East title. But to do so, Connecticut needs to lose one more game. Currently the Huskies are 7-1 in confer­ence play and face two more ranked teams in the regular season. West Virginia, whn upset Notre Dame Jan. 17, is tied with the Irish at 6-2. 
Notre Dame faces Georgetown at the Joyce Center Wednesday, looking to improve to 10-0 at hom_e this season. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Morgan 17th in a dominating team performance. Lindsay May was 26th, Ann Mahoney, . 35th, Leslie Schmidt, 39th, Casey Dunne, 43rd and Ana Maria Hernandez, 50th, also competed for th.e women's squad. 
Michigan State, Michigan, Western Michigan, Central Michigan and Grand Valley fin­ished behind the Irish in that order. 
On Sund.ay, the women won a thrilling grand slalom over Northern Michigan by a score of 160.48 to 160.60. Michigan State, Michigan, Grand Valley State and Western Michigan finished third through sixth. Team results were Lundgren, third, Hellrung, fourth, Butler ninth, Morgan, 16th, Clements, 26th, May 30th, Dunne, 34th, Molly Fox, 35th, Lauren Dacey 36th, Mahoney, 40th, Hernandez, 45th and Schmidt, 48th. 
Victory 
continued from page 20 

More than a few players were 'on' for the Belles against Olivet. Coming off the bench, Bridget Lipke had 11 points and five assists with Anne Hogan dropping in another 12 points. 
Guard Katie Miller led the Belles with 15 points on 3-of-5 3-point shooting while Emily Pernotto scored six points and delivered six assists. 
Center Amanda Johnston kept the game in reach for Olivet and had a dominating performance inside with 32 points and 12 rebounds. She also shot 14-of-15 from the free throw line 
In an effort to stop Johnston in the paint, both-Emily Creahbaum and Maureen Bush fouled out of the game early with both players seeing less than 20 minutes on the floor. 
Creachbaum scored 10 points in 15 minutes before fouling out. 
The Belles have struggled to make foul shots this season but shot 80 percent at the free throw line against Olivet, an improvement from past games where the team has shot under 50 percent. 
After Olivet defeated Adrian College over the weekend, the Belles remained the only win­less team in the MIAA. 
"Olivet at home was proba­bly our biggest game of the season," Bellina said. "We were able to take care of busi­ness and play our best." 
Despite the critical win, the Belles still face two of their most challenging games this (18-2) Saturday. season. 

The Belles will play Calvin Contact Steve Coyer at (15-3) Wednesday and Hope scoyer@nd.edu 
THE 


BSERVER 
is currently accepting applications for the 2004-2005 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR ASST. MANAGING EDITOR BUSIN.ESS MANAGER 
Applications for Managing Editor and Any sophomore or junior business major Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate interested in. gaining valuable work strong journalistic and management skills. An experience is encouraged to apply for Business in-depth understanding ofnewspaper Manager. Applicants should be comfortable production, including skills in Microsoft Word, in a management position, demonstrate Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. strong organizational skills Experience with Macintosh and have a solid understanding of computers is helpful. accounting principles. 
An application for any ofthe above positions should be at least five pages · and explain the applicants qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and Business Manager applications are due by Thursday, Feb. 5 at 5 p.m. Submit all applications to Matt Lozar in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Matt Lazar and Andrew Soukup at 631-4542 or Business Manager Lori Lewalski at 631-5313. 


.:. 

Tuesday, February 3, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
• 

FIVES 
Due to the recent national decline of interest in Groundhog Day, Punxsutawney Phil falls bock on a publicity stunt proven to be effective... 
I COULD CRITICIZE 50MEONE ... NAH. I COULD HAVE A MEETING ... NAH. 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
~ 
11 
~ 
i 
e. 
~ ~ 
.,• " 
~ ~ 
0 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I'M REORGANIZING THE DE PARTMENTI 
EXCU5E ME 
WHILE I BEAT 
MY5ELF WITH 
MY KEYBOARD. 
JUMBLE 

J]~rnTIJR
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NADDY

(IJ I 
02004 Tribune Media Servlcea, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ORRAM 
1 

rJ In
tJOUFLY
J ()
www.Jumble.com 

I GLEFUN j
rII I I 
Answer: 

A "( I I I I )" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: CUBIC RAINY PAYOFF SPONGE Answer: What a bettor has to do when his horse loses the race-"PONY" UP 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHEN HE: WAS AC.QUIITE:O, THE: DE:FE:NDANT SAID 
HE: HAD--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 42 Speeder's bane 73 Burpee unit 1 Othello, for one 44 Wine label info 74 Not just words 5 Indian prince 45 Silk-producing 75 One taking a 
10 _no. (bank region gander info) 47 "Shake a leg!" 14 Helper 48 Baseball stat. DOWN 15 Like a gymnast 1 Cartographic 
49 Annual winter 16 Became tat-celebration products tered 2 Like unwashed
53 Sweater materi­

17 Trudge al hair, maybe 
18 King portrayer 56 Shelley's "_ 3 Scent on stage and Skylark" 4 Phone feature screen 
57 Goose pimples 5 Beam of light 20 Neighbor of 
producer 6 Lago contents 
Israel 
58 Fluster 7 Reject, as a 
22 Sailing 
beau 23 Suffix with hotel 
62 Looks at lustful­

ly a Priestly wear 24 Carte starter 
66 Possible com-9 Regarding this 26 Deceptive ment before an point 28 Spokesperson embarrassing 1oBarley bristle who liked "wild 
admission 

11 Like highway
hickory nuts" 69 Give marks to 
traffic markers 34 Co. with a plant 
70 Army NCO 12 Rural swimming 35 Tennis serving 71 Ventriloquist place whiz Bergen 13 Robe fabric 36 Brazilian dance 
72 Book before 19 Tall tales 40 State of mind Nehemiah 
21 Everybody 25 Petri dish filler ANSWER TO PREVIOUS -=PT:U-rZZ-:-LT:E':"1 27 Brit's exclama­tion -:+~;;;+;~ 28 Meddlesome heroine of an 1816 novel 29 Some streaking 
lights, briefly 30 Ardent love 31 Start of 
":i-:-t-::+=+:::-1 Caesar's boast 32 roses 33 Atlanta player ~:::+:::+::+.+:-t;::-117.-1 37 "Jeopardy!" cre­ator Griffin -=+=+:=+:::.! 38 Rum-soaked cake 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
64 Raison d'
-
43 Musical mark 55 Overcharge 46 Many a commis-59 Miami­
65 Burn
sioned artwork County­50 Served, as soup 
60 Winter Olympics 

67 Old Ford model
51 Unduly sport 52 "You have my 61 Quaint cry of support" horror 68 Mins. and mins. 

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-"888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Fran Tarkenton, Shelley Bennan, James Michener, Morgan Fairchild, Henry Heimlich, Paul Sarbanes, Kathleen Kinmont, Blythe 
Imler 

Happy Birthday: It's time to chill out and enjoy life. You need to be more accepting of the changes going on around you. You should consider picking up skills and knowledge that would help you understand a little better the high­tech world that you're living in. The more you acknowledge, the better you'll ooinihefuture. Ywrnlllrix:r.;: 15, 16,23,31,35,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel or educational pursuits will lead to romantic encounters. You will be in the mood to get out with friends; mental stirrulatirn will be neressary. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Minor health problems will plague you if you haven't taken the necessary precautions. Do not get involved in joint financial VEillUres oc lenl cash to friend; ocrelalives. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Travel and love will go hand-in-hand. You will enjoy exotic destinations that will contribute to the romantic mood that will engulfyoo. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Business opportunities must be taken advantage of. You can make professional changes if you wish. Your mental attitude will enhance ywrchaoces fer advana.nmt *** LEO (July 23-A~ 22): Rorrnntic CWJ11mities will <belqJ throJgh organizational activities. You can make financial gains through group ventures. Thre spent wilh childim will be rewarding. ***** . VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): New love connections will evolve through friends or relatives at family functions. Completing those decorating plans yoo've<h"eamrl cican beautify yrur lure. ***** UBRA(Sept 13-0d. 22): KiOOred relalicrmp; will unfold tlmJgh pleasure trips and/or sports activities. You will be in a passionate mood and quite a]je to use ywrchann to~ ywrown way. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 2..1-Nov. 21): Your original ideas for ways of making extra cash can pay off. You will be creative in your own pursuits. Doo't overspend on yrurlover. Put ihemney intoywrown lu;ioo;s. **** SAGfiTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be confused with regard to your financial situation. Refrain from spending on unnecessary items. Unforeseen lillsmay SUifare wl-tn least expocted. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Self-deception may be an issue today. Take time to re-evaluate as you may be judging your situation wrongly. One­sided rumntic infutuatirns are likery. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. :W..Feb-18): Steerclear cisecret affaiD; cr ~g involved in other people's problems. You should work quietly behind the scx:nes cr l:x!tter yet in ihe (liva:y ofyrur lure. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Co-workers may be difficult to get along with. Don't be naive. Someone you least expect may be after your job or just trying to get rid ofyoo. •••• 
Birthday Baby: You are a leader. You will be able to get your point across with ease and therefore build a following no matter what you pursue through­wt ywr life. Ywr a:nfidllt =andWliqll! awm;h to everything yoo oo will be OOminxl. 
NeedlKivice?'Ily Eugenia's Website at www.rugenialast.com 
..----------:-----------------:---------.-,-:-.,--,--,--------­
...... '. 

THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Tuesday, February 3, 2004 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Moving into the polls 
Five straight wins against ranked opponents gets No. 23 Irish to 13-7 
to beat all five of those "/give [the team] us to continue the ranked opponents and home streak but cer­
an A+ right now." 
now find themselves not tainly to get the win only nationally ranked, over the ranked team." 
Muffet McGraw 
but also in the hunt for McGraw said two of the Big East conference Irish coach the biggest reasons for 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles topple Olivef77-69 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
After seven straight losses against MIAA teams, the Belles needed an answer and fast. 
They finally put the question to rest. 
In a decisive 77-69 victory over Olivet College (7-13), the Belles (6-13) brought an end to their conference losing 

streak and received  a  timely  
confidence boost.  
The  Belles built  a  28-24  

halftime lead and played a consistent second half with an all-around team effort on their way to the win. 
When the starters for the Belles started to tire, the bench came through and con­tributed a total of 33 points. 
"The biggest positive to come out of our loss against Albion was the play of our bench," Bellina said. "The key is to get all 14 players on at the same time." 
see VICTORY/page 18 



CLUB SPORTS 
No jump start after Michigan State win 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

Twenty-seven days ago Notre Dame lost to Georgetown 76-73 to open up Big East play and d'ropped to an underachieving 7-6 and 0-1 in the Big East. 
With games against ranked foes such as Virginia Tech, Connecticut, Villanova, Miami and Boston College on the horizon, things were not going to get any easier for the Irish. But since then Notre Dame has rallied son. The Irish also have the most losses of any ranked team, but have been recognized for a strenuous schedule that has seen them post a 6­4 mark against top 25 opponents. 
That impressive record has also helped Notre Dame earn a No. 12 RPI rating. 
After Saturday's most recent victo­ry against a ranked foe, this time No. 23 Boston College, McGraw made a case for her team to be ranked. 
"I think we're a top 25 team," she 
said. "I think [the 
Boston College] win 
was very important for 
title. 

"1 give (the team] an A+ right now because I think if you looked at [our] schedule in the end of December and looked at what January was going to bring and to see six ranked teams on the sched­ule, and not a lot of easy games in between -every game was critical for us," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Notre Dame (13-7, 6-2) is ranked No. 23 in the latest poll and ·it is the first time the Irish have appeared in a poll since the third week of the sea-Notre Dame's improved 
play are defense and 

mental toughness. The Irish lead the Big East in scoring defense, allowing just 50.2 points in league games.· The team has also played more physically and mentally focused down the stretch during close games. 
"I think this team has grown tremendously throughout this season, and certainly from last year [with its mental toughness]." McGraw said. "I 
see RANKED/page 18 

Special to The Observer 
Men's Volleyball 
The Notre Dame men's club volleyball team defeated rival Michigan State Friday in East Lansing, Mich. at the Michigan State Invitational. Backed by strong serving from Nico Lopez and Mike Toomey, the Irish dom­inated the Spartans in every aspect of the game. Notre Dame jumped out to a quick two games to none lead in the best-of-5 match with scores of 2 5-17 and 25-18. After dropping the third game, 25-21, the Irish finished the match with a convincing 25­15 win. 
Top performances came from setter Brad Weldon, the third starting Irish setter in three tournaments, and freshman middle Joe O'Connell who played in his frrst regular season match­es. 
The Irish opened Saturday with a disappointing loss to 
Michigan 25-19, 25-15, 25-23. This lull extended into the next match again Miami of Ohio. The Irish won the first game 25-22 before dropping two games, 25­17, 25-20. However, the Irish never blinked and rallied from an 11 point deficit to win the fourth game, 26-24. In a see­saw deciding fifth game, the Irish fell just short, 15-13 
The Irish will next take the courts in two weeks at the Ball State Invitational. Figure Skating 
The Notre Dame figure skating team competed in the U.S. Figure Skating Association's Midwestern sectional last week­end. The Irish placed fifth among five schools. 1\vo varsity powers, Michigan and Michigan State claimed the top two posi­tions, followed by Illinois and Wisconsin in a very strong field. 
Despite the fifth place finish, 
see SKATING/page 18 
U) NBA 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

NFL 
NCAA BASKETBALl
NCAA BASEBALL 
1-u w 
UConn 84 
Texas Tech coach Bob

Shaquille O'Neal was sus-
City officials in 
Syracuse 54

Former team manager
Knight got into a verbal

pended after using obscene 
Cameron Matthews has 
Indianapolis are trying to
r:c ::5 z 
argument with a university

language and publicly criti-
Emeka Okafor had 25
become a baseball player for 
work out ways to reduce 
chancellor at a nearby gro­

cizing the officials during a 
Stanford. 

points in UConn's win
the cost of keeping the
c = 
eery store. 
television interview. 
over Syracuse.
Colts.
D. = ~ 
page 12

en 
page 12 
page 13 
page 15 

page 16 





