
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 34 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2004 
Safety proposal gets mixed reception 
Board of Trustees criticize SafeBus, applaud other measures 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
The Board of Trustees harshly questioned the timing, feasibility and logistics of student govern­ment's proposal to create a Notre Dame SafeBus Thursday, but acknowledged the importance of off-campus safety as an overarch­ing report theme and embraced some of the students' lesser initia­tives. 
The SafeBus idea -the corner­stone of a four-point proposal that also included off-campus security seminars, greater neighborhood involvement and the prospect of Notre Dame Security/Police extending its reach beyond cam­pus boundaries -should have been subjected to further student government review and Campus Life Council approval before it reached the Board's level, one trustee said. 
The Observer has a policy of not attributing information or quotes to specific members of the Board. 
"To ask the Trustees to step in first is certainly the cart before the horse," he said. . 
The presenters, student body president Adam Istvan, vice presi­dent Karla Bell and chief execu­tive assistant Dave Baron, should have also cleared the SafeBus plan with busing companies and asked the city of South Bend to take responsibility for liability concerns, another trustee said. 
"You may want to hit all those other parties before it comes to us," he said. 
Other trustees worried the SafeBus sounded too much like the various van line systems that failed at the University in the past. 
"I feel like thi'i idea kind of has a renaissance every 1 0 years," another trustee said, pointing out that when she attended Notre Dame, a saferide service died out because of sparse participation. 
"How many students would use it?" she asked. "Did you learn anything from the vanlines of the past?" 
Istvan said he had. 
"We don't want this to be another failed saferide," he said, 
see BOTIpage 6 
9/11 commissioner discusses report 
Tim Roemer explains investigation's results 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
In order to follow the example of the bipartisan Sept. 11 panel, Americans immersed in a red­state and blue-state mentality must overcome partisan politics to pressure the government into true intelligence reform, Tim Hoerner, a Democratic member of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States and a former House mem­ber from Indiana, said Thursday. 
Roemer, who holds an M.A. and Ph.D. from Notre Dame and rep­resented South Bend for 12 years in the U.S. House of Hepresentatives, urged the Jordan Auditorium audience to return to the unity felt during the tragic attacks' aftermath. 
"We've got a threat, and we need to act on it -that means all of Ameriea, not Republicans, not Democrats;" he said. "Duct tape and color codes have not worked particularly well. The American people are tough enough, smart 
see ROEMER/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Nolan to depart. in December 
SMC admissions director steps down after two decades 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
St. Mary's Editor 
In a move unrelated to the drop in enrollment at Saint Mary's, director of admissions Mary Pat Nolan has announced that she will leave the College in December, 
after 21 years in the posi­tion. 
"It has noth­ing to do with admissions or the budget," Nolan said. "It's entirely 

coincidental. Nolan I'm getting married, and my new husband lives in Philadelphia so I will be 
moving to be with him." 
College President Carol Mooney said a national search for Nolan's replacement is in the beginning stages, but there is still work to be done before it official­ly begins. 
"We have constituted a search committee and hired a consulting firm that has done a lot of work in filling enrollment management positions," Mooney said. "The search consultant will be on campus next week working with the search committee to craft a position description." 
Mooney said the search will begin soon thereafter. 
She also stressed the impor­tance of finding a person with experience in student recruit­ment, including admissions, financial aid, marketing and retention. 
"We will he looking for a per­son who is a leader and who is innovative," Mooney said. "It will 
see NOLAN/page 4 

Terror report offers policy suggestions 
By TRICIA de GROOT News Writer 
Since the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States, the country has been fighting a war again s t terrori's m . "The 9/11 Commission Report: The Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States" has run up the ranks of the best­seller list and in the midst of campaign season and become an essential piece of national literature. 
The report sheds light on many governmental prob­lems that could have hin­dered the prevention of and response to the terrorist attacks, and puts forth pro­posals on how best to adapt the bureaucracy to our changing world. 
The report identifies what is working as well and what needs improve­ment with the current 
seeREPORT/page 4 
Aura of tradition, mystery surrounds the Irish Guard 
Guardsmen take on a surprising
By BETH ERICKSON 
number of responsibilities. 
News Writer 
During the football season, the Guard practices every weeknight Though the Irish Guard's signa­with the Band of the Fighting ture marches and striking attire Irish, coordinating with band 
~ 
! are famous in the arena of college members to learn every new half­football, the "fraternity" of 10 has time routine, where they often retained a veil of mystery even in play a large role. the confines of the campus. On home game weekends, the 
'The purpose of the Guard is to Guard's duties begin on Friday lead the way for the band and to afternoon, when they 'step off' add a sense of prestige to the with the band on a march from band as a whole," senior the Dome to the practice field. Guardsman John Anderson said. They then preside over the pep 
The Irish Guard practices its distinctive In order to lend Notre Dame straight-backed, high-step march in September. football with this "prestige," the see GUARD/page 4 



page 2 
· INSIDE COLUMN 
Pop goes the collar 
Growing up as I did in the Midwest, I was completely unaccustomed to coastal fashion when I arrived in South Bend. After three years, though, I'm starting to notice a few 
trends on campus Nicole Zook 
that I just don't 
get to see at 
News 
home. Perhaps 
Production
the most interest­
Editor
ing of these is also 
the most irritating-the popped col­
lar. 
I just don't get it. Why do people do this to their shirts? Maybe they're blocking their necks from the sun, wind and rain. Maybe they're cold. Maybe they're hiding hickeys. Maybe I'm the only one who is missing out. 
Thinking back, I should have seen it coming. Fashion trends recycle, right? And in the 1800s, fashionable men starched their collars in order to wear the cravats that served as ties. The collar's points framed their faces. 
This fad simply never faded away on the East Coast, where prep-school etiquette required that young men sport starched coll~rs even on the weekends. It also appeared on the West Coast in the early 90s when hip­hop artists like MC Hammer told us to "pop ya collar." 
The popped collar is obviously a craze of the past. Why, then, is the J. Crew U.look so prevalent here, now? 
Fellow Observer staffer Kelly Meehan and I tried out the popped collar and asked our fellow students what they thought about it. While most agreed that it was fashionable, many said that the majority of collar­poppers are merely imitating those who have the right to pop. And when questioned, the general consensus was that this group consisted of upper-crust East Coasters who have been popping their whole lives. 

I won't go so far as to say that the only people who should wear the popped collar are preppy or wealthy. I don't necessarily believe that. Some of the coolest people in entertainment history flipped up their collars­think John Lennon, Lloyd Dobler in "Say Anything," Elvis, the Fonz, Michael Jackson in the "Bad" era, and even Alex P. Keaton. These were men who bravely popped where no men had popped before. They were the truly cool fashion trendsetters among the masses. 
But if you think about it, the stiff collar has been sported by many who should hav.e avoided it. Dracula, for one, is a prime example. Star Trek characters, the Bride of Frankenstein, even dogs who have had surgery all get a chance to flip their collars. 
My point to you is this: The more liberal American style.seems to get, the more and more the trendy attempt to reach back to steal fash­ions from the past. You cannot rein­vent something as classic as the polo shirt, nor is it always appropriate to try. How you dress should be a reflec­tion of who you really are. Don't let a fashion trend designate how you pres­ent yourself to the world. And most importantly, pop your collar responsi­bly. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editin~ error, the photo on page 22 of the Oct. 5 issue of The Observer was incorrecdy credited to Chuy Benitez. It shedd have been credited to Claire Kelley. Due to an editing error, the photo poll question for the Oct. 6 issue ofThe Observer was incorrect. It should have been "How do you rate Health Services?" 
Friday, October 8, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR SATURDAY'S FOOTBALL GAME? 



Matt Buckle Rob Dugas Stefanie Marshall Kachi Okoronkwo Michele Taets 
sophomore sophomore senior junior senior St. Ed's Siegfried Farley Walsh Badin 
"John Carlson "We will not "Hopefully we'll ..We will win. "28-21. Notre 
is going to force lose to an get to do a lot of Travis Thomas Dame. Go a fumble and inanimate-push-ups.·· will both play Irzs. h'". return it for a object., and dominate.·· 
Adrian Chiu 
sophomore Morrissey 
"ND shutout. " 



touchdown. Final score, ND 7· Stanford o. ". 


too of a large W with a cow­boy hat and a red slash after a bid $103.50. 
The 29-year-old mother of four said she placed her ad with an opening bid of a penny after seeing two oth­ers offering to sell head space for tattoos backing Democratic candidate John Kerry. 
"One wanted 10 grand and the other, $30,000," she said. "So I thought, that isn't right, to say you believe in some­thing and then charge $30,000. I thought that was audacious." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
OFFBEAT 
72-year-old man remarries first bride 
KUAlA LUMPUR, Malaysia -A Malaysian man has married for the 53rd time, tying the knot a second time with the first woman he wed. 
"I am not a playboy. I just love seeing beautiful women," said 72-year-old Kamaruddin Mohammed. 
In between marrying Khadijah Udin, in 1957 and again Monday, he married 51 times, including to an Englishwoman and a Thai. 
He stayed with the Thai the longest, for 20 years. His shortest marriage lasted two days. All his previous mar­except with the Thai woman, who died ofcancer, he said. 
riages  ended in  divorce  
TODAY  
0::  

"After she died I thought of Khadijah and sent several people to inquire. I didn't expect her to accept it," said Kamaruddin, who worked for several multinational companies before retiring in 1992. 
Check your head: Girl's poli­tics clear 
BEDFORD, Ind. -Kerra Fowler's opposition to President Bush has gone to her head, thanks to the high­est bidder. 
She offered up on eBay her shaved skull for an anti-Bush message and received a tat-
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

IN BRIEF 
SUB presents a screening of "The Terminal," staq-ing Tom Hanks and Catherine Zeta­Jones, tonight and Saturday at 8 and 10:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 
101. Tickets are $3. 
Randall Collins, professor of sociology from the University of Pennsylvania, presents "How Many People are Violent, and When? A Situational Theory" from 
12:30 to 2:30 p.m. today. He will speak in 119 O'Shaughnessy, and lunch will be provided. 
The campus debate watch for the second Bush-Kerry debate is tonight at 8 p.m. in DeBartolo 141. Refreshments will be provided. 

Dr. Robert Gwadz from the Laboratory of Malaria and Vector research lectures on ...Science as a Political Tool in a Troubled World" today from 
12:45 to 2 p.m. in the Galvin Auditorium. It is the inaugural lecture of the George B. Craig, Jr. Memorial Lecture Series. 
The Saturday Scholar Series continues with Professor George Marsden's lecture on "Another Kind of Founding Father: Jonathan Edwards and the American Heritage." Marsden will speak from 10 to 
11:30 a.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium before Saturday's game. 
MTV's Gideon Yago is speak­ing Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $2 in the LaFortune Box Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 

1.1.1 
X 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 
..J 
c:( 
0 0 


HIGH 72 HIGH HIGH HIGH 67
...I LOW 55 LOW LOW LOW 43 



Atlanta 74 I 56 Boston 72 I 56 Chicago 72 /54 Denver 69 /45 Houston 78 I 68 Los Angeles 82 I 61 Minneapolis 68 I SO New York 74 I 58 Philadelphia 76 I 57 Phoenix 96 I 70 Seattle 62 I 48 St. Louis 72 I 57 Tampa 87 I 70 Washington ao I 58 
• • • • -~ • ;a. • .............. • •~._._. • ••• •• ••--·=-'~-• ••.,.•• • ....... •• • •••a.• ••·•• • • • .... -;--• .,..•.,. • a ••·.a• • • a~"-._ 6 4 a• •• •-. •• .. ~ · --.. ., ._ :. .: ~ ..___ .., __ ".-.. • a.•-•-"-•-• ·.,,:: .......~ • ._..._,..,,-,_. ••.._.~_.; • ~ ......... • 

Friday, October 8, 2004 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND ghost featured 
on Travel Channel 
Special w The Observer 
Just in time for Halloween, Notre Dame's Washington Hall will be prominently featured in a television program titled "Haunted Campuses," scheduled to air this month and in December on The Travel Channel [local cable Channel 54]. Part of the net­work's "Weird Travels" series, the segment is set to air Oct. 24 and Dec. 18 at 9 
p.m. and midnight. 
A film crew visited cam­pus this spring to tape the program, which is likely to include interviews with University administrators, staff and students, as well as re-enactments of various legends and assorted cam­pus footage. 
Long fabled to be haunted (by the ghost of, among oth­ers, Notre Dame football great George Gipp), Washington Hall has set the stage for numerous ghost stories through the decades. These spooky tales have previously been featured in books. articles and other television programs. 

Yale scholar will lecture on campus 
Special to The Observer 

Father Gerhard Bower­ing, professor of Islamic studies at Yale University, will give the first three of this year's Erasmus Lectures in the University of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Center auditorium later this month. 
Father Bi:iwering's lec­tures have the collective title "Islam and 
Christianity: The Inner Dynamics of Two Cultures of Belief." 

He will speak on "Origins and Common Roots" at 5 p.m. Oct. 25, on "One God with Many Faces" at 5 p.m. Oct. 27 and on "Scripture and Tradition" at 4 p.m. Oct. 29. 
The series will be con­tinued in the spring semester. 
• 


~ ~~· 34:: 
'$(,*\~~ #20 Hockey CO Friday 1 0/8 
7:35PM 
Lilly Endowment donates grant 
Company gives University $3Mfor recruitment 
Special to The Observer 
Lilly Endowment Inc. has awarded a $3 million grant to Notre Dame as part of a $100 million program called the "Initiative to Recruit and Retain Intellectual Capital for Indiana Higher Education Institutions." 
Announced earlier this year, the initiative invited 37 Indiana public and private col­leges and universities to sub­mit proposals for attracting or ences and assist with other activities related to their teaching and research. A sec­ond part of the faculty compo­nent, the Lilly Endowment Collegiate Chairs, will provide a $50,000 fund each of the next three years to seven new young scholars for similar pro­fessional enhancement pur­poses. 
"We believe the significant incentives provided by the Lilly Fellows and Lilly Collegiate Chairs pro­

keeping the grams will do
"We are most 
brightest and much to help
appreciative to Lilly
most talented us attract and minds in the Endowment Inc. for retain excep­state. The tionally tal­
its support.,
amount for each grant is depend­ent on the insti­tutional enroll­ment. Notre Dame received the maximum offered under ment's guidelines. 
ented senior and young

Jeffrey Kantor 
scholars," vice president for graduate said Provost studies and research Nathan 
the endow­
Notre Dame will use the funds to recruit both new fac­ulty and graduate students. 

Within the faculty compo­nent, the University will award two Lilly Endowment Senior Fellowships each of the next three years to newly appointed senior faculty. The fellows will receive $75,000 to support their research infrastructure, make library purchases, attend professional confer-Hatch. 
"Lilly Endowment deserves consid­erable credit for establishing this innovative program, and we at Notre Dame are thankful for this generous grant." 
A second aspect of the grant will establish within the Graduate School the Lilly Endowment Fellowship pro­gram, components of which include: 
+ The recruitment of 25 doctoral students as Lilly Fellows each of the next three years, beginning in 2005. The 
funds will be used to support students during their studies toward a doctorate. 
+ 
The recruitment of 45 Lilly Endowment Presidential Fellows in the College of Arts and Letters. Funds will increase stipends for students in the existing Presidential Fellowships program, and extend suppurt to five years. 

+ 
The establishment of 30 Lilly Endowment Fellows in the Colleges of Science and Engineering. The funding will increase stipend levels of cur­rent research assistantships for four years of study, and increase the number of prize fellowships in the two col­leges. Special attention will be given to recruiting women and students from traditionally underrepresented groups. 



"We are most appreciative to Lilly Endowment Inc. for its support," said Jeffrey Kantor, vice president for graduate studies and research. "We believe the Lilly Endowment Fellowship program will bring to our region an exceptionally talented pool of advanced stu­dents who, in turn, will help us recruit exceptional faculty to the University. And, as they complete · their doctoral degrees at Notre Dame, the Lilly Fellows will add signifi­cantly to the talent pool avail­able to higher education and research driven economic development in Indiana." 
For further 
infonnation, 
please call 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 233-2131 


SUMMER . 
ENGINEERING PROGRAM 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND' 
Information Meeting: 
Monday, October ll, 2004 Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 24 for Summer 2005 
Apply on-line: www.nd.edU/-engineer/sumlon/apply.html 

Irish Sports this weekend.~. ~ 
• 
#9 Men's Soccer Sunday 10/1 0 
1PM 


vs. Minn.-Duluth vs.Syracuse 
FREE PIZZA &1st 700 students will 
First 250 fans to the game will 

receive a 2004 Hockey Puck Pound 
receive a stadium seat cushion 

• 
long sleeve t-shirt courtesy of Papa 
from Jimmy John's! 

John's! 

Friday, October 8, 2004 

page 4 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 

Report 
continued from page 1 
political arrangement. In what many point to as the report's most important development. it addresses the need to appoint a National Jntelligence Director. 
Currently, there is one mem­ber of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) who holds the position of Head of the CIA and Director of Central Intelligence. The 9/11 Commission Report criticizes the policy of giving one person both hats. 
According to the report, the solution to this problem lies in dividing these responsibilities between two people instead of one, and assigning the role of coordinating all intelligence from all different agencies to 
one appointed individual.  
The creation of this role  - 
often  referred  to  ask  a  
"national intelligence czar"  - 

is currently up for debate in Congress, leading to concerns over whether the issue will be resolved before Congress adjourns. 
Additionally, there is worry 


Guard 
continued from page 1 
rally that night. 
They rise earlier than even the most die-hard of Saturday tail­gaters to don the legendary Scottish plaid -a tradition inau­gurated during the 197 4 football season. It is literally a Guard trademark, as the pattern is offi­cially registered in Scotland as Notre Dame Plaid, said alumnus guardsman Mark Baumgartner. 
An hour and a half before kick­off. the Guard ushers the band onto the steps of Bond Hall for its morning concert, performing the time-honored Victory Clog and standing for inspection in front of the captain and Guardsmen alum. 
The Guard then leads a proces­sion across campus to Notre Dame stadium and onto the field. There, it performs the pre-game routine, halftime show and post­game ritual. which includes a repeat of the signature Victory Clog in the event of an Irish win. 
Although the Guard requires a lot of commitment, it is all worth­while, said Anderson. 
"My most memorable experi­ence on Guard was my first game, standing in the tunnel before we went onto the field and seeing the other team go into the locker room, and then leading the band onto the field," he said. 
From an alumni perspective, memories were perhaps a little more golden and glorious in 1977. 
"[My best memory] was stand­ing on the field in Texas at the Cotton Bowl after we beat Texas to win the National Championship my senior year," Baumgartner said. "Nothing beats that feel­ing." 
"It was fun, we took it seriously and despite what some people might think, we really cared that we represented the University. Not that we were always perfectly behaved young men out of uni­form. but I think we presented the right. mix of seriousness and fun." 
As for the current Guardsmen, that Congress will make mis­Therefore, although Bush to make sure the National takes in the rush to push the first opposed the report, he Intelligence Director is not a policy through this term. now embraces its proposals. political crony which you can 

"If Congress rushes ahead said Lindley. do, in part, by making sure with intelligence reform, with­In addition, according to appointments have to be con­out adequate time to review Kamman, "by in large, those firmed by the Senate." and debate its own proposals, who support Kerry support Kamman noted that the there could be nasty surprises the recommendations of the report was unique in that when it comes time to imple­Commission." members of both parties 
ment the reforms," Daniel "The key things the 9/11 agreed on many of its propos­Lindley, political science pro­Commission Report addresses als. fessor, said. are the ideas of "This is the best bipartisan Curtis changing the report that has come along for a long time," Kamman said.
Kamman, vis­..This is the best international 
iting political community and While its 516 pages might
bipartisan report that 
science profes­the issue [and] deter most students from sor. detailed has come along for a role of Iraq and delving into the fuH text, the opposi­long time ... Al-Quaida and Marth'a Merritt, associate tion's reason­whether or not director of the Kroc Institute, ing. Iraq was a part has incorporated the text into 
Curtis Kamman 
"The argu­of the terrorist her senior seminar class, ment of the professor network or "The Struggle for 
people who want to move ahead is that we have momentum and that people are still focused on the com­mission's findings. If you wait, you lose momentum, and it will be harder with a new Congress," Kamman said. 
Repercussions from this debate are affecting the presi­dential election as well. 
"Part of Bush's pi}ch is that he's a wartime president," said Lindley. 
meeting the Guard and posing for pictures with the kilted men. 
"There were a lot of parents with little kids who wanted us to pose for pictures and things like that," Baumgartner said. "We always, and I mean always, did those things and always tried our best to make sure fans under­stood our desire to make the University proud of us." 
Both then and now, the experi­ence of the Guard has forged tight bonds between its members. 
"It's awesome to be on the field on game day, but the best part is getting to know nine other guys and having a good time," Anderson said. 
And, like other alumni, they've stayed close throughout the years. 
"Even when I come back for a game, it is still the same thing, even if we don't know each other all that well, we are part of this brotherhood," Baumgartner said. 
As for the biggest mystery shrouding the Guard's supposedly breezy attire, Anderson declined to comment. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
not," Kamman Accountability." 
said. "The 9/11 Commission 
If the position of National Report is an important, fresh Intelligence Director is incor­example of the kind of scruti­porated into the current gov­ny, analysis, and recommen­ernment structure, it brings dation that make democratic up the question of how the societies distinctive," Merritt current intelligence agencies said. "This particular docu­and other governmental fig­ment shows the important ures will treat this appointee. role the public plays in bring­
"Will the old, hard to reform ing pressure to bear once rec­intelligence bureaucracies. ommendations are made." like the FBI, play nicely with the NID, or resist its authori­Contact Tricia De Groot at ty?" Lindley said. " ... We want pdegroot@nd.edu 
Debate Watch 
b~, October 8, ac 8 
141 DBRW 


efreshments prowlld 


Nolan 
continued from page 1 
also be important for us to find someone with a track record of success in recruiting a diverse student body." 
There will be some new responsibilities for whoever is hired. 
"It appears likely that our financial aid office will report to the new person," Mooney said. "The experience of other small colleges indicates that having both admissions and financial aid in the same division is very bene­ficial." 
Looking past the downside of Nolan's departure. Mooney said she believes it opens new doors for both Nolan and The College. 
"Mary Pat Nolan has provided the College with many years of wonderful service, and we will miss her greatly," Mooney said. "But, this change also provides us with the opportunity to reex­amine our structures and the responsibilities associated with student enrollment and see how we might improve them." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

scudentst Frllends and· Fam Watch che second 
Baumgartner said this rule still holds true. 
Preslldentllal Debace coae-th•r
"[They're a] great bunch of . .. guys," he said. · The Guard has always repre­
~me, i:he audience asks che qUest : sented eminence and tradition to campus visitors. who delight in 

Friday, October 8, 2004 COJ\1PllED FROJ\1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Explosions near Egypt-Israeli border 
CAIRO, Egypt -Three explosions shook popular resorts on Egypt's Sinai Peninsula on Thursday night as many Israelis vacationed at the close of a Jewish holiday. Officials said at least 30 people were killed and 114 wounded, and witnesses gave unconfirmed reports that all three explosions were caused by car bombs. 
The first blast, about 10 p.m., shook the Hilton hotel in the Taba resort, only yards from the Israeli border, and Israel's army radio quoted Israeli security officials as say­ing they were convinced it was a car bomb. 
"The whole front of the hotel has collapsed. There are dozens of people on the floor, lots of blood. It is very tense," witness Yigal Vakni told Israel's Army Radio. "I am standing out­side of the hotel, the whole thing is burning and they have nothing to put it out with." 
New leader in world child mortality 
UNITED NATIONS -In Sierra Leone, one in four children dies before age 5. In Iraq, one in 10 does not make it to a fifth birthday. Across the globe, poor care for newborns, malnutri­tion, malaria, diarrhea and measles snuff out lives of the very young, according to a U.N. report released Friday. 
The United Nations Children's Fund reported "alarmingly slow progress on reducing child deaths" -one in 12 children worldwide does not live to age 5,-with half of all those deaths occurring in sub-Saharan Africa. 
"It is incredible that in an age of technologi­cal and medical marvels, child survival is so tenuous in so many places, especially for the poor and marginalized," UNICEF director Carol Bellamy said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Singer arrested at airport 
NEW YORK -The lead singer of the rock band Incubus was arrested for a carrying a switchblade in his bag while trying to board a plane on his way to a concert in North Carolina. 
Brandon Boyd, 28, was stopped Wednesday at LaGuardia Airport when baggage screeners spotted the knife in his carry-on luggage, said Lou Martinez, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the airport. 
Boyd was charged with criminal possession of a weapon but was able to continue on to Raleigh, N.C., in time for the concert, said a spokeswoman for the band's label. Epic Records. 
Corporate tax bill debated 
WASHINGTON -The House moved toward passage Thursday of the most sweeping rewrite of corporate tax law in nearly two decades, a measure designed to end a nasty trade war with Europe and $136 billion in new tax breaks on businesses, farmers and other groups. 
Supporters argued that the centerpiece of the legislation -tax relief for American factories ­was critically needed to aid beleaguered manu­facturers who have suffered 2.7 million lostjobs over the past four years. 
But opponents charged that the tax package had grown into a massive giveaway that will add to the complexity of the tax system and end up rewarding multinational companies that move jobs overseas. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police officer shoots Elkhart man 
ELKHART, Ind. -A city police offic~r fatally shot a 68-year-old man while serving a war­rant at a downtown apartment, police said. 
The man was taken to Elkhart General Hospital, shortly after 9:30 p.m. Wednesday. 
Police said the man died at the hospital. 
Indiana State Police were called in to inves­tigate the shooting. 
Police initially reported no details of the shooting, other than to acknowledge it was "officer-involved" -an officer had fired the shot. 
Officers were at the building serving a search warrant, police said. 


Rockets slam-into Baghdad. hotel 
Three strong explosions hit Sheraton hotel where many Westerners resided 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Rockets struck a Baghdad 
hotel housing foreign con­
tractors and journalists late 
Thursday, drawing return 
fire and underscoring the 
precarious security in the 
heart of the Iraqi capital. 
Outside Baghdad, roadside 
bombings killed two more 
American soldiers. 
More scattered explo­
sions reverberated through 
the heart of the Iraqi capi­
tal around midnight, but it 
wasn't known what caused · 
the blasts or if there were 
any casualties. 
The rocket attacks came 
as an aide to radical Shiite 
cleric Muqtada al-Sadr 
offered to disarm his Mahdi 
Army militia in a move that 
could bring an end to 
weeks of fighting in 
Baghdad's Shiite district 
Sadr City. The government 
cautiously welcomed the 
offer and suggested other 
militant groups also lay 
down their arms. 
Three Katyusha rockets slammed into the Sheraton hotel, the Interior Ministry said, triggering thunderous explosions, shattering win­dows and setting off small fires. Dazed guests, includ­ing Western journalists, contractors and a bride and groom on their wedding night stumbled to safety rockets were fired from the insurgent stronghold the end of January. Some through the smoke and back of a minibus parked Fallujah. U.S. military officials have debris. near Firdous Square, Earlier, in the capital, a ~xpressed doubt tha.t bal­
"I made a mistake by ·where jubilant crowds mortar shell exploded in loting can be held in all booking at the Sheraton," hauled down a statue of the U.S.-controlled Green parts of the country. said Hayer Abdul Zahra, Saddam Hussein on April9, Zone across the Tigris In an effort to restore holding his shivering bride 2003, marking the fall of River from the hotel com­order, the government of under his arm. "I knew the capital to American pound. There was no Prime Minister Ayad Allawi something like this would forces. report of damage or casu­has been talking with rep­happen." A fourth rocket blew up alties. resentatives from insur­
There were no deaths or inside the vehicle, he said, U.S. authorities raised a gency hotspots, including serious injuries, Iraqi offi­as security guards respond-· security alert in the Green the radical Shiite strong­cials said. ed with ear-shattering vol­Zone after an improvised hold Sadr City in the north­
The hotels, which have leys of automatic weapons bomb was found in front of east of the capital. been targeted by rockets and machine gun fire. a restaurant there on Late Thursday, a and mortars before, stand "It was a shattering Tuesday. A U.S. military spokesman for al-Sadr, the as symbols.of continued explosion, a crack and then ordnance detachment safe­militant Shiite leader, 
U.S. and Western domi­a massive, massive thud," ly disarmed the device, U.S. offered to hand over medi­nance in Iraq despite the said John Cookson of Fox officials said. um and heavy weapons formal handover of power News, which maintains an American and Iraqi and cooperate with Iraqi to an interim Iraqi govern­office in the Sheraton. "The authorities are trying to security forces if the gov­ment June 28. whole room shook." curb the growing insur­ernment will stop pursuing 
Interior Ministry Late Thursday, residents gency in Baghdad and else­militia members and spokesman Col. Adnan reported strong explosions where in order for national release the cleric's follow­Abdul-Rahman said the northwest of the Sunni elections to take place by ers in detention. 

Schools warned about terrorist threats 
faculty staff and other community mate on their own -but may sug­
Associated Press 
members," Deputy Education gest a threat if many of them occur. WASHINGTON -The Education Secretary Eugene Hickok said in a Among those activities: Department is advising school lead­letter sent Wednesday to schools and + Interest in obtaining site plans education groups. for schools, bus routes and atten­
ers nationwide to watch for people spying on their buildings or buses to The advice is based on lessons dance-lists. help detect any possibility of terror­learned from the Russia siege. But + Prolonged "static surveillance" 
ism like the deadly school siege in there is no specific information indi­by people disguised as panhandlers, cating a terrorist threat to any shoe shiners, newspaper or flower
Russia. The warning follows an analysis by schools or universities in the United vendors or street sweepers not previ­States, Hickok said. ously seen in the area.
the FBI and the Homeland Security 
Federal law enforcement officials + Observations of security drills. 
Department of the siege that killed 
nearly 340 people, many of them stu­also have urged local police to stay in + People staring at or quickly look­dents, in the city of Beslan last contact with school officials and have ing away from employees or vehicles encouraged reporting of suspicious as they enter or leave parking areas.
month. 

activities, the letter says. + Foot surveillance of campuses
"The horror of this attack may have 
involving individuals working togeth­

created significant anxiety in our own In particular, schools were told to 
country among parents, students, watch for activities that may be legiti-er. 


Friday, October 8, 2004

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
CALLING ALL STUDENTS... 
" 


WE ARE NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006. 
BRING YOUR PARENTS INTO OUR LEASING CENTER THIS WEEKEND FOR A TOUR. 
FREE ADMISSION & UVE ENTERTAINMENT PAPERWORK CAN BE FILLED OUT AND YOU CAN 
with food, drink, spirit beads, t-shirts, and more available! SECURE YOUR APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR ON THE SPOT! 
Also available are apartments for SPRING SEMESTER lease terms. Please call, stop by, or email the Leasing Center for details . 
. -a­
i' Help us paint \;he to~n greell!

~~ 
\

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
to/a tnus End up 
~D)[j~

574-272-8124 
:fj[];
0 • :>
. .

iirtf@@l\Wl!l~®)W 
SOUTH 81ND 

.. WWW'.llWtQ~QMl. 
can't do that,'' he said. "You're asking the campus to oversee
BOT 
something and ignore something continued from page 1 it can't ignore ... There is no way 
that I would endorse a bus that adding that previous services says if a student gets on a bus ­were difficult to maintain because underage [or] overage-intoxi­they were student-run -an issue cated, that I would turn a blind he proposed to solve by hiring a eye to it." trained, uniformed monitor to The bus's proposed route, supervise the bus. which would be traveled every 
"This time, people will be paid Saturday and Sunday morning to do it, so there will be more from 1 a.m. to 4 a.m., was also a accountability," Istvan said. point ofcontention. 
But fmding those people could Several trustees pressed Istvan be difficult, another trustee point­on his promise that the bus would ed out. not become a way for students to 
"You have to keep in mind that get to parties, but would solely be you have a group of people that used for returning home. aren't in their best moment," she "You want to protect students said, recalling fights and vomiting coming back -[but] it's just as that took place aboard other vans dangerous going there," one and buses. "Students are at their trustee said, adding that the 
worst  ...  it takes  SafeBus would "put  
some unusual peo­ the University in  
ple to handle that." And if those peo­ple are University employees, the situ­ "'You "re asking the campus to oversee something and  the middle of encouraging .stu­dents to go off­campus and party."  
ation becomes even more complex. the first trustee said.  ignore something it can "t ignore.··  "The route is set up as party-hop­ping," another  
Since  Notre  trustee said.  
Dame staffers are  . unnamed trustee  The presenters  
prohibited from tol­ defended the route  
erating underage  and stressed that  

drinking when they observe it, rules of the bus would be well­putting NDSP in charge of the bus publicized to students. Certain as the report suggested would stops will only allow students to inevitably lead to conflicts and get on the bus, Istvan said. perhaps to ticketing, he said. He added that he, Bell and 
Considering the tragedies that Baron had not approached the have occurred when students Board expecting a ringing were walking back to Notre endorsement. Dame, the University should take "Our idea was not to have you a reasonable amount of underage approve [the SafeBus]," he said. drinking into context, Istvan said. "Our idea was to make this a pri­Slightly intoxicated students are ority -we want no one left often given leeway in on-campus behind." locations like Reekers and The priority of student safety LaFortune, Baron added. was never disputed, one trustee 
"If they are visibly and horren­said. dously intoxicated, then [discipli­"We endorse that concept, but nary] action will be taken," he if SafeBus is the way to do it is said. what we're questioning," he said. 
The trustee remained uncon­The Board also largely brushed vinced. off South Bend Mayor Stephen "Do you know what you're ask­Luecke's public support for the ing the University to do? They project, saying that the mayor 


gested topics under the off-cam­pus safety heading," he said. "We got three out of four." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
to connecting the dots . . . but we couldn't draw them together," he said. "Intelligence was like pre­cious pearls -too precious to share." · 
A direotor with the budgetary power to ensure sharing is essen­tial, Roemer said -but not under the title that has thus far been popular with the press. 
"You don't create a czar, that's the last thing he should be called," the former Congressman said. "We need to create some­body with responsibility and accountability that can create a bridge between overseas and our country." 
That scenario would be much improved from the current one, he added. · If intelligence is not streamlined through the bureaucracy, Roemer said, our government will contin­ue to be "an elephant chasing a snake." 
Roemer was also critical of Congress. 
''It they can't fix themselves, they have a have a hard time telling FBI and the CIA to fix their own problems," he said. 
Recalling the story of Flight 93 -which, due to the heroism of its passengers, crashed in a field in Pennsylvania, not into a national landmark in Washington -Roemer called those aboard "the first patriots and heroes of the war on terror." 
"They did that for us -·now what can we do?" he asked. "It takes a lot of tenacity and courage to get change . . . We had such a great unity of spirit. unity of purpose, unity of values on September 11 and right after ­and now we can have it back if we want it." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

would naturally be eager to have the University instead of the city assume liability for off-campus partiers. 
However, the Board praised the officers' other initiatives for pro­moting off-campus security, espe­cially Istvan's goal to create "neighborhoods ofrespect." 
"It's not about [our neighbors] knowing us," Istvan said. "If we know them, we can be more con­scious and respectful." 
Along with student involvement on neighborhood boards, the off­campus seminar was also enthu­siastically embraced by the Board. Requiring mandatory seminar participation for all stu­dents moving off-campus would not be out of the question, he said. 
He concluded his remarks with the observation that collaboration between student government and NDSP to create a comprehensive plan for off-campus protection was also a valid goal. 
··we should have clarity and thoroughness in how we deal with security off-campus,'' the trustee said. "But relative to the bus, lots of legitimate concerns were raised ... [you should] throw that back in for more thorough 
vetting." · Istvan, Bell and Baron said they planned to do just that. 
''They didn't say no," Istvan said. "In fact, he said yes to look­ing into it. That's not a 'yes, it will exist,' but it's a 'yes, we should pursue it."' 
Following the advice of the Board, the three will now pursue the SafeBus plan through Student Senate and the CLC, Baron said. When asked why the student leaders didn't follow that route in the first place, Baron minimized· SafeBus' role in the overall report. . 
"Safe Bus was one of many sug­

Roemer 
continued from page 1 
enough to be involved and com­mitted to [their own security.]" 
A principal author of the legis­lation that created the National Commission on Terrorist Acts Upon the United States, Roemer highlighted the four failures id{m­tified in the report: a failure of imagination, in which the intelli­gence community did not assess the possibility of attacks within the United States' borders; a fail­ure of management, in which the director of the Central Intelligence Agency lacked the budgetary authority to be effec­tive; a failure of capabilities, in which military options were con­fmed to a cold-war mentality; and a failure of policy, in which nei­ther the Clinton nor Bush admin­istration put terrorism as its top priority. 
Instead of using a "heads will roll" mindset to compensate for these failures, Roemer said the commission -aimed for creating a global strategy to win the war on terror. 
And he is sure that America's resources -especially military, education and economic assis­tance-are up to the task. 
"We need to use all the arrows in our quiver of American power and resources," Roemer said, " ... to convince the Arab and Muslim world that we will not tolerate [their religion] being twisted." 
Another major recommenda­tion of the commission, which included five Democrats and five Republicans, was that the govern­ment create a cabinet-level national intelligence director, Roemer said. 
"Too many times, we were close 
7pm .. 10pm 
every ND home game Friday at the new plaza north of the Chocolate Cafe in Downtown South Bend 
Do JVJ\!1' ... 0 Jv Jv 

ICV22 ~Alert ll/12 ~Guert to he Announced 


Friday, October 8, 2004 

page 7 


MARKET RECAP 
Dow

Jones 10,125.40 -114.52 
-'[.\ Same: ~: Composne Volume; 879 I63 • I,445,241,088 
AMEX 1,~78.50· -1129 NASDAQ 1,948.52 -22.51 NYSf 6,654.22 -63.21 S&PSOO 1,130.65 -11.40 NIKKB(Tokyo). 11,354.59. 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 4,698. 70 +7.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRQ +3.36 +0.13 4.01 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.52 +0.11 21.2· 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.41 +0.05 12.2' 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.05 -0.40 19.r: 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.26 -0.36 28.1" 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.56 -+0.28 49.9E I0-YEAR NOTE +0.47 +0.20 42.4~ 5-YEAA NOTE + 1.29 +0.45 35.24 3-MONTH BILL -0.11 -0.11 16.62 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.65  52.6/  
GOLD ($rrroy oz.)  -0.50  419.5(  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.3 5  96.62~  
·  Excha  e Rates  
YEN  I I 1.1800  
EURO  0.8128  
POUND  0.5609  
CANADIAN$  1.2595  


IN BRIEF 
AT&T expands job cut plan 
NEW YORK -AT&T Corp. announced 
Thursday that it is cutting at least 7,500 more 
jobs and slashing the value of its assets by 
$11.4 billion, drastic moves prompted by the 
company's plan to retreat from the traditional 
consumer telephone business. 
The company now plans to shrink its work 
force by more than a fifth, or about 12,500 jobs, 
during 2004 -up from a previous target of 
about 4,900 jobs. 
Severance costs and other expenses related to 
the job cuts will reduce third-quarter earnings 
by $1.1 billion, the company said. 
The asset writedown of $11.4 billion amounts 
to about a quarter of the company's assets, and 
reflects the reduced value of AT&T's network 
now that it will be carrying less consumer voice 
traffic. 
"In response to recent regulatory develop­ments and a highly competitive market. we have made some tough decisions to reduce our work force and cut costs," said AT&T chairman and chief executive Dave Dorman. 
Eyeglass make~ moving to Cincinnati , 
TWINSBURG, OhiO -The new parent compa­ny of eyeglass retailer Cole National Corp. said Wednesday it plans to shift Cole's 800-employee administrative and service operations center from suburban Cleveland to the Cincinnati area. 
Italian eyeglass maker Luxottica Group SPA completed its $495 million takeover Tuesday of Cleveland-based Cole, which operated the Pearle Vision retail chain and eyeglass opera­tions in Sears, BJ's and Target stores. 
"Luxottica Group will fully integrate its North American retail division and Cole National into one business," the company said. 
Luxottica said many of the affected employees would be offered jobs at its Cincinnati-area location but had no figures. 
"We're looking to move as many as possible," spokesman Luca Biondolillo said by phone from Milan, Italy. 
Twinsburg Mayor Katherine Procop said she has begun a search for a new corporate tenant for Cole National's 170,000 square feet of office space. The operation generated about $640,000, or more than 3.5 percent. of Twinsburg's annual $17.5 million in income taxes, she said. 






Microsoft to unveil new updates 
PC industry to expand into the living room with the appeal of digital media 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. ­
Efforts by Microsoft Corp. 
and the PC industry to 
expand into to the living 
room will get a boost next 
week as they show off 
technologies that try to 
balance Hollywood's piracy 
fears with the appeal of 
digital media. 
In Los Angeles, Microsoft 
is expected to unveil 
Windows Media Center 
Edition 2005 for entertain­
ment computers as well as 
other software and gadgets 
that seek to simplify shar­
ing video and music while 
enforcing copyrights. 
Separately but not coin­
cidentally, Intel Corp. will 
be in New York showing off 
prototypes for entertain­
ment PCs. 

The industry is touting 
such systems as the best 
example yet of the PC's 
convergence with couch­
centric diversions -a goal 
that has so far proven elu­
sive despite repeated 
attempts. 

This time, the stars may be aligning for success: Hollywood is opening its vaults of songs and movies to digital distribution. The hardware· is better and cheaper. And new software makes using an entertain­ment PC as easy as clicking a remote control. ing manager. ation of Windows XP people had to use software 
The high-performance But it remains to be seen Professional that includes that also wasn't designed computer systems being· how easy it will be to use software for playing or to be managed with a unveiled next week prom­devices that incorporate recording video, music and remote control. And TV ise to serve music, pic­the new technologies par­other media from a dis­picture quality also wasn't tures, video and live televi­ticularly as they juggle tance using a remote con­up to snuff. sion to stereos, TV sets and user friendliness with trol. The new version, code­other displays. Hollywood's determination Since the Media Center named Symphony, is 
Depending on the setup, to prevent unauthorized was introduced in 2002, expected to address many the PCs also can support copying of intellectual Microsoft has been trying of those concerns. high-definition digital TV, property. to supplant the home Microsoft declined to com­multiple analog TV "You can put a lot of stereo center, incorporat­ment on any of the streams, radio and other things down in words and ing the functions of a DVD announcements. content. on paper," said Phil Leigh, player, digital VCR, stereo Through computer speci­
They also will allow senior analyst at Inside and TV into a single PC. fications disclosed by PC sharing over home net­Digital Media. "But the But the first generations vendors and announce­works and with portable devil is in the details -suffered from some annoy­ments from hardware devices. and whether or not it's a ing quirks that reminded makers and others, howev­
"Consumers don't want successful product or a users they were still using er, it's clear the software to be tethered down to a Frankenstein." PCs. There were times, for giant will be incorporating specific place in the home At the forefront of instance, that users were such long-awaited features where they have to enjoy Microsoft's announcement left reaching for a key­as support for two TV their content," said will be Windows Media board to clear an error tuners so a live program Rebecca Brown. Intel's Center Edition 2005. an message. can be watched while consumer desktop market-update to an existing vari-To burn a song to a CD. another is recorded. 

More companies offering same-sex benefits 
could lead to legal challenges to same­Ford Motor Co. workers are enrolled
Associated Pn:ss 
sex benefits at municipal employers or in the automaker's health care pro­
DETROIT -After initially lagging universities. gram for domestic partners. The com­behind companies in other states, a Some companies are going beyond pany had anticipated about 1,600 growing number of Michigan employ­basic health care benefits, offering would sign up when Ford, General ers now are offering same-sex domes­dental, life insurance, bereavement Motors Corp. and DaimlerChrysler AG tic partner benefits. leave and other benefits to its gay, les­introduced same-sex benefits in 2000. 
About 55 Detroit area employers -bian, bisexual and transgender Participation rates are low for a including private companies, govern­employees and their families. variety of reasons. Some couples ment agencies and nonprofits -now "If we offer it for spouses, we also choose to receive benefits through offer same-sex benefits, up from just a offer it for same-sex· domestic part­their individual employers. Others handful in 1997, according to the ners." Dan Smith, senior vice presi­don't want the additional tax burden. Human Rights Campaign, a dent of human resources for Ann. Because gay relationships are not rec­Washington-based gay advocacy Arbor-based Borders Group Inc., told ognized by the federal or state govern­group. The Detroit News for a Thursday ment, couples generally have to pay 
But the issue remains a hot topic. story. taxes oh these benefits. Employees Michigan's Nov. 2 ballot includes a But employee participation by same­also may have concerns about expos­proposal that could ban gay marriage, sex couples in Michigan has been lim­ing their sexual orientation in the and some workers worry its passage ited. Only 250 hourly and salaried workplace. 
Friday, October 8, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AFGHANISTAN 

Rocket hits Kabul the day before elections 

Associated Press 
KABUL -A rocket slammed into the Afghan capital near the 
U.S. 
Embassy and other diplomat­ic missions early Friday, a day before landmark elections. All 

U.S. 
embassy staff were ordered to briefly take cover in an under­ground bunker. 


The rocket hit a parking lot near a media accreditation center for the elections, causing no dam­age or casualties, said Lt. Commander Ken MacKillop, a spokesman for international peacekeepers. 
He said peacekeepers suspect­ed a second rocket may have hit nearby, but no impact site 
was found. "We are alert praised his peo­"We are ple for embrac­
and investigating.··
alert and ing the elec­investigat­tions, despite 
ing," he said. Lt. Commander Ken MacKIIIop the recent Heavily­spokesman for International bloodshed. He armed U.S. peacekeepers acknowledged 
and Afghan troops sealed off the roads leading to the diplo­matic area. 
Beth Lee. a spokeswoman for the U.S. embassy, said all staff had been ordered to take cover in an underground bunker as a pre­caution. A senior U.S. official in Washington said embassy staff were allowed out of the bunkers a short time later. 
The blast shattered a relatively calm lead-up to Saturday's vote, at least in the capital. It was loud enough to shake windows and rouse people from bed. 
The headquarters for the 9,000-strong NATO-led International Security Assistance Force is also close to the U.S. Embassy, as are the German and Pakistani missions. 
It was the first apparent attack in Kabul since August 28, when a huge car bomb outside a private 
U.S. security firm killed 10 people -three of them Americans. The Americans were helping train anti-narcotics police. 
Taliban and ai-Qaida rebels have kept up a steady stream of attacks throughout Afghanistan since campaigning for the election began Sept. 7, but they have so far failed to launch the type of high-impact assault that might derail the vote. 
Afghanistan's Interior Minister Ali Ahmad Jalali said Thursday that Afghan forces had thwarted at least 20 attacks and arrested more than 100 people since the start of the campaign, but that the rebels had managed more than 60 rocket or bomb attacks during the period, most in the provinces. 
He put the death toll at more than 60 -including 15 civilians, 19 security forces and 30 suspect­ed rebels. Six Afghan troops were taken hostage. 
In addition to rebel violence, drug smugglers are believed to be posing an increasingly large threat to the country's stability. 
Jalali said drug traffickers, not the Taliban, were responsible for an attack Wednesday on interim leader Hamid Karzai's vice presi­dential running mate, Ahmed Zia Massood. · 
One person was killed and five others wounded in the bombing, including the former governor of Badakhshan. a mountainous northeastern poppy-growing region. Massood was unhurt. 
Jalali said "the evidence shows that it was the work of drug smugglers, because this process [the election] is against their interests." 
The attack was the third against Karzai and his political allies since campaigning began. The president survived a rocket assault on his helicopter on Sept. 16 in the eastern city of Gardez, and one of his four current vice presidents survived a bomb attack four days later. The Taliban was suspected in those attacks. 
During the last major political event in Kabul, the loya jirga, or grand council, in December and January, militants frred a series of rockets on the city, though there were no casualties. 
Karzai on 
Thursday 
problems of 
rebel violence and warlord intimidation -even some being carried out in his name -but said Afghanistan could not wait forever to hold its vote. 
"No election in the world is free of tension ... we all know that," Karzai said in an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. "Afghanistan will not be an exception." 
GERMANY 


U.S. troop finishes extended duty 


Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is 
to know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report provides insight you can't get anywhere else. For only $45.95 receive 21 comprehensive issues, published weekly during the football season, monthly after the season. In addition, our annual 
n.t•IIGI!ln INtiloll -Plf.Uf IllSII

Notre Dame Football Preview is included. Irish Sports .,. ........_­
~ 

Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports fans. 
Associated Press 

WIESBADEN -Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz welcomed the 
U.S. Army's 1st Armored Division back to its German base Thursday after an extended, 15-month tour of duty in Iraq, joining with soldiers to pay tribute to 130 comrades killed in the Middle East. 
Soldiers representing the division's individual battal­ions, brigades and compa­nies lined up in full battle gear, helmets and de~ert fatigues as the homecoming ceremony opened with a 15-gun salute for Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, the head 
of V Corps and formerly the top military commander in Iraq. 
Wolfowitz greeted the sol­diers and their relatives with a message of welcome from President Bush. 
"Our country is proud of your service and I am proud to be your commander in chief," Bush's letter said. · 
The division's troops returned by the end of July and many immediately went on leave. leading to the delayed welcoming ceremony. After a year in Iraq, their tour was extended by three months to help deal with rising violence. 
Eight 1st Armored Division soldiers based in the town of Baumholder were killed in a single attack near Baghdad on April 29. The division was sup­posed to have begun returning home by then, and the exten­sion was a difficult time for service members and families. 
•1 Sports Jar it1 South Jet1d 2046 South Jet1d Ave ... Across frot\t Martit1s Plaza 272...1766 NP Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
"'G-reat Food, G-reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football& Specials startit1g at ~1.0 Tues: College Night ... PJ 6--Specials Wed: TRIVIA Night ... Jrit1g your teatMs ... Prizes Thurs: PJ ... First Thursday every t\tOt1th: Jazzy G-rass Fri: Live Et1tertait1t11et1t Sat: NP gat\tes 


Friday, October 8, 2004 
CoMPILED FROM THr OBSERVER'S vVIRF SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Bush says _rival is .misleading 
WAUSAU, Wis. -· President Bush on 
Thursday accused Sen. John Kerry of mislead­
ing Americans, trying to turn the tables on the 
Democrat who argues that the commander in 
chief has not been candid with the nation 
about Iraq and the economy. 
Responding to Kerry's criticism just hours 
earlier, the Republican incumbent described 
his rival's words as "overheated rhetoric." 
Bush dismissed the Democrat's complaint that 
the administration exaggerated its main 
rationale for war -weapons of mass destruc­
tion -and was shifting to another explana­
tion. 
Bush citing comments Kerry made in 
October 2002 when the four-term 
Massachusetts senator voted for the congres­
sional resolution authorizing the use of force 
in Iraq. 
"Now today, my opponent tried to say I made 
up reasons to go to war," Bush said to boos 
from his friendly audience. "Just who's the one 
trying to mislead the American people?" 
Bush did not mention the final report from 
the chief U.S. weapons hunter in Iraq, who 
concluded that Saddam Hussein's weapons 
programs had deteriorated before the U.S.-led 
invasion that toppled his regime. Bush 
addressed the report before leaving 
Washington, telling reporters he was "right to 
take action" in Iraq. 
Kerry assails Bush on Iraq 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -Sen. John Kerry said Thursday that President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have failed to recognize a deteriorating situation in postwar Iraq and­"may well be the last two people on the planet who won't face the truth." 
In his strongest statement yet, the Democratic presidential nominee said if Bush fails to recognize the severity of problems in Iraq, the situation could become as chaotic as the Middle East was in the early 1980s. 
"If the president just does more of the same every day and it continues to deteriorate, I may be handed Lebanon, figuratively speak­ing," Kerry said at a brief news conference. 
The Lebanese civil war, which lasted from 1975-1990, killed more than 150,000 people and devastated the capital of Beirut, once called the "Paris of the Middle East." 
In 1983, suicide attacks against the U.S. Embassy in Lebanon killed 63 people, and the bombing of U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut six months later killed 241 servicemen. Dozens of Westerners were taken hostage during that period, and President Reagan ordered U.S. troops to withdraw from Lebanon a few months after the Marine bombing. 
Kerry also spoke the day after Charles Duelfer, the U.S. weapons hunter in Iraq, reported that Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction programs had deteriorated by March 2003. Kerry said the report "provid­ed definitive evidence as to why George Bush should not be re-elected president of the United States." 
Bush conceded Thursday that Iraq did not have the stockpiles of banned weapons he had warned of before the invasion. But he main­tained that Saddam retained the "means and the intent" to prodnce weapons of mass destruction and that the United States was right to take action against him. 
Candidates gear up for debate 
Bush, Kerry look to improve performances in town-hall formatted face-off 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. ­
President Bush needs to do a 
lot more than improve his 
body language for Friday 
night's second debate, says 
Democrat John Edwards. 
The Republicans say it's 
John Kerry who's got the 
explaining to do about his 
policies. 

"The president of the United States, in order to perform well in a debate, needs to do more than not screw up his face and needs to do more than string a sentence together," vice presidential candidate Edwards said Thursday in Bayonne, N.J. "He needs to level with the American peo­ple." 
Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman, sees the debate differently. He said, "It's an opportunity for Senator Kerry to defend a There will be new infor­focus on recent improve­weapons program. "You 30-year record of being mation on the economy and ment. don't make up or find rea­wrong on defense" and to the Iraq war for the candi­, The candidates were sons to go to war after the explain how he'd pay for an dates to fight over: this already battling on fact," he said. expansive domestic agenda. week's report from the U.S. Thursday about the arms Both campaigns portrayed 
Bush's performance in last arms. inspector and new fig­inspector's report that found the other's candidate as hav­week's first debate in Miami ures, due out Friday morn­no evidence Iraq produced ing the advantage in a town was widely criticized, espe­ing, on national unemploy­any weapons of mass hall-style debate. At the cially the grimaces he made ment. destruction after 1991. same time, they questioned while Kerry was answering Democrats say the last job Bush, at the White House, how many viewers would some questions. The numbers released by the said the report showed that tune in on a Friday night. 
arrangement will be differ­Labor Department before the Iraqi leader had retained A new Associated Press­ent at Friday night's con­the election are bound to "the knowledge, the materi­Ipsos Public Affairs poll sug­frontation -a town hall­show that Bush is the first als, the means and the gests Kerry goes into the style format with audience president since the intent" to produce weapons second debate with at least 
members rather than jour­Depression to preside over of mass destruction. one advantage over Bush. nalists asking the questions an economy with fewer jobs Kerry. in Colorado, said Nearly six in 10 respondents at Washington University in at the end of his term than the report showed Iraq had said the country was headed St. Louis. when he started. Bush will essentially dismantled its down the wrong track. 

·Kerry takes lead, gains ground over Bush 
minuscule lead. With bloodshed favorable view of K~rry. while just 8
Associated Press 

increasing in Iraq, Kerry sharpened his percent felt better about Bush. 
WASHINGTON-Sen. John Kerry attacks, and Bush stumbled in their ini­"I was more comfortable with Kerry 
has taken a slim lead over President tial debate. after the debate," said Louis Robinson. 
Bush, according to an Associated Press Among 944 likely voters, the Kerry­a 66-year-old retiree from Pittsburgh. 
poll that shows the president's support Edwards ticket led Bush-Cheney 50 "I just like the way he carried himself." 
tumbling on personal qualities, the war percent to 46 percent. The Oct. 4-6 sur­Nearly a third of likely voters who 
in Iraq and the commander in chiers vey had a margin of error of plus or watched said the debate gave them a 
bedrock campaign issue -national minus 3 percentage points. less favorable view of Bush. 
security. The race was tied 47-4 7 percent Nearly six in 10 of all the people 
Fewer voters than a month ago among all registered voters, with a 2.5 questioned -likely voters or not -said 
believe Bush is the best man to protect point margin of error. Other polls show the country was headed on the wrong 
the country and fight the Iraq war. the race just as tight. track, reflecting a gloomy national 
The AP-Ipsos Public Affairs poll, com­Nearly three-fourths of likely voters mood that could jeopardize Bush's re­
pleted on the eve of the second presi­who were surveyed said they had election bid. His overall approval rating 
dential debate, showed a reversal from watched or listened to the first presi­among likely voters, 46 percent, was at 
early September, when the Republican dential debate last week. Some 39 per­its lowest point since June -down 
incumbent had the momentum and a cent said they came away with a more from 54 percent in late September. 
SOUND· BITE: DRUG IMPORTS 
Should the government legalize the importation of cheaper prescription drugs from Canada or other countries? 
"I believe my primary responsibility is to protect the safe­ty and well-being ofthe American people. As such, the secu­r---~--.,...._.....,.,.. rity of our drug supply is a priority. Any drug importation 
-plan must guarantee Americans the safety and effective­ness they currently have under the gold-standard of the Food and Drug Administration. I have appointed Surgeon General Richard Carmona to lead a federal task force to determine what resources and authority would be needed to ensure that importation could be done safely. Since 2001, I have worked to lower the costs of medicines for all Americans by passing a new Medicare drug benefit to cut seniors' drug costs in half We have also closed loopholes to speed safe and effective generic drugs to market, saving American consumers $35 billion in drug costs over 10 years. 


"'Yes. It's right to allow reimportation of safe, FDA­approved prescription drugs to give our seniors affordable access to the substantial discounts for prescriptions avail­able in Canada and other countries. George Bush would rather export American jobs to other countries instead of importing affordable prescription drugs. The prescription drug industry charges Americans the highest prices for pre­scription drugs in the world, while reaping high profits. I will allow individuals. pharmacists, wholesalers and distributors to reimport FDA-approved prescription drugs from other countries at lower prices with systems to ensure safety as well as lower costs. I have called on President Bush to sup­
Kerry port reimportation legislation which has support from Republicans -from Trent Lott to John McCain -but he continues to cave in to pressure from the drug industry" 
.---­
l 
i 
page 10 Friday, October 8, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
Bush, Cheney admit Iraq had no WMDs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush and his vice president con­ceded Thursday in the clearest terms yet that Saddam Hussein had no weapons of mass destruc­tion, even as they tried to shift the Iraq war debate to a new issue -whether the invasion was justified because Saddam was abusing a U.N. oil-for-food program. 
Ridiculing the Bush administra­tion's evolving rationale for war, Democratic presidential candi­date John Kerry shot back: "You don't make up or fmd reasons to go to war after the fact." 
Vice President Dick Cheney brushed aside the central find­ings of chief U.S. weapons hunter Charles Duelfer -that Saddam not only had no weapons of mass destruction and had not made any since 1991, but that he had no capability of making any either -while Bush unapologeti­cally defended his decision to invade Iraq. 
"The Duelfer report showed that Saddam was systematically gam­
"You don •t make up
ing the system, "The jury is still using the U.N. oil­or find reasons to out," he told for-food program to National Public
go to war after the 
try to influence Radio the same
fact.··
countries and com­week, when asked panies in an effort whether Iraq had to undermine sane-John Kerry possessed banned tions," Bush said as presidential candidate weapons.
he prepared to fly 
to campaign events 
in Wisconsin. "He was doing so 
with the intent of restarting his 
weapons program once the world 
looked away." 
Duelfer found no formal plan by Saddam to resume WMD pro­duction. but the inspector sur­mised that Saddam intended to do so if U.N. sanctions were lift­ed. Bush seized upon that infer­ence, using the word "intent" three times in reference to Saddam's plans to resume mak­ing weapons. 
This week marks the first time that the Bush administration has listed abuses in the oil-for-fuel program as an Iraq war ration-· ale. But the strategy holds risks because some of the countries that could be implicated include 
U.S. allies, such as Poland, Jordan and Egypt. In addition, the United States itself played a significant role in both the cre­ation of the program and how it was operated and overseen. 
For his part, Cheney dismissed the significance of Duelfer's cen­tral findings, telling supporters in Miami. "The headlines all say 'no weapons of mass destruction stockpiled in Baghdad.' We already knew that." 
The. vice president said he found other parts of the report "more intriguing," including the finding that Sad dam's main goal was the removal of international sanctions. 
"As soon as the sanctions were lifted, he had every intention of going back" to his weapons pro­gram, Cheney said. 
The report underscored that "delay, defer, wait, wasn't an option," Cheney said. And he told a later forum in Fort Myers. Fla.. speaking of the oil-for-food pro­gram: "The sanctions regime was coming apart at the seams. Saddam perverted that whole thing and generated billions of dollars."· 
Yet Bush and Cheney acknowl­edged more definitively than before that Saddam did not have the banned weapons that both men had asserted he did -and had cited as the major justifica­tion before attacking Iraq in March 2003. 
Bush has recently left the ques­tion open. For example, when asked in June whether he thought such weapons had exist­ed in Iraq, Bush said he would "wait until Charlie [Duelfer] gets back with the final report." 
In July, Bush said, "We have not found stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction," a sentence construction that kept alive the possibility the weapons might yet be discovered. 
On Thursday, the president used the clearest language to date nailing the question shut: 
"Iraq did not have the weapons that our intelligence believed were there," Bush said. His words placed the blame on U.S. intelligence agencies. 
In recent weeks. Cheney has glossed over the primary justifi­cation for the war, most often by simply not mentioning it. But in late January 2004, Cheney told reporters in Rome: "There's still work to be done to ascertain 
exactly what's 
there." 
Duelfer's report 
was presented Wednesday to senators and the public with less than four weeks left in a fierce presidential cam­paign dominated by questions about Iraq and the war on terror. 
In Bayonne, N.J.. Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards on Thursday called "amazing" Cheney's assertions that the Duelfer report justified rather than undermined Bush's decision to go to war. and he accused the Republican of using "convoluted logic." 
Kerry, in a campaign appear­ance in Colorado, said: "The president of the United States and the vice president of the United States may well be the last two people on the planet who won't face the truth about Iraq." · 
A short time later. while cam­paigning in Wisconsin, Bush angrily responded to Kerry's charge he sought to "make up" a reason for war. 
"He's claiming misled America about weapons when he, himself. ·cited the very same intelligence about Saddam weapons programs as the reason he voted to go to war," Bush said. Citing a lengthy Kerry quote from two years ago on the menace Saddam could pose, Bush said: "Just who's the one trying to mis­lead the American people?" 
ETHIOPIA 


Blair explores problems in Africa 
Prime minister calls for international action against poverty 
Associated Press 

ADDIS ABABA -.. British Prime Minister Tony Blair ­bedeviled by Iraq and in search of a more positive lega­cy-called Thursday for con­certed international action to finally address the crises afflicting Africa, the only conti­nent to have grown poorer over the last 40 years. 
Britain is preparing to use its upcoming chairmanship of the G-8 group of industrialized nations to spearhead the effort, and at a conference to discuss African's future, Blair pressed the international com­munity to raise $150 million to help those caught up in vio­lence in Sudan's Darfur region. 
Blair also said Britain plans to train 20,000 African peace­keepers over the next fi.ve years to boost the continent's ability to respond to conflicts like that in Darfur -where pro-government Arab militia have been raiding African vil­lages, killings tens of thou­sands and pushing more than one million from their homes. 
Poverty and weak govern­ments make Africa fertile ground for terrorists. Blair warned. 
The British prime minister was in Ethiopia to chair a meeting of his Africa Commission, which he says 
· will spell out what Africa needs to develop and explain what has held it back. The commission's findings are expected in time for Britain's G-8 presidency and the leader­ship of the European Union later in 2005. "Next year will be the year of decision for Africa and the international community," Blair told the commission, 
whose members include Band Aid star Bob Geldof. Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa and Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. "The time for excuses will be over." 
But Blair acknowledged that Africa likely will still need out­side help. 
"There will be times when Africa cannot stop a conflict on its-own," he said, suggest­ing a EU rapid-reaction force being set up could respond to a crisis in Africa if African peacekeepers fail to stem future problems. The EU force could be on the ground and ready to go in 10 days, he said. 
Troops may help provide peace, but prosperity will depend on the United States and Europe giving Africans the chance to earn their way out of poverty and slashing farm subsidies would be a good start, experts said. 
-Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
-Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, & samdwiches 
-Featuring gourmet pizzas 
-Music is live on Fridays & Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time 
-Wine, microbrews, specialty drinks & martinis, along with traditional coffee house drink menu items 
-Art Gallery 
Saint M~s Colleg~
I NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
I 
SEMESTER AROUND· THE VVORLD 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
6:00p.m. Mon., Oct. II in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND, QB. 6:00p.m., Wed., Oct. 13 in Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin. India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Beijing, Xian, Chengdo, Tibet, Bangkok, Saigon,Vietnam, Delhi, Agra(Taj Mahal), Fatehpur Sikri, Jaipur, Khajuraho, Varanasi (Banares), Calcutta, Darjeeling, Madras, Mahabalipuram, Bangalore, Mysore, Kodaikanal, Periyar (Wild Life Sanctuary), Munnar, Cochin, Bombay; optional travel through Eastern and Western Europe on the same air tickt>t. 
St:MI::STER AROITND THI:: WORLD PIHlGRAM (~74) 2114-44611 OR 4473 • FAX (~74) 2114-41166 
e-mail: pullapiVti'saintmarys.edu; http://w" ...saintmans.edu/sa" 

Friday, October 8, 2004 page 11
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

1

7ft_.·.....r~ . _·
Fr1Nif!r..
Tn ..j-JJ~ . SHOW 
(* TALENT Optional) 
Fro Sarin Says~ 
''I Want YOU At This Talent Show!'' 
DINE WITH AN OTTER~ 
OTTER AU-CTION IN BETWEEN ACTS (ALL PROCEEDS GO TO CHARITY) 
Friday~ 8 October 2004 8~00 PoMo · 
...........,.,;........;..........~............ ;-........... -.;,.;.....,..;.,......... ; __,..,.,..,,.. ' ............. . 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------------------.... 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nom~ Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGJNG EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VLEWPOINl' EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin SAJN1' MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: KeiJy Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CONTROllER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574). 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK • (574} 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

· (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

<s 7;~~~~~;8t6~EB·.·x:~~ir:.r~~~ ,i'M''· , )%\
(574) 631-8839 .· .....·.. ·.· 
THE _
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dafi?.e duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the adminisuation ofeither insrimtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comenr. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assiswu Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ; of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all reader$. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include · contact information. 
Qtnstions regarding Obsm;(rpolicies should be dirtcted to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< ~(USPS S99 1-4000) it publi<h«< Mood>y duough Friday <><Cep< ®ring cum ~nd vacaricfl pcriodo. A 1ubsuip<ion toThe Observer;. SIOO for""" acadconi< ,...,., S55 fOro~ "mesotr. Th< 0""""" if • manber or the Auoci...d Prca.. All n:produccioft tigbu m 
""""'<d. 
Tbe Oln«v<r if publioh<d ar. P.O. Bo.Q 
O.H Sou<h Dining H.O 024 Souch Dining Hol! 

No... Dam<, IN '\6556-0779 Nom o.....,, IN 46556-077'J Periodical P"""P' paid at Nom DWJe and addio.-1 mailing offic.a. 
POSTMASTER 

The Obs<ntt is a manbcr of the ~Pro" All rep10ducoon ri&~Ja .,.. reoer...!. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Pat Leonard Eileen Duffy Ann Loughery Trisha deGroot Kate Seryak Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Maria Smith Brauweiler Becca Saunders Graphics Illustrator Kelly MacDonald Meg Dwyer 
Reevaluate proposal, learn from past 
For the second consecutive October meeting, the Board of the liability factor for the University is apparent. And to ask Trustees were heavily critical of the report presented by Notre Dame Security/Police to look the other way on under­leaders of Notre Dame's student government. Last year, the age drinking brings in an expectation for the officers to Board rejected former student body president Pat ignore their basic job duties and responsibilities. Hallahan's report calling for changes to the Campus Life From these apparent problems, it is clear Istavan did a 
Council. This year, the Board forcefully told current president Adam Istvan the major point of his report, the Safe Bus, is not a realistic or feasible idea. 
For the second year in a row, student gov­ernment wasted a precious opportunity to work with the Board on issues concerning the student body. 
Looking on the surface, the suggestion of having a method of off-campus transportation bringing students· from local housing complexes and bars back safely to their residences, whether on or off-campus, seems to be a valuable option for students. Off-campus safety is an issue many students take for granted because of the Notre Dame bubble, but being proactive in this area is much better than being reactive. 
However, delving deeper into the SafeBus idea reveals that it is impractical and not something that should have been presented to the B-oard of Trustees. 
Istvan projected the cost at $24,000 per year -and a trustee called it a significant understatement. With a large number of intoxicated college students traveling together, 
In praise of holy women 
About 30 women have squeezed into every inch of the small. poorly ventilat­ed room. Normally a family home,' it serves, a few times each month, as the makeshift meeting place for this women's empowerment group. Amid 
the colorful sea of  
saris I see women  John lnfranca  
who look old  
enough to be great-grandmoth- Dissident Poetry  
ers rubbing shoul­ 

ders with younger women cradling newborns. A few hand fans wave in the air, offering fleeting solace from the 110-degree Fahrenheit heat that wafts through the small openings in the con­crete walls. 
I sit at the front of the room, beside a small, grey-haired nun from Southern India. Sister Florin has been living here, in the rural eastern edge of the state of Uttar Pradesh, India, for a number of years. Her work is rural development, community organizing, the sowing of seeds of liberation: both the simple and complex tasks of aiding others as they lift the burdens of pover­ty. Today she is simply telling a story. 
The group listens eagerly as Sister Florin describes the efforts of another community of women, from an even poorer village, who joined forces to improve the road leading to and from their town. The new road now plays an important role in their self-directed ini­tiatives for economic development. The women with whom I sit gain hope as they hear the story. I see the slow dissi­pation of the certainty that their own task -encouraging the village's upper­caste leader to turn a piece of commu­nalland into a community center-is an impossible one. Their efforts already enabled them to prevent this same leader from giving the land to a wealthy individual. Now Sister Florin is sharing with them ideas for how they might take the next step in improving 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should Notre Dame have the SafeBus service for students? 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 134 responses. 
poor job thinking the SafeBus plan through to the end. 

Q}jgerver At Notre Dame, the SafeBus idea just won't
•a1 work. Ot.her universities have more residents




t-:on 
living off campus, making Safe Bus more feasi-
U ble. With so many underclassmen living on

Edi 
campus here, students wouldn't use it because of the fear of being caught for underage drinking. 
Before taking the SafeBus idea back to Student Senate and the CLC, Istvan and his top staff need to reevaluate this proposal. Recognizing it as being unrealistic as it currently stands allows student government to work on other ideas, like those praised by the Board Thursday. 
Time with the Board of Trustees is valuable. Squandering away an opportunity like Istvan did Thursday cannot hap­pen again. Last year, Jeremy Lao learned from Hallahan' s October mistake and presented two reports praised by the Board in February and April. 
For the second year in a row, student government needs to learn from its mistake and not waste the rest of its time with the Board. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Government is not reason. it is not eloquence. it is force,· like fire, a troublesome servant and a fearful master. Never for a moment should it be left to irresponsible action. " 
George Washington politician 





How to watch the debates 
The role of the presidential debates in determin­ing the winner of the election is often overstat~d. Some journalists have entertained claims that the vice presidential debates could play an important role in the election this year. For example, USA Today reported this week that the Vice Presidential debate this Daniel Bergan year could play a "pivotal role in who becomes president." 
Not likely. Even Lloyd 

Guest Column 
Bensten's drubbing of Dan Quayle in 1988 did not result in a major change in the polls. (Dan Quayle is no Jack Kennedy. Bensten pointed this out for vice presiden­tial debate viewers and for Quayle himself that night). The effects of the presidential debates are slightly larger than the Vice Presidential debates, but the effects are not very large, nor are they long lasting. Candidates who perform well in the debates can expect at most a 3 to 4 percent bump in the polls; this small bump does not seem to last more than a week, much less until election day. 
There are a number of reasons that the presiden­tial debates do not play a major role in determining the victor. Prior to the debates, about two-thirds 'of the electorate had already made up its mind about the campaign. In addition, perceptions of who wins the debates are strongly influenced by one's party identification and political predispositions. Finally, despite the fact that polls vary a bit during the cam­paign, voters tend to behave in a relatively pre­dictable way come November. That is, debates and other campaign events may affect the polls during the campaign, but by November-barring a cata­clysmic event -it is most likely the economy, the party leanings and demographic characteristics of the electorate that determine voting behavior. 
That said, those watching the debates should keep a number of things in mind. The first is to watch out for misleading statements; we can anticipate these from statements the candidates make while on the campaign trail. With respect to jobs, President George W. Bush talks about the number of jobs cre­
vJ·!i:f,~~1last.,year;1 ignoring tne net Job loss during his tetlin: ·oem'ohatic p~esidential candidate Jotin Kerry makes the job loss seem larger than it is by focusing on one sector of the economy. Debate viewers should rely on fact checks in the next day's papers. For last Thursday's debates, the New York Times, Los Angeles Times and Washington Post all checked the accuracy of statements made in the debates. Viewers should also remember that while each debate format technically takes about 90-minutes, the debate does not truly end until days later. This 
is because at the close of each debate, journalists, pundits and now bloggers begin to formulate their own interpretations of the debates; some of these focus on fact checking while others focus on character traits. I would rec­ommend strong caution in using the latter interpretations of the debate..Consider that the candi­dates have spent a lot of time prepping for the debates and exhibit body language that is highly. rehearsed (e.g. Bush's furrowing his brow, John Edwards' thousand watt smile). Perhaps someone high­ly trained in body lan­guage might be able to catch some telling signs in this behavior, but I doubt most 
journalists can. During the 1992 town-hall style debates, George H. 
W. Bush glanced at his watch on camera. Critics drew the les­son that he was arro­gant. An interview with Jim Lehrer vears later suggested that this behavior doesn't tell us much about the former president's behavior other than that he does not like debates and was eager for it to end. 
Journalists often interpret the candidate's statements during the debates as revealing underlying character traits. Hpwever, these interpretations 
·reveal more about the journalists' perceptions of the candidates than the candidates themselves. In the 2000 cam­paign, Gore said in the first debate that a girl in Sarasota had to stand during class because of school overcrowding; he had been given a copy of the Sarasota Herald-Tribune story about the student from the girl's father. The press checked the story and found that what Gore had said during the debate was inaccurate-the girl no longer had to stand at the time of the debate, so what Gore had 
said, whHe truthful, was literally false. Similar sto­ries were used to illustrate that Gore was dishonest while Bush's statements didn't receive the same scrutfny; this is perhaps because Gore was perceived prior to the 
debates as insincere. While there were few such interpretations of last week's 
debate, there may be greater opportunity for this type of 

~i*~ \'i:~E~{iili~l~?:!t:~;~~:~ 

~··  .~.  .'~~  zens ask questions of  
··.  ·  ·  the candidates directly.  
The Gallup organiza­ 
tion selects 100 or 150  
audience members  
who will be composed  
of an equal number of  
"soft" Bush support­ 
ers and "soft" Kerry  
supporters. The audi­ 
ence submits ques­ 
tions to the modera­ 
tor who determines  
which members get to  
ask questions. The  
interaction of the can­ 
didates with the audi­ 
ence and the necessari­ 
ly unpredictable ques­ 
tions will provide a  
greater potential for  
media commentary that  
has little to do with the  
issues.  
Serious debate watchers  
will check to see if the state­ 
ments the candidates make are  

accurate, but it takes judgment to know when an inaccuracy is seri­ously misleading with respect to the issues or merely a technically false state­ment. Better to make this judgment on one's own than have it made by an amateur psychologist. 
Professor Daniel Bergan teaches in the political science department. He can be contacted dbergan@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bush and the magic word 
.. 

I watched the first debate, which took Our words must be used carefully, place in our nation's seat of democratic responsibly, ethically. In fact, I would processes, also known as Jeb Bush's argue that humans can be the most ethi­state of Florida. As a sociologist who cal, and unethical, in speech. Our ability analyzes texts and spends her whole day to speak is also our ability to lie. My cats thinking about the way people construct don't lie. I know exactly what they're texts and what motives they display­thinking. Our ability to fashion words to and hide -I noticed quite interestingly cover our naked truth is what makes us the way that our dear President used the human. The use of"free" as a magic word "free." Using my text search word, an emotional word, means to engine, I noticed that Bush used the cause a buzz or light a fire in the words "free" or "freedom" over 35 times. American people. It is a word that is Kerry used the word six times. Does free­used like a drug. It is an empty word dom mean anything to us in a country without a concrete referent, an opiate of that is run by a puppet ofoil corpora­the masses. In these times using the tions? Or is freedom an empty word? It word "freedom" is akin to creating a seems that freedom for Iraqis means false consciousness of a constructed and being invaded by another country, the unreal concept. Freud's definition of reli­devastation ofa civilian population and gion or Vaclav Havel's defmition of to tali-· civic infrastructure and the demagogic tarhnism incorporate this kind of creat­"election" of a right-wing religious party· ed consciousness. The use of "freedom," for the sake of capturing a dictator who "liberty," and "free" seems vacant and was rumoured to have stored weapons of nominalistic in a time when the Patriot mass destruction. Act gives the government the right to 
Academics sometimes play a tricky interrogate and imprison kids from card in having a tendency to hide their Dearborn, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. arguments with concepts that have little Freedom, liberty and free -these words or no meaning outside their use as key have no significance any more. George, words or jargon. In sociology this can be we can see that the emperor has no in the sometimes-vacant use of terms clothes. like "structure" and "culture," or "habi­tus." "Show me the Money!" was a Sarah MacMillen phrase used in a movie some years ago. gradu.are student Now I will say, "Show me the freedom." Oct. 7 




Stem cells an issue 
Embryonic stem cell research has only a 'potential' human being because it become a hot topic on the campaign trail, . isn't fully developed. Obviously an infant, but many Americans are woefully unaware toddler and adult are all complete human of the procedure_ and issue itself. There are beings at different stages of life. Just as we two important things to know: embryonic were all complete humans in our infant stem cell research kills innocent human stage, we were all al~o complete humans in beings, and adult stem cell research is an our embryonic stage. We've defined what effective and morally non-controversial an embryo is, namely an innocent, distinct alternative. human being, and can hopefully agree that 
The research involves extracting benefi­it is absolutely wrong to experiment on or cial stem cells from an embryo, thus killing kill innocent human beings. . it. Why is killing an embryo a problem? The other important factor to know is Every embryo is a living, distinct human that embryonic stem cell research is entire­being whose innocent life is taken in this ly unnecessary because there have been scientific experiment. thousands of successful and effective cases 
First of all, every embryo is alive -a liv­involving adult stem cell research. ing sperm unites with a living egg to form a Thousands of lives have been saved by living zygote which grows to be a living adult stem cells in cases involving people embryo. There is no period of non-life, and with Parkinson's disease, spinal cord by the way, you can't kill something with­injury, sickle-cell anemia, heart damage, out it being alive in the first place. corneal damage and dozens ofother condi­
Second, every embryo is a distinct indi­tions. For details and citations see the stem vidual being. Science proves that every cell research Web site. There is absolutely embryo is either male or female, has a no valid medical argument in favor· of using blood type and has its own unique DNA embryonic stem cells rather than adult chromosomal 'fmgerprint' which originates stem cells. at the moment ofconception. Don't allow our country to kill innocent 
Third, what kind of being is this embryo? human life in needless scientific experi­Well, it came from two human beings, and ments. Take the truth to heart in your elec­its DNA genetic signature proves that it is a tion decisions. · homo sapiens, a human being. Some would argue that an embryo is only a 'potential' Kelly Puopolo human. This argument is fundamentally graduate student flawed, just as saying a toddler or infant is Oct. 7 
'I 

page 14 Friday, October 8, 2004 Friday, October 8, 2004 
MTV's Gideon Yago comes to campus 
S T 0 R Y BY 
MO L L Y 
t's not easy for anyone to get the kind of life_ experi­ence of which Gideon Yago can boast. 
At the age of 26, Yago has 
accomplished· what most 
news anchors have to wait 
a lifetime to achieve. He has interviewed important politicians, spent time in the Middle East as a correspondent for MTV and hosted a number of specials on hot-button issues such as drug addiction and sex laws. In spite of his youth, he has had an interesting and varied career that has focused not only on politics, but also entertainment and other areas of the media world. 
Gideon Yago was born in Madison, Wis. and attended Columbia University in New York as an under­graduate. Yago's first appearance on MTV was as a winning contestant on the MTV game show Idiot Savant dur­ing his freshman year of college, and he returned as a senior to apply at a career fair. Yago began his work at MTV as a writer and correspondent for "Choose or Lose" 2000 and worked on the McCain and Bush­Cheney campaigns, and he has worked for the network for four 
years. 
Since his start on the campaign trail, Yago has interviewed a host of impor­tant political figures including President George W. Bush, Secretary of State Colin Powell, Halph Nader, Senator John Kerry, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani and Ambassador Paul Bremer. As an MTV correspondent, he acts as the voice of the newer generation of voters and asks questions-that have greater rele­vance to their lives, such as college tuition and the job market. Along with his political interviews, Yago has been a key figure in the MTV "Choose or Lose" campaign 
G R I F F I N 
aimed at making younger voters more informed about campaign issues and getting them to the polls for the upcoming presidential election. Recent specials have included "Louder Now!" which is the story cen­tered on Yago and a young soldier on the campaign trail; "20 Million Questions for John· Kerry," which brought viewers' questions to the presidential candidate; and "Work It," a special on the how the job market and outsourcing affect younger work­ers that featured news legend Walter Cronkite in his first MTV appearance ever. 
Yago has been one of MTV's major· correspondents _in the Middle East during the conflict in the area. Immediately after the Iraq war began, he filmed "The Diary of Gideon in Kuwait'~ while on location in Kuwait City. lie returned to the area in 2003 to film "The Diary of Gideon in Baghdad," which followed the lives of young Iraqis and American soldiers to see how the war was affecting them. 
Aside from his work in the political arena, Yago has ha_d a varied and interesting career. He has worked on specials like "Behind the Grammys" {2004} and "MTV Video Music Awards Opening Act" (2001.-2003). He was named on of the "25 Hottest Stars Under 25" last year by Teen People Magazine, and he toured with the band, Radiohead, in 2001. 
Besides working as a news anchor, Yago writes for MTVNews.com and has provided pieces for Spin, Vice and Nylon. 
Yago will be speaking at Washington Hall on Oct. 10th at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box office and cost $2 for students and $5 for faculty and staff. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of www.npr.org Gideon Yago has a long history with MTV, ranging from work with the 2000 "Choose or Lose" campaign to documentaries focusing on Kuwait and Iraq. 
_.._-.............. ,.·.·.>-_ ~akes. the music ~ore. a~cces~unlte 

audie~(.i~s in general." · .· . . . Mcl>tiWell, who has shared the stagecorrifji:n·e···_ -. · ·· ·· ---with. BB King, James Brown, Eric 
. -podge Clapton and Isaac Hayes among others, ..................,... well. also brings an Amer:-ican blues back-Four musicians come from Irish ground to the music. 
music backgrounds. il}.cluding guitarist ..IWle delve into some parallels in irish James JlileY~ pipe~ lvaliGoff and 1\{t(;J~ ·_ music;¥ we do some bluegrass, nattve Torrnny McDoweJ.I~ Ivers hcr~~iis Appalachian tunes as well, and we kind a child of Irish immigrants and grew' up of show how it's all connected. in the Bronx, where she played fiddle Although Ivers has played violin sinr,e from the age of eight and was steeped in ehildhood, she did not always plan on Irish as well as other musical traditions. making her career through music. The 
At its root, however~. the sound adopts artist majored iq math at· Iona_ College a wider bass. Adriano Santos f'rtlm Sao and continued to study math after grad­Paulo, Brazil, brings Brazilian and Latin uation. beats to the music, and Chicago-born "My dream was NASA, the space pro­bassist Emmanuel Gate\"v'OOd brings gram. something to do with that. I had a South African rhythms to the music~ . • .·· great adviser who said, 'You know, get 
"We ever want to dilute the lri:Sb . your math degree, you can go anywhere music, but it's so rhythmic." Ivers saitl. from a math degree.' That was great ..There aren't many p~rcussion.instru. advice. It does groom you in terms of ments in Irish music, just the bodhra.n~ logic,'' Ivers said. Combining these rhythms, mak~s a big-Mathematical study may or may not 
bed for music to fit and 1 think it , in her musical career, but 
. . • d provide a ··,ua;uu.'tl· .oc••.-. •••~,........ 
interesting parallels · the fields . 
"I did some papers on math and music , 
in college, it was cool," Ivers said. "Even t 
Bach would write using these mathe-· 
matirs. \tu find Fibonacci and all these 
series. The discipline helps you to put 
things together." 
Iver~ Ilf<J.Y be famous for fiddling, but 
the arLisli~·considers interacting with the audiencefa vital and rewarding part of any show, Ivers narrates her concerts with stories about the music, immigra­tion and other things. After performanc~ esJvers always greets her audiP-nee to · sign autographs and talk to anyone wht> 
has been touched bv her music. 
"I don't: know hm~ you could just leave 
[.after a performance}, you need to meet 
people. There a1e some amazing reac­
tions." Ivers said. "I've had people just 
come over and hug me, or describe simi­
lar im mifation experiences to what my 
Harents bad, going through the famine 
lind to and such." 

all sort of music the 


fiddle player has 
tre.tar:JlO Fiddle Champion, &.au.~.,, Paula Cole, aU1UH:t.tuJ,tlU Irish 
"I did some papers on math and m in college; it was cool," Ivers said. . Bach would write using these rnathe'! . matics. YOu find Fibonacci and all these series. The discipline helps you to put things t• )gether." 
Ivers 1$y be famous for fiddling, but the arListf,'OOnsiders interacting with the · audiencOf.a Vital and rewarding part of any shoi:'Jt¢rs narrates her concerts with stori.es'':ahout the music, immigra­p(m and other.things. After performancw 
:·*'~Jver~ ··· · · greets her audience to 
will tilJ)igflt;M,. ,.,...~ DeBartolo·Center p.m. public, for stu­
sort of music the 


Turn up the heat w-ith tapas 
COLUMN B y MAUREEN MALLOY 


ooking to spice up your life in the Midwest? Tapas parties are a great way to gather friends for a relaxed night of eating and drinking without having to put a lot of effort into preparation or cleaning up. Traditionally served as "little dishes" !n Spani~h bars and. r-:staurants along with cock~ails, tapas are becoming trendy m Amencan entertammg. They can range from simpler fare such . · as olives and a variety of cheeses to more elaborate hors d 'oeuvres like garlic 
shrimp or Spanish omelets. Arrange a co.uple "bites" of each dish on small color­
ful plates or saucers with toothpicks. Along with your tapas, you can serve a 
variety of your favorite drinks. Different kinds of wine, flavored sparkling water and sangria are popular choices. Pop in some Spanish COs and set out some candles·if you can manage it, and you've got yourself an authentic tapas party. 
Simple Tapas 

Bow1 of olives Cubes of ham and cheese Spiced nuts Grilled slices of bread drizzled. with olive oil and topped with goat cheese 
More ambitious tapas... 
Garlic Shrimp 1/3 cup olive oil 4 garlic cloves, sliced 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 pound unshelled shrimp (26 to 32 shrimp per pound) 2 teaspoons sweet paprika 1/4 cup medium-dry sherry 1/4 cup minced fresh parsley leaves Fresh lemon juice, to taste Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
In a large .Q._eavy skillet set over moderately high heat. heat the oil until it is hot, add the garlic and cook, stirring, until it is pale golden. Add the red pepper 11akes and the shrimp and cook the mixture, stirring, for 1 minute, or until the shrimp are pink and just firm to the touch. Sprinkle with shrimp with the paprika and cook the mixture, stirring, for 30 seconds. Add the 
sherry, boil the mixture for 30 seconds, and sprinkle with parsley. Season the mixture with the lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste, and transfer it to a serving bowl. The shrimp may be made up to 1 day in advance and kept covered tightly and chilled. Serve the shrimp at room temperature. Recipe courtesy of Gourmet Magazine. Copyright © 2003 Television Food Network,G.P., All Rights Reserved. 
Spanish Potato Omelet 1/2 cup olive oil 112 pound potatoes, thinly sliced salt and pepper to taste 1 large onion, thinly sliced 4 eggs salt and pepper to taste 2 tomatoes -peeled, seeded, and coarsely chopped 2 green onions, chopped. 
In a large frying pan or skillet, heat olive oil over medium-high heat. Sprinkle potatoes lightly with salt and pepper. Cook until golden brown and crisp. Once the potatoes are golden, stir in the onions. Cook, stirring occasionally, until onions soften and begin to brown. Meanwhile, beat eggs together with salt and pepper. Pour eggs into pan and stir gently to combine. Reduce heat to low and cook until eggs begin to brown on the bottom. Loosen bottom of omelet with a spat­ula, invert a large plate over the pan, and carefully turn the omelet out onto it. Slide the ·omelet back into the pan with the uncooked side down. Cook until eggs are set. Garnish omelet with tomato and green onion and serve warm. Recipe courtesy of Patty. All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2004 Allrecipes.com. 
White Sangria

This sangria takes 5 to 10 minutes to assemble in a large pitcher. Take the time to prepare it in the morning so the sangria has several hours to develop its fruity flavor. Pull it out when dinner is done is ready to serve that evening. 3 tablespoons sugar . 3 shots Calvados or other apple liquor 1 lime, sliced 1 lemon, sliced 2 ripe peaches, cut into wedges 3 ripe green apples seeded and cut into wedges 1 bottle white Rioja Spanish wine or other dry white wine 1 pint raspberries · Sparkling soda water, for topping off glasses of sangria at table 
Combine sugar, Calvados, lime, lemon. peaches and apples in a large pitcher. Cover with 1 bot­tle of Rioja wine and chill sangria several hours. To ·serve, spoon fruits into glasses or goblets, adding a few fresh raspberries in each glass, pour wine over top of the frmt. Top glasses of sangria off with a splash of soda water and serve. Recipe courtesy of Rachel Ray. Copyright © 2003 Television Food Network, G.P., All Rights Reserved. 
. 

Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl@nd.edu 
I , 
.. ,--. . . --". --· ! ~ -, -t : ' 
Friday, October 8, 2004
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
·carroll and Fisher to battle for division lead 
I 
linebackers make the difference archrival Knott in the season's umn. After losing to Zahm last By KYLE CASSILY, JOHN in the game," Fisher captain opener. . week, 14-7, the Otters are even 
Men1s Interhall

EVERETT, and PETE Jerremy Moreno said. To be sure, the season is far hungrier for its first win of the CRACCHIOLO Freshman quarterback Pat from over, but in order for the season. 
Football

Sports Writers Gotebeski could come up big for Ramblers to get back on the "We've just been beating our­the Green Wave this week, just winning track they are so accus­selves and turnovers have been 
RankTean1 Record Previous Rank

Two teams will walk into this as he did against Knott. tomed to, they will need to put a problem," Sc;>rin captain Collin 
3;_0 1
1. Fisher

game without a loss, but only Gotebeski drove Fisher down some points on the board. O'Keefe said. ·~we haven't been one will emerge unscathed with the field in the waning minutes Quarterback Brian Vithe and tackling well. We need to hang 
2. Keenan 3-0 6 the division lead in grasp. of the game to set up a game­running back Matt Woperer onto the ball, make tackles, and 
3. Alumni 2~0 2

The Vermin of Carroll Hall winning field goal by Daniel must find their way into the end we should be all right." look to turn a surprising two­Manaas. zone by any means necessary. Sorin's previous two losses 
4. Carron 2-0 3 win start into a Cinderella story Carroll's running game has Getting into the end zone has stemmed from poor fundamen­
s. Dillon 1-0-1 5 

that will continue into the play­been the key to its offense, led not proven to be all that difficult tals, tackling in particular. Zahm 
6. Stanford 0-1·1 7

offs. Meanwhile, the Fisher by freshman tailback Jimmy a task when facing St. Ed's. The converted a 70-yard run that Green Wave have already Buffi. Buffi had a big game team is the owner of a dismal 0-could have been prevented if the 
7. Zahm 2-1 10 cemented a playoff spot after against St. Ed's, including a 3 record. In its three losses St. defense's tackling was up to par. beating Knott last week, but touchdown. Buffi credited his Ed's has given up successive Knott, on the other hand, is 1­
8. Siegfrled H 8 
9. .Knott 1·2 4

they still hope to finish the sea­success to the excellent work of totals of 20, 28 and 14 points-a 2 coming into Sunday's game. son undefeated at 4-0. his offensive line in opening up grand total of 62 points and Fisher beat Knott on a last 
10. Morrissey 1-2 9 Carroll is coming off of a 14-0 holes and letting him run more than ten times as many minute field goal last week, but 
11. O'NeHI 1-2 11

win over St. Edward's last week. through. points as it scored. Knott plans to return strong this 12. Sorin 0-2 12
In that game and the season With a win, Carroll clinches its But pride may be the week and bring its record back opener against defending cham­first playoff appearance in at strongest of all motivators. An to .500. 
13. Keough 0-3 13 pion Siegfried, the Vermin least seven years. But more upset of perennial powerhouse O'Keefe believes the key to a 
14. St. Edv..·ard's 0-3 14

defense gave up no points. In importantly, the Vermin will Siegfried would not only prevent Sarin victory over Knott will be order to win, Fisher will have to gain respect and create fear in St. Ed's from the discourage­the play of tailback Pat Lopez. break through this impenetrable teams. Instead of Carroll being ment of a winless season but . "He ran the ball pretty well for 
additional pressure .on the wall that is led by defensive cap­intimated by teams like would doubly serve as an us and hopefully he can step up defense to hold opposing offens­tain and middle linebacker Dom Siegfried and Fisher, it may soon extreme positive note. St. Ed's again," O'Keefe said. · 
es. 

Gabianelli. The secondary is be the other way around. could spoil Siegfried's hopes and If the Otters can manage a Neither team has a clear shot anchored by strong safety Mike Siegfried vs. St. Edward's dreams. It would, in short, be decent rushing game, they will at the playoffs this season, but Johnson and free safety Matt Disappointment will be in something for the Men to hang move one step closer to victory. neither team will let up. Sorin is Wormington. abundance this Sunday as their hats on, if nothing else. This week, the quarterback/cap­
seeking a victory as not to be Carroll will have a similar Siegfried takes on St. Edward's. Siegfried may have much tain would like to switch focus 
shutout this season. Knott is 
problem on the offensive side of Residents of Siegfried should more on the line. The Ramblers towards a running game. looking to break even with a 2-2 the ball similar to Fisher's, since not be faulted if they appear still have two games remaining "We rely mostly on a passing 
record. 

the Green Wave defense is perplexed by their team's posi­and a 3-1 finish is definitely game, but we struggle to run Both teams are revampingequally as strong. In three tion in the standings. After all, within the realm of possibility. the ball," O'Keefe said. game plans for this skirmish. In games against Sorin, Zahm and this is the two-time defending Such a record would put the Last week, O'Keefe completed the end; it will be interesting to Knott. Fisher has given up only Interhall champion. A 1-1 Ramblers in a familiar position: 5-of-13 passing attempts for 
see whose strategy adapted to 
one touchdown and a total of 10 record is certainly not shameful, heading into the playoffs with over 70 yards. 
victory.

points. but it is a novelty for the momentum on their side and a On the other side, the Juggs 
Fisher-made short work last Ramblers. chance to three-peat as champi­simply need to find the end week of a Knott running game Another new concept for ons. zone. Last week, Knott managed Contact Kyle Cassilyat that had been the impetus of the Siegfried was losing to Carroll Sorln vs. Knott only two field goals throughout kcassily@nd.edu, John Everett at Juggs' offense.' two weeks ~go, an unexpected Sorin is being hounded by a the course of the game. A lack jeverett@nd.edu and Pete 
"The down linemen and the sequel to the< victory over large goose egg in the win col-of touchdown production puts Cracchiolo at pcracchi@nd.edu I 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles set to face tough Calvin team iJ:l weekend road match 
College. In its first match of the The offense struggled all day long their matches, either the offense Knights or the outcome will be By JUSTIN STETZ season, Calvin dominated the with Elise Rupright and Michelle or defense has performed well the same as it was in the first Spons Writer 
Belles and cruised to an easy, Turley leading the way for the with little help from the other. game. Saint Mary's cannot afford three-game sweep victory. Saint Belles with 15 kills collected There have been only a few times to lose many more conference 
Friday night's game will be no Mary's was unable to do much on between them in the contest. when both areas have come games if they wish to continue walk in the park for the Saint offense or defense as they were Cusack has been the strength of together in the same game. moving up in the MIAA. Mary's volleyball team. Coming outscored 90-67. the defensive unit all year long. "The offense has played well This will be the Belles second off a tough loss to Kalamazoo Saint Mary's players had trou­She registered another 10 digs and the defense has been strong," match of five consecutive away College, the road does not get any ble getting anything started dur­against Kalamazoo last game and Michelle Gary said. "But putting games against conference teams. easier as the Belles take on Calvin ing the game on both sides of the still leads the team in this catego­both parts together has been a Saint Mary's dropped the first one College today at 7 p.m. ball. Amanda David was one of ry. The team will need her defen­challenge. Many times the offense on Wednesday against 
The Knights are in second the few players who found any sive skills against Calvin to have plays hard, but the defense lacks Kalamazoo. place in the MIAA with a record sort of success as she recorded any shot at winning. and when the defense gets going of 8-1 and 13-5 overall. Calvin's nine digs on defense. Finding some sort of equilibri­the offense slows down." only loss of the year came against Ann Cusack hau uue of her best um has been a problem for Saint The offense and defense both Contact Justin Stetz at first place and undefeated !).lma games of the season with 19 digs. Mary's all year long. In most of must find a rhythm against the jstetz@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART-TIME WORK Great pay,flex sched.,saleslsvc.all ages18+,cond. apply, 273-4878 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO M 
FoR SALE 
ffeartment building. ( en 1-bdrm furnished units)_ 4 miles from NO. Great investment. Tax write-offs. For details call Larry 574-257-0039 or 255-9363. 
1952 ranch house, lower level walk-out,4 bdrms, 3 baths, frpl, approx. 112 acre_ $175,000. 574-287·9794. 

Duplex for Sale close to ND Campus and downtown. 718 E. Colfax 
Open House Sunday 2-4PM. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Chuck Bultinck 235-3202 
2003 Delllnspiron Laptop Brand new-price negotiable! Contact Kathleen at ktallmad@nd edu 
2003 Delllnspiron Laptop Brand new· price negotiable! Contact Kathleen at ktallmad@ nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
NO Football housing. Walk to game. 574-315-3215. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMERCOM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
Studio apartment, quiet neighborhood 
near NO. 
$350/mo plus electric. Call 57 4-271-8941 . 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices.232-0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO FOOTBALL GAME CALL674­6593. 
Buying and selling NO football tix, especially Boston College 574-289­8048 
1 BC ticket for sale. Call Kim 512-656·3452. 
PERSONAL 
Spring break 2005 Challenge find a better price! Lowest price specials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! 
www.sunsplashtours.com 
1800-426-771 0 
Make your own hours Alt you do is sell the Hawaiian Tropic Break 2005 Travel Program 
Represent an American Express Student Travel Company Guaranteed Highest Commission, Free Trips & Great for Resume Your pay equals your efforts 
American Student Vacations 1-800-336-2260 www.americanstudent info 
SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun & Cabo. Book by Oct 31 =FREE MEALS & FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group-GO FREE! 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi .com 

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800­678-6386 
ADOPTION: Help us complete our family,baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan 877-895-9790 Toll Free 
Like Mother Teresa? Great gift for Mom or Grandma. Simple_ Inspiring_ Conversational. Inexpensive_ Check it out at www. motherteresasdoor. com 

Friday, October 8, 2004 
page 17 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

"With aEuropean Flair" You've Loved Parisi's Italian Ristorante For 25 Years 

.N~vv Tr~Qur Second ~~.c.ation 

Enjoy Live 50's 60's & 70's In Our Martini Ultra-Lounge 
···--·-------··----·---------~~-------­
For Reservations: (574) 233-5000 
Roberto Parisi -Owner· "That's Amore Too" 
The Bistro Proudly Offers: Dry-Aged Prime Steaks 
• 
Market Fresh Seafood 
• 
Potato Encrusted Tilapia 
• 
Braised Ossa Bucco 
• 
And Much More·... 
• 

Largest Wine Selection in the Midwest Over 350 Varietals To Choose 
-

----···----·-----·-----­
·-----------·-----------~--­
. ---------··-­

501 N. Niles Ave. • South Bend-IN· 46617 
I 
_.. I 
I 
I 
' 

page 18 

I
) 
J 
) 
J 
~ 
! 
around the dial 
MLB 

Angels at Red Sox 3 p.m., ESPN 
Yankees at Twins 7 p.m., ESPN 
SATURDAY COLLEGE FOOTBALL Texas at Oklahoma 11 a.m., ABC Wisconsin at Ohio State 2:30p.m., ABC Oklahoma St. at Colorado 2:30 p.m., ABC Georgia Tech at Maryland 2:30 p.m., ABC California at USC 2:30 p.m., ABC 

ATION 

COJ\1PIL[D FRO!v1 THE OBSERVER'S \VIlli SERVtCES Friday, October 8, 2004 
MLB 


Associated Press  first postseason homer. The Astros routed the  Bradley creates  Levin said in New York. Several fans booed  
ATLANTA -Both teams went to extraordi­ Braves 9-3 in Game 1 and were ahead 2-0  more controversy  Bradley in each of his four plate appearances on  
nary means -the Astros looking to go two­up in the best-of-five series, the Braves realiz­ing they needed a split before playing twice at Minute Maid Park, where Houston has won  going to the seventh with 20-game winner Roy Oswalt on the mound. But NL East champion Atlanta fought back, managing to overcome some shaky baserunning -two were thrown out  Associated Press ST. LOUIS -Milton Bradley was back in the Los Angeles Dodgers' lineup Thursday and hit a game-tying homer, a day following a clubhouse confrontation between the  Tuesday, when the Cardinals beat the Dodgers 8-3 in the opener of their best-of-five NL playoff series. That was Bradley's first game follow­ing a five-game suspension assessed for a bottle-throw­ing tantrum during a win  
18 straight games. Braves rookie Charles Thomas singled with one out in the 11th off Dan Miceli and stole second. Eli Marrero popped out to the catcher, but Furcal golfed a 1-2 pitch deep into the right-field seats, flipping his bat in the air about halfway down to celebrate his  at the plate ­and plen­ty of other wasted chances before Furcal came through. The Braves outhit the Astros 14-4, holding Houston without a hit for the final 5 1-3 innings. Smaltz was already in the clubhouse when Furcal ended it with the walk-off homer.  outfielder and a reporter he called an "Uncle Tom." Rich Levin, a spokesman for the commissioner's office, said major league baseball officials had made several telephone calls on the matter. Levin said there will not be an investigation. "We're satisfied the two sides are working together to resolve the situation,"  over Colorado in Los Angeles. Jason Reid of the Los Angeles Times asked Bradley on Wednesday about his treatment by St. Louis fans. Bill Dwyre, the Times' sports editor, said several reporters in the clubhouse said Bradley didn't like Reid's question.  

IN BRIEF 
Earnhardt docked .Points Bowl. CBS was fined a record woman had asked Matsch to protectfor undocked profanity $550,000 by the FCC. Networks have her identity, saying she has been the 
NEW YORK -NBC is adding a 5-installed delays of up to 10 seconds subject of death threats and sordid second delay to its NASCAR telecasts for some programming, and ABC's publicity for more than a year. after Dale Earnhardt Jr. used a vul­"Monday Night Football" is using a Attorneys for Bryant opposed the garity during a postrace TV inter­5-secoqd delay this season. request earlier this week, saying she view last weekend. Kobe s accqser.l\9\ to s\ay shouldn't be able to bring a "false 
"We're disappointed for our view­anonymous In CIVIl awsuit accusation" in her civil lawsuit with­
DENVER -A federal judge on
ers to have to do this, but the delay out being identified. provides a level of protection against Wednesday rejected a request from Indiana bids to hold 
anything inappropriate going out the woman accusing Kobe Bryant of Olympic swimming trials rape to remain anonymous in her
over the air," NBC Sports chairman INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Sports 
Dick Ebersol said Thursday. civil lawsuit against the NBA star, Corporation may bid to host the Earnhardt was docked 25 points in saying the public's interest in open 2008 Olympic swimming trials but is the Nextel Cup standings and fined court proceedings outweighs her still debating which venue it should desire to shield her identity.
$10,000 for his slip of the tongue in pursue. an NBC interview after his victory at "The parties appear as equals President Dale Neuburger told The 
before the court and that fundamen­
Talladega Superspeedway, dropping Associated Press on Thursday, the 
tal principle must be protected
him to second place with seven races first day of the World Swimming
throughout these proceedings," U.S.
left in the season. He will appeal the Championships in Indianapolis, that 
point penalty. District Judge Richard Matsch said. the nonprofit group is considering Federal regulators have cracked Matsch said allowing the woman to three sites -the Indiana University down on objectionable content on remain anonymous could be miscon­Natatorium, Conseco Fieldhouse and 
strued as a prejudgment in her the RCA Dome.
TV and radio since Janet Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction" during her favor. A decision is expected before the halftime performance at the Super Attorneys for the 20-year-old end of the year. 


page 19Friday, October 8, 2004 

Q 
' -. ­. ­-
• < 

Notre Dane vs Stanford Book Signings 
Friday, ~ober 8 
... 

Day By Day Fr. Tom McNally and William Storey 2:00 pm-4:00pm 
Loyal Sons & lilughters Sr. Jean L.enz 3:00 pm-5:00pm 
Saturday, Cktober 9 
EchoesOl The Hardwood Michael Coffey 9:00am-11:00am . 
Gllden Boy 

Paul rbrnung 9:00 am -11 :00 am 
Tales From The Notre Darre Sidelire Gerry Faust 
11:00 am -12:00 pm 
I PIay for Notre Darre Ted Mandell 4:00 pm-5:~ pm 
Monk's Tra\Eis Fr." Monk'' Malloy 4:00 pm-6:00 pm 
Tales AtmThe 
Notre lilrre Hardvvood Digger Alelps 11:00 am-1:00pm 
Gl Irish Connie McNamara 11:00 am-1:00pm 

HAMMES 

by da 




.~ 
l ~ 
{ 
l 
I 
~·"'~j
..... 



Friday, October 8, 2004 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Dominant Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips to clash 
By BRAD WALLACE, BRIAN 

Women•s Jnter.haU 
CARDILE and ABBY 
RICHARDSON 

Football 
\ Sports Writers 
\ 
Rank Tearn R~cord J'rf.!vious.
\ 
Rank
} 
This Sunday could play host 
) 
1. Welsh Fa.mily 3-0-1 1
i to what many would consider a clash of the titans. as two of 
2. Cavanaugh 3-0-1 6
tl 
' \ the Blue League's most domi­
3. Walsh 3-0-'2 2
i 
nant teams meet. 4. Badin '3
The proIifie offense of Cavanaugh (3-0-1) will test its 
5. Brt!en-Phillips 5 strength against the suffocat­
6. Pangborn 7
ing defense of Breen-Phillips (3-1) at 3 p.m. on the West 
7. Lyons 2*1*2 lO 
Quad. 

8; Pasquerilla "W~st. 2-1-1 . 8 
::::::;:.::?:::''· ···::·

The Babes are coming off 
9, McGlinn 1~3 4
their first loss of the season, but feel confident that they 
10. Lewis. 
9 will be able to bounce back. 11. Farley 1-4 11 
"Walsh was a really good 
12. Howard 0-3-1 12
team. and we had some trou­ble adjusting to their defense. 
13. Pasqueri.lla East ~W0-4 ..r 13 We just made too many mis­
14. Off·Campt1s .., .0-4
takes last week," captain 
Jaimie Feltault said. "This 
week, we've just been going nificant. With only two games over the basics so that we each remaining, Pasquerilla don't make the same things West and MeGlinn get ready to wrong." face each other Sunday at 2 The Chaos hopes to continue p.m. on the West Quad field. its unbeaten season and the The Pasquerilla West inter­three-game winning streak it hall team (2-1-1) will face is riding. The task won't be McGlinn (1-3) in the second­easy, though, as the Babes to-last game before the play­defense has been playing very offs begin after the fall break. well as of late. "[It is] an important game to 
"I think our defense will be win. in terms of the playoffs," our biggest strength this Pasquerilla West co-captain week," Feltault said. "They've Abby Nerlinger said. made a lot of big plays, have Pasquerilla West is fresh off come up with some huge a big victory that has sparked interceptions, and made big more confidence in themselves stops when it really counted." as a team. 
Breen-Phillips is aware of "Coming off the win we're the magnitude of the game, excited," Nerlinger said, refer­but is will not let the hype ring to the recent 13-6 victory affect their game plan. over Farley on Tuesday. "[The] 
"We're just going to main thing is keeping that approach this game as we up., would any other. For us, this Both teams hope they will is just one more step on the win this game, helping them road to the stadium," Feltault in the playoffs. They hope that said. these last two games will help 
Cavanaugh captain Sara them accomplish their final Gilloon was unavailable for goals for the regular season. comment. 
Walsh vs. PE 

Contact Brad Wallace at
Two teams headed in oppo­
bwallac2@nd.edu, Brian Cardile 
site directions will meet this 
at bcardile@nd.edu and Abby
weekend, as the undefeated 
Richardson at Wild Women of Walsh face off arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
against the winless Pyros of Pasquerilla East. 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Alumni, Keenan set for challenge 
Dillon vs. Keough  As the two teams gear up  
By CHRIS KHOREY, MIKE  Two  teams  plagued  by  for Sunday's 1 p.m. game at  
LASKEY and  injuries  find  themselves  Riehle  Field.  both  the  
MIKE TENNANT  headed in opposite directions  Manorites and the Griffins  
Sports Writers  this  weekend  when  the  know that any playoff hopes  
Keough Kangaroos take  on  can disappear without a  vic­ 
Two of the best teams  on  the Dillon Big Red  at 3 p.m.  tory.  
campus will face off Sunday  at Riehle Fields.  "It's  do  or  die  for  both  
as  Alumni faces Keenan  at  Keough finds itself at the  teams," Morrissey captain  
South Riehle Field at 2 p.m.  bottom  of the  Men's Gold  and  wide  receiver  Aaron  
The Dawgs and· Knights.  League with  an 0-3 record,  Ronsheim said.  
both undefeated, have bat­ after lsoing both of its run­ 
tered opponents in the early  ning backs to injury.  Contact Chris Khorey at  
.weeks of the season  before  Morrissey vs. Stanford  ckhorey@nd.edu, Mike Laskey  
finally facing each other in  It's  now  or  never  for  at mlaskey@nd.edu and Mike  
this clash of titans.  Morrissey and Stanford.  Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu  

Off-Campus Housing 
Offered by Domus Properties 
Now leasing for 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 school years 
• 
Close to campus • Washers & dryers 

• 
Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers 

• 
Security systems • Internet ready 


• 24-hour maintenance-staff 
To view all of our houses, visit wvvvv. domuskramercom 
Call today­properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 (574) 234-2436 
Our "Painted Lady", at I 022 E Madison Stfeec is JUSt one· of the many houses offered by Oomus Properties 

Coming off a 6-0 victory over top-ranked Breen Phillips, Walsh looks to contin­ue its winning ways and ride the momentum into the play­offs. The Pyros simply hope to avoid a winless season. 
The Wild Women will look to continue to use the two main weapons, which have led them to this point: a suffocating defense and an agile quarter­back. In the game against Breen Phillips, Walsh capital­ized off of two interceptions by senior Katie Hesmond and also used an impressive 100­yard rushing performance by freshman quarterback Mary Sullivan to win. 
In their last game, the Pyros continued to struggle as they were shut out 19-0 by the then-winless McGlinn Shamrocks. The Shamrock ul'fense had little trouble elud­ing a porous Pasquerilla East defense. while the Pyro attack struggled. having trouble even smelling the end zone. 
Pasquerllla West vs. McGlinn 

As the pressure of the play­offs becomes more of a reality, each game becomes more sig-


YY L~..So-~~"-'tor€/lhcutvovGift Sh.opp& .. 
VI..LM"'~ ~for ~ue--ite..ww for decorat-"'~ your dor~ r-00'»1.1 or ap~! 
Create your own space with the wonderful fragrances of popourri and Yankee Candles. Accent your room with great new home decor selections and special seasonal floral arrangements. At Sugarberry Lane we have hundreds of ideas to decorate your dorm or apartment or for gift suggestions. And when you to step out onto campus, step out in style with bags by 
VEPAI1 


Back Packs • Purses • Duffel Bags 
Including the net.vest pauerns 

We"'re just minutes north ofcampus! 
52313 St. Rte. 933 North • 272•9608 
Mon-Fri lOam to 6pm • Sat lOam to 5pm • Closed Sunday 

Friday, October 8, 2004 
page 21

The Observer + SPORTS 


ONLY, the Magna Carta, circa 1300 A.D. (the "Great . Charter" of English liberty); .. an original 1777 broadside of our Declaration of Independence; a first edition of the Federalist Papers; Common Sense by Thomas Paine 
Present this coupon at the box office and receive $3 off regular admission price. Not to be used with Senior 
Student discounted pri Offer Good Oct. 5-Oct. 31 
Friday, October 8at 9p.m. • leighton Concert Hall Tickets $44, $35 Faculty/Staff, $15 Students 
Eileen Ivers rose to prominence as anine-time all-Irish fiddle champion and as the fiery fiddler of "Riverdance," but her passion for musical exploration has catapulted her to rarified air where only virtuosos play. Her bold and imaginative style earned her the title lithe Jimi Hendrix of the violin" from aNew York Times reviewer. Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul storm the stage with matchless energy and on eclectic spirit. Respectful of their Irish roots, they infuse their concert with fresh vitality from the rhythms of Latin and African music. Ivers will change the way you think about the violin. 
For tickets( call 574.631. 2800, Noon-6p.m., Mondoy through Soturdoy. http:I I performingarts.nd.edu 
THEDEADSEASCROLLS I T<>THE nmu:n.;-;;1nt.ericd-· 
P R E S E N T S 
SMC GOLF 
Team expected to excel in championship meet 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Wmer 
Mark Hamilton said opponents competing at the MIAA Championships this weekend will see Saint Mary's running on all cylinders. 
In their last tournament of the fall season, Hamilton said, the Belles should be at the top of their games and post impressive num­bers. 
"I think it will be exciting to see what we can do when we're play­ing at our peak," Hamilton said. "We just need to stay relaxed and in the zone." 
Saint Mary's already holds a 47­stroke lead and a first-place con­ference rank going into the tour­nament as a result of their hard work earlier this season. Their conference counterparts expect nothing less than a challenge this weekend. 
"I think the other teams know that we're going to come out and play well," Hamilton said. "Everyone knows we're the team to beat -we're the marked man." 
In addition to team honors, the 


~ 
Registration for both Swing &Latin Dance begin October 13, 2004 at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center@ 8:00 a.m. Registration fee for both Swing & Latin Dance is $12.00. Fees due at time of registration. Must have Notre Dame I.D. 
For more infonnation call1-6100 or visit recsoorts.nd.&du 
Belles look to collect individual 
awards, as well. Junior Julia 
Adams and seniors Stefanic 
Simmerman and Chrissy Dunham 
look to earn a place on the first 
and second all-conference teams. 
Hamilton believes the team will 
be ready for any challenges they 
will encounter this weekend. He 
cited the team's solid perform­
ance last weekend, despite the 
rigorous course, as proof of the 
team's ability to excel this week­
end. 
"This weekend's course has a lot of similarities to the course we played on last weekend," Hamilton said. "That's one of the reasons we scheduled that tour­nament last weekend." 
Of utmost importance, Hamilton said, the team must show its abili­ty to keep a level head under the pressure. He hopes the Belles will approach this meet as if it were a normal, regular season meet. 
"We're trying not to get too jazzed up for it, but at the same time, we are excited to hoist the team banner in the gym if we win," Hamilton said. 

Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu I 
l 
l 
l ~ 
~ 
l j 
l 
~--~----------------------------­
page 22 Friday, October 8, 2004
The Observer • SPORTS 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Badin and Lyons square off 
By TOM DORWART, RAMA 
GOTTUMUKKALA and KATE 
SERYAK 
Spores Wrirers 

Two teams meet at 4 p.m. Sunday at McGlinn fields, and only one of them advances to the playoffs. In a must-win game for both squads. the 3-2 defending champions from Badin take on the 2-1-2 Lyons Lyons. 
"We're not ready for our sea­son to be over," Badin wide receiver and running back Meg Charlebois said. "It's a huge game, and we're going to give it all we've got." 
Badin heads into the final game of the regular season com­ing off a 13-7 loss to Welsh Family, while Lyons skids into the do-or-die contest after failing to score in each of its past two games. 
"We're looking to pul some big points on the board," Lyons offensive lineman Laura Riebschleger said. 
That goal might be tough to accomplish against an aggres­sive Badin defense. 
"The defense is going to con­tinue its level of intensity and will look for turnovers," Badin linebacker Christina O'Donnell said. 
After barely missing the 2003 playoffs, Lyons upperclassmen said they would use their experi­ence as motivation for the final game. 
"We don't want to be in that situation again," junior line­backer Mosey Nuccio said. 
Looking to rebound from a one-touchdown loss to Welsh Family, Badin continues its quest to defend its interhall title. 
"Whoever wants this game 
&ood Luck Irish! 
Visit the restaurant voted Best Breakfast and Best Lunch by the readers of the South Bend Tribune in either of our two locations: 
•Downtown South Bend across from the Hall of Fame 288-PEE:P 
•Mishawaka off Main St. next to SuperTarget 
271-PEEP 
6:30am -2:00pm Mon-Fri 7:00am -2:00pm Sat & Sun 
r-----------------------------------------~ 
I

'uy ot1e etttree get asecottd half off I 
(valid anytime but not with any other offer) I 
I 

Observer coupon • expires 10/25/2004 I 
·-----------------------------------------· 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles to face final test before conference meet 
tion to peak in three weeks. 
By ANNA FRICANO 

Saint Mary's biggest chal­
Spom Wrirer 

lenge in the upcoming weeks 
is to keep themselves focused 
The Saint Mary's cross and healthy. One of their country team will travel to main goals is to take extra Illinois this afternoon to com­precaution in the next couple pete in the Eagle Invitational of weeks to keep themselves hosted by Benedictine in top shape. University. Although the As fall break approaches, Belles will compete Oct. 30 in the runners are trying to find the MIAA cross-country the right balance between championship, Friday's race taking it easy and keeping marks the final non-confer­themselves in shape. ence meet of the year. Practices in the past couple of 
The Belles weeks have are taking focused on full advan­'"Over fall break, we'll be p u I 1 i n g 
tage of the on our own, so we're everything opportunity together.
pushing ourselves to

to put forth "(We're 
one last work hard through these working on] surge of workouts." getting our effort before pace down," they pre­Sara Otto
Becky Featuo y~ 

pare for the s a i d . conference junior Workouts 
meet. 
C o a c h Dave Barstis is cpnfident in his runners' abilities. 
"We traditionally do wfdl there and I look for that to continue," Barstis said. 
But the team hesitates to place too much weight on this race. With one more intense week of training before fall break. the team will treat the race as another workout. with the main goal being to have everyone in prime posi­

have gotten 
shorter and more focused on speed. Otto's teammate junior Becky Fcauto realizes the challenge that they face in the upcom­ing weeks. 
"Over fall break we'll be on our own, so we're pushing ourselves to work hard through these work-outs," Feauto said. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cui5ine 

-----.-~~~--+------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. 1 lam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering
------+-..Jt.l!JI,.··....1-------­We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Houmrnos, Taboul~ Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Rosdand area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 


1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway (574) 256-1444 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 
2.5 years! Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the 
veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
V...VlELCO)M{JE JFO)O)lrJB)ALJL JFJR-J[JENJD§ ANJD JFAMl J[ JLY! 
Tuesday-Thursday s:oo-9:oo  Full bar available  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-1o:oo  Francese~ t1eeds servers  


more is going to win it, and we've worked too hard this sea­son to lie down now," O'Donnell said. Howard vs. Off-Campus 
The teams at the bottom of the women's gold league standings have labeled their upcoming game the "showdown of the los­ers." Winner takes all -a single win and bragging rights. 
Howard (0-3-1) and Off­Campus (0-4) are both planning to leave it all on the field on Sunday at 5 p.m. at the West Quad field as one of them will get that elusive first win. 
"I talked to a few of the girls from off-campus and we decided this was like the showdown of the losers because we're both at the bottom of the brackets," Howard captain Callie Whelan said. "So we're excited to see who can be the best of the worst." 
But do not expect this match to be meaningless. After being overmatched by top teams like Welsh Family and Badin, Howard and Off-Campus will finally have the opportunity to face an opponent of similar stature to duke it out for the slot directly above last place in the division. 
Of the two teams, Howard has enjoyed greater success this sea­son based solely on its tie against Welsh Family, the No. 1 team in the division. With at least one good game under their belt, the Ducks will look to end their season on a positive note. 
"Across the board. our offense has really come together and our defense has too," Whelan said. "The whole team has really come together and it'll be excit­
ing to play a team of equal cal­iber." 
Off-Campus has been taking a much more relaxed path during this season. 
"We're really trying to improve our offense and our defense," Off-Campus captain Lauren Blum said. "We really seem to have plateaued at terrible. So maybe we can climb ofT that." 
Lewis vs. Welsh Family 

Four years ago, Lewis and Welsh met for the flag football championship game. Welsh Family won by a point, and thus began the rivalry between the two teams. 
They weren't in the same league following the stadium showdown, but now, after two years, the teams will meet in regular season play. 
"We've had a long standing rivalry with them," Welsh Family captain Mary Prendergast said. "I was there four years ago when we beat them in the stadium. It doesn't really matter what their record is -it's a big game and we are really geared up to play in it" 
Welsh Family has been ofT to a great start this year with a record of 3-0-1. The Whirlwinds are currently undefeated, but Lewis certainly has the motiva­tion to do it 
"This is the first time we've seen them in regular season play in two years," Lewis Captain Julia Burke said. "I just missed the stadium game by a year, but I've heard about it sev­eral times. Both teams are intense and get really geared up for the game." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu, Rama Gotturnakkala at rgottumu@nd.edu and Kate Seryak kseryak@nd.edu 

•.,· 
Friday, October 8, 2004 page 23 
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish stick with what works in weekend matches 
Brown decides to keep last weekend's changes to the lineup after win 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
As the old saying goes, if something isn't broken, don't fix it. 
In last weekend's mate h against Syracuse, Carolyn Cooper made her first start and stepped in at middle blocker. 
The junior made quite an impression, chipping in seven blocks and a ·personal season­high three kills in one of Notre Dame's strongest defensive per­formances of the season. 
The Irish will stick with Cooper at middle blocker when they travel to face Rutgers [11-4] and Seton Hall [6-12]. 
"[Cooper] brings a lot of ener­gy to the court," coach Debbie Brown said. "We got the result we hoped we would from putting her in." 
Brown hopes Cooper will have a similar impact this weekend, beginning with Saturday's match against Rutgers. 

Last weekend, Rutgers com­peted in the Big East Challenge and defeated Villanova in the consolation match 26-30, 30-21, 25-30, 30-26, 15-13. Scarlet Knights sophomore Lora Tankauskas looks to be an offen­sive threat, as last weekend she led Rutgers with a team-high 18 kills. Rutgers senior Abbey Martin's match-high 59 assists are numbers that would intimi­date most teams. 
But Brown believes the Irish are ready for any challenges Rutgers might send their way. 
"Neither [Rutgers or Seton Hall] has players we can't han­dle," Brown said. "We just can't beat ourselves by having unforced errors." 
Seton Hall's setter Shawn McDonald looks to provide many of the offensive challenges the Irish will encounter on Sunday. 
The senior collected her 4,000th assist in Tuesday's win against Fordham, recording a match-high 40 assists and 11 digs. After Tuesday's match, Seton Hall remains undefeated at home. 

Despite the Irish opponents' impressive accolades, Brown believes Notre Dame is capable of notching wins at both Big East ­Conference matches this week­end. 
"We need each individual to be consistent with their play and we need to have the whole team on the same page." Brown said. "With any team we play, we have to anticipate that they'll have career matches against us." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

{THAT'S WHAT THIN DORM WAllS ARE FOR) 
Dependable service. Simple plans. That's what we're for. 
$20~~~e first 6 months, 
$39.95 thereafter) 
Call and Text Plan 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
Unlimited Call Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FREE for 2 months 


Ask about Nights & Weekends 
starting at 7 p.m. 
~US. Cellular 
Umited time offer. 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Alrt1me and text messaging offer vahd on two-year consumer service agreements of $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months of a 2 year contract. Unlimited Gall Me Minutes are only available in the local calling area and are not deducted from packaged mrnutes. 3000 N1ghts and Weekends are ava1lable in the local calling area for $4.95 per month. "Text messaging 250 package is $5.95 thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing message beyond 250. Must call to cancel. Offers may expire if )'OU change your r:alling plan. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Customer 1s responsible for all sales taxes. Other restrictions may apply. See store for delalls. Limited bme offer. Roaming charges. fees. surcharges afld taxes may apply. Jnduding a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. Customer is responsible for all sales taxes 02004 U.S Cellular Corporation 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Thompsons upset No.6 team in ITA 
Special to the Observer 
PACIFIC PALISADES. Calif. ­
Sophomore twins Christian 
Thompson and Catrina 
Thompson, the seventh-ranked 
doubles team in college tennis, 
knocked off the nation's No. 6 
team 8-4 in Thursday's opening 
round of the Riviera/ 
Intercollegiate Tennis Associa­
tion [ITA] Women's All­
American Championships, the 
first leg of the collegiate grand 
slam. The sisters, the first Irish 
doubles team to win a match in 
the main draw of the event since 
1993, will next face the No. 1 
team in Division I in Friday's 
quarterfinals at the Riviera 
Tennis Club. 
The Notre Dame team won 
five straight games to rally from 
a 4-3 deficit in defeating a pair 
of juniors from the University of 
Alabama, Ashley Bentley and 
Robin Stephenson. The Crimson 
Tide team. comprised of players 
ranked No. 16 (Stephenson) and 
No. 49 (Bentley) nationally in 
singles, had been unbeaten this 
season following a 2003-04 
campaign in which they were 
23-9 and finished ranked 24th. 
"The Thompsons played really well today," said Notre Dame head coach Jay Louderback of his doubles team. "They are really playing big-time tennis. They can play with anybody the way they are playing right now. It was really fun to watch them." 
The twins got ofT to a strong start. using consistency to win the first three games in rapid fashion. Alabama took advan­tage of a bad service game by the Irish to begin a rally that would consist of four consecu­tive games ending in the Tide's column. Trailing 4-3. Christian Thompson found a groove with her serve. not missing a first serve in six attempts in the game in holding to even the score and begin the run that would end with the Irish pre­vailing. 
Up next for the Irish pair will be an even bigger challenge, as they will take on Dianne Hollands and Maja Mlakar of Arizona at 4:30 p.m. Tlle \Vildcat team saved match points in rallying from a 7-6 deficit to win its first-round match in a tiebreaker against the lOth-ranked team in the nation. from Harvard. 

-~----~ ---------~--------------------~---------------.-----------..... 
page 24 Friday, October 8, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
• 
WOMEN'S GOLD INTERHALL LEAGUE 
Pangborn defeats Howard in fourth straight win 
By BRIAN CARDILE, RYAN 
KIEFER, and JOHN EVERETT 
Sporrs Wrirers 

The Pangborn Phoxes contin­ued their winning ways Thursday, using a strong offen­sive performance to top the inexperienced Howard Ducks, 27-6. The victory-Pangborn's fourth straight -puts them in good shape heading toward the postseason. 
It took only one play for the prolific Phox offense to assert itself, as quarterback Katie Mooney connected with a streaking receiver for a 30-yard strike on the first play from scrimmage. After another first down, the Phoxes displayed their versatility as Mooney ran around the left end and, after drawing the defense, pitched the ball to tailback Trish Donelly. who ran it in for a score. 
A completed pass on the point after attempt gave the Phoxes a 7-0 lead, a lead they would not relinquish. 
Despite the early deficit, the Ducks didn't fold, responding on their first drive with an impres­sive quarterback draw that went 50 yards for the score. The touchdown brought the Ducks to within a point and gave them new hope. 
But this hope was short-lived, as the Phoxes immediately countered with a touchdown on the first play of the ensuing drive. Mooney optioned this time to tailback Brynn Johnson, who eluded countless Ducks on her way to a 70-yard score. 
The dual tailback set gave the Howard Defense trouble all night. The Ducks often diq not know who had the ball. 
"We practiced hard all year on the handoffs," Pangborn coach Doug Cionni said. "[The dual tailback formation] has really picked up." 
The Phoxes added two more scores in the second half­another option from Mooney to Donelly and a quarterback keeper late in the game -to seal the 27-6 win. Lewis 35, Off-Campus 0 
The Lewis Chicks made it clear from the start that they were a class above Off-Campus Thursday night as they cruised to a 35-0 victory. 
The tone was set early on for Lewis. 
On the second play from scrimmage, the Chicks (2-2-1) executed a hook-and-ladder play to perfection, covering 58 yards for the first of their five touchdowns. Quarterback Tiffany Roberts completed a short out pattern to Kara Bailey who lateralled the ball to Jocelyn Moya. Maya ran the rest of the way down the side­line for the score. 
Roberts was just getting start­ed as she had a hand in all the touchdowns. She had touch­down runs of 10, 11 and 63 yards as well as two passing touchdowns. Maya was the pri­mary receiving target as she had two touchdowns, including one on the hook and ladder play. 


The Chick offense was as effi­cient as it was effective. None of the five scoring drives lasted longer than three plays. 
"[Our team was] an offensive juggernaut tonight," Lewis coach Jay Murphy said. Welsh Family 13, Badin 7 
The Whirlwinds of Welsh Family turned up the pressure defensively and used an impres­sive air attack to beat the Badin Bullfrogs and run their record to a sterling 4-0-1. 
Welsh Family was coming off a tie to Howard that cancelled their run at perfection. In that game, dropped passes were the major problem for the Whirlwinds. That was much less of a problem against Badin. 
Quarterback Melissa Sands connected with wide receiver Lauren Heck for two touch­downs, accounting for both scores. The first touchdown came on a five-yard pass to the corner of the end zone, capping off a long, sustained drive. The extra point was scored, and Welsh led 7-0. 
For much of the rest of the game, defensive stands and field position were the keys to the Whirlwinds' success. 22Badin's quarterback Stephanie Heath was forced to scramble often due to the pock­et repeatedly collapsing. Heath made the most of these situa­tions, ga1mng significant yardage on many of her runs. 
When Heath did have enough time to pass, she spread the ball around fairly effectively. Wide receivers Ashley O'Keefe and Lizzi Shappell made several impressive catches. Shappell, known as "Mo Sto" for her com­parative resemblance in height to Maurice Stovall, used her height to her advantage on sev­eral balls. 
The Whirlwinds made several fourth-down stops, including two when Badin was inside the red zone, one on fourth-and goal. Badin, backed by an extremely boisterous crowd on its sideline, made several drives in attempt to tie the score. all in vain. 

After one such drive pinned Welsh Family deep in its own territory, Sands and Heck made their second connection, as Heck slipped pass the defense and scampered about 70 yards for the score that broke the Bullfrogs' back. 
Badin never stopped trying to score, and with the aid of a bull-rushing penalty on the Welsh Family defensive line that negated a Whirlwind inter­ception, they scored their lone touchdown with under two min­utes left in the game. 
On a fourth-down, Heath rolled out and hit Ashley O'Keefe in the right corner. The Bullfrogs got the extra point to close within six, but the Whirlwinds ran one more play to end the game. 
Contact Brian Cardile at bcardile@nd.edu, Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu and John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 

Friday, October 8, 2004 
page 25 

The Observer + SPORTS 
Adrian 
continued from page 28 
One of the keys to Tuesday's win was the strong play of the bench. which continued to build the team's lead as almost every player made it onto the field. The Belles will look for similar 
play  against  Adrian  on  
Saturday.  
"We've  had a lot  of tight  

games; it's not often we get to empty the bench, to let the kids 
who work equally hard in prac­tice get on to the field," MacKenzie said. "The great thing about this team is its cohesion; the players who start and the ones who are support­ing from the sidelines are all on the same page. The bench play­ers have been awesome in accepting their roles, and mak­ing the most of their time on the field." 
It has been that cohesion, which had been missing in past years, that has pushed the Belles to a higher level this sea­son. 
"We're not going to win the MIAA without utilizing our play­ers," MacKenzie said. "Having only the 11 players on the field is not going to win this confer­ence. It's important that all · these kids get some experience and the opportunity to develop so that they can get in the flow." 
No matter who makes it on to the field on Saturday, the Belles hope they can continue their recent surge in scoring. Tuesday's·eight goals equaled the total combined scoring of the previous five games for Saint Mary's, but they will face a talented goalie tandem on Saturday. 
"They [Adrian] are a pretty good squad, and made us work hard last time, but their goalies are their strength," MacKenzie said. "Their goalies played ter­rific games against as the first time. Weprobably had 30 shots on goal against them last time, and we were only able to score three goals. We'll need to figure out how to put the ball in the back of the net." 

As the Belles open up the sec­ond half of their season, they .. will look to be more consistent in their scoring than they were in the first half in order to have a shot at the MIAA crown. 
"The results ... the other day will help motivate our kids to find the back of the net," MacKenzie said. "We don't want to get urgent, but hopefully the 

-
Tri-State game will give us the confidence we need ... to score." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 

Big East 
continued from page 28 
In Friday's 4 p.m. match-up against Villanova. the Irish face a defensive oriented team. Much like Providence last Sunday, Notre Dame's opponent will sit back in its own end with the sole purpose of halting the Irish offense. 
Waldrum feels the Irish can turn the Wildcats' philosophy into an advantage. 
"Right now we've got a differ­ent kind of an attacking team and I think it's better suited for teams that drop back and try to defend against us," he said. 
Georgetown, under new head coach Dave Nolan, will pose the challenge of unfamiliarity. 

When: Tuesdays, Thursday's, beginning October26 
5:45-7:00 p.m. ·12 classes Where: Rockne Memorial Room 219 
Registration begins October 13 attiM Rolfs Sports Recreation Center@8:00a.m. Registration fee is $20.00. Fees due at time of registration. 
Must have Notre Dame 1.0. 
For more information call1-6100orvisit 


,"NO PARKING. NO TRAFFIC. NO PROBLEM! 
Leave hassles behind and take the :l~ 
Stadium Express to the game. Offering directbus service to NO Campus for all home football games, shuttles begin 3 hours before kickoff and provide prompt returns following the game! .Convenient pickup locations include: 
SB Regional Airport * Studebaker Museum College Football Hall ofFame (South Bend) Town & Country Shopping Center (Mishawaka) St. Mary's College * Holy Cross College *St. Joseph H.S. Downtown South Bend & University Park area hotels 
$2.00 Each way, St. Mary's/Holy Cross/St Joe HS $3.00 Each way, with advance tickets $4.00 Each way, at time of boarding 
(For cash fares, correct change is required) 
For advance ticket &pickup locations call: 

233-2131 -f£'£fJK~ 
Wherever Life Takes You 
Notre Dame will have to adjust to a system they have not yet scouted. Having to react to an unfamiliar style of play will help the Irish work on their biggest weakness, defending the counterattack. 
"We know that we need to get on top first," Chapman said, "(but] when we go on the attack and they have a quick counterattack, that's the biggest thing we need to work on." 
Waldrum will also look for one of his goaltenders to emerge as the premier starter on the team. 
"I would like to still [rotate] if I can," he said. "We might split position, the Irish appear to be games, we might split halves or hitting on all cylinders. With if we've got one that just seems two goals and two assists last to be hot at the weekend against time we may just West Virginia and stick with that. "Jfwe work Providence, junior That's the kind of together. we're forward Katie question that Thorlakson
better than any
those guys have received Big East to answer for us team out there ... Offensive Player of based on their the Week honors performance." Candace Chapman for the third time 
Junior Erika 
Irish forward/defender this season in just
Bohn is expected six weeks of play. to start in goal Thorlakson has for the Irish on Friday and been an offensive dynamo for Waldrum will evaluate his goal­Notre Dame, leading the nation keepers from their. in points (34) and assists (12). 
Aside from the goalkeeper Additionally, she has been on a streak of late, scoring a goal in her last five games, including four game-winners. Thorlakson rises to the occasion not only at big times but also against big opponents. In games against nationally-ranked teams, she has totaled 12 points with four goals and four assists. 


Any shortcomings the Irish might have had on offense have been more than made up for by the defense. The defense has shut down opposing offenses to the point where Notre Dame has more goals scored (37) than their opponents have shots-on-goal (31). 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

Watch Your BAC 
Come learn about the Green Zone and receive your own personalized Blood-Alcohol Concentration Card at North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall on Sunday, October 1 0 from 1 0:30-2:30. 
Who knows•••if you have the card on you in t~e nea~ future, you may be chosen to win free stuff! 
-
Stay in the Green Zone 
Keep your BAC under a .06 

Friday, October 8, 2004
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
cracking down [on calling more on a hard slapshot from the who beat Cey with a low shot NOTRE DAME 2, MINNESOTA­penalties]." Irish forward and blue line 7 minutes, 5 seconds through the legs. DULUTH 2
Duluth 
continued from page 28 

"They did a good job of let­ting me see the puck and I'm excited for this season -we looked good on defense and our 
..:..-.. 
forwards looked good as well. This was a real all-around effort by the team tonight." 
Poulin was concerned about how the Irish would respond to rule changes instituted by the NCAA this year, in which refer­ees were asked to be more dili­gent in calling penalties. Those changes materialized in the final stats, with a total of 23 penalties called between the two teams, including two major penalties of five minutes. 
Notre Dame's penalty kill was 1-for-12 on the night. while Minnesota-Duluth finished the game 1-for 11. 
"Penalty kill is always impor­
tant but this year it's especially 
important with the referees 
Megna 
continued from page 28 
the goal and saw that I got close and ripped a shot." 
The Panthers were able to hold a sharpshooting Irish offense to Megna's lone goal well into the second period. 
"I thought that the first half we actually played very well," coach Bobby Clark said. "We actually went into a lull in the second half ... in the second half I felt we didn't get quite into that rhythm." 
The battle for goals was aggressive, as referees stopped play a number. of times for fouls. Although Pittsburgh gave up fouls that put the Irish in prime scoring position, they managed to stifle Notre Dame's scoring attempts. 

penalty kill team member Jason Paige said. "We not only have to take pride in our penal­ty kill. but it's something we have to excel at." 
Penalties against both teams helped lead to Notre Dame's first goal, as Josh Sciba scored into the first period while the teams skated four-on-four. 

The Bulldogs came right back a little more than three min­utes later when Minnesota­Duluth bounced the puck off the end boards and it came right back to Josh Miskovich, 
"Set plays we've spent a lot of time on-we should be good at them," Clark said. "I think for some reason tonight we didn't quite get the service where we wanted them and I don't know why." 
It was one weak spot for an otherwise strong squad who forced goalie Chris Sawyer to make only two saves. In the season's 11 games, one of the 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
nation's top defenses has given up only six goals -none in the last 363 minutes of play. 
The defense has also lit up the scoreboards, as Christopher High moved deep into Pittsburgh territory in the 80th minute to execute a text­book header on a Luke Boughen cross. 
"Just when I was starting to bite my fingernails it was great 

Free Checkingl 

Just one of our many free products and services. 
NCUA 

'9 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
The Irish came back in the second with their first power play goal of the season. McLean skated the puck in from the left boards and wrist­ed a low shot short side from the left face-off dot to beat Minnesota-Duluth goalie Isaac Reichmuth. 
Notre Dame tried to maintain its lead in the third period, but a five-minute major and game misconduct by freshman for­ward Victor Oreskovich gave Minnesota-Duluth a long power play and the Bulldogs took advantage with 7:33 left in the game. 
From behind Cey's net, Evan Schwabe made a perfect cen­tering pass to Tim Stapleton, who beat the Irish goalie top shelf as he tried to slide over from the post to make the save. 
The two teams face off again tonight at the Joyce Center with the puck drop scheduled for 7:35p.m. 
for Christopher High to score that second goal," Clark said. "That really took the pressure off." 
Megna sealed the deal three minutes later, as he picked up a cross from Joe Lampira to pad the Irish victory. 
"It was very nice for Tony ­it's nice that Tony's starting to play," Clark said. 
The Irish now look forward 
Fi~~leu~s 
Heautb 
South Bend's Only Authentic Irish Pub 25% off ow Food i Soft Drinks witll Valid Studellt ID 
at the JOYCE CENTER 

1st  2nd  3rd  OT Total  
~OTHE DAME  1  1  0  0  2  
Minnesota-Du.  1  0  1  0  2  

SCORING SUMMAHY First Period ND-Josh Sciba (Tim Wallac.l\). 7 05; UMD-Josh Miskovic.h !Brrtt Hammond}. 10:47 
Second Period ~D-Corv Mc.Lran (\'\'1\S O"N1\ill. Bnwk Sht'ahanl." 14:00 PP. 
Third Period UMD-Tim Stapleton (Evan Schwabe). 
12:27 pp 
Overtime No scoring. 

Shots on goal: Notre Dame 27. Minnesota-Duluth 40. Power plays: Notre Dame 1-of-11, Minnesota-Duluth 1-of-12. Goalies: Morgan Cey 3 8 saves out of 40 shots (NO), Isaac. Reichmuth 25 saves out of 27 shots (UMDJ. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

to conference rival Syracuse. who travels. to Alumni Field on Sunday. The Orangemen are 2­7-0 this year and look to pick up their first conference win in their fourth Big East game. 
The Irish take the field again Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Shepherd Pie tft Rsh &Chips 4t Bangers & Mash Guinness BBQ Ribs 4t Steaks • Salmon • Oyster Shooters Traditional Breakfast (all day every day) • Sunday Brunch Buffet Fair Trade Coffee • Perfect Pints Certified by Guinness 
What's Happening at The Heautb ... 
Uve Celtic Music Friday & Saturday nights starting at 9:00pm 
This Sanday noon-1:00pm••• "Talking Irish" 
With localspoftsjoumalists on NO Football i the weekend's Game 
127 N. Main Street (between Colfax~ Washington) 
{574} 232-2853 "" www.fiddlershearth.com "" Open Daily lunch &Dinner 


Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway, Mishawaka • 574-271-1692 

• 
Friday, October 8, 2004 
page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 

DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
I SEE A. PROBLEM WITH 'YOUR PLAN. OH ' DO YOU I MR. NEGA.TIVITl'?.  WHl' IS IT THAT YOU'RE THE 0-0-0-ONLY PERSON IN THIS MEET­ING TO SEE A. PROBLEM? HUH? HUH?  MY THEORl' IS THA.T THE REST OF 'YOU A.RE. EITHER MORONS OR DRUNK. I A.M TOTA.LLl' SOBER!  
PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  

10/8/o-4 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. . .and then her son found her 
LORGY 
j
[J [ I I 
02004 Tribune Medoa Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
FODOL 
j
I I [ [] 
UNBRAU 


WHY THE: KNITTING GROUP INVITED D-E 5"Tt:>RYTa...l..JR
I I I 
-.jumble.com 
CLYMAL 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CJ I 
FOR
Answer: 

(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: SQUAB CROON ORIGIN GIBLETYesterday's 
Answer: What the king said when the storm ruined his picnic plans-THE RAIN REIGNS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Hungry person's hyper­
1 Bar stools, e.g. 
bole 8 Like show hors­
34 Order of busi­es 

ness? 15 For fun 
35 Communication 16 Early art suppli-ender er 
36 Cheers 

17 Basketball Hall­37 Do
of-Famer Dick, who played for 
38 Tightens, as a the 1950's 
belt Knicks 
39 Ones yelling 18 Former British 36-Across 

royal house 40 "Dude," 1n 
19 Prominent Kingston
schnauzer fea­ture 41 Marigolds, e.g. 
20 Chap 45 Mars Bars, e.g. 
21 Quarter of M 49 Tim'rous one, to Burns
22 Wet bar? 50 Where to
23 Cartoon charac­spend kroons 
ter whose first name is Quincy 51 Setting for Longfellow's
26 The pit 
"The Wreck of 27 Refreshers the Hesperus" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Ill-used 53 Celeb-to-be 54 Light, with "to" 
DOWN 1 Apple, to a botanist 2 Suffix with con­sist 31t may make your face red 4 Two-door closed cars with back 
seats 5 Ash, e.g. 6 Morris who 
directed "Fog of War" 7 Bias 8 One quarter, maybe 9 Skipper's run 1 0 Supermarket chain 11 P.S. on an invi­tation 12 Serenader's sentiment 13 Zeno's home 14 Sew up 22 Us hers 23 It has little meaning 24 Get _ recep~ tion 25 Pig out 26 Miraculous 27 Dozing 
WILLSHO~TZ
.. 

28 Eagerness 29 False front? 30 Some 
Rockefeller 

Center murals 32 Write quickly 
• 42 How Scotch may be served 48 "The Sweetest 33 Haunt 
Taboo" singer, 39 Calamitous 43 Wine area 1985 
40 _ Sharett, 44 One with ulterior Israel's first for-motives eign minister, 1949-56 45 Promontory 
46 Con
41 Kid's recitation 47 Bank 

For answers, call1-900-285-5~6. $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
' 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Carradine, Jesse Jackson, Paul Hogan, Sigourney Weaver, Chevy Chase 
Happy Birthday: Don't deviate from what you know and do well. Others may try to lead you astray, but if you are true to yourself and your beliefs, you should be able to stay on course. Your numbers: 2, 15, 21, 33, 47, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will find it difficult to get the rest you require. A long, quiet walk by yourself or a drive in the country may just do the trick and help you avoid the trouble brewing at home. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Travel should be encouraged. You will be in a high-energy mode, and you must have an outlet if you wish to accomplish the 
most. Someone close to you may need help.***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your high energy and competitive nature will put you in the driver's seat. Go after your goals and don't let others hold you back. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Proceed down new avenues. Sign up for courses if you are having a problem keeping a job. Financial problems are causing friction at home. You may have to settle for a job you don't want to 
take. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can expect those you live with to have their own ideas about how they want things done around the house. Don't argue; just work on your own space and avoid getting into heated debates. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Introduce yourself to new people who are attending the same function that you are. If you are interested in someone you meet, don't be shy; ask him or her out. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't have too much luck trying to keep things harmonious on the home front. Don't be too disheartened; make plans to go out with friends who appreciate your company. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): In-laws will have good sugges.tions, but if you let them interfere with your personal life, you will live to regret it. Solve your problems on your own and tell your relatives when all is said and done. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make money, but someone is likely to talk you out of it as fast as you make it. You should consider making a move. Real estate investments look positive. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You must try to get along with your partner. You haven't been seeing things in the same light for some time now. Do a bit of backtracking, and you'll find that you are both to blame. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You must plan those career moves that you've been contemplating for the longest time now. You know what your monetary goals are, so focus on what you have to do in order to reach them. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Turn your attention to hobbies and creative endeavors that give you pleasure. You may want to teach children some of the unique skills you've developed. *** 
Birthday Baby: Yo~ have a good sense of who you are and what your capabilities are. You're advanced in your thinking and willing to work hard to realize your aspirations. You are skillful with your response to those who challenge you. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 

. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one s~mester 
• 

Name --------------------------------------------------­
Address __________________________________~_ City _____________ State _______ Zip_______ 
. 
~ ........... _. .............. .-........... ,.··-···· ........, ~ ......11 ............... _. ...... i_ _______ ... _ -----~-.!:!.!. ~!'..!'..!' ~! !..~!·~ ·~---·----------.. --------------------------------------­
.......'t' 
.• . • • • ! ' • -.. • -• • • . .. 
.-------­
' 
Friday, October 8, 2004 page 28 

HOCKEY 

Notre Dame ties 
esota-Duluth, 2-2 
• 

Teams face offagain at Joyce Center tonig_ht 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

Against a Minnesota-Duluth team with 11 seniors, it was the Irish upperclassmen who played biggest of all. 
Senior forward Cory McLean scored a goal and senior goalie Morgan Cey made 38 saves as the Irish opened the 2004-05 season-in a 2-2 tie with No. 4 Minnesota-Duluth. "Overall I was particularly 
-pleased with our effort," Irish 
ND SOCCER 

1, 
Big East team~ play weekend showdowns 
Men pummel Panthers; Syracuse nexi 
,· 
By KATE ~ALES Sports Writer 

Make it four straight shutouts for Notre Dame, four Big Ea"st wins and four goals in the past two games for forward Tony Megna. 
The No. 9 Irish are finding their rhythm as they slash through their 

coach Dave Poulin said. "[Minnesota-Duluth] had a Jot of seniors coming back and they certainly merit their rank­ing." 
The Irish open the season hoping to return to the NCAA tournament after making their first tournament appearance in team history last year. Two fac­tors helped lead to Notre Dame's successful NCAA bid­a competitive non-conference schedule and a solid home record. 
The Irish are off to a good start in both respects this sea­son, as they either won or tied at the Joyce Center for the 15th straight regular season game dating back to the team's home-opening loss to Bowling Green last season. 
Another reason for Notre Dame's success in the 2003-04 season was solid goaltending, and that has also continued so far this season. Cey was espe­cially strong in the third period and overtime, when the Irish were outshot 23-9. 
"I felt well out there," Cey said. "Some people were won­dering how we were going to replace our veteran defense from last year and I thought our defense did a remarkable job out there tonight. 
see HOCKEY/page 26 

-October schedule, leaving a trail of defeated opponents in their wake. A rock-solid defense and lightning-quick offense sent Pittsburgh home with a 3­0 loss Thursday night and improved the team to 8-2-1 on the season. 
"Ever since we lost the game to West Virginia ... every Big East game we're really brought up the intensity," Megna said. "We don't want to lose another one of those. Overall we did pretty good-we had the chance, scored the goals [and] got the shutout." 
The Irish dominated play in the first half but were unable to find the back of the net until Megna hit a shot in the 38th minute to put the team ahead 1-0 gojng into the half. 
"Justin Mr.Geeney just turned and played a ball into me," Megna said. "I basically turned and I sort of took a bad touch. I lost ft, got back up, beat the defender there, turned towards 
see MEGNA/page 26 

Women play Villanova, Georgetown 
By MATT MOONEY Spons Writer 
When a team is undefeated and ranked No. 1 in the country, it is easy to understand how the group might begin to feel complacent. 
But coach Randy. Waldrum is deter­
mined not to let that happen to his Irish squad, especially this weekend. 

"We've gone through this before, we did this last year going unde­feated," he said. "I think [we learned] that, going undefeated and losing three of your last five last year, 
you can't overlook things." 
Top-ranked Notre Dame (12-0-0, 5­0-0 Big East) again takes its act on the road, trying not to overlook the chal­lenge of Big East opponents Villanova (9-3-0, 3-2-0) and Georgetown (5-5-0, 2-1-0). 
"Going on the road in the Big East, that in itself is a big enough problem," Waldrum said. 
Despite the challenges, the perfect start has Notre Dame players feeling very confident about their performance level. 
"We've just been working really well as a team," forward/defender Candace Chapman said. "If we work together, we're better than any team out there." 
see BIG EAST/page 25 

Streaking Belles host winless Adrian after victory 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 

The Belles are hoping to start ofT the second half of their sea­son the same way they started ofT the first half -with a win against Adrian. 
After exploding for eight goals in Tuesday's 8-1 win over Tri­State University, Saint Mary's will look to continue their strong play when they face Adrian at home on Saturday. 
"This is our second game 
against Adrian, and they're coming to us this time," coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "It's nice to have the advantage of two home games in a row; this is the only time all year that hap­pens." 
While the Belles sit in second place in the MIAA standings, Adrian is at the bottom, having not won a single game all year. In their first meeting back on Sept. 11, the Belles looked good all around in a 3-0 shutout. 
"We're feeling confident com­ing off Tu~sday's win; we're just going to have to play our kind of soccer on our field," MacKenzie said. "Adrian's going to have to bring a different look than what they showed us earlier in the year." 

see ADRIAN/page 25 
en 
. WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

SMC VOLLEYBALL
SMC XC 
w 

•
1-u· Pangborn 27 
No. 7 doubles 

Eagle Invitational 
Saint Mary's at

Big East foes await 
Alumni YS. Keenan 
z Howard 6 
team wins upset 
Calvin 

The Irish take qn 
Christian and Catrina 

Friday afternoon 
Sunday, 2 p.m.
D: ::5 

The Phoxes defeated 
Tonight, 7 p.m.

Rutgers and Syracuse 
Thompson defeated the 
The Belles compete in 
Two Gold League
Q c.=s 

this weekend after last 
·the inexperienced 
No. 6 doubles team 8-4 

The Belles take on
the final non-conference 
powerhouses clash at
c:z 

Ducks for their fourth 
weekend's win over 
Thursday. 

Calvin after a tough loss 
race of the year. 
Riehle fields. 
straight victory. 

Syracuse. 
to Kalamazoo.
a. t:i 

en 
page 22 
page 21

page 24 
page 23 
page 16
page 23 
• 


page 2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 8, 2004 
Irish can't underestimate Cardinal 


It was supposed to be the beat the Irish. But most of is becoming a star in the Irish for a win. This game turning point of the season. all, it is a dangerous team, return game. will be a battle. The 57 The team who won that especially if you're Notre The junior has the nation's points Notre Dame scored game was the one to go on Dame. best return average, and last year in Palo Alto, Calif., to a great season. And Stanford was defeated eas­quite frankly, are still a sore Purdue ily last season by the Irish, the Irish spot for the hadn't but this year should be dif­have trouble Maybe the scariest Cardinal. And won at ferent. This is not the same defending why wouldn't it
part ofthis game for 
that stadi­team. The Cardinal are not kickoffs. Carl be? Stanford
Notre Dame is the
um in 30 the pushover they once Gioia has scored just one years. No­were, and the Irish are not struggled to . pressure. touchdown. tre Dame the dominating powerhouse get the ball Maybe the would they once wen~. to the end scariest part of surely So where does the chal­zone and coverage has this game for Notre Dame is w1n. lenge come for Notre Dame? struggled, with players miss­the pressure. The Irish need 
But After all, Stanford has yet ing assignments and tackles. this game. They can't lose then, Pur­to play a road game this Tuesday, Willingham two weeks in a row, espe­due won. season. attributed his team's strug­cially after a blowout. And the They haven't beaten the gles in kickoff coverage to They can't start a down­Irish were Sports Editor Irish at Notre Dame t~chnique and breakdowns. ward spiral that would eeri­left to Stadium since they were But when Jerome Brooks ly resemble last year's. This evaluate ranked No. 19 in 1992. raced 100 yards last week team has been "blown-out" their 41-16 defeat. But don't worry, Stanford for a touchdown, it wasn't in the last two years by 
It was Purdue's game to will present plenty of chal­an unfamiliar site this year. Michigan, USC, Florida win-they had the experi­lenges for Notre Dame. Images of Michigan State's State, Syracuse and Purdue. enced quarterback, they had Quarterback Trent DeAndra Cobb scampering Notre Dame needs to bounce the better team this year. So Edwards is 89 yards for a back from last week. They the loss wasn't devastating much-improved touchdown just need a win over a good
The Cardinal is not
-at least not yet. from last year. two weeks ear­team, like Stanford. 
Stanford brings a football He completes the pushover they lier were The Irish have lost two team to Notre Dame over 60 percent renewed. games but could still have a
once were, and the 
Stadium on Saturday that is of his passes, But don't for­successful season, despite
Irish are not the 
perhaps the best they've had and he will test get about last weekend's loss to a very since Irish coach Tyrone the inconsistent powerhouse they Oshiomogho good football team. They Willingham left to roam the Irish secondary. Atogwe-and just have to know it's not
once were. 
Notre Dame sideline. The sophomore with a name over because of the score. 
This is a team that was was recruited like that, how In fact, it all starts again beating last year's co­to Stanford by Willingham, could you? The senior free Saturday afternoon. national champion USC 28-and the Irish coach knows safety is a playmaker. He The opinions expressed in 17 at halftime. what he can do. has picked off one pass and this column are thpse of the 
It is a team that has just But Edwards and his forced two fumbles thus far author and not necessarily one loss -to the Trojans. 131.65 pass efficiency ratio this season. He's someone those of The Observer. 
It is a team that beat are just the beginning of the Cardinal count on for a Contact Heather Van Brigham Young handily, just Notre Dame's challenges. big hit on defense. 1/oegarden at one week after the Cougars Kick returner T.J. Rushing But don't count on the hvanhoeg@nd. edu. 
game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
'They have a really explosive offense. 1heir quarterback is starting to get poised and really show what he can do.·· 

'1t will be good to play in a place as storied as Notre Dame and the guys have a serise ofthe history when it comes to playing there ... " "Stanford is coming to town probably the best that we've seen them in the last two 
years. 

Derek Curry Irish linebacker 
"You have to go . out there and make sure you are on top of every play and that you know every facet ofthe offense.,, 




Friday, October 8, 2004 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Passing his test 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn has been a big reason for an improved passing game 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Wri[er 
Before every football game, 
Brady Quinn takes a shot. 
Of honey, that is. 
Notre Dame's second-year 
quarterback has kept the same 
pre-game ritual since third · 
grade. 
"Usually, I'll come in about 20 minutes before the game and about then I'll take a shot or a good amount of honey ... my uncle told me 'Take it before a game, it gives you some extra energy' and I've been doing it every since," Quinn said. "It's kind of tradition." 
As the Irish quarterback, Quinn is hoping to follow another kind of tradition ­that of the great Notre Dame. signal-:callers before him. Players like Montana, Theismann and Mirer have already proven themselves under center, and Quinn hopes to eventually add his own name to that impressive list. 
Quinn knows he has a long journey ahead before being compared to those Irish leg­ends. But midway through his sophomore season, the Dublin, Ohio, native is showing progress from when he started nine games as a freshman in 2003. Like· any team, the 2004 Irish will continue relying on their quarterback's decision­making and productivity to help 
tally victories for the remainder of the season. Quinn knows what's expected of him and says he's ready for the chal­lenges. 
"It's important to have goals . every season and every week," he said. "Individually, I'm try­ing to become a better leader. That's something I'm trying to stress and to keep trying to improve on the little things." Thrown into the fire 
Quinn had plenty of choices for college. Throwing for 2,149 yards, 25 touchdowns and just four interceptions opens up doors for any high school quar­terback. Of the more than 30 schools that recruited him, 
Quinn narrowed his options to 
three -Notre Dame, Michigan 
and Ohio State. · 
It didn't take the Dublin 
Coffman High School star long 
to make a final choice. 
"The decision was based on 
the overall feeling I got here," 
said Quinn, who committed 
early in the recruiting process. 
"[Head] coach [Tyrone] 
Willingham, the coaching staff 
and the players gave me the 
impression that [Notre Dame] 
was some place I saw myself 
going." 
While recruiting Quinn, Willingham told the young quarterback what he tells every recruit -the best player will play. 
"He told me, 'You'll have an opportunity," Quinn said. "He didn't say anything else ­where I was to play, whatever it was. I just took that and tried to do my best and work myself into that role." 
It didn't take Quinn long to see his first game action as a freshman. When Notre Dame quarterback Carlyle Holiday left the opening game against Washington State for a few plays with an injury, Quinn got the call. He didn't do too much, just handed the ball off to run­ning back Julius Jones. But the drive resulted in a touchdown, and Quinn got his first taste of the field. 
The next week, during a 38-0 drubbing to Michigan, Quinn entered the game late and threw his first pass. He finished the game 3-for-1 0 with an interception. 
After seeing significant play­ing time in a loss to Michigan State, Quinn was named the starter for the Purdue game. In that 23-10 Irish defeat, the Notre Dame offense couldn't run the ball at all, forcing Quinn to throw 59 passes -the second most in school history. Quinn started the final eight games, finishing the season with 1,831 passing yards, nine touchdowns and 15 intercep­tions, as Notre Dame struggled to a 5-7 mark. But for Quinn, the season wasn't a total loss. 

"It was just something that when you're the quarterback, you're. going to have some good games and bad," he said. "There will be times when you get hit a lot and games where you don't get hit or touched at all, so you just have to go with the flow, with the good and bad. 
"But I thought it was a good experience for me. Obviously I've learned a lot over the past year." 
Making his strides 

In 2004, Notre Dame players and fans expected the entire Irish team to show significant improvement after a dismal 2003 season. But against Brigham Young in the opening game, the Irish fell flat in a 20­17 loss. 
Quinn managed to finish the game 26-for-47 for 256 yards and one touchdown, but Notre Dame's offense was anemic for most of the game. The stats weren't important; the final result was. 
"It's frustrating to the stand­point you always look to see what you could have done bet­ter to get things done," Quinn said. "Statistically, maybe it was a good game. But a good game comes to down to win­ning and losing, regardless of the stats. That's how you grade yourself, so any time you don't get a win, that's extremely frus­trating in itself." 
But Quinn, along with an impressive game from fresh­man tailback Darius Walker, led Notre Dame to a critical vic­tory against then-No. 8 Michigan the next week. In the win against Michigan State, Quinn and ti1e offense began to click even more. After the win, Irish offensive lineman Dan Stevenson credit­ed Quinn with leading the offense and helping the unit mesh together during the first few games of the season. · "You need somebody who can take charge of the huddle and typically that position is given to the quarterback just because he's calling the plays and call­ing the shots," Stevenson said. "He comes in there with a lot more confidence. He knows what he's doing and he's not afraid to make the calls." Quinn helped the offense fol­low its Michigan State perform­ance with a trouncing of Washington, where the quar­terback tossed four touchdown passes in the first half, tying a Notre Dame Stadium record. Then last week, in a loss to Purdue, Quinn matched the Boilermakers' lleisman Trophy candidate Kyle Orton in every quarterback category, except touchdown passes. · Willingham said he has con­tinued seeing improvement from his sophomore quarter-· back. "I've said all along that I have a great deal of respect for Brady, his skill level, his leader­ship, his focus, his concentra­tion," the third-year Irish coach said. "I think we have an excel­lent quarterback to command our system. And I think he keeps getting more knowledgeable each day and I think he's driven to be the best." Still, Quinn seldom, if ever, 

you have to be your biggest critic," Quinn said. "You have to look for any little thing you can improve on, which will bet­ter yourself and, in turn, better the team." 
Eyeing his goals 
Quinn said, even before sign­ing with the Irish, that he understood the pressures of being the Notre Dame quarter­back. If the team does well, he gets much of the credit. If they struggle, he gets much of the blame. With either situation, Quinn was ready for the chal­lenge. 
"That's just being a quarter­back," he said. "Any time you assume that role, you have to realize the spotlight comes with it. All the stuff outside of play­ing football and watching film comes with it, so you just have to take the pressures of it and the different situations you may come into with it." 
Quinn said he still has many aspects of his game to work on for the remainder of-the 2004 season. He also has one over­riding objective to reach before 
his four years are finished at Notre Dame. 
"I just want to be more effi­cient in taking care of the foot­ball and become more consis­tent," he said. "Keep the chain moving; keep the offense flow­ing.... You always want to set goals for yourself. Obviously, a national championship is on [the goals list]. Trying to get these teams going undefeated and things like that." 
And what if Quinn does lead an Irish team to the national title? Eating honey may become a new trend. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
by the numbers 
margin of scoring so far for Stanford's season. The Cardinal have scored 135 points while their opponents 
.76
have scored 57 points 
21 
rank nationally for the Cardinal in scoring offense at 33.8 points per game 
the last year the Irish Iosito Stanford at Notre Dame Stadium. Tyrone Willingham beat the Irish three times during his coaching 
1992 
tenure at Stanford, but all of those wins were at Stanford. 
average yards per rush allowed by the Stanford defense
2.5 
number of receiving touchdowns allowed by the Stanford defense so far this season 
2 
88 
number of points the Irish have scored against Stanford in Buddy Teevens' two games against Notre Dame 
average yards per kick return for Stanford, the third best aver­
3 4 o 
age in the nation 
• 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer pats himself'on the back. Brady Quinn throws a pass to Anthony Fasano in Notre Dame's "If you want to be the best average yards per kick return allowed so far by Notre · 41-16 loss to Purdue Saturday. and try and achieve perfection, Dame, including two touchdowns off kick returns
24.5 


Friday, October 8, 2004

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 3-2 AP: NR Coaches: NR Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Tyrone Willingham 
NOTRE DAME 2004 Schedule  
Sept. 4 at BYU-L Sept. 11 MICHIGAN-W Sept. 18 at Michigan St. -W Sept. 25 WASHINGTON -W Oct. 2 PURDUE-L Oct. 9 STANFORD Oct. 16 at NAVY Oct. 23 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov.6 at Tennessee Nov. 13 PIITSBURGH Nov. 27 at USC  

IOTRE.DAME :~ .
third season at Notre Dame career record: 
62-48-1 

at Notre Dame: 
TAILBACK
18-12 
4·Gran1 3-Walker

against Stanford: 2-0 
Roster 


No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 250 SR 51·Ryan CENTER2 Freddie Parrish DB 6-1 202 so 
SAFETY
11Hutllvln

3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 200 FR 
46-Harrtson
76-Morton

4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 218 SR 
24-Hooper 

5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-1 215 JR 
6 Carlos Campbell CB 5-11 195 SR 
7 Carlyle Holiday WR/QB 6-3 215 SR 
8 Marty Mooney QB 6-2 210 JR 
INSIDE liNEBACKER
_,:~<·

8 Quentin Burrell FS 6-0 195 SR 
!.l'i TACKLE . ..· .-· ·. .~ .c7·Sctrlmmelmaoa 
..Y t4·JtnldDS 55-0kwo9 Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 so 

FREE
92~ )

9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-2 205 SR 
~ J-SAFETY 

10 Brady Quirm QB 6-4 224 so 
· 21·Atogwe 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 202 SR 
43-Bentrott 12 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 232 SR 13 David Wolke QB 6-4 205 FR 15 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 180 SR 16 Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 243 SR 16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11· 195 SR 17 Geoffrey Price P 6-3 190 SR 17 J.J. Warren QB 6-1 184 so 
STAIFORD

18 Darren Bragg QB 6-2 185 FR 18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 223 so 
DEFENSE

19 D.J. Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 200 SR 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 227 JR 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 186 so 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-1 202 so 24 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 185 SR 25 Nate Schiccatano FB 6-2 242 JR 26 Wade lams DB 5-8 170 FR 26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 212 so 27 Lionel Bolen DB 6-0 210 SR 27 John Lyons RB 6-1 192 so 28 Tregg Duerson DB 5-10 170 FR 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 240 SR 30 Mike Richardson DB 5-11 190 JR 31 Jake Carney FS 6-0 192 JR 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 31 A.J. Cedeno DB 6-0 191 so 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 216 JR 33 Justin Hoskins RB 6-0 195 FR 34 Terrail Lambert DB 5-10 190 FR 37 junior jabbie DB 5-11 190 FR 
.

37 Matt Mitchell CB 5-9 190 JR 
Quinn actually threw for
· Willingham's third season 
·Quinn has averaged 271.2·r

38 Leo Ferrine DB 6-0 180 FR 
The Irish run game has

39 B·randon Hoyte LB 5-11 231 SR 
more yards than Orton in 
so far at Notre Dame has yards per game this sea­
1.1.1

40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-1 215 FR 
sputtered since Walker's

Notre Dame's loss to
been hard to decipher. A41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-4 242 SR son, compared to 152.6
:E 
coming-out party ag­

42 Anthony Vemaglia · LB 6-4 220 FR 
Purdue. The sophomore
loss to a bad BYU team, yards per game in 2003.
43 Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 232 jR 
< 
ainst Michigan. No Notre

44 Justin Tuck DE 6-5 261 SR 
has had several prolific
and a win against 
Notre Dame has a bevy of 
c 

Dame rusher has45 Carl Gioia K/P 5-10 185 so 
passing games in a row
Michigan coupled with an 
talented receivers, and

45 Rich Whitney DB 6-3 205 jR 
1.1.1 
reached 100 yards or

46 Corey Mays LB 6-1 243 SR 
and looks to be acclimat­
absolute embarrassment with the discovery of
a:

47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-3 230 so 
more since that game.
1­

ing himself to Bill
at home against Purdue 
Fasano as a legitimate48 Jerome Collins TE 6-4 258 SR 
So far this season, the

049 Derek Currv LB 6-3 235 SR 
Diedrick's West Coast­
hasn't made the natives too threat against Purdue that 
50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 292 jR 
Irish are only averaging
z

51 Jamie Ryan OL 6-5 310 JR 
style offense more and
happy. Still, Willingham is should only help the Irish2.8 yards per rush.
52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 225 so 
more each game. 
2-0 against Stanf(Jrd. 
par.;sing attack even more.

53 Dan Hickey OL 6-3 224 JR 
I l· 

53 Joseph Boland LB 6-3 224 )R 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 285 jR 55 Zacharv Giles C . 6-3 281 SR 56 Nick Bi)rseti LB 6-4 238 so 
Stanford's pass defense isTeevens has never done 

The Cardinal have only

58 Abdel Banda LB 6-2 215 FR 
Edwards is also in his
59 James Bent OL 6-1 271 jR 
about average, but twomuch of anything dur­

given up 85.5 yards per

59 Dan Chervanick DT/NG 6-2 265-JR 
second year leading the 

stats especially jump out
ing his career, compil­
game and just five touch­

60 Casey Cullen LB 6-2 212 so 
Cardinal offense, and
61 J.J. Jansen LS 6-3 215 FR 
-the Cardinal have onlying a losing record dur­downs in their four games 

62 Scott Raridon OT 6-6 310 jR 
has be·en more than 
64 Casey Dunn OL 6-4 256 SR 
allowed two touchdownsing his time at Maine, 

this season. Schimm­

capable so far. The
65 Tim Gritzman DE 6-3 210 FR 
passing this season andDartmouth, Tulane and 

elmann leads the team

66 Derek Landri NC 6-2 278 jR 
sophomore has thrown
67 John Kadous OL 6-7 310 FR 
they have yet to record a

Stanford. Still, his 
with 27 tackles and 

68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 289 so 
for seven touchdowns 
sack. Matt Leinart and

Cardinal did almost 
Atogwe isn't far behind

69 Darin Mitchell OG 6-3 290 SR 
with four interceptions
70 Chauncey lncarnato OL 6-6 280 FR 
USC were able to pass at

upset No. 1 USC at 
with 24 tackles. Stanford

71 James Bonelli OL 6-4 290 JR 
and is completing pass­
will in the second half of

Stanford earlier this72 jeff Thompson OL 6-4 285 SR 
held USC's vaunted run­

es at a 61.1 percent clip.
73 Mark LeVoir OT 6-7 310 SR 
their win over Stanford. 
season. 
ning game to just 99 yards. 

74 Dan Stevenson OG 6-5 293 SR 75 Chris Frome DE 6-5 271 jR 76 Bob Morton OG/C 6-4 300 jR 77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 295 SR 78 john Sullivan C 6-3 295 so 79 ~rian Mattes OL 6-5 292 jR 
·Stanford's (iefepse is 
If Stanford can stop t,P.e

Quinn and Edwards are 
RO Chris Vaughn WR 6-4 205 FR 
While Stanford is off to. a 
much improved frOtn.Jast 
Irish run, Quinn: shouldboth young quarterbacks

81 Brandon Harris WR 6-1 190 jR 

3-1 start this year, Teevlns 
82 Matt Shelton WR 6-0 175 SR 
year, particularly il).fthe 
have success against(UI

with a lot of promise.
83 jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 215 so 
hasn't done much in his 
average pass defense.#84 Mike O'Hara WR 5-9 175 JR 
running gaffi.~trtl~ir abili­

Each has shown the 
career to prove Tiirnsflll8.i
84 Rob Woods WR 6-2 205 jR 
ty to stop ·tlj,run .,com­
that has allowed .2 35~

capability this Se'a$OTI to
85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 256 SR 
a winning football cciacli,
87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-2 248 jR 
bined \-Vith.Nqtr~ ~.me's 
yards passing per game4mak(~ sulid passes while 

88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 256 jR 
When your claim to uun~f:i so far. The Cardin;-d's,2
inability ·(~,'r,M,~;~h>ck

ayoiding interceptions.
89 jolm Carlson TE 6-5 248 so 
is having a Tulane teain go,·
90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-2 295 SR 
lack of size in thai
could m~~J:tl\,Jotfg:emy for

With two very good run
91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 169 JR 
undefeat.~st" 7 two y~rs 
·· d~fensiv~ backfi.~ld
the Iritf _ .. Jng ~~s if

defenses in this game,92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 275 SR 
after you Jcft tho, tean1 ­
93 Brandon Nicolas DL 6-5 275 FR 
the till >'!Lt ;}itake should b~ an advan}age

the quarterbacks will
94 ju;tin Brown DL/LB 6-4 225 FR 
there's prQblems. ·~ 
for·ethfri'#frlsh . .,:

95 Victor Abiamiri DE 6-5 26Y SO 
need to produce. 
enough ft ·•··. es; W:'ilil~ 

96 Bobby Renkes K/P 6-0 190 so 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 275 JR 911 Trevor Laws DL 6-0 285 so 99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 245 FR 



This game has trouble written all over it for Willingham and his staff want this game more than anything every year. Last week's embar­
Notre Dame. The Irish are coming off a disap­rassment serves as a reminder to this team pointing loss, while the 3-1 Cardinal are playing
Irish 

not to let 2004 become 2003. The defense with loads of confidence. Notre Dame must regains its impressive form, and the offense establish the run to have an effective offense gets back to putting points on the board for and the special teams must step up. Stanford
experts 

next week's big matchup with 5-0 Navy {who would like nothing more than paying Notre would have thought that would ever happen). Dame back after lar.;t season's 57-7 blowout. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Damf! 34, FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame ·24, 
Matt Lozar Joe Hettler
Stanford 16 Stanford 17
Editor in Chief AME 


Friday, October 8, 2004 page 5 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Stanford Cardinal 
STANFORD 
CORNERBACK 
24-EIIick 6-tampbell 
\. 

INSIDE STRONG
CENTER 

LINEBACKER SAFETY
'71-tlead 

41·Goolsby 9-Zitlkow.kl 46-Mays , 2-Parish
72·Brt!W€r 
DEFENSIVE 

TACKLE . \ 77-PIIdy -" 90-BeidaiSCtl FREE 
' / 
SAFETY 

~ 
~ OUTSIDE. 
I·Burrell

LINEBACKER 
9-Zbikowski

49-C.rry
47-Thomas 
' LEFT E D _
1
«-Tuck <­
75-frome 
CARDINAL 
RUSHING 

•TiieTtfsh have stiow"n" that they can stop the run all season, allowing 
·an average of 2.8 yards per carry and just two touchdowns rushing. Goolsby has been all over the field for the Irish so far this season, with 45 tackles in five games. 
Lemon averages 6.9 yards per carry, and had a key 82-yard run against USC that gave Stanford a tempo­rary lead. The Cardinal as a team average 4.0 yards per carry and, like the lri'ih, use a multiple-back offense, with Tolon complementing th•~ starter Lemon. 
Notre Dame has shown.:.lt can shut down the oppo­nent's rushing offense all ­season, and there's no; reason they shouldn't do' the same against Stanford. Lemon andj Tolon are both gor.d' backs, but the ltish def'P.nse ,mibetter. -,Ji, 
CORNERBACK 
15-.Jacboll 

NOTRE DAME
3G-Richilntson 

DEFENSE 
CARDINAL 
PASSING 
t 

The Irish cornerbacks are hurting after allow­ing four touchdowns against Orton and Purdue. Notre Dame's pass defense is currently the 11th-worst in the nation, giving up 1315 yards total so far this season. 
Edwards has a capable passing atta<~k. and mam­moth wideout Evans could cause problems for the Irish secondary. Stanford will be looking to exploit an Irish defensive backs unit that might still be embarrassed from being picked apart by Purdue. 
Edwards is a good quar­terback, but he's powhere near Orton's ability. Again~t Purdue; seyer<:tl passes·_ were just accurate throws against good Irish coverage. Notre Dame~s seeondary will be looking to redeem themselves against the Cardinal. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
~ Fitzpatrick has continued to have a good season for the Irish, and even though he missed a field goal against Purdue, it was partially blocJ<-ed. Notre Dame's kick cover­age is horrible, with the Irish already allowing opponents to return two kickoffs for touchdowns. 
Sgroi is 3-for-6 for field goals, and Ottovegio is averaging just a little less than 40 yards per kick. Where Stanford excels is in the kick return game, where the Cardinal aver­ages 34.0 yards per kick­ofT return, the third-best average in the nation. 
The Irish have. been unim­pressive on special t$ms so far, and Stanthrd ha$ the ability to expltiit'Notre !)arne's poor kick ~rage. Purdue·s kiCkoff retUrn for a touchdown was a big turninl-ppip.~. _f}.P~~otre 
~;:~~=f~,~~f the 
STANFORD 2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 Sept. 11 Sept. 25 Oct. 2 Oct. 9 Oct. 16 Oct. 23 Oct. 30 Nov. 6 Nov. 13 Nov. 20 

INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame hasn't lost at home to Stanford since 1992, and have yet to lose to a Teevens-coached Card­inal team. The Irish will be anxious to avenge their embar­rassing loss at home to Purdue. 
Teevens hasn't done much his first two years at Stanford, and a win against Notre Dame could really help his resume. There are still several players on this Cardinal team who played under Willingham, and they would love to beat their old coach. 
The Cardinal would love to break their own streak of futility at Notre Dame Stadium, but the Irish will bn ready to prove some­thing after being whacked at Jwmc by Purdue. Willingham has pressure as he's now expected to win out until Tennessee this year. 
SAN JOSE ST.-W BYU -W USC-L WASHINGTON -W at Notre Dame at Washington St. OREGON at UCLA at Arizona State OREGON STATE at California 
'• 
2 
0 
-f m ~ 
c 
l> 3: 
m 

l> 
z 
l> 
~ 
CJ)
-
CJ) 
Stanford Cardinal Record: 3-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Buddy Teevens third season at Stanford career record: 
53-85-1 
at Stanford: 
9-17 

against Notre Buddy Teevens Dame: 0-2 head coach 
Roster 
No.  Name  Pos.  HI.  WI.  YR  
2  Stanley Wilson  CB  6-0  189  SR  
3  David Marrero  RB  5-10  190  so  
4  Mark Bradford  FL  6-2  190  so  
5  Trent Edwards  QB  6-4  210  so  
6  David Lofton  QB  6-4  210  so  
7  Justin McCullum  WR  6-4  220  JR  
8  Evan Moore  WR  6-7  235  so  
9  J.R Lemon  RB  6-1  225  JR  
10  Wopamo Osaisai  DB  6-0  190  FR  
11  Kyle Matter  QB  6-2  195  JR  
12  Derrick Belch  PK  6-0  185  FR  
13  T.C. Ostrander  QB  6-3  210  FR  
14  Ryan Eklund  QB  6-8  215  SR  
15  Michael Sgroi  PK  5--11  200  JR  
17  Jared Newberry  LB  6-2  235  SR  
18  Michael Miller  FL  6-1  185  FR  
18  Garrett Moore  QB  6-3  195  FR  
19  Matt Buchanan  WR  6-2  185  FR  
20  Timi \1\  ·SU  LB  6-3  210  JR  
21  Oshion.ll_gho Atogwe  FS  6-0  205  SR  
22  Gerald ( nmmissiong  RB  6-0  212  so  
23  Greg Camarillo  WR  6-2  195  SR  
24  Trevor Hnoper  ss  6-1  205  so  
25  Calvin Armstrong  ss  6-1  195  JR  
26  Kenneth Tolon II  RB  6-1  210  SR  
27  jay Ottovegio  p  6-0  190  FR  
28  Tim Sims  CB  6-0  180  FR  
29  Leigh Torrance  CB  6-0  183  SR  
30  Marcus McCutcheon  WR  6-0  200  so  
31  Kris Bonifas  FB  6-1  235  JR  
32  EmekaNnoli  FB  6-1  230  FR  
33  Jason Evans  RB  6-1  190  FR  
34  Ray Jones  RB  6-0  210  FR  
35  T,J. Rushing  CB  5--ll  175  JR  
36  Kelton Lynn  WR  6-2  185  FR  
37  Jon Alston  l.B  6-1  215  JR  
38  Carlos Mcfall  DB  6-0  195  FR  
39  Peter Griffin  ss  6-0  195  FR  
39  Thaddeus Chase  WR  6-0  173  FR  
40  Nick Sanchez  CB  6-0  180  FR  
41  Patrick Bowe  IE  6-6  235  FR  
41  Aaron Smith  DB  6-1  180  FR  
43  Bryan Bentrott  ss  6-1  180  so  
44  )erod Arlich  FB  6-4  250  FR  
45  Nate Wilcox-Fogel  WR  6-2  185  FR  
46  Brandon Harrison  FS  6-2  205  so  
47  Kevin Schimmelmann LB  6-3  215  JR  
48  David Bergeron  LB  6-4  235  SR  
49  Nick Silvas  CB  5--10  180  JR  
52  Brent Newhouse  LS  6-4  225  FR  
53  Landon Johnson  LB  6-1  225  FR  
54  Pat Maynor  LB  6-2  208  FR  
55  Michael Okwo  LB  6-0  215  so  
56  Taualai Fonoti  DE  6-2  250  so  
57  David Jackson  NT  . 6-5  265  FR  
58 59  ·  Mike Silva josiah Vinson  LB ex;  6-3 6-4  225 310  so so  
60  Alex Fletcher  OL  6-4  290  FR  
61  Alfred Johnson  01./DL  6-4  255  FR  
62  Tim Mattran  or  6-5  295  so  
1\4  Merlin Brittenham  (x;  6-4  280  FR  
65  Gustav Rydstedt  Dl.  6-4  285  FR  
66  Michael Macellari  OT  6-5  290  FR  
67  ·Allen Smith  01.  6-5  315  FR  
68  Bobby Dockter  01.  6-5  290  FR  
69  Preston Clover  OG  6-4  275  FR  
70  Jeff Edwijrds  or  6-7  290  so  
71  Brian Head  ClOG  6--4  295  JR  
72  Mikal Brewer  c  6-3  290  FR  
73  Amir Malayery  or  6-4  275  FR  
74  David Beall  OG  6-5  300  so  
75  Matt McCleman  NT  6-5  2H5  so  
76  Ben Muth  01.  6-6  285  FR  
77  David Long  or  6-9  315  FR  
78  jon Cochran  or  6-6  315  so  
79  Ismail Simpson  OG  6-4  290  so  
80  Anthony Kimble  WR  6-1  185  FR  
81  Alex Smith  TE  6-5  255  SR  
82  Patrick Danahy  TE  6-5  240  so  
83  Chris Ryan  FL  6-1  .185  so  
84  Au~tin Gunder  IE  6-4  235  FR  
85  Will Svitek  DE  6-7  292  SR  
86  Gerren trochl•t  FL  6-0  170  JR  
87  Matt Traverso  TE  6-5  250  so  
HH  l'an~IEgbon  TE/DE­ 6-6  240  FR  
89  Michael Ho:gan  1E  6-6  240  FR  
90  UdemeUdo ia  LB  6-4  225  FR  
91  Michael Lovelady  LB  6-5  250  JR  
92  Casey Carroll  DT  6-2  280  JR  
93  Nick Frank  NT  6-2  270  so  
94  Julian Jenkins  DT  6-4  260  JR  
95  Chris Hom  DT  6-5  260  FR  
96  Babatunde Oshinowo NT  6-2  320  JR  
97  Emmanuel Awofadeju LB  6-4  240  FR  
98  Scott Scharff  DT  6-5  285  SR  
99  john Solder  TE/DE  6-8  220  FR  



Stanford is a good football team, 
Stanford loves to throw, just like 
The Irish manhandled Stanford nothing like it was a year ago. They Purdue. Notre Dame struggles 
last season, but this year's

will come in motivated after last against passing teams. The 
Cardinal is much improved andyear's drubbing. Quinn will have Cardinal will not be able to run, Notre Dame will have to bringanother solid game; and the Irish so they will score a few times in 
its best game. The fact that 

\\ill run the balljt&1 enough to win. 
the air. But a recharged run­Stanford played USC close shows 
Special teams will be way the ning game and Quinn's arm will its potential, but Notre Dame 
Cardinal stays close, but the Irish put enough points on the board 
has too much talent on both 

Heather \\ill be fuo much thL'i time. Pat Leonard to win. Justin Schuver 
sides of the ball to lose this one.

Van Hoegarden FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 
Sports Editor 23, Stanford 13 Sports Editor 31, Stanford 24 Sports Editor 
27, Stanford 20 
---~---~-­

--------------------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 8, 2004 

Sizing up the Irish and the Cardinal 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 


kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 

punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 


total points scored total points allowed 

Notre Dame yards penalized Stanford yards penalized 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE STANFORD'S OFFENSE 
vs vs 
STANFORD'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
36.8 

40.61 

16 
26 


NOTRE DAME 
PASSING 
Brady Quinn (above) and the Irish passing game will have to con­tinue their recent prolif­ic play against Stanford, especially if the Cardinal manage to stop the Irish run game. 
Quinn threw for 432 yards against Purdue, but only one touch­down. Against Purdue's soft zone, tight end Anthony Fasano proved a key target in the Notre Dame passing attack, and he'lllook to contin­ue that success Saturday. . 
Against Purdue, Notre Dame could only score one touchdown through the air. They will need to score more often against the CardinaL 
STANFORD 
PASSING DEFENSE 

Oshiomogho Atogwe (above) and the Stanford defensive ba.cks have kept teams out of the end zone so far this sea.•;on, allowing just two passing touch­downs so far this sea­son. 
The Cardinal allow 235 yards per game, but have six interceptions so far through two games. Atogwe is a solid player at free safety. having collected an interception and forced two fumbles so far this year. 
Considering that Stanford's defensive strength is against tl!e run, Notre Dame will need to have a produc­tive day against the Cardinal secondary. 
~· 
page 7

Friday, October 8, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Inside defensive line crucial in Irish pass rush 
-

on the defensive line. athletic play from players like ing the entire defense hinge on "The quarterback has to hold
By PAT LEONARD 
"I think we're playing pretty Justin Tuck, the interior line­stopping the run, as well. on to the ball long enough for 
Associate Sports Editor 
tough against the run," fifth­men give the initial push that Stanford averages 137.5 yards us to get there," Pauly said. "In year senior defensive tackle dictates the rush on the quar­rushing and 266.8 yards pass­Purdue's situation, they were 
The Irish linebackers Greg Pauly said. "Hopefully, by terback or running back. ing, ·SO the Cardinal will look to releasing the ball so quick, a plugged the holes in Notre the end of the season we' 11 "The play of all of those guys throw the ball. lot of times he was throwing it Dame's first five games. The establish a name for ourselves ... is based on the productivity But Pauly and his Iinemates' right when we were hitting cornerbacks stymied the out­that way." of the group," Willingham said. priorities cannot change. him. We hit him a couple side sweeps. Opponents Pauly [6-foot-6, 205 pounds] "What we try to do is rotate "We go into every game say­times, but he was releasing the amassed nonexistent rushing is one of three players who see those guys in such a manner ing we have to stop the run, ball too fast. If the cornerhacks attacks, gaining just 90.8 yards significant playing time on the that you've created one with that's always the first thing," are staying on those receivers, per game. interior defensive line, along the many and to keep them defensive line coach Greg it can give us enough time." 
And the Irish run defense with nose tackles Derek Landri fresh, keep them active and Mattison said. "And even Pauly leads the interior line­that held BYU to 22 rushing and Trevor Laws. Though the keep our defense being pro­though [Stanford is I a team men with 16 tackles [seven yards began in the same place rush coming from the outside ductive." that passes a lot, you've got to solo] and a half-sack. Laws [6­it did when the Irish held is often the spotlight of defen­The line's production hinges stop the run. From there, any foot, 285 pounds] has 12 tack­Purdue to 99 yards rushing -sive lines because of sweeping on stopping the run first, mak-sack opportunity we have is on les [seven solo] and a sack. 
a passing down when we're Landri [6-foot-2, 278 pounds] one-on-one blocked, and we has 11 tackles and five solo. have to win those." "It's tough, it's two-on-three 
The line has recorded 10 usually because you've got the sacks on the season to oppo­center and two guards block­nents' 12. Stanford has surren­ing me and Derek [Landril or dered 11 sacks in four games, me and Trevor [Laws!,'" Pauly but Tuck told reporters and said. "And it's tough because coaches that he felt a lot of usually you're getting double Stanford's success should be teamed or someone's slamming attributed to an improved back down on you, but I think offensive line. we're getting a good push." 
Willingham agreed with his But tackles are not the only defensive end. statistic that measures the 
"They are a sizable line. I line's success. think their smallest guy is "You're never pleased about 290 Ipounds]," because you always want them Willingham said. "And they to get 100 sacks, but the one seem to have good athletic statistic that I don't think a lot skill. They seem to be working of people noticed is we've well together ... So it's kind of probably batted down more an impressive group that has passes this year than we ever size and good athletic potential have already," Mattison said, that seems to be playing very "and I always talk to our kids well together." about the fact if you can 
The Notre Dame defensive deflect the pass it's as good as front halted Purdue's rush a sack." · offense last week, but the Irish By deflection, sack or tackle, only sacked quarterback Kyle the line could be the key Orton twice. The pass rush had against another throwing Pac­been solid for the most part 1 0 team in Stanford on until the game against the Saturday. Boilermakers. Pauly said the 
Irish defensive tackle Greg Pauly tries to get past Michigan offensive lineman Adam Stenavlch, right, q-uicK. Ptfraue offense left no Contact Pat Leonard at during Notr~ Dame's game against the Wolverines Sept. U. time for the line to rush Orton. pleonard@nd.edu 
Stanford anxious to avenge last year's loss 
end embarrassment where the accurate high school quarter­
By MATT LOZAR 
Car.dinal suffered their worst backs that we'd seen and it looks 
Sports Writer 
home defeat ever. like he's getting back to that "Our team is full of forward­level," Willingham said. "I think 
.For the second time this year, thinking people, and players that he as a freshman had some very the Irish are facing a Pac-t 0 work towards their goals and difficult times and was thrown team making its first road ambitions. I think this is the same into the fire and it's very difficult appearance. situation," Teevens said. "Notre when you're in that situation. 
After four straight weeks on Dame is a very good football team "But now he.'s emerging and The Farm, Stanford comes to and is very well coached. They do becoming a quarterback that we South Bend sitting at 3-1 with its a great job offensively and def{m­thought he could bP. His delivery only loss coming to No. 1 USC sively, and are solid on special is very quick. I le gets the ball to a when the Trojans used a second teams. Our guys respect that and lot of good and right positions for half rally to pull out the 31-28 are aware that we need to play a their receivers and he is impres­victory. good football game to beat them." sive." . 
"We're looking forward to it. It The Irish haven't even looked The Cardinal have the disad­will be good to play in a place as at game film from last year's con­vantage of playing on the West storied as Notre Dame and the test. Coast and not too many people guys have a sense of the history "They look li~e a team that's realize they have done mucfi when it comes to playing thert~." really gelling. This is going to be more than almost upset the Cardinal coach Buddy Teevens a totally different team," Irish Trojans. Teevens appears to have said. "There's a level of excite­defensive end Justin Tuck said. this program going in the right ment around here. We've enjoyed "It's a total difference from what direction in his third year at the playing at home for this stretch, they look on film." helm at Stanford. but there's a lot of excitement One player who has shown That's why Teevens knows surrounding the trip." marked improvement this year is Saturday's game against the Irish 
Seeing the Cardinal on the second-year starting quarterback is. so important for his team. A schedule invokes memories of Trent Edwards. Recruited by cur­win here would garner national last year's dominating 57-7 Irish rent coach Tyrone Willingham, prominence, regardless of Notre win in Palo Alto, Calif. The Irish Edwards came to Stanford as one Dame's 3-2 record. ­came into that game having won of the top recruits in the country. "It's certainly an important their last two games while the USA Today ranked Edwards as game. Going out in front of a Cardinal were closing out their the top passing quarterback in nation-wide audienee and playing season having lost their last two. the nation in 2001. in a special place that is historic 
One could say Stanford just After being red-shirtcd during like Notre Dame is big," Teevens packed it in early on ~hat the 2002 season, Edwards start­said. "We want to play solid foot­Saturday night since it was its ed four games in 2()03, playing in ball and improve on areas that last game of·the season, was 4-6 eight. This season, Edwards has we were a little bit short on last coming into the game and the started all four games, complet­Saturday. We want to put togeth­previous week had lost the "Big ing 61.1 percent of his passes for er a good game plan and execute Game" to California. 921 yards, seven touchdowns and this weekend." 
Whatever the case was, four interceptions. _ Teevens said his team isn't focus­"When we recruited Trent, we Contact Matt Lozar at ing on that Thanksgiving week-thought he was one of the most mlozar@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 8, 2004 
_....., 

Bettt• r Ingrrdiet1t ~. B<.:ll<-~1' Piz/~L 
Welco"'e New and Returning Notre Datne -St. Mary"s Students*Faculty*Staff Notre Oatne Papa John·s St. Mary's Papa John's 1823 South Bend Avenue North Village Ma11 
271·11 77 271-7272 
PAPA PREDICTS: ND 34 • STANFORD 20 
Papa John's Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Official DeHvery Pizza of NCAA Athletics. 
r-----... 
~ m~.-TRu.SaaY~ r LU.CHs..Ei:.ai.
1 IRISH SPECIAL 1 
I Smalll-ti'ing & 2 20-oz

large 1,;_topping, _Large Thin _Crust Cheese II Breadstic"s & Coke 4-to-go I I Ptzza I cokes 8.88 1 _ $14..88 1 1 SB.IIII 1 .1 open tit 4:00 p.m. 
-.. .....

I c ....... ----(~ M d_,-s-. ----_-.• 1c-..._.wd. ~.a....--so dlry•. ~1 I C--.,......--. lfa.....s JO deys. , 
Oft---:Jt~i f.or • fkqJ4cd time cR. liw''U.:.Jp•Urtg p._,. Offer (fQ'Od to. • •mned nme ~ ,,.rtJ>:" ip ~lnq P1!9pll on.,. good f...-. llmftecll;nw .ot p..-t'<:ip.>lin<J p­_1sur~·\ rt'...,.UI".olti"R!o nnly ~iorw· ,c.pp.:,.~, ~~,,-I I lofwl's rnt..,......,, omy. Addilk>n41loppi"9' ~tr•-I John'• re:n....-...._s ,,..ty, Addi<ional l"f"Mngo ~•­Nul •.&lkJ II'V!lh any oth~ ~r..i 01 lft·~ount" NtJl vald ..tth any othec eoupon'\ 01"'" dl'"ie nuntJ.. Not -~"""""' dlwou...u.
-h ""Y ot!>er .,..l.imitt>-d dlfrh·.,., ar~. ch•r~' fl"•) -tf)fl'ty Limtttd deltvfl'Y are•~ c.bilr~J~' rn..ay _..ppfy I i'1'11tffi .S..o--.y area_ <harqe• nul' apply ('oAfJil'Wi'" f'l@t.prm... i!Jft: tor all ~ble ldJI.E"\ .. cu.tonw< re_,n,ihk-to. aH .ppllc:.otW •~­
l.t:u~;;; '~=h~ :.:i~'~ .I 
-----1 .------
IIIIi.----­

r----....-.. •rl -ciii:ES.:iT!-... lATE NITE
1 FAMilY SPECIAl. 1 
large Cheese and your 
SPECIAL

· large Works and 
choice of breadsticks or 1 Ex-Large 1-topping forI 1 Large 2-topping I I cheesesticks 
1 SIB.!IB 1 I $12.88 I I c-.......,_._Lc............
,.. fiililllaI 1"--~ •"'i'i~es :10 d.,.•.liill:lllriaI 
Off*"l' '-fl,..-.rl h•r 4 J.lmtt..,j ~ ll't ~kff.J.lUng ~ Off,.. qoo<l f.,.-a limited unw at p.wrtk:ipllti'l9 !'ape Offo,r q<><>d t"" ;a limited ti....,. .at p.ortf<lp.>ting P;opa lf.'h*"." rt!''-l,.lur,.nt\. only. A.&.irtHu,ai topplt~ ex.tl'~. I ~n·.., r~tt.aur•nh onty A.ddtt~QnAI toppings e-a:tr• I I fohn'• r~.......-.onts only. Ad<lltioral topping~ ..,.tr., Nt"' ·,.o~ """""" ilf\)' ctf-u..r ("('",upano; ~ cUKoum~ Not v~kf """h lltfly ot~...... (6'1.1p0C1l <K dhtottnt ~ Nv• "'*''d whh an,. other <.oupMu Of' dhcut•nts
I 1
llf"n,f~d defN~7 4ttro.. .._n.r~.._ · lti.ty .,..,.._ limit.,.. d.-fl~ are•. ct.arqe• m.,. "f>P'V Umil~d deftvery •rea. dtetge:, may· Apply Cu'l'f.--,~sr '"~1.pOA'\f0h7 f•.)• atl ~-•bk-!&llf6;. .I
.. _____ .. e--...,"f>>n<lhlo> f.,.-aft .opptlul>le ,.....,, Ctnt~ retpon.YWr for Aft •ppfk.bt~ ta~'!"~­
------·----­
SCHOOL HOURS SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS Monday-Thursday Monday -ThursdayDVD Coca-Cola 4-to-Go

-----------•r----------• I. 
11:00 a.m: to 1:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.

Buy any Large of Ex-large Pizza at regular I l*coca-Cola 4-to-Go is 4 20-oz bottlesl 
menu price and get FREE your choice of any 1 lfor the -price of 3 including 4 FREE 1 Friday -Saturday Friday -Saturday 
of our 3 DVDs. Titles. c~ange every two Music Match downloads . 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
rnonths. Through December 2004. I I I Sunday Sunday 
Noon to 1:00 a.m. Noon to 12:00 a.m. 

If your group is having a meeting or planning a get-together, · call for information on our large Order Discount. 
-----------·~----------· 
DELIVERY DELIVERY NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S

We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes 
271-1177 271~PAPA

Try our Chicken Barbeque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough T our S nach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 


"Another Kind ofFounding Father: Jonathan Edwards and the American Heritage " 
George Marsden 
Francis A. McAnancy Professor ofHistory 
.. 

"Another Kind of Founding Father: Jonathan Edwards and tbe American Heritage," with George Marsden, Francis A. McAnaney Professor of History. Marsden will examine the controversial Protestant theologian and author who was credited with igniting the Enlightenment movement of the 18th century, and who was committed to fostering religious sensibilities in the increasingly secular world of his time. 
One of the nation's leading scholars of American religious history, Marsden is the author or coauthor of more than a dozen books, including Jonathan Edwards: A Life, which this year garnered three national book prizes. 
I0:00a.m. Saturday, October 9 Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
For more information, visit the Saturday Scholar Series website at bttp:llsaturdayscholar.nd.edu 

Fall 2004 Schedule 

Experience an intimate discussion \\-ith Notre Dame's most engagingfaculty speakers on somt~ of the mo~1 pres.,ing issues of our times. 
»~~ 
9/11 -Michigan~--James VanderKan~. Rett}olm A. 0'/Jt-fetz Pmjessor of111eology "The Dead Sea Scrolls and Christian Origins" 
9/25 -Wa§hington Rev. Richard McBric:n, Cmu,ley·O'IJt1en Professor c~l Roman Catholic Tbeolop,y Valerie Sayers~ Professor of Fngllo;b Robert Coleman, Associate Professor ofArt History "Tbe Da Viuc:i Code: An Asscssmt•nt'' 
10/2-Purdue 
Donald Crafton, Professor ofFilm, Teteviston, mul Tbc.latre ··The Movie Mogul: joseph P. Kennedy's Film Career" 
J. 0/9 -Stanford G<.•orgt~ Marsden. Francis A..Mc..4naut:v Professor of History "Another Kind of Founding Father: Jonathan Edwards and the 
American Heritage 
10/23-Boston College Maurt~en Hallinan. William P. & lfaz£'1 B. \f''bite Professor of Sodolof.{)~ Diwctor of tbe Center ji)r ReseardJ m-z· Etlw:alional Opporttmi~l' ..America'~ Largest Private ~t10ol Sy:oitem: A Look h1.~ide 
Catholic S<:hools" 
11/13-Pitt"burgh 
E. Mark Cummings, Notre fkmu! Cbair in I:~~}'Cbolo<C{l' "Children and Maril~tl Cont1ic.:t" 
3-1/2 hours ht·fore kickoff at the auditorium in the lfcsburgh Cemer for International Studies. Por more informati()n, vi.sit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 













