
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
SUB expects well-run lottery 
Student organizers 
say ticket lottery 
will not repeat 

previous mistakes 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Associate News Editor 
Keeping in mind last year's debacle-when 1,500 students lined up for tickets, leading to confusion, long lines and out­rage -the Student Union Board said it is prepared to handle the rush of students expected to queue up for the Michigan State away game tick­et lottery today. 
The event, plagued in the past by fraud, organization and hundreds of irate students left with nothing after hours in line, is well in hand this year, said SUB president Jimmy Flaherty. 
Over 1,500 students lined up for tickets to the University of Michigan away game last September -the second largest crowd in the lottery's history. 
see LOTTERY/page 6 


State alcohol board to decide Boat's fate 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
More than 19 months after a major police raid on The Boat Club, the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission is expect­ed to decide today whether the popular student bar will ulti­mately sink or sail. 
Though the bar managed to bounce back after suffering the largest raid in South Bend his-

Campus gambling affects ND community 
University adds section to health class for freshmen students 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Writer 
The University has added a new segment on gambling to the health and fitness class, Contemporary Topics, which all freshmen must take. 
According to physical educa­tion instructor Diane Scherzer, this addition on gambling is designed to raise student awareness of the hazards of gambling. 
"A lot of students don't real­ize gambling can become addictive, and they also don't realize they can get help," Scherzer said. 
She said the program involves an in-class discussion about the consequences of gambling as well as a discus­sion of gambling's addictive nature. 
In addition, the program extends outside of the Contemporary Topics course. In the wellness planners given to this year's freshmen, informa­tion is provided on the social and professional risks of gam­bling. 
"The wellness planner is a good vehicle to disseminate the information," Scherzer said. 
see AWARENESS/page 6 definite increase in gambling among Manor residents. In part, he attributed its popular­ity to the glorification of tele­vised poker events, such as the World Series of Poker on ESPN. 


"I think that tournaments on TV have made gambling very 
see GAMBLING/page 4 

By JENACA FORQUER 
News Writer 

A small, humid dorm room is packed with college students. Brightly colored plastic chips clink on the table as folded green bills pass from wallet to hand. The scene is, for many students, all too familiar ­tonight is bound to be poker night for at least one male dorm at Notre Dame. 
Though campus opinion was divided about the severity of the issue, most agreed that gambling -from poker nights to fantasy football to online betting-is clearly on the rise. 
Morrissey Hall rector Jay Steele said he has observed a tory -citing 213 underage patrons on Jan. 24, 2003 ­today's decision could finally force The Boat Club to go under. 

If the August recommenda­tion of the local South Bend alcohol and tobacco board is any indication, the state com­mission will not renew The Boat Club's license. Typically, 
see BOAT/page 4 

Transfers adjust to housing shortage 
By ASHLEY SANDERS 
News Writer 
For some Notre Dame trans­fer students, the usual adjust­ment to a new college has been more complicated than in past years due to the severe on­campus housing shortage at Notre Dame. 
To help alleviate the problem, the University and Saint Mary's allowed some female transfer students to live at the College's Regina Hall until rooms opened up in University residence halls. 
The fifth floor of Regina start­ed as a community of 20 but has dwindled to 13 as students moved to available Notre Dame rooms. 
Transfer student Alyse Kinchen welcomed the option to live on the fifth floor of Regina Hall. 
"It was all going to be trans­fers so we were all in the same boat," she said. 
Kinchen's roommate Michelle Shiriaev, who attended Saint Mary's her freshman year, said her floor is gradually adjusting 
see HOUSING/page 6 


Tuesday, September 7, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Not a good deal 
The average college kid gets most 
of his nutrients from two primary 
food groups -pizza and beer. 
Not only are these staples of the 
collegiate diet delicious, but they eas­
ily fit into both 
our schedules 
Eric Retter 
and our budgets. 
Everywhere I 
Sports Writer 
look, I see flyers 
and advertise­
ments for pizzas that seem to get big­
ger and bigger but somehow drop­
ping to record low prices, discounted 
for college kids. Pizza here is more 
common than grass. Even though 
they are virtually giving it away, 
Papa John's, Domino's and Sbarro 
still make a killing at Notre Dame. 
Sadly, they will not take one dollar 
of mine. My world crashed in around 
me on July 11, when my doctor told 
me I was a Celiac. Celiac Sprue is a 
genetic disorder that causes the 
patient to have an intolerance to 
gluten, a protein in grains such as 
wheat and barley. I come from a 
long, proud tradition of Celiacs. Both 
my mother and father have the gene. 
While some families produce world­
class athletes and others produce 
great thinkers, we generate people 
who can't eat bread. 
The worst part of Saturday evening 
didn't even involve football. It came 
at halftime. when my friends came 
back with two large pizzas and a 
case of beer. Though offered some~ I 
had to respectfully decline, seeing 
how my stale rice crackers and Coke 
more than filled me up, and then 
explain for the 4000th time why I 
couldn't eat normal person food any­
more. 
Overnight, I have become that kid, the one at the birthday party who never had cake and always brought his own snacks. No matter how pop­ular, that kid never seemed to have a good time, and now I know why. Every party I have every attended outside of the dorms has had a keg of beer. To my knowledge, not one per­son who's thrown a party has thought to stock up on something like hard apple cider, just in case. 
.The dining hall has become a repetitive nightmare as well. At what was once an overwhelming smorgasbord that could satisfy what­ever craving I could conjure up I now eat only stir fry, grilled chicken, and tater-tots. I still haven't even entered the pasta room at NOH, my old reli­able on "two-week-old ham" night. 
Not everything about my new life is all bad. Because I'm forced to eat healthy, my midsection is no longer as soft as a jelly donut, which I can't cat anyway. If you want to know what brands of rice pasta to buy, I'm your man. 
Still, some wounds may never heal. Every time I see a pizza deliveryman, it's like a slap in the face. Cans of beer laugh at me. Every day I'm painfully reminded of what used to be. 
My doctor says that they're devel­oping a drug that could reverse the effects of this disorder. She tells me it could be on the market in three years. Perfect. Just in time for full­priced pizza. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correc£ our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO THINK OF THE NEW TACO BAR AT NORTH? 

Katie Llnhan~s Mark Munnlnghoff Kerl Matwlck Matt Ireton Kelsl Matwlck Nell Reece 
sophomore sophomore senior sophomore senior sophomore Howard Keenan Lewis Keenan Lewis Keenan 
"Taco bar? "I wish it were "They never put ''I've never tried "Yeah, me too. " "Beef Heck 


yes.. ' " 
IN BRIEF 
Discover your inner child today from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the children's section of the Notre Dame bookstore. Kay Londergan will be read­ing stories and leading activities. 
Learn about Latin American politics at a lecture given by Kellogg Institute visiting fel­low Mala Htun. She will talk about "Identities and Representation in Latin America" at 12:30 p.m. today in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Come cheer on the Notre Dame volleyball team as they take on Valparaiso tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Pianist Jacqueline Smith. tenor Paul Appleby and cellist Nicole Thorn will perform classical music Friday from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the penote Performer's Hall in the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The Enterpreneur's Club will hold its first meeting today at 8 p.m. in room 119 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Learn about volunteer opportunities with special needs children in the South Bend community. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Special Friends Club will host an informational meet­ing today from 9 to 9:30 p.m. on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 72 HIGH 75 LOW 50 LOW 54 
North Dining  self-serve cause  enough  it, but I imagine  
Hall? I know  this isn 't Taco  tomatoes. I wish  it would be  
nothing."  Bell."  we could just  amazing.  
make them  
ourselves"  

Prison guards find basket­ball full of pot 
McALESTER, Okla. ­
Basketballs are usually 
puffed up with air, but 
somebody found a way of 
inflating one with a sub­
stance usually associated 
with puffing of another kind. 
Oklahoma State 
Penitentiary officials cut into 
an exercise-yard basketball 
and found nearly two 
pounds of what is believed 
to be marijuana stuffed 
inside. 
Acting on a tip from 
McAlester police, prison offi­
cials searched the yard and 
found the basketball, which 
held 30 one-ounce packets 
TODAY 
D: 
LLI 
:z:: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..... 
<
(.) 

0 

money for the regular family games of Finans, a Danish version of the popular board game,· the news agency Ritzau reported on Monday. 
He said he had simply made a mistake when he tried to pay for pizza and ice cream with a fake 500 crown ($80) note. 
But the court, hearing that he had been carrying 57,000 crowns worth of forged notes when he was arrested, followed one of the Monopoly game's instruc­tions and told him to "Go to Jail." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
of the leafy substance. 

They seized the basketball from the Talawanda Heights · unit, which houses 65 mini­mum security inmates for the prison and sits away from the main part of the facility. 
'Monopoly' money for pizza send man to jail 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -A Danish man was sen­tenced to 2 5 days in jail after trying to buy a pizza with fake banknotes he said his grandchildren had made for a game of Monopoly. 
The 57-year-old said he had rented two color photo­copiers to make extra fake 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

~ 
HIGH 75 HIGH 56 HIGH 73 HIGH 75
...I 
LOW 53 LOW 53 LOW 52 LOW 49 
Atlanta 81 I 69 Boston 73 I 61 Chicago 84 I 64 Denver 81 I 49 Houston 90 I 73 Los Angeles 77 1 61 Minneapolis 88 1 61 New York 76 I 64 Philadelphia 80 I 65 Phoenix 101 I 77 Seattle 68 I 52 St. Louis 83 1 61 Tampa 90 1 73 Washington 80 1 64 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Students consider adding tnetnbers 
By ELIZABETH CHEFFERS 
News Writer 
Members of the Council of Representatives met Monday to dis­cuss the possibility of adding three new non-voting members to the council. from RecSports, Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Such a move would facilitate better communication between different interests in the student body, mem­bers said. 
Kate Dissler. a member of the CSC student advisory board Voice, spoke at the meeting about the CSC's possi­ble participation in COR. 
"The CSC plays such a major role in so many campus events and they do not have a voice on any of the major programming boards," she said. 
Student body president Adam Istvan said he would support the addition of a esc representative. 
"It would be a completely new, a completely outside voice," said Istvan. 
The council plans to vote on the proposition at next week's meeting. 
The RecSports representative would be chosen from the athletic advisory board, which includes dorm athletic commissioners and faculty members. 
"All three of these organizations do a lot of programming events on cam­pus, and so it makes a lot of sense to have them here to help us spitball ideas," Istvan said. 
The group also discussed the Rock the Vote project. Representative Dave Baron introduced Peter Quaranta, a member of the Rock the Vote steering committee, who gave a presentation on the overall goals and upcoming events he hoped student government would support. 

"We're fighting apathy every way we know how," Quaranta said. 
Quaranta said Rock the Vote was formed to combat the traditional apa­thy of Notre Dame students. It is a non-partisan group that includes rep­resentatives from various campus organizations such as College Republicans, College Democrats, the CSC, the political science, English and film, television and theater depart­ments. 
"We've had some trouble because some people are afraid we are going to disrupt 'business as usual' on cam­pus, but these are big times no mat­ter where you stand," Quaranta said. 
Contact Elizabeth Cheffers at echeffer@nd.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group finishes constitutio:n 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Board of Governance approved revisions to its constitution Monday. 
"I am very excited to approve the Constitution," student body president Sarah Catherine White said. "A lot of hard work went into this." 
Campus Clubs commissioner Becky Bosak presented seven new clubs to BOG, which the board had approved for club status. The new clubs are College Democrats, Dance Collectives, Feminists United, Friends with Sisters, History Oub, Super Sibs and Toastmasters I. 
White said she had recently talked with new College president Carol Mooney. BOG will host several "meet-and-greet" events with the stu­dent body, according to White. 
The first "Dessert with Dr. Mooney" will take place Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in Holy Cross Hall. Mooney will also be having dessert with stu­dents in McCandless Hall on Oct. 10, Regina Hall on Oct. 31 and LeMans Hall on Nov. 21. 
In other BOG news: 

+ Student Activity Board president Lauren Fabina reported an overwhelming success with last week's "Singled Out" game at Dalloway's. 
"We are really looking forward to our next MTV-themed game, Room Raiders," Fabina said. 
The SAB's annual Twilight Tailgate will be Thursday with a performance by the band Blessed Union of Souls. The tailgate will also consist of a barbeque and inflatables. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaOl @saintmarys.edu 

M.arketing Human Resources Internships 
nternational Business Coun<~il 
www.nd.edul-sibc 
:Finance Accounting 
Business Consulting Global Development Information Technology 
TUESDAY 
Informational Meeting September 7th at 7:00pm Jordan Auditorium · Mendoza College of Business 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Ga~nbling 
continued from page 1 
popular over the summer," 
Steele said. "With the numbers 
increasing like they are we're 
going to start to see people with 
gambling problems." 
Knott rector Brother Jerome 
Meyer also said poker playing 
was up among his residents, 
but disagreed with Steele's wor­
ries about addiction. 
"Right now I don't see it as a 
problem," Meyer said. "It's a 
social activity that pulls them 
together. If it got out of hand 
then we'd deal with it ... We're 
keeping on top of what's going 
on but right now we don't see it 
as a major problem." 
Gambling is low on the list of 
dorms' disciplinary priorities, 
said Father George Rozum, rec­
tor of Alumni. 
"It was a problem a long time 
ago, [but) there are concerns 
that are much bigger," he said. 
Among students who gamble, 
the consensus was one of harm­
less -not addictive -fun that 
rarely resulted in losing signifi­
cant amounts of money. 
"It's not a problem because 
I'm not out of control," sopho­
more Kevin Brennan said. "I 
don't gamble to the extreme." 
Senior Brian Hagan, whose 
worst loss was only $10, 
agreed. 
"The majority of the time stu­
dents control the habit and play 
until they break even, and then 
stop," he said. 
Though sophomore Jim 
Theiss reported a one-time loss 
of $45, he continues to gamble 
about three times a week. He 
said he spends between three 
and nine hours a week on gam­
ing, an amount he described as 
typical among his friends. 
Most students agreed the dif­ference between a gambling hobby and a gambling addiction involves the frequency of play and the amount of money lost. 
And because gambling is readily accessible -not requir­ing transportation, a large time commitment or anything more than a deck of cards -it has become a simple, habitual form of entertainment. 
Gambling "is good recreation­al fun as long as people don't get carried away with it," soph­omore Michael Pazirandeh said. 
Senior Brendan Bowes said gaming and gambling are posi­tive ways to socially interact with peers. 
"Poker with the guys, and sometimes girls, has almost entirely been a fun social activi­ty, and I've made friends doing it," he said. 
Social gambling at Notre Dame is not exclusive to males, said Elizabeth Tran, a resident assistant in Breen-Phillips. 
"I see a lot of participation in football and basketball pools, but I wouldn't consider it a problem," said Tran, who added that she often also observed students of both sexes gambling ofT-campus. 
Contact Jenaca Forquer at jforquo@saintmarys.edu 

Offering 
lllflllrlDrrdable 
~ '. 'l lessons 

for comment. The penalties faced by The
Boat 
Boat Club are light in compari­continued from page 1 son to sanctions received by 
South Bend bars involved in the ATC follows the advice of similar police raids. the local board. Generally, raided bars have 
The commission is a four­been forced to close and sell member panel that votes year­their liquor license. At a ly on whether to renew liquor January 1998 raid of Bridget licenses for Indiana bars. It is McGuire's Filling Station, 
separate from the ATC prosecutor's office, which "They're pretty
negotiated penal­
tough. They've

ties for the stu­
dent citations been requiring two issued by Indiana forms [ofID]." Excise Police fol­lowing the bust. 
Tony Gill

Initially ATC prosecutor Fred Student Bauer proposed that The Boat 
police cited about 150 students. The ATC revoked the bar's liquor license, and the tavern later reopened as a coffeehouse under the same management. 
When The Library Irish Pub, then known minor in a tavern violations. than me," he said. 
For its part, The Boat Club Before Indiana Excise Police maintains that it has imple­raided the bar in January mented more stringent meas­2003, popular belief among 
ures aimed at keeping under­age drinkers out, such as requir­ing patrons to show two forms of identification. But as to whether The Boat Club consis­tently adheres to these standards, student opinion is mixed. 

"This was the week before school started. I actually just walked in unchecked" 
Anonymous Student 
students was that the bar would never be busted despite allegedly lax standards. 
The Boat Club is not the only South Bend bar facing possible sanctions from the ATC as a result of under­age drinking vio­lations. 
The Library 
"They're pretty tough," Boat Club regular and junior Tony Gill, 22, said. "They've been requiring two forms." 
However, other students had an easier time. 
One male underage junior, who declined to give his name, said The Boat Club did not carefully check his ID. 
"This was the week before school started," the student said. "I actually just walked in unchecked." 
Another male junior said he borrowed a friend's ID of skep­tical quality to enter the bar. 
"The friend I borrowed the ID from was of a different race Irish Pub, formerly known as Finnigan's, could also be closed by the ATC board. Excise police have raided the bar three times since fall 2000, including in this past April, April 2003 and October 2000, netting 20, 51 and 150 patrons respective­ly. 
The local board has yet to make a formal recommenda­tion to the state commission, however, local officials have said they strongly favor closure of The Library, according to The South Bend Tribune. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

Club's license be sold or revoked, but Bauer and The Boat Club later settled on a $5,000 fine and one-week sus­pension. However, Bauer has said he will waive the suspen­sion if the bar goes one year without any more underage violations. 
Due to government offices being closed for the Labor Day holiday, state and local officials could not be reached Monday as Finnigan's, was busted in October of 2000, the bar remained open, but was forced to sell its license to new own­ers. Police cited about 150 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in that raid. 
In making the decision on penalties for The Boat Club, Bauer cited reports from excise police who monitored the bar for 19 months and found no evidence of further 

Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, an international investment bank established in 1970, provides a wide range of services, including mergers and acquisitions, financing, financial opinions and advisory services, financial restructuring, and merchant banking. In 2003, Houlihan Lokey ranked as the No. I M&A advisor for transactions under $200 million and the No. 4 advisor for transactions under $1 billion. The firm has been the No. I provider of fairness opinions for the past four years and has the largest financial restructuring practice of any investment bank in the country. The firm has approximately 600 employees in nine offices in the United States and the United Kingdom. We annually serve more than I ,000 clients ranging from closely held companies to Global 500 corporations. For more infor­
mation, visit Houlihan Lokey's Website at www.hlhz.com. 
names (or Houlihan, lDkey. H{)W(J}"d & ZuklrJ, Inc. and Its subsidiaries and F;nancial Adritors, Inc., 4 California corporation.,~ registered investme11t acMsor. nlolt.~io1Ver1Cll valuation opinion. re<tlucturi~ Odvl~ and pottfolio man<Ji<mont 
corporation, ore2isterod brolce·deale(and SIPC memb"' (lrm. whid1 and dive>t(!J.H~ serv/cer. ond merdiant ~l<lnr servkes. 
•. ·'f" "· . 



---------. 
ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 CoMPILED I: RoM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nation mourns victims of siege 
BESLAN, Russia-Funeral processions filled the rainy streets of this southern Russian city Monday, carrying coffins large and small, as townspeople buried scores of victims of a carefully planned school siege that prosecutors linked to a Chechen rebel leader. 
Desperate families searched for those still missing from the siege at School No. 1, while others buried 120 victims during the first of two days of national mourning across Russia, which has seen more than 400 people killed in violence linked to terrorism in the past two weeks. 
Heports emerged that the attackers appar­ently planned the school seizure months ago, sneaking weapons into the building in advance. There also were signs that some of the militants did not know they were to take children hostage and may have been killed by their comrades when they objected. 
Caribbean prepares for hurricane 
BRIDGETOWN, Barbados-Islanders scrambled to put up storm shutters and stock up on supplies as the fourth major hur­ricane of the season churned closer to the Caribbean, packing sustained winds of 105 mph. 
Hurricane warnings were issued for Barbados, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada. Martinique was place under a hurricane watch, while Trinidad and Tobago were under a tropical storm warning. 
Barbados' Prime Minister Owen Arthur convened an emergency session of the Cabinet Monday to plan a strategy against Hurricane Ivan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Conditions hamper Cal. firefighting 
SAN FRANCISCO -Firefighters were ham­pered by erratic wind and low humidity Monday as they made slow progress against a fire that had burned nearly 12,000 acres and four homes in the Northern California wine country. 
The fire, which started Friday northeast of Geyserville in Sonoma County, had been 20 percent contained and full containment was not expected until Wednesday, said Janet Marshall, spokeswoman for the state Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. 
The unpredictable wind and dry vegeta­tion, compounded by uneven and often steep terrain, made the situation extremely dan­gerous for the 1,875 firefighters, Marshall said. 
Bush and Kerry spar over Iraq 
WASHINGTON -Democrat John Kerry accused President Bush on Monday of send­ing U.S. troops to the "wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time" and said he'd try to bring them all home in four years. Bush rebuked him for taking "yet another new position" on the war. 
Iraq overshadowed the traditional Labor Day kickoff of the fall campaign and its time-honored emphasis on jobs, as Kerry delivered some of his harshest rhetoric against Bush's handling of the war and highlighted its economic costs. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Deputy killed by power line 
MOROCCO. Ind. -A power line knocked down in a traffic accident fatally shocked a Newton County sheriffs deputy who had gone to investigate the crash today, police said. 
Investigators did not immediately know how Deputy Craig Blann came into contact with the power line, the Sheriffs Department said. He was pronounced dead at the scene. 
The line was knocked down when the driver of a car told police she swerved to avoid a deer on the rural road about 50 miles north­west of Lafayette and struck a utility pole. 
Frances hits Fla. panhandle 
Tropical storm kills five, floods street and leaves 6 million without power 
Associated Press 
FORT PIERCE, Fla. ­Weakened but persistent, Tropical Storm Frances took aim at the_Florida Panhandle on Monday after the former· hurri­cane caused flooding and ripped roofs off buildings throughout a wide swath of central and southern Florida. About 6 million people lost power and at least five people were killed. 
More than 13 inches of rain had fallen along Florida's central east coast, flooding some areas 4 feet deep, before Frances entered the Gulf of Mexico late Sunday. In its wake, boats and mobile homes were man­gled, trees and power lines were toppled. 
State officials urged people to stay where they were because of the possi­bility of flooding and the difficulty of finding serv­ice stations still in opera­tion. 
"Our message is: turn around -don't drown. If you do not have to travel, don't do so today," state meteorologist Ben Nelson said at a news briefing Monday. Lt. Gov. Toni Jennings said officials were working to get fuel to emergency workers and gas stations. the low end of that range. coastal highway proclaim­south of Tallahassee. 
Not everyone heeded "If it's the same all the ing Daytona "The World's At about 11 a.m. the warning, even as rain way across, we're looking Most Famous Beach" was Monday, Frances began falling heavily in at a couple of billion dol­destroyed. Most of remained a tropical the Panhandle. Tamara lars rather than the big Daytona Beach and about storm, with maximum Suarez decided to open numbers we were seeing a third of the state's 17 sustained wind near 65 the Cafe Con Leche in the earlier," state Chief million · residents mph and its center about historic fishing and oyster Financial Officer Tom remained without power, 60 miles east-southeast of village of Apalachicola Gallagher, who oversees officials said at the brief­Apalachicola. The storm because "it's better to be the insurance industry, ing. was moving northwest at here than at home, just said Monday. Experts esti­The National Hurricane about 8 mph, forecasters waiting and waiting and mate that total damages Center said Frances said. waiting." are typically about double showed signs of redevel­After passing through 
Frances' path crossed insured losses. oping into a hurricane the Panhandle, Frances some of the area hit by Parts of downtown over the warm gulf before will move into Georgia Charley, which killed 27 Tampa were flooded striking the Panhandle. and Alabama. Radar people and caused an Monday. In Daytona Evacuations began in four showed rain already estimated $7.4 billion in Beach. one of the hardest­Panhandle counties. spreading into southern insured damage. One hit cities, roofs were torn "We really are hopeful Georgia and parts of risk-assessment company off several small hotels that the winds won't be South Carolina, and the estimated insured losses and the Peabody too severe -or the rain," storm's effects were felt from Frances could range Auditorium, where the said Scott Paterna, who as far north as New anywhere from $2 billion London Symphony raced to board up his bait Jersey, where riptides and to $10 billion, but a state Orchestra appears annu~ and tackle shop near St. rough surf interfered with official said it could be on ally. The sign across the Marks, about 20 miles weekend swimming plans. 

Suicide bomb kills seven in Iraq 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A suicide attacker sped up to a U.S. military convoy outside Fallujah and deto­nated an explosives-packed vehicle on Monday, killing seven Marines and three Iraqi soldiers, U.S. mili­tary officials said. It was the dead­liest day for American forces in four months. 
The force of the blast on a dusty stretch of wasteland nine miles north of Fallujah, a hotbed of Sunni insurgents, wrecked two Humvee vehicles and hurled the suicide car's engine far from the site, witnesses and military offi­cials said. 
The bombing underscored the challenges U.S. commanders face in securing Fallujah and surround­ing Anbar province, the heartland of a Sunni Muslim insurgency bent on driving coalition forces from the country. 
U.S. forces have not patrolled in Fallujah since ending a three-week siege of the city in April that had been aimed at rooting out militia­man. Insurgents have only strengthened their hold on Fallujah since then. 
Early Tuesday, residents reported strong explosions around Baghdad. But the U.S. command said it had no information. 
Meanwhile, the Interior Ministry said medical tests confirmed that Iraqi authorities had once again mistakenly reported the capture of ousted dictator Saddam Hussein's deputy, Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, putting a stop to two days of con­flicting statements about his pur­ported arrest. 
Ministry spokesman Sabah Kadhim said unspecified tests had shown that a man being held in Iraqi custody was actually a rela­tive of al-Douri who played only a minor role in Saddam's regime but was nevertheless wanted by authorities. 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
is gradually adjusting to 
the unique situation. 
"We carpool and take 
the shuttle," Shiriaev 
said. "The main problem 
is getting back and forth 
for meals. Sometimes we 
make two or three trips a 
day to Notre Dame." 
The floor's resident 
advisor. Ashley Oberst, 
said she believes the girls 
have made the best of 
their situation carpooling 
and going to mass togeth­
er. 
"It feels like the girls 
have a strong Notre Dame 
identity because they 
spend all their time 
there," Oberst said. 
Many of the transfers 
able to find housing on 
Notre Dame's campus 
find themselves in a tight 
squeeze. The University 
has been utilizing all 
available space for stu­
dent housing, including 
converting doubles into 
triples and making study 
rooms into living space. 
Sophomore James Hogers, a transfer from the University of Illinois, said he feels lucky to have on-campus housing in O'Neill Hall and has enjoyed his time at Notre Dame so far. 
"About 20 transfer stu­
dents from last year ran 
!this year's transfer] ori­
entation," he said. "They 
did an awesome job of 
making us feel welcome 
and part of the Notre 
Dame experience." 
Overall. a large number of transfer students, both male and female, were forced to seek housing off campus due to the time constraints of the entire transfer process. 
Turtle Creek resident Sarah Boehm. a junior transfer. said she's need­ed to make a greater effort to be involved with campus life. 
Boehm is comforted by the fact that she has a "Big Sister" dorm, which she doesn't live in but attends hall events to stay involved with the campus community. 
"I would have rather lived in the dorms, and I find it harder to figure out what's going on," she said. 
Boehm said being affili­ated with a Notre Dame dorm, even though she doesn't live in it, has been helpful. 
Contact Ashley Sanders at asandeO l @saintmarys.edu 

Lottery 
continued from page 1 
At that lottery, SUB placed no limits on the number of IDs per student, producing long lines, and ended the lottery earlier than necessary because organiz­ers misinterpreted NCAA and Indiana state rules governing lot­teries. Prior to 2003, lotteries were plagued with fraud as indi­viduals who were not students and SUB staff members obtained tickets. Now, SUB uses a machine to check student Ids. 
However, changes in location and hours should prevent similar problems this year, Flaherty said. "Last year's issues with the ticket lottery occurred with the first one of the year when the lottery was held both at Reekers and the North Dining Hall," he said. "Last year's Executive Board recog­nized the issues and made great changes to the process by switching it to Legends and mak­ing the guidelines more explicit." 
Like last year, Flaherty said the lottery would not be open to up to six IDs per person and will Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­be given an instruction sheet dents. He said the decision was along with their lottery numbers made after lengthy discussion to minimize confusion. IDs will among SUB members and repre­be scanned to secure the system sentatives of the College. against fraud. 
"It's just a decision we made as Contrary to past reports, the an executive board, ticket lottery does based on what we not fall under the did last year," he "Last year's regulation of said. "We are the Indiana state law
Executive Board 
Notre Dame or the NCAA, said
recognized the 
Student Union Flaherty. Board, and it's our issues and made The winning job to serve the great changes to numbers will be Notre Dame student selected after the
the process." 
body." lottery is closed 
Tickets will be and will be posted distributed on the Jimmy Flaherty at the SUB office club side of Legends and in The
SUB President 
from noon to 5 Observer p.m., Flaherty said. Wednesday. Organizers will assign as many Students will be able to purchase lottery tickets as they can within their tickets at the LaFortune that time period, he said, but box office. winners will be drawn only for Despite the football team's less the approximately 140 pairs of than stellar start, Flaherty said tickets supplied to SUB by the that he does not expect a drop­Office of Student Activities and off in the number of students the Athletic Department. vying for a ticket. 
The system, which Flaherty "I think traveling to away foot­described as "basic and clear," ball games are a great experi­details that students can bring ence for students and Notre 
Dame students are going to be 

excited  to  travel up to East  
Lansing  to  the  cheer  
on the Irish," he said.  

Sophomore Stephanie Best said that a long wait, not the football team's record, would be the main deterrent. 

"I know that a lot of people waited for hours in huge long lines last year. I don't want to stand in line all day for it -I'd rather buy tickel<; from someone standing outside the stadium on game day," she said. "Whether I · go or not it depends how long the lines aw." 
Keenan sophomore Gary Jost, still deciding on whether to take his chances on the lottery, had the opposite logic in mind. 
"A lottery is a lottery -you wait in line and you either get it or you don't," he said. "But I'm not too confident lin the football team]. I think Michigan State's a better team than BYU." 
SUB will also oversee a ticket lottery for the Oct. 16 Navy away game. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Western countie~ approach ghost town status 
Associated Press 
CONDON. Ore.-If Gilliam County loses much more popula­tion, its wide open spaces and col­lection of three tiny towns -with no stoplights and 1.6 square miles for every person -could soon become a veritable nowhere. 
Percentage-wise, it regularly tops the census list of Oregon counties that are losing popula­tion, a steady stream uf about 80 or 100 people every year. 
And Gilliam County is far from the only place in the rural West that's in danger of becoming a ghost county. In places like Clearwater County, Idaho; Niobrara County, Wyo.; and Treasure County, Mont., the loss of 100 or so people regularly translates to population declines of 5 or 7 percent, year after year. 
The drop is fueled primarily by two factors: old-timers who die. and young people who move away. 
"Our teens graduate and they leave, and why not?" said Jan Eason, an associate pastor at a Nazarene church in Gilliam 
County. "What is there to come 
back for?" 

In Niobrara County, Wyo., which has just 2,237 people left after a decline of 7.1 percent between 2000 and 2003, 18.7 percent of residents are over 65, compared with 11.7 percent statewide. 
And if the trends continue, in a decade or two, some such coun­ties may be virtually empty. 
"People either move to Billings, or, if they get really old, they go into assisted living or they die," Treasure County Commissioner Mack Cole said after a round of census figures last year showed that population there had dipped to 735 people. "The future is about what is now." 
Some places. though, don't want to give up, including once­prosperous Gilliam County, whose farmers supplied wheat and grain to a battered world after World War II. 
As other nations rebuilt, demand slipped. By 1984, many local farmers felt they had no choice but to take the buyout money offered by that year's 
For more informatiQ:n contact Nancy O'Connor at63l-.5432 
•: 
Farm Bill, aimed at curbing over­production, and protecting eroded agricultural lands. 
By the early 1990s, the county's economic backbone was gone. County leaders were searching for any kind of moneymaker at all. All they really had to offer was plenty of vast, empty space. 
Fortunately, that was just what urban areas like Portland, 137 miles up Interstate 84, needed ­a vast, empty space to put tra'sh. Gilliam County became the site of an environmentally sound rural landfill, a distinction which now brings in $1 million a year to the county's tax rolls, and is a linch­pin of what remains of the econo­my. 

"At night, we sit in our porch swing, and count the garbage trucks that go by," said county resident Darlene Smythe, 70. 
Fueled by that success, the county placed an ad in The Los Angeles Times that touted the low cost of living, clean air, and non­existent traffic in Condon. National media parachuted into the story, and the responses poured in; when the dust cleared, 
there were some new faces on the 
street. But they were mostly 
retirees, who didn't come with 
new jobs in tow. 
Next, the county helped bankroll a nonprofit assisted liv­ing center, a move, Gilliam County Judge Laura Pryor said, to "stabi­lize, so generations can stay together." 
But perhaps the crown jewel in the county's attempt to save itself from extinction is the Hotel Condon, the anchor of Condon's downtown, and once abandoned and empty, save for the occasional bat. 
A motley group of investors ­the local newspaper editor, farm­ers. ranchers, the district attor­ney, the owner of alocal chemical company-decided they couldn't bear to see the grand old dame of a building waste away. 
They all chipped in. as did the county, and little by little, the hotel was restored to its former glory. with period light fixtures and velvet drapes, as well as modern conveniences not ·often found in small town hostelries, like wireless Internet access. · 

When it's the presti­gious luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically cho­sen to match your career goal. 
Apply by November 5, 2004 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of rvlay 2005 ) an ND degree? No east-Asia 
. . ')
expenence; 

---~---~-­
---~-~ 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
-7_30 -1.58 20.05 MICROSOFT CP (MSFf) -1.85 -0.51 27.11 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.85 -0.55 18.75 APPI..JED MAll (AMAT) -3.86 -0.63 15.70 SUN MICROSY5 (SUNW) -1.51 -0.06 3.91 
INTEL CORP (INTC) 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.52 +0.76 50.61 I0-YEAR NOTE +2.36 +0.99 42.93 5-YEARNOTE +3.74 + 1.26 34.98 3-MONTH BILL +3.13 +0.49 16.12 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.07 43.99 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.50 402.50 PORK BELLIES {cents/lb.) + 1.675 96_70 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 110.37 EURO 0.8284 POUND 0.5627 
IN BRIEF 
. 

Floppy disk reaches old age 
ATLANTA-When Michael McCreary bought three new computers for his company, he had no need for one of the oldest and most com­mon computer technologies, the floppy drive. 
But like many computer customers. he ended up buying floppies anyway. After all, they're cheap and he still has a few of the 3.5­inch disks lying around. 
"As long as I need those files. I need a floppy drive around. Then I can toss them," said McCreary, the president of an eight-employee Atlanta-area real estate management compa­ny. "The next computers I buy probably won't even have a floppy." 
Long the most common way to store letters, homework and other computer files, the flop­py .is going the way of the horse upon the arrival of the car: it'll hang around but never hold the same relevance in everyday life. 
And good riddance, say some home comput­er users. The march of technology must go on. Like the penny, the floppy drive is hardly worth the trouble, computer makers say. 
Stocks lower on jobs picture 
NEW YORK -Stocks were modestly lower in Friday as investors sorted through an uninspiring employment report and Intel Corp.'s weak profit outlook hit technology shares hard. 
Investors were satisfied with -but not impressed by -the Labor Department's latest reading on unemployment, which fell to 5.4 per­cent from 5.5 percent in July, and the 144,000 jobs created in August was close to the 150,000 Wall Street had expected. 
"I think this continues the pattern of decent eco­nomic growth," said Ken Tower, chief market strategist for Schwab's CyberTrader. "It's not light­ing a fire under anyone, nor is it suggesting the economy is on the edge of a serious contraction. So the market can focus elsewhere, with oil prices likely the biggest hinge for the market right now." 
One day after a sharp drop in crude oil sparked a major stock rally, a ba1Tel of crude was quoted at $43.93, down 13 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Meanwhile, Intel's profit warnings continued to weigh on the markets, casting a pall not only on technology shares but also raising concerns about third-quarter earnings in other sectors. 
Alitalia plans to cut 5,000 jobs 
To avoid collapse, Italian carrier will cut almost one-fourth of its workforce 
Associated Press ROME -Italy's flagship air carrier Alitalia plans to cut 5,000 jobs as part of restructuring efforts ­aimed at avoiding col­lapse, news reports and an industry source said Monday. The cuts are almost a fourth of Alitalia's 22,000­strong workforce. The Italian news agency ANSA and other reports cited union sources. An industry source confirmed the reports, but did not elaborate. Alitalia met with nine union leaders at the com­pany's headquarters in Rome to discuss the restructuring plan and persuade reluctant unions to go along with the efforts. The approval of the recovery plan is crucial to the company's survival as it would allow Alitalia to access a $488 million loan approved by the Italian government and the European Union. Without the loan, Alitalia says it has enough liquidity to pay salaries only until the end of this month. Union leaders said they would meet Tuesday to discuss the plan, and called for further negotia­tions with the company. sure on labor confedera­The plan foresees the massive crisis that hit the But early reaction to the tions. creation of a "good" com­airline industry after the proposed plan was nega­Premier Silvio pany responsible for flight Sept. 11 attacks, Alitalia tive. Berlusconi's government operations, which the has been struggling amid "I hope there's some has repeatedly threatened government would aim to cutthroat competition room for negotiations oth­to let the airline collapse privatize as much as pos­from discount carriers erwise reaching an unless unions accept the sible. The less appealing and consolidation among accord will be very diffi­cuts. In Brussels, EU ground services would be established players. In cult," Fabrizio Solari of Transport Commissioner separated into a "bad" late April and May the the transport unit of Loyola de Palacio said last company, which state­company was hit by a Italy's largest union CGIL week that the layoffs are owned body Fintecna series of strikes that told the Apcom news inevitable. might reportedly buy into. grounded some 1.500 agency. Alitalia has been Cimoli has set a Sept. 15 flights. Unions have opposed tightlipped about the deadline for the plan's The company has post­proposed job cuts over relaunch plan devised by approval. ed an annual profit only the past year by organiz­Chairman and Chief Alitalia, which is 62-four times in the last 16 ing massive strikes. Executive Giancarlo percent owned by the years. Its debt stood at $2 However, Italian and EU Cimoli. But a few details state, is facing one of its billion at the end of June, officials in the past weeks have emerged in the past worst times ever. up $265 million since the have stepped up the pres-· days. Still reeling from the end of 2003. 

Brazil praised for economic policy 
months ago. has now posted four straight quarters Associated Press He said he agreed with the conclu­of growth and a decline in the unem­
sion of econsmists surveyed by Dow ployment rate three months running.
SAO PAULO, Brazil -Brazil's gov­Jones Newswires, who raised their The jobless rate stood at 11.2 percent ernment got a big boost Friday when expectations Friday for Brazilian eco­in June, down from a high of 13 per-
the new head of the International 
nomic growth in 2004 to cent earlier this year. 
Monetary Fund praised its economic 4.5 percent from about 4 The country's robustpolicy and economists raised their percent. second quarter amid
growth forecast for the continent's "Consumer 
The upgrade came predictions for a
largest economy. 
spending is 

after the government repeat performance in
Since taking power in January 
2003, the administration of President reported earlier this providing optimism, the third quarter was Luiz lnacio Lula da Silva "has main­week that the economy as is falling fueled by a burst of tained coherent macroeconomic poli­grew faster-than­consumer demand, an
a 
unemployment."

cies and formulated an ambitious expected 5.7 percent in increase in industrial agenda of structural reforms," IMF the second quarter com­output and an ongoing 
managing director Rodrigo de Rata pared to th~ same period Ana Paula Rocha export boom of agri­said after meeting with Silva and sen­last·year. economist cultural and manufac­ior government officials in Brasilia, "Consumer spending is tured goods. the capital. providing optimism, as is As a result of Silva's 
"These courageous policies are falling unemployment," said Ana moves, "Brazil's vulnerability was bearing fruit," said de Rata, a Paula Rocha, an economist for ABN reduced and the growing capacity of Spaniard and economist by training Amra in Sao Paulo. resistance of the economy helped 
who took over the top job at the Brazil did-experience its worst protect the country from the recent Washington-based lender three recession in a decade last year, but turbulence in world markets," 
1 

r----------------~--~----------------~---~---~­
Tuesday, September 7, 2004

page 8 The Observer +"NATIONAL NEWS 
Chickenpox shots save $100 million in hospitalization costs 
Vaccinations help prevent hospital stays 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Vaccinating chil­dren against chickenpox saves the U.S. health care system nearly $100 million a year in reduced hospitalizations for severe cases of the itchy dis­case, a study found. 
Though most people who get the usually mild disease can be treated at home. chickenpox can be serious, and complica­tions requiring hospitalization can include severe skin infec­tions, encephalitis and pneumo­nia. 

In 1993, two years before the government licensed the vac­cine for routine use in early childhood. nearly 14,000 Americans were hospitalized for chickenpox-related compli­cations at a cost of $161 mil­lion. compared with 3,729 hos­pitalizations and $66 million in 
related  costs  in  2001,  the  
researchers estimated.  
Routine  vaccination  has  

reduced cases in young children who get the shots and helped keep the disease from spread­ing to unvaccinated older chi!­
dren and adults. in whom the disease tends to be more severe. 
The reduction in the disease "is excellent news for the vac­cine program," said lead researcher Dr. Matthew Davis, a University of Michigan pediatri­cian who said he has no ties to the vaccine makers. The study was funded by the university. 
Dr. Ben Z. Katz. an infectious disease specialist at Chicago's Children's Memorial Hospital, said the numbers are believable and were not unexpected. 
"There's less complications. less hospitalizations. and you're saving money to boot. It's all good news." Katz said. 
The study appears in September's Pediatrics, pre­pared for release Tuesday. 
Davis and colleagues analyzed 1993-2001 data from a nation­ally representative annual com­pilation of patients discharged from hundreds of hospitals nationwide, including informa­tion on costs and diagnoses. 
Before 1995, 41 percent of patients hospitalized for chick­enpox were children from infancy through age 4, com­pared with 33 percent for peo­ple age 20 and older. That pat­tern reversed by 2001, when 28 percent of chickenpox-related hospitalizations were very young children and 46 percent were adults, the researchers found. 
Despite indirect protection from vaccinating young chil­dren. adults and teens who have not yet had chickenpox should consider getting the shots themselves, Davis said. This is especially important for those who work with young children and for women of childbearing age, because the disease can be dangerous for the developing fetus, and the shots are not advised during pregnancy. he said. 

Police say single person responsible for 6 killings 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Police said Monday they believe a single killer was responsible for the slayings of six people whose bodies were found within a blighted 18-block area fre­quented by drug addicts and prosti­tutes. 
Police Capt. Rich Lockhart would not say what led police to connect the killings to a single person; the crimes have not been linked forensi­cally. Authorities previously had said they thought the killings were related, though they had not theo­rized the slayings were the work of 

one person. Police were working with the FBI to develop a profile of the killer. 
One of those slain was found in July, but five others have been dis­covered since Thursday -including those found after someone calling 911 told police where to look. 
All the bodies were discovered on vacant lots or near vacant houses or apartments in an area east Of down­town where drug dealers and prosti­tutes were known to congregate. 
Lockhart said police were looking for similarities between the victims and the crime scenes. Police have not said how the victims died; autop­sies were under way Monday. 
Culinary institute unable to 
account for 111issing revenue 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The James Beard Foundation, a nonprofit organization created to promote culinary excellence, cannot account for hundreds of thousands of dollars in annual revenue, according to one of its trustees. 
The accounting problem -the latest in a series of financial irregularities involving the foundation -was due to the organization's rapid growth, trustee George Sape told The New York Times for Monday editions. 
Sape would not comment on how much money was unaccounted for or how it might have been spent. 
Leonard Pickell Jr., the foundation's presi­dent, is expected to resign from the board of trustees. the Tunes reported. 
Pickell denied that funds had been misspent or misplaced, saying the accounting discrep­ancy was due instead to "bad record-keeping and insufficient resources," the Times said. 
The organization also is under investigation by the New York state attorney general's office for not filing tax returns for the past two years. 
Critics said the Beard Foundation's appar­ent financial irresponsibility undermined its charitable mission: to promote up-and-com­ing chefs. It arranges some 300 dinners and lunches each year at which guests pay up to $150 to sample dishes prepared by founda­tion-approved chefs. 
University of Notre Dame Annual Drinking Water Quality Report: Consumer Confidence Report 2003 
The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act requires each public water supply to produce a water quality report titled the "Consumer Confidence Report" (CCR). Following is the University's annual report for the 2003 calendar year. • The University's water system is operated by Facilities Engineering. It is a privately owned public water supply. The University's system provides water to the University community, the nearby 
C.S.C. properties, and Holy Cross Community College. Questions regarding the system or sampling results can be directed to Paul Kempf, Director of Utilities, 102 Facilities Building, Notre Dame, IN, 46556, phone 574-631-6594 or Mike McCauslin, Assistant Director, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556, phone 574-631-5037. 
There are currently five wells serving the water system. All are located on the campus proper. The water is drawn from deep aquifers that are adequately protected by substantial clay barriers that 
serve to protect the groundwater supply. We do not believe that our source is vulnerable to contamination. We are also taking steps to ensure that our water source does not become contaminated 
and are in the final stages of what is known as a Wellhead Protection Program. This program assists in defining where the water supply comes from and methods to protect the aquifers from future 
contamination. 

The sources of drinking water (both tap water and bottled) include rivers, lakes, streams, ponds, reservoirs, springs, and wells. As water travels over the surface of the land or through the ground, it 
dissolves naturally-occurring minerals and, in some cases, radioactive material, and can pick up substances resulting from the presence of animals or from human activity. Drinking water, including 
bottled water, may reasonably be expected to contain at least small amounts of some contaminants. The presence of contaminants does not necessarily indicate the water poses a health risk. More 
information about contaminants and potential health affects can be obtained by calling the Environmental Protection Agency's Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1-800-426-4791) or at the EPA's website at 
www.epa.gov/safewater. Contaminants that might be expected to be in source water (untreated water) include: 
• 
Microbial contaminants, such as viruses and bacteria, which may come from sewage treatment plants, septic systems, agricultural livestock operations, and wildlife. 

• 
Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and metals, which can be naturallyoccurring or result from urban stormwater runoff, industrial or domestic wastewater discharges, oil and gas production, min­ing or framing. 

• 
Pesticides and herbicides, which may come from a variety of sources such as agriculture, urban stormwater runoff, and residential uses. 

• 
Organic chemical contaminants, including synthetic and volatile organic chemicals, which are by-products of industrial processes and petroleum production, and can also come from gas stations, urban stormwater runoff, and septic systems. 

• 
Radioactive contaminants, which can be naturally-occurring or be the result of oil and gas production and mining activities. 


Some people may be more vulnerable to contaminants in drinking water than the general population. lmmuno-compromised persons such as persons with cancer undergoing chemotherapy, per­sons who have undergone organ transplants, people with HIV/AIDS or other immune system disorders, some elderly, and infants can be particularly at risk from infections. These people should seek advice about drinking water from their health care providers. EPA/CDC guidelines on appropriate means to lessen the risk of infection by Cryptosporidium and microbial contaminants are available 
from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1-800-426-4791) or website www.epa.gov/safewater. Infants and young children are typically more vulnerable to lead in drinking water than the general population. In general, if you flush your cold tap until the water gets as cold as it is going to get, you will have eliminated the potential metal concentration. Additional information is available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1-800-4264791) or website www.epa.gov/safewater. 
We have tested for over 150 parameters regulated by the EPA and the State of Indiana. Included in these tests were metals, volatile organics, pesticides, herbicides, SOC's and cyanide. Water Quality Data The table below lists the EPA's regulated and unregulated contaminants detected in the University's drinking water. All of the contaminants are below allowable levels. 
Not included in the table are the more than 150 other contaminants including pesticides, herbicides, metals, synthetic organic chemicals, volatile organic chemicals and others which were tested and not detected. · Regulated at point of entry (well) Substance Highest Level detected EPA's MCL EPA's MCLG's Range Source of contaminant Nitrate (ppm) 0.9 10 10 (<0.1-0.9) Runoff from Fertilizer use, +septic tanks, natural deposits Nickel (ppm) 0.014 0.1 0 (0.0052-0.0014) Pipe materials natural deposits Barium (ppm) 0.12 2.0 2.0 (0.057-0.12) Erosion of Natural deposits Arsenic 0.0025 0.01 0 (<0.0020-0.0025) Erosion of Natural deposits Gross alpha (pCill) 3.8 15 0 (1.9-3.8) Naturally occurring Gross beta (pCill) 21.2 50 0 (3.2-21.2) Decay of natural and manmade deposits Unregulated Substances Substance Highest Level detected EPA's MCL EPA's MCLG's Range Source of contaminant Sodium (ppm) 100 ---­Regulated at the User tap Substance Highest Level detected EPA's MCL EPA's MCLG's Range Source of contaminant Copper (ppb)90th percentile 5401300 1300 (1.56540) Corrosion of plumbing systems Lead (ppb) 90th percentile 8.4 15 0 (<1.08.4) Corrosion of plumbing systems Definitions 
MCL-Maximum contaminant level (MCL). The highest level of contaminant that is allowed in drinking water. MCLG -Maximum contaminant level goal (MCLG). The level of a contaminant at which there is no known or expected health risk. ppm -Parts per million. ppb -Parts per billion. 
90th Percentile-90% of the samples were below the number listed. pCi/L-Picocuries per liter. Since 1993, the University has been granted a standardized Monitoring Framework (SMF 1), monitoring waiver. Due to the high quality of the water, the monitoring frequencies are significantly reduced. 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
page 9 
Doctors say Clinton 
Relation found between TV and sex 
Associated Press

bypass successful 
CHICAGO -Children who watched a lot of 1V with sexual content were about twice as like­

Heart attack may have been in near future 
ly to start having intercourse 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Bill Clinton underwent a successful quadru­ple heart bypass operation Monday to relieve severely clogged arteries that had put the former president at high risk of suffering a heart attack. 
"He is recovering normally at this point," said Dr. Craig R. Smith, the surgeon who led the operation. "Right now every­thing looks straightforward." 
Smith said Clinton could leave the hospital in four or five days. Doctors said they expect him to 
gery,
''There was nothing

make a full recov­remove one or 
Collins and colleagues. 

ery, although the in this case that more blood ves­
From innuendoes to depictions 

heart disease they sels from else­
of intercourse, sex is pervasive
was outside the 

repaired was where in the 
on TV, present in about two­
realm ofroutine."

"extensive." body and attach 
thirds of all shows other than 

The four-hour them to arteries 
news and sports, and teens 

surgery came Dr. Craig R. Smith serving the heart, 
watch an average of three hours 

three days after Surgeon detouring blood 
of television daily, previous 

Clinton checked himself into the hospital complaining of chest pain and shortness of breath. Tests soon revealed that block­age in several of Clinton's arter­ies was "well over 90 percent," Smith said. 
"There was a substantial like­lihood that he would have had a substantial heart attack" in the near future, said Dr. Allan Schwartz, chief of cardiology at New York Presbyterian HospitaVColumbia. 
Schwartz said Clinton was awake but sedated about four hours after the operation ended. He still was using a breathing tube and had not spoken yet, he said. 
In a statement, Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton and the cou­ple's daughter, Chelsea, thanked the hospital staff for helping the family through an "emotional roller-coaster." 
"The president's optimism and faith will carry him through the difficult weeks and months ahead," the statement said. 
In bypass sur­
doctors 
during the subsequent year as those with little exposure to tele­vised sex, researchers found. 
High exposure to TV sex among those age 12 to 17 also was linked with a lower but still substantially increased risk of starting non-intercourse behav­ior, including passionate kissing and oral sex, the researchers found. Even shows that only refer to sex but don't depict it had the effect, they found. 
"Exposure to 1V that included only talk about sex was associat­ed with the same risks as expo­sure to 1V that depicted sexual behavior," said Rand Corp. behavioral scientist Rebecca al content. Programs the researchers considered high "I don't think television in sexual con­

makes anybody do 
tent included 
anything. " 
"That '70s 
s h 0 w " ' "Friends" and Carl Folta "Sex and the 
Vlacom spokesman
City" -all pop­ular with teens. Participants 
The Media Project, a Los Angeles-based advocacy pro­gram that works with TV net­works to include accurate and responsible sex images in pro­gramming. 
"We want kids to look at televi­

around block­
ages. 
The vessel typically comes from elsewhere in the chest, although doctors sometimes take one from an arni, a leg or the stomach. 
"There was nothing in this case that was outside the realm of routine," Smith said. 
Schwartz said it would be possible for Clinton in the future to lead an "extraordinar­ily active lifestyle" -including hitting the campaign trail. 
research has shown. 
1V thus "may create the illu­sion that sex is more central to daily life than it truly is and may promote sexual initiation as a result," the researchers said. 
"When they're watching it for three hours a day, it really does become their social world. Those characters are people they iden­tify with and pay attention to," said Collins, the lead researcher. 
1V sex rarely deals with nega­tive aspects most teens aren't prepared to deal with, including unwanted pregnancy, AIDS and happens," Collins said. "You don't see the fade to black, the couple has sex, and the next morning says, 'You gave me an STD."' 

The study appears in September's Pediatrics, released Tuesday. 
The results are based on nationwide telephone surveys of 1, 792 adolescents queried in 2001 and again in 2002. Parental consent for participa­tion was obtained before the interviews. 
The researchers devised a list of 23 popular shows that on average featured abundant sexu­previous data show that 46 per­cent of high school students say they've had intercourse. But many say they wish they'd wait­ed longer to have sex, and televi­sion might be among factors influencing them to become sex­ually active too soon, the researchers said. 
Liliana Escobar-Chaves, a researcher at the University of Texas School of Public Health, said the findings illustrate the importance of parents viewing and discussing TV with their kids, and of encouraging TV writers to depict sex responsibly. 
The latter effort is a focus of 
other sexually transmitted dis­eases, she said. 

TH~ TRUTH IS... -~ 
That "sends kids the message that everybody's having sex and nobody's thinking about respon­sibility and nothing bad ever

1~ ou~ D~Lrv~r.a' or,arv~~s
. ..... ll ............ ·...... · ......... -IL-.. ..... ~-.. ···---~·-···· 

... 
1
·,::~..,:\.' c·,,:,.... :t .'· ..·••.••... :\ : r·.·,•·.. ::·: ,.. ,c'·,:······ 
Check out the...
THEY'D HAY~ 

Sacrament of Confirmation 
1 

Are you a baptized Catholic who has received
N·uMnrRS
.... 
:! ,/, Dti,:. 

their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 
ttN• T1.1r '.fn.:r~ nr Tllr,lra ttlAraS····•
,S··
. ..••

" ',. 1nc :......·•. uw LJr 1nc J'l 111111~ " 
Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed to get married in the Catholic Church? 
Would you like to prepare for Confinnation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
It's not too late to join the Confirmation Preparation Program! 
Siegfried Hall Chapel
THE TRIJTIIIS. ~ DO THINGS QUICKER THAN THE 1JT11m GIIYS.
1983 

on Tuesday, Sept. 7th
AND If YOU'R.E HUNGRY. THAT'S AGOOD THING TO KNOW. 
at 7:00pm
L~T TH~ TRUTH 9~ KNOWN. 
For more info: 

Fr. john Conley, CSC at 631-7888 Megan Thomas at 631-3389 or stop by the Office of Campus Ivlinistry in the Coleman-Morse Center with any questions. C-M 
then were asked how often they watched those 23 shows. They also were asked whether they engaged in various sexual activi­ties; results were compared from the two surveys. 
The number of teens who reported having had intercourse climbed from about 18 percent to 36 percent. The number who'd had sexual experiences other than intercourse climbed from 62 percent to 75 percent, Collins said. 
Factors that increased the like­lihood of having intercourse included being older, having older friends and getting poor grades. But even considering those factors, television still remained a strong influence, the researchers said. 
Many youngsters start having sex during their teen years, and sion with an educated eye," said Melissa Havard, the group's director. 
One example is an HIVIAIDS effort the group has collaborated on with media giant Viacom, whose properties include CBS and MTY. In the past year and a half, Viacom has produced 22 shows with positive HIV mes­sages, including a "Star Trek" episode in which Vulcans had to deal with the stigma of having an AIDS-like disease, said Viacom spokesman Carl Folta. 
But while acknowledging that television "eertainly can make an impact," Folta was skeptical of the study results. 
"I don't think television makes anybody do anything," Folta said. It's just one of many factors that influence young people's lives, he said. 
r---~--------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------------------------·------------·--------­
THE ()BSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
1'0. ll<>x Q. Notre Dame, IN 46S56 024 South Dining H.oll, Nom: Dame, lN 46S56 
EDITOR IN QUill' Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EorroR 8US!NllS$ MANAG.ell Meghanne Oowne$ Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Joe Herrle: 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Suah Vahulas 
Sl'Oilts EDITOR: Ht:awtVan Hoegatd~n SaNll EonnR: Mariil. Sinich IN Focus Eorro.R: Meghan Martin SAtN'r MA.Rrs EPnna: Angda Saoud l"HOTO EonnR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR; Mike Harkins ADVEJmSINC MANAGElll Carrie Franklin Ao DESIGN MANAG.ER: Kdly Nelson SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR• Mary Allen 
CoNTROUJ!Il: Paulll Garci~ 
0FRCE MANAGER &GENEIIALINFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-692.7 ADVERTI$1NO 
(574) 631-6900 ob.cad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EI)ITOR 
(574) 631·4541 nbsme@nd.edu AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 
8USIH£SS OFRCE 
(574) 631-531.3'
HEWS DESK .. {S74) 631.-5323 ohlon~;l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK • (574) 631~5303 viewpaint.l@nd.edu SPORn IJ£sK (574) 631-4543 ~r~S'fnd,~c;{u 
SC£HE DESK .. 
(574) 431-4540 $~H~n:d.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DE$11 
(574) 631-4324 &mc.l@nd.cdu
PHOTO Om . (574) 631·8767 photo@nd.~du SYSTEMS & WEB AlllllllllSTfiATORS (574) 631-8839 
oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer uthe indepemk:nr, daily ~ap:r publimed. in print and online by !he students of the Unlvetsity ofNoue Dame du l.w;ai:idSalnt Matfii Colleg¢. &lirorial oomem, induding11d~t$. i!i 
not governed bypolicies ofthe adminisam.ion ofdrl= institution.~ Observer reserves the .-.lght to refuse advertisements b~ on content 
The nt:Ws i$ (eported as ~tdy llrul ob}teti'l'clyM possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the rm~jodty ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing &liror, ksis~ar~r .Man;aging Editor and ~patttJW'Ir edirou. Commentaries, lerrm and colull!ns pre$Cnt me views of the authors and not necessarily those of~ Obwver. 
Viewpoint spw:e is aw.ilabk to all ~ers. Thl! fu:e expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor mwt lxl signed and mustinclude (;(11\~r infoun11.ticn: 
~stiom "f-'ing ObJmJrrpdicm shou/J M dirr:ctnl t4 .EJ#qr i11 Chii[MtmIAutr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
,.ObO«Wt (USM; S'>'l l·-10. puh!•l><><f M61.&y tl...up, P<ida~ ""'!j>t diKinj ctam utJ N~:ati&tnpcriod:L A tub.uipdon ml\t'ObutWcl1 i1 $tOO roruw...::.danb.: yl'V:USfororK'~ n..o,__~ •....,.t,.ro~o<Aooocio>"""""' Ali~<P..4"''"'".;p.....,
........... 
1M Obf~ it pl.lblf.r;~ tU~ P.().llo!<Q 014 South tlinins H~l ol• Sou<b Di•ons H•U NRuc: D.m~! tN 46~5.6-0119 Nom 0...., IN 4655£.9719 1\1,~ ~(!rAid af NoMt o..-e &~~~d .ddlc..oM.I M.ililllf ol'l'ta.. 
P<:m'MAmiR 
SclrMl~QIHJWUHN:.,~ 
n.ot......... 
'lo.ot......rh ,...,.&cro/!1><.-....;-' '-M!~...rip~..., .-...~. 
··::::::.:.; 
TODAY'S STAFF
··.;·.·. 
rer!~ \'''\Jus:;ri~uver
Ken WaJsh;:: Eric Retter 11icia DeGroot Bqbby Griffin Viewpoint ,., .Soone ''' ::{Katherine Rowley =I!:J: Rama << ' ' ,,, 
ar~::'~C:tsch ,.,,,:;';::,;:;::::ool:::.~~!•=•=•••••· 
···· Katie Knorr····.···· 

WhatJohn Kerry will do for America 
Politics is a rather contentious topic at my house these days. My father has long espoused the view that Bill Clinton is the devil incarnate and that John Kerry and John Edwards are only days away from picking up pitch­Katie Boyle forks and branding the country with their own version of 
For lt1zat It's red-hot liberalism. Worth In contrast, I spent my summer in Washington D.C. work­ing for the Democratic National Committee. This decision caused not only raised eyebrows, but a few epithets as well. Even my 77 -year-old grandmother told me before I left, "Honey, it's never too late to change your mind. You could still vote for George Bush when you walk into that ballot box." Although not everyone in my family is Republican, as you can imagine. going against this grain has made for an interesting time. While at home, I find myself defending my views against an intelligent and well­informed debater, and while in D.C. I could always hear the ever-critical voice of my dad pointing out the vari­ous flaws in the liberal party line. In response to Republican criticism, it is relatively easy to deride President Bush's policies during his term. And indeed, his political record will be an important factor this November. Rather than simply point­ing out the flaws in Bush's record, however, it is vital that Kerry also provide voters with his own blueprint for the future of the United States. In addition, Kerry supporters, while retaining their right to criticize the President. need to focus on what John Kerry will do for America rather than on what George Bush has not. The problem is not that such infor­
mation is unavailable. One may look on either www.johnkerry.com or www.georgewbush.com to find a watered-down-for-the-general-public version of each candidate's proposals. Unfortunately, in an election many tout as the most important of our life­time, it appears that our next presi­dent will be chosen by the 10 percent or less who still remain undecided. Most of these will select either Kerry or Bush in the month or even the week before the election. 
While exceptions clearly exist, it is also more likely that these voters will not carefully research their choices. They will make up their minds based on 30 second commercials sand­wiched between shampoo ads and praises for McDonald's newest Value Meal. Many of these campaign spots will present skewed statistics which appear to condemn the opposing can­didate. 
To take advantage of the statistical dead heat in which our incumbent president finds himself, Kerry advo­cates need to counteract the current apathy of this section of the elec­torate. A virtual grassroots publicity blitz, backed by a thorough under­standing of the tenets of Kerry's cam­paign plan. is vital. 
With the unprecedented polariza­tion of the nation, it is only too easy to engage in vitriolic attacks on either candidate. It is a shame, how­ever, to reduce this election to such black and white statements. Neither man has an unsullied record and nei­ther platform is ideal. One candidate, however, clearly demonstrates the direction in which our country needs to be led. 
The Kerry-Edwards campaign slo­gan claims their team will make America "stronger at home [and] respected around the world." This approach is a plan for our nation. 
Look at George W. Bush's platform as well. The Bush-Cheney ticket's slogan is "Heart and soul. Moving America forward." This phrase exemplifies the exclusively internal focus champi­oned, rather arrogantly, by the cur­rent administration. It is, of course, imperative that our future president have the well-being of our nation as his top priority. In my opinion, how­ever, the only way to provide and plan for the strength and security of the United States lies in being cog­nizant of the larger world that sur­rounds us. John Kerry's vision includes that world. He recognizes the need for a firm yet respectful and collaborative attitude within foreign relations. He will be an advocate for our safety and security. He will help boost economic growth. He will pro­mote education and the environment. 
John Kerry and his platform are controversial. One would be hard pressed to find a worthwhile politi­cian who is not. America deserves the courage of Kerry's convictions and his platform's agenda over the next four years. John Kerry is not flaw­less. But neither is he the lesser of two evils as a sole focus on attacking Bush implies. At this point in time, the best way to support him is to explain why John Kerry instead of why not George Bush. 
I don't believe there is a perfect choice for America in the upcoming election. I do, however, strongly believe there is a clear choice and that our next president should be John Kerry. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, political science and Spanish major. She supports John Kerry. She can be contacted at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Bryant case leaves both parties with stained reps 
The Kobe Bryant case has been on our TVs, radios and in our e-mails for a little more than a year, but the segment that had the public's attention -the trial -is now over. 
District Judge Terry Ruckriegle threw out the case Wednesday in a deal where no criminal charges can be filed. Apparently the woman who filed the complaint dropped the charges because A rica she didn't want to participate and be sub­Jefferson jected to more relentless media coverage. 
I cannot for a minute say that I under-The Houston stand what it's like to be sexually assault-Daily Cougar ed. but I can say that if I were and knew who the perpetrator was, I would want to see him brought to justice. 
The 20-year-old woman's credibility was put in jeopardy when the defense attorneys tried to get her mental health admitted as evidence to show her instability and desire for attention. The case breaker was when the judge said the defense could use her recent sexual history against it's client's accuser. By that time it seemed as though from the outside looking in, and apparently from the inside looking out, their case was deteriorating. On top of all of that, District Attorney Mark Hurlbert said the woman did not and was not going to testify . 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you gamble in your dorm? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Hurlbert told ESPN.com the decision to drop the case "is not based upon a lack of belief in the victim," but it's evi­dent that there was a lack of belief in something some­where. 
Bryant, 26, wasn't let off scot-free. Under the conditions that the case could never be filed again. he had to make a public apology to his accuser. She is quoted on FoxSports.com saying she "insisted on that statement as a price of freedom." Even though the criminal trial is over. a civil suit is still pending and the only thing won in civil suits are -surprise -money. 
I, for one, am glad the messy ordeal is over. It's sad that now both of them are going to have to spend quite a bit of time rebuilding their reputations. I hope the woman gets through this and lives a wonderful life. 
As for Kobe, I hope he has learned his lesson and that others have learned from him that everything that looks good isn't good for you. 
This article originally appeared on Sept. 3, 2004 in The Daily Cougar. the daily publication at the University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it's time to pause and reflect. ... 
Mark Twain author 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Constructing' Tariq Ramadan 
The recent exchange of views in The despite Ramadan's repeated denials. One Observer over the revocation of Professor "knows," after all, that political demagoguery Tariq Ramadan's visa, effectively barring him and the will to dominate the world are biologi­from taking up his teaching position at Notre cally transmitted among the members of cer­Dame, makes clear that the issue has stirred tain religious groups. Even though at particu­up a hornet's nest here. It is an indication at a lar historical moments we have learned of the micro-level of the larger controversy swirling follies of engaging in such essentialist think­about Professor Ramadan, particularly in ing, we tend to slip back into such lazy and Europe, which has now reached our neck of dangerous generalizations in fraught times. If the woods with a vengeance. For some­Tariq Ramadan did not exist, some one observing these exchanges some­would have to invent him as an what dispassionately, they may outlet for their visceral fears well appear to be not about the today. And, indeed, some man himself but about who per­have. ceives and chooses to believe I agree with both what about him, and how that Professor Walshe and gets played out against the Rabbi Signer that dia­backdrop of the anxious logue, and especially times we live in. I would inter-faith dialogue, hazard a guess that a fair remains a critical neces­number of people holding sity for forging a way for­strong opinions about ward. Ramadan espouses Ramadan have not read a such dialogues and has thing written by him -:-as participated in them with opposed to about him -nor various faith groups. He had an occasion to meet him. has also criticized some The nature of many of the innu­Muslims and non-Muslims for endos and accusations leveled at being excessively partisan in him suggests not a discourse based on their sentiments, since that has facts but -to use a fancy term -a "trop-prevented them from finding common ic" discourse, heavily laden with "tropes." ground on the basis of universal principles. Tropes point not so much to facts but to per­Such criticism admittedly has not been wel­ceptions and assumptions about a person, comed by everyone but it is not out of place in thing, or event, which then acquire lives of a constructive dialogue, which entails candor their own and become "constructs." and engagement with diverse perspectives. 
By virtue of his genes, his religious affilia­Constructive dialogue further requires that the tion, and activism, Ramadan invites "construc­interlocutors be physically present. The Kroc tion" in our current political climate. Of the Institute's efforts to bring Professor Ramadan various charges constructed against him on to the table speak to its foundational commit­the basis of his pedigree, one sticks out. ment to dialogue and a commendable willing­Ramadan, it is alleged, is the clandestine ness to take risks for the possibility of a better, leader in Europe of the Muslim Brotherhood, non-violent future. an organization founded in Egypt by his grand­father -so clandestine in fact that tongues Asma Afsaruddin apparently are wagging about it all over Associate Professor, Arabic & Islamic Studies Europe. For some, this charge is credible Sept. 6 
Show support this weekend 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 page 11 
U-WIRE 
War on terror needs candidates' creativity 
Whether local or national, let there be no mistake -Election Day 2004 is quickly approaching. For Americans, it is time to engage in some much needed decision making on the issues that matter most. Two months remain before voters choose which candidate will defend those issues best. 
The war on terror continues to be the issue Ryan that begs for creative answers by both candi­Stalnaker dates running for president. The Bush adminis­tration is the first in what will be a long line of Texas Tech presidents who must use innovation and creativi~ University ty to fight this lingering problem. Daily 
As Afghanistan and Iraq move toward free­dom, it is time to evaluate where we were and where we're headed. What is next with regard to the international fight against terrorism? What is next here at home for maintaining and increasing homeland security? 
The questions above should be the foremost concern of voters across the nation. Terrorism, being the unconventional war it is, will be fought with less power and more fmesse. Bush, in his three years as president, created the Department of Homeland Security, the 
U.S.A. Patriot Act and the TSA. Not a bad start, considering he has outlined further ideas for a second term. 
Kerry must match this by explaining a unique strategy for main­taining security aside from the clich, feel-good remedies he has pro­posed. The American people deserve much more than Kerry saying "ditto" to the 9/11 Commission or offering universally agreed-upon ideas. Adding troops and strengthening the military are wonderful, but where is the innovation? 
Kerry must explain what it means to "lead a coalition of the able," as it states on his Web site. Post 9/11, the world thrives on intelli­gence gathering. Kerry uses opponents ofthe war in Iraq (France, Germany, Russia, etc.) to be indicative of our opponents in the war on terror. We continue to share intelligence on a continual basis with countless nations, including those who failed to assist America in Operation: Iraqi Freedom. When free nations share the burden of intelligence, everyone benefits. So what is this new "coalition?" 
Kerry's inconsistent stance on the U.S.A. Patriot Act is also room for concern. In the aftermath of 9/11, Kerry gave his support to this cornerstone ofdomestic security, even writing portions of the bill. 
"I believe these serious threats to our security justify our passing this legislation swiftly," he stated in 2001. Now he wavers on how much or how little he supports the Patriot Act. 
The real issue at stake is whether Kerry has any unique ideas for making America safer. If stem cells and abortion prevented terror­ism, I guess Kerry has all the answers. Where are the efforts to bring business into the fight against terrorism? Where are the ideas for reforming intelligence gathering? 
Kerry has made the case that America is less safe due in part to the Bush administration. If that is true, then creative solutions should exist in abundance. Either Kerry has no ideas or wants to keep them a secret until his inauguration. Either way, it is bad for stability in troubling times. America does not need a Socratic talk from John Kerry; it needs clarity when it comes to protecting inno­cent lives. For voters, the choice has never been so obvious. It is cre­ativity versus ambiguity, and ambiguity is almost out of time. 
This article originally appeared on Sept. 3, 2004 in the University Daily. the daily publication at Texas Tech University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
After Saturday night I with friends, family, alumni noticed many people question­and can never be relived as a ing-and rightly so-the student. There are people all direction our football team is over the country, both alumni headed in. I've also heard and the subway alumni who many people entertain would give anything to be in thoughts of selling their tick­your shoes. Secondly, ets for Saturday's game Michigan-Notre Dame­against Michigan. Certainly regardless of the current the reasons for this are standings -generates 
attractive. The first 
being the return 
on the invest­
ment. Let's just 
say you proba­
bly wouldn't 
be selling 
your ticket 
for less than 
you paid for 
it. The second 
reason is that 
some people 
have no desire 
to watch the 
same product on 
the field that was 
in Utah on Saturday. 
This is also understand­able. 
Saturday, we face an oppo­nent that I can say confidently will be markedly better than Brigham Young University. That said, may I urge each and every student at this school to attend Saturday's game. First, you get 24 home games as a student. Cherish every one of them. This is time -no matter what the outcome -that will be spent 
zij /::;,,:::,;:::::ji:jji,:::lj:iili:::it~~enormous national
media coverage.
j 

No matter what happens on the field, we as 
students, have a repu­tation for creating the finest home field experi­ence in the 
nation. Before I was a stu­dent here, I was in awe when I watched on TV as the Notre Dame 
student body clapped to drum cadences, sang the fight song until they were blue in the face and did countless pushups after a Notre Dame touchdown. The third and most important reason for attending Saturday's game deals with our opponent. I attended the game last year in Ann Arbor and experienced a culture that was so distasteful and so arrogant that I thanked my lucky stars for 
Notre Dame and the class we exhibit in both victory and defeat. 
Whether we like it or not, Michigan fans will be here on Saturday, but we must do everything we can to keep them out of our house. The traditions we hold dear will be completely disregarded. We can't control what happens on the field, but we as students have an obligation to do our part. Our part is to show up, cheer loud, and support our classmates no matter what the outcome. So I urge all of you. Freshman this will be your first. Seniors this is the begin­ning of your final season. Give it everything you have, this is time you won't have back. And maybe, just maybe we can rekindle a little bit of the magic that drove the Four Horsemen, Knute Rockne and the 11 national championship teams that provide the foun­dation for the traditions we hold dear. Maybe, just maybe we can win this one. "Some time when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys -tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one ... " 
Chris Tarnacki sophomore O'Neill Sept. 6 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
DVD REVIEW 

Season 6 of ~sex and the City' delivers 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene DVD Critic 
The final season of a television show usually goes one of two ways. More often than not, the final season reminds you why it's going off of the air in the first place with uninspired episodes and a feeling of obligation to wrap up all plot lines. The rarer end to a show is a season that makes you wish that the show would go on forev­er. "Sex and the City," Season 6 Part 1, while not the complete final season, manages to keep the show fresh while slowly and subtly wrapping up the loose ends in preparation for the final farewell. 
"Sex and the City" is a completely character-driven show as the entire premise is following the love lives of four single New York women. The four women are Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker), the shoe-addicted sex-column writer; Charlotte (Kristen Davis). the WASP-y art gallery director; Miranda (Cynthia Nixon). the cynical lawyer; and Samantha (Kim Cattrall), the man­eating PR executive. Some episodes may be confusing to those who are jumping into the series cold, because they follow a story-arc built up over the past five seasons, but the series can still be enjoyed by just about any­one, even males. 


Season 6 opens with "Market to Market," a great episode comparing the volatility of the stock market with the instability and uncertainty of dat­ing. Carrie begins her relationship with Jack Berger (Ron Livingston of "Office Space" fame). another writer. Their union seems blissful, until both of them release books at the same time. While Carrie finds major success with her book, Berger is dropped by his publisher and the whole thing ends with Berger dumping her on a Post-it note, prompting one of the funniest episodes on the disc, "The Post-it Always Sticks Twice." 
While Carrie's love life takes a turn for the worse, her friends have their own personal adventures. Miranda is torn between her love for the bar­tender Steve (David Eigenberg). the father of her baby, and the perfect New York Knicks doctor (Blair Underwood) she's dat­ing. Charlotte finally finds true love with Harry (Evan Handler), but they face a dilemma when marriage becomes an issue because he's Jewish and she isn't. Samantha has a fling 

with a hot waiter/actor Smith Jarret (Jason Lewis), and it quickly becomes more serious than she ever wants a relationship to be. 
The DVD set, like all of the "Sex and the City" collections, does not have many extras. There are commentaries from producer Michael Patrick King for a few episodes, and this set also includes a discussion from the Museum of TV and Radio Seminar Series and previews for all of the episodes. 
The most unfortunate aspect of this set of DVDs was HBO's choice to divide the last season into two separate discs. There can be no good reason behind it except greed and a desire to extend the "Sex and the City" brand for as long as possible. 
It also leaves the set with something of an unfinished feeling, which I sup­pose is what they want viewers to feel so that they go out and buy the last half of the season; but it just doesn't seem like a fair thing to do to fans. "Sex and the City" Season 6 Part One is a great DVD set, marred only by the decision to divide the final season into two parts. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

'Butterfly Effect' rises above shortcomings 
Even though Ashton Kutcher's role as the main character is a drawing point for interested viewers, the supporting roles are what drive the movie. Amy Smart, Elden Henson and Melora Walters all turn in memorable per­formances. Kutcher does suffer a little through his manipulations, but the sec­ondary characters make up for the main character's shortcomings. 
This is a good movie, but it is far from perfect. There are some obvious plot holes, and Kutcher may not have been the best young actor for the job. Another movie that follows the same idea, but with a better lead and execu­tion is "Donnie Darko," starring Jake Gyllenhaal. If you haven't seen that movie, check it out. If you have seen only one of these two movies, and liked it, I would recommend the seeing the other to see a different execution of similar story ideas. 
This is a very dark movie. If you are looking for the feel good movie of the .year, look elsewhere. Bodily and men­
tal harm come to almost every person in this movie, innocent or oth­erwise. While some may appreciate the grim nature of the movie and some of its inhabitants, others may not. 
The director's cut, included on the new DVD by New Line Cinema's Infinifilm, is even darker. Many of the things that were 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Scene DVD Critic 
Change one thing, change everything. 

That is the tagline to the semi-recent­ly released movie, "The Butterfly Effect." The butterfly effect, also known as Chaos Theory, was made widely known to the average moviegoer in the movie "Jurassic Park." As "Jurassic Park" explained, everything in the world is interconnected, and every action has the potential for many unforeseen consequences. The "butter­fly effect" stands for the idea that a butterfly flapping his wings in South Bend can create a hurricane in Florida. 
The 2003 film "The Butterfly Effect," however, one-ups "Jurassic Park" by doing more than just explaining the theory; it shows the results of one changed action through many different scenarios. While this is hardly the first movie to have followed such a princi­ple, it is one of the better ones. 


hinted at in the movie are actually dis­played in the directors cut, as well as an ending that will cause people to question what they just saw. The direc­tor's cut, as well as the theatrical one, are both packaged on the same DVD. The two versions are far enough apart, with completely different endings, that they both warrant a viewing. 
The audio and video are done quite well in this film. The video is crisp and clear. Viewers are able to see all of Ashton's dazed and confused looks with utmost clarity. All the dialogue and ambient noises have also been transcribed very clearly. 
The DVD comes packed with quite a few extras, just like previous lnfinifilm's DVD releases. There are two documentaries, one about time travel and the other dealing with chaos theory. Commentary from the directors and writers and some DVD-ROM con­tent is also included. 
Overall, this is a classy presentation for the film and one that would please any movie fan. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

~---------------------------­
------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Foreign language film is a visual masterpiece 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Assistant Scene Editor 
At first it doesn't make sense. With no long-winded explanations or details, men and women soar into the open sky, engaged in a graceful ballet of martial arts. It's been seen before in Ang Lee's "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." But the statue of limitations on this sort of entertainment seems to be timeless as this hybrid of art and action still feels like a breath of fresh air. While "Hero" does not capture the same heartfelt emotions as its artistic predecessor, it still succeeds -On its own as a simply beautiful, lavish piece of filmmaking. 
"Hero" tells the story of a distant war torn land when ancient China was divided into seven 
relate how he managed his single­handed victories. 
In many ways, "Hero" feels like an evolution of the same visual elements that made "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" such a wonder to behold. Watching the fight scenes is like watch­ing poetry in motion. Awash with color and lush settings, each battle seems to have been hand painted with a brush to produce breathtaking results. Two par­ticularly memorable conflicts included one set amongst a swirl of countless. red-tinted spring blossoms and another on the clear, serene surface of a remote lake. Painstakingly rehearsed and coor­dinated fight choreography just adds to the overall equation and produces moments within the film that rival, and sometimes surpass, those in "Crouching 
Tiger, Hidden 

kingdoms. Qin Dragon."
11Hero"

(Daoming Chen), the The cast of ruthless and ambi­
"Hero" has tious emperor of the been described northern province, is as an Asian rising to power and version of Director: Yimou Zhang 
seeks to unite aH the "Ocean's 11" in 
Writer: Feng Li andYimou Zhang 
seven provinces its collabora­
Starring: Jet Li,Tony Leung, Maggie 
under his iron fist. tion of the most 
Cheung, Donnie Yen and Ziyi Zhang 
However, he is under successful, A­
constant threat of assassination from the three greatest ·warriors of the time, Broken Sword (Tony Leung). Flying Snow (Maggie Cheung) and Sky (Donnie Yen). When one of Qin's local magis­trates claims to have defeated all three warriors. the nameless champion (Jet Li) is summoned to the king's palace to 
list Hong Kong 

film stars. The performances in "Hero" certainly sup­port this claim. Jet Li gives a quietly reserved, tranquil performance that is unlike many of the big-budget action films that have catapulted him to fame. But the most memorable moments within the plot come from the requited love between Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung's characters. Instead of playing on the pair's passion, the actors give much more subtle performances that focus on their characters' search for a peaceful end together in a harsh, embattled world. 

The primary downfall for "Hero" is its length, or lack thereof. In order for the motivations of the characters and their ideals to really resonate, the themes of the film should have been explored for more than 90 minutes. The themes revolving around honor and a warrior's duty form the main focus for the film but there are times when these themes seem to be pushed to the rear in order in order to fast forward to another cap­tivating warrior clash. For this reason, the film does not resonate with the same raw emotion that "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" did. 

Instead, "Hero" will probably be remembered more for the beautiful images it conveys. If audience members take a step back and allow themselves to soak in all that the film's artful can­vas has to offer, they might really love the film. And that's certainly not a shabby way to be remembered in years to come. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
Fourth time is a charm for 'The Simpsons' 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Critic 
All television shows manage to eek out a few good episodes. and some even manage a few great ones in their run, but the mark of a television classic is when you have an entire season of memorable shows. "The Simpsons" Season 4 is about as close as you can get to a perfect season of television. The fourth season established the show as a solid classic, and not just the fad it was thought to be when it first aired. There is not a bad episode to be found, and fortunately for fans, the DVD pack­age is worthy of such a flawless exam­ple of television programming. 
Classic episodes from the season deal with often seemingly tangential sub­jects, but they all tie up nicely at the end. "Marge vs. the Monorail" is a clas­sic written by Conan O'Brien that mocks "The Music Man" and mass transit. "Last Exit to Springfield," ranked as the best episode ever by Entertainment Weekly, finds Homer accidentally becoming a Union leader because Lisa needs braces and the nuclear power plant workers are ready to trade their dental plan for a keg. "I Love Lisa" establishes Ralph Wiggum as a character with the memorable "I Choo-choo-choose you!" valentine. "A Streetcar Named Marge" pokes fun at "A Streetcar Named Desire" with a musical version entitled "0, Streetcar!" and also manages to take shots at "The Great Escape" and Ayn Rand. "Krusty gets Kancelled" ends the season with celebrity guests including Hugh Hefner, Bette Midler, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Luke Perry and Elizabeth Taylor join­ing forces to save Krusty the Klown from cancellation. 
The DVDs are packed in a foldout container, and a helpful booklet that describes each episode as well as the special features that are included. Aside from the standard commentary tracks, the DVD set also includes some unusual extras. A segment entitled "A Cajun Controversy," detailing the brief debate that arose over a song in the episode "A Streetcar Named Marge," is included as well as another called "Bush vs. The Simpsons," which fol­lows the back-and-forth criticism that the show 

had with the then-cur­rent president. "Promotional Stuff' fea­tures "Simpsons" cre­ator Matt Groening dis­cussing the show in gen­Warner eral. Deleted scenes can be found for the episodes entitled "Homer's Triple Bypass"
llt-iit 
and "The Front," and they can be viewed sep­arately or inserted back into the episode while it is watched. Other fea­tures include animation featurettes, commercials that feature "The Simpsons," storyboards and a promo­tional syndication reel. 
One of the major benefits of watching the DVD versus syndicated episodes is the quality of the color and picture. The images are clear, the colors vivid and the sound quality is wonderful. About the only thing that isn't almost perfect in the set is the episode-selec­tion menu. Each disc has a different character on the menu, and when you select an episode, a short animation clip runs. This is fairly amusing at first, but upon subsequent viewings. it becomes somewhat tedious. 

"The Simpsons" Season 4 DVD set is a fitting package for the season that proved that the show was not just a cartoon, but a show that mixed the bite of social commentary deftly with come, dy. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­.... 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ortiz, Ramirez homer in Boston's 8-3 win 
for him and for the organiza­
Associated Press tion." David Ortiz homered and The Tigers' second straight drove in four runs to lead the win was their 63rd of the sea­Boston Red Sox to their 12th son, preventing them from los­win in 13 games, a wild victory ing at least 100 games for a over the Oakland Athletics on third straight season. Detroit Monday night. lost an American League-record Manny Ramirez and Ortiz hit 119 games in 2003. consecutive home runs in the "It's only Sept. 6, so honestly, fourth inning off Barry Zito, and we knew we were going to get Bronson Arroyo (8-9) pitched 6 there," Trammell said. "It's a 2-3 strong innings to win his nice feeling after last year, but third straight decision. Bill we want to keep going." Mueller and Dave Roberts each Detroit hadn't played since hit RBI doubles in the seventh.. Friday, when it won at Tampa and Ortiz added a three-run Bay but had the last two games double in the ninth. of the series postponed because The Red Sox began a seven­of Hurri.cane ,Frances. Catcher game West Coast road trip by Ivan Rodriguez was not with the beating the AL West leaders, team ~ecause h~ was delayed in whose division lead was cut to 2 transit from Miami, where he 1/2 games over idle Anaheim. had stayed with his family dur­The Red Sox remained 2 1/2 ing the hurriCane. games behind the first-place Gary Knotts pitched the final Yankees in the AL East after three innings and gave up two New York beat Tampa Bay 7-4. hits and one run -Angel Boston has won six of the first Berroa's solo homer in the ninth seven meetings against the A's -for his second save. this season. Denny Bautista (0-1) lost in Mark Kotsay homered twice his first major league start, for Oakland and the defense allowing four runs on eight hits played a clean game a day after in six innings. The Royals have the A's committed five errors in lost three of four. a 13-5 loss at Toronto. Bobby Baltimore 4, Minnesota 1 over 6 1-3 innings. enth time in eight games. to be in. Hopefully, we'll gener­Crosby doubled twice, including Back home after a two-week Chicago 7, Texas 4 Grilli, who earned his first ate a lot of runs." one that drove in a run in the trek, the Baltimore Orioles The Chicago White Sox face major league win since April Cleveland 5, Seattle 0 seventh. knocked off another first-place long odds, but they're not ready 20, 2001, for the Florida C.C. Sabathia threw a five-hit­The game drew a Labor Day team behind a rookie pitcher to concede the AL Central title Marlins, gave up three runs and ter for his second career crowd of 37,839 and there was who laid to rest all the talk to the Minnesota Twins just yet. eight hits in 5 2-3 innings. He shutout and Omar Vizquel hit a a playoff feel exactly 11 months about his supposedly tired arm. Carl Everett homered and the struck out three and walked two-run homer to lead the after the Red Sox eliminated the Daniel Cabrera pitched three­White Sox took advantage of three. Cleveland Indians over the A's in Game 5 of the AL division hit ball into the eighth inning, Texas' season-high five errors New York 7, Tampa Bay 4 Seattle Mariners Monday night. series -Oakland's fourth and Jose Leon and Melvin Mora in a victory over the fading After a daylong wait for an Travis Hafner, Casey Blake straight first-round playoff exit. had two RBis apiece to lead the Rangers on Monday. The White afternoon doubleheader that and Matt Lawton each added Detroit 7, Kansas City 3 surging Orioles past the Sox won their fourth straight to got turned into a single night solo shots as the Indians Wil Ledezma made his last Minnesota Twins on Monday. move 7 112 games behind the game, the New York Yankees snapped a five-game losing start in the Tigers' rotation a During a three-game stretch first-place Twins. found their 1-2 punch. streak and handed the Mariners strong one. last month in which Cabrera "We're trying to put together On another unusual day in the their sixth straight Joss. Ledezma (4-2) gave up two yielded 20 runs and 20 hits in some wins and finish on a Bronx filled with talk of a for­Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki went 2­runs -one earned -and just over eight innings, it strong note," White Sox first feit, Hurricane Frances caused for-4, getting singles in· the third seven hits in six innings to lead appeared as if he was just too baseman Paul Konerko said. the Tampa Bay Devil Rays to and ninth innings to push his Detroit to a 7-3 victory over the tired to be effective anymore. "We're not out of it, but I'd be arrive three hours after the season hits total to 226 -31 Kansas City Royals on Monday. Even though Cabrera had hesitant to say we're in it, scheduled start. short of George Sisler's 1920 The 23-year-old left-hander will already pitched more innings in either-not 7 1/2 out." Alex Rodriguez then got shift­major league record of 257 hits. move to the bullpen to reduce one season than ever before, Chicago has six games left ed into the No. 2 spot in the bat­Suzuki has 25 games remain­the number of innings he Baltimore manager Lee Mazzilli against Minnesota, three at the ting order and stroked a three­ing. throws the rest of this year. attributed the slump to a loss of end of a 10-game road trip that run double for his first hit with Sabathia (11-9) looked strong "I feel great, but it isn't my confidence and insisted that the began Monday. the bases loaded in more than a all night, showing no visible decision," he said. ''I'm very right-hander was strong enough "We've got to be around four year. Derek Jeter, batting lead­side effects after being hit in the happy with the season I have to turn things around and finish or five back going into off for the second day in a row, face by a. foul ball while he sat had." the season with a flourish. Minnesota," Konerko said. "But scored a pair of runs and in the dugout in the second Ledezma went 12-4 for Cabrera has thus far done just we're playing better." Orlando Hernandez won his inning. Double-A Erie before coming to that, and now it seems as if the In the first two innings, White seventh straight decision to lead He struck out eight batters, Detroit in mid-July. He has Orioles are poised to close out Sox starter Jason Grilli (1-1) the Yankees over the Devil Rays and walked one. It was pitched 155 2-3 innings this· the year on a positive note, too ... allowed three hits, walked Monday night, Tampa Bay's Sabathia's fifth complete gaine. season. Cabrera (11-7) yielded· one three, committed an error and season-high eighth straight loss. .Seattle starter Gil Meche (4-6) "This is where we have to puli run and four· walks in·? 1-3 threw two wild pitches. But the "It's kind of fun hitting behind pitched seven innings, collecting the plug," Tigers manager Alan innings. It was .,,;table encore Rangers were only able to come Jete and in front of Sherr.:· eight strikeouts but giving up all Trammell said. "Wil doesn't for his last performance, when up with one run during that Rodriguez said, referring to three homers. He allowed four agree, but we'll do what is best he held Tampa Bay scoreless stretch as they lost for the sev-Gary Sheffield. "It's a good spot runs on four hits with no walks. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart­
ment. 1909 Lincolnway West 
$450/month. 246-4634 
Live in Turtle Creek? Want to make some $$$? Some 98 grads seek to re-live glory days in Turtle Creek Townhouse Sat 9/11. Well pay to rent your place for 1 night. Email leehambright@yahoo.com 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES · needed for south side elementary school local­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $30 per soccer game. Call 574-291-4200. 
Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886­
4189 

LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club 
LaSalle are hiring for the following postions: Cocktail Server (Must be over 21) Main Dining Room Server (Must be 21) 
Flexible Hours available. Please pick up applications at 115 West Colfax Avenue, any time after 2:00PM 
Love kids? Mom needs help picking up children at area Catholic schools and taking them to activities between 3:00 -6:00 p.m. Mon-Fri. Great kids -daughters ages 11 and 14. 
Schools and home close to ND and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill at 272­5013. 
Love kids? Mom needs help picking up children at area Catholic schools and taking them to activities between 3:00 -6:00 p.m. Mon-Fri. Great kids -daughters ages 11 and 
14. Schools and home close to ND and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
Nanny needed 1-2 days a week 12:00-B:OOpm. Must have own transportation. Call for interview 651-3633. 
FoR SALE 
Condo. 1434 Marigold Way #114. Large 1 bedroom w/garage,perfect condition, most appliances stay, Open House Sun. 9/12,2-4pm. Near entrance of North Shore Condos on right. $73,000. Call Reed 276-4131. 
FOR RENT 

Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart­
ment. 1909 Lincolnway West $450/month. 246-4634 
2 bedroom apartment for rent. $525/month. Students welcome! 
1909 Lincolnway West. 246-4634 
TICKETS 

A businessman needs season tick­ets for clients. 277-1659 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ 
251-1570. 
ND ltball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 

WANTED: GA home football tix. Call 276-8507. After 5 p.m, call784­8638. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, 
NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOTBALL GAME. 
CALL 674-6593. 

ND alum needs 2 tix for Michigan game on Sept. 11 . Please call Mary at 917-763-6842. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold. 269-664-6102. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not 
resold. 269-684-6102. 
PERSONAL 
YoungNDalumsneedTURTLECREE KAPTforMICHIGANwknd.Willpayto p$$$andfinancepartyforyouand­friends. Willacceptbestproposai.Cont actCPOEMD@ AOL. COM 
Spring Break 2005 Challenge ...find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-771 0 
Tatum Bell for LaDainian Tomlinson?! You're insane, Sexican. 
G'lrish 

------~----------------~--------. 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 

MLB 
Journeytnan tninor leaguer Stnith leads Braves to w-in 
Associated Press 
About an hour before the game, Travis Smith found out he'd be starting. 
The journeyman didn't want to squander the chance. 
Filling in for the ailing Mike Hampton, Smith pitched five solid innings and earned his first major league win in more than two years, leading the Atlanta Braves past the Philadelphia Phillies 3-1 on Monday. 
"It seems like a long time," Smith said. ''I'm fortunate they gave me a shot today." 
Andruw Jones homered for the fourth time in six games and had two RBis. He also pre­vented a potential run by throwing out a runner at the plate. 
Smith (1-3). who has spent most of the season at Triple-A, got the start when Hampton couldn't go because of a stiff neck. The 31-year-old replace­ment allowed five hits and a run before giving way to the bullpen. 
It was enough for Smith's first win since July 25, 2002, when he pitched for St. Louis. 
"For him to pitch under these circumstances, really not knowing until the last minute, he gave .us a huge boost," said Braves closer John Smoltz, who got the final five outs for his 36th save. 
Smith has made four starts for the Braves this season, los­ing twice to the Phillies. Houston 11, Cincinnati 5 
The crowd was on its feet, beckoning the latest slugging surprise in the Houston Astros' vaunted offense to re-emerge from the dugout. 
Already seated and oblivious to the cheers, Brandon Backe didn't stir from his daze until his teammates nudged him back outside. 
"I was just excited thinking about the home run," said the 26-year-old pitcher, who was making only his fourth career start. "I was going to go down and sit in my little hole, but they told me to get out there." 
Backe hit his first career homer, a two-run shot, and allowed one run in seven innings to keep the Astros in the thick of the NL wild-card chase with an win over the .Cincinnati Reds on Monday ­their season-high lOth straight victory. 
Jeff Bagwell, Lance Berkman and Jeff Kent also homered for Houston, on its longest win streak in five years. The Astros have won 18 of 21 since Aug. 15, the best record in the majors during that stretch. 
The Astros closed within a game of NL wild-card leaders Chicago and San Francisco. Houston, a season-high 11 games over .500 at 74-63, has­n't been within striking range of the Cubs and Giants in more than three months. Milwaukee 9, Pittsburgh 5 
Geoff Jenkins is playing as if the Milwaukee Brewers are in a race for first place, rather than trying to exit in last place in the NL Central. 
Jenkins had another big day with three RBis, Brady Clark drove in four runs and Milwaukee used a six-run third inning to beat the Pittsburgh Pirates on Monday. 
Jenkins homered leading off the second, then followed Clark's two-run single in the pivotal third with a two-run double -his third extra-base hit against Pirates starter Ryan Vogelsong in four at-bats. San Diego 7, St. Louis 3 

Ryan Klesko singled in the go-ahead run with none out in the eighth inning and the San Diego Padres beat St. Louis Monday night to keep alive their slim playoff hopes and end the Cardinals' nine-game winning streak. 
The Padres won for just the second time in seven games, a stretch that included three losses at St. Louis last week. San Diego remained 2 1/2 games behind the Chicago Cubs in the tight wild-card race, 

with San Francisco and Houston also ahead of the Padres. 
The Cardinals, the best team in baseball, lead the Cubs by 16 1/2 games in the NL Central. 
With the score tied at 3 and the bases loaded in the eighth, Klesko hit a chopper over the head of first baseman Albert Pujols to score Ramon Vazquez. 
The Padres quickly blew it open against reliever Cal Eldred. Khalil Greene followed with a sacrifice fly, Terrence Long had a pinch-hit RBI single and another run scored on the play on a throwing error by Pujols. Chicago 9, Montreal 1 
Four days off suited Aramis Ramirez just fine. 
Ramirez hit a pair of two-run homers and Carlos Zambrano allowed four hits in eight innings to lead the Chicago Cubs to a victory over the Montreal Expos on Monday. 
Mark Grudzielanek, Derrek Lee and Michael Barrett also homered for the Cubs, who played their first game since Wednesday's 2-1 extra-inning victory at Montreal. The Cubs had their last three games against the Florida Marlins at Miami postponed because of Hurricane Frances. 
Ramirez took advantage off the long weekend to rest his sore left groin, which has been bothering him since July. 
"I feel a lot better. I'm not a 100 percent, but the four days off really helped my groin," Ramirez said. 
The Cubs took a half-game game lead over idle San Francisco in the NL wild-card race. Houston stayed 1 1/2 games back with a 11-5 win over Cincinnati. 
The Giants and the Astros moved closer in the standings, while the Cubs remained idle during the weekend. 
"It's kindl of frustrating, but we will still have to play those games, too," Ramirez said. "There is going to be a time when we are playing and they will be off and we have to take advantage of that, too." 
Chicago won without Sammy Sosa in the lineup. The seven­time All-Star has bursitis in his right hip and is listed as day to day. The injury is not related to a lower back injury Sosa suf­fered earlier in the season, which put him on the disabled list May 19 through June 18. 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Wednesday, September 15 
Industry Day Banquet Joyce Center, Monogram Room Reception, 4:30 p.m. Dinner, 5:00p.m. 
Wednesday, September 15 
Career Fair Joyce Center Concourse 6:45 -9:45 p.m. 
Thursday,September 16 
Interview Day Flanner Hall 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
-
JOYCE CENTER CONCOURSE ENTER GATE 1 OR 2 
Findout 
use "Go more!

BRING YOUR STUDENT ID CARD 
IRISH!"
(IT'S REQUIRED) 
Formor .
emform r 
-, 
ATTIRE IS BUSINESS FORMAL 
Participating a Jon about the descriptions ~ompanies, job access the Cnd contacts
DON'T FORGET: 
h Web~~:~r Center ' 
RESUME BOOK DEADLINE 

~-ftp://careercenter.nd.edu
MIDNIGHT, SEPTEMBER 8 THROUGH "GO IRISH" 
-

SPONSORED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL, NOTRE DAME STUDENT SECTION OF THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER,AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
S1z;,lene (Sizzlelini*) ­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;>-lefie (Bellini)­A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $11 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 

-~ 
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 

page 16 ra'J'WObst!'rver + SPORTS 

MLB 

Yankees-Devil Rays game postponed 
Yankees ask for game to be declared aforfeit 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Yankees asked the commission­er's office to award them a for­feit over the Tampa Bay Devil Hays after they failed to arrive in time Monday because of travel problems due to Hurricane Frances. It was a request that had no chance of being granted. 

Originally scheduled as a dou­bleheader starting at 1 p.m., the start time was pushed back two hours on Sunday.· Because of the delay, the commissioner's office told the teams to play one game at 7 p.m. and said it would decide later on when to resched­ule the second game. 
The Devil Rays arrived at 6:05 p.m., and commissioner Bud Selig had no intention of order­ing a forfeit. 
"Given the stage of the season we are in, and the exciting pen­nant races, it is critical that we do everything to decide the championship on the field," he said in a statement. 
The Yankee Stadium gates opened at 11 a.m., and about 1,000 fans were on hand. They were given free hot dogs and sodas, and fans applauded loud­ly when the Yankees took bat­ting practice starting about 4:45 p.m. 
"This could keep the energy level up," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "They're cheering batting practice." 

About 20,000 fans appeared to be on hand when Orlando Hernandez finally threw the first pitch to Julio Lugo at 7:02p.m. 
Before the game, Yankees president Randy Levine and gen­eral manager Brian Cashman held a news conference on the field, explaining why they want­ed a forfeit. Baseball rules say a forfeit may be called if a team isn't ready within five minutes of umpires calling "play" unless the delay is "unavoidable." 
"The rule states that if your team is here and ready to play, and the other team isn't here and not ready to play, there should be a forfeit, and we believe there should be a for­feit," Levine said. 
Tampa Bay's home games against Detroit on Saturday and Sunday were postponed, and the Tigers returned home after Friday night's games. Bob DuPuy, chief operating officer of the commissioner's office, said the Devil Rays were asked to investigate leaving Friday night or Saturday. 
"There were plenty of oppor­tunities to get out of Tampa on Saturday. The airports were open until 3 or 4 o'clock," Levine said after Yankees officials checked with airlines. 

COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Frances still disrupting Florida State and Miami 
Associated Press MIAMI -Florida State and Miami were originally scheduled to play Monday. Instead, they spent the day trying to recover from Hurricane Frances. It wasn't easy, but it was nec­essary as the teams prepared for their postponed season opener Friday night at the Orange Bowl. Frances forced the fourth­ranked Seminoles to practice indoors while they mourned the loss of coach Bobby Bowden's 15-year-old grandson and for­mer son-in-law. John Allen Madden, a 45-year­old former Florida State lineman who played under Bowden, and his son, Bowden, were killed Sunday when their car was hit a by a utility truck that was help­ing restore power outages caused by Frances. "Most of us have been around all of the Bowden family a great deal, and it is a loss shared by all of us," Florida Statr athletic director Dave Hart sait: in a statement. "Words can't express the grieving I know the Bowdens are going through." The Seminoles closed practice to the media and had no player or coach availability Monday. Bowden and offensive coordina­tor Jeff Bowden attended the workout. The fifth-ranked Hurricanes practiced Monday for the first time in four days because of 
Frances. 
"Guys' minds were not on foot­ball," center Joel Rodriguez said. "Guys' minds were on their families, their houses, their property and their safety. It's understandable .... To have three days oiT where you're not even thinking about football, but about your house being blown away or whatever, it's a lot to come back from and get right into the flow." 
Several players' families and friends were still without power and water Monday. 
Miami defensive back Devin Hester, from Riviera Beach, said the roof on his parents' home collapsed, flooding every room, and a tree crushed his mother's car. 
"It didn't turn out too good," Hester said. "It's kind of bad knowing that I'm here and my mom, they're in Palm Beach struggling. I'm just trying to keep my focus and concentrate on football right now." 
Miami receiver Ryan Moore, from Orlando, said Hurricane Charley affected his family more than Frances. But having two hurricanes within three weeks left him with some troubling nights. 
''I've never seen anything back to back like that," Moore said. "All of us from Florida, we're as used to it as you can get. You've just got to go with the punches." 
SENIOR PORTRAITS! Sign up on the Internet NOW @ www.LaurenStudios.co~n to ensure your place in your 2004 Dome Yearbook! Class of 2004 Pictures taken Aug. 30-Sept. 17 Where: LaFortune 108 y: To be in the 2004 Dome  


-~-.~-------­
...--------------------­
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 · 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open -wraps up fourth round, quarterfinals to start 

M'  
Lindsay Davenport reacts to a call in her match against Venus Williams Monday.  Davenport  
defeated Williams 7-5, 6-4 to advance to the quarterfinals.  

Associated Press 
NEW YORK Venus Williams was grunting loudly, Lindsay Davenport was mut­tering to herself, and the fans were jumping out of their seats after each point. 
The matchup was fit for a Grand Slam final, not the fourth round. So, too, was the riveting last game. 
Davenport and Williams, seven major titles ·and 49 weeks at No. 1 between them, swapped powerful strokes and anxious moments for 13 min­utes and 24 points Monday at the U.S. Open. Nine deuces. Five break points for 2000-01 Open champion Williams. Five match points for 1998 Open champ Davenport. In the end, Davenport was slightly stead­ier and stronger, pulling out a 7-5, 6-4 victory to get to the quarterfinals. 
It was a fittingly tight way to end the pair's 25th meeting; they came in 12-all. 
"A tough one to get through," said Davenport, who faces 62nd-ranked Shinobu Asagoe for a semifinal berth. "I wanted to win .so badly, and I played such a great, calm match until that point, and then let a few errors creep in." 
Not as many as Williams, who since playing her first Slam in 1997 never before went an. entire season without reaching at least one major semifinal. She hurt herself with 42 miscues, mostly off forehands and more· than dou­ble Davenport's count. 
"It was me. I made too many errors," Williams said. "The thing that hurt me the most was my inconsistency." 
That's been a problem for a while, leading to her slide to 
offee and Conversation 
Fof:G~y_, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 7th 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
No. 12 in the rankings _ why she was forced to play Davenport so early. Davenport, meanwhile, has won 21 straight matches since talking about retirement at Wimbledon. . 
Another big-name show­down is looming in the men's quarterfinals: Andre Agassi vs. Roger Federer. Agassi owns eight major titles, while the top-ranked Federer has won three of the past five. 
Agassi advanced Monday 
with a 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 victory 
over pal and occasional prac­
tice partner Sargis Sargsian, 
who was on court for nearly 
10 hours in his previous two 
outings. This one was so lop­·sided, it took just 90 minutes. 
Federer spent less time in 
action Monday, because his 
opponent, No. 16 Andrei 
Pavel, pulled out with a herni­
ated disc in his lower back. 
Federer is in the Open quar­
terfinals for the first time. He 
lost in the fourth round the 
last three years. 
"There's nothing more you 
ask for than to play a big 
event against the best player 
in this environment," said 
Agassi, the 1994 and 1999 
Open winner. 

"It's time to bring the best 
tennis." 

First-time Flushing Meadows 
quarterfinalists No. 5 Tim 
Henman and No. 22 Dominik 
Hrbaty will meet for another 
semifinal slot. Playing on his 
30th birthday, Henman got 
through when No. 19 Nicolas 
Kiefer quit with a right wrist 
injury while down 3-0 in the 
fifth set. Hrbaty came back to 
eliminate Olivier Rochus 2-6, 
3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-0. 
''I'm slowing up already," 
Henman said, smiling. 
Mary Pierce, a two-time major champion enjoying a bit of a renaissance at 29, lost in the fourth round to No. 9 Svetlana Kuznetsova 7-6 (5), 6-2. Kuznetsova plays No. 1 Justine Henin-Hardenne or No. 14 Nadia Petrova next. 
Asagoe upset No. 29 Eleni Daniilidou 7-6 (4), 4-6, 6-3, making her the lowest-ranked Open quarterfinalist since Williams was 66th in her 1997 debut. 
How long ago that seems. Now Williams needs to regroup and recapture the 

drive that carried her to the top ranking, four Slam titles, and six runner-up finishes. Already this year, she had ear­lier-than-usual exits at the Australian Open (third round), French Open (quarterfinals) and Wimbledon (second round). 
She missed the second half 
of last season, including the 
Open, with a torn abdominal 
muscle, and had to try to deal 
with the shooting death of 
half-sister Yetunde in 
September 2003. 
''I'm really disappointed (about) all this year's Grand Slams. But I've learned that the position that I'm in is not necessarily my fault," Williams said. "I can't be hard on myself. I have to take my time and realize that it's just a mat­ter of time before I'm playing 
my best." 
She brought her level up by 
a lot in that fantastic final 
game, with Davenport serving 
at 5-4. Williams also raised 
the volume, grunting louder 
and louder with each shot, a 
sharp contrast to Davenport's 
soft exhales. 
'Davenport played impecca­
bly until then,· never facing a 
break point and trailing on her 
serve just once: •at love-15 in 
the second set's fourth game, 

~t Sports Jar it1 South Jet1d 2046 South Jet1d Ave -Across fro'" Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 NP Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
..~reat Food, ~reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football e. Specials startit1g at ~1.0 Tues: College Night -PJ e. Specials Wed: TRIVIA Night-Jrit1g your tea~~ts -Prizes Thurs: PJ -First Thursday every 1110t1th: Jazzy ~rass Fri: Live Et1tertalt111tet1t Sat: NP ga~~tes 
which she opened by sailing a backhand long. 
And she broke Williams twice, for a 6-5 lead in the first set, and 3-2 in the sec­ond. 
In the final game, they went back and forth, with Williams swatting two winners to get her first break point, wasted with a forehand return long. On the first match point, a 12­stroke exchange ended with Williams striking a cross-court forehand winner. Davenport ceded her second match point by double-faulting, then turned her back to the net and chatted to herself. 
''I felt OK until I lost the sec­ond match point," Davenport said. "Then you get a little like: 'Oh, no. Don't do this."' 
There was more. including a forehand sailed long on match point No. 3, and Williams' bril­liant cross-court forehand passing winner to erase No. 4. Eventually. though, Williams succumbed, floating a fore­hand return long on No. 5. 
"Definitely had the buzz of a bigger match than a round-of­16 match. They were definite­ly into it there at the end," Davenport said, referring to the crowd. 
"I certainly don't want to have a letdown now." 



page 18 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 7, 2004 


you have priorities. let them guide you as you build your career. define what's important to you and see what's important to others. 
pwc.com/mypriorities 

Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NFL 
New faces, sam.e hopes for Eagles 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Terrell Owens and Jevon Kearse are here. Hugh Douglas and Jeremiah Trotter are back. Troy Vincent, Bobby Taylor and Duce Staley are gone. 
Despite some drastic changes, expectations remain the same for the Philadelphia Eagles: It's Super Bowl or bust -again. 
After three consecutive loss­es in the NFC championship game, the Eagles are out of excuses, especially after adding Owens and Kearse to fill their most glaring needs on offense and defense. 
The Eagles enter Sunday's season opener against the New York Giants as favorites to win their fourth straight NFC East title. But if they fall short of the Super Bowl again, the sea­son will be a failure. 
"We have the capabilities, we have the athletes, we have the coaching to win the Super Bowl," quarterback Donovan McNabb said. "All we have to do is go out and make it a reality." 
Led by McNabb and Owens, both four-time Pro Bowl selec­tions, the offense should be the Eagles' strength.. Speedy and elusive running back Brian Westbrook gives Philadelphia a balanced attack. 
But the Eagles have little depth behind Westbrook, who ran for 613 yards and totaled 13 touchdowns rushing, r~ceiving and returning punts last season. Staley went to Pittsburgh and Correll Buckhalter went down with a season-ending knee injury, leaving second-year pro Reno Mahe and rookie Thomas Tapeh as backups to the undersized and injury-prone Westbrook. 

Coach Andy Reid prefers the pass, however, using it almost 60 percent of the time. With Owens in the mix, receivers Todd Pinkston and former first-round pick Freddie Mitchell could thrive. Also. second-year tight end L.J. Smith and thrBe-time Pro Bowl tight end Chad Lewis give McNabb plenty of options. 
"The sky is the limit for this team," McNabb said. "We can do a lot of good things." 
Owens brings a lot of talent and some attitude. So far, though, the flambQyant star has fit into the offense and hasn't upset the chemistry in the locker room. He expects to raise McNabb's game to anoth­er level. 
"We're filling a void for each other," Owens said. "I think a lot of people have seen flashes of what we can do throughout the season. Obviously, it's everybody's goal here to get to the Super Bowl. Everybody keeps reflecting on the three losses in the championship game. We just have to take it one game at a time until we get to that point. I'm excited about the opportunities to get us over the hump. That's why I'm here.'' 
With five new starters, the defense might take longer to jell. But savvy defensive coor­dinator Jim Johnson has a knack for getting results from whichever players he puts on the field. 

Patriots look to Inake history this season 
AP Patriots· running back Corey Dillon, left, eludes Panthers' defe'nsive lineman' Kris Jenkins in an Aug. 28 preseason game. 

ASsoctated ·Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. -The New England Patriots can become only the second team to win three Super Bowls in four years. They also came very close to not winning any. 
So they'll start the NFL season knowing they can make history, but only if they make sure they take little for granted. 
The Patriots squeaked by St. Louis 20-17 in the 2002 Super Bowl on Adam Vinatieri's last­play field goal, then edged Carolina 32-29 in the 2004 title game on Vinatieri's field goal with 4 seconds left. Not exactly a rout in either game. 
"Once you get to the playoffs, every team that makes it to that level is a good team," Vinatieri said. "One or two plays a game makes a difference between winning and losing a game a lot of times." 
Coach Bill Belichick keeps his players focused on the next play. But if they open the season 4-0, they would break Miami's record with 19 consecutive wins, counting regular-season and playoff games. They could do that with a win over the Dolphins on Oct. 10. 
"It could make us 1-3, too," Belichick said. 
The Patriots were 2-2 last season before starting the streak that gives them a chance to join Dallas, which won the 1993, 1994 and 1996 Super Bowls, as the only teams to take three out of four. 
"Would I love to be in the his­tory books as being one of the best teams iri a snort era? Of course," defensive end Richard Seymour said. "I think we have the ability to do that, but it's not going to come easy. We still have to put in the work day by day." 
The Patriots know opponents will be extra eager to beat the champs, starting with Indianapolis in Thursday night's opener. They beat the Colts 24­14 in last sea~on's AFC champi­onship game. 
But they also have three top players who didn't contribute to last season's title run: running back Corey Dillon, punter Josh Miller and linebacker Rosevelt Colvin. 
"I've been playing this game for a long time, so I'm approaching like I approach every other game and that's just go out there and do whatever it takes to help the team win," said Dillon, who gained at least 1,100 yards in each of his first six seasons with Cincinnati before dropping to 541 last year. 
Miller, a free agent from Pittsburgh, is an upgrade over Ken Walter. while Colvin, a top pass rusher, didn't play after breaking his hip in the second game last season. 
'Tm physically prepared and able to do whatever they need me to do, Colvin said. 
He'll start the season as a backup on a team that has back 18 of its 22 offensive and defen­sive starters from the Super Bowl. New England doesn't have a particularly difficult schedule, with only seven games against teams that fin­ished above .500. 
With a dangerous back like Dillon, two-time Super Bowl MVP Tom Brady shouldn't have as much pressure to pass the Patriots toward the end zone. even though he has a deep corps of wide receivers. 
And he isn't caught up in the jinx of being on the cover of the current issue of Sports Illustrated. 
"It was kind of asurprise," he said. "It was kind of cool. I'm not too worried about any jinx­es or anything, knock on wood. That is another one of those extra things that you can get distracted by." 
The Patriots play in what could be a weaker AFC East with Buffalo, Miami and the New York Jets, and are deep at every positi<?n except one ­quarterback. 
If Brady gets hurt, they have only Rohan Davey and Jim Miller. Davey was offensive MVP in NFL Europe, but was incon­sistent in the Patriots' exhibi­tion season. ~iller, a 10-year veteran who missed last season because of a shoulder injury and had surgery on his right shoulder in February, didn't play in any exhibition games. 
The Patriots lost two solid defensive linemen, end Bobby Hamilton and. .nose tackle Ted Washingt()f1;· who both signe'd with Oakland. But Ty Warren, the 13th pick in last year's draft, had an outstanding off­season as Hamilton's replace­ment, and Keith Traylor and rookie Vince Wilfork give the Patriots depth in Washington's spot. 
The team's rankings last sea­son weren't anything special: 17th in the league in offense and seventh in defense. Seven of its wins were by seven points or less. And it needed a field goal by Vinatieri in the fourth quarter to win the divisional playoff game against Tennessee 17-14 before beating Indianapolis and Carolina. 




OUND THE NATION 
Page 20 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSI:Rvuts wuu SERvtc:ts Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
team 
New YOlk 8D$l01l 
Balflm~Jre Tampa Bay Toronto 
team 
Minnesota 
Chltago 
Cleveland DetrUII Kanm City 
Amerlc~n League West 
team  rMord  perc,  last 10  
Oakland  81-55  .$9~  8<>2  
Anaheim  78·58  .514  6·4  
Texas  74-62  .544 .  3-1  
S&atlle  51-85  .375  5-5  
National leagu e East  
team  record  last 10  
Atlanta  81-55  8-2  
Florida  70·62  s-;2  

Philadelphia 68·69 6·4 New York 60·76 H Mnntreal 57-80 3-1 
team st. LOUIS 
Chl~gn 
Hou,lon 
Clnelanatl Pittsburgh 
Mllwa_.~fle 


around the dial 
TENNIS US Open 2004 6 p.m., USA 
MLB 
Expos at Cubs 7:05 p.m., Fox Sports 
PoKER World Series of Poker 8 p.m., ESPN 

GOLF 

Associated Press 
NORTON, Mass. -Vijay Singh won a head-to-head matchup with Tiger Woods to end his record reign atop golfs ultimate leader­board. 
Singh shot a 69 to beat Woods and Adam Scott by three strokes in the Deutsche Bank Championship on Monday, clinching the No. 1 ranking in the world with his sixth victory of the year. Woods had been first for more than five years -a record 264 consecutive weeks. 
Singh took a three-stroke lead into ·the final round, but he and Woods were tied at 13 under after Singh bogeyed No. 13 at the par-71, 7,415-yard TPC of Boston. Woods bogeyed the next hole and Singh birdied 15 to pull ahead by two strokes before adding birdies on the final two holes to finish 16 under and win the $900,000 first prize. 
"It feels great," said Singh, who has won the last eight times he took a lead into the final round. "I can't wait to celebrate." 
Scott, the defending champion. started the day seven strokes behind Singh before making the turn with four consecutive birdies to get into con­tention. He birdied the 18th hole to finish 13 under, and Woods matched him; John Ro11ins and Daniel Chopra were anoth­er two strokes back at 
minus 10. 
Singh is the top winner on the tour this year with six victories. including the PGA Championship, and $7.889,566 in earnings. He needed only to finish ahead of Woods to take over 'the No. 1 ranking that he has been closing in on all year. 
The computer rankings factor in performance over the past two years, taking the strength of field into account; Woods held a 12.09-11.91 lead heading into this week. The new numbers were expected to · be released later Monday, but Singh's will be the ·first player other than Woods to hold the No. 1 ranking since Aug. 8, 1999. 
"That's not too bad, is it?" Woods asked·. "I've had a good run." 
Singh improved to 15 under with a birdie on the first hole; Woods left a 15­footer on the rim of the cup. 
On the· second hole, a par-5, 553-yard dogleg right, both players got into trouble. Singh couldn't find his ball and tQok a drop, hit to 14 feet of the pin and then two-putted for bogey; Woods found his among the rocks in front of the green, but when he swung at the ball he hit a rock instead, jamming his wrist, breaking his club and cost­ing himself a stroke. 

IN BRIEF Colts interested in adding
quarterback Couch 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts were still fine-tuning their ros­ter Monday, and one option is quar­terback Tim Couch. 
After announcing 12 player cuts Monday, one day after the NFL dead­line to trim rosters to 53, coach Tony Dungy acknowledged the Colts were interested in Couch, the No. 1 pick in 1999 who was cut Sunday by Green Bay. 
''I'm sure we'll take a look at Tim Couch," Dungy said. "He played in a similar system to what we have when he was in Cleveland. He was the first pick in the draft. He played well both times we played against him, and I think it's something we'll talk about." 
Dungy's comments came on the same day that the Colts made a sur­prise move by waiving guard Steve Sciullo, who started 13 games last season, so they could claim Ryan Lilja off waivers from Kansas City. 
Lilja, a 6-2, 285-pound guard, started 14 of 23 games in two sea­sons with Kansas City, which cut him Sunday.Giants' Shockey ready to 
start season 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J.-After sitting out training camp and all four preseason games with an injured foot and a hamstring prob­lem, New York Giants Pro Bowl tight end Jeremy Shockey declared him­self fit Monday. 
Shockey said he could have played in the Giants' final preseason game against Baltimore, but decided to rest until the season opener against NFC East rival Philadelphia on Sunday. He vowed to start. 
"I never doubted that I would be back," Shockey said Monday before an unscheduled light workout. 
"I feel pretty good right now, and I've felt better each day. I really could have played last week, but they didn't want me to try and I couldn't persuade them. I'm ready to get it going. It's an important game for us, and we have to start off on the right track." Davenport defeats Williams 
to advance to quarterfinals 
NEW YORK -Venus Williams was grunting loudly, Lindsay Davenport was muttering to herself, and the fans were jumping out of their seats after each point. 
The matchup was fit for a Grand Slam final, not the fourth round. So, too. was the riveting last game. 
Davenport and Williams. seven major titles and 49 weeks at No. 1 between them, swapped powerful strokes and anxious moments for 13 minutes and 24 points Monday at the 
U.S. Open. Nine deuces. Five break points for 2000-01 Open champion Williams. Five match points for 1998 Open champ Davenport. In the end, Davenport was slightly steadier and stronger, pulling out a 7-5, 6-4 victo­ry to get to the quarterfinals. 

Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to 0-3 with four-game loss to Albion 

By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Belles lost their third straight game of the season Monday night, dropping a four-game match to MIAA rival Albion. 
The loss drops Saint Mary's to 0-2 in conference play and 0-3 on the young sea­son. 
The Belles were able to close the margin as they pre­vailed in the third game win­ning 30-28, but they ulti­mately fell in the fourth game by a score of 30-23. 

The Belles' Shelly Bender, middle, tries to push the ball past an The Belles are currently in Alma defender in a game last season. last place in the MIAA and 
much in need of a win. kills in the four games along 
"I think we need to with an impressive 46 improve our overall commu­attacks. On defense, she nication," Belles defensive added 22 digs. specialist Michelle Gary said. Once again, Rupright "And better utilize each showed why she is one of the player's strengths." team's leaders, putting up 
Similar to the past couple some very good numbers. of matches, Saint Mary's On the night, Bender also could not find their rhythm performed well with 27 and dropped the first two attacks, and sophomore Ann games. Carpenter was second on the 
They played tough in the team in attacks, racking up a 
second, but failed to close the set 
out, losing a "I think we need to heartbreak­improve our overall 
er, 31-29. 
communication.,
The Belles were .we.re outscored in Michelle Gary 
kills. and Belles defensive specialist a~tacks. iJ;J. all four games. 
Aside from total of 35. 
Ann Cusack played well defensively with 16 digs. 
Following the contest, coach Julie Schroeder­Biek told her players they needed to play their 


the loss, there were a num­game instead of playing ber of players who executed down to the level of their on both sides of the court. opponents. 
"Michelle Turley did a very This is crucial for the good job, but everyone had team's success as they go their ups and downs deeper into their schedule. tonight," Gary said. Up next for the Belles is 
"Elise Rupright played well Kalamazoo on Wednesday, in the middle, and Shelly which will be their second Bender and Anne Cusack did home game and third confer­a great job on defense." ence matchup. The game 
Turley's play was one of begins at 6 p.m. the highlights in the game as she kept her team relatively close. Contact Justin Stetz at 
She collected a total of 17 jstetz@nd.edu 
THE BosToN CoNSULTING GROUP 
The complexity ofa problem disappears in the simplicity ofthe solution. 
BCG invites you to our 
Information Session 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 
6:30 p.m. -8:00 p.ITI. Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 
All majors encouraged to attend Undergraduate and Ma.ster:r;; Students, non-1\!IBA 
BCG 

BCG is an equal ojljJortuni~'V employer. '""vw.bcg.cotn 

--~ ----~ ~--~-~ ---~·-----­
page 22 Tuesday, September 7, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 


Belles 
continued from page 24 
champion Simmerman tied for 15th with a 158 and Megan Mattia added a 25th-place fin­ish with 17 -over par, 161. 
For Saint Mary's this meet served as an opportunity to prove to its rivals -and to the conference -just how much talent 
and that helped  us  to  beat  
Southern  Indiana  by  one  
stroke."  

The team hopes that its men­tal toughness and personal bests have left an impression with its conference and region­al rivals. Conference rivals Tri­State University, Olivet College and Alma College all finished in the bottom half of the competi­tion. However, the Belles were expecting heavy competition from 
the team possess­regional rival
"We know we can 

es. DePauw.
dominate the 

"We know we "Although they can dominate the conference." graduated two conference, we've seniors, we felt won the past cou­they were going
Stefanie Simmerman 

ple years," to be a big chal­
Belles golfer 

Simmerman said. lenge," Simmer­
"It is our mental preparation that we need to work on for th'e season." 
During the invitational, it was the team's positive mental­ity that moved the Belles up in the standings during the two­day competition. After the opening day, the Belles stood in fifth place. It took the confi­dence and a personal record from Nicole Bellino to pull the team to fourth. 
"She helped us capture fourth place," Simmerman said. "She careered with an 81 man said. 
Despite the expectations, the Belles were able to perform 20 strokes bet­ter than their rival. The fourth­place finish is just one step for­ward for Saint Mary's, who is still 'expecting' challenges dur­ing the season from talented individual golfers. 
"There will be a lot of indi­vidual competition," Simmer­man said. "But we know what we are capable of." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
Zbikowski 
continued from page 24 

wrote for ESPN.com "I heard they had a gym somewhere around there, but nobody told me about it. So finally, before I left Sunday afternoon, I asked where the boxing gym was. Sure enough, it was right in the Joyce Center." 
Although Zbikowski did not play as a reserve safety in 2003, he performed well dur­ing the 2004 Blue-Gold game, picking off a pass and was named the Defensive Player of the Game. 
He went into the summer expecting to compete with Burrell for the starting free safety spot. When an injury sidelined Burrell for most of the practice season, Zbikowski began receiving the majority of repetitions. 
Zbikowski caused some controversy and speculation when he did not show up for two-a-day workouts on Aug. 20-21, citing non-football­related personal issues. Rumors swirled that Zbikowski was planning to transfer, but the sophomore put an end to that speculation when he returned to practice Aug. 22. 


"I wasn't making contacts with any others," Zbikowski told Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com at the time. "I never left the team. I left the University, I never left the team." 
After the game Saturday, Zbikowski said that the per­sonal issues that caused him to miss the practices this summer were in the past and that he no longer wanted to discuss the situation. 
"It's just left my mind," he said. "''ve been just trying to concentrate on the team. We're going to be a good ball club. We didn't show how good we are, but next week we're going to show everyone how good we are." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Opener 
continued from page 24 
ior defender Katie Taylor, will join her. 
Taylor, along with teammates Shannon Culbertson and Jen Herdman, anchor a strong defensive squad that must deal with the loss of two-year cap­tain and second team Ali-MIAA defensive specialist Lynn Taylor to graduation. 
However, the team's much­improved goals against average of 1.4 in 2003 bodes well for this year's Saint Mary's back­field. 
The defense will be an impor­tant aspect under the game plan of new head coach Peter Haring, who will look to improve upon the success of last year's team. 
Haring hopes the defense can provide consistently strong play, which will allow the mid­fielders including Concannon, who along with Wendy Irvin scored 50 percent of the team's goals last year ­to play with possession and fire more open runs into the attack. 
He also hopes to get contribu­tions on offense this year from midfielders Carrie Orr and Emily Wagoner. 
Under the strategy that the best offense will come from a good defense, 
Haring has his sights set on a top-three MIAA finish, and 

Jen Concannon, middle, takes the ball upfleld during a Saint Mary's soccer game last season. 
from there, a berth in the NCAA Tournament. 
The new coach's game 'plan will face its first 'test today, when the Belles open up their season at home. 
Because their match against University of St. Francis is not a conference game, the game will provide a good chance for the start of the season," sophomore forward McKenna Keenan said. 
"I can't wait to see how our team works together, to see how the upperclassmen play with the underclassmen and work together. 
"Under the leadership of our new coach, we're hoping to win conference." 

players to develop chemistry 
and work on technique. Contact Ryan Duffy at ''I'm really excited for the rduffy@nd.edu 
Crusaders 
continued from page 24 
with any team in the coun­try. Every time they made mistakes, we capitalized on their errors. 
"We can only get better from here on." 
Since the Nebraska matches, the Irish have worked to for­

tify their "We can only get regards to bloc­offense, zero­king and their
better from 
ing in on side­tendency to
here on." 
out offense work the out-and services. sides of the All of this Adriana Stasiuk court. offensive con­After review­
Irish outside hitter
ditioning should pre­pare the team for both tonight's match and for the rest of the season, coach Debbie Brown said. 

"We need to play at the highest level we can from the first point to the last. It doesn't matter who we're playing; we can't just be up for a ranked team," Brown said. 
"Our opponents will not be a challenge as much as maintaining a consistent level of play. 
"We need to play at the highest level we can from the first point to the last." 

Valparaiso will present plenty of challenges to both the Irish offense and defense. 
The Crusaders are off to a good start this year after receiving a bid to the NCAA Tournament last year. Last weekend, the team defeated Southeast Missouri State, Albany and Ball State in three games each. 
What makes Valparaiso's team so successful, Stasiuk 
said, is their 
great presence 
at the net in 
ing tapes of the 
Crusaders' play, 

the Irish believe they have identified their opponent's weaknesses and have adjusted their game plan accordingly. 
"Our hitters will really have to work their shots and vary them," Stasiuk said. "It will be really important to keep a high level of intensity and be aggressive." 
The Irish will take the court to face Valparaiso at 7 
p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
"-II#25ladv Irish Vollevball! 11"­
Tuesday# September 7th at7 P~~M~~ vs~ va,t:araiso 




First 500 fans receive a schedule glass sponsored by Between the Buns and Coke: 


·_ *Free Admission to Notre Dame Students With a Valid ID* . -· -. · . . ·_
• 
· Visit UND.com promos and giveaways link for all up to date promotional information · . . · · · · · 
. .. .. 


Tuesday, September 7, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-----------------------------------------------------------------·--------­
DILBERT 
I DECIDED TO BUY ALL OF OUR SERVER UPGRADES THROUGH 
BRIBERTEK I INC. 

PEANUTS 
P55T, FRANKLIN! I NEED TO BORROW A PENCIL AND SOME PAPER ... 
E 
~ ~ 
@
.. 
E
.. 
I ., 

SCOTT ADAMS 
BECAUSE IF WE'RE PAY­

QUESTION : ARE WE ING EXTRA TO GET RIDBUYING OVERPRICED OF YOU I IT'S MONEY
HARDWARE BECAUSE 
WELL SPENT . 

THEY OFFERED YOU A JOB? 
IT'S A
l 
COINCIDENCEI 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
'(OU j.{AD ALL SUMMER TIRED 0~ PLAVING TO 6lN nwse Tl-tiNGS ... CENTER FIELD ON OUR WI-t'< ARE 'I'OU JUST Tl-tlNKING TEAM, 1-tUH, FRANKLIN? ABOUT THEM NOW? 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, I need a You're in luck.
spinnaker

to form four ordinary words. They're 20% off 
this week 
NLFAK 
j 
1 
rx 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
STULY 
j
rJ r 
I MELFYS j 
'NHAT TI€ YAC.HrS­
I (X 
~ FOUND AT D-IE 
WNW.jumble.com 

BOAT Sf-OP. LURIAB ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's j Jumbles: ENSUE· NOISY POPLAR HELPER Answer: What the champion golfer offered his amateur partners-PRO'S PROSE 
CROSSWORD 
1 "If it broke area 1 _Lindgren, " 38 Have more Pippi troops than Longstocking's
5 "Guilty," e.g. 
creator
39 Right on the

9 Clio winner 
map 2 Naturally belong14 Most stuck-up 
40 Response to 3 It may be seen, 16 Poker ploy heard or
someone 17 "M.T.A." pointing spoken, in a saying
singers, 1959 41 Actress Peeples 4 Quick puffs

19 Makes merry 44 Take a gander 
5 A.T.M.

20 Chart shape at necessities21 "Bearded" 45 Make of 
flower (botch) 6 Trouser part 

7 Pothook shape 
a J.D. holder: 22 Mall binge 46 U.S.M.C. V.I.P.'s 

25 Murals and such 47 German article Abbr. 
28 Dover's state: 48 Is fearful of 9 Golfer Palmer,Abbr. 50 Schubert to pals29 Rang out chamber work 
1 o See socially 31 Like gastric 
56 Fritter away 

11 Former Russian
juice 57 Unusual sort 

orbiter 32 40 winks 58 Place for a kiss 
12 "-.-, was saying 33 Group values 59 Hatchling's 
34 Paul Scott 13 Prefix with natal
home chronicles set in so Wagnerian 15 Up to, for short India earth goddess 
18 Newspaper page ANSWER TO PREVIOUS-:-P-r.U::-~Z-:-Z-r.LE:"' 22 Home of the N.H.L.'s Sharks 
-::+,...,+.,-,+,:-t 23 Awards to be hung 
..t-:-t:::+::+::::-1..._. 24 Positions of esteem 

...,...,:,+=+-;;;..~ 25 Need liniment ~=+=+:--:-~ 26 Knee-slapper -:-:+~±::-~ 27 Six-pointers, in 
brief 29 Hair-splitter? 30 LAX abbr. 

-=+~+.~ 31 Envelope abbr. -::+-,+:-+.:-! 32 Gumball cost, once 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

33 The "E" in 41 Less cluttered so Onetime Pan 
Q.E.D. Am rival
42 "You're so right!" 34 Cafeteria carrier 51 Linden .of
43 Courtroom fig. 
"Barney Miller"

35 Vacuum feature 45 Broadcaster 52 Body shop fig.
36 Buddy in 46 Sci-fi, for one Bordeaux 53 Java container 
47 James of blues 37 Lab charge 48 The Everly 54 kwon do Brothers, e.g.
40 Mae West's 55 Football game "_Angel" 49 Josh divs. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. • Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ 
Address __________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TffiS DAY: Greg Rusedski, Jane Curtin, Swoosie Kurtz, JoAnne Worley 
Happy Birthday: Take action and you will get results. Don't be daunted by someone who is pushing change your way. Evaluate what's going on and do what's best for everyone this year. Your numbers are 2, 14, 23, 32, 38,41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Get dqwn to business regarding talks you want to have with relatives or friends. You should be able to get your point across. An unexpected love connection may surprise you.**** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Think about your future and what you want to achieve. If you have been going down the wrong path, make a swift change in the right direction. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Try your hand at something new. Your versatilit: will attract attention and possibly a new partnership. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Not everything will be out in the open, so take: better look before making a decision. A problem may arise at home or with someone you've hired. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be praised for helping others, but be careful not everyone will be worthy of your efforts. You can fall in l<;~ve, but don't make a hasty commitment. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be looking for glory,• but not everyone will be eager to let you step into the spotlight. The harder you try to make things happen, the more likely you are to be blocked. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will learn from the interaction you have with others as well as find a new path. You should travel whatever distance is required in order to follow your heart. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have to be creative in order to beat tht odds. Money matters may take a twist that you are not prepared for.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Watch your back. Although this can be a great day to flirt with the one you love, it can also lead to problems, especially if it slows down your ability to finish your work. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can come up with some very dazzling ideas that will enable you to change your future direction. You will get the acknowledgment you are looking for.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): l!e creative today. Whether it has to do with work, hobbies, children or somedlle you love, incorporate one of your ingenious ideas. *·**** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marc" 20): Stop letting everyone pull you in different directibns. Think of your own survival and protect yourself from the smooth talkers.** 
. .. 

Birthday lJaby: You are versatile, interesting and know how to hold a crowd. You are passionate, caring and sensitive to those around ,YOU. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 

---------~---~ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September 7, 2004 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Getting a chance 
Zbikowski starts at strong safety against BYU 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
When Tom Zbikowski rushed onto the field with the rest of the starters during the first quarter of Notre Dame's 20-17 loss to BYU Saturday, it was a surprise to nearly everyone, except Zbikowski. 
"They told me earlier in the week to get ready, and we started going over some plays and by Thursday I was getting

--all the .reps in practice," Zbikowski said. Zbikowski, who was recruit­ed in 2003 as a quarterback out of Buffalo Grove (Ill.) High School and switched to defen­sive back upon his arrival with the Irish, was believed to be in competition with senior Quentin Burrell for the start­ing spot at free safety this sea­son. Burrell started at free safety in the Brigham Young game, but Zbikowski still saw the field as the starter at strong safety. Zbikowski played well, fin­ishing the game with five tack­les. Stepping on the field as a Notre Dame starter was the end of a long journey for Zbikowski, who threw for 

downs and rushed for 1,287 yards and 23 touchdowns his senior year as Buffalo Grove's starting quarterback. 
He was named the Chicago area player of the year as a senior by the Chicago Sun­Times, and named the Gatorade Player of the Year for the state of Illinois. 
However, Zbikowski's awards weren't just limited to local accolades. He was named 29th on an ESPN list of the 100 top recruits nationally in 2003, and named a USA Today first-team AU­American. 
The national spotlight also focused on Zbikowski as he documented his recruiting experience in a daily diary he wrote for ESPN.com. In the end, Zbikowski selected Notre Dame over Nebraska and Iowa, primarily because the Irish were willing to let Zbikowski change positions from quarterback to defense. 
As an avid boxer. Zbikowski was also allured by a unique facility on the campus. 
"But nothing was more impressive than the boxing gym under coach Willingham's office," Zbikowski wrote in his Dec. 19, 2002 article for Blue Chip Diaries -the series he 
1,382 yards and 11 touch-see ZBIKOWSKI/page 22 
SMC GOLF 
Belles look 1m.press1ve 
•

1n opener 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

The Belles have certainly gained a lot of confidence since their impressive eighth-place finish at the Division-III NCAA championships last season. But the team will not be satisfied until it achieves its ultimate goal. 
"The coach from DePauw told us that we should have one goal for the season," Stefanic Simmerman said. "To win the national title." 
With seasoned veterans and an impressive opening week­end, Saint Mary's team has been making a name for them­selves. 
Last weekend, the Belles began their run at the national title by competing in the Ferris State Bulldog Invitational. Saint Mary's finished fourth with team score of 636, 41 shots behind Invitational champion Ferris State, who shot 595. 
The Belles had three mem­bers finish in the top-20. Chrissy Dunham finished eighth with a 1 0-over par 154 and reigning NCAA individual 
see BELLES/page 22 
SMC SoccER 

Saint Mary's set to kick off year 
Maura Schoen. 
By RYAN DUFFY "We want to try to set the 

Sports Writer 

pace for the season, and start 
out with a win." 
After finishing last year with Schoen is one of many the most confer-returning upper-• ence wins in the classmen who hope history of the "We want to come to take the Belles program, Saint even farther this
out hard since this 

Mary's looks to year.
is our first game. " 

start this year As the team's on a similar tone leading goal scorer when it faces off Maura Schoen last year, midfield­against the er Jen Concannon
Belles defender 

University of St. looks to lead the Francis (Ind.) offensive attack today in its first game of the once again in an effort to earn season. her third All-MIAA selection. 
"We want to come out hard The team's other captain, sen-since this is our first game of the year," said junior defender see OPENER/page 22 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish prepare to face instate rival 
Notre Dame hcpes to come back ajter losses to Nebraska 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Writer 

If Valparaiso expects to play an ego-bruised and vul­nerable squad tonight, the· Irish have news for them. 
Despite emerging with a 1­2 record after losing a week­end series to No. 2 Nebraska, the Irish aren't disheartened. 
In fact, they have found a new sense of confidence. 
"We should've beat Nebraska on Saturday,," freshman Adrianna Stasiuk said. 
"We saw that we could stick 
see CRUSADERS/page 22 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 

PGA 
TENNIS 

MLB 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
The Belles fell to 0-3 

Vijay Singh overtook 
Lindsey Davenport 

The Yankees filed a 
Travis Smith picked 
Manny Ramirez and 
on the season after a 

Tiger Woods for the No. 
defeated Venus Will­
David Ortiz hit back-to­

complaint with Major 
up his first win since 
loss Monday night to 
iams in the fourth round 

1 overall ranking in the 
League Baseball, asking 
2002 as the Braves beat 
hack home runs as the 
MIAA rival Albion. 

world. 
of the U.S. Open. 

for Tampa Bay to forfeit 
the Phillies 3-1. 
Red Sox d!i!feated the 

a game after showing 
A's 8-3. 
up late. 
page 21 
page 17

page 20 
page 16 

page 15 
page 14 




