
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Boat Club 

ND cancels contract with Taco Bell 
The University decided not
Student-raised 

to renew the athletic depart­
lawsuits 

concerns prompt ment's $50,000 yearly spon­sorship agreement because ofUniversity action concerns raised by the 
won't sink

Progressive Student Alliance, Notre Dame spokesman Matt
By CLAIRE HEININGER 

Storin said Monday. The stu­
Appeals court ruling
News Editor 

dents, who argued that the Acting on allegations chain's tomato suppliers in 
favors plaintiff; barfaces 

brought to light by a stream Florida treated migrant 
limited penalties

of student protests last workers unfairly, "deserve a spring, Notre Dame terminat­lot of credit for bringing up ed its contract with local Taco these issues, doing the 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Bell restaurants over the 

Associate News Editor summer. see CONTRACT/page 4 Nearly a year and a half after first learning they were being sued for their January 2003 cita­tions at The Boat Oub, many stu­dents are finding themselves right 
back at square one. 
Over the summer, the Indiana Court of Appeals ruled that The Boat Club could bring lawsuits 

Litnited space forces quick fix
Istvan, Bell 
Study lounges,

set policy 
against the students, reversing a lower court's August 2003 deci­

doubles converted 
sion to dismiss the cases. Originally brought by the

agenda 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
Millennium Club, owner of The News Writer 
Boat Club, in April 2003, the suits argued that underage students

ND Safe Bus listed as 
Jessica, Lisa and Katherine 
fraudulently represented them­are in a room that held just 
selves to the bar and therefore

top priority for the new 
Lindsay and Nina last year. 
were responsible for the damages 

it incurred. Consequently, the situation is the same all 
The names may change, but
academic year term 
Millennium Club requested that over Notre Dame. Dorm 
the students be held liable andBy AMANDA MICHAEI.S 

rooms that once held two are pay $3,000 each. 
Associate News Editor 
The appeals court ruling does available study lounge is being 
now holding three, and every 
not address or affect the sub­Adam Istvan and Karla Bell are 
stance of the suits. Attorneys for fighting student apathy the best way 
converted to living space. 
the students have chosen not to they know how -by showing that 
The Office of Residence Life 
appeal this ruling to the Indiana student government can get visible 
and Housing attributed the 
Supreme Court, said Ed Sullivan, results. 
overcrowding issues, more 
attorney for many of the cited stu­From the campaign promises and 
pressing in women's dorms 
than men's, to a larger 
dents. platforms of last spring, the student 
The suits now return to the body president and vice president 
amount of seniors staying on 
South Bend Small Claims Court, have crafted an agenda they feel will 
campus and more female 
where students have the option to be true to the Notre Dame communi­
admits. 
seek a hearing or negotiate a set­ty that helped them win one of the 
Welsh Family Hall freshmen 
tlement with The Boat Oub. closest elections in the University's 
Katherine Hart, Lisa Zickuhr 
and Jessica Cortez share a 
The January 2003 raid byrecent history. 
Indiana Excise Police netted 213 "Within four months of coming 
triple that was last year a 
"minor in a tavern" citations. into office, we set up the DVD rental 
double. Although they agree 
the situation is working well 
Students involved were offered in LaFortune that was one of our 
so far, they did question it at pretrial diversion with a fine and 
main campaigning points," said 
first. 
community service hours, and Istvan, who spent the summer on 
Hart explained that the 
Notre Dame students received campus preparing for the upcoming year. "Hopefully students will see 
see HOUSING/page 8 see LAWSUITS/page 4 

this, realize that student government can make a difference, and want to get involved." 
Now that the long push for the DVD rental is completed, changing all the dining hall and HuddleMart 
Storm_ affects
Lew"is -welcom.es ne-w rector 
coffee to Fair Trade is next on the list. Istvan said Food Services has 
Upon graduation, Winikates joined the 
been very receptive, and that he By JANICE FLYNN Jesuit Volunteer Corps for a year and 
both catnpuses 
expects to see results within the next 
News Writer 
taught in Houston at Our Lady offew weeks. 
Guadalupe School. Mter holding variousIstvan's number one personal pri­
Forget the three R's -it's all about the computer-related jobs, she completed her 
Observer Staff Report 
ority, however, is to get the ND Safe 
three C's for Lewis Hall's new rectress, masters in pastoral studies at LoyolaBus project in place. 
Nearly 80 percent of Notre Dame's
Katie Wmikates -communication, consis­University in New Orleans. She then stayed 
An idea introduced during the 
campus was left without power at
tency and computers. in New Orleans for four years, serving as a
spring Board of Trustees meeting, about 10:45 p.m. Wednesday, accord­
As Notre Dame's only new undergradu­teacher and campus minister at an all-girls
the ND Safe Bus would run to and ate rector this year, high school. 
ing to Notre Dame Security Police 
from popular off-campus spots and duty officer Dave Austin. 
Winikates brings a Though she returned to computer
residential complexes -a measure 
The outage was most likely caused
genuine enthusiasm to employment in Dallas, Wmikates felt called
that Istvan said is a invaluable when by a power loss at a South Bend lift
build upon the spirited to full-time ministry, but admitted that the 
most students are currently forced to station. Austin said it was not immedi­and respectful commu­right job eluded her. 
walk home through unsafe areas or ately clear which areas of campus lost
nity that is long-time Then, in a strike of serendipity, an ad for 
pay for a cab. 
power, but affected areas included
Lewis rectress Sister the Notre Dame rectress position caught 
"Walking home after a night out is Annette George's lega­South Quad and the security building
her eye.

just not safe," he said, recalling the 
area. Full power returned after about
cy. A string of interviews later, Winikates
tragic disappearance of a freshman 
15 minutes, although some areas
A native Texan, was offered the job. 
in December 2002. "We have to act were still without power over an hour
Winikates hails from Winikates impressed the Office of 
now to avoid another tragedy like Dallas and earned her 
later. undergraduate degree in computer science see AGENDA/page 8 
from Springhill College in Mobile, Ala. see RECTOR/page 8 
see STORM/page 3 




~ I I 

page 2 Thursday, August 26, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Learning from architecture 
Not pretending to be an expert in 
either field by any means, I would 
like to offer a few observations on 
architecture and learning, especially 
at this University. 
Those returning Lauren Galgano 
to campus this 
week have cer­
tainly noticed sev­
Viewpoint
eral new academ­
copy editor 
ic buildings pep­
pering the land­
scape. With all of the new construc­
tion and growth, this is an exciting 
time to be present at Notre Dame. 
However, for those who will engage 
the halls of these buildings in the 
years to come. I hope the architec­
ture of today will meet the needs of 
our students and faculty. Let me 
explain. 
When you walk into a building, 
have you ever considered how it 
makes you feel? Have you considered 
the way your steps are directed, even 
the way your mind is directed, by the 
bounds of the space? Whether or not 
you are privy enough to contemplate 
your surroundings on a regular 
basis, architecture is a painstaking 
craft, perhaps exerting more influ­
ence on your daily routine that you 
might realize. 
Think for a moment about 
DeBartolo I !all. Sitting today in one 
of those tiny seminar rooms on the 
third floor where the walls are grey, 
25 desks are shoved against the back 
wall so the professor can breath and 
the only window hides in the corner, 
square and outlined by a thick metal 
rim, I found my mind wandering off­
topic from the lecture quite often. 
The professor and the material pre­
sented were actually quite interest­
ing, and I wasn't feeling tired, so I 
sat there trying to figure out why I 
was having so much trouble paying 
attention, until I realized a striking 
paradox: The architecture of the 
space was distracting to my learning. 
There I was with a brilliant profes­sor explaining the relation of philos­ophy and poetry in a way that really made the material come alive, and all I could think about was how blank the wall behind him was. In fact, the dull architecture provided a sharp contrast to the nature of the lecture. There was nothing poetic about the room; nothing about the space engaged my senses to enhance my learning experience. Instead, I found myself having to actively ignore my surroundings in order to appreciate the lecture. At an institu­tion of higher learning, this should not be the case. 
Now contrast those classrooms in DeBartolo to the more classic style of the Law School library-under­grads, you really should go check it out just to see it. When I walk into that library I feel closer to wisdom, just by the very nature of its lofty design. I can sit and read in that library for hours because the archi­tectural design speaks to academic achievement. 
As for the new buildings on cam­pus, I can only hope that someone took into consideration that the space inside is meant for learning, and that the design ought to facili­tate that end. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Lauren Galgano at lgal­gano@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE FOOTBALL TICKET DISTRIBUTION PROCESS? 



six classes already, I'll let you know tomorrow." 
IN BRIEF 
Watch the documentary Control Room. an unprecedented look inside controversial Islamic news channel Al-Jazeera, at the new Michael Browning Family Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The movie will be shown at 7 and 10 
p.m. tonight. Tickets cost $3 for Notre Dame students, $5 for Notre Dame faculty and staff and $6 for the general public. 
Play co-ree sand volleyball in a one-night only tournament today from 6 to 10 p.m. on the Riehle Sand Courts. Bring your team­mates and register at Rolfs in advance, then bump, set, and spike under the lights. 
Reserve your place for "Twilight in the Press Box," a limited-seating event to benefit the Fischoff National Chamber Music Association. Open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross faculty, the night's schedule includes a cash bar at 
6:00 p.m.. dinner at sunset, and a jazz performance by Triplicity. For reservations, call (574) 631­0984. 
Get ready for the first-ever fall football scrimmage open to the public, to be held in the Stadium from 7:30 to 8:45 p.m. Friday. The scrimmage will be free and open to all students, faculty and staff members of the Notre Dame community. 
Come see Lucky Boys Confusion, a Chicago-based, self­described "ground-running, unapologetic rock" band in con­cert at Legends this Saturday at 10 p.m. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


Eudell Spon  Nickle McCabe  Mike Lee  Vince Thomas  Chrstlna Pelka  Eric Llndfelt  
Stadium usher  Sophomore Lyons  Junior Keough  Sophomore Siegfried  Freshman Lyons  Junior Siegfried  
"It works fine. "  "Waking up at seven isn't  "Jt'sjust forever."  "It's cool man, it's cool."  "/ wish it was drawn later. "  "My head is filled up with  

cool." 


CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
David Balllntyn, right, and other members of Campus Ministry gave Interested fresh­men tours of the organization's offices In the Coleman-Morse Center, and Intro­duced them to Its many different facets and opportunities during the Open House on Wednesday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Longtime customers wed 
at Wai-Mart 
BOISE, Idaho Somewhere between the junk food aisle and the automotive department, Pat Byrd and Bill Hughes fell in love. 
So it was only natural that they should marry where the magic hap­pened -Wal-Mart. 
"It never dawned on me to have it anyplace else," said the 55-year-old bride. 
Neither bride nor groom work at the discount store. Still, they spend more time there than many employ­ees do, wandering the aisles and visiting friends for up to six hours a day, nearly every day since the store opened two years ago. 
"I talk to people and walk around for exercise, and we always buy a soda or a sandwich or some­thing," 51-year-old Hughes said. "If we're not here, the store people worry about us. They're our family." 
California holds 'Garage Sale' 

SAN FRANCISCO California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is holding a rummage sale to dispose of unwanted state proper­ty from aircraft engines to jewelry. 
The "California Garage Sale" will take place on Friday and Saturday in the state capital Sacramento and some of the items will also be offered by online auctioneer eBay. 
The items include office furniture -most of the state's furniture is made by prisoners -30 pounds of scissors, forklifts, knives, expired color film, computers, jewelry, a red 1995 Ford Mustang and even baseball cards. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
s ::c 3: 
..... 
c:C 
(.) 

...I 0 HIGH 85 HIGH 74 HIGH 88 HIGH 83 LOW 68 LOW 68 LOW 68 LOW 63 
Atlanta 85 I 69 Boston 74 I 60 Chicago 88 I 70 Denver 84 I 56 Houston 94 I 78 Los Angeles 80 162 Minneapolis 80 165 New York 77 I 66 Philadelphia 82 I 66 Phoenix 99 I 80 Seattle 64 I 56 St. Louis 90 I 75 Tampa 88 I 76 Washington 85 168 

page 3 

Thursday, August 26, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Congregation of Holy Cfoss 
Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their perpetual 
DVD rental service available in LaFortune 
Student government officials deliver on campaign promise 
By JEANNINE PRIVAT News Writer 
Once, students with late-night movie quote disputes had to scour multiple DVD collections or hitch a ride to Blockbuster to settle the score. 
Now, the search is over, thanks to the $2.99 a night DVD rental from the new Huddle Video in LaFortune's Huddle Mart. 
Customers can't miss the free­standing rack placed directly in the center of the Huddle that holds a collection of over 300 DVDs. The titles range from newly-released films like "Starsky & Hutch to old classics like "Rocky" and Woody Allen's "Annie Hall." 
The selection will increase with the addition of recent movies, which is contingent upon the success of the venture. 
From 2 p.m. until the Huddle closes. students will be able to borrow DVDs, with rentals due by the following midnight. Though off-campus commercial rental stores' late fees are often lower than the $4 that Huddle Video charges, many students, including junior Tom Schreck, found the price "pretty reason­able." 
Huddle general manager James LaBella said the relatively steep late fee was chosen to encourage prompt returns. After doing research on other univer-sities' video rentals, he discov­ered the main problem with renting DVDs was getting them handed back on time. 



"I really don't want to collect fees. I really just want the movies returned," LaBella said. 
To rent DVDs, students must ffil out a short registration form at the Huddle with information that will be entered into the Huddle Video database to make future rentals quick and simple. 
Almost 200 students are already in the system, and 
LaBella encpurages students to pre-register to make the first rental hassle-free. 
The concept of an on-campus DVD rental option was an inte­gral part of student body presi­dent Adam Istvan's platform in last year's election. 
"[Istvan] wanted to do this for a long time," chief executive assistant of student government David Baron said. "It's just been a matter of getting the money." 
When he was a Huddle stu­dent manager, Istvan and LaBella talked about starting a rental service. After the election, Istvan and vice president Karla Bell pushed to have the project's $7500 start-up cost included in the 2004-05 budget, and worked during the summer to ensure the collection would be ready for the start of school. 

''I'm just glad we got it off the ground," Istvan said. "It'll be a great convenience for students." 
Contact Jeannine Privat at jprivat@nd.edu 
StoriD 
continued from page 1 
Most buildings converted to limited backup power imme­diately, and NDSP reported no injuries or electronic systems failures resulting from the power loss. 
At Saint Mary's, about 300 phones were without service after lightning struck outside the security building. 
Telecommunications coordi­nator Sandy Handley said she knew of no lasting lj.arm, but that the lightn\ng)U4. ~~l!)!.~· temporary damage to some wiring. 
Most of the affected phones were staff and convent lines. The phones lost service around 5 p.m. 
An emergency repair order was placed to the off-campus provider and as of 10 p.m., service had been restored to the majority of campus, said Handley. 
"What we think happened is that after the strike hit near the security building, it trav­eled underground and affect­ed some of the cables," direc­tor of marketing and commu­nications Nick Farmer said. "A technician came out and determined that there was no real damage, but it did in fact interrupt the system." 
As of 10 p.m. Wednesday night, the telecommunications department was waiting on confirmation from the off­campus service provider that everything was running cor­rectly. 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 

page 4 Thursday, August 26, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Contract 
continued from page 1 
research and carrying on the discussion in a very responsible and studied way," Storin said. 
He added that while Taco Bell lost its official sponsorship of a postgame football radio show, it can still advertise in game pro­grams. 
The contract first drew cam­pus attention in early April, when the PSA wrote letters to University President Edward 
resolved in time to renew the sponsorship for this year, Storin said. 
Despite the various strains and delays, Storin character­ized the episode as a construc­tive dialogue between the stu­dents and the administration. 
"It may not have moved as quickly as we would like," he said. "But steady progress was made." 
PSA leader Melody Gonzalez, who played a vocal role in the protests and kept abreast of the situation over the summer through e-mails exchanged with 
Malloy publicizing Kaesebier,
"It was only
a series of student expressed satis­
expected for Notre 
hunger strikes. faction on the part Tension escalated Dame to take this of her fellow when approxi­demonstrators.
action." 
mately 30 stu­"It's really excit­dents approached ing because I feel Malloy's office in Melody Gonzalez that so many peo­person April 14, PSA leader ple really believed 
prompting  Vice  
President  and  
General  Counsel  Carol  
Kaesebier  - who had been in  

contact with both the PSA and Taco Bell's parent company, Yum! Brands Inc., since the fall -to make several follow-up calls to Taco Bell. 
When the University did not receive specific and timely answers. Notre Dame issued a public statement April 27 that postponed plans to renew the contract and expand it to $75,000 by this fall until Taco Bell delivered a satisfactory response. 
Although Notre Dame did not set an explicit deadline for Taco Bell's response. the University's concerns were not sufficiently 
in this cause," 
Gonzalez said. "It's good to know it wasn't all in vain." 
Viewing the decision as proof that the University had exer­cised Catholic principles in its business relationships, Gonzalez offered further praise. 
"I think that as a Catholic institution, teaching us the val­ues of workers' rights and the right to a living wage, it was only expected for Notre Dame to take this action," she said. "It would have been disappointing if they hadn't because it would be contradictory to our reputa­tion." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Lawsuits 
continued from page 1 

additional penalties from the University. The lawsuits came in addition to these punishments. 
In its June 11 ruling for Millennium Club, the Appeals Court said that "we recognize the public policy of placing burden of enforcing the underage drinking laws upon the taverns ... but we also recognize the competing public policy that the minors should be held accountable for their actions." 
To date, no legal precedent in Indiana exists for the appeals court ruling, though Sullivan's brief for the students cited case law from several other states in which bar owners had not been permitted to bring such suits. 
Both Sullivan and Millennium Club appeal attorney John Hamilton said the court could not consider specifics of the case, only the language used in the original lawsuits. 
Sullivan had largely based his argument on public policy con­siderations and this ruling came as a disappointment. 
"The practical effect of that rul­ing means that all the tavern owner has to do is fie. People will settle," he said. 
For their part, some students say they plan to continue their cases at the same claims court, while others have chosen to seek settlements with The Boat Club and bring the increasingly expen­sive legal process to a close. 
"One of my friend's dads is an attorney," said senior Jenna Under, who intends to continue contesting the lawsuit. "I don't want to give them any money. It's absolutely ridiculous." 
This summer, The Boat Club also concluded negotiations with the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission on penalties the bar would incur as a result of the citations. 
Initially, ATC prosecutor Fred Bauer said he recommended that the bar pay a $5,000 fine and have its license suspended for one week. 
However, Bauer said he will waive the suspension if the bar goes one year without further minor in a tavern violations. Compared to penalties faced by owners in previous bar raids, such as significantly steeper fines or loss of license, those incurred by The Boat Club were light. In making his decision, Bauer noted that the bar had no violations prior to Jan. 2003 and no viola­tions after. 
"I had excise officers check this place," he said. 'They found no other violations. [The Boat Club] apparently ha[s] operated effec­tively." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


Depart:  Arrive:  
5:00pm  5:15pm  
6:00pm  6:15pm  
7:15pm  





Arrive:
Load: 
Depart: 
8:45pm
5:15pm 
6:30pm 


7:45pm
7:15pm 
7:30pm 
8:45pm
8:15pm 
8:30pm 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, August 26, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE sERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bomb explodes in Thailand 
BANGKOK, Thailand -A powerful bomb exploded at a busy morning market in Thailand's troubled Muslim south Thursday, killing one person and wounding at least 25 others, including soldiers, police and school­children who were marching in a parade, officials said. 
The blast in Narathiwat province occurred as Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra was touring the region, which has been wracked by violence in recent months that officials have blamed mostly on Islamic militants. He was in Trang province, about 150 miles to the west, when the bomb went off. 
Arafat rebuffs critics once again 
HAMALLAH, West Bank -Veteran Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat turned back another effort by critics to force him to reform his bloated, corruption-plagued administration, as his parliament made do with a pledge for future action. 
Internal Palestinian conflict escalated again on Wednesday, when gunmen opened fire on a convoy carrying a top Gaza securi­ty officer, seriously wounding him. 
The two developments were related ­each an outgrowth of years of Arafat's one­man control, criticized by international donors and more recently by Palestinian reformers as corrupt and inefficient, pitting rival security forces against each other in a costly method of divide and rule. 
Arafat stonewalled his detractors once again Wednesday in the latest confrontation over administrative reforms. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
US prepares for flu outbreak 
WASHINGTON -How to ration scarce medications and speed vaccine production are among the government's top concerns as it struggles to get ready for the next world­wide flu epidemic, say federal plans obtained by The Associated Press. 
But tried-and-true ways of limiting infec­tion such as school closures, travel restric­tions, even quarantines may offer the earli­est protections when the next pandemic strikes, say the long-awaited plans. 
Specialists say it's only a matter of time before a powerful new flu strain spurs another pandemic. There have been three in the last century, the worst in 1918, when the so-called Spanish flu killed more than half a million Americans and more than 20 million people worldwide. 
Concern is rising that the next pandemic could be triggered by the recurring bird flu in Asia, if it mutates in a way that lets it spread easily among people. 
Breast implants build up platinum 
WASHINGTON -Researchers have found high concentrations of platinum in women who got silicone breast implants and in the children they bore and breast-fed afterward. 
The type of platinum found in the women's blood and urine was different than the traces of regular platinum not uncommon in peo­ple's bodies. It was a highly reactive plat­inum, used to help turn silicon oil irito the honey-like gel that lends a more natural feel to a breast implant. 
Concentrations were up to three times higher than in women who didn't have breast implants, according to findings by 
S.V.M. Maharaj. a chemist at American University. Maharaj was scheduled present the findings Thursday to the American Chemical Society in Philadelphia. 
Ernest Lykissa, a forensic and clinical toxi­cologist who co-authored the paper, said the study's sample size was small. But Lykissa said it fairly represented hundreds of women with implants he's studied over the years. 
RUSSIA 
Double crash puts Russia on edge 
Officials say evidence of terrorism has yet to be found 
Associated Press  
BUCHALKI, Russia - 
Russian investigators  
labored Wednesday to  
determine whether terror­ 
ism caused the near-simul­ 
taneous crashes of two jet­ 
liners, killing all 89 people  
aboard and spreading anxi­ 
eties about a possible  
bloody escalation of the  
Chechen conflict.  
Officials stressed that no  
evidence of a terrorist  
attack had yet been found  
among charred wreckage  
and said they opened a  
criminal investigation as  
they looked into other caus­ 
es like bad fuel, equipment  
malfunction and human  
error. The planes' data  
recorders were recovered,  
but experts were only just  
starting to retrieve infor­ 
mation from them.  
The planes crashed just  
days before a Kremlin­ 
called presidential election  
in Chechnya, whose rebels  
have staged suicide bomb­ 
ings and other attacks  
across Russia in recent  
years, including the 2002  
seizure of hundreds of  
hostages at a Moscow the­ 
APater.  
A soldier examines wreckage of a Tu-154 airliner at a crash site near Gluboky,Witnesses reported hear­ 
ing three explosions before south of Moscow, on Tuesday. All 89 people aboard both planes were killed.  
a Volga-Aviaexpress airline Tu-134 went down in a field near Buchalki, about 125 miles south of Moscow, with 43 passengers and  plane's engines to fail, but the crew likely would have reported it well before engines quit. "I would expect some  tor, Vladimir Ustinov, told President Vladimir Putin during a televised meeting about the Tuesday night crashes.  mourning, he ordered the Federal Security Service to investigate the crashes and said he wanted "unbiased and reliable information"  
crew. The wreckage of a Sibir airlines Tu-154 with 46 people aboard was spread over a few hundred yards in a rugged field near Gluboky in the region of Rostov-on-Don, some 600 miles south of Moscow. The Tu-154 jet had activated a signal indicating the plane might have been hijacked or in distress. Reports of far-flung wreckage suggest an explo­sion may have preceded a crash, said Jim Burin of the U.S.-based Flight Safety Foundation. He also said bad fuel could cause an air- communication from the crew that we're having trouble," he said. Russian authorities had expressed concern that Chechen separatists might stage new attacks before the Sunday vote, but there was no rush by officials to tie the crashes to Chechnya -a determination that would underline the gov­ernment's failure to quell the decade-old insurgency. "Several versions are being examined, including a terrorist attack, and other possibilities -the human and technical fac­tor," Russia's top prosecu- Ustinov said the Prosecutor General's Office had instituted criminal pro­ceedings into both crashes and sent two teams of investigators to the crash sites, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported. The teams are headed by his deputies. "We have not rejected any of the leads," Ustinov said, according to the news agency. Putin, who expresl'ed sympathy for the families of the dead, did not publicly address the terror ques­tion. After designating Thursday a national day of  from the probe. The service is a successor agency to the KGB. While officials spoke cau­tiously on the terrorism issue, Russian police said security was being tight­ened at airports and other transport hubs and public places. The planes took off about 40 minutes apart from the single terminal at Moscow's newly r·enovated Domodedovo airport, which is about 14 miles outside of Moscow. They both crashed a few minutes apart just before 11 p.m., according to initial time estimates.  

Kerry calls for Rumsfeld to resign 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry on Wednesday renewed his call for Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to resign and urged President Bush to appoint an independent investiga­tion to provide reforms after a report faulted all levels of the military for abuse at Abu Ghraib prison. 
"It's not just the little person at the bottom who ought to pay the price of responsibility," Kerry said at a Philadelphia union hall. "The buck doesn't stop at the Pentagon." 
A report released Tuesday by a.n independent panel led by former Defense Secretary James R. 
Schlesinger concluded that senior 
U.S. military leaders in Iraq and the Pentagon can be faulted for inatten­tion to prisoner abuses, but it did not recommend that Rumsfeld stop down. 
"What is missing from all these reports is accountability from the senior civilian leaders in the Pentagon and in the White House," Kerry said. "From the bottom of the chain of command all the way to the top, there needs to be accountability. The Schlesinger report makes clear that Secretary Rumsfeld was respon­sible for setting a climate where these types of abuses could occur." 
Kerry said an independent investi­gation should review the decision-making process that led to the abus­es and provide comprehensive reforms to ensure abuses do not recur. 
"The time has come for our com­mander in chief to take charge," he said. 
Months before prisoner abuse in Iraq came to light, Kerry called for Rumsfeld to resign because of what he said were numerous mistakes in the prosecution of the war. In May, Kerry rejected concerns that replac­ing Rumsfeld could hurt the war effort and suggested any number of people could step in, including Republican Sens. John McCain of Arizona and John Warner of Virginia. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------~-------­
page 6 Thursday, August 26, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Application to save money on furnishing your college crib SVE02234658-04 FOtm ~ov11d by ff<EA / -wii.eofir'lanr;iokliod.com WARNtNG: Arty p•m:m who knowin!ijly dooa not uae IKEA to fur,i..h ~~~;~ dorm toom it •ubltocl lo high pncH DC" reolly bad mtll crll11 and c:sndiN ~Gdt furniture.  .KIA KHAUIM...O; North .,1 'M:>octlrid fh:llll84l) %9-Q7(l() Moo.-Tha.n 11Mm-9p,.,, Fn 10.0..-IOpm. Sat 9of1-10pA, S..n: l:)a,.._Bpm I ...-----------1 ll.(;,o;if Mffi ~,-(Jtl ~~~ (0:••••....'£ 1'11.:£~ o:o\~~&1.1\tr  
APPUCANT ftc be completed by furniture-les-s .student!  
LaJt name:---------------------First name: Ml: »::>4 20lll> 1009  Age: ____________  

~cc~ 2l)""J7 .-.xl!l Sex: MAUi .._1 FlMALE Expected gradualiOft date: ~•c 21H 1 201 ~ :!{)H :l'Oiil 201 s DMm room: _ •q/ft Window: ~YES NO (clrcit: -·~ 2010 2011 21JI8 2!:ll<i> :?010 2021 
FURNITURE IKEA price . YOU SAVE 
If you answered YES fc the guesii ons above, see below: $206.33 .-$29.99 Ka151Ut<hoak
If you answered NO, Fer your pcrenl~o scktt, see below: 
-~ 

$146.31 [_~]$29.99 

Total savings 
Enter lo win an IliA $1 000 Furniture Scholauhip Fill aut ltt.e icl.otar.s.,lp application at ikeafinandalakl..com, prlnl il aut and bring tt to tile s.tore. DoR'I be .surprised if ~u wl11 ft~rnihlre thai will d reu up your dorm far oi loDg a.s your e.xpeeh!!d 9ra.duahon .date. 
For a betll!lr lifl!! al college, vt:~llII 
ikeafinandalald.com
ICE.A.nomiu Cool furnit-ure cosb you less mo11o~, the!reby IeaVIns you with ~xees.~ c:o.sh IChecklor, col~. c:.r.e.a.m., d~od pres.tdents, etc I More ca!!.h t~r you c:on .spend on an 1t::e cre-am float with friends And some p1z:to. And 
:~~~~';,;~~ ~;':'~, ':::::~•• big"' yoor O...d. A~•r tl.at l"'' can go II• down on "'m• of l~at cool '''"""'.J___.----------· -----·--
Promiuory Note Promi.se-to ~oave: I promi.te to S.D'Ye money by gol11o9 to the neares.tiKEA store to buy my furnllure AJI.savings 
DO NOT WRITI. OJIPIC'I UU ONLY. 
undet the term~o ofth•s Noll!!, plus ony olhet sovingi thai May oeet.rr with IIKEA merchor.dtse not rnentloMd on thiJ. Note rnoy 1ncreos.e my obili~ k:J do tht~.s olher tl.an e.it in my dorm and store at the !windowless, wall. IKEA furnt~hing!lo may provtde l-eftover Money fo.r a lrap to the movies. or thl!! obl19atory colle-ge! tattoo. failure to shop of IKfA stores may reduce frequency of thueo or sirnrlar e:drocurric:ulor adivilres I urtdersfancJ rhot I moy cancel or re-duce the s.iz.e of the sovtnQJ. I rece•ve a-t any hme!, by choot-lng n.ol Ia go lc IKEA s.tores. 
My .s•gna-h!rl!! certlfie.s tfla• I hov~ read, ulloderstoo.d and agrel!ld !hal IKEA store!!. are my besl bet for .savin.g money on coll~e crab fur11oi~ohlngs.. 
--~-----·--­
·-·-·---· ·--·--·-----·----,,_________, _______, ___,.,_,_________, ·--­Si9noture of Fanancaolly Educo~ Student Da-te IMNI/00/YV) 
S.. o>:l.. t,.. dllltd nJ., Hu ~<d-on• •-.t•...,..r r,., 4N•y oM.4tr 1<~......_,..,, ~•...., p•..J..:t> , • ..,_.,.......-.t..ly 
~-____________
·-­

o ,,.., tr;u, .s,_, • v Z«)o1t Y~ .. ,,. , ............... ~...,...,...:1\lloitoi ('-'" 
. ---·------·--·-,________________, ______ _ 



O'o\'NEt'S COIY 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, August 26, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

U.S. stocks rally as oil prices drop 
Moderate stock surge welcomed on Wall Street, contributes to mixed economic picture
fa~~$ 10,181.74 +83.11 
Associated Press 
"~'·· Same: Composite Volume: 
2,334 146 1,187,529,344 
NEW YORK -Stocks rallied in quiet trading
AMEX 1,217.:33 +3-60 < 
Wednesday as oil prices NASDAQ 1,860.72 +23.83 
fell for a fourth straight session, countering a pair
NYSE 6,431.79 <ii~fllit+49•2SI! 
of government reports that
s&PSOO 
gave a mixed picture of the 
1,104.96 ·.·.······· +8:77 ....
NIKKE.IrT,..J,v,.\ 11 184 49 ·'··'6 ''··+· 54··4·~"~'' 
economy. The moderate surge in 
\ • "'''1"I . ;:· . •· ' >:!:\/':'?':::., .· ·: •. ·f:t~ 
fTSE IOO(London) 4,411.60 +4.10 
buying was welcome on Wall Street, where
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
investors have been in no 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.29 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.14 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.85 APPUED MATL (AMAT) +2.07 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.68 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.39 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.51 5-YEAR NOTE -0.12 3-MONTH BILL -0.33 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) 
Exchan Rates 

Robert W. Baird & Co. in YEN II 0.13 
Milwaukee. "It doesn't mean the market will go
EURO 0.8280 
straight up, but hopefully
POUND 0.5571 
we've put in a bottom and 
CANADIAN$ 1.3056 
we can now work higher." 
The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 83.11, or 0.8 percent, at
IN BRIEF 
10,181.74. The broader gauges also Former Enron investor-relations 
posted gains. The Nasdaqexecutive pleads guilty 
composite index rose HOUSTON -Enron's former top investor­
23.83, or 1.3 percent, to 1,860.72. The Standard &relations executive pleaded guilty Wednesday Poor's 500 index finishedto charges he helped paper over the energy up 8.77, or 0.8 percent, atcompany's shaky financial condition before its 1,104.96.
collapse. 
Soaring fuel prices haveMark Koenig, 49, pleaded guilty to aiding pressured the market for and abetting securities fraud, which carries 
weeks, with oil topping up to 10 years in prison. 
$49 per barrel last week, a In a related civil action brought by the 
record level. Prices have Securities and Exchange Commission, Koenig 
softened somewhat as anx­agreed Wednesday to turn over to the govern­
iety about global supply eased, and a weekly gov­ment $1.49 million in forfeited assets and civil 
ernment report showingpenalties and cooperate with government 
higher-than-expected
investigators. 
gasoline inventories sentAs the head of investor relations, Koenig 
them lower still
worked with former Enron founder Kenneth Wednesday. Crude oil for 
Lay and former chief executive Jeffrey 
October delivery dropped Skilling, and served as the company's main 
$1.74, or 3.9 percent, to link to investors and analysts. He oversaw the 
$43.47 per barrel on the company's earnings announcements -exer­
New York Mercantile cises that proved fraudulent -and coordinat­
Exchange. Gasoline futures ed conferences with stock analysts. 
+0.28 21.95 
hurry lately to commit new money to stocks. Many have stuck to the sidelines 
+0.31 27.55 
+0.35 19.32 
in the face of a long list of 
+0.33 16.26 
worries, including volatile oil prices and persistent
+0.07 I 0.40 
terror fears. Contributing to the session's light vol­ume, a number of traders are preparing to take off 
-0.20 50.50 
-0.22 42.61 
ahead of the Republican 
-0.04 34.52 
convention in New York 
next week. "All things being equal, if the price of oil continues to 
-0.05 15.12 
-1.74 43.47 
work its way lower, that will be very good for the market," said Barry 
+5.00 410.00 
-0.25 92.65 
Berman, head trader for 

Traders at the New York Stock Exchange compare stock prices on monitors Wednesday. The NYSE experienced moderate gains while oil prices fell. 
tumbled 5 percent. 

Investors were also pleased by a Commerce Department report that said orders for costly man­ufactured goods rose by 
1.7 percent in July, an encouraging sign that the economy is shaking off the summer doldrums. The best reading in four months for durable goods -big-ticket items expect­ed to last at least three years -was boosted by demand for airplanes, machinery and communi­cations equipment. 
But the department found sales of new homes declined by 6.4 percent in July, a far steeper drop than analysts anticipated. The decline left home sales at their lowest level since December. Figures for June were also revised lower. Analysts said a chal­lenging labor market and high fuel prices may be making people wary about purchasing a new home. 
Aside from falling oil prices, there was little incentive for buying, mak­ing some analysts wonder whether the stock rally would hold. Many unknowns, including the outcome of the presidential race, continue to weigh heavily on investors. 
"The fact that oil prices are falling off a bit is cer­tainly helpful," said Dave Legeay, director of portfo­lio management at McDonald Financial Group. "(But) fear that ter­rorism will disrupt supply is hanging over the market as a whole. Terrorism is also in play as we move forward to the election season." 
Among the beneficiaries of rising orders for big­ticket goods, Dow compo­nent Boeing Co. rose 3.1 percent, or $1.59, to $52.50, on news that Singapore Airlines had ordered up to 31 long­range Boeing 777-300 jet­liners. 
Toll Brothers Inc. shed 34 cents to $43.12, despite reporting a 56 percent surge in profits and raising its forecast for the year based on current demand and its backlog of orders for new luxury homes. Enthusiasm for the home­builder, which surged in early trading, waned on the news about sliding home sales. 

ATA Airlines downplays talk about possible Chicago exit 
New overtime rules take effect in U.S. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Financially struggling ATA Airlines is downplaying talk that it might pull out of Chicago's Midway Airport. 
Associated Press 
The Indianapolis-based low-fare airline is the airport's largest carrier, and ATA 
NEW YORK-Overtime has sud­Chairman George Mikelsons said the airline 
denly become a confusing proposi­tion for some small business own­plans to stay. 
ers.
"As indicated in our recent SEC filing, ATA is New government rules that tookbusy restructuring its finances," he said in a effect Aug. 23 change the criteriastatement issued by the airline's public rela­
under which employees must be
tions firm. "While engaged in that effort, we paid overtime. That means company are not abandoning Chicago Midway, nor are 
owners need to look at all of their we canceling any flights." 
employees and determine whether ATA has 14 gates at Midway, with flights 
each should now be receiving over­from the airport accounting for two-thirds of 
time -or might now be exempt ATA's scheduled passenger traffic. 
from overtime. Generally, under the new rules,However, last week ATA, which has been the great majority of employees who hurt by rising jet fuel prices and high aircraft 
earn less than $455 a week, or
leases, reported that it had lost $90.7 million $23,660 a year, automatically quali­in the first six months of the year. 
fy for overtime. Those who earn $100,000 generally do not have to be paid overtime. 
For the many employees whose pay falls between those levels, own­ers will have to do an analysis of their jobs to determine whether they can be exempted from the rules. Basically, only those whose jobs can be classified as executive, administrative, professional or in an outside sales capacity are exempt­ed. So are some computer employ­ees. 
Those are the basics. Owners will need to look at the rules, and also need to look at the many exceptions, not just to job classifications, but also to salary requirements. 
The Labor Department's Web site at http://www.dol.gov/esa/regs/com­pliance/whdlfairpay/main.htm has explanations of the rules, including a Power Point presentation with an overview, and what it calls "fact sheets" that go into more detail. The site contains definitions of what fac­tors go into classifying an employee as executive, administrative, profes­sional or an outside salesperson. 
For example, the site describes an administrative job as follows: 
"The employee's primary duty must be the performance of office or non-manual work directly related to the management or general busi­ness operations of the employer or the employer's customers." 
.., II rJl "CT .o.. 
'r'\ \rr" 

page 8 Thursday, August 26, 2004
The Observer + NEWS 

Housing 
continued from page 1 
ResLife Web site said there 
were no triples in her dorm. 
Distressed, she called her 
rectress about the situation. 
"It's just not a triple room," 

she said. 
They remain optimistic 

nonetheless. 
"It's as well as it can work 

with three people," Zickuhr 
said. "It's only the second day 
of school. though. We'll keep 
our fingers crossed." 
Hart agreed, looking at the situation with rose-colored glasses. 
"I think it has a much 

[space] as the older dorms 
do," Hart said. "With smaller 
rooms, and futons, the space 
is about the same. I think it 
will work real well." 
The girls' room contains three sets of modular furni­ture, each lofted to create enough space. 
Nina Meyer, a former resi­dent of Hart, Zickuhr, and Cortez's room, thought the girls did a good job with its organization, but still had some concerns about the room's resources. 
"Common areas, like the sink or entry way, that every­one uses are compromised," Meyer said. ''I'd rather have a smaller double than a triple built for two." 
Before students moved in, ResLife evaluated study lounges to see if they were livable and dorm rooms to see if they could feasibly hold another set of furniture. 
Transfer students were also affected by the space con­straints. About 17 female transfer students to Notre Dame are living in Regina North Hall at Saint Mary's as an alternative to off-campus housing. 
Michelle Russell, director of Residence Life at Saint Mary's, explained the College simply had the space to accommodate these students at a time when Notre Dame was tightening its belt. 
Though they are officially Notre Dame students. the women will be under the jurisdiction of a Saint Mary's resident assistant. 
"They are expected to fol­low Saint Mary's policy," Hussell said. "[Regarding dis­cipline). we would be in con­sultation with Notre Dame on what £ourse of action to take. They each received a Saint Mary's handbook to familiar­ize themselves with the poli­cies and easily follow them." 
As housing at Notre Dame becomes available, transfers such as those at Saint Mary's, will have the opportunity to move to their own campus. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 

Tonight! ill & Specials ALL DAY 272-1766 
affairs to allow student events back in the dorms. 

Agenda 
''I'd love to say that we could have SYRs back the way they

continued from page 1 
used to be, but I think it's more Chad Sharon's death." realistic to say that we could · 
The proposal was well work with rectors and student received by the Trustees. said affairs to find a suitable replace­Istvan, and if liability issues are ment for them," he said. "They cleared up, he expects to see the boosted dorm pride, and we Bus running by the end of the want to restore that." year. He said funding options are Istvan admitted that while the being explored. Office of the President has a 
At the Board of Trustees meet-laundry list of policies to push ing, former president Jeremy through, the new Student Union Lao also proposed integrating a Constitution stripped him of $1 million student programming much of his power to do so. endowment into the University's "Senate is now the best way to 10-year strategic plan. In May, get things do.f?.e. and it'll be up to Lao said that he would wor~:" them to defi.rie our new roles," with Istvan and Bell to secure Istvan said. "TheY've been won­the endowment, but Istvan said derful to work with so far. and I that Lao has yet to get him a really foresee a great year com­report on the matter. ing up, where the government's 
In its most ambitious endeavor, going to be much more in the student government will also go hands of the students." after what Istvan calls the "Holy Grail" of campus policy -con-Contact Amanda Michaels at vincing the office of student amichael@nd.edu 
Rector 
continued from page 1 

Student Affairs with her depth of 
experience in ministry and her 
passion for social justice, said 
William Kirk. associate vice presi­
dent for residence life. 

"Katie displays an understand­
ing of the different issues that stu­
dents face," Kirk said. "As you 
meet her, you understand how 
impressive she is." 

Delighted as Wmikates is at the opportunity to do what she loves, she also understands the chal­lenge she ~ face, stepping in for .a rectress with 12 years of experi­
ence in Lewis. 

"My goal is to keep the place in as good of shape as [Sister Annette] left it," Wmikates said. 
Wmikates added she plans to do so by keeping the lines of commu­nication open and striving to retain the order and efficiency of Notre Dame's largest women's dorm. 
''I'm learning that the biggest gift of a rector is to listen to the wisdom that's already here in the dorm." she said. 
Wmikates said she has received a tremendous gift from Sister Annette in Lewis' "fabulous" hall staff, who provided insight and deepened her appreciation for the dorm women during hours of preparation meetings. 
"If I can just stand back and let them do their thing then it just works beautifully," she said. 
Although she has been on cam­pus since Aug. 2, Wmikates contin­ues to be amazed at the exception­al organization of residential life on campus, as well as the friendli­ness the Notre Dame and Lewis communities have welcomed her. 
"Looking at their scrapbooks and seeing all the fun things that happen," she said. ''I'm just excit­ed to be able to be a part of it." 
Contact Janice Flynn at 
jflynn@nd.edu 


liVE DELIVER 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 574.277.8500 ''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY 
JOHN'S!" . @ 
BOX LUNCHES, PLATTERS, PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 
FREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS ONLYJ 
Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar, and oregano. 



Thursday, August 26, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
I 

··­
-~ 

~ 
J c 

: 
.... 
. . 
-~ 


: 
.. 
( ··•••· 
I
:':?::::.. 
:·.;:,:: 
IX 
I 
!}) 
i 
,:,:::::

•:::•1!11!!!_:···.,.: rr 
......,.,. 
·:: 

i
~ 

·< >: i ?119'':::.<•)::: I 
ill Ill 
) ( > /
yi< ( ·•·•·•···••·•
:;:;:;::::::::: 

c·:n•~J:' 
):·::::: ·························•············ {>·······

.,.,...•.••••.....,•••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••••••,...........,•.,••.••••••• :,;:::•: 
~~~-~~ 
m·•••••,•·•••-••• 
:,:::::.
{It ••••·••• •••••• 
;:::;{{ ..:\ 

.. 
:;:::•: :;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:; 
:;:.:;:: •:::::.
~·:•·•::: ~•.•.•...•.•.....•...•. 
.;; 
:;:,: .•..
.•.,.......................,....:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;::: 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, August 26, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
TWf"""""""" Aol~,_,_-~,._, ~..-SM,..M..,~ 
r.O. IJ<>J<Q, No1re D:lm~. JN 465~ 024 South Oinlns Hall, Nouc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt l.m.ar 

MAN"'GING EDITOR  BUS!Nl!SS .MANAGllR  
Mcgha.nne Downe1  Mike Flanagan  
ASs!: MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VU:.WI'OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vahulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heathtr Van Hoegatdcn SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smhb IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Marrin SAINT MA.Rrs EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GIW'Hif'.S EDITOR: Mike Harkin$ ADYEimSINC MANAGER: Carrie Fr.mklin AD DI!SrGN MANAGER: Kdly Nebon SV$TltMS ADMINISTitATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROUER: Paula Gatch• 
0 FFIC£ MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX {574) 631-6927 AoV£m'ISING 

(574) 631-6900 ohscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574} 631·4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631·4541 obsme@nd.edu Aul&TAHT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4314 BUSINESS OfFICE (574) 631-5313 

NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631•5303 viewpoind@nd.edu 
SPoRTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 'ccne.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'$ DESK (574) 631·4324 smc.l@nd,edu PIIOTOOEU (574) 631•8767 phoro~nd.et:l\1 SYSTEM$ " W£1 ADMIIIISTfiAlt)IIS (574} 631·8839. 
THE 
OBfuMRONUNE 
WliiW.ndsmcobserv.,r.eom 
POUCIES 

The Observer ill ·me in<kpendent, diiilyM\vspapet publi5hed in print and online by the $t.t$ofthe University ofNoue Dmm du Lac arid Silliic Mary'f. College. Edirorial content. induding ad~ts, ~·· ... 
1\()( governed hy polit;it:$ ofme admini$tmlon Qf.e~ institution. The Observer ~the right 1:0 rdU5e advcrciscmentS based QR conrent. · • ·• 
Tilt news i$ teported liS acrutarely and objectivelyas possible. Unsigned editorials represent die opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisranr Managing Ediror .md departm¢ilr editON. Commenrarit:$, le~ and columns present the viewJ of the authors and not nt=SSarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr spw;e is available ro all readers. The &¢e expression ofIll! opinions through lerrer$ is encouraged. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and must include canmer information. 
()!mtions "garr/ing Oburwr policin 1howa b~ dirrckd t<1 Editor in ChMfMaltl.nzar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The! flko..,. (\JSP$ $9<) l·40G0l o publld.dd Monday tb~ PtNjoy _,doulhj natnt~nd¥atMlociprriP4.A~ipt:io~t:l*:J-'fM.~(J·$'00F<Jr~..,.k: yc-~ US for~!( ~R'J. . . · 
Thcob"""";,,~ot ...~"-·AU~n~m 
"('h( 0\ul.'j'\'Q' I, p\lblfs~ Jf~ oo.a..Q Ol~ S.u<h Dinlnsl1.tl Ol4 Saud. llinio& lUll ~ut Uamt, IN ~6'SS6--077? NoU'< D.unt, IN .~l6-0m !~tkK!ic.al ~ttt,c p-.lld ;~~t Nf;mt O.ttJK' .ut·l .ukiidm.-1 tn&illns,otTI6dl. 
•ITMASTSI\ 
'114·"d~~.,,~'" trY. Jhc(Jb.....,., 
r(l( 0\mt\'(, il• tt:'tmhtt Qf ,ht 1\a~Qaaad f'n¥J.I\11 ttpr.odl¥:ti;<MU~tll ate"· ttM:tlrdli. 

Do you want a different view of the same-sex marriage issue? 
See the March 15 Wall Street Journal op ed by Pastor Donald Sensing of Trinity United Methodist Church in Franklin, Tenn. 
"Opponents of legalized same-sex marriage," notes Sensing, "say they're trying to protect a belea­guered institution, but they're a little late. The walls of traditional marriage were breached 40 years ago. What we see now is the storming of the last bastion." 
Marriage, says Sensing, was done in by the contraceptive pill, which severed 'the causal relationships between sex, pregnancy and mar­riage.' obviating "the fundamental basis for marriage." 
Marriage is not merely a contract which the state and the parties have a right to define. Marriage as a man­woman union, Sensing points out, is "prehistoric" as "part of the natural law of the creation." 
The law gives marriage exclusive privileges because the spouses com­mit to raising children for the future of society and the state. Only a man­woman union can produce new tax­payers. Society, notes Sensing, "legiti­mated the sexual union of a ... man and woman [and] promised struc­tures beneficial to children arising from the marriage ... Society's stake in marriage ... is ... the perpetuation of the society itself." 
The pill is decisive because, in a contraceptive society, marriage loses its reason for being. 
In the natural order, one reason why sex is reserved for marriage, why marriage is permanent and why the man-woman union is privileged by the law is because sex has some­thing to do with babies. But if, through the contraceptive ethic, sex 

Charles Rice 
Right or 
Wrong? 

has no intrinsic relation to procre­
ation and man -of both sexes -is 
the arbiter of whether and when sex 
shall have that relation, why should 
sex be reserved for marriage, why 
should marriage be permanent and 
why should "marriage" be reserved 
to a man-woman union? 
"Sex, child-bearing and marriage now have no necessary connection to one another," says Sensing, "because the biological connection between sex and child·bearing is controllable." 
Since the coming of the pill in the 1960s, the nationwide marriage rate has fallen 43 percent. "Instead of get­ting married," says Sensing, "men and women are just living together, cohabitation having increased tenfold in the same period. According to a University of Chicago study ... more than half the men and women who do get married have already lived together." 
With the dominance of the pill, in Sensing's words, "weddings became symbolic rather than substantive," serving "for most couples [as] the shortest way to make the legal com­pact [on] property rights and other ... benefits." 
The pill undercut the legal basis to deny homosexuals the right to enter the contract of marriage in order to regulate "their legal and property relationship ... to mirror exactly that of hetero, married couples." A con­traceptive society cannot deny legiti­macy to same-sex unions without denying its own premise that man is the arbiter of whether sex will have any relation to procreation. 
Proponents of same-sex marriage seem to have a more realistic view of what marriage has become in the contraceptive society. The right to separate sex from procreation is an article of faith in our culture. 
Defenders of traditional marriage, unwilling to challenge that article of faith, are defending the "last bas­tion." They would deny the name "marriage" to a same-sex union. But, in the Federal Marriage Amendment, they would approve Vermont-style "civil unions" so long as they were 
legalized by a legislature rather than 
a court. 
Vermont gives to same-sex "civil unions" all the legal attributes of marriage except the name. This is symbolism, ignoring the substance of what it means to reduce marriage, as instituted in Genesis, to legal parity with same-sex sodomitic unions. 
"Sacred Scripture," says the Catechism, "presents homosexual acts as acts of grave depravity." The inclination toward those acts, as with an inclination to any other immoral act, is "objectively disordered." 
In its "Considerations" issued last March 25, the Vatican noted "the dif­ference between homosexual behav­ior as a private phenomenon and as a relationship in society ... approved by the law ... Legal recognition of homo­sexual unions would obscure ... basic moral values and cause a devaluation of ... marriage." 
A society where it makes no legal difference whether little boys grow up to "marry" girls or other boys is past the line of clinical insanity. "[T]raditionalists.'' says Sensing. "need to ... face the fact that same· sex marriage, if it comes about, will not cause the degeneration ... of mar­riage; it is the result of it." 

Pastor Sensing's essay reflects a growing appreciation by non­Catholics for the traditional Christian teaching on contraception. 
Perhaps it may even occur to cafe­teria Catholics and trendy theolo­gians at Notre Dame and elsewhere that the Catholic Church is right in upholding the Christian teaching, unbroken until the Anglican Lambeth Conference of 1930, that contracep­tion is always a social as well as a moral evil. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. 1/e can be con· tacted at plawecki.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nee· essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Amanda Michaels Pat Leonard NicoleZook Kate Gales Teresa Fralish Mike Gilloon Viewpoint Scene What are you doing this Friday night? Sarah Vabulas Rama Lauren Galgano Gottumukkala 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at

Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us or we find it not. " 
Ralph Waldo Emerson American writer 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, August 26, 2004 page 11 
Offering advice 
If you are anything like me, you most likely have a problem accepting your peers as authority figures and taking their advice. 
That said, you are probably wondering why you should bother to listen to what I have to say. Hear me out. It is the start of a new school year. Whether you are a freshman or senior, this is a time for new beginnings. You get the chance to start ofT with a clean slate-that is unless you are still on probation for something you Molly Acker "supposedly" did last semester. The future looks bright. you've got the world on a string, and what Nobody likes a should you do now? dumb blonde 
Listen to your parents. That's right. You would be surprised by how often they really do know what is best. I am sure your folks go on and on telling you what they think you ought to do. I used to let it go in one ear and out the other. but then I realized that they are actually right. Your parents only want what is best for you. Lord kno~s they have invested enough into your future. The very least you can do IS hear them out. You may just be surprised by how much they can really help you out. 
I saw the light and took their advice. Here a few pieces of advice from some parents that I think you can agree will be helpful to us all: 
Get involved. Find a worthwhile organization. Not only is it a great resume booster, but it is also very rewarding and a good way to meet peo­ple. 
Study. Whether it be at the library or a friend's room down the hall. you will certainly want to keep those grades up. 
Go to class. You will fall way behind otherwise. 
Have fun. While your main objective is to get an education. you'll miss out on a lot of laughs and great friendships if you spend all your time hit­ting the books. Know how to say 'no.' A favorite of my father ... especially when the proceeding question is, "Do you want to go back to my room?" Cheer for the Irish. This one is just common sense, also a safety precau­tion because you'll probably be hurt at that first home game otherwise. Tell the truth. Whether it be with your roommate or ResLife, honesty is the best policy and is always appreciated. Be careful. Use some common sense. You really do not want to get into trouble. Trust me. Call home occasionally. Your parents will love to hear from you, and if you call them they may just be inclined not to call you so much. Don't get too worked up over petty problems. As a compulsive worrier, I hear this one a lot. Things really do have a way of working out. Be yourself. We've all heard this, but ifpeople cannot like you for who you are then forget them. Cherish it. Everyone says "These are the best years of your life," and "It will fly by.'' They're right. 
So those are just a few of the words of wisdom that my parents told me. They may or may not be different than what you were told, but chances are your parents will have at least a few worthwhile things to say. Your parents were young once too -you may not want to think too hard ~bout this, it can be a little disturbing. So listen up and hear them out. Taking their advice may just make your year that much easier. Remember to thank them once in a while for all they do. 
Make sure you go out and have some fun. and here's to another great year in South Bend. 
Molly Acker is a junior communication and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be contacted at acke6758@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Gm'am~a 
lt~OT9JJ(ING'1A ~~~ T~Ue A~ M€TibD of ~I~U~liNa l~€~T ~ND IN ?AR~TING. 


I I
(Jt· ~-, 
{:~ .... /
' I ~~~;' t,, 
~~ -;, ,.~1 


. ,. 
,.. . 
·JJ . 
. "' 
~I' , ; 
.i! I ' 
__ ~~;;,. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stifling Ramadan 
I read with disbelief the revocation of Tariq Ramadan's U.S. visa in the Aug. 24 Chicago Tribune. While I don't wish to enter into the political Olympics of such revoca­tion, silence about its repercussions on aca­demic freedom as well as its potential cross­cultural objective dialogue is tantamount to committing both academic suicide and counterterrorism fallacy. And so, I air my opinion about the dangers of such revoca­tion on both objective scholarship and 'war on terror.' 
Although written early in the 20th centu­ry, the book "Miss-Education of Negroes" by Carter Woodson still resonates in the 21st century. In this book, Woodson argues, to paraphrase, that if you are able to control one's thinking, you need not worry about his actions; if you can make him believe that he is inferior, you don't need to make him behave in an inferior way; he will always ensure that he acts in an inferior way. Such a man will strive to ensure that he dances to your tune without forcing him to. In short, you have enslaved his mind. 
Though this piece was written to address the Negroes problem as they struggled to assert themselves in American history, this process of mental slavery still surrounds our institutions of learning and has ensured that what we know or should know passes through political microscope by way of deciding what is taught and who teaches it. 
Now this is a bit palatable in those coun­tries continuously branded as undemocrat­
ic. However, it defeats all logic when it hap­pens in the U.S.-a country that prides itself of upholding the values of democracy and, therefore, as a symbol of freedom and democracy to the world. 
Just as the world braces itself to under­stand and address transnational terrorism, often designated as 'Islamist terrorism,' counter-forces are ceaselessly striving to ensure that such channels are extremely narrowed. There is no better environment to start the process of cross-cultural under­standing than in academic institutions. For in such places, students are not only taught about other cultures, but also interact with other students and scholars from different cultural. social, religious and political back­grounds in ways that confirm such teaching, checking against biased and distorted schol­arship about other cultures or groups that have permeated institutions of learning over the years. 
The 9/11 Commission Report recommends a need to open the lines of communication in the U.S. to the Islamic world, which includes opening educational institutions, including libraries, aimed at recreating the 
Hearing 'voices of 
diverse moderation' 
The Department of Homeland Security recently revoked the visa of ~rofessor Tariq . . Ramadan, a prominent European Muslim intellectual who had been hired to teach rehgwn, conflict and peacebuilding at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Personally, I am deeply saddened at this action. Having spent some time wi_th professor Ramadan and his family -including teaching his three children the finer pomts of base­ball at Eck Stadium last spring-I know Ramadan as a warm and brilliant man who would be an outstanding addition to the Kroc Institute faculty, to the Notre Dame and South Bend community and to America's broader discussion of Islam. 
Although American immigration history has always been marked by cycles of wh~ w~ do or don't let into the country, and I recognize the debate between freedom and secunty IS an ongoing one, this instance seems particularly puzzling and even capricious. Even ackno':"J­edging that Ramadan is a controversial figure in some quarters -.some have accused ~Im of anti-Semitism, based in part on his critiques of Israel's human nghts record, and entire­ly specious claims that he is some kind of. secret adv?ca.te for militant Isla~ -it see~s . ridiculous to consider him a threat to natwnal secunty m any way. If anythmg, Amenca IS impoverished, not strengthened, by professor Ramadan's absence. 
I am confident the Ramadan family would be outstanding citizens and would add tremen­dous richness to the Notre Dame community. Especially in these precarious times, we need more voices of diverse moderation rather than radical exclusiveness, regardless of which ideological or religious viewpoint they represent. 
Patrick Mason Graduate srudenr Aug. 25 

better image of U.S. in such places. But such a process of cross-cultural under­standing need not be a one-way channel. It should not be envisaged that only the Islamic world need to better understand 
U.S. 
'best values' and intentions. The Islamic world also has something that the 

U.S. 
must understand for that process to be complete. 


This 'something' is what scholars such as Tariq Ramadan are striving to make the 
U.S. understand about Islam and the Islamic world. 
However, when such views are silenced merely because someone's kinfolk held cer­tain opinions-in Ramadan's case his grandfather's role in Muslim Brotherhood -or that they have been critical of certain policies-in Ramadan's case what has been perceived as anti-Semitism -then not only are the principles of democracy, which 
U.S. claims to possess and strives to incul­cate in other parts of the world, are chal­lenged. 
Most importantly, students who stand to benefit from such objective scholarship are denied their right to objective knowledge. In so doing, scholarship is made an underdog of politics. Thus. the minds of such potential conflict transformers are stifled to think only within the framework provided by the politics of the time. 
And so we come back to Woodson's argu­ment that controlling the mind of a person will let him or her behave in a manner con­sistent with what the designer wants him or her to do. 
Denying scholars such as Ramadan the opportunity to stretch out the tight circle of thinking that prevails not only in the Islamic world and other parts of the world but also among many U.S. citizens who know little about those parts of the world is equivalent to enslaving the minds that were about to think out of such an ever tightening circle. Thus, the graduates of academic institutions will be those who only have one picture of the story, as presented not only by our biased media institutions, but also by sub­jective scholarship. 
Although the U.S. is undeniably at the crossroads on how best to eradicate poten­tial terrorism, it continues to gag the mod­erate and objective voices that are ready to help it reach where it wants to go with this 'war on terror.' Terrorism is far from being won. 
Camlus Omogo Alumni Class of 2004 Aug. 25 


THE OBSER\'ER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, August 26, 2004 
Summer Movie 
REVIEWS By RAM A GOTTUMUKKALA M 0 L
' 

The Best of the Best 

Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) explores more about his par­ents' deaths In the latest film In this successful film series. 
3. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 
The people behind the "I larry Potter" franchise finally figured out what was wrong with the series. To be fair, the first two films weren't bad, but they were missing the edge and slightly scary quality of the book series. Previous director Chris Columbus, best known before "I larry Potter" for his work on "Home Alone 
3", faithfully brought the first two books to the screen, but he lost the slightly sinister tone of the books in his more family-friendly translation. Alfonso Cuaron, an interesting directing choice considering that his previous works were "A Uttle Princess" and the gritty "Y Tu Mama Tambien," produces an adaptation of the third book delivers what the earlier films were missing. "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" faithfully follows the book, but adds just enough twists. turns and dark humor to make it the most memorable and enjoyable film of the franchise. The young actors playing !larry and his friends seem more comfort­able in their roles. The special effects are more seamless. particularly quidditch. And the film is shorter and moves at a much swifter pace than the previous films. "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" captures the true spirit of the book without getting bogged down in the details that made the other ones somewhat dull. 
4. Collateral 
It was a gamble that has paid off in the past. Select an A­list star. one long used to holding center stage as an atypi­cal action hero, and cast him in a role completely opposite the ones that previously made him a box office king. "Training Day" succeeded in garnering Denzel Washington an Oscar for his sinister efforts. And while the cast of "Collateral" is a lot more balanced than "Training Day," Tom Cruise uses the opportunity to shine in a rare villain­ous role. 
Director Michael Mann ("Heat" and "The Insider") has long dabbled in the thriller genre, and has excelled in the past. The plot for "Collateral" is, at the very least, passable yet he manages to slowly but surely ratchet up the tension in this stylish thriller. 
Cruise plays his role as Ymcent. a calculated. ruthless assassin, with a confident, relaxed composure and even manages to bring out an air of charisma to the villain. Jamie Foxx, playing a timid, New York cab­bie fatefully thrown into the mix. exudes an every-man quality that comes across so naturally that you can't help but pull for him. 

2. Shrek 2 

"Shrek 2" takes the monumentally successful formula that made "Shrek" popular (skewing popular fairytales, bathroom humor, pop culture references). and takes it to the next level. Added to the cast are a megalomanical Fairy Godmother, a self-absorbed Prince Charming and the scene-stealing Puss in Boots. along with a whole host of other new cast members, including an Ugly Stepsister voiced by Larry King. 
"Shrek 2" loses the simple kind of buddy­comedy/skewed fairy tale magic that the original had, but the sequel has its own rapid-fire charisma. As is true with the first "Shrek," this ftlm has many levels of jokes and references and can truly be enjoyed by all age groups. 
With more characters, a more involved plot and more listen-or-you'll-miss-them jokes, "Shrek 2" is just like the original, but on a grander scale. One of the major tenants of all sequels and summer movies are that big­ger is always better, and "Shrek 2" proves this to be true. The latest effort in this series continually impress­es and shows that sequels can sometimes be even better and more memorable than their predecessors. 


1. Spider-Man 2 
In a summer dominated by superior sequels. it's only fitting the best movie of the summer was "Spider-Man 2." With a tighter plot, heart-felt dialogue, a convincing villain and stun­ning action sequences, the film improved on the original in almost every regard. 
After the enormous critical and commercial success of the original "Spider-Man," it would have been understandable if director Sam Raimi had tried to maintain a status quo for the series. Instead of selling this sequel on the basis of more advanced special effects and a passable script, he employed the talents of a host of terrific screenwriters to pen this latest effort. 
Alfred Gough and Miles Millar (creators and writers of the TV show "Smallville"), Michael Chabon (Pulitzer prize-winning author of "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay") and Alvin Sargent (two-time Oscar-winning screenwriter for "Ordinary People" and "Julia") were able to pool together their respective strengths as writers to present a summer block­buster with palpable warmth (a rarity in recent summers). 
Even if you took away all of the hype preceding the film's release. "Spider-Man 2" would still be as 100 percent captivat­ing and memorable as any Oscar winner to come out in recent years. And considering this film would probably still have made a bundle of money regardless of the story (or lack thereoO. that truly is a feat to marvel at. 

5. Napoleon Dynamite 
Odds are you don't have friends like "Napoleon Dynamite," but if you did, you would be laughing a lot more. 
lndie film "Napoleon Dynamite," with its unusual but hilarious characters, has proven itself among the funniest of summer comedies. Director Jared Hess creates a world where the quirkiest actions become normal. at least to the main characters. 
Napoleon (Jon l-Ieder) is the nerdiest and most awkward high school student in Preston, Idaho. He spends most of his time talking about all the "skills" he possesses, spouting out lies about his proficiency with a staff bow and how he is "pretty much the best I know" at drawing mythical animals. Napoleon befriends new student Pedro (Efren Ramirez) and the two of them do their best to find dates to the school dance and help Pedro run for student body president. all in their very own idiosyn­cratic fashion. 
Dynamite plays out similar to a Cohen broth­ers' film with its unique and infectious dia-
Photo courtesy of AIIMoviePhotos.com 

Napoleon (Jon Heder) tries to help Pedro (Efren Ramirez) become class president. 
Iogue. Before you know it, Napoleonisms will sneak into your own vocabulary. 
The best part about "Napoleon Dynamite" is its consistency. Instead of just a few solid jokes. the audience gets what most comedies lack ­laughter until the end. 

THE 0BSERVtR 

CENE
Thursday, August 26, 2004 
page 13 
oundup 2004 
GRIFFIN, MAR I A S M I T H AND B E C C A SAUNDERS 
The Worst of the Worst 

2. White Chicks 
A movie that parodies the Hilton sisters is in trou­ble from the first second the film begins to roll. Two black men, Shawn and Marlon Wayans, are substi­tutes for the super-rich, super-thin and super­blonde heiresses. This should be a red flag that the movie isn't exactly Oscar-caliber cinema. 
The brothers play FBI agents who must stand in for the "Wilson" sisters in order to protect them, and end up, as is the case with all gender-bending movies, in awkward relationship situations. 
The entire movie is slightly disturbing because the two men in latex skin and blonde wigs just don't look right. They seem less like the teenage girls they seek to parody and more like Michael Jackson in drag. If you are able to suspend disbelief enough to see them as passing for two "White Chicks," the movie is really just nothing more than a litany of tired black against white jokes and mocking ditzy rich girls. 
The Wayans brothers can be extremely funny, and we can only hope "White Chicks" is nothing more 

than a low point in their careers. 

Photo courtesy of AI\MoviePhotos.com Halle Berry steals and combats evil -whip In hand -In the action film, "Catwoman." 
5. The Village 
If you were looking for a good scare this sum­mer, "The Village" was not the place to go. 
Manoj Night Shyamalan gained national fame when 'The Sixth Sense" came out in 1999, but since then his work seems to have gone downhill. "Signs" didn't measure up to its predecessor, and "The Village" was an even greater slide from expectations. 
The movie was especially disappointing because of the way it was portrayed in previews. Viewers came to the theater expecting a straight­up spine chiller like "The Sixth Sense," but instead got a fairly tame show with few truly frightening moments and a plot that felt disjoint­ed instead of compelling. Once again Shyamalan's famous plot twist failed to measure up to the masterful turn in 'The Sixth Sense." 
If you do decide to rent "The Village" or catch it 
1. Catwoman 
"Catwoman" seems like a good idea on paper. Cast recent Oscar-winner Halle Berry in the role of a character already proven successful by the "Batman" films and put her in a leather suit. Add to the mix Benjamin Bratt playing a cop, a role he has honed to perfection after several seasons of "Law and Order" and cast Sharon Stone, who will forever be notorious after "Basic Instinct" as a vil­lain. 
Unfortunately, "Catwoman" has a script that is so laughably awful no amount of casting or com­puter generated images can hide it. The plot, which tells the tale of a shy graphic designer who is killed when she finds out a company secret and comes back with cat-like abilities, is fairly inno­cent and straightforward, but the film's dialogue is just plain silly. 
Quotes like, "Man-sandwich! Four o'clock," "Amateurs! You're just going to come in here and steal all these nice things? What a purrrfect idea!" and "White Russian, no ice. no vodka ... hold the Kahlua" abound throughout the film. 
The film tries to blend the camp and humor of the old "Batman" television show with the big­budget special-effects and dark edge of the films, but it fails on both fronts. 

Photo courtesy of movies.yahoo.com 

Lucius Hunt (Joaquin Phoenix) boldly explores the unknown In "The Village." 
at the dollar theater, make sure you go for the ensemble cast's acting and not the thrills. 
Photo courtesy of AIIMov1ePhotos.com Van Helslng (Hugh Jackman) shares a quiet moment with Anna (Kate Becklnsale) In between hunting monsters. 
3. Van Helsing 
What do you get when you add a pinch of the Wolfman, a dash of Frankenstein's monster and a dollop of Count Dracula into a mix to form a single film? A potpourri of mess that is a dreadful bore to sit through, and a film you would be hard-pressed to remember a few years down the road. 
The concept seems interesting on paper. Who wouldn't want to sell a summer blockbuster on the basis of one hero's quest to hunt down every single monster in memorable lore? And all this goes on while trying to recover his humanity in the process? It sounds like the perfect recipe for box office success during the long summer months. 
Unfortunately, director Stephen Sommers seems to be so in love with cool, rushing camera angles and bloated computer-generated graphics that he forgot something along the way -a passable plot. 
There are parts at the beginning of "Van Helsing" that you could not help but gawk it, especially since this film kicked off the sum­mer season of movies. But after the first few monster fights (of which there are many), any significance is lost and the flim spirals out of control from there. 
An interesting concept is wasted and the monsters themselves lose any distinct identities. If another effort is ever launched into the "Van Helsing" world, perhaps the plot will be granted a tad more attention. 
4. The Stepford Wives 
Plagued by budget problems. on-set strife and a trailer that gave away the entire plot of the movie, "The Stepford Wives" was in trouble before it even came to theatres. Unfortunately. things only got worse when it actually arrived in theatres. 
The film itself is so bad that it ends up being nothing more than a waste of talent and one more example of why remakes are a bad idea. The original 1975 version of "The Stepford Wives" was well-received and has remained something of a cult classic for years. Studio executives just couldn't resist remaking it with some big marquee names, including Nicole Kidman. Matthew Broderick, Christopher Walken, Bette Midler and Glenn Close. 
The movie tells the story of a Connecticut community where all of the women have been changed from driven career women into perfect automatons of 1950's era femininity. The remake glosses over the major feminist issues that the original dealt with. It just becomes another star-bloated mess created solely to make money, an unfortunate and common occurrence during summer. 

Photo courtesy of AI\MoviePhotos.com Walter (Matthew Broderick) and Joanna (Nicole Kidman) mingle with a new community In "The Stepford Wives." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu, Molly Griffm at mgriffin@nd.edu, Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu and Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu. 
page 14 Thursday, August 26, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 
Ricky Williams calls Dolphins 
Former running back headed to India 
Associated Pn.ss 
MIAMI -Retired running back Ricky Williams says he contacted the Miami Dolphins this week at the request of his agent but has edged testing positive for marijuana three times, which means he likely wouldn't be allowed to play this season, even if he decid­ed to come out of retirement. 
Williams is in Australia and said he plans to travel to India soon for a "couple of months." He said he contact­ed the Dolphins after they sent him a letter last week 
no plans to rejoin the team any­time soon. 
Williams didn't rule out a return but made it clear that given his contract and the state of the coaching staff, "It's not in my 
seeking repay­"I didn't call them to see ifI ment of 
$8.6 mil­
could come back. I was just 
lion by
causing a conversation to Monday. happen." "I did­
n't call them to 
Ricky Williams see if I former running back c o u I d c o m e back. I was just causing a con-
to pay the money back or return to the team by Monday, Williams said, "That's really up to the Dolphins about the money.... This whole thing gets crazier by the day." 
Williams' agent, Leigh Steinberg, didn't return calls seeking comment. Coach Dave Wannstedt declined to comment. 
''I'm only commenting about the players on our team," Wannstedt said. 
Retirement papers Williams filed with the NFL last month aren't binding. But because he was in the league's substance abuse program, he can't return for one year without penalty. 
Williams has said he's a three-time offender in the program, meaning the penalty would be a suspen­sion that would prohibit him from playing this season. 
Williams, who led the NFL in rushing in 2002, stunned the Dolphins when he decid­ed to retire a week before training camp started at age 27. 

Woodson to rejoin camp 
Cornerback ends Raiders holdout 
Associated Press 
NAPA, Calif. -Charles Woodson confirmed Wednesday night he would end his holdout and be in camp with the Oakland Raiders next week. 
The four-time Pro Bowl cornerback announced his intentions in an e-mail to The Associated Press. 
The Raiders placed the franchise tag on Woodson in February. With the franchise designation, he would make close to $8.8 million this sea­son, but Woodson hasn't signed the Raiders' tender ­which he must do before negotiating a new deal. 
Woodson, who's entering his seventh pro season, is seeking a big-money, long­term contract and reportedly wants to be the highest paid cornerback in the NFL. 
Earlier Wednesday, 

Raiders coach Norv Turner said he expected Woodson to be in camp next week. 
Turner said that Woodson needs to be in practice "as soon as he can" to be ready for the season. Turner said he doubted Woodson would be prepared for the season opener Sept. 12 at Pittsburgh if he waited until after the final preseason game Sept. 2 to join the team. 
Even if he reports Monday, it's unclear whether Woodson would play in the Raiders' final exhibition game next Thursday at home against St. Louis. 
"I'd hate to answer that either way," Turner said Wednesday, when the Raiders broke camp in Napa and returned to their regular practice facility in Alameda. "We'd have to see where he's at." 
A call to Woodson's agent, Carl Poston, wasn't returned Wednesday. 
But Poston, in a rare inter­view, told the Contra Costa Times on Tuesday that Woodson would report next week and is anxious to get started. 
He has missed 28 days of training camp and both exhi­bition games, but has been working out twice a day in Houston. 
Raiders senior personnel executive Michael Lombardi said he hadn't been told by Poston that Woodson would be in camp. 
"I can't really say what's going to happen next week," Lombardi said. "It's all hypo­thetical. The way the system is, it's up to him. It's not up to us." 
All-Pro linebacker Julian Peterson of San Francisco, another holdout franchise player, signed Wednesday with the 49ers. Peterson is 
represented  by  Poston's  
brother, Kevin.  
It  could  take  Woodson  

some time to get up to speed on defensive coordinator Rob Ryan's new 3-4 scheme. 
"Playbooks are issued to players once they're here," Lombardi said. 
OLYMPICS 

Americans gone from wrestling 

Associated Press 

ATHENS, Greece -Jim Gruenwald and Garrett Lowney failed to advance from their pools Wednesday in Olympic Greco-Roman wrestling, mean­ing no Americans will be on the mat when three medals are decided Thursday. 
The six-man U.S. Greco­Homan team departs with only one medal -Rulon Gardner's bronze -the first time that's happened since Seoul in 1988. In Sydney, the Americans got a gold, silver and bronze, plus four medals in freestyle. Freestyle wrestling starts Friday in Athens. 
Lowney, a bronze medalist in Sydney, lost both of his pool matches Wednesday at 211 1/2 pounds (96kg), 3-1 to Ernesto Pena of Cuba and 4-0 in over­time to Lajos Virag of Hungary. Only the pool winners can win medals. 
"I wrestled terribly in my first match," said Lowney, a former All-American at Minnesota who lives in Freedom, Wis. "To train four years and make that much of a sacrifice, to come out and perform poorly in my first match was disappointing.... But this last match, I don't know where it came from. I don't know what happened." 
Lowney, 24, was called for unlocking on the clinch to start the overtime, giving Virag a point, then drew two decisive penalty points for blocking Virag's lift attempt -an infrac­tion he didn't know existed. 
'Tve been wrestling for years and I don't know where they pulled those points out of," said Lowney, who had even stronger words to describe the call. "I am completely dumbfounded." 
Gruenwald, sixth in the 2000 Olympics, pinned Hugo Passos of Portugal in 5:41 at 132 pounds (60kg), but lost 3-1 to pool win­ner Eusebio Diaconu of Romania. 
"But I can walk off the mat having wrestled at this level for well over a decade with no shame whatsoever," said Gruenwald, 34, of Milwaukee. 
The day before, Dennis Hall (121 pounds, 55kg), Oscar Wood (145 1/2 pounds, 66kg) and Brad Vering (185 pounds, 84kg) also were eliminated. Hall was a sil­ver medalist at Atlanta in 1996. 
The United States did not qual­ify an Olympic wrestler at 163 pounds (74kg). 
Also Wednesday, Turkey's Hamza Yerlikaya lost 3-0 to sil­ver medalist Ara Abrahamian of Sweden in the 185-pound (84kg) semifinals, ending his attempt to win a third consecutive gold. He also lost the bronze to Vichaslav Makaranka of Belarus, 2-1. but still got his first top-five finish in a world-level championship since Sydney. 
Winning golds were Hungary's Istvan Majoros, who surprised Russia's Gueidar Mamedaliev 3-1 in overtime at 121 pounds (55kg). 
best interests to play football right now," he told the Miami Herald in a story pub­lished Wednesday night on the newpaper's Web site. 
Williams has acknowl­

versation to happen," Williams said. "They sent me the letter and [my agent] told me it's in my best inter­ests to call them." 
Asked if he was prepared 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES WANTED FOR RENT 
2 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF Wanted: Football season tix or ND.CLOSE. IDEAL FOR 2-4 PEO-Michigan tix. 233-3618 
PLE. VERY REASONABLE RENT. TICKETS 
277-3097. Church Yard Sale SOCCER REFEREES -APARTMENT FOR RENTIN A businessman needs season tick-
PERSONAL

needed for south side elementary MISHAWAKA. Furnish and all utili-3 bedroom house for rent. ets for clients. 277-1659 
1836 Portage Ave school located near Erskine Golf ties included. No smoking, No pets. 1203 E. LaSalle. $600/mo + 
South Bend Course on Miami Street. Call 255-1738 for information. deposit. Appliances incl. BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX. Young ND alums need $30 per soccer game. Single person, no children. $400 Call 243-5870. PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES. Sat. Aug. 28th 8a.m.-noon Call574-291-4200. mo. 273-3911 TURTLE CREEK APT for MICHl­3 unit house.$550 per unit/mo. GAN wknd. Fumiture,appliances, Misc.ltems 4 bed 2 bath 925 No. Lawrence lncl water & elec. Each unit has full For Sale: ND footballtix. Good FOR SALE 876-7339 or 288-3613 kltchen,bath & 2 bdrms. Off street prices. 232-0964. Will pay top $$$ and finance party Got Highspeed? parking. Can walk to campus. for you and friends. RELIABLE RIDE 96 Honda Accord 1 bedroom Topsfield Condo for rent, Property Management Services, For Sale: NO footballtix. Good Want WIRELESS? EX sedan, AJC, moonroof, airbags, 10 minutes from Campus, 233-4590 prices. 232-0964. Will accept best proposal. cruise, 85,000 miles. Power win-$550/mo + utilities, modem, Networks installed & secured. dows and locks. Very good condi-hardwood floors, washer & dryer 2-bdrm house wlliving room, dining Wanted: ND foolballtix. Top $$$ Contact CPOEMD@AOL.COM lion. $6,250 OBO. 277-6910. and community pool. room, full bath. $575/mo+ulilities. 251-1570. Dan243-1515 Available immediately. Cute country house. Lincolnway Sister Locks by Phyllis 1988 Eagle Premier. $500. 232-Will consider lease/purchase (Osceola). Property Management ND ltballtix bought & sold a.m. NDDan03@yahoo.com 1985. option. Call 255-5365. Services 233-4590. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 269-683-4426 
Thursday, August 26, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Required meeting for all Seniors who will interview for jobs and internships in2004-05. Students will be provided with a brieforientation ofGO IRISH, Notre I)ametecmitihg, and the Student Contract. Meet the Career Center staffand begin your search for career opportunities. Attendance a~d Student I.D.. are required Business Majors 8:30 ...... 9:06 a.m. -Jordan ~uditorium 5:00 ~· 5:30 p.m. -,JordanAuditorium ··.·Engineering!Scienqe.Majors6:oo ~, 6::Jo p,~m.. w.., cere J~.Uttitorlum··· . . Arts & Letters ·Majors ··.7:00·-4···7:30 p.m. ~··ecE··A:uUitorium· If you are unable to· attend yout 111ajor specific sessipn, please a'(tetid.the 8:30a.m. session. Ifyou are unable to attend eitltet ofthese sessi011s, pJ~a~e conta~tThe Career Center. Getting Your Job &internship &ea£ch ·ToolsReatly! Speed Search-4 Workshops in l Hour Resume & Cover Letter, Interviewing, Careei· Fair Prep~ Job Search Techniques August 30th 6:00 ~ 7:00 p.m._ t~ Fortune lJ~Uroom September 22nd 6:00 .. 7:00p.m.......:ta Fortune. Ballroom To view other upcotning workshops, go to The Career Center web site, Click on 'Undergraduates', 'Events and Worksltops'; and '\Vorkshops':  
The Career Center Phone: 631 ..5200 Website: http://careeroenter.nd.edu AJ1\t1: ndcareercenter  

o Job search strategies 

o 
Meet career counselors reptesenting your major 

o 
Learn about upcoming workshops and events 


o Mock itl.terview sign;;.ups 
I 
I 
I 
-
CORPORATE SPONSOR 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, August 26, 2004 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Tancredi, Chapman get preseason honors 
Veteran defenders on preseason Hermann Trophy watch list for 
. . 

upcomzng campazgn 
Special to The Observer 
1\vo Notre Dame women's soc­cer players have received top preseason billing from various national organizations, as fifth­year central defender Melissa Tancredi (Ancaster, Ont.) and senior right back Candace Chapman (Ajax, Ont.) are among 12 players named to the Soccer Buzz preseason All-America squad. 
Both also are among the 25 players named to the 2004 pre­season watch list for the Missouri Athletic Club's Hermann Trophy national play­er-of-the-year award. Tancredi earlier had been picked to repeat as the Big East Conference defensive player of the year (an award that Chapman won in 2002) and also is one of 11 players named to Soccer America's 2004 presea­son All-America team. 
Tancredi was a Soccer Buzz first-team All-American in 2003, also receiving second team All­
America  honors  from  the  
National  Soccer  Coaches  
Association  of  America.  

Chapman -who also could play at forward or midfield during the upcoming season -had been an NSCAA second team All-American in 2002 before missing the 2003 season due to an ACL knee injury. 
The 2004 season will mark just the second time in Notre Dame's history (and first since 1997) that the Irish have fea­tured two returning NSCAA All­Americans in the defense. Notre Dame's 1997 team, still the most dominant all-around team in the program's history, featured two players -senior Kate Sobrero and sophomore Jen Grubb ­who previously had received NSCAA All-America honors (in 
'96). 
Tancredi -who like Chapman has starred for the Canadian National Team -could prove to be the nation's top defensive player in 2004, with Tennessee senior Keeley Dowling repre­senting the only other defender on both the Soccer America and Soccer Buzz preseason All-America teams.Tancredi, Chapman, Dowling and Virginia's Becky Sauerbrunn are the only defenders on the MAC Hermann Trophy watch list. 
Notre Dame -ranked as high as second in the national polls ­opens its season on Friday night versus Baylor, with kickoff set for 7:00p.m. 
Tancredi is one of nine players listed on both the Soccer America and Soccer Buzz pre­season All-America teams, with the other including Dowling, midfielders Carli Uoyd (Rutgers), Lindsey Huie (Portland), Leslie Osborne (Santa Clara) and Lori Chalupny (North Carolina), Portland forward Christine Sinclair and the North Carolina forward tandem of Lindsay Tarpley and Heather O'Reilly. 
Notre Dame joined North Carolina and Portland as teams with multiple players on the Soccer Buzz "Elite 12" presea­son All-America team while the Irish were one of five teams with multiple players on the MAC Hermann Trophy watch list. 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
Senior defender Tancredi was a Soccer Buzz first-team All-American In 2003 for the Irish. 
Share~ lnlemel AND Camcast Digital Classic wilh your roommales ONI.J $69.99 mo. for 9 mo. : 
4roommates-$17.50 I each I per mo. 3 roommates-$23.33 I each I per mo. 2roommates-$35.001each I per mo. 
~-­

------. 
Thursday, August 26, 2004 page 17
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


&e·' .... a····.· ..•·t··. •ur·1"n·.g·.. c··o·:·-he·..· .....a··d·11 . ..···• ...•
· . .. . . . . . . . . . . ·. • . . f..n·· ers~· 
t·a···. l.b1> kwe1·1.····
. ·...· ·········· ... ········& 
• 
• 
~ . . . . . . .
···.··a··z····
. ··:

· • ... ·· • .. J:a•···•···s···.·.···on mr.i .· . . 
. ·.. . .....· ·... ·.· ·. . .. . . .. · · .. . 
.. . ... ... . .. · ......... 
friday august 27th 2.004, doors open at 8:30pm, show begins at 9pm live at the Joyce Center Gate 1 0 ~ $1 0 tickets available at LaFortune ND~SMC, and Holy Cross Students Only ... Must have avalid 10 to purchase tickets and to enter www.nd.eedu/-theshow 
- 
I I I ' I I  
I I -I '  


r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------­

OUND THE NATION 
Page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERvuts wnu SERVtCES Thursday, August 26, 2004 
t~nm 
New York 
BtWtOn 
Tampa Bay Baltimore 
Toronto 
r~cord 
Minnesota 71-55 Cleveland 64-64 Chicago 61-63 Detroit 60·66 Kan~as CUy 44-80 


-
around the dial 
NFL Preseason Philadelphia at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Houston at Chicago Cubs 1:20 p.m., Fox Sports Chicago White Sox at Cleveland 6 p.m., WGN Colorado at Atlanta 6:30p.m., TBS 
OLYMPICS 

ing zone because of the "That's why you've got to games.
Associated Press 
potential for foul trouble," play perfect," Brown said. Brown plans to shorten 
ATHENS, Greece -The Brown said. "I hate zone, The U.S. team's final his playing rotation, which quality of the officiating at but I understand what practice Wednesday at the likely will mean less time the Olympics has so trou­they're saying. It depends American College of for Carmelo Anthony. bled Larry Brown that he on how they referee the Greece had the feel of the "He's not playing, he may just have his team game. I can't tell you how last day of school, the play­knows there's nothing he play the wrong way. it's going to be called, but I ers munching pepperoni can do about it," teammate 
The U.S. coach whose can't even comprehend pizza and lounging on LeBron James said. "For mantra is to "play the right some of the things I've benches in the shade what reason I can't tell way" was on the verge of seen." before boarding their team you, and he couldn't tell being talked into some­The refereeing has often bus that bears a Greek flag you if you asked him the thing he despises -play­been poor throughout the in the rear window. same." ing a zone defense -in tournament, with the U.S. Expectations for the U.S. How much spirit the Thursday's quarterfinal staff most upset by a series team have been lowered so Americans have left could against Spain. The voices of calls during the fourth much that a sports betting be a big factor in their calling for change belonged quarter of the Americans' parlor in Belgrade listed most important game of to assistant coaches Gregg opening round loss to Spain as a 3-point favorite. the Olympics. Popovich, Oliver Purnell Lithuania, when Lithuania The Spanish team went Some of the players have and Roy Williams. attempted 14 free throws undefeated in the prelimi­seemed beaten down at 
"Pop and Oliver and Roy and the Americans shot nary round and won all of times as Brown has criti­are bugging me about play-just two. its pre-Olympic tuneup cized the team regularly. 
IN BRIEF 
Bryant prosecuters claim 
DNA is contaminated 
DENVER -Two days before the start of jury selection in Kobe Bryant's rape case, prosecutors charged that crucial DNA evidence the defense had hoped to use to prove the NBA star's innocence might have been contaminated. 
The judge in the case granted pros­ecutors' request for a hearing Thursday to question the reliability of the defense's DNA experts. The witnesses are expected to argue that the DNA evidence shows the accuser was promiscuous. 
Prosecutors provided no details about the possible contamination in a court filing released Wednesday. But they expressed concerns about defense expert Elizabeth Johnson, who testified in June that DNA evi­dence suggests the accuser had sex with another man after her encounter with Bryant and before her hospital examination the follow­ing day. 
Giants to start Warner over 
Manning this week 
NEW YORK-Kurt Warner will start at quarterback for the New York Giants this week, although his competition with rookie Eli Manning for the regular-season job continues. 
Coach Tom Coughlin announced Wednesday that the two-time MVP will start Friday against the New York Jets, but that Manning, the No. 1 pick in the draft, will get about the same amount of snaps with the first­team offense. 
"It's Kurt's turn," Coughlin said, adding that it was his plan all along to have the two quarterbacks alter­nate starting assignments in the first three preseason games. 
Warner started against Kansas City in the preseason opener and Manning got a start last week against Carolina. 
Coughlin said he will name a starter for the season opener at Philadelphia on Sept. 12 "at the right time." 
NFL interested in possible
Anaheim franchise 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -The NFL has approached Anaheim city officials about possibly building a stadium complex for an NFL franchise that could begin play as soon as 2008. 
The area has been without an NFL team since the Rams moved from Anaheim to St. Louis and the Raiders went from Los Angeles to Oakland before the 1995 season. 
"We're evaluating a possible stadi­um project in Anaheim with city offi­cials along with the three sites in the Los Angeles area," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said late Wednesday. "The discussions are exploratory and preliminary at this point." 
Aiello referred to the Los Angeles Coliseum, where the Raiders played before returning to Oakland; the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, and a pro­posed site in Carson. 
"We're working off a time line that would have us make a decision next May," Aiello said. 


Danice Patry Bueso ­Megan Buller John Burke­Caitlin Burns ­Ashley Burtner ­Monica Bushman -SSP Rebecca Byers-SSP Lindsay Byrne -ISSLP Tessa Bysong-SSP Dan Campion -SSP Brian Carlisle -SSP Bethany Caron -SSP Tanya Cheatham-NYSP Colleen Check-SSP Kathleen Chenoweth -ISSLP Gretchen Chriszt-SSP Katherine Clark -SSP Kevin Clock-SSP Kary Clune-NYSP Natalie Conneely-SSP James Costanro-ACCION Stacey Cowan -ISSLP Erin Cox -SSP Nicholas Dailey -SSP Megan Davisson -SSP Anna Deibel -NYSP Melissa DeLeon -SSP 
u 
the Alumni Association and 

Jason Laws -SSP ·'''· Yuen Shan Christine Lee t.::SSP Andrea Lee -SSP :''" . 
Dana Lee -SSP Margaret Lee -ACyTON Michelle Lee -SSif Alex Lesiak -SS.l{ Daniel Liem -SSP Zhu Jun Liong-SSP Julia Renee Longoria-SSP Chris Lopez -SSP William Lopez -ISSLP Jennifer Lucado -SSP Lindsay MacRandall -SSP Elizabeth Marchal -SSP Dailyn Martinez-SSP Glenda Mature-HLIP Laura McAllister -SSP Joe McFarlane -SSP Shannon ln<;uum~u:: Daniel ssmr:rmrrrww:m:m?n\,;,,,.,.,.,,••• ~ill 
Leigh lV!<·''""~'.v<::y 
-SSP Jacqueline Heap -HLIP Diane Heilmann -SSP Anne Heltzel -SSP 
,.,.,:,·:•.•• ··.•):•:•::.'::~fuh~Henley -SSP 
·•· Herbert -SSP Herman -ISSLP 
Hernandez -SSP Javier Hernandez -HLIP Christina Hill -SSP Angela Hoelzle -SSP Amelia Hoffmann -SSP Claire Hoipkemier -ISSLP Kristin Horney-SSP Matthew Houlihan -NYSP Leslie Humboldt -SSP Janet Ibarra-HLIP John Infranca -ISSLP 
J. Andrew Jaco-SSP Rachel Jacobs -SSP Kevin Jansen -SSP Jill Joehl -ISSLP Megan Johnson -SSP Genevieve Jordan -SSP Paul Kellner -SSP Molly Kelly -NYSP 
Kathryn Kemnetz-Yw•·•·•·•·•·•·•·••·••••••••••••••••••• Claire Kenkel -11:1~!4'~ ??tt•t··~~t~ 
Halle Kiefer ­
Kathleen K~.~-~~~~ !l!~l!iiJIJilii!!!!!!l!i!l!lllilJI~l 
Patty Kim Eric 

Thursday, August 26, 2004 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
Sawyer 
continued from page 24 
championship trophy." 
Sawyer credits Clark for keep­ing team goals in sight and indi­vidual awards in perspective. 
"You tell me what the end-of­the-season polls are, and then I'll be interested," Clark said. "It's always nice that people think rea­sonably highly of you, [but it's a) tribute to last year's team." 
This year's team has high expectations to match last year's historically successful team. The defending Big East champions are picked to finish third in the confer­ence, with top talents Justin Detter and Kevin Hichards depart­ing as Major League Soccer draft picks. 
A tough schedule includes top­ranked Indiana and conference foe St. John's, currently at No. 2. Irish fans, however, can find sol­ace in Sawyer and one of the nation's top defenses. 
"We have the best defense in the country," Sawyer said, specifying co-captains and fellow defenders Stewart and Kevin Goldthwaite. With sophomore Hyan Miller fill­ing out the back line, Sawyer has reason to be confident. In Monday's preseason contest with Northwestern, they forced Sawyer to make only three saves -one of which was a heart-stopping deflection in the lower corner. 
This performance also gives confidence to Clark, who is enter­ing his fourth year with the men's soccer program. 
"(Sawyer, Stewart and Goldthwaite! are three of the best collegiate players in the country," Clark said. "They're all great. They all sought their roles out. They all have tremendous respect for one another. They all have dif­ferent strengths ... the key thing is that they work very well together." 
The senior standouts debuted 

with the team in the same season 
as Oark, who came from a head­
coaching job at Stanford. When Clark arrived that January, Sawyer had already committed, citing "the potential of the pro­gram" and the players on the team as major reasons for choos­ing Notre Dame in the recruiting process. 

"If I had been recruiting a goal­keeper [at Stanford], I would have been recruiting Chris Sawyer," Clark said, recalling his enthusi­asm for working with the young keeper. 
Day-to-day, Sawyer works with goalie coach Brian Wiese. 
"Coach Wiese has worked tremendously with him," Clark said. "[Wiese] did a fabulous job ... It's not hard to work with Chris because he's a very motivated, dedicated young man and he works very hard at getting better." 
Sawyer also attributes his newly-honed skills to Wiese's com­mitment. 
''I've improved dramatically since I came here," Sawyer said. He filled in as goalkeeper at age 12 after starting his soccer career on the front line. 
"I fell into something that I loved," he recalled. 
Sawyer has made himself into one of the most feared goalkeep­ers in the nation, with hard work, natural talent and the persever­ance of his coaches. 
"It makes for a success story," Clark said. "(Sawyer] came in and he was a good goalkeeper when he came in, but a goalkeeper needs a personality ... He needs to have presence, and Chris has developed that over the years." 
As Sawyer enters his fmal year of eligibility, he hopes the potential will be realized after last year's trip to the Sweet 16. 
"Our own expectations are cer­tainly the Final Four and maybe the national championship," he said. 
With Sawyer anchoring an out­standing defense on a talented team, the statement isn't difficult to believe. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.cdu 
Have you thought about teaching ~ligion and becoming a Catechist? 
Campus Ministry 
Ifyou can answer YES to any or all ofthese questions~ come&doutmore about being a Religion Teacher. 
Importantln.fonnation Meeting: Wednesday, September 1, 2004 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 

Thursday, August 26, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
consistency as competitors. and Zander to take the team's team one of their most success­Still, Barstis views this meet "Those three runners will be newcomers under their wings. ful seasons yet, Barstis said. as a workout, describing what­the foundation Freshman Megan "We are more talented than ever the results may be as a continued from page 24 of our pro­"/ am not going to put Gray and Loyola last season," Barstis said. "I am starting point for the team's 
gram in the transfer Megan not going to put it past this season-long goals. 
Belles 
it past this team to get
returning who placed in the top upcoming Murphy are ex­team to get fourth or better at "I am looking at this meet as 60 for the Belles at last year's years," Barstis fourth or better at the pected to make the conference meet." a baseline for what to expect conference meet. said. conference meet., an impact this Saint Mary's will get a chance for the rest of the season," 
Sophomores Erin Nolan and Also return­season and add to see how well they are com­Barstis said. "It will give me a Katie White join Otto on the ing for the depth to the peting as the Heidelberg feel of what we need to do to 
Dave Barstis
squad. Nolan and White placed Belles are co­team under Invitational on Sept. 3 nears. get to where we want to be." 50th and 55th respectively at captains Belles coach Barstis' guid-The team finished fifth out of 12 the MIAA conference meet. Elizabeth ance. teams last year in the Seventh-year head coach Dave Commers and Risa Zander. Going into the season with a Invitational and is hoping to Contact Dan Tapetillo at Barstis praised the trio for their Barstis is looking to Commers can-do attitude should give the improve upon these results. jtapetil@nd.edu 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS, FACU.LTY, AN.D STAFF Come s-ee what off.campus living is: like with the #1 apmtnulnt eommunity for uff·eampus housing. Apart1nenu re:ady for IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. We are no\v pre~lea.sing tor the 2005 SPRING SEMESTER. Please call us, visit om leasing center. o.r brow:s.e our website at www.turtlecreeknd.cam tior nmn:: information about our community. TURTLE GREEK APARTMENTS 1710 Turtle Creek Dr South Benet lN 4{}()3 7" 574..272..~H24.  
Automation Alley Technology Center Funding and resources to speed new technology to market Entrepreneurs, small businesses, companies with high-potential technology ideas: The Automation Alley Technology Center is the ultimate resource for accelerating your concept to market. Connect with funding opportunities­Develop your technology idea ASAP­We'll help you identify and apply for vital Our world-class rapid commercialization pre-seed funding for development and process and extensive network of prototyping, as well as post-development professional volunteer service providers funding for commercialization. Funding is deliver the tools, expertise and experience available through our strong partnerships for developing new technology solutions with the National Automotive Center and and getting them to market quickly. the Michigan Economic Development For the fastest route from concept to market, Corporation and relationships with angel visit us at www.automationalleytechcenter.com investors, venture capitalists and bankers. or call 800.427.5100. r!t 115.100BIItl1  

Wooden, who did the same. "Those guys are right there

Football 
in the mix, which is exciting 

continued from page 24 for me as a coach, that those ------------guys are up there and com­"Nothing's really set in stone. peting and have the opportu­1 think that's a great thing to nity to play because we're have from a coaching stand-going to need them," Wilks point, because you still got said. guys that are hungry and still Competition for starting trying to play. sports will continue until 
"Tommy Zbikowski is right Sept. 4, when the Irish face there in the mix as well as BYU in the opener. Chinedum [Ndukwe] and "I always encourage com­Freddie Parish, So, we have petition," Wilks said. "And some great safeties that are we always emphasize and going to all play this year." talk about nothing is final 
On the corners, senior right now, which it's not. So Dwight Ellick leads a group those guys are still trying to that lost Vontez Duff and do the little things right, try­Jason Beckstrom from 2003. ing make plays, trying not to Ellick and Burrell will be make mistakes. They're com­looked upon as the veterans peting with one another, of this group. without a doubt." 
"Experience, you can't sub-Notes stitute that," Wilks said of his + The Irish moved practice veterans. "So they bring the inside to Loftus Sports Center knowledge of the game, they after strong thunderstorms 
bring experience from being arrived about halfway in the heat of battle. They let through practice Wednesday. these young guys know + Senior running back exactly what it's going to take Ryan Grant was in shoulder to get out there and compete. pads but not participating in So they've really [embraced] team drills Wednesday. being the leaders, not only "That's the first sign, start­from a standpoint of football, ing to get back and get clos­but even off the football field er," Irish coach Tyrone in the meeting room as well. Willingham said. "We didn't So they bring a lot right now put him in any team plays, to the table." but still, he was being active, 
Also competing for time is and he's starting to get closer senior Carlos Campbell, who to the lineup." switched to defensive back from wide receiver, and red-Contact Heather Van Hoegarden shirt freshman Ambrose at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
such as Tiger Woods PGA 

Tour 2005. They will be available for students to try continued from page 24 out during the competition. 
"That's going to be a pretty 10-11, and the winner of the cool thing," Geiger said. 16 finalists earns a $10,000 Students can sign up online prize. at www.ncaafootballchal­
In order to participate, lenge.com, or they can show garners must be a currently­up at Stepan Center Tuesday enrolled student at the uni­to sign up at the door. versity where the Challenge However, it is limited to the is held. They will be pitted first 128 students. The against the other competi­Challenge is set to start at 4 tors through a random p.m., and Geiger said it bracket. should last four to five hours. 
And since not all 8,000 stu­"The competition, the dents can participate in the atmosphere, it's unreal," he Challenge itself, the EA said. Sports will bring its trucks filled with kiosks of games Contact Heather Van Hoegarden that haven't been released, at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
EA Sports 

page 22 Thursday, August 26, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Injury sidelines local Irish player 
Pinnick will miss season after breaking neck in car accident 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
As a South Bend resident, freshman Susan Pinnick didn't need to travel very far to join the Notre Dame women's soc­cer team. But due to a sum­mer accident, the former St. Joseph's High School standout will not take the field for the Irish this year no matter how close she is. 
Pinnick will not get the chance to compete this year after a van crash on June 12 left her sidelined for the sea­son. 
While on a trip to Colorado with her Carmel soccer team, the team's extended passenger van collided with an SUV as both vehicles attempted to change lanes. The van rolled and. of the 17 other members in the van, Pinnick 

and we want 
her to still feel like a part of this team even if she's not playing." 
Despite sitting out this fall, both Pinnick and Waldrum are anticipating her return next season. 
"I really miss being out on the field and getting to play," Pinnick said. "I know I'll learn a lot just by watching but it's just not the same as being out on the field." 
Waldrum knows that once she does come back, Pinnick will be an impact player. 
"She'll be able to help us because she has a different style than a lot of our other attackers. Her style is more attacking the defense head-on and putting pressure on the opposing defenders rather than with your back to the goal like some of our other forwards. It gives us a differ­ent look to show our oppo­nents." 

Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney 1 @nd.edu 
caught the "/ remember right before on the side-brunt of the lines and
the accident, just as the
injuries, bench with 
though she SUV hit us, but that's the stats and has no rec­last thing I remember." other things," 
ollection of Waldrum said. the actual "Susan still 
Susan Pinnick 
accident. comes to prac­"I remem­Injured freshman tice everyday 
ber right before the accident, just as the SUV was about to hit us," she said, "but that's the last thing I remem­ber." 
The doctors in Colorado found that she had a fractured vertebra in addition to a bro­ken right hand and nerve damage in her left arm. She remained in the hospital for 12 days. 
"The most important thing [the doctors] told me was that I would make a full recovery .. . and I took it in stride once I realized it could have been a lot worse," Pinnick said. 
However, not everyone knew Pinnick could make such a recovery right away, and for coach Randy Waldrum, the worst part was not knowing the severity of the injury. 
"When you hear 'broken neck', you automatically fear the worst like paralysis or other long term effects," Waldrum said. "Honestly, I don't think anyone was even thinking about the season." 
The injury will not end 
Pinnick's career. but is serious enough to end her season before it even begins. She still wears a soft collar neck brace, but that is an upgrade from the supportive halo she had to use after the accident. 
Currently, she is in the midst of rehabilitating both her arm and her neck at Memorial llospital. 
"I have most of the move­ment back in my arm so right now they're working on strengthening it without too much strain on the neck," Pinnick said. "For the neck, we're just making sure it's sta­ble. It's actually been moving a lot quicker than we thought it would." 
The doctors told Pinnick it would take six months to a year to be back at full strength, but that doesn't fill the void of sitting on the side­lines. 
Pinnick. a high school Parade All-American, will remain on the team's roster even though Waldrum will not be able to use her on the field. 
"She'll be 
helping us out 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 27 IRISH vs. BAYLOR 7:30PM ALUMNI FIELD 
THE FIRST 500 fANS RECEIVE A 2004 CCER SCHEDULE T..SHIRT! 


Thursday, August 26, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
I REMOVED ALL THE THE FIRST ITEM ON I ALWA't'S WONDERED CHAIRS TO ENCOURAGE THE AGENDA 15 ... WHAT EFFICIENCY MORE EFFICIENT OW, OW! LEGS 50 LOOKED LIKE. MEETINGS. TIRED ... MEETING 
ADJOURNED In 
1// 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 
PEANUTS 
I1
VE BEEN WAITING EVER'< DAY FOR 1 CAN'T FIGURE A LETTER FROM THAT PRETW LITTLE OUTWI·W S~E 
AASN'T WRITTEN ..
GIRL I MET AT CAMP... 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
Let's talk about Nice job, my commission 
Snedly 

BYMUP I
j

I I r I I 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LEREC 
j

I I r [] 
WHE:N mE RING SEJERY SOL-D FOR A.
j 
PR.e=MIUM PRICE, mE JEWELER

rJ r I I 
SAID IT WAS A. --­
www.juiTble.oom 

I GOURAC ± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I I r J I 
~r here: 

"[ I I J' OF A [ I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: MAIZE BAKED FORGOT CIPHERYesterday's Answer: 
What the shady salesman did to the unsuspecting buyer-TOOK HIM FOR A RIDE 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 29 Sources of soft 61 Duel tool 
1 _ Morris, sig­feathers 62 Bursting stars nature on the 32 Admission 63 Superboy's girl-Declaration of seeker, maybe: friend Independence Abbr. 64 Give it 
5 Untanned 33 Secret grp. 65 "_ is human 9 Enthusiastic "
since 1947 about 34 Hook, line or 66 RR employeesinker
14 Home of the 67 Kids' closetful Rainbow Bridge 35 "Stop!" National 36 Come down 
DOWN Monument hard 1 Soprano 15 City near 40 Parts of a V for­Swenson 
Stillwater mation 2 Actors Peter 
16 Second-largest 42 Norway's patron and Annette 
lake in North saint 3 Kellogg's homeAmerica 43 Currency shop 4 Things can go17 Carry abbr. 
to them 1 8 1984 Peace 46 Hike 
5 Start of an initia­
Nobelist 471nfer 
tive 19 What to say to a 49 Pal of Piglet 
6 "Sometimes youkahuna 50 Cask material feellike " 20 Ballpark fare 51 "Cursed" team, 7 Printing tech­23 Ready informally nique: Abbr. 24 Engine need 52 Summer worker 8 Professor 
25 Casa 54 It might pick up 9 "Adventures in (Italian restau­a few pointers moving" sloga­rant name) 57 Aviary sound neer, once 
39 International 45 Democratic 56 Encircle 28 Born 60 Came down 10 _-free Harvester vehi-symbols 11 One way to cle maker 
47 Sawbones 57 Bang makerANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE swing 40 "Little" car of 48 Yoga instruction 
-::T~=-r::-1 12 Cry at fireworks song 51 Disperse58 Ply with wine53 Milk-Bone bis-

nucleus proposal first 
and flowers,cui!, e.g.

introduced in say
..;:~UI:UU!~![··· 21 Wimp 54 Certain book­
22 Bro's sibling Gong. in 1923 mark
~~:+::-+=-! 25 Meet 44 Harry Potter's forte 55 Dash 59 Christmas
ji~~~~~ -::-t-rl-:-:+-=+~:+.=-1 26 Return destina­"1!J:mm~•· tion?: Abbr.
..;; 27 Decoration 
~ 

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a r-+:+=+:-1 30 Old gold coin credit card, 1-800-814-5554. -=+=+:=-t 31 Belgian painter 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayJames crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
-:+::+:+:~ 32 Lassie, for one Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -=+::+.::+:-i-1 35 Coming past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -::+:+.:+:::-1 37 Put to Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
__.._,_.....__, 38 2001 biopic solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _________ State _______ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Since your overall objective is to secure your 
home base and establish stability within your family and your private life, it's 
very fortunate that a bunch of planets are urging you to work hard to get better 
organized in your job and at home. Strike while the iron is hot! 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Since this is a time of flux and change with 
respect to your job or your residential scene, a mild undercurrent of uneasiness 
and distraction is always present within you. You like stability. That's why 
romantic diversions, entertaining escapes and vacations are so appealing now. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ever since 2001, you've been trying to figure 
out who you are. (You're still not sure how to dress.) Your current 
preoccupation with home and family might help you to work through this 
identity crisis. Although, it's not really a crisis because you'll always have each 
other. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Around 1989-90, it was a testing time for you. 
Relationships probably took a dive. Nevertheless, many of you made new 
beginnings then. Now you can see what worked and what didn't. Don't get 
hung up on what didn't work. Don't see it as failure. Life is a learning curve. 
Whee! 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You still have to pare down, hone, reduce, 
streamline, and rid yourself of anything you no longer need. (This includes 
possessions, property, people, relationships and even jobs.) You have to lighten 
your load to get ready for a new scene in 2005-06. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You're still on top of your game. You've got the 
powah! Of course, along with power comes responsibility. How are you going 
to play your hand? Friends are supportive now. With all these planets in your 
sign, it's important to demand the advantage and go after what you want. 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Most of you are reaping the rewards of previous 
efforts. Some of you are prepared to start something new because the old 
methods didn't work. But all of you need to hide somewhat right now in order 
to replenish, restore and re-energize yourself. You've got a lot to think about. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Since you know that a powerful career time is 
imminent (within the next two years), it behooves you to work with others -­
especially groups --to promote your best interests. Sometimes it's best to wait. 
Sometimes you have to grab the baton and run. Now is the time to go for it! 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Ever since 2001, you've been champing 
at the bit. Big plans excite you now. You can see what it is that you want to 
accomplish. Because your goal is primarily in focus, just start to build steadily 
toward it. Effort in one direction always brings benefit. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You're in a two-year window that is very 
testing for close partnerships. (Last year and this year.) Relationships that were 
meant to dissolve are doing so. Relationships that were meant to endure have 
to undergo readjustments. It's a new world for you, really. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): According to the planets, you're still working 
very hard. If you feel overwhelmed by it all --relax. This is meant to be. By 
next year, you're out of the woods and running. Increased recognition and 
adulation for your efforts are likely then. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Increased responsibilities with children are 
likely now. Privately, many of you are wondering how to advance your career 
in a meaningful way. You want to find work that is rewarding, fulfilling and 
fun. And you want to get paid a lot of money for it. Sounds good to me. 
IF AUG. 26 IS YOUR BIRTHDAY: Musician Elvis Costello (1954) shares 
your birthday. You're passionate about life, and you believe in yourself. People 
love your flamboyant, sexy style. Your high energy and perseverance 
contribute to your success. You often shock people to see their reaction. You 
have a fine mind. In the year ahead, you will have to make an important 
choice. Choose wisely. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, August 26, 2004 
Page 24 
fOOTBALL 

Options aplenty 
A deep secondary gives the Irish tough competition for starting jobs 

By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Edi1or 

The Irish secondary will be deep, but more importantly, everyone on the chart can step onto the field at any time. 
"Sometimes you have num­bers, but those guys aren't ready to get on the field," defensive backs coach Steven Wilks said. "We have a lot of guys that could possibly step on the field and help us out this year." 
Leading the way could be senior free safety Quentin Burrell. Burrell is one of the most experienced of the group, recording 58 tackles, including 39 solos in 2003, while inter­cepting four passes and recov­ering two fumbles. He was thrust into a starting role last season after a season-ending injury to Glenn Earl, starting the last nine games. 
"Quentin is a proven football player. He's having an excel­lent camp since he's been back," Wilks said of the senior who was sidelined with an injury earlier. 
Head coach Tyrone Willingham is also high on the senior leader. 
"Early in camp, we missed Quentin Burrell," Willingham said. "He's kind of a senior guy back there that's played, that's had some success, so you miss him. 
"Getting him back in there should add something to us, from the standpoint of leader­ship in terms of communica­tion, leadership in terms of play and just overall the matu-
VIDEO GAMES 

EA Sports brings competition to ND 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Ediwr 

Next week, all the hours spent playing NCAA Football could pay off for one Notre Dame student. 
Electronic Arts Sports, commonly known 
of the EA Sports lifestyle marketing department. "We wanted to make sure it went to the top football schools in the country, and what better place to start then in South Bend [at Notre Dame]. where the College Football Hall of Fame is." 
The NCAA contest is in its 
first year. It was as EA Sports, will come to campus Aug. 31, for the 2004 EA Sports NCAA Football Challenge. The competition will 

consist of 128 Notre Dame stu­dents who signed up either online or at the door. They will play each other in NCAA Football 2004 in head-to­head action on PlayStation2. The winner of the Notre Dame competition will advance to Las Vegas, Nev. where he or she will face off against 15 other winners from schools around the nation, including Southern California, Purdue, Florida State and Miami. 
Notre Dame is the first stop on the 16-school tour. "Notre Dame is a huge foot­ball school," said Trey Geiger 
inspired by EA Sports' Madden NFL Football con­test, which is in its third year. The NFL contest spanned 32 cities, and had as 
many as 1,000 con­testants in each city. 
"It's been a huge success," Geiger said. "People are into it; they love the competition." 
Geiger said he thinks the NCAA contest will be just as popular. At each school. 128 students will compete to advance to Las Vegas. 
"We realized there are col­lege kids all over playing this game [NCAA Football 2004]." Geiger said. "They can prove who is the best challenger in the country." 
The finals will be held Dec. 
see EA SPORTS/page 21 
rity it takes to be a veteran player." 
Competing for time at safety will be sophomore Tom Zbikowski. After not playing last fall, he was named the Defensive Player of the Game in the Blue-Gold game in the spring. Zbikowski was also a USA Today first-team All­American in high school. Also in the mix at safety will be 6­foot, 202-pound sophomore Freddie Parish, who played in 10 games last season. These two are joined by 6-foot-2, 223-pound classmate Chinedum Ndukwe, who switched to safety after play­ing wide receiver as a fresh­man. 
"Right now, everybody's real­ly competing," Wilks said. 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 
SMC CROSS-COUNTRY 
Belles could run away with MIAA 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 

If there is such a thing as a die-hard worker, look no fur­ther than the Saint Mary's cross country team. With a mixture of veterans and newcomers, the Belles are looking to be a legiti­mate threat this upcoming sea­son. 
After a program-best finish of sixth at the MlAA Championships last year, the Belles' roster continues to teem with talent and promise. Four of the five top runners from last year's team return with great expectations after last season's success. 
Sophomore Sara Otto leads the pack as the team's top fin­isher at last season's champi­onships. The stellar sophomore placed 22nd overall and fin­ished 84th at the NCAA Division III Regionals at Hanover College. She became the team's No. 1 runner after a respiratory infection sidelined senior Jackie Bauters prior to last year's MIAA Championships. Otto is just one of three sophomores 
see BELLES/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Sawyer is prepared to lead Irish 

By KATE GALES Sports Wri1er 

Year in and year out, Chris Sawyer has held the heart of the Irish soccer team in his hands. 
This season, the senior goal­keeper emerges with an All­American award under his belt and his eyes firmly fixed on lead­ing the Irish to a national cham­pionship. 
"He came in here a very good goalkeeper," coach Bobby Clark said. "He has the potential to leave here the best goalkeeper in the country." 
As Sawyer has improved as a goalkeeper, his teammates have improved as well. 
"For about the past five or six years, the program has been on its way up," Sawyer said. "Our class is just trying to make its mark." 
To critics, the team already has. The National Soccer Coaches of America Association and adidas each ranked the Irish No. 9 in their preseason polls. Additionally, Sawyer and center defender Jack Stewart were named to the Hermann Trophy watch list. The award honors collegiate soccer's most valuable player. 
"Personal awards don't mean anything," Sawyer said. "All that matters is having the national 
see SAWYER/page 20 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
OLYMPICS 
NBA 

NFL Pinnick sidelined 
WOMEN'S SOCCER
NFL 

Preseason honors coaching staff 
Refs frustrate 
~uarterback 
Former Dolphins run-Susan Pinnick will be 
announcedecision made 
The defense in Bryant 

ning back Ricky out for the season due 
case argues that victim's 

Williams announces to injuries sustained in a 
USA basketball coach­The Giants announce Melissa Tancredi and 
DNA is contaminated. 

plans to play in India. car accident. 
es have complained 
Candace Chapman werethat Warner will start 
about refereeing. 
over Eli Manning. 
named to Hermann Tropy watch list. 
page 16page 22 page 18 page 18page 18 page 16 



