
Saint Mary's addresses budget cut problems 
Deficit to reach $1.5 
College confident that million next fiscal year enrollment will rise 
By MEGAN O'NEIL By ANGELA SAOUD News Writer Saint Mary's Editor 
DuP to a significant drop in Despite a depleted freshman class Pnrollm1~nt and rising operating coupled with enrollment drops at costs. Saint Mary's College is women's colleges nationwide, Saint r.urrently Mary's is confident it will recover facing a bu-SeeA/so from negative admissions trends. dget deficit Director of Institutional Research 
"Wilson speaks
of $1.5 mil­Mary Lelik said Saint Mary's is in lion for the about budget cuts at the norm as far as declining admis­2005 fiscal sions among the top ten women's
SMC"
yPar. colleges in the country. 
According page3 Of the 10 institutions, eight have to Laurie experienced declines in the number Stickelmaif'r. vice president of of entering students between 1999 
Students walked out of Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary's. College administrators said they do see BUDGET/page 6 not believe current budget shortfalls will have any long-term negative effects for the school. see LOSSES/page 3 
Co111111ittee, ND discuss parties 
City officials focus on issues ofoff-campus students 
By TERESA FRALISH A"ociate News Editor 
South Bend city officials and residents met with Notre Dame ollicials and students Monday to discuss concerns raised by neighbors about excessive par­tying and noise levels at off­campus student houses. 
Those at the meeting reached no formal decisions but agreed to share certain types of infor­mation and to work to increase communication among the vari­ous interested parties. 
The meeting of the South Bend Common Council's Committee on Health and Public Safety was organized by Ann Puzzello. District 4 Council rep­resentative and chair of the committee. 
Puzzello planned Thursday's meeting as an extension of meetings held previously with South Bend residents. who detailed specific complaints about parties. 
At the beginning of the meet­ing. Puzzello distributed a list of specific concerns residents had previously voiced about student parties, including noise levels. property damage and police response to loud parties. Committee members and the representatives began by addressing the list of approxi­mately 20 problems. 
Bill Kirk, Notre Dame's associ­ate vice president for student affairs. explained some of the legal restrictions the University faces in sanctioning student partiers or releasing information about penalties for specific inci­dents. 
"We cannot disclose what hap­pened to a particular student," Kirk said. 
In addition. Kirk said that reports of noisy parties often did not provide enough information for Notre Dame to investigate the complaint. 
"Sometimes we're getting reports by which we have no means to verify." Kirk said. "Quite honestly, we can't always verify the information." 
But when enough information is available linking students to specific incidents, the University can take action, Kirk said. 
"We have on several circum­stances ... when we have certain information dealt with those stu­dents pretty severely," he said. 
see MEETING/page 4 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group debates off-campus housing 



Council of Representatives members convened on Monday to discuss a meeting about off-campus student concerns. 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 

The Council of Representa­tives met Monday to discuss the City of South Bend City Council meeting about students partying off campus and to introduce nominations for the two vice president positions on the Judicial Council. 
Student Body President Adam Istvan summarized the council meeting for the representatives. 
'The South Bend Council met to discuss off campus parties and 
see COR/page6 



Donnelly talks about campaign strategies 
Indiana congressional candidate addresses Saint Mary's College 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Indiana 2nd District congres­sional candidate Joe Donnelly spoke to the College Democrats at Saint Mary's Monday about his campaign and possible involve­ment for young people. 
A Notre Dame graduate and Notre Dame law school alumnus, Donnelly said the November elec­tion was critical, along with and the race for Indiana's 2nd District, one of the nation's clos­est. 
"This is one of the hottest races in the country." said Donnelly. "There is a 50-50 difference." 
Reflecting on the 1986 Indiana congressional election that came down to 47 votes, Donnelly emphasized the significance of every individual voter. 
"You literally could go around to two or three dorms here and talk to residents and change the outcome of that election," said Donnelly. 
The candidate urged his audi­ence to engage themselves with local politics and exercise the right to vote. 
"When I hear young people saying 'My vote doesn't count.' I shake my head because it has never counted more," he said. 
It was this sense of civic obliga­tion. said Donnelly that led him 
seeTALK/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Props to 
you 
Props to you if ... 
Your NCAA football dynasty 
always takes priority over home­
work. You think there should be a 
campus-wide beer pong league. 
Despite what 
everyone says 
Kenyatta Storln 
you realize that 
"The Boondock 
Saints" truly is a Assistant 
horrible piece of Scene Editor 
cinema. You hate 
Barry Bonds. 
You hate people who wear 
Yankees hats, but have never even 
been to New York before. 
You think people that pop their 
collars look ridiculous. You think 
50 Cent is overrated. 
You wish you had a Jesus action 
l1gure (yes. they do exist). Within 
the last year you busted out your 
old Super Nintendo to play Mario 
again. 
1\ part of you feels sad that the 
Expos are leaving Montreal. You 
think Dave Chapelle is god. You 
don't think Dave Matthews is god. 
You don't understand what the 
big deal about N/\SC/\R is and don't 
care to find out. You hate Jared 
from Subway with a passion. You 
go out drinking four or more nights 
a week and scoff at people who 
think that is a sign of aleoholism. 
You hate both George Bush and John Kerry. You know what "Aqua Team !Iunger Force" is. Your idea of a good pep rally is having forties at four. You played "Chrono Trigger" back in the day. 
You think the BCS makes about as much sense as a "South Park" episode. You wish Bill O'Heilly would just shut up and go away. You can't wait for "Family Guy" to come back on the air. 
You are glad that "l'riends" is finally off the air. You have about as much dorm spirit as Michael Moore at a Republican rally. You know that not all rap sounds like the crap you hear on the radio. 
You respect anime as a legitimate art form. Your idea of working out is doing a power hour. You didn't go out drinking because you were going to study for a test and ended up just playing video games all night instead. 
You got giddy when you saw that the old "Star Wars" movies were coming out on DVD. You miss the NIIL about as much as you miss the XFL. 
Your fantasy football team is more important to you than your GP!\. You are unhappy that Tom Timmermans won't be gracing the floor of the Joyce Center this year. 
Your Mondays seem empty and unfulfilled whenever there isn't a new Strong Bad e-mail. You are a senior and still don't know the words to the Alma Mater. 
When you don't have much money and you need to choose between buying beer or buying food, you always buy the beer. You read this because you had nothing better to do. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD MEET ANY PERSON WHO WOULD IT BE? 

Mel Bautista Tashl Thomas Klmmy Moore Kristen Aland Lucy Sumervllle Dru Cash 
PW Farley Farley Cavanaugh Lewis graduate freshman freshman senior junior sophomore student 
"Donald Duck." "Johnny Depp. " "Brian "Napoleon "Dave Berry -"Oprah 
Coughlin, he's Dynamite we could use Winfrey." the coach ofthe because he's some comic water polo team flippin' sweet. " relief at this 

and has a twin." 
Student allegedly tries to bribe teacher 
WILSONVILLE, Ore. ­A 17-year-old high school student was detained and released after being accused of trying to bribe a teacher to alter atten­dance records so he could make a drug run. 
The student handed a note with some money to Matthew Courtney, who teaches English as a sec­ond language, promising to make him rich if he went along with the scheme, said Deputy Joel Manley, a spokesman for the Clackamas County Sheriffs Office. 
TODAY a:: 

PAMELA LOCK!The Observer 

Alumni Association Executive Director Chuck Lennon speaks to students Monday evening at the Coleman-Morse Center. 
OFFBEAT 
found the place overrun with cockroaches. 
Officers said the proper­ty was "disgusting" and "unsanitary." 
They also said they dis­covered some marijuana, cocaine and drug-packag­ing materials, but the ten­ants weren't home. Police said someone attempted to fumigate the apart­ment, but apparently was unsuccessful. 
"Apparently, the bugs got to the dealers before the cops did," Shelton Det. Sgt. Michael Madden said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

The note said the stu­dent had taken orders for drugs from other students and had to go to Arizona and California to pick up a shipment, authorities said. 
Courtney reported the incident to the principal, who called police. The student was arrested Thursday. 
Pollee raid cockroach­Infested apartment 
ANSONIA, Conn. They were looking for drugs, but also found bugs. Undercover agents raided an apartment early Saturday morning and 
TONIGHT WEDNESDA THURSDAY 


school." 
IN BRIEF 
Victoria Tin-bor Hui, Kellogg Visiting Fellow. will speak on "Globalization, Development. and Constitutionalism in Historical Perspective: Lessons from the West on the Rest" from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today in room C-103 of' the Hesburgh Center. 
Author Richard Garcia will give a poetry reading and presentation today from 4 to 
5:30 p,m, in room 208 McKenna I !all. 
Kay Londeran will lead sto­ries and activities for children at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
University President Fatlwr Edward Malloy will address the faculty today from 4:30 to 
5:45 p.m. in the Decio Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Human Hesources will offer free blood pressure and body fat screenings for faculty and staff Wednesday from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. in the lobby of Grace Hall. 
Holy Cross Associates will present an information session about post-graduate service opportunities today from 7 to 8 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Kellogg Institute will sponsor an information ses­sion on summer internships and grants today from 6:30 to 7:30p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 72 HIGH 73 LOW 52 LOW 53 
LLI :::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
~
-' 
c:t: 
(,) 

0 
...I HIGH 58 HIGH 42 HIGH 66 HIGH 71 LOW 39 LOW 39 LOW 43 LOW 49 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 66 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 80 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Wilson speaks about budget cuts at SMC 
Assistant director of funding encourages students to get involved in philanthropy 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
NowsWriter 
With budget cuts plaguing the College, Saint Mary's Board of Governance invited Jude Ann Wilson, the assis­tant director of the Annual Fund, to speak at Monday night's meeting. Wilson's main objective was to have board members strive to encourage thei"r classmates to donate any amount of money to the fund. 
With tuition accounting for 80 percent of the College's funding, the other 20 percent is collected through alumni and student donations to the Annual Fund. Wilson also noted that the initiation of the Quarters Campaign began in 2002. to have cur­rent students donate to the annual fund before they graduate. The Campaign began so that students would make donating to the College a habit, and continue to do so throughout their lives. 
"It is critical for students to get involved with philanthro­py now to continue with it in the future," Wilson said. 
The Board approved to co­sponsor a trip for women's issues commissioner Katie Kelly to visit St. Kate's College in St. Paul and Minneapolis, Minn. and St. 
Ben's College in Winona, Minn. over fall break. The purpose of her visit is to see the College's women's cen­ters and ask college repre­sentatives about their goals for the centers and how they worked to achieve those goals. 
"I feel that this center is really something that will benefit the entire student body," said public relations commissioner, Ashley Thor­nburg. 
In other BOG News: 
+ 
Student Activities Board commissioner Lauren Fabina reported that there are no scheduled events for this upcoming week, but thanked those who helped with or attended any events during Spirit Week. 

+ 
Residence Hall Assoc­iation commissioner Martha Hottenstein reported that RHA is planning to have an energy conservation compe­tition between all of the resi­dence halls. 

+ 
A "Catholic Common Ground Discussion" will be held Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. The topic will be religious commit­ments in politics. 


Contact Kelly Meehan at krneehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Losses 
continued from page 1 
and 2003, Lelik said. While Wellesley and Barnard experi­enced the greatest enrollment stability, with five-year declines of only .7 percent and .4 percent respectively, the average decrease in the entering class size for the six remaining col­leges that lost enrollment was more than 10 percent. 
However, while Wellesley and Barnard boast the smallest loss­es, the two schools also boast the lowest admissions acceptance rates among the top 10 colleges: 47 percent and 34 percent respectively. The acceptance rate for Saint Mary's is 82 percent. 
When students apply for col­lege, the yield rate -the number of accepted students who actual­ly choose to attend a given insti­tution -is roughly 30 percent. Traditionally, Saint Mary's has had a higher yield rate -49 per­cent in fall 2003 alone. 
But this year, it was a different story. Only 36 percent of accept­ed students committed to Saint Mary's -higher than the nation­al average but lower than what Saint Mary's typically experi­ences. 
According to Director of Admissions Mary Pat Nolan, a new process the admissions department tried last year caused more applications than ever before to come in, but resulted in a much lower yield. 
Nolan said the College received 1,269 applications for the class of 2008, the most she had seen in her 21 years here at the College. "Part of [the jump] is due to a new enrollment process we tried last year called the Scholars Advanced Application Program," Nolan said. "This program sent pre-completed application forms to over 400 students." 
Since each application already had a lot of information included, students had to do less work to get their applications back to Saint Mary's. However, the mail­ing of these applications did not occur until January, making it fairly late in the game for stu­dents who were already interest­ed in other colleges. Of the 969 students accepted to Saint Mary's, only 350 committed to entering the freshman class. 
Lelik said the 36 percent yield was, therefore, to be expected. 
"While this is down from past years, it is because we received more applications and accepted more students than usual," she said. 
Nolan said a decision would be made in the next few weeks regarding whether the Scholars Advanced Application Program will continue. 
According to Lelik, admissions are also down because of the competition for students will other schools. 
"We have many students who cross apply with other schools, but many of them don't cross­apply with other schools like us," Lelik said. "They apply to big public schools like [Indiana University], Purdue, Michigan or Illinois. Or, they apply to a differ­ent school of religious affiliation like Notre Dame, DePaul or Marquette. This makes it tough because some of those schools can offer things that we can't ­and at the same time. we can show students what we can offer them that they won't be able to fmd elsewhere. There is a higher level of competitiveness among these schools." 
The U.S. has only 65 all­women's colleges and five all male colleges remaining. Lelik and Nolan said that for these institutions, fluctuations in admissions are a normal occur­rence. 
"There is going to be a little bouncing around the admissions numbers scale when dealing with colleges," Lelik said. "For exam­ple, St. Catherine's admissions are up this year, but largely because they appeal to a differ­ent crowd than we do. They appeal to a regional area, and they have weekend and evening classes to bulk up their admis­sions. We're looking at the national level, trying to appeal to people from all over." 
Lelik said despite a loss in the number of students, she feels the college will continue to grow and seek students nationally because Saint Mary's has seen these types of fluctuations before. 
"Clearly, women's colleges nationwide struggle with the realities of an increasingly com­petitive higher education market­place," Lelik said. "But in time, these fluctuations will bounce around, eventually landing up." 
On average, Nolan said, she and the admissions office work­ers send mailings to between 24,000 and 26,000 students each year who show interest in Saint Mary's. Students who receive a mailing, or check a box on the SAT or ACT saying they would like to hear from colleges inter­ested in them, are sent a com­plete set of Saint Mary's materi­als. 
While many are seniors going through the admissions process, some students start receiving these mailings early on in their high school careers. 
Saint Mary's also conducts College Board searches to match certain students who meet the College's criteria, and does a sep­arate mailing to markets that have traditionally yielded a good field of students. Saint Mary's representatives also visit high schools in 30 to 35 states and last year they conducted a cold mail­ing to see what type or response the College would get from the public. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Questioning Students and Friends 
Please ioin us for an inlormadanal gatberiau and conversation for students questioniau sexual orientation 



Ra-ced¥ 
Reslauraul 
f[,v~ <9v~P~ L¥v TOWVll! 
Since 1951 Specializi11g i11 lt.alia11 Entrees Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00P~I -11 :OOPM Fri.-SaL.: fi:OOPM-l:OOAM 537 North St. Louis 


South Beno, IN 
Proprietors

574-233-24(}4 
Warren & Linda 
Wedn 



BeckenIOSPilllllloom 

No cover ever with studet'lt IP 
2046 South Jettd Ave -Across frotft Martitts Plaza 272-1766 NU Football Headquarters Ottlitte sports ittfo 
"~reat Food, ~reat Futf Mott: Mottday Night Football Tun: COLLEGE Nt&Hf -PJ $. SPECIALS (SfARflN& Af *1.00) Wed: fRIVIA Night-~rittg your teat1ts -Prizes 
THURS: PJ -ftRSf THURSPAY EVERY MONfH: JAZZY &RASS 
Fri: Live Etttertaittt\tettt Sat: Nl1 gat1tes Sutt: -14 screetts 
Rolresh11ents will be served 
Brought to vou llY the Srudenllesource Group ortileStanding Committee f.or Gal aad lesbl·anSlldentneeds 
page 4 Tuesday, October 5, 2004
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Talk 
continued from page 1 
last summer to agree to run fi.Jr the Indiana 2nd district congressional scat. 
Donnelly said running for oflice has given him the opportunity to do his duty for the country. 
"In my heart I felt I had not done my part," said Donnelly. "I came in a little after Vietnam and a little before the Persian Gulf'." 
Donnelly said that his opponent. Hepublican Chris Chocola, makes for tough competition because his well-funded campaign allows him to run many more televi­sion ads than the chal­lenger can. 
Instead. Donnelly has focused efforts on neigh­borhood walks and voter registration. The chance to meet possible future constituents. said Donnelly, has been the highlight of the cam­paign thus far and will continue until Nov. 2. 
"We will win by knock­ing on doors, handing out literature and talking to people," he said. 
Differences in cam­
paign tactics are not the 
only characteristic dis­
tinguishing him from his 
opponent, said Donnelly. 
One of the biggest dis­tinctions, the candidate said, concerns the feder­al deficit. According to Donnelly, the U.S. gov­ernment is currently $422 billion in debt, and that number would be much higher if Social Security funds were not being used to control it. 
The war in Iraq is another issue that Donnelly said is not being managed appro­priately. "We are now there, and there is no back door out," said Donnelly. "We can't cut and run ... We have to stabilize it, and get it under control and when we leave it won't be soon 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saint-


Meeting 
continued from page 1 
Kirk said that off-campus students are a'iked to provide an address but the University ultimately has no way of enforcing that request. 
Jim I Iessig. South Bend Police chief, said police also faced the problem of determining who lived in which hous­es, and whether the tenants are actu­ally home. 
"The biggest problem of giving cita­tions is being able to determine who Jives there among a sea of people," Hessig said. 
Mark Kramer. the owner of Domus Properties, which rents many area houses to students, said that in some cases South Bend residents could be overreacting to student parties. Kramer also cited one report in which neighbors called police, who determined that no violations were taking place at the student house in question. 
"I think there's some overreaction going on," said Kramer. "In this par­ticular report, the officer is saying there's not a problem." 
Both Kirk and Kramer noted specif­ic actions that Domus Properties had taken to increase communication, such as hosting barbeques for stu­dents and residents and holding information sessions for students. 
"In fairness to Domus Properties, they've really tried to make some efforts to bring the community together," Kirk said. 
However, no residents attended this year's gathering, Kramer said. 
Notre Dame senior Mike Roaldi said after his house received a noise com­plaint at the beginning of the year, he and his roommates went and apolo­gized to the neighbors and distributed their phone numbers. 
"I think we all feel that the solution to the problem is more communica­tion," he said. 
However, senior Kaitlin Briscoe said her house at 113 Notre Dame Avenue was ticketed on a weekend when none of her housemates were home. 
"The neighbors complained about a party that was held and they cited our house but we weren't even involved," she said. 
Other South Bend officials dis­cussed problems with zoning regula­tions, such as the number of people allowed in houses at the same time or the how many unrelated persons could reside in the same home. 
"I have the license plates of four different individuals from four differ­ent states," said Pat McFadden, who lives at 418 East Pokagan Street. "What is so hard about it? You fJ.Je a lawsuit." 
However, Catherine Brucker, direc-
RWANDA 1994 • IOSOVO 1999 

DARFUR, SUDAN 2004 
We said it wouldn't happen again 
50,000 people killed Thousands of women and girls raped 1.4 million left homeless and isolated Hundreds of thousands more may die by December The people of Sudan need your prayers. 
Join a 
Candlelight Vigil for Sudan 
Tuesday,~toberSth 

7:00pm Washington Hall 
Procession to the Grotto at 7:30pm 
Stand in solidarity with those in Sudan. 
Stand at Notre Dame for peace and justice the world over. 
'---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------JI 
tor of code enforcement for South 
Bend, said enforcing zoning laws 
could be difficult and complicated. 
"We sent letters ahead of time 
advising of what the zoning is," she 
said. "[Enforcement] is very hard to 
d0." 
Ann-Carol Nash, a city attorney for South Bend, said it could be equally complicated to file legal charges against noise violators without very specific information. 
"We want to make sure we're pre­pared for each and every case," she said. "We want to make certain that we're going in there with a ca'ie that we're going to be solid with." 
Other residents used the meeting to voice concerns about specific prob­lems that occurred this year. 
"There was a fairly small party and they threw beer cups in our back yard," said Anne Pendle. who lives at 703 Peashway Street. 
"For four or five years they were hundreds of students," said her hus­band, Gene Pendle. 
Notre Dame student body president Adam Istvan also spoke about student government's efforts to help improve the problem. 
"On Thursday we're presenting to the [Notre Dame] Board of Trustees a report that deals with off-campus liv­ing," he said. 
Istvan also discussed the SafeBus initiative, which he said would help address the problem of students 
walking through neighborhoods and causing damage. 
Residents also expressed con­cerns about poor police response to calls about noise, but Hessig said it was not feasible to break up every noisy party. 
"You could tie up some 20 ofli­cers for some four hours." he said. 
At the meeting's end, oflicials agreed to exchange some infor­mation about zoning regulations and legal processes. 
Puzzello said further similar meetings about noisy student parties would likely not take place unless problems specilic to a certain street or area occurred. 
"There is no benefit to continu­ing to hold these meetings unless we have new information," she said. 
Puzzello said she would contin­ue to talk informally with the University and South Bend resi­dents and officials to continue improving the situation for hPr constituents. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 CoJ\tPILED FROM T11E OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Prime minister condemns leaders 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia on Monday con­demned what he called international indiffer­ence to Palestinian suffering in the face of a broad Israeli offensive into the Gaza Strip aimed at halting rocket attacks on Israel. 
At least 67 Palestinians have been killed in the five-day offensive, making it the deadliest Israeli incursion into Gaza in more than four years of fighting. 
Nine Palestinians died Monday in northern Gaza. including four militants and a 14-year­old girl who residents said was shot as she baked bread with her mother in their garden. 
Aristide supporters threaten police 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -Supporters of ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide wielded machetes and threatened to cut off the heads of Ilaitian police and the interim prime minister during demonstrations on Monday, part of a recent campaign that has been dubbed "Operation Baghdad." 
No violence was reported in Monday's demonstrations in the capital Port-au­Prince. But at least 14 people were killed in clashes Thursday and Friday, including three police officers who were shot to death and then beheaded. 
Tensions erupted into violence in the cap­ital last week as the country was still reel­ing from the chaotic aftermath of Tropical Storm Jeanne. The death toll from the storm's devastating floods and mudslides rose Monday to 1,870 with another 884 reported missing and most presumed dead. 
About 150 Aristide supporters demon­strated on Monday and some directed their anger at Haitian police who fired in the air to try to disperse a gathering. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Volcano blows off more steam 
MOUNT ST. HELENS NATIONAL MONU­MENT, Wash. -Mount St. Helens blew off more steam Monday, shooting a billowing white plume several hundred feet above the volcano and thrilling hundreds of visi­tors who had gathered below the rumbling mountain. 
"Wow. It was amazing," said 9-year-old Alex Turchiano, who watched from a nearby visitors center. "I was hoping to see lava so I could see the trees fall down and the lava flow into the water. I wanted to see what it was going to do -whether it would stop or keep going." 
Scientists, who continued to warn that the volcano could blow at any moment, stopped short of calling the steam burst an actual eruption, saying no volcanic material apparently was emitted. 


Governor contests Florida ruling 
TALLAHASSEE -Gov. Jeb Bush will ask the Florida Supreme Court to reconsider 
its 7-0 ruling against a  law designed to  
keep  a  brain-damaged  woman  alive,  a  
spokesman said Monday.  

Florida's high court ruled two weeks ago that Bush and state lawmakers over­stepped their authority with the year-old law ordering that Terri Schiavo's feeding tube be reinserted six days after her hus­band had it removed so she could die. 
LOCAL NEWS 

City receives grant for sensor system 
GARY -City officials have received a $700,000 federal grant to install a system of utility pole-mounted sensors that can pinpoint the source of gunfire. 
Using the technology, police will know in seconds if a loud pop outside a home is gunfire, a car engine or fireworks. 
The ShotSpotter Inc. system will transmit information through telephone lines to the police communications center, where a radio dispatcher can then pinpoint the gunshot's location to within about 20 feet. 
IRAQ 


Car explosions kill at least 24 
U.S. Embassy and government offices targeted by bombs, over 100 wounded 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Insurgents unleashed a pair of power­ful car bombs Monday near the symbol of U.S. authori­ty in Iraq -the Green Zone, where the U.S. Embassy and key govern­ment offices are located ­and hotels occupied by hundreds of foreigners. Two other explosions brought the day's bombing toll to at least 24 dead and more than 100 wounded. 
More than three dozen car bombings since the beginning of September illustrate the militants' seeming ability to strike at will despite recent pledges by the United States and Iraq to intensify the sup­pression of insurgents, and the morale-boosting recap­ture of Samarra over the weekend. 
Defense Secretary Donald 
H. Rumsfeld said Monday he does not expect a civil war to erupt in Iraq, and pointed to the formerly insurgent-held city of Samarra as an example of success. 

"I don't think it's going to happen," Rumsfeld said in New York at the Council on Foreign Relations, when asked about the threat of civil war. "But what has to be done in that country is what basically was done in Turkish man and a long­Samarra over the last 48 time Iraqi resident of Italy. hours." No coalition forces were 
Th~ day's violence also wounded in either of included assassina.tions of Monday's blasts in three Iraqis, and U.S. Baghdad, said Maj. Phil attacks against targets in Smith, a spokesman for the insurgent-held Fallujah. In 1st Cavalry Division. But the latest hostage develop­the U.S. command reported ments, kidnappers freed two of its soldiers were two Indonesian women, but killed at a Baghdad traffic a separate militant group checkpoint Sunday. claimed to have killed a In the first car bombing Monday, insurgents deto­nated a four-wheel drive vehicle packed with explo­sives at the western entrance of the heavily for­tified Green Zone about 

8:45 a.m., said Interior Ministry spokesman Col. Adnan Abdul-Rahman. 
"I was thrown 10 yards away and hit the wall," said Wissam Mohammed, 30, who was visiting a nearby recruiting center for Iraqi security forces. His right hand broken, his head wrapped in bandages and his clothes stained with blood, Mohammed lay in a bed at Yarmouk Hospital. 
The hospital took in 15 bodies and 81 wounded from the explosion, said Sabah Aboud, the facility's chief registration official. 

Hints of voter boom coming true 
As registration deadlines fall, voters swamp election offices in record numbers 
Associated Press 
In a glimpse of what the nation might see a month from now, people lined up at election offices and caused parking lot traffic jams as voter registration deadlines fell Monday in more than a dozen states. 
Many officials reported record numbers of new voters, some said they were overwhelmed, and allegations were already flying about fraud and the disqualification of some voters' applications. 
"They're coming in, in buckets," said Pamela Swafford, deputy director of Ohio's Hamilton County board of elections. By Monday morning, the county that includes Cincinnati had 64,045 new voter registrations on hand, more than twice the 29,178 it received four years ago. 
Across Georgia's coun­ties, Colorado's booming suburbs and in Midwestern cities, local officials were deluged. 
Traffic jammed the park­ing lot at New Jersey's Burlington County govern­ment building. In Ocean County, phones rang con­tinuously. The day for the office operator: "Good morning, Board of Elections, pleaSe hold; Good morning, Board of Elections, please hold; Good morning, Board of Elections, this is Barbara, how can I help you?" 
Residents filling out forms stood after all the 

chairs were filled, and then waited in line to drop off the forms. 
"I think it's important to help decide who runs this country," said Janis Britting of Toms River, N.J., who recently moved from another part of the state. She registered as a Democrat, but said she was still undecided between President Bush and Democrat John Kerry. 
A complete accounting of the registration figures across each state, let alone the country, won't be fin­ished for several weeks, as officials continue to accept postmarked registration forms. Other states' dead­lines fall later this week and month. 
"If you walk into our mail room, we have stacks and stacks of new forms coming in," said Kara Sinkule, spokeswoman for Georgia Secretary of State Cathy Cox, who oversees elections. "It's a great problem to have." 
Her state is on pace to see a 50 percent increase in new voters for this pres­idential election compared to 2000. In the past year, 371,376 new voters regis­tered, with 87,110 new voters in September alone. And the surge grew even bigger in the first few days of October. 
Both the Democrats and the Republicans have poured resources into reg­istering voters, spurred by the near deadlock of the 2000 presidential race and polls that predict another tight election this year. 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

"We tried hard not to cut the academic departments,"
Budget 

Stickelmaier said. Stickelmaier attributed thecontinued from page 1 
revenue drop to two factors, 
the first being a depleted stu­finance and administration, dent body. While retention projected college revenue of rates remained strong, there $41.5 million will fall short of was a drop of 51 freshmen the college's $43.2 million from the previous year's ­operating expenses. Though resulting in the loss of roughly 
these ligures will be carefully adjusted and monitored as the year progresses, Stickelmaier said the College does not expect to suf­fer any long­term negative effects. 
"The college's financial founda­tion is very sound," Stickelmaier said. "This is a revenue expense problem, it is not a foundational problem." 
Administrators 
"We had anticipated last spring that enrollment would be down. Because we expected that, we were able to plan our preliminary budget accordingly. " 
Molly Welton BOG Treasurer 
have decided to absorb the deficit over a period of two years rather than try and recover in just one, Stickelmaier said. Small but broad changes have been implemented in various departments, including freez­ing travel funds and cutting printing expenses. As a result, some departments will not be abln to attend conferences they would normally attend, and others will be forced to limit brochures and fliers printed ofT campus. 

According to Stickelmaier, careful efforts were made to preserve educational quality at the college. Budget changes in the academic departments were limited to freezing funds, such as the sabbatical budget -but not cutting them. 
$1 million. 
The second factor is steadily increas­ing operating costs at the college, par­ticularly for employee benefits. According Stickel­maier, small insti­tutions across the country are strug­gling to provide employees with health insurance and retirement plans, due to rising costs in recent years. 
"A lot of organi­zations are com­pletely elimi-
Timothy Roemer 

Fulltime students pay a $150 student activities fee as part of their tuition to support stu­dent government. BOG saw their budget shrink from $215,650 to $206,700, a cut of roughly $9,000. 
"We had anticipated last spring that enrollment would be down," said Molly Welton, BOG treasurer. "Because we expected that, we were able to plan our preliminary budget accordingly." 
Despite the budget cut, Welton said, students should not be concerned about a lack of student activities. 
"I am not anticipating any change in our ability to sup­port campus in any way," Welton said. 
Small changes have already been made by board members to avoid extravagant spending, Welton said students should feel no impact at all and added that he budget cut is something only she and other officers will notice. 
"In fact our student activi­
ties board is bring­
ing to campus big­
COR 
continued from page 1 
their impact on the communi­ty," Istvan said, adding that representatives from city gov­ernment, attorneys and associ­ate vice president for student affairs Bill Kirk attended the meeting. 
Istvan said the main topic dis­cussed at the meeting noisy oil" campus parties and their impact on the community. 
"The main consensus among those who attended was that there needs to be better com­munication between students, landlords, neighbors and the university," Istvan said. 
Istvan emphasized to the rep­resentatives that both Kirk and Mark Kramer, owner of Domus Properties, supported the stu­dents of Notre Dame at the South Bend Council Meeting. 
"They are on our side," Istvan said. Chief executive assistant Dave Barron. who attended the 
meeting with Istvan, said thatnating, especially ger performers
"It is going to 

Kirk was especially supportive for retirees, what and bigger name
take two or three 

of the students. retirement bene­years for us to before," said 
they call post­venues than ever 
"Bill Kirk is a tireless advo­fits because they Welton.
turn things

can't afford them While Welton
around. Nothing

any more," said was unable to pro­Stickel-maier. here is surprising vide an exact num­Stickelmaier ber, she said that
to me." 

said if the deficit BOG also had is dealt with rollover money 
immediately, Laurie Stickelmaier from last year's there should be VP of finance and board. which was no long-term neg­administration placed in a discre­ative conse-tionary fund typi­quences. cally used to pay 
"It is going to take two or for miscellaneous costs and three years for us to turn left over bills during the sum­things around," said mer. According to Welton, the Stickelmaier. "Nothing here is fund will help soften the blow surprising to me." of this year's cuts. 
Student government was also dealt a blow by the small Contact Megan O'Neill at freshman class this year. onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Commissioner, 911 Commission President, Center for National Policy Former Indiana 3rd District Congressman 
"The 9/11 Commission: The Transformation of Our Intelligence Community" 
Thursday, October 7th, 2004 7:00p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
(Reception to follow) 
Sponsored by: 
Notre Dame Law School John J. Reilly Center's Science, Technology & Values Program Computer Applications Program Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
cate," Baron said. 
Off campus representative Dave McGowan added that cooperation with South Bend Police was the key to hosting a safe party off campus without upsetting neighbors in the area. 
"You can hire cops to work your party. As long as have a cop there, you are covered," McGowan said. 
Although the SafeBus propos­al was not formally discussed at the meeting, senior class presi­dent Darrell Scott questioned how residents attending the council meeting responded to it. 
"I cannot say that they endorsed it. So far the only endorsement is from Mayor Stephen Lueke. He is very enthusiastic," Istvan said. 
Finally, Judicial Council President Brin Anderson pre­sented her nominations for vice president of elections and vice president of peer advocacy, senior Meagan Powers was nominated for vice president of peer advocacy and senior Carsten Steinhaeuser was nom­inated for vice president of elections. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
.,.Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining -Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, & sandwiches -Featuring gourmet pizzas -Music is live on Fridays & Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time -Wine, microbrews, spe­cialty drinks & martinis, along with traditional cof­fee house drink menu items -Art Gallery 
Bring in this coupon and receive a free latte! 
For further information, please call 
233-2131 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Tuesday, October 5, 2004 
page 7 

Dow 10,216.54 +23.89
}ones 

Same: ~ Composite Volume:
"~" 
1,953 152 • 1,535,859,712 
AMEX 1, 27(:).34 -2.93 NASDAQ 1,952.40 +10.20 NYSE 6,677~75 +14.57 S&PSOO 1,135.17 +3.67 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,270~95 -8;68 FTSE IOO(l.ondon) 4,681.80 +22.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.34 +0.28 21.13 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.25 -0.03 I 1.87 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +3.18 +0.10 3.24 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.46 -0.13 28.12 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.16 +0.03 18.96 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.32 -0.16 49.33 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.43 -0.18 41.73 
5-YEARNOTE -0.15 -0.05 34.23 
3-MONTH BILL -0.36 -0.06 16.51 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.21 49.91 
GOLD ($rrroy oz.) -5.60 415.60 
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) +0.0225 97.175 
Excha Rates 
YEN II 0.8400 
EURO 0.8148 
POUND 0.5600 
CANADIAN$ 1.2722 
IN BRIEF 

Court upholds do-not-call registry 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court turned away a challenge Monday to the fed­eral do-not-call registry, ending telemar­keters' bid to invoke free-speech arguments to get the popular ban on unwanted phone solicitations thrown out. 
The court, without comment, let stand a lOth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decision that upheld the registry of more than 64 mil­lion phone numbers as a reasonable govern­ment attempt to safeguard personal privacy and reduce telemarketing abuse. 
Under the 2003 federal law, businesses face fines of up to $11,000 if they call people who sign up for the registry -unless they have recently done business with them. Charities, pollsters and callers on behalf of politicians, however, are exempt. 
PeopleSoft chief executive fired 
WILMINGTON, Del. -PeopleSoft Inc.'s board fired Craig Conway as its chief execu­tive after hearing him explain why he made a misleading statement about the business software maker's ability to close sales while fighting rival Oracle Corp.'s $7.7 billion takeover bid. 
Kicking off a two-week trial over PeopleSoft's anti-takeover defenses, compa­ny director Steven Goldby testified Monday that concerns about Conway's "situational ethics" contributed to the surprise decision to fire him late last week. 

Factory orders drop unexpectedly 
WASHINGTON -Orders placed with U.S. factories fell for the first time in four months, the Commerce Department said Monday, with demand dropping sharply for commercial airplanes and parts. 
Factory orders declined by 0.1 percent in August, following an increase of 1. 7 percent in July. August's drop was the first since April, when orders declined by 1.1 percent. 
Economists had expected an August increase of about 0.3 percent. 
Orders for durable goods -costly manu­factured items expected to last at least three years -fell by 0.3 percent. That was better than a previous estimate of a 0.5 percent drop. 




U.S. launches trade crackdown 
Bush administration announces national campaign against phony products 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The. Bush administration announced a national crack­down Monday on thefts of intellectual property and sales of fake designer brands and other counter­feit products. 
Senior administration offi­cials said the program, called Strategy Targeting Organized Piracy, was aimed at breaking up crimi­nal networks that traffic in phony goods, stopping imports of such fakes at the borders and helping U.S. businesses enforce their property rights overseas. The departments of Commerce, Homeland Security and Justice will participate. 
The administration said bogus products, from airline and automotive parts to pirated music and movie discs, account for up to 7 percent of global trade. Commerce Secretary Donald Evans cited complaints by the Zippo Manufacturing Co. in Bradford, Pa., that cheap international knockoffs cost the company one lost job for every 20,000 sales lost to fake lighters. 
In some ways, officials said, the program will be an extension of counterterror efforts. The Homeland Security Department, which priority continues to be to goods. Evans said the Bush already inspects some ship­prevent terrorism. The Evans, the commerce sec­administration had filed ments at borders for securi­same border-control inspec­retary, said authorities had hundreds more internation­ty purposes, will use new tors looking for terrorists worked to organize the al market-compliance cases procedures to identify com­and weapons also can campaign for more than a than the Clinton administra­panies that routinely traffic search for illegal commer­year. He said Monday's tion did. in phony goods and check cial contraband, he said. announcement, also attend­"I don't accept the notion importers to ensure they are. Under one provision, ed by Attorney General John that we have not been authorized to use trade­called "name and shame," Ashcroft and U.S. Trade aggressively pursuing these marks and copyrights. the government will' seek to Representative Robert B. cases around the world," 
Asa Hutchinson, a identify and publish the Zoellick, was unrelated to Evans said. "This adminis­Homeland Security under­names of foreign companies President Bush's re-election tration has been more secretary, said government's caught selling counterfeit campaign. aggressive by far." 


Supreme Court sidesteps dispute 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -MasterCard and Visa no longer can block banks from issuing credit cards from competitors after the Supreme Court declined to hear their appeal Monday. 
Banks that issued MasterCard and Visa credit cards had been barred from also offering credit cards from other companies, such as Discover and American Express. 
The Bush administration argued in court filings that removing the restriction would encourage com­petition and lead to more choices and, possibly, lower interest rates for consumers. 
The administration had won in district court and the New York­based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which found the restric­tion was anticompetitive. 
About 20,000 banks issue cards only through Visa and MasterCard. 
American Express has been try­ing to persuade banks to issue its cards. Under the contested rules, banks would have to give up Visa and MasterCard cards to do that, and no U.S. bank has agreed, the court was told. 
American Express and Discover have been issuing cards directly to individuals, although some foreign banks issue American Express cards. 
After the court's announcement, MBNA said that it would begin issu­ing American Express-branded credit cards. 
"Today's news marks a funda­mental change in the U.S. credit card industry and we believe it will lead to better value and greater choice for consumers," said Ken Chenault, chairman and CEO of American Express. 
Daniel Tarman, senior vice presi­dent of Visa USA, said that American Express is "accepted at millions fewer merchant locations than Visa worldwide" and that most consumers who want those cards already have them. "Our focus remains on competing for bank, merchant and cardholder business everyday," he said. 
David Nelms, chairman and CEO of Discover Financial Services, said the company has been in "advanced discussions" with poten­tial partners and would move ahead with new partnerships that would be good for customers. 
Roy Englert, one of the attorneys for MasterCard, wrote in a Supreme Court filing that con­sumers have gotten better quality, prices and choices with the regula­tions in place. 
He said that Visa and MasterCard, like competitors in other industries, have a joint ven­ture to help customers. He com­pared it to small businesses setting up cooperatives to get supplies at the best rate. · 
Bush administration lawyer Paul Clement told justices in a filing that Visa and MasterCard account for 7 3 percent of general credit card charges. He said the two dominant card networks block "every com­petitively significant bank in the country from dealing with networks they do not control." 
The cases are VISA U.S.A. Inc. v United States, 03-1521, and MasterCard International Inc. v. United States, 03-1532. 
~--­
Tuesday, October 5, 2004

page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
An1erican scientists avvarded Nobel Prize 
Columbia University professor and cancer researcher win for illuminating sense ofsmell 

Associated Press 
MOJAVE, Calif.-A stout, star­spangled rocket plane broke through the Earth's atmosphere to the edge of space Monday for the second time in five days, capturing a $10 million prize aimed at opening the final fron­tier to tourists. 
The privately built SpaceShipOne took off under­neath the belly of a mother plane that carried it about nine miles over the Mojave Desert. From there. SpaceShipOne fired its engine and streaked skyward at about three times the speed of sound on a half-hour flight that took it more than 62 miles high, generally considered the point where space begins. 
SpaceShipOne-with test pilot Brian Binnie at the controls ­then glided safely back to Earth. 

"This is the true frontier of transportation," said Marion C. Blakey. head of the Federal Aviation Administration, who stood near the runway to watch the flight. "It feels a little bit like Kitty Hawk must have." 
Binnie called it a "fantastic experience" -especially the sight of Earth from space. "There is darkness outside the windows," he said. "It's contrast­ed starkly by the bright pearl that is the greater California area, which is the view from up there." 
The reward for the achieve­ment is the $10 million Ansari X Prize, created in 1996 to kick­start the development of private­ly built rocket ships that could make spaceflight available to the public. 
To win the prize. a spacecraft capable of carrying three people had to make two !lights to an altitude just over 62 miles within two weeks. The goal was to show that the rocket could go back and forth like a spaceliner. 
About an hour after the space­ship landed, X Prize founder Peter Diamandis said the alti­tude was official, and declared SpaceShipOne's team the win­ner. 
X Prize chief judge Rick Searfoss said the spacecraft reached a height of 367.442 feet and speeds of Mach 3.09 during ascent and Mach 3.26 on the way down. 
During the post-flight news conference, SpaeeShipOne designer Burt Rutan took a few shots at the traditional aero­space community. 

liniversity of Notre Dame lnternatiom1l Study Program in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Top Ten Reasons Why You Should NOT Go To France With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Wednesday, October 6, 2004 7:30PM 119 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 Academic Year 2005-2006 Fall 2005 . Spring 2006 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
Associatod Press 
Two Americans won the 
Nobel Prize in medicine 
Monday for discovering how 
pnoplr. can n~eognize an esti­
maltHI 10,000 odors, from 
spoilt~d meat to a lover's per­
funw. 
Dr. Hichard Axel, 58, of 
Columbia Univnrsity and 
Linda B. Buck, 57, of the 
Fred llu tchinson Cancnr 
Hesearch Center in Seattle 
revealed odor-sensing pro­
teins in th11 nose and traced 
how they send their informa­
tion to the brain. 
The Nobel Assembly at the 
Karolinska Institute in 
Stockholm said it chose the 
pair for the $1.3 million prize 
not because of any practical 
payoff from the ·work, but 
simply because they 
enhanced understanding of 
"the most enigmatic of our 
SCnSilS." 
For two sci en lists to single­
handedly map one of the 
major human senses is 
unique in the history or sci­
ence, Nobel ass11mbly chair­
man Goeran Hansson said. 
"It's pretty amazing to be able to sit here in the 21st century and reward discover­ies that explain one of the human senses," he said. 
Buck said she had not even known she was under consid­eration. "People have said things like, 'You should win tht~ Nobel Prize,"' she said. "I feel very honored, of course." 
Axel said sharing the prize with Buck was "a joy and a deep honor.... I'm very sur­prised and very happy." lie also said that the work might ultimattdy help scientists develop better insect repel­lants to keep away mosqui­toes that transmit malaria, for example. 
In I !JY1, Axel and Buck jointly reported discovering a large family or genes devoted to producing different odor­sensing proteins, called recnptors, in the nose. Before that. scientists could only guess at how many different mceptors were needed to dis­tinguish smells in the envi­ronment. 
Scientists now know that peopln have some 350 to 400 typPs of odor receptors. each of which can detect only a limited 11urnber of odors. 
When a person sniffs per­fume or fine wine, for exam­
ple, a mix of different types 
of molecules flows over the 
receptors in the back of the 
nose. That activates an array 
of the receptors, but only 
those primed to respond to 
those particular molecules. 
Tlw brain notes which recep­
tors are activated, and inter­
prets this pattern as the 
smell. 

Since any given receptor 
can participate in more than 
one pattern, "you might have 
a rose and a skunk being rec­
ognized by some of the same 
receptors," Buck said. 

Axel and Buck, who worked 
independently following their 
1991 paper, went on to show 
that only one kind of receptor 
appears on each of the 5 mil­
lion or so odor-sensing nerve 
cells in the nose, which was a 
surprise. They also showed 
how these nerve cells are 
wired into the brain. 

The Nobel assembly said that it is still unclear what the medical and scientific implications of the discover­ies will be, but that the work could affect areas as diverse as psychology -to explain why scents often remind us of childhood -and cooking. since scent and taste are intertwined. 
"It's possible, I guess. that someone down the road could use this knowledge to cook up something really delicious," Hansson said. "But I think that's pretty far in the future." 
Last year's medicine prize winners were Briton Sir Peter Mansfield and American Paul C. Lauterbur for discoveries that led to the development of MRI, now widely used by doctors to get a detailed, 3-D look into their patients' bodies. 
The award for medicine opens a week of Nobel Prizes that culminates Oct. 11 with the economics prize. The peace prizn. the only one besto.wed in Norway, will be announced Oct. 8. The physics award will be announced Tuesday and the chemistry prize will be announced Wednesday in the Swedish capital. 
A date for the Nobel Prize in literature has not yet been set by the Swedish Academy. but is likely to fall on Thursday. Nobel watchers said. 




SpaceShipOne wins $10 million-
To one wild 
night 

Happy 21st 
Matt 

~----~------~ ~ ---~ ~-­







ELECTION 2004 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TJ~~fE OBSERVER'S W!RE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS Bush says Kerry's stands are 
dangerous for global peace 
CLIVE, Iowa -President Bush said Monday that rival John Kerry's foreign poli­cy stands "are dangerous for world peace," leveling some of his harshest criticism of the campaign during a trip to an important battleground state. Bush also signed tax relief legislation for 94 million Americans and hit Kerry on that issue, too. 
Labeling Kerry a tax-and-spend liberal, Bush told over a thousand campaign sup­porters. ''I've lowered taxes and my oppo­nent wants to raise taxes." 
He-lighting last week's TV debate on Iraq, in which polls suggest Bush lost ground to Kerry, the president said. "The policies of my opponent are dangerous for world peace. If they were implemented they would make this world not more peaceful but morr dangerous." 
The Kerry campaign answered back, "If Ceorgc Bush thinks John Kerry's plans to strengthen the military, build alliances and implement the 9/11 Commission's intelli­gence reforms will make the world a more dangerous place, he's even more detached from reality than he demonstrated at the debate the other night." 
Kerry promotes cell research 
!lAMPTON, N.H.-John Kerry on Monday accused President Bush of restricting poten­tially lifesaving stem cell research because of "extreme right-wing ideology" and underscored his own strong support for research that polls show has widespread backing. 
The Democratic senator spoke in a high school gymnasium alongside actor Michael 
J. Fox. who has Parkinson's disease, and others who told emotional stories how dis­ease have impacted their lives. They urged Kerry's election because of the stem cell issue. 
"I will stop at nothing to get stem cell research moving forward in this country," Kerry said. He said Bush had dismissed the judgment of scientists who say embryonic stem cell research could eventually lead to disease cures. 
"This underscores, in my judgment, the perils of having a president who turns his back on science in favor of ideology, and as a result, abandons millions of Americans' hopes," Kerry said. 
While in Philadelphia, Kerry continued his effort to shore up black support by speaking to clergy from black churches from several states. He won applause when he told them, "If you make me president of the United States, I will do my best to even do better than Bill Clinton did to make sure the gov­ernment of the United States looks like the face of America." 
Three years ago, Bush limited federal funding of embryonic stem cell research to the 78 stem cell lines in existence. 
Kerry called Bush's action "a far-reaching ban on federal funding for stem cell research," a statement the president's cam­paign said wasn't true. 
Bush spokesman Steve Schmidt said Kerry was "trying to mislead the American people by implying a ban that doesn't exist." 
Candidates woo the undecided 
Bush, Kerry campaigns focus on the battleground state of Pennsylvania 

PHOTOGRAPHERfThe Observer 

Senator John Kerry arrives to campaign In Pennsylvania, while President Bush travels to Iowa to attend rallies 
throughout the state on Monday. 
Associated Press 

HAVERTOWN, Pa. -Put Barbara White down as undecided in the race for the White House. 
The economy makes me afraid of Bush, but I'm scared of Kerry because of security," she says, standing in the doorway of her home outside Philadelphia. 
The mother of three sons and employed in her hus­band's business, the 44-year­old White says she sided with Democrat Al Gore four years ago. The vote she casts this year -in suburbs that the former vice president carried on his way to a statewide vic­tory -will help determine whether Sen. John Kerry holds Pennsylvania or President Bush prevails this time. 
Numerous polls point to a close finish, and in surveys taken before last week's debate, Bush is running bet­ter in the suburbs than four years ago. "That's because of the effective job Republicans did on national security and terrorism," Democratic Gov. Ed Rendell said recently. 
The votes of women like White aren't all that matter in the nation's sixth most populous state -a land of 21 electoral votes, tight polls, frequent visits by both candi­dates, nonstop television ads and an army of organizers, paid and volunteer. 
Republicans hunt new vot­ers statewide in Bush's con­servative, churchgoing base, and one poll underscores the reason. Nearly one-quarter of his supporters listed fami­ly and moral issues as uppermost in their minds. 
Democrats hope to strengthen their margins in Philadelphia. John Street, the city's black mayor, won a new term last year after the independent group America Coming Together, or ACT, helped register more than 80,000 new voters in a rehearsal for the presidential campaign. 
Republicans look to whittle their customary deficits around Pittsburgh, where suburban shopping malls sit on land once occupied by steel mills. 
Democrats aim to build on Gore's heavy vote totals around Wilkes-Barre and Scranton -hoping that job losses rather than anti-abor­tion sentiment will determine voting patterns. 
Republicans talk of stress­ing a need to limit malprac­tice awards in southeastern Pennsylvania, citing reports of physicians are leaving the area because of a plague of baseless lawsuits. 
Rendell and others say Kerry's support for abortion rights, a ban on certain semiautomatic weapons and expanded federal support for stem cell research can appeal to moderate women in the Philadelphia suburbs. 
Throughout the state, an organizational war has raged for months, and limit­ed evidence suggests an advantage for Bush's cam­paign. 
In one recent ABC poll of Pennsylvania voters, 21 per­cent reported having been contacted in person or by phone by the president's campaign. Only 14 percent said they had heard from Kerry's. 
"I was told to build the largest grass-roots campaign in the history of Pennsylvania politics," said Guy Ciarrocchi, executive director of the state Bush­Cheney campaign. Asked how he has made out, he straightened a few of the neatly arranged small stacks of papers on his desk. 
"Every precinct in Pennsylvania has someone who is responsible for it," Ciarrocchi said. All 9,530 of them. 
"Everyone has a theory" to overcome Bush's 200,000 vote deficit of four years ago, concentrating on one group or another, he said. 
Democrats say that in fact, Bush's strategy is simple. 
"Republicans are trying to register every living Christian," said Tony Podesta, who ran President Clinton's Pennsylvania cam­paign in 1996 and is back for Kerry this year. 
Unlike Bush, Kerry is rely­ing to a large extent on ACT and other anti-Bush allies to do the labor-intensive orga­nizational work. 
"The Kerry campaign has probably been less focused on that end of it and more focused on the day-to-day operations of running a cam­paign operation in a battle­ground state," said state Democratic; chairman T.J. Rooney. 
ACT says it has helped add 130,000 voters to the rolls, not counting tens of thou­sands from last year's Philadelphia mayoral elec­tion, and plan to have 12,000 paid workers on the street election day. 
ACT claims about 80 paid employees in the state apd several office, including one in the basement of a Friends Meeting House in the Philadelphia suburbs. 
ELECTION QUICK HITS 

+The truth on 'town hall' events + Bush leads polls + Battling in Ohio 
WASHINGTON -President Bush and Sen. John Kerry talk often about the needs and ambitions of ordinary people, but neither encounters many along a campaign trail defined by the exquisitely stage-managed photo op and fortified by Secret Service agents. 
Despite almost daily campaign events styled as "town hall" ses­sions with voters, such as the candidates held Monday, neither the Republican incumbent nor the Democratic challenger has much recent experience with the relatively unscripted town-hall format of their next debate on Friday. 
What the campaigns call town-hall events, or informal, shirt­sleeve bull sessions, are really almost as staged as traditional speeches or whoop-and-holler rallies. 
The crowds almost always range from friendly to adoring. Bush events are ticket-only, and the tickets are usually passed out by the Bush campaign or other supporters. Kerry sometimes uses tickets. sometimes not. Still, supporters seem to easily outnumber undecided voters or opponents at Kerry town-hall sessions. 
For both, the questions are almost always softballs. 

CLEVELAND -In the key presidential battleground of Ohio, the candidates proved during the weekend they won't take the state's traditional Democratic strongholds for granted. 
Within 72 hours of their first debate, President Bush and Democratic challenger John Kerry sought to energize support in northeast Ohio. The only vice presidential debate between Dick Cheney and John Edwards is Tuesday night at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. 
Bush attended a campaign rally in Cuyahoga Falls on Saturday. Kerry conducted a talk show-style meeting in Austintown Fitch High School's gym on Sunday before going to a black church in Cleveland, where three local pastors and the Rev. Jesse Jackson helped fire up the congregation. 
No Republican has won the presidency without Ohio. With 20 electoral votes at stake, both sides have been campaigning in Ohio for more than a year. There have been near-weekly visits and both have thousands of volunteers covering the state. 

Stop, you're making me blush 
1'.0. Bo< Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

EDITOR IN CHIEF While Thursday's presidential debate an excess of $200,000. it in order to support our troops. Matt Lozar was marked by the candidates' strong dif­According to The Washington Post on Just last week, Bush released an ad ferences on multiple foreign policy issues, May 30, Bush has outdistanced Kerry in accusing Kerry of "seek[ingJ permission of 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 

it also recorded one of the increasingly such untrue ads. mainly because the foreign government before protecting 
Mcghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 

rare occasions on which Sen. John Kerry Kerry campaign has been more cautious America." Kerry responded, saying the 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR 
and President George after AI Gore's troubles in 2000. While president was lying. It is unfortunate that 
Katie Boyle
Joe Herder W. Bush, both behav­exaggeration appears to be an inherent presidential campaigns are so bogged in NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger ing with grace, chose part of politics and most presidential can­negativity; this aspect of the electoral 
For VVhat It's
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas to acknowledge any­didates have engaged in this type of process has merely served to emphasize
Worth
SPORTS El>ITOR: Heather Van Hocgarden thing positive about advertising, this year's duo appear to be the "lesser of two evils" view many are SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith the other. outdoing their predecessors. taking of the election. Although introducing criticism, Kerry Both candidates should be laud-
Obviously the candidates should 
IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin 

stated, "I believe President Bush and I ed for their relative restraint be allowed to criticize each SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
both love our country equally." Likewise, in the area of personal other throughout the presi­PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
Bush said, "I admire Senator Kerry's serv­attacks, excluding rather dential race. No one isGRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ice to our country. I admire the fact that poor behavior on the asking them to run a ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
he is a great dad." Were these the same part of both the Kerry campaign using AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
candidates we've seen throughout the and Bush camps Barney's theme SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
past few months? regarding the oppo­song. When this CONTROU.ER: Paula Garcia Regardless of' whether Kerry felt like nent's military criticism over­snapping, "Wipe that smirk off your face, service. I would whelms their own 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 

you hunchbacked turtle," or if' Bush would rather, however, message, howev­
(574) 631-7471 

really like to have said, "At least you've that Kerry and er, it loses its 
FAX 

lost the self' tanner. pretty boy," such per­Bush call each efl'ect and 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING sonal attacks were not a part of the first other names and 
increases the 

(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu debate. While the idea of' either Kerry or pelt each other 
apathy of the EDITOR IN CHIEF Bush elucidating such comments on with tomatoes, general elec­
(574) 631-4542 

national television may be laughable, in exuding all the torate. 
MANAGING EDITOR 

light of the vitriol spawned throughout the gusto of seniors In addition, the 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 

ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR campaign season practically anything with marshmal­lies inhen~nt in 
(574) 
631-4324 seems possible. _ lows at a Notre recent campaign BUSINESS OFFICE Luckily, in this election, very personal Dame home game, advertising, partic­

(574) 
631-5313 character attacks have not been as preva­than view the ularly that of Bush, 


NEWS DESK 

lent as in years past. Now perhaps the rel­ridiculous number of promotes cynicism 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 

ative absence of former President Bill blatant lies in their among voters. Kerry is
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 
631-5303 viewpoinc.l@nd.edu Clinton's raging libido from the forefront advertising. also guilty, albeit to a SPORTS DESK of national affairs (pun intended) has sim­Some of the attacks sim­lesser degree. 

(574) 
631-4543 spom.l@nd.edu ply created a dearth of material for the ply have to be given props A man or woman running 


SCENE DESK 

scandalmongers. for creativity. At Bush rallies, for president has a responsibili­
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 

Both candidates, however, have volunteers have dressed as Flipper ty to the general public not to pro­
SAINT MARY'S DESK 

released a plethora of negative ads about the dolphin, attempting to reinforce claims mote such libel. I question whether a per­
smc.l @nd.edu PHOTO DESK their opponent. Usually early in the race, that Kerry wavers on key issues. son who does advance lies about another 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu candidates focus more on positive adver­Unfortunately, however, Bush makes candidate even deserves to hold our SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS tising and their own strengths. Not so in many false claims in order to demonstrate nation's highest office. 
(574) 631-8839 

this election-by the beginning of June, this alleged aspect of Kerry's character. So, in keeping with the negativity of the approximately 75 percent of Bush's adver­In particular, the Bush campaign enjoys general election and the candidates' own THE tising was negative. In contrast, around 26 bringing up Kerry's quote, "I actually did themes: vote for the lesser of two evils.
OBSERVER ONLINE 

percent of Kerry's ads were negative. vote for the $87 billion before I voted Vote for Kerry.
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Moreover, many of both candidates' ads against it," giving the false impression that POLICIES are extremely 'misleading,' although I Kerry would have intentionally blocked Katie Boyle is a senior English. political 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper prefer to describe them as downright the funds from going toward Iraq, when in science and Spanish major. She supports published in print and online by the students of the false. On the Bush side, for example, the fact he voted against the bill only after the John Kerry She can be reached at University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's campaign has stated that Kerry intends to source from which the money would come kboyle2@nd. edu. 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
repeal most of Bush's tax cuts within his was changed. Kerry also has always The views expressed in this column are 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
first 100 days in office. In fact, Kerry only maintained that were his vote critical to those ofthe author and not necessarily 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
supports repealing cuts for those making the bill's passage, he would have voted for those ofThe Observer. 
advertisements bas<.-d on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views LETTER TO THE EDITOR of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint spa~ is available ro all readers. The free expre"ion of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
Don't let hate influence votes 
contact information. 
A common response when someone is asked why they are the fact that he was actually able to flip and not flop on some
Q~<~stiom regarding Observerpolicirt should bt dirrtcttd to Editor in ChiifMatt Lozar. voting for Sen. John Kerry is often "because I hate Bush." The issues for a full ninety minutes. Impressive. But these evident Democrat bitterness of losing last election is in full force as this flaws do not seem to matter. They don't matter for a lot of peo­POST OFFICE INFORMATION election draws nearer. And frankly, as a Republican, it's a little ple, because he is not Bush, and that makes it all okay. I" he-OhK"rvrr (U~f'S '1'19 l-40001 11 publi,hc-..1 MonJo~r rhrou&h htd.J.v cx~:qn Juring scary. Being Republican and a supporter of Bush, I have been Bush seems to be associated with death, and the only way to 
n:am o~n•l v~o~rum 1~riod• A •ubtenpri.>n tl) fh.c!Obtavn-i• $100 for nnco ~.dcmic yc.ar S~~ lOr one ~t1n<1trr the recipient of more than a few glares simply because I am avoid death is to vote. Vote, vote, vote. It doesn't matter who I hc-Ohk'l~t •• • member of dow: Auui.J&&N l'reu. AlJI't'prodlM..tton r11hn M< 
associated with "him." (although preferably Kerry). as long as it isn't "him." Voting is
rnn'IC'd. 
I h'" C.Jh""vn •• publuhal&r: 1~0 Ht'"Q Hatred frequently distorts a person's outlook and blurs actu­a right, and more people should vote, but with every right 024 ~'lnurh DtnuiiJ H•ll lll4 Sourh Dinin11 H.l!l Nnrrt" IJ.an11:, IN 4M~6-on•J Notrt" l.hmr, IN 46556·1ln9 
alities. I am afraid that this is happening to a segment of the comes a responsibility. A responsibility to know what is at 
1\-nudk.ll J'CIIIA"c:' r.w~t ,at Notre ll.unc 
Democratic Party. Facts are disregarded simply because the stake and what is going on beyond a superficial level. Michael 
.md .kllhflulllllm~llillg Q(f1Cl'1. 
hate is so strong. But, is it ever a good reason to do something Moore's movie doesn't count. I only hope that the ramifications 
I'()"''IMA\TI·.K 
out of hate? My response would be Hitler. Enough said. I also of this hate and ignorance are not too severe, especially aftnr 
~rnd .WdrnJ ~urm.:uom rq 
l'ht"(}(-,,rfY('f 
find myself wondering how many have actually asked them­Nov. 2. selves if Kerry is really suited for presidency, or if this thought Katie Shoultz is discarded along with the rest in the hostile Bush bash. junior 

Kerry's political ideology is often unclear and in a flux. In McCandless Hall TODAY'S STAFF fact, I think his shining reviews from the debate stemmed from Ocr. 4 
News Sports Teresa Fralish Matt Mooney Kate Antonacci Eric B.etter 
OBSERVER POLL
Mattie Hanna Chris Khorey Viewpoint Scene 
Should Notre Dame have the SafeBus 
Katherine Rowley Ham a Graphics Gottumkkala service for students? Graham Ebetsch Illustrator Katie Knorr 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You grow up the day you have your first real laugh at yourself" 
Ethel Barrymore 
.r------------------------~------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 page 11 
Tradition-not: the Vice Presidential debates 
We have become so accustomed to watching presidential debates every four years that it may be hard to believe that, for most of American history, they didn't exist. In the 19th century, politicians con­sidered it undignified 
to campaign openly for Susan Ohmer 
public office, and instead sent surro-Guest Column gates to present their 
views to the public. The famous Abraham Lincoln-Stephen Douglas debates that launched Lincoln's career took place during the 1858 Illinois Senate race, not during a presidential election. In the 20th century, no debates occurred until the 1948 and 1956 elec­tions, and they involved candidates in the Republican and Democratic primar­ies, not each party's final nominees. Not until 1960, with the famous John F. Kennedy-Richard Nixon debates, could Americans watch the parties' formal nominees argue their positions. Everyone knows that the Kennedy-Nixon match-up was the first presidential debate to be televised, but they were also in fact, the first presidential debates in 
U.S. history. 
And they did not establish a trend. The two parties' nominees wouldn't debate again for another sixteen years, in part because of Nixon's experiences in the 1960 encounter. It wasn't until 1976, when Gerald Ford met Jimmy Carter in an exchange that also involved an infa­mous remark about Poland that presi­dential debates reappeared in the elec­tion cycle. Since then they've become an accepted part of the political process, though candidates renegotiate the terms each time. What we think of as an inte­gral part of our democratic process, then, has a tradition going back about forty years, and not even continuously at 
that. The "tradition" of vice presidential 
debates is even less firmly rooted. The 
first encounter between the parties' 
nominees for this position also 
occurred in 1976, when 

Democrat Walter Mondale 
debated Republican 
Robert Dole. There 
were no vice presi­
dential debates in 
1980,butthey 
reappeared in 
1984, when 
George H.W. 
Bush debated 
Geraldine 
Ferraro in an 
encounter that 
was equally 
memorable 
for breaking 
gender barri­
ers. This tradi­
tion ofvice 
presidential 
debates has 
existed continu­
ously for only 
twenty years ­
the age of many 

Notre Dame students. Why should we care about the vice presiden­tial debates? We don't elect vice-presidents directly, after all; they are attached to the ticket and we don't have the opportunity to deselect them. Of course, if the president dies in office, they become our next leader, so it's useful to have a sense of their personalities and beliefs. Ronald Reagan was 73 years old in 1984, so vot­ers may have had a more pressing inter­est in knowing who could replace him, 
but age is not an issue in this campaign. Vice presidents also attract attention because of the extra experience and per­spective they add to a ticket. During the 
2000 election, George W. Bush presented Dick Cheney as a man whose long experi­ence in government ­including a stint as White House Chief of Staff under Ford and Secretary of Defense in his father's cabinet 
-would add heft to his administration. 
Sen. John Kerry chose Sen. John Edwards for similar rea­sons of bal­ance: to widen 
his appeal to various demo­graphic groups. 
Both Kerry and 
George W. Bush acknowledge that one person can't do 
everything and that the vice-president extends and enhances the range of skills a presi­dent can offer. 

The role of vice president is one that is still being defined. Vice presidents can say things the president can't, such as when Cheney implied that a vote for Kerry could trigger another terrorist attack. Vice presidents can be warmer, more in touch with the public, a function that Edwards seems to fulfill for Kerry. They can extend a candidate's political base, as Lyndon Johnson did for Kennedy by appealing to Southern vot­ers. Kennedy nearly lost his party's nom­ination because of his support for civil rights, but appointing the Texan Johnson appeased the Democrat's southern base. They can reassure particular segments of the party that the President shares its views, while he strives to appear more moderate, as Cheney does in speaking to evangelical groups. 
The debate tonight between Cheney and Edwards brings together two men of established rhetorical skills and very dif­ferent political personas. Edwards, the man who worked his way up the socioe­conomic ladder and earned his political reputation and millions of dollars as a trial lawyer, vs. Cheney, the consummate government administrator and master of innuendo and suggestion. In contrast to the uneven rhetorical display of last week's presidential debate, this one promises to be a more equal match of communication skills. Will they move us through emotion, or argue with logic? Will one man lose his temper and reveal a hidden side, or will each remain in command of himself and his words? 
Whatever the outcome, we can take pride in knowing that we are helping to continue what is still a relatively new "tradition" in American politics. 
Susan Ohmer is a guest columnist and an assistant professor ofmodern com­munication for the department offilm, television and theatre. She is currently teaching a course on Media and the Presidency, which examines the role of media in the election process. She can be contacted at sohmer@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Seeing beyond the 'spin' 
It truly is a shame when a decision comes down to Sen. John Kerry wind­surfing across your television screen, or Michael Moore's depictions of President George W. Bush. I even have this great picture of Kerry dropping a football Tom Rippinger like a girl. but we won't go there Confessions of today. Negative a Campus campaign ads are Conservative wrong and I think Katie and I agree with that. Scaring old people into saying Republicans will throw away their Social Security, or scaring others into thinking Kerry will hand the country over to the terrorists are simply not true assertions. Assuming we all agree these attack ads are wrong, which I think we do, who can undecided voters trust to give them unbiased information? Instead of drib­bling on about how sad politics have become, I'd like to tell you what you should do to fmd unbiased information. 
Today's column was a great opportu­nity for me to take a step back and put myself in the shoes of the undecided voter. First of all I'll turn off my daily dose of Fox News, CNN and the Internet wires I receive from various Washington think tanks. All of these are interested sources that have some sort of agenda behind them, regardless of whether or not it conforms to your viewpoint. Political parties, think tanks, 527's and media outlets are all biased. Money, ratings and power plays are what drive any of the organizations involved in the election. 
With that being said, I'll share an experience I had with a great professor during the Washington Semester Program for our Lobbying and Influence Group class. Professor Steve Billet was a former lobbyist for AT&T and director of external programs for the George Washington University School of Political Management. The class taught us a great deal about how things really work in Washington, straight from the mouth of a "no-bull old school Southern Democrat" who wanted to shoot straight with us to teach us a few things about politics. 
The class was on lobbying, which is actually quite useful in understanding the electoral rhetoric, because in effect both candidates are lobbying for your vote. Busy person that you are, you cannot sit down and read the Patriot Act, the Sept. 11 report and "Plan of Attack" by Bob Woodward to inform your vote. Since both parties know this, the most effective tool to mobilize your support is fear. Hence the slogans "Help is on the Way," "Keeping America Safe" or, my personal favorite, "Vote or Die." When push comes to shove, lobbyists use this force in the opposite direction to influence legislation. If factory A in district B closes because of policy C, then that will be costing a congressman possible votes and campaign money in elections. 
Staying fair to the reality of the pro­fession, personal relationships are much more effective for lobbyists, but push comes to shove scenarios can begin to resemble the viciousness of the close election we now face. Our last class project was to do a paper on an interest group that lobbies or spends money promoting an agenda in Washington. We were each assigned to do interviews with the various organi­zations. For larger more impersonal organizations above and beyond the effectiveness of personal interviews, the most effective tool in determining the motives of these organizations in Washington was tracking their contrib­utors. This was possible through a handy Web sites like www.opense­crets.org or www.fec.gov. 
Federal election laws have become very strict as far as reporting the sources of campaign funds. Along with the tool of the Internet, the average voter has an amazing tool to sidetrack the rhetoric of both sides. These are tools that never would have been acces­sible to the general voter as recently as the early nineties. 
If you haven't made up your mind yet, please don't do it based on something you see on TV. You can use the Internet to do your homework on the 527's behind the vicious ads and who is behind them. At the same time, you can get a picture of what key industries support each candidate. Usually money is a more trustworthy measure of human intentions than word alone. You even can do fun things like see how much money Alec Baldwin or Tom Hanks gave to Kerry/Edwards 2004. If our class could determine the true intentions of complex Washington advo­cacy organizations by following the money trail, average Internet-savvy Notre Dame students should easily be able to see the interests of each party. If you can't do all that, you can read Katie and me battle out the issues every Tuesday until Election Day. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He supports President George W. Bush and is the President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofthe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Heckling is to be expected 
Section T22, Row 1, Seat 9. That's where I'll be at the USC football game Nov. 27. And guess where that is? It's the front row of the USC sen­ior student section. And boy do I plan to get pummeled. Even females are not spared when seated in the student section at an opposing team's stadium. However, I was not and will never be "outclassed." Call me a football mar­tyr, but there is a certain amount of abuse to be suffered, and dare I say expected, when attend­ing an away game in a bright green shirt in the opposing side's most hostile section. I learned this well, as many fans came back from Purdue's game last year with bruises from, you guessed it, beer cans. I will be grateful to only receive a baptism via Coke at the USC game. 
A certain amount of common sense is neces­sary to survive a game in the enemy territory unharmed and those who are not afforded it get sucked into the karmic circle. Though a few students at Notre Dame may have sunk to the level of offending or even harming Purdue stu­dents at this weekend's game, I can assure everyone that it is not near the torture we suf­fer when traveling to other stadiums. To gener­alize Notre Dame by the actions of one hard guy is unfair. Furthermore, to say that other schools potentially outclass Notre Dame is unfounded. There is a certain amount of con­tainment that goes with traveling that is sensi­ble and polite. I'm sure USC will not want to hear me chanting "We are NO" as the number one football team in the nation faces being number two yet again. 
Christine O'Reilly 
)UfliOf 
off-campus 
Ocr.4 

THE 0BSER\'ER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Acting, script disappoint in fiery drama 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scone Editor 
Then~ used to b1~ a time when one could expect. with a fair amount of cer­tainty. that a film starring .John Travolta would be of some merit. That tinw has come to an Pnd. "Ladder 49" is a paradigm of what actors do to pay tlw bills. Although thP. 111m is touching at times. it is generally cheesy and overacted. 
"Ladder 49" is the talc of Jack Morrison (.Joaquin Phoenix). a fireman who works under his chief (Travolta). Tlw f'ilm begins with Morrison saving a man in a burning 
The acting in the film. for the most part. is not very strong. While Travolta delivers a strong and moving perform­ance as the wise. loyal and dedicated !ire chief. the rest of the acting is not remarkable. Phoenix's acting is unim­pressive and simply cheesy. not that he had incredibly original lines to say in the first place. lie is big and loveable, and does convey some of the difficulty of doing a job that places one in so much danger everyday, but his overall character seems very cliche. The rest of the ensemble of firefighters and Morrison's wife and children are nei­ther noticeably bad nor good. The script plays out much as one would 
expect it would 

building, where and the actors
Ladder 49

he then gets don't do a great injured and lies 
deal to enhance on the ground in what is a gener­the midst of thtl ally mundane burning building, script.Director: Jay Russell 
flashing back Redemption
Writer: Lewis Colick 

through his life as does occur 
Starring: Joaquin Phoenix, John Travolta,

a fireman. a hus­throughout the 
Robert Patrick and Morris Chestnut

band. and a movie in one 
father. The story is generally pre­dictable. but is moving at some points. 
The dissertations on "what it takes to be the one running into a burning building when everyone else is running out" arc emotionally moving, but gen­erally cliche. The flashbacks touch on deaths and injuries of Morrison's fellow firefighters as well as the relationships he developed with them. 
form -the por­
trayal of the lives and losses in a firefighter's line of duty. There are many dialogues about the importance of saving lives and there is no question that the actors do a good job portraying the bravery of real, courageous firefighters who fight to save lives everyday. Even the biggest skeptic cannot help but feel his or her throat tighten as friends in the fire 
DVD REVIEW 


Humor shines in scheming high school antics 
By EMILY IAROCCI Scene Critic 
Tlw Saturday Night Live cast mem­bers and alums have done it again ­"Mean Girls" is hysterical. 
Wh1~n the previews first canw out for the movi1~. it appeared to be another typical te1mage movie full of mindless humor. hut upon actually watching it, !lllll comes to find that the humor is morn carnf'ully crafted in this film. Tina Fey, a current nwmber of the SNL cast and LIH• show's head writer. takes full writing credits for tlw screenplay. Those who hav1~ watched her on SNL are familiar with lwr witty. sarcastic humor. She Prnploys lwr particular br1'1~d of' humor in th<~ scn~enplay. and manages to turn a possible dud of a movi1~. into a V<~ry PnjoyabiP l'ilm. Fey did haw some lwlp. hovvever. from her f'Pllow east mPmbers. such as Lindsay l.ohan. Hadwl McAdams (new. young it girls of llollywood). Tim Meadows. Ana c;asteyer. Amy l'oPhlPr (two SNl. alums and a curTPnt cast nwmber). and Lacey ChabPrt (of "!'arty of Five" fanwl. 
"MPan Girls" is about thn stereotypi­cal "popular girls" in high school. Cady Heron (Lohan) is a junior who has spent most of her life in Africa with her zoologist parents. She has been home­schooled up until this point in her life. when she is finally thrust into a public high school. Cady has no idea what she is up against. In the simplest of terms. high school girls. are mean. Boys have no idea what it is like to be a girl in middle school and high school. Everything is a competition. and for some reason, the cool girls, are gener­ally the meanest girls in school. Cady is clueless because she has never had to interact with kids her own age in social situations. 
On her second day of school she has an encounter with the "Plastics," the cool girls at North Shore lligh. They decide that sl111 is pretty enough to hang out with thm~ and invites her to be tlwir friend. The other kids Cady has already befriended. Janis and Damian. the art freaks, convince her to hang out with the "Plastics" just so they can hear about all the awful things the girls say and do. Eventually, Hegina (McAdams). the head of the "Plastics" crosses Cady by stealing the 
boy she has a crush on. Then Cady. Janis, and Damian decide to try and ruin Hegina's popu­larity, which in high school is life. 
The rest of the film depicts all the scheming Cady, Janis and Damian do to bring Hegina to her demise. Watch the movie if you want to know the rest. it is well worth it. 
department die and are injured. 
"Ladder 49" is not an enjoyable film. However, it will be seen by many and has received good reviews. Behind the cheesy lines and cliche characters. there are real men, women and their families who are heroic in their every­day life. "Ladder 49" pays tribute to this fact throughout showing the truly accurate life of a fireman. his family and his friends. Brilliant screenwriting or directing are not the aspects that makes this !ilm moving -it is the true story that the makers already had to work with, taken directly from the lives of real heroes who live in our midst. "Ladder 49" would be nothing without the story provided of the brave fire­fighters working everyday that pulls on the heartstrings and the tear ducts of all members of the audience. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

The DVD from Paramount Pictures is fully loaded with special features. There is a large section of commentary from the cast and crewmembers. which includes scenes from the movie. Another part of the commentary pre­sented is an interview with Rosalind Wiseman. the author of "Queen Bees & Wannabes." the book on which the movie is based. Wiseman's book is actually more psychologically driven and was written in order to advise par­ents and girls how to survive adoles­cence. The DVD also includes an inter­view with the costume designer. who describes how she put together the out­fits for the characters, and explains how vision and grasp of characteriza­tion is necessary to do a good job cos­tuming the cast. The standard DVD special features such as outtakes, deleted scenes, and trailers are includ­ed. The outtakPs and deleted scenes are hilarious, as they should be. since the movie is so funny. 
All in all. this DVD is fantastic and well worth the purchase, or rental. 
Contact Emily loracci at eiarocci@nd.edu 


THE 0BSER\'ER 




CENE
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 
page 13 
DVD REVIEWS 
Lucas' other sci-fi classic soars in re-release 


Cast charms in winning family comedy 
Photo courtesy of mov1eweb.com 

Father and daughter Ollie (Ben Affleck) and Gertie ( Raquel Castro) bond at the dinner table in director Kevin Smith's family comedy, "Jersey Girl." 
reward in the end. Jersey Girl provides the
Jersey Girl 

perfect amount of emo­tionally triggering con­Widescreen Edition 
tent combined with an entertaining dose of Buena Vista comedic reality. Director Kevin Smith is best known for his command on the popular block­buster "Clerks." Smith's reputation for his forth­

icate his life entirely to his infant daugh­ter. 
Seven years later, and Ollie is still liv­ing in Highlands, N.J. with his Pop (George Carlin). and young daughter Gertie (Haque! Castro). Reduced to working as a blue-collar street worker, the dream of returning to his former life complete with parties, celebrities and influence never escapes him. Once again, he is forced to face the decision of moving back to the city to recover his broken career, or remain in the family oriented life style he has been living. 
Maya (Liv Tyler) is the amusingly hon· est, would be girlfriend of Ollie. She forces Ollie to realize all that he under­estimates in his life. Together, the actors do a great job at emphasizing the movie's heartfelt theme of acceptance and appreciation of the priorities in life. Even though Ollie is emotionally pres­sured into sacrificing his entertainment dream job, his dedication to his family 
leaves him with greater 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Critic 
When released in 1971, "THX 1138" was light-years ahead of any film of its time. It came during a period when the old studio system of Hollywood was failing and the new generation of young, advPnturous filmmakers was taking over. Names like Scorsese, Coppola, Spielberg and Lucas were just beginni~g to be passed around in film circles and it was this film, the first to come out of Francis Ford Coppola's production company American Zoetrope, that put these new filmmak­ers on the map. 
Directed by George Lucas and pro­duced Francis Ford Coppola, this tale follows a man living in a future that has outlawed emotion, sex, and even love. Robert Duvall plays the character named THX 1138, a factory worker who makes the robotic policeman that oversee the futuristic society of the film. His living partner, LUI-I 3417 (Maggie McOmie), alters his drug regi­men and THX 1138 begins to feel emo­tion. Eventually he and LUI-I 3417, who fall in love, plot an escape which suf­fers though many hardships as they fight the "Big Brother" that is present everywhere in the guise of the mechan­ical policemen and cameras that patrol 
., 

By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Critic 
Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez reunite on the big screen in "Jersey (;irl." The reunion of the couple is not as painful as you might expect. In fact, tlwir collaboration is reasonably brief. 
Lopez and Aff1eck play Gertrude ·and OlliP, eager newlyweds. Tragedy takes tlw place of elation when Gertrude (Lopez) dies during thi• birth of their much anticipated baby girl. Gertie. Ollie (Aflkck), an obsessively, career driven music publicist. is put in the tight pn·diranwnt of caring for his newborn and Pxecuting his high powered, high profi!P job all at once. 
An off-the-cuff remark made about his client. Will Smith. "the Fresh Prince" at a lwctic press conferr~nce leaves him jobl!~ss, and on his way back to the New Jersey suburbs. Ollie vows, then. to ded­every level of society. THX 1138 becomes more and more resolved in escape throughout the film, meeting the outcasts of society as he is thrown into a permanent hold for the people who choose not to conform to the stan­dards that "Big Brother" has set out. He is attacked by the animals outside of the antiseptically clean city as he escapes and entangles himself in a very suspenseful car chase. 
The story of this film is but the visu­als are where this film stands out. The design of this film is Lucas at his best. The futuristic city is devoid of color as are the ubiquitous white jumpsuits that the citizens wear. At times this creates the very unusual effect of floating heads as the white uniforms blend in with the white walls of the city. The police are mechanical but they possess a human quality that is very unnerving. These robots also possess a single­mindedness making them the perfect law enforcement as they will follow their orders out without question. This film is also almost completely devoid of African American characters. There are a few but for the most part Lucas's futuristic society contains only Caucasians. This choice in casting com­pounds on the oneness and lack of indi­viduality of the society presented. 
This DVD was released as a special 
edition director's cut including two discs. The first disc con­tains the original feature film released in 1971 with some additional footage that Lucas was unable to place in the film due to the restraints of special effects in 1971. The feature film is presented in the original widescreen 2.35:1 ratio, keeping what Lucas intended for his audi­ences to see. The second disc contains two documentaries, Lucas's student film "Electronic Labyrinth: THX 1138 4EB" (of which THX 1138 is based on), and the original theatrical trailers for "THX 1138." The most fascinating part of the extras comes in the documen­tary, "A Legacy of Filmmakers: The Early Years of American Zoetrope." This documentary recounts the actions of a group of upstart film students who graduated in the late 1960's. It explains how Coppola, Lucas, Martin Scorsese and others rebelled against the old guard of studio filmmakers and how they changed the face of American cinema. 
This is an excellent film that received very little attention at its original release. It is a blessing to generations that Lucas decided to release it in the way they he wanted to release it. 
This film pushed audiences to the limits and was the first film to be released by American Zoetrope. The legacy of a few, brilliant, and upstart filmmakers will forever be immortal­ized in this release. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

right humor shines throughout the movie. In fact, a few quick-witted ran­dom comments throughout the movie, border questioning on whether or not the movie is ideal for family viewing. 
Movie viewers will be impressed with the acting ability of young Raquel Castro. She plays the role of Ollie's adorably precocious daughter, Gertie, and steals the show with her undeniable adeptness at the role. This movie is defi­nitely one which will exceed expecta­tions. 
Bottom line -do not let your J.Lo grudge prevent you from checking out this genuinely good movie. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 5, 2004 
MLB 

Blue Jays offer interim manager Gibbons one year deal 
Associared Pre55 manager on Aug. 8, when Gibbons' contract isn't extend­years, it may take seven years." lose slugger Carlos Delgado, Carlos Tosca was fired after the ed. The 42-year-old Gibbons had who can become a free agent 
TOHONTO -John Gibbons is team opened 47-64. General "Does that threaten me? No. been the Blue Jays' first-base after the World Series. The A's getting one chance to turn the manager J.P. Ricciardi liked because I know what kind of coach since Tosca took over for lost stars such as Mark Toronto Blue Jays around, and Gibbons' upbeat attitude and guy he is. And if I do my job the Buck Martinez on June 3, 2002. McGwire. Jason Giambi and he's happy to have it. the way he handled the right way then maybe this thing Gibbons, a former catcher Miguel Tejada in recent years. 
Gibbons was given a one-year bullpen. will continue." Gibbons said. who had 50 career at-bats in Delgado. the franchise leader contract Monday to return as "We're just going to see. "''m just glad we got him 18 games with the New York in home runs and HBis, earned manager after guiding the last­Hopefully. as things go forward because he's one of the all-time Mets in 1984, '86 and '87, $18.5 million this season. place Blue Jays to a 20-30 we'll extend it," Ricciardi said. favorites here." spent seven seasons as a minor "I don't even know if we can record during the final eight referring to Gibbons' contract. Toronto finished 67-94 this league manager with the Mets, pay him money that's going to weeks of tlw season. The team also hired former season. its most losses since working his way up to Triple-A make him say. 'lley geez, I 
"I haven't accomplished any­Blue Jays catcher Ernie Whitt 1980 (67-95). Hicciardi said it Norfolk. lie compiled a 482-really want to stay here,"' thing at this level. It gives me as bench coach Monday, and could take three years for the 420 record in the minors, then Hicciardi said. an opportunity. There was no Brad Arnsberg was named Blue Jays to become con­joined Toronto as its bullpen Ricciardi might leave when way I was going to do turn it pitching coach. Arnsberg was tenders. catcher in 2002. his contract expires after the down." Gibbons said. previously a pitching coach for "I don't think we'll be knock­One of his minor league 2007 season. "Everybody likes security, but the Florida Marlins and ing on the door next year," said teammates was Ricciardi. who "I didn't come looking for this you know what? They thought Montreal Expos. Ricciardi, in the third year of a is modeling the Blue Jays after job. They came and inter­enough of me, to at least give Whitt, a fan favorite, has five-year rebuilding plan. his previous employer _ the viewed me for this job. The me a year to try it. it says a always wanted to be a major "We're going to build this small-market Oakland reason I took this job was the lot." league manager, and he could through player development Athletics. challenge in front of it." 
Gibbons took over as interim take over the Blue Jays if and scouting. It may take five The Blue Jays are expected to Ricciardi said. 
NBA 

Gary Payton reports to Celtics training camp 
Associared Pre55 way they were playing. He expected Payton to report, but gators, and Gary fits that cri­Payton was in the All-Star 
was standing in the corner by Danny Ainge. Boston's execu­teria," Ainge said. "lie's been game in nine of his 14 seasons 
WALTHAM. Mass.-Gary himself without the ball a lot," tive director of basketball there before. He knows how and has career averages of IIS Payton is running the show said Celtics coach Doc Rivers, operations, said he had some to win and I think he can be a points, 7.2 assists and 36.R again after playing a support­who noted the Lakers got doubts. Ainge said he talked good influence on our team." minutes per game. But last ing role in the Shaq and Kobe away from Payton pushing the to Payton on Sunday for the Marcus Banks, who had a season, he averaged 14.6 drama in llollywood. ball upcourt as the season first time since the trade was disappointing rookie season points. 5.5 assists and 34.5 
Any doubts that family con­progressed. "Gary's a guy that made on Aug. 6. after being drafted in the first minutes. All were the lowest cerns would keep likes to run the ''I've known Gary for a long round last year, isn't likely to in 11 seasons. the aggrnssive show and that's time and I knew that it would play as much now that Payton lie said he wasn't accus­point guard from "Gary's a guy that why we brought be a difficult decision for is in town. tomed to th1~ Lakers' offensive­reporting to the him in here." him," Ainge said, "So, yeah, ''I'm a team player and system after playing 12 full
likes to run the 

Celtics vanished Despite there were some anxious whatever it takes for us to win seasons in Seattle and 52
show and that's

Monday when he Payton's frus­moments." a game, I'm all for it, no mat­games there in his 13th showed up at why we brought tration with the But now Ainge has the ter if I play or not," Banks before finishing the 2002-03 training camp to him here." Lakers' style, he "instigator" he thinks the said. season with Milwaukee. prepare to lead exercised a $5.4 Celtics need -a physical Boston's new up­million option player who drives to the bas­
Doc Rivers

tempo game and with them for ket and plays scrappy teach his young Celtlcs Coach the coming sea-defense. Payton also provides teammates how to son. He wasn't a third scoring option to go lead the offense. ecstatic about with Paul Pierce and Ricky 
"I know I'm going to have to leaving the West Coast. where Davis. Payton expressed no take a couple of them under his daughter is a high school misgivings about joining a my wing to try to make them student. team that has won just three better basketball players," "There's always a lot of playoff series in 12 seasons Payton said. "Hopefully, they uncertainty when and was swept can catch on really quick and it's flipped on you by Indiana in we can get wins." like that." the 36-the first round
"J had a lot of 
That's a change from his year-old Payton last season.
family issues I had
one season with the Los said. "I had a Jot "This is a bas­Angeles !.akers, where the of family issues to deal with. " ketball type of offense revolved around that I had to rln'l] city," he said. Shaquille O'Neal, now with with, a lot of Ainge, a pesky

Gary Payton 
Miami, and Kobe Bryant, two things that I had guard on

Celtics Guard
stars with an uneasy relation­to work out first, Boston's cham­ship. So even when Payton did and I don't know pionship teams bring the ball up and pass it, where everybody in 1984 and he didn't get it back as much got that from because nobody 1986, thinks Payton will bring as he would have liked. heard me say that I wasn't . his own feistiness. 
"Last year it was tough for coming." "We talk a lot about tough­him to get tired because of the Hivers said he always ness. We talk a lot about insti-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. IO 3 r.m. al the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds mus1 be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenls per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content withoul issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART-TIME WORK Great pay,flex sched.,sales/svc all ages18+,cond. apply, 273-4878 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS WWW WORKFORSTUDENTS.COM 
FOR RENT 
ND Football housing. Walk to game. 574-315-3215. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES· NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·3·5·7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, 
MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 OR (574)315-5032. 

2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 
Walking distance from ND 
MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
Studio apartment,quiet neighbor­hood near ND. $350/mo plus elec­tric. Call 574·271·8941. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232·0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674-6593. 
Buying and selling ND football tix, especially Boston College 574-289-8048 
FoR SALE 

Spring break 2005 Challenge .. find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800·426-7710 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $1591 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1· 800-678-6386 Ladies! Looking for a professional Full Body Waxing Dayspa? Kimberle Nicole uses only the best waxes that work for every type of hair. We specialize in Brazilian Bikini, Legs, Brows and much more The Notre Dame MBA ladies rate us the #1 Dayspa for their waxing' Bring this ad and receive 1 0% off your visit. 574-257-3877 www.kimberle-nicole.com 
Good luck at your interviews this week girls 
YOU ARE RELENTLESS AND RIDICULOUS XOXOXOXO Megs 

Tuesday, October 5, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
points behind Stanford. On the women's side, Molly which was good for 17th place. points, however they were also Rounding out the top 10 were Huddle finished in second place Sunni Olding, a freshman run­very much in front of the teams
Race 
continued from page 24 
23:58. Kaleb Van Ort finished 14th just one second behind Moore with a 23:59 and Sean O'Donnell finished in 20th with a 24:04. 
"It was a very good perform­ance," said Piane, referring to the team's play as a whole after Friday's finish. 
The Irish only finished six 
Butler, Air Force, BYU, Florida State, Indiana, Miami of Ohio, Florida and UClA. 
"We weren't scared or giving any other teams a whole lot of extra credit, we just wanted to go out there and run our own race and get the job done," said Benninger. "We were just excit­ed that we were able to execute the way that we did but we weren't really surprised by the result." 

with a 16:31 and Kerry Meagher finished in 5th place with a 16:45. 
"I don't think we were shocked that we were third," said women's head coach Tim Connelly. "[I knew] we were going to be a little short at 5. and we were, and that shows us where we are at right now." 
Stephanie Madia was the last Irish runner to finish in the top 20, coming in with a 17:11, ner who Connelly has praised all year, didn't run her best race, finishing in 31st place with a 
17:30. Connelly attributed Olding's time to her being under the weather. 
· "I think we need to do a better job keeping [Olding] and [Madia] together, and that will happen," said Connelly. 
The women's 127 points were a semi-distant third to Stanford's 34 points and Michigan's 87 finishing behind them. 

Missouri finished fourth with 164 points. Rounding out the top 10 were Michigan State, William and Mary, UClA, Butler, Florida State and Penn State. 
Notre Dame will race next in the Pre-National Championship in Terre Haute, Ind. on Oct. 16th. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo loses to top teams, finishes strong 
Special to The Observer the weekend with two strong Dunn. Pete Van Loon, Ryan Oliverio finished a strong first, half before .yielding a late goal 
wins. Ohio State fell first to the Downey, Mike McKenna and second, fourth in intermediate in the half. Mary Davis and 
The No. 17 Notre Dame men's Irish, 6-3. Keeping in mind their Dusty Mennella shut down the fences for the Irish. Katie Butler applied offensive water polo club traveled to previous losses due to poor Bobcat attack. The Irish head to Mary Dorgant also claimed a pressure, but the second half Miami of Ohio this past week­starts, the Irish came out firing Toledo, Ohio this weekend for first in novice fences, with attack was unable to crack the end to challenge a field featur­in the opening period against the beginning of Great Lakes teammate Brittany Gragg earn­Cincy defense. ing 10 of the top 20 nationally the Buckeyes. Leading the Irish Conference play. ing fifth. In three intermediate The Irish will host University ranked teams. In the first two offense once again were Equestrian flat classes, Andrea Oliverio of Buffalo, University of Chicago games on Saturday, the Irish fell McNicholas and Shephard with The Notre Dame equestrian took second, Marina Cardona and Ohio State this Sunday at to No. 16 Indiana 11-9 and then additional help from senior club placed third at the St. Maldonado and Landyut fourth, Riehle field. No. 3 Michigan 11-9 in similar Mike Grow and junior Greg Mary's of the Woods College Ana Richter fifth, and Schmiege Ultimate fashion. The Irish came out Szewczyk. Stellar goalkeeping Invitational this weekend, sixth. Kristen LaSota and Gragg Notre Dame's Ultimate club slowly in each game, giving by junior Scott Tagwerker and behind St. Mary's of the Woods tied for fifth in novice flat, Anne opened play at the Wisconsin each opponent a four-goal lead tough defense by the Irish kept and Purdue. Illinois. Trout finished fifth in walk-trot, Whitewater Invitational. Both at the end of the first quarter. the Buckeyes in check. Notre Indianapolis, Butler, Parkland, and in four advanced walk-trot­the men's and women's squads The Irish climbed back into Dame beat Ohio University 11-6 Ball State, IUPUI, Indiana, canter classes, Kay Booth took third in the event. In each contest and narrowly in the final game of the week­Taylor and Earlham completed claimed first, Laura Hale third, women's play, captain Meredith missed beating both teams. end. The high-powered Irish the field. Julia Burke took first Heather LaDue fifth, and Shepard's squad relied heavily Leading the comebacks for offense again got out to an early in open flat, with Liz Bell sec­Lauren Croall sixth. on a strong group of freshmen Notre Dame were architecture lead paced by goals from ond, Katie Baron and Claire Field Hockey as the club won five of six con­graduate student Matt McNicholas, Shephard, Grow Freeman each fourth in sepa­Despite a superb game in goal tests, losing to Purdue in the McNicholas and sophomore and Szewczyk. Additional scor­rate classes and Kelsy Ostberg by Leigh Madiera, Notre Dame's semifinals of the sixteen team Steve Shephard. as each scored ing for the Irish came from fifth. Freeman and Baron fin­field hockey club fell to the host field. The men also dropped a several goals. sophomore John Kelly, senior ished third and fifth in open Cincinnati Centurions 1-0 semifinal match with Purdue to 
Rebounding from their first Jack Spittler, and freshmen fences, while Molly Schmiege, Sunday. Madeira registered fif­finish third in a 32 team field. two losses, the Irish closed out Zhan-Wei Khaw and Colin Caitlin Landuyt, and Andrea teen saves in the scoreless first The men's squad finished 3-3. 
SAINT lVIARY'S STUDY ABROAD FAIR 1UESDAY OCTOBER 5, 2004 4:00-6:00 STAPLETON LOUNGE 
SlVIC & ND STUDENTS ARE \VELCOlVIE!! 

Semester Break Programs  
HAITI ~ EIVIINAR  
JMlNCAFIEill ~TUDY  
Summer Pro.,.ams  
EURO :P EAN ~ TUDY :PROGR.}J\..1  
GREEC,"E ~ TUDY TOUR  
KORENJ; C...'U LTURE ~ TUD Y  
HONDUR..-'5 ~TUDY :PROGRMl  
EHV IRO NMEN TI 0 F E(,'TJAD OR  








OUND THE NATION 
Page 16 CoMPILED FROM TI-·iE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, October 5, 2004 
NFL 
AFC East 
team New England NY Jets Buffalo Miami  record 3·0 3·0 D-3 D·4  perc. 1.00D 1.000 .DOD .DOD  PF/G 27.0 27.3 12.3 10.6  PNG 17.6 20.3 19.D 21.0  
AFC North  
team Pittsburgh Baltimore Cleveland Clnnclnatl  record 3·1 2·2 2·2 1·3  perc. .75D .50D .50D .25D  PF/G 19.5 19.9 14.7 16.5  PNG 17.75 21.6 15.5 23.7  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Houston Tennessee  record 3·1 3·1 2-2 1-3  perc . •750 .750 .500 .25D  PF/G 31.0 13.0 22.5 15.7  PNG 23 13 23.2 22.7  
AFC West  
team Denver Oakland San Diego Kansas City  record 3·1 2·2 2·2 1·3  perc. .750 .500 .500 .25D  PF/G 19.7 22.2 26.5 2D.6  PNG 14.25 21.75 23.5 28.6  
NFC East  
team Philadelphia NY Giants Dallas Washington  record 4-() 3·1 2-1 1-3  perc. 1.000 .750 .666 .250  PF/G 26.7 19.5 19 15.2  PNG 13.7 15.5 21.6 17.0  
NFC North  
team Detroit Minnesota Cblcago Green Bay  record 2·1 2·1 1-3 1·3  perc. .666 .666 .250 .250  PF/G 20.3 26.0 17.0 18.0  PNG 20.6 22.0 19.0 23.5  
NFC South  
team Atlanta New Orleans Carolina Tampa Bay  record 4-0 2·2 1-2 Q-4  perc. 1.000 .500 .333 .000  PF/G 22.0 18.7 17.3 12.2  PNG 12.2 26.0 22.6 18.0  
NFC West  
team SeaHie St. louis Arizona San fran.  record 3-0 2·2 1·3 0-4  perc. 1.00 .500 .250 .000  PF/G 21.6 20.7 14.7 15.0  PA/G 4.3 21.5 14.0 27.2  

Women's Soccer Top 25 
1(tle) North CaroUna 10·0·1 1(tle) NOTRE DAME 12·0·0 3 Penn Slate 9+1 4 VIrginia 9·1·1 5 Washington 9·1·1 6 Portland 10.2-D 7 Tenn81S8e 7·2-2 8 TexasA&M 10·3·0 9 Duke 10·2·0 10 UCLA 7·3·0 11 Florida 8-3·0 12 Stanford 8-2·0 13 Kansas 11·2·0 14 Florida State 7·3·0 15 California 7·1·1 16 Princeton 7-1·0 17 Santa Clara 6-3-2 18 West VIrginia 9-3·0 19 Illinois 10·2-D 20 Pepperdlne 7·2·,1 21 Michigan 7·3·2 22 Nebraska 9·3·0 23 Wake Forest 7·3-1 24 Oblo Slate 6·3·3 25 SMU 6-2-2 

around the dial 
BASEBALL PLAYOFFS Twins at Yankees 7 p.m., Fox Dodgers at Cardinals 12 p.m., ESPN Red Sox at Angels 3 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Winless no more, the Kansas City Chiefs rendered the Baltimore Ravens defense­less with an almost unimaginable display of ball control and patience. 
Priest Holmes ran for 133 yards and two touch­downs, and the Chiefs wore down the highly touted Baltimore defense in a 27­24 victory Monday night. 
Trent Green went 21-for­31 for 223 yards to help Kansas City (1-3) to its first win since Dec. 28. After going 13-3 a year ago, the Chiefs were off to their worst start since 1980. 
Through three quarters, Kansas City had 22 first downs compared to four for the Ravens and a 361­126 advantage in yardage. A 1-yard touchdown run by Holmes on the first play of the fourth quarter put the Chiefs up 27-17. and that proved to be enough to end the Ravens' seven-game home winning streak. 
Holmes, who played for Baltimore from 1997-2000, became the first player to run for 100 yards against the Ravens in 10 games. He carried 33 times, 22 in the first half. 
After Baltimore (2·2) closed to 27-24 on a 1-yard touchdown run by Jamal Lewis with 9:14 to go, the Chiefs methodically moved downfield in seven plays before a punt left the Ravens at their own 14 with 5:50 left. 
Baltimore went nowhere, but got the ball back on its own 27 with 2:33 remain­ing. 
The Ravens advanced to their own 40 before a fourth-down pass slipped off the fingers of wide receiver Kevin Johnson. 
Lewis, the NFL rushing leader a year ago, was held to 73 yards on 15 carries. Kyle Boller went 10-for-17 for 154 yards. 
Rookie B.J. Sams returned a punt 58 yards for a touchdown and Boller threw a 57-yard touch­down pass on a flea-flicker. but the Ravens never took back the lead after going up 3-0. 
Kansas City took a 20-1 7 lead on a 38-yard field goal by Lawrence Tynes with 
8:19 left in the third quar­ter. Green extended the 11­play drive by avoiding a sure sack on third-and-10 and completing a 16-yard pass to Chris Horn. 
The Ravens then ran four plays before punting. and the Chiefs responded with a workmanlike 13-play driv.e that resulted in Holmes' sixth touchdown of the season. 
IN BRIEF 
Mariners fire Melvin after 
99-Ioss season 
SEATTLE -Bob Melvin was fired as manager of the Seattle Mariners on Monday, a day after the team ended the season with its 99th loss. 
Melvin, who lasted two seasons, was told of the decision during a morning meeting at Safeco Field, and general manager Bill Bavasi called a news conference later in the day. 
In May, the Mariners exercised the option on Melvin's contract for 2005 despite a 9-16 start. He led the team to a 93-69 record in 2003 after Lou Piniella left for Tampa Bay. 
The Mariners left spring training expecting to contend for a playoff spot. Instead, they finished 63-99 and barely avoided their first 100­loss season since 1983. 
"What can you do? Anytime a team struggles the way we have this year, you have to make some changes somewhere," Melvin said Sunday. 'Til just play it a day at a time. If I'm here, I'm here. It would be great." 
Melvin was not immediately avail­able for comment Monday. Some of Seattle's biggest problems can't be attributed directly to Melvin. 
The Mariners ranked last in the American League in runs scored (857), RBis (658) and home runs 
(136).. Former Bulls star Pippen
expected to retire 
DEERFIELD; Ill. -Scottie Pippen, who teamed with Michael Jordan to form a tandem that drove the Chicago Bulls to six NBA titles in the 1990s, is expected to retire after 17 seasons, an NBA source said Monday. 
The source, speaking on the condi­tion of anonymity, said Pippen is scheduled to make the announce­ment Tuesday on the Bulls' first day of training camp practice. The team held its media day Monday and Pippen was not present. 
His agent, Jimmy Sexton, did not immediately return a call for com­ment Monday night. 

Pippen was brought back last sea­son to give leadership and experi­ence to a young Bulls team, but he had knee surgery in December and played in only 23 games as the Bulls went 23-59. Losing streak continues for 
Philippoussis in Japan 
TOKYO -Mark Philippoussis dropped his fifth straight opening match Monday, losing to Tomas Zib of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-4 in the Japan Open's first round. 
Philippoussis, a two-time Grand Slam finalist hampered by injuries all season, hasn't won a match since Wimbledon. 
With the schedule cut short by rain. Hare) Levy of Israel defeated Lu Yen-hsun of Taiwan 7-6 (1), 7-6 (1) and will face No. 4 Paradorn Srichaphan. 
Also, Japanese wild card Takao Suzuki downed Adrian Garcia 7-6 (6), 7-6 (4), and Alex Bogomolov Jr. beat Janko Tipsarevic 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (2). 
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S GOLD INTERHALL WRAPS 
Underdog Howard holds No.1 Welsh Family to a tie 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA, 
KATE SERYAK and THOMAS 
DORWART 
Sports Writers 
With a season on the brink, Sunday's game between Howard and Welsh Family came down to a thrilling defensive stop at the one-yard line. 
With a key goal line stand, Howard (0-3-1) kept Welsh Family (3-0-1) out of the endzone and escaped with a tie against the No. 1 ranked team in the women's interhall polls. 
"Coming off that game, we're so excited for the rest of the sea-­son because everything came together for us and to tie the number one ranked team was something we've been working for all semester," Howard captain Callie Whelan said. 
The Ducks took an early lead in the first half by scoring the first touchdown of the game. The Whirlwinds struck back with a touchdown score and extra point conversion to make the score 7-6. Then Kacey Rak intercepted a pass and ran it back to the six­yard line. Welsh Family took advantage of the turnover and scored to make the score 13-6. 

But the second half was a com­pletely different story. The Whirlwinds failed to click on offense and the incompletions piled up as receivers dropped passes. 
"It was a breakdown for us on all levels," Welsh Family captain Mary Pendergast said. "We were 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
"All the fun of college,
View photos and floor plans at 

without the education"
www.REMCl.com 

._.__.._o;;;;;o;o;;;;;o;iiiiil...ll => Proudly Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community => The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Avail­
able => 4 & 5 Bedroom Units ND => WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit E AV => Dishwasher 
E D 

=> 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 
D y
=> ADT Alarm Systems => Close to Campus 

For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box540 
CEDAR
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rludwig@cbresb.com 


Notre Dame Apartments 
=> Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus => Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue => Current 1-year & 1 0-month Leases Available => On-Site Laundry Facility => 2 Closets and 1 Desk in Each Bedroom => Private Parking Lots => 24 -hour Emergency Maintenance => Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment => Double vanity/sinks in bathroom 


For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsllnile: 574-234-9925 
Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Conze to an 
doing things that we don't even do in practice. We were missing holes and we were not making plays, not catching passes. That's why it was so awful for us because we felt it was in our hands and we let it slip away." 
The turning point of the game came half way through the sec­ond half. Howard's Alicia Miramontes intercepted a Welsh Family pass and took it back 25 yards for a touchdown. After con­verting on the extra point. the Ducks found themselves in a posi­tion to tie or even steal the game from the Whirlwinds. 
"The whole thing about the game today was that our team came together," Whelan said. "Individually, the efforts put forth were amazing but things clicked as far as the team went that made everyone's role so impor­tant." 
After trading punts, the time ticked down to 1:58 left before Welsh Family began its final push. Using consecutive screen passes and a quarterback scram­bles, the Whirlwinds drove down to the Howard 10-yard line. On the final play of the game, Lauren Hoeck, Welsh Family's quarter­back, got free for a scramble that took the ball all the way to the 1­yard line before Miramontes again came up with a huge defensive stop, sealing the score at 13 points a piece for the two teams. 
Lewis 0, Lyons 0 
Sunday's game between Lewis and Lyons resulted in a disap­pointing tie. 
Both teams' defenses came out strong by blocking passes, catch­ing interceptions and stopping runs all throughout the game. 
At the end of the first half, Lyons found themselves in a dan­gerous position. After a penalty against their defense, Lewis was inches from a touchdown. 
"Defense really came through during the goal line stand. They did a great job defending their end zone and shutting Lewis down" Lyons coach Mike DeMartini. 
The Lewis defense forced sev­eral turnovers in the game, but Lyons was not to be outdone. Late in the second half, Lyons' defense intercepted the ball. Instead of 

Infonnation M with progra1n returnees to hear about... 
Language portuguese 
anish an~ dprograms
Sp d AbrOa Tuesday, october 5 , 2oo4 stu y 155 ~~~rtolo 


Fall. Spring, Summer. and Academic Year 2005-2006 Brazil Chile Mexico Spain ) 
New Summer Programs in Puebla and ToJe"olf 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15,2004 
UN!VIlRSITYOF 
NOTRE DAME, 

lN"TE:RNATION!t.L STUDY 
PROGRAI\tS 

capitalizing on the turnover how­ever, the Lyons' quarterback threw an interception only two plays later. The Lyons' defense, not to be overshadowed by Lewis', responded with yet anoth­er turnover. In a huge play. both a Lyons' defender and a Lewis receiver had their hands on the ball, wrestling for it until they hit the ground and the referee called it as an interception. 
Lewis caught one interception in the first half and three in the second. 
"I really credit defense for their four interceptions," Lewis Captain Sheila Dawes said. Junior safety Lauren Mullins cause two of the turnovers, while sopho­mores Kate Altschaefal and Mia DeLaRosa each had one. 
"We're going to go back and play even better on Thursday. everyone's got to keep going," Dawes said . Pangborn 33, Off-Campus 7 
Prepared and focused, the Pangborn Phoxes (3-1-1) routed Off-Campus (0-4) Sunday at Riehle fields, mixing the option, long runs and tough defense. The win was Pangborn's third straight, while Off-Campus lost their fourth straight. 
"We started off pretty fast. We weren't going to underestimate them at all," Pangborn's Kara Tully said. "We were really pre­pared." 
On the second play from scrim­mage, the offensive rampage began. Pangborn running back Brynn Johnson took the hand-ofl' from quarterback Katie Mooney near the Phoxes' 30-yard line and dashed 70-yards to the end zone, putting Pangborn up 7-0. 
Any hope for Off-Campus to tie the score on their ensuing drive faded when the Phoxes' freshman cornerback Amanda Dunlavy picked off an Off-Campus pass. 
Turnovers and defensive touch­downs lifted the Phoxes. Brittny Heinrich intercepted two passes including one returned for a touchdown. 
"We just came up really big on defense. Pretty much every time they would try to throw the ball, we would intercept it or bat it down," freshman Stephanie Lewis said. 
Pangborn's strong defensive and offensive lines also played an important role in the victory. 
"We take our jobs pretty seri­ously," Lewis said. 
The Phoxes boasted an insur­mountable 33-0 lead by the time Off-Campus punched in a late touchdown. 
"Even though we were up by a lot, we were still working on plays, both ways, that we might need in the playoffs," Lewis said. 
As the postseason approaches. the Phoxes see room for improve­ment. 
"After every game, we are always told we can do better. We don't let wins and losses affect what we do," Dunlavy said. "We've been practicing really hard, and it shows on the field." 
Underdogs at the beginning of the season, Pangborn has estab­lished themselves as an interhall force. 
"No one really thought we were going to be really good this sea­son," Lewis said. "It's cool to come in as a freshman and win a lot o(games, more than we have in the past." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala, Kate Seryak and Thomas Dorwart at rgottumu@nd.edu, kseryak@nd.edu and tdor­wart@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 2004 
MEN'S GOLD INTERHALL WRAPS 

Dillon defense rolling, posts another shutout in victory 
Alumni and Keenan both win easily, improving to 2-0 with shutouts against their opponents in Week 3 action 
By CHRIS KHOREY, MIKE 
LASKEY, and 
MIKE TENNANT 
Sports Writers 
It's bnPn two games, and still no one has scored on Dillon. 
Thn Big Hnd defense, which was nxpt~ctl~d to be strong but not projected to be as dominant as it has been. postt~d its second consecutive shutout in a 14-0 victory over the Morrissny Manoritns on Sunday at Biehle Fi<'ld South. 
Last week. Dillon tied Stanford 0-0. This wnck. the offense stnppnd up as well. posting a touchdown in each half. 
l'tdlback Greg Belatti credits the improvemPnt to an extra week of practice. 
"We had little trouble running lthn olTenst~l last week. It was lirst game jitters." he said. "We had a chance to figure out what w1~nt wrong and fix the prob­I!HllS during the wenk." 
Thn Big Bed's veer option o!Tense. accumulated 94 yards on tho ground, led By 76 by Brlatti. who also scored both touchdowns. 
Unfortunatnly for Dillon. the victory came with a price. The Big Hnd lost two starters to injury. sat'nty Erik Hocca and wingback Ben Butwin. 
"Those are the kind of things that define a team. how they rnspond to somPthing like that," Belatti said. "We'II find guys to fill those holes." 
Morrissey star halfback Nick Klein had some early success. but was rendered ineffective by the Dillon lead and several long down-and-distance situations created by penalties. 

Klein. who rushed for 43 
yards on nine carries, broke 
through the line on several 
occasions. but was always 
stopped by the sure-tackling Big 
lkd secondary. 

"They have a pretty hard hit­
ting secondary," he said. 

To make matters worse for the Manorites, quarterback Pete Sprietzer and the passing attack were completely ineffective. Sprietzer completed only 4-of-11 passes for 45 yards. with 22 of those yards coming on the last play of the game. 
''I'm not sure what the deal was." Klein said. "Their second­ary kept batting down passes." 
The loss marks the second in as many weeks for the Manorites, who in the preseason were expected to compete for the title. 
"We're going to forget about this game." captain Aaron Honsheim said. "We can still make the playoffs." 
Although the team's offensive strength appears to be Klein and the running game. Ronsheim would not rule out surprising next week's opponent, the Stanford Griffins. with a few passes. 
"We're going to do whatever it takes to win," he said. "Hun or pass, whatever we need to do to win." 
Dillon faces Keough next week. Alumni 20, O'Neill 0 
A two-week layofl' didn't slow the Alumni Dawgs. Sunday 
afternoon proved quite the con­
trary. 
Led by a stif1ing defense and the steady play of quarterback Brent Locey. the Dawgs tore apart the O'Neill Mob 20-0 yes­terday. 
Forcing six turnovers, Alumni effectively prevented the O'Neill squad from moving anywhere on offense. The Dawgs' defen­sive line and linebacker corps worked in tandem to shut down the Mob's running game, while the defensive backs' blanketing coverage made passing difficult at best. 
Alumni captain A.J. Remen liked what he saw on the defen­sive side of the ball. 
"We have one of the best defensive lines in the league," Remen said. 'They make every­thing easier for the linebackers and secondary." 
Hemen made his own contri­butions on the defensive side, highlighted by a 30-yard inter­ception return for a touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
Alumni's offense did not let the defense's efforts go to waste, taking advantage of turnovers and good field positioning to score twice in the second quar­ter. Both touchdowns came through the air as the freshman Locey hit his mark for scores of 12 and four yards. 
"The receivers did a great job today," Locey said. "They posi­tioned themselves well for the catches. They weren't perfectly thrown balls, but they made great plays." 
When he wasn't finding open receivers down field, Locey often 
kept the ball himself. e!l1ciently 
scrambling away from O'Neill 
defenders whenever they were 
able to flush the pocket. 

Alumni's success yesterday may be due to the extent of its game preparation. 
"We scout every team," Hemen said. "We knew [O'Neill'sl strengths and were able to capi­talize on their weaknesses." 
Improving to 2-0, Alumni will face its toughest test of the sea­son next week when it squares off against Keenan. 
"Keenan has four big running backs and a really balanced offense," Brent Locey said. "We just need to keep practicing the way we've been practicing." 
Keenan 27, Keough 0 

Saying that Keenan is hitting on all cylinders might be an understatement. 
In their romp of Keough Sunday, the Knights dominated both sides of the ball. tallying up over 250 yards on oll'ense while holding the Kangaroos to only 
46. 

"It was a total team effort." senior captain Pat Downey said afterward. 
Offensively, the Knights were again led by sophomore quar­terback Eric Laumann who threw for 180 yards and four touchdowns. 
After both teams exchanged turnovers in the l'irst quarter, Keenan put together a 74-yard drive in the second, capping it off with an 8-yard touchdown pass from Laumann to receiver Dan Zenker. 
After a Keough fumble on their own 45, the Knights again struck paydirt when Laumann hit receiver Heed Langton from seven yards out to put the Knights up 13-0 as time expirnd in the first half. 
On the third play of tlw second half. Laumann connected with Zenker again. this time for a 55­yard touchdown strike. After the Knight def1~use forced a Knough punt, Laumann found Stove Miller in the end zone for his fourth touchdown pass of tlw game. 
"This game makes us question our pass defense." Keough sen­ior captain and quarterbaek Brian Kusper said. "We definite­ly are going to have to work on our secondary." 
"Keough decided to put eight men in the box to stop our run game. and when we have Langton and Zenker, you can have the ball thrown to them." Downey said. 
Tlw Keenan defense continuf'd its dominance over tlw gold league. allowing tlw Kangaroos only live offensive yards in tlw second half. SPnior linebackers Brandon f fall and Pat Hobinson led a Knight deftmsive front that stopped the Kangaroos dead at the line of scrimmage multipiP times, including on a 4th-and-I deep in Knight territory. 
"They were just a superior team today," Kusper said. "They were all over us." 
Contact Chris Khorey, Mike 
Laskey, and Mike Tennant at 
ckhorey@nd.edu, 
mlaskey@nd.edu, and 
mtennant@nd.edu 



Tuesday, October 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
McGlinn blows out Pasquerilla East 19-0 to secure their first victory of the season, feel good about rest of year 


By TOM STILES and ABBEY 
RICHARDSON 
Spans Writers 
A team known for its suffocat­ing defense turned in another solid performance this past Sunday as Cavanaugh handily defeatfld Pasquerilla West 24-6. Unfortunately, at least for the rest of the league, the Chaos 
We were named one of Fortune® magazine's" 100 Best Companies To Work For." And you can bet it wasn't because of the free coffee. 
• . Job perks are great. And at Ernst &Young we happen to think the most important ones are 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

those that help our employees grow. That's why we've given them access to some of the best professional development programs in the country. As well as the opportunity to work on some of the most prestigious brands in the world. In turn, Fortune magazine recognized us as one of the "100 Best Companies To Work For" six years in a row. So if you're looking for agreat place to work, look for us on campus. Maybe we can grab a cup of coffee. ey.comjusjcareers 
offense seems to be catching up. 
After being shutout in its sea­son opene~ the Cavanaugh offense has blossomed into a very formidable and explosive unit, as the Weasel defense found out all too well. Cavanaugh accumulated 160 yards of total offense, including 65 yards on the ground, en route to two touchdowns through the air and one off of an option. 

Chaos quarterback Lisa Ruffer made certain to spread the wealth on offense, as she con­nected with six different receivers. 
"I think that first game got us angry," Ruffer said. "We wanted to live up to the expectations." 
Cavanaugh came out firing; scoring on each of its first two possessions, one of which was a perfectly executed quarterback option that freshman Tarah Brown took the distance. Seniors Sara Gilloon and Jenny Nokes pulled down the offense's other two scores. 
Pasquerilla West's quarterback Heather Van Hoegarden was under constant pressure all game and the Weasel offense never got itself established. The Weasels did, however, come out and score off a long drive on their first possession of the sec­ond half, pulling them within a touchdown. The Chaos defense then rose to the challenge, keep­ing the Weasels from even com­ing close to scoring again. 

"The defense, and the team, works on getting better each week," Chaos coach Hunter Craig said. "We feel confident that we can win every week." · 
With the game already in hand, freshman cornerback Uzzy Brown, on the last play of the game, intercepted a Van Hoegarden desperation pass and returned it 30 yards for Cavanaugh's fourth and final score. Cavanaugh's balanced offense and stingy defense were too much for Pasquerilla West to overcome. 
Pasquerilla West (1-1-1) will look to rebound against Farley this Tuesday at 7 p.m. while Cavanaugh (2-0-1) tries to remain unbeaten when they take on McGlinn this Tuesday at 9 
p.m. Both games are at the Riehle West Fields. 
McGlinn 19, Pasquerllla East 
0. 
It was a big game for both teams, and McGlinn came out on top. Both the Shamrocks and Pasquerilla East came into the. game without a win and the Shamrocks came out victorious with a win. 
"Our offense didn't give the ball away as much," McGlinn coach Jake Granatino said. "We had great defense." 
McGlinn scored very early in the game. The Shamrocks ran for a 40-yard touchdown for the first six points. Before halftime, they scored on a 15-yard touch­down run. Neither of the two extra point attempts were suc­cessful. This brought the score to 12-0 at halftime. 
The Pyros were having some trouble moving the ball at the start of the game. The offense could not get into the flow of the game. Penalties hurt the Pyros, but by the end of the half, they were moving the ball better. 
The Pyro defense struggled. but intercepted one pass in the first half. 
In the second half of the game, McGlinn ran for one more touch­down and the extra point attempt was good. Although down, the Pyros didn't quit. The offensive line was cheering for the defensive line. They fought a hard battle and never gave up. Towards the end of the game, they had more successful run­ning plays. However, McGlinn was just too much to handle. 
"PE ran an unorthodox offense," Granatino said. 'They had some break downs. They got shut down." 
Pasquerilla East is now 0-4, while McGlinn is 1-2. 
Contact Tom Stiles and Abbey Richardson at tstiles@nd.edu and arichaOl@saintmarys.edu 

~ t r • • · • • •·•·• •. _,.. • • • · ":r ../1. • A k • -. 1> r •·!:! ~ •.,.. •
... ~ ... ··············-·-·····················*·····--~~. ·­

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 2004 


WOMEN'S BLUE INTERHALL PREVIEWS 
Walsh ready to face No. 1 Breen-Phillips 
By NATHAN DYER, BRAD 

WALLACE and KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writers 
Sinc11 200 I, every Super Bowl­

winning NFL team, from the 
Baltimorn Havnns to last y11ars 
NPW l·:ngland Patriot<;, has relied 
on a strong d11fimsn to overpower 
tlwir oppmwnt. The Wild Women 
of' Walsh arn using a similar strat­
egy in this s11ason's attempt to 
makn it to tlw stadium and thn 
wonu•n's championship. 
"It's rnaUy n<L<;y to win wlwn the 

dP!imsP kneps giving us shutout<;," 
said WaL<;h frnshman quartnrback 
Mary Sullivan after last Tuesday's 
shutout victory ovPr McGlinn. 
Tnw to form. WaL<;h senior cap­

lain Carrin Campbl'll predict'i that 
this Tuesday's gamn against 
Brnnn-l'hillips will be another 
dnfnnsivn struggle. 
"This is going to b!' a mally low scoring game." Campbell said, pn1dicling that another shutout will bn necessary to put away Brn1m-Phillips. 
Breen-Phillips, however, is no slouch. The top-ranked team in the h1ague, the undefeated Babes also rely on their defense to win games. Led by sophomore co-cap­lain Shannon Swanigan. the Brnen-Phillips defimse is not only grnat at kneping opponents out of tlwir nnd zone, but also great at turning opponent<;' mistakes into point<;. 
Against l'asquerilla East last wnnk. Brnen-Phillips forced two intnrceptions. with senior Hache! Kemp returning one all the way for a touchdown. But with Kemp sidelin11d with an injury, the Babes will look to other members of the defnnse to carry the load. 
While Breen-Phillip's secondary has played well against the pass this year. it L<; Walsh's senior cor­nerback Katie !!esmond who has given the most trouble to oppos­ing quart11rbacks. With two inter­ceptions in each game. Hesmond has a remarkable eight on the SPiL<;on. 
WhilP it is impossible to over­look the impact that I !esmond has on a game, Breen-Phillips captain Jaimie Feltault is confident in sophomore quarterback Ali Brosnan's ability to stay out of trouble by spreading the ball around to multiple receivers. 
"Ali's been getting more and more comfortable running the oflimse with each game. lbyl not just keying in on one receiver but throwing the ball to any open receiver." Feltault said. 
Farley vs. Pasquerllla West 
The toughest game faces could provp to be instrumental in tonight's game between Pasquerilla West and Farley. 
The 1-1-1 Wea<;el<; will meet the 1-3 Finest at 7 p.m. at Biehle Finld in a game that could make or break the seasons of both teams. 
"We know if we win our next two ganws we can make the play­offs. so obviously this game is really important to us." Farley captain Angelina Zehrbach said. "I think our biggest strength is that we don't give up, and that's going come into play a lot in the 
gam1~." 
Captain Abby Nerlinger and P<L'>querilla West are in a similar boat. needing a big win in order to realize their playoff goals. 1\ft.er a disappointing game on Sunday 
against Cavanaugh. the Weasels 
are ready to make the push 
towards a successful season. 

"We didn't play up to our poten­
tial this weekend. We came out 
slow. and we had some trouble 
adjusting to their offense. We 
worked on these things in prac­
tice, and hopefully tonight we'll 
play like we know we can." 
Nerling1~r commented. 

Farley is also coming off a weak 
performance, and hopes that the 
extra practice they took in will be 
beneficial in tonight's competition. 
'Thus far. things haven't really 
been clicking for us. We didn't 
have a game on Sunday, so we've 
been able to spend more time 
working on our weaknesses and 
reevaluating things. We add1~d to 
our defense. hoping to switch 
things up and prevent the offense 
from exploiting our· coverage. Our 
ofl'ense also worked on adjusting 
to diffen~nt types of coverage, 
which I think will really help," 
Zehrbach said. 

Both teams agree. however, that 
the key to the game will be getting 
a strong start. 

"If we can establish a rhythm 
and build up some momentum. I 
think we've got a great chance of 
winning. We just need to keep the 
ball moving," Zehrbach 
explained. 
McGlinn vs. Cavanaugh 

Coming off an impressive win against Pasquerilla West. the Cavanaugh Chaos will look to improve to 3-0-1 tonight against the McGlinn Shamrocks. 
"It was a whole team effort," Cavanaugh quarterback and cap­tain Lisa Ruffer said of Sunday's win, "and we're going to go out there Tuesday with the mentality that we can win and will." 
However, Liz Maher and the Shamrocks are coming off an equally impressive victory. one which may have righted a drifting ship. i\fter losing its first two games, the Shamrocks easily cruised over Pasquerilla East Sunday, 18-0. 
The two losses for McGlinn, though. have come against high­ranked Breen-Phillips and Walsh Family. After two games. the Shamrocks had been outscored by only seven points, but were in desperate need of a quick turn­around. 
Tonight's game will be a true test of valor for the Shamrocks, whose playoff contention is on the line. 
Before the game against Pasquerilla East, Maher said that the team needed to "solidify on ofl'ense." Three touchdowns later. the team's success is apparent. 
For Cavanaugh, the task will be to continue to play as it has in its three wins. With a 14-point victo­ry over Farley and the 18-point win over Pasquerilla West. the Chaos seem to be in control of the team's destiny. 
Both teams stress group-effort, and both feel that the game will not be determined by one player alone. Maher called the Chaos' current undefeated season a result of "terrific team effort," not ofjust one or two players. 
"We have a bunch of great play­ers, but we have won because we play together well," she said. 
Contact Nathan Dyer, Brad 
Wallace and Ken Fowler at 
ndyer@nd.edu, 
bwallac2@nd.edu and 
kfowler@nd.edu 

offee and Conversation 


For Gay? Lesbian? Bisexual? and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 5th 
(and e:veryf1rst Tuesday of the: month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay,. 
Lesbian? and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family? their 
friends? and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co -lv"D.• 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality1s assu1·ed. 
"Coffee and refreshments will be served" 

l -------~---.-) ~-:.,~.~.-! J! -_! t ~! ~};.; 5!,•,'-.-~1-.-_---_---.-----_I· )_1.1._1 11,1~1.&_1.1 11.•.•.•.•_1 ~ 11.1.1}}!1.1.1}} l\1.1}}!\1..1.,1_! JI!.•.•.I}J !,1.1.1.1_1! ~1.1.1.1_1! 1,1.1.1.111111111111111111 


Tuesday, Ocrober 5, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
at three, the way the game defense rebounded from what would stay until the final min­surely was a disappointing
Fisher 
utes. performance on the first drive 
continued from page 24 The Fisher defense slowed to keep the Otters from scor­up a Knott offense coming off ing again. Sorin fumbled three a 28-point victory last week. times in Otter territory, two of
day. 
Knott was hindered by the which were recovered by"I didn't think any extra absence of sophomore run­Zahm.
about the kick. I've had great ning back Justin Lyons due to Zahm also had some helpblocking all year by the line a separated shoulder. The from the Sorin offense, which
and the holder does a great 
Juggs could not get anything looked desperate on its subse­
job. I just go out there and 
going on the ground, forcing quent possessions, attempting
have a lot of fun," Manaas 
Gillett to go in the air most of two inconsequential reversessaid of the final kick. 
the game. and a failed halfback pass.
Freshman quarterback 
Next week Knott will take on Sorin was more successful
Patrick Gotebeski led the 
Sorin. Fisher will go head-to­with regards to the passing
drive that ended in Fisher's head in a match-up of unde­attack, as quarterback Collingame-winning field goal. He 
feated teams with the Vermin O'Keefe completed 5-of-13drove the Green Wave from its of Carroll. attempts for over 70 yards.
own 34 to the 21-yard line of 
The rushing numbers, howev­
Knott in a little over four min­Zahm 14, Sorln 7 
er, were so stacked in Zahm's
utes. On the final drive he They ran, they ran again 
favor as to render this mean­
completed 4-of-5 passes for and then they ran some more, 
ingless.
25 yards and rushed for 18 and on the way, the Rabid 
Using four different backs,
yards. The most crucial play Bats picked up a much­
the Rabid Bats combined for
of the drive came on a 3rd­deserved win over the Otters 
200 yards rushing. Both of
and-5. Gotebeski juked up the of Sorin. 
their scores came on the
middle for a seven-yard gain The Zahm offensive scheme get a good handle on him all Carroll defense that destroyed
ground. The game-winning
and a first down. was so run-oriented that game. Brewis' offense. 
score was a breathtaking 70­
"The offensive line was quarterback Sean Wieland "I gotta give credit to the Despite his third loss of the
yard run by Brisee, which fea­
doing a great job blocking all only attempted five passes the offensive-line. They opened up season and still no victory,
tured multiple broken tackles.
game," Gotebeski said. entire game, not completing big holes and I just ran coach and captain Matt Weber 
In total, Brisee rushed for
"They were opening up one until late in the fourth through. It was a great feel­remains positive.
over 130 yards in the victory.
holes so that we could rush it quarter. Wieland was inter­ing," Buffi said. "We played pretty well, they up the middle. We were just cepted once, but this occurred Carroll 14, St. Edward's 0 St. Ed's offense and defense got a couple good drives working for field position, hit­on a long fourth down pass. Carroll is now a legitimate were both lackluster. The together and beat us on ting those short routes." turning the interception into a contender. offense earned only 55 yards, those," Weber said. "We need 
Fisher got on the board first rather lengthy punt, which After pummeling St. much of which occurred near to just go out there and keep after a 43-yard field goal by pinned Sorin at its own 1-yard Edward's Sunday afternoon the end of the game. playing." Manaas early in the second line. there is no doubt that Carroll Quarterback John Brewis had The Vermin plan to infest quarter. The drive that led to The Rabid Bats ran right is for real. a rough time as well, throwing the playoffs and prove to the this kick almost did not hap­from the get-go, with Corey "It was really nice to get in only 3-for-8 and giving up two league that they are truly a pen as a Knott cornerback Brisee taking the first two there and show them we're interceptions to Matt force to be reckoned with. intercepted the ball a little carries for a combined 32 here to play. Carroll is not a Wormington and John Tira. And even for the smallest past mid-field. But a roughing yards and John Souder taking push-over," freshman defen­On defense the Stedsmen dorm on campus, Carroll can the passer call negated this the ball 33 yards for a touch­sive lineman Karl Liebenauer may have only given up two certainly pack a punch that interception. down on the game's third play. said. touchdowns, but the score will make teams run for cover. 
Knott scored on its next pos­Sorin's first drive showed Two standouts for Carroll was much closer than the "Two-and-oh is big. We did­session on a lengthy drive signs of a well-balanced were quarterback and captain game as they gave up eight n't want a letdown after last engineered by quarterback offense, as the Otters com­Kory Wilmot and freshman first downs. week. We need our defense to Justin Gillett. He went 4-for-8 bined running play to both running back Jimmy Buffi. Between Brewis' two inter­keep showing up," captain with 30 passing yards to pro­sides of the field with short Wilmot completed 5-of-11 ceptions and three sacks there Wilmot said. pel the Juggs to Fisher's 23-pass attempts and finally passes, gaining 65 yards. He are very few positives that St. yard line. The Juggs were maneuvered their way into also rushed for 48 yards and Ed's can pull out of this game. aided by a 15-yard roughing the end zone to tie the score. scored one touchdown. Buffi The Stedsmen quarterback Contact Kyle Cassity, John the passer call on 2nd-and­At this point, it appeared as had 11 carries including one was sacked twice by Vermin Everett and Pete Cracchiolo at long to push the ball into though defense would be non­touchdown. defensive linemen Karl kcassily@nd.edu, Fisher territory. A 40-yard existent throughout the con­Buffi was a menace on the Libenauer and once by James jeverett@nd.edu and Knott field goal tied the game test. But the Rabid Bats field, the Stedsmen couldn't Guier. It was the persistent pcracchi@nd.edu 

Holy Cross Associates 
Information Nights! 
ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S WATER POLO 


TEAM is ranked 16th Nationally and is searching for good, hard-working playe for their run at the National Title this November, hosted here, at NO. Experience is a plus! 
Got what it takes? Email wpolo@nd.edu or be at Rolf's Aquatic Center M-TH 8:45-10:45 p.m. 
TONIGHT@ 7:00 ~ (~ P~J W~~~ 10/6 @ S.·JO ~ (~ P~~~J H~,l 10111 @):00 ~ (l)~ p~A~) 

-All Sessions at the Center for Social Concerns-


JOIN THE 
VOLUNTEER TEACHING CORPS 
Find out why... Holy Cross Associates may be right for YOU 
RIU~RESHiVl.I~NT$ PROVIDED 
http://holycrossassod ates. nd.edu e-rn ail: hca@nd.edu 
• Ah.,.....ti"'"' T""""''h;;:o-('""'!i!it'>lliO'I fi'ri1J;nm • ~~ l!loftsstllJUI ~n Utd t..o<uint 
~ l'iOf'lf.l;wHmfll U!liM<f~ • r..,.,. tl<.:f~ ,.mJ,w~J~ {~Ill' 111"'-;mi -1 Mutmo m~) ~ K-.bt'wrQ &; m.:dlullJ-.o.o.; 
• f'"itl•-a-....t c ............... Y t.i"i"!: • SI:51JmoaJbly stipm::! .'\iter schooil activtti~ f;po.'C'K. .ut. dhlmro <dC..J •T o.Ui>J""""'""'' 


The Observer + SPORTS 
playing good soccer; maybe they forwards to break out and put their place in the conference with and face us at home. To win this just need to put it together." some balls in the back of the net. a win today. conference, it's going to take
Ho01e 
To rebound from Saturday's I have pretty high expectations "They're still very focused. and some skill, some focus, and even continued from page 24 loss, the Belles will look to play that the team will be able to they still feel very much in the a little luck, but I'm confident our 
strong soccer for both halves bounce back, play our style of hunt for the title; it's a long sea­kids will stick with it and be there at the bottom of the standings, against Tri-State, as well as get soccer, and stay on track." son, and there's lots of soccer to at the end." having yet to win a game in con­more production from their for­After dropping to second in the still be played," said MacKenzie. ference play. wards. standings with the Calvin loss, "All the teams we lost to on the Contact Ryan Duffy at 
"[Tri-State's I record isn't very "We've struggled to put the ball the Belles also look to solidify road will have to come back here rduffy1@nd.edu 
strong, but they only lost to Calvin 3-2 last week," said MacKenzie. ''I'm not sure if they've had injuries or other problems. but they're capable of in the net with our front-runners. although we've been getting good production from our midf'ield­ers," said MacKenzie. "I hope this game will be a chance for our 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
Saturday and finding the form they had during that three-game winning streak. 
"To come back from a game like that it takes a lot of leadership. Five of the teams that were play­ing in BCS games last year had at least two losses." linebacker Mike GooL<>by said. "To hear something like that is very encouraging to know that some of the goals you set at the start of the season are still attainable. You have to keep that in the back of your mind." 
The players felt a lack of execu­tion was the problem Saturday. The Irish believe they have the ability to compete with anyone in the country and still feel that way despite the disappointment on Saturday. 
"It's not a matter of talent. It's not a matter of potential," fifth­year senior linebacker Derek Curry said. "It's just a matter of getting the job done and execut­ing the game plan properly. That's the only thing that hurt us last week. We didn't execute it well enough." 
If the Irish don't maintain the correct focus. this season could spiral out of control very quickly. Based on the current records of the final six teams on their sched­ule, the Irish are facing the tough­est schedule in the country. 
A promising 3-1 start could be all erased, and the unthinkable could follow. 
"More than anything is knowing what it feels like to go through a season like that," fifth-year senior Kyle Budinscak said. "If we win the rest of our ball games, we can have a great season. If we go out there and continue to have let­downs. we know how terrible it can be. 
"Last year is going to be a reminder as to what we don't want to let happen." 


Tonight, Octobei' 5, at S :00 J•m. Rdi'eSJmtenf sat '1 :30 DBRT 101 
\\::nb cornmenf 3.11' ~· membei'S of n~ Not1oe Dame.Debate Team 
Spon.9)I'ed ~· CSC R.ocb Ute Vote, Tite C ai~' C bail· in Mode11t C omrnmtication, Tite Deputment of Fibn, Telerision and Tit eat 1-e, Tite ()ffke of Unda·g1-aduate studies, and Tite Not1·e Dame Debate Team 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


CHUY BENITEZfThe Observer 

Brandon Hoyte, left, and Trevor Laws confer during Saturday's game against Purdue. 

Celebrate Notional Coming Out Day! 

FILM: Ailt.:r Stoucuall \'lednestlay, October 61h 7 p.m., Regina 152 
011 June 27, 1969, in what ls considered the birth of the modem 
gay cillll rights movement, the homosexual, bisoxual ard 
transgendered patrons of the Stommall Bar in New 'r'oric City 
spontaooously :mited and iougnt back agail"lSt chronic police 
h<Vassment jeers and arros.ts. The 1ilm dlromcles tr.e 
gay/lesbian ex~rience since StonG'"'ati 
(http:/IIWIW.ttrte~S~Dr•ew;.ll.~~g;-<:e'11~tn1). 
DINNER AND PANEL DISCUSSION ON SEXUAL DIVERSITY Sunday, October 10"' 5:30p.m. \V~s.t \Ving of Dining-Hall 
Join a~ important discus&:m about~~ identity and oor campus em'imfliTianl. l.so51li<ln aoo biSWtuill aklnwlilU a11d CUif<ll'll studoniS discuss lheir elq)eriencesld S!lil! M!try's Gl:lilb )'IXJr foOO anti meet u:s in lhe '>'l'est Wing! 
LffiRARY EXHIBIT: COMING OUr STORIES Octoher Hth to ( ktoher ISth 
--"''''"'_'_'M'•'''-'"'"_"_______.., 
COMING OUT 
'\VITII SINGER DEIDRE McCALLA.. 
kt aoclaimed femillist peoonner in bolh folk !100 women'$ circles, Oeidre M<JC!IIa hl'l5ll voice lhillt corweys lxlltl strength and compassion. ~ songs. tell stnrio!ls reflf!ding lha power and diversity of llie lru1Tl311 split. and celetrnbng lt!e jOy of life 
BRO'WN BAG LUNCH AND DISCUSSION Real Family Values: Coming Out & Coming nome :Mowl<Jy, 0C'Inhcr l t"' 12:00 noon, H<lhrg-.rr aoa 
Dcidro will join us f(:( a brWitl bag rtmch and discuSSion ar lho dlvmsily or fat1'l6cs in lhc 21'" ocnwry 
r A CELEBRATION OF SONG: 
i l DEIDRE McCAlLA IN CONCERT .\1omlay, O<.toher 11"' 8:00 p.m. Dalloway\ Co.II<.T I louse No cover duu·gcl 

Sponsmed by: the Saint U;uy's (A)IIJJ>oratlve Leadersht,p Team on Sexual Dlvorslt>;, tful Cent~ f()( Academic iiiDOvation, the Centw foi Women'• lntercultlmil Leadel'!lhlp 3nd tho Dop;:ar1mont of Wom&fl's Studieo;_ 


Tuesday, October 5, 2004 Tf?e Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 35 Rapunzel's 57 U2 singer's 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Miller, Diane Cilento, Mario
abundance journey?

1 Sharp-eyed 
Lemieux. Josie Bissett raptor 36 Off-key, in a way 60 Indian tourist site 
Happy Birthday: Don't hold back. Set your sights on your goals and forge
6 Kid's getaway 37 Garage 
ahead. You can have it all if you are precise, determined and confident in your 10 Military level occupant 61 River to the pursuits. This is a terrific year to lay out your plans and take action. You will Caspian find it easy· to round up the support you need if you use your sophisticated
38 "It ain't over till

14 Lamebrain manner to persuade those in influential positions. Your numbers: 2, 15. 17, 26.
it's over'' 62 Lecture jottings 
35,44

15 Off base illegally speaker 
63 Posterior 16 "Garfield" dog ARIES (March 21-April 19):This is not the day to give unwanted advice.
39 Gawk at 64 Kittens' cries 

It's best to listen and observe. You'll damage your own reputation if you insist
17 "The Godfather'' 
40 Beach sidler 65 Dress to kill, on gossiping about others. Friends will get quite upset if you take sides. *** 
actor's 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It is best to make your own arrangements if 
reputation? 41 New York City's with "up" 
you don't want to be disappointed or left out. Don't be dependent on others.
River

19 Umpteen Instead, you should do things for yourself. *** 42 Comprehend GEMINI (May 21-June 20):You will have a thirst for knowledge. Listen and 
DOWN

20 UFO fliers you will pick up valuable information. Travel should be a part of your plans 43 Arrange in 1 Fireplace glower for the day. Short outings will bring about love possibilities. **** 
21 Novelist Zane 
columns CANCER (June 21-July 22): Expect to have sudden changes regarding your
2 Line from the 

22 River under relationships. Residential moves will be to your benefit in the long term.
45 Old French coin 

heart 46 Rolling in the LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expand your circle of friends. Don't be afraid to 
London Bridge, Larger quarters or more people on your domestic scene loom. ** 
once 3 Wimbledon 
dough volunteer for positions that involve working within your community. New
court surface

24 Alfalfa, Spanky connections will lead to adventure and excitement. ***** and others 47 Stops talking 4 Actor Chaney VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend time with those who could use your help. suddenly You need to be around individuals who you find stimulating. Look into
26 Tibia's place 5 Final stage, in 
personal changes that will make you feel better about yourself. *** 
51 Pants measure chess

27 Christian pop LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use extra discipline to enable you to control bad singer Grant 54 Soccer success 6 Yuletide sweets habits. Limitations may develop if you have children who need your attention. Beware of poor financial maneuvers. *** 
28 Camera-friendly 55 Expert 7 On vacation 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social activities will enhance your love life. events Don't deal with legal documents or personal papers today. Your anger will
56 Fan club's 8 S.U.V. 28 Analyze, as a 35 Shrubby tract 49 More than 
mount if a joint venture isn't working out. *** 
32 Cheap jewelry honoree "chauffeur," sentence suggests
38 Lauderdale SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Follow through with projects that you can
maybe 

29 Gymnast Korbut loafer 50 Metrical verse do by yourself. Dealing with those you love could lead to upset. It is best not ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Overabundance to discuss personal matters today. ***** 30 Buddies 42 Cooperate (with) 51 Tall tale teller CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Slow down and enjoy life. Rethink your10 Actor Ray's 52 Upper hand intentions and you won't find yourself in an awkward position. Minor mishaps 
31 Put one's foot 44 Soused
discussion can be expected if you don't think about what you are doing. ** 
down? 53 Writer Ephron
group? 45 Pole or AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your intuitive insight will give you the upper 32 Hostilities ender Bulgarian 54 Chew like a rat hand when dealing with others. You need to spend time with those who have
11 First mate? 

the same intellectual interests. **** 
33 Subtle glow 47 Puts on ice 58 Vein contents
12 "The Whole PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your overactive imagination may lead to bad dreams. Try to put your personal life in perspective. Stop running away from
Yards" 34 Attempt 48 Petty quarrels 59 "_ rang?" 
your problems. You can't make changes unless you're willing to acknowledge13 Florida islets what needs to be done. *** 18 Air France For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
Birthday Baby: You have a will of your own. You are strong, determined and 
destination credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
willing to do whatever is necessary in order to do things your own way. You
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
23 Chart topper were born with the ability to intellectually manipulate others. You are a born 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
leader and a no-nonsense individual. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
••n~n~••• 25 Roman
statesman's 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialasr.comthieving foe? 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ~.;....&...;;~~ 26 Tank top, e.g. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
PEANUTS 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 

C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

17;i~i-t I J 

WHAT THE: TE:N­NIS FANS SAID WHE:N HE: AC.ED 
HERVIT 

( J I trJ 
THE: OBNOXIOUS
www.jumble.com 
FAVORITE:. 
MIRADS 
t 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: MANLY PIANO NEARBY GYPSUM Answer: How the bowler paid for the acupuncture treatment-WITH "PIN" MONEY 
• 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ________ State _______ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 5, 2004 page 24 

NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Stanford takes title, but Irish runners not far behind 
Notre Dame keeps up pace with Cardinal 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Spom Writer 
Tlw Irish may have run a good race on Friday. but the Cardinal soared. 
Notre Dame put on a great showing. as the men took second and the women third in the Notre Dame Cross Country Invitational. But the story of the 
race was Stanford, who won both the men's and women's events. 
The Cardinal men are ranked No. 2 in the nation. while the women are ranked No. 1. according to separate polls. 
Stanford led the men's race with 89 points while the women won with 34 points. 
The Irish performed very well, especially on the men's side. fol­lowing up on their dominating performance in the National Catholic Invitational. 
This, however. was a much dif­ferent race, with a much differ­ent class of runner. 
Men's coach Joe Piane stressed the difficulty of the race, and. the highly-talented field that the Irish had to com­pete with. 
"Going into the race there [were) eight nationally-ranked teams and we were actually ranked eight going into it," said Piane. "We beat six nationally­ranked teams and we came pretty close to Stanford." 
Irish runner Kurt Benninger finished second .overall, with a time of 23:43, just three seconds behind Brigham Young 

• FOOTBALL 
Starting at the top 
After disappointing loss to Purdue, senior leadership will be key to Irish turnaround 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Justin Tuck is ready to call a meeting with the seniors. 
lie wanl<> to get them together to ensuw thn focus of the team's lmtdnrs is on the same page with six games lell on the Irish sched­ule. 
"t\nytime you lose a game of that magnitude especially in our house. the hmdership has to step up," the senior defensive end said. "We got to put that behind us. We've got to have three great days of practice. 
")But) it won't be just for our seniors. but how we react to the younger pnople of our team and how we get them motivated to step up and put that behind us.... We have a great chance to finish 
University's Josh Rohatinsky, who won the race. 
"We were pretty excited after the race. We're not ranked as high as we thought that we should be, but we knew that. if we just went out there and ran to our potential that we would get the job done." said Benninger. 
Benninger was one of four Irish runners to finish in the top 
20. Tim Moore, who won the National Catholic Invitational. finished in 13th place with a 
see RACE/page 15 
this season on a great note. 

"Our seni.ors know what our focus needs to be. We just have to filter that down through our foot­ball team." 
The Irish are maintaining the same attitude they've had throughout the entire season -if they execute and get the job done on their end. regardless of the opponent, they can compete with anyone. It's something coach Tyrone Willingham must have talked over the weekend because at least two Irish players men­tioned facts about two-loss teams making a Bowl Championship Series bowl game last year. 
Whether that's realistic or not. the first ~tep toward meeting one of their preseason goals is getting back into Notre Dame Stadium 
see SENIORS/page 22 


MEN'S BLUE INTERHALL WRAP 
Fisher do-wns Knott on last-second field goal 
By KYLE CASSILY, JOHN 
EVERETT and PETE 
CRACCHIOLO 
SportS Wri1ors 
Fisher kicker Daniel Manaas just took it like any other kick. only this kick was to determine whether the Green Wave would come away with its third victory of the season or settle for a tie. With the score deadlocked at 3-3 and 10 seconds remain­ing on the clock in Sunday's match between Fisher and Knott, Manaas lined up for the kick. The ball was spot­ted on the 21-yard line, mak­ing it a 38-yard field goal attempt. The snap was per­feet, and Manaas hammered a line drive kick just over the bottom of the uprights to guarantee a Fisher victory at 6-3. 
This was the second of two field goals that he had on the 


SMC SOCCER 

Belles face Tri-State at home 
By RYAN DUFFY SportS Writer 

For the Belles this season. there's been no place like honw. 
Saint Mary's is 3-0 at home this season, with wins over three of the top four teams in their conference. but holds a significantly worse record of 1­2-1 on the road. Thn team will look to show their strength again today, when they take on Tri-State University at home. 
"We really love playing at home; it's a big bonus to not have to get on that bus for a long road trip to a game" said coach Caryn MacKenzie. "We like having the game in our area, and I'm excited for this week when we get to stay home twice. But whether it turns out to be a pattern or not, right now we don't play very well on the road." 
In the Belles' most recent road match, the team was unable to play with the same intensity from start to finish. and suffered a 4-1 loss to Calvin. Saint Mary's will look to remedy that problem today on their home field. 
"We played a great first half against Calvin, but in the second half we just came out flat," said MacKenzie. "They were more energetic, and we were just deflated. We still can't seem to consistently put two solid halves together. We want to avoid repeating that against Tri­State." 
While Calvin sits in first place and is one of the conference's premier teams, Tri-State resides 
see HOME/page 22 
en 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
NFL 
NBA
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
LLI 

Gary Payton reports
1-
Co) Blue League 
Blue League Wrap 
Chiefs 27

Gold League Wrap 
Gold League Wrap 

to the Celtics training
z Preview 

Ravens 24 
camp as their new point
Cavanaugh 24, 

Dillon 14, 
Howard 13, Welsh

c: 
Priest Holmes scored
a: :3 
guard.
Walsh vs. Breen­
PW6 

Morrissey 0 
Family 13 

two touchdowns in 
Phillips 

Kansas City's win. 
The Chaos stay 

The Big Red get a vic-
The underdog Ducks 
The Wild Women and 
unbeaten with a win 

tory but lose two 
tied the Whirlwinds 
Babes square off. 
over the Weasels. 

starters to injury. 
a..~ 
en 
page 20 
page 14
page 19 
page 17 

page 16
page 18 




