~. 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Students vote before Election Day 
Absentee ballots, early voting set national count in motion 
voted absentee in Cincinnati
MADDIE HANNA because he had no other option. 
News Writer 

"If you're going to be out of the county on Election Day, you haveThough millions of Americans · to do it this way [in Ohio],"will head out to the polls one week Reynolds said. 
from today, many voters, including On voting a week before the
Notre Dame students, have 
actual election, Reynolds said healready made their choices. 
was unconcerned about having toDuring fall break, many students .decide early. 
had the chance to vote early or "I pretty much knew where Ipick up and mail in absentee bal­stood on things," Reynolds said. 
lots. 

"That wasn't going to change in Sophomore Ashley St. Pierre the last week." 
turned in her absentee ballot dur­Early voting means an individual 
ing break in her home state of 
can cast his ballot during a specificNew Hampshire, a process she period prior to Election Day.
described as very easy. 
Absentee voting involves request­Explaining her motivation for ing a ballot in the mail and return­taking the time to vote at home, St. 
ing it by mail or by hand. 
Pierre said voting is a privilege 
According to data from
many people take for granted. 
HelpingAmericansVote.org, 27"In such a close race, this is a 
states do not restrict early or 
time when each vote is going to absentee voting, while 23 states have an effect on the outcome of have state-specific requirements. 
the election," St. Pierre said. Junior Dan Reynolds said he see VOTING/page 4 


Yale professor traces development of Islam 
Bowering: Christianity had vital influence on history of faith 
"Islam and Christianity," and the first lecture the advent of Islam. By STEVE KERINS was entitled "Origins and Common Roots." "The earliest Christian writers looked at News Writer Bi.iwering began by introducing Islam in Islam as just another heresy that had 
its modern context. appeared," he said. 
Contact with other contemporary faith tra­"Islam is a world religion that has come He described the rise of Islamic civilization ditions, including Christianity, played a key into our purview through world events," he both in the context of the pagan religions role in the early development of Islam, said said. He examined some of the various eth­that had existed previously on the Arabian Gerhard Bi.iwering, a Jesuit professor of nic and cultural groups that comprise the Peninsula, and in terms of its increasing Islamic studies at Yale University, in a lec­contemporary Islamic world and then contact with the Christian world. ture on the history of Islam Monday night at turned to the origins of Islam in seventh cen­After reviewing major occurrences in the the Hesburgh Center. tury Mecca. life of Muhammad, Bi.iwering began to relate 
His talk was the first of this year's Bi.iwering noted that Christianity had been Erasmus Lectures. The theme of the series is developing for nearly six centuries before see TALK/ page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Ejection nun1bers 
•

Increase 
Citations of ND, BC fans also rise at game 

Police cited 34 people and arrested 7 fans at Saturday's Boston College game. 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
In numbers indicative of the schools' bitter rivalry, more Notre Dame and Boston College fans received citations for alcohol-related offenses and more people were eject­ed from Notre Dame Stadium Saturday than at any home football game this year. 
The joint task force of Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police, South Bend Police and Notre Dame Security/Police cited a total of 34 people before and during the game -the vast majority of which were Boston College fans, judging by their east coast addresses, said NDSP director Rex Rakow. 
"If not the toughest, [Boston College] is one .of the toughest crowds we face," Rakow said, adding that NDSP has observed a pattern of increased incidents on recent years' 
see EJECTIONS/page 4 


City shuts down Benchvvarmer's 
Downtown bar was site offights, underage drinking 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
Benchwarmer's Sports Lounge closed its doors for good Oct. 18, after the city of South Bend agreed to purchase the bar for $55,640. 
The bar, which has been the scene for numerous instances of underage drinking and fights as of late, sold the entire facility, including all items in Benchwarmer's, along with the lounge's liquor license to South Bend, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
The city also agreed to drop a 2003 nuisance lawsuit against owner Stephen Mitchell alleging that underage drinking and fighting had occurred. 
Mitchell owned the bar for 10 years and told the Tribune that he plans to move to the Atlanta area as health problems moti­vated him to sell. 
Neither Mitchell nor his lawyers could be reached for comment. 
Fighting and unruly behavior at the bar had become a nui­sance to the city and police offi­cers. On Saturdays, four officers were usually assigned to patrol Benchwarmer's in addition to the regular officers working downtown, causing officers to work overtime, according to the Tribune. 
In January 2001, 50-60 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were cited for underage drink­ing in a police raid on the bar. 
Last May, a young woman's arm was broken during an arrest outside the bar. 
Saint Mary's senior Erin Korreck said the bar closing will not affect her weekend entertainment. 
"It doesn't change anything for me because I've never been there, and hadn't really ever 
see BAR/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Parents 
aren't so bad 

after all 
Parents aren't so useless after all. 
When I went home for fall break, I 
was excited to see my family again. As 
a freshman, it was the first time I'd 
been away from them for an extended 
period of time. 
However, after the 
Chris Khorey 
initial pleasure of 
reunion, I was 
greeted with Sports Wire 
something I defi­Editor 
nitely had not 
missed: Nagging. 
My mom had made a to-do list for 
fall break. I had to balance my check­
ing account, buy winter clothes and 
clean up my room I'd been gone for 
two months. how was it messy? 
But now that I'm back at school, 
something has dawned on me. 
Sometimes when parents nag in high 
school, it seems pointless. I learned 
that if I ignored a task, my mom would 
just end up doing it. 
But at college, if I ignore a task, it 
doesn't get done at all. 
For instance, earlier this year I was 
busy and ignored my laundry. It piled 
up and before I realized what was 
happening, I had run out of clothes. 
Plus my laundry bag fell over and 
spilled all over the floor. That was the 
first time I realized I wasn't in the 
proverbial Kansas anymore. 
At home, my mom would always 
comment that my desk was a mess. I 
used it as a repository of all the ran­
dom pieces of paper I received. When I 
got here, this habit got even worse. 
With less space then at home, the area 
next to my laptop on my desk became 
a jumbled pile of paper, books, hats 
and even my cell phone. I learned the 
hard way to organize myself when I 
became convinced I had lost my check­
book. 
Another instance happened to my roommate earlier this year. At home, mothers call the entire family to the table, or at least tell you there's food in the fridge for when you get hungry. But at college, you have to remember to eat and eat right. My roommate ran into slight trouble with this the first week, eating approximately one meal a day. 
Furthermore, without parents to put food on the table, I had to make sure I was eating a balanced diet. I had to make sure that as well as finding the dining hall's pizza and burgers, I also found the salad bar. 
Lastly, not having a curfew at college is pretty nice, and I feel like I can han­dle being out late on weekends by sleeping in later than my family (espe­cially my little sister) would let me do at home. However, when it comes to week night sleep, I have been spoiled by a sound sleeping roommate who doesn't mind if I'm up until 3 a.m. instant messaging my girlfriend and my friends from home. Some day, my goal is to have enough willpower to go to bed and get more than four hours of sleep. 
So, despite the annoyances that nag­ging parents seemed to present, I guess now I have to admit they were right. Sometimes, things just have to get done. 
Contact Chris Korey at ckhorey@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Tuesday, October 26, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST THING ABOUT FALL BREAK? 


Sean Cullen  Anne Drolet  Stephanie Lutz  Nicole Thaner  Chris Nicol  Tom Dorwart  
Alumni freshman  LeMans junior  Holy Cross junior  LeMans junior  Holy Cross junior  Dillon freshman  
"Being a Yankees fan in Boston after Game 7·"  "Visiting New York City and the 'Today,,Show.  "Going home to Mississippi where we had record highs in  "Passing a football between cars on an interstate. "  "Tailgating at the Navy game and shotgunning  "Appalachia seminar. "  





the 9os for October." 
World's oldest man 
cheering for Red Sox 

SYRACUSE, N.Y.-In 113 years, Fred Hale Sr. has seen a lot. There's one thing he'd like to see again. Hale, documented as the world's oldest man, is a lifelong Boston Red Sox fan. 
Hale already has seen the Red Sox become the only team in baseball post­season history to over­come an 0-3 start to advance. Boston is up 2-0 on the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series. 
Can the Red Sox win their first World Series since 1918? 
TODAY a: 

home, Griem told the 
Muncie Star Press for a 
story Monday. 

"Droppings are every­where," Griem said. "They've made the patio unusable. The lawn people don't even like to mow it." 
The birds have a 6-foot wingspan and can grow to be 32 inches tall, said Roger Hedge, an ecologist with the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. 
Most of the birds should head south for the winter, he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
"That's the question," said Hale. "We'll wait and see. Luck goes one way and goes out the other." 
Turkey vultures take over Indiana yard 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Turkey vultures have taken over Gwendolyn Griem's back­yard and made a mess of it. 
Around 50 of the soar­ing, carrion-consuming birds have flocked to Griem's yard in a gated subdivision in Muncie. They have ruined her patio furniture, stressed the shrubbery and even damaged the roof of her 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
Cokes and Sprites." 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame students, faculty, students and staff can donate blood today from 9 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m. at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Volunteers should sign up for a time in advance with RecSports. 
The Notre Dame bookstore will host stories and activities in the children's section today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Bring your own costume. 
Rock the Vote will host a panel of speakers on "Africa, Trade, Debt and the U.S. Presidential Elections" today from 7 to 8:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Robin Lakoff. University of California-Berkeley professor of linguistics, will talk today from 4:30 to 5:45 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo about "Boys will be Boys: Redrawing the Gender Line in the Sand." 
Brown University scholar Ronald Martinez will discuss "Petrarch, Dante, and the Places of Liturgy" today from 
3:30 to 4:45 p.m. in 102 Hesburgh Library. 
A Peace Corps representa­tive will hold an information session for students today from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns lounge. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will give tango dance lessons today in room 101 in the Rockne building. Beginning instruction will be from 9 to 
9:30 p.m. and advanced les­sons will be from 9:30 to 10:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

LLI 
::1: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..I c:C 
(,) 0



_. HIGH 65 HIGH 65 LOW 47 LOW 55 

HIGH LOW 

62 50 

Atlanta 78 I 58 Boston 59 I 46 Chicago 60 I 52 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
----------------------------------------·-----­
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Saint Mary's discusses College identity forum 
Members report on campus issues and goals for the year 
By KELLY MEEHAN 'News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance met Monday night to discuss upcoming events, including the College identity forum. Members said the forum will take place Nov. 4. 
"This forum's purpose is uni­fying, not polarizing our cam­pus," Woman's Issues Commissioner Katie Kelly said. 
Kelly also invited all BOG members to write· down a question they would like to have addressed at the forum. 
During fall break student trustee Sarah Brown said she met with the Board of Trustees to discuss several campus issues. She decided to initiate an Energy Conservation Task Force to help defray the high costs the campus must pay in energy bills. 
At the retreat BOG attended in September, each member wrote down a goal for her board. Chief of staff Susan Mcllduff encouraged commis­sioners to meet with her in the 
""'· 





>'"''' '······. 

upcoming weeks to discuss their goals for the year. 
Kelly reported on her trip to the women's centers at Saint Kate's College and Saint Ben's College to learn about possible ideas for the Saint Mary's women's center to be in the new student center. 
"It is really important for us to acknowledge how we will be effective in serving our women at a Catholic women's college," Kelly said. 
Junior class president Danielle Lerner reported the class formal would be held Nov. 20 in the O'Laughlin Auditorium with the theme of "Viva Las Vegas." The class has also initiated "Project Warmth" on the Saint Mary's campus, and Lerner said the residence hall bins were over-· flowing with coat donations. 
Emerson Drive will be per­forming tonight in O'Laughlin auditorium at 7 p.m. There are still tickets available and are $5 for Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students and $10 for the general pub­lic. 
Members also discussed the upcoming College Democrats and Republicans mock debate on Nov. 1. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at krneehaOI @saintmarys.edu 
Professor wins international award 
Special to the Observer 
Kristin Shrader-Frechette, 
F.J. and H.M. O'Neill Professor of Philosophy and concurrent professor of biological sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has won the 2004 World Technology Award in ethics from the World Technology Network (WTN). She 
----~ 
received the Kristin award for Shrader­her work in Frechette 
environmental and public health ethics. Because there are no Nobel Prize categories for engineer­
ing and technology, a group of Nobel laureates and business leaders created the WTN and its awards program in 2000. Each year, the organization honors individuals and corpo­rations from 20 different tech­nology-related disciplines deemed by the WTN to have the greatest likely future signif­icance and impact on society. 
Shrader-Frechette was hon­ored Oct. 8 at the close of the WTN international summit in San Francisco. 
The first WTA ethics winner was Harvard University and Hastings Center philosopher Daniel Callahan, who won the award for his work in biomed­ical ethics. Princeton University philosopher Peter Singer won the ethics award in 2003 for his work on global food ethics. 
Shrader-Frechette also is a fellow of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. She joined the University's faculty in 1998 after holding senior professor­ships at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and the University of Florida. An award-winning teacher as well as a researcher, she has pub­lished more than 350 articles and 14 books. Her work has been translated into 11 lan­guages. 
Most of Shrader-Frechette's work is in the philosophy of science, normative ethics, probabilistic/environmental risk assessment, and science policy. The U.S. National Science Foundation has contin­uously funded her research since 1982. 


Ne-w building dedicated in Dublin 
Special to the Observer 
DUBLIN -On a stroll through the streets of this city, one can find the historic Trinity College, the Irish National Art Gallery, Dublin Castle, Christ Church Cathedral and the University of Notre Dame. 
Since 1998, the Keough­Notre Dame Centre in the heart of the Irish capital has hosted an average of 70 Notre Dame undergraduates 
per year to study and expe­rience Irish culture. During that time, the centre has been based in a small por­tion of historic Newman House, at No. 86 St. Stephen's Green, a choice location. 
But on Oct. 16, the University celebrated a dra­matic improvement in the arrangements for its Irish program with the dedication of O'Connell House as a new and larger home for the 
·,,_ 

ln celebration of· :the· 7th centenary of .Petrarch's bi.rth, the 
Devers Program in Da·nt~-Studies is pleased to announce a·"· i lecture series exploring aspects ofthe literary relationship between Dante ll265-132U and PetrarchH304-1374): 
......' ~-~ 
.. ,) 

~-' 
Tuesday, October26, 2004 
RoNALD L. MARTiNEZ, Brown 'University ''Petrarch, Dante, and the Plac~s of Liturgy" 
'·· 

ALBERT R. Ascou, University ofG~liforn~a,· Berkeley 

"Blinding the Cyclops: Petrarch;Aft~f Dante"-.  :t ~  
Tuesday, November 9~'2004 k  _,,_._  ,;  ..  
SARASTuRM-MAooox,tlniversty:or. ·,'  . ...  

. ·:~,~ 1.::'·Mass~chusetts, A1r1herst ... ·. z,<;~::~>i~\~·;i'<> ~·oantet·Pefr~jich; and the LaureLCrown" ··· ·· 
s,.. :'\\>: \ '' ' <;' ' . 

THEODORE)~lZACHEY,]R:~ 'Utuvers1t)1 of Notre Dame !{Between Oa~te lnd.P.~.trarch" 
.. ,. '~ . ·. . ·~,~~~~~.};r_~~..:. .. 
Keough Centre. The refur­bishment of the facility was made possible by benefac­tions from Notre Dame Trustees Donald Keough and Martin Naughton. 
The dedication even t.s included a blessing of the building by Notre Dame's president, Rev. Edward A. Malloy. C.S.C., an honorary degree ceremony, a dedica­tion Mass, and remarks from Irish President Mary McAleese. 
.. 
: 
~~-· ···~-·· \. ··. .; ~ ·.·
,,,·...,. ·,;:· 

.,, .· Anle9tures will take place-·in ill,~ _Qepartment of SpeCiafCollectk)n&,.:JO2 HesburghLihrat)!, ~.~~~{;b,:;;\~ ·..····. .. . beginningat 3:30 and 4:30p.m:, folfo~~qby areception. AU are.welcome to attend these events:·~Y:~.'~~;·,'> · .\,_ ·: .. . . i,;_ir::'· : · ·>~--:~::~;·,•<:~'. ; ·. ··.····· .>· ··:· ···...··· • • j:_ · .. · · ; .~:: .·· <-:~~~.:~.:<;. ·
3 • 

This lecture series issponsored by; · William and Katb;erineDevers Program in Dante Studies The lnstitute ·..·. ":,· ~ · . The Department .·. Languages@:Liteiatures "'""'ThePh.D. in Literature Program .· '· · ,,_ 



Tuesday, October 26, 2004 

page 4. The Observer + NEWS 
SOUTH KOREA 



Nation tightens security 
Korean military ordered into high alert near Seoul 
Associated Press 
SEOUL -South Korea's military went into a high state of alert on Tuesday, tightening roadblocks and traffic checks north of Seoul after finding signs of possible infiltration by North Korean agents. officials said. 
The increased security along the roads between the tense border and Seoul came as U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell was visiting South Korea to discuss a strategy for restarting stalled talks on North Korea's nuclear weapons pro­grams. 
South Korean border guards found a hole in the wire fence that forms the southern boundary of the 2.5-mile wide Demilitarized Zone that separates the two Kon~as. said Brig. Gen. Hwang Joong-sun of the South Korean Office of Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
The 16-by 12-inch hole, which was cut through two layers of wire fence meters yards apart, was dis­covered early Tuesday near Yeoncheon. a border town 40 miles north of Seoul. 
North Korea had no immediate comment, but it has a long history of staging border infiltration and other military provocations in apparent attempts to hike tension and increase its leverage at times of crucial negotiations. 
South Korea imposed "Jindogye­1" around Yeoncheon, the highest level of vigilance the military can issue before an actual sighting of a communist infiltrator, said another ministry spokesman, who also refused to be named. 
Domestic media carried similar 


Talk 
continued from page I 
key events in Islam's incipient years to present day dilemmas. IIe said Muhammad had taken to opposing the presence of the small Jewish tribes in Mecca and Medina, foreshadowing the pres­ent conflict between the two faiths. 

lie also examined the term jihad, which he described as "the struggle with all means on the path of God. even militant means." 
The Middle Ages, Bi:iwering said. provided a turning point in Islam's relations with Christianity, culminating dramatically in the Crusades. Meanwhile, Muslims were rapidly and successfully 
Bar 
continued from page 1 

planned on going," she said. "I don't really think it was much of a college hangout for the reports. Jindogye-1 reportedly requires military units to move troops for patrol and combat readi­ness. Soldiers also join police at checkpoints. 
Ministry officials refused to dis­cuss details of the measures taken Tuesday. 
"We are investigating several possibilities. In the meantime. we arc conducting our military opera­tions in case there is an infiltration by an enemy," Hwang said at a news conference. He refused to elaborate. 
Police and soldiers tightened inspections in 54 checkpoints on the roads north of Seoul and estab­lished 16 temporary checkpoints, South Korea's national news agency Yonhap reported. 
The military also barred Yeoncheon farmers from working in fields near the border and post-· ed sentries at foothills, Yonhap said. 
Police already had boosted secu­rity around the U.S. Embassy in Seoul and the main South Korean government building where Powefl was meeting senior South Korean officials. They were guarding against possible demonstrations by activists who opposed Powell's trip, blaming President Bush for height­ening tension with North Korea. 
Roads between Seoul and the heavily fortified border are dotted with concrete tank traps and checkpoints and roadblocks. A large portion of South Korea's 650,000-member military is amassed in the area, which North Korea used as as the main corridor of invasion when it started the 1950-53 Korean War. 
expanding on other fronts. 
"The Muslims never really made subject populations," he said. "The conquered became the conquerors." 
Bi:iwering also pointed out that many scientific and cultural inno­vations came from the Islamic world to Europe in ages past. Since the Enlightenment, howev­er, the opposite has largely been the case. He attributed the mod­ern trend toward fundamentalism in Islamic countries partly to this reversaL 
Bi:iwering will also give two additional Erasmus lectures this week in the Hesburgh Center, at 5 
p.m. Wednesday and 4 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 
recent classes, even if it used to be." 
The city has no immediate plans for the building or its con­tents, according to the Tribune. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
GaiDe 
continued from page 1 
Irish-Eagles game days. "I think for their stu­dents, this is their one big road trip of the year." 
The previous high for citations was 29 on Sept. 11, the day of the Michigan game. Citations issued on football Saturdays typically include minor in consumption, minor in pos­session and public intoxication, Rakow said. 
The task force also made seven custodial arrests -four in the White Field Lot prior to the game and three during the game -on charges including public intoxication, disorder­ly conduct and resisting arrest, Rakow said .. AII four people arrested before the game were of student age, with one from Notre Dame and three from Boston College, and one Notre Dame student was arrested at the game, Rakow said. He was unsure of the affiliation of the other two people arrested in the stadium. 
Ushers and police also made 135 ejections, counting two fans that were removed twice, said Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium personneL Gagnon said the ejection total was the fifth highest the stadium has seen in nine years, with the first four -peaking at 220 ­also coming against Boston College. 
"There's a real hostility among their students and fans when they arrive here. [as well as] a big drinking culture" on both sides, Gagnon said. While a typical game would result in "a handful" of ejections taking place in visitors' sections, he said, 31 fans were ejected from sections where Boston College fans clustered 

Voting 
continued from page 1 
While many states require voters to give a reason for not voting on Election Day, over 40 percent of states do not, according to HelpingAmericansVote.org. 
In the South Bend area, St. Joseph County has seen an increase in absentee voting, St. Joseph County circuit court clerk Rita Glenn said. 
"We sent out 13,000 ballots and have processed about 6,700," Glenn said. However, Glenn said there was not necessari­ly a trend toward increased absentee voting. "It is an increase [in absentee voting], but the 
Saturday. 
"One thing that hurts the B.C. group is they like to sit together," and will sneak in with tick­ets from different sections, Gagnon said. Fans who lose their seats because of this behavior often complain to ushers, leading to confronta­tions and ejections. hP said. 
"They are their own worst enemy," he said. 
The Notre Dame student section was not without its own problems Saturday, Gagnon said, iJ.S 23 people were ejected -eight because of intoxication and 15 because of throwing marshmallows. 
Ushers will remove a student on the basis of intoxication when signs of alcohol abuse are coupled with problematic behavior, such as vomiting or swearing, he said. 
"We know a large number of students have been at tailgaters and have been drinking -­that alone won't get you removed," Gagnon said. But if a fan challenges an usher and the situation escalates. police can be called for backup, Gagnon said. Police ofl"emd physical assistance on between three and five of Saturday's 135 ejections. 
This season's previous high for ejections was 110 on Oct. 2, the day of the Purdue game. Gagnon said. Ejections at other games were significantly lower, with 90 at the Oct. 9 Stanford game, 62 at the Sept. 11 Michigan game and 58 at the Sept. 25 Washington game. The most ejections from the Notre Dame stu­dent section this year, 30, took place at the Stanford game. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
population of the U.S. has increased as well." she said. "We also had over 8,000 new appli­cants registering to vote for the first tin1e," 
In 2000, Glenn said that the county received 9,251 absentee ballots during the period from the first Monday of October to the Monday before Election Day. 
Notre Dame Rock the Vote student coordina­tor Peter Quaranto said Rock the Vote tried to let students know they could vQte over fall break. 
"Now, the only option is to return to your home state and vote early there, or send in an absentee ballot," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY.OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 


PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2005-6 
INFORMATION MEETING ABOUT STUDYING POLITICAL SCIENCE, ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY AND HISTORY IN PARIS 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27,2004 5:00PM· 203 DBRT 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 CoMPILED FROM T11E OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraq may have missing explosives 
VIENNA, Austria-The U.N. nuclear agency warned Monday that insurgents in Iraq may have obtained nearly 400 tons of missing explosives that can be used in the kind of car bomb attacks that have targeted U.S.-led coalition forces for months. 
Diplomats questioned why the United States didn't do more to secure the former Iraqi military installation that had housed the explosives, which they say posed a well­known threat of being looted. Others criti­cized the United States for not allowing full international inspections to resume after the March 2003 invasion. 
The White House played down the signifi­cance of the missing weapons, but Democratic presidential hopeful John Kerry accused President Bush of "incredible incom­petence" and his campaign said the adminis­tration "must answer for what may be the most grave and catastrophic mistake in a tragic series of blunders in Iraq." 
Noor denounces extremist "ranting'' 
BOGOTA, Colombia -Queen Noor of Jordan is urging Muslim moderates to speak out against the "rantin" of extremists who use Islam to justify beheadings and suicide bomb­ings against the United States and Westerners. 
The American-born widow of King Hussein, who perhaps more than any other prominent figure represents a fusion of the United States and the Arab world, also told The Associated Press in an interview that Washington should tone down its militaristic approach to the Middle East. 
Noor denounced the twisting of Islam preached by extremists, who are waging what they say is a holy war against the West. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Violent crime down 3 percent 
WASHINGTON -Every type of violent crime fell last year with one notable exception: Murders were up for the fourth straight year, according to an annual FBI report released Monday. 
After reaching a low point in 1999 of about 15,500 homicides, the number has crept up steadily since then to more than 16,500 in 2003 -or almost six murders for every 100,000 U.S. residents. 
That was a 1.7 percent increase from 2002 and a jump of more than 6 percent since 1999. Still, the latest figure was 29 percent lower than the homicides in 1994. 
Matilija Dam outlives its usefullness 
OJAI, Calif. -The Matilija Dam isn't much of a dam anymore -on rainy days, it looks more like a waterfall. A pile of sediment has built up so high behind the dam that when just an inch of rain falls, water spills over in glis­tening cascades. 
The dam's aging concrete also chokes off sediment and nutrients that could nurture the riverbanks and restore Ventura County beach­es downstream. So, it's got to go. 
But, tearing down the Southern California structure presents a costly challenge. 
The sheer size of its removal will make it one of the most complicated in the country, and the. project will carry an expected price tag of $130 million. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Two escape fire on Near Westside 
INDIANAPOLIS -Scott Couch says he's lucky that the smell of smoke was enough to alert him and his cousin to escape their Near­Westside home this morning just before an apparent kitchen fire gutted the interior. 
The fire occurred about 6:03 a.m. to the Couch's brick one-story horne in the 1700 block of McCormick Street, in Haugh ville. 
Indianapolis firefighters arrived three min­utes later after getting a 911 call and brought the quickly moving fire under control in just minutes. 
ISRAEL 

Sharon shares plan to secure Israel 
Debate ensues in parliament as prime minister appeals for support of withdrawal 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Ariel Sharon opened a stormy debate in parliament Monday with a passionate appeal to law­makers to support his Gaza withdrawal plan ­which has divided the country and weakened his government -as the only way to secure Israel's future. 
The withdrawal would mark the first time Israel has pulled down Jewish settlements in the West Bank or Gaza, and Sharon is hoping a decisive victory in a parliamentary vote scheduled for Tuesday will blunt calls for a national referendum on the plan. 
"This is a fateful moment for Israel. We are dealing with a difficult decision that has few parallels," he said in a speech repeatedly interrupted by heckling from hard-line opponents. 
The two-day debate in the Knesset is the climax of a monthslong confronta­tion over the "unilateral disengagement" plan, which Sharon has pushed despite strong opposition from much of his Likud Party and the threat that it could destroy his coalition government. 
As the debate began, vio­lence flared in Gaza, with Israeli troops killing 15 Palestinian violence and of the Knesset's decision The plan has sharply Palestinians and wounding fear the withdrawal will be for thousands of Israelis divided Sharon's Likud 91 others in a raid on the the first step in a larger who have lived for many Party, with nearly half the Khan Younis refugee camp pullback. years in the Gaza Strip, 40 Likud lawmakers say­to halt Palestinian mortar Palestinians view the who were sent there in the ing they will vote against fire at nearby settlements. plan with skepticism and name of Israeli govern­it, forcing Sharon to rely Two Israeli soldiers were worry that Sharon hopes to ments, and built their on the support of dovish wounded. use the limited withdrawal homes there. Who planted opposition parties. 
Violence in Gaza has to mute international criti­flowers and trees, and Sharon is expected to increased in recent cism of Israel and brought up their children, win Tuesday's vote, but months, with Palestinian strengthen its hold over who have never known will need a solid margin of militants trying to prove large parts of the West another home," he said. "I victory to silence oppo­they are forcing Israel out, Bank and East Jerusalem, know this well. I sent nents' demand for a and Israel seeking to crush lands the Palestinians many." national referendum. the militants to show it is claim for a state. Sharon said his plan was Sharon opposes a refer­not withdrawing under The program, which will not intended to replace endum, which would take fire. uproot 8,800 settlers, is a negotiations with the months to prepare, as a 
Sharon says his plan to sharp reversal for the pre­Palestinians in the long stalling tactic and said it leave Gaza and pull down mier, who was once the run. would only increase the four small West Bank set­settlers' top patron in the "It is a necessary step divisions and the hatred on tlements is vital to ending government. Sharon said during a period in which both sides. However, sever­four years of devastating supporting the withdrawal negotiations are not possi­al Cabinet members, violence in the region. was the most difficult deci­ble. All is open when ter­including Finance Minister Jewish settlers accuse sion of his long career. ror -this murderous ter­Benjamin Netanyahu, have Sharon of caving in to "I know the significance ror-stops." called for a national vote. 



Chief Justice Rehnquist hospitalized 
to be back at work next week when by the war on terror. The next pres­
Associated Press 
the court resumes hearing cases. ident probably will name one or 

WASHINGTON -Chief Justice Left unsaid was Rehnquist's condi­more justices to a court that has William H. Rehnquist has thyroid tion at the National Naval Medical been deeply divided in recent years cancer that has tempororarily side­Center in suburban Bethesda, Md., on issues as varied as abortion and lined the conservative anchor of the and which type of thyroid cancer he the 2000 election itself. President Supreme Court and injected into the has. About 23,600 people develop Bush won that after the Supreme presidential campaign the issue of various types of thyroid cancer each Court issued a key 5-4 decision in appointments to the most important year in the United States. Most his favor, with Rehnquist as part of legal panel in America. types are considered treatable, but the majority. 
Rehnquist's diagnosis was many variables exist including age The last court vacancy was in announced Monday in a terse state­and how quickly the cancer is 1994, the longest stretch of continu­ment by the Supreme Court. It said found. ity in modern history. Only one of the 80-year-old widower underwent Rehnquist's hospitalization gave the court's nine members ­a tracheotomy over the weekend new prominence to a campaign Clarence Thomas, appointed by for­
and was hospitalized but expected issue that has been overshadowed mer President Bush-is under 65. 
page 6 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
CHINA 
;;JY, '. 

Powell, Wen reach agree111ent on issues 

Associated Press 
BEIJING -Secretary of State Colin Powell won agreement from top Chinese officials Monday to resume joint discussions on human rights issues, but he failed to persuade them to open a dia­logue with old rival Taiwan. 
China angrily removed human rights from the U.S.­China agenda last spring when the United States intro­duced a resolution critical of Beijing before the U.N. Human Rights Commission in Geneva. 
Powell told reporters after high-level discussions here that the two countries "will start talks about resuming our human rights dialogue." He said he wants official dis­cussions to touch on U.S. concerns about the detention of journalists and restric­tions on civil liberties, among other issues. 
On Taiwan, Powell reaf­firmed the U.S. view that China should welcome a recent offer by Taiwanese President Chen Shui-bian to reopen political discussions with China. But the Chinese, mistrustful of Chen because of his moves toward inde­pendence, rejected Powell's appeals, said a U.S. official who accompanied Powell in the discussions. 
China has said a dialogue with Taiwan will be possible only after the island agrees it is a part of China. 
Powell, who arrived here from Japan on Sunday night, met separately with President Hu Jintao, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing. 
The Xinhua News Agency reported after Powell's talks that Hu "appreciated" the United States for reiterating its opposition to Taiwan independence. 
"[IIu) said he hoped the 

U.S. side would see clearly the nature and serious harm 


Lafayette Square 
. Jl0"118~ 0~~11 . 
Can't figure out what to get Mom for Christmas? 

Be a part ofthe hottest property in off-campus housing! Come sign a lease for 05-06 at our Open House and receive a $1oo Gift Certifi­
v cate forthe Bookstore. All you have to do is figure out whatsize she wears! 
Open House in Unit #I (faJ-tiiest fi•om Eddy), Nov. 3 &om 4-6pm 
Come for the food, come for the fun, come and sign a lease! 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 



INNSBRUCK 
2005-2006 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. Harmel ore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 116 DEBARTOLO 7:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Questions?-Weber:JS@nd.edu Application Deadline: November 15, 2004 


of the 'Taiwan independence' 
forces," Xinhua said. 
During Powell's discus­
sions, China reaffirmed its 
strong opposition to U.S. 
arms sales to Taiwan. Powell 
said all weapons transfers to 
the island are for defensive 
purposes only. 
There was no shortage of 
issues for the two sides to 
discuss. A Powell aide count­
ed 29 raised during his 
meetings. 
He flew to South Korea in the afternoon following a 25­minute stop at the Sun Dong An Plaza, a modern shopping mall in the heart of Beijing. As he arrived, he was sur­rounded by a phalanx of about two dozen plainclothes police who kept surprised Chinese shoppers at bay. Some snapped pictures of him with their cell phones. He bought an $8 art set for one of his grandchildren and a $10 fountain pen. 
On North Korea, Chinese officials told Powell they believe it is possible for six­nation negotiations on nuclear disarmament to resume in the next few months. North Korea boy­cotted a meeting that was to have taken place in September. The six nations are the United States, China, Japan, Russia and the two Koreas. 
The United States is seek­ing the permanent denu­clearization of North Korea and has said it will provide the communist government with economic benefits only after it offers a credible com­mitment to meet U.S. disar­mament demands. 
American partners in the six-party process share the 
U.S. goal but Li, the Chinese foreign minister, told Xinhua after his meeting with Powell that he believes that U.S. policy is too rigid. Washington, he said, should "go further to adopt a flexi­ble and practical attitude on the issue." 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

9,749.99 -7.82

}ones 
-______ . , Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1;722' 177 • 1,377,640,064 

AMEX 1, 3.0S •. Qo +1;GW!'l f
i \ 

NASDAQ 1,914.04 -1.10 
NYSE 6,520.9Q 7Q.~42·· s&PSOO 1,094.80 -0.94 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,677.70 .+1.8{55 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,564.50 . -50.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +2.56 +0. 10 4.0 I MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.40 -0.1 I 27.63 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.05 +0.01 21.3 I STEMCELLS INC (STEM) +51.48 + 1.39 4.09 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -I. IS -0.21 18.06 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.15 -0.07 47.54 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.30 -0.12 39.72 5-YEAR NOTE -0.55 -0. 18 32.39 3-MONTH BILL +1.38 +0.25 18.32 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.63 54.54 GOLD ($fTroy oL) +4.00 429.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.68 94.73 
E.xcha e Rates 

YEN 106.6500 EURO . 0.7786 POUND 0.5421 CANADIAN$ 1.2187 
IN BRIEF American to furlough up to I, I 00 
DALLAS -American Airlines. struggling with rising fuel costs and competition from low-fare carriers, will furlough up to 650 maintenance workers in Kansas City and St. Louis and up to 450 pilots, the company said in a memo given to employees Friday. 
The news came two days after Fort Worth­based AMR Corp., parent of American, reported that it lost $214 million from July through September and expected an even bigger loss in the fourth quarter. 
Jeff Brundage, the company's senior vice president of human resources, wrote in the memo obtained by The Associated Press that American has worked for months to "operate more efficiently and return to profitability." 
"Despite our success in lowering costs, some circumstances that greatly impact us, most notably fuel, are out of our control." Brundage said in the memo. "Unless things change signifi­cantly, we know we are in for a difficult winter." 
Tim Wagner. a spokesman for American. con­firmed a memo went out to employees, but said Friday night he could not comment because the company has promised to tell employees about cost-cutting measures before discussing them publicly. 
Spitzer to change insurance sales 
NEW YORK -The insurance industry could look a lot different than it does today when New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer is done with his investigation. 
His earlier probes into the financial services industry forced reforms in analyst research. which was determined to be tainted by links to lucrative investment banking deals, and in mutual funds. where select individuals were given trading privileges at the expense of the majority of investors. 
Now. he's clearly looking for changes in the way insurance is sold, especially when it comes to how commissions and fees are assessed. And his disclosures of questionable sales practices could trigger new efforts in Washington to impose federal rules on an industry now largely ~egulated by the states, experts say. 
It remains to be seen if the consequence for insurance buyers will be lower-cost policies. Analysts point out that brokers and insurance companies may be forced to change the ways they're compensated, but not necessarily the amounts they collect. 
NETHERLANDS 


ISG deal to change steel industry 
$4.5 billion deal and consolidation to form world's largest steel leader 
Associated Press 
AMSTERDAM -Steel tycoon Lakshmi N. Mittal announced plans to pay $4.5 billion in cash and stock for U.S. steelmaker International Steel Group Inc.. which had been cob-. bled together by onetime investment banker Wilbur 
L. Ross Jr. from mills wh-ose parents landed in bankruptcy court. 
The takeover and the consolidation of two Mittal­controlled companies also announced on Monday will create a global metals mammoth with anticipated 2004 sales of $31.8 billion,_ 70 million tons of steel pro­duction capacity and 165,000 employees, rival­ing the world's largest steel and mining conglomerates. 
"These transactions dra­matically change the land­scape of the global steel industry," said Mittal, who will be chief executive of the combined company. 
The size of the renamed Mittal Steel Co. NV will pro­vide it economies of scale in purchasing raw materi­als and advantages in set­ting global prices for steel, analysts said. The deal comes against the back­drop of rising demand for steel in China, whose appetite for oil has already contributed to rising ener­gy prices. ducers in the world and close at $35.25 Monday on exchange. The Mittal fami­
Mittal, a native of India has the potential to gener­the New York Stock ly will own 88 percent. who now lives in London, ate even more savings Exchange. Mittal Steel will "have has spent years acquiring through scale advantages. Ross, 66, who formerly excellent positions in raw steelmaking plants in loca­The takeover of ISG, worked at the investment materials, particularly coal, tions ranging from the which is based in Richfield, firm Rothschild Inc., con­coke and iron ore," Mittal Czech Republic to South Ohio, must be approved by trolled 32.8 percent of ISG said. Africa to Mexico, much as regulators. Mittal said he shares when the company's The new company is ISG chairman Ross has does not plan layoffs. last proxy statement was comparable with the since 2002, scooping up the Under the deal, filed with the SEC in April. world's largest steelmaker, steel-making assets of fall­Rotterdam-based Ispat Many of those shares were Luxembourg-based Arcelor en U.S. giants like LTV, International NV -in owned by various funds SA, which had with 2003 Acme Steel, Bethlehem which the Mittal family has Ross managed. He person­sales of $33.2 billion and Steel and Weirton Steel. a majority stake -will ally owned 7.1 percent of around 100,000 employees. 
Mittal Steel will have a issue $13.3 billion of ISG shares, worth $291.3 Frank Holmes, chief particular advantage in the shares to buy another million in cash and stock if executive of U.S. Global United States, where it will Mittal family company, the Mittal transaction is Investments, who follows control about 40 percent of LNM Holdings NV. Then, completed. the steel industry, said the flat-rolled steel market, that company would pay The combined company Mittal is one of a handful of said analyst Chris Olin of $21 in cash and about $21 will be based in Rotterdam consolidators -like ISG's Longbow Research. He said a share in stock for each and will seek a dual listing chairman Ross -who have' the new company has the share of ISG. on the New York Stock taken over from the last potential to become one of Shares of ISG surged Exchange and generation of steel_compa­the lowest-cost steel pro-$5.57, or 19 percent, to Amsterdam's Euronext ny managers. 

Marsh & McLennan's directors in hot seat 
never been a cushy job, but now a surely be examined now that the 

Associated Press 
director's every move has potential company is at the center of the giant 

NEW YORK-No doubt the nail bit­consequences. scandal rocking the insurance busi­ing has started among members of That isn't to say boards today are ness. with its brokers accused of the Marsh & McLennan Cos. board of being held to such high standards cheating clients by rigging bids and the directors. With the company that they can't make mistakes. The taking payoffs from insurance compa­plagued by yet another scandal. their question is whether they stick to their nies to steer clients their way rather oversight will certainly be called into mission: To act in good faith and in than get the best prices for policies. question. the best interest of the company and The directors have done their best 
It should be. In the wake of all the its shareholders. to distance themselves from the business scandals, boards all around "Directors, time to time, may make alleged wrongdoing. corporate America are under intense bad business decisions. They aren't Immediately following news on Oct. scrutiny over how they do their jobs, liab!e for that," said Gregory Puff, a 14 that New York Attorney General and new court cases are raising the partner at the law firm o.f McDermott Eliot Spitzer was suing the company, 
possibility that directors could be Will & Emery. "They are liable when the 10 independent directors on the found personally liable for what they they dori't discharge their fiduciary 16-person board issued a statement do -and what they fail to do. obligations." that they had begun a review of the 
Serving on a corporate board has At March & McLennan, that will accusations. 
page 8 Tuesday, October 26, 2004
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
EGYPT 



Inforina tion released about terro·r plotters. 
t\;"'ciated Press 
CAIHO -A Palestinian refugee plotted the coordinated bombings targeting Israeli tourists at resorts in Lhe Sinai and accidentally killed himself while carrying out the deadliest blast, Egyptian authori­LiPs said Monday. 
Discounting the theory of al­Qaida involvement, an Interior Ministry statement said Ayad Said Saleh was motivated by the deteri­orating situation in the Israeli­occupied Gaza Strip, which his relatives fled in 1967, and carried out the attack with the help of local residents. 
But security officials speaking on condition of anonymity told The Associated Press they believed the Oct. 7 attacks on the 'raba Hilton and two beach camps packed with Israelis may have been carried out with help from Islamic groups based outside Egypt, though not necessarily Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida group. 
One car bomb devastated the Ililton hotel in Taba, just yards from the Israeli border, while two others rocked tourist camps at Ras Shitan, a coastal village 35 miles further south, killing a total of 34 people, including Israelis, Egyptians, Italians and Russians. 
Egypt's Interior Ministry said the attacks were masterminded by Saleh, a minibus driver born in the northern Sinai town of al­Arish, who was in his early 20s. Saleh was killed in the Taba Hilton bombing along with a fellow plot­ter, Egyptian Suleiman Ahmed Saleh Flayfil, 39. 

The statement said both men, identified through DNA testing, had been trying to leave the attack scene but their timed explosives went off prematurely. 
Two other suspects were said to be at large: Mohamed Ahmed Saleh Flayfil, Suleiman Flayfil's brother, and Hammad Gaman Gomah Tarabeen. They were accused of carrying out the camp­ground attacks. 
Police also arrested five Egyptians accused of playing· lower-level roles, including obtain­ing explosives and cars used in the attacks. The statement did not say when they were arrested or provide details of their capture. 
The five are residents of the Sinai Peninsula, a territory Israel captured from Egypt in the 1967 Middle East war and returned in 1982 under terms of the first Israeli-Arab peace treaty. 
The Interior Ministry said the three cars used in the bombings were stolen and the explosives were salvaged from war arma­ments in the Sinai. The car bombs, according to the state­ment, were built using spare parts from washing machines and other equipment. 
JAPAN 

Weekend earthquakes kill 26 

Associated Press 
NAGAOKA -Rain pelted a weary region recovering from powerful weekend earth­quakes. creating fears of mud­slides, as 100,000 people took refuge in shelters Monday, too afraid to go home as after­shocks delivered new jolts. 
Saturday's magnitude 6.8 earthquake and a series of strong aftershocks killed 26 people, tore up roads, upended homes and derailed a high speed train in rural Niigata prefecture about 160 miles northwest of Tokyo. 
A 5.6-magnitude temblor hit just after dawn Monday, sway­ing buildings and deepening concerns that the area's already shaky infrastructure would sustain more damage. Several smaller aftershocks were felt through the night, and Japan's Meteorological Agency warned of more quakes in the region. 
About 100,000 people took refuge at gymnasiums and public buildings. Thousands of others slept in their cars and in tents. 
"The aftershocks are still strong, so we felt it was safer to stay here even though our house wasn't all that badly damaged," said Misako Tsubata as she sipped tea out­side the tent where she was staying with her two daughters, her mother and her husband. 
An 80-year-old man died at a shelter after collapsing from shock, Niigata police reported late Monday, bringing the death toll to 26. Police also said a 39-year old woman and her two young children were miss­ing. 







ELECTION 2004 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 CoMPILED FROMTt--IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
GOP makes gains in latest legal
voting disputes as election nears 
Republicans have won a string of legal victories over recent days in cases involving important election disputes in battleground states such as Ohio, Florida and Michigan. 
The latest rulings on electronic voting and provisional ballots may not be the final word -but with Election Day looming, they may stand as voters go to the polls. 
A three-judge panel. of the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati reversed and stayed lower court decisions out of Ohio and Michigan over the week­end, siding with the Bush administration or local Republicans to require that provision­al ballots be cast in the right precinct, rather than just in the correct county. 
In Florida, a federal judge ruled Monday that the state's touch-screen voting machines do not have to produce a paper record for use in case a recount becomes necessary, rejecting a remedy to one of the most persistent complaints of the machines' critics. 
"At this late date -a week and a day until the election -we're not going to see a lot of pre-election remedies," said Daniel Tokaji, a law professor and associate direc­tor of the Election Law project at Ohio State University. "The real action will be Election Day and post-election, if it's close." 
Both of the election issues in play -pro­visi-onal ballots and electronic voting machines -were widely adopted to resolve problems that marred the 2000 election. 
Clinton promotes Kerry and himseH 

in comeback from heart surgery 
PHILADELPHIA -It was vintage Bill Clinton. a lip-biting, thumb-wagging, cen­ter-of-attention performance. 
Seven weeks after quadruple bypass heart surgery, looking pale and unusually thin, the former president came back to give John Kerry a sendoff for the final week of the campaign -promoting his own presi­dency as well -and bluntly framed the campaign between Kerry and President Bush. 
"You've got a clear choice between two strong men with great convictions and philosophies, different policies with very dif­ferent consequences for this city, this state, our nation and the world," Clinton told thousands of Democrats crammed shoulder­to-shoulder inside three city blocks. 
Nobody seemed to notice that he had just called Bush strong, with equal billing to Kerry. Then again, few in the crowd seemed to be there to hear Kerry who, according to polls, is supported by a political base united in its disdain for Bush more than its enthu­siasm for the Democratic nominee. 
"Who did I come to see?" asked Lisa Jackson, 44, of Upper Darby, Pa, in a tone that suggested the answer was obvious. "Bill Clinton. Bill Clinton. I can see John Kerry any time, but this is Bill Clinton." 
Kerry hopes that Clinton can help turn out Democratic voters, especially blacks like Jackson who are lukewarm about their nominee. After the rally, Kerry and Clinton held a conference call with black ministers across the country and h-ad lunch with state politicians and "as many other hanger­oners who could fit in the room," said Kerry spokesman Mike McCurry. 
INDIANA GOVERNOR'S RACE 
Gubernatorial candidates call for betfer access to state documents 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Joe Kernan and Republican challenger Mitch Daniels are calling for more education and better access to public records after a statewide audit revealed that many gov­ernment officials break Indiana's public records law. 
Kernan said government access is "fundamental to our democracy," and the key was to make sure the Indiana public access counselor continues train­ing local officials about the law. The 


Candidates debate U.S. security 
Bush, Kerry exchange charges over ability to handle national security issues 

AP 

President Bush and Senator John Kerry campaign in the swing states of Michigan and Iowa, respectively, as both 
candidates make a last-minute push to sway the minds of remaining undecided voters. 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Sen. John Kerry cited the Iraq war and a huge cache of missing explosives Monday as proof President Bush has "failed the test of being commander in chief." The Republican slammed his rival as "consistently and dangerously wrong" on national security matters. 
In a race of ever-escalat­ing rhetoric, the president also accused the Democratic challenger of "the worst kind of Monday­morning quarterbacking" on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. But he fell silent on the disappearance of 377 tons of high explosives in Iraq, leaving it to aides to explain. 
Public polls in the major battleground states of Pennsylvania, Ohio and Florida were so close that both camps had cause for optimism -and room for doubt. And with only eight days to go, there were signs that the field of com­petition might be widening. 
Democrats fretted about a tight race in Hawaii and made plans to advertise to voters in the state. 
Polls showed a tightening race in Arkansas, a state 
counselor's office was created six years ago by late Gox. Frank O'Bannon after a similar audit found widespread viola­tions. 
Daniels said the public access coun­selor wasn't a bad idea, it just hasn't been effective. 
"It's a good idea, but only if it per­forms. After several years, plainly it has­n't," Daniels said. 
Daniels said if elected, he would push legislation that would list state contracts on the Internet and regulate executive branch lobbyists. 

the president won four years ago and the Democrats had virtually given up. for lost this time. The president's high com­mand wa·s concerned, as well, about New Hampshire, in Bush's col­umn four years ago, trend­ing Kerry's way in-the race's final days. 
Long-planned events blended with the unexpect­ed in a campaign already marked by unpredictabili­ty. 
Former President Clinton joined Kerry at a noontime rally in Philadelphia that drew tens of thousands. "If this isn't good for my heart, I don't know what is," C'linton said, looking thinner seven weeks after bypass surgery. 
Supreme Court officials announced that Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, 80, is undergo­ing treatment for thyroid cancer and is expected to return to work next week. The statement served as a reminder that the next president is likely to have more than one appoint­ment to an aging court that is divided on abortion, gay rights and more. 
Word of the disappear­ance of explosives from a military installation in Iraq was like a campaign gift to Kerry, and he quickly put it to use. 
Failure to secure the material was "one of the great blunders of Iraq, one of the great blunders of this administration," the four-term Massachusetts senator said in New Hampshire, his first cam­paign stop of the day. 
"Terrorists could use this material to kill our troops, our people, blow up our airplanes and level build­ings." 
"... The unbelievable blindness, stubbornness, arrogance of this adminis­tration to do the basics has now allowed this president to once again fiitil the test of being the commander in chief," Kerry said. 
Bush gave as good as he got. "On Iraq, my opponent has a strategy of pes­simism and retreat," he said in Greeley, Colo. 
That was mere warmup, though. 
He accused Kerry of "throwing out the wild claim that he knows where Osama bin Laden was in the fall of 2001 -and that our military had a chance to get him in Tara Bora." 
That was a reference to Kerry's frequent assertion that the administration "outsourced" the job of hunting down bin Laden to Afghan warlords. 
"This is an unjustified and harsh criticism of our military commanders in the field," Bush said. "This is the worst kind of Monday-morning quarter­backing." 
Beyond Iraq, Bush cited Kerry's opposition to the first Persian Gulf War, his proposal for cuts in the intelligence budget in 1994 and his position on former President Reagan's defense buildup in the 1980s. Together, they show that "on the largest national security issues of our time, he has been consistently and dangerously wrong." 
White House spokesman Scott McClellan sought to allay concern over the threat posed by 377 tons of explosives missing from the AI Qaqaa military installation. 
He told reporters no nuclear material was involved, and gave reporters an accounting of weapons found, not those lost. 
"We have destroyed more than 243,000 muni­tions." he said. "We've secured another nearly 163,000 that will be destroyed." 

Journalists presenting themselves as citizens visited all 92 counties in August to obtain crime logs and incident reports, a list of public employee salaries and court files of sex offenders. Just 11 counties granted all four documents within 24 hours, according to the audit conducted by eight Indiana newspapers. 
Both candidates said most of the viola­tors were not trying to hide anything, they just misunderstood the law. 
"These should be solvable problems," Daniels said. Sheriffs were the least likely to comply. 
Clerks' offices had the best record, handing over the sex offender files in all but five counties, while auditors granted requests for employee salaries in many of the counties. 
Several offices refused to provide information about county worker salaries because their computer system could not separate public and confiden­tial information. 
Kernan ~aid he would support a law requiring better information storage if it was the best way to balance a person's privacy and the public's right to know. 
page 10 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ISRAEL 


Arafat leaves Israel for tnedical treabnent 
Associated Press 
JEJWSALEM -Israel gave 
Yasser Arafat permission 
Monday to briefly leave his 
compound to receive medical 
treatment in the West Bank 
city of Hamallah, heightening 
concerns the Palestinian 
leader is seriously ill. 
Palestinian officials said 
Arafat was recovering from a 
lengthy bout of the flu but 
was feeling better and would 
not accept Israel's offer. 
The decision by Israeli 
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz 
would allow Arafat to leave 
his compound in Ramallah 
for the first time in 2 1/2 
years. 
The Defense Ministry said in a statement that Arafat would be allowed to leave his compound, the Muqata, for medical checks in a Ramallah hospital on condition he returns afterward. The min­istry said the Palestinians had requested that Arafat, who is recovering from a long bout of flu, be allowed to leave for checkups. 
But Palestinian Cabinet Minister Saeb Erekat denied Palestinian officials had made such a request and said they had no intention of taking up the offer. 
"We did not ask the Israelis for permission to take President Arafat to the hospi­tal and there is no need, as Arafat is recovering in the Muqata [compound]." Erekat said. 
Arafat, 75. has a medical clinic in the compound. 
Arafat's health has been the subject of intense specu­lation in recent weeks after two teams of Tunisian and Egyptian doctors were flown in to examine him. 
The Israeli media have 
speculated in recent days 
that Arafat may be suffering 
from more than the flu, with 
some reports saying Arafat is 
ill with cancer. 
"We are used to hearing 
rumors from the Israelis 
about the president's health," 
Nabil Abu Rdeneh. an Arafat 
aide, said. 
Arafat aides said he fell ill 
two weeks ago, suffering 
from fever, nausea and a 
stuffy nose. He has been feel­
ing better in recent days, has 
resumed eating and even 
presided over a lively meet­
ing of his national security 
council Sunday, Palestinian 
officials said. 
Arafat was laughing and appeared healthy at another meeting with Palestinian offi­cials later Sunday that jour­nalists, including an Associated Press reporter, were allowed to observe briefly. 
In the latest round of tests on Monday, the five Tunisian doctors, together with Palestinian doctors, exam­ined Arafat, carrying out a series of tests including an endoscopy to check his stom­ach. 
Arafat had been complain­ing of stomach pains before the test, but no problems were found, a Palestinian doctor who was there said on condition of anonymity. 
Last year, Arafat suffered from gall stones, and his aides denied reports, includ­ing from Channel One Television, that he had stom­ach cancer. 
The Palestinian doctor said the tests were unable to determine why Arafat contin­ues to suffer from fatigue as he recovers from the flu. 


IRAQ 

Bombings in Iraq kill at least 8 

Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Bombings struck four coalition and Iraqi military convoys and a provin­cial government office Monday, killing at least eight people, including an American soldier and an Estonian troop­er in the Baghdad area. 
Coming a day after the bbd­ies of nearly 50 Iraqi military recruits were found massa­cred, the bombings occurred as a U.N. agency confirmed that several hundred tons of explosives were missing from a former Iraqi military depot in an insurgent hotspot south of Baghdad. 
The revelation raised con­cerns the explosives fell into the hands of insurgents who 
have staged a spate of bloody car bombings, although there was no evidence to link the missing explosives directly to the attacks. 
On Monday, a roadside bomb in western Baghdad killed one U.S. soldier and wounded five, the U.S. mili­tary said. 
An Estonian soldier died when a roadside bomb exploded at a market just out­side Baghdad as his patrol went by, the Estonian military said. Five other Estonian sol­diers were wounded. 
A car bomb also targeted an Australian military convoy 350 yards from their country's embassy in Baghdad, killing three Iraqi civilians and wounding nine people, includ­
ing three Australian soldiers who suffered minor injuries, Iraqi and coalition officials said. 
"This is the first time that ... Australian vehicles have been attacked by direct enemy action," an Australian Defense Force spokesman, Brig. Mike Hannan, said in Australia's capital, Canberra. 
Two Islamic groups posted Web site claims of responsibil­ity for the attack on the Australians. One was posted in the name of Jordanian mili­tant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's group, renamed Al-Qaida in Iraq. The other claim was made on behalf of the Islamic Army of Iraq. It was impossi­ble to determine if either claim was genuine. 


Off-Campus Housing 
Offered by Domus Properties
. 

Now leasing for 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 school years 
Our "Painted Lady", at I 022 E. Madison Street. is just 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 24-hour matntenance staff  
To view all of our  
houses, visit  
WNVV. domuskramer. com  
Call today­ 
properties rent  
quicl<ly.  
Contact Kramer at  
(574) 315-5032  
(574) 234-2436  

one of the many houses offered by Domus Properties. 

Tuesday, October 26, 2004 page II
The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS 
Health officials say flu shot is not necessary for all 

Associated Press 
DENVER -Publ(c health officials say Americans should roll up their sleeves for a dose of reality: For most of us, get­ting a flu shot is not a life-or­death matter. 
The flu vaccine will not nec­essarily prevent you from experiencing the flu's miser­able symptoms, like fever, hacking cough, runny nose and "hit-by-a-truck" body aches. Studies show the shot generally works well, but its effectiveness can range from 52 to 90 percent depending on the strain of virus and a per­son's age. 
If you are elderly or chroni­cally ill, the vaccine can help jump-start your body's weak­ened defenses and perhaps prevent the worst from hap­pening. 
But the millions of people who are younger and healthier do not really need it -espe­cially during a vaccine short­age, public health officials say. 
"Right now the entire coun­try runs on fear and we don't need to live like that," said Catharine A. Kopac, a Georgetown University geron­tology researcher. "We some­how think we should be dis­ease-free all the time. If you're leading a healthy life and you get sick with the flu, you're probably going to get through it." 
For years, most people ignored the government's vac­cinati-on campaign, in part because of persistent myths that the shot hurts (not much; the needle is small) and it makes you sick (no, the con­ventional vaccine is made from dead virus). 
As recently as last year, 4 million doses of vaccine went unused, even though an alarming early strain of influenza emerged and gained attention because several chil­dren died from it, particularly in Colorado. 
Two-thirds of Americans age 65 and older were vaccinated in 2002. But only 28 percent of people with chronic illness and 30 percent of children 6 months to 23 months old got their shots. Health care work­ers were not much better at 38 percent. 
Nevertheless, the sudden vaccine shortage this fall is igniting a "scarcity mentality" similar to runs on banks dur­ing stock market crashes and convenience stores when hur­ricanes brew offshore. 
Millions who never bothered to get vaccinated before sud­denly are hounding their doc­tors, workplace nurses and supermarket clinics. Americans are crossing bor­ders and proffering their exposed arms; in Seattle, peo­ple are paying $105 to ride a high-speed ferry for a shot at the dock in Victoria. British Columbia. 
What is behind this feverish behavior? Researchers say it is not so much the flu itself as a more generalized sense of feeling unprotected. 
"Not being able to get the shot takes away your control over your health," said David Ropeik, director of risk com­munication at the Harvard School of Public Health. "That sense of being out of control is scary." 
Many providers are rationing precious vials for their neediest patients. For the rest of us, their advice is more motherly: Wash your hands frequently, and if you do get sick, stay home and drink hot soup. 
In the United States, the flu's average annual death toll is 36,000. Rarely do the victims die from the virus itself. Rather, it weakens their immune systems so that a bac­terial infection -often pneu­monia -delivers the fatal blow. In virulent years, pre­existing conditions like heart disease can raise the death toll. Hospitalizations have almost quadrupled over the past two decades, to 200,000 annually as physicians recog­nized the additional danger flu poses. 
Only two pharmaceutical companies make flu vaccine for the U.S. market. The vac­cine shortage erupted Oct. 5 when regulators shut Chiron Corp.'s labs in Liverpool, England, cutting the expected 
U.S. supply by 48 million doses, or nearly half. 
"This is our biggest night­mare come true," said Noreen Nicol, chief clinical officer at the National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver, which received only about half of the 2,000 doses of flu vaccine it ordered. 

Still, infectious-disease experts say flu should no longer be a catastrophic ill­ness among otherwise healthy people, at least not in the way it was in 1918 when it killed 40 million people worldwide. 
For one thing, there are still about 61 million vials of vac­cine in the U.S. pipeline. That is roughly equal to the nation's entire supply in 2000. With proper distribution, that is enough to protect the 42.8 million Americans who really need anti-viral protection, said University of Rochester infec­tious disease specialist John Treanor. 
Also, this year's dominant strain appears to be similar to last year's. More than one­third of Americans were either vaccinated or exposed to it naturally, and some doctors believe there ought to be at least some carry-over immuni­ty . 
. And unlike 1918, now there are at least four anti-viral medications that can relieve the flu's worst effects if taken within 48 hours of the onset of symptoms. 
We were named one of Fortune® magazine's "100 Best Companies To Work For." And you can bet it wasn't because of the free coffee. 
Job perks are great. And at Ernst &Young we happen to think the most important ones are those that help our employees grow. That's why weve given them access to some of the best
FORTUNE" 

professional development programs in the country. As well as the opportunity to work on some

100 BEST 

COMPANIESg of the most prestigious brands in the world. In turn, Fortune magazine recognized us as one of TO WORK FOR~ the "100 Best Companies To Work For" six years in arow. So if you're looking for agreat place to work, look for us on campus. Maybe we can grab acup of coffee. ey.comjusjcareers 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
I~O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 Emma IN CHIEF Mau Lozar 
MANAGING Emma  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING Emma  
Joe Hertler  

Nh'WS Emma: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT Emma: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS Emma: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE Emma: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's Emma: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROllER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Teach your children well 
For some of us, education will never reach greater heights than it did back in 1990 as we sat on the couch, engrossed in The Magic School Bus: Inside the Human Body. Or maybe that was just me. Granted, neither Katie Boyle Senator John Kerry nor President George For What It's 
W. Bush will ever Worth hope to compete with Ms. Frizzle. Despite this short­coming, Kerry's plan for America's education system is far superior to that of the President. 
Bush likes to present himself as a pioneer in the area of education reform. The image goes along with all of his jaunty photos in front of horses. Many of these claims stem from his record in Texas, which in his 2000 campaign he touted as an example for the nation. Bush was not. howev­er. an initiator of the Texas plan. Ironically, his father's rival, Ross Perot, along with other leading Texans, spearheaded the effort back in the 1980s. 
In addition, the success of Texas' education reform has been called into question. Houston schools in particu­lar have hidden a severely high dropout rate. According to "60 Minutes II," they reported a 1.5 per­cent dropout rate when in fact the real numbers fell somewhere between 25 and 50 percent. Such misrepresen­tations clearly undermine the credi­bility of Bush's Texas record. 
Bush has had four years to imple­ment change across America as well. In this time period, he has not only mispronounced nuclear a mind-bog­gling number of times, he has also helped to formulate the "No Child Left Behind" Act. This legislation pro­motes accountability within schools, and federal funding for education has increased 58 percent with its execu­tion. This number, however, falls $7 billion a year short of what legislators had determined schools need in light of its higher demands. The lack of funding clearly hurts impoverished schools and students, as they require the most help in order to meet the standards of "No Child Left Behind." 

While keeping his promise to expand Pell Grant funding, which provides money to low-income and minority students, Bush has not raised the maximum award to $5,100 as he said he would during the 2000 election. Thus far, the maximum award is $4,050. In conjunction with inflation and a recent loss of jobs, the increase is sorely needed. 
John Kerry recognizes the need to increase funding for the "No Child Left Behind " Act. Currently, 22 states have either called for changes in the law or have been reluctant to partici­pate due to the lack of money sup­porting their efforts. To counteract this problem, Kerry proposes a National Education Trust Fund. Ensuring adequate funding allows schools to successfully implement the "No Child Left Behind" Act, instead of punishing them for being unable to run an under-funded program. According to Harvard Professor Barry Burden in The Boston Globe on Oct. 23, political pressure would likely make Congress amenable to increas­ing these funds. 
Kerry also supports pay increases for teachers working in underper­forming schools, hoping to attract motivated individuals who will help to instigate change in these more trou­bled areas. In general, salaries for our nation's educators are currently shockingly low when one considers 
the importance of the task with which 
they are entrusted. 
According to the United States Census Bureau's 2002 figures. in that year the average teacher's pay was $46,010. In comparison. a family doc­tor's salary was estimated to be $136,260, and a lawyer's average pay totaled $145,890. It is vital that tal­ented and bright students enter the field of teaching if changes are to be effected in our nation's educational system. Without pay increases it will be difficult to draw these individuals to our public schools. 
Another Kerry plan is called "School's Open 'Til Six." This initia­tive recognizes the working obliga­tions of many parents, and provides children with programs after class hours and with transportation home. 
On the college level. Kerry is pro­moting College Opportunity Tax Credit, which could refund up to $4.000 of tuition costs for students. In addition. over the past four years. tlw Bush administration has seen a 35 percent increase in tuition costs at state schools. Kerry proposes giving federal aid to states that are able to slow or halt such increases. 
Although disturbing, Bush's gram­matical faux pas are not the only rea­son to favor Kerry on education. Bush has misrepresented his record, and failed to fully support his own initia­tives. Give America's schools and chil­dren a chance; teach your children well. Vote for John Kerry. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, political science and Spanish major. She supports John Kerry. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe Univcrsiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisranr Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, Jeerers and columns present rhe views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. !.etters ro the Editor must be signed and must include wnran informacion. 
Qumiom rrgarrling Obm·v(rpolicitr rhould b( dirt:cttd to Editor in ChiifMatt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obl(n'C'r (USI'S '51)9 2·4000) ~ puhliJht:d MondJoy through hiday r;•)a;epr Juring cum .:~mJ Y«.Uion puimh. A)UbJCriprion ro Tht' om~rvct iJ JJO(I for onr acldrmk r<.tr: SS5 for 01\C KJnC"ICn The: Obk'rol'~o'r •• ' memlxr of the A4tx.'1.&1l"d Pren. Allrcproduc:tiun ri1ht' m 
r~crv~.  
l'hr <)h~t-'TYt't t~ publuhctJ ar:  P.O.l\lllcQ  
OH ~nnh Ihum' Ho~ll  024 S<lu1h Dining Hall  
Nuu~ D..nc, IN 4M56.1177'J  NotK D;r,mr, IN 46'iS6-IIn9  
lbwcliul puuav p~J olt Notre llamc:  
AJuJ ..JdirmuaJ m_.,iJing off~e"  
l'(l\TMAS I'ER  
\t<nd .kldrcu~.nrrt'\:tHm,w·  

l"h,·Oh\tnrr 
Th(' Otm.ncr 1• " mnn~T uf rbc ~••a.l lttu. All rcprUtJucrion n&}1B oU1:' n'J4.-rv00, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
U-WIRE 

Endorsers less than thrilled about choice 
When discussing their choices in any political campaign, many joke about having to pick the lesser between two evils. Faced with a choice between two rich white men who have run negative, attack campaigns-often riddled with lies and exaggerations -many Americans seem to 
feel this way about the choice between President George· W. Bush and Senator John Kerry. 
As newspapers across the country have come out with their endorse­ments for the presidential election this sentiment has been echoed. 
The Tampa Tribune wrote that 

Staff Editorial 
Univeristy of Southern California The Daily Trojan 
because of their disappointment with both candidates they simply could not endorse anyone this year. So instead of an endorsement they wrote a long analysis of each candi­date. The Tribune wrote, "We are unable to endorse President Bush for re-election because of his mishandling of the war in Iraq ... and his failed promise to be a 'uniter not a divider' within the United States and the world. Neither can we endorse Sen. Kerry ... whose positions on the Iraq war-the central issue in this campaign -have been difficult to distinguish or differentiate." 
The Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch, who chose to endorse President Bush. also wrote that it was "less than enthused" about having to choose between Bush and 
Kerry. 

In Wisconsin, another swing-state, the Wausau Daily Herald gave Kerry the endorsement; not because they likr him, but just because he is slightly better than Bush. The Daily Herald's editors wrote', "In many cases we've been disappointed by Kerry's lack of specifics or his promises to cure all our ills by repealing the tax cuts for the wealthy. We've weighed those disappointments against our dismay over Bush's failings." 
It is such a critical time in the history of the United States, as we find ourselves at war in Iraq and fighting the threat of global terrorism. It is sad that many arc left undecided because they like neither candidate or feel they just have to vote for anyone but Bush. 
The American people deserve better. But in such a criti­cal election let's hope that lack of enthusiasm over candi­dates doesn't keep people from exercising their democrat­ic right to vote. 
This article originally appeared on Oct. 25 in The Daily Trojan, the daily publication at the University of Southern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
News Sports Teresa Pralish Pat Leonard OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Kate Antonacci Mike Gilloon Tricia DeGroot Kate Seryak 
Who are you voting for? 
Viewpoint Scene 

"Be like a duck. Calm on the surface, but always 
Katherine Howley Ham a 
paddling like the dickens underneath. " 
Graphics Gottumukkala Vote Thursday by 5 p.m. at Graham Ebetsch Illustrator 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Michael Caine
Katie Knorr 

actor 
THE 0HSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, .October 26, 2004 page 13 
An innovative educational tnodel for the 21st century 

It's very surprising that education seems to be an issue with which the Democratic Party traditionally enjoys popular support. I lowever, surprises and irra­tionality make perfect sense in the world of politics. Nothing smells better in the political world than federal funds to local constituencies. It's like throwing out political "chum" Tom Rippinger to the sharks, and it requires absolutely no accountability or fis­Confessions ofa cal responsibility. Once again, the Campus simple Democratic strategy of Conservative throwing more federal money and refusing to hold administrators or influential voting blocks of teachers accountable is often as natural as sneezing for liberal politicians. 
Before I briefly address Senator John Kerry's plan for education. I'd like to take a closer look at claims that there is not enough federal education money floating around. Over the past thirty years, average per-pupil costs have more than doubled from $3,931 to $7.524 according to the National Assessment of Educational Progress. The District of Columbia school district now spends $12,064 per pupil. 
Despite the $500 billion in state and federal money spent on education, our public schools are still some of the worst in the industrialized world. According to N/\EP assessments, only 31 percent of fourth graders are proficient in reading, while 32 percent are profi­cient in mathematics, while my favorite subject of his­tory is ranked at only 18 percent proficiency. In the past three years alone, federal education spending is up 36 percent, virtually flooding the need based areas with money. However. as usually happens with Washington programs, almost 40 cents on the dollar was lost to government bureaucracy. 

Usual Democratic lie number two is the "teachers are underpaid" argument. It's always a sure political tear jerker to stand up on the podium and say how /\merican teachers are "underpaid". A survey and analysis· of teacher trends in 2002 revealed that the national average salary of elementary and secondary school is $44.367. Teachers earn more on an hourly basis than accountants, computer programmers, engi.­neers and architects according to a study by Michael Podgursky called "Fringe Benefits" conducted by Education Next. 
I'm truly sorry to reveal this unpopular statistic, which will probably cause more grad students to call me an "anarcho-capitalist" or evil, but speaking of we must move on to higher education. In 2003. $103 bil­lion in funding was available to students through the Higher Education Act of 2003. The Congressional Budget Office recently released a report that low-income families earning less than $30,000 a year whose children qualify for Pell grants, pay the least for cqllege, because of the broad array of subsidies and finan­cial aid they enjoy. 
Yet at the sarrie time money is being pumped into America's colleges, students at most of the top 50 colleges in the nation can graduate without taking a single course in history. In a survey given by the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, 80 percent of college seniors asked high school level his­tory questions received a D or F. 

The obvious policy remedy for America's educational system is not more money. We spend more money on education than any other nation in the world. When you have a pool of well-paid teachers, federal tax rev­enue, state tax revenue, grants and the highest per student spending in the country's history; there is a need for increased results. 

Kerry's plan for education seems to be much like his plan with Iraq, consisting of criticizing President George W. Bush for not reaching the numerical goals set at the time of NCLB, agreeing with the basic princi­ple of NCLB, and creating more outlandish goals. For instance, Kerry proposes helping 1 million more stu-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Remaining loyal to our team 


On the eve after another terrible football loss, whispers echo under the tarnished dome; whis­pers of dissent against our leader Tyrone Willingham. Some whisper that we need a new leader, a leader who when we are down by one with 50 seconds left on our own 11-yard line does not call a 4-yard pass up the middle to our running back. 
Against these whispers, I shout-in this time of crisis, we must give our leader unquestioned authority. We must smother the voices of dissent. In a phrase, we must be "Notre Dame. Patriotic." 
To you who whisper against our leader, we Notre Dame Patriots will round you up and ship you out to the island orr St. Joseph's Lake. Residence Life will give you a fair trial, in three or four years. 
On Saturday, too much maroon and gold penetrated our cheering ranks. The administration must establish a department of Home Team Security, composed of our best and brightest ushers. We must secure our borders for kelly green alone. 
Wait a minute. Did I say we lost Saturday's game? We didn't lose. Our "loss" was just bias from Lee Corso and the anti-Notre Dame media. Did anyone else see that last-second field goal sail through the uprights? 
Kevin Connolly 
sentor 
Keenan Oct. 23 

dents graduate in the next five years, while recruiting 
500.000 new teachers. As with his plan for adding two new divisions, Special Forces and suddenly getting . Western Europe to jump on board with us in Iraq. these assertions have absolutely no ground in reality. 
Despite Kerry's numbers games, Bush has been going in the right direction of improvement when it comes to education policy. Bush understands that the days of Lyndon Johnson's "tax and spend" educa­tion policies are over. along with most other colossal Great Society failures. To strengthen elementary schools, the president is working hard to promote 
literacy programs and Head Start. He is continu­ing to fund research into 
more advanced and demanding curricula in K-12. while promoting faith based initiatives and scholarship programs for 
qualified teachers. Instead of blindly subsidizing high­er education, the President has expanded Pell Grants by $1,000, increased first-year federal loans from $2,625 to $3,000. At the same time, Bush is also increasing efforts in adult education and literacy. A comprehensive policy of limited government, competitive stan­dards in education, and a simple tax code are the only true paths to prosperity in a free socie­ty. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He supports President Bush and is the co-President ofthe · Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted 
at trippinl@nd.edu. The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
While her loyal sons 
are marching onvvard to 


mediocrity 
As any Domer knows. this is not the official wording of the most popular and storied fight song in American sports, but it could be. Despite coach Tyrone Willingham's successful inaugu­ral season, one which could have just as easily ended with five wins, the Irish football team has been mediocre since the mid­'90s. Was it so long ago that Frank Starns tore around Miami's left defensive end and jarred the ball from Steve Walsh causing a fumble that very well could have saved the 1988 national championship? Have we forgotten the lightning quick feet of the Rocket or the improvising of Tony Rice? Do we remember Lou Holtz's gutsy call on fourth down that helped lead the Irish to a 31-30 win over the No. 1 ranked Miami Hurricanes in 1988? 
The Irish won the national championship in 1988 for many reasons, but two notable ones come to mind and both were in evidence throughout the Miami-Notre Dame game that year. First and foremost was speed. Speed, speed and more speed. It was present on offense, defense and special teams. The second was a coach who played to win. During the second half of this year's Notre Dame-Boston College game, Willingham was play­ing not to lose as evidenced by the conservative play calling on offense, the nonagressive defense, pvnting from the Boston College 30-yard line and being content to leave the game in the hands of the defense, a unit that had trouble all second half holding Boston College. 
As I write this letter, the Irish stand at S-3 with two losses to unranked teams and several wins over mediocre teams, Michigan being the exception. If Notre Dame is ever going to ever regain its former glory, my humble suggestions to Willingham are twofold: recruit speed and be bold. Go for the win. 
Jim Talamo alumni class of '76 Ocr. 24 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Cast shines in chilling football drama 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene Cri ric 
It's Friday night in a small Texas town and all the stores are closed, which can only mean one thing -:­everyone's "gone to the game." 
Such is life in "Friday Night Lights," the screenplay adapted from the book of the same name by II.G. Bissinger. The film is set in the year 1988 in Odessa, Texas, home of the statewide­renowned Permian High School Mojo. Coach Gary Gaines (Billy Bob Thornton) leads the team. Several of his football players are huge stars. All of them are under intense scrutiny. Lose a game here and the town turns on you. but win the state title, and they'll remember you forever. 
Instead of documenting the football team with the pomp and circumstance most films would employ, director. Peter Berg ance, but is trapped in playing the cliched quarterback that has interests outside of football and his local town. Luke and Black stand out most from the other talented young actors because they do such an excellent job identifying their characters' struggles -for example, the contrast between what they truly want and what every­one around them expects. This can also be said with regards to the relationship between offensive leader Don Billingsley (Garret Hedlund) and his father Charles (country singer Tim McGraw), a former high school stand­out with overbearing expectations on his son's success in winning the state championship. One has to feel uncom­fortable whenever the father and son are on the screen alone, because of the potential of what could happen -but often never does, leaving the viewer on edge. 
This· concept also ties into many of 
the film's conse­

emphasizes the quence~. What if huge burden Friday Night Lights Boobie stayed placed upon these 
healthy through­teenage athletes. out the season? The young acting What if Winchell ensemble in could evade his Director: Peter Berg 
"Friday Night fears outside 
Lights" is one of Writer: Buzz Bissinger and David Cohen football and be Starring: Billy Bob Thornton, Lucas 
the best you'II see the leader his 
Black_ Derek Luke andTim McGraw 

in any sports coach is begging movie. Derek Luke for him to be? All plays gifted tailback Boobie Miles, a of the relationships and connections in swaggering star facing serious issues "Friday Night Lights" are explicit, giv­when he suffers a career-threatening ing the viewer not a sense of triumph injury early in the season. but struggle as the team marches 
Lucas Black plays quarterback Mike toward the eventual state champi­Winchell, and he gives a solid perform-onship game. When we finally get to that game, the team's burden, instead of lightening, becomes almost too much to bear. The town's expectations are so high that to falter now would be even worse than suffering a losing season. 

In conclusion, this is powerful, revealing stuff. Current and former athletes will definitely relate to it, and all of us will certainly reminisce about what our high school Friday nights were like as we watch the film. As coach Gaines tells Winchell, "I realized a long time ago that winning and losing aren't all that different." 
This movie illustrates how it's not the success of teams like Permian that make high school football what it is in this country, but rather the fascinated culture circulating around it. This is what life is like, when football is a way of life. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
Foreign film explores revolutionary journey 
in "The Motorcycle Diaries" begins,

By CHRI~ KEPNER 
Ernesto Guevara is a 23-year old med­

Scene Critic 
ical student. 
How did he get from medical student 

In "Diarios de motocicleta" ("The to revolutionary? "The Motorcycle Motorcycle Diaries"), two young friends Diaries" begins to answer that question, take to the road for an 18-month tour of as Guevara encounters indigenous South South America on a struggling motorcy­. Americans living in poverty, homeless in cle they lovingly refer to as "The Mighty their own land. He visits ancient Incan One." Kind of sounds like a modern-day ruins and reflects on this extraordinary, "Easy Rider," Argentinean-style, doesn't exterminated race: "The Incas knew it? Truth is, what starts out as a seem­astronomy, brain surgery, mathematics, ingly typical buddy road trip flick blos­among other things, but the Spanish soms into a mature, thought-provoking invaders had gunpowder. What would film from director Walter Salles. America look like if things had been dif­
"The Motorcycle Diaries" is a true ferent? How is it possible to feel nostctl­story, based on the gia for a world I diaries kept by the never knew?"
The Motorcycle Diaries 

two central charac­As his perspec­ters. Ernesto "Che" 
tive changes, .he Guevara de Ia Serna begins to ques­is played brilliantly tion an econom­by Gael Garcia ic system that Director: Walter Salles 
Bernal ("Amores favors a few at 
Writer: Jose Rivera 

Perros," "Y tu mama the expense of
Starring: Gael Garcia Bernal, Rodrigo 

tambien"), one of the many and 
De Ia Serna and Mercedes Moran 

most promising becomes impas­young actors from sioned with the Latin America. Rodrigo De Ia Serna's idea of a united South America. penniless most of the time, they come up ed by gorgeous music and seamless con­portrayal of Alberto Granada, the other A bit of irony comes halfway through with some hilariously creative ways of tinuity. half of this memorable duo, is equally the film when "The Mighty One" stalls conning food and drink. The bickering The superb acting of the two leads is impressive. out for the last time. Here is a film that between the two friends plays well, and supported extremely well by the cast, 
Che Guevara is the iconic revolution­from the poster looks like a sophomoric Alberto's way with the ladies is priceless. touching our hearts in even the smallest ary who most famously assisted Fidel jaunt around the continent, and midway The fact that "The Motorcycle Diaries" roles. Castro in the overthrow of Cuban dicta­through the motorcycle is literally taken is in Spanish should not deter anyone From the series of black and white tor Fulgencio Batista in 1956. Guevara out of the picture. No, surely the focus of with a shred of respect for good film­shots in which indigenous South fought. both directly and indirectly, for "The Motorcycle Diaries" is how two making. It is beautifully shot, giving the Americans glare directly into the camera socialist revolutionary movements in men's lives change after witnessing the viewer such a fantastic look at the vary­with fire in their eyes, the experiences other Latin American and African coun­plight of their people. ing South American landscape that one that affected Che Guevara so deeply on tries right up until his CIA-assisted mur­Despite this heavy subject matter, would be hard-pressed to find it better. this journey are painfully obvious. der in Bolivia in 196 7. there is plenty of comic relief to be had, Salles has given us a film of extraordi­
In 1952, when the journey chronicled especially from the leading duo. Being narily high visual aesthetic compliment-Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 









SH 
NSIDER 
OTHE 

Tuesday, October 26, 2004 BSERVER Boston College 24, Notre Dame 23 
Bent and broken 
Boston College uses second-halfcomeback to knock offNotre Dame 
By MATT MOONEY 
SportS Writer 
Boston College dido 't need a field goal to beat Notre Dame this year. They used a touchdown instead. 
Eagles reeeiver Tony Gonzalez made a diving catch in the end zone with 54 seconds remaining, and Ryan Obliger's ensuing point-after-touchdown kick gave Boston College (5-2) all the dif­ference it would need in a nar­row, come-from-behind 24-23 vktory over the No. 24 Irish (5-31 Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
One week after extending the nation's longest head-to-head winning streak over Navy, the Irish continued another, more recent trend having now lost four straight games to Boston College and live of the last six. 
For Irish coach Tyrone Willingham, now 0-3 at Notre Dame against Boston College, the loss is particularly disappointing. 
"This was-an important game for our program, our young men," he said. "We felt that if we played our football game, we could win this one. To have it slip out of our hands in this manner hurts." 
Notre Dame appeared to have a solid grasp on the game after an efl'ective first half. The Irish responded to the Eagles' first­quarter touchdown with three unanswered scores of their own. Irish quarterback Brady Quinn, who finished the game complet­ing 20-of-33 passes for 231 yards and two interceptions, connected on a 33-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Matt Shelton and then rushed for another follow­ing linebacker Mike Goolsby's interception. 
Running back Darius Walker's 2:51 remaining, the Boston Notre Dame still had one more bled onto the field in a desperate, away," offensive coordinator Bill 9-yard dash gave Notre Dame a College offense stalled on the chance to try and pull out a last last-ditch attempt to win the Diedrick said. "We really didn't 20-7 lead, but D.J. Fitzpatrick subsequent drive. An Eagles second victory. However, on the game. But Fitzpatrick's 55-yard do a good job of going out and missed the point-after attempt. false start penalty followed by a ensuing kickoff, Chase Anastasio kick fell short of the goalposts as executing across the board." 
After halftime the Eagles came tackle by Preston Jackson and a ran through Justin Hoskins' stop time expired, and the Eagles Grant, who rushed for 48 yards out flying on the arm of quarter­sack by Derek Landri cornered sign to take a touchback and was streamed onto the field in cele­on 17 carries, summed up the back Paul Peterson. The Boston Boston College into a do-or-die tackled at the Irish 12-yard line. bration. game in very simplistic terms. College signal-caller threw for fourth-and-13. With 54 seconds left, Quinn For Willingham, it was Notre "We just didn't get it done," he 297 of his 383 yards in the sec­But the Eagles responded by began the drive by completing Dame's last offensive series said. "We've got to find a way, ond half to bring the Eagles with­converting their second fourth two short passes to Ryan Grant. rather than the Boston College however that is, as an offense, as in three points at 20-17 after a down in as many tries when Both passes were in the middle touchdown that proved the most a college football team, we've got 21-yard touchdown pass to Joel Peterson connected on a 17 -yard of the field and forced the Irish to frustrating. to find a way to win." Hazard and a field goal by completion down the sideline to use both of their remaining time­"Even though our defense had Now entering the bye week Ohliger. a wide-open Larry Lester. Two outs. After another completion to a very difficult time, it should with a loss, Willingham refuses 
Peterson finished the game plays later the Eagles were in the Grant, Quinn connected with have been in the hands of our to dwell on the negative. completing 27-of-41 passes for end zone and took the lead. Rhema McKnight on a 25-yard offense-to get another score and "You can't stay in the past," he two touchdowns and two inter­"You can second-guess yourself pass to put the ball on the Boston do the things we need to do to said. "I expect myself and our ceptions. all you want," Irish defensive College 38-yard line. McKnight put it in the endzone," he said. football team to accept the hurt 
With the three-point lead, coordinator Kent Baer said. "I was tackled in-bounds, and the "We just didn't do that." that we have, deal with it, and Notre Dame still looked like it know everyone is going to look at clock stopped with 1 second Notre Dame players and step up like men and go for­would be able to stave off the that fourth-down play and say remaining after McKnight gained coaches alike pointed to execu­ward." Eagles comeback attempt. After that was the ballgame, but there the first down, but it was going to tion as the glaring difference in a 43-yard Fitzpatrick field goal were a lot of plays in there that run once the ball was spotted. the game. Contact Matt Mooney at gave the Irish a 23-17 lead with could have been the ballgame." The Irish field goal unit scram-"We just didn't put [the game] mmooney@nd.edu 

player of the game_  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Paul Peterson  383  Tony Gonzalez's touchdown catch  "We'll cry tonight and tomorrow, but  
The Boston College ·quarterback  Yards passing by Boston College  Boston College quarterback Paul  then we'll have to let it go and move on. We're real upset."  
threw for 383 yards, including 297  quarterback Paul Peterson, a  Peterson found Gonzalez in the end  
in the second half He led the Eagles  career high.  zone for the game-winning diving  Matt Shelton  
to the game-winning touchdown.  catch.  Irish wide receiver  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
report card 

C­8­
8­8+ 

D 
C­
F 
quarterbacks: Quinn threw lbr 231 
yards, but was intercepted inside the 
Boston College 15-yard line twice. He 
litiled to make plays and made poor 
dndsions. 
running backs: Grant, Walker and Wilson combined for a decent running attack. (;rant was patient and found the holes. and Walker added a boost oil' the bench with Wilson. 
receivers: Shelton made a big catch for a touchdown and Stovall had two big catches. McKnight had 78 yards receiving on live catches, but this unit wasn't spectacular, just solid. 
offensive line: The line helped the trio 
of running backs gain just 104 yards 
on the ground. Quinn had time to 
throw, however and was sacked just 
once. 
defensive line: The big m(m up front playnd wnll, limiting the Eaglns to just 62 yards on the ground for the gamn. Landri played especially well 
with sew~n tackles, and the unit 
recorded two sacks of Peterson. 
linebackers: Curry and Coolsby each picked oil' a pass, with Goolsby's being a mom athletic play. Gool'iby added seven tackles, but Curry and lloyte had just eight combined. 
defensive backs: The unit missed tackles and gave up big plays. Richardson got burned all day long, and no one made a play. They were picked apart lbr 297 second half yards in the air. 
special teams: Fitzpatrick missed his lirst extra point all season, and it came back to hurt the Irish. However, his punting was excellent, with the excep­tion of one shank in the fourth quarter. 
coaching: Boston College made seeond half adjustnmnt'i, Notm Dame did not. Tlw Irish didn't eome out ready to play in the seeond hall', and they didn't know how to play with a lead. 


2.00 
overall: Notre Dame lost to Boston College again. They did­n't deserve to win a gan1e that they mulct have won easily. It's a frustrating loss lbr thi'i team. 
adding up the numbers 

number of yards Boston College quarter­back Paul Peterson threw lor in the sec­
297

ond hall against Notre Dame 
4 
number of consecutive times Boston College has beaten Notre Dame 
the last time a Notre Dame kicker 
199 9 

missed an extra point without having it blocked. Jim Sanson missed a fourth-quarter attempt against Boston College 
22.5 
number of sacks by Justin Tuck in his career, tying Kory Minor for the school record 
place Brady Quinn is in on Notre Dame's career passing yardage list, 
8

one place below Joe Montana 
1 
number of wins in the Boston College-Notre Dame series the Eagles have won by double 
digits 

average yards per rush by Boston College 
2 2 

as it gained 62 yards on the game. 
• 

23 
difference in average starting point for both offenses. Notre Dame had an average start 
on Its own 39-yard line, while Boston College started on its own 16-yard line. 

The days of Notre Dame playing big brother to Boston College are long over. 
For the fourth year in a row, the "little brother" in the rivalry decid­ed it was his turn to come out on top, narrow­ing the rivalry to 9-7 in favor of Notre Dame. 
Meanwhile, Mike Goolsby wouldn't take his helmet off as he left the field. Dwight Elliek buried his head in his hands. Ryan Grant said the same thing over and over again: "We didn't get the job done. It's real disappointing, we just didn't get it done." Justin Tuck was stunned. 
All will graduate never having beaten Boston College as ·a starter. 
But Saturday, there was no rea­son this Irish trmm should have lost to Boston College again. Somehow, they managed to do just that. 
A missed extra point, too many missed tackles and, perhaps worst of all, a missed opportunity. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 20-7 halftime lead, and it looked as though the Irish were going to dom­inate the Eagles, as they should have.. 
But Notre Dame didn't put the nail in the coffin. Brady Quinn was intercepted at the Boston College 1­yard line once, and then another time at the Boston College 11. The Irish offense stalled and stalled again, and Boston College capital­ized in the second half. 
The Eagles made halftime adjust­ments and came out a different team. They gained 319 yards in the half and scored 17 points, 14 more than the guys in the blue and gold. 

They looked like a football team 
that knew it could beat the not-so 
almighty Notre Dame. They 
believed they could win, and their 
coaches told them how to do so. 
And they did just that. 
Paul Peterson threw for nearly 
300 yards in the second half alone 
while·the Irish played seared. 
Scared to lose to the Eagles again. 
Scared to make a play. Just hanging 
onto the 13-point lead they built in 
the first half, and hoping it would 
be enough. 
But why? 

Notre Dame was playing at hgme. 
They had won two games in a row. 
They had the momentum. They had 
the lead. 

And yet, the Irish played not to 
lose. They punted at the Boston 
College 30-yard line instead of ·attempting a field 
goal, citing the tricky of what we thought were opportuni­ties to get ourselves off the field and/or keep ourselves on the field." 
But that explanation isn't enough at Notre Dame. Where were the Irish adjustments? What did their coaches tell them'? 
Why didn't tho players come to play? 
Boston College made the plays, and Notre Dame didn't. And when you don't make plays, you don't win football games. 
So now the Irish are left bent and brokon. A season that could have seen the Irish go 7-4 with a poten­tial New Year Day's bowl appear­ance is suddenly looking more like 6-5. It's not over yet, but the way this team played Saturday, it could be. 
The week off will help physically, 
but emotionally it is 
yet to be seen. This 

wind as the reason. "As much as anything, team is devastated On third-and-seven by a loss they only
[Boston College! did a
in the fourth quarter, have themselves to
good job, there's no
the Irish ran the ball blame for. They up the middle for one question about that. " could forget about yard, forcing them to it, or this feeling kick the field goal could last until the
Tyrone Willingham 
that left them with next time they step
Irish coach 

one point too few. 
Notre Dame didn't 
score in the second half until that field goal late in the fourth quarter. 
Meanwhile, Peterson was busy completing 19-of-23 passes in the second half, picking apart the Notre Dame secondary. Tom O'Brien must have seen something at halftime, because the Eagles were a difl'erent team in the second half. 
"As much as anything, they did a good job, there's no question about that," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said of Boston College's play in the second half. "I thought we missed a great number of opportunities to make plays, whether it was a tackle or cover­age, we just did not take advantage on the field. There 
is no way to tell. 

Just like there is no way to tell why tho Irish came out the way they did in the second half. Why they didn't make a play, and most of all, why they cannot play with a lead. 
But the fact remains that one of the worst feelings in the world may be when your little brother has grown up enough to overpower you. 
The feeling is even worse when the older brother has grown too weak to fight back. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Failure to execute haunts Irish 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
As flawless as a plan may be, failure to execute various components of that design harbors the seeds of disaster ­just ask Notre Dame. 
Plagued by blown coverages, missed tackles and an overall inability to step up and make the big plays when the Irish needed them the most, Notre Dame fell to rival Boston College for the fourth consec­utive year on a rainy, dreary Saturday afternoon. 
"Ao;; much as anything, [Boston College] did a good job, there's no question about that." Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "[But], I thought we missed a great num­ber of opportunities to make plays ­whether it was a tackle or coverage, we just did not take advantage of what we thought were opportunities to get our­selves oil' the field or keep ourselves on the field." 
Buoyed by a combination of subtle adjustments and Irish defensive miscues, Boston College quarterback Paul Peterson shredded Notre Dame for a season-high 383 yards -including 297 in the second half -and a pair of touchdowns in the upset. 
Notre Dame's inability to come up with the big play was never more apparent than on Boston College's final drive of the game. 
Yielding only a pair of yards on three plays and a false start penalty, the Irish found themselves one play away from knocking off the perennial thorn-in-the­side Eagles. 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer
Faced with a fourth-and-13 from his 
Brandon Hoyte, left, and Justin Tuck, right, pursue Boston College quarterback Paul
own 45-yard line, Peterson rolled right and hit receiver Larry Lester for a 17-Peterson. Peterson made big plays down the stretch, and the Irish failed to execute. yard gain and new life. "It's just one of those situations where from 30 yards out for the game-deciding cloth," Tuck said. "That hurt us a lot you would hope that you would recognize score. today, because we had them stopped for what's trying to be accomplished and not "Their guy made a good play on the ball minimal gains -you miss the tackle and make the mistake that we made by step­-we didn't," Willingham said. "You've he's off to the races for a 15-or 20-yard ping up and defending something that got to step up and make the play -that's gain. The weather played a little part into really wasn't there and allowing them to what I'm talking about. They did a great it, but mentally we've got to know that catch one behind us," Willingham said. job of doing in that in the second half, and and wrap up a little harder." Defensive end Justin Tuck made no we didn't." While the Irish managed to hold the excuses for the critical defensive melt­Richardson echoed Willingham's senti­Eagles to a meager 40 first-half yards down. ments. after their opening 11-play, 86-yard "[The completion was] disheartening, "Just a play that should have been touchdown drive and twice forcing Boston but we've got to line up and play our made -I actually thought I had good College to attempt a field goal in goal-to­game," Tuck said. "As a defense, we can't coverage on him," Richardson said. "I go situations, in the end, the mistakes and let them down the field like that, especial­guess it was thrown a little short. I just lack of execution caught up to the Irish. A ly when the game is on the line." didn't make the play." unit that had bent for most of the second Two plays later, the comeback -Boston While sloppy field conditions certainly half finally broke to the tune of yet anoth­College trailed 20-7 at halftime -was didn't help, Notre Dame's trouble making er Boston College upset over the favored complete as Eagles receiver Tony tackles loomed large. Irish. Gonzalez beat Irish corner Mike "[The weather] did [make a difference], Richardson, connecting with Peterson but you still have to wrap up -grab Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Fitzpatrick misses first PAT of year 
point-after-touchdown conver­has converted on fourth down half sack against Boston 
By MATT MOONEY 
sions. It also marks Notre against the Irish this year. The College ties him with Kory
Sports Writer 
Dame's first unblocked PAT previous seven Notre Dame Minor for the lead on Notre miss since Jim Sanson missed opponents were 0-for-6 on Dame's career sacks list with 
Irish kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick on a fourth-quarter attempt in fourth-down conversion 22.5. had his highs and lows during 1999 also against Boston attempts. With a 10-yard run in the Saturday's game. College. Rivalry on hold fourth quarter, running back 
As a punter, Fitzpatrick had "The wind was not an issue The game on Saturday Ryan Grant passed Mark a stellar day, averaging 44.5 on the extra point at all," marks the last time Notre Green (1985-88) to move up to yards on six punts, including a Fitzpatrick said. "The field was Dame and Boston College will 13th place on the list of all­career-long 67-yard kick in the a little bit soggy, and I sunk in play one another until the time leading rushers in school third quarter. His punt marked just a little bit too much, and a 2007 season. The Irish loss on history. Grant finished the longest Irish kick since quarter-of-an­Saturday low-Saturday's game with 48 rush­Joey llildbold booted a 69-inch mistake on ing yards on 17 carries to fm-·
"The wind was not ers their series 
yarder in 2000 against Texas my part could record against ish with 2009 career yards. A & M. Fitzpatrick also pinned send the ball in an issue on the Boston College Quarterback Brady Quinn Boston College inside its own any direction so I extra point at all.,, to 9-7. also moved up the school 20-yard line on four of his six left it out there "We would charts to the eighth spot in punts. right. Great snap, still like to play career passing yardage. His
D.J. Fitzpatrick

"Every time you get out great hold, bad them, as long 231 yards on Saturday raised 
Irish kicker/punter

there is a chance to build your kick." as it's an even his total to 3,721 yards in two conlidence," Fitzpatrick said. Fitzpatrick did deal, not a deal seasons surpassing Blair Kiel, "I punted pretty well today make a 43-yard where we play who quarterbacked the Irish with that wind. They had a field goal in the game, and his here five times and Boston from 1980-83. great returner, so we tried to 55-yard miss as time expired three," Eagles coach Tom Gameday captains keep it away from him and it would have been a career­O'Brien said. "I think the fans The Irish captains for worked out pretty well. long. like it, I think it generates a lot Saturday's game were running However, he did not have as Converting on fourth down of enthusiasm here, it's a back Ryan Grant, safety much success as a place kick­Boston College's two fourth­tremendous game when it's in Quentin Burrell, defensive er. Fitzpatrick's missed extra down conversions in Boston. I think we've gotten tackle Greg Pauly and tight point following running back Saturday's game (a first quar­their attention, and it would be end Billy Palmer. Darius Walker's second quar­ter fourth-and-2 and a fourth great to keep playing. ter touchdown breaks his per­quarter fourth-and-13) are the Moving up on the lists Contact Matt Mooney at sonal string of 25 consecutive only two times an opponent Defensive end Justin Tuck's mmooney@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Boston College  7  0  7  10  24  
Notre Dame  7  13  0  3  23  
First quarter  

Boston College 7, Notre Dame 0 
L. V. Whitworth 2-yard run with 7:54 remain­
ing (Ryan Ohliger kick) Drive: 11 plays, 86 yards, 4:55 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Boston College 7 
Matt Shelton 33-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 2:54 remaining (D .J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 4 plays, 63 yards, 1:45 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 14, Boston College 7 
Quinn 1-yard run with 11:09 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 2 plays, 2 yards, 1:22 elapsed Notre Dame 20, Boston College 7 
Darius Walker 9-yard run with 3:56 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick failed) Drive: 13 plays, 91 yards, 6:17 elapsed 
Third quarter Boston College 14, Notre Dame 20 
Joel Hazard 21-yard reception from Paul Peterson with 3:53 remaining {Ohliger kick) Drive: 7 plays, 92 yards, 3:16 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Boston College 17, Notre Dame 20 
Ohliger 21-yard field goal with 12:14 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 72 yards, 3:44 elapsed Notre Dame 23, Boston College 17 
Fitzpatrick 43-yard field goal with 2:51 remain­ing Drive: 7 plays, 19 yards, 4:19 elapsed 
Boston College 24, Notre Dame 23 
Tony Gonzalez 30-yard reception from Peterson with 0:54 remaining (Ohliger kick) Drive: 8 plays, 78 yards, 1:57 elapsed 

statistics 
total yards 


rushing yards 
~.1 
passing yards 
~···
..·:.·· ..
'. . ·-. 
.

. . 
return yards 
~········.··
.. · .. 

,-:·.. -. . 
: .~ 
time of possession 

34-104 rushes-yards 28-62 20-33-2 comp-att-int 27-41-2 4-34 punt returns-yards 1-6 0-0 fumbles-lost 0-0 6-43 penalties-yards 6-43 17 first downs 22 
passing 

Quinn 11-24-0 Peterson 17-38-0 
rushing 

Grant  17-48  Peterson  7-26  
Walker  8-35  Whitworth  14-19  
Wilson  5-19  Callender  7-17  

receiving page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 26, 2004 

McKnight  5-78  Lester  8-111  
Grant  4-33  Adams  4-87  
Fasano  3-12  Hazard  3-45  
Carlson  3-11  Whitworth  3-37  
Stovall  2-37  Gonzalez  2-32  

tackling  
Burrell  10  Stancil  7  
Landri  7  Brown  7  
Richardson  7  Toal  6  
Goolsby  7  Bulman  6  
Tuck  5  Williams  5  
Zbikowski  5  Henderson  5  
Jackson  4  Kiwanuka  5  


CLAIRE KELLEYfThe ObseJVer 



FOUR AND COUNTING 

Notrn I>anw jumped out to an early lead Saturday. but poor execution spelled doom for the Irish. as they lost 24-23 to Boston College. The Eagles threw for 

297 yards in the second half', dominating the Irish defense. Notre Dame fell to tho l•:aglos f'or the fourth straight time, dropping them to 5-3 on the season. Brady Quinn thmw two interceptions insido the Boston College 15-yard line, and the offense failed to capitalize on numerous scoring opportunities. The Eagles outplayed the Irish in the second half, outscoring them 17-3, and a missod extra point by D.J. Fitzpatrick eame back to haunt Notre Dame. 


CLAIRE KELLEY fThe ObseJVer 

Clockwise from top left to bottom left, defensive end Justin Tuck ponders the loss after the game. Boston College players celebrate their fourth win over Notre Dame in as many tries. Mike Goolsby, right, celebrates his interception and 24-yard return with Derek Curry, middle, and the rest of the defense. Darius Walker points as he scores a touchdown in the second quarter on a 9-yard run. Brady Quinn looks to pass as center John Sullivan blocks. Quinn finished with 231 yards on 20-for-33 passing. 
1 
I 
l 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
page 15 . 
DVD REVIEW 
Cameos provide bright spots in teen comedy 


A Beginner's Guide to DVD: Part 1 
--

By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
To many people, Europe is seen as the pinnacle of art, culture and society. To others. like the producers of "Eurotrip," it is a land free from the puritanical rules and restrictions of America, per­fect for satisfying their target demo­graphic of hormone-addled, adolescent boys. "Eurotrip" is rife with politically incorrect jokes. stereotypical portrayals of the various European nations and bathroom humor, and while not at the top of the gross-out. teen-movie heap, still manages to have some funny moments. 
The film follows Scotty (Scott Mechlowicz), a high school senior, who gets dumped by his girlfriend (Kristen Kreuk of "Smallville" fame) on gradua­tion day. His longtime German pen pal, Mieke, consoles him after the breakup .and suggests they meet up in America. Thinking Mieke is pronounced "Mike" and his pen pal is male, Scotty fears he is being hit on by a man and tells Mieke never to speak to him again. 
He subsequently finds out that Mieke not only is a girl, but is a very attractive one, so he decides to shed his cautious personality and go to Germany to make the situation right again. Joined by his best friend, Cooper (Jacob Pitts), they travel to London because they don't have enough money to make it to Germany by plane. They meet up with their friends who are fraternal twins, Jamie (Travis Wester) and Jenny (Michelle Trachenberg). 
Once in Europe, the four have misad­ventures in London with a busload of soccer hooligans who are obsessed with Manchester United; visit a nude beach in France that has more men than women; partake of brownies and the red light district in Amsterdam; meet an extremely friendly Italian on the train; have a deto'ur into Eastern Europe; take a brief stop in Germany and finally have a sacrilegious time at the Vatican. 
The movie has a surprising number of cameos from established stars, and they usually end up being the best parts of the movie. Matt Damon appears as the lead singer of a band who is having an affair with Scotty's girlfriend. The song about their tryst, "Scotty Doesn't Know," is definitely one of the best parts of the movie and will remain stuck in your head long after the movie has ended. Lucy Lawless, once television's "Xena: Warrior Princess," vamps it up as a dominatrix at an Amsterdam brothel, complete with a thick and unidentifiable accent. Rounding out these appearances are David Hasselhoff, Jeffrey 
Tambor ("Arrested Development"), Diedrich Bader ("The Dr.ew Carey Show") and Vinnie Jones ("Snatch") as an obsessed Manchester United fan. 
The DVD's extras depend on whether or not you secure the "rated" or "unrat­ed" version, the only difference between the two being the amount of nudity and profanity in the film. The film's writers include two commentary tracks: the "sober" and the "party," the latter done under the influence of a few drinks. There are a significant number of delet­ed scenes, featurettes such as "Nude Beach Exposed", a video and sing-along for "Scotty Doesn't Know" and "Eurotrip Bootleg," in which the writers comment on the quality of a bootleg copy of the film they picked up months before the actual DVD release. 
Overall, "Eurotrip" is not a great movie, but it isn't a bad one either, and it has just enough funny moments and guest appearances to make it worth watching. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
This is the first in a three-part series on the basics ofDigital Video Discs. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Writer 
DVD has been commercially available for nearly a decade and has revolution­ized the home theater market. Yet pur­chasing DVDs can be confusing and com­plicated. The back of a DVD case often contains terms like aspect ratio, Dolby Digital and regional DVD. For many, it is difficult to understantl what is worth pur­chasing and what is not. Hopefully this guide will demystify many of the more confusing features of the video market. 
What is DVD? 
DVD stands for digital video disc. It is an optical laser audio and video technolo­gy that is most often used for movies, but sometimes music and other information as well. 
Regions 
To protect from piracy, companies and studios encode into regions, or specific targeted markets. The United States and Canada are Region 1, while Japan, Europe, South Africa and Middle East are Region 2, etc. This is displayed in a small number on the back of the DVD. In order to play a DVD from a different region, you will need a region-free DVD player. Additionally, some imported DVDs are region-free. 
Aspect ratios 
In many cases a consumer is given the choice between widescreen and full screen formats. In nearly every case, the widescreen edition is preferable because it preserves the original aspect ratio of the film. An aspect ratio is the proportion of width to height (for example, many movie theater screens are 2.35:1, which means they are 2.35 times longer than they are tall). However, a standard televi­sion has a ratio of 1.33:1 while a widescreen film is usually either 1.85:1 or 
2:35:1. This accounts for the black bars above and below the image, which are normal and a necessary side effect of imposing a more rectangular image onto a more squared screen. This process is called letterboxing. The widescreen ratio is 16 x 9 while a full screen ratio is 4 x 3. 
Full screen often uses a technique called pan/scan to fit an image into a standard television ratio, which actually cuts off the sides of a film. Up to 40 per­cent of visual information can be lost in full screen. A common defense of full screen is that no important or pertinent visual information is lost. This is absolutely untrue. 
There are exceptions to the widescreen preference. Foremost is in older or classic films -the widescreen ratio was not invented until the 1950's, so most films prior to that time will be in a full screen format. This is the correct way to watch such movies since it is how they were originally filmed. If one is ever watching a widescreen version of "Casablanca" or "Gone with the Wind," for example, then you are watching an incorrectly framed and cropped version of the film. 
Other cases in which the widescreen/full screen preference 
becomes nebulous are in the case of a process called Super 35. In such cases, the movie is filmed in a 1.33:1 ratio with the intent of later cropping the film into a theatrically-presented ratio. This can often cause confusion as to which is preferable. In the case of director Stanley Kubrick, for example, he has stated the full screen versions are definitive; thus, the 1.33:1 framing of films like "The Shining" and "Full Metal Jacket" are the official DVD editions. This creates dispari­ty between what was originally theatri­cally presented and what the director (the ostensible auteur of the film) prefers. A similar case would be the TV series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," which is pre­sented in widescreen in Region 2 and full screen in Region 1. Series creator Joss Whedon has gone on record claiming to prefer the full screen version. 
Anamorphic widescreen 

Often, the back of a DVD will say some­thing like "Enhanced for Widescreen TVs", "Anamorphic" or "16 x 9 Version." This means the image is letterboxed on a standard TV and enhanced for widescreen TVs. An. anamorphic image is encoded with additional lines of resolu­tion that "unfold" on a widescreen TV. Not only will the image look better on a wid~screen television, but the size of the black bars will be reduced, and the image itself will appear larger. 
Sound formats 

Dolby has become the standard for home theater surround sound. On a stan­dard television without speakers or a receiver, the sound will automatically be decoded into two-channel stereo. 
Digital 5.1 is the typical Dolby home theater sound format. To encode into this format, there must be five speakers (one center, two front surrounds and two rear surrounds) and a subwoofer, which chan­nels low frequency emissions. If a setup does not have this, then a standard televi­sion can automatically downgrade the sound into two-channel stereo. 
Dolby Digital 5.1 EX is a newer Dolby sound format, which encodes into a sixth speaker placed directly between the two rear speakers. 
For those who own a 5.1 set-up, Dolby uses technology called Pro-Logic, which encodes two-channel stereo programs into all five channels. 
DTS (Digital Theater Systems) Digital Surround is a separate sound technology format. Generally reserved for audio­philes, it is often used on action films or films with active surrounds and always on Superbit DVDs. Since it is a mix from a different company, the DTS mix will often sound different than a Dolby mix, which sometimes results in separate releases (for instance, "Jaws" is available in either a 5.1 Digital version or DTS Digital ver­sion). 
DTS requires special decoding equip­ment on both receivers and DVDs, so films containing DTS track usually also contain a Dolby Stereo track as well. In some cases, DTS is a vast improvement over the Dolby track ("Saving Private Ryan") while in others the difference is virtually unnoticeable ("Apollo 13"). 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 16 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
FOOTBALL 

Irish extend streak over Navy to 41, beat Middies 27-9 
Grant leads Notre Dame's rushing attack with 114 yards and a pair of touchdowns, defense keeps option in check 
By PAT LEONARD 
Associate SportS Editor 
The 78th meeting between Notre Dame and Navy was a game of firsts. 
Irish linebacker Mitchell Thomas made his first tackle. Tight end John Carlson caught his first pass. Running back Marcus Wilson, in his senior season, scored his first touch­down. And Notre Dame beat Navy, 27-9, for an NCAA record 41st consecutive time Oct. 16 at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. 
The Midshipmen entered the game 5-0 and poised to beat the Irish for the first time since 1963, when Heisman Trophy winner Roger Staubach Jed 

-Navy to a 35-14 victory. But Notre Dame scored touch­downs on its first two posses­sions of the game and its first possession of the second half to keep Navy out of striking dis­tance. "It's critically important that when you play a team that's as skilled as they are at running the option ... you try to get ahead of them," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
--Wilson scored on a 33-yard touchdown run to open the scoring in a two-minute, six-second scoring drive, and Ryan Grant ran it in from one-yard out six minutes later to make the score 14-0 early. 
Grant (Don Bosco Prep), Wilson (Poly Prep) and line­backer Brandon Boyte (16 tack­les, Sayreville War Memorial) ­all performed at the top of their games in front of their personal home crowd. · 
"I feel great to be able to play with Ryan and Marcus and everyone else on the team," Boyte said. "It really felt like a homecoming game." 
Grant ran for 114 yards and two touchdowns on 20 carries, passing five former Notre Dame running backs on the all-time rushing list with 1,961 total yards. Grant's second touch­down -a one-yard run ­came on the first Irish second half drive. The senior back, not fully recovered from a presea­son hamstring injury, ran nine times and caught one pass in the 12-play drive. 
"It's been a long time since I've been able to do that, and I felt pretty good," Grant said. "I was glad I was able to help the 
team.;, Grant gained 100 yards for the first time since he rushed for 107 yards in 2002 against Boston College. The senior com­bined with a slew of Irish backs 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer Notre Dame linebacker Brandon Hoyte tackles Navy quarter­back Aaron Polanco. The Irish held Polanco to 19 yards. 

to average 4.6 yards per carry 
behind what tackle Ryan Harris 
called a determined offensive 
line. 
"I just had it in my mind that I 
was going to -physically domi­
nate anybody I'd go against 
today," Harri·s said. 
Notre Dame's defense mean­
while held Navy's flexbone 
triple option offense to 216 net 
yards rushing, 51 yards below 
the Midshipmen average, and 
Navy quarterback Aaron 
Polanco finished with only 19 
yards on 24 carries. 
"That's the way we're sup­
posed to play defense," Boyte 
said. "That's the tempo and 
tone that we plan on setting for 
the rest of the year." 
Notre Dame dominated the 
first half, adding a D.J. 
Fitzpatrick 4 7 -yard field goal to 
its two touchdowns with 53 sec­
onds remaining. The Irish went 
into the locker room up 17-0. 
But Navy opened the second 
half with a field goal to narrow 
the gap at 17-3. 
Grant's touchdown on the fol­
lowing possession reestablished 
Notre Dame's dominance and 
extended the lead to 24-3. 
"You come out in the second 
half [and] the thing you want to 
do is take charge of the football 
game," Willingham said. 
"Because you know if you don't 
do that, the game can very 
quickly get away from you." 
Nose tackle Derek Landri recovered a fumbled pitch on the ensuing possession by Midshipmen receiver Lloyd Regas. D .J. Fitzpatrick kicked his second field goal of the game, a 20-yard chip shot, and the Irish were done scoring for the afternoon. 
Navy added a late Frank Divis 5-yard touchdown run with 
4:19 remaining in the game but failed to convert the two-point try. 
"I was real disappointed in that last touchdown because I thought we didn't play real well at the end," defensive coordina­tor Kent Baer said. "But ... our kids did an unbelievable job preparing for [Navy]. The fortu­nate part about it is those guys have played against that offense before a couple times." 
The Notre Dame running game finished the afternoon having trumped Navy's clock­eating rushing attack. The Irish controlled 29:59 of the total 60 minutes and prevented Navy from doing what it does best ­dictate tempo. 
"In this game ... you have two teams that were running the football and having success at it," Willingham said. "Their entire offense is about running the football. So that quickly shrinks that clock." Notes 

_ Navy fullback Kyle Eckel had + Linebacker Derek Curry his second 100-yard game of and defensive end Justin Tuck the season with 102 yards on 22 both were shaken up on the carries. But Notre Dame's early final play of the first quarter, lead altered Navy's approach. but both players returned. Tuck 
"In [getting ahead early], it returned to the lineup immedi­changes what they have to do ately and Curry returned for the on some of their plays and their following drive after sophomore play selection," Willingham Mitchell Thomas filled his spot. said. making his first career tackle. 
The Midshipmen do not throw + Running back Travis often, as Navy did not complete Thomas saw almost no practice a pass until Amir repetitions during Jenkins caught a the week preced­Polanco pass for ing the Stanford nine yards with "That's the way game. But 
3:08 left in the Thomas got seven
we're supposed to 
fourth quarter. carries in the Navy finished with play defense . " fourth quarter 44 yards passing, against Navy and Jess than half of its performed to
Brandon Hoyte
112.6 yard aver­Diedrick's liking. 
Irish linebacker 
age. "I was very 
But when Notre happy to see Dame had the ball, Travis Thomas offensive coordina-playing well," tor Bill Diedrick found himself Diedrick said. "Even though it with an uncommon amount of was at the end of the game, he options. was running hard and was able 
"[Having three backs] is a to protect the football." good luxury because it allows Thomas started the Brigham you an opportunity," Diedrick Young game at tailback but said. "If one of the guys is really fumbled four times in his first hot, you can kind of stay with 16 carries over the course of him a little bit longer ... If the early season. you've got an option between one of two calls you can call the strength of whatever back is in Contact Pat Leonard at there." pleonard@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be pr~paid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit

CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Buying and selling ND football tix, Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI-Walking distance from ND especially Boston College 574-289-Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring WANTED MMMRentals.com 532-1408 TICKETS 8048 Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-
Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun & Cabo. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. CaW Panama City & Daytona $159! Book by Oct 31 =FREE MEALS & PART-TIME WORK Great pay, LEASING FOR 20052006SCHOOL BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIXPLEASE Amy 219-872-5932 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group-flex sched.,sales/svc. YEARS.ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 678-6386 GO FREEl 800-875-4525 or all ages18+,cond. apply,273-4878 WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES www.bianchi-rossi.com 
NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BED-For Sale: ND football tix. Good Cold Season is here Flu-shot alter-

PERSONAL 

ROOMHOUSES,STUDENT prices. 232-0964. native All Natural! Protect yourself Catholicism? What! NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURI-from colds & flu.
FoR SALE 

TYSYSTEMS,MAINTENANCE Wanted: ND football tix. ADOPTION: Mad Dog? Joey? Watch out! 
STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY-Top $$$ 251-1570. Help us complete our family, baby Contact LARGE 3 bd/2 ba. 4 blocks from ERS.VISITOURWEBSITEWWW.D wanted. Mandy Hosier 574-876-7525 Earn your four dollars Pat campus on Sorin with w/d, garage OMUSKRAMER.COMORCON-ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. Jeanie & Dan 877-895-9790 AdvoCare.com and basementPlease contact Matt TACT KRAMER(574)234-2436 OR 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 or Backup College at 876-1456. $1, 150/mo. (574)315-5032. Toll Free debtbusters@ ureach.com 
r--------~ --~--~-~ -~--~~ ~~-~ 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

you have priorities. let them guide you as you build your career. define what's important to you and see what's important to others. 
pwc.com/mypriorities 

page 18 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC SoccER 

Belles take tvvo at hotne, road woes continue at Albion 
Saint Mary's wins 2 of3 during fall break 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
When Saint Mary's reflects on its season, two trends emerge: the Belles cannot lose at home, but they can't find a way to win on the road. 
Saint Mary's maintained this pattern over fall break, manag­ing wins at home against Alma College [5-0] and Olivet [6-3] but dropping a key game on the road with a 3-2 overtime loss to Albion College. 
The wins over break kept the Belles undefeated at home and extended their home record to 7-0. After starting the season with a win and a tie on the road, Saint Mary's has now lost its last four away games, leav­ing its record at 1-4-1. The loss to Albion proved even more costly, as it all but ended the Belles' chances of making the NCAA Tournament. 
Although they were no longer playing for a spot in the post­season, the Belles still looked strong in Saturday's game against Olivet. 
"To know that our season ends Nov. 2, we could have come out lackluster, but I still felt we played with the same heart and intensity as earlier this year," senior captain Jen Concannon said. "After the Albion game, we set new goals for ourselves; we want to go 4-0 in the next four games. " 

Despite playing the game in a torrential downpour that pro­vided a wet and muddy field, the Belles were able to get on the scoreboard 
six goals, because scoring con­sistently was something we've had a problem with all season," Concannon said. "I give credit to Olivet for coming back from down 6-0 to score 

early and often on Saturday. Ashley  "We want to go 4-o  three They're a  goals. better  
Hinton  scored  in the nextfour  team than people  
twice and  early goals  on, by  games.  giv~ for.  them credit  
Concannon  and  The  win  on  
Carolyn  Logan  Jen Concannon  Saturday  was  
made  it  4-0  at  Belles captain  payback for earli­ 
halftime.  Saint  er in the season,  
Mary's extended  when the Belles  

the lead to 6-0 in the second struggled in 4-1 upset loss half with goals by Carrie Orr against Olivet. However, the win and Emily Wagoner before was not enough to put them allowing three late goals by back in position for a shot at the Olivet. · title in the competitive MIAA. 
"For the weather being so "I feel our conference is very bad, I was happy to see us get competitive knowing only one team goes on to the playoffs; most teams have the top three in the conference go on," Concannon said. "Holding the top position in the MIAA is very hard to do. I've noticed in our conference that there's always major upsets, because it's all about who comes to play that day." 
With only three games to play this season, the Belles are determined to go out with a bang. 
"It will feel bad to end the season, but we'll continue to play intensely to the end." Concannon said. "It's comfort­ing to know that we are able to hang with the top teams." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rdu.ffy 1 @nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's hopes to get win against Olivet 
Belles losing streak is 3, team seventh in the conference 
By JUSTIN STETZ Spores Writer 
Fall break was not kind to the Saint Mary's volleyball team as the Belles dropped three match­es in a row. 
The losses placed Saint Mary's in seventh place in the MIAA with a record of 5-10 and only one conference game remaining on the schedule. 
ln the first game, the Belles traveled to Adrian College to take on the Bulldogs. After los­ing the first game earlier this year, Saint Mary's was hoping to close out the series with a win but ended up losing in three straight games. 
The Belles played two hard fought games only to lose by scores of 30-26 and 30-28. In the final game they fell by a score of 30-24. Elise Rupright and Shelly Bender led the way on offense as both players col­lected 11 kills. On defense, Mary's really never came close Anne Cusack had 11 digs, while as Alma streaked to an easy teammate Amanda David added three-game win. One of the few 

8 digs to keep the  bright spots in the  
Belles close.  match  was  
But Saint Mary's  "/felt that we  Michelle Turley,  
could never quite figure the  fought hard in  who registered a team-high with 11  
Bulldogs out and  every match."  kills. Cusack con­ 
lost the match.  tinued to shine on  
In the second game of the week, Saint Mary's took  Michelle Turley outside hitter  the defensive side with an impres­sive 12 digs.  
on  MIAA power- In the final con­ 

house Alma. The Scots have yet test during the week, Saint to lose this year and are one of Mary's played their final home the premier teams in Division game of the year only to lose to III as they are ranked No. 20 Hope. In their first meeting, the with a record of 26-0. Saint Belles beat the Flying Dutch in five games, but the second time around wasn't as easy for Saint Mary's. They dropped the match in four games. After los­ing the first game 30-27, the Belles came back to steal the second game. But this wasn't enough as Hope regrouped and won the next two in a row. 
Michelle Gary, Rupright, and Turley all made large contribu­tions on offense, but their play wasn't enough to halt the Flying Dutch's attack. 
"Adrian, Alma and Hope are all very good teams that are at the top of the MlAA confer­ence," Turley said. "I felt that we fought hard in every match we played even though the out­come was not in our favor." 
Today, the Belles travel to Olivet to battle the Comets. Olivet is only 2-12 in the confer­ence this season, and Saint Mary knocked off the Comets in their first meeting this year by sweeping them in three straight. Saint Mary's cannot improve their standings in the league even with a win. but a victory can stop their current skid and give them some confi­dence as they prepare to finish the regular season off. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

Looking For Fun? We Got It! 
Offering 
atfonlable 
flying lessons 
from South Bend Regional Airport 




Beacon Bowl 
574-234-4167 
-Accepting Reservations 

near the airport 

for Post-Game Dining -Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, 

Monday
&sandwiches -Featuring gourmet 

College Nite 
pizzas -Music is live on Fridays 

9 pm to 1 am 2~ hours of Unlimited Bowling Just $6.95 per Person 
&Saturdays, starting at 

9:30 pm to 1 am 
9pm, Michigan time 



Thursday
99¢ bowling, shoes, pizza 
-Wine, microbrews, spe­cialty drinks & martinis, 


slices, and soda 
College Dirt 
along with traditional cof­

(limited time offer) 
fee house drink menu 


Cheap Nite 
items -Art Gallery 
Bring in this coupon and receive a free 

Dance Commissioners: 
latte! 

Call Beacon Bowl to reserve your next dance! 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


THE CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS 
THE . BROTHERS OF THE MIDWEST PROVINCE 

BESSETTE HOUSE 
A HOUSE OF DISCERNMENT ON THE CAMPUS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOR MEN CONSIDERING THE CONSECRATED LIFE AS A BROTHER IN HOLY CROSS 
OPEN FOR MEMBERSHIP IN JANUARY 2005 
I . 
/ 



1 
•i 
1 
l jI 
I 
... 

-
page 20 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Top-ranked Irish fail to score against Rutgers 
ND beats Seton Hall, Boston College 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Spons Writer 
The No. 1 ranked Irish (16-0­

1) encountered a couple of chal­lenges over the · fall break, with one of them result­ing in the team's first tie of the season. 
On Oct. 16, Notre Dame faced 

Big East conference rival No. 20 
Boston College. In the 1-0 victo­
ry <;tt Alumni Field, the team 
relied upon sophomore midfield­
er Jen Buczkowski to score the 
winning goal in the 80th minute 
of the contest. 
This is the second time Buczkowski has scored a last minute, game-winning shot, the last time being in the 2-1 win over Georgetown on Oct. 10. The opportunity was created when freshman midfielder Ashley Jones kicked the ball to Kim Lorenzen near the top of the 'box. Lorenzen then quickly served the ball to Buczkowski who scored 10 yards from the goal past Boston College goal­
keeper Kate Taylor. 
"She has definitely stepped up for the team by scoring key goals," Jones said. "She has helped us get to where we are now. We just have to continue to make sure we are putting games away and if we do this, we have a great shot at winning the national championship." 
In addition to the national championship, one of the team's main goals this season is to reclaim the Big East Championship. The Irish were given an early exit in last year's tournament after a 2-1 loss to Boston College, the last time these two teams met. 
"Games against conference rivals are important because we want to win the Big East and with last year's loss, it was a really big game," Buczkowski said. 
The importance of this game to the team was clear, as they played with a determined mind­set throughout the contest. 
The Irish led in total shots, with a 14-2 edge over Boston College. Only one of these two attempts put the Irish in position for a shot at the goal. This attempt came with 2:27 left to play from forward Laine Ceddia. Jones managed to clear the ball away from the goal. 
Notre Dame 0, Rutgers 0 
The Irish came away disap­pointed with a tie against Rutgers on Friday, Oct. 22 at Alumni Field. 
"Even though it was a tie, it definitely felt like a loss. We were so disappointed," Jones said. "We dominated the game but the result did not show that." 
Notre Dame held a 20-5 edge on total shots, 9-2 shots on goal and 8-3 corner kicks. The team was only one win away from matching the best start in the 

program's history (16-0-0-in 2000). 
The Irish struggled to convert its opportunities into points, despite several great opportuni­ties. One of these missed chances came from junior for­ward Katie Thorlakson, who hit the goalpost twice in the second half from relatively close range in the 68th and 83rd minutes of the match. 
"We just didn't put our oppor­tunities away," Buczkowski said. 
"They limited our chances and put pressure on the ball, but I think we were just unlucky." 
Adding to the team's misfor­tune was an imptessive sho.wing by Rutgers goalkeeper, Robyn Jones who stopped all nine shots from the Irish. 
Notre Dame 3, Seton Hall 1 
Senior Candace Chapman scored twice for the Irish in its impressive victory over conference rival Seton Hall last Sunday, Oct. 24. 
The two goals came after fac­ing a 1-0 deficit within the first five minutes of the match. 
The Seton Hall goal came from a misfired kick by Irish goalie Lauren Karas to Seton Hall's Carley Piagentini. Piagentini took advantage of the rare opportunity by quickly coming towards the goal for the wide­open shot and the lead. 
"It was shocking but we weren't devastated," Buczkow­ski said. "But we just fought back." 
The Irish were able to rebound quickly when Chapman found the net in the 33rd minute of the contest. Junior midfielder Annie Schefter passed the ball from the top left corner of the box to Buczkowski, who then kicked the ball to Chapman. The .seni,pr Chapman secured the goal, firing it into the right side 
of the net. 
The team's second goal came 
after freshman Jannica Tjeder 
sent the ball to Chapman at the 
right side of the box. Chapman 
then set up Thorlakson for her 
26th career goal and the 2-1 lead in the 55th minute of the game. 

The third and final goal for the Irish also came from Chapman. Passes from Thorlakson and Buczkowski set up the tO­yard shot for Chapman, whose kick deflected off a Seton Hall defender during the 60th minute of the match. 
"She created a lot of our otTen­sive opportunities during the game,"Buczkowski said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Bookl ~,;) Ul\;; f>::>V VVI\..11 a VOII\J ,:)\,.U\J\;;11\. • ...., 011\J 0 completed ticket application. You will receive the official 04-05 Leprechaun Legion shirt too! 
BREAKFAST SERVED WHILE YOU WAIT IN LINE•• FREE KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS!! (WHILE SUPPLIES LAST) 
!] -~ 
·~­

11-~ 

The Cen~er for E~hics and Religious Values in Business and 
Proudly Presen't 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series (Sponsored by the .John A. Berges Endo""ment:) 
"Ethical Leadership during a Corporate Crisis" 
M:ichael Buckley Group Chief' Executive Allied Irish Banks, Dubliri, Ireland 
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium M:endoza College of' Business 
-------~---------------------------------­


GERHARD BOWERING, S.J. 
Pro.fessor of Islamic Studies at Yale University and scholar of world religions 
Islam and Christianity 
Eight Lectures on the Inner Dynamics of Two Cultures of Belief 
Monday  October 25, 2004  Origins and Common Roots  
Wednesday  October 27, 2004  One God with Many Faces  
*Friday  October 29, 2004  Scripture and Tradition  
Monday  March 14, 2005  Creat!onJ TimeJ and Eternity  
Wed~esday  March 16, 2005  Finding God in Prayer and Devotion  
*Friday  March I 8, 2005  Personal Ethics and Social Order  
Monday  March 21, 2005  Clashes of Culture and Bonds of Belief  
Wednesday  March 23, 2005  Plu.ralism and Fundamentalism in Tension  

Lectures are held in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center 
for International Studies and begin at 5:00p.m., except 
. the *Friday lectures which begin at 4:00 p.m. 
Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. 'Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
-> 





OUND THE NATION 
page 22 CoMPILED FROM TltE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES . Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
-~, 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 

team  record  points  
1  usc (50)  7·0  1.610  
2  Oklahoma (13)  7·0  1,567  
3  Auburn (2)  8·0  1,486  
4  Miami  6·0  1,441  
5  Florida State  6·1  1,266  
6  Wisconsin  8·0  1,265  
7  California  5·1  1,234  
8  Texas  6·1  1,125  
9  Utah  7·0  1,103  
10  Georgia  6·1  . 1,039  
11  Tennessee  6·1  1,006  
12  Michigan  7·1  985  
13  Virginia  6·1  765  
14  Louisville  5·1  728  
15  West Virginia  6!1  686  
16  TexasA&M  6·1  639  
17  Purdue  5·2  553  
18  Boise State  7·0  552  
19  LSU  5·2  461  
20  Arizona State  6·1  425  
20  Oklahoma Slate  6·1  425  
22  Virginia Tech  5·2  289  
23  Iowa  5·2  191  
24  Minnesota  6·2  93  
25  Southern Miss  5·1  39  

NCAA Football Coaches Poll 
team record points 

1 usc (49) 7-0 1,513 2 Oklahoma (11) 7-0 1,469 3 Mlaml(1) 6-0 1,380. 4 Auburn 8-0 1,358 5 Florida State 6-1 1,218 6 Wisconsin 8-0 1,152 1 Georgia 6-1 1,127 
8 California 5-1 1,066 9 Texas 6-1 1,032 10 Utah Hl 1,001 11 Michigan 7-1 970 
12 Tennessee 6-1 864 13 West Virginia 6-1 738 14 Virginia 6-1 660 15 Boise Slate 7-0 638 16 Louisville 5-1 582 11 Texas A&M 6·1 503 18 LSU 5·2 477 19 Purdue 5·2 457 20 Oklahoma State 6·1 415 21 Arizona State 6-1 346 22 Virginia Tech 5-2 338 23 Minnesota 6-2 176 24 Iowa 5·2 89 25 Southern Miss '5•1 52 
Central Collegiate Men's Hockey Standings 
team conference Ohio State 4-0-0 Nebraska-Omaha 2-0~0 Michigan 2-0-0 Northern Michigan 2-0-0 Miami (Ohio) 2-2-0 Alaska Fairbanks 1-1-0 Western Michigan 1-3-0 Ferris State 0·2·0 Lake Superior State 0-2-0 Michigan State 0-2-0 NOTRE DAME 0·2·0 Bowling Green 0-0-0 

around the dial 
MLB 

Red Sox at Cardinals 7:05 p.m., FOX 
NBA 
Raptors at Nuggets 8 p.m., NBATV 
POKER 2004 World Series 6 p.m., ESPN 
PooL 
2004 World Summit 7 p.m., ESPN2 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. ­Florida coach Ron Zook was fired Monday after two-plus years and a stack of embarrassments on and off the field, satisfying a growing groundswell for his ouster that began the day he replaced Steve Spurrier. 
Zook will finish out the season while athletic direc­tor Jeremy Foley and school president Bernie Machen search for anothi'lr coach. 
"In the final analysis, it was apparent to me that something's not working here," Foley said. "I know that's kind of nebulous, but it's the truth. It's hard to put a finger on it exactly. but it certainly just didn't appear to be working as we all envisioned." 
The Gators are 20-13 under Zook witl:l four games left -that's just 14 losses fewer than Spurrier had in 12 seasons. 
Zook's latest debacle, a 38-31 loss to Mississippi State, sealed his fate and brought jubilation among those in Gator Nation who turned www.fire­ronzook.com into their Internet home page. The site posted this message Monday: "It's happening! It's happening! Oh my God it's happening!" 
Spurrier's return would be welcomed in Gainesville. ''I'll cross that bridge if it 
comes to that," Spurrier told the Orlando Sentinel. "The thing I've tried to do all this year is not be lin­gering around,. acting like I'm waiting for another guy's job. I don't believe that's the right way to do it. But now that he doesn't have a job, I guess there will be some discussion. We'll see what happens." 
Foley planned to talk with Spurrier soon but said he won't discuss the open­ing with coaches with jobs until after the season. 
Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops and Utah coach Urban Meyer also could be possibilities. Stoops was Spurrier's defensive coordi­nator for three seasons at Florida, and Machen hired Meyer at Utah following the 2002 season. 
Machen and Foley decid­ed Sunday morning that Zook's tenure was over. They informed the coach Monday morning at Machen's home. 
Zook agreed to coach the remainder of the season ­something Foley was counting on. 
"I can't begin to tell you how much I appreciate and respect these players." Zook read from a state­ment. making little eye contact and pausing sever­al times to collect his emo­tions. "They work hard and they do what we ask. I take a lot of pride in the fact that we leave this program in very good shape." 

IN BRIEF NASCAR .dr\ver Hendrick's
loses fanuly m plane crash 
PATRICK SPRINGS. Va. -Crews on all-terrain vehicles on Monday recov­ered the bodies of all 10 people killed in the crash of a Hendrick Motorsports plane that was carrying family and friends of one of NASCAR's top syndicates. 
Federal investigators said they did not know what caused the Beech 200 King Air to crash Sunday en route from Concord, N.C., to Martinsville Speedway, about 7 miles east of the crash site on Bull Mountain in the foothills of the Appalachians. 
A bulldozer cleared a path to the crash site so ATVs could recover the bodies. 
"The only method we have of get­ting up to the scene is on ATVs ... so it's a tedious and slow process," State Police Sgt. Rob Carpentieri said. 
The plane slammed. into the side of the mountain and its wreckage was blown uphill, said Brian Rayner, a National Transportation Safety Board investigator. Charred debris from the fuselage, engine and other parts was visible, he said. 
The crash killed all 10 people aboard, including the son, brother and two nieces of owner Rick Hendrick. Aussie basketball star to 
become a Hoosier 
BLOOMINGTON -A 6-foot-10 player from Australia has made an oral commitment to play basketball at Indiana, The Indianapolis Star reported Friday. 
Indiana officials are prohibited by NCAA regulations to comment until a recruit signs a letter of intent. 
The Star said center Ben Allen, who plays for the Australian Institute for Sports, picked Indiana over Utah, New Mexico and Gonzaga and visited all four schools in September. 
Allen averaged 15.2 points and 4.8 rebounds for the Australian team in the world junior championships. 
Williams, post Tyson defeat, looks toward winning title 
LAS VEGAS -Danny Williams used to put so much pressure on himself that he would cry in his dressing room before a fight. That might make some wonder how Williams will react when he challenges Vitali Klitschko for a piece of the heavyweight title. 
Not to worry. says Williams. !lis problem ended a few months ago when he rose to the occasion and knocked out Mike Tyson. 
"I learned how to control it," Williams said Monday. "1 went into the ring relaxed, didn't let anything bother me, and my performance showed it." 
That fight July 30 ended with Williams stopping an exhausted and injured Tyson in the fourth round in the biggest bout of his career. The win not only made him famous back home in England but earned him an unlikely bid for a heavyweight title. 
Now Williams meets Klitschko. 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Players like Tony Megna, right, helped Notre Dame to wins over No. 17 Seton Hall and Rutgers earning the Irish their first regular season championship since joining the Big East in 1995. ' 

Buy 10. get one free* with your Reader's Choice Cardr 
'four nct·SO·G'lftr!l!lfl .::ellen.; Mn•:.;i:oro; tmnl].; •too a h~&'!tiOr·~ilnn-rwerr.a& .:!a.;t l'hl'lr.;, ); r.:-o ~;<H:a~,; fH)t t,·, m.:;,,, th,; rA~'I.-.:~n1;; ~loin fu,; Ra;;dl'!r .; ChoicA f!c,.,~ C!uh Tr.:l;J)•I ...o.L!~rr ii:!FJ ~f..".it:la! ,.;.n.l!l:'a~ h .. ~ ,.,.rA.1;aJ.::;l 
\l7e recommend 
..._., Gt.s~. du.• lrost of NJ'fi'S r~ Ilk. ,u»crls :sl.mi' tN her I'll~ ~nL"M' mtlJ~ 
in rflr .trb'. 



HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
More than just textbooks. · · · ·''"·~·. 
ChaiDps 
continued from page 28 
Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer's 623-minute scoreless streak, the tie with conference rival St. John's kept Notre Dame atop the Big East standings. 
Midfielder Ian Etherington drew first blood for the Irish 21 minutes, eight seconds into the first half. Lining up for a corner kick, the sophomore bent a per­fect ball inside the far post to stake the Irish to an early 1-0 advantage. 
After failing to fmd the back of the net in the season's first nine games, Etherington's go-ahead goal was his third tally in a five­game stretch. 
But playing at home with con­trol of the Big East on the line, the Red Storm weren't ready to hand the Irish the victory. Twenty-two minutes into the sec­ond half, St. John's Matt Groenwald provided the equaliz­er. 
Unleashing a 20-yard rocket from the right wing, Groenwald finally pierced Sawyer's steel cur­tain in what proved to be the game's final goal. 
"I felt we were actually playing our best soccer and getting con­trol of the game when they scored the goal," Clark said. "Both teams were trying to win the game -there were chances at both ends and both teams had opportunities, but perhaps a tie was a fair result." 
St. John's took 16 shots to Notre Dame's 12-the last time an opponent outshot the Irish was Indiana on Sept. 15-while the Irish served up five corners to the Red Storm's three . 
Notre Dame 1, Seton Hall 0 
After Oct. 16's 1-1 stalemate against the Red Storm, the Irish moved to 4-1-1 against ranked teams this season, edging Seton Hall (10-5-1, 5-4-0) 1-0 on Oct. 20. 
Battling both a strong wing and unfamiliar field conditions -the contest was played on NJIT's FieldTurf surface when Seton Hall's grass field was judged unplayable -the Irish were dou­bled up in shots, 8-4. during the first half of play. But they man­aged to keep pace with the host Pirates. 
"There was some rain, and I don't think their field drains terri­bly well," Clark said. "We opened in a fairly strong wind and this wind died almost completely in the second half-it was a tough opening stretch, [but] I thought the team weathered the storm and began to play little bits of soccer." 
Sawyer demonstrated what all the hype surrounding the All­American goalkeeper is about 20 minutes into the first half. stoning Seton Hall's Michael Zotti on a breakaway to keep the Pirates off the scoreboard. 
While the wind that aided Seton Hall in the first half died down, the Irish were still able to take control of the game in the second half. blasting seven shots to the Pirates' four. 

The momentum swing finally paid off for the Irish with just under ten minutes remaining in the contest. 
A pair of freshmen teamed up to put Notre Dame in front as for­ward Joe Lapira tapped fellow forward and classmate Alex Yoshinaga's cross past Pirate goalkeeper Boris Pardo to put the Irish on top for good. 
Both of Lapira's two goals this season have been game-winners -the freshman also scored the second goal in Notre Dame's 4-1 win against conference foe Georgetown at Alumni Field Sept. 18. 
Sawyer -celebrating his 22nd birthday -finished the game with three saves to pick up his eighth shutout, and Lapira paced the Irish offensive, posting three shots in addition to the match's lone goal. 
Notre Dame 1, Rutgers 0 
Needing a victory to clinch the Big East with two conference games still remaining on the schedule, the Irish apparently decided sooner is better than later, shutting out the Scarlet Knights (5-8-3, 2-5-2) 1-0 to extend their unbeaten streak to nine games (8-0-1 during the stretch) and take the conference. 
"It was a really good atmos­phere and a great result," Clark said. "We knew a victory over Rutgers assured us of the regular season title -there was certainly a lot at stake." 
The victory over Rutgers was Notre Dame's first in seven years -the Irish last downed the Scarlet Knights in the 1996 Big East Championship game. 
While Rutgers outshot Notre Dame 13-10, the match's lone goal came off the foot of an Irish player. 
Just over 36 minutes into the first half, senior midfielder Luke Boughen slipped past the Scarlet Knight defense, took a pass from Etherington and pounded the ball into the left comer of the net for a 1-0 lead. 
"It was one of the best goals of the season so far," Clark said. "I think we must have strung together about 10 passes. The final pass was a great little first­time pass behind their defense for Luke to run onto and slot past the goalkeeper." 
Sawyer made five routine saves as the Irish defense held an oppo­nent to one goal or less for the fif­teenth time in 16 games thus far this season -only Indiana was able to find the back of the net on multiple occasions, scoring twice in a 2-0 victory on Sept. 15. 
The Irish finish out their Big East schedule Saturday night, hosting Connecticut at Alumni Field before welcoming Michigan State Nov. 2 to close out regular season play. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 26, 2004

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish notch record-low teatn score 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
There is still wet ink in the record books after the Irish performance this weekend. 
The team shot a combined score of 854 at the N-elson lnvitati~mal to break the Notre 
Contract 
continued from page 28 
America." 

In his four seasons in South Bend. Brey (84-44) has led the Irish to the postseason each year -to the NCAA Tournament in the first three seasons and to the quarterfi­nals of the National Invitational Tournament last year. 
During his first season, Brey's team won the pro­gram's only Big East regular season championship claim­ing the West Division crown. He led the Irish in 2003 to their first Sweet 16 appear­ance since 1987. 
On the recruiting front, Brey has brought the Irish to national prominence with a number of top· signings and commitments. Upon taking the Notre Dame job, Brey secured current senior guard Chris Thomas' commitment, the only Mr. Indiana to play for the Irish. Current junior forward Torin Francis was named the McDonald's national boys Player of the Year. 
For the 2006 recruiting class, Brey has gotten c.om­mitments from four top play­ers, including consensus national prospect Luke Zeller from Washington, Ind. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Dame record for lowest overall team score. Notre Dame shat­tered the old record, which was set at the same event last year, by nine strokes. 
The Irish shot 279-288-287 to finish ninth in the strong field of 16 teams, finishing 24 strokes behind tournament champion New Mexico. 
Coach John Jasinski attrib­utes the strong showing to last week's good practices. 
"We haven't been as competi­tive as we need to be [in prac­tice over the past few weeks]. but we had a competitive week of qualifying and good week of preparation," he said. 
Despite the impressive num­bers. the scores this weekend were not as good as they seemed. The Stanford Golf Course at host Stanford University is only a par 69 rather than the typical par 7 2, and thus scores are subse­quently lower across the board. 
Junior Eric Deutsch and sophomore Cole lsban led the Irish this weekend. The tandem tied for 21st with twin 6-over­par 213s. The two have been the Irish's strongest members. regularly shooting the best rounds at tournaments. The score was Deutsch's career best, and it ties for 10th best in school history. 
"Cole is solid in his spot, has yet to even be put in a qualifier, and Eric has been very consis­tent," Jasinski said. 

Trailing them was freshman Mike King. King finished with an 8-over-par 215 to finish in a 3-way tie for 31st place. Freshman Greg Rodgers posted another in what will surely ,._ become long line of career bests, shooting a 9-over par 
216. Both Rodgers and King have become serious contribu­tors to the Irish team already in their young careers. 
"For being in their first year, they are showing a lot of char­acter, especially in controlling their high score," Jasinski said. 
Junior Scott Gustafson ended the weekend with a 223, finish­ing in a tie for 65th. Gustafson has struggled more than expected this season, and the Irish anticipate his return to his form of a year ago. 
"The biggest question mark on this team is when he is going to get his game back; he has a little kink in his game right now that is adding 2 or 3 shots to his scorecard," Jasisnski said. 
While realizing that the team did well, Jasinski anticipates a return to tougher and longer courses, where he feels the Irish have more strength. 
"I wouldn't say we're a threat, but I'd say we're com­petitive [at tougher courses.] Playing easy golf courses is not the style of play we prepare for." 
Contact Eric Retter at erctter@nd.edu 


(THAT'S WHAT THlN DORM WALLS ARE FOR) 
Dependable service. Simple plans. That's what we're for .. 
$20ft~~e first 6 months, 
$39.95 thereafter) 
Call and Text Plan 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
U.nlimited Call Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FREE for 2 months 


Ask about Nights & Weekends starting at 7 p.m. 
-i<u.s.Cellular 
Limited time offer. 
t-888-aUY-USCC • GETUSC.COIMI 
of a 2 year contract Unlimited Call Me Minutes are only available In the local calling area and are not 
i<OUIDaCIOliRels $5.95 !hereafter, $0.10 per ootgolng message beyond 250. Must call to cancel. Offers may expire W may apply. See store tor delalls. Umlled Ume die<. Roaming charges, tees. surcharges and taxes may apply, 
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Both tea111s finish second in Pre-National Cha111pionships 
Huddle finishes 3rd, Cardinal takes team title for second week 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 
For the second straight meet, · 
. the Irish cross country runners competed against the top teams in the nation. 
Both the men's and women's teams captured second place at the Pre-Nationals champi­
•k. apros~ scientisi and~ woman; 1Im. . . possibility Of working on 0 research projectWhich involves aJil&,threatening disease.sum cs·llroosi cancer, in on e..periiOOI'Ikll context of high wrrent relevance, was a de!etmining factor when choosing Purdue to purwe rnygraduate $1Udill$.* 
onships in Terre Ha_ute, Ind. Oct. 16. No. 1 Stanford took first place once again, dominat­ing the field as it did at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
While the Irish faced an elite field, the expectations for the meet remained high for the sixth-ranked women's team. 
"Our goal was to be in the top three," women's coach Tim Connelly said. "We had hard training before the race but we had a solid performance. 
Molly Huddle led the No. 6 women with a third place over­all finish. With her best race of the season, Stephanie Madia finished 11th in front of team­mate Kerry Meager coming in at 16th. 

The No. 9 Irish men's team placed four runners in the top 50 led by Kurt Benninger, who came in eighth overall. Tim Moore came in second for Notre Dame at)3th, finishing five sec­onds behind Benninger with a time 24:07 on the 8K course. 
The men's team finished with 165 points to put them ahead of Michigan at 188 but behind dominant Stanford [77]. 
In addition to hosting 12 of 
Explore the Purdue University Graduate School as you weigh your future career and professional development options! 
You will discover: 
• 
Over 70 master's and doctoral degree programs ranging from the sciences, arts, and humanities to interdisciplinary programs and much more 

• 
Research-and practice-oriented curricula 

• 
Approximately 68% of Purdue graduate students receive funding 


Why would you go anywhere else? To apply or to learn more about what the Purdue Graduate School has to offer you, visit us on-line. 
the top 30 ranked teams, the Pre-Nationals meet is also run on the same course the NCAA championships are held. 
"We've already seen many of the top teams in the country like Stanford and Michigan," Connelly said. "We are moving the right direction for the Big East and NCAAs." 
The Irish women will continue to face top ranked teams when they race No. 2 Providence in the Big East Championship. 
"Providence is a huge favorite to win the Big East Championship, and we will have to be perfect if we want to upset them", Connelly said. 

At this point in the season, both the men's and women's teams have their top five run­ners set. 
"The top five finishers in the Pre-Nationals should most likely be the top ·five we race in the upcoming meets," Connelly said. 
The Irish will run in the Big East Championship on Friday. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu. 
The men's cross country team runs In the Notre Dame Invitational Oct. 1. Both the men and women finished second Oct. 16. 
Vote in the 

on Tuesday, October 26th from 11am-7pm in LaFortune 
NO students only, so bring your 10 

Sponsored by NO Student Media groups: Scholastic, NOTV, WSNO, and WVFI 
Contact Laurie Mcfadden {lmcfadde@nd.edu) with questions 
page 26 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Upset 
continued from page 28 
15 seconds left proved the differ­ence maker. 
"We're a pretty sound defensive team and have good penalty killing. so we're going to have to win a lot of close games like this," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "T.J. has a knack for scoring big goals, and he did it again tonight." , 
With the score tied 2-2 late in the third period, Notre Dame's Tim Wallace was called for a charging penalty with less than a minute to go. Boston College coach Jerry York called a timeout in hopes of setting up the Eagles' game-winning power play goal. 
Jindra had other plans. After the timeout. Boston College lost the puck in the neutral zone after Irish defenseman O'Neill broke up a pass. O'Neill then waited a few seconds before sending a perfect pass toward the streaking Jindra, who skated in a few strides down the left side and beat Boston College goalie Matti Kaltiainen with a slap shot to the short side. 
"[Kaltiainen] just left a little opening on the far side and I shot it and was lucky to deflect it off the post and in," Jindra said of the winning goal. "This is a pretty big win. Anytime you play BC and can beat them it's great for us; it's especially nice to just get a win under our belts after having a few close losses this season." 
Jindra's late-game heroics would never have happened without the play of Cey, who con­tinued his terrific play at home· with 50 saves. including 20 in the first period -when the Irish were forced to kill five Boston College power plays. The goalie kept the Eagles off the board in that difficult period, giving his team momentum and earning a standing ovation from the Irish fans as Cey and the rest of the team skated off for the first inter­mission. 
"We took four really dumb penalties in the first period and made things harder for us than they should have been," Poulin said. "After that first period we had a two-pronged momentum -Morgan Cey had momentum and our penalty killing had momentum. 

"Morgan definitely helped win that game in the frrst period, but he helped us win in the second and third periods as well." 
In two games at the Joyce Center this season, Cey has made 88 of 92 saves, for a .957 save percentage. Both games have been against teams ranked in the top four in the country -Boston College and No. 4 Minnesota­Duluth. 
Miami of Ohio 5, Notre Dame 0 
Brandon Crawford-West made 23 saves as the Red Hawks blanked the Irish 5-0 on the road Oct. 16. David Brown made 38 saves for the Irish in the loss. 
Christie, Michael, Guerin, Taylor Hustead and Stephen Dennis all scored goals for Miami. For the second straight game, the Irish allowed three power play goals. 
Miami of Ohio 4, Notre Dame 2 
The Irish allowed three power play goals as Miami of Ohio defeated Notre Dame 4-2 on the road Oct. 15. Christie and Marty Guerin scored 

Cey made 34 saves in the loss, for the RedHawks. and Wallace and forward Josh Sciba scored goals for the Irish. Contact Justin Schuver at Chris Michael, Todd Grant, Matt jschuver@nd.edu 
Character 
.continued from page 28 
team went 9-23-4, but his most 
recent one made history with a 
20-15-4 record and the first 
ever NCAA tournament berth in 
Notre Dame's 37 -year history. 
IIe even had to endure the extremely premature birth of his twin daughters -both of whom are currently Notre Dame freshmen -and the death of star Philly teammate Pelle Lindbergh. 
After all that. what's so hard about beating Boston College, the No. 1 team in the country­again? 
Not to mention that the Irish did it without their top returning scorer from last year, forward Mike Walsh. Walsh was also the only player who scored a goal in last year's victory over the then· No. 1 Eagles. 
Not to mention that goalie Morgan Cey kept the Eagles off the board Friday night for the first two periods, despite Boston College outshooting Notre Dame 30-13 in that span. Cey has only had two separate knee surgeries in his career. 
Not to mention that the game­winning goal by T.J. Jindra was scored shorthanded, after the Irish blew their earlier 2-0 lead and allowed the Eagles to score goals just 15 seconds apart in the third period. Jindra's goal was scored after a questionable charging penalty was called with less than a minute left in the game. 
Character? This team has it in droves. 
"I can't say enough about T.J. Jindra as a player," Poulin said after Friday's win. "He was sit­ting on the bench sick there for five minutes in the third period, throwing up and really hurting. 
"The kid is just a great kid and a great hockey player." 
Coming into this season, the college hockey world said that Notre Dame was primed for a fall. Losing six seniors -for­wards Aaron Gill and Rob 
Show us your Student1D and receive 
% 
OFF 
ALL SAL-ON SFRVTCES & HAIR CARE 
PRODUC~TS 
\rfond,1)' -Th~w:.;.d ~~y l)llly Regula.!' pl'it~ hair:'cuB 
$1395 

Globke and defensemen Brett Lebda, Neil Komadoski, Tom Galvin and T.J. Mathieson ­would be too big a loss for the Irish to handle, the experts said. 
A battle with senior-laden Minnesota-Duluth would show Notre Dame's youth and inexpe­rience, those same experts crowed, right before the Irish went out and tied the Bulldogs 2-2 in their first game of the season. 
Character? Look it up in the dictionary and you'll see Poulin's team. 
The Irish have played a hella­cious schedule so far, playing not one but two Frozen Four teams from last year, as well as a two-game series on the road against Miami of Ohio -one of the top teams in the CCHA last year and another team that made the NCAA Tournament 
last season. 

Despite that monstrous slate of opponents, the Irish have started a respectable 1-3-1 ­respectable when you consider that the one win and tie were against those two Frozen Four teams. More importantly, Irish freshmen like Evan Rankin ­who scored the second goal against Boston College -have gotten some much-needed play·. ing time against some of the best teams in the country. That experience will pay dividends further down the road. 
It's taken Poulin nine years for his team to raise a banner in the west end of the Joyce Center proclaiming "NCAA TOURNA­MENT 2004." If his team can continue the character they've shown so far this season, he shouldn't have to wait too long to add another year to that ban­ner. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd. edu. 

The College of Arts anll Letters 
Invites 

Faculty anll Staff Nominations 
for the Third Annual 

Arts and Letters Awanl of Appreciation 
The College of Arts fll'ld Letters annotmces the third annual Award of Appreciation, to be conferred on fll1 outstanding faculty or staff member from outside the College. 
We 11relooking for a faculty or staff employee whose work elsewhere in the University contributes immeasurably to the College of Arts fll'ld Letters fll'ld enriches its 1 ife. 
A certificate and honorarium accompany this award. 
Please send a briefletter to the Committee describmg the outstanding contributions your nominee bas made to the life of the College ofArts nnd Letters. 
Arts fll'ld Letters Aw11rd of Appreciation Committee cl o C11rmen Leicb.ty 10() 0 ~ Shaugbnessy Han c leicb. ty @nd.edu 
Deadline Friday, October 29, 20()4 
~ 
w 
VNIVE:RSITY OF 
NOTRE DAfvfE 
CULLU.il.:. Ul' ART:) AND LETTERS 

Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
DO YOU MIND IF I LEAVE EARLY TO SPEND SOME TIME WITH MY KIDS?  I NEVER SPENT TIME WITH MY KIDS AND THEY TURNED OUT JUST FINE!  HOW MANY DO YOU HAVE?  
THREEISH.  

CHARLES SCHULTZ 

PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ATING 
rJ rJ
1 
02004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HOCEK 
j 

~ .·.:~·;~~::
ri I I
1 
WHAT THE: TIRE:O L...ABOR!=R SAID
HIRTED 
j 
WH!=N HE: ORIL...L...E:O INTO TH!= BRIC.K WAL-L..
[J [ []


www.jumble.com 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

0'0"[ I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow} 

I Jumbles: PIVOT PRIZE INDIGO DURESSYesterday's Answer: 
A round on the house left the customers in ­GOOD "SPIRITS" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 38 Holder of two 70 Be obsequious 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sara Lumholdt, Tracy Nelson, 1 Dispensable tablets 71 One of the 
Helen Reddy, Ben Gould candy 39 Mingling with "Little Women" 
Happy Birthday: Don't be afraid of change. This year, if you hesitate, you are4 On pins and 42 Camera· type, 72 Letters for a more likely to lose out. Be confident--if you can master that, everyone will needles briefly psychic want to back you or be on your team. Your numbers are 5, 12. 13, 22, 25,33 
a Meeting 43 Taoism founder 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You'll find it difficult to sit still today. Someone
Lao-_ DOWN

14 "The Name of 
will make it clear how he or she feels about you. Don't respond too quickly. the Rose" writer 44 Horror film sta­1 They're above *** ple the abs TAURUS (April20-May 20): There will be plenty going on with business 
15 Chaucer offering 
and finance today, so don't miss a beat. Take advantage of an opportunity that 
16 1966 Mary 45 Site of a racing 2 It might be off 
someone offers. Promises will be kept. *** 
win or a tie the wall 

Martin musical GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You've got what it takes to reach for your goals 47 Traditional elo­3 Animal keepers today. Put yourself on the line where business and professional changes are
17 Dog with an 
concerned. Money can be made. **** 

upturned tail cution exercise 4 And so on: Abbr. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Not everyone will be interested in what you ­19 Big-time brat 51 Beheaded 5 Veronica Lake want to do, but if you stay focused and don't rely on anyone but yourself, Boleyn film "The Blue success will be yours. Don't waste time on people who waffle. ** 
20 Cubs' sluggin' 
" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22}: Your ability to talk circles around everyone will help, 
Sammy 52 Den denizen 
but if you don't stick to the truth or you haven't done your homework, you can
6 What a poor

21 Glasgow gal 53 Injure seriously expect to be challenged. Preparation will make the difference. ***** 
winner does 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will feel the urge to do something about 
23 Master's worker 56 Limp watch 
7 They have your financial situation. Problems with headaches will prevail if you don't 
painter

24 Gambler's boughs for bows lower your stress level. Rely on someone you can trust. *** marker 58 Sci-fi sightings LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let anger get the better of you. Emotional
a Peach part 

matters will escalate if you don't back down. You need a challenge --take an
26 Choice word 62 Take stock of 
9 Words from unusual direction. *** 29 Give one's word 65 Intellectual Wordsworth SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There will be lots happening around you today. Get your priorities straight and you can make professional changes. Be
35 Beantown team, 67 Fire escape, 10 Go downhill 
confident as you move forward. *** 

briefly e.g. 
11 Put a traveling SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): With a little eJStra effort, you can make 36 Press release? 68 Turkish honorific mike on some personal changes that will please you and bring compliments from 
33 Not at full power 49 Make beholden 60 "My bad!" 
others. Talk about your future with someone you ((are· about. ***** 
37 Santa_, Calif. 69 Clean air grp. 12 Reason for 
34 Job for a derma-50 Scale reading CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are on the right track, but you can
nose-pinching 

tologist expect obstacles to hold you back. Prepare to let someone lend you a hand if
53 Halloween 61 Give and take 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Klingon on the it means getting things done. ** 
35 Ordeal for accessory
Enterprise AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel or getting involved in a learning
Rover, perhaps 

54 Concerning experience should be your intent. Think big, but don't overstep your budget. 
18 Odd fellow 63 Sign of a sellout
40 Like a trim lawn 

55 Middle of **** 
22 Baseball com­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): An opportunity to make some extra cash is 
41 Globular Caesar's boast 
missioner Bud apparent. Attend a work-related event. Someone from your past will alter your 
64 Opposite NNE 

46 Second-stringer 57 "Moby Dick" life.***
25 Honeycomb 

captain
48 "Anything you 
shape 

Birthday Baby: You are curious and clever, never willing to give up, back
want" 59 Unbind 66 "I told you so!" 
27 Periscope part down or give in. You stand tall and you are always prepared to back what you 28 ''The Bartered 
say. 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
Bride" composer 

Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
29 Trunk with a 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
chest 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
30 Out of kilter 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 32 Explorer _ da Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Gama solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _________ State _____ Zip.______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 
page 28 
HocKEY 

History repeats itself 
Jindra's shorthanded goal lifts Irish over No. 1 Boston College 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Spuns Editor 
No Mike Walsh, no problem. 
The junior forward, who scored the only goal in Notre Dame's 1-0 upset victory over No. 1 Boston College last year, missed Friday's game against the Eagles with an injury. But it didn't matter. 
Forward T.J. Jindra scored the game-winning goal and goalie Morgan Cey made a career-high 50 saves to help the Irish again upset No. I Boston College by the score of 3-2 for Notre Dame's first win or tho season. 
Wes O'Neill and Evan Rankin seored the other two Irish goals. Notre Dame took an early 2-0 load, only to sec the Eagles seore two goals 15 seconds apart in the third period. But Jindra's shorthanded goal with Jess than 
see UPSET/page 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey contract extended through 2010-11 season 


By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
With the program's future looking promising, Notre Dame athletie director Kevin White continues to make sure men's basketball coach Mike Brey isn't going anywhere. 

The athletic department-· announced 
Brey's signing of' a two-year contract extension Monday after­noon. 
"Simp I y speaking, Mike Brey has done a brilliant job leading Notre Dame basket­ball back to quickly becoming one of the elite players within the college basketball community. We are extremely excited that he will continue to lead our program." 
After signing an initial seven­year eontraet when taking the helm in South Bend on July 14, 2000 and a two-year extension in July 2002, Brey is now 
"Simply speaking, Mike Brey has done a brilliant job leading Notre Dame basketball back to national prominence. 
Kevin White athletic director 
national prominflnce," White said in a statement. "Mike rnp­rnsents the perfect Notre Dame lit. lie is truly a gifted educa­tor, who enjoys the distinet ability to impart life lessons through his ehosen profession. 
"Without question, Mike is under contract 
through  the  
2010-11  sea­ 
son.  

"Once again, I want to empha­size how hon­ored I am to teach at this very special place," Brey said. "The com­mitment from our administra­tion makes me a more confi­
dent basketball coach. Our program has great momentum, and I am excited about moving it forward into a new phase as the Big East becomes the best basketball conferenee in 
see CONTRACT/page 24 
Poulin's character, work ethic visible in hockey team's play 
Nothing has ever come easy for Irish coach Dave Poulin. 
The current member of the Philadelphia Flyers Half of Fame didn't get recruited by 
any Division I schools­he filled out a Notre Dame questionnaire intended for a star team­mate. 

He didn't Justin Schuver get drafted, 
nor did he get Associate an NHL con-Sports Editor tract despite 
being a llobey Baker finalist as 
a senior at Notre Dame. But 
after a year in Sweden's profes­

sional league, he latched on 
with the Flyers and played 12 
productive years in the NHL. 
Poulin's first Notre Dame 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish capture conference 
Team wins first Big East regular season championship 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
When the going gets tough, the tough get going. They also win champi­onships. 
Faced with a make-or­break fall break road trip against three tough confer­ence opponents, the No. 5 Irish (12-2-2, 7-1-1 in the Big East) played to a draw with No. 10 St. John's before edg­ing both No. 17 Seton Hall and Rutgers to claim the reg­ular season conference crown for the first time since Notre Dame began Big East play in 1995. 
"Every team has to make its own little bit of history, and this team has done that," coach Bobby Clark said. "Having said that, you've also got to give praise to the play­ers that have gone before ­a lot of stuff gets passed down. Every team starts to add to Notre Dame soccer 


tradition." 
Notre Dame 1, St. John's 1 
All good things must come to an end. 
The Irish saw their six-game winning and shutout streaks snapped Oct. 16 when a sec­ond-half St. John's (9-3-4, 6-1­
3) tally knotted the contest. The 
Irish battled the Hed Storm to a 1-1 tie to kick off their three­game fall break road trip. 
"It was a pretty tough, tight, hard game -not a lot in it sta­tistically," Clar~ said. "I think it was very close. 
While the equalizer snapped 
see CHAMPS/page23 
·····­

ND CROSS COUNTRY
(/) FOOTBALL 
SMC SOCCER 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
~-LLI 
No. 1 Irish remain 1RISH INSIDER~:;~
Irish impress at
Notre Dame 27 
Belles win two of
1-u 

Terre Haute 
undefeated
z Navy 9 
three 

tl<>'-lt•.n\ '.' "1-' :· • ,!,-.: ..•. :-<.>,;\1~\d·h,;:~--' ·:·.,!c,'l(i; ·
Notre Dame finished 
The women tied
Saint Mary's beat
1:1:: =:5 

\ • <~• · '~ ,,,,,.,, [: to>~t· f<tr t!'w ti:.•tttfu~:tl\l!,;th•. ·"«::or ,
Ryan Grant led the 
Alma and Olivet by a 

second at the Pre-
Rutgers and beat Seton
CD 
combined 11-3 score. 

National champi-
Hall and Boston
Irish to their 41st straight 
c::::t cc 
The Belles then lost on 

onships. 
College.
victory over Navy at 
Giants Stadium Nov. 16. 
the road at Olivet.
a. =: 

~23 24i_~~'
page 20 
page 24
page 16 
page 18
(/) 






