~~---~~---------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Olympic gold fencer arrives on campus 
morning, starting with a swim did and that's what happened." ficult for Zagunis, but he difficult. 
By MATT LOZAR test at 8:30a.m. The demanding training believes Zagunis' personality "She's sensitive about it, out 
News Writer 
She has been in Europe since schedule made going straight has her a step ahead of the of school for a year. I'm con­Aug. 4 and won the gold medal from high school to college game. cerned already," Cathy Zagunis Marie! Zagunis knows how to in women's impossible. Zagunis signed with "She is a good kid and has said. "She's just getting settled work hard -her gold medal in saber Aug. 
Notre Dame in November 2002, good character, which is the as a freshman. She may have a women's saber attests to that. 17. but took a year off to concen­best for the team. She can show letdown physically and be emo­
Now, the 19-year old fresh­"I have trate on making the U.S. she's a hard worker. It's not a tionally drained." man from Beaverton, Ore. has been work­Olympic team, before coming to privilege. She tries to do it [be All of the attention Zagunis to carry that work ethic over to ing so hard South Bend. successful]. I think this is the has received and jetlag that's the classroom. for this, and "Notre Dame has always most important thing," bound to set in during the next 
And make up for four days of it's just a appealed to me as a school," Bednarski said. "Time is divided couple of days may lead to a missed classes. very good Zagunis said. "I had been to between studies and fencing. rough first week at Notre Dame. 
"I haven't gone to school or example of tournaments in South Bend. I The team has a goal to win. But now she's ready to just be class for over a year, but I'm how hard Zagunis have been around here before, Now she has to step into the a college student. ready to get out there and ready work pays and I know a couple of alumni other field. It will not be easy. I 'Tm not here only to fence or to learn," Zagunis said. "It'll be off and how and everyone has nothing but think it will be a challenge." party," Zagunis said stumbling hard to get used to it again. I if you really dedicate yourself to good things to say. Meanwhile, her mother Cathy over that last word. ''I'm here to think I can handle it, or I hope I something that you really, really "It just always appealed to knows her daughter has had a also go to class, learn and get can." want more than anything in the me. It felt natural and right." very emotional past two weeks, an education." 
Zagunis was scheduled to world, then you are going to get Irish coach Janusz Bednarski and the adjustment to living 
Contact Matt Lozar at
attend her first classes this it," Zagunis said. "That's what I knows the transition will be dif-alone at college is going to be 

The Shovv is dee111ed a success 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
The Show headliners Talib Kweli and Jason Mraz impressed fans and non-fans alike Friday night with ener­getic performances that includ­ed impromptu stage appear­ances by several students. 
Rapper Kweli opened the show with a high-energy num­ber. The lesser known of the night's performers, some stu­dents complained about Kweli's lack of notoriety. 
"I didn't really know his music," said freshman Shawn Redington. "No one seemed to know his songs." 
For many audience members however, his performance more than made up for a lack of familiarity with his songs. 
"I was very impressed by him," said junior Shannon Morfin. "I didn't even really know who he was and I don't normally like that type of music that much. but now I am think­ing about buying his CD." 
Midway into Kweli's set, he asked students to come on stage. When security stopped them because of safety con­cerns, the rapper threatened to end his performance, turned off his equipment and walked off the stage. Security quickly relented and Kweli invited the dancers to join him up on stage. 
Student reaction to Mraz, who reportedly was spotted at Turtle Creek socializing with students later that night, was more unanimous. lie wowed a largely female audience with his distinct voice and dance moves. 
"Jason Mraz was awesome. It was probably one of the best shows I have ever been to, cer­
see SHOW/page 4 

mlozar@nd.edu. 

Livestrong bands make bold statement 
Students wear eye-catching 
yellow wristbands in 
support ofcancer research 
By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
Actors Matt Damon and Bruce Willis have them. Both President George W. Bush and Senator John Kerry do too. Olympians have won gold in Athens wearing them. And, most likely, several have caught your eye in theology class or around LaFortune. 
They are the bright yellow wrist­bands emblazoned with the mantra "Livestrong," a joint product of The Lance Armstrong Foundation and Nike to raise money for cancer research. 
The sturdy elastic wristbands pay tribute to Tour de France champi­on and cancer survivor Lance Armstrong. Since hitting the stores in May, sales have taken off wildly, far surpassing the initial goal of $5 million. The current tally of sales
Five men from Siegfried Hall show off their Livestrong arm bands. The bands have become so popular, many students are having trouble finding places to buy them. Even online, all orders are on backorder, causing quite a stir about the rubber bracelets. 
see LIVESTRONG/page 4 
Legends revamps restaurant and club 

By TOM TIBERIO News Writer 
lleading into its second year of operation, Legends' atti­tude is like that of any new business: eliminate the weak­nesses and work on enhanc­ing the strengths. 
With plans to change both the tastes and decor of the restaurant, Legends Manager Jim Quirk said they have taken a holistic approach to ensuring change. 
"As we enter year two we hope the word's gotten around and [we can again] offer stu­dents and non-students alike a place to congregate and socialize and enjoy a casual atmosphere," Quirk said. 
After a summer of large­scale reassessment, Legends plans to revamp both inside and out. 
Improvements start with enhancing the menu, and they have brought in the University's newly appointed executive chef, Don Miller, to do it. 
Miller, who has 28 years of experience, completely over­hauled last year's menu, Quirk said. 
"The chef has brought a 
see LEGENDS/page 4 
Monday, August 30, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Bridging the m.usical gap 
Somehow, I landed the most cushy on-campus job at Saint Mary's College. As the choral librarian, I get my own little office, set my own hours, have a great boss and often don't have to Nicole Zook work for weeks at a time. When 
Production
I do, I just crank 
up the tunes and Editor 
do my thing. 
So imagine my 
surprise when a random professor 
wandered into my basement office 
this week. He was confused not to 
find my boss there. 
"You're the one listening to 
Simon and Garfunkel?" he asked in 
astonishment. "This is our genera­
tion's music." 
So that's what it comes down to. 
All the strange looks from my peers 
at stoplights, all the comments 
from my mom about how my music 
is before her time -it all points to 
the one thing this professor so 
clearly stated. 
I've bridged some kind of unspo­
ken generation gap in music. 
Sure, I like rap. I listen to metal, pop, punk, and even country. But only classic rock hits me where it counts. New music can be great, but nowhere in the realm of Avril Lavigne can you find the lyricism of Paul Simon or Billy Joel. The inno­vation of The Beatles is lost on kids today. And it's impossible for me to find a modern band that can elicit the same mellow cool as Pink Floyd or the same hard rocking mood as ACIDC. 
I know where my love of good music came from, of course. My parents are young, and as a kid I listened to the same music they did. I knew all the words to every Bon Jovi record by the time I was two. I grew up listening to my dad's favorite classic rock radio station. My mom trained me in the fine art of attending concerts. My folks still rock harder than any parents I know. 

But somewhere along the line, r went past that. r reached back to before their time, looking to The Doors for a rainy day and Jimi Hendrix for long car drives. Styx, Clapton, Elton John, CCR, Zep, Journey, Aerosmith, The Who, Bob Dylan and The Boss -I began to amass a huge record collection. 
Older people still act amazed when they catch me listening to "their music," and all of my little brothers "don't get it." It's strange to think that they don't know the classic songs of the last fifty years, and maybe never will. People our age have been known to mock me for listening to "old people's music." 
In the car Friday night before the obligatory visit to Rally, I told my friends they could take out my tape and listen to more party appropri­ate music. The car was silent for a minute, until they said, "Actually, we like James Taylor." 

At that moment, I knew I was not standing alone in the middle of the generation gap. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Nicole Zook at zook892 8@saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize thar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL YOU BE WATCHING THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION? 

Scott Wagner  Susan Fath  James Carlson  Kirsten Hoelmer  Will Gartland  Elizabeth Mlerenfeld  
Junior Alumni  Junior Howard  Freshman Fisher  Senior P.E.  Senior Sarin  Sophomore Pangborn  
"No. It's basical­ly just a product launch, a giant advertising campaign and a  "Yes, ifmy TV gets reception. ,,  "Yes I am. I want to see what the republicans platform will be  "I will not be watching the RNC because I already know I will disagree  "Heck yeah. I just want to see how they will answer to the Democrats. ,  "No, I'm not very political. I don't really ,,care.  

waste of even though I with most of 
,, ,, 
money. know it their opinions. includes tax cuts.,, 
Malaysian woman living with scorplans for record 
KUALA LUMPUR, 
Malaysia -A Malaysian 
woman who is trying to 
reclaim a world record by 
living in a locked glass box 
with more than 6,000 scorpi­
ons has been stung once and 
scarcely sleeps because the 
creatures keep crawling 
over her. 
Nur Malena Hassan, 27, 
said Wednesday she has a 
"50/50 chance" of reaching 
her target of being with the 
poisonous arachnids for 36 
consecutive days to set a 
new record for the longest 
stay in a room of scorpions. 
'Tm feeling so much ten­sion," Nur Malena said from the specially built glass room that she moved into Saturday in a shopping mall. 

TODAY 0:: 

CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer 

Sophomore Stephen Garcia, a Keough Hall resident, catches up on his reading at God Quad on Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 
mouth. 
According to this week's issue of The Lancet medical journal, the German doctors used a mesh cage, a growth chemical and the patient's bone marrow, containing stem cells, to create a new jaw bone that fit the gap left by the cancer surgery. 
Tests have not been done yet to verify whether the bone was created by the blank-slate stem cells and it is too early to tell whether the jaw will function normal­ly in the long term. The operation is the first pub­lished report of a whole bone being engineered and incu­bated inside a patient's body and transplanted. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Thousands of Malaysians have visited the mall to observe Nur Malena in the room, which she leaves just once a day for a 15-minute bathroom break. 
Malaysians have displayed a growing penchant in recent years for offbeat records -such as the high­est backward climb up a staircase and the largest number of old people at a circus. 
German doctors grow new jaw bone In man's back 
LONDON -A German who had his lower jaw cut out because of cancer has enjoyed his first meal in nine years, a bratwurst sandwich, after surgeons grew a new jaw bone in his back muscle and transplanted it to his 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI 
:c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
c:r: 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 78

...1 
LOW 65 


70 56 

78 56 

79 58 

IN BRIEF 
Come to the Notre Dame Activities Night for more information on getting involved with on and off cam­pus activities Tuesday from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Joyce. 
Notre Dame faculty and staff can stop by the second floor of the Security Building on Wednesday from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. for a Wellness Assessment including a blood pressure and body fat screening conducted by ProHealth. 
Come to the lecture "Economic, Operational and Ethical Implications of Outsourcing/Offshoring," in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Watch Fahrenheit 9/11 at The Browning Cinema in the new DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday at 7 and 10 p.m. 
Stop by the Saint Mary's Activities Night on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the base­ment of Regina Hall for more information about 80 differ­ent clubs and groups serving Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and the South Bend commu­nity. 
See David Pearce Snyder from The Futurist Magazine on Friday from noon to 1:15 
p.m. at the lecture, "Extra­Preneurship: Managing to Prosper in Revolutionary Times," in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

80 60 

80 59 

Atlanta 88 168 Boston 84168 Chicago 78 I 58 Denver 831 55 Houston 91 167 Los Angeles 86 164 Minneapolis 76 I 57 New York 80 I 70 Philadelphia 84 I 69 Phoenix 108 I 83 Seattle 75 I 58 St. Louis 77 I 59 Tampa 90 177 Washington 82 I 64 
Monday, August 30, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Community celebrates mass 
By DANIELLE LERNER News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary's College community celebrated the new academic year with the annual All Campus Mass Sunday. Filling every seat, students, staff and faculty gathered to exemplify the unity of Saint Mary's in the Church of Loretto. 
Father David Tyson presided over the ceremony. In congruence with the new school year, he reflected upon the gifts of wisdom, knowl­edge and faith throughout his sermon. 
Tyson challenged those in attendance to use their unique gifts in order to seek truth, and ended with words 

,/:;/ 
. 
~-,
\ ~' 
\ 
CLAI 
lnterpratlve dancing was merely one aspect of this year's Saint Mary's all school Mass, celebrated Sunday at the Church of Loretto. 
of hope for the College. 
"We do so [celebrate] here at Saint Mary's as a commu­nity bettered on wisdom and we pray that Saint Mary's College continues to open the minds and hearts of these women." 
College President Carol Ann Mooney thanked those in attendance with her closing words. 
"For Catholics, there is no more visible sign of unity than the mass," Mooney said. "We gather not to refuel but to celebrate the many grace­filled moments in our lives. I pray we cherish not only wis­dom of the empirical and analytical type, but also the deep and profound wisdom that comes to us through faith." 
Clad in Saint Mary's appar­el, students participated in the spirit and unity of the col­lege. 
"I enjoy going to mass and can see that Saint Mary's is a tight knit community where everyone looks out for one another," said freshman Ashley Currie. 
For seniors like Allison Nickerson and Katie Murphy, mass served as the kick off to their final year as students. 
"It's our last year and we love our school," they said. "It's a good way to start out the year as a community and it will be sad when it's over for us." 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lem6311@saintmarys.edu 
Asteroid nallled in honor of ND trustee 
Physics professor returns an old favor to alumnus Ray Siegfried 
Special to The Observer The International Astro­nomical Union has named an asteroid in honor of Ray Siegfried, a graduate, trustee and benefactor of the University of Notre Dame. Discovered March 11, 2000, by the Lowell Observatory Near-Earth-Object Search pro­gram in Flagstaff, Ariz., the asteroid currently is in the con­stellation of Gemini near two bright stars, Pollux and Castor. The suggestion to honor Siegfried came from Terrence Rettig, professor of physics at Notre Dame. The two met in the mid-1990s when Siegfried's daughter, Milann, took an introductory astrono­my class taught by Rettig. Siegfried arranged for former astronaut Gen. Thomas Stafford to speak to the class, a favor Rettig always remem­bered. When Rettig learned of Siegfried's battle with amy­otrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's Disease), he thought the naming of an asteroid would be an unusual and sig­
nificant way to honor and thank Siegfried. 
The IAU formally announced the naming of Asteroid Siegfried, as well as three other recently discovered asteroids, on July 13. Another Notre Dame figure, president emeritus Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, also has an asteroid named in his honor. 
A 1965 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Siegfried is chairman of the board of the NORDAM Group, a Tulsa, Okla. aero­space firm with 2,000 employ­ees and facilities in four states and several other nations. 
Siegfried has served on the boards of numerous profes­sional, civic, educational. phil­anthropic and other organiza­tions. He is a member of both the Tulsa and Oklahoma Halls of Fame and was honored by his alma mater in 1995 with an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
The Siegfrieds have made numerous contributions to Notre Dame, including funds for a men's residence hall. a chaired professorship and the Siegfried wing of Mendoza College of Business. The Siegfrieds are the parents of six children, five of whom are Notre Dame graduates. 
Monday, August 30, 2004 

page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
freshman Jess O'Brien said. ments on it." who has fought cancer. The bright wristbands are Like the rest of the country, Cancer awareness has long
Livestrong 

easily spotted around cam­students are having a hard been a major concern of the pus and have attracted much time getting their hands on student body. This fall, many
continued from page 1 

attention. the bracelets. Many say they will participate in the Domer approaches the $10 million Even students who do not have tried to order Run on Sept. mark. and they remain on have the bracelets are talk­them online, but 18, which backorder. ing about them. have been unsuc­benefits ovar­
"I was looking for 
Armstrong's Junior cessful. ian cancer record-breaking Vanessa In Armstrong's one all over. research and sixth Tour win Gonzalez hometown of Eventually a mom education, this summer "I actually bought secured a Austin, Texas, and the
ofa friend gave 
undoubtedly wristband where the wrist­Campus
20 because I 
boosted public when a distrib­bands are espe­hers to me." Relay for Life knowledge and thought it was a utor visited her cially popular, jun­on Sept. 17 interest in the good cause. so I mother's U.S. ior Jonathan Jonathan Spadea and 18, wristbands. In Oncology office, Spadea said he which sup­
just passed them junior
addition, at the and says it has saw them on ports the
around to people."
price of only $1 been a major everyone, and the American each, many are conversation stores were empty. Cancer buying the Jess O'Brien starter this "I was looking for one all Society. wristbands in year. over," said Spadea. For more information, stu­
freshman 
bulk. "It's really "Eventually a mom of a dents can visit the Lance 
"I actually funny, someone friend gave hers to me." Armstrong Foundation at bought 20 always says 'Oh Spadea, whose father bat­LAF.org. because I thought it was a I have that,' or 'I really want tled cancer, is one of many good cause, so I just passed one of those,'" said Gonzalez. students who wear the wrist­Contact Janice Flynn at them around to people," "I feel like everybody com-bands in honor of a loved one jflynn 1 @nd.edu 
agreeable. Quirk said they have They will also bring in stu­
And for dessert, a deep­already received positive dent bands and outside acts fried cheesecake strudel a Ia feedback about the new that were popular last year, continued from page 1 mode or items. Quirk said. 
an old­As with Quirk also hopes to aug­level of culinary excitement fashioned "The chefhas brought a modifica­ment business on football that maybe we didn't have root beer level ofculinary tions to the weekends and during basket­the first year," he said. float are eatery, the ball games by adding a beer 

Legends 

excitement tht maybe we
While favorites like nachos just a few Legends garden inside the fenced-in and wings remain, added are of the didn't have the first year. " staff hopes area behind the building. peel-and-eat shrimp and new deli­to improve The restaurant side of the fried potato sticks, which cacies the social building will resemble more
Jim Quirk 
Quirk said come with three available. scene by of a sports bar, and will
Legends manager 
different types of "exotic" Half of focusing on include a visual time line ketchups. the new what has highlighting Notre Dame 
Dinner entrees include menu, which features a mod­been successful. sports history, to stretch from shrimp Santa Fe and deep­ified version of the barbeque In addition to Senior the front of the building to fried shrimp, and a stream­pulled pork sandwich, has "Margaritaville" Thursday the back upper level. lined "build-your-own" burg­already been implemented. nights, the bar will have spe­er section, which Quirk hopes The rest is scheduled for the cials Monday through Friday Contact Tom Tiberio at customers will find more end of September. nights. Thomas.N. Tiberio.! @nd.edu 

Show 
continued from page 1 
tainly one of the top five," said junior Amanda Caddy. 
Freshman Brett Adams agreed. 
"[He] put on a great show,'' said Adams. "I hadn't really heard his music much, but it was still pretty cool." 
Much to the audience's excite­ment, Mraz also shared the stage with students at one point in the show. Three fans familiar with the lyrics were invited to help him sing his best-known song, "The Remedy," karaoke style. 
An annual event, The Show's goal is to bring in big-name per­formers while keeping tickets prices affordable. Although its effectiveness is often questioned. the event is presented to students as an alternative to Rally in the Alley and drinking, according to show chairman Jimmy Flaherty. 
This year, in addition to Rally in the Alley, The Show faced a scheduling conflict with the inau­gural pre-season football scrim­mage. Flaherty said the scrim­mage was mislabeled as competi­tion for the show. 
According to Flaherty, the com­mittee had been working with the Athletic department since July to co-promote the events. While Flaherty was unable to provide a specific number, he described turnout for The Show as "unbe­lievable." 
"The director of student activi­ties and vice president of student affairs were more than thrilled with the attendance," said Flaherty. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 




OPENING NIGHT!! 
THE OFFICIAL • FOOTBALL COACHES RADIO SHOW 
AUGUST 30TH 7:00-7:30 PM 
LIVE AT:
SPECIAL GUEST 
APPEARANCE: 
COACH 
TYRONE 



WILLINGHAM 

Hosting the show will be Sean Stires and former ND Wide Receiver Bobby Brown! 
BOLING 
• .., A 1 -~ :....­

PRESENTED BY ~ =".,• 1 l BROADCAST LIVE ON 
LASER CENTER 










ORLD & NATION 
Monday, August 30, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide bomber blasts poll station 
GROZNY. Russia -The Russian govern­ment's choice for president of war-ravaged Chechnya appeared to be the victor Sunday in an election tainted by charges of fraud and shadowed by last week's terrorist destruction of two airliners. 
Little more than two hours after polls closed. acting Chechen president Sergei Abramov said preliminary results showed Maj. Gen. Alu Alkhanov, the republic's top police official and the Russian government's new choice. had passed the 50-percent mark needed to win. the Interfax news agency reported. 
Violence shadowed the balloting. A man blew himself up near a polling station after trying to enter it carrying a package, officials said. Worries about terrorism were stoked by the crashes of two Russian airliners five days before the election; officials said traces of explosives were found in the wreckage, and there are suspicions two Chechen women conducted the suicide attacks. 
Shiite and US forces battle in Iraq 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -U.S. military officials and representatives of rebel Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr held talks Sunday aimed at reducing violence in the restive Baghdad slum of Sadr City, a day after clashes there killed 10 people, officials said. 
British forces in the southern city of Basra, also the site of recent fighting, held similar talks with al-Sadr officials there. 
Both areas had erupted in violence after 
U.S. forces and al-Sadr's militants began fighting in the holy city of Najaf three weeks ago. and the talks Sunday appeared to be an effort by both sides to expand on the peace deal that ended the Najaf crisis Friday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Major storm slams South Carolina 
MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C. -Tropical Storm Gaston sloshed ashore in South Carolina Sunday with near hurricane-force winds, spinning sheets of rain that flooded roads as the storm knocked out power to thousands of people. 
Gaston made landfall near McClellanville, a small fishing village that was walloped by Hurricane Charley earlier this month when it came ashore for a second time after devas­tating southwest Florida. 
Gov. Mark Sanford declared a state of emergency Sunday and encouraged "folks to stay in their homes for the time being so damage-assessment crews. utility crews and debris-removal crews can do their jobs." 

Men plot to bomb subway in NYC 
NEW YORK -A U.S. citizen and a Pakistani national were arrested in an alleged plot to bomb a subway station in midtown Manhattan and possibly other loca­tions around the city. police said Saturday. 
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said the men were not thought to be connected to al­Qaida or any other international terrorist organization, although he said they expressed hatred for America. 
The arrests came two days before the start of the Republican National Convention, which is drawing tens of thousands of visi­tors to the city. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana unlikely to endorse drug 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana isn't likely to join the growing number of states that are adding links to their government Web sites to con­nect users to Internet pharmacies in Canada that sell low-cost prescription drugs. 
Neither Gov. Joe Kernan nor his Republican challenger Mitch Daniels want the state to put its stamp of approval on Internet drug buys from Canada. 
With the click of a computer mouse, visi­tors to government Web sites in four states can fill orders for prescription drugs from private pharmacies in Canada. 

Thousands gather to protest Bush 
Republican National Convention sparks 100,000 protesters to rally in Manhattan 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Bearing flag-draped boxes resem­bling coffins and fly-swat­ters with President Bush's image, more than 100,000 protesters swarmed Man­hattan's streets Sunday on the eve of the Republican National Convention to demand that the president be turned out of office. 
Flanked by police in riot gear. the protesters moved through the fortified city, loudly and exuberantly chanting slogans such as "No more years." They accused the White House of waging an unjust war in Iraq, making the country poorer and undermining abortion rights. 
There were no reports of major violence and about 200 scattered arrests. most of them unconnected to the main protest. 
Police gave no official crowd estimate, though one law enforcement offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, put the crowd at 120,000; organiz­ers claimed it was roughly 400,000. In either case, experts said it was the largest protest ever at a 
U.S. political convention. 

The five-hour march snaked in a circular route around midtown Manhat­tan, shutting down dozens of blocks and bringing out after trying to stop police arrivals looked across Some demonstrators bat­hordes of police. from arresting the culprit, police lines, shouting at ted around a 6-foot-wide 
"They chose New York, authorities said. demonstrators "Go home!" inflatable globe. One sign where they're universally In a smaller protest, "I hope this shows the echoed Democratic nomi­hated," said writer Laurie police used clubs briefly to world that they're not nee John Kerry's Vietnam­Russo, 41, from New York. disperse a handful of alone in their hatred of era remark: "How do you "They should have gone demonstrators holding a George Bush," said Alan ask a soldier to be the last somewhere they're more "kiss-in" not far from Zelenki of Eugene, Ore., person to die for a lie?" welcome. They exploited 9-Times Square. There were who planned for three The protest organizers, 11 by having it in New York no immediate details about months to attend this United for Peace and at this time." injuries or arrests. week's protests. Justice, had sued unsuc­
In the largest set of "There's been a few The causes varied as cessfully to force the city to arrests, some 50 protesters minor arrests," Mayor much as the people shout­allow a rally in Central on bicycles who stopped Michael Bloomberg said. ing support: immigrants' Park. City officials said near the parade route were "It has been peaceful." rights, gay rights, universal such a rally would damage carted away in an off-duty Residents leaned from health care, the Palestinian lawns. city bus. Fifteen people windows along the demon­cause, an end to the killing "Fahrenheit 9-11" direc­were arrested and two stration route to shout in Sudan. Tracy Blevins, a tor Michael Moore told police officers were injured their support. Scattered biomedical researcher who demonstrators that "the when someone set a paper opposition was visible only recently left New York for majority of this country dragon float afire near around Madison Square Houston, dyed her Maltese opposes the war ... The Madison Square Garden, Garden, where the GOP pink and carried the little majority are here to say, and nine demonstrators convention opens Monday. dog in a baby pouch to 'It's time to have our coun­were charged with assault Some early convention advocate peace. try back in our hands."' 

AFGHANISTAN 


Car bomb leaves multiple casualties 
Associated Press KABUL-A powerful car bomb detonated outside the office of a 
U.S. security contractor in the Afghan capital Sunday, killing at least seven people, including two Americans, and wounding several others, officials and witnesses said. 
Hours earlier, a blast wrecked a religious school in southeastern Afghanistan, reportedly killing at least eight children and one adult and underlining the country's frag­ile security as it moves toward its first post-Taliban election in October. 
Security officials have issued sev­eral warnings in recent weeks about possible car bombings and suicide attacks in the Afghan capi­tal. NATO forces patrolling Kabul have warned that anti-government militants, including the ousted Taliban, could try to mount spectac­ular attacks in a bid to disrupt the landmark presidential election scheduled for Oct. 9. 
The Kabul explosion hit the office of Dyncorp Inc.. an American firm that provides security for Afghan President Hamid Karzai and works for the U.S. government in Iraq, said Nick Downie of the Afghanistan NCO Security Office. 
"The explosion ... killed at least seven people," Karzai's office said in a statement. "Two Americans. three Nepalese and two Afghan nationals, including a child, have been confirmed dead." 
Karzai and U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad expressed shock at the bombing. 
An American embassy statement said the contractor also was involved in a project to train Afghan police, a key element of the internationally backed plan to pre­vent the country from reverting to a haven for al-Qaida militants. 
Monday, August 30, 2004 

page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
Congress itnproves intelligence 
House and Senate strive to make necessary changes by Election Day 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -It looks as though Congress will have 
to rethink its Oct. 1 adjourn­ment plans. House and Senate want to stay well past 
that date to work on legisla­tion to fix the nation's intelli­gence-gathering operations. 
Neither Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, H-Tenn., nor House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-IlL, is sure the job will be done by Election Day, Nov. 2. 
"We are going to progress over the next 30 days," Frist said Sunday. "The president of the United States has delivered a directive to us and to the Congress, yester­day (in his radio address) to the American people. It will be much more specific, we predict, in about 10 days." 
Frist said both chambers have held hear­ings this summer 

Frist on "Fox News Sunday," gence with promised a seri­ous attempt. "I would like to pass 
"] would like to 

something by 
pass something by 
Election Day.... We just can't let Election Day ... We 
this sit fallow." just can't let this 
He suggested, 
sit fallow. " 

however, that the process ahead would be difficult Dennis Hastert and time-consum­Speaker of the House 
ing. "We have to look at this. We're 
the power to 
o v e r s e e spending, hir­ing and firing in all intelli­gence agen­cies. 
President Bush issued executive orders Friday to expand the 
powers of the CIA director to perform 
and worked dili­he said. ommendations. He promised
"We will be 
gently on how to Frist added: to work with Congress to lay
deliberate.
deal with recom­"We will be delib­out details of how the overall mendations for We will be erate. We will be director would deal with the change offered by aggressive. We 15 civilian and military intel­
aggressive.
the commission will be focused." ligence agencies. Bush
We will be 
that investigated Still, he said, reported on his proposals in the Sept. 11, focused." "It's not going to his weekly radio address 2001, terrorist be a knee-jerk Saturday. attacks. reaction. This is Sen. Pat Roberts, H-Kan.,
Bill Frlst 

Frist and too big.... We'll chairman of the Senate

Senate Majority 
Democratic leader do it in a very Intelligence Committee, has 

Leader

Tom Daschle of careful and made a proposal of his own: South Dakota thoughtful and to break up the CIA and have asked lead-aggressive way." downgrade or eliminate sev­ers of the Senate The commission that inves­eral Pentagon intelligence Governmental Affairs tigated the Sept. 11 attacks offices. 


_Loggers cut dying trees before forest fires strike 
Committee to produce by Sept. 30 proposals on an intelligence overhaul for the Senate to consider. 
Hastert, appearing with 
found serious shortcomings in intelligence handling and analysis. Among other reme­dies, it called for creation of a national director of intelli­
Associated Press BIG BEAR LAKE. Calif. -In the mountains of Southern California, it's the new sound of summer: the whine of a chain saw followed by the whoosh and thud of a falling tree. Logging crews are moving through neighborhoods and across densely forested hill­sides, racing to cut as many dead and dying trees as they can before the area erupts in flames. It's a battle no one expects to win this year -and perhaps not anytime soon. "We have an extremely haz­ardous situation out there even though we've made a lot of progress," said San Bernardino County Fire Chief Peter Hills. Drought and infestations of bark beetles have killed mil­lions of trees in the forests of San Bernardino, Riverside and San Diego counties. posing a major threat in what has been called an extremely dangerous fire season. Last year, the same condi­tions fueled the most destruc­tive wildfires in state history. Throughout Southern California, 15 blazes killed 24 people while scorching 750,000 acres and destroying 3,673 homes and businesses. Despite the devastation, plenty of fuel is still available. Vast areas of dead trees are visible as rust-colored streaks amid the pine-covered moun­

tains. 
If they aren't removed, the trees "will go up like fireworks on the Fourth of July," said Thomas Meixner, an assistant professor in the environmental sciences department of the University of California at Riverside. 
"It's going to burn eventually. All you can do is reduce the risk," he said. 
The effort to clear the trees is part of a broader wildfire strategy that includes station­ing of additional firefighters in the tinder-dry forest region and increased training, Hills said. 
Forest thinning has sparked bitter battles in the Sierra Nevada and other parts of the West. Environmentalists argue that such projects are often a backdoor to wholesale logging in sensitive areas or increase fire danger by spreading debris and destroying fire­resistant large trees. 
No one, however, disputes that the drought and bark bee­tles, which kill trees by cutting off their flow of water and nutrients, have created a huge problem in Southern California. 
Environmental groups such as the Sierra Club endorse dead tree removal from around mountain communities in San Bernardino, Hiverside, San Diego and Los Angeles counties as a way to reduce the danger to the public and firefighters. 

going to analyze it, and we're going to put this thing back together," the speaker said. 
"Four or five groups of ideas (are) out there, and I think we need to take a very serious study on all those ideas," 
many of the functions of the proposed national intelli­gence director until Congress comes up with an overall for­mula for the intelligence sys­tem. 
Bush's orders also put in place other commission rec­Monday, August 30, 2004 

Dow 10 195.01 +21.60
jones '
d.
'··==~.,,,:_:::-. Same: ~ Composite Volume: 2,226 181 • 875,558,528 

AMEX 1,229~50 +7.77 .· NASDAQ 1,862.09 +9.17 NYSE. 6,455~52 +15.73 S&PSOO 1,107.77 +2.68 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,209.59 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,490.10 +36.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.15 +0.25 22.02 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + I.S6 +0.30 19.47 MICROSOFr CP (MSFT) +0.07 +0.02 27.46 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +2.38 +0.38 16.36 SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) + 1.06 +0.04 3.82 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.06 -0.03 50.18 I 
10-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 42.27 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.15 +O.OS 34.27 
3-MONTH BILL +0.40 +0.06 15.22 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.08 43.18 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.20 405.40 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.975 92.10 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.57 
EURO 0.8318 
POUND 0.5582 
IN BRIEF 
Tribes unite to open casino in Ohio 
DAYfON, Ohio -The federally recognized Shawnee tribe has given its support to the Eastern Shawnee tribe of Oklahoma in its effort to open casinos in Ohio. 
Shawnee tribe officials say they do not plan to get directly involved, but do not object to the Eastern Shawnee tribe's efforts. The Miami, Oklahoma-based Shawnee tribe said they currently have no plans to reclaim lands in Ohio. 
The tribe's business council unanimously passed a resolution in July supporting the Eastern Shawnee's economic development efforts in Ohio. 
"It gives the Shawnee people more clout when you have two tribes instead of just one for legislation purposes with the state," said Terry Casey, a Columbus consultant with National Capital 1, which represents the Eastern Shawnee tribe. 
National Capital 1 is preparing a land claim of at least four million acres for the Eastern Shawnee and wants to establish five to seven casinos, Casey said. 
Gas prices escalate a second time 
LOS ANGELES -Gas prices nudged upward about half a penny in the last two weeks after dropping more than 20 cents since May 21, but another price spike is not expected due to a decline in crude oil prices, an industry ana­lyst said Sunday. 
The combined national average for all grades of gasoline was $1.91, said Trilby Lundberg, who publishes the semimonthly Lundberg Survey. The price was up from $1.90 on Aug. 13. 
The survey, taken Friday, polls about 7,000 gas stations across the United States. 
Lundberg said the slight upsurge came from an increase in crude oil, which peaked Aug. 19 at $48.70 before falling to $43.18. 
Self-serve regular, the biggest seller, was $1.88. Mid-grade national average was $1.97 and the U.S. average of premium was $2.07. 
"Crude oil's price cut will be working its way to the pump," Lundberg said, adding that unless there were an actual loss of crude oil supply, pump prices will "be sliding down into Labor Day and beyond." 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Stocks rise modestly in trading 
A sluggish GDP exceeds estimates as falling oil prices affect the market favorably 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Investors sent stocks modestly higher Friday, embracing a slug­gish gross domestic prod­uct reading that was nonetheless better than expected, hoping that falling oil prices would help spur the economy. The major indexes all finished the week higher. 
The 2.8 percent GOP growth in the second quar­ter, a revision from the 3 percent preliminary figure reported in July, is a far cry from the 4.5 percent growth in the first quarter. However, the figure was slightly better than the 2.7 percent expansion econo­mists had forecast. That gave investors hope that this week's drop in oil prices could spark stronger economic growth for the current quarter. 
Still, with the Republican National Convention next week and traditionally slow trading in August, volume on the major markets remained extremely low _ it was the lightest trading day of the year on the New York Stock Exchange _ and any boost in stocks would be seen as tentative at best, analysts said. 
"This is really anemic," said Chris Johnson, direc­tor of quantitative analysis and the Nasdaq rose 1.3 was hampered by energy larger trend that would at Schaeffer's Investment percent. It was the second costs, which the Commerce entice consumers to open Research in Cincinnati. straight week of gains for Department said kept their wallets again. "That's letting a bit of the Nasdaq and the third many consumers from Falling energy costs have volatility come into the straight week higher for spending as much on goods also given corporate market, but so far this the Dow and S&P. and services. The GOP America reason to hope week, it's been on the Oil prices once again growth was also restrained after a weaker second upside. So when everyone dominated the week's trad­by the nation's ballooning quarter. The Commerce comes back in September, ing, which was extremely trade deficit, which showed Department reported that at least we'll be working in light as most investors that what money con­after-tax corporate profits a slightly higher market." stayed out of the market sumers were spending was fell $11.3 billion in the sec­
The Dow Jones industrial until after the convention. heading to overseas com­ond quarter, as compared average was up 21.60, or After oil topped a record panies. to the first quarter. Profits 
0.2 percent, at 10,195.01. $49 per barrel last week, Consumer belt tightening were still up 17.9 percent 
Broader stock indicators falling prices enticed a few was echoed in the latest year over year. were modestly higher. The risk-tolerant bargain consumer sentiment index "It's such a mix of news Standard & Poor's 500 hunters back into the mar­reading from the University today, and that really does­index was up 2.68, or 0.2 ket. The October contract of Michigan. The index n't help us out," said Scott percent, at 1,107.77, and for light crude settled at stood at 95.9 in August, Wren, equity strategist for the Nasdaq composite $43.18 per barrel, up 8 down from 96.7 in July. Oil A.G. Edwards & Sons. index gained 9.17, or 0.5 cents, on the New York prices were widely blamed "There's no clarity in terms percent, to 1,862.09. Mercantile Exchange on for the drop in consumer of inflation, with the oil 
For the week, the Dow Friday. sentiment, but investors prices and GOP, and there's gained 0.8 percent, the Economists said the sec­hoped that this week's drop really not much clarity in S&P was up 0.9 percent ond quarter GOP growth would become part of a terms of earnings growth." 

State recommends salary increase 
Trial court judges would see their do just that so Indiana government Associated Press 
base salary rise from $90,000 to can recruit and retain talented public 
$121,122, the maximum allowed. servants. 
INDIANAPOLIS -As expected, a Supreme Court justices would make Commission member Lee Marchant, state pay ·commission has recom­$143,195, up from $115,000. Judges a Bloomington businessman, called mended significant salary increases on the Court of Appeals would make the panel's work and recommenda­for legislators, judges and statewide $139,951, up from $110,000 per tions "a giant step forward" for elected officials. year. Indiana and its citizens that was 
The recommended raises were Statewide elected officials such as made solely in the interest of good either the maximum allowed under the governor, treasurer and superin­government. It was a "defining caps included in a law that created tendent of public instruction also moment" in Indiana's history, he said. the commission, or were close to would get sizable pay raises. The Marchant, who was appointed to those caps. commission recommended the maxi­the panel by House Speaker Patrick 
The panel said legislators should mum allowed for those and other Bauer, 0-South Bend, made one point see their base pay increase from state office holders. repeatedly during the commission's $11,600 to $30,015 annually. That None of the recommendations three public meetings: Indiana's pub­was just shy of the $30,371 maximum would take effect unless lawmakers lic servants were being paid a pit­the commission could have recom­voted to approve them, and some tance, and taxpayers should be mended. commission members urged them to ashamed about it. 
Monday, August 30, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 

France seeks release of two Mideast hostages 
Kidnappers call for an end to France's ban on Islamic head-scarves 
Associated Press 
PARIS -President Jacques Chirac dispatched his foreign minister to the Middle East on Sunday to work for the release of two French reporters abduct­ed in Iraq, vowing to spare no effort to free them from kidnap­pers demanding the France scrap its ban on Islamic head scarves in state schools. 
Chirac appealed to the kidnappers with an implicit 
reminder that "France ensures because what's France opposed the equality. the at stake is the U.S.-Ied invasion of lives of two
respect and

Iraq. But he did not French people, directly respond to protection ofthe the defense of their reported free practicing of freedom of demand that the expression and
all religions. " 

ban on head also the values of scarves and other our Republic," religious apparel Jacques Chlrac the president be overturned president said. 
within 48 hours. 
"France ensures equality, the respect and pro­tection of the free practicing of all· religions," a solemn-looking Chirac said in a televised address. "These values of respect and tolerance inspire our actions everywhere in the world ... They also inspired France's policy in Iraq." 
The kidnapping proved false the notion that France's opposi­tion to the Iraq war and its gen­erally pro-Arab policies may to some extent have inoculated it from Islamic terrorism. 
The militants claiming to hold Christian Chesnot and Georges Malbrunot described the head­scarf law as "an aggression on the Islamic religion and person­al freedoms," according to the Arab TV station Al-Jazeera. 
The station showed a brief tape on Saturday of the journal­ists saying they were in captivi­ty -the first word on their fate since they disappeared more than a week ago. Chesnot works for Radio France­Internationale and Radio France and Malbrunot for RTL radio and the dailies Le Figaro and Ouest-France. 
Chirac said Foreign Minister Michel Barnier was rushing to the Middle East "to develop the necessary contacts there and coordinate our representatives' efforts" to win the reporters' release. 
"Everything is being done and everything will be done in the hours and days to come," said Chirac. He said France has no fresh information about the reporters. 
"The whole 
nation is gath­
ered together, 
Prime Minister 
Jean-Pierre 
Raffarin indicat­ed that France is using its con­tacts in the Arab world to seek the men's release. He met min­isters and Chirac on Sunday to coordinate the government's response. 
The headscarf law, which will take effect when school resumes this week following the summer break, forbids public school students from wearing "conspicuous" signs showing their religious affiliation. While that includes Jewish skullcaps and large Christian crosses, French authorities made clear that the measure was aimed at removing Islamic head scarves from classrooms. 
The law was adopted in March with overwhelming sup­port from lawmakers from across the political spectrum. But it sparked protests by Muslims in France and abroad, with many saying Islam was being unfairly targeted. 
Athens celebrates successful Olympics 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -If anyone deserved a party, it was the people of Athens. 
The name went out on the Olympics during a closing cere­mony Sunday night that hon­ored the birthplace of the games with an ebullient display of Greek pride and symbolism, a relief-filled celebration of the ancient and the new. 
Famed Greek singer George Dalaras serenaded the crowd. Dancers danced, arms folded, legs kicking high, during an enactment of a traditional Greek wedding. Fireworks exploded over the stadium packed full with 70,000 fans who waved twinkling strobes they were given to light up the show. 
Hundreds of athletes from many of the 202 countries that participated mingled in the cen­ter of the stadium and paraded their flags -Canadian and Swiss, American and Brazilian around the floor. They were ringed by a cadre of security guards, and a white security blimp hovered overhead, just two of the strong reminders of how much the world has changed since the Sydney Games four years ago. 
Later, the huge white torch that burned brightly over the stadium for 17 days was low­ered and symbolic remnants of the flame were passed to the people of Beijing, where the games will be held in 2008. 
China's capital city put on a short ceremony filled with a preview of what's to come. Chinese string instruments played and red-clad martial arts performers romped around the stage. Elaborately clad women wearing headdresses walked out on stilts. A giant, red lantern popped up and, while a young Chinese girl sang, a banner was unfurled that said "Welcome to Beijing." 
"M)' (~lleck(~ar(_i is t(1tally 

al)out carrying casl1 anymc>re." 
Free Student Checking 
• No manrmum bctlarn.t:! 
• Unlimlled transactions. 

• 
No CheckCard transaction f~ 


• 
Convenient Mces'!. to National City ATM!'. and branches whether yot.J'r£' at home, sc.lrool, or on the ro.:l<:l 

• 
Free On!lhe Banklflg -che<:k balances dal4y, transfer funch betw-een accounts and 't.'lew onlin£" s.tatements and check irnages 


• Free Onlihe Btll Payment 


Open any Free Student Checking account and get a free backpack 


Stop by any National Crty bank branch, 'lisit NatiooaKitycom or call 800-347-S626 
SOl.ll'lt BEOO ( fNTPAl CLAY I.R\IM RSIT'Y GAR{.1HIS110 tfortill»;()'¢1P 17977 CI.MII;md Road (;94(1 foklf~h M~n Str.;Jo;~t S74-2'Ho4n3 S74o2l7--'tr.8S S74·H7 -4750 

page 9

Monday, August 30, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

ITuesdav, August 3151 ••• l:OO PM -9:00 PM ••• JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE I 
GENERAl CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Academic Competition Club 
Accounting Association, Notre Dame 
Actuarial Science Club 
Adworks Advertising Agency 
American Cancer Society Club 
American Chemical Society 
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics 
American Institute of Chemical Engineers 
American Society of Civil Engineers 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
Amnesty International 
Anime Club, Notre Dame 
Arnold Air Society 
Asian American Association 
Asian International Society 
Association of Art History Students Bagpipe Band, Notre Dame Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Baptist Collegiate Ministry Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Biology Club Black Cultural Arts Council Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit Campus Girl Scouts, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Caribbean Student Organization Celebration Choir Children of Mary Children's Defense Fund Chinese Culture Society Chorale, Notre Dame Circle K Class of 2005 
Cl2ss of 2006 Class of 2007 College Democrats College Republicans Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Computer Club, Notre Dame Coro Primavera De Nuestra Senora Dance Company Debate Team Detachment 225 Flyin' Irish (AFROTC) Dome Designs Dome Yearbook Economics Club Entrepreneur Club Farley Hall ?layers Feminist Voice Filipino American Student Organization Financial Management Board First Aid Services Team First Class Steppers Flip Side Fly-Fishing Club, Notre Dame Folk Choir, Notre Dame Foodshare Forum on Biomedical Ethics Free Burma Coalition Gaelic Society, Notre Dame German Club Guitar Players' Association 
Habitat for Humanity Handbell Choir, Notre Dame Harmonia Hawaii Club Health Occupations Students of America Helpful Undergraduate Students Hispanic Business Student Association History Club Hugh O'Brien Youth Foundation Alumni Association Humor Artists of Notre Dame Indian Association of Notre Dame Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Investment Club Irish Dance Club Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Iron Sharpens Iron Italian Club Japan Club 

Jewish Club of Notre Dame Joint Engineering Council Juggler, The Juggling Club, Notre Dame Junior Parents Weekend Knights of Columbus Knights of the Immaculata Korean Student Association La Alianza Le Circle Francais LEAD-nd Leprechaun Legion Life Uncommon, A Liturgical Choir, Women's Logan Recreation Club Management Club Marketing Club, Notre Dame Mexican-American Engineers and Scientists 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Minority Pre-med Society Mock Trial Association Ms. Wizard Day Mu Alpha Theta Muslim Student Association Mystery Science Theater 3000 Club NAACP National Society of Black Engineers Native American Student Association of Notre Dame ND for Animals Neighborhood Study Help Program Operation Smile Orestes Brownson Council Othodox Christian Fellowship Pakistan Student Association Pasquerilla East Musical Company Peace Fellowship, Notre Dame Philosophy Club, Notre Dame Polish Club Pre-Dental Society Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Progressive Student Alliance Project Fresh Psychology Club Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) Real Estate Club Right to Life Scholastic Magazine Science-Business Club Shades of Ebony Shirt Project, The Silver Wing Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Physics Students Society of Women Engineers Sociology Club Sorin Rifle Team Spanish Club Special Friends Club of Notre Dame St. Edward's Hall Players Student Alumni Relations Group Student Broadcasting -NDTV Student Government Student International Business Council Student Players, Notre Dame Student Union Board Students for Environmental Action Super Sibs Swing Club Teamwork for Tomorrow Texas Club Toastmasters International Trident Naval Society Troop Notre Dame Unchained Melodies Undergraduate Women in Business Vietnamese Student Organization Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Women's Resource Center WSND-FM WVFI 
LOCAL SERVICE AGENCIES 

AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Red Cross Big Brothers/Big Sisters Boys and Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County Center for Basic Learning Center for the Homeless Children's Dispensary Dismas House Food Bank of Northern Indiana I Believe I Can, Inc. Indiana Legal Services La Casa de Amistad LaSalle Council Boy Scouts of America Life Treatment Centers 
ClUB SPORTS TEAMS 
Bowling Club, Notre Dame Boxing Club, Men's Boxing Club, Women's Climbing Club Cycling Club, Notre Dame Equestrian Club Field Hockey Club Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame Gymnastics Club, ND/SMC Hurling and Camogie Club Ice Hockey, Women's Japanese Martial Arts Club Martial Arts Institute, Notre Dame 
SPECIAl GUESTS 
ACE Admissions Office Athletics Department 

Campus Ministry Career Center Center for Social Concerns Club Coordination Council Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross Educational Talent Search 
Logan Center Reins of Life Robinson Community Learning Center Salvation Army of St. Joseph County 
Youth Programs S-0-S of Madison Center South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility Southern Care Hospice St Vincent de Paul Society Tolson Center Twenty-first Century Scholars West Side Neighborhood Partnership Center Women's Care Center 
Pom Pon Squad Rodeo Team, Notre Dame Rowing Club, Notre Dame Running Club, Men's Running Club, Women's Sailing Club Ski Team Squash Club Swimming Club Ultimate Club Volleyball Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Women's World Taekwondo Federation Club 
Holy Cross Priests and Brothers Institute for Educational Initiatives Legends of Notre Dame RecSports Red Cross/First Aid Services Team 
Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs Student Activities Office 
GET INVOLVED GET ACTIVE 
All current Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited to join us for our annual Notre Dame Activities Night. Hundreds of clubs and organizations will be represented to meet and sign-up new members, distribute information and share their plans for the year. Don't miss it. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT CLUB OFFICERS: 
If your club does not appear on this list and you would like to participate in Activities Night, please contact the Student Activities Office as soon as possible at 631.7308 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AND COSPONSORED BY RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION WITH THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AND CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 
;--------------------------------~------~ -~ 
THE OBSER\'ER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, August 30, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
~.r....,...u.•. V.<!Y -.,.,..s.r...1 No"' o-,...,1 s.;., M..,l 
1~0. Box Q, No<rc Dame, IN 46~56 024 South Dining Holl. Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EmroR IN CHUlf 
Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR BOSINl!SS MANAGER Mcghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Joe Hettler 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VrtWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Yabulas 
SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegard~n 
ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith lN Focus EorroiU Meghan Martin SAIN'l' MA.Rv's EDITOR: An~la Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kdley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• Mike Harkins ADvF.RTISING MANAGER• Carrie Ft~tnklin 
AD DESIGN MANAG1R: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR• M~ry Allen 
CoN'l'ROUl!IU Paula Garcia 
0FRCE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsftvad@nd.edu 

Right-wing ideologues are whipping Hichard Nixon, once stated, "You mcnt productively on sexual matters
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

(574) 631·4542 up a frenzy about the decline of know what happened to the Greeks? is questionable at this point in history. MANAGING EDITOR Western civilization that is being her­Homosexuality destroyed them! Does it have the authority to lecture 
(574) 631-4541 obsme<ii"nd.odu alded by the advent of same-sex mar­Aristotle was a homo, we all know the laity on sexual responsibility while 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

riage. They are not concerned with that. So was Socrates. You know what it hasn't cleaned up its own act?
(574) 631-4324 

the discontent about happened to the Homans? The last six There is an urgent need for a more
BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 631-5313 a global economic Michael Roman emperors were fags." This is coherent understanding of human News DESK system that distrib­Poffenberger the bullet-proof logic that is a bastion sexuality. Recent declarations from 
(574) 631-5323 obsn<:ws.1@nd.edu utes the benefits of of the anti-gay movement. the Holy lnquishion (Congregation for VIEWPOINT DESK 
the productive labor Say Why Not The most recent brainstorm of this the Doctrine of Faith) condemning 
(574) 631-5303 vic:wpoint.I@nd.edu 

of all to only a few at movement was the Federal Marriage homosexuality have instigated such 
SPORTS DESK. 

the top; nor do they Amendment, which if passed would insightful comments as that from an
(574) 631-4543 spott.!;.l@nd.edu 

SCENE DESK care about the modern obsessions have defined marriage as strictly a Archbishop from Uruguay, who 
(574) 631-4540 sctne.l@nd.edu with image and extreme consumption. union between man and woman. It declared that "homosexuality is a con­SAINT MARY'S DESK. But the loving and committed partner­marks the first attempt to take away tagious disease" and recommended 
(S74) 6.31-4324 smd@nd.edu 

ship of two people building communi­specific rights of American citizens the isolation of all "carriers." It is dif· 
PHOTO OESl 

ty in the institution of marriage is since Prohibition -and we all know ficult to understand how clergy, sworn
(~74) 631·8767 photo@nd.edu 

SYSTEMS & WEB Allr.IIIIISYIIATOfiS more than they can bear. what happened to that one; if you to lifelong chastity, have achieved 
{~74) 631-8839 This institution that they want to don't, walk through Keenan Hall any such an intimate and authoritative preserve allowed a drunken Britney night of the week. The amendment understanding of what defines healthy Spears to get hitched Las Vegas-style has failed to pass Congress once, sexual practice, especially in light of 
oss~RVERONLIN£ in a partnership that lasted 10 days. It though it will probably return. widespread deviant behavior within www.ndsmcobserver.com is being promoted on television shows Supporters are working in overdrive, their ranks. The Catholic Church at by women competing to marry men perhaps due to the fact that very soon one time condoned slavery; could it
POLICIES 

with fabulous wealth. Where are the Americans will begin to realize that possibly be wrong on this issue also? 
The Observer is the Jrnkpendent, daily newspa~r 

outcries from the champions of family gay marriage really isn't destroying Denying the right of marital union to
published in print and online by the students of the 

University ofNotte Dame duLacand Saim Mary's values about these debacles? And why the future of our children at all; homosexuals should be called what it Colkgc. EdifOI'ial Wit~(, including ad~C$, .~ have they not been quicker to point recently-married cou-is: discrimination. not governed by policies ofthe administmion ofeirher out the devastating effects of poverty ples in California and The government has imtitution. 1bc Observer remves the right to n!IU5e on family life? Actually, owner of Fox Massachusetts have no place interfering
Authentic
adVl:rtikmenu b~ on c:onttnt. Network and proud supporter of con­continued their lives in the personal lives The n~s ill reported as ;lCCUtatdy and objectively as servative values Rupert Murdoch has together, existing in confrontation with social of American citizens. 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 

been too busy making a fortune from harmony with their ills entails working to Individuals opposed 
rhc majority ofthe Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, 

these shows. Illinois Republican can­families and local to same-sex marriage
Ao;sisrant Managing Editor and dtparun<nt editors. change the parts of 
didate for U.S. Senate Jack Ryan was communities as they need to realize that
C:omment~~ries, letters and columns pres~r the vi~ 

ourselves that are
forcing his wife to commit sex acts in have for years. bonds of loving part­
'.r the authors and not necessarily th05e of1bc t ll_,;crver. public. And Vice President Dick The foundation of complicit in them. nership and commit­Viewpoint spa.:e is awil:able ro 11ll fe;lders. The ~ Cheney is kept busy trying to keep the United States' rule ment are exactly 
oxpression ofall opiniom through letters is encouraged. quiet the voice of his lesbian daughter of law rests on a pro-what the United Icnm to the Editor must be signed and must include who promotes same-sex marriage, found respect for the sovereignty of States is lacking right now when it u•nW~t infotmatiot\. 
and that of his wife, who does also. individual human beings to follow comes to marriage, and then they Authentic confrontation with social their own consciences, as long as should address the real problems of 
(~.rtions rrganling Obsm>erpolici~ 1houJd b~ 

ills entails working to change the their choices do not have serious and our society.
dirrctNIto .Ed~r ;, Chid'MattL&m: 

parts of ourselves that are complicit proven negative consequences on the in them. But opponents of gay mar­health of the greater community. This Michael Poffenberger is a senior
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th• Dto«<Wt (US~ ~'19 MOllO) oJ><lhlbl...t MoM>y tbMujh ,,;.by """J>' d..;b>j riage have chosen an issue that con­foundation helped us to recognize the anthropology and peace studies major 
OILI111 .nJ .....tltNt pnlodL A d.uipciott m-ThOhs:u'ftlr i-$1D&for0hcralidani.: 

veniently allows them to point fingers. injustice of slavery and institutional­who wants to recognize RFK for his 
_)'Nr. USfotll""~ Thc()biQ'\'«i:f•tnmtbr:rttfdtc-~~.ed~ All#prud~tlvrJ"Pu~ They display a fondness for achieving ized racism. It is also this foundation campaigning words of wisdom, "Some 
((""''~' 

a sense of accomplishment by inter­that will eventually help gay mar­men see things as they are and say
'Jlxo Obm~ ;,. publ~ 11~ l\O.Jio><Q 014 lt>•th Oinin1 H.U ol• Sovd> o;,.,1H.U fering in the personal lives of others. riage. Opponents have yet to make a why. I dream things that never were 
Notte nan:t~. IN ~)6-077? ""-1.41nc.IN 46m-om 

l\!t~.l~<!ptld "Now o~ Lashing out in fear and not compas­clear argument about how these and say why not." lie can be reached 
.tnd Add•MJial M"'liJIC off!CCII. 

sion. opponents of same-sex unions unions will actually be harmful. at mpoffenb@nd. edu. rally against these "others" who are Shouldn't we welcome adults in stable The views of this column are those 
ScftJ .d41'1m l'OJ"'Uiofu; W, 

11M:Ob,mtt to blame for all the problems of socie­relationships? ofthe author and not necessarily 
llw~t<trJJ • ftK'm""9f~ ~w:d ~ 1\B .m~<Rl ,•~ U't ty. One such rallier, former President As for the Church, its ability to com-those of The Observer. ~ 

Marriage a human right 
TODAV'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Angela Saoud Justin Schuver Eileen Duffy Kate Gales JenRowling Mike Gilloon 

Should Tariq Ramadan be allowed to teach
Viewpoint Scene 

at Notre Dame? 
Sarah Vabulas Christie Boisen Justin Spack mustrator Graphics Meg Dwyer 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at
Mike Harkins 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Education is the power to think clearly. the power to act well in the world's work, and the power to appreciate life. " 
Brigham Young theologian 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, August 30, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning class officers' decisions 
A new school year has begun and some time has passed since April 1st. when our new class officers took their positions. I'd like to reflect a little on the new Sophomore Class Officers, who are President Jason Laws (Fisher), Vice President Bill Andrichik (Stanford), Treasurer Laura Horne (Howard) and Secretary Megan Spokes (Farley). After holding office for a some time now, it's important that we look at how they have handled their positions thus far. 
Who am I to judge the new class officers? I was once one of their col­leagues -I was the St. Edward's representative to Freshman Class Council. As Freshman Class Spiritual Commissioner, I, along with my fellow commit­tee members, was part of one of the most active and successful committees in our class council. Despite my leadership and our committee's success, I was denied the opportunity to serve the Class of 2007 as Spiritual Chairman, and was even denied a spot as a regular council member. Who was selected to take my place? A new member to council without previous council experi­ence from Stanford. the home dorm of the class's current Vice President. 
And what's worse about the choices made by the new officers? Nearly one out of three dorms on campus go unrepresented on council. According to the Class of 2007 Web site, Alumni, Dillon, Keough, Morrissey, Siegfried, Zahm, Cavanaugh and Lyons have no representation on council at all. When important decisions need to be made about class activities, the members of these dorms, which account for well over 1/3 of the members of the Class of 2007 will have no say in what goes on whatsoever. 
Further, several dorms have unfair representation at the other end-they have more members than many other dorms. An example of this unsurpris­ingly comes from Stanford, again the home of the current Vice President, which has four representatives on council out of the 35 total members. Lewis and Welsh Family also have four reps and the other unmentioned dorms have one or two representatives. 
What's more? Of the six new chairmen that the new officers chose for the six committees on council, only one was a chairman or even a member of Freshman Council. So we will have one effective committee led by an experi­enced chairperson while there will be five other committees who will effec­tively have to start from scratch. This is more than a misjudgment by the current officers-it is politicizing of the issue. It is obvious that some posi­tions were given in the interest of favors to friends rather than in the inter­est of the Class of 2007. ti.: ~ .~ , 
The question about all of this is not whether the officers should have been more thoughtful in their choices for council, but whether these officers are objective enough to lead. From my past experience on Council, I feel that an efficient student government can only come from objective leadership. These officers seem to have put politics and their friends ahead of what is good for our class, which I assure you the other candidates would not have done. I may seem to be partial, as the former campaign manager of an opposing ticket, but my involvement in that ticket goes further to prove my point that the Laws ticket was not the best choice for the Class of 2007. If I thought it was, then I would have campaigned with them. After working with them on council and seeing their blatant preference of what is good for them over what is good of the Class of 2007, it is clear that a change of pri­orities needs to be made in our class government. The idea of "service before self' should be simple enough to understand, but it's not a philosophy being followed in the best interest of the Class of 2007. 
Christian Hoeffel St. Edward's Hall Sophomore Aug. 27, 2004 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Reinstate Ramadan's visa 
As students and representatives of the Jewish Law Students Society at the Notre Dame Law School, we were surprised and saddened to hear of the revocation of a visa granted to Tariq Ramadan by the Department of Homeland Security, an action that effectively prevents Professor Ramadan from beginning his teaching position at the Kroc Institute of Peace Studies and becoming a part of the Notre Dame community. We were further disappointed to read media reports portraying the revocation of Professor Ramadan's visa as an action supported and approved of by various Jewish groups. 
As members of the small Jewish community at Notre Dame, we support the Kroc Institute's hiring of Professor Ramadan and condemn the Department of Homeland Security's action. Diversity in opinion, particularly in religious and political viewpoints, is essential to the well being of any academic community; Notre Dame is no exception. Although we understand that national security interests may have motivated the revoca­tion of Professor Ramadan's visa, we know of nothing in Professor Ramadan's history indicating that he presents a threat to our country or our university. On the contrary, it is the repression of dissenting opinions and critical thought that, throughout history, has been the greatest danger to a free society. 
As members of a religious minority both on campus and in this country, we wish to express our support for Professor Ramadan and our sincere hope that he will soon join us at Notre Dame. Professor Ramadan is engaged in a scholarly and political project challenging Muslims, Christians and Jews in the West to revisit deeply held notions of identity, tolerance and coexistence. Although we may not always agree with Professor Ramadan's opinions, the free exchange of ideas is the hallmark of our system of higher education. We hope that the Department of Homeland Security will carefully consider the values our citizenry holds most dear and allow Professor Ramadan to become a part of the Notre Dame community. 
Jessica E. Tannenbaum, President Bradley S. Schrager, Treasurer Joshua B. Locker Eric D. Delaporte Rachel L. Wolock Jewish Law Students Society Notre Dame Law School Aug. 26,2004 
U-WIRE 

Comedy Central's Daily Show key for young voters 
"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" is a show most of us are familiar with; one we turn to when the local news is too dry and boring -one we look to for a slightly twisted view on media. It's a show that melds late night talk with primetime news, so when presidential Steve Bristow candidate John Kerry turned to this show Ball State Tuesday, there was a sur­Daily News prised shock in the political community. 
Yet, this shock should not have happened. Think about it: America wants people to vote, especially young people, and "The Daily Show" has a viewership of mostly 18-25 year olds. Kerry said early in his campaign that he was after the rock-and-roll vote. What better place to find it than at a "fake" news pro­gram that holds most young people's atten­tion? 
Some network news programs have become annoyed -to say the least -at the buzz and popularity "The Daily Show" has. This year during the Democratic National Convention CBS newsman Ted Koppel showed that annoyance saying, "A lot of tele­vision viewers-more, quite frankly, than I'm comfortable with-get their news from the Comedy Channel on a program called 'The Daily Show."' 
Yet, with the show's satirical view on poli­tics and the media, it is hard for young peo­ple not to watch. I fmd myself scheduling my dayaround the show's airtime, making sure I am back home by 10 p.m. to catch the start of the show. 
Also with Stewart's get-to-the-point, no-BS humor that hits so consistently the show will keep the college crowd captivated throughout the 30-minute broadcast. Stewart himself finds it hard to believe that a lot of the young demographic get most, if not all, of their news from his show. In an article Newsweek ran last December, Stewart commented, "I just don't think that is possible. We're on channel 45 in New York! Literally on the remote control journey you could absorb more news than you would get from our show." 

Yet, in this oddball world Stewart's show has become the late night hotspot for politi­cians to appear. Last year, vice presidential candidate John Edwards announced his bid for the presidency on his show, to which Stewart replied, "I have to warn you we are a fake show, so you might have to do this again somewhere." 
In the college student's eyes Stewart is god­like. He is one of the few "adults" that has the gusto to mock the same things that we mock. He uses satire in a way that we all do. He attacks the media, uses hardball questions when talking to his guests. All other late­night talk show hosts will throw softballs at the politicians who appear as guest on their shows, like Tuesday night. When Kerry appeared with Stewart, the first question out of his mouth was about the "Swift Boat Veterans For Truth" ad campaign. Although presented in a comedic way, "I watch a lot of the cable news shows," Jon Stewart began, "so I understand that you were never in Vietnam," the point was received by Kerry, and the viewer. 
Although I will probably vote for George W. Bush this fall, I will have to say that Kerry made the right choice by visiting "The Daily Show." If he is really looking for the "rock­and-roll" vote that show is definitely a place to get it. I am an avid viewer of the show and have gained some more respect for Kerry, and have to commend him on his decision to appear on the show. 
This article originally appeared on Aug. 27, 2004 in the Daily News, the daily publication ofBall State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, August 30, 2004 
The Show: 
Still waiting for his rocket to come: Jason Mraz played an uninspiring set 


By LAUREN WENDEL Scene Wrirer 
Jason Mraz's eo-headlining set at The Show version 3.0 Friday night brought many curious students to the Joyce Center to hear this poten­tially rising star. Unfortunately, most left ques­tioning the hype surrounding the singer-song­writer. llis major label debut "Waiting for My Hocket to Come" (Elektra, 2002) combines an eclectic mix of folk, country, hip hop and acoustic pop rock with a hint of jazz-inspired vocals, creating a distinctive sound not heard in many current pop rock acts. 
When Mraz's single "The Hemedy (I Won't Worry)" hit top-40 radio in the summer of 2003, many expeeted this young coffee shop guitar player, who is originally from Mechanicsville, Va. and now lives in San Diego, to become the next John Mayer or link to Dave Matthews. Despite intelligent lyrics, unique song crafting and clear vocals, his level of musical success has yet to reach those heights, much like his disappointing live performance Friday night. 
Mraz took the stage in front of a hyped up and anticipatory crowd and began with a new slow song, "Not so Usual." The song is ofl' his new live CDIDVD "Tonight. Not Again: Jason Mraz Live at the Eagles Ballroom," which was recorded in Milwaukee this past October. Despite beginning the show on a slower note.• 
· 'Mraz and his talented back up band picked up with his 'Til Do Anything," a simple love song lilled with clever lyrics. Hather than building on this energy, Mraz deeided to follow up with several more new songs, all of which included longer than necessary jam sessions between guitarist Bill Bell and bassist Ian Sheridan. Instead of adding heavier musi­cal technicality to these songs, most of these jam sessions dragged the set down and forced many fans to leave due to bon~­dorn. Farther into the set, Mraz broke into his faster-paced, bluegrass inspired "Curbside Prophet" infused with morn improvised freestyle lyrics. This song proved to be a highlight of the set. not only because it was one of the few energetic songs but also due to Mraz's signature improvisational freestyles. At one point in the set, he freestyled his drummer Toea Hivera's phone number -area 
code included -much to Hivnra's surprise. 
The loudest cheers of the night eame from random rnfnrnnees to tlw Fighting Irish, win­ning one for the Gippnr and Hally in the ;\llny. Despite thesn attempts to gain crowd support, Mraz largely failed to capture thn attention of his audience. lin had littln. if any, stagn prns­enee, unless you consider flirting with front row audience members a rare form of stage prnsnncn. 
Tlw song that should havn rnvived and inspired the quickly dwindling crowd only left many disappointed and disenehantnd. Hathnr than sing his hit single "The Homedy (I Won't Worry)." Mraz handpicked thrnn volunteers from the front of the audioncn to appear on stage and karaoke the song. The band gathnred behind all three and jumped around while a tape of the song rolled in the background. 
Mraz proceeded to guide each singer sepa­rately through butchering the inspirational song, all while snapping Polaroid pictures and tossing them into the crowd. This may be fun if you are out with friends at a karaoke bar. and even served as a nice ehango of pace from typi­cal eoncort sing-a-longs, but for this crowd it was tho wrong remedy. Many audionee mnm­bers begged Mraz to sing his own song again. but like much of the set, Mraz failed to reeog­nize the crowd's atmosphere and eontinu!~d with slower versions of "Tonight, Not Again" and "Sleeping to Dream". 
Mraz picked up the pace at .Limes. pl~yiug ../,1.. faster than normal version of "On Love, In Sadness" whieh was well received by the audi­ence, but then brought the energy level back down with more boring jams and unspnctacular light displays. By the end of his scheduled sot, the erowd had thinned out to a third of what it was when the concert began. Those still awake at this time were only die hard Jason Mraz fans, or friends who were forced to stay with friends who were those die hard Jason Mraz fans. llis two-song encore was much likn the rest of his set -long, slow and energy killing. Mraz linished with "Sleep All Day" which would have been nice to hear on a lazy Sunday aftnr­noon, but not during an exciting Friday night. 
Although Jason Mraz has the unique talent and potential to become a big top-40 musician, his live performances arc best left to small ven­ues and crowds that can better appreciate his eclectic freestyles. Hather than spend the $10 to see him in concert, one is better ofT adding this unique artist to his or her musie collection. 
Contact Lauren Wendel at wend8627@saintmarys.edu 

CLEMENT SUHENDRA and TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer 
At left, Mraz Included songs from his new album during The Show as well as hits from his 2002 album, "Waiting for my Rocket to Come." Right, Mraz and his backup band Included a few jam sessions, but had three fans come on stage and help sing the hit "The Remedy." 
---------~--------------------------------------------~--------~--------~----~--------~~----~-­

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, August 30, 2004 
page 13 
ersion 3.0 
Talib Kweli gives a strong performance in impressive opener 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Although Talib Kw!'li is not as well known as mainstream rappers like 50 Cent or Ludacris, he has quickly established himself as one of the most respected artists in underground rap. Hailing from Brooklyn, N.Y., Kweli started his career in the late 90s as a part of Black Star, a rap group with fellow rapper Mos Def and DJ Hi-Tek. In 1998, the group came out with their self-titled debut, "Black Star." which was regarded by many as an instant classic. 
What distinguished this album from others was its emphasis on knowledge and awareness, following the teachings of black civil rights activist Marcus Garvey. For many, this positive theme was a breath of fresh air to the negativi­ty and violence interlaced in many mainstream rap reeords. Since Black Star was so success­ful, the three members parted ways to pursue solo earners. While Mos Def decided to focus more on his acting career, Kweli continued awing critics with his expert lyricism on "Heflection Eternal" in 2000 and "Quality" in 2002. 
On Friday night, Kweli opened for The Show at the Joyce Center and did not disappoint. However, it quickly became apparent that the audience was not particularly familiar with Kweli's music. For instance, early on Kweli asked if the-re· wcrn a:ny Black Star fans in the crowd and got a rather muted response. But he took it lightly and jokingly pointed at one Black Star fan in the front and said he had one, at least. On several occasions, Kweli tried to get the crowd to sing along, but he was often left hanging due to the crowd's unfamiliarity with his lyrics. 
Despite these setbacks, Kweli did a good job of keeping the crowd engaged in a variety of ways. Throughout The Show he told fans to put their hands in the air, clap or yell. At one point he even told fans in the seats to do the wave, and in another instance he asked the crowd to hold up lighters and cell phones for a slower number. lie also altered his lyrics to include Notre Dame, and even referenced Hudy in one line. 
But perhaps the defining moment for Kweli was when he asked a couple students to come on stage to dance in the middle of the show. When security refused, Kweli immediately stopped the music and said the show would not go on unless the students could come on stage, causing the crowd to cheer. Security did not budge, so Kweli stuck by his words and left. After about five minutes, and some sparse "Kweli!" chants. to the crowd's delight security finally gave in and let the students on stage, and Kweli came back to continue the show. 
Kweli's set included songs from all across his music catalogue, but seemed to focus primarily on tracks from his last album, "Quality." Kweli appeared to improvise a lot according to the crowd's reaction, sometimes changing songs before the last one was finished. This worked well, as he was able to do this seamlessly with­out disrupting the flow of the show. 
Some of the notable tracks he performed were "Get By" and "Good to You" from Quality and "Definition" from Black Star. He also per­formed "I Try," a new Kanye West produced track with Mary J. Blige from his upcoming album, "Beautiful Struggle." 
Although Kweli performed well, it was often very difficult to understand him because of the Joyce Center's sub-par acoustics and loud, ear­shattering bass. Kweli is an extremely talented lyricist who relies a lot on his words and mes­sage to carry his songs, rather than catchy cho­ruses or funny one-liners, so not being able to understand him was rather unfortunate. Even when he tried to get the crowd to sing the words "I Try," he got a small response because most of the crowd could not understand the words. 
In spite of this, the audience appeared to enjoy Kweli's performance. Even though most people did not know his music well, many approvingly nodded their heads to the beat and waved their hands in the air whenever Kweli told them to. Before his encore, some fans even chanted "Kweli!" to get him to come back on stage. 
Overall, despite the poor sound and unknowledgeable audience, Kweli provided a solid show and demonstrated that he'll be an integral part of the music scene for years to come. He is even planning on making another Black Star album with Mos Def, which will be eagerly anticipated by many hip-hop fans. 
Kweli is a gifted rapper, and those that attended The Show were lucky to have seen him. After all, as Jay-Z said about "The Black Album," "If skills sold, truth be told, I'd proba­bly be lyrically, Talib Kweli." 
Now that is respect. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at 
kstorin@nd.edu 



At left, Talib Kweli incorporated Notre Dame references into his songs, such as to the movie Rudy. Right, Kweli encouraged fans to do the wave, hold up lighters and cell phones and even come onstage. 
Monday, August 30, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Elarton earns first career shutout in Tribe win 
Associated Press 
Scott Elarton downplayed his 
first career shutout, though his 
new Cleveland Indians team­
mates were impressed. 
Elarton pitched a two-hitter and Casey Blake hit two of Cleveland's four homers in a 9-0 victory over the Chicago White Sox on Sunday. 
Travis Hafner and Ronnie 
Belliard also connected for 
Cleveland. Blake drove in four 
runs. 
"At this point in my career, I'm 
not caught up in numbers," 
Elarton said, "but a shutout is 
nice to get." 
The right-hander allowed an infield single to Willie Harris leading off the fourth and a one­out single to Joe Crede in the ninth in his finest performance since reaching the major leagues in 1998 with Houston. 
"Scott was outstanding," Indians manager Eric Wedge said. "He was in command the whole ballgame." 
Harris hit a slow roller that second baseman Belliard fielded at the cut of the grass, but he could not make a throw. Harris was erased on a double play, as was Ross Gload, who walked to open the third. 
"Scott pitched a great game, he just kept throwing strikes," Belliard said. "You love to play behind a pitcher like that." 
Through eight innings, Elarton (3-3) faced the minimum 24 bat­ters, but he hit Ben Davis in the right knee with the first pitch of the ninth. 
"It had to be done," Elarton said. "Both sides knew it needed to be done. I had to step up for my team." 
Cleveland's Ben Broussard was hit by a pitch in the eighth from Neal Cotts, and Matt Lawton had a pitch from White Sox starter Jon Garland sail past his head in the first. 
"Let's just say that Scott is a good teammate," Wedge said. 
Elarton was warned by plate umpire Ed Rapuano, but main­tained his composure. He allowed Crede's single to center, but easily finished his third career complete game and first since Aug. 27, 2000, with the Astros at Montreal. 
It was the fastest game in Jacobs Field history at 1 hour, 56 minutes. 
The Indians moved one game ahead of Chicago for second place in the AL Central by win­ning for just the third time in 14 
CLASSIFIEDS 

games. The White Sox have lost eight of 11. 
Toronto 6, New York 4 
The New York Yankees failed 
to get a win from their starting 
pitcher-again. 
Carlos Delgado homered off Mike Mussina in Toronto's five­run seventh inning and the Blue Jays ended a five-game losing skid with a victory over the Yankees on Sunday after a power outage delayed the start for about an hour. 
Mussina (9-8) remained win­
less in four starts since coming 
back from an elbow injury that 
sidelined him for nearly six 
weeks. He gave up five runs and 
five hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
The Yankees have gotten just 
one win from their starting 
pitchers in the last 15 games. 
"I just didn't do it. That's the frustrating part. I pitched well for six innings, but it looks like I didn't pitch well at all when it's all said and done," said Mussina, who added that his health is no longer a concern. 
New York manager Joe Torre was "very pleased" with the out­ing. 
"He's getting stronger," Torre said. 
Alex Rodriguez went 4-for-4 with a homer and a walk for the Yankees, whose lead over sec­ond-place Boston in the AL East dropped to 4 1/2 games -their smallest margin since June 23. 
Rodriguez isn't worried about Boston. 
"They are playing extremely well, but we're in the driver's seat," Rodriguez said. "This game is about runs and they are in the best run of the year." 
Miguel Batista (10-10) won for the first time since July 23 -a span of seven starts -and allowed two runs and seven hits in seven innings. 
"It was a good one by Batista. Seven strong ones," Blue Jays interim manager John Gibbons said. 
Jason Frasor gave up a solo homer to pinch-hitter Jorge Posada in the ninth before fin­ishing for his 17th save in 18 chances. 
Boston 6, Detroit 1 
Tim Wakefield fmished off the Detroit Tigers on Sunday. Now comes the real challenge for the streaking Boston Red Sox. 
Boston beat Detroit, ending a stretch of 26 games -23 against teams below .500 at the time of the game -in which the Red Sox won 20. Next up are consecutive three-game home series against Anaheim and Texas, their closest pursuers in the AL wild-card race. 

"I think we can beat any team right now," Johnny Damon said after the four-game sweep. "Our team is rising up." 
Curt Schilling starts Tuesday night's opener against the Angels, who trailed Boston by two games after the win over Detroit. Texas was three behind. 
"On Tuesday night, you get a chance to set the tempo for the rest of the series," Schilling said. 
Sunday's win and New York's 6-4 loss in Toronto cut the Yankees' AL East lead over the Red Sox to 4 1/2 games -the closest Boston's been to first since June 23. 
Wakefield (11-7) allowed three hits in eight innings and Boston won its sixth straight and 11th in the last 12. 
"My concentration was a lot better," said the knuckleballer, who gave up seven runs in five innings in a win at Detroit on Aug. 8. "I mixed in my breaking ball and my fastball a little bit more this time." 
Baltimore 7, Texas 6 
Melvin Mora has become a dangerous hitter with the bases loaded. 
Mora drove in four runs in a pair of bases-loaded singles, helping the Baltimore Orioles snap their season-high 12-game losing streak with a 7-6 victory over the Texas Rangers on Sunday. 

Mora improved to 8-for-15 with 18 RBis with the bases loaded this season. 
"I knew the club needed me," said Mora, second in the AL with 
a .349 average. "I gave it a little extra." 
Mora's two-run hits in the third and fifth helped stop the Orioles' longest slide since drop­ping the final 12 games of the 2002 season. 
"If we'd lost this one today, we might as well have called it a season," Orioles starter Sidney Ponson said. 
Baltimore's Brian Roberts reached base four times and scored three runs. 
"We were ready for something positive to happen," Roberts said. "We thought we'd break the streak every day for the last 10 days. Now we can move on." 
Anaheim 4, Minnesota 2 
The Minnesota Twins are beginning to think Adam Kennedy isn't human. And they're glad to be finished with him -at least for the regular season. 
Kennedy hit a two-run homer in the ninth inning, giving the Angels a 4-2 victory over the AL Central-leading Twins on Sunday. It came two days after his tiebreaking two-run shot helped beat the 1\vins 9-6. 
"I think Adam Kennedy is the Rally Monkey," Minnesota out­fielder Torii Hunter said in refer­ence to the Angels' video mas­cot. "The Rally Monkey lives within him. If you get rid of Adam Kennedy, the Rally Monkey is no more." 
Kennedy has hit three other home runs against the 1\vins ­all of them in the 2002 AL cham­pionship series clincher, earning him MVP honors for that series. 
Jose Guillen doubled home the tying run in the sixth for his 1OOth RBI of the season, and Troy Glaus went 0-for-2 with two walks in his first game back after being sidelined for more than 3 1/2 months with a shoul­der injury. 
Kennedy drove a 3-2 slider down and in from Juan Rincon (1 0-6) deep into the right-field porch for his ninth home run and first walkoff homer of his career after a one-out walk to Glaus. 
"This was the last game against them and we won't see those guys no more. so he decid­ed to go deep and leave us think­ing about the ALCS -because it might happen again," Hunter said. "But I'll tell you what-in the ALCS, he won't get a pitch to hit. I hope not. He's hurting us." 
Francisco Rodriguez (2-1) allowed one hit in two scoreless innings for the win. Angels starter Kelvim Escobar allowed two runs, four hits and no walks in seven innings while striking out nine. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Got Highspeed? Want WIRELESS? Networks installed and secured. Dan 243-1515 NDDan03@yahoo.com 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES • needed for south side elementary school local­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $30 per soccer game. Call574-291-4200. 
Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886­4189. 
FoR SALE 

HOUSE FOR SALE 915 E. Washington-close to campus; 3 
bdrm 1.5 bath & lots of closets/storage, 2 car garage Ph 289-5922 
FoR RENT 

APARTMENT FOR RENT IN MISHAWAKA Furnish and all utili­ties included. No smoking, No pets. Call 255-1738 for informa­lion. Single person, no children. $400 mo. 
1 bedroom Topsfield Condo for rent, 10 minutes from Campus, $550/mo 
+ utilities, modem, hardwood floors, washer & dryer and community pool. Available immediately. Will consider lease/purchase option. Call 255-5365. 
2 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND.CLOSE.IDEAL FOR 2-4 PEO­PLE.VERY REASONABLE RENT. 277-3097. 
3 bedroom house for rent. 1203 E. LaSalle. $600/mo +deposit. Appliances incl. Call 243-5870. 
3 unit house.$550 per uniVmo. Inc! water & elec. Each unit has full kitchen,bath & 2 bdrms. Off street parking. Can walk to campus. Property Management Services, 233·4590 4 bed 2 bath 925 No. Lawrence 
876-7339 or 288·3613 
2-bdrm house w/living room, dining room, full bath. $575/mo+utilities. Cute country house. Lincolnway (Osceola). Property Management Services 233-4590. 
TICKETS 
A businessman needs season tick­ets for clients. 277-1659 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273· 3911 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 

For Sale: NO football tix. Good 
prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix. Top$$$ 
251-1570. 
NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 
232-2378 p.m. 288·2726 
Wanted: Football season tix or 
Michigan tix. 233-3618 
WANTED: GA home football tix. Call276-8507. After 5 p.m. call784­8638. 
Jack The Observer driver needs three tickets to any home Notre Dame football game. 674-6593. 
PERSONAL 
Young NO alums need TURTLE CREEK APT for MICHIGAN wknd. Will pay top $$$ and finance party for you and friends. Will accept best proposal. Contact CPO· EMD@AOLCOM 
Sister Locks by Phyllis 269-683­4426 
Happy 22nd birthday, Mary! 
Bartender, bartender .. yeah 3171 
B-Y-Who? 
Here's to the Four Musketeers/ Rogue Masochists! -C 

Monday, August 30, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

M U S c 
Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis 
Sunday, September 19, 8 p.m. $75, ND/SMC/HC $60, All Students $25 

The Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts officially swings into action when the Uncoln Center Jazz Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis takes the stage of the leighton Concert Hall, ripping through familiar jazz charts with their head-bopping, foot-tapping, serious fun. Critics have run out of ways to say "technically brilliant" when trying to describe the ensemble's audacious rhythms and ingenious arrangements. Marsalis will turn the leighton into the coolest place on the planet as pure joy erupts from the stage. 
Marcus Roberts Trio 
Friday, September 24, 9 p.m. $37.50, ND/SMC/HC $30, All Students $15 

After astounding a Notre Dome audience lost year, Marcus Roberts returns. The Marcus Roberts Trio will delight and amaze you as they spread the word of jazz. Blind since the age of five, Roberts lives an inspirotionollife as uplifting as his music. The trio ore masters of several forms-gospel, ragtime, swing, pop and bebop, from which they have forged their own unique sound. When they ploy you con hear the future of jazz in America. 
F l M 
FAHRENHEIT 9/11 
1110 minutes) http:/ /www.fahrenheit911.com/ 
Thursday, September 2 Friday, September 3 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
"It is worth seeing, debating and thinking about, regardless of your political allegiances." 
A.O. Scott, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"Moore's ability to kick off a debate-even a vicious one -remains priceless" Michael Wilmington, CHICAGO TRIBUNE 
ORDER YOUR TICKETS EARLY 
Both screenings of ND Cinema sold out lost week. Avoid the lines by calling 631· 2800 to order your tickets by phone. You may also stop by the Ticket Office in the Performing Arts Center between noon and 6 p.m. to get your ti~kets early in the week. Cinema tickets will go on sale Mondays For that week's movie. 
T H E A T R E 
Avanti: A Postindustrial Ghost Story 
by Jessica Chalmers 
Friday, September 24, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, September 25, 7:30p.m. Sunday, September 26, 2:30 p.m. Sunday, September 26, 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, September 27, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, September 30, 7:30p.m. Friday, October 1 , 7:30 p.m. Saturday, October 2, 7:30p.m. Sunday, October 3, 7:30 p.m. 
Performed by The Builders Association 
Performed at the Deluxe Sheet Metal Factory, Downtown South Bend 
$18, ND/SMC/HC $16, All Students $12 
An original multimedia theatrical production, written by Notre Dame's own OBIE-oward winning playwright Jessica Chalmers. 
c  E  L  E  8  R  A  T  E  I  T  !  I  
NO Open House  Community Open House  
Friday, September 17,4 p.m.-10 p.m., Faculty, Staff and Students  Sunday, September 19, 12 noon  -5 p.m., General Public  

Come and celebrate the opening of your performing arts center! Enjoy a self-directed tour through the facility. Maps will be available. Notre Dame and regional performers will showcase their considerable talents in all five venues. 


Discounted tickets ore underwritten by the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There ore a limited number of student discounts available. MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:// performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574-631-2800 
page 16 Monday, August 30, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Bush leads USC to victory from the backfield 
Tailback combines with Heisman prospect Matt Leinart as Trojans hold tough against suprisingly strong Hokies 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. -Reggie Bush came out of the backfield to give Southern California a new big-play receiver. 
The tailback caught three long touchdown passes to help the top-ranked Trojans beat Virginia Toch 24-13 in a slop­py opener Saturday night in perfect over-the-shoulder throw from Leinart for a 53­yard touchdown with 1:55 left in the third. 

Bush also opened the scor­ing by taking a middle screen 35 yards for a TD in the first quarter. 
Otherwise, an offense that averaged 41 points and 447 yards last season struggled for 
which ended with USC up 7-3. "I think things opened up for me tonight," Randall said. 
In the second quarter, Handall burned the Trojans with his arm. He went 5-for-5 for 65 yards during a 10-play, 80-yard drive that culminated with a 12-yard touchdown pass to Josh Hyman. The 17 1/2-point underdog Hokies, took a 10-7 lead into halftime. 
The Hokies had things going their way in the second half, too, until an offensive pass interference call on Hyman wiped out a long gain and led to a punt. 
"The momentum just switched right there," Handall said. 
USC took advantage on the 
Once given a lead to protect, the Trojans defense put the squeeze on Randall. The Hokies managed just a field goal in the second half and the Trojans caused a fumble by Handall with 2:01 left that set up a field goal and sealed a much-tougher than expected win. 
"Nobody said that you have 

the Black Coaches Association most of three quarters against unranked entering the season next possession, sending Bush to be at your best in the first Classic. a Virginia Tech defense that is for the first time since 1998, deep for the lead. game," Carroll said. 
"He's a special player and he coming off its worst season in proved it tonight," USC quar­years. terback Matt Leinart said. Wide receivers Steve Smith, "He's real fast, he's got great Dwayne Jarrett and Chris hands and he can make McFoy combined for eight defenses kind of catches and 87 look silly out there yards. sometimes." Leinart
"/ think there was 
Bush caught five picked it up in
a lot ofpeople

passes for 127 the second half 
yards. there that didn't and finished 
September Topic:
"Reggie deserves give us a chance. 19-for-29 for 
to get the ball as 272 yards, hit­
We proved them 

much as you can ting 11 straight get it to him," USC wrong. " at one point. He 
I The changing face of I
coach Pete Carroll finally found a said. wide receiver
Bryan Randall 

Bryan Handall for long-gainer
Hokles quarterback

led the Ilokies when he hit with his arm and Smith for 46 
I 
I
legs, throwing for yards in the 153 yards and a score, and fourth quarter. rushing for 82 yards. It was On the next play, Bush enough to make the defending sneaked out of the backfield champions work hard, but not and Leinart found him all 
I Q) o I 
nearly enough to pull the alone for a 29-yard score that upset. made it 21-13 with 5:35 left 
"I think there was a lot of and finally allowed the out­people out there that didn't numbered Trojans fans among give us a chance," Randall the 91,665 at sold-out FedEx 
I ~ ~ I 
said. "We proved them Field to relax a little. wrong." Bush credited offensive The Trojans played their coordinator Norm Chow for 
I z I
CD

first game in two seasons well-designed plays. without star receiver Mike "He got me into some fortu­Williams. USC found out nate situations where we had Thursday that Williams would mismatches," Bush said. not be reinstated by the NCAA For a while, it looked as if after his failed attempt to the Hokies might get their first enter the NFL draft. win against a No. 1 team on 

I 

I
"The thing with Mike is over their seventh try. now," Leinart said. "He's stilJ:..a As the Trojans failed to con­II Date: Wednesday September 1st ~ part of us. We're still going to nect in the first half, Handall play the same way we know and the Hokies gained confi­~ Time: 5:30pmhow no matter who we have." dence and found a grove. 
The Trojans said they were Handall's runs accounted for Place: Coleman-Morse Loungeprepared to be without the the bulk of the Hokies' early All-American Williams and offense. The elusive senior 
I RSVP: 1-6841 by 5:00pm on August 30th I
would be OK with a group of had 87 yards rushing on six talented but inexperienced carries in the first quarter, receivers. The results showed other­
wise. Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Breaking in a new group of 

Information M with program returnees to hear about... e
starting wideouts, Leinart 

..
found few open targets in the first half. going 8-for-16 for 102 yards. And the Trojans' rebuilt offensive line was pro­

~.angua9
viding sketchy protection. So the junior looked to Bush, and the explosive sophomore 

tuguese
came through when the Trojans looked as if they were in big trouble -trailing 10-7 late in the third quarter. 

progralfiS
Bush lined up as a wide receiver, blew by Virginia Tech's best cornerback, Jimmy Williams, and cradled in a september 1, 2004
Abroad 

,. 5pm 155 DeBartolo 
UNIVEilSITYO.t<

Fall, Spring, Sum.rn.er, and 
NOTRE DAME. 

Acadendc Year 2005-2006 
f.olonterrey, Mexico Puebla, Medco RiodeJaneiroand Sao Paulo, Brazil Santiago, Chile Toledo, Spain 

IN"rii:RNAnONAJ. tlTliDY 
PllbJ<;aA.MS

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2004 
I ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...
--.t 



----------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, August 30, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS 
American, Italian, Brazilian take medals in marathon 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -Three miles from the finish, the marathon leader was grabbed by a defrocked priest wearing a red kilt, green beret and match­ing knee-high socks. An American won a medal -some­thing that hadn't happened in 28 years. 
Definitely a bizarre way to end an Olympics. Panathinaiko Stadium hasn't hosted anything this weird since a pair of Greek princes ran alongside Spiridon Louis to the fmish line 108 years ago. 
Italy's Stefano Baldini surged ahead with two miles to go and American Meb Keflezighi fin­ished a surprising second in a race disrupted by a costumed intruder from Ireland. 
With three miles left, Vanderlei de Lima of Brazil was clinging to a shrinking lead when he was 

Talk It Out ... Walk It Out ... Wait It Out ... 
Please Contact: Kim Overdyck at taketen@ nd.edu 
Or 631-9424 

Visit us on the web: www.nd.edu/-taketen 
~ 

ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
For further infonnation, please call 
233-2131 

We have an exciting opportunity for YOU to help prevent youth violence in South Bend! Learn ways to help reduce violence while having fun interacting with children in area schools. 
* 
Become a member of a Take Ten team and spend an hour a week in an area school 

* 
Various schools, age groups, and meeting times to fit your schedule 

* 
Multiple training opportunities to learn more about violence and how to work with children 



Come visit our table at activities night, Tuesday August 31st! 
shoved into the curbside throng by the assailant. De Lima was able to get back into the race, but he lost several more seconds and ended up with the bronze medal. 
The 29-year-old Keflezighi, who emigrated from the African nation of Eritrea at age 10, is the 
HELP MAKE OUR SCHOOLS VIOLENCE FREE ZONES 
first American to medal in the men's marathon since Frank Shorter's silver in 1976. Deena Kastor won the bronze in the women's marathon a week ago, marking the first time the United States had won two medals in the 26.2-mile race at the same Olympics. 
"USA running is back," Keflezighi said. "Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. Coming in I was not a favorite, I'm just very happy to win a silver." 
De Lima drew big cheers from the crowd at the finish line in the beautiful, horseshoe-shaped sta­dium that was the site of the first modern Olympics 108 years ago. He smiled broadly, spread his arms like wings and weaved from side to side as he crossed the line. 
Later, he said the intruder cost him a shot at the gold. 
"When I saw the man who was jumping on me I was scared, because I didn't know what could happen to me, whether he was armed with a knife, a revolver or something and whether he was going to kill me," de Lima said. 
"If you stop in a marathon, you struggle the next three or four kilometers. It's hard to get your rhythm back," he said. "I don't know if I would have won, but things would have been differ­ent." 
A protest fried by the Brazilian track federation asking that de Lima be given a duplicate gold was denied by the International Association of Athletics Federations. Brazil said it would appeal that decision to the inde­pendent Court of Arbitration for Sport, whose decision would be fmal. 
The International Olympic Committee said it would present de Lima with the Pierre de Coubertin medal in recognition of his "exceptional demonstra­tion of fair play and Olympic val­ues." 
The race began in the suburb of Marathon as the sun set, cast­ing a rose-colored light over the stadium, which was about three­quarters full. The runners fol­lowed the steep, difficult course over which, legend says, Pheidippides carried the news in 490 B.C. that the Greeks had defeated the Persians in the Battle of Marathon. 
Baldini finished in 2 hours, 10 minutes and 54 seconds. He waved his hands in celebration, then dropped to his knees in exhaustion after his final lap on the narrow track inside the sta­dium. The 33-year-old Italian is the former European marathon champion and two-time world marathon silver medalist. 
Keflezighi, the American record holder at 10,000 meters, showed little emotion at the fin­ish, crossing himself and putting up a No. 1 sign with his finger. Baldini was lying on his back nearby, and Keflezighi bent over him in congratulations. 
He ran a personal-best 2:11.29, 34 seconds behind the winner. De Lima finished in 2:12.11. 
Keflezighi, who has 11 broth­ers and sisters, became a U.S. citizen in 1998. In Eritrea, he lived in a hut that had no elec­tricity. When he saw his frrst car at age 10, he ran away because it scared him. He remembers soldiers surrounding his village, looking for boys 12 and older to drag offto war. His brothers would hide in the bushes to avoid them. 

--~--­

page 18 Monday, August 30, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wells wins seventh straight as Padre's defeat Expos 11-3 
Associated Press 
MONTHEAL-David Wells 

thinks the San Diego Padres 
have what it takes to stick 
around in the NL playoiT race. 
Wells won his seventh consec­

utive road decision and helped 
himself with a single for his first 
career HBI. leading San Diego to 
an 11-3 victory over the 
Montreal Expos on Sunday. 
Hyan Klesko and Khalil Greene each hit two-run homers for the Padres, who began the day tied with San Francisco for second in the NL West -five games behind Los Angeles. They're also tied with Chicago for the lead in the NL wild-card race. 
"It's a big boost for a pitching staff when you get some run support. and that's how you gel," said Wells, a member of nine playoff teams -including two World Series champions. "When you score runs and the pitching docs well. it gives the team a lot of hope." 
San Diego hasn't been involved in a playoiT race since 1998, when it won its second NL pennant before being swept by Wells' Yankees. 
"It's good to come back after losing the first game and pick up two and kind of keep ground where we're at," Greene said. "I don't like to look ahead too often and get ahead of ourselves. I just worry about what we do. As long as we can beat the teams we need to beat, then I think we'll be fine." 
Wells (9-7) allowed eight hits and three runs in seven innings. improving to 3-0 in his last four starts overall. I le struck out two and walked none, the 12th time in 24 starts this season he hasn't allowed a base-on-balls. 
Los Angeles 10, New York 2 
Hobin Ventura circled the bases one more time, passing Babe Ruth and Hank Aaron in the record book and pulling alongside Ted Williams and Jimmie Foxx with his 17th grand slam. 
"It's nice to even be mentioned in any category whatsoever with those guys," Ventura said mod­estly. 
On a muggy day that saw Ventura draw more cheers than 
the Mets, he led the Los Angeles 
Dodgers to a 10-2 victory over 
sinking New York that main­
tained their five-game lead in 
the NL West. 

At 37 and a role player these days, Ventura remains as unas­suming as ever. Even though he's had just 19 starts and 117 at-bats, he's been a key for the Dodgers, seeking their first play­ofT berth since 1996. 
lie had tiebreaking, pinch HBI single in the ninth inning of a 5­4 win over San Diego on April 6, a pinch two-run homer for a 7-6 win at Arizona on July 17 and a pinch 12th-inning homer for a 2-1 victory at San Diego on Aug. 1. 
"To have a player of this guy's magnitude and have other play­ers see how he allows himself to be managed, how he'll do what­ever you ask him to do, you can't put a price tag on that," Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said. 
Cincinnati 6, Arizona 2 
For six innings, Edgar Gonzalez dominated the Cincinnati Reds. With one swing, Adam Dunn changed everything. 
Gonzalez held Cincinnati hit­less into the seventh, but Dunn's 39th homer on a 3-1 changeup helped the Reds rally for a victo­ry over the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
"That was the only pitch he gave me that I could really hit," Dunn said. 
Ryan Freel drove in the go­ahead run with an eighth-inning single and the Reds avoided a three-game sweep. 
Gonzalez faced the minimum 18 batters through six innings before Freel led ofT the seventh with a walk. Felipe Lopez fol­lowed with a chopper to first baseman Shea Hillenbrand while Freel was breaking for second and was credited with an infield single when Gonzalez failed to cover the bag. 
"I didn't see the runner going," Gonzalez said. "I thought [Hillenbrand) was going to go to second base. Then I saw him look toward first, and I started too late." 
That miscue cost Gonzalez and the Diamondbacks. "It leaves a little bit of a bad taste, but it will happen," 
Michael & Co, salons 
"One ofAmerica,s top salons,, -Salon Today magazine 
-Would like to invite you to try one of our New Talents for the latest in Hair fashions for men & women. -We have several Hair Designers eager to show this season's hair styles and complementing high­lighting and hair colors. 
-When you call for an appointment request the 
Student Discountspecial and 
receive 2 0% Off when you present your Sl.JCient LD* 
*Valid only with participating designers 
South Bend  Mishawaka  Elkhart  
521 E. Jefferson Blvd.  236 W. Edison  1900 Berry  
233-1554  256-5600  57 4 262-2702  
2041 E. Ireland  
291-1001  


Arizona manager AI Pedrique said. "Late in the game, we did­n't execute defensively. You're not going to play perfectly every day." 
Sean Casey then hit into a double play, but Dunn's two-run homer gave the Reds a 2-1 lead. 
Philadelphia 10, Milwaukee 0 
Cory Lidle returned to what works -throwing strikes, mak­ing batters put the ball in play early -for his best game of the season. 
"'I felt like the old me," Lidle said. 
Lidle homered and threw a four-hitter for his second shutout of the season, Marlon Byrd hit a grand slam and had a career-best five RBis, and the Philadelphia Phillies extended the Milwaukee Brewers~ losing streak to 11 with a victory. 
Lidle worked more on his mechanics and his approach during recent bullpen sessions with pitching coach Joe Kerrigan. The results paid off with first-pitch strikes on 24 bat­ters. 
"Sometimes you ju.st forget what made you successful," Lidle said. 
Lidle (8-12) was terrific in his first win with the Phillies, strik­ing out a season-high nine. walking one and not allowing a runner past second base in his fourth career shutout. The right­hander was 0-2 with a no-deci­sion since he was acquired from Cincinnati on Aug. 9. 
It was also Lidle's fourth com­plete game this season, tied for second in the National League with Arizona's Randy Johnson. 
Lidle kept Philadelphia's faint playoff hopes alive. The Phillies moved six games behind Chicago in the NL wild-card race with the Cubs' 10-3 loss to Houston. 
"There's definitely a chance, but we have to play our best ball the rest of the season," Lidle said. 
General manager Ed Wade said Bowa's job is safe for at least the rest of the season. Bowa said he was tired of dis­cussing his status, and took issue with a question about why Philadelphia hasn't had more games like this. 
"I know why -all the injuries," he said. "You don't have to be a rocket scientist. People don't want to look at it. Common sense is all it is." 
The Phillies had 16 hits, and Jimmy Rollins, Bobby Abreu, Placido Polanco and Byrd all had three each. 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist? 
Campus Ministry 
Ifyou can answer YES to any or all ofthese questions, come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. 
Imp.ortant Information Meeting:· Wednesday, September 1, 2004 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 
Monday, August 30, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

All-Star infielder Glaus returns to Anaheim lineup 
Former MVP third baseman has no hits, two walks and a run in return to Angels after stint on 60-day disabled list 
15-day disabled list, retroac­Glaus, a three-time All-Star when Glaus' name was "This is what I wanted. I was
Associated Press 
tive to Aug. 24, and optioned third baseman and MVP of the announced in the starting line­hoping to get back for that ANAHEIM, Calif. -Troy right-handed reliever Matt 2002 World Series, has only up. He batted seventh and series and catch that flight to 
Glaus was activated from the Hensley to Triple-A Salt Lake. 108 at-bats this season with 11 received a standing ovation Boston," Glaus said. "It's a big 
60-day disabled list Sunday by Infielder Adam Riggs was home runs, 28 RBis and a .296 before lining out to left field on series for this team and I want­
the Anaheim Angels and was recalled from Salt Lake and average. He underwent shoul­the second pitch he saw from ed to be a part of it. That was 
back in the lineup against the outfielder Barry Wesson was der surgery on May 21. Carlos Silva. my goal from two months ago 
Minnesota Twins. designated for assignment. Glaus injured himself on a When Glaus had the surgery -to get back playing down The Angels also placed desig­In his return, Glaus was 0-2 dive at Minnesota on April 30. on his throwing shoulder, some the stretch and playing against 
nated hitter Tim Salmon on the with a run and two walks. He stayed in the lineup for thought he would miss the rest the teams that we need to nine more games as a DH until of the season. But he was more beat." May 11, when he sprained his optimistic than most, and spent Glaus, who led the AL with a right knee while striking out at the past few months working franchise-record 47 homers Yankee Stadium. out in Arizona -away from four seasons ago, hit 40 the "It was frustrating," Glaus his teammates and the hustle following year and 30 in 2002.. said. "We're all professional and bustle of the clubhouse. before he was limited to 91 ballplayers. We're not profes­"It would have been a whole games last season because of a sional rehabbers. We're not lot more frustrating being partial tear of his right rotator professional sit-around-the­here," 'Glaus said. "I don't like cuff and fraying of the labrum. house guys. We all appreciate sitting around watching. I He didn't undergo surgery, what we have and what we're mean, spending 2 opting instead given a chance to do. It hurts 1/2 months in for an offseason to be away. It hurts to not play. Phoenix during "I almost felt like I rehabilitation This is our job and this is what the summer isn't was a rookie being program. He's in_ we love to do." the greatest thing the final year of
called up from 
After going 3-for-15 with two in the world, a $23 million, home runs, four RBis and six either. But I was Triple-A again. It four-year con­walks during a five-game reha­able to get done was exciting." tract and will be bilitation assignment with what I had to get eligible for free Class~A Rancho Cucamonga, done. And looking agency after the
Troy Glaus
Glaus called general manager back, it was all season. 
Bill Stoneman on Saturday worth it. Anaheim infielder Salmon was 
night to tell him he was ready "By going there, put on the DL to 
to go. He will be the team's all I was just give his trouble­
designated hitter the rest of focusing on was just rehab­some left shoulder a rest. He 
the season. bing. I was out there five days decided a couple of weeks ago 
"It's like I was telling Bill last a week for two months with to not undergo season-ending night, I almost felt like I was a the goal of getting back before surgery because he felt he ­rookie being called up from the end of August. It worked could contribute to the Angels' Triple-A again," Glaus said out, and I got back when I playoff drive. with a grin. "It was exciting. I wanted to be back." Salmon, the Angels' career didn't sleep very well last Glaus' timing couldn't have leader in several offensive cat­night. I'm excited to get back been better. The Angels begin egories, will have arthroscopic and get into a stadium with a road trip Tuesday night in surgery to repair a torn rotator three decks on it. I worked my Boston with the first of three cuff and biceps tendon when butt off to get back here, and games against the Red Sox, the the season ends. He became a here we are." team they are trying to over­DH this year after spending the 
A roar went up from the sur­take for the lead in the wild­previou·s 11 seasons in right prised crowd at Angel Stadium card standings. field. 
STUDENT-FACULTY EVENING SERIES 

M. Katherine Tillman 
Opening Charge 
LEARNING "THE ART OF LIFE" 
(according to Plato and Cardinal Newman) 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2004 7:30p.m. 104 Coleman-Morse Center 
Refreshments and discussion following lecture. 
Associated Press 

ATHENS, Greece -The United States finished atop the medal charts for the third straight Summer Olympics, with Russia the overall runner-up and China second in gold medals ­its best showing ever and the leading edge of a surge by Asian teams. 
Six nations won gold medals for the first time; the trailblazers included an Arab sheik marks­man and an Israeli windsurfer. Two other countri~s. Paraguay and Eritrea, won their first medals of any sort. 
The American team amassed 103 total medals, topping its tar­get of 100, and won 35 golds to 32 for China and 27 for Russia. But China played the lead role in the games' most significant trend -the improvement of Asian squads in a widening array of Olympic sports as they gird for the 2008 Beijing Games. 
Far East Asian nations won 63 gold medals in Athens, com­pared to 43 at Sydney in 2000. Japan alone upped its gold total from five to 16, the biggest increase of any nation, while China won golds for the first time in tennis and men's track. 
OLYMPICS 

U.S__. tops medal counts at Games 
"These were the games where we saw the awakening of Asia," International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge said. "The traditional strong nations that dominate the scene now will have to work extremely hard." 
Australian Olympic chief John Coates, whose team finished fourth, said China and Japan "have sent us an ominous warn­ing. They're gearing up for a dominant performance in 2008." 
Asia's gains came largely at the expense of Europe. Germany won 48 medals in Athens. nine fewer than in Sydney, while medal hauls also dropped for France, Italy, Poland, Norway, ..., Sweden and the Netherlands. Greece, despite drug scandals and other setbacks, won 16 medals, its best showing since it hosted the first modern Olympics in 1896. 
Russia dipped in golds com­pared to Sydney (27 to 32) but, -. despite disappointing perform­ances in swimming and gymnas­tics, exceeded its overall medal total--:-92 this time compared to 88 in 2000. 
The Americans won the most,._ medals in swimming and track, and finished just one behind Romania in gymnastics. 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 


team  record  
Minnesota  72·58  
Cleveland  66·66  
Chh:ago  63"65  
Oettolt  60•70  
J<anqsCity  45·84  
team  record  
Oakland  77-53  
Anaheim  76·55  
Texas  73-56  
Seattle  50-80  
team  record  
Atlanta  75-54  
Florida  66•62  
Philadelphia  65-65  
New York  60-69  
Montreal  55-75  
team  record  
Sl. Louli  86-44  
=~l::  Chicago  11·69  
Houston  6Ni3  
Cincinnati  62-67  
PIU$buruh  60·69  
Milwaukee  55-73  


~around the dial 
MLB 

San Francisco at Atlanta 12 p.m., TBS Chicago Cubs at Montreal6 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 

Tennessee at Dallas 7 p.m., ABC 
POKER World Series of Poker 7 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, 
N.J. Eli Manning remains the New York Giants' quarterback of the future. For now, the job belongs to Kurt Warner. 
Briefly citing Warner's experience and recent play, coach Tom Coughlin announced Sunday that the two-time MVP had beaten out the No. 1 pick in the NFL draft for the starting job in the season opener at Philadelphia on Sept. 12. 
"We give Kurt the ball and say, 'Kurt, let's go win,"' Coughlin said, end­ing a competition that has dominated training camp. 
The choice wasn't sur­prising in the wake of Friday's 17-10 loss to the Jets. Warner played well and Manning did not dur­ing his worst day on the field since signing a $45 million contract in late July. 
Warner hit 9-of-11 pass­es for 104 yards, leading the Giants to their only touchdown against the Jets. Manning was 4-of-14 for 20 yards, with two interceptions and a fumble that was returned for a Jets touchdown. 
Coughlin's decision puts Manning in a backup role for the first time since his redshirt freshman year at Mississippi in 2000. 

"I wasn't upset by it," Manning said. "I figured it might come. It doesn't change anything. I still have a lot to learn." 
That's why the Giants signed the 33-year-old Warner in June after he was released by the St. Louis Rams. It was expect­ed that he would be the caretaker quarterback until Manning, the brother of co-MVP Peyton Manning of the Indianapolis Colts, was ready. 
Manning's exceptional play in training camp made Coughlin's decision more difficult. 
"The advancement of Eli has been largely due to the competitive nature of this position," Coughlin said. "I feel like he has advanced tremendously as a rookie in this league with all the information .that has been thrown at him, and the way he's handled the majority of that, so I feel good about the two quar­terbacks." 
Warner said the competi­tion was nerve-racking at times. 
"It was a distinct chal­lenge for me, a new chal­lenge for me and I think it helped to push and force me to learn this stuff at a little faster pace," said Warner. 
IN BRIEF 

Chiefs' receiver to have 
knee surgery 

KANSAS CITY, Mo.-Marc Boerigter will undergo knee surgery on Monday and might be lost for the year, throwing Kansas City's tattered wide receiver corps into even greater disarray. 
Boerigter, who seemed ready to rebound from a subpar 2003 season, twisted his right knee in a noncon­tact play early in the Chiefs' 21-19 exhibition loss Saturday night to Cleveland. 
Coach Dick Vermeil said Sunday that doctors believe Boerigter might have suffered ligament damage. 
''I'll know more tomorrow after they operate as to what the projec­tions are," Vermeil said. "Personally, I don't believe [Boerigter will return]this season. That hurt me more than losing the game." 
The 6-foot-3 Boerigter totaled 420 yards and eight touchdowns on just 20 catches in 2002, his first year in the NFL. 
Montgomerie named to 
Ryder Cup team 

NORD-EICHENRIED, Germany­Colin Montgomerie will play in his seventh Ryder Cup, having been added to the European team Sunday as one of two wild-card selections by captain Bernhard Langer. 
Langer also chose 26-year-old Luke Donald, giving England five players on a team that will try to retain the Ryder Cup against the United States on Sept. 17-19 at Oakland Hills. England's Ian Poulter, Paul Casey and David Howell, and Irishman Paul McGinley secured spots on Europe's Ryder Cup team at the BMW International Open on Sunday. Thomas Levet of France already was a lock to make his first team through the money standings. 
Rounding out the team are Padraig Harrington, Darren Clarke, Sergio Garcia, Miguel Angel Jimenez and Lee Westwood of England. Montgomerie brings experience and leadership to the European team. 
Curacao wins Little League
World Series 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. ­Carlos Pineda struck out 11 and Jurickson Profar hit a two-run homer as Pabao Little League of Willemstad, Curacao, took an early lead and held on for a 5-2 victory over Conejo Valley of Thousand Oaks, Calif., in the Little League World Series championship on Sunday night. 
California scored both of its runs in the top of the sixth. and had runners on first and third with two outs. James Brady hit to first baseman Christopher Garia, who won a race to make the final out. 
It was the first Little League title for the tiny island in the Netherlands Antilles, and the first for any team from the Caribbean. 
In the consolation game, Richmond, Texas, beat Guadalupe, Mexico, 5-0. Randal Grichuk's sec­ond hit tied the record for hits in a series with 12. 
-------------~----------------------------------------~----------------------------------~------~ 
Monday, August 30, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Medal 
continued from page 24 
I still had a good time." Winning a gold medal will do that. 
But what Sunday morning's press conference and photo shoot showed is it hasn't changed who she really is. 
Her eyes lit up when men­tioning meeting Andy Roddick (who lost in the third round of the men's tennis competition) and a "couple other famous people." 
Zagunis wanted to get on TV during the opening ceremonies. So she contrived the plan of walking next to the USA Basketball team, which was "really cool" and "it worked." 
Zagunis rolled her eyes when mentioning this morning's 8:30 
a.m. swim test followed by a class in Hayes-Healy. 
During one moment in Athens, Zagunis even broke out her three-toed sloth impres­sion. 
All of this attention has gone to someone who shouldn't have even been in Athens. 
Zagunis deferred her enroll­ment to Notre Dame for a year to concentrate on making the Olympic team. In the final Olympic qualifying event, Zagunis needed to finish in first or second in a senior World Cup Event to make the Olympic team. 
She finished third. 
By one touch. 
"At first I was really devastat­
ed," Zagunis said. "I put my entire life on hold to go make the Olympic team, and I miss it by one touch. 
"So that was kind of harsh." 
Naturally, Zagunis and her mother Cathy (who was an Olympian along with her father in the 1976 Games) had a tough and "tearful" weekend. 
But she couldn't lose her focus, there was a potential "loophole." 
If any country declined its spot in the women's sabre field, Zagunis would qualify as the highest-ranked fencer not going to Athens at that time. 
Nigeria declined, and now Zagunis has a big thank-you to send. 
And a big target on her back. 
Every collegiate fencer will want to knock off the Olympic champion, who will be only a college freshman and unknown to the team-oriented style of the NCAA Championships. 
"Talk about pressure. It's okay. I'm just going to get back into it slowly," Zagunis said. "You can't win everything, but I'm sure going to try. People are going to be out to get me. I'm ready to fence and do my best." 
Then there's the issue of get­ting ready for Beijing in 2008. 
Zagunis acknowledged she might have to take time off to train because of the demanding Olympic training schedule. 
But she's "got to go defend my title." This time, Zagunis will be the famous person. And people will be standing next to her to get on TV. 
The opinions represented in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu. 
Shutouts 
continued from page 24 
meager 14 total shots -only six of which were on-net ­neither team was able to break the scoreless deadlock, though the Irish suffered a number of near-misses. 
In addition to a pair of shots that ricocheted off the frame­work by midfielder Ian Etherington and forward Alex Yoshinaga, Etherington had a goal disallowed on an offsides call that game tape later revealed to be erroneous. 
While the Irish were unable to find the back the net, Clark was still quite pleased with the squad's effort. 
"You always like to win every garrie you play, but the thing that will always concern us the most is the perform­ance," Clark said. "If we can get the performance right, over the long term, it's going to bring results." 
After graduating five All-Big East selections that accounted for 35 of 38 Notre Dame goals last year, the offense will con­tinue to function as a key fac­tor in determining whether or not the Irish will be successful in achieving their lofty goals this season. 
While Saturday's goose egg in the goals column might indicate otherwise, Clark is confident that a different offensive approach -one that emphasizes a greater number of players than in previous seasons -will bear fruit in the form of tallies on the scoreboard. 

"The scoring really fell to two main players last year," Clark said. "I think the way to cover that is to get goals from a lot of different areas and not rely on solely one or two guys. 
"Can we actually get goals from four, five or even six dif­ferent areas? I think that's possible this year." 
With the preseason now in 
the books, the Irish head home for a week before traveling south to Bloomington, Ind. to compete in Indiana's Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic Friday and Sunday against Oregon State and Boston University, respectively. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
IBM ThinkPad R51-BTS2004 IBM ThinkPad T41-BTS2004
IBM+ND 
FWJLTY. STAFF. SIUOENT RATES 

1.5GHz Pentium® M with Integrated 802.11 big 1.5GHz PentiumR M with Integrated B02.11a/b/g Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking 
14.1 inch screen 56Kbs Modem 14.1 inch screen 56Kbs Modem 40GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 30GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 256MB DDR SDRAM 3-year warranty 512MB DDR SDRAM ' 3-year warranty CD-RW/DVD Combo Drive CD-RW/DVD Combo Drive 
$1.649.00 

$1.934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories roiscounted Prices Reflected) 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash Drive $55.00 73?3599 $39.95 01N1575 $314.111 73?2582 $49.95 08K8214 
The fealllred models include: 3Year Parts & Labor Warranty (Battery: 1Year), 24 HourToii·FreeTechnical Support, Rapid Rettore Rescue and Recovery Software, Norton An~Virus 2004 (OEM Edition), Internet Scroll Bar, Spill-Resistant Keyboard,Touchpad andTrackpoint, Hard Drive Shock Absorber. 
Monday, August 30, 2004 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Standout 
continued from page 24 
Thorlakson was not the only player to make her mark in the record books Friday night. Freshman forward Amanda Cinalli scored the first two goals of the season with primary assists from Thorlakson. 
Cinnalli joins only three other freshmen in the school's history -Margaret Jarc. Rosella Guerrero and Boland -for scor­ing the opening goal of a season. Cinalli scored her goals in the 13th and 22nd minutes of the game. 
Boland had only words of praise for the up-and-coming soccer standout. 
"It is a great way to start your college career and she has a great career ahead of her," Boland said. 
Thorlakson and sophomore Jen Buczkowski followed her lead, with Thorlakson adding two goals to the Irish effort and ment. 
"We came out too anxious but we needed to take care of the ball better," Boland said. 
Notre Dame 3, Eastern Illinois 0 

After an impressive victory Friday night against Baylor, the Irish came away with another remarkable performance against Eastern Illinois on Sunday. Following her record-breaking performance, Thorlakson contin­ued to dominate on the field by setting up aU three goals the Irish scored against Eastern Illinois. 
Junior Annie Schefter began the contest by scoring her first goal of the season and the game. Jen Buczkowski quickly followed Schefter by scoring the second goal off of a header to the right side of the goal. 
With a 2-0 margin at halftime, senior Candance Chapman came ofT the bench to score the final Irish goal of the game in the sec­ond half. Her goal put the Irish ahead 3-0 and guaranteed the team their second consecutive into the endzone the rest of the way for the touchdown. 
Scrinunage 
Rhema McKnight, who led the continued from page 24 
team in receiving yards in 2003, 
collected a 20-yard pass from terback for the Blue team, and Quinn in the first half but did not performed well, completing a 23-score in the scrimmage. He com­yard touchdown pass to fellow mented on the increased depth in 
freshman  this  year's  
Chris Vaughn  receiving  
for Blue's only touchdown of the scrim­ "Anytime you spread the ball around you're going  corps. "It helps a lot [to have  
mage. He did  to keep everyone happy  several good  
not throw an interception, and neither  and at the same time you can really keep the  receivers]." McKnight said. "The defense  
did either of  defense playing honestly."  can't just key  
White's quar­ in on one guy,  
terbacks, sophomore Brady Quinn  Brady Quinn Irish quarterback  and they never know where the ball is  
and senior Pat  going  and  
Dillingham.  never  know  

The Irish showcased a passing who it's coming to, which is a attack that distributed the ball good thing." around the field to a variety of If there was one aspect of Notre different receivers, including the Dame's play at the scrimmage tight ends and running backs in a that was somewhat suspect, it performance that truly resembled Willingham's much-ballyhooed was the special teams. On several occasions. punt and kick return­ers bobbled the ball and there were also several long snaps that were either low or too high ­including one that sailed over the punter's head and resulted in a White field goal to end the first half. 
The kicking game was solid, however, as senior D.J. Fitzpatrick hit two 50-yard field goals with ease, and sophomore Carl Gioia booted a 25-yard kick for White and a 30-yarder for Blue. 
Senior running back Ryan Grant and senior linebacker Brandon Hoyte did not participate in the scrimmage, while senior defensive end Justin Tuck played sparingly. 
All three are nursing injuries and Willingham did not want to risk any additional injury before the BYU game. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Buczkowski chipping in a goal as  win for the season.  West Coast offense.  
well. To  begin  the second half,  The Irish had 10 players for a combined total of 38 shots at the  "Anytime you spread the ball around you're going to keep  The Salvation Army at  
returning  senior  Candace  goal. Despite the incredible  everyone happy and at the same  
Qlapman scored the final two goals for the Irish. Chapman  effort, Boland emphasized that the team still needs to work on  time you can really keep the defense playing honestly," Quinn  2009 South Bend Ave.,  
missed the entire 2003 season due to an ACL knee injury.  ball movement. "In our game today. we took 38  said. "The offense has a lot of emotions to get out of the way so  has recently acquired the  
"She is one of the best players  shots and we only scored three  we can start thinking about get­ 
in the country and it definitely hurt us [not to have her last  goals," Boland said. "We aU have the energy to play, but we need  ting ready for BYU, and this scrimmage was really a nice way  complete inventory of  
year]. This year it is exciting to  to do better with our ball move­ to work out some of those things."  
have her back," Boland said. "She has incredible energy and  ment and our finishing." The Irish will face No. 2 Santa  Sophomore Chase Anastasio had a big play late in the game  a large art gallery.  
she has the ability to take the ball from the defensive third and score."  Clara -possibly their biggest rival of the season -at Alumni Field next weekend.  for the White team, collecting a 46-yard pass from Dillingham and taking it down the sideline  Sale Prices  
Boland didn't say the team  before being pushed out about  
played perfectly. She cited ball handling as an area for improve- Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu  three yards from the goal line. Junior Jeff Jenkins took the ball  50-65% off listed price  
I•  2 I CD <=  

An awesome collection of =9 
I 

HOT posters &prints featuring the best of a I ART, MUSIC, FILM, PHOTOGRAPHY &MOREl 
FOR 6DAYS ONL Yl 
Monday-Friday. August 3D-September 3 LAFD -Notra nama Room -::1 I 
CD

LaFortuna Studant Cantar = a I8:30am-5pm au 
Visit Us At: boyondthovvall_com en 



-------------------------------------------------------. 
Monday, August 30, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
CALLED THIS MEETING SO I COULD TELL 'YOU THE DIVISION'S GOALS FOR NEXT 'YEAR. 
PEANUTS 
M'{ 6RAMPA HAD ANOTHER BIRTI-IDA'f' '(ESTERDA'f'.. 
THATS A GOOD IDEA 
BECAUSE WE'RE ALL SO DUMB THAT WE COULDN'T POSSIBL'Y READ THIS IN E-MAIL. 
HE SAID,'' I ~AVE TO 
ADMIT TI-IAT TI-lE '(EARS ~AVE BEEN GOOD TO ME'' 
SCOTT ADAMS 
GOAL ONE: IMPROVE I CANT; COMMUNI­I'M TOO CATION. DUMB. 
\ 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

11 BUT T!-IE MONTHS AND WEEKS I-lAVE BEEN A LITTLE RUDE ! '' 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
JONEY 
rJ 

1 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GANTE 
I I I () 
Saturday's I Jumbles: DADDY GUARD GRAVEN PEPSIN 

Answer: He had a hole in his sock because his wife didn't-GIVE A "DARN" 
..... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Big blowout 5 Vehicles with 
meters 9 Like some committees 14 Charles Lamb's nom de plume 15 Cookie with creme inside 16 Takes a card from the pile 17 Where to order 
egg salad 18 Flintstone fellow 19 Designer Karan 20 Practically gives 
away 23 Whole lot 24 Restless 27 Bandleader 
Shaw 29 Big galoots 31 "Vive le _!" 
32 Faint from rapture 33 Waterless 34 Mulligatawny, for one 35 Starts telling a different story 38 Theme park attraction 39 Bringing up the rear 40 Magician's rods 41 Gallery display 42 One who's suckered 43 Voting districts 44 Pushed snow aside 46 Saucy 47 Prepares to be punished 53 Desperately want 55 Homeboy's turf 56 Hurry up 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A E N T A C 
A A 
F L 
AW 

E D 0 v 
E A 
C E
A I 
10 
D I 

N E N 0 
B I G G I E G U A A D S 

ALBS.AODE~~fW~ 
LVI.AAAIVE STiT~ D E S K S. A N E W HjA S T .IND l G•rr-AUIPES TEA N WO A~­
CAST A 0 CAN D IIC E R A K Er'0 S. E NIE R 0 IMAN SlMIAN.LAD C I T.SHTETL.SESE K L E P ~~ S Y L L A B U S E N 
A 0 0 T 
T 0 
A S T E 

A S T E 
S L A S 
0 u 
T T 0 s E A 
57 Macho guys 58 English princess 59 River in an 
Agatha Christie title 60 Apply, as pressure 61 Not the original color 62 Meal in a pot 
DOWN 1 People retire to these spots 2 Toward the 
sheltered side 3 Window feature 4 Dangerous bit 
of precipitation 5 Morning 
eyeopener 6 Turn signal 7 Brewski 8 Word after 
baking or club 9 Extras 10 Speak in a 
monotone 11 Loiter 12 Part of B.Y.O.B. 13 Jefferson Davis 
org. 21 David's weapon, 
in the Bible 22 Soft leather 25 Pings and dings 26 "Holy 
mackerel!" 27 Spinning 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Jeff Licon, Dante Basco, Carla Gugino, Robin Leach 
Happy Birthday: You will be having a great time this year, so why worry about what gets done and what doesn't? This is a time in your life that you should be trying new things, making new friends and developing new hobbies that will lead to a refreshing new outlook on life. Your numbers are I, 12, 15, 24,33,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Work in unison with others and you will get things done promptly. You can ask for favors and make promises that will seal any deal you are working on. Love is in your comer. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Not everyone will be on the same page as you today. Don't let anyone put words in your mouth or push you into doing something you don't fancy. •• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Personal changes will be easy for you to make today. Decide what it is you want and put your plans in motion. A love connection can be made. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Deals may not tum out according to plan. Read the fine print before you sign a binding contract. There may be some confusion regarding an older relative. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Partnerships may be questionable today. Don't let your mixed emotions lead to something you can't reverse. Bide your time and listen intently. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Consider what you can do to ensure better health in the future. Poor diagnosis is apparent, so get a second or third opinion. It's your body, so take controL *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your adventurous attitude will lead to a host of new forms of entertainment. Take time out to visit your local spa or health club. Love and romance will be yours. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your ability to find solutions to any problem you face will lead to something workable for all involved. Courage and determination will help you overcome any challenge. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The more socializing you do, the better your chance will be of fmding love, friendship and a ton of information that will spark your imagination. Travel for pleasure. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Follow through with a creative dream you once had. The more you can do to satisfy your own needs, the more ground you will gain. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll find it difficult to deal with personal issues today. Avoid a confrontation with someone who is trying to provoke you. ** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let confusion lead you in the wrong direction. Today is not the best time to make a decision. Your changing attitude will make it difficult for you to know what you want. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are versatile, engaging and can certainly attract a crowd. You thrive on excitement and are always trying to figure out what makes things tick. Because of this, you will find success. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 

28 Celebrity's upward path 29 Cropped up 30 Pub offering 32 Throw out 33 "On the double!" 34 Bravura performances 

36 Escape the detection of 37 Bunch of bees 42 Not half bad 43 Pulled dandelions, say 45 Be indecisive 46 Give a buzz 48 Certain herring 
WILLSHORTZ 
49 Chichi 50 Clubs or hearts 51 Capri, for one 
52 Enjoy some gum 
53 Friend of Fidel 
54 Mystery author Stout 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, August 30, 2004 
page 24 
FENCING 
Medal of honor 
Olympic champion arrives on campus with medal, newfound fame 
The gold modal hung around her neck marking Marini Zagunis as the best in the world at women's saber. 
For the past 11 days, Zagunis' lifi1 has changnd bncausn of that piece of jewelry, as it will f(,r a long time. 
Doing live­question interviews with a senrn­ingly unend­ing number of NHC allili­atos around tho country, meeting Katie Courie on the Today show and visiting spon­sors around c;reece. 
Not being able to hang out in tho Olyrnpk Village with the othnr athletns, go shopping around Athens or tour the Acropolis. 
"Would I have rather not done as well and do all the stull" I wanted to do or win tho gold nwdal and have all these press obligations," Zagunis said. "It's like a give and take. It was linn. 
Irish fencer Mariel Zagunis poses with the gold medal she won in the sabre event at the see MEDAL/page 21 2004 Olympic Games In Athens, Greece. Zagunis recently arrived on campus. 


Matt Lozar 
Sports Writer 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Team ties UMass in shutout 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
If they don't score, you can't lose. 
Behind its second straight shutout in as many exhibition games, No. 9 Notre Dame bat­tled Massachusetts to a hard­fought 0-0 tie Saturday night to conclude their brief two­game preseason schedule with a 1-0-1 mark. 
"I thought we dominated the game," head coach Bobby Clark said. "UMass compPted very hard; they werfl well organized, and they fought us every inch of the way, but I think we controlled tlw game." 
After recording a clean sheet in Monday's 2-0 victory over Northwestern at Alumni Field, 2004 Preseason Big East Goalkeeper of the Year Chris Sawyer once again hPld the opposition scoreless, pick­ing up three saves in shutting down the Minutemen for 75 minutes before being replaced by Justin Michaud. 
In a game that featured a 
see SHUTOUT/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Scritntnage gives an early look at the Irish 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER A'-<ociate Sports Editor 
Preparations li1r Provo proved promising. 
Like previous years, Notre Dame held its final preseason scrimmage shortly before its first game of the season. This season, however, the scrimmage was opm1 to all members of the Notre Dame community -stu­denLo.;, stall" and fa1~ulty -who rnspondnd with an attendance of roughly 4,000 people to watch the intra-squad scrimmage and eateh their first glimpse of the 2004lrish. 
The White team, composed of nearly every first and second­string rnembPr, defeatPd the Blue team, composed of mostly frnshmen and walk-ons, 23-10. More importantly, the team got a ehance to practice in a game-like situation and had the oppor­tunity to showcase some of the talented players that Willingham and his stall" recently recruited. 
Freshmen running backs Justin Hoskins and Darius Walker had several good runs for the Blue team, and while neither scored in the scrim­magP, both made an impression on their new coach. 
"I was very pleased with our freshmen, especially the running backs," Willingham said. "Justin lloskins and Darius Walker real­ly did some neat things and showed some athletic ability. 
'That's very encouraging, and with that kind of athleticism ­maybe it will show up in some speeial .~earns play (during the season(. 
Freshman David Wolke playPd the entire game as quar­
see SCRIMMAGE/page 22 
NO WoMEN's SoccER 
Thorlakson sparks ND's offense 
Forward scores 10 points in Notre Dame's 2-0 start 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
Goals and glory are synony­mous. 
Such was the case for Katie Thorlakson, who enjoyed her share of glory after tying and breaking school records in the team's opening weekend. 
In Notre Dame's 7-2 victory against Baylor Friday night, Thorlakson was the first player in the program's history to either score or assist on the first five goal<; of a game. In addition to this feat, she also tied the school record for most points scored in a half with seven. 
"Katie was amazing this week­end. She scored and set up a bunch of goals," senior Mary Boland said. "She came ready to why they are contenders for this play thio.; weekend." year's national title. The team held 

Behind Thorlakson, the Irish considerable margins in total shots were able to hold a sizable 5-0 (32-9), shots on goal (25-5) and lead at halftime en route to the corner kicks (8-1). dominating victory. 
The No. 3 ranked Irish proved see STANDOUT/page 22 

NCAA FOOTBALL  OLYMPICS  MLB  NL  AL  
usc  survives  a  American takes silver  The United States tops  Troy Glaus  returns  Marlon Byrd's grand  Scott Elarton pitches  
shaky performance in  in marathon, for the first  the overall medal count  from an injury to join  slam helps the Phillies  his first career shutout to  
its opening game of the  medal in 24 years for  at the Athens Games.  the Angels in a 4-2 win  to a 10-0 win over the  help the Indians to a 9-0  
season to defeat Virginia  the U.S. in the marathon  over the Twins.  Astros.  victory over the White  
Tech 24-13.  event.  Sox.  
page 16  page 17  page 19  page 19  page 18  page 14  







