
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer The Basllllca doors will see Increased traffic over Easter. 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 123 THURSDAY, APRILS, 2004 

ND prepares for Easter weekend festivities 
Embracing change 
Sisters of Holy Cross continue tradition of service, maintain lifetime of commitment 
Editor's note: This is the fourth of a four-part 1/oly Week series focusing on the rl'liyious of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and 1/oly Cross. 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Sister M. Campion likes to dpscribe change using body language. Sitting in the Archives and Records office at Bertrand llall, home to the Sisters of lloly 
ByK. AARON VAN OOSTERHOUT News Writer 
Six security guards patrolling the Basilica? Aged pilgrims flocking by droves to participate in the Vigil Mass? A South Dining Hall chef spending the better part of a day hewing a massive sculpture from one solid chunk of ice? 
These are just a few of the typical pastimes that occupy Notre Dame staff during this sacred Easter weekend, as the campus community emerges from the introspective depths of the Lenten season to the joys of all things spring. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart hosts over a dozen Masses and processions throughout Holy Week, all cul­minating in the single most important event in the Church calendar, the Paschal Vigil Mass, held at 9 p.m. Saturday. The religious importance of this hallowed day cannot be under­estimated, said Matt Briel, assistant University sacristan. 
"Every other liturgy is based ofT the Easter Vigil," he said. 
Easter weekend will draw anywhere from 8,000 to 15,000 worshipers to the Basilica, as crowds of 2,000 or more cram each service at the building with a normal capacity of 1,600. These crowds make the Easter weekend services the highest attended of the year, topping Christmas masses by several thousand, Briel said. 
Students and their families comprise most of the attendees, but "subway alumni" add signif­icantly to the numbers. These "alumni". according to Briel, have never actually attended the university yet still feel a great attachment to it, whether through life as a die-hard Notre Dame sports fan or simply an avid churchgoer .. 
"A lot of the geriatric set make it something of a pilgrim­age," Briel said. "They see this as the Catholic capital of the United States." 
In order to handle the crowds, the Basilica adds four more security guards to its standard two, reinforcing the squadron in case of emergency. 
see EASTER/ page 4 

"A lot of people have that idea at first. And then as they think about it, 'Hmm, not a bad idea, if I do that I can do this and this and this,"' she contin­ued, her pale fingers darting across her lap and flailing excitedly through the air. 
"And after awhile, the idea goes up here," she said, point­ing to her head. "And it's in your whole body." She sat back and smiled. 
"They say, 'If you don't change, you die,"' she added a minute later. 
Cross at Saint "Well, it's the
1 Religious

Mary's, the 84· truth." 
year-old nun ""r;;~~ on Campus Campion has becomes seen a lot of instantly ani­~ A Holy Week Series change during 
matfld at the mention of the topic. 
"I have this idea about change. When somebody adjusts to change, they think, 'Oh I don't like that idea'-you know, a gut feeling," she said as she grabbed her stomach and gave 11 mock wince. 
her time at Saint Mary's and is hopeful that -unlike many of her fellow sisters -the 161-year-old order will not die out. While the Sisters of Holy Cross numbered about 1,700 worldwide in the 
see SISTERS/page 8 
Holy Cross Sisters continue a tradition of service. Above, Sister Cecilia Kelly advises a student in 2002. Right, Sister Violet Rodriques of Bangladesh scatters flowers in 1999. 
Photos courtesy of Congregation Communications 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


SGA fills chief of staff post 
By ANGElA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
The Student'Government Association chief of staff and the student member of the Board of Trustees positions were filled this week, according to Saint Mary's stu­dent gov­ernment. 
Freshman S u s a n MclldufT will serve as the student gov­ernment association chief of staff, a position created during Eliz-abeth Jablonski-Diehl and Sarah Brown's presidential term, according to current stu­dent body president Sarah Catherine White. Additionally, Brown will serve as the student trustee. 
"Basically, Susan will serve as a liaison between all of the branches of BOG and the exec­utive board," White said. "The position requires attending a variety of meetings, keeping track of schedules, relaying information and providing us and others a contact for infor­mation." 
MclldufT previously served as the BOG public relations com­missioner. 
"It was a really positive expe­rience for me," MdldufT said of her past position. "l think it's prepared me well for the job at hand." 
Mcllduff was appointed to the position by White and stu­dent body vice president Mary Pauline Moran. 
"Susan came very highly rec­ommended from Elizabeth." White said. "She's positive, dili­gent and hard-working. We can already tell that she's here to get the job done. Everyone around her picks up on her enthusiasm, so I think this will 

see CHIEF/page 4 


Students applaud ND's ranking in Latino survey 
was ranked by "Hispanic "I fell in love with the beauti­ent show put on by Alianza, a The upper classman help out as By KATIE LAIRD Magazine" as being a university ful campus, the environment student Latino organization, a support system," Valdez said. News Writer with strong academic excel­and the people," she said. ''I've promotes diversity and aware­"You can find so many organi­
lence and Hispanic achieve­always felt very welcome on ness of other cultures, she said. zations that will support you as 
Latino students said that ment. campus. I've felt very comfort­Additionally, St. Edward Hall's a Hispanic student ... I've had a Notre Dame's ranking of No. 9 Kathya Valdez. a senior able." Spanish Mass is celebrated very good experience here." in the "Top 25 Colleges for majoring in science pre-profes­Valdez said that at Notre every Sunday at 1:30 p.m. She Alina Dewit is a first-year stu­Latinos" reaffirms the sional and Spanish, is a first­Dame there are many resources also said that a retreat early on dent from Guatemala who said University's commitment to pro­generation Mexican student available to Latino students. in her freshman year helped that she chose to attend Notre mote diversity and provide a from East Chicago, Ind. She She is active in campus min­her to make good friends. Dame in part because of the welcoming place for all stu­said that she chose to ·attend istry and added that many clubs "On the Latino Freshman opportunities available to her. dents. This marks the third Notre Dame because she really reach out to help Hispanic stu­Retreat ... [Hispanic students] consecutive year Notre Dame liked the peaceful atmosphere. dents. Latin Expressions, a tal-realize that they're not alone. see SURVEY/page 8 
• 0 •• 
Thursday, April 8, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A fun little Easter ga111e 
Let's play a game -though for you Psych majors out there, this may sound a little more like naming pre-associations from your childhood. Nevertheless, we'll have some fun. · 
Here are the rules. I will give lauren Galgano you a word, and you say the first 
Viewpoint
memory or thought 
Copy Editor
that pops into your mind. (If you are sitting alone, you may want to keep your thoughts inside, just.in case somebody walks by.) I'll share my answers with you, and the one with the best stories at the end wins. Appropriately, the topic will be "Easter." 
Eggs. 
The vinegar-water mixture with the red dye does not taste like kool-aid. 
Basket. 
Chocolate, one of the top five things ever -except when that is all you eat for an entire day. 
Rabbit. 
Peter. Although, he was one bad little bunny. As I recall, he ate quite a few of 
Mr. McGregor's vegetables, having to 
hide later in a watering can that was full 
of water. I am reminded of a similar 
incident involving NDSP. 
Jelly Beans. 
I love the black ones. 
Peeps. 
There is a limit to how stale they can 
get before you should continue eating them. 
Easter. 
Parade, the classic movie stariing Fred Astaire. It always puts me in a happy mood, and I get that song stuck in my head: "On the Avenue, Fifth Avenue, the photographers will snap us ... " 
Ding, end of round one. Do you have the hang of it now? If you are ready to continue, here are some tougher ones. 
Passover. · 
Matzos. If you haven't had it recently, you have been living in the Notre Dame bubble a little too long. You can't get it in the Huddle, so you'll have to go to Martin's. 
Lamb. 
Sacrificial, the one of the Passover. Also, a favorite Greek dish. 
Feet. 
Shoes. And Holy Thursday. Jesus spent some of his last hours of freedom on earth washing the feet of his disciples. How would I spend my last hours of free­
dom? 
Passion. 
The. I saw the movie last week. Defrnitely beats Casablanca as the great­est love story ever told. 
Paschal. 
Candle. A new liturgical year means a time for renewing your personal rela­tionship with Christ. See "lamb" above. 
Resurrection. 
Easter, minus the parade. You and I have eternal life because death has been conquered and Heaven has been opened. Now that's something to cele­brate. 
Ding, end of round two. The greatest part about this game is that you learn a lot about yourself as you go along. All right, one more word: 
Christ. 
The way, the truth and the life. 
What did you come up with? 
Have a wonderful Easter break! 
Contact Lauren Galgano at lgal­gano@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Colurrin are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itsdfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR EASTER? 




Dan O'Brien Chris Tarnackl Sheila Mclaughlin Johnny Griffin Charles Rlffert Melissa Felger 
Sophomore O'Neill  Freshman O'Neill  Freshman McCandless  
"Hunting for Easter eggs."  "Attempting to cross-breed pink and yellow peeps."  "Saying goodbye to my family as they get ready to go to Mexico."  

Sophomore  Junior  Sophomore  
O'Neill  Morrissey  Welsh Family  
"Chillin ,,  "Laying eggs."  "I have a  

regatta." 

IN BRIEF 

Celebrate Easter at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Join Father Peter Rocca, Basilica rector, for the Paschal Vigil Mass on Saturday at 9 p.m. On Sunday, Masses will take place at 8 a.m., 10 a.m. and noon with music provided by University choirs. The day will conclude with the Paschal Vespers at 7:15 p.m. 
Catch the latest episode of NDTV tonight at 5 p.m. on cable channel 3. 
Sophomore Eleanore Strong will deliver an organ recital in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Tuesday, April 13 at 8 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Tri-Military Presiden­tial Review will take place on Wednesday, April 14 at 4:30 
p.m. in Loftus. Come honor the cadets and midshipmen of the Army, Marines, Navy and Air Force ROTC pro­grams. University Father Edward will deliver an address. 
An Interfaith Christian Night of Prayer will take place on Wednesday, April 14 at 10 p.m. in the Coleman­Morse Lounge. 
SUB movies presents "Kill Bill" on Thursday, April 15 at 10 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. 
The Hawaii Club will host a Luau on Saturday, April 17 at 
6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH LOW 


50 30 
DAVE ROONEYfThe Observer 
Warm temperatures and sunshine lured students onto the quads Wednesday. Students took advantage of the spring weather to play frisbee, football or just lounge around. 
OFFBEAT 
Man accused of fatally place-kicking dog 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -A man has been charged with killing his neighbor's 2­pound miniature York-shire terrier by place-kicking it into the air like a football. 
Chad Daniel Crawford, 23, was booked on charges of cruelty to animals and felony vandalism. He was freed after posting $25,000 bond. 
Jelani Lewis and Jessica McKenzie said they were shocked and outraged by the death of their 17-year-old dog, Gizmo. 
Lewis was on the grounds of his apartment complex Tuesday when he said he 
TODAY 
~ 
saw one of three men hold­ing the dog like a football. 
"The other one backed up and kicked him like a place­kicker," said Lewis, who couldn't get there fast enough to save his pet. 
Gizmo flew through the air in a high arc, hit the pavement and rolled a few feet beneath a parked car. The dog was dead when he hit the ground and the men were laughing, Lewis said. 
Inmate allegedly hides cocaine under fat 
OKEECHOBEE, Fla. -An obese inmate was caught hiding crack cocaine in a cigar holder under a roll of fat beneath his stomach, jail officials said Wednesday. 

Another inmate told jail officials that 6-foot-2 Jonathan Wilson, who weighs 350 pounds, had the drugs. 
A deputy was unable to find any drugs on 27 -year­old Wilson in a strip search, the Daily Okeechobee News reported. But a second search "located a small brown cylinder that is used to carry cigars concealed in a fat roll at the bottom of inmate Wilson's stomach," the report said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

w
:::c 
~ 
3: w 
..J 
c( (,) 0 



HIGH 53 HIGH 53 HIGH 45
...I LOW 42 LOW 45 LOW 30 

HIGH LOW 

Thursday, April 8, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senators swear into office during meeting 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Heprnsentatives for the 2004­05 school year were sworn in by Judicial Council ehair Brin Anderson at Wednesday's Senate mer.ting -thr. first of tlw new term. The senators took the oath of oflice, in whieh they swore to work to ful!ill the duties of their offtce, exercise the highest ethic and preserve the constitution of the student body, before they moved on to thnir first orders of business. 
Thn nnw group quickly got down to business, delving into the issue of the new Student Union Constitution. Outgoing student body president Jeremy Lao presented his argument against Article V of the docu­ment, which may come up for Senate debate in the futuro. 
The amr.ndment would create an Executive Programming Board to handle the student government event calendar. Lao, however, argued the group would be redundant, as 10 of its I 2 members also currently serve on the Council of Hcpresentatives. 
"There is definitely a paral­lelism of officers," Lao said. "It is in my best judgment that the Council of Hepresentatives should set programming. Before it was COH, tho Executive Cabinet had the responsibility of setting the calendar ... and with stricter guidelines and timelines, I believe that set-up could work with the Council." 
Lao also said that because the Council of Representatives oversees the Collaboration Fund, which holds approxi­mately $15,000 for events and activities, the top leaders serv­ing on that body should know exactly where the money is going and what events are being planned. 
Faculty advisor and director of the Student Activities Office Brian Coughlin explained that the procedure for Senate and the student body president to follow is slightly unclear. In the past, the president has had 10 days to approve an amendment, after which the document would head to the Student Activities Office for examina­tion. Lao, however, only had the Constitution for a matter of hours before his term expired, and the vetoed article was passed to new student body president Adam Istvan. 
Istvan, meanwhile, is away from campus due to a family emergency and does not have access to the document, even if it was decided that he had the power to pass or veto it. 
"This is very complicated, and there is even debate over whether Adam has the power to sign it since it was not created under his term," Coughlin said. 

"It would make the most sense In other Senate news: for Senate to just redo the arti­+ The Senate passed three res­cle and send it to Adam, if that's olutions at the end of meeting, what you eventually decide you each of which displayed emeri­want." tus status on Lao, vice president 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Emily Chin and chief of staff Bongiovanni expressed concern Patrick Corker, respectively. over the incompleteness of the + Gay Straight Alliance presi­Constitution, which is expected dent Joe Dickmann returned for to be printed by next week. the third consecutive Senate 
"As it stands, no one is meeting to encourage the new designing the event calendar," senators to post the letter of Bongiovanni said. "That is pret­support for the GSA in their ty disastrous." dorms so students could sign it. 

The Senate voted unanimously to sign the letter at last week's meeting. 
+ Next week, the Senate will vote on which senators will serve on the Campus Life Council, the Council of Representatives, the Financial Management Board and the Judicial Council. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 







.....Irish Athletics..... 
-First 100 tans will receive aGold Game T-shirt sponsored bV AERDPOSTALE 
tailgating partv between games 
Irish Baseball vs. 


Valparaiso 

Wednesdav, April7 
@6:05PM 

Baseball DH vs. St. John's Mondav, Aoril12 @ 12:05 & 2:05 PM 
-"Brown Bag It at the Eck" 
-First250 Notre Dame FacultY and Stan in auendance will . 

'

receive asandwich . sponsored by 
-Notre Dame Facultv 
and Stan 
Appreciation Dav \) 

Thursday, April 8, 2004 
page4 The Observer + NEWS 



Easter 
continued from page 1 
The security guards keep an eye on the altar in order to pre­vent any visitors from breach­ing the "sacred space," Briel said. 
"We really believe that Jesus is there," he said. "[The securi­ty guards] make sure that the space is held sacred." 
After the Easter Sunday Masses, many visitors stream from the Basilica to South Dining Hall where a buffet awaits. 
"When the Basilica lets out, right around that time we real­ly get hit," said Marc Poklinkowski, general manager of South Dining Hall. 
Open from noon to 4:00 p.m. for Sunday brunch, the campus eatery offers diners everything from appetizers in the lobby to carved lamb in either of the two main halls. 
"It's defmitely our nicest meal of the year," Poklinkowski said. "The cooks get in at four in the morning to put the lambs in the oven." 
The seafood bisque, another item on Sunday's menu, has been a crowd-pleaser for years, according to Poklinkowski. Patrons typically gulp down over 60 gallons of it during the brunch hours. 
"It's kind of a special recipe," he said. 
Aside from food, guests should expect to see elaborate decorations scattered through­out the hall, including 300 pounds of Easter candy, spring flowers and a giant Easter bas­ket -carved entirely from one block of ice. 
Tony Williams. unit chef at the dining hall, was specially chosen for the task due to his past competition in area ice­carving festivals. 
"It takes about a day [to carve]." Poklinkowski said. 
Although the preparation is substantial, Poklinkowski said that he and his colleague's work is worth the extra effort. 
"It seems that people appre­ciate it," Poklinkowski said. 

Carozza 
•

receives grant to teach law 
Special to The Observer Paolo G. Carozza, associate professor of law in the University of Notre Dame Law School, has received a Fulbright grant to teach comparative human rights law at the University of Milan in Italy dur­ing the 2004 fall semester. Carozza joined the Notre Dame faculty and the University's Center for Civil and Human Rights in 1996. A fellow of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, he teach­es and writes on international law, international human rights, European and Latin American legal systems, comparative law and jurisprudence. 



State officials discuss issues facing elderly 
Panel meets at SMC, focuses on concerns 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI News Writer 
A panel of state government officials discussed issues facing the elderly during a community discussion at Saint Mary's Wednesday. 
The panel consisted of Les Fox, president and CEO of REAL Services and Area 1\vo Agency on Aging, Mike Cecil, ombudsman for REAL Services, John Broden, an Indiana state senator, JoAnn Burke, a member of the gover­nor's CHOICE board, Ryan Dvorak, a state representative and Penny Titus, an employee in congressman Chris Chocola's office. 
The panel focused on issues facing the elderly, including nurs­ing home care against home and community-based care, Medicare, the idea of raising the retirement age and prescription drugs. 
Nursing home care and home­based care are one of the issues that immediately affect the elder­ly in the state of Indiana, the panel said. 
"Most of the time family mem­bers do not want to put a person in a nursing home," Cecil said. 
The problem for most families is the cost of in-home care. Those who currently want to stay at home may not qualify for govern­ment assistance to receive proper funding to remain in their houses, while they do qualifY if they are institutionalized. 
The Senate Enrolled Act 493, which instituted the CHOICE pro­gram. It was passed to begin to remedy this situation. This act mandates the state of Indiana voting member." 

Brown said her position will involve not only representing the students, but the College as a whole. 
"It's going to be my job to serve the entire college including stu­dents, staff and faculty," Brown said. "It's going to be important for me to keep a broad perspec­tive, in order for me to be objec­tive and take the college in the right direction for the future." 
Brown was one of seven appli­cants that applied for the posi­tion. She said that she is looking 
give the elderly the choice of either home and community­based care or nursing home care. 
Even though this bill was passed, some people remain con­cerned, the panel said. The fund­ing for this program is almost non-existent, and because of that, change has happened very slowly. 
"It has not resulted in dramatic change," Broden said. "People think perhaps we oversold the bill." 
But this is not the case accord­ing to Broden. "[Indiana] is in a very difficult fiscal situation," he said. 
The CHOICE program started in the late '80s and early '90s and after that has stagnated. Government officials are still looking for ways, through private grants or federal funds, in which they can get the program up and running again. Based on com­piled statistics from REAL servic­es, Inc., the CHOICE program 
The Franciscan Ambassadors for Community, Education & Service (FACES) teacher licensure program provides an opportunity to: 
•Earn a Master's degree in Education in two years 
•Serve as a fulltime teacher •Receive teacher licensure •Earn a monthly stipend •Serve as an Americorps volunteer 
.. 
forward to beginning her new role in BOG. 
'Tm just really excited," she said. "It's a good opportunity, and a good way for me to look back on the past three years to see where we have gone, and where we are going." 
The campus food commission­er remains the only positions the Board of Governance has yet to fill. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
allows for an average savings of $77,000 per month, $914,000 per year for 66 people exhibiting dif­ferent levels of need. 
"[This program has been stunt­ed by the fact] that in the state of Indiana, there is a very strong lobby in the nursing home indus­try, and for whatever reason, we got behind the curve," Burke said. 
The community and panelists agreed on the need for change within the system. 
"Change is always good," Titus said. 
Change, however, won't be suf­ficient ifit is merely from the leg­islation, they said. 
"We don't think of aging people as treasures, which they are," said Ken Peters, a member of the community who attended the panel discussion. 
Contact Teresa Nowalowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 

Chief 
continued from page 1 
be a good fit." 
Along with the physical changes taking place throughout campus, both Mcllduff and White said the new position will only make Saint Mary's a better place. 
"With the new student center, the new apartments and the new president coming in, we've fed off that energy of newness on campus," said White. "We're get­ting ready to embrace change, and this position is part of that. It's going to cut down on corhmu­nication barriers we sometimes run into." 
Mcllduff officially started in the position April 1. 
Brown's term on the Board of Trustees begins at the end of June during the annual Board of Trustees retreat. 
''I'm really honored to have been chosen for this position," Brown said. "It's very exciting to be at a school where the board even allows a student on it, as a 

Freshman & Sophomore MARKETING 



~ ERANCISCAN 
UNIVERSITY 
Clinton, Iowa 1-800-242-4153 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 8, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Court frees sole 9/11 convict 
IIAMBUHG. Germany-The only Sept. 11 suspect ever convicted walked out of jail WtHinnsday smiling and laughing, freed less than 2 1/2 years into a 15-yoar sentence al'ter judges mled the evidence was too weak to hold him pnnding a retrial. 
Mounir cl Motassadoq. whose conviction on ehargns of aiding tho Sept. 11 plotters was overturned last month. seemed euphoric as he left the llamburg court building with two frinrHls and his lawyer. lie said nothing but laughed as reporters peppered him with questions. 
The :Hl-year-old Moroccan. who had been lwhind bars since his November 2001 arrest, !waded home to his apartment in a llamburg suburb to bn reunited with his wife and two children. 
Israelis raze olive grove for wall 
BIDOU, West Bank-Israeli workers with chain saws cut down a Palestinian farmer's olive grove Wednesday to make way for a West Bank security barrier, sparking a clash in which at least 15 Palestinian villagers and two Israeli police were wounded. 
The wrecking crew later replanted some of the 180 stumps on another plot, but villagers gave the trees little or no chance of survival in the dry season. 
Construction of the barrier has sparked almost daily clashes as it cuts through Palestinian farmland and isolates West Bank villages. Israel says the series of fences, trenches and concrete walls are needed to stop Palestinian suicide bombers. The Palestinians denounce the barrier as a land grab. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry vows to slow spending 
WASIJJNGTON -Democrat John Kerry said Wednesday if he is elected president he will not let government programs outside of security and education grow beyond the rate of in11ation, even if it means cutting some of his own campaign promises and existing government programs. 
"When I say a cap on spending, I mean it," Kerry said in a speech at Georgetown University. "We will have to make real choic­es-and that includes priorities of my own." 
Kerry said he would freeze the federal travel budget, reduce oil royalty exemptions for drilling on federal lands. cut 100,000 fed­eral contractors and cut electricity used by the federal government by 20 percent. among other programs. 
Janet Jackson sales disappoint NEW YOHK-Janet Jackson is now suffer­ing from a sales malfunction. 
ller new album. "Damita Jo," sold approxi­mately 381,000 copies in its first week to debut at No. 2 on the charts. ller last album. 200 J's "All for You," debuted at No. 1 with more than (>05,000 copies sold. It's the first time her album has not debuted at No. 1 since ICJHCJ's "Hhythm Nation 1814." 
Jackson was denied the top spot this time by Usher. who sold 486,000 copies of "Confessions." lie debuted at No. 1 last week with 1.1 million copies sold. 
STATE NEWS 
Indiana man presumed drowned 
SYHACUSE -Authorities continued their st~arch Wednesday for a man missing since he went boating on northern Indiana's Lake Wawasee nearly a week ago. 
Officers from the Department of Natural Hi~sourccs were doing visual searches by boat for Greg Frericks, 45, who vanished Thursday night during a solo fishing trip. 
The Syracuse man is officially listed as missing but is presumed dead from drown­ing, said Lt. John Sullivan of the DNH's Syracuse oflice. 
"We've narrowed it down to about half­square-mile search area," Sullivan said Wednesday. 
CoMPl LED Hl.OM T11 E OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 IRAQ 
Marines, Sunnis clash in Fallujah 
Dozens killed after U.S. warplanes bomb mosque, touching off six-hour firefight 
Associated Press 
FALLUJ;\11 U.S. Marines battled insurgents for control of this Sunni Muslim stronghold Wednesday, calling in airstrikes against a mosque compound where witnesses said dozens were killed in six hours of fighting. An anti-U.S. uprising led by a radical Shiite cleric raged for the fourth day in southern cities. 
The Abdel-Aziz al­Samarrai mosque was hit by U.S. aircraft that launched a llellfire missile at its minaret and dropped a 500-pound bomb on a wall surrounding the com­pound. 

The U.S. military said AP insurgents were using the U.S. Marines with the 1st Marine Regiment take cover during a gunbattle with mosque for a military fire Sunni insurgents on the outskirts of Fallujah. Hundreds of Marines fought to base. Iraqi witnesses esti­regain control of the volatile city, a hotbed of anti-American sentiment. mated 40 people were killed as they gathered for Baqouba. Defense Secretary ers of former president afternoon prayers. U.S. Since Sunday, 35 Donald H. Rumsfeld, at a Saddam Hussein, and anti­officials said no civilians Americans, two other Pentagon news conference American foreign fighters died and American com­coalition soldiers and with Joint Chiefs of Staff loyal to Abu Musab al­manders gave conflicting more than 230 Iraqis have Chairman Gen. Richard Zarqawi, a Jordanian­reports of insurgent casu­been killed in fighting. The Myers, discounted the born terrorist believed alties. Iraqi figure did not inGlude strength of the al-Sadr linked to al-Qaida. An Associated Press those killed at the mosque. force, which appears to The Marines said they reporter who went to the Since the war began, at have been bolstered by waged a six-hour battle mosque said the minaret least 630 U.S. service disgruntled, unemployed around the Abdel-Aziz al­was standing, but dam­members have died. young men. Samarrai mosque before aged, apparently by shrap­Marine Corps spokes­U.S. officials estimate calling in a Cobra helicop­nel. The bomb blew away man 1st Lt. Eric Knapp the al-Sadr force at about ter which fired the missile part of a wall. opening an said the American force 3,000 fighters. at the base of its minaret. entry for the Marine besieging Fallujah has "The number of people An F-16 dropped the assault. The reporter saw killed more than 30 sus­involved in those battles is laser-guided bomb. Marine at least three cars leaving, pected insurgents and relatively small," Rumsfeld Lt. Col. Brennan Byrne each with a number of captured 51 since Tuesday said. "There's nothing like said. dead and wounded. night. Fifteen Marines an army or large elements During fighting else­The heavy fighting were reported killed in of people trying to change where in Fallujah, U.S. against the Sunni insur­fighting in Fallujah and the situation. You have a forces seized a second gency coincided again neighboring Hamadi since small number of terrorists place of prayer, the al­Wednesday with attacks Monday. and militias coupled with Muadidi mosque. A Marine on coalition forces in The Army said a soldier some protests." climbed the minaret and southern Iraq led by militi­died Wednesday in the Myers said the fighting fired on guerrilla gunmen, amen loyal to anti­capital. Another had died came in two broad cate­witnesses said. Insurgents American cleric Muqtada Tuesday in Balad, the gories. West of Baghdad in fired back. hitting the al-Sadr. For the first time Sunni Triangle city north cities such as Ramadi and minaret with rocket-pro­Wednesday, Shiite miljtia­of Baghdad, the U.S. Fallujah, the main opposi­pelled grenades and caus­men battled Americans in Central Command in tion is "former regime loy­ing it to partially collapse, the central city of Tampa, Fla. said. alists," including support-the AP reporter said. 

FAA approves private spacecraft 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The government announced Wednesday that it has issued the first license for a manned suborbital rocket. a step toward opening space flight to private indi­viduals for the first time. 
The Federal Aviation Administration gave a one-year license to Scaled Composites of Mojave, Calif., headed by Burt Hutan. He is best known for design­ing the Voyager airplane that made the first nonstop. unrefueled flight around the world in 1986. 
"This is a big step," FAA spokes­man Henry Price said. 
The Scaled Composites craft con­sists of a rocket plane, dubbed SpaceShipOne, and the White Knight. an exotic jet designed to carry it aloft for a high-altitude launch. SpaceShipOne, made of graphite and epoxy, has short wings and twin vertical tails. It reac.hed 

68,000 feet in a trial 11ight. 
The license is a prerequisite for the X Prize competition, an interna­tional space race that will give $10 million to the. first company or per­son to launch a manned craft to 
62.5 miles above the Earth, and then do it again within two weeks. The craft must be able to carry three people. 
The FAA is considering two other applications. Price said. One is an X Prize contestant. 
Twenty-seven contestants from seven countries have registered for the X Prize competition. 
Hutan declined to comment. The company states on its Web site that its goal is to show that private space 11ight can be done, and at a low cost. 
"We look to the future, hopefully within 10 years, when ordinary peo­ple, for the cost of a luxury cruise, can experience a rocket flight into the black sky above the earth's atmosphere, enjoy a few minutes of weightless excitement. then feel the thunderous deceleration of the aero­dynamic drag on entry," the state­ment says. 
Before launching the spacecraft in the X Prize competition. Scaled Composites must give the prize sponsors 90 days notice, Price said. The company can launch its rocket before that. he said. but it must be in an area that isn't risky. 
Scaled Composites is located in the 
Mojave Desert. 
FM inspectors carefully examined the space vehicle to make sure it's safe, said Price. 
"There's no sure thing in anything when it comes to rocketry," he said. "We want to do what we can with the knowledge we have to make sure the launch is as safe as possible for the public." 
-The company also had to demon­strate that it was adequately insured for a launch and that it met environ­mental standards, Price said. 
Court throws out m_onmnent ruling
Two reporters ordered to erase tapes at speech 
Associated Press 

HATTIESBURG, Miss -Two reporters were ordered Wednesday to erase their tape recordings of a speech by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia at a Mississippi high school. 
Scalia has long barred televi­sion cameras from his speeches, but does not always forbid news­paper photogra­phers and tape 
identifying herself as a deputy feder­al marshal demanded that a reporter for The Associated Press erase a tape recording of the jus­tice's comments. She said the jus­tice had asked that his appear­ance not be recorded. 
The reporter initially resisted, but later showed the deputy how to erase the digital recording after the officer took the device from her hands. The exchange occurred in the front row of the auditorium while Scalia delivered his speech about the Constitution. 
The deputy, who identified her­self as Melanie Rube, also made a reporter for The Hattiesburg American erase her tape. 
Scalia gave two speeches 
. -·-­~ 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, April 8, 2004 

Wednesday in Hattiesburg, one at Presbyterian Christian High School and the other at William Carey College. The recording­device warning was made before the college speech. 
At a reception following Scalia's speech at William Carey, the jus­tice told television reporters from Hattiesburg station WDAM-TV to leave. A member of his entourage also told newspaper photogra­phers they could not take pictures, 
recorders. On "It's standard that but a college om-Wednesday, he did his speeches are not cial reversed the 
not warn the audi­order after non­ence at the high televised., media guests school that record­started snapping ing devices would photos.
Kathy Arberg
be forbidden. William Carey

Supreme Court
During the spokeswoman

spokeswoman
speech, a woman Jeanna Graves 
later sent an apol­
ogy to the media. 

"I specifically asked for proto­col and was told that the media would have access to Justice Scalia during the reception," Graves wrote in an e-mail. She said she was "embarrassed and angry" over the incident. 
Supreme Court spokeswoman Kathy Arberg said that it is up to Scalia and his staff to set guide­lines for coverage of his events. 
"It's standard that his speeches are not televised," she said. 
Last year, Scalia was criticized for refusing to allow television and radio coverage of an event in Ohio in which he received an award for supporting free speech . 
• 

Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dante: 
> Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 > Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 > Sylvia DilJon, Campus Ministry, J-7163 )-John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 > Dr. Susan Sleibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 > Am1 E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 

South Bend Community Resources: 
>-Women's Care Center: 234-0363 > Catholic Charities: 234-3111 
Ten Commandments statue allawed to stay 
Associated Press 

LINCOLN, Neb.-A federal appeals court has tossed out an earlier decision that a Ten Commandments monument must be removed from an eastern Nebraska city park. 
The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued an order TQesday saying the full court will review a February ruling in which a three-judge panel of the court said the monu­ment in Plattsmouth violates the constitutional separation of church and state. 
The American Center for Law and Justice, a group that focuses on family and reli­gious issues, had asked for the review. 
"This is a very important and encouraging develop­ment that clears the way for another opportunity to prove that the display of the Ten Commandments is not only part of our heritage and his­tory, but constitutional as well," said Francis J. Manion, senior counsel for the group representing the city of Plattsmouth. 
. Tim Butz, executive direc­tor of the Nebr(!.ska American Civil Liberties Union, said he was not surprised by the court's decision to hear the appeal. "We're not scared by this. We're not intimidated by it. We're ready to go forward," Butz said. The ACLU sued on behalf of an atheist Plattsmouth resi­dent who contends the monu­ment is unconstitutional. The 5-foot tall, granite monument lists the Ten Commandments and is emblazoned with two stars of David. In 2002, U.S. District Judge Richard Kopf of Lincoln rejected the city's argument that the monument is pro­tected by the First Amendment's guarantee of religious freedom. He 
ordered the removal of the monument, saying it "con­veys a message that Christianity and Judaism are favored religions." 
The three-judge appeals court panel agreed in a 2-1 decision, saying the monu­ment's "message is undeni­ably religious." 
The St. Louis-based 8th Circuit, which covers Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Arkansas, North Dakota and South Dakota, has not set a date for oral arguments in the case. 
More than 4,000 Ten Commandment monuments are displayed in cities nation­wide. Many were donated by the Fraternal Order of Eagles in the 1950s as part of a campaign timed to coincide with the release of the movie "The Ten Commandments." 
Courts have issued conflict­ing rulings on public Ten Commandments displays, and the Supreme Court has refused to hear cases dealing with their constitutionality. 


THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Thursday, April 8, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow
jones , 10,480.15 -90.66 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume:
..,7

1,610  168  1,456,123,904  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSf S&P 500  1,262.10 _2.~0~0~-~4. 6,675.40 1,140.53  -3.29 -9.66 -18.74 -7.63  

NIKK£1(Tol<yo) 11,972:_34___ -47.28 FTSf IOO(London) 4,468.70 -4.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +3.34 +0.13 4.02 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0230 -0.65 27.62 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.81 -0.21 25.59 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.88 -0.11 12.35 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.66 -0.41 24.24 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.1 0 -0.05 50.1 I I0-YEAR NOTE -0.10 -0.04 41.67 5-YEARNOTE +1.17 +0.37 31.94 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 +0.00 9.18 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.18 36.15 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) +3.90 423.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.05 I04.90 
Exchan e Rates 

YEN I 05.6 EURO 0.8217 POUND 0.5434 CANADIAN$ 1.311 
IN BRIEF 
Judge nixes Lea Fastow's plea deal 
HOUSTON -The wife of former Enron Corp. finance chief Andrew Fastow withdrew a guilty plea to a tax crime Wednesday after a federal judge rejected a sentencing deal that would have given her just five months in prison and five months home confinement. 
The proposed sentence for Lea Fastow was part of a larger plea deal involving her hus­band's criminal case, although prosecutors said her decision won't affect his plea and cooperation agreement under which he faces up to 10 years in prison on two counts of con­spiracy. 
Now Lea Fastow. 42, is scheduled to go to trial June 2 on all six original charges -four counts of filing false tax forms and two counts of conspiracy. 
Top German banker steps down 
BEHLIN -Germany's central bank presi­dent agreed under pressure to step aside tem­porarily after prosecutors opened an inquiry into a hotel stay that a commercial bank paid for him. the Bundesbank said. 
Ernst Welteke became the subject of a Bundesbank review after Der Spiegel maga­zine reported this week on his New Year's 2002 stay at Berlin's ritzy Hotel Adlon Kempinski to attend ceremonies greeting the introduction of euro notes and coins. 
Dresdner Bank reportedly paid the 7,661.20 euro tab -$9,270 at current exchange rates ·-for Welteke and members of his family. 
Owners sink Eurotunnel board 
VILLEPINTE. France -Hebel shareholders ousted the chief executive and the entire board of the company that operates the underground rail tunnel between Britain and France on Wednesday. angry over the compa­ny's huge debt and failure to attract more travelers. 
In a revolt of historic proportions by individ­ual investors, they promptly installed a new French chairman and other board members of Eurotunnel Group. 
More than 63 percent of shareholders voting at the meeting outside Paris backed the dis­missal of Eurotunnel CEO Hichard Shirrefs, chairman Charles Mackay and the nine other members of the Eurotunnel board. 
Bernel grooms future executives 
CEO-turned-instructor blends theory, experience in 'Corporate Strategy' course 
Editor's note: This is the The class centers on fifth in a Thursday series Bernel's conviction that a focusing on interesting business education should classes in the Mendoza combine academic theory College ofBusiness. with practical application. 
"I try as much as I can to 
By MATT BRAMANTI use real-world occasions 
Senior Staff Writer and cases that I know, from 
my experience and work," 
Jeff Bernet knows a thing he said. " I'm looking to or two about corporate prove to students that the strategy. As a long-time education they've received CEO, he owned and operat­at Notre Dame is a very ed a $50 million manufac­valid one." turing company. Berne! knows firsthand 
As a professional special­the value of that education ist in the Mendoza College -he holds an Executive of Business, Berne! brings MBA degree from the that real-world business Mendoza College of experience into the class-Business. room. He said students appreci­
Berne! teaches a class ate the relevance of the called "Corporate material because they Strategy," a anticipate required 
"All these students facing the 
course for same issues seniors in the ... are going to be he faced dur­business in a leadership ing his 
school. The career.
position."

course inte­"All these grates con­students, at cepts from Jeff Berne! some point, the college's professional specialist are going to 
four depart­ments accounting, finance, mar­keting and management ­teaching students how to apply those concepts for the benefit of the overall corporation. 
"It's the nexus, the pulling together of all the majors in the business school," Berne! said. 
The class focuses on obtaining competitive advantage -the edge that marks the difference between a mediocre com­pany and a star performer. 
Bernet said his back­ground as a CEO allows him to make the course's material relevant to his stu­dents. For 18 years. Bernet ran American Rubber Products, a LaPorte-based manufacturer of seals and gaskets for the automotive industry. 
"It's being in the trench­es," he said. "I have the personal, hands-on experi­ence in dealing with the issues that a $40 or $50 million company brings." 
CORPORATE SCANDAL 

'Scared' juror caused Tyco mistrial 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The juror who received a menacing telephone call and letter during the trial of two for­mer Tyco International executives told the judge she was "very. very scared," prompting him to declare a mistrial, according to court tran­scripts released Wednesday. 
Ruth Jordan. known as Juror No. 4 during the Tyco corporate looting trial, discussed her fear during meet­ings in state Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus' chambers. 
Obus unsealed transcripts of those meetings after a request from nine media organizations. including The Associated Press. 

be in a lead­
ership posi­tion," he said. "[They] need to be competitive. get a competitive advantage, maintain it and make above-average returns." 
Berne! uses a variety of methods to keep students engaged, including team projects, case studies, and presentations -skills stu­dents will use in their cor­porate careers. 
Harvard Business School case studies -generally regarded as the gold stan­dard in American business education -are used, but students analyze local busi­nesses and even non-profit organizations, as well. 
"(Cases] have included big businesses. small busi­nesses and non-profits," Berne! said. "Some-one even did the Boat Club. 
"The thrust of my course is very project-driven. Students create their own strategies to plan the future of the company." 
Senior marketing major Catherine Hart said 
On Friday, the day Obus declared a mistrial, Jordan entered his robing room and -without a greeting ­told him and lawyers in the case: "I am alarmed." 
Obus then tried to calm her, according to the transcripts. He asked about a letter she had received the previous evening and whether she believed she could continue to deliberate. 
Jordan replied, "I am so frightened about everything, and this says to me that there are people out there that think I am somehow very, very wrong and bad, and done something terrible, and that they are blaming me, and it scares me so. I don't know." 
Jordan, 79, was referring to the uproar she caused during delibera­tions when she made a hand motion that she later said was misinterpret­ed by some reporters as an "OK" sign to the defense. Jordan received the letter and phone call after her name was published by the New York Post and The Wall Street Journal. 
Obus declared a mistrial during deliberations in the trial of Dennis Kozlowski. 57. Tyco's former chief executive, and Mark Swartz, 43, the company's former chief financial offi­cer, who were accused of looting Tyco of $600 million. Obus has ordered them to return to court May 7, when a tentative retrial date is expected to be set. 
Bernel's business experi­ence made the class uniquely relevant. 
"He's very worldly and he's done so much," Hart said. "I really like having professors who arc part of the professional workforce outside of the University." 
Senior finance major Mary Whitehouse said the class emphasizes the long­term, complex planning required to run a success­ful company. 
"He's taught us that there's not one right answer," Whitehouse said. "For every decision you make, there are multiple decisions you have to make after that." 
Those strategies include courtesy Jeff Berne!, a longtime corporate CEO, now teaches In the Mendoza College of Business. Students praise the Instructor's use of real-world business examples. 

making difficult decisions, some seemingly ripped from the front page of The Wall Street Journal. Students discuss mergers, outsourcing. layoffs and other tactics designed to maximize the value of the modern corporation. 
Berne! said he derives satisfaction from knowing his students will be pre­pared for life at the top of the corporate ladder. 
"People naturally look to our students and put them in leadership roles," he said. "It gives meaning to my life." 

Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Thursday, April 8, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
in 1957 -compares the routine pews and the elevated remodeled convent to a shop­altar that McGuire said "could
Ca01pion 

ping mall that needs "You are be deadly" in a dress and high continued from page 1 here" signs to guide the older heels. Gone is the dark-wooded members. statue of Jesus that always "You can walk miles in here made her think of a "big brown 
early 1960s, there are currently and never go outside," she said. bear." Gone are the niches, theonly 525 fully professed nuns 

The wheelchairs and walkers brass-sheathed confessionals
and 70 in formation serving 

clustered in the maze, however, and the steel girders of thetoday. Many are in their 80s show that walking is a dwin­1950s. Gone are the choir loftand 90s and 17 died in 2003. At 
dling luxury. and the balcony that shookSaint Mary's, 198 sisters are in when the organ that used to be
residence, 92 of whom are Family memories 
"strung together with string,
retired. Tucked away on the fifth floor Youth is a rare find within the of the building is the history wire, spit and chewing gum" 
played.

order, especially in the United room -home to what McGuire States. While the numbers of called, with a wink, "family "We were forbidden from see­
ing what was going on,"
newer sisters in international memories." branches are on the rise, only The room traces the develop­McGuire recalled. "When I 
stepped in, I thought, 'Oh, my.' 

one temporarily incorporated ment of the order, beginning 
sister, one novice, one candi­with the four sisters sent from "Most of the girls despised it." The gleaming Georgia marble
date and four pre-candidates LeMans, France to northern 
floor still bears scratched
currently live in America. To Indiana in 1843 by Basil 
indents of where the pews
fight this trend, Saint Mary's Moreau, founder of the Holy 
will open a house of discern­Cross Congregations of priests, stood, but Loretto -with its modern chair-style seating,
ment on April 14. Called Mary's brothers and sisters. It contin­octagonal altar, imposing whiteSolitude, it will provide a place ues through the sisters' current 
for those who are first consid­ministries in such countries as pillars and 24-hour flowing baptismal font-is far from the
ering joining the order to test Brazil, Uganda and Bangladesh. the waters of commitment. Exhibits fill the space, illustrat­same place. ing everything from the accom­"We can have meetings here
Drastic change a
plishments of each of the now," McGuire said. "It's The drop-off in religious 
order's Mother Superiors to the more usable space. You can't do vocations increased dramatical­rosary beads sisters used dur­that with pews." 
ly after the Second Vatican 

ing World War II, worn from From conducting moreCouncil -a time, Campion black to brown from sisters' fin­relaxed Holy Week services inremembers, when many sisters gers rubbing them in prayer. this revamped church to were caught off guard by a rap­The displays on the evolution extending the reach of theiridly changing Church. 
ministries to Africa, Latin
of the habit cause McGuire to"Of those who questioned it, linger awhile longer than she America and Asia, the sisters'partly I think they didn't have a 

does at the other exhibits. activities tc::ay would have
vocation to start with, partly 

been hard to imagine back
other areas of the church sit, she said. For those who are Pointing to pictures of the flut­
they didn't wait long enough ed cap, McGuire said she when Campion and her peers

instead of making the complete bedridden and cannot attend[before deciding to leave the joined the order in the 1950s. 
commitment the religious life services at all, Easter Sunday remembers wearing it inside
order.]" she said. "Some really 

requires. Mass is shown on closed-circuit out to avoid "blisters on your "Thomas Wolfe wrote thecouldn't take the changes, but 
book, 'You Can't Go Home
Those who do make that com­television. ears," and hearing complaints
for some I thought that that 

of "a lot of burned fingers" Again,"' Campion said. "Well, Imitment today are increasingly "Some people just don't havewas just an excuse." 
never read it, but I just know
called to international ministry. the energy, some people can't from the older sisters who used
Those nuns who stayed on 

The Sisters of the Holy Cross walk, some come down in the hot wires of the fluting that you can't. 
through the turmoil found a 

"You can't go back. Even if
now minister in eight countries wheelchairs, some have prob­machine to make their own
very different religious life. 

you do go back, it's not the
on four continents around the lems hearing," she said. "And caps.
Most visibly, the sisters no same."

·world, focusing their efforts in some come down just for things As she leaves the room,
longer wore the habit-a wel­As she closes her eyes to the

schools, hospitals, and social like Holy Week." McGuire points to a small,
come change for Campion, who 

maps of Tanzania and
service agencies. Their contem­Those who cannot care for inconspicuous box just outside
said she had been so conscien­Bangladesh that hang on her

porary goals of justice, nonvio­themselves reside in Saint the doorway, containing small
tious that "when I first got it, office walls, glancing quickly at

lence and gender equality Mary's Convent, also known cellophane chips that any
some of my worst dreams were 

the bit of dried braided palm
reflect the concerns of this among the sisters as the "infir­passerby can move from one
that I wasn't wearing it." 

from last year's Palm Sunday
global sphere -and a need to, mary." Alzheimer's patients live compartment to another to pray 
A less visible, but more harm­that sits atop her computer, she 

as the order's mission state­in the Queen of Peace, a small­for all of the sisters who have
ful change came with the real­remembers strained conversa­ization that the sisters' unique ment dictates, "reflect on the er division on the convent's top died. 

tions that arose following therole was no longer so defined. signs of the times." floor. Patches of lighter brick "There are two thousand, two Second Vatican Council. 
"There are so many more An aging community are visible along the rows of hundred and -I don't know, "My mother used to say tothings a woman can do now in As Sister Campion chats can­windows, revealing the room lots and lots," McGuire said as me, 'What you've chosen, yourthe church, that she doesn't didly about how times have expansion and addition of pri­she transferred a chip, deposit­life is easy,"' Campion said.
have to [be a nun]." Campion changed back at Saint Mary's, vate bathrooms that has taken ing another soul into the box. 
"And I'd say 'Mother, if it's sosaid. "[This] is why we had so describing the sisters' experi­place to accommodate the sis­A renovated Church, a revised 
easy, how come you didn't 
many sisters in the 19th centu­ences with pre-and post­ters' dropping numbers and religious life join?'"
ry and the early part of the Vatican II Holy Week liturgy, it growing needs. The Church of Loretto, Smiling, Campion closes her20th century, because a is hard to ignore subtle refer­As she charts a path through McGuire's next destination, is a eyes again, her body contentwoman's life was relatively ences to the reality of an aging the wide, pastel-colored hall­perfect example of many sis­with change and her heart con­
restricted." community. ways of the infirmary, Sister ters' uneasiness with change. 
tent with commitment. 

The vast majority of Catholic Sisters who used to stand still Julie McGuire -still mobile Remodeled in 1993, the church women, she added, now choose during the entire three-hour and sharp of mind more than today is nearly unrecognizable Contact Claire Heininger at to be involved in lay ministry or passion liturgy are now told to 45 years after joining the order from the original. Gone are the cheining@nd.edu 


Survey 
continued from page 1 
"I liked the Catholic back­ground ... and the size of the school," she said. 
Dewit's older brother also attended Notre Dame. 
Dewit said that most Latinos who are involved in clubs and organizations are American­Latinos but she said that she too hopes to become more active next year. 
"Every country has its own details ... I want to get involved to see what I can offer as a Guatemalan," Dewit said. 
Dewit praised Notre Dame's efforts to promote diversity. 
"I do think the University is making a lot of efforts for minorities to relate to others," she said. 
Roberto Garcia, an interna­tional transfer student from Tee de Monterrey in Mexico, said that academic programs like the Institute for Latino Studies provide opportunities for all students to learn about other cultures. The Institute for Latino Studies, which incorporates a better under­standing of the Latino experi­ence in America into an inter­disciplinary minor. was found­ed in 1999 to help Hispanics and students create a greater awareness of their culture and heritage. 

"I've taken classes for Institute of Latino Studies and I think that ND has the most scholars that know a lot about Latino studies," Garcia said. "You find more American white people that know more about your country." 
Garcia said that he likes the support for Latino students on campus. 
"Sometimes I think they see the Latino guy as only being a Latino," Garcia said. "But I don't feel any discrimination against me." 
Since he first took office as university president in 1987 ,University President Father Edward Malloy said that he has made it a priority to diversify the Notre Dame population. Hispanics currently total nearly eight percent of undergraduate enrollment and minority enrollment has increased nearly ten percent since then. 
"I am very pleased about the dramatic increase in the mem­bers of underrepresented groups here at Notre Dame," Malloy said. "We're striving to make Notre Dame more clearly resemble the demographics of the country and of the world." 
The magazine collected information from various sources including Hispanic scholarship organizations, uni­versities, the U.S. News & World Report's annual survey "America's Best Colleges," and "Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education," a journal which publishes a list of the top 100 institutions that award bache­lor's degrees to Hispanics, to determine the rankings for this year's top 25 schools. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 


Ex-LBJ aides praise 
TV investigation 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Former aides to former President Johnson wel­comed a History Channel investi­gation that found allegations of his involvement in the Kennedy assassination to be "stuff and nonsense." 
"The shameful and despicable lie that President Lyndon Johnson killed President John F. Kennedy was dumped into the trash bin of irresponsible history tonight," the four prominent men said Wednesday in a statement. 
They include Tom Johnson, chairman of the LBJ Foundation; Jack Valenti, head of the Motion Picture Association of America; Larry Temple, president of The LBJ Foundation; and journalist Bill Moyers. 
A panel of historians, in a spe­cia! that aired Wednesday, found that claims against Johnson made in a History Channel pro­gram last November were wrong, the former Johnson aides noted in a joint statement. 

"It was a victory for truth and fairness, brought about when The History Channel bowed to urgent requests from Mrs. Lyndon Johnson and former Presidents Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter that such a panel be formed and its conclusions made public," according to the statement. 
The allegations against Johnson and others were con­tained in the documentary "The Guilty Men," which aired in November as one of a series of programs exploring conspiracy theories surrounding Kennedy's 1963 murder. 
Thursday, April 8, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
All our desks come with a 


Join us, and we'll put some of the most exciting challenges in business in front of you. Opportunities to work on some of the biggest, most prestigious brands in the global market. And we'll put the knowledge, experience and support of the best talent in the industry behind you. Get the big picture. 
• 

. I 

I 
QualityIn Everything We Do 
-


THE 0BSER\'ER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 81 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
Update Saint Mary's registration 
Scheduling classes is a stressful event for any college stu­problem. While class waiting lists exist, they are often dent-but at Saint Mary's, the process is exceptionally futile. inefficient. The only solution is to completely revise Saint Mary's 
Students at the College can currently register for general departmental registration. education requirements and electives using PRISM, an Notre Dame has been using the IrishLink system since online system similar to Notre Dame's 2001. Although IrishLink has its flaws, it is a lrishLink. However, unlike at Notre Dame, OJhe more convenient and organized way to regis-Saint Mary's students can only register for userver ter for classes. classes in their majors in person -leading to The system randomly assigns students a
•a1 

overnight lines and serious frustrations with a t~me, defeating the frustration of waiting in 
ton

Edi
flawed, outdated system. lme. 
The week before registration, students meet A main reason for the current outdated with their advisor to discuss class-choices, receive their reg­Saint Mary's system is to keep students from being shut out istration PIN number and obtain the advisor's signature on of classes being filled in their major. Through IrishLink. an advising form. On advanced registration day within a restrictions are put on courses within individual depart­specific department, students travel to a designated aca­ments to keep classes required for a student's major from demic building to turn in their forms and register with the being filled before they get a chance to register for those major's secretary. Often, students wake up before dawn classes. only to spend hours waiting in a line of sleeping classmates, An online system utilizing updates to PRISM would be hoping to get their desired-and even necessary-sched­more efficient and less stressful for students and faculty ule of classes. But despite these efforts that involve losing alike. sleep, skipping classes and waiting in long lines, students Notre Dame has shown that online registration can work are not guaranteed the classes required for their major. effectively and efficiently, particularly within departments. 
Though many departments try to ease the early morning Saint Mary's should follow its lead, eliminating the lines and problem by scheduling advanced registration for late morn­confusion by implementing a complete online registration ing or early afternoon, this is not a sufficient solution to the system. 
Et in Arcadia Ego 
In the graveyard of Holy Trinity seven.) of science we cannot hold either Church in Headington Quarry, It is quite common to make com­belief. When pressed as to which par­Oxford, lies buried a professor of parisons between the death of Christ ticular scientific discovery renders Medieval and Renaissance English. and the death of Socrates. Both were belief in resurrection unsustainable, As befits a scholar of literature, the innocent men put to death because they usually become vague and speak epitaph on his they were seen as a threat to the of "the scientific world view." But tombstone­social order. There are certainly what their arguments typically
Peter Wicks

carved by his interesting similarities, but when the demonstrate is not that Christ could brother, who was accounts of their deaths are com­not have been raised, but only that if later buried beside pared it is the differences which he was then his resurrection would him -is taken Englishman strike us most forcibly. Socrates is have been a miracle, a conclusion from Shakespeare; Abroad composed, he reassures his friends which has the merit of being what "Men must endure that death is nothing to fear. every sane person has always their going hence." Practiced rightly, Socrates taught, believed. Spoken by Edgar in the final act of philosophy is the preparation for Voltaire said that the human King Lear, these words strike a tone death, and when the time came he species is the only one which knows of stoic resignation in the face of was ready to drink the hemlock and that it will die, which puts us death, and some might be surprised _pass on. between the oblivious beasts and the to find them engraved on the tomb­But when we turn to the accounts immortal angels in whom Voltaire did stone of this professor, who is best of Christ's death in the Gospels, we not believe. In previous generations known as a defender of full-blooded see a man terrified of the fate before we were taught to prepare ourselves Christian orthodoxy. What, it may be him. He prays that the cup may pass from a young age. In 17th century asked, of his Christian hope? from him, and on the cross he cries New England, children were given 
C.S. Lewis did not abandon his out in despair. Mark reports Jesus' schoolbooks containing a poem faith, but he was not interested in others sayings already translated into instructing them "Go through the any cheap consolation. Lewis lost his Greek, but he leaves the cry from the cemetery, and you will see graves mother-before his lOth birthday­cross in the Aramaic, "Eloi, Eloi, shorter than you." his father and his wife, all to cancer. lama sabachthani?" My God, my God, But many forces in our culture con­Like St. Paul, he believed in the res­why hast thou forsaken me? It is spire to encourage us to push the urrection of the dead, but he did not here, I think, that we see most clearly knowledge of our mortality to the deny death its sting. that Christ not only suffers, but truly back of our consciousness; death, we 
Tomorrow is Good Friday, when dies. half-imagine, is something reserved Christians remember the death of Theologians have wrestled with the_ for those who smoke and eat red Christ, who was wounded and put to meaning of Christ's cry of desolation. meat. But our denial is dangerous death -we believe -for our trans­I am no theologian, but speaking because, as Saul Bellow once put it, gressions. Crucifixion was the most autobiographically, I doubt I am death is the dark backing a mirror barbarous form of execution that the alone in seeing it as the ultimate needs if we are to see anything. human mind had been capable of expression of Christ's solidarity with We are all going to die. How then imagining, and many others suffered mankind's abjection, or in thinking shall we live? similarly horrendous deaths. (Nor is that any attempt to understand the crucifixion a thing of the past; even good news of Easter must begin with Peter Wicks is a graduate student today it is practiced in the Sudan, an attempt to reckon with Calvary. in philosophy. His column usually where Christians are put to death for The Apostle Paul believed that the appears every other Friday. He can their beliefs. In the past decade, the resurrection of Christ was the basis be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. United Nations Human Rights for Christian hope in the resurrection The views expressed in this column Commission has documented the cru­of the dead. I have known many peo­are those ofthe author and not nec­cifixion of children as young as ple who have insisted that in our age essarily of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY

OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of Notre Dame's admission 


"/still say a church steeple with a lightning
standards for football players? 

rod on top shows a lack ofconfidence." 
A. Raise the Standards 14% 
B. Remain the same 58% 
C. Lower the Standards 28% 
Doug Mcleod author 
*Courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 321 responses. 


THE ()HSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 8, 2004 page II 

Passionate about 'The Passion' 
Frank Hich of The New York Times called it "a porn movie." To Christoplwr llitclwns, it was a homoerotic "exercise in lurid sadomasochism." The New York Daily News called it "the most virulently anti-Semitic movie made since the German propagan­
da 111rns of World War II." 
I low can we explain the hostility of the elites in the media, Hollywood and the acad­emy to Mel Gibson and The Passion of the Christ? i\ntonio Gramsci can help us under­stand. 
Gramsci, an Italian Communist who died in I 'J37, saw that the proletarian revolution of Marxist theory would not happen in western countries because the workers and their. 
Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

oppressors were united by a common bond of Christian culture 
and belief. The secular, classless paradise, he thought, would 
bn achieved without a revolution, but only if the people were 
f'irst separated from their Christian roots and conditioned to 
ignore the transcendent, i.e., God and his truth, and to focus on 
tlw immanent, i.e., living day-to-day without reference to God 
or objective morality. 
Since the 1960s this country has been a Gramscian laborato­ry. The courts removed any afnrmation of God from the schools and public life. Merry Christmas gave way to Happy Holidays. llnconstructionists deprived language of objective meaning. Trendy clerics turned the Commandments into advisories. 
"More than in any other historical period," John Paul !I, "one must point to a break in the transmission of moral and religious values between generations." 
The intentional infliction of death is now an optional problem­solving technique. The contraceptive separation of sex from life provided control over the beginning of life and inevitably over the ending of life through abortion and euthanasia. That sepa­ration legitimized sodomy and undermined the status of mar­riage. Pornography is a bigger business theh professional foot­ball. basketball and baseball combined. And so on. 
Gramsci wrote approvingly of "hegemony" as dominance by a ruling class not by the threat of force but by the willing submis­sion of the subordinate classes. The molders of culture have achieved. in recent decades, the cultural hegemony not of a class but of a secular, relativist and individualist code. That code conditions the public to think only of the materialistic here and now, with God excluded or relegated to the margins. 
So why tho hostility to "The Passion?" The protests against it were described by Habbi Daniel Lapin as "morally indefensible and ill-advised." 
"Gibson has complemented the Gospel narrative," said Vatican Cardinal Dario Castrillon Hoyos, "with the insights [ofl saints and mystics ... [The film is] faithful to the meaning of the Gospels, as understood by the church." Maia Morgenstern, the Jewish actress who played Mary, and whose father is a Holocaust survivor, said, "Despite the blood and the violence, it's a beautiful film ... It brings ... a peace message." 
If anything, Gibson understated the sufferings of Christ. St. i\lphonsus Liguori, a Doctor of the Church, relying on St. Bonaventure, St. Anselm and the visions of St. Bridget, said "the number of the [scourging] strokes amounted to several thousand, the flagellation being administered ... after the man­ner of the Homans, with whom there was no [limit] ... [T]he bones of his ribs were laid bare ... St. Peter Damian wrote that the executioners exhausted themselves with fatigue in scourg­ing our Lord." 
"After the scourging," wrote St. Alphonsus, "[Pilate showed] him to the people, saying, 'Behold the Man!' [because he] was ... so pitiable ... that Pilate believed the very sight of him would have moved his enemies ... to compassion, and hindered them from ... demanding his death ... The appearance of Jesus after his scourging was so shocking ... as to move to tears even those who hated him." Liguori concluded that Christ, a divine person with two natures, human and divine, willed to suffer beyond merely human endurance. The film is a love story. 
Why are the liberal elites so hostile to this film? Because it threatens to upset their applecart, worldwide. "The Passion," like a lightning bolt, is a sudden intrusion of the transcendent -God-into the immanent, into the lives of ordinary people. 
A religious renewal had been germinating before "The Passion." But "The Passion" reaches beyond the religiously aware to affect many for whom it is a wake-up call. The elites had already overreached, with the Super Bowl halftime and the arrogance of public officials "marrying" sodomites in defiance of enacted law. But Mel Gibson is so hated by the elites because he dramatically reintroduced the American -and world ­public to the transcendent and specifiully to Christ. The fight is not about Mel Gibson. It is all about Christ. 
Antonio Gramsci would understand. Pray for him. And go see "The Passion." 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His col­umn usually appears every other Wednesday. He can be con­tacted at lplawecki@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Challenging 'homophobia' 
... 

Ijust can't help myself. I need attention and I've come to the conclusion that the only way for my letter to get published in The Observer is to write about the ever-popular topic of homosexu­ality. Indeed, the debate has become so heated that even law students have entered the ring. 
I, for one, generally support the recent stances of Mr. Hess and Ms. Tawresey, and gen­erally object to the stances of Ms. Leahy and Mr. Gallop. 
First, Ms. Leahy states in her April 1 letter that we are "a campus where events are sup­ported that outrightly promote promiscuous, unmarried heterosexual behavior." Could some­one please tell me if this is true? I'm serious. i\s one with virtually no social life, I think I need to attend events of this kind-the announcement of which Jui.s mysteriously escaped me for· three years. 
Ms. Leahy's vast knowledge of and experience with .this University-and apparently, the Catechism -also tells her that its "stance against a straight-Gay, Lesbian, bisexual and transgendered (GLBT) alliance approaches base hypocrisy at worst, and homophobic twisting of Catholic doctrine at best." 
OK, since no doubt by writing this I'm just asking to be accused of it, what is homophobia, anyway? I've never met someone who is afraid of another person because they are gay. It seems that those who usually keep to them­selves about these issues might harbor feelings of either apathy or disgust, but not fear. This seems to be what Ms. Leahy might call an "unfortunate logical error." . 
Ms. Leahy says it is a "harmful error of assumption" that Ms. Tawresey views the "intent of a straight-GLBT alliance as promotion of the idea that homosexual conduct is accept­able." If not, could someone tell me, then, what the intent is? 
The focal point of this issue seems to simply be the act of homosexual sex. If the United in Diversity (UID) or other such groups desperately seeking official club status would come out and proclaim as part of their mission statement that they are strongly against the act of homosexual sex, I doubt there would be any opposition at all 
-from Ms. Tawresey or otherwise-to there 
being an official club promoting acceptance of gay people. 
But then Ms. Leahy, who simultaneously scoffs at "those who proclaimed the law of God from pulpits and condemned their fellow persons," says that the Catholic Church tells us "to love and embrace all persons, no matter what their sin," and that "in the bubble-world of Notre Dame, what it means to be a good Christian has little to do with actually imitating Christ." 
If there's anything I love more than listening to someone tell me what being a good Christian is, it's someone insinuating they are more Christ-like than I am. Of course, Ms. Leahy is correct in her first point, but it gets us into the enormous grey area of what one defines as love. I think most would agree that Jesus Christ did show people how to love and put himself in the company of sinners, but he certainly didn't approve of or encourage the continuation of sin. 
I can't really define love, but I do know that it doesn't simply mean to have sex with or to approve of sexual practices. Indeed, Ms. Leahy, such a leap of logic is both erroneous and unfor­tunate. Look at your WWJD bracelet and ask yourself. "Would Jesus have sex with a man?" I think not. But that's just my opinion. 
Ms. Leahy tries to call out Ms. Tawresey and Mr. Hess for "equating identity and behavior." Am I the only one seeing the irony in this? It seems to me that those pushing the hardest for club recognition and peddling orange shirts are more guilty of this equation than two law stu­dents trying to point out immorality in the act of homosexual sex. 
I don't get it. It seems like so many UID mem­bers claim they just want to be seen as "holis­tic" people, yet they base a disproportionate part of their identity and purpose on their sexu­al activity-see Mr. Gallop's April 5 column. Perhaps the University notes this inconsistency as well? 
Carl Herickhoff junior Siegfried Hall April6 


Last week, three other students and I brought a letter to Notre Dame administrators asking them to make a public statement guar­anteeing Notre Dame will not enter into any more contracts with Taco Bell until Taco Bell takes responsibility for the conditions from which their tomatoes come, in accordance with the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW). 
We also asked them to develop a plan to have Fair Trade Coffee, a widely available way of ensuring that the farmers who grow the world's second-most traded commodity receive fair prices as opposed to poverty-inducing ones, finally available in the dining halls by the beginning of next semester. 
As you may know, Florida farmworkers called a national boycott of Taco Bell to get Taco Bell to take responsibility for the poverty and exploitation behind their profit. Notre Dame has a marketing relationship with Taco Bell, and last fall the Progressive Students Alliance (PSA) asked them to cut that contract. Breech of contract rules made them reluctant to do so. We asked for a public statement that Notre Dame would not enter into more con­
tracts with Taco Bell. They agreed to evaluate 
the relationship but have not yet made the 
statement. 

As Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote in his famous Letter from Birmingham Jail, "Justice too long delayed is justice denied," and while we wait situations do need to be evaluated. Delaying action for too long is allowing injus­tices to continue. 
Notre Dame has had all year and ample information. Each day that we continue to receive money from Taco Bell-money subsi­dized by the poverty and sweat of farmworkers -is a day that we continue to profit from exploitation and allow it to exist. Until we clearly state our position to Taco Bell, we are not exempt from the responsibility for atro­cious abuses of human beings. 
Brigitte Gynther 
semor 
off-campus April6 

TH.E 0BSER\'ER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, April 8, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Death Cab for Cutie release evokes emotion 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 

It is probably difficult for most people to believe that the Fox teen drama "The O.C." has the best soundtrack on television. Sure, the plotlines have been recycled through dozens of other shows on the WB and hardly have the originality of 'The Wonder Years" or its female counterpart "My So­Called Life," but the music supervisor for Fox's new hit has used some of the most original and vibrant music alive today. 
For most people, "The O.C." would have been their first exposure to the music of Death Cab for Cutie, the Washington state quartet who cut its teeth on the indie music scene, and whose latest album, "Transatlanticism," has the potential to spread its music to many more fans and will surely be seen in a few years as their sell-out album. 


None of this, however, should be a dis­traction or detraction from the fragile beauty on display throughout this record. The musical composition is strong, the lyrics, although bizarre and hard to deci­pher at certain points, are heartbreaking, and the album flows remarkably well. Death Cab for Cutie is obviously filled with talented musicians and writers. Lead singer and guitarist Ben Gi.li>bard's voice is unique, seemingly only a breath away from collapsing into tears. 
"Transatlanticism" can belloosely seen as a concept album, certainly ip spirit if not in direct relationship. As can be inferred from the title, the record is concerned with the limits of love and communication across distances -the hardships and barriers that exist in long-distance relationships and the diffi­culties that 
arise in trying to keep it alive. 
At times there are moments of exquisite hap­j)iness and memory, such as the simple narrative of "Passenger Seat," which quietly describes a ride home with the speaker's 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Trio perform.s jazz standards 
Jarrett's trio is scheduled to play, are wet, dark, and bleak. The three veter­an musicians sit anxiously in their hotel rooms with fading hopes that the weather will clear up before they are supposed to perform a~ the festival, which is held exclusively outdoors with no backup venue in case of rain (because thefve never needed one!). Having performed at the festival seven times before in beautiful weather, the trio feels out of their element given the current conditions. 
The 16th comes without a break in the rain. Clear plastic drop cloths are hung all around the stage to keep the instruments dry, although Jarrett thinks the piano is ah:-eady water­logged. While they have the option according to their contract, to cancel By CHRISTOPHER KEPNER 
Scene Music Critic 

If you've ever wanted to give jazz a shot, check out this album. It's really difficult to argue with a group that's been playing together for over 20 years. Pianist Keith Jarrett's most acclaimed trio, with Gary Peacock on bass and Jack DeJohnette on drums, has been a hallmark in the jazz world for over two decades now. They cele­brated this milestone with the release of their latest album "Up For It." 
Picture this scene. July is unseason­ably rainy in Juan-les-Pins, France, and the 42nd Festival de Jazz Antibes is unable to escape the weather. The days leading up to the 16th, when 
Upforlt 

Keith Jarrett, Gary Peacock, and Jack DeJohnette 
ECM Records 
• 

love. Songs such as this are in stark contrast to the more frequent tragedies, such as the lonely "Tiny Vessels," which takes place in "the moment I when you told her that you loved her but you don't," with a bridge that is almost demonic in its ferocity and suddenness. "Title and Registration," with a stark and bizarre melody remi­niscent of Tom Waits, details searching through the glove compartment of a car, maybe even the one from "Passenger Seat," and finding old photos of better times with a lover -pic­tures the speaker had tried so hard to forget. 
Death Cab for Cutie is able to weave an entire narrative from songs that are usually about only single, everyday moments, and that is admirable. To be able to evoke such emotion, sadness and joy from short descriptions of brief events is not an easy task for anyone, let alone someone who writes pop songs. 
On a certain level. that is why this album is able to excel through its ability to com­municate across each of its songs. Although the centerpiece of its concept may be the obstacles we all face in trying to express ourselves to even the most important people in our lives, especially when they are not sitting across .from us, the irony is that the greater message and 
their performance due to the inclement weather, the group reluc­tantly opts to play. 
The stage is an open one, behind which the Mediterranean Sea lies. The sun has gone down. It's dark and it's rain­ing. There are thousands of peo­ple on hand. It isn't very often that a musician gets the opportuni­ty to perform in a setting such as this. Once the trio starts playing, all of their hesitation and disdain melts away. It's just Keith, Gary and Jack -three old friends who have enjoyed playing together for 20 years. 
And the music that came out of that performance was memorable. All of the songs in the set are standards except for the title track, which was composed by Jarrett. "'If I Were a Bell," "Butch & Butch," "Scrapple From the Apple," "Someday My Prince Will Come," "Two Degrees East, Three Degrees West" and "Autumn Leaves" are given fresh, exciting interpreta­tions by these three masters. Every measure "Of this album will engage lis­its effectiveness are so clear and decipher­able. 
Death Cab for Cutie's "Transatlanticism" is a beautiful album of sad love songs. It will not save popular music or lead to a songwriting revolution, but for anyone in search of some bare honesty and unabashed emotion, this record is essen­tial. Although sometimes it strays too far into stereotyped emo territory, the songs found here will find a safe place in any music collection. 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 


teners and leave them thirsting for the next. 
Whether you listen intently to what's going on in the music or simply throw it in your player as background music, anyone will be able to enjoy this fan­tastic album from one of the best piano trios of all time. Jazz is America's gift to the world. Pick up this album and discover what you've been missing. 
Contact Christopher Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 

THE

Thursdaj, Aprll8, 2004 OBSERVER 


Thursday, April 8, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sollmann's injury another hurdle for Irish 
"What tho the odds be great or smalVOld Notre Dame will win over all." 
Those were words written to describe the Irish football 
team-an American institution of greatness in sports throughout the past century. 
But more recently, 


Chris Federico 
those two 
lines seem to fit the 
Senior Staff
Irish base­
Writer
ball pro­gram even better. 

In 2002, star freshmen Matt Macri and Matt Edwards both suffered season-ending didn't throw in the towel knowing they'd be without · their ace. Instead, Niese! stepped into the spotlight, earning Big East Pitcher of the Year honors and leading the Irish to a Big East Tournament title. 
Before the start of this sea­son, Notre Dame lost both junior right-hander John Axford and freshman phenom Jeff Manship to season-ending surgeries. 
No problem. Sophomore Tom Thornton has stepped in to go 4-1 and defeat some of the best hitting teams in the country in schools like Southern California and Texas Tech. 
So last Saturday, when senior second baseman and tri-captain Steve Sollmann was knocked out of Notre 

injuries at the start of the year, and the Irish stumbled to a 9-10 start. 
But the Irish did not tuck their tails between their legs and run away scared. 
A relatively unknown sophomore named Javier Sanchez came off the bench to play short­stop, filling the role admirably. Then Steve 

"/think it's a thing that's been kind of the hallmark of our program, that when someone has gotten hurt, our hearts have bled for the guy, but it hasn't destroyed our confi­dence in our team. , 
Paul Malnierl Irish coach 
Dame's contest against Villanova with a broken jaw, did anyone expect the Irish to wipe the drawing board clean and look to next year? 
Of course not. 
After all, the signature of this Notre Dame ball club for the past few years has been success in the face of adversity. 
"I think it's a thing that's been 

Stanley, the six other Irish seniors and a couple of gutsy freshmen pitchers named Chris Niese! and Grant Johnson led Notre Dame to its first appearance at the College World Series in 45 years. 
Last year, when the Irish learned they would be without Johnson for the entire season because his ailing right shoul­der required surgery, they 
COACHING 

The Irish have reached 40-plus wins
LLI 

in each of their nine
::!: 

seasons under
ct 

Mainieri. In 2002, he took the Irish to their 
0 
LLI 

first College World
a: 
1­

Series berth in 45
0 

years, and he has the
z 

Irish ready for anoth­er run to Omaha. 
Peter Hughes has
LLI 
CJ 

taken the Eagles to
LU
_, 

new heights in his first
_, 

five years at Boston
0 

College. The Eagles
(.) 

have averaged 30 wins 
z 

a year in Hughes' time
0 

at Boston College. He
1­
(/) 

has ben named Big
0 

East Coach of the Year 
m 
twice. 

~ 

kind of the hallmark of our program, that when someone has gotten hurt, our hearts have bled for the guy, but it hasn't destroyed our confi­dence in our team," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. 
True, everyone at that game Saturday watched in horror as the ambulance carried Sollmann off the field. True, even Mainieri said he had 
STARTING 
PITCHING 

Niesel and Thornton have combined to go 8­2 this year. Some of Thornton's ke"y starts this year have been a nine-inning shutout of West Virginia and eight-inning, one-hit performance over Texas Tech. Niesel has struggled some. 
Lambert is arguably one of the best pitchers in the country and Shepard is tough, but they will not likely pitch against the Irish. Instead Notre Dame should face O'Donnell and Martinez, who have not enjoyed as much success. 
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 
Javl Sanchez makes a throw in Notre Dame's 15-5 win over Chicago State Tuesday. The senior will be forced to move from catcher to second base to fill In for the Injured Steve Sollmann. 
trouble turning attention back know what is," Sanchez said. but I think we're going to be tp the game. But every player "Matt Edwards went down able to pull through this." in an Irish uniform also knew with that leg injury [in 2002]. Now, with Sollmann out for 
· they must fight on. and we ended up going to the an uncertain length of time, 
Ask Sanchez, who for the College World Series. Steve many would say those odds third time in as many years, Sollmann goes down this year, are stacked pretty high has been asked to step up and and who knows what could against the Irish. bear a new load. happen." But with this team that's 
The senior, who switched to With that attitude, Sanchez already fought through so catcher just last season, will wants to prove to his·team­much, would they have it any likely now have to fill the mates and the country that other way? newly-formed void at second this Irish team is best with base in place of his fellow their backs up against the The opinions expressed in classmate and co-captain wall. this column are those of the Sollmann. "I told the guys, we're not at author and not necessarily 
"It was unfortunate what our best until the situation is those of The Observer. happened to Steve [Sollmann]. at its worst," he said. "Right Contact Chris Federico at but if this isn't fate, I don't now we're pretty banged up, cfederic@nd. edu. 
BULLPEN 
Several strong arms make the Irish bullpen a solid one. Doherty has been nearly unhittable as a closer. Samardzija and Thaman have been pleasant sur­prises in relief for the Irish this year. 
The Eagles have a formidable bullpen that doesn't hurt them very often. Boston College has a team ERA of 4.36. Closer Mike Gauthier has been solid for the Eagles, with a 2-2 record and four saves on the year. 
With such good start­ing pitching, bullpens may not become much of an issue, but both 
·tea~' at;oe ··,b~\",!'JV'~. Notp)\.Qil.m~·s Pi>hflrty
····'and 8Hston····£hileg~·s Gauthier are both reli­able closers that don't often relinquish a lead in the ninth . 

HITTING 
The Irish are hitting the ball better than they have in a few seasons. Notre Dame is just one home run shy of its total from 2003. Macri, Edwards, Bransfield and Cooper have all been hitting the ball hard lately. 
The usually-powerful Eagle bats have been very quiet for the first part of 2004. Boston College has a team bat­ting average of .251 and scores only 4. 5 runs a game. Delaney is the only Eagle hitter with a batting average above .300. 
DEFENSE 
After the second weekend of Big East play, the Irish were just one hundredth of a percentage point behind Pittsburgh for the conference lead in fielding percentage. The Irish have made only 29 errors in 27 games. 
Boston College ranks near the bot­tom in the Big East in fielding percentage at .955 at the close of conference play last weekend. They com­mitted 41 errors in their first 25 games this season. 
INTANGIBLES 

With Steve Sollmann out of the lineup, the Irish should have even more motivation to make a run to Omaha this year. The Irish also get to play in the comfy confines of Frank Eck Stadium and get the last at bat. 
Boston College has the tough luck of having to play a doubleheader at Villanova just two days before it travels to Notre Dame. This means they will likely have to burn their top two pitchers, Lambert and Shepard, against the Wildcats. 


._________j\!"'~'!"'·.,-...,.~.-,-~-.--....-·.........., ____. 
1 

Thursday, April 8, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Aces up their sleeve 
Several talented Irish pitchers look to bear the load against Boston College 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Senior S!afTWrilcr 
If President Bush is still looking for powerful arms, he may want to check Frank Eck Stadium Saturday for No. 5 Notre Dame's Big East doubleheader with Boston College. 
Irish aces Chris Niese! and Tom Thornton bring their com­bined 8-2 record to the mound against a talented Boston College pitching stall'. 
Even though the Eagles' top pitchers, preseason Big East Pitcher of the Year Chris Lambert and lefty Kevin Shepard. will likely pitch against Villanova today. the Eagles still possess a team EHA of 4.36 and several talented hurlers. Senior Matt O'Donnell and junior Joe Martinez -who turned down Notre Dame to go to Boston College -will likely get the ball on the mound for the Eagles. 
Meanwhile the Irish possess a bevy of arms to go along with the righty-lefty combination of Niese! and Thornton. 
"[The keyl is the same thing it always is-pitch. Pitch well," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "Make the plays and give your­self a chance to win. Then take advantage of the scoring oppor­tunities." 
The bulldog 
The best way to sum up Niesel's pnrsonality as a pitcher is to look at his performance in tllln of Notre Dame's biggest baseball games in the last 50 years. 
A-; a fmshman. and with a spot in thn 2002 College World Series on the line, Niese) was charged with the task of beating then­No. I Florida State in the NCAA Super Hngionals, in their back yard, in Niesel's home state. 
All the tough 6-foot, 200-pound righty did was hold one of the bnst hitting teams in the country to one run in eight innings, as the Irish prevailed 3-1. 
"( think everybody on our team, when they look at Chris Niesel. they realize we have a six innings for the win. Later, bulldog out there on the mound, against a hot-hitting Texas Tech and we've got a chance to win," team, he limited the Hod Haiders Mainieri said. "He's a great to one hit in eight innings for example for all of our younger another win. players." "The big thing for us this year 
Last season, when classmate -the guy that's really made the Grant Johnson went out for the difference for us this year is Tom season with shoulder surgery, it Thornton," Mainieri said. "Tom was Niese! who carried the Irish Thornton has gone from basical­
on his back. The  ly being our fifth guy  
then-sophomore finished the year  "Tom Thornton has  -our guy who would be pitching in  
9-1 with a 2.65 EHA. For his efforts, Niese! was named Big  been sent straight from God to the Fighting Irish ... "  mid-week games -to our No. 2 starter. He's been just a god­send for us. He's  
East Pitcher of  been outstanding."  
the Year ahead  Paul Malnlerl  Mainieri says that  
of  Boston  Irish coach  what  has  made  


College's Lambert. 
This season, Niese! has strug­gled a little more than the Irish tri-captain is used to. He has a 
5.09 ERA and opponents have hit .316 off him. But he still knows how to get the win, as he owns a solid 4-1 record on the year. 
"I have no concerns about Chris Niese!." Mainieri said. "lie's going to be an outstanding pitcher the rest of the year for us, no doubt." 
The godsend 
At a school like Notre Dame, you know when a coach refers to a player as a godsend, he must be pretty serious. So when Mainieri described his 6-foot-6 pitcher Tom Thornton in such a pious manner, it's easy to see how important the big left-han­der has been to the Irish this season. 
"Tom Thornton has been sent straight from God to the Fighting Irish. because he has been an unbelievable life saver," Mainieri said after Thornton's nine-inning shutout over West Virginia. 'That performance against West Virginia was one of the most dominating performances we've seen by a pitcher here." 
But Thornton has been deliver­ing in the clutch all season for Notre Dame. In his first start of the year, the sophomore held Southern California scoreless in 

PhotocourtesyofNotreoameSportstnfonnation 
Thornton so good 
this year is his abili­ty to pitch ahead in the count and make smart pitches. 
"l-Ie's always pitching ahead in the count," he said. "If you throw strikes early to hitters and you get hitters out with two or three pitches, then it's going to keep your pitch count down and help you pitch late into the game." 
The closer 
When Irish closer Ryan Doherty enters the game in the ninth inning, many opposing players gasp -and not just because of the righty's 7 -foot-1, 220-pound frame. 
The sophomore Doherty has proven a nearly unhittable force this season for the Irish. 
"I think [Doherty] has been outstanding for us all year," Mainieri said. "Every single time we have put him out there, he's done the job for us." 
In 13 appearances, Doherty owns a 3-0 record and 0.66 ERA to go along with a Big East-lead­ing five saves. In his 13 2/3 innings pitched, opponents have gotten only five hits ofT the gang­ly Doherty. 
And Mainieri has not been afraid to put Doherty into hairy situations this year. In the series against Villanova last weekend, the Irish skipper put Doherty into the opening game in the sixth inning with the Wildcats storm­ing back, and the big man got two quick strikeouts to end the threat. He then came back in the nightcap of the doubleheader and got the win by pitching a perfect lOth inning. 
"I think [Ryan Doherty] has really been one of the outstand­ing contributors to our early sea­son success," Mainieri said. 
The first baseman 
In three years as Notre Dame's starting first baseman, Joe Thaman had amassed just a .279 career batting average. With an infield chock full of offensive tal­ent in Matt Macri, Greg Lopez, Steve Sollmann and Matt Edwards, Mainieri knew some­thing was going to have to give heading into the 2004 season. 
So he approached the senior Thaman with a proposition: let Edwards take over first base and move into the bullpen as a left-handed pitcher. 
Thaman, who had not pitched since high school was open to the change, and the move has paid off dividends for the Irish. 
" I think Thaman has pitched outstanding," Mainieri said. "I think what [pjtching coach] Terry Rooney has done with him is nothing short of remarkable ­taking a kid that hasn't picked upaballtosteponthemoundin that he has done." 

Thaman has .been a steady force for the Irish this season. notching a 2-1 record with a 
3.42 ERA in 23 2/3 innings pitched. 
What's more is that the left-handed Thaman has filled a big hole in an Irish bullpen that was very heavy on right-handers. 
"I think it's another added advantage," Mainieri said of the lefty Thaman. "He's got a great pickoff move to first. He's throw­ing from the left side and he gets left-handers out." 
So while Thaman may miss the ping of the bat that he would hear as a hitter, he doesn't mind the sound of a "whiff' from bat­ters missing his fastballs. 
"It's worked out as well as I would have hoped it could have," Mainieri said. 
The football player 
Irish reliever Jeff Samardzija told Mainieri he wanted to play baseball through a newspaper article last fall. The Irish skipper was reading the South Bend Tribune one day when he noticed that Samardzija-at the time a wide receiver on the foot­ball team-had stated he want­ed to try his hand at pitching for Notre Dame. 
Mainieri talked with Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham and got permission to let the 6-foot-5 freshman try­out. 
Samardzija impressed Mainieri and Rooney. earned a spot on the roster and got his chance to pitch for the Irish. 
All he has done since that time is earn a 1-0 record and post a 
0.47 ERA in 19 1/3 innings pitched. 
"Jeff Samardzija has really exceeded our expectations," Mainieri said. "He has been real­ly outstanding. I'm not sure where we'd be without Jeff Samardzija and how he's pitched for us." 
Samardzija has been an early leader in the Irish bullpen, allow­ing just nine hits in nine appear­ances with the Irish. Right now, he is in the midst of a 15-inning shutout streak. 
"I knew if I went in there and play my game and pitched like I could pitch, I could make a con­tribution to the team, and it 
Now, his biggest concern lies with juggling a rigorous schedule that includes classes, baseball games and travel, and football practices and conditioning. As a scholarship football player, Samardzija has an obligation to the football team and has to be present at all of the spring prac­tices. 
"I get tired a lot, but it works out kind of nice," Samardzija said. 
The young guns 
The rest of the Irish freshman pitching class was one that received a lot of hype coming into the 2003 season, headlined by Texas native Jeff Manship, who was listed by Baseball America as the country's No. 3 freshman prospect. 
But right before the start of the season, the Irish learned Manship would miss all of 2004 with Tommy John surgery. 
Fortunately for the Irish, sever­al of Manship's classmates have stepped up and made a contribu­tion in just their first season at Notre Dame. 
"I said going into the season that if our freshman pitchers didn't pitch well for us, we would have a tough time having a great year," Mainieri said. "I wasn't sure which of the freshman pitchers was going to have a great year for us." 
The answer has been several Irish freshman that have made key contributions this year, either as relief pitchers on Big East weekends or as starters in mid-week games. 
Jess Stewart owns a3.70 ERA and 3-0 record, Chris Vasami has a 1-0 record and 4.63 ERA in 11 2/3 innings pitched, Dan Kapala has a 5.02 ERA in 11 appearances, and Mike Dury has logged 7 1!3 innings and allowed just one run in splitting time at first base. 
One of Rooney's tasks this year has been turning the young Irish pitchers from high school stars to confident collegiate pitchers. 
"I think Terry Rooney is really doing a great job with those kids out there," Mainieri said. "They're really buying into his program and what he's teaching them. It's really showing in the way they're pitching." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfedcric@nd.edu 
Irish left-hander Tom Thornton .pitches for Notr.e. Dame. In a •• three yell.rs.. and. the1,1 .h.e.c.om.es ..would .work out," Samardzija ~ame earlier this year. The sophomore Is 4-1 for the Irish. out there and is doing the things said. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 8, 2004 
Unselfish Sanchez changes position again 
Senior moves from catcher to second base to replace fallen classmate Steve SalZmann 

By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior StaffWriter 
Javi Sanchez should never get too comfortable with his position. 
Following the devastating injury to second baseman Steve Sollmann in Notre Dame's first game against Villanova last Saturday, the Irish found themselves searching for someone to fill Sollmann's enormous shoes. 
The senior Sanchez -who has proved to be a real base­ball renaissance man with his ahility to play almost any position on the field for the Irish -is just the player for the job. 
''He's a natural. He's a nat­ural at any position," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said of his tri-captain Sanchez. "He's just a ball player, that kid. He can play so many different positions, whether you play him at short, third, second or catcher. I could put him in the outfield, and he'd do a good job out there." 
In 2002, Sanchez came off the bench to play shortstop for the Irish during their run to the College World Series after Matt Macri and Matt Ediwards suffered season­en~ing injuries. 
East year, when Notre 

Dame needed a catcher to replace Paul O'Toole, who had graduated the year before, Sanchez was more than willing to take the job, even though he had never before played the position. Sanchez worked tirelessly with assistant coach David Grewe to learn from scratch how to be a catcher. 
Now with Sollmann injured, Sanchez has moved back out from behind the plate to sec­ond base -at least part of the time -as freshman Sean Gaston takes over as the Irish catcher. 
Sanchez had· already start~ ed one game at third base this season in an 8-2 win over Penn State March 8. On Tuesday, in his first game at second base in nearly two years against Chicago State, Sanchez looked like he had never missed a beat. 
The 6-foot-3, 205-pound Miami native credits Mainieri for never letting him get too far away from his roots as an infielder. 
"I felt good [Tuesday]. Coach [Mainieril anticipates things like this happening in the off-season," Sanchez said. "When we were working indoors, he actually had me take some groundballs in the infield, usually at shortstop, just to get a feel for the 
infield. If anything happens, 
he  could  adjust  me  from  
there."  
Sanchez  who  was  

recruited as a second base­man out of Christopher Columbus High School in Miami -says he feels com­fortable moving back to his old position in the infield. He feels he just needs more time and more practice with field­ing ground balls and getting back to playing the position to return to the level of play he reached two years ago as a regular shortstop. 
"I actually feel pretty com­fortable," Sanchez said. "I just think I need to get more ground balls outdoors on our field out here." 
As for Mainieri, he says he just feels fortunate to have a player as flexible as Sanchez, who doesn't mind being switched form position to position. 
"[Sanchez] is the kind of kid that you just thank God you have on your ball club," Mainieri said. "Everybody loves him because he is so unselfish, and he plays hard. ... He'd go raise the flag in the outfield if I told him to do that. He'd do anything for this team." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

Notre Dame -Defense 
17 Cody Rizzo Avg: .317 0 HR.9RBI
lF 
:16 Sreve Andm CF 9 Craie CooperR F 
Avg: .369
A•g: ..H9 4 HR., 17 R.BI 
4 HR., 18 R.BI 
28 
!5 Iavj Sanchez 

4 Gus Lwezss Avg: .322
Avg: .366 2HR,20RBI ! HR, !~RBI 
,MmMacrj3B 1B14 Mat! Jldwaub 
AYg: .:n9 Avg: .3!6
10 Cbrjo Njqel
4 HR., 30 R.BI 5 HR, 29 R.Bl 
-
40.21P, 4-1 5.0') ER.A, 34 K lO Tom Thormoo
P
4,.1 IP, 4-1 
2.38 ER.A, 30 K 
[2 Man Bramf~rW II Sean Gaswn Avg: .319 
Avg: .364 0 HR,S R.BI
· 6HR,22RBI

D H C 


Notre Dame BullpenBattinS Order Notre Dame 
47 Ryan Dohertv I 3-0, 13.2 IP, 0.66 tRA, 1,6 K 
1. Craig Cooper, RF 

44 Mike Dury 1-0, 7.1 IP, 1.23 ERA, 6 K 
2. 
-Matt Macri, 3B 



22 Grant Johnson I 
3. 
Steve Andres, LF 


1-0, 11 IP, 0.82 ERA, 8 ~ 37 Dan Kopala 
4. 
Matt Bransfield, DH 


1-0, 14.1 IP, 5.02 ERA, 16 K 45 Jeff Samardzija 
5. 
Matt Edwards, 1 B 

1-0, 18.1 IP, 0.49 ERA, 1P K 
6. 
Javi Sanchez, 2B 



32 Jess Stewart 3-0, 19.1 IP, 4.66 ERA, 9 K 
7. 
Cody Rizzo, CF 


21 Joe Thoman 2-1 I 22.2 IP, 3.57 ERA, 17 K
8. 
Sean Gaston, C 




35 Chris Vasami 
9. 
Greg Lopez, SS 

1-0, 11.2 IP, 4.63 ERA, 17 K 

Boston College
BattinQ Order 
1. 
Eric Wright, RF 

2. 
Ryan Leahy, SS 

3. 
Ryan Morgan, 1B 

4. 
Drew Locke, CF 

5. 
Jason Delaney, DH 

6. 
Garrett Greer, C 

7. 
Mike Flynn, LF 

8. 
Josh DiScipio, 2B 

9. 
Marco Albano, 3B 


Boston Colle~e Bullpen 
14 Nick Asselin 0-0, 1.0 IP, 0.00 ERA, 0 K 34 Kevin Boggan 0-0, 9.1 IP, 0.96 ERA 10 K 31 Mike Gauthier 2-2, 251P, 2.52 ERA 22 K 12 Jake Marsella 0-1, 5.21P, 7.94 ERA, 4 K 41 Matt Meyer 0-1, 2.1 IP, 7.71 ERA, 6 K 1 7 Ryan Morgan 0-2, 6.1 IP, 2.84 ERA 4 K 35 Dave Preziosi 0-0, 5 IP, 10.80 ERA 3 K 25 Mike Wlodarczyk 0-1, 8.1 IP, 15.12 ERA 12 K 
Boston ColleUe -Defense 
42 Drew Lock~ Avg: 297 

lF21 Mike Flynn CFl HR, n RBI 24 Erk Wrisht R F 
Avg: .269 0 HR, 9 RBI 
A:vg: .196 
I HR, !I RBI 
5 loah DiSdpio
iRyan l.eahySS

Avg: .250 Avg: .204 l HR,II RBI nHR, 3 RBI
2B 
17 Ryan M<>rpnl Marco Albano 3 B 

Avg: .2~0 ll ManO'Donnell Avg: .237 
oHR,3 RBI UHR,1 RRI
1B
H.OIP,2·2 
6.00 ERA, 29 K 
18 Joe Martinez 
P
26.11P.l-1 
3.04 ERA, 26 K 

28 [!!SOD DeJao'l)i '2 Gaw;q Greer 
Avg: .305 Avg: .276 
l HR,l6RBI

3 HR, I~ RBI
D H C 



---------------. 
THE ()BSER\!£R 

CENE
Thursday, April 8, 2004 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Landmark Dylan concert officially released 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Von Bandies wail on debut 
Photo courtesy ot mtv.com The Von Bondles have entered the mainstream with their major label debut, "Pawn Shoppe Heart." 
the band after an altercation at a small Detroit club left Stollsteimer a bloody mess. 
The Von Bondies have developed their own style with "Pawn Shoppe lleart," announcing they are better off without White's tutelage. The pounding guitar riffs hurl decibels of energy at the lis­tener. It really makes you feel like you are in the middle of a bar fight, and you lind yourself singing along to one of the band's hooks just before ducking out of the way of a flying barstool. 
"No Regrets" gets the album rolling with a barrage of hammering guitars and thumping drums that can only be described as slightly wicked. In fact, the whole song takes on a sinful edge as Stollsteimer wails on behalf of reckless youths everywhere, "You really haven't lived life yet I If you ain't got no regrets!" 
The first sin­
gle from the 
album, ''C'mon C'mon," show­cases more pounding rhythms from Bole!T'" and bass player Carrie Smith, as the band makes every­one remember how "things were good when we were young." The song is the first on the album that makes use of the female voices in /the band and ends itself almost per­fectly with a back and forth boy/girl chorus. 

The boy/girl routine is carried throughout the rest of the album, reaching its peak on "The Fever" and "Not that Social." In "The Fever," while StoHsteimer testifies about an old girlfriend, Bolen and Smith become high school cheerleaders, turning the title into a chant that forces the listener to reminisce on a cheer­leader tune from the '80s. 
On "Not that Social." Stollsteimer hands the vocal duties over to the women completely. Sadly, this song proves that nothing is perfect, even in the world of garage rock. Although bril­liant lyrically, the tune itself falls short of the rest of the album. Smith takes over the lead and delivers an uncaring performance, robbing the album of the energy the previous six songs worked so hard to obtain. It does not help that she is singing over fuzzy power-pop guitar riffs. making the song sound like little more than a bad mid-90's Veruca Salt cover. Hearing Smith sing ''I'm not that social, just a good drinker" almost makes up for it though. 
By JULIE BENDER Scene Music Critic 
By 1964 America was a nation ill at f~ase . .IFK was dead, the Civil Bights movement was making itself violently known, the Cold War was in high gear and Vietnam was just getting underway. On tho musical front, rock 'n' roll was taking 
·the nation by storm, alienating the gener­ations by means of loud guitars. Up to this point. however, the political and the musi­cal cultures had for the most part remained separate entities. There was some crossover with folk music, but the rock 'n' roll popularized by Elvis Presley and the Beatles remained a voice for raw youthful energy and excitement. 
Bob Dylan was in the process of chang­ing all this even before 1964. He was tak-

By MICHAEL TENNANT 
Scene Music Critic 
''I'm a broken man, this here is my broken band," howls Jason Stollsteimer, lead singer. guitarist and songwriter for the Von Bondics. Ironically, this "broken band" he sings about has it all together when it comes right down to it. 
llailing from Detroit. the Von Bondies come crashing into the mainstream with guitars blazing in their major label debut "Pawn Shoppc llcart," bringing with them a mixture of unrelenting garage punk and screaming blues. Numerous comparisons were made bntwccn thnm and the White Stripes. While Jack White produced tho band's first independent release and has dated the Bondies' other guitar player Marcie Bolen, he has since severed all tics with 
Pawn Shoppe Heart 
ing the folk protest of Woody Guthrie, the Beat energy of Kerouac and Ginsberg, the rebellious sex of Presley and James Dean and the rough-hewn rock of the Beatles and creating with it something all of his own. For the first time, words were becoming more important than a dance­able beat or catchy melody. Dylan was able to use his infamously nasal voice and irregular guitar to translix audiences. He was able to capture this new musical essence and use it to analyze and critique American society. And, just as important, people were willing to listen. 
The 1964 Halloween concert, now offi­cially released as the sixth volume in the Bob Dylan Live Bootleg Series, is one of the most bootlegged shows of Dylan's career. Dylan had just released "Another Side of Bob Dylan" the summer before and his album "Bringing It All Back Home" was underway. 
This concert, often called his last real folk concert, had a certain zeal and excite­ment to · it. Dylan was de 1 i rio.us l y entertaining throughout the show, playing a mix of famil­iar favorites and samples of new songs·. The audience's reaction and reception to Dylan shows they too knew something special was in the air that Halloween night. 

The concert opened with Dylan's most famous song at the time. "The Times They Are A-Changin." Immediately after his first down­stroke on the guitar, Dylan held the audience captive for the duration of his performance. He daringly played "Talkin' John Birch Paranoid Blues," a song that had been banned from the Ed Sullivan Show due to its tongue-in-cheek jibe at the John Birch Society's communist paranoia. Dylan gets applause' as he sings the line, "I discovered there were red stripes in the American flag. Did you know about Betsy Ross?" 
Continuing with light, tipsy banter between songs, Dylan continued with the suggestive "If You Got to Go, Go Now (Or Else You Got to Stay All Night)" before testing new ground with "It's Alright, Ma (I'm Only Bleeding)." The endless stream of dark lyrics laid before the audience in this manifesto gives a hint of the direction Dylan would be going with his next album. 
Besides a taste of what the future held in store, the Halloween concert also treat­ed fans to several duets between Dylan and his rumored romantic partner at the time, Joan Baez. It was a pairing of the king and queen of the folk movement, and the result is spellbinding. Dylan's harsh nasal vocals and Baez's rippling voice combine in an inexplicable, though pleas­urable harmony over songs like "Mama, You Been On My Mind" and "It Ain't Me, Babe." 

As the concert comes to an end. Dylan leaves the stage humbly despite the force­ful cries of appreciation and esteem by the audience. The lonesome hobo and travel­ing troubadour was paving the way for rock 'n' roll to come, and Halloween 1964 was a glimpse into the future for many fans. Now, 40 years later, Dylan's continu­ing Bootleg Series renders this glimpse an immortal reflection on the history and importance of his music. 
ContactJulie Bender at jbender@nd.edu -· 

The rest of the album shines. "Mairead" is a dirty, bluesy number that shows the band is capable of slowing it down just a bit. And the title track is a fitting way to end the album, beginning with a down and dirty rolling drum beat and ending with fed-up Stollsteimer finally crooning out loud with every inch of his soul what he has been thinking the previous 30-somo odd minutes. "Take everything you want, take all you can I I'm your pawnshop lover, I'm your pawnshop broken-heart man." 
You can almost hear the sweat falling on the dirty floor. 
Contact Michael Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
Thursday, April 8, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Bruins shut out Canadiens in playoff opener 
Goalie Raycraft stops It may have been among the Canadiens · worst. 31 shots in playoff "We need to be more disci­plined," Montreal coach Claude
debut, Boston wins Julien said. "Our thinking caps were not on as well as they should have been. When we are
Associated Press not capable of making two pass­BOSTON -Boston goalie es in a row, we are in for a Andrew Raycraft felt good tough night." before his playoff debut and· Canadiens goalie Jose even better once it was over. Theodore faced 39 shots behind The rookie stopped 31 shots, a sometimes porous defense. and the Bruins -with Joe Two years ago, Theodore was Thornton back from an injury -outstanding when eighth-seeded won their playoff opener 3-0 Montreal eliminated top-seeded over the lackluster Montreal Boston in the first round. Canadiens on Wednesday night. Raycroft, who shared playing "You're going to have some time with Felix Potvin for most butterflies in the playoffs of the first 25 games of the sea­regardless of a player's experi­son. started the next 11. He ence, Raycraft said. "You can excelled as the first-stringer the only get so nervous, and I was rest of the way, finishing with a pretty close to where I like to 2.05 goals-against average and be. It keeps you focused." three shutouts. The Bruins expected Raycraft to play well after watching him Red Wings 3, Predators 1 all season. What they couldn't DETROIT -The story line have counted on was taking an was not lost on Manny Legace. early lead and scoring two Detroit's goaltender was just power-play goals. Boston had glad this one had a happy end­the worst power play among the ing. eight Eastern Conference playoff Tomas Holmstrom and Kris teams, scoring on 16.6 percent Draper scored early in the third of its chances. period to lift the Red Wings to a Boston led 2-0 after one peri­victory over the Nashville od on goals by Sergei Gonchar Predators in the opening game and Michael Nylander, both of their first-round series. obtained from Washington early "I was thinking, 'Here we go and Joe Sakic scored to put the Lehtinen, as the horn sounded, in the Western Conference. last month . .The Bruins made it again,"' said Legace, who made Avalanche up 3-0. Game 2 is after his stick went flying into Vancouver is undefeated since 3-0 on Mike Knuble's goal late 23 saves in his first playoff start. Friday in Denver. the corner. Aebischer got his going 1-3-2-1 immediately after in the second. Gonchar and For the first two periods, The defensive-minded Stars stick back just in time after a star forward Todd Bertuzzi was Knuble scored on power plays. there were striking similarities were sluggish on both ends shot bounced over his head with suspended throughout the play­"The power plays were the to Detroit's playoff appearance early and lost in the playoffs by three minutes left. offs for punching Colorado's difference," Knuble said. last year when a young fran­more than a goal for the first The Avalanche were hoping Steve Moore. The return of Thornton, who chise with a goalie making his time in two years. the start of the playoffs would Dan Cloutier made 26 saves. missed the last two regular-sea­playoff debut rocked a star­Dallas picked up the pace with produce some sort of spark Markus Naslund had three son games with an upper body studded team. 32 shots over the final two peri­after they ended the regular assists, and Morrison set up two injury, didn't hurt. He played 14 Tomas Vokoun played like ods, but they couldn't beat season with just two wins in 10 goals for the Canucks, who will minutes, 53 seconds -below Jean-Sebastien Giguere, and the Aebischer until Niko Kapanen's games. host Game 2 of the best-of­his season average -but he Predators looked like the wrister trickled through the It sure did. seven series on Friday night. wasn't needed late in the game. Anaheim Mighty Ducks. goalie's pads with 6:30 left. Colorado was crisp from the Chris Simon and Oleg "It responded pretty good," Giguere set a record for a Aebischer spent three seasons start, with numerous good scor­Saprykin both had power-play Thornton said of the injury. "It's playoff debut with 63 saves last as Roy's backup and took 35 ing chances early and tight goals, and Krzystof Oliwa also going to be a big day [Thursday] year when Anabeim knocked off minutes of playoff experience checking at the blue line. The scored for the Flames. making to see how it reacts." the Red Wings in Game 1. into the series. It was hard to Avalanche outshot Dallas 15-6 their first playoff appearance in The second-seeded Bruins can Anaheim swept Detroit en route tell that he wasn't a seasoned in the first period and had two eight years. take a 2-0 lead in the best-of­to the Stanley Cup finals. veteran. goals in their first seven shots. Miikka Kiprusoff. who set a seven series against the sev­Vokoun. in his first playoff He faced just six shots in the modern-day NHL record with a enth-seeded Canadiens at home game, made 18 saves during the first period but kept his compo­Canucks 5, Flames 3 1.69 goals-against average this on Friday night. first two periods and finished sure -a lot like Roy -when VANCOUVER -Sami Salo, season, made 17 saves and "We have to do a lot of things with 26. the Stars picked up the p·res­Henrik Serlin and Brendan allowed more than two goals for better to win the next game," sure. Morrison also took advantage of just the seventh time in 39 Montreal's Saku Koivu said. · Avalanche 3, Stars 1 Aebischer blocked one shot Calgary penalties and Mattias games. The Canadiens can start by DENVER -Colorado scored through traffic on a power play Ohlund added a goal during a The Canucks came in with the playing harder from the begin­two goals in the first nine min­midway through the second delayed penalty to lift worst power play in the playoffs ning. They were outshot 23-9 in utes and Aebischer stopped 37 period, then stuffed Jason Vancouver to its seventh at 15.1 percent after converting the first period and gave up shots in his first playoff start•. Arnott from the edge of the straight win, dating to the regu­just four of 53 chances in their Gonchar's goal 5:12 in. helping the Avalanche open the crease with a sprawling save lar season. final 16 games. But they scored "That might have been the playoffs with a victory over the that led to a chant of "Abby! That late push lifted the on their first two opportunities best period we played all year," Dallas Stars. Abby!" from the crowd. Canucks to the Northwest and finished 4-for-6 with the Bruins coach Mike Sullivan said. Peter Forsberg, Alex Tanguay He also stopped Jere Division title and the No. 3 seed man advantage. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
Catholic family offering lui/time sum­mer childcare opportunity to care for 
school age children, ages 5 to 11, Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages negotiable, non-smoker pre­!erred, own transportation a plus, contact Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. 
Notre Dame faculty seeking sitter for 2-yr-old. Ideally Mon/Wed/Fri 8­
4. 2 mi south of campus. Own car, Spanish-speaking a plus. Through end of summer.Contact sneren­berg@sbcglobal.net. 
Gatekeeper at Bendix Woods County Park, Sats. & Suns., 1 May­31 Oct. Approx. 14 hrs/wk, call 574-654' 3155. 
FoR SALE 
1042 Lawndale, South Bend, IN Pymts can be LOWER than RENT 3 BR, 2 Story w/bsmt. Re-habed new roof, carpet, bath, kit. $50K. 574-67 4-9548 
Country Estate in Buchanan, Ml 1 0 acres w/woods $210,000 2198 E Warren Woods Rd. 3 BDRM, 2 SA, Re-habed 20 min. to Lake Michigan, near by lakes for fishing, room for horses. Quiet. Ready to move into. 574­674-9548 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmm­rentals@ aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. .. .WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to NO. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 

2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near campus. Only a few left for next school year. Call Justine, 234-9923. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky-lights. 
$1640/mo. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 

Attention 2Q04-05 Juniors & Seniors, Grad Students. Rental Home Available for 2 stu­dents. May-Aug and Aug-May lease. Fully furnished. All appliances,utilities, cable & high speed internet included. Off street parking. 4 miles from NO. 
$450/month/student. 574-656-8695. 
Faculty/Staff Rental Homes 600 feet to Campus 604 E. Angela 3 BR 2 Bath 2,000 sq. ft. $1,950 month 542 E. Angela 4 BR 1-1/2 Bath, 1,700 SQ ft. 
$1 ,850 month. www.rentclicks.com or 272-4796. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, esc. at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV­EA. 
Beans House I wrote a paper today. skip it skip off 
spring 2004 1 8 Cavanaugh peeps paradise mischief campus police! 
but whyyyy? can we have an easter egg hunt on north quad? 
erin, i want a puppy for our room. i promise he wouldn't be any trouble. he could hide under my bed and sp would never know! 
I love peppermint chai tea ...thank you mr. peppermint chai inventor 

Thursday, April 8, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


4~ 
~ 
RELAY 
FOR LIFE 
• 
i 
• 
~=~===~?.:::::::;.:;:;:.:.;;:::;::::::::::· 

2nd ANNUAL NOTRE DAME RELAY FOR LIFE 
FIGHTIN' IRISH, FIGHTIN' CANCER 
WHAT IS IT? The American Cancer Society's signature event, Relay for Life is an all-night walk to raise money, awareness, support, and hope in defeating cancer. Teams of participants raise money through sponsors prior to the Relay, then set up shop at the Stepan Center for the night and have at least one team member walking the track at all times. With entertainment and activities ongoing throughout the evening, Relay is a fun opportunity to show your ND spirit and be a part of the Fightin' Irish, Fightin' Cancer. 
WHERE DOES THE MONEY GO? Money raised through the Relay for Life goes to benefit American Cancer Society cancer prevention, early detection, treatment, and patient Stlpport. Last year, Notre Dame set a goal of $30,000 and raised nearly $66,000!! You can be a part of a record setting Relay in 2004! · 
WHERE: Stepan Center WHEN: September 17-18,2004 6pm-noon. 
HOW? Come to an informational n1eeting for Relay for Life 2004 on Tuesday, April 13 at 7pm in 356 Fitzpatrick to find out more information and get yotlr teatn started! Can't make the meeting? Contact Relay Student Liaison KATIE ZERR (kzerr@nd.edtl). 
' 
' 
I 
I I 
l 
, I 
I 
' 
' 
I 
• I I 
page 16 Thursday, April 8, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

Clemens surrenders one hit in 10-1 Astros win 
Ace earns 311 th win, ties Tom Seaver for 16th in all-time wins 

University of Notre Dame Int'l Study Programs 
Irish Studies Summer School at Trinity College, Dublin Ireland 
INFORMATIONSESSION 
Tuesday, April 13, 2004 209 DeBartolo 

Farner Nolan Ryan, plus family 
members and friends in 
Clemens' suite, began cheering 
even before the first pitch of his 
NL debut. 
"I was just hoping my energy 
level would stay at a high level 
and it did," Clemens said. 
Phlllles 5, Pirates 4 
PITTSBURGH -This is just 
how the Philadelphia Phillies 
planned the late innings: Tim 
Worrell in the eighth, Billy 
Wagner in the ninth and Jose 
Mesa nowhere in sight. 
The Phillies got 3 2/3 score­
less innings from their upgrad­
ed bullpen and rallied for two 
runs in the eighth to beat 
Pittsburgh -their first victory 
of the season. 
After losing 2-1 to Mesa, the 
closer they cast off following a terrible 2003 season, and the Pirates on Monday, this was more like the Phillies scripted it. Their bullpen was in control · and they had just enough time­
ly hitting. 
Pat Burrell had two more 
hits, giving him five in two 
games, and drove in two runs. 
Burrell, the left fielder, also 
made an excellent throw to 
shortstop Jimmy Rollins as they 
threw out Raul Mondesi trying 
to stretch a double into a triple 
to start the Pirates' eighth. 
Cormier (1-0} preceded 
Worrell and Wagner with 1 2-3 
scoreless relief innings. 
"You sit at home at night and 
go 'Rhea! Cormier, Tim Worrell 
and Wagner, hope it works,"' go to those guys." 
The Phillies trailed 4-3 until Pirates reliever Brian Bo:ehringer couldn't get an out in the eighth, allowing Mike Lieberthal's single and Jimmy Rollins' double ahead of walks to David Bell and pinch-hitter Ricky Ledee that forced in the tying run. Marlon Byrd's RBI force out with Brian Meadows pitching made it 5-4. 
''Are we going to blow leads? Of course we are," said manag­er Lloyd McClendon, whose bullpen was the NL's worst last season. "But you hope it's just one bad outing. Brian Boehringer threw well in spring training." 
~fter that, Worrell pitched a scoreless eighth and ·wagner struck out the side in the ninth for his first save with the Phillies. 
"It worked just like they drew it up, but I think our whole bullpen is loaded," Worrell said. 
Braves 18, Mets 10 

For one game, at least, the A~lanta Braves' new-look line­up was just as impressive as last year's record-setting offense. 
Adam LaRoche got his first two hits in the first game of his big league career during an 11­run inning, helping Atlanta beat the New York Mets. 
Johnny Estrada and pinch­hitter Julio Franco also had two hits in the fourth -the biggest inning for the Braves since they scored a team-record 13 runs against Houston on Sept. 20, 1972. LaRoche also got his first RBI. 
''That was an amazing inning," Franco said. 




Smith Barney invites you to their 
Notre Dame Financial Symposium 
Planning for the years ahead. 
Revised tax laws, market uncertainty, a changing economy. Where does your financial plan stand? Join us at our Notre Dame Financial seminar to hear from 15 professionals on financial topics that could be important to you and your family. You can attend up to 4 breakout sessions before the keynote speaker begins at 11:30 a.m. 
Keynote Speaker Dr. Kevin Elko 
Corporate and NFL• Performance Consultant & Author of "Nerves of Steel" 
DATE: Saturday, April 17, 2004 TIME: 8:00a.m. to 12:30 p.m. LOCATION: University of Notre Dame 
McKenna Hall (across from the Morris Inn) 
Parking at Hesburgh Center visitors lot · on ND Avenue across from cemetery. 
RSVP: (574) 631-6691 
Reserve your space. Cost $20 per person. Refreshments and light lunch included. We welcome your friends and colleagues. Seating is limited. 
Your Breakout Session Speakers (each speaks twice): 
8:30 a.m.--9:05a.m. & 10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. Mark Howard, Regional loan Specialist, Ralph Allen, Regional Vice President, 
CitiMortgage: Strategies for Debt Pioneer Investments: Stock Market 
Management/Borrowing Money Investing/Current Market Overview Lyndon Keyes, Director Interactive Robert Malvenda, Director 
Marketing, Smith Barney NY: Financial Smith Barney Municipal Retail Sales: 
Record Keeping Via Computer 

Bond Investing Strategies/Current Market Bill Ventura, Regional Advisor, Lincoln Overview Financial: Strategies for Paying Long Term 
Health Care Costs
Joseph Russo, Director of Financial Aid 

University of Notre Dame: Funding 8:30 a.m.--9:05a.m. & 9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. College Education/Strategies and Tools 
Bob Walsh, Public Affairs Specialist 
for You • 

Social Security Administration: EverythingTracey A Anderson, JD, LLM, CPA 
You Wanted to Know about Social Security South Bend IN: Tax Planning/IRS Code 
10:00 am.-10:35 a.m. & 10:45 am.-11:20 a.m.
Changes You Should Know 
Jim Casey, Regional Trust Specialist, Citigroup Private Trust: Wills, Estates andJeff Ochs, Insurance Consultant, 
Insurance Designers: Understanding Life 
Trust Planning Strategies Insurance for Estate/Tax Purposes 
8:30 a.m.9:05 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 am. Jason Heine, Regional Vice President, 9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. 
Bob Hartig, Regional Vice President Nationwide Financial: 401(k) Issues for PlanAmerican Funds Distributors: Why Is 
Sponsors-How ERISA Affects YouInternational Investing Important to You 

Bill Taratsas, Regional Vice President 9:15 a.m.-10:35 a.m. (one presentation only) lNG Golden Select Annuities: Protecting Larry Sherman, Regional Director, The Your Investments with Variable Annuities Geneva Company: Selling Your Business: 
Why ... When ... and How 

THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT.­
SMITHR\RNEY 
· c1t1grouP't 

Mutual funds and variable annuity investments are subject to market risk, Including possible loss of principle. Variable annuities are long4erm investments intended for retirement planning. Taxes may be due upon Withdrawals from the contract. Withdrawals may be subject to a 10% federal penalty tax if made before age 59Y. and are subJect to quali­fied retirement plan provisions. Coptes of the prospectus. 'Nhich contains more complete 1nformat1on 1ndud1ng fees and expenses, will be available at the semmar. Please read the prospectus carefully before tnvesttng There are add14 tiona! nsks associated with internattonal investing. International investin9 may not be for everyone. Smith Barney does not provide legal or tax advtce. Please consult your attorney and/or tax advisor for such guidance 
C2004 Citigroup Global Markets In<. Member SIPC Smith Barney 1s a dhnsion and serv1ce mark af Cit1group Global Markets Inc. and its affd1ates and is used and registered throughout the world OTIGROUP and the Umbrella Devi<e are trademarks and serv1ce marks of Citicorp or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN rr is a serviCe mark of Citigroup Global Markets In<. Geneva, Otigroup Global Markets In< and Citigroup Private Trust are all affiliated companies under the common control of Citigroup Inc. 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Hard to imagine a better homecoming for Roger Clemens. 
Looking nothing like a guy who had called it quits, Clemens dominated Barry Bonds and the Giants, holding them to one hit over seven scoreless innings in his Houston debut and pitching the Astros past San Francisco 10-1 Wednesday night. 
"It sure was nice coming home," Clemens said. "It was just real enjoyable." 
Only Ray Durham's clean sin­gle to center field in the third inning prevented a most special night at Minute Maid Park from becoming a truly historic one. 
Boosted by an emotional talk with former boss George Steinbrenner, Clemens posted his 311th victory and tied for­mer teammate and mentor Tom Seaver for 16th place on the career list. 
"It's nice to get the first one underway," Clemens said. "It's been a long time coming since I first decided to play." 
Not a bad comeback for a guy who retired -albeit for only 78 days -after last season. At that time, it appeared the standing ovation he drew from Florida Marlins players and fans in Game 4 of the World Series would be his farewell. 
Instead, a sellout crowd of 42,863 that included former President Bush and Hall of 
N' 
Roger Clemens earned his 311th win Wednesday, putting him In a tie for 16th all-time with his mentor, Tom Seaver. 
manager Larry Bowa said. "There will be times when it doesn't work. but the percent­ages are in our favor when we get to them. Over 162 games, we'll be in good shape when we 

Courses in Irish Culture, History, Current Issues Program includes Field Trips and One week in Belfast 
Application and Information On-Line at www.nd.edul-intlstud or International Study Programs Office in 152 Hurley 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 8, 2004 CoMPrLED FROM THE 0BsrRVHt'S wuu: SERVICES page 17 
·_· :-:================================j~J?mml~l@llrr:?
··.:.·;:;:;;;::::.:.· .........
NBA ..•.•••••••••• .,..••••••<...·.·······•·•t•m/••·•·•••••••·•·· 
Eastern Conference,Atlantl¢ ailvi;$~qn l!:l 
team record pcrc:::.••.l4St !P t ~$ / 
New Jersev 45·32 .584. 4·6 ,i ,,, · " 
~~~~ork ~:::~ :::: ::~> :\ •·~~! ? 
Boston 35-42 .455 6-4 1Oltf Philadelphia 33·45 .423 5·5 12~$ < Washington 24-53 .312 :H 2Uf ·· Orlando 19·59 .244 0~10 .26>5 · 
Eastern Conference, Central Olvisl()tl 
team record pnrc. last 1() O:Jf Indiana 57·21 .731 n3 ) .· .... " · Detroit 5H7 .654 8•2 < $~0 T Milwaukee 40·38 .513 6-4 11;0 > 
~~e~e~~~edans ~::!~ :!~~ .~~: : ~~(~ •.···•!i•l•. 
Toronto 31-46 .403 2~81 2$.$: { ( 
~~~~t:o ~~:~~ :::: ::~:i! ~;; ···········~·
i 

Western Conference, Midwest Division 
t1~am rMord perc; last 1P 
OW/ 
Minnesota 54-24 .692 H ·· San Antonio 52·25 .675 8·2 Memphis 49·28 .636 H Dallas 49·28 .636 Nr Houston 42-35 .545 3-7 Utah 41·37 ,$26 1-3 ··· ·· Denver 40·37 .519 5+5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record perc~ lasfl.O 06 /
-..~:······ ... 
Sacramento 54·23 .701 ~-~ A< ... LA Lakers Portland 
:~:~~ ::~:. ~! < 1~~t··· 
Golden State 35·42 .455 s-2 1io Seattle 35·43 .449 5·5 11~5 LA Clippers 
2267··5511 ••334368 ~.·;;10······.···.··...•••.·.·.•.•...··• Wl~~.
Phoenix <n~ · • 2UI ·· 

around the dial 
MLB 

Chicago Cubs at Cincinnati, 11 :35 p.m., WGN Chicago White Sox at New York Yankees, 
12:05 p.m., ESPN New York Mets at Atlanta, 6:35p.m., TBS 
NHL 

St. Louis at San Jose, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Orlando at New Jersey, 6:30p.m., TNT 
Minnesota at Sacramento, 9 p.m., TNT 
GOLF The Masters: First Round Coverage, 3 p.m., USA Network 
NFL 


Smith wouldn't discuss and Philip Rivers. er-returner Tim Dwight
Associated Press specifics. But trading down and and two other picks. SAN DIEGO-The New "Anything we discuss is acquiring additional picks Also Wednesday, the York Giants, known to football business between would allow San Diego to University of Pittsburgh's covet Mississippi quarter­the two of us," Smith address its many other Larry Fitzgerald, one of back Eli Manning, have said. needs. The Chargers the top receivers in the spoken with the San San Diego was 4-12 last don't have a left tackle or draft, visited the Diego Chargers about year, the same record as a standout wide receiver Chargers. obtaining the first pick in Oakland, Arizona and the or defensive end. "This was kind of like a the NFL draft on April 24. Giants. But the Chargers The Chargers also had recruiting visit today," Chargers general man­got the No. 1 draft pick the No. 1 pick four years said Fitzgerald. who met ager A.J. Smith con­based on strength of ago and traded it to with coach Marty firmed he got a call from schedule. Atlanta the day before Schottenheimer and Giants GM Ernie Accorsi The Chargers worked the draft. Atlanta got receivers coach James on Tuesday. out Manning and the Michael Vick, while San Lofton. "It's fun. I got to "They would like to other two highly regard· Diego took LaDainian out and have lunch with move from four to one," ed quarterbacks in the Tomlinson at No. 5. The Coach Lofton, somebody I Smith said on Wednesday. draft, Ben Roethlisberger Chargers also got receiv-looked up to as a child." 
IN BRIEF 

Stern believes Jordan will Phoenix Suns. is currently on the arrived for work on an early morn­become NBA owner market. Owner Jerry Colangelo is ing in October nearly two years ago 
Not much has been heard lately looking to sell a minority share of and realized his days as president from Michael Jordan, who has the franchise to an investor who of the Browns were numbered. flown under the radar since he would have the right to buy the After the death of Cleveland 
remainder of the team in several
played his final game for the owner AI Lerner, his close friend 
years.

Washington Wizards nearly one and partner, Policy sensed it was 
It is not known whether Jordan
year ago. time to move on. But this phenomenon is only tem­has held any discussions with "It was surreal," Policy said. "I 
Colangelo about the Suns.
porary. according to commissioner had a feeling it would be different 
David Stern, who expects Jordan to Colangelo was not available for from that day on." 
become an NBA owner. comment Wednesday, Suns spokes­
On Wednesday, it changed for 
"Yes, I would predict that in the woman Julie Fie said. 
good as Policy announced he will next few years Michael Jordan will "We're not going to comment on step aside and let someone else runbe an owner of an NBA team," any prospective ownership group. 
the Browns.
Stern said Wednesday in his annual It's not fair to the process," Fie Policy's five-year run as the club's
pre-playoff conference call with said. "When something is worth president and chief executive off"i­
reporters. "It's something I want to talking about, we will." 
happen." Jordan has kept a fairly low pro­cer will officially end May 1, but he Jordan was on vacation and file throughout this NBA season, will stay on as a consultant through the 2004 season.
unavailable for comment, said his appearing at the All-Star game in Los Angeles and showing up at a John Collins, the NFL's senior vicespokeswoman. Estee Portnoy. 
"Michael has continually handful of Chicago Bulls games. president of marketing and sales expressed an interest in becoming who has negotiated more than $1 
an NBA owner, and that interest is Browns' president Policy billion in sponsorship deals for the still very strong," Portnoy said. decides to step down league. will replace Policy. Collins Only one NBA franchise, the BEREA, Ohio. -Carmen Policy received a five-year contract. 
1 
2 3 
4 
5 
6 
7 8 9 10 11 
page 18 Thursday, April 8, 2004 
The Obs~rver + SPORTS 

to the Eck this weekend, the Irish are facing their toughest
Valpo 

conference opponent this sea­continued from page 24 son. But the Irish have won 11 straight, and Mainieri feels his 
"I thought everybody threw team is ready for the Big East well, even Mike Dury who gave showdown. up the home run but got the "I feel confident, really confi­next three dent going into guys," Mainieri this weekend," said. "Jess was Mainieri said. "I
"I feel confident, 
great and all think our guys the guys that really confident going are ready and followed him all primed to play,
into this weekend.'' 
threw well." You don't have With the score to talk too hard tied at one, to them about
Paul Malnlerl Steve Andres Irish coach who we are led off the sixth playing. There's with a walk and a natural little scored on a adrenaline rush Matt Bransfield double. when the other team says Bransfield advanced to third Boston College across their on a pickoff attempt and chest. scored on a wild "We'll be ready to play pitch. Saturday." After a Matt Edwards walk, "{We] just feel like if Notes 
Javi Sanchez we stay close, we'll Notre Dame 
singled to right (24-3) and Texas
win [games] late if
and Edwards (32-4) are cur­and Sanchez we have to., rently tied for advanced an the best winning extra base after percentage in
Paul Malnlerl 
an error. Greg the country with
Irish coach 
Lopez drove a mark of .889. home Edwards The Irish and with a single to Albany (16-3) make it 4-1. Sanchez scored are tied for the least losses in on a Sean Gaston fly ball the country. dropped by the left fielder to extend the lead to 5-1. 
With two outs in the inning, Contact Matt Lozar at Matt Macri doubled down the 
mlozar@nd.edu left field line to drive home 
Purdue 
continued from page 24 

change helped him improve on the green and shoot his best round of the season. 
"We've been really strug­gling in the four and five spots this season," Jasinski said. "If Mark can keep that going and the rest of the guys come through, we'll be very competitive." 
Baldwin will be joined in the line-up by freshman Cole Isban and sophomores Scott Gustafson, Tommy Balderston and Eric Deutsch. 
They will face a talented field that includes No. 5 Oklahoma State, No. 9 TCU, No. 18 Oklahoma and other golf powerhouses such as Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Northwestern and Purdue. 
"Our ultimate goal is to be competitive at the very top," Jasinski said. "The only way we can do that is to get con­stant exposure to a highly­ranked national schedule. It's a learning experience, and when a team is as young as we are, that can take some time. 
"We're moving in the right direction, though. Each tour­nament we advance little by little." 

Although the tournament boasts several highly-ranked southern teams, the Midwestern climate and con­ditions may prove to be a bit of a challenge. 
This is a prime opportunity for the some of the northern teams to pick up big wins against talented southern schools. 
"We're just hoping to be one of those teams," Jasinski said. 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Streaky Belles face Hope 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Coming ofT a split with Calvin on Tuesday, Saint Mary's looks to continue its recent solid play on a visit to Hope today. 
Hope has an 11-9 overall record, including a 3-1 mark in the MIAA. Hope sits in third place behind Alma and Calvin. 
Saint Mary's has won six of its last eight games, including five of the last six. The Belles have picked up the pace after begin­ning the season winning just five of 16 games. The rough opening included a seven-game slide in late March. 
Pitching has been consistent lately for Saint Mary's, especially from Kate Sajewich and Libby Wilhelmy. Going into Tuesday's doubleheader against Calvin, Sajewich had a 2.14 ERA and Wilhelmy had a 3.14 ERA. 
"Overall, we just need to improve on a few little things so we can not only make the tour­nament but be contenders out there," captain Erin Sullivan said. 

Saint Mary's experienced a heartbreaking ending to their second game of a doubleheader with Calvin Tuesday, as they were the victim of a pinch-hit. game-winning home run by Abby Konyndyk. 
Saint Mary's and Hope will play today at 3:30p.m. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Lopez and Gaston to close out the scoring in the sixth. 
The Irish got two more in the seventh, while Valparaiso scored two in the ninth off Tyler Jones. 
With Boston College coming 
RAND OPENING 
KING$ DOLLAR PLU$ 
Open Dnil)· 9nm~8pm Sun.N<XlU-8pm 
1813 South Bend Ave. 
Lorat<'d in the !\amc.• plare a." Hctwcrn tht' Bun~! 574.993.0310 574.234.8730 

:ERASMUS BOOKS: 
I I 

:• Used Books bought and sold 1• 25 Categories of Books :• 25,000 "Hardback and 1 Paperback books in stock :. Out-of-Print search service 
1• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 



TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS HAS SOMETHING NEW FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR! 
4 Bedroom Townhome (accommodates up to 6 people) 2 Full Baths and 2 Half Baths Washer and Dryer in apartment! Covered Carports LARGE Fenced in Privacy Patio 
This new 2400 sq. ft. 4 Bedroom Townhome can accommodate up to 6 people and can be your new home next year! 
Be the first to live in our new and exciting floor plan! 
Call for details! Turtle Creek Apartments 272-8124 
Thursday, April 8, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
GOLF 
Mickelson searches for his first green jacket 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA. Ga. -The man in the green jacket raved about Phil Mickelson 's record at the Masters -seven times in the top 10, no worse than seventh since 1999. 
Mickelson saw what was com­ing and beat everyone to the punch. 
"But no wins," he said. 

Then, he reached over and plilyfully tugged at the sleeve of the Augusta National member sitting next to him. 
"I want what you have," he said. "I want one of these. Those arn nice." 
Getting one has proved to be a major challenge for Mickelson, wlH) comes into the Masters rid­ing a streak -0-for-42 in the majors as a professional -that has come to define an otherwise impeccable career. 
No one questions his awesome ability. Mickelson has won 22 times on the PGA Tour, more than any other active player besides Tiger Woods. lie is long oil' the tee and has a short game that even Woods says is the best in golf. 
But his lack of a major became even more glaring last year when another Lefty ­Mike Weir of Canada -showed the mettle of major champions by making clutch putts down the stretch to win the Masters. 
What about Phil? 
"I think he's going to win a major championship," Mark O'Meara said. "And I think it's going to happen soon." 
Mickelson's hopes are higher than ever this year, and for good reason. 
Coming off his worst season on the PGA Tour -so bad that one golf publication failed to list him among the top 30 players going into the year -Mickelson looks stronger than ever. 
lie refused to start practicing until Jan. 1 to emphasize that last year was behind him, then came out of the blocks by win­ning the Bob Hope Classic and getting into Sunday contention every time he has played. 
He has toned down his swing, costing him some 15 yards off the tee that he could afford to lose in exchange for playing out of the fairway. He is controlling his irons with three-quarter shots instead of swinging from the heels. 
"Phil, he's probably played the best out of the whole lot," Ernie Els said. 
This might be the place for Mickelson to prove it. . 
Mickelson is so serious about this year's Masters that he came to Augusta National last week for two practice rounds. He identified his problems the last three years -all of them third­place finishes -by working with coaches Rick Smith and Dave Pelz to figure out where he can save a shot per round. 
"I certainly feel like I have a very good chance," Mickelson 


~ THE UNIVERSITY CLUB
rA\· 

g;~~w~I'~t~~ PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 
WHERE MEMBERSHIP PAYS FOR ITSELF WITH EVERY MEAL OR DRINK! 
Daily Lunch  Light Lunch  Soup &1/2 Sandwich  
Soup or Salad  Special Entree  Soup &Half Sandwich  
Entree Coffee or Tea  Coffee or Tea  Coffee or Tea  
$6.95  $4.95  $3.95  

CHEAP AND CLOSE....YOUR UNIVERSITY CLUB.....MEMBERSHIP INFORMATION 1·4685 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 HURLEY BUILDING T: 631-5882 F: 631-5771 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Anne Hayes Student Returnees 
Thor. April 15, 2004 229 Hayes-Healy 5:00-6:00 pm 
Application Deadline: May 1, 2004 for Spring 2005 Nov. 15, 2004 for Fall '05 and Spring 2006 
Applications Available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ for Sp'05 

said. ''I've played very consis­feet because their spikes could­tently, which is something I did­n't penetrate the turf. n't do last year. I have a lot "This is what we've been· look­
more confidence that I'll be there come the weekend. I'm playing well enough to get into contention without having to do anything extraordinary." 
It all starts to unfold Thursday in a Masters that is far different from a year ago. 
The storms have passed -not only the rain that turned the course into a soft and soggy mess, but the cloud of contro­versy over the all-male member­ship at Augusta National. 
"I really think the American public is ready for us to talk about golf," club chairman Hootie Johnson said Wednesday when asked ·about Martha Burk's campaign to get a woman into the club. 
The course has never been this firm and fast since officials beefed it up two years ago by adding some 300 yards. The last time it was this crusty and dry was in 1999. Legend has it the sun used to shine under players' ing for," Johnson said. "I could­n't predict a score, but I think it will be pretty tough out there if the course stays in the same condition." 
One reason so many people consider Mickelson a strong favorite is because Woods, a three-time champion, doesn't appear to be on top of his game. 
"I don't know if he's not play­ing well now or he just is wait­ing for the majors," Vijay Singh said. "I justspeak for the rest of the guys. I think our play has gone a step higher, and that's closed the gap -if there was one." 
Mickelson looks poised to close the gaping hole in his resume. 
Only two other players in PGA Tour history have won more than Mickelson without captur­ing a major Harry "Lighthorse" Cooper (31 victo­ries) and MacDonald Smith (24). 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 4 & 5 Bedroom Apartments Available 2004-2005 Free DELL Laptop Valid through April 16th, 2004 Contact: Justine or Nicole at 234-9923 
... 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web sl/efor student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: bttp;//www. ud.edul-acg!au/ 
I ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
------------------------------------------------. 
Thursday, April 8, 2004

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Runners translate passion to track success 
Irish gear up for Missouri Invitational 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writer 
Surveys have shown the most productive workers are the ones who enjoy their jobs. If running track were a job, Dan Driscoll would be employ­ee of the month. 
"It's not hard to stay focused when you enjoy it," Driscoll. "Running is something I really love to do," he said. 
The Irish distance runner, who won the 5,000 meters in last week's Spring Opener, will join his teammates in the Tom Botts Invitational this weekend at the University of Missouri. The meet begins Friday with the field events and ends Saturday with the sprinting and distance races. 
Both the Irish men and women will compete against a Big XII trio of Iowa, Iowa State and Missouri while trying to qualify still more people for the Big East Championships. 
''I'm feeling pretty confideRt going into this weekend," Driscoll said. "I want to qualify for the Big East, and I really think it can happen." 
Molly Huddle did not run in last week's meet and has not had a chance to formally qual­ify for the conference meet. She is expected, however, to be a major contender for confer­ence and national honors this outdoor season. 

"This is a pretty early season meet, and I look at it as a tune-up for high pressure meets like the Big East and Nationals," she said. 
Early season or not, Huddle will be prepared to run her best this weekend. 
"If you really look at it, there aren't a whole lot of meets," she said. "Each race is a valu­able thing, and you only get so many chances to run." 
After being stuck inside through the long South Bend winter, Huddle is happy to be able to run outdoors. The indoor track can be hard on her body, and the spring weather has been downright pleasant. 
"I enjoy outdoor more," she said. "I feel fresher running outside." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu. 
Albion 
continued from page 24 
win the No.1, No. 2 and No.4 singles matches." 
Jeannie Knish won her sin­gles match, as did Palombo and Spriggle. Kaitlin Cutler, who held the team's best record entering the match, lost 7-5, 1-6, 4-6 to drop to 13-3 on the year. 
The loss was Cutler's first defeat in a conference match in three and a half years; however, the rest of the team was still able to rally for the victory. 
"Albion is a very tough opponent, and we lost to them last year 8-1, so we were looking to get some revenge this year," Spriggle said. "I think we achieved that with our 5-4 win. 
"We really· played together as a team. I think we showed Saint Mary's, and the confer­ence, that we're ready to pull out another MIAA conference title. And we're looking for an invite to the NCAA regionals after wins like these." 
This weekend's Midwest Invitational will have a large impact on the Belles' chances of making the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The Midwest Invitational is an annual tournament held in Madison. The top 12 teams in the Midwest are invited to compete. Two years ago, Saint Mary's placed 6th and went to the NCAA Regionals. This year, however, they were snubbed. 
"At first, we were not invit­ed. Calvin College got the invite. But they turned down the invite, which let us in," Spriggle said. "Our match on Wednesday proves we belong there. 
"Albion was ranked No. 5 [in the Midwest Invitational], and this win shows we belong just as much as they do. We beat a team ranked higher than us, and this way we screw up the rankings and stick it to the committee for not inviting us." 
Generally, only one MIAA team is invited, but this year's field featured three teams, which many attribute to the growing strength of the con­ference. 
Saint Mary's is already undefeated in the conference with a 4-0 record. The Belles look to prove to all that they really do belong this weekend by turning in a strong per­formance. 
Players like Spriggle hope to lead the charge. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy l @nd.edu 

Contracts Monthly Bills Credit Checks 

• 
Unlimited Night!> & We0kends 

• 
Includes N,1tionwidt*: Looq Distance ~ 500 Anytime Mioute'3> 


1 
• 

$50 per tF:"""th is .aU it cosh 
I Plus get a NOKIA3SS6 1 color phone for just $25 
-{< US.CelluJar 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Unlimited Ni!llt and Weekends promooon is a limled tine offer ()[liV available on TalkTracker TrackerPack Plans. Promotbnal phone offer requires activaoon of a new TalkTracker service. Umited bme offer. Restncoons may apply.For TalkTracker coverage and restncflons, see lhe coverage map and brochure available in U.S. Cellular slores and aulhorized agenls. ©2004 U. S. Cellular Corporalion 

Thursday, April 8, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-78oo ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 
The Paschal Triduum, meaning "the Three Day's of Passover," takes place from Holy Thursday sundown to Easter Sun_day sundown and is the year's heart-the three days of the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord. During these holiest of days, we fast and feast as we celebrate our passover in Christ on Holy Thursday evening, Good Friday, Holy Saturday and Easter Sunday. Make and effort to attend Holy Week Services and let your prayer these days unite you with the church community in a spirit of transformation and renewal. 
-Thoughts on the Triduum taken from the Notre Dame Book of Prayers 
k d I 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Holy Thursday 

9:00a.m. Morning Prayer s:oo p.m. Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper *6:30p.m. Adoration in the Lady Chapel 11:oo p.m. Tenebrae 


*Basilica of the Sacred Heart will remain open from 6:30p.m. untill2:JO a.m. 
Good Friday 

· 9:ooa.m. 
12:00 noon -3:00p.m. 
3:oop.m. 7:15p.m. 

Morning Prayer Silent Hours of Prayer 
Celebration of the Lord's Passion Stations of the Cross 
Holy Saturday 

9:ooa.m. Morning Prayer 9:00p.m. The Paschal Vigil 
Easter Sunday 
+B:oo a.m. 1o:oo a.m. 12:oo noon 7:15p.m. 

Easter Sunday Mass Solemn Mass Easter Sunday Mass Solemn Easter Vespers 
+This is an additional Mass only for Easter Sunday. 
Confessions during Holy Week 
Monday 11:oo a.m., s:oo p.m. & ]:oo p.m. Tuesday 11:oo a.m., s:oo p.m., 7:oo p.m., 
9:30 p.m. Wednesday 11:00 a.m., 5:oo p.m. & 7:oo p.m. Holy Thursday 11:oo a.m. & 7:00 p.m. Good Friday 11:oo a.m., 12:oo noon, 1:oo p.m. ,. Holy Saturday 11:oo a.m. & 3:30 p.m. 

considerations ... 
African American Catholics 
Welcomed by an Uncomn1on Faithfulness 
by Marcee Turner Graduate Student, Department of Psychology 
Have you ever immediately felt comfortable when you arrived in a new unfamiliar place? Known that you are welcomed, loved, and accepted unconditionally for who you are without quescion? I believe that this is all too often an uncommon experience. Nonetheless, I pray that you've had this experience at least once during your life time. For it is truly an amazing experience. Please allow me to share my most recent encoun­ter of this type with you. I attended the "Uncommon Faithfulness: The Witness of African American Catholics" conference during Spring Break. And, my soul continues to be filled with irs essence. 
The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism in conjunction with several campus co­sponsors hosted this conference. Over 300 This was a gathering of not only individuals, almost all of 
intellectuals sharing academic research,
whom were African American Catholics, from but also strong individuals who wanted to all over the country 
share their faith and be enriched in the
participated in the conference. Bringing context of community. together a community of academics, religious and laity; the conference was a truly a catholic-in the universal sense-spirit-filled gather­ing. This was a truly once in a lifetime opportunity. I did not have any expectations prior to attending this gathering. Although I knew that I was truly blessed to have the opportunity and would be refreshed for having attended. I could not, however, have imagined the magnitude of the blessing I'd receive. Through shared scholarship, Eucharist celebrations, pastoral ministry, shared meals, and informal conversations, the conference truly touched our souls. My connection with the Spirit was deepened and became even more personalized within the conrext of this community. We reflected upon African An1erican catholic history, considered current opportunities and challenges and gazed upon future directions which might be explored. What an awesome experience. I can not describe the serenity of being invited back into session with an acapella rendition of the spiritual, "Amazing Grace." The convener began to sing and as a community our voices completed the song. This was a gathering of nor only intellectuals sharing academic research, but also strong individuals who wanted to share their faith and be enriched in the context of community. As a community, we journeyed back in history to revisit and relearn about our history and also propelled ourselves into the future to examine opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. Throughout the conference, we invoked the memories of our ancestors to honor, appreciate, and ask them for continued support and guidance. We shared common ground, common faith, and common expression. This conference, for me, was an example of rhe continuance of an "uncommon faithfulness." "Uncommon Faithfulness" was a spirit filled celebration for which I an1 truly thankful. I not only gained wisdom, knowledge, rejuvenation and connection with conference participants, but also felt a deeper connection with the Holy Spirit. 
..... 

1st: Acts 10:34a,37-43 2nd: Colossians 3:1-4 Gospel:· John2o:1-9 
Thursday, April 8, 2004

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Deja vu is not an option for Irish 
Team poised for a win against No. 43 William and M·ary 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Don't bet on deja vu. 

This year, a more aggressive an4 poised Alicia Salas will step onto the courts to face William and Mary's sophomore Megan Muth. The No. 10 Irish senior dropped her singles match last season against Muth 3-6, 6-4, 6­4 in part due to her timid approach to the meet. 
"Alicia got up in the third set, but [she] got a little tentative, and [Muth] bat the elements, as matches will likely take place outdoors. Outdoor matches have been speed bumps in Notre Dame's record. Louderback said outdoor practices this week should pre­vent the Irish from hitting any potholes, so to speak. 
"We've had a good week of practices this week because we've been outdoors. Our kids seem more comfortable with the elements," Louderback said. "Playing indoors is very different from outdoors because there aren't as many factors affecting the match. You can hit the ball harder indoors." 
Last weekend, the Irish defeat­ed both Marquette 7-0 and No. 18 Miami 5-2, claiming the dou­
bles  point  in  
both  meets.  
The  win  

realized that and came to the net more,"  "If everyone is [healthy}, they'll be tough all the  against rival Miami spurred Notre Dame to  
Irish J  coach a y  way down the lineup."  the top of the Big East. This  
Louderback said. "This  Jay Louderback  is the eighth time in nine  
year Alicia is  tennis coach  years the Irish  
much  more  are  nearly  
aggressive."  guaranteed the  

The No. 23 Irish fell to No. 43 first seed in the Big East tourna­William and Mary 4-3 last year, ment. losing four of the six singles "The kids were very excited to matches. William and Mary get two wins like that last week­extended three of the singles end, especially against Miami," matches to three sets and one Louderback said. "They know match to a tiebreaker. that from here on out, meets are 
"They're always a good team especially important because of to play," Louderback said. "They seeding." play hard and fair. If everyone's Notre Dame is set to meet playing, they'll be tough all the way down the lineup." 
In addition to hard-nosed com-· Contact Ann Loughery at petitors, the Irish must also com-alougher@nd.edu 
Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality houses close to campus for the 
2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 

~ Fly Casting ( 

-

I" 3-90 min. Sessions ' 4/13, 4/20, 4/27 
6:30 P.M... 8:00 P.M. All equipment furnished , Fee-$15 ..J !Classes held in Joyce Center and Campus Lakes Equipment provided. First 2 sessions will be held in Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Register in advance at RecSports 
Starting 4/8 at 8:00 A.M. /" Course conducted by Dan Bucha ' 
Certified \. American Castln11 Association Instructor ./ 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish revamp their lineup 
Team adjusts lineup before this weekend's Florida State match 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

I They have reached a bend ~~n the road, but not the end of 
.It. 

The Irish travel to Florida State (10-8, 3-3 ACC) for the final match of their regular season this weekend while also looking forward to the Big East tournament and pos­sibly the NCAA tournament. 
The No. 35 Irish will play the No. 33 Seminoles in a match that can have a signifl­~ant influence on momentum heading into the postseason. 1 Notre Dame is 12-8 on the season, and the team is hun­gry for a win after a disap­pointing loss at No. 50 Virginia Tech. The weeklong break following that loss may pelp the Irish recover from several lackluster doubles performances. After revitaliz­ing the lineup for some mid­season success, the Irish have been unable to capture the (ioubles point in several key match-ups. \ Still, seniors Luis Haddock The trip to Florida State, present a challenge to Irish and Matthew Scott are play­however, will be no cakewalk coach Bobby Bayliss as he ing in their final regular sea­for the Irish. Although the continues to modify his dou­son match, and the two sen­Seminoles dropped their most bles lineups. iors have one last chance to recent match to Georgia Tech In singles, Mat Cloer is prove their experience and 5-2, they boast a strong dou­ranked No. 19 nationally, and ~eadership before postseason bles lineup and dangerous teammate Jonathas Sucupiera play begins. singles players. is the No. 51 ranked player. 
Brent D'Amico, Steven Bass, Chris Westerhof and Jeff Cloer is the defending ACC 

Barry King and Ryan Keckley,  Groslimond of the Seminoles  Player of the Year.  
who will return next season,  garnered their 25th doubles  
look to finish  a solid season  match victory this  season.  Contact Kate Gales at  
on a positive note.  They are ranked No. 41 and  kgales@nd.edu  


Thursday, April 8, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Chiang 56 The least bit _-shek
1 Musically 57 Helen's mother detached: Abbr. 35 Vamooses 
58 180° turns, 5 Capital examin-36 Plus _ (theme slangily ers, briefly of this puzzle) 
59 Virile 9 Fairy tale broth-37 Big name in 
60 Helen's land er sneakers 61 See 47-Down 
14 Sleeper's target 38 Richmond-to­Virginia Beach
15 See 32-Across 
dir. DOWN 16 Asian currency 
39 Breakfast item 1 Covering for a 17 Psychic's furni-bald spot
40 "Left own

ture? 
devices ... " 2 _chi (martial20 Beast of burden art)
41 Like a lobster 21 Gets a move on 3 Off-road goer,
42 Ingredient of for short

22 Something big black bottom pie in front of the 4 Mexican­
43 One way to sort

sofa? Americans
a list 26 Bowls 5 Shinnies
44 Savings of a 27 Laugh sound German opera 6 Cartoonist's star? drawing
28 Barrett formerly of Pink Floyd 47 Disinclined 7 White, informal­
ly
31 Madrid mousers 50 Auxiliaries aSabbath msg.
32 With 15-Across, 51 Two features of a noted London a hurried golf 9 Freezer locale theater game? 
10 Buzz 
11

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE facto 12 Come across 13 1986 World Series champs 18 Grannies 19 Herr Schindler and others 22 Blade 23 Poker phrase 24 Checked for accuracy 25 One without manners 
29 Washington city 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
I'M

OKAY I BUT LEAVE THEN I
MAY I BORROW 
YOUR

YOUR WALLET I KEYS I ALSO NEED
YOUR CHAIR FOR 
CHIEF

COMPANY I.D. AND YOUR PDA
A MEETING? 
FINANCIAL

ONE SHOE WITH ME. AND ONE 
WILLSHORTZ 

30 Gas station 40 Supercompeti-48 Ars longa, _ choice live brevis 32 Believer's belief 43 Down time 
49 Hunter of fiction 33 Way in Quebec 44 Dryly amusing 
52 PC key 36 Some early 45 Having more 
53 "If only_ lis­
20th-century reason tened ... " French artists 
46 Friendly term of 37 Matter of little address 
54 View finder? importance 
47 First resident of 55 Fig. in identity 39 Irascible 61-Across theft 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REEMY 
[IJ I I 
C2004 Tr1bune Media Servicea, Inc. All Rlghta Reserved. 
WOODY 
rJ 
1 


THE BOSS NEYE:R
INTIEF 
CL.OSeO HIS OFFice DOOR BeCAl.JSe HE: WAS--­
[IJ In
www.lumbla.com 
I POWNEA ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I r IJ 
ms: 

'I I I I J" rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: ICING CASTE MILDEW WINTRYYesterday's 
Answer: Needed by the pretzel makers to increase sales ­A NEW "TWIST" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY:Betty Ford, Julian Lennon. Robin Wright, Izzy Stradlin, John Gavin, Kirsten Stonms 
Happy Birthday: This is a year to make love, not war. You can improve any relationship or start new ones. You must be strong, steadfast and know exactly what you want. If you waver, back down or second-guess yourself, you will fall short of your expectations. Learn to enjoy yourself more. Relaxing and taking care of yourself will help lead to success. Your numbers: 6, 17. 22. 26, 28, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Partnerships can be formed and deals made. Someone you live with may not like all your choices but if you are passionate about them, you'll have your own way. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Professional opponunities will unfold through female acquaintances in your field. Put yourself in a position to help those who would make good allies. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Weight gain is likely if you don't take the necessary precautions. You will be in the mood to party. Overindulgence will be detrimental. Your creative hobbies will be admired.**** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take action if you are having problems with your partner. Don't hesitate to get legal advice. Your panncr may not be receptive to your questions. You may need to do a little investigating. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are probably facing a deceptive situation. Don't believe everything you hear. You are likely to get poor advice from friends who really don't know the ins and outs of your situation. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is not the time to lend or borrow money or possessions. Don't let anyone talk you into a fast-cash scheme. Concentrate on yourself and your personal goals. It's time to look out for you. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Personal disharmony will make it difficult for you to concentrate. You are wise to pamper yourself and try not to worry about things you can't change. You'll have to ride out the storm. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put a little extra effol1 into your domestic scene. You may want to invest in something that will help your propeny grow in value. Check the market for art objects or precious stones. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Unreliable people will cost you dearly if you are too trusting. Ask those in key positions to help you overcome delays and suppo11 your concerns regarding your profession. *** 
..
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.. 19): You'll be able to sell your concepts to those in a position to help you. Don't be shy. You must take the initiative if you want to get ahead. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't deal with red-tape issues today. Work behind the scenes clearing up any details that may have been overlooked. You can spare yourself a lot of aggravation if you're fully prepared. • ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be fooled by your partner's smooth talk. If you ask questions, you'll find that your mate has trouble keeping his or her story straight. Take a look at your legal rights*** 
Birthday Baby: High energy, good ideas and a strong perception of what will and won't work helps you succeed throughout life. You are forceful, fun-loving and like to be first. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
·-'
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE 0BSER\lER 

PORTS
Thursday, April 8, 2004 
page 24 
ROWING
.. 
Rowing down Highway 31 
Team looks to build off strong performance in San Diego Crew_ Classic 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG  Maureen Gibbons, cox, Natalie Ladine, Alice Bartek, Meghan  said. "It was just a bad race starting right at warm-ups. The  Diego, especially in the first heat on Saturday," Protasewich said.  Irish boat were UCLA (7:15.66), Stanford (7:18.81), Clemson  
Senior Staff Writer  Boyle, Rachel Polinski, Melissa  boat was full of water, we were  ''I have never been in a boat that  (7:22.20)  and  Kansas  State  
Felker,  Katie  Chenoweth,  in  a  horrible lane,  and  the  has had this much power, speed,  (7:23.34).  
The Irish hope to repeat last  Danielle  weather was not  technical ability and competitive  "This weekend reassured us of  
year's sweep in the Indiana Classic when they travel to Indianapolis this weekend.  Protasewich and Jacqueline Hazen led the first varsity  "Our goal for this weekend is to  on our side" No. 2 California won the race in 6  drive. Everyonehas an outstand­ing work ethic and we are learn­ing how to row within our boat  the potential we have in our boat, but also the work we have ahead of us in order to compete  
Coming off last weekend's strong performance in the San Diego Crew Classic, No. 20 Notre Dame  eight to a praise­worthy third place tie in their heat  perform up to our · potential. ''  minutes, 57.1 sec­onds, followed by No. 10 Washing­ in order to maintain an internal focus during races." In the petite final, Notre  consistently with the best in the country," Ladine said. "Our goal for this weekend is to perform up  
now readies itself to compete with local rivals.  Saturday. Adverse weather condi­ Natalie Ladine  ton, No. 14 Tennessee, No. 12  Dame's second boat narrowly lost to Texas. The crew of Kacy  to our potential, and to win of course."  
The Irish varsity eight boat  tions,  however,  Irish rower  Washington State,  McCaffrey, cox, Katie Sedun,  The Irish return to Midwest  
raced against top national teams  were an ominous  Wisconsin and No.  Kathleen  Welsh,  Elizabeth  racing this weekend. Notre Dame  
and took seventh place in the  sign for the team  11  Southern  Specht, Jenna Redgate, Jessica  will race a 2,000-meter course  
esteemed Jessop-Whittier Cup  on Sunday as the Irish fell to sev­ California. The Irish first varsity  Guzik, Andrea Doud, Ashley St.  Saturday  against  Indiana,  
Final last weekend. The second  enth place.  eight crossed the finish line in  Pierre and Megan Sanders fin­ Purdue and Michigan State.  
varsity eight boat boasted a sec­ "I felt we pulled our hardest  7:16.90.  ished in 7:12.36, just seconds  
ond-place finish in the petite  but there were a lot of outside  "Overall, our boat was pleased  behind Texas' winning time of  Contact Christine Armstrong at  
final.  factors that held us back," Felker  with our performance in San  7:07.67. Finishing behind the  carmstro@nd.edu  

BASEBALL 
Pitching staff dominates Valpo 

By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 

Heading into their biggest series of the season, the Irish are hitting on all cylinders. 
Breaking the game open with a six-run sixth inning, Notre Dame defeated Valparaiso 9-3 and extended its winning streak to 11 games Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"I didn't really think it was us, but [it was] that kid making some good pitches. They made some good plays," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "I don't panic anymore with these kids. Sometimes it takes a little while longer to get going, but once they get going, they never lose confidence. They just feel like if we stay close, we'll win it late if we have to. I thought we played a real solid game." 
In his fifth collegiate start, Jess Stewart threw five shutout 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles beat Albion, stay undefeated in MIAA 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team continued to disprove doubters with a 5-4 victory over Albion Wednesday, improving its record to 13-4 overall and 4-0 in MIAA conference play. The team's recent per­
.._ 
Cl) IU
;.-. (.) 
z 

.... a: !5 
== 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame at William & Mary 
Saturday, 11 a.m . 
William & • Mary innings, gave up only one hit and struck out six. He faced just 16 batters -one over the mini­mum -and left with a 1-0 lead. 
Mike Dury picked up the win after relieving Stewart to start the sixth. Dury gave up a lead­off homerun before retiring the next three batters and getting some help from the Irish offense in the bottom of the inning. 
"It's a shame [Steward] didn't get a win," Mainieri said. "Everybody is really hitting Dury about vulturing a win. That's the definition of a vulture right there. You relieve a guy that threw five shutout innings on one hit, give up the game­tying homerun and watch the team score six runs so you can pick up your first win." 
Overall, Mainieri was pleased with his staff's performance Wednesday. 
see VALPO/page 18 

MATT SMEDBERGfThe Observer Sophomore Matt Bransfield takes a cut against Valparaiso Wednesday night. The Irish won the game 9-3. 
formances have been worthy of an appearance at this weekend's Midwest Invitational Tournament. 
"Our match Wednesday against Albion was very challenging and one that we were very eager to win," Kris Spriggle said. Spriggle was victorious in her No. 4 singles match, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2. 
"We started off with wins in our No. 1 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame at Florida State 
The No. 35 Irish travel to take on the No. 33 Seminoles. 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Tom Botts Invitational 
Distance runner Dan Driscoll and teammates will compete at the doubles [Jeannie Knish/Kate Bowler, who won 2-6, 7-5, 6-3] and No. 3 doubles [Kristen Palombo/Grace Gordon, who won 7-6 (8), 6-3] matches," she said. "So we went into the singles matches know­ing we only needed to take three of the six matches to win, and we managed to 

see ALBION/page 20 

SMC SOFTBAlL 
Saint Mary's at Hope 
Today, 3:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's pitching 
NHI. 
Bruins 3 Canadians 0 
Boston shut 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish travel to Boilers toun1ey 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
The Irish will be hard at work this Easter weekend, but at least they won't be far from home. 
After a strong final round at last weekend's tournament, Notre Dame hopes to carry that momentum into West Lafayette, Ind. for the Boilermaker Invitational this weekend. The tournament, hosted by Purdue, is being dubbed the Central Region Preview because it also will be the site of NCAA Regionals. 
If Notre Dame turns in a solid performance at the Preview this weekend, the Irish will be one step closer to returning to the venue come postseason play. 
"We just want to play up to our potential," second-year coach John Jasinski said. "That's all we try to do every week. We try to ~xecute our shots to the best of our ability, and Jet the results take care of themselves." 
The team is hoping for another solid performance by No. 4 golfer Mark Baldwin. Baldwin led the team in the last tournament after a putter 
out 

Montreal in Game 1 of its Eastern Conference 
see PURDUE/page 18 
BASEBAll 
Boston College at Notre Dame 
Two solid pitching staffs square off in a Big East doubleheader 
University of Missouri. 
playoff match-up. 
Saturday.

presents a challenge 
must remain consistent. 
over the break. 

&:L!i 
page 22 
page 22 
page 20 

page 14
page 18 
Insider

Cl) 




