
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Funding removed from Office of President 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associa[c News Editor 
The Student Senate passed a rcalloeation of $11,400 from the Office of the Student Body President back to the Financial Management Board by a vote of 17 to (, with two abstnntions at its wenkly meeting Wndnesday. 
Tho FMB held two separate srwnding reviews in December and January to "assess how clubs and organizations spent the monny allocated to them last March," and to "give FMB an idea of what to allocate in iL'i upcoming budget meeting," according to a letter to the Senate from the FMB. 
In its assessment. the FMB decided that a total of $11,400 was not needed by the O!Tice of the Prnsidont and could be better used by other dubs. The reallocat­ed money will be given to the Studnnt Union board, the Hall President's Council, the Class of 2004 and the Class of 2006. In its letter, the FMB stated that each organization "have events planned for the rest of the semester that need funding." 
"The FMB felt that these events would benefit more students than some of those planned by the Ollice of the President, and that was their reason for reallocating the money," the letter continued. 
Members of the Office of the President contested the realloca­tion during the meeting. 
Although he was not present, student body president Jeremy Lao sent a letter to the Senate ask­ing senators to leave $10,000 of the money FMB wanted to take. lie cited three major events planned by the Office of the President the Alcohol Awareness Campaign, Student Appreciation Week and the End of the Year Mass -as the reasons why the oflice needed the money. 
"All of the events are named and the expenses already planned," Lao said in his letter. "I give my oflice the full faith and confidence that these events will not only be executed, but will also be planned to the best of our capabilities." 
"I have confidence in our staff · as well as in our office leadership to get the job' done," Lao said. 
Student Union treasurer Don Norton attended the meeting to speak on behalf of the FMB's deci­sion. He cited the lack of prepara­tion by the Office of the President as one reason the FMB decided to reallocate the money. 
"We have given the Office of the President a good three chances [to show us a budget] ... I told them this is the decision we've come to," Norton said. "As a board, we thought it was the best decision ... other groups seemed better pre­pared to spend the money." 
. Chief of staff Patrick Corker spoke on behalf of the Office of the President. and he tried to explain the delay in presenting the FMB with a budget, citing the turnover 
see SENATE/page 6 

SOFIA BALLONfThe ObseiVer 

Members of the Student Senate meet Wednesday. The senate passed a resolution to remove $1i,400 from the Office of the President. 
ND students continue to flock to Mass 
University ranks higher than BC, GU in mass offerings 
(self-identified as 70 percent and 50 percent. respectively) might be a factor. It is instead a testament to the strong faith community that is distinctly Notre Dame, uniquely woven from the chapels in each individual dorm and the symbolic Basilica that stands at its heart, to the Masses held everyday in Malloy Hall and the Mendoza College of Business. 
"Though Mass has always held a strong position within the Notre Dame community, I think in recent years it has grown stronger. I think there are more undergraduate students who want to make deep faith and spir­ituality a part of their four-year experience here," said Father Richard Warner, director of cam­pus ministry. 
see MASS/page 4 

Editor's Note: This is the first of a two-part series exploring Mass at Notre Dame. 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 

Boston College has 36. Georgetown has 42. Notre Dame has 175. And this is one set of numbers has nothing to do with sports. 
Rather, it lists the average num­ber of Masses said each week at the nation's top three Catholic universities, with Notre Dame holding the indisputable lead of twice as many as its rivals ­combined. 
This disparity has nothing to do with a competition to be the most 'Catholic' college, though lower percentages of Catholics at Boston College and Georgetown 
Panel debates gay 
.

marriage 
By KATIE LAIRD 
News Writer 
A panel discussion on the highly controversial issue of same-sex marriages was held Wednesday evening at the Eck Visitor's Center just one day after President Bush announced his goal to create an amendment banning gay marriage in the United States. 
The debate. titled "The Future of Marriage: Should Sexual Orientation Matter? Is Marriage the Government's Business?" attracted a large crowd to the Eck Visitor's Auditorium 
see DEBATE/page 8 



SMC student gov't announces class election results 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Wri[cr 
The results of the Saint Mary's election for class officers were announced Wednesday after ali­day voting Tuesday on PRISM. 
Students had the opportunity to vote only for the candidates representing their respective classes, and student government officials said the voter turnout was on par with what was expected, with 53 percent of the class of 2007 voting, 30 percent of the class of 2006 and 50 per­cent of the class of 2005. This is the second year that Saint Mary's has used online voting, which has caused increased voter turnout compared to past years. 
"I think in the next couple years you should see Saint 
Mary's student government become efficient at alerting the campus that an election is going on and having a higher voter turn out," student body president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Claudia Toth was named presi­dent of the Class of 2007, win­ning 63 percent of the votes. Kathleen Kindt will serve as vice president, Kristen Bogdanowicz as secretary and Deanna Shorsten as treasurer. 
"Our immediate goal, as we take over, is to first establish our class board for the following school year," Toth said. "From there, we want begin thinking of activities and events that we can plan for our class for next year." 
The runner-up in the Class of 2007 election, receiving 33 per­cent of the votes, was the Mcllduff!Littell ticket. Four per­cent of the class abstained. 
Despite running unopposed, the Class of 2006 Lerner!Palasky ticket had to receive a majority of the votes in order to be named class officers, and the candidates did so, winning 67 percent of the vote. Danielle Lerner was named president of the Class of 2006, Liz Palasky will be the vice 
see ELECTION/page 6 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Where's the meat? 
I'm sure all the freshmen around campus were thrilled to enter the dining halls yesterday and discover that meat items were all of a sud­den non-existent. Welcome to Notre Dame dining 
halls during Lent, the place where for every Friday, plus Ash Wednesday, the meat disappears and several dif­ferent kinds of shrimp suddenly 

appear like the Mike Harkins fish of Capistrano. 
Better get used Graphics to it -popcorn shrimp one day, Cajun shrimp the next, then buffalo shrimp -by the end of Lent you'll never want to eat shrimp again. 

I'm sure someone always has some complaint about the dining hall not having meat at this time of year, and it may be a tired subject if you're not a freshman, but it's all ·I could think about while meeting with a study group in LaFortune, right next to Subway, with a menu full of sandwiches staring back at me. 
Now I know this is a Catholic institution, yet I'm a little confused as to why the dining hall does not provide at least some kind of meat. Not only are there a lot of people here who don't make the decision to give up meat on Fridays; the whole idea of not eating meat dur­ing Lent is that we are making a choice to give something up to prove to God that we are can resist such pleasures. The purpose is to try to show that we are disciplined enough to deny ourselves of a material desire that isn't sinful­eating meat -so that we can become trained to resist things in· our lives that actually are sinful. 
Yet the dining halls are making these decisions for everybody on campus, whether they're Catholic or not. Maybe it's just me, but it seems that if the dining hall isn't going to offer us meat anyway, no one is really making the personal choice to abstain from it. What's the sacrifice if it isn't available anyway? When I was sitting at a booth next to Subway this Ash Wednesday, I truly felt like I was giving something up. At the same time, I realized how many students here don't follow the tradition and were ordering up their meatball subs anyhow. 
And since when was Notre Dame such a hard-core Catholic institu­tion? In the past month the campus has hosted the Vagina Monologues and the Queer Film Festival. Is it really that crazy to allow meat in the dining hall on Friday during Lent? 
Contact Mike Harkins at mharkins@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­
tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­
ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we 
will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, 
· please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU PLANNING TO SEE MEL GIBSON'S ''THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST?" 






Luis Chlrboga  Ben Zerante  Kevin Walsh  Laura Maclean  Alvaro Guevara  
Junior Dillon  Sophomore St. Edwards  Sophomore Fisher  Sophomore Farley  Sophomore Zahm  
'Tm definitely  "Yes."  "Yes!"  "Yeah, but I  "Si. ,,  
going this  probably won't  
weekend."  be having  
popcorn with  
that.,,  


Simon Glkankl, Hayden Professor of English Language and Literature at the University of Michigan, delivered a lecture titled "Colonialism in Reserve: Englishness and the Politics of Culture" in McKenna Hall on Wednesday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 

School's sex column offers 'How To' guide 
PHOENIX -Top adminis­trators at Northern Arizona University will meet with the school's publication board next week to discuss a con­troversial sex column that appeared in the student newspaper. 
Student writer Oaire Fuller authored a Feb. 12 column for The Lumberjack that offered a graphic "how to" guide on performing a sex act. 
"I was appalled by the con­tent of that article," said NAU Provost Uz Grobsmith, who said she would attend the March 5 meeting of the pub­lication board. "It wasn't con­sidered that a lot of people who read the paper are youngand minors, and this is very inappropriate content." 
She said the university president's office received many calls from people "deeply offended" by the arti­cle. 
Rob Breeding, faculty adviser for The Lumbmjack, said he was aware of the col­umn before it was published. 
Dog Is found alive month after boat sinks 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska -A Labrador retriever has been found alive on an isolated cove of a Southeast Alaska island more than a month after its owner was given up for dead when his boat sank in rough seas. 
1\vo local fishermen found the dog named Brick on Heceta Island several miles from the accident. The men had known the dog's owner, Greg Clark, who went down with his boat in late January. 
Brick swam to the men's boat and was hauled aboard -underweight, with an injured leg, fur matted with tree sap, but wiggling with joy, according to friends of the fishermen. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY et: 
L&.l 

:::c 
L&.l

:: ~ 
..... 
~ 

~ ~ 
<( (,) 
..... 0 HIGH 35 HIGH 39 HIGH 48 HIGH 52 
LOW 22 LOW 22 LOW 28 LOW 37 
IN BRIEF 

Ravi Radhakrishnan of the Department of Chemistry at New York University will deliver a lec­ture titled "Fidelty in DNA Replication and Repair: A Story of DNA Polymerases." The lec­ture will take place this afternoon at 3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo room 138. 
Simon Gikandi, Hayden Professor of English Language• and Uterature at the University of Michigan, will lecture on "States in Limbo: Engaging Creole Modernism" today at 4:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
SUB Movies presents "Love Actually" this weekend in 101 DeBartolo. The film will be shown Thursday at 10 p.m. and Frida,v and Saturday nights at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. Admissions is $3. Attend the movie and enter to win a 27" TV/DVDNCR combo. 
The Guthrie Theatre of Minneapolis will perform "Othello" at the O'Laughlin Auditorium in Saint Mary's Moreau Center tonight at 7 p.m. Tickets can be purchased at the Saint Mary's box office. 
The annual BP meal auction will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Huddle. Donate money to charity and go to dinner with your favorite ·campus celebrity. 
Legends will host Senior Night tonight. Members of the class of 2004, come bond with your class­mates and enjoy great music and drink specials. The fun starts tonight at midnight and continues until4 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

"' 

HIGH 56 HIGH 49 LOW 42 LOW 35 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
--------------------------------~----------­
Thursday, February 26, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Alumni Association 
BP prepares for auction 

recognizes Conley 
Event offers meals with campus 'celebrities' 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Wri[er 
Kevin Conley, a Stanford Hall senior, was named the University Alumni Association's Distinguished Student for 2003­
04. The award is given to a Notre Dame senior who shows excellence in academics and service to the community and Notrn Dame. 
Conley was nom­inated by Navy said he hopes to make a career By MATT BRAMANTI 
of practicing medicine as an NewsWri[er
officer in the Navy. "I would like to get into diplo­macy [following retirement 
According to campus lore, from the Navy]." Conley said. 
the women of Breen-Phillips "And eventually, one day, 
hall know a thing or two maybe run for office." 
about meals. Tonight from 8 ­Conley has served as Stanford 
11 p.m in LaFortune, they will Hall president and hall senator 
put that knowledge to use and currently is an RA. He was 
when the dorm will hold its also chair of the Student Senate 
20th annual meal auction, giv­Residence Life 
ing students the. chance to bid committee and 
on dinner with Notre Dame member of the 
celebrities. 

Sophomore Kate Fitzpatrick,
HOTC. of which he "/ was pretty . Steering and 
who is coordinating the event,
is a member. honored ... I was Academic com­
said BP will donate all pro­
"I was pretty mittees.
not expecting it. " 

ceeds to the American
honored," Conley Conley has also 
Diabetes Association. She said
said. "I was not been an active 
her dorm's residents expect
expecting it." Kevin Conley participant in 
several campus 
an even higher turnout than
I le was honored Notre Dame senior 
by University !'resident Father Malloy during a cerl)lllony and reception in the Main Building rotunda on Tuesday afternoon along with Kathleen Margaret Fox. recipi­ent of Distinguished Graduate Student Award. 
"I had a moment to thank everyone [during the ceremo­ny]." Conley said. 
Conley is a double major in political science and preprofes­sional studies. lie carries a 
3.94 grade point average. After graduation, the Panama City, Fla. resident plans to attend the University of Florida College of Medicine. Eventually, Conley organizations and 
last year. projects that pro­
"Last year. we raised almost mote community 
$3,000, and we're hoping to service. lie was involyed in 
hit the $5,000 mark [this "There are Children I-Iere," a 
year]." Fitzpatrick said. project run by retired Notre 
"That's why om: slogan is 'big-Dame professor Jim Langford 
ger and better."' ­that seeks to bring inner city 
She said the realization of children to a farm outside of 
that goal depends on the par­South Bend for recreational 
ticipation of people at Notre activities and the Trident Naval 
Dame. "We think we'll get a Society, the Navy service club, 
good turnout from our dorm, among others. 
but we're trying to extend it to Conley was awarded a 
the whole campus," Community Service Ribbon by 
Fitzpatrick said. "We're really the ROTC for volunteering at 
tried to overtake the campus least ten hours every semester. 
with our pink advertising." Each participant has com­Contact Anna Gelhaus at 
mitted to furnish a meal for agelhaus@nd.edu 
two to 12 guests. Some meals will be homemade -like Dame, will likely be the most computer science professor popular item up for bidding. Ramzi Bualuan's Lebanese "LHe] is really our big cam­cuisine. Others will be at area pus celebrity," Fitzpatrick restaurants, including LaSalle said. "We're hoping he'll go Grill and Siam. Still others will for a lot since he's such a be held on campus: the high well-known and well-respect­bidder for dinner with Father ed person." Mark Poorman will dine with Last year's top draw was a 11 guests in the University's meal for four with Irish head inner sanctum football coach -the officers' T y r o n e meeting room "Last year we Willingham. which on the fifth fetched $115 per
raised almost 
floor of the plate. Main Building. $J,ooo, and we're In all. 33 meal Fitzpatrick hoping to hit the packages with said volunteers space for 130 din­
$s.ooo mark [this
have come ers will hit the from all cor­year]. That's why auction block. Bids ners of the our slogan is will be accepted on University to a per-plate basis.
'bigger and better.'"
participate in Fitzpatrick said the charitable bidders can also endeavor. Kate Fitzpatrick participate in a 
"We have event coordinator silent auction for athletes, we gift certificates have people donated by area from the 'Men of Notre Dame' restaurants. calendar, we have well known Fitzpatrick said the success professors. we have [Irish of the event depends on stu­men's basketball coach) Mike dent turnout. and she encour­Brey," Fitzpatrick said. aged students to attend the 
Other notable names include auction. anthropology professor James "It's a great event, and it all McKenna, band director Ken goes towards a great cause." Dye, vice president for resi­she said. "And, you get a dence life Bill Kirk and lep­great meal out of it." rechaun Mike Macaluso. 
Fitzpatrick said dinner with Father Theodore Hesburgh, Contact Matt Bramanti at president emeritus of Notre mbramant@nd.edu 



DoVou Knovv 


who drank too much and passed out at the party last night ? 
Are YOUTha.t Girl 9­


If you are, call: Office of .~lcohol and Drug Education 1-7970 The Counseling Center 1-7336 
Sponsored by Student Government 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC gears up for visits frotn area high school students 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's campus will host a different kind of freshmen and sophomores today and Friday, as 22 ninth and tenth grade students from area high schools participate in the "My First Day in College" program. 
Sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the pro­gram is designed to give these young women -from high schools including Clay, Riley and Washington -a glimpse of college life, said Marie Willis. assistant director of multicultural affairs. 
"We want to create a rela­tionship with them and pro­vide them [with] opportuni­ties," Willis said. "They need 

Mass 
continued from page 1 
Warner estimated that 7 5 to 80 
percent of the Catholic student 
population attend Mass on a regu­
lar to occasional basis -com­
pared to an estimated 40 percent 
at Boston College, according to 
associate campus minister of litur­
gy Ellen Modica. 
The strong desire to participate 
in religious services evident in the 
undergraduates carries on beyond 
a student's time on campus, 
Warner said. Citing a UClA study 
of students from 25 Catholic edu­
cational insititutions 10 years after 
graduation, he said that 77 per­
cent of Notre Dame graduates 
from the class of 1992 continue to 
go to Mass on a regular basis one 
decade later. The average of the . 
other 24 institutions was 22 per­
cent. 
According to the annual 
American Council on Education 
survey of first-year students, 41 
percent of Notre Dame freshmen 
said that religion was an impor­
tant factor in their choice of 
school. 
"I had to decide between 
University of Ari~ona and here, 
and one of main reasons I chose 
Notre Dame is that I really wanted 
to be in a community where we 
did have Masses every day. I love it 
here, being able to walk down­
stairs and go to Mass," said Katie 
McGuckin, a freshman who lives in 
Lewis. 
The estimated participation per­
centage can be called into ques­
tion, however, as many freshmen 
also attested to going to Mass less 
than they did when they were at 
home, ifthey attend mass at all. 
"I go to Mass about once every 

two weeks . . . which is less than I -go when I'm at home, because my parents aren't there telling me to go, and after Saturday night, sometimes I sleep in a little late," said Fisher freshman Mike 
Barrett. 
Stanford freshman Eamon 

Murphy attributed his lower atten­
dance at Mass to the personal 
freedom college provides. 
"I just don't feel compelled to go 

to Mass anymore," Murphy said. 
"It seems like now it's my choice, 
and I don't feel like I need to go all 

that often." 
Moving off-campus brings the issue of participation into sharper focus, as students are placed in a position where religious services are far less convenient and acces­sible than they are in residence halls. 
"When I lived on campus I went to know that they can be part of a college community." 

The Office of Multicultural Affairs matched the students with Saint Mary's volunteers by judging each party's aca­demic interests. The high school students will stay with the Saint Mary's women overnight and attend their classes as guests on Friday morning. 
"One of the things I think is really good about this pro­gram is that we have them go through classes. A lot of pre­college programs don't offer that opportunity," Willis said. 
She also believes that the personal relationship between the students will benefit not just the younger woman, but also their collegiate mentors. 
"If a [high school] student's not sure college is an option for her, the relationship with stay in a dorm room, but Friday's activities will the Saint Mary's student can many other opportunities include classes, a campus be really beneficial to her," available only in a college set­tour, admissions office visits Willis said. "The Saint Mary's ting. and a panel discussion. The students benefit from the fact Tonight, the movie "Real panel, composed of Saint that they can give something Women Have Curves" will be Mary's -students, will discuss back. I think sometimes col­shown in conjunction with college life with the visiting lege students like it because Counseling and Career high school students. it's different. It's outside the Development. It will be fol­Willis hopes the girls' stay Saint Mary's bubble." lowed by a discussion on body at Saint Mary's will give the 
Willis said that many of the image and eating disorders. them a taste of college. 26 Saint Mary's women who Students may also choose to "We want them to know how offered to host a high school attend the Patriot Act lecture different this is from high student have been through sponsored by Peacemakers, school," she said. similar programs in the past. Justice Education and the 
The program, which was Student Diversity board. They also hosted in November, may also participate in a Saint Contact Nicole Zook at includes not just classes and a Mary's scavenger hunt. zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~·-·-·-·-·, 




ctqieca~~!!~Gm~!.~ 
Apply for a job or internship NOW! 

every week, so now I definitely go 
-Immediate Application Deadlines for Top Notch C001paniesl

less, and while it has more to do with personal reasons; I guess one Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu 
of the reasons is also that I don't 
really know of any churches off Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
campus, and I like going with other people my age," said off­campus senior Elizabeth Asher. Application Deadlines 
Asher also explained that those seniors who went to Mass regular­ly while underclassmen still go ·COW-F/T SBC Communication ­every week, while those who went every once in a while have almost 3/2 BUS, ENG, SCI F/Tstopped going. 
Paula Giver, parish manager at 3/3 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 
· the Little Flower Catholic Church, Deloitte-Externshipsaid that students are in the minority at Masses, despite the 3/2 A&L, BUS, SCI fact that the church is situated R R Donnelley -F/T close to the College Park 
3/3 BUS, ENG, SCI

Apartment complex. She added, Enterprise Rent-a-Car­however, that there are some stu­ONLY 5 applicants dents who make it to morning F/TMass. 
Though some students choose 3/2 A&L, BUS 
United Airlines -F/T

not to attend, it cannot be debated 
ONLY 11 applicants

that the celebration of Mass is an 3/3 A&L, BUS integral part of the Notre Dame community. All 68 weekly dorm Masses put students in the pews. ND Athletics-Int. 

Ritchie Capital -Int.

There are about 60 Holy Cross priests fully-engaged in ministry 3/2 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 3/3 BUS on campus and The Princeton 
ONLY 11 applicants

Review ranks Notre Dame as the number five school in the country where "students pray on a regular 
basis" Pulte Homes-F/T & Int. Contact Amanda Michaels at 3/3 A&L BUS 
amichael@nd.edu ' 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~

•••·••••••••••••••·•••••••••···•••·••••········•·••••···········••••••••••·················•·•••••·•···············································.
. . 
Rebecca Davidson Dr. G. David Moss Carmen and Lou Nanni Father Daniel Groody Father Kevin Russeau Mike Brey . The Leprechaun: FatherTom Eckert Chandra Johnson 
Mike Macaluso Ken Dye AnreVenter Judah Wilson Jim Langford Mike Knesek Anne Kwiatt Dave Smith DaveMoison 
Darcia Narvaez Steve Camilleri Jason Beckstrom Jacqueline Brogan Bradley Smith DJ Fitzpatrick 
Steve Sollman 'I'qm Guglielmo Matt Shelton and Javier Sanchez William Kirk Kristin Lewis Cory McDevitt Lawrence Cunningham Brady Quinn 
Dr. Gail Walton James McKenna Ambrose Wooden and Andrew McShane Father Mark Poorman Dan Stevenson Ramzi Bualuan William Ramsey Father Hesburgh 

BP Meal Auction. 

Thursday February 26th 8:00-11:00 Lafortune . 
............................................................................. ..•....•...••••••.•.•••••.....•••.•••••.••••...•••.•...•...........:
~ 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Militants gun down Iraqi official 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Gunmen assassinated the deputy police chief in the northern city of Mosul on Wednesday, and militants warned of further attacks on Iraqi security forces and Kurdish militiamen, accusing them of protecting "infidel" Americans. 
In Baghdad, attackers fired a rocket-pro­polled grenade at a major Shiite Muslim shrine overnight, officials at the shrine said. The HPG punched a hole in an outer wall of the Kazimiyah shrine in a northern neigh­borhood of the capital, but caused no injuries. 
The attack on the shrine came on the fourth day of the Islamic month of Muharram, a sacred period when thousands of Iraqi Shiites and Iranian pilgrims have converged on Kazimiyah, where two Shiite saints are buried, and other Shiite shrines in cities of southern Iraq. 
N. Korean nuke talks continue 
BEIJING -South Korea on Wednesday offered the North compensation for giving up its nuclear program and the United States said it had "no intention" of invading the reclusive nation as six-country talks on Pyongyang's atomic ambitions convened. 
The North's chief delegate. Kim Kye Gwan, said he would be "maintaining our princi­ples" hours after his country issued a last­minute demand for compensation for shut­ting down the program. 
Washington's delegate said nothing but a wholesale elimination of the nuclear activi­ties would do. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry prepares for Bush battle 
CLEVELAND -Fresh from three more easy victories in the Democratic presidential race. John Kerry looked to a fight with President Bush over jobs lost to foreign countries. 
Kerry defeated Sen. John Edwards by large margins in Utah and Idaho. and also won in Hawaii, where Edwards ran third. That gave Kerry 18 wins in 20 contests. 
The two leading candidates bypassed the three states to focus on the huge delegate prizes at stake when 10 states vote next week on Super Tuesday. 

Existing home sales slip in Jan. 
WASHINGTON -Sales of previously owned homes fell in January as much of the country was hit by unusually bad winter weather. 
Existing home sales dropped by 5.2 per­cent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.04 million units, the National Association of Realtors said Wednesday. That compares with a revised 
6.37 million in December, a lower level than initially reported. 
Last month's sales activity was 2 percent above the 5.92 million pace in January 2003. The record was set in September 2003, with a 6.68 million rate. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Woman sentenced in baby's death 
INDIANAPOLIS -A woman who admitted that she was drunk when her 7 -month-old son drowned in a bathtub during a party was sentenced Wednesday to three years in prison. 
Before she was sentenced, Karina Hall­Eaglesfield, 23, told a judge she regrets that her drinking led to the August 2002 death of her son, Sebastian. 
The toddler drowned during a party that llall-Eaglesfield and the child's father, River llathaway, were hosting at their home. 
"I never thought my drinking would do anything like that," she said. 
Judge Patricia Gifford told Hall-Eaglesfield, who had pleaded guilty to reckless homicide, that drinking is no excuse for her son's death. 
"As a result of your choice, your child is dead," Gifford said. 
CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
HAITI 


Marines escort foreigners out 
Rebels to refrain from striking Port-au-Prince as pressure builds against Aristide 
Associated Press 

POHT-AU-PRINCE  
U.S. Marines escorted for­ 
eigners out of the country  
amid widespread looting  
Wednesday, but the rebel  
leader said the insurgents  
want to "give a chance to  
peace" and indicated his  
troops  would  hold  off  
attacking the capital.  
Pressure mounted for  
an international interven­ 
tion  and for  President  
Jean-Bertrand Aristide to  
step down.  
A U.N. Security Council  
meeting  on  Haiti  was  
scheduled for Thursday.  
President Bush said the  
United States is encourag­ 
ing the international com­ 
munity to provide a strong  
"security presence," and  
France said a peace force  
should  be  established A U.S. marine guards the American embassy In Port-au-Prince, Haiti. The Pentagon 
immediately for deploy­deployed marines to escort foreigners out of the country as anti-government 
ment  once  a  political rebels strengthened their grip on half of Haiti.  
agreement is reached.  
Foreigners tried to flee  rebel force  had grown  Dominique  de  Villepin  De Villepin said he  was  
the country, some guard­ from a couple of hundred  urged the "immediate"  to meet Friday in Paris  
ed by U.S. Marines. and  to 5,000 with new recruits  establishment of an inter­ with representatives of  
looting erupted in  the  and more ex-soldiers join­ national civilian force.  the government and the  
capital. Aristide support­ ing the 3-week-old popu­ "This international force  opposition.  Opposition  
ers set dozens of flaming  lar  uprising  to  oust  would be responsible for  leader Mischa Gaillard,  
barricades that blocked  Aristide, and said they  guaranteeing the return  however.  said  it  was  
roads throughout Port-au­ were ready to fight.  to public order and sup­ unclear when they would  
Prince, and shots were  Asked  when  they  porting the international  be  able  to  leave  Haiti  
shuttered. Panic overtook  planned to move on Port­ community's action on the  because of the political  
the city, though there was  au-Prince. he said: "We're  ground," Villepin said. "It  chaos.  
no sign of the rebels.  ready. We just want to  would  come  to the sup­ The roadblocks across  
The rebels have overrun  give a chance to peace,"  port of a  government of  Port-au-Prince  were  
half of Haiti including its  indicating they would hold  · national unity."  intended  to  stop  the  
second-largest city, Cap­ off. "We're ready to talk  Jamaica's U.N. ambas­ rebels  who  began  the  
Haitien,  where  their  to anyone. The only one  sador, Stafford 0. Neil,  uprising Feb. 5, but mili­ 
leader, Guy Philippe, told  the country doesn't want  said at the United Nations  tants at the barricades  
The Associated Press on  is Mr. Aristide."  it might be possible to dis­ also used guns and stones  
Wednesday that they were  As the rebels plotted  patch  a small "interposi­ to stop cars and loot them  
taking  a  wait-and-see  their  moves.  leaders of  tion force" to  keep the  of handbags, luggage and  
approach to proposals to  Haiti's political opposition  rebels and Aristide sup­ cell phones. Police did not  
send international peace-. keepers.  rejected an international peace plan that diplomats  porters apart. One U.N. diplomat noted  intervene. Looters  struck  two  
"If they do not attack  had billed as a last chance  the rebels  can  come  to  warehouses in Port-au­ 
the Haitian people,  we  for peace, and asked the  Port-au-Prince only by  Prince  on  Wednesday,  
won't attack them," he  international community  two roads, so placing such  stealing $200,000 worth  
said. "If they come to help  to help ensure a  "timely  a force would be relative­ of medical equipment and  
us to remove Mr. Aristide..  and orderly" departure of  ly easy and would buy  food  from  one  and  
they will be welcome." Philippe estimated his  Aristide. French Foreign Minister  time for tion.  a  political solu­ $300,000 worth of tropi­cal wood from the other.  

Study finds HIV-resistant protein 
As&ociated Pceu 
Scientists say they have discovered why some monkeys are resistant to infection with the AIDS virus -an exhilarating find that points to a new and highly promising strategy for blocking HIV in people. 

The discovery capped a more than 10-year search for the answer to the mystery of what stops the virus cold in certain primates. 
Carl Dieffenbach, director of basic science research for AIDS at the National Institutes of Health, said the finding could lead to drugs to treat AIDS infection or a vaccine to prevent it. 
"This will go immediately in about 15 different directions," Dieffenbach said. "This has been an amazing year in basic research and now we've got this. We're very rich with results and we've got a lot to work on." 
The discovery was reported by Dr. 

Joseph Sodroski and his team of Harvard University researchers at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. It was published in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
Normally, a virus spreads through the body by entering cells, hijacking their machinery, and using it to make new copies of itself. 
But monkeys have a protein called TRIM5-alpha that is somehow able to stop the virus from shedding its pro­tective coat after it enters a healthy cell. The shedding of the coating is poorly understood but considered essential to the infection cycle. 
Humans have their own version of TRIM5-alpha. but it is not as effective as the monkey version in countering HIV. However, researchers may be able to design a drug that makes it work better, Sodroski said. 
"This is really important because it will help build a basis for hammering the virus before it gets started," said Paul Luciw, a University of California at Davis microbiologist who special­izes in AIDS research. 
Stephen Goff, a Columbia University biochemist and HIV expert, said: "A lot of labs are going to be working on this as soon as this paper comes out." 
Sodrowski said the same mecha­nism may even work against other viruses. 
"What we're really uncovering is the first example of a natural system of defense that may be operating against other viruses besides HJV," he said. "We're looking at 'Example 1' here, and I highly doubt it will be the only example in nature." 
"It's got great potential," said Scott Wong, an Oregon Health & Science University molecular biologist who leads AIDS research on monkeys at the federal regional primate center in Oregon. 
--------------------------------------------------------, 
page 6 Thursday, February 26, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
when Lao took office in January as a failure in communication. 
"I only received one e-mail about the fact that they needed this spreadsheet about three weeks ago," Corker said. "It did take time, and it got there later than it should have, there's no question, but I think there are extenuating circumstances." 
"I don't think we could have come up with this [budget] any sooner. I should have been made aware sooner and given more time," he said. 
Norton, however, said there could not been any more time taken to deliberate the issue. 
'The longer we delay ... the less people can plan for anything," he said. 
In the end, the Senate voted by secret ballot to give the money back to the FMB for reallocation to other organizations. 
In other Senate news: 
• 
The Senate's academic commit­tee presented a letter regarding distance learning to be sent to Notre Dame faculty, department chairs and administrators asking for names of those interested in learning more about the technolo­gy. Senators voted to table this let­ter until next Wednesday's meet­ing. 

• 
Student body vice president Emily Chin reminded senators that they need to hold information ses­sions in their dorms for any stu­dents interested in running for the Student Senate. All new senators, she said, must be elected to their positions by March 19. 


Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
President, Nichole McCloud, sec­retary, and Kellye Mitros, treas­urer. 
Lerner said she hopes to send a survey to the class regarding Junior Mom's Weekend and the Junior Dance. She believes that the input she receives about these larger events will help with planning and give the stu­dents what they want. Lerner also hopes to begin to organize the Senior Mentor program, through which juniors will be paired with seniors; in turn, the seniors can help the junior stu­dent with things such as employ­ment and internships. 
"I am really excited and look­ing forward to next year," Lerner said. 
Jaqueline Cuisinier was named senior class president, with 50 percent of the votes. Ahby Ragan will serve as vice president, Beth Bennett, secretary, and Jodie Emerick, treasurer. 
Their opponents, the Casciari/Michalak ticket, received 40 percent of the total vote. 
Cuisinier said she hopes to put together her senior board and begin planning events such as a housewarming party for the new on-campus apartments, tailgates and Senior Dad's Weekend. 
"We are very honored and extremely excited to represent our class. The four of us plan to work with the class in order to make our last year at Saint Mary's the best it could possibly be," Cuisinier said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Vlerah, Blake keep off-campus students informed 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 
While off-campus students usually cite reasons such as freedom and fun as motives for their departure from school property, some said they lose the connection with the school they have come to love when they leave campus. 
Saint Mary's senior Abby Van Vlerah and Notre Dame senior Sarah Blake try to aid students who face this problem. As the off-campus representative and the off­campus president respec­tively, Van Vlerah and Blake said that they try to inform the off-campus community of happenings at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
"My duty is to coordinate events to help unite the off­campus population," Blake said. "My primary responsi­
bility is to make  sure  that  
off-campus  students  are  
fairly represented."  

:: 
·.: ,: ,: : . ·. . =: 

Van Vlerah described her own role somewhat differ­ently. 
"My job is to keep stu­dents who live off campus connected with the Saint Mary's community," Van Vlerah said. "I send out an e-mail newsletter weekly that highlights the events that are going on through­out campus." 
Both Van Vlerah and Blake said that part of their jobs is to plan events specif­ically for off-campus stu­dents. 
"We have off-campus stu­dent lunches in the off-cam­pus lounge," Van Vlerah said. "Last semester I organized a raffle. but unfortunately my budget isn't big enough to do every­thing I'd like to do." 
Blake has planned events such as Masses. dinners, a party at Legends and an upcoming meal at BW 3's. "I have an off-campus list­serv that I use to communi­cate all off-campus events 
to the students," Blake said. "I also use the listserv to pass on information that comes to me through other sources. When I plan events, I pass out flyers to help publicize." 
Van Vlerah said that, despite the information, stu­dents are not as informed as she would like them to be. 
"We try to publicize in places that all students go, like Madaleva and Haggar, but it's hard to get the information up in a central location where everyone can see it," she said. "Regardless of whether or not you live off campus or on campus, you're still bom­barded with information. There are a lot of events ava~.lable if you seek them out. 
Blake said off-campus stu­dents are relatively informed about events that happen throughout campus. "Everyone gets class e-mails and reads The Observer to get information," Blake 

said. "Also, word of mouth 
definitely spreads  news  of  
activities."  
Notre  Dame  junior  

Elizabeth Roach lives off campus this semester, but despite that fact, she still feels involved in the infor­mation loop. 
"I feel informed of on­campus events and things through the listserv," Roach said. "Plus, I'm on campus for classes everyday, so I see the flyers and things." 
Saint Mary's sophomore Rachael Berg also believes the information she receives is efficient. 
"I have a lot of friends that still live on campus, so they keep me pretty up to date with everything that's happening," Berg said. "For the most part, I get to the events I want to from the information I receive, but it's also my job to seek out that information, as well." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 




MINISTRY 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A panel ofalmnn.i and alumnae reflect on the integration offaith and r~ocial concernJ into life heyoniJ Notre Dame. 
Sunday, February 29 4:00-5:30pm Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
Speakere:J 

Renee LaReau '96 Parish Minister and Author Colum.bust OH 
Erica Dahl-Bredine '87 Mexico Country Program Manager Catholic Relief Services, Tuscon, AZ 
Amy Zajakowaki-Uhll'87 Therapist, Cathedral Counseling Center and The Kovler Center for Survivors of Torture Chicago, IL 
Jim Zajakowllki-Uhll'85 Theology Teacher, Loyola Academy and Former Campus Minister, Loyola. University Chicago, lL 

ndvi 
NOTRE DAME VOCATION INITIATIVE 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 601.62 +35.25
jones ' 
4:r Same: • Composite Volume: 
1,187 177 1,342,768,768 

AMEX 1,240.12 +B~.o~ NASDAQ 2,022.98 +17.54 NYSf 6,670.27 +15.39 S&PSOO 1,143.67 +4.58 
···~~--=·;·. 

NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,658.13 0.00 FTSf IOO(Lonclon) 4,507.80 +10.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI)  + 10.37  +0.28  2.98  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.67  -0.18  26.70  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +2.30  +0.53  23.58  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +1.44  +0.42  29.62  
JDS UNIPHASE ODSU)  ·1.04  -0.05  4.75  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.12  -0.06  48.93  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.35  -0.14  40.1 5  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.60  -0.18  29.73  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  9.38  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.23  34.58  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +5.50  404.80  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  -0.05  96.15  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  109  
EURO  0.8003  
POUND  0.5342  
CANADIAN$  1.336  

IN BRIEF 
Stewart defense lasts one hour 
NEW YOHK -Lawyers for Martha Stewart presented a defense of less than an hour Wednesday, calling a single witness to raise questions about what the homemaking icon was asked in her first interview with investiga­tors. 
Steven Pearl. a lawyer, testified about notes he took during the interview on Feb. 4, 2002 ­a session in which the government claims Stewart told a series of lies about the day she sold ImClone Systems stock. 
One accusation is that Stewart falsely claimed she did not know whether there was a record that stockbroker Peter Bacanovic had left her a message on Dec. 27, 2001, the day she sold. 
CaiPERS drops support of Eisner 
LOS ANGELES -Embattled Walt Disney Co. CEO Michael Eisner lost the support Wednesday of the nation's largest public pen­sion fund, a big Disney investor that called the company's performance "dismal." 
The California Public Employees' Retirement System said it would withhold its votes for Eisner's re-election to the wmpany's board. 
CalPEHS is the 29th single largest sharehold­er of Disney. with 9.9 million shares. 
Its statement came hours after Glass Lewis & Co., a San Francisco-based research firm that advises institutional shareholders, recommend­ed that holders of Disney stock withhold their votes for Eisner. 
Feds search ITT headquarters 
INDIANAPOLIS -Federal agents on Wednesday searched the headquarters of ITT Technical Institutes and some campuses of its chain of technical schools in eight states. Shares of its parent company, ITT Educational Services Inc.. plunged 33 percent. 
rn Educational Services said the investiga­tion involved grand jury subpoenas of records concerning student placement, retention, grad· uation, attendance, recruitment, grades, gradu­ates' salaries and transfers of students' credil'> to other colleges. 
Law enforcement officers did not allow stu­dents, staff and faculty to enter about 10 of ITT's 77 campuses in 30 states, ITT spokes­woman Nancy Brown said. 
ENTERTAINMENT 

'Passion' opening draws crowds 
Controversial Mel Gibson film earns over $10 million in advance ticket sales 
Associated Press 
PLANO, Texas -The 
people streaming out of the 
movie theater looked as if 
they'd just attended a wake 
-and many said they felt 
as if they had. 
Red eyes and muffled 
crying were common as 
Christians and the merely 
curious flocked to theaters 
nationwide for the Ash 
Wednesday opening of Mel 
Gibson's "The Passion of 
the Christ." 
"It's a little bit more bru­
tal than you would think," 
said a sobbing Kim 
Galbreath. 29. as she left a 
theater in this Dallas sub­
urb. "I mean, there were 
times when you felt like it 
was too much. But I dare 
anybody not to believe 
after watching it." 
In Los Angeles, Joseph 
Came rieri said Gibson's 
much hyped epic about the 

torture and Crucifixion of attempt to render the old Edna Oatman of going to be packed, and his 
Jesus left him shocked and Gospels faithfully and a Pleasantville dressed in her pockets will be lined." 
physically weak. personal vision. Others see Sunday best for her first Following months of 
"I think if you're a it as excessively bloody, visit to a movie theater hype, curiosity about the Christian. it will increase obsessed with cruelty and since "E.T. The Extra­movie seems almost insa· your faith tenfold in what unfair in its portrayal of Terrestrial" in 1982. tiable. Advance ticket sales Christ has done for you," Jews. "If you read the Bible hit $10 million, distributor the 39-year-old paralegal About 50 people in the story, you know that Jesus Newmarket Films reported student said after a mid­central Pennsylvania com­died for the whole world, this week -evidence of night showing. "If you're munity of Bellefonte not just Christians," said the skilled marketing cam­not a Christian, you'll prob­attended a showing after Oatman, who saw the film paign and word-of-mouth ably treat others with more midnight. Viewers groaned Wednesday morning. buzz as the film was love." as Jesus was nailed to the "Maybe this will get people screened for private, often 
"The Passion" opened in cross, and soft cries could going to church." conservative Christian more than 3,000 theaters be heard during more than "If you intellectualize this audiences. -an unusually large an hour of Jesus' torture, movie, the message is one Newmarket opened the release for a religious film Crucifixion and death. In of Jove. But emotionally, if film on Ash Wednesday, the with English subtitles to the end, as Jesus rises from anyone is on the border of first day of Lent, the translate the Latin and the grave. some in the hating Jews, this will push Catholic Church's period of Aramaic its characters audience quietly celebrat­you over," said Rabbi penitence, sacrifice and speak. ed. Bernhard Hosenberg, chief reflection before Easter. 
Directed, produced and "To me, that was the rabbi of Congregation Beth Churches from coast to co-written by Gibson. the important part," said El in Edison, N.J. He also coast reserved entire the­film has received mixed Aaron Tucker, an English teaches Holocaust studies aters for opening day, while reviews from critics. Some major at Penn State. ''I'm at Hutgers University. the National Association of have praised Gibson's com­like, 'Oh, victory!' There's "With all the publicity, Evangelicals. which repre­mitment to his subject: The more to this movie than Mel Gibson is laughing all sents more than 50 denom­Oscar-winning just the violence. It's about the way to the bank," inations with 43,000 con­"Braveheart" director says triumph." Rosenberg said after seeing gregations. helped sell tick­the movie is both an In New Jersey, 90-year-the film. "Theaters are ets on its Web site. 
U.S. ECONOMY 


Greenspan wants cuts in benefits 
economic growth. He said the esti­over the next two decades and then
Associated Press 

mated $1 trillion cost should be paid stop rising. 
WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve for, preferably, with spending cuts so Greenspan said his comments sim­Chairman Alan Greenspan, stepping the deficit would not be worsened. ply voiced views he has held since he into the politically charged debate As for specifics on trimming Social chaired a blue-ribbon commission over Social Security, said Wednesday Security, Greenspan told the House two decades ago. But the remarks set the country can't afford the retire­Budget Committee that one possibility ofT a political storm. ment benefits promised to baby would be to switch to an alternative Democratic front-runner Sen. John boomers and urged Congress to trim measure of inflation for annual cost­Kerry said the way to address the them. of-living adjustments. Instead of rely­deficit was to roll back tax cuts for 
He said that unless Congress acts, ing on the Consumer Price Index, he the wealthy and "the wrong way to soaring budget deficits from out-of­suggested switching to a new chain­cut the deficit is to cut Social Security control entitlement programs could weighted CPI that gives lower infla­benefits. If I'm president, we're sim­lead to a "very debilitating" rise in tion readings and thus would mean ply not going to do it." interest rates in coming years. smaller payment increases. Sen. John Edwards, D-N.C., called it 
Democratic presidential candidates Greenspan, who turns 78 next "an outrage' for Greenspan to call for denounced his proposals, and week, also suggested tying the retire­cuts in Social Security while at the President Bush and other Republicans ment age for full benefits to longer same time endorsing making Bush's sought to distance themseJvojs from lifespans with the age continuing to tax cuts permanent. Hep. Dennis the Republican Greenspan. rise. The 65-year age for retiring at Kucinich, D-Ohio, went even further 
The central bank chairman also full benefits started increasing last and called for Greenspan to resign as repeated his view that Bush's tax cuts year and now stands at 65 years and Fed chairman. saying his comments should be made permanent to bolster four months. It will increase to 6 7 were "a disgrace." 


Thursday, February 26, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
SWITZERLAND 

Air traffic controller stabbed to death 
Associated Press 
ZURICH -An air traffic controller who ordered a pas­senger plane into the path of another aircraft over Germany -a crash that killed dozens of Russian chil­dren -was stabbed to death Wednesday in front of his wife. 
The attacker was a heavily built man aged 50-55. possi­bly Eastern European, with graying hair and a three-day stubble. He showed up at the controller's home Tuesday night, spoke briefly to the controller in broken German, killed him, and fled on foot. 
Beyond that description, police said they have no leads on the killer but are investi­gating a possible link between the stabbing and the crash 19 months ago that killed 71 peo­ple. The accident was blamed on the controller, a 36-year­old Danish citizen who has never been named by authori­ties. 
"There wasn't much said," District Attorney Pascal Gossner told The Associated Press. He declined to say what words were exchanged between the killer and victim, because it is part of the inves­tigation. 
He also said there were other people there at the time of the murder, but would not say if they included the cou­ple's three children. The con­troller died at the scene, 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
while panelists discussed the validation of legal endorse­ment for marriage in America. Moderated by Notre Dame Law Professor Gerard Bradley, the panel included Alan Sears, Andrew Koppelman and Paul Griffiths. Each member gave 20-minute dialogues outlining their opin­ions on the issue. 
Sears, who is President, CEO and General Counsel of the Alliance Defense Fund, began his discussion by noting that it was Ash Wednesday, a day of penitence and an apt time for a debate to take place. 
"This is a critical issue in our culture," he said. 
Sears made various refer­ences to the Catholic teach­ings to substantiate his sup­port for maintaining the cur­rent state of marriage. 
"[God] made the male and female, and the two shall be become one," he said. "Law regulates marriage. It does not create it ... God himself is the author of marriage," Sears said. 
Sears defended his opposi­tion of same-sex marriages by arguing that their legalization would result in the decon­struction of marriage. 
"It's like trying to draw a square circle," Sears said. 
He explained that homosex­ual conduct is harmful to soci­ety and that same-sex mar­riages will cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dol­lars. 
"Same sex marriage is con­trary to the definition of structure in the constitution ... [to create] a society with police said. 
"We are looking at all sorts of aspects," said Gossner of possible motives -including that the murder was connect­ed to the July 1, 2002, crash over southern Germany, an area run by Swiss air traffic. 
At the time, the controller was on duty alone in the Zurich control room, because a colleague was taking a break. He gave only 44 sec­onds' warning to the Bashkirian Airlines plane and a DHL cargo plane that they were getting too close. 
The controller told the Russian plane to descend, countering the jetliner's onboard collision-avoidance system which was demanding it climb, according to prelimi­nary accident reports. 
The pilot followed the instructions of the controller -sending the jetliner straight into the DHL cargo plane, which also was descending in accordance with its collision­avoidance equipment. 
Those killed in the crash included 45 prize-winning Russian schoolchildren. bound for a vacation in Spain. 
German authorities have yet to release their full report on the accident but said they would not be hampered by the controller's death as he had already been interviewed extensively. The Dane was placed on medical leave after the crash. He was later allowed to return to work but 
stable, nurturing context for children," he said. 
Andy Koppelman, a profes­sor of Law and Political Science at Northwestern Law School who supports same-sex marriages, argued that there are really two issues in this debate: areligious one and a secular one. 
Koppelman made the analo­gy that allowing a same-sex marriage is like making a business proposal: How can we maximize efficiency and satisfy people's preferences while protecting the third party of children, he asked. 
"It is good for children to grow up in stable, loving households ... There is no evi­dence that children raised by same-sex couples are worse off than heterosexual cou­ples," Koppelman said. "Religious and secular can be kept apart. Americans tend to run them together ... When the word 'marriage' is used, passions run very high." 
A recent poll showed that 64 percent of Protestants and 50 percent of Catholics disap­prove of state recognition of same-sex marriages, Koppelman said. He explained that this is because Protestants generally view their sacrament through the civil union while Catholics are more concerned with the sacrament of marriage. 
Koppelman argued that gays and lesbians. like heterosexu­als, want to find satisfaction of marriage. 
"Gays don't want second class status," he said. "This is a stigma of exclusion that the constitution prohibits." 
Koppelman explains the importance of a generational gap concerning this issue. While most Americans oppose 
given other duties. 
In an interview with a German magazine two weeks after the accident, he expressed his sorrow for the crash. "As an air traffic con­troller, it is my task and duty to prevent such accidents," he told Focus. 
Skyguide, the Swiss compa­ny the controller worked for, said it was appalled by his murder and that its employ­ees "were in shock." 
The company received no threats after the collision, Skyguide chief Alain Rossier told a news conference, and investigators were trying to establish whether the con­troller received any threats personally. 
At the time. Swiss President Kaspar Villiger canceled plans to attend a funeral for the children killed in the crash, because officials in the Russian city of Ufa said they could not guarantee his safe­ty. 
In response to the stabbing, Skyguide reduced by 40 per­cent the number of planes it allowed into the airspace it controls to give other con­trollers time to come to terms with the killing. Of 28 employ­ees scheduled Wednesday, seven were too upset to work, a spokesman said. 
The employees and the con­troller's family are receiving counseling,. and Zurich state police have helped organize protection, the company said. 
same-sex marriages, many 18-to 29-year-olds are in favor of it. 
"Conservatives are fighting a losing battle," Koppelman said. 
Paul Griffiths, the chair in Catholic Studies at the University of Illinois Chicago, argued that America was a "pagan" society that must exercise prudence when it comes to homosexual mar­riages. 
Griffiths presented his thesis that the Church should begin to disentangle its practice of sacramental marriage from civil law governing sexual relationships. 
An intimate relation between civil law and sacra­mental marriage is not possi­ble, he said. Griffiths defined the sacrament of marriage in terms of Catholic doctrine, describing· the purpose of marriage as being the unity of man and wife. having children and creating a mini-relation­ship between Christ and the Church on earth. 
"Marriage is between man and woman," he said. "It is incoherent to suggest other­wise ... Marriage is not a con­tract. Nothing that is a sacra­ment is a contract," Griffiths said. 
He further argued that the idea of fidelity and commit­ment in marriage is no longer the norm in the United States. 
"The norm is through and through pagan," he said. 
Wednesday night's discus­sion was hosted by the Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy and the Thomas White Center on Law and Government. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 

FRANCE 


Third generation cell phones offer video 
Associated Press 
CANNES-Now that a new wave of "3G" cell phones equipped for streaming video and multimedia content is finally arriving in Europe, the industry is focusing on the next big unknown: what serv­ices users will pay for, and how. 
The mobile phone services on display this week at the 3GSM World Congress indus­try show in this French Riviera town has ranged from video games to tennis to the hit reality TV show, "Big Brother." 
Alcatel SA, the French pro­ducer of telecommunications equipment, announced a deal with cable channel Eurosport to develop sports TV for mobiles and offer it to wireless operators later this year. Eurosport already broadcasts in 18 languages, and business development director Arjan Hoekstra said it was well placed to pipe sports coverage to mobile phones around the world. 
"It's a question of whether the consumer's ready to pay for it," said Hoekstra. "Nobody really knows -but we cer­tainly hope so." 
Although some multimedia services based on third-gener­ation wireless technologies, also known as 3G, have been introduced in Japan and South Korea, many innovations in the pipeline will be tested on real consumers for the first time in Europe -offering a flavor of what's over the hori­zon for U.S. consumers. 
Eurosport is closely follow­ing the example of a 3G oper­ator called 3, which recently began selling downloads of Premiership football highlights to British fans. The same operator has also been streaming live 24-hour cover­age of "Big Brother" to its Swedish subscribers since last month, selling 60,000 sessions in the first two weeks. 
"I don't think you're going to watch an entire tennis match on your mobile phone, but you will watch the highlights and maybe the interviews with the players afterward," Hoekstra said. 
Alcatel also announced a deal Tuesday with software developer VHTVStudios in multimedia messaging servic­es, or "MMS" -the multipur­pose sequel to short messag­ing services, or SMS, which has proven hugely popular in Europe. 
Instead of thumbing out a text message as with SMS, users can send messages with various forms of content such as pictures, video, animation, music and voice-overs. 
"Every user can become a publisher of content via a sim­ple MMS," said Patrick Parodi, head of the Alcatel subsidiary running the program. 
Others are putting their money on mobile games as the next big earner to supplement operators' subscription rev­enues. 
Paris-based Sofinnova Partners, which manages 500,000 euros ($635,000) in high-tech investments for pen­sion funds and insurers, has placed 33 million euros over two years in Esmertec, which makes components used by phone makers to make their handsets compatible with games and other applications written in Java code. 
Sofinnova associate Olivier Chapel said that as Java pro­gresses from high-end to mid­priced phones, it will tap mas­sive "latent demand" for games in the 12-25 age group -an underestimated market until SMS and ringtones took off. 
"Nobody believed in that business, but it has developed very fast because the demand was there," Chapel said. 
Analysts say the content market will get a further boost when wireless payment tech­nologies enable mobile users to buy their games, videos, or music from vendors without the wireless operator as inter­mediary. 
Cap Corps 

Thursday, February 26, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
States can deny money to divinity students 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -St1tes don't have to underwrite the religious training of students planning careers in the min­istry, the Supreme Court ruled Wednesday, a depar­ture from the court's trend of allowing more government support for religion. 
States can deny taxpayer­funded scholarships to divin­ity students, even as they hand out money to students pursuing other fields, the court said. 
"Training someone to lead a congregation is an essen­tially religious endeavor," the court said. "Indeed, majoring in devotional theology is akin to a religious calling as well as an academic pursuit." 
The 7-2 ruling was notable for its author: Chief Justice William II. Hehnquist, ordi­narily a supporter of the idea that there is not a high wall between church and state. 
The court majority parted company with the Bush administration, which had argued that the state of Washington engaged in reli­gious discrimination when it yanked a scholarship from a young divinity student five years ago. 
Joshua Davey won the small merit scholarship but then lost it when he told offi­cials at Northwest College in Kirkland, Wash .. he planned to use the money to pursue a theology degree. lie could have kept the Promise Scholarship had he planned to major in anything else. 
"That a state would deal differently with religious education for the ministry than with education for other callings," is not evidence of hostility toward religion. 
Hehnquist wrote for himself 
and all but the court's two 
most conservative members. 
lstead, it is in keeping with the nation's long tradition of welcoming the free expres­sion of religion while frown­ing on government endorse­ment of it, Rehnquist wrote. 
Like 36 other states, Washington prohibits spend­ing public funds on this kind of religious education. Bans on public funds for religious education, often known as Blaine amendments, date to the 19th century, when anti­Catholic sentiment ran high. 
The Washington ban "does not deny to ministers the right to participate in the· political affairs of the com­munity," the court majority said. "And it does not require students to choose between their religious beliefs and receiving a government ben­efit. The state has merely chosen not to fund a distinct category of instruction." 
The Davey case is a follow­up to the court's major ruling two years ago that allowed parents to use public tax money to send their children to religious schools. A ruling in Davey's favor would have made it easier to use vouch­ers in many states, because it could have overturned pro­visions in state constitutions like the one at issue in Washington. 
The Constitution's First Amendment says, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exer­cise thereof." 
The Davey case posed an unusual test of those two, potentially competing, guar­antees. 
Rehnquist made short work of that thorny issue. 
"The state's interest in not 
funding the pursuit of devo­
tional degrees is substantial 
and the exclusion of such 
funding places a relatively 
minor burden on Promise 
Scholars," Rehnquist wrote. 
"If any room exists between 
the two religion clauses, it 
must be here." 
Justices John Paul Stevens, Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, David 
H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer agreed with Rehnquist. 
Justices Antonin Scalia and 
Clarence Thomas dissented. 
"Let there be no doubt: This case is about discrimi­nation against a religious minority," Scalia wrote for the two. 
Davey continued his educa­tion without the subsidy. He did not choose to enter the ministry after graduation, and is now in law school. 
"The indignity of being sin­gled out for special burdens on the basis of one's calling is so profound that the con­crete harm produced can never be dismissed as insub­stantial," wrote Scalia, the father of a Catholic priest. 
Had the court ruled the other way, it could have erased many legal or consti­tutional barriers to state funding of religious activities in areas far beyond educa­tion. 
President Bush's faith­based initiative, which is stalled in Congress, would let more religious groups com­pete for government money for things like social servic­es, so long as their services are available to anybody in need. Opponents suggest the government would wind up underwriting religious prose­lytizing. 


State Dept. reports on human rights problems 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -China has 
been "backsliding on key 
human rights issues," the State 
Department said Wednesday in 
a report that also accused 
Russia of manipulating elec­
tions and making threats 
against opposition parties. 
"We saw many developments covering the whole range from the dramatically uplifting to the disappointing," the State Department said in its annual report on the state of human rights worldwide. The report covers developments in 2003. 
Among the most positive developments last year were the rescue of Iraq from "years of grave human rights viola­tions by Saddam Hussein's regime" and the adoption of a new constitution in Afghanistan through a demo­cratic process, the study said. 
On China, the report said 2003 began with hopes that ·"incremental but unprecedent­ed progress" the previous year would continue. 
Instead, the study said, the situation deteriorated. It cited arrests of democracy activists and individuals who discussed subjects on the Internet deemed sensitive by the gov­ernment. 
Chinese authorities in Tibet carried out executions without due process and engaged in torture and arbitrary arrest, the report said. 
The Bush administration tra­ditionally seeks a resolution critical of China at the annual meeting of the U.N. Human Rights Commission in Geneva. Last year was an exception because of progress on the rights front in China. 
But Assistant Secretary Lorne Craner, the State Department's top human rights oflicial, said Wednesday that such a resolution may be introduced at this year's meet­ing, starting next month. 
"We're heading in that direc­
tion," Craner told reporters. 
The report said the Hussian 
government manipulated the 
October presidential elections 
in Chechnya and parliamen­
tary elections held in 
December. 
"Both failed to meet interna­
tional standards," the report 
said. It added that the last 
major non-state television net­
work disappeared from Hussia 
last year because of govern­
ment pressure. 
The report also alleged that the government carried out criminal prosecutions and threats of prosecutions against major financial supporters of opposition parties. 
On other countries, the report said: 
There were "serious human rights abuses" committed by Israeli security forces against Palestinian detainees. These units used excessive force, including the shelling, bomb­ing and raiding of Palestinian civilian areas. But Palestinian security services and the Fatah faction of the Palestine Liberation Organization partic­ipated with civilian and terror­ist groups in violent attacks against Israelis, both military and civilian. There was no ref­erence in the report to the controversial security barriur Israel is constructing on Palestinian territory. 
North Korea "is one of the world's most militarized states." Abuses included . "instances of extrajudicial killings, torture and mistreat­ment of prisoners, forced con­fessions, arbitrary arrost and detention, lengthy incommuni­cado detention, and denial of due process." 
The Iranian government's poor hum,an rights record worsened, and it continued to commit serious abuses, includ­ing "summary executions. dis­appearances, torture and other degrading treatment." 

p4ge 10 The Observer + NEWS 


Pentagon says military sexual assualt declining 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Sexual assaults in the military have been cut in half in recent years, the Pentagon said Wednesday, responding to criticism from lawmakers who say the Defense Department is not doing enough to address the issue. 
"No war comes without costs, but the costs should be borne out of conflict with the enemy, not by egregious violations by some of our own troops," said Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine. 
David Chu, undersecretary of defense for personnel, said new figures show the rate of sexual assaults against women in the military fell from 6 percent to 3 percent between 1995 and 2002. 
"It's still too high, there's still a long way to go, but it's down substantially from where we were," Chu told a Senate Armed Services subcommittee. 
He said the most progress needs to be made in providing care to victims. 
Pentagon officials said there have been 106 reports of sexual assault of troops deployed in the Middle East -including Iraq and Afghanistan -over the past 14 months. 
In the Army, there have been 86 reported cases. Investigations have concluded in about half and 14 court-mar­tials have been filed. Army Vice Chief of Staff Gen. George Casey Jr. said investigations are harder to conduct when done in the midst of a military opera­tion. 
One of those cases involved Barbara Wharton's daughter. She was stationed with the Stryker Brigade outside Iraq last November when she was knocked unconscious by an unknown attacker. after getting off guard duty in the early morning hours. 
Wharton's daughter awoke stripped, bound and gagged. Doctors determined she was raped, but Wharton told the committee in a statement that minimal effort was taken to find her daughter's attacker. Her daughter was moved out of her unit, her requests to meet with a psychologist rejected and she eventually attempted suicide. 
Wharton said her daughter was returned to the U.S., but felt "abandoned" by her com­manders. 
"Just because I came back with all four limbs intact, they're treating me like I'm fak­ing," the daughter said~ accord­ing to Wharton. "I feel like my chain of command betrayed me. I gave four years to that unit and I feel like it kicked me in the teeth when I was down." 
Christine Hansen, executive director of the Connecticut­based Miles Foundation, a sup­port group for military victims of domestic and sexual vio­lence, said 68 women, most of them officers, contacted her organization with stories of sexual assaults at the hands of fellow members of the military. At least 13 had also reported the assaults to military officials. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has asked for a review of sexual assault policies and the victim support network throughout the department. He asked for a report by the begin­ning of May. 
One change under review is having standard policies on sexual assaults in all the mili­tary branches and providing uniform services to victims, Chu said. 
The inquiry was prompted by stories in The Denver Post that thousands of sex offenders in the military had escaped pun­ishment and numerous women's claims of sexual assault and rape were dis­missed or mishandled by com­manders. 
The allegations were similar to stories told by Air Force Academy cadets, which prompted a purge of the acade­my's commanders and sweep­ing changes. An Air Force investigation identified 142 reported cases of sexual assault in a 10-year period. 
The Air Force also dispatched a task force to Sheppard Air Force Base in Witchita Falls, Texas, to probe claims of between 20 and 25 sexual assaults in the 2002-03 federal budget year. · 



Clear Channel limits indecency 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON The nation's largest radio station chain announced new rules to limit indecency Wednesday in the latest example of the broadcast industry's efforts to address criticism of what airs on TV and radio. 
Under pressure from regula­tors and lawmakers, some TV networks are delaying live broadcasts to delete offensive material and doing more to let parents know how they can block specific programs. The N a tiona! Association of Broadcasters says it will hold a conference on indecency next month. 
The rules issued by Clear Channel Communications came on the eve of the second con­gresssional hearing this month on broadcast indecenc~ John Hogan, president of Clear Channel Radio, is scheduled to testify along with top officials from TV networks. 
Congress is considering increasing the maximum fine for indecency from $27,500 to $275,000, a move that the Federal Communications Commission endorsed even before the tumult over singer Janet Jackson's exposed right breast during the nationally televised Super Bowl halftime show. 
"In the history of broadcast indecency, there have been these moments where it makes headlines," said Jeremy Lipschultz, a professor of com­munication at the University of Nebraska at Omaha. "In the short term, broadcasters become much more careful. You're going to see people playing it safe. The long-term problem is the same one we've had, which is it's very difficult in the end to precisely define what is indecent or not." 
Under FCC rules and federal law, radio stations and over­the-air television channels can­not air material containing ref­erences to sexual and excreto­ry functions between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m., when children may be tuning in. The rules do not apply to cable and satellite channels and satellite radio. 
Chris Murray, legislative counsel for Consumers Union, the publisher of Consumer Reports magazine, said broad­casters worry that Congress, angered over indecency, might also move to ove.rturn FCC rules relaxing media ownership rules, including one that makes it easier for companies to own newspapers and broadcast sta­tions in the same community. 
"The broadcasters are quick­ly and visibly cleaning up their act on indecency because they know if Congress gets real game on smut, they won't stop there," Murray said. 
Paul Levinson, chairman of the department of communica­tions and media studies at Fordham University, said the government's efforts smack of censorship. 
"Media is supposed to be independent of the govern­ment," Levinson said. "For the government to step in and threaten media, and then for the media to go and .do what the government wants, com­pletely distorts our democratic process and our freedoms." 
Clear Channel's new policy includes companywide training about indecency, possible fines against DJs, and automatic sus­pensions for anyone accused by the FCC of violating indecency rules on the air, company offi­cials said. 
The initiative came one day after the company fired the DJ known as "Bubba the Love Sponge," whose show drew an FCC-record fine of $755,000. The program aired in four Flprida cities and included graphic discussions about sex and drugs "designed to pander to, titillate and shock listeners," the FCC said. 
"Clear Channel is serious about helping address the ris­ing tide of indecency on the air­waves," said Mark Mays, presi­dent and chief operating offi­cer. "As broadcast licensees, we are fully responsible for what our stations air, and we intend to make sure all our DJs and programmers understand what is and what is not appro­priate." 
Mel Karmazin, president of Viacom Inc., discussed indecen­cy issues during a conference call last week with officials and station managers of the compa­ny's Infinity Broadcasting radio subsidiary. Infinity, which owns 120 stations, asked them to increase efforts to avoid inde­cent programming, such as using a seven-second delay on shows with live talk, spokesman Dana McClintock said 
Infinity in 1995 paid the largest cumulative fine to date. $1.7 million, for various viola­tions by radio host Howard Stern. 
Responding to a query from the FCC, CBS and Fox TV have said they would run advertise­ments touting the V-chip, tech­nology built into a TV set to prevent children from watching certain shows. Both networks also said they were airing live programs on time delays, dis­playing ratings for their pro­grams on their Web sites, reviewing their standards and practices, and reminding affili­ate stations that they can reject network programs unsuitable for their communities. 


Announcing the Year 2004 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
!hanks to a generous gi.ft from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program IS pleased to announce the year 2004 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not nol'mally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate studeltts 'Who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students ml.ist have completed at least one year ofItalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofltalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola Uni7'ersity in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbmo; Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a perso~a~ statenientindicatingt.heir background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a descnphon ofthe research proJect or the program they intend to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs .involved 
5) the names oftwo references. , 
Application DeadliDe: Thursday, March 4th, 2004 Albe.rtRavarinoltalian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University ofNotre Dame 
--~------------------------------~·~ 
-

Thursday, February 26, 2004 page 11
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 , 
ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu



Campus Ministry C-M 
Freshman  Notre Dame  
Retreat #53  Encounter #81  


51• 
toda 

Get mvolved, go on a retreat More info ft applications in Room114 April 2-3 April 2-4 Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 
Sign up deadline: Sign up deadline: March 26 March 5 

frjday 02.21 
Asian/Asian American Women Faculty & Staff Gathering 
Dr. Mary Lee presents: Pension Plans & You 
11:30 a.m. -1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
Mass for Peace 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #52 
Women's Retreat 
NDE Retreat #So 
sunday o2.29 
RCIA lenten Morning of Reflection 1o:oo-t1:30 a.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse 
RCIA Rite of Sending 
11:45 Mass Basilic of the Sacred Heart 

sunday tcont. J 
What's the Future of This Relationship? Workshop 2:oo p.m. · 5:oo p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
RCIA Rite of Election 2:30p.m. St. Matthew's Cathedral 

tuesday o3.o2 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. · 8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 


wednesday o3.o3 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
All-Music, Pre-break edition 
see website for details 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, mass schedules and special campus events at 
campusministry.nd.edu 
Please join us for an afternoon of discussion designed for dating couples who are discern­ing the next stage of a relationship commitment 
Sunday, February 29 
2:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. 

in Room 330, CoMo Pre-register (required) by 2/27 in Room 114 or 309 by noon. 


mass schedule 
considerations... 
Decisions, Decisions 
Mal(e the Choice Take the Leap 
by Rev. Jim King. c.s.c. Director of Vocations, Congregation of Holy Cross 
There was a Time magazine article more than twenty years ago where the author, Richard 
Schickel, referred to "that common cold of the male psyche, fear ofcommitment." It's not at all 
dear that the virus strikes only males, but it's our experience in dealing with men considering a 
vocation to the priesthood that the thought of making a long-term commitment scares many 
into avoiding choice-making altogether. 
We put a high premium in our society upon maintaining our independence, yet that is a very ,modern notion. It wasn't so long ago that people who hadn't married by their mid-twenties were 
considered to be "bachelors" and "spinsters," odd ducks who were fundamentally deprived by not 
having said the words "forever" to someone or something, whether to a spouse or to a religious 
vocation. We now have a better understanding that some people actually have a vocation to be 
single, but it's also true that more people drift for a long time avoiding the choices that free them 
to discover their purpose as people of faith. 
The gospels and New Testament letters are very clear. There is no great value accorded to the 
concept of independence American-style, yet in his letter to the Galatians, St. Paul speaks 
emphatically that Christ came to free us: "For you were called for freedom. Bur do not use this 
freedom as an opportunity for the flesh; rather, ser~e one another through love." (Gal5: 13) We 
often use the words freedom and independence interchangeably as if they are syrwnyms, but real 
freedom has a spiritual dimension and comes only from raking a leap of faith and making 
commitments rather than avoiding them. 
People often ask priest how we can be celibate as it is seen as depriving us of the intimacy of 
marriage and children, and, typically, we answer something to the effect that the vows, including 
poverty and obedience as well, free us to serve everyone. It's what St. Paul was getting at in his 
letter. If we want to be truly free, then we should give our lives over to whatever or whomever 
allows us to love the most..Whatever we choose, whether marriage, priesthood, religious life, or 
remaining single is going to entail letting go of something that we also want. Yet at some point 
we do have to choose. 

There was probably no commitment so binding as the one made by Peter, Andrew, James, 
and John when they left behind their fishing business and families to become apostles. St. Paul 
described apostleship as being a "slave" to Jesus Christ, yet none of them would ever have 
fulfilled their own deepest desires had they stayed in their boats. 
It isn't that a person needs to jump into a permanent commitment right out of college. In fact, the people who want to slow things down and do a year or two of service first are probably onto something. Most people don't know what they really want at the age of twenty-two. It's a good idea to take some rime to discover what we really have deep inside of ourselves to give to others, and for many it sets a clear direction for the rest of their lives. 
And, it's also a good idea to think of Lent as something more than a time to give up candy, ice cream, or booze and use it intentionally for purposes of vocational discernment. A lot can get clarified if we use every one of these days to put ourselves in the presence ofJesus and ask what we really really want because we will certainly get different answers when we sit with him then when we ask the question independently of Him. 
First Sunday of Lent 

basilica of the sacred heart around campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:00 p.m. s:oo p.m. 1o:oo a.m. Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c St. Edward's Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB 
11:45 p.m. Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c 
_, :.;..·,.'

Sunday's Scripture Reamngs 1st: Deuteronomy 26:4-10 2nd: Romans 10:8-13 Gospel: Luke 4:1-13 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, February 26, 2004 
The oldest hatred 

Anti-Semitism is the world's oldest 
:~ ~j 

. :; := ,. hatred, and it is with us still. 
A little more than a year ago I wrote about the Library of Alexandria, the greatest library of the ancient world. It was in the Great 
.; Library that Euclid
(.' • / :! X ' :: ! ;; ., ,, .· Peter Wicks 
wrote his geome­try, Archimedes discovered princi­
Englishman
ples that would 
Abroad
form the basis of classical science and a team of 72 rabbis translated the Pentateur.h into Greek. 

When the Library was destroyed long ,4g0, countless irreplaceable works of 'Trterature, philosophy and history were 
lost to us forever. I chose to write about this because the new Bibliotheca Alexandrina had recently opened on the site of the original Library. Built with the support of UNESCO, the Bibliotheca Alexandrina was, I sug­gested, a beacon of hope in a world scarred by the genocide and tyranny of the Twentieth Century. 
I have been forced to reconsider my optimism after reading that the Library recently displayed an Arabic translation of a book called The Protocols of the Elders of Zion as a Jewish holy text. On the very site where over two millennia ago the Jewish scriptures were translated into the common tongue of the day, one of the most virulently anti-Semitic texts ever written -which has been described as "a warrant for genocide" -was now being presented as a Jewish holy book, equal to the Torah. 
The Protocols were written in czarist Russia, but the book is most infamous as a seminal text of Nazi anti-Jewish propaganda. It purports to be a docu­ment detailing the secret plans of a cabal of Jewish elders to gain control of the world. The text is a crude for­gery, discredited long ago, and its con­tents are outlandish even by the stan-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
dards of conspiracy theories. But despite all this, it is believed by many millions of people in the Muslim world -it is of course a simplification to speak of "the Muslim world," but no more so than speaking of "Europe." As Orwell noted, "One of the marks of anti-Semitism is an ability to believe stories that could not possibly be true." 
I am not suggesting that Islam is inherently anti-Semitic. On the con­trary, for much of Islam's history, Jews suffered considerably worse persecu­tion and discrimination in Christian Europe than they did in Muslim coun­tries. It should also be noted that many of the anti-Semitic themes that are so common in countries like Iran and Saudi Arabia are European imports. One common claim, known as the blood libel, is that Jews use Christian blood to bake matzah for Passover and it has its origins in medieval Europe. One of the many books in circulation that repeats this libel, "The Matzah of Zion," recently went into its eighth edi­tion in Syria. Until recently its author, Mustafa Tlas, was the Syrian Minister of Defense . 
One gauge of the depth of anti­Semitism is the extent of its acceptabil­ity -the extent to which even senior statesmen and other public figures can make slanderous and hateful claims about Jews with impunity. 
Although not of a comparable scale, there are also disturbing signs in mod­ern Europe, where surveys continue to report widespread anti-Jewish preju­dices and where in many countries there have been upsurges in the amount of violent assaults on Jews and arson attacks on synagogues. Last year the chief rabbi of France, Joseph Sitruk, felt compelled to suggest that Jewish men should not wear their skullcaps in public so as to "avoid becoming a target for potential assailants." 
Last November in the city of Terre Haute, here in Indiana, a Holocaust museum was partially destroyed in an arson attack, and there have been sim­ilar attacks made on synagogues in San Francisco and Alameda, Calif., and Syracuse, N.Y. Many sources also report a significant increase in violent assaults against Jews, as well as reports of ethnic slurs and verbal harassment. 
One of the false lessons we some­times draw from the history of the Holocaust is that anti-Semitism has its natural home on the political Right ­we infer this in part because we are largely ignorant of the history of Italian fascism, which was ultranation­alist but not anti-Semitic. 
Nothing compares to the Holocaust in the extent of the evil perpetrated on the Jewish people, but nevertheless the sad fact is that history has shown that virulent forms of anti-Semitism are capable of being grafted onto almost any ideology. August Bebel, a friend of Karl Marx, once called it "the socialism of fools." In the century that followed, there was no shortage of fools. Last year, copies of The Protocols were sold at a number of prominent anti-war ral­lies. 
The rule should be simple: We should show no more tolerance for anti­Semitism amongst those we consider our political allies than anti-Semitism amongst our political opponents. Indeed, when we notice that the con­spiratorial theories about the malig­nant influence of Jews within the gov­ernment are currently a theme found on both the Left and the Right, we should probably recognize the limited usefulness of those terms for establish­ing who our political allies are. 
Peter Wzcks is a graduate student in philosophy. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


f'"'E. lt-H'€.6 ~Al:)l NG, ?R~S\ l:>E~t\ AL CAN.btDAT€.S STA~E' cur 

OBSERVER POLL 

Where do you go to Mass? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The right to be heard does not automatical­ly include the right to be taken seriously. " 
Hubert Humphrey politician 

.------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 26, 2004 page 13 
Bush's plan a rotten tomato for migrant workers 
A hometown friend of mine was mistaken for a migrant work­
er at the local hospital when he mentioned he had been in North 
Carolina for the past few months. "Aye Paisanito,"or "little 
migrant worker," said the emergency room nurse without a 
moment's hesitation while she scribbled in his chart. He 
laughed. but he wasn't shocked. 
In the border town of Laredo, Texas, the 
Dolores Dlaz
people aren't supposed to-and often don't 
-have the opportunity to go off and have 
adventures. For many of us, North Carolina 
The Warm 
means working in the fields because that's 
what the many people huddled in the back Gun 
of the truck next to us are going to do. 
So now Bush, with convenient election 
timing, has called for a major overhaul of U.S. law and plans to 
give legal status to millions of illegal workers, many of which 
cross through my city every day and Hispanics are supposed to 
give him the vote. Not likely; at least not anytime soon. 
Surprised? 
On one hand, the Bush plan to give legal status to illegal 
workers has its bright side. Many Mexicans attempt to cross the 
dangerous Hio Grande daily, braving a river teeming with tricky 
undercurrents, biohazardous waste and multi-tailed fish. If 
Bush's plan were to be put into action, many lives would be 
spared. 
The border patrol will be able to rest a little easier without 
having to deal with the enormous number of people who cross 
illegally, even though they'll still have to go through individual 
documentation of commuters, not to mention the increased traf­
fic congestion at the bridge that will make my highway a living 
nightmare. 
My schoolmate who got caught smuggling illegal migrant 
workers into the country may also be happy to hear about · Bush's new and "great" idea, as will the maids that work at many of the houses in the neighborhood, even though their 
employers may not be too thrilled about the extra expense­
not that they'd actually pay it. 
The foolish man that inserted his foot into his mouth and sat 
next to me on the plane last summer complaining about 
Mexican Americans will be pissed. 
But I doubt the migrant workers that make up the majority of 
illegal workers will come any closer to getting the basic respect 
they deserve. 
Firstly, the conditions for these workers won't necessarily be 
improved by the Bush plan. The fact that the migrant worker is 
horribly exploited by cheap labor isn't exactly groundbreaking 
news, but people must take into account that this is not the only 
exploitation that the workers suffer. Even though the Bush plan 
would ensure minimum wage and fix the cheap labor problem, 
it wouldn't change the other ways in which the workers are 
demeaned. 
While the Bush initiative may ensure the workers with mini­
mum wage, they are still readily exploited through a language 
barrier, lack of education and a make-no-objection mentality 
that makes the migrant worker the ultimate victim. Under 
Bush's plan, the migrant worker must be sponsored by a compa­
ny -that is, must be claimed as a worker which would give the 
company just as much bargaining power over the worker. The 
worker doesn't really gain any more power as a legitimate 
employee than an illegitimate one. 
Bush's plan also specifies that workers can apply for guest 
worker status at a U.S. company only if it is proved that no U.S. 
citizen is there to take the job. It seems odd to prove something 
like that and all too easy to manipulate that sort of information. 
If what Bush is trying to do is put Americans that are worried 
about their jobs at ease, it doesn't seem to be working. The 
unanswered questions just underline the anxiety that many 
already feel about voting for Bush. 
Additionally, legal worker status would only be granted for a 
period of three years initially. But what happens·when this peri­
od is up? If after this term the worker must leave and the com­
pany must find a replacement. both the worker and the compa­
ny would lose. Now, for a migrant worker, it would seem more 
practical to continue in illegal status, avoiding documentation 
that would make them traceable and force them to leave the 
country after three years than acquire legal status. Bush hasn't 
specified, but there are definite questions that remain. 
The bottom line is that Bush would have to make some 
detailed outlines of his plan before Hispanics and all concerned 
can feel comfortable voting for him. If Bush really wants the 
Hispanic vote, the plan must include a more sound way to com­
bat the exploitation of the migrant worker-that and he must 
change to the Democratic ticket. As of yet, the realization of 
either of these seems unlikely. 
Dolores Diaz is a junior English major and journalism and the­ology minor. She enjoys thinking. Contact her at ddiaz@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Eating religiously 
I realize that it is the Lenten season for Catholics, but it seems that the University has forgotten that a large population of the students here are not Catholic. 
When I walked into the dining hall on Ash Wednesday, I was offended and angry to find that absolutely no meat products, save for fish, was being offered at the dining halls. Chicken patties had been replaced by grilled cheese, taco meat was replaced by shrimp and the sandwich bar only had peanut butter and jelly. Laughably, even the bacon bits from the salad bar had been removed, which do not contain any real meat products. 
While I understand that this is a Catholic university, the Notre Dame administration has crossed the line into fascism by forcing their views upon us. I can understand if the dining halls had more non-meat selections to cater to the Catholics on all the Fridays from now until Easter, but to absolutely remove meat from the dining halls at these times is a violation of my right to choose. 
My shock at not finding meat at the dining halls was shared by many -Catholics and non-Catholics alike. Even my fundamentalist Catholic friends agreed that the University should offer meat to its non-Catholic students; and not surprisingly, many of my Catholic friends do consume meat products other than fish on Ash Wednesday. 
The administration has been going down a slippery slope and forcefully exercising its iron fist more and more. Not only has it prohibited many Mardi Gras celebrations -as previously mentioned in Viewpoint -but it now has crossed the line into controlling our food consumption, forcing us into practicing its Catholic beliefs. 
That is simply too far. 
Chris Vierig freshman Keenan Hall Feb. 25 
Defending the minority 
I wish to express my disappointment at the harsh attacks made upon my classmate Mr. Ryan Iafigliola regarding his views on drink­ing. I, too, am a non-drinker and agree with him that it can, at times, be difficult to live in such a way. 
We are treated, not by all, but at least by some, as if we have a "social defect," some diseased area of our brain that prevents us from "living it up" and "having the full col­lege experience." There are drinkers I know who would love to get me drunk, even though they know how I feel about it. 
The defenses of drinking offered by Miss Caitlyn Smith in her letter are almost entire­ly flawed. First, the relationship between the Bible and wine is not an explicit endorsement of drinking by any and all. Jesus' purpose in performing the miracle at Cana was not simply so his friends, who were probably all responsible adults, could get drunk. It was to show, in part, who He was. 
Additionally, there are stories in the Bible, such as when Lot is made drunk by his daughters who then sleep with him (Genesis 
19: 30-38), where drunkenness and alcohol in general contribute to immoral behavior. As for wine in Mass, may I note that when consecrated, it is no longer wine, but the Blood of Christ Himself. It is the transforma­tion of the wine that makes it sacred. I would hope that all Catholics, whether at this institution or any other, would remem­ber that fact. 
Second, when referring to Plato and the philosophy of Socrates, I would note that just because the ancient Greeks acted in a certain manner does not mean that we are right to act in the same way. Slavery was an accepted practice in ancient Greece. Should we therefore bring back slavery, simply because they practiced it? Additionally, I doubt that Ms. Smith would advocate that President Bush and Congress get drunk while running our government in order to improve decision making. 
Although Mr. Iafigliola may have been gen­eralizing io some degree, his assessment is certainly true in some cases. I would not be surprised to find that someone I know who drinks does so because of personal, emo­tional or psychological problems. While all drinkers may not be in this situation, there are most certainly some who are. 
Furthermore, no person whether a heavy drinker, mild drinker or non-drinker, will deny that "getting fat, puking, poor decision making and increased chance of physical or sexual assault," are potential consequences of drinking. 
Notre Dame may not explicitly endorse 
drinking, but at the same time it does not 
enforce most of its policies on alcohol. Read 
pages 88-90 of du Lac, think about what 
happens almost every weekend on this cam­
pus, and you will be unable to deny this fact. 
The banning of hard alcohol does nothing 
but force students who wish to get smashed 
to drink larger quantities of beer instead of 
smaller quantities of hard alcohol. Though 
the administration does not encourage it, 
there is a tacit acceptance of the pervasive 
drinking culture on this campus. 
Mr. Matthew Wormington's assertion that 
the numbers given by Mr. Iafigliola are 
invalid is easily proven false. Do the math. 
There are around 8,000 undergraduates 
here at Notre Dame. Twelve percent of 
8,000 students is 960. This means that 
roughly 7,000 people on this campus do 
drink. Ifthere are around 2,000 people per . class, this easily covers three out of the four classes, as well as half of another. The cited facts and figures demonstrate that even if only underage classes are considered, non­
drinkers are still a minority, and a shrinking 
one at that. A word of advice to Mr. 
Wormington: Next time you explicitly state 
that you are breaking Indiana state law, 
remember the fifth Amendment. 
When underage people choose to drink, 
they are essentially saying that the law only 
applies to them when they feel it should. I 
have heard it said, "Well, I'm just as mature 
as a 21-year-old, probably even more so, so 
I should be able to drink." Such an attitude 
sets a dangerous precedent. By this ration­
ale, if I feel that laws against murder are 
below me, then it shouldn't matter if I vio­
late them. After all, it's just a "personal 
choice." 
Maybe it's just me, but it's usually not the 
sober people who are involved in illegal or 
immoral activities on this campus. If my 
personal choice results in me being a better 
human being, then perhaps I have the right 
to claim some moral high ground. I, for one, 
choose not to drink and encourage others 
not to because I believe it is the wiser 
course of action. I would be shirking my 
duty as a loving Christian if I did not try and 
help my fellow human beings live the best 
life possible. If I am being judgmental in 
expressing that opinion, so be it. 
Cole R. Milliard freshman O'Neill Hall Feb. 25 
THE 0BSERV'ER 



CENE
page 14 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Kanye West, the future of hip hop 
By ARIENNE THOMPSON Scene Music Critic 

Kanye West is a breath of fresh air in an increasingly stale industry where cars, sex and bling reign supreme. West's eagerly anticipated debut album, The College Dropout, is fun, creative and at times irreverent, blending his top-notch skills as Roc-A-Pella's in­house producer with his talents as a decent MC. His role as a producer how­ever, is the one that paved his way to success and notoriety in the hip-hop world. With an impressive clientele list that includes labelmate Jay-Z, Monica, Talib Kweli, Mos Def, Ludacris and Britney Spears, West is as much in demand as some of the hottest produc­ers around like the Neptunes and Timbaland. Although he certainly deliv­ers for others, as evidenced by the Alicia Keys' smash "You Don't Know My Name," West proves that he did indeed save some of his best beats for himself. 
Throughout Dropout, West reveals his appreciation for classic R&B, sampling heavily from the songs of established stars like Aretha Franklin, Marvin Gaye and Luther Vandross. Fortunately, West possesses the skills and judgment to know just how much of a sample is needed and, in turn, how to tweak it for his specific musical needs. Unlike other chronic samplers whose cringe-induc­ing songs verge on criminal (think P. Diddy, Jennifer Lopez, etc.), West is smart and innovative, using, for exam­ple, Chaka Khan's hook from "Through the Fire" to buttress his current hit "Through the Wire," which he vocalized with a wired jaw. 
Playing with notions about higher education, opportunity and social mobility, West also manages to deliver some of his political and cultural views among his solid production and lyrics. On the furious and lazy "Spaceship," West complains about a job at the GAP over a sample of Marvin Gaye's "Distant Lover." He laments about workplace racism, declaring, "If my manager insults me again I will be assaulting him ... I Take me to the back and pat me askin' me bout some khakis I But let some black people walk in I bet you they show off I they token blackey I 0 now they love Kanye let's put him all in the front of the store." The humorous and cheeky "The New Workout Plan" satirizes so-called "video hos" and groupies, while "Jesus Walks" and "We Don't Care" question the state of a world mired in poverty, terrorism and racial inequality. 
These successes notwithstanding, West is at his best on the standout track "Two Words," featuring Mos Def, label­mate Freeway, and the Harlem Boys Choir. Backed by a superb beat and swelling vocals, West boasts that he is the "most imitated, Grammy nominated .. . I Two words, Chi town, raised me, crazy I So I live by two words, ... pay me." 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS Scene Music Critic 

Thrilling: A word any new band wants to be· described as. But why wait for the critics to call you that? Better yet, just make it the name of your band! The new Virgin Records band The Thrills seems to have adopt­ed just that strategy in choosing their extremely suggestive name. However, the question looms: Are they what they suggest? 
Ironically enough, their first album, So Much for the City, is a slower sound overall, with a few mildly upbeat songs dispersed throughout the album. A "thrilling" rock track would be expected but is not found, although this is not a detriment to the album. While the name may suggest the spirit of the band rather than their style of music, no one is asking for any changes to be made. The five-piece, Dublin-based band seems to be of a different yet thrilling nature. 
The majority of the band members were friends from adolescence, and after a couple of years of learning and practicing music, the band took a four month vacation to San Diego, Calif. in the summer of 1999. It was their love of the '60s West Coast music that led them to San Diego, and once they arrived they found sofas that they pulled onto the beach and wrote their album. The California influence is obvious, if not the focus, of their album. Of the 11 songs, eight are blatantly related to, if not about, California, the beach and the sun. Thus The Thrills cover three of many young adults' favorite things -not bad for subject matter. 
Influenced by The Beach Boys, ESP, Burt Bacharach, as well as "The Virgin Suicides" and "West Side Story," and also their 
He also shines on "Last Call," which is essentially a thank you note to his label Roc-A Fella. He dis­cusses his accomplish­ments and goals, saying "I went to the malls and I balled too hard I Oh my God is that a black card I I turned around and I replied why yes I But I prefer the term African American Express I Brains, power and muscle like Dame, Puffy & Russell I Your boy back on his hustle you know what I been up to I Killin y'all ... on that lyrical [tip] I Mayonnaise color Benz I I push miracle whips." 
Besides the usual rapper-to-rapper collaborations, Dropout features an unexpected musician who contributes to about half the album. Israeli artist Miri Ben-Ari, dubbed the "Hip-hop Violinist," is inventive and fresh, infus­ing the album with sounds and musical patterns that no doubt help distinguish Dropout from other hip-hop albums. West also teams up with noteworthy and skilled MCs like Jay-Z, Common, Talib Kweli and Twista. 

In all, West's debut effort is clever and capable, presenting his talents as a rapper-producer and highlighting his consciousness and concerns as a young adult. He only narrowly escapes being bogged down by the tiring, incessant skits that have become standard on hip­hop albums by making his interludes funny and bold. Despite this near-flaw, West is golden and is certainly giving his colleagues and fellow Roc-A-Pella members M.E.M.P.H.I.S. Bleek, Freeway and Cam'Ron something to think about. As these three try to keep their careers afloat, their label and the world recog­nize that Kanye West is the future, leav­ing little room for mediocrity and even less time for them to play catch-up . 
Contact Arienne Thompson at athompsl@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Irish band releases thrilling debut 


Irish descent, The Thrills produce a unique and interesting sound on So Much for the City. As for their creative name, The Thrills claim it was "inspired in equal parts by Phil Spectors' 

Sixties girl groups and Michael Jackson's greatest LP." These guys do not fit into any box rock and roll has come across before. 
Throughout their album, the songs are interesting and musically unique for our time. The influence of the Beach Boys is very apparent, but the overall sound is much stronger than the melodies of the Beach Boys. With stronger drum and bass presence, the catchy melody is sung by the gentle voice of lead singer Conor Deasy. There is a lot of Beach Boys-esque echoing in choruses and such, and overall it really works. Keys are inte­gral to So Much for the City, as is the often plucking sound of a gentler gui­tar that has been seen in much cut-rent rock music. There really is not a song worth skipping on the entire record. Some of the stronger songs are "Santa Cruz (You're Not That Far)," "Don't Steal Our Sun," "Big Sur" and "Your Love is Like Las Vegas." Some of the songs even have a bit of a country twang to them, like "Say It Ain't So," and many of the songs have a harmonica sound added to the melody. 
So Much for the City is a good album done by a very unique band. The Thrills have produced an album per­fect for spring break and even better for these cold weeks leading up to it. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
Page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Mason Jennings keeps it real 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Critic 
Trying to describe Mason Jeanings' voice is nearly impossible. Lots of words come to mind -clear, authentic, straightforward, folky, nonchalant, hill billy -but none of these quite captures the sound and pres­ence that leaves his voice resonating long after the song is done. The word that comes the closest is antique, and antique is a good word to describe the whole of Jennings' fourth album, aptly titled Use Your Voice. Jennings follows his own advice, and his voice becomes the spice and life of every song on the album, result­ing in a spare yet melodic collection of ten songs that ranges from the political to the personal. 
On the grand-scale of musicians, Jennings is still small-time, but his loyal fan base stretches the globe. On his c;>wn record label. Jennings has managed to sell close to 100,000 albums through word of mouth, 
touring and the Internet. In 

Minneapolis, the city he calls home, Jennings is often regarded as the next Bob Dylan or Johnny Cash, both of whom happen to be two of his biggest influences. Of his latest album, Jennings says on his website, "I was really influenced by Johnny Cash's American recordings and Bob Dylan's Blood on the Tracks -I love the no­frills sound on those records and that recording style makes the songs stand out and it sounds real to me." 
"No frills" is a good way to describe Use Your Voice. The album is a very simple construction of guitar, bass. drums, an occasional harmonica, and of course, Jennings' voice. The lack of production on this album was an intentional decision for Jennings who has toured with Jack Johnson, and is currently touring the west coast. As he says on his website, "Sometimes I feel that people don't think you're a good musician if you're not polished or on 
By BRIAN FOY 
Scene Music Critic 
Jacksonville, Florida has a check­ered past, at best, when it comes to producing quality music. It has gen­erated one of the most creative and influential bands in the classic rock genre: Lynyrd Skynryd. However, it also gave the world one of the most annoying and unoriginal flash-in the-pan bands with Limp Bizkit. Now, it appears as though Jacksonville is ready to redeem itself with their newest hometown hero ­Shinedown. 
Shinedown was formed in the early months of 2001, after lead singer Brent Smith left his former band on the eve of their own record deal. The next year saw Smith join gui­tarist Jasin Todd, bassist Brad Stewart, and drummer Barry Kerch to form Shinedown. It did not take the boys long to hone their skills and consequently gain the chemistry needed for a successful band. Shinedown came together quickly, and it took less than a year for the labels to begin knocking on their door as they were signed in early 2002. 
Shinedown has a wide spectrum of the radio. And that makes me 
Use Your Voice
sad because I believe that a lot of people I 
Mason
admire, like Johnny Cash, 


Jennings
John Lennon or Bob Dylan, probably 

Bar/None Records 



wouldn't get a record deal today mainly because they sang from their hearts and not to get on the radio or anything like that. They just wrote songs for themselves, and that was my vision behind Use Your Voice: to sing from my heart." 
Without restriction on his music from a record company, Jennings is truly able to sing from his heart, with his voice and knack for melody helping him out. One of the best songs on the album is "Ballad for Paul and Sheila," a eulogy for former Minnesota Senator Paul Wellstone, who died with his wife in a plane crash last October. Jennings was on tour when he heard about the Wellstone's death and was deeply affected by it. causing him to write this song. Over gentle guitar picking Jennings' sings, "Hey Senator, I wanna say I all the things you fought for did not die here today I hey Senator, I'm gonna do I all the things I can to live my life more like you lived." 
The rest of the songs on the album tend 
Leave a 

Whisper 
Shinedown 
Atlantic Records 

influences that range from fellow hometown sons Lynyrd Skynryd to Led Zeppelin. Consequently, the sound that makes up Shinedown's freshman release, Leave A Whisper, is more mature than what most radio stations are currently crank­ing out. Shinedown manages to mix a thunderous guitar with passionate vocals not seen since Black Sabbath. 
Leave A Whisper begins with Shinedown's radio debut, "Fly From the Inside," which serves as the per­fect track to introduce listeners to their sound. The song manages to express everything Shinedown does well on a single track. "Fly From the Inside" begins with a simple guitar that is joined by bass and drums until they fade and the guitar is left. It is this timing of the instruments to stay away from political themes, and instead deal with lovesick confusion, work­ingman blues, homesickness and happi­ness. The opening track, "Crown," blows in with a steady beat and a bluesy harmonica with Jennings singing about his ambiva­lence toward a former lover who broke his heart. "Empire Builder" features Jennings' voice swinging like the hammer he uses during working days on the railroad. "Keepin It Real" is an uplifting number with Jennings' voice brimming with spirit: "There ain't no rust on the happiness bus." 
Although mainstream fame isn't some­thing Jennings is seeking, his music, lyrics and vocals arc of a quality deserving recog­nition. His own lyrics describe his musical philosophy best: "In our hearts we're keepin' it, keepin' it, keepin' it, keepin' it real." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 




ALBUM REVIEW 
Shinedown has a bright future 


one another that sticks out as one of their greatest attributes. However, many bands possess this quality yet get lost in a pack of music groups. Undoubtedly, it is the vocals of Smith that takes Shinedown from a good band to a great one. 
Leave a Whisper has a plethora of songs that combine great musician­ship with poignant vocals. This abili­ty can be seen in such songs as 
-
"Burning Bright" and "45," in which intricate instrumentation is com­bined with power cord-driven rock, and singing is blended with passion­ate howling not seen since the prime of Ozzy Osbourne .. It is these songs that prove the future of this young band is as bright as their name. 
and Shinedown's ability to play off Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
MEN's NCAA BASKETBALL 
Demon Deacons rally, overcome 17-point deficit in OT win 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. ­Justin Gray scored a career-high 31 points, including the go­ahead 3-pointer with 1:22 left in overtime, and No. 11 Wake Forest rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat Florida State 90­87. 
Chris Paul had 21 points, six rebounds and eight assists for the Demon Deacons (18-6, 8-5 Atlantic Coast Conference), who won their fifth straight game and avenged last month's loss to the Seminoles. 
Tim Pickett scored 16 of his 23 points in the first half for the Seminoles (18-10, 6-8). who have lost four of six. Florida State has lost 23 straight road games in conference play, extending a streak that began in March 2001. 
The win keeps the Demon Deacons in third place in the ACC, which has five teams ranked in this week's Top 25. 
Trailing 60-45 after a 3 by Pickett midway through the sec­ond half. the Demon Deacons closed the second half with a 30-15 run, including nine straight points at the end of reg­ulation. The Seminoles, mean­while, committed turnovers on their last six possessions against Wake Forest's pressure defense. 
Gray hit the tying free throw with 1:19 left to send it to over­time tied at 75. 
Once there, he made the biggest shot of the night, taking a feed from Taron Downey and draining a 3 from the left wing for an 86-83 lead. 
The Demon Deacons never trailed again, getting a slam from Eric Williams off a feed from Paul just before the shot clock expired for an 88-85 lead with 15 seconds left. Nate Johnson's driving layup cut it to one with 4. 7 seconds left, but the Demon Deacons pushed the lead back to three With two free throws by Paul with 4.3 seconds left. 
Von Wafer's desperation 30­footer at the horn hit the front of the rim, giving the Demon Deacons the comeback win despite 20 turnovers. 
The Demon Deacons shot 53 percent and had 15 points off turnovers after halftime. Florida State shot 50 percent in the first half, but went just 8-for-22 in the second. No. 9 Kentucky 92, Tennessee 
60 
Kelenna Azubuike scored 17 points and No. 9 Kentucky went 11-of-19 from 3-point range in a victory over Tennessee. 
Kentucky (20-4, 10-3 Southeastern Conference) clinched its 14th consecutive 20­win season and completed a regular-season sweep of the Volunteers (13-11, 5-8}, who have lost nine of their last 12 · games. 
Antwain Barbour scored 16 points and Cliff Hawkins added 15 points and seven assists for Kentucky, which is one game behind No. 7 Mississippi ~tate in the overall SEC standings. 
All five Kentucky starters scored in double figures as the Wildcats posted their largest winning margin of the season and their highest point total since a 101-72 win over Eastern Kentucky on Dec. 23. 
Kentucky also matched its highest 3-point output of the season. 
The Wildcats made 11 3­pointers against Eastern Kentucky. Kentucky entered the game lOth in the SEC in made 3-pointers per game at 5.4. Azubuike and Barbour each went 3-of-4 from 3-point range. 
Kentucky shot 59 percent from the field, its third-best out­ing of the season. 
Tennessee fell to 1-8 in road games this season. All eight of those losses have been by dou­ble figures. 
Scooter McFadgon, who scored 33 points in the Volunteers' first game this sea­son against Kentucky, led the Volunteers with 18 points and Stanley Asumnu added 13. 
Tennessee scored the first five points before Kentucky seized control with a 17-2 run, during which Barbour scored nine points. 
The Wildcats led by as many as 18 points before settling for a 44-29 halftime lead. 
Tennessee came no closer than 13 points in the s-econd half. Kentucky outrebounded the taller Volunteers 40-27. 

WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

Huskies captures 11th straight Big East title 
Associated Press ers and 76-percent shooting. deep and talented Huskies. ished with six points. 31st straight regular-season 
STORRS, Conn. -Top-ranked The Friars (4-21, 0-14), were Providence has not beaten Jama Gilmore led the Friars victory at home. Connecticut won its 11th held scoreless for nearly 13 UConn since 1993, and since with eight points. Iowa State (13-12. 6-8) came straight Big East regular-sea­minutes in their 14th straight then the Huskies have won four No. 9 Kansas St. 68, Iowa St. back from a 19-point deficit in son title with a 79-38 victory defeat. national titles and hold the 33 the first half, but couldn't over woeful Providence. Coach Gena Auriemma emp­record for most weeks (94) at MANHATTAN, Kan. mount another rally. Katie 
Ann Strother had 10 points, tied his bench in the first half. No.1. Kendra Wecker had 20 points Robinette led the Cyclones. who Jessica Moore added 10 All 12 UConn players scored in The biggest disparity was and 11 rebounds, and ninth­had won three in a row, with 20 rebounds and Diana Taurasi the game. inside, where the Huskies out­ranked Kansas State beat Iowa points. had a season-high 10 assists for The Huskies, who led 45-16 rebounded the Friars 46-27 State 68-33 Wednesday night Nicole Ohlde added 12 points the Huskies, who were playing at the break, have won 18 and had a 40-8 scoring edge in for its ninth straight victory. for Kansas State, and Laurie for the first time since regain­straight against the Friars, who the paint. The Wildcats (22-3, 13-1 Big Koehn and Brie Madden had 10 ing their No. 1 spot this week. dressed just eight players. Taurasi was stunning, with 12) started the second half with apiece. 
Connecticut (23-2, 13-1) Coach Susan Yow dismissed her teammates finishing off an 18-2 run to an insurmount­Iowa State was only 1-of-11 made its 12th straight victory two players on Feb. 6 for undis­many of her flashy no-look, able 49-24 lead. to start the second half. and an easy one with an early 30-0 closed reasons and her short behind-the-back passes. She They made 4-of-5 3-pointers finished up shooting 25 per­run that featured five 3-point-bench was no match for the played just 23 minutes and fin-during the surge and got their cent. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSJFIEDS 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
Get the "bleep• out of t1'1e cold! Mexico/Caribeean only $125 each way all taxes included. Other world­wide destinations cheap. Book on-line www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Part of a necklace in Hayes-Healy Friday morning 2/20. Call 631-6375 to identify. 
-! ---• ­

WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings ••especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
Tired of no money? Looking for part-time work for full-time pay? Champion, the nations #1 Home Improvement Company is looking for energetic, self-motvat­ed students for our Marketing Dept. Work Mon-Thur; 4hrs a day in the early evening; will not interfere with school work; earn up to $20/hr. No experience necessary. Will train right person. Apply at 715 W. Edison Rd., Mishawaka 
Summer Camp counselor for children w/disabilities: $7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Visit www.akroncyo.org ­download an aeelication. EOE 
FoR SALE 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2004-2005 Academic year-Available June 1, 2 Bdrm ­2 Bath -FtJily Furnished ­Security System. (626) 441-1275 or salvaty@earthlink.net 
FOR SALE-Like new weights set with incline bench, leg lift. Will deliver. $150 277-1345 
1995 Red Chevy Camaro V6. 33,290 actual miles. Original owner, excellent condition. 654-7439. 
FoR RENT 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM HOUSE. .. 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. .. .WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, skylights. $1640/mo. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038. 
VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system incl. Nice yard for volleyball etc­fullbsmt. Walk to Corbys&StJoe Church. Call Joe Crimmins @574-514-0643(cell) or 574-273-0002(home) 
920 Oak Ridge Drive Rental 3Bdrm/1 B Ranch, great area close to ND includes stove, new refrig. washer/dryer. $960/mo. 273-1717 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you Jove needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, esc, at1-7819. 
For more information, see our 
bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Book Nowl 800-234-7007 endlesssurnmertours.com 
Congratulations to outgoing editor in chief Andrew Soukup on his last editing shift tonight 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, february 26, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
• 
..................,, 
.···~ .. 
................... 
........... 

·•.. ··4.. .. 
........ 
.......... 
,,•• ..... 

............... ...........................................................~..................... .... . . . ...... 
...............-·· .......,, 
·---~---~-~.-WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY ·25TH 
8:00. p'M PR~VIEW N IGHT·L~·FORTUHE;_BALLROOM

·-.. 
··--·-·-··· 

UNIVERSITY OF.NOTRE DAME JAZZ BAND. I I AND COM 80 
····.. .................. ................................................. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27TH ······ ................................................ ...........,.,.....................············ 
EVENING CONCERT BLOCK• WASHINGTON HALL 
6:45 PM MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY JAZZ BAND I 
RODNEY WHITAKER, DIRECTOR 
7:30 PM WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY AP QuINTET 
TRENT KYNASTON, DIRECTOR 
8:15 PM MICHIGAN STATE OCTET I RODNEY WHITAKER, OJ RECTOR 
9:00 PM WESTERN MICHIAGN JAZZ ORCHESTRA SCOTT COWAN, DIRECTOR 
9:45 PM JUDGES' JAM JEFF CLAYTON (SAXOPHONE) 
JOHN FADDIS (TRUMPET) ALAN PASQUA (PIANO) 
DAVE CARPENTER (BASS) 
PETER ERSKINE (PERCUSSION) 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28TH 
2:00 PM ..JUDGES 1 CLINIC-BAND BUILDING ­
: :.:l.l..[;.:..l.0:,1\\i.jsiJo,,b"j···:·.-;·)""······-.EVENING CONCERT BLOCK-WASHINGTON HALL 
·····~S·~·4s·PM l.)~IVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME JAZZ BAND I LA"R'fiy··DWYER, DIRECTOR i ..:;::...."iiib:MW'''··i(;'"/?········w~.·····-········-·~w.._..,7:.ao PM MARSHAL~ ·iJ.NtVERSITY JAZZ ENSEMBLE 
...........__, ····· ... 
........~..~. MARTIN W. SAUNDERS, DIRECTOR 
8:1 5 PM TEXAS...STATE-.l.J.J'.liVERSITY JAZZ B;.·~-0 
•Ati~\M',:!:::\:1{\i':{'")...~'-·"',t..,,,,.,,,.,.;,:':':'::·'···'·':"'·"'···-····----··-'·-···· ......f REDOIE MENDOZA, DlRECT.Q R 
9:00 PM~..,,.ND"IANA UNIVERSITY JOEL..KETSEY COMBO. 
9:45 PM TEXAS S;:·ATE··U.~JVERSITY SALSA DEL RIO 
.......... 

JOHN LOPEZ, DIRECTOFt······-········..... 
~·-~..... 

...... ... ,..................,....., ............. 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY SUB 
www.nd.edu/,..,sub/cjfI 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 26, 2004 
MLB 

• Bonds attacks Wendell for accused steroid use 
Associated Press 

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Barry Bonds chastised Colorado reliever Turk Wendell on Wednesday for accusing him of using steroids. 
A day after Wendell said it was "clear just seeing his body" that Bonds was taking steroids, the San Francisco Giants slug­ger said the remark should've been made directly to him ­not a reporter. 
"I heard about his comments.
-If you've got something to say, say it to my face," Bonds said. "Don't talk through the media." ''I'm not worried about him. I'm not worried about anyone. I have a lot of respect for Turk Wendell. I have a lot of respect for every baseball player in this game," he added. "You got something to say, you come to my face and say it and we'll deal with each other. Don't talk through the media like you're some tough guy." On Tuesday in Tucson, Wendell criticized Bonds to The Denver Post. Bonds, who has always denied using steroids, appeared in December before a grand jury probing a supplements lab accused of illegally distributing steroids to athletes. His trainer, Greg Anderson, was among four men charged this month. All the men have pleaded innocent and no ath­letes have been charged. "If my personal trainer, me, 
-
Turk Wendell, got indicted for that, there's no one in the world who wouldn't think that I was­n't taking steroids," Wendell was quoted as saying by the Post. "I mean,_ what, because he's Barry Bonds, no one's going to say that? I mean, obvi­ously he did it. (His trainer} admitted to giving steroids to baseball players. He just doesn't want to say his name. You don't have to. It's clear just seeing his body." 
Rockies pitcher Denny Neagle also chimed in on the subject. "It is a pretty good coinci­denc.e that some of the names 
that are linked to them are the guys that are the big, massive, overmuscular looking guys," Neagle told the Post. 
"I don't know or remember what Jason Giambi looked like back in his early days, but I know he wasn't as big as he is now. The jury is always going to be out on Barry." 
Speaking after the Giants' first full-squad workout at spring training, Bonds also hint­ed that he isn't going to put up with as much from pitchers this season-but he didn't go as far as saying he'd retaliate if he gets hit. 
SIT Program •

1n Uganda 
• 
Interestedin;zlfn·ca? 

• 
Interestedin Cfia[[enges e:::l Issues ofCDeve[oping Nations? 

• 
Interestedin :Jfo[y Cross Wor~ in P.ast;zL_frica? 


rDon't miss a stud"y a6roacfopportunity tlirougfi tfie Scfioo[for Intemationa[7'raining. Information 9rteeting on: q'fiurscfay, Pe6ruary 2 6, 2004 C}@om 125:Kayes -(/£ea[y .Jf.t 5:30pm 


..A.coustic C:a:f"e-LIV"E .A.T LE~EN":OS Thursday, Feb. 26j:h a:t Legends o:CNotre Daxne 10pna-J.'\.ti.dnight: * Se:n.:ior Night: a.1:: Lege::nds 

SUB Presen:ts.: 


brou.gh-. 1::o you. by 1:h.e Stu.de:n~ U:ni.on. Board 
Associated Press 
CAHLSBAD, Calif. -Tiger Woods never had the lead until it mattered Wednesday, making birdies on his final two holes to survive a scare from John Hollins in the Match Play Championship. 
Facing a first-round elimina­tion for the second time in three years. Woods twice made knee­knocking pars to stay in the game, pulled even with an 8­iron from 171 yards that plunk1~d down 18 inches behind the cup on No. 17. then won the battle· of wedges on the par-5 closing hole. 
By the time Woods holed a 20­foot birdie putt for a 1-u p victo­ry. Hollins already had taken live shots. 
"That was tough," Woods said. "I feel bad for the way he ended up." 
Woods wasn't the only player who survived a thriller. A record-tying six matches 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

MEN'S GOLF . ~ 


Tiger survives scare, beats Rollins in first round 
Rollins. who got into the $7 .._ million World Golf Championship when three play­ers withdrew, never trailed despite only making one birdie. 
Woods had good looks at birdies on four straight holes, starting at No. 7, but missed them all. The longer the match went, the more confidence Rollins 'had. 
"I should have taken control of the match," Woods said. 
Instead, he hooked his tee shot out-of-bounds on the 11th ' ... hole, and Hollins' birdied the par-3 12th for a 2-up lead. 
Woods got it back with a par on the next hole, but had to scramble to stay in the match. 
It all turned on the 17th. 
Woods' towering 8-iron landed 18 inches behind the cup, hopped forward and spun back 2 feet from the hole. 
Hollins knew he had to make his 45-foot birdie, and ran it 10 feet by for a meaningless three­putt. 
went extra holes, none more riv­eting than Darren Clarke holing an eagle chip from just short of the 18th green to square his match with Eduardo Romero. They each made par on the next .six holes, and Clarke closed him out on the 25th hole when the 
Argentine made bogey. 
Given the wacky history of this 
event, the big surprise was that 
there wasn't many. 
Retief Goosen (No. 5) was the 
only top-1 0 seed to head for the 
airport Wednesday afternoon, 
blowing a 2-up lead and losing 
to John Huston on the 17th hole. 
Davis Love III had to go 18 holes to hold off Briny Baird, but other top seeds -Vijay Singh. Masters champion Mike Weir. Phil Mickelson and Kenny Perry -had a much easier time advancing to the second round of the Accenture Match Play Championship. 
For the longest time, it appeared as though Woods might not stick around. 
NHL 
Sather resigns as Rangers coach, remains president/GM 
Associated Press 
GHEENBUHGII, N.Y. -The losing. the chants and the lack of ef'l'ort from the New York Hangers convinced Glen Sather it was time to start making changes-beginning with him­self. 
Sather stepped down 
Wednesday as coach of the Hangers. staying on as presi­dent and general manager and signaling that more changes lie ahead as the March 9 trading deadline nears. 
"There isn't anyone in the organization that has a no­trade in his contract, so I think when we get down to that stage 
we'll make some decisions," Sather said. 
"We're going to spend the next couple weeks evaluating where we're going to go and how we're going to get to where we decide to go. When the deadline comes around, you'll probably have an idea." 
New York likely will miss the 
ND ATHLETICS...BE THERE. 

rfi)J~TJ -·rrn·urrrt--:r

iJJJ ~J JJ, I !JJJ..si'J ::;mm~1XlJ9.JiJ 
Friday, February 27 at S:oo PM ND Hockey vs. Michigan @ JACC 
• First 2,000 fans \\rill receive a ND stovepipe hat sponsored by marco~s Pizza 
** FREE pizza for first 250 students ** FREE admission f(lr all students 
LAST CHANCE TO SEE THE IRISH PLAY AT HOME THIS SEASON!! SENIOR NIGHT AT NO HOCKEY!! 
&~ The 
Next Stag~ 
························~···························· 
iJJJBJJ~~ llPJJliQ}:j;'j}) G1llfJlB(!)JJBJlBl 
' 
. .

Sunday, February 29@ 1:oo PM .
X 
X 
•Anthony Travel &us Airwavs Spring BreakTrip Giveawav • 
** Every ND Student in attendance will have a chance to win apair of airline tickets to anywhere in the Continental United States!! 
• First 200 fans receive a long-sleeve ND Lacrosse Schedule T-Shirt, sponsored by Papa John's 

Saturday, February 28 at 7:osPM NO Hockey vs. Michigan@ JACC 
• First 500 fans will receive a n1ini zamboni sponsored by: 
playoffs for a seventh straight season despite the highest pay­roll in the NI-IL. Brian Leetch, Bobby Holik and Andrei Kovalev are among the Rangers with the most trade value, and Eric Lindros and Mark Messier are approaching the end of their contracts -if not their careers. 
Assistant coach Tom Henney was promoted to interim coach, and assistants Terry O'Heilly and Ted Green will remain on the staff. 
With 20 games remaining, the Rangers are in 12th place in their conference. 14 points behind the eighth-place New York Islanders. 
"We've got a long way to go in a lot of areas to get back to respectability, let alone trying to make a playoff run,"_Messier said 
The 60-year-old Sather has been booed recently by disgrun­tled fans, and chants of "Fire Sather!" have become common at Madison Square Garden. 
"The chanting at the Garden ·­was distracting to the players, they seemed to get uptight. You hear something like that as soon as you make a mistake, and instead of getting better, you get worse," Sather said. "! think that's part of the reason I stepped down." 
The New York Post reported that Sather met with team owner James Dolan on Tuesday and decided to relinquish his coaching responsibilities. Henney said Sather first men­tioned the possibility of stepping down about a week ago. 
On Jan. 26, Dolan gave Sather a vote of' confidence despite the team's struggles 

~ 
., ,') 
. 
\..< 0 ,,~ 

~ 


SUPER 8-MISHAWAKA 


535 University Dr. 
SUPEll 

8 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
..DTI!l 

247-0888 


FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST, BUSINESS KING­
SIZE BEDS AVAILABLE, PAY-PER-VIEW MOVIES, FREE 
CABLE AND HBQ, AND GUEST LAUNDRY 
Stay Friday & Saturday nights and Sunday night is 50°/o off! 
------------------------------~ 
$10 off discount coupon 
SUPER 8 -MISHAWAKA for each day for length of stay 
Expires April 30, 2004 Discount good with coupon only Not valid with weekly rates, events, and with any other discount 
------------------------------~ 
------------------------------------------------. 
page 20 Thursday, February 26, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

MLB 





Reviving Pitchers: Braves have the magic 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Hey, are you a pitcher who's down on his luck? ­
Can't seem to find the strike zone? Had a few injury prob­lems? Wondering if your career might be over? 
Well, it might be time to check out the Atlanta Braves, who have made a habit of reviving struggling pitchers' careers. 
From John Burkett to Mike Hampton to Jaret Wright, the Braves have shown a magic touch. This is definitely the place to be if your ERA starts to resemble Yao Ming's height. 
From pitching coach Leo Mazzone's perspective, it all starts in spring training, where the Braves held their first full­squad workout Wednesday. 
Pitchers don't have to go to the outfield to shag flies during bat­ting practice. 
Once their work is done, they're free to leave. That's led to a standing joke: Don't get between a pitcher and the golf course after he's done throwing. 
"It's all about the pitchers around here," Mazzone said. "They are first-class citizens, and they get treated that way." 
For Wright, coming to the Braves was a chance to rekindle a once-promising career. Only 21 when he started Game 7 of the 1997 World Series for Cleveland, two operations left the right-hander scraping rock­bottom. 
Wright was 1-4 with an 8.74 ERA for lowly San Diego when the Braves claimed him off waivers late last season. He pitched well in relief, made the postseason roster and now has a chance to be in the starting rota­tion. l-Ie's a big supporter of Mazzone's pitching mantra: Have command of the fastball and change speeds. 
"That fits in well with what I've always thought," Wright said. "I just never tried to make it too complicated. A lot of guys make it real complicated and wind up getting away from what they do best." 
Burkett is perhaps the best advertisement for the Braves' rejuvenating qualities. He was cut by Tampa Bay at the end of spring training in 2000 -not exactly indicative of a career on the upswing. Picked up by the Braves, he made the All-Star team a year later. 
Now retired, Burkett fondly remembers starting for the Braves on opening day in 2001. Greg Maddux was injured late in the spring, but manager Bobby Cox didn't want to juggle his entire rotation. So he simply moved Burkett -projected as the No. 5 starter-into the lead spot. 
"I really appreciated that," Burkett said in a telephone interview. "I wanted to do well for Bobby." 
Then there's Hampton, whose career fell apart -as so many do-in Colorado's thin air. After two miserable years with the Rockies, he was traded to the Braves before last season. 
Talk about a turnaround. Hampton regained command of his sinker and helped the Braves win their 12th straight division title, going 14-8 with a 3.84 ERA. 
"Last year, I worked out the kinks with Leo," Hampton said. "Now, it's just about getting to work." 
Mazzone, the pitching coach since 1990, gets much of credit for Atlanta's success on the mound. He's certainly been blessed with plenty of talent, including Cy Young winners Maddux, John Smoltz and Tom Glavine. 
But it's Mazzone's work with those guys on the fringes -the fifth starter, the middle reliever -that makes him especially valuable. The names change from year to year, but Atlanta keeps coming up with produc­tive pitchers from the least likely places. 
Such as retirement. Chris Hammond left the game for 2 1/2 years, but his return with the Braves produced some astonishing results in 2002: 7-2, 
0.95 ERA. 
NCAA MEN'S BASTKETBALL 



Top conferences prosper 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Saint Joseph's and Gonzaga have made a strong case for the nation's mid-major programs. 
But even in a season where some of college basketball's top conferences -notably the Big Ten and Pac-10 ­have been mediocre, there appears to be little change in the NCAA's tournament selec­tion process. 
When the 65-team field is announced March 14, the six power conferences -the Atlantic Coast Conference, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, 
Pac-10  and  Southeastern  
Conference  - are  again  
expected  to  dominate the  
selections.  

And the process seems to favor them. 
"It depends on the league and the individual work the institution has done," NCAA selection committee chairman Bob Bowlsby said Wednesday. 
Attention Sophomores Inten~n~u mnunu~n ... Make Yoursell Stand Out! 
Here's an oppornmity for you to learn about the Univerl!ity's accounting system l'.trile gaining valuable experience as Assistant Student Union Treasurer. 
As an Assistant Treasurer you \\'ill: 
• 
Become an integral part of the Student Union Treasurer's Office, the primary controlling body of student activities ftinds. 

• 
Be re~onsible for managing, eonstdting, and maintaining various sb1dent organization accmmts. 

• 
Sit on the Financial Management Board, l\'hich is responsible for allocating over $':00,000 in student actitity fees among various organizations as well as controlling "The Shirt" Charity Fund. 


This commitment requires approximately 5·6 hours per week and is a possible two· year commitment, as one assistant shall take over the role of Student Union Treasurer the foUo\\"ing year. 
Applications are now available outside the Treasurer's Office (314C LaFortune Student Center) and are due no later than 5pm on Wednesday, 1\farcb 3•d, Interviews will be b.eld Wednesday, March 
17th.(Please ~ign up for an interview upon submitting your application) 
Questions? Contact Claire Fi!del at cfadel@nd.edu or Office ofthe Treasurnr at 631.4557 
"Our job is to take the 31 automatic qualifiers and the 34 best at-large teams we can find." 
Almost annually, the vast majority of those teams come from the big six leagues. 
The committee took 27 teams from those conferences in 2002 and 30 last year. The number could increase again, with some projections show­ing eight teams from the SEC, as many as seven from the ACC and six from the Big East. 
But Bowlsby believes the significant success of the mid­majors this year will make the selection committee's task even more difficult. 
Second-ranked Saint Josepq's (24-0) and fourth­ranked Gonzaga (23-2) lead the way and No. 16 Southern Illinois (23-2) and No. 24 Utah State (22-2) aren't far behind. 
Other worthy candidates include Air Force (19-5), 
which is fighting for its first tournament berth since 1962, and Xavier (16-9). 
"It seems to me that we have more teams under sur­veillance than in previous years," Bowlsby said. 
"I think a lot of teams can play and a lot of players can play." 
Will it make a difference? Maybe. 
Bowlsby, Iowa's athletic director, insisted the commit­tee will look at the same cri­teria it usually does -sched­ule strength. conference and non-conference records. home and away records and the Ratings Percentage Index. 
Inevitably, those factors seem to favor the stronger conferences, particularly the RPI. 
"It is kind of an element of a self-fulfilling prophecy once you get into conference play," Bowlsby said. "But it's a mis­take to use the RPI as a preci­sion instrument." 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education; and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian! questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www. nd.ed u/~scglsn/ 



LOVE NOTRE DAME? 
Want to convince high school students to apply? Share your experience with Undergraduate Admissions! From service to academics. community life to athletics, you choose the topic! 
Submit a 500 word article and relevant digital photos to eflynnl @nd.edu. Writers of selected articles will be paid and given the opportunity to continue writing for 
e-lrish 
the Office of Undergraduate Admissions' online newsletter. Deadline for submissions is March 19, 2004. http://www .admissions.nd.edu/eirish! 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
CoMPlLED FR0l'v1 'fHE OBSERVER'S WlR.E SERVICES 
NFL 
Associated Press 

The Champ Bailey for Clinton Portis deal is almost done, barring a breakdown in contract talks between Bailey and the Denver Broncos. 
Still, the proposed Washington-Denver trade that has been discussed all week shared top billing Wednesday with Mike Williams' decision to leave national champion Southern California and enter the NFL draft. 
The New England Patriots, meanwhile, said that two-time Super Bowl MVP Tom Brady under­went a minor procedure on his throwing shoulder. 
Page 21 

windfall for some team picking in the top half of the April 25 draft. 
The 6-foot-5, 230­pound wide receiver, a sophomore, is the first underclassman to declare for the draft since a judge in a case involving Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett invalidat­ed the NFL rule that made players ineligible until they had been out of high school for three years. 
In the view of NFL scouts, the 20-year-old Williams is a rare exam­ple of a young player who can make the jump, although there arc ques­tions about his speed. 
Softball USA Today/NFCAH•···i••···• 
team 
UCLA Arilona California Washington Oklahoma Georgia Michigan. Stanford 
Al~tbama 
Louisiana-lalayeue Florida State LSU Tennessee Nebraska Texas Fresng State Oregon Arizgna Stale Iowa south Carolina Pacific South florida Texas A&M Cal State fullerton Oreggn Slate 

16·0 . ~76>
~!~:rif;·············~:iij~············••••
13·0 ....... ··~.~~··· 1t•2 ·············sua· 
tH·t ......... ~uq················• < 
9~2 . 465\ ... 8-~ 422 11-2 .. 422 9·3 .··407.•• 13~1 . 400 12·1 362 12·3 331 13·2 285 
6-4 273 8-.4 .• 208 
5·2 201 8·4 <180 .... 15·6 
139 
1~2 
2·0 12·2 15·2 
H 
3·6 15·6 


1 
2 3 
4 
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
IWLCA Womens' Lacrosse < 
team 

1 Princeton 2 Maryland 3 VIrginia 4 Duke 5 Loyola 6 Georgetown 
7 Dartmoul~ 8 James Madison 9 OhiO Slate 1 0 Penn Stale 11 North carolina 12 Boston 13 Syracuse 14 Stanford 15 Cornell 16 vanderbilt 11 NOTRE DAME 18 Yale 19 Old Dominion 20 Johns Hopkins 

B I . ,· > >
aseba JAmer~ca sG.RU@g!< 
Rankin~'thfd··············~~~~~~~~··••
team·· 

The team said the progno­sis was good. 
Another proposed deal moved forward, too: the swap of Keyshawn Johnson from Tampa to Dallas for Joey Galloway. That trade was contingent on the Cowboys and Bucs adjusting the contracts of the wide receivers, whose teams have become disen­chanted with them. 
Galloway talked Wednesday with Tampa Bay coach Jon Gruden. Talks between Johnson and Dallas coach Bill Parcells weren't neces­sary-Johnson played three seasons for Parcells with the New York Jets. 
The Redskins and 
Broncos have agreed in principle to the Bailey­Portis trade, with the Redskins throwing in a second-round draft pick to get the third-year run­ning back, who rushed for 1,591 yards last season. 
But like the Dallas­Tampa Bay trade, the deal won't be a sure thing until Bailey, a Pro Bowl corner­back in four of his five seasons with Washington, agrees to a new contract with the Broncos. 
"It's hard for us to really say this is done, that is done, because some of the stuff is still up in the air," Washington coach Joe Gibbs said. 
Williams could provide a 

1 Rice 
2 Louisiana State 
3 Miami 
4 Stanford 5 GeQrgia Tech 6 Texas 
7 south carolina 
8 Long BeaGh State 
9 Tulane 
10 Auburn 
11 Clemson 
12 Baylor 
13 Arizona 
14 car State fullerton 
15 Wichita State 
16 Arizona Slate 
17 North Carolina 
18 Mississippi 
19 NOTRE DAME 
~0 Fl~;~rlda 
21 Texu A&M 
22 Florida Allanlie 
23 Nebraska 
24 North Carolina Stale 
25 Florida State 
···.2·1<.•· 1 < . 
~:~.. .~.. c 
3·0 4 . 
z-o·· ····•··•••••.s •····· 
3·0 ·. 6 
a~o···· ·.·.·· 1 ·· 
2~t 
2-Q 
3·0 0·0 
2·1······.····
2·1· .... ·1·2< 0-0 2·1 0·0 0·0. 
0·0 
1-2 3·0 4·0 0·0 
1·0 1·0. 


IN BRIEF 

Infamous foul ball getting explosive Chicago send-off CHICAGO -This ball is going, going ... Ka-BlAM! In an event applying the gloss of Hollywood and P.T. Barnum to the 
"curse" of the Chicago Cubs, the foul ball that couldn't be caught in October's playoffs will be obliterated by a special-effects expert on live tele­vision Thursday night. 
The ball-bashing, taking place with spring training just underway, is being done to bring some closure to one of the most painful losses in the Cubs' doleful history. 
Grant DePorter, who helped buy the ball at a December auction for $113,824 on behalf of Harry Caray's Hestaurant Group, has lined up three hours of music, comedy and celebrity appearances leading up to the climac­tic event -everything short of Steve Bartman, the hapless fan who deflect­ed the ball during Game 6 of the NL championship series. 
The ball will be sent into oblivion by Michael Lantieri, an Oscar winner who wrecks things for a living and has worked on such movies as "Jurassic Park" and "Back to the Future." Lantieri, a Cubs die-hard himself, would not reveal his exact demolition plans but admitted he has been blow­ing up a dozen balls a day in his California lab in preparation. 
Milwaukee's T.J Ford out for two to three weeks 
MILWAUKEE -Milwaukee point guard T.J. Ford is expected to miss two to three weeks because of a bruised spinal cord. 
Ford was carried off the court on a stretcher after falling hard during the fourth quarter Tuesday night against Minnesota. 
The rookie spent the night at St. Luke's Medical Center. Further evalua­tion, including an MHI, found Ford sustained a mild bruise, the Bucks said Wednesday. 
Strawberry resigns from Yankees post 
TAMPA, Fla. -Darryl Strawberry resigned as a player development instructor with the New York Yankees on Wednesday to spend more time with church-related activ­ities. 
"Because of the commitments that I have to my church, which includes considerable travel, I do not feel I can fulfill my obligations to be with the Yankees at this time," Strawberry said in a statement. 
"I must therefore leave my position as a player development instructor. While I truly love baseball, my focus and passion now are outreach to the community and youth evangelism." 
The eight-time All-Star, who has overcome a drug addiction. prison term and cancer, was hired last November. lie was going to work with the major league team during spring training and with minor lea­guers the rest of the year. 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Marquette at South Florida 7 p.m., ESPN2 Valparaiso at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL Blues at Avalanche 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Bulls at Wizards 7 p.m., FSN Spurs at Mavericks 8 p.m., TNT 
NBA 
Nets' 14-game streak ended 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS Troy Hudson filled the shoes of Sam Cassell just fine, helping end the New Jersey Nets' winning streak at 14 games. 
Hudson, making his first start of the season in place of the injured Cassell, scored a season­high 29 points as Minnesota beat New Jersey 81-68 on Wednesday night, handing Nets coach Lawrence Frank his first loss. 
Hudson, the streaky shooter who has been hampered all sea­son by a sprained ankle, erased any hope for Frank's 14th con­secutive win with 12 fourth­quarter points. Hudson and Fred Hoiberg scored Minnesota's first 20 points of the quarter, and the Wolves used a 15-0 run to open a 75-58 lead. 
Hoiberg started the quarter with a 3-pointer and two foul shots before Hudson took over. He nailed a turnaround jumper from the perimeter, scored on a drive and hit another long jumper to bring the crowd to its feet. 
Hoiberg then brought another roar from the crowd with a 3­pointer to make it 69-58. Hudson followed with two straight 3s, and the rout was on. 
Kevin Garnett scored 18 points and Wally Szczerbiak, who missed 53 games with a plantar fascia strain, added a season-high 14 points. Hornets 99, Clippers 93 
Baron Davis' 26 points and nine assists led the New Orleans Hornets out of a two-game los­ing skid with a victory over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Jamaal Magloire had 21 

points and 14 rebounds, includ­ing a jump hook off an offensive rebound to give New Orleans a 91-85 lead with just under two minutes left. 
Jamal Mashburn scored 20 for the Hornets, while P.J. Brown hit a pair of late jumpers and grabbed a key rebound with 28 seconds remaining as part of his 14 points and 12 rebounds 
Elton Brand led Los Angeles with 19 points, while reserve Chris Wilcox had 18, including a dunk that cut New Orleans' lead to 93-91 inside the fmal 30 sec­onds. But the Clippers were forced to foul, and Darrell Armstrong made four free throws in the final 20 seconds. 
New Orleans turned up its defensive intensity in the second half, forcing 13 turnovers that led to 11 points. 
Davis missed Wednesday morning's shootaround, and coach Tim Floyd said he was having stomach problems and might not play. But Davis started and was solid throughout, caus­ing turnovers and turning them into points on half-court drives or crisp passes to open shooters. He also hit two 3-pointers in the fourth quarter, one from several feet behind the arc. 
New Orleans shot 53 percent in the first half, but turnover dif­ferential helped Los Angeles stay close. The Clippers, who average 16 turnovers per game, committed none in the first half while converting seven Hornets turnovers into 10 points. 
Maggette's 3-pointer midway through the second quarter gave Los Angeles a 41-33 lead, but 3-pointers by Davis and Mashburn helped New Orleans cut its deficit to 47-45. 
A short baseline jumper by Magloire, who had 15 points and nine rebounds in the half, gave the Hornets a 50-47 lead, and New Orleans led 50-49 at halftime after Quentin Richardson hit a layup for his 13th point of the half. Richardson finished with 18 points. 
Bucks 106, Celtics 104 

Walter McCarty's 3-pointer was waved off at the buzzer, the referees ruling it came too late as the Boston Celtics lost to the Milwaukee Bucks. 
Michael Redd scored 26 points and Desmond Mason added 21 for Milwaukee, which won back­to-hack road games for the sec­ond time this season. 

Boston lost its seventh straight game and has dropped 13 of 14. 
After the Celtics took a 101­100 lead on a three-point play by Mark Blount, Milwaukee responded with baskets by Keith Van Horn, Damon Jones and Redd to take a 106-101 lead. Ricky Davis followed with a bas­ket and free throw to pull the Celtics within two. 
Paul Pierce led the Celtics with 21 points before fouling out with 2:49 remaining. Blount chipped in 20 points and 10 rebounds. 

Trailing 40-28 after one quar­ter, the Bucks went on a 12-0 run to start the second quarter behind six points from Erick Strickland. Mason led Milwaukee with 13 second­quarter points on 6-of-7 shoot­ing. 
Brandon Hunter scored a career-high 17 points and grabbed nine rebounds, while Chucky Atkins added 14 points and eight assists for Boston. 
NHL 

Chicago takes 1-goal win frotn Colutnbus 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -Tuomo Ruutu had two goals and an assist and Kyle Calder added the winning score and two assists, leading the Chicago Blackhawks to a 4-3 win over the Columbus Blue Jackets on Wednesday night. 
Columbus scrambled back from a 3-f deficit to pull even early in the third period. But Calder redirected Ruutu's slap shot from the top of the right circle with 3:50 left. 
Stephane Robidas added a short-handed goal and an assist for the Blackhawks, who are averaging four goals over their last six games. 
David Vyborny and Anders Eriksson each scored a goal and had an assist for Columbus, which lost its fifth in a row. Tyler Wright added the other Blue Jackets goal and Rick Nash had a career­high three assists. 
The Blue Jackets tied it at 3 on Wright's power-play goal 
5:09 into the final period. 

Columbus weathered a four-minute double-minor for high-sticking on Eriksson midway through the period before Calder got his 18th goal. 
Craig Anderson, who shut out the Blue Jackets 7-0 in January, covered Vyborny's tip off a pass from Nash with 30 seconds left. 
The Blackhawks scored six seconds into a Columbus power play in the opening period. Chicago won the face­off after a bench minor for Cassels, activated earlier in the day after missing 22 games with a broken foot, picked up an assist. 
Chicago answered on Ruutu's 11th. He slammed in a long rebound of Calder's shot off goaltender Marc Denis. 
Ruutu's second goal made it 3-1 early in the second peri­od. He skated past two defenders to beat Denis, who had lost his stick earlier when Calder collided with him. 
Eriksson ran his points string to four with his sixth goal, one under his career high. His shot from the left circle appeared to be redi­rected by Nash, who came into the game tied for the NHL lead in goals with 33. Nash was first credited with the goal before it was given to Eriksson after a review. Devils 8, Sabres 2 
Martin Brodeur became the first NHL goaltender to win 30 games in nine straight seasons and the New Jersey Devils made it easy for him. 
The Devils had their high­est-scoring game since October 2000 with a win over the Buffalo Sabres. 
Brodeur (30-17-1 0) had to make only 20 saves in moving ahead of recently retired Patrick Roy for consecutive 30-win seasons. 
The Devils won their third straight and moved within four points of first-place Philadelphia in the Atlantic Division. New Jersey has played two fewer games. 
The eight goals were their most since beating Montreal 8-4 on Oct. 6, 2000. Their previous high this season was seven against the Rangers last Saturday. 
Patrik Elias, Jay Pandolfo and Brian Gionta scored twice apiece, while Brian Rafalski and Jeff Friesen also scored. 
Elias added three assists. In the last three games, he has a team record six goals and five assists for 11 points. 
versity of notre dame
Cun 

0 .JUNE 21 -AUGUST 6, 2004 
--anthropology The 2004 summer session will begin on ·architecture Monday, June 21 (enrollment), and end on
(J) 

art Friday, August 6 (final exams). Some courses­biology 
primarily in science and languages-will begin business 
and end before or after these dates. The 
(J) 

chemistry 
Summer Session Bulletin contains complete 
Q) 
classical languages 
schedule information. The Bulletin is available 
computer applications 
at the Summer Sessiory Office (51 0 Main Bldg.)
east asian languages 
beginning on Monday, February 2. Infor­
economics 
mation on summer courses, as it appears in
engineering 
the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer
(J) 
english Session Web site (www.nd.edu/-sumsess).

film french 

Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate 
german

L and graduate students in residence during the 
history

Q) 
spring semester of 2004 who are eligible to 
irish studies 
return in the fall-must use Web Registration 
Italian 

( 1) to register for summer courses and (2) to 
E 
mathematics add or drop courses according to the add 
music and drop dates printed with each course. The
philosophy physics Web Registration PIN (personal identification political science number) for summer is available on lrishlink 
psychology for all continuing students. Instructions for 
E 
sociology course registration (selection) are available at spanish http://reglstrar.nd.edu. Course call numbers , theatre are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer 
theology Session Web site. 
:J Web Registration will be available for summer registration from Wednesday, March 17, through the course add and drop dates published in the Summer Session Bulletin. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary.·
(J) 

Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Surnrner Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2004 will be $538 per credit hour for undergraduate students and $288 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a $50 general fee. 
too many men on the ice, with Robidas skating to the right point before firing a shot that deflected off the skate of the Blue Jackets' Andrew Cassels. It was Robidas' third goal of the sea­son and extended his points streak to three games. 
Columbus, which tied a sea­son high with 42 shots, pulled even moments later when Nash fed Vyborny for a one­timer from the high slot. 


Thursday, February 26, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Jamal Lewis indicted on federal drug charges 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA Baltimore Havens running back Jamal Lewis, who had the second­highest rushing total in NFL history last season, was indicted Wednesday on federal drug charges. 
The Atlanta native is accused of trying to help a childhood friend buy cocaine in the sum­mer of 2000 -just before he signed a six-year, $35.3 million contract with the Havens. 
No drugs were ever pur­chased, according to the indict­ment. 
The running back's attorney, Ed Garland, said his client was innocent and would turn him­self.in on Thursday. 
"Mr. Lewis wants everybody to know that he did nothing wrong," Garland said. "He was not part of any drug deal and any contention that he was is false." 
~-----------------------------------------------------11 
I i :1  VISIT THE STEIN ROOM IN THE UNIVERSITY CLUB  I:  
I.  I  
PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME  I:  
I  
I  
SERVING SNACKS &SANDWICHES ALL DAy LONG 11 :30AM·9PM  I  
BAR OPEN MONDAY-FRIDAY UNTIL 10PM ··SATURDAY UNTIL 11PM  
JAZZ AND MORE .....WEDNESDAYS  8p  
Come in for aquick bite, or relax and enjoy...  

L.ove to talk about Notre Dan1e? L.o~)king for a job for next year? 
'fhc Office of Undergraduate Admissions is now hiring (male and female) tour guides. Find the application online at http://<!dmis.."ions.nd.edu/tourguide.pdf or pick one up in Room 220 of the Main Building. 
Please rerum the completed application to 220 Main Building by:viarch sth. 
'fr,lining \\'ill take place the week of March 29th. but work will not begin unril Fall 2004. 
A few summer tour guide positions arc available. 
Ifyou have any questions. please contact Jill or Gabc at r~;5o5. 
Lewis is charged with con­spiring to possess with the intent to distribute 5 kilograms of cocaine and using a cell phone in the commission of the first count, according to U.S. Attorney William Duffey. 
The indictment came out of a drug investigation that has led to 30 convictions and helped dismantle a cocaine-trafficking ring in the city, Duffey said. He refused to say whether Lewis was tied to that drug ring. 
In an affidavit, FBI special agent Hoyt Mahaley said that an informant contacted Lewis on his cell phone on June 23, 2000, to discuss selling cocaine to Lewis' friend. The conversa­tion was recorded, according to the agent. 
"The cooperating source told Lewis that he/she was willing to sell the narcotics to Lewis' asso­ciates for a price that Lewis can tax," meaning the price could be marked up for a profit, 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Player of the year finalists announced 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Indiana guard Bracey Wright and Duke guards Chris Duhon and J .J. Hedick are among 16 finalists for the Adolph F. Hupp Trophy for college basketball player of the year. 
Duhon and Redick were joined by North Carolina State's Julius Hodge to give the Atlantic Coast Conference three finalists. 
The Big East also had three finalists -Connecticut's Emeka Okafor, Syracuse's Hakim Warrick and Providence's Ryan Gomes. 
Other finalists announced Wednesday were Josh Childress 
Mahaley said in the arlidavit. "Lewis responded 'Yeah,"' the agent said. 
Hours after the call, Lewis and the friend. Angelo Jackson. met with the informant at an Atlanta restaurant, the aflidavit said. There, Lewis and Jackson asked the informant how much cocaine the informant was capable of distributing, the am­davit alleges. 
Jackson and the informant met again on July 12, 2000, at a gas station in suburban Atlanta, the affidavit said. During the meeting, they discussed drugs, but no purchase was made. 
Lewis wasn't at the gas sta­tion. Ilis attorney, however, said Lewis was at the restaurant, but not for the reason alleged in the indictment. 
Jackson was also indicted and arrested Wednesday. lie faces the same counts and a third for attempt to possess with the intent to distribute cocaine. 
of Stanford, Ike Oiogu of Arizona State, Andre Emmett of Texas Tech, Matt Frieje of Vanderbilt, Francisco Garcia of Louisville, Devin Harris of Wisconsin, Jameer Nelson of Saint Joseph's, Lawrence Hoberts of Mississippi State and Blake Stepp of Gonzaga. 
The award is presented by the Commonwealth Athletic Club. 
The winner will be chosen by a 30-member panel represent­ing print and broadcast media, coaches and administrators. The trophy, named after the former University of Kentucky coach, will be presented April I at the NCAA Final Four in San Antonio. 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
);>  Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407  
);>  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs. 1-7819  
);>  Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, l-7163  
)- Jolm Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
)­ Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Cow1seling Center, 1-7336  
};>  Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286  

South Bend Co1111nunity Resources: 
~ Women's Care Center: 234-0363 ::0. Catholic Charities: 234-3111 

The Observer + SPORTS 


Bengal 
continued from page 28 
Michael Schmitt. Schmitt, of Stanford Hall, recovered from an early knockdown to come back and win a split decision over Sorin resident Larew. 
Next up was a battle between off-campus senior Larry Hofman and Keenan freshman Kenton Villano. Hofman was the victor in a unanimous decision. 145-pound division 
The first of seven bouts in the 145-pound weight class led off with freshman James Russell against sophomore Richard "Fletch" Cea. Cea, from Morrissey, came up short as Zahm 's Russell won in a split decision. 
A freshman versus senior matchup followed as off-campus senior Mark Pfizenmayer faced Alumni freshman Kevin "K­Mart" Martin. Pfizenmayer won in a unanimous decision. 
Ed "Eddie Money" Liva, a sophomore from Dillon Hall, faced off against off-campus sen­ior Matt Welsh in the next bout of the night. Welsh was the taller opponent with a longer reach, but Liva emerged victorious in a unanimous decision. 
The third freshman-senior bat­tle of the night took place next with the elder Chip Marks meet­ing Will McAuliffe. Marks, an off­campus senior, won in a unani­mous decision over the Keenan freshman McAuliffe. 
The fifth 145-pound fight 
involved Zahm junior Matt McConnell and sophomore Todd "The Vortex" Strobel. Strobel, of O'Neill Hall, won by technical knockout with 1:26 left in the third round. 
A couple of tasty nicknames met in the next bout of the night. Off-campus senior Joe "Iron Chef" Schmidlin defeated Stanford sophomore Phil "Big Mac" McNicholas by technical knockout in 1:19 of the second round. 
Freshman Mike Burke faced senior Paul Robinson in the lOth bout. Robinson, of Zahm, beat Dillon's Burke in a unanimous decision. 
150-pound division 
Two freshmen kicked off the 150-pound class as Keough's Clayton Lougee went toe-to-toe with Matt Cavo of Alumni. Lougee won the back-and-forth fight in a split decision. 

Next up was off-campus senior David "Hormone" Harmon facing Alumni sophomore Nick Weiler. "Hormone" Harmon was the vic­tor in a unanimous decision. 
Keough's Jordan Runge faced Kevin Rycyna of Alumni Hall in the 13th bout of the evening. The freshman Runge pulled off a minor upset by defeating the jun­ior Rycyna in a unanimous deci­sion. 
O'Neill's Brian Tyrrell was the second freshman in a row to win as he defeated Dillon sophomore Will Bezouska in a unanimous decision. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at 
mgilloon@nd.edu 

Bouts 
continued from page 28 
to win the match. 
Zimmer will be up against Tim Huml in the next round of the tournament. 
Joe Rehmann, a sophomore from Dillon, came out on top after an even, hard-fought match against Morrissey fresh­man Bryan Grissinger. The fight went back and forth, but Rehmann controlled the ring and was able to land more punches in order to win with a split decision. 
Rehmann will face Alumni senior Corey Harkins in the next round. 
155-pound division 
After an impressive, hard­hitting match in the 155-pound division, Zahm sophomore Paul Hagan came out victori­ous over Alumni junior Kevin Loria. Hagan knocked Loria to his knees on one occasion and won the match in a unanimous decision. 
Hagan will continue on to fight O'Neill junior Nathan Lohmeyer in the quarterfinals of the tournament. 
A unanimous decision in the Mike Peters versus Sean Tucker matchup disguised how close the fight between the two competitors actually was. Tucker, a senior from Keenan Hall, won the match by a few punches after dominating the first round. 
Peters, a sophomore from Knott Hall, looked to make a comeback in the following two rounds, even after getting knocked down midway through the second, but he ran out of time at the end. Tucker will be up against Mark Basola next. 
Siegfried senior Ted Volz dominated his bloody match against Alumni sophomore Mike Rooney with his constant strong jabs. 
Volz's consistency made the difference, and he won in a unanimous decision after con­trolling the ring and landing more combinations throughout the match. He will fight Mike Panzica in the quarterfinals. 
Adam Burns, a freshman from Zahm, defeated Mike Gigante of Stanford in a one­sided, decisive match. Although he lacked the finesse of some of the older fighters, Burns came out strong and barely let Gigante get a shot off at all. 
With Gigante struggling, the referee stopped the bout early and Burns came out victorious. Burns will face Brandon Gasser in the next round. 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 

• 900 Local Anytime Minutes 
• Includes No~~tionwide long Distance 
• 
Unlimited Nights and Weekends 

• 
Fret Roadside Assistancf for 1 month* 


• Free Motorot~ f131 (aftet s.3o maiHn rebate) 
~us. Cellular 
t-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
BENGAL BOUTS 170 LBS-HEAVYWEIGHTS 
Big 111en set for challenge tonight 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Tlw larger fighters will get things going tonight in the Joyce Center in the 74th Annual Bengal Boul<;. 
In the 170-pound division, jun­ior .John Baker faees ofT against frnshman Brian Sefton. Baker, a Fisher resident, is in his third year of boxing. The winner between Baker and Sefton. a K1~ough msident. will face senior captain Tommy lkrnko. 
In the next braeket. junior Jeff Sehaal faces a tough opponent in senior Patrick McGarry. McGarry, from Zahrn, is in his third year of the bouts. while Schaal, a Morrissey resident, is in his first year of Bengal Bouts. The winner of that bout faces the winner of the Bill Bordogna­Matthew Smith matchup. 
Bordogna, a resident of St. Edward's, is in his first bouts as a sophomore. Smith. a law stu­dent. is also in his first bouts. 
In the next bout. senior James Ward squares on· against Keough freshman Stephan Humphrey. Ward has an edge, as these are his third bouts. The winner will face the winner of Jell" Hobinson. a law student. and John Wahoske. Wahoske, a senior, is in his fourth bouts, while Hobinson is boxing in his first Bengal Boul<;. 
In the final bracket of the 170­
pound division, Brian Nicholson 
drew Nick Nanovic. Nicholson, a 
law student, enters his first 
Bengal Bouts, while Nanovic, a 
Dillon senior, fights in his third 
bouts. The winner faces the vic­
tor of the Alex Harty-Matt Knust 
match up. 
Harty, an O'Neill freshman, will 
have to makeup the experience 
gap against the senior Knust, 
who enters his fifth Bengal 
Bouts. 
The favorite to win the division 
is Demko, who gets a bye in the 
first round, and is fighting in his . fourth Bengal Bouts. 
180 pounds 
In the first round of the 180­
pound division, sophomore 
Zahmbie Pat Brown faces 
Keough freshman Adam Frisch. 
Brown lost in the first round last 
year, but he will be hungry for 
revenge to earn the right to face 
junior .Jim Christoforetti, who 
received a first round bye. 
Nick Curcio and Denis Sullivan 
will duke it out next. Curcio, a 
freshman, will have to deal with 
Sullivan's experience advantage. 
The winner of this bout will take 
on the winner of the Nick Klein­
Brent Burish fight. 
Klein, a Morrissey sophomore, 
is the underdog in a matchup of 
old and young. Burish, an MBA 
student, is in his fifth bouts. 
In other action, Patrick Merrell 
and Josh Noem will fight to face 
senior Eric Callahan, who 
received a first round bye. 
Merrell, an O'Neill sophomore, has one year of Bengal Bouts experience under his belt, whereas Noem enters his third year of fights. 
In the final fight of the 180­pound division, Knott resident Hobert Lochridge squares off with dorm rival Siegfried's Chris Henschen. Lochridge, a second­year fighter, will have to take advantage of the junior's inexpe­rience, as Henschen enters the fights for the first year. The win­ner of this bout earns the right to face senior Larry Rooney, who also earned a first round bye. Light Heavyweights 
In the final division of the night, a battle of Michaels will start off the action. Mike Abel, a Stanford junior, will take on Michael Denkelwalter. Denkelwalter enters his first bouts. The two compete for the right to face William Zizic, a senior who received a first round bye. Zizic is the favored fighter and is also one of the five captains. 
The only other preliminary fight in the 10-man division takes place between freshman Eric Hetter and senior Mike Ragsdale. The battle of young versus old should prove to be interesting, and the winner moves on to face O'Neill sopho­more Johnny Griffin. 
The bouts start at 6:30 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoe@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish ready to face undefeated Illini 
Defending national champion and No. 1 Illini host "Ace the Irish" night 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
On paper, the Irish look to be in for a fight. 
Notre Dame has the task of taking on the defending nation­al champions Illinois, who are undefeated at 10-0 on the sea­son. 
The Irish will also have to travel to Champaign, Ill. to face the Illini, where they have not lost a match since 2002 at the hands of the Irish. 
Illinois looks to be pumping up for the matchup with Notre Dame; the lllini are sponsoring "Ace the Irish" night, during which fans will have the chance to win raffles every time the Illini ace a serve. 
The Illinois pep band will also be on hand for the contest. 

The No. 1 Illini boast five ranked players, led by senior Phil Stolt at No. 20. 
The No. 42 Irish played through multiple injuries last weekend, pulling out 5-2 wins over Northwestern and Southern Methodist. Senior Luis Haddock is doubtful for today's match with a pulled groin, and junior Brent D'Amico has had shin splints since the weekend's matches. Freshman Barry King was unable to play singles last weekend because of a sore arm. 
Head coach Bobby Bayliss has been reworking the dou­bles combinations, looking for the most potent combination of individual talents. 
Despite theng of players due to injury, the match should be a way to assess the team's progress. 
The Illini have won 42 straight games and are three wins away from the national record, set by Stanford. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 

461=h A.n.nu.al .Tu.dges ..T.a•n 
C:oHegiate J&79: FesLival. F'ri.da..y._ :Feb:ru.a.ry 27, 2004 
9:45p:.:o.-~a.shjugt;:on. IIall Fea"tuied. Judges: ,.J"'e:fr C:Ia~:n.: Sa-sopho:ne ·recorded. .....ttl~. S'teYte ""'"ou.der Glady-s K'mlg'h-t,.
1111 

~o:ana. IIJl.d..d. other IPea:t: artis:a... 
Jon. F'addis: -rru.u:apeC: played. ••Hh "the Duke Elllnalu:n. c:::>:.-.:hesb a and t:he c......._t Bas:le •Orel:l.est:ra.· 

.A..Ian Pasqua: Pt.ano :o:a.eTDber o-6' "t:b.e hau.cl. ....g.....:t;a...a!H',. haa 'W'orke.d ........-:ith Qui.D.ey .Jonea,.. -.:ad. other IP eat ta.Ie:nta. 
I>ave CJarpe:n.1::e:r: :aass 
~"W':lth Cellae »>oa, D......-y :DII.I:anUo u;,. and pl.ayed. "'ft"ith -the BBC Syxnpho•y <>•eheab:-.. 
Peter :Erskine: IJ!ru.:n:as 
•li#O:d. • G:rayn.ny -~ and bas pla..yecl. 
......-Hb ~ard. Ferguson, DJ.a.m.a IiC..._...I, and Elv.ls Coatel"lo. 
<:'J:F is brough:t; to you. by S'U"D 
~..:n.d.edul'-sub 


page 26 Thursday, February 26, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Blowout 
continued from page 28 
the first 10 points, extending its lead to 20 with 17:58 left. 
The Irish con­"We seem to be pregame player tinued to play peaking going into introductions. p r e s s u r e +Two of Miami's 
the Big East 
defense and five losses have
Tournament."
dominated in been against transition and Notre Dame this off of season.
Muffett McGraw 
turnovers. +The win is
Irish coach
Notre Dame outscored Miami 44-12 in points off of turnovers. 
The Irish bench also added 40 points, while the Hurricanes bench scored just two. Notre Dame is now 12-0 at home this season. 
"That was a really impor­tant game for us," McGraw said. "We were excited to play at home, and when the crowd is behind us, we do play so much better." 
Miami shot the ball poorly 

I 
to start the game and spi­

I I raled downward from there. 
I As Notre Dame built a bigger
I 
lead, the Hurricane players 
r 
t lost focus and made poor decisions. "We were disappointed in 
the way we played tonight," Miami coach Ferne Labati said. "When things didn't go well and the shots weren't falling early on, I think [we] got frustrated and we lost focus." 
Notre Dame locked a first round bye in the Big East Tournament with the victory and has just two games remaining against Rutgers 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 0 
0 0 
D 0 0 0 
0 
0 

and Syracuse. 
"We seem to be peaking going into the Big East Tournament," McGraw said. 
Notes: 
+Hernandez was incorrectly introduced as Joyce in the 
Notre Dame's 

seventh this sea­son against a ranked oppo­nent. The Irish are now 7-3 in games against top 2 5 
NOTRE DAME 93, MIAMI 58 at the JOYCE CENTER 

NOTRE DAME (18-8, 11-3) 
Batteast 7-13 8-12 23, Borton 2-2 0-0 4, Severe 1-4 4-4 6, Duffy 3-5 1-2 10, Hernandez 4-7 2-2 10, Powers 1-2 0-0 3, Joyce 3-8 0-0 8, Gray 2-2 1-2 5, Flecky 2-3 3-3 7, Erwin 1-3 0-0 2, LaVere 6-7 1-2 13, Weese 1-1 0-0 2. 
MIAMI (20-5, 9-5) 
Knight 2-6 0-0 6, Wilkins 1-7 1-2 3, Broussard 5-12 4-9 14, James 6-13 4­5 17, McCormick 6-11 1-2 16, Marincic 1-2 0-0 2, Dhahabu 0-0 0-0 0, ·wilson 0-0 0-0 0, Hayek 0-0 0-0 0. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME 45  48  93  
MIAMI  29  29  58  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 7-13 (Duffy 3-3, Joyce 2-7, Powers 1-1, Batteast 1­2), Miami 6-18 (McCormick 3-5, Knight 2-4, James 1-8, Broussard 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 8­'30 (Batteast 10), Miami 13-34 (Wilkins 10). Assists: Notre Dame 28 (Severe 9), Miami 15 (Knight 5) Total fouls: Notre Dame 18, Miami 21. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 28 

Providence, Pittsburgh or Seton Hall. But it wasn't. 
The Irish blew out a top-25 team that had only four losses coming into the game, with none of those losses coming by more than nine points. Miami was tied for fourth in the Big East, but that changed the minute they set foot on the court of the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame ran circles around No. 21 Miami. Senior Chanivia Broussard, who aver­ages 14.6 points per game, turned the ball over 13 times, while junior point guard Yalonda McCormick turned it over 10 times. Talk about dou­ble-doubles. 
Meanwhile, Irish junior Jacqueline Batteast had a dou­ble-double of her own with 23 points and 10 rebounds, in addition to mention six steals. 
Notre Dame did what they had to do to win and more. They beat a good Miami team at their own game, as the Irish were the ones scoring in transi­tion for most of the contest. 
Everyone was in on the action, unlike the Connecticut game when Batteast took over the game. Instead, everyone with a Notre Dame jersey on made a significant impact on the court. It was the epitome of a team win. 
Even the Joyce Center crowd didn't know what to think of the blowout -they just watched in awe as the Irish kept building a greater lead. 
But for Notre Dame, it could­n't come at a better time. After 
I THORNTON/The ObseNer 
Irish guard Megan Duffy tries to drive with the ball against a Miami defender In Notre Dame's victory Wednesday. 
coming off a tough road stretch that saw the Irish play down to the level of their opponents (they only beat Pittsburgh, who is 2-12 Big East, by four). Notre Dame couldn't have picked a better time to play like they know they can. 
So with two regular season Big East games remaining before the conference tourna­ment, the Irish hope that their intensity and desire can carry over to the road Saturday at Rutgers. And, now that they 

·know how to play their game, Notre Dame should have no problem making a good show­ing in their final games. 
It just took them 93 points to realize what they can do. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu. 


Thursday, February 26, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 



EUGENIA LASTCROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 

ACROSS 38 Middle of the 
Celebrities born on this day: Michael Bolton, Tony Randall, Johnny Cash,1 Often-told truths question ACROSS 
Victor Hugo. Fats Domino, Jackie Gleason, Godfrey Cambridge, Mitch Ryder 5 facto 41 Place 1 Retreat 
Happy Birthday: Uncertainties will surround you if you aren't precise in your
9 Tricky shot 43 Discernment 2 Passage 
communications. Tell it like it is. You need to get straight answers, and you14 Racer Luyendyk 44 Common ratio between build­must get promises in writing. Don't be led astray by 15 Gardener's pur-46 Sample ings silver-tongued talkers. It is up to you to make your own decisions and to follow 
your own dreams. If you are too willing to give of yourself to others, you will
chase 3 Bingo
50 Chamber piece? 

fall short of your expectations. Your numbers: 3, II, 17, 25, 31, 39
16 Some saxes announcement
49 Dispatched17 Lava geese 4 "Toodles!" ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get your domestic chores out of the way. You
51 Monk's title 

will not be in the mood to deal with the emotional drama that your mate intends
18 It's passed on 5 Mirage 
52 Driver's aid: to dump on you. Try to stay calm and refuse to be provoked. ••
19 Contents of 6 Magician's 
Abbr. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can have a great time and meet romantic some John sound effect individuals if you get together with friends. You have been depressed. Turn
54 Track racer 

things around: Put on your favorite outfit and get out. ••••
Cage composi­7 Draped dress
56 End of the GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be too emotional about occurrences a1
tions aThings to be
question work. Try to keep your nose out of other people's business. Your own job will be
20 Start of a ques­
read questionable if you don't focus on doing your best. •••••
60 Like workhorses

tion CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be hard to get along with today. Your
9 Om, e.g.
23 Adjusts 62 Arcade name mood swings will drive everyone crazy. Try to keep your thoughts to yourself
10 Cream ingredi­
and refrain from telling everyone else how to run their life. 3 stars
24 Big_ 63 V.I.P.'s opposite 
ent LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Double-check those bills that have been sitting on your25 Whomps, briefly 64 It's passed on 11 Malodorous pest desk. You may be in trouble if you haven't kept them up-to-date. Arrange to make 28 Old Mideast 65 Compelled payments that won't break your budget. •••
12 Coded message 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should get out and do things that will bring you
combine: Abbr. 66 Wading bird 
13 Language suffix satisfaction and enhance your reputation. Problems involving children may throw 29 John Dean, to 67 Ottawa-born often seen in you for a loop. Try to deal with these calmly. •••• Nixon singer/ song­crosswords LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't have much patience with others. Your inability to live with disharmony may be the reason for your decision to move on
32 Sure way to writer 
13 Compass dir. or make the changes necessary in your life. •
lose money 
68 Turned up often seen in SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have an excellent memory when it comes to 34 "Gosh!" 69 Cry that might crosswords dealing with those who are being evasive. You can back opponents into a corner, but expect opposition and be prepared to debate. •••••
35 Ruined be appropriate 21 African grazer 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Sudden reversals of fortune will occur if you 
37 A star may have at this point in 
22 Put words in 39 Like some seats 48 Desired 59 Ticks off have been delving into risky financial ventures. You may want to leave your credit one the puzzle someone's . response to cards at home and leave your cash in the bank. •••
40 First 

"Take my wife CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect to have disagreements with your partner 
mouth? 
41 Trip producer if financial abuse has left you in a tight spot. You may have to put limitations on
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 26 Anthem con­... please!" 
60 Hearst kidnap-others' spending habits, which won't sit well with them. ••• traction 42 W.W. II Pacific AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Colleagues may cause a problem for you at work.
50 Open-sided battle site, for shelter ping Be careful not to let them be privy to your personal involvement or your thoughts
-:::=+-:-+7+.-:-t 27 Platform place: 
short 53 Perfume source about co-workers. Gossip will backfire. **•
Abbr. 
grp. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Children will need your help today. Don't hesitate
55 Noted archer
-=+-:+=+::-t 30 Is hip to 44 Appropriate to offer assistance at the school if your children are involved in an important project. -=+.,....._,+=+=-+=i 31 1995 country hit 
57 What a germ You can get into shape if you work out regularly. ••••• 
45 Blazing 
may become

"Someone 
Birthday Baby: You have a quick and versatile mind. The more willing you are
to push yourself, the more successful you will be. Your disappoinunent with other =t--:+::::+.:-+=i 33 "Dagnabbit!" people's weaknesses will set you off and hold you back if you waste your time trying to persuade them to see things your way. Follow your own path and don't
t-:-t-:-:+::-:+:=+::::illllllit-::-t':':'t:::+:::;.r-:-1t-::-t-::::+.:-:-t 35 Latched For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
be sidetracked by those with less ambition. -=i"!'!'t-::=+:-:+:-+=t 36 Affectedly dain­credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ty, in England Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Visit Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 37 Extinct crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Namibian shrub Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 genus: Var. past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~-=+:::-:+:=+:-1 38 Coordinated Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, effort nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
DILBERT 
WELL, LOOK WHO CAME BACK TO DANCE WITH DEATH. 
FIVES 
Alcohol + Top Gun + A Drunken Stroll to the Lakes 
= 

THE MOST AWKWARD HOOK-UP EVER!!! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ONCE AGAIN YOU WILL  WHO WILL  
TRY TO WORK ME TO  BE THE  WHAT  
AN EARLY GRAVE AND  FIRST TO  EVER  
I WILL BOOK YOU ON  DROP?  HAPPENED  
DANGEROUS BUSINESS  WHO?  TO "GOOD.  
TRIPS.  MORNING"?  
"­ 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Hey Goose.... yo. b ;~ ~hie:; ~ivd .. , l~lc:e me -rn ~hie.~ bed ()f' lose. m¢ ~hie: to~ver' ... 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE ·' 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~ 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
ORDOB 
I (J () 
C2004 Trbune Media Servlc1111, Inc. All Rights Roaorved. 
SLONE 
(XJ 
I DEKORF± 
WHAT ~ FOUI.J"RV
() ( ) 
THIE:F DID AT ~ 


-
www.jurrble.aom 
GOOSe FOND.
tTSIGAR j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rx 1 1 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: ( 

I I I JA "( I I I I I )"
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: MOURN ROACH DOOMED MUSCLE Answer: The aristocrat was embarrassed when the doctor said he had -A "COMMON" COLD 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Blown away 
Irish offense bowls over -No. 21 Hurricanes 93-58 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

The Hurricanes were in the eye of an Irish storm Wednesday night. 
When Katy Flecky drained a free throw with 2:23 remain­ing, Notre Dame led by its biggest margin of the game ­40 points -and Miami's play­ers could only look on in dis­belief as the Irish blew out the Hurricanes 93-58 at the Joyce Center. 
Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast led the Irish (18-8, 11-3) with 23 points and 10 rebounds, and Courtney LaVere added 13 bench points on 6-of-7 shooting to lead Notre Dame to its best per­formance of the seasorL 
''I'm really pleased. I think that's maybe the best game we've played all year," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought we came out ready, start to finish, for 40 minutes and played great on both ends of the floor. I was really pleased with the intensity and the focus." 
Miami entered Wednesday's game averaging over 7 4 points per game and had won four straight. But the Hurricanes (20-5, 9-5) had no answers for a stifling Irish defense that forced 37 turnovers and held Miami under 60 points for the second time this season. 
"We expected them to turn the ball over a lot," McGraw said. "I thought they had a lot of trouble against the zone." 
Miami forward Chanivia Broussard lead the Hurricanes with 13 turnovers, which is a new record for an individual opposing player. Hurricane forward Yalonda McCormick added 10 turnovers and 16 points. Guard Tamara James lead the Hurricanes with 17 points, but made just 1-of-8 3­pointers. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame's offense exploded for 93 points -the largest output of the season. Coming into the game, the Irish averaged 65.2 points per contest. Notre Dame guard Monique Hernandez scored 10 points on 4-of-7 shooting and Megan Duffy hit all three of her 3-point attempts to add 10 
more.  Every player  on  the  
Irish  bench  scored  in  the  
game.  

Notre Dame never trailed and went on a 37-22 run­after leading 8-7 -to take a 45-29 halftime lead. Batteast had 13 first half points. while Jeneka Joyce added eight points with two 3-pointers. 
Notre Dame began the sec­ond half by scoring seven of 
see BLOWOUT/page 26 

Irish show potential in 35-point victory over Hurricanes 
Wednesday night, the Irish gave fans a glimpse of just what they are capable of. 

They played their best game of the year at a time when they had to. Notre 
Heather Van
Dame could­

Hoe garden 
n't go wrong and Miami 

Sports Writer 
couldn't do right. 

The Irish forced 37 turnovers and held the usually fast breaking Hurricanes to four points on the break. 
But that wasn't the most staggering statistic. Notre Dame's bench scored almost as many points as the entire Miami team, dropping 40 to Miami's two. 
Wednesday night was an indication -an indication of just how good this team can be. The Irish first gave a glimpse Jan. 13 when they beat then-No. 4 Connecticut. 
And, against Miami, Notre Dame was not to be stopped. They shot a staggering 57.9 percent and put up 93 points -35 more than the Hurricanes. 
The win would be one thing if it was against a team like 
see IRISH/page 26 
BENGAL BOUTS 140-POUNDS -150-POUNDS 
Preliminary rounds Pegin 
By MIKE GILLOON Spores Writer 
Gloves hit heads and noses bled as the 74th annual Bengal Bouts began Wednesday night in the Joyce Center. 
The Bouts, which raise money for the Holy Cross Missions in See Also Bangladesh, 
"Big men set for

began with the preliminaries of challenge the 140-pound 
tonight"

weight division as freshman George page25 Hay of St. Ed's Hall defeated sophomore Marty Curinka of Zahm in a unanimous decision. 
The second fight was between sophomores James Larew and 
see BENGAL/page 24 


BENGAL BOUTS 153-POUNDS -155-POUNDS 
'Doctor' Dolan lands unanimous decision 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 

The 153--pound division got under way with off-campus senior Matthew "Chainsaw" Jensen against Dillon sopho­more Michael "Doctor" Dolan. Dolan defeated his upperclass opponent by unanimous deci­sion. 
After an exciting preliminary match in the 153-pound divi­sion, Nate Schomas, a senior from O'Neill, defeated Brad Amiri, a junior from Alumni, in a unanimous decision. 
Both competitors came out of the gates swinging and throw­ing many punches, but Schomas' relentless attacks and fast flurries were too much for Amiri, who seemed to tire toward the end of the fight. Schomas, a football walk-on, will go on to face Bobby Gorynski in the quarter­finals Monday. 
Senior Don Zimmer dominat­ed his match against Brian Garcia from beginning to end, causin~ the referee to end the bout early. 
Although Garcia, a sopho­more from Sorin, had an obvi­ous reach advantage, Zimmer was able to control the ring well and get inside. Once inside, Zimmer stunned his opponent with strong combina­tion after strong combination 
see BOUTS/page 24 
Cl) MEN'S TENNIS 
BENGAl BOUTS 
NFL 
NHL 

NCAA BASKETBAlL
PGA
ILLI 
Baltimore Ravens run-
The preliminary 

Tiger Woods needed a 
New York Rangers 
A wrap up of
Notre Dame at 
rounds of the 74th 
ning back Jamal Lewis 

head coach Glen Sather 
pair of birdies on the 
Wednesday's college
1--u z Illinois 
Annual Bengal Bouts 
was indicted 

last two··holes to come 
stepped down from his 
hoops action, including 
1:1: s 
continue today with 
Wednesday on federal 

from behind for a 1-up 
post Wednesday, but he 
Wake Forest's come­
=c.::s Today, 4 p.m. 
bouts in the 170-pound 
drug charges for help-

victory in the Accenture 
will remain with the 
from-behind overtime
The Irish are set to
c::c 
-Heavyweight divi­
ing a friend buy cocaine 

World Match Play 
Rangers as president 
victory over conference
take on No. 1 Illinois in 
sions. 
in the summer 2000. 

Championships. 
and general manager. 
rival Florida State. 
Champaign, Ill.
A. !:i 
page 25 
page 23 

page 19
en 
page 19 
page 16
page 25 
~~----------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­







