
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 17 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Arts center caters to diverse campus needs 
University responds to capacity concerns, emphasizes complementary role of venue in wider community 
executive director of the By TRICIA de GROOT Performing Arts Center. News Writer "A university is classically 
a place with a multitude of interests, and a singe, large Though the $64 milliott state will draw a single, gen­structure towers visibly on eral, large audience," said the far south side of campus, Haynes. "Universities come size isn't everything when it with highly specialized tastes comes to the from the faculty and stu­new Marie P. dents, and so having multi­De Ba r t 0 I0 See Also ple venues makes a lot of Performing sense to serve the needs of 
Arts Center. "Ushering in a these individuals." One of the new era" The University also had no largest con-desire to duplicate what the 
t r o v e r s i c s Scene pullout 
cornrn unity already had, surrounding Haynes said. Knowing that the building's debut -the the Morris Center in down­fact that the 350-seat capaci­town South Bend could ty of the Patricia George accommodate 2600 guests, Decio Mainstage theatre is officials decided that one actually smaller than the large venue would not be the existing 571-seat Washington most appropriate decision for 
Hall -should be taken into Notre Dame. 
·context with the University's 
priorities, said John Haynes, see ARTS/ page 4 


Gender Relations Center debuts 
Long-awaited center will help facilitate discussion on gender issues 

By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
While the phrase "gender relations" has long provoked eye-rolls and skepticism across the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, the Notre Dame Gender Relations Center opens its doors this week hoping to provide an attitude adjustment and an adult approach. 
Director of the GRC Heather Rakoczy said she hopes the GRC will be committed to the emotional, intellectual, spiritu­al and social development of men and women alike. 
··The GRC is a place where students can engage in respectful dialogue and explore issues," Rakoczy said. "The slogan we have here is 'Discover FIRE' (finding identi­ty, relationships and equality). We arc just hoping this can be a place for students to get information, have discussions and just hang out." 
And while the GRC remains housed under the Student Affairs offices, both the GRC and_ the gender studies major hope to be able to collaborate on projects. 
Assistant Director to the program in gender studies Sophie White said she's look­ing forward to the new GRC. 
"The program in gender 
studies welcomes the estab­lishment of a Gender Relations Center at Notre Dame, and we expect to be consulted at some point in its first year as the GRC works to conceptualize and establish its program on campus," White said. "Many of our students were involved in starting the GRC and we fully support them, and Student Activities, in these endeavors." 
A plan for the center has been in the works since 2001, but became seriously consid­ered last year when research showed that 19 of the coun­try's top 20 schools had some 
see CENTER/page 4 
Irish studies thrives, launches new branch 
Students study Irish as a modern language 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Alive and thriving, the Irish Studies program at Notre Dame ofl'ers students the opportunity to embrace their history and discover the language of their ancestors -a language not "dead" by any means. 
"Irish is a modern spoken European language, not some dead language like Latin or Sanscrit," said Earnonn O'Ciardha, professor in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. "This is something hugely important, that these students can hear the language of their ancestors spoken (Wcry­day." 
Studying Irish, he continued, "gives people insight into the fact that Ireland 
immigration to the U.S. after 
Ireland's devastating potato 
famine in 1845. 
"They carne starving, totally 
impoverished, to a country that 
was primarily white, Anglo­
Saxon and Protestant," 
O'Ciardha said. "They found 
themselves in 
a cold house,
See Also 
recruited by "BBC thousands into Documentary armies in New York and 
films Irish 
Boston. This identity" University verv much
page3 
bec.ame the 
University of 
the fighting Irish. This became 
the hatchery of the Irish­
American mission." 
Therefore, he said, "It seemed 
ridiculous that Iuntil 10 years 
ago] there wasn't a 
is a multilingual program here." 
"'This became the 
COUlltry." In those 10
hatchery of the
In fact, the 10-years, Notre year old pro­Irish-American Dame's program gram's remark­has ascended to
mission . .,
able growth has excellence as a led to the foun­template for other dation of a sepa­Eamonn O'Ciardha programs across rate department professor the country, 
of Irish Language and literature, O'Ciardha said. This department, which will be offi­cially launched on Oct. 1 by the Irish ambassador to the United States, will be the first of its kind in the country. 
According to O'Ciardha, the history of Irish Studies at Notre Dame began long before the first program's creation in 1994 -starting with the great Irish 
O'Ciardha said. 
Irish studies chair Breandan O'Buachalla ­who O'Ciardha lauded as "the foremost Irish scholar in the world" -said the prominence of the scholars that Ir~"h Studies hires contributes to the pro­gram's prestige. 
"It is generally accepted that the Irish Studies program at 
see STUDIES/page 6 

---------------------~~----------------------~----------------------------------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
I love lazy people 
You -yes, you -the guy in the back of DeBartolo 101 reading this col­umn out of sheer boredom -you are my hero. You're the kind of person who can spend hours setting up a stereo system instead of typing a 
Kate Gales 
two-page paper. You're the kind of person who lurks Sports around LaFortune production at one in the morning, looking to distract people you know from their work. You, my friend, are lazy -and I love it. 
You're probably not an engineer or math major (although there's nothing wrong with either of them -they just tend to be very focused people, and you obviously are not). You probably find ways to get around _studying for tests in advance and would sell your soul to avoid a lab -really, they're just so much work. You invested in a portable phone so you didn't have to get up to answer the corded one. You probably even made sure it had call waiting, so you wouldn't have to go through the effort of answering the phorie for someone you didn't feel was too important. 
You check your Notre Dame e-mail account on the hour, even though you never get anything except esc list­serves and the occasional note from your professor about how to use those crazy H: and 1: drives. You usually dis­regard those messages (deleting them is too much work) because you still haven't figured out what those are. And you're a senior. 
You have no problem choosing sleep over a shower any day of the week. You've stocked up on enough under­wear to last an entire semester. When you run out of socks, you just wear
.. 
your beat-up Notre Dame flipflops-· 
in February. When you run out of 
jeans -actually, it's impossible for you 
to run out of jeans. Who's going to 
know if you only have to wash them 
once a semester? Oh yes .. , it's you. 
You never went to SYR's because finding a date, an outfit and a pre­party was just too much to ask. You keep all your subjects in one notebook and just leave it in your backpack, because it's too confusing to have mul­tiples. Your backpack is the same. monogrammed L.L. Bean you had in sixth grade. Getting one without mas­sive holes? Oh no-that's too much work. And you, my friend, are officially lazy. 
You go idle online instead of putting up an away message -or worse, you use the default "I am away from my computer right now." You can while away the hours on the laptop of your keyboard at the library or CoMo ­God forbid that you'd actually go there and do work when there's free pop­corn to be had. Soda for a quarter? I'd stay all night long. 
You've reached the end! What an accomplishment-maybe I'll have to rethink your supposedly high levels of idleness. But no-you, my friend, have mastered the art of laziness. It is not for everyone. It is not for the faint of heart. It is merely for the languid. And you have done nothing but be lazy -which, to you, is a compliment in itself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of (he author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con tact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
-Wednesday, September~ 5, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR OPINION OF THE NEW PERFORMING ARTS CENTER? 




Christine Rochel 
senior Lewis 
n/ am excited for there to be a new stage for dance performances.·· 
Adam Falrholm 
sophomore Knott 
..The carpet is very casino-like. I (ost $20 there yesterday on the nickel 
Kristina Drzalc 
senior PE 
n/ miss the film loft so much.·· 
Luciano Lara 
freshman Dillon 
n/ can now go somewhere else besides Legends on a Friday night.·· 
Ken Fowler 
freshman Siegfried 
'Tm allfor environmental­ism. but it•s a shame that the school has to recycle names... 
Andrew Benton 
freshman Keenan 
..There ·s a-new Performing Arts Center?.. 
slots.·· 
• 

Angels painted on the ceiling of the Main Building look down on visitors. Constructed between May and September of 1879 after a catastrophic fire, the building and Its trademark Dome turn 125 this year. 
OFFBEAT 
Man pleads guilty to snatching hairpiece 
HARRISBURG, Pa. -A man was sentenced to pro­bation Monday for snatch­ing the hairpiece off the head of another man at a restaurant. 
Paul J. Goudy, 25. of Lemoyne, pleaded guilty Monday to theft by unlawful taking. He was sentenced to 23 months' probation, fined $500 and ordered to write a letter of apology. 
The victim, Edward Floyd, was sitting in the Fisaga restaurant in Harrisburg on Jan. 1 when Goudy ripped the hairpiece off his head, taking with it a 
TODAY 
a:: 
gold chain that hung from his neck, according to court documents. 
"Don't these guys have anything better to do than to rob and humiliate some­one for absolutely no rea­son in the world? It's just outrageous," said Floyd, 60, of Harrisburg. ''I'm a nice guy. I don't bother any­body." 
Underage teens tum profit on old beer 
OSLO, Norway Confronting a grocery store with its promise to pay shoppers a bonus if they found any products with expired freshness dates, two enterprising teens turneq a 7,000 kroner ($1,030) profit by loading up shopping carts with out­of-date beer they weren't old enough to buy. 
The boys, ages 14 and. 15, got their reward despite being underage, the Oslo daily Verdens Gang report­ed Tuesday. 
To promote the freshness of its products, the Norwegian grocery store chain Kiwi offers to pay customers the retail price of any product they find that is past its "best by" date. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
IN B·RIEF 
The Domer Run will take place on Saturday starting at 11 a.m. A 3-mile run, a 6-mile run and a 2-mile fun walk will take place with a pancake breakfast immediately follow­ing the ·race. Proceeds from Domer Run will benefit ovarian cancer research and education. Those interested can register in advance at Rolfs Sports Rec Center. For more information .. call631-6100. 
On Friday, self-guided tours of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts will be offered. Campus entertainers will provide continuous enter­tainment ip all five venues from 
4:30 to 10 p.m . 
The film "Rebel Frontier" will' be shown today from 4 to 
5:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Relay for Life: "Fighting Irish Fighting Cancer" will take place at Stepan Center beginning Friday at 6 p.m. and continue until Saturday at 10 
a.m. For more information, call 631-6829. All proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. 
The men's tennis team will host the Tom Fallon Invitational all day today Thursday and Friday at the 
Courtney  Courts  and  Eck  
Tennis Pavilion.  
Saturday,  Rock  the  Vote  

Community Outreach will be held at the Robinson Center. Those interested in volunteer­ing can e-mail jfitzpat@nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 
::J: 
~ 
LLI 
~ ~···
"

•
.... 0 • 


<
(.) 
...I HIGH 85 HIGH 73 HIGH LOW 67 LOW 67 LOW 
Atlanta 80 I 70 Boston 74 I 62 Chicago 87 164 Denver 721 46 Houston 951 74 Los Angeles 78 I 63 Minneapolis 72 1 56 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 78 I 66 Phoenix 101 I 77 Seattle 64 I 51 St. Louis 89 I 68 Tampa 82 177 Washington 78 1 66 


Wednesday, Month 15, 2004 
The Observ,er + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Touching live~t improving life. P&G 
Procter & Gamble is a Fortune 50 company with over $50 billion in annual sales. As the world's 
number one advertiser, almost 100,000 people work in 80 countries to make sure our 140+ brands 
delight consumers in 140 countries 
-· Did you know that... 
-In 2003, Fortune ranked P&G as one of the top 10 "Most Admired Companies," top 50 "Best Companies for Minorities," and top 100 "Best Companies to Work For" -P&G is a promote from within company, looking to hire talented leaders who are interested in a challenging and rewarding career in either F&A 
Come see what P&G has to offer! 
All interested Finance, Accounting, and 
Marketing ·majors are invited to visit our booth 
at the Career Fair this Thursday to find out 
more about P&G 
Bring this ad to the career fair on Thursd_ay along with your resume for a chance to win some of P&G's world renowned products! 
P&G 

BBC documentary films Irish identity 
Crew visits Notre Damefor broadcast segment 
ByRACHAEL 
SCHERMITZLER 
News Writer 
This weekend Notre Dame 
played host not only to Michigan, 
but also to a BBC film crew who 
was constructing a feature seg­
ment about the Irish Language 
Department. 
Antaine O'Donnaile, the pro­ducer for BBC's Gaelic television magazine, focuses on finding places all around the world where people use the Irish lan­guage. While last year's selection was a 10-minute segment on Spain's Gaelic community, this year's hit closer to home. 
O'Donnaile chose Notre Dame because of the University's Irish identity .and the many renowned Irish scholars who teach on cam­pus. Arriving Thursday and gath­ering information on Friday and Saturday, the crew was pleasant­ly surprised by the experience. 
"We came to Notre Dame thinking we would do a 10­minute segment on the Irish lan­guage," O'Donnaile said. "After the weekend, I have enough information to propose an entire documentary." 
Friday, the BBC team met and interviewed several of Notre Dame's leading Irish scholars, conducting almost all of the inter­views in the Irish language. 
Professor Eamonn O'Ciardha of 
the Keough Institute for Irish 
Studies said he is excited to be 
involved in this project. 
"There is the desire to report 
home on the performance of Irish 
Studies and the teaching of the 
Irish language at Notre Dame," 
O'Ciardha said. 
The film crew also had a chance to experience Notre Dame outside of a conference room, attending the pep rally, football game and tailgates ­which allowed both the academic and social sides of the University's Irish culture to show through, O'Donnaile said. 
"When I came here I quite hon­estly thought the Irishness was weird, but over the course of the weekend, I see it is a very inclu­sive thing, something the people in Ireland could learn a lot from," he said. 
Above all, O'Donnaile enjoyed tailgating the most, calling Saturday's scene not just a day of drinking, but a social gathering with a lot of tradition behind it. 
O'Donnaile said the BBC's mis­sion -to discover the forms and presence of how Notre Dame's Irish culture -was accom­plished. 
The 1 0-minute version of the film will air next month in Gaelic on the BBC channel, while the documentary is pending. 
Contact Rachael Schermitzler at rscherO I @saintmarys.edu 
Class of 2007 initiates Soph-0 
lfsiJ Soph-0 Activities 
TODAY 
Doughnuts After Dinner 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Fieldhouse Mall 
THURSDAY 
Soph-0 Bonfire 8:00p.m.-midnight 
Holy Cross Hill 
SATURDAY 
ND-MSU Game Watch 6:00p.m. 
Legends 
SUNDAY Soph-0 Class Mass 8:00p.m. 
Grotto 
MIKE HARKINS/ Observer Graphic 
Soph-O's successful execu­tion and the fulfillment of campaign promises. 
According to Andrichik, the efforts put forth to plan Soph-0 will not be in vain. He expects turnout among sophomores to be high given the triumphs of many of last year's class activities. 
"A history of great partici­pation, the fact that no event costs anything to attend and the opportunity to build unity all predict that Soph-0 will be a success," he said. 
mates  go  abroad  junior  
year."  
The  festivities  begin  

Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
tonight with an emphasis on 
By KATIE PERRY 
service. "Doughnuts After 
News Writer 
Dinner" provides students 
with an opportunity to learn 
The Soph-0, an inaugural about the various summer series of activities and service projects their class­events sponsored by the mates participated in while Sophomore Class Council, enjoying coffee and Krispy commences tonight in an Kreme doughnuts free of effort to encourage unity charge. and class spirit among mem­Activities continue bers of the Class of 2007. Thursday with the "Soph-0 
Four distinct Bonfire," an events are event encourag­scheduled "We would like to ing students to through Sunday b e c o m e
use this year to
evening. These acquainted with 
events vary as come together as a their classmates part of a class before many as they roast 
"something-for-s'mores and lis­
, classmates go 
everyone ten to live music strategy, class abroad junior by Andrew 
,
council leaders year. Todd-Smith. said. From On Saturday, service to spiri­the Class of
Bill Andrichik
tuality, the 2006 will join themes of the sophomore class the Class of events repre­council vice president 2 0 0 7 in co-
sent major aspects of life at Notre Dame. Although the events vary topically, they are unified with each having an underlying focus on class-togetherness. 
"We view sophomore year as one of class unity," sopho­more class council vice pres­ident Bill Andrichik said. "Freshman year we were brought together as dorms, thus we would like to use this year to come together as a class before many class­
sponsoring a 
Notre Dame­Michigan State game-watch at Legends. This event is open to all students and will feature free food and a chance to win an iPod among other prizes. 
A Sunday evening "Class Mass" at the Grotto is slated to conclude Soph-0 events by unifying classmates on a spiritual level. 
Class officers, committee chairs and staff advisors communicated over the sum­mer and collaborated throughout the beginning of the semester to ensure 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September JS, 2004 
Center 
continued from page 1 
sort of women's or gender-related center. After being proposed to the Campus Life Council, the project was unanimously passed. 
Rakoczy said being behind the trend may actually prove to be an asset to the centar. 
"A lot of these centers were developed years ago when other colleges went co-ed, and most of them have a focus only on women's issues," Rakoczy said. "But by opening the center now, we have the abili­ty to put together an updated center that can include men and women. This is very intentionally meant to be a center for women and men." 
And due to Notre Dame's enrollment of 52 percent men and 48 percent women, Rakoczy said it "would have been ridicu­lous to cater only to the women students." 
The center has four rooms -a lobby area, a conference room, an office and what will eventually be a lending library and resource center. Because of budgetary concerns, the library currently houses a limited selection of reading material but is hoping to expand soon through fundraisers and donations, Rakoczy said. 
This week, students can partake in a variety of events being offered by the cen­ter. There will be a presentation in LaFortune's Montgomery Theater entitled "What's Love Got To Do With It? Sexual Ethics at NO" tonight at 7 p.m. 
The GRC has teamed up with the comedy group HA for Thursday night LIVE, "Love Notre Dame Style: The Hook-Up vs. Ring­By-Spring," also in Montgomery Theater at 7 p.m. 
On Friday, anyone who is interested in volunteering at or working in the center can drop in the office, located at 217 
LaFortune, from 12 p.m. until 3 p.m. "This week will be just a sampling of 
-what we have to offer," Rakoczy said. ''Other presentations we have planned will focus on girls' and guys' nights out forums, lectures on getting outside the bubble and a "Fine By Me: Queer Eye for the Straight Campus" forum, which are all scheduled for the near future." 
For now, the hours of the GRC will vary, until volunteers are put in place to staff the front desk. By the end of September. Rakoczy is hoping the hours will be Monday through Friday from noon until 5 p.m., with the possibility of additional evening hours. 
As the year progresses, and the center gains participants, Rakoczy said she will take inventory to see what changes are needed. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@sa.intmarys.edu 
We were named one of Fortune® magazine's "100 Best Companies To Work For." And you can bet it wasn't because of the free coffee. 
Job perks are great. And at Ernst & Young we happen to think the most important ones are those that help our employees grow. That's why we've given them access to some of the best
FORTUNE. professional development programs in the country. As well as the opportunity to work on some
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg of the most prestigious brands in the world. In turn, Fortune magazine recognized us as one of TO WORK FOR~ 
the "100 Best Companies To Work For" six years in a row. So if you're looking for agreat place to work, look for us on campus. Maybe we can grab a cup of coffee. ey.comjusjcareers 
Quality In Everything We Do 



Arts 
continued from page 1 
"The ·measure of a great performance center is not how many seats it has, but how it serves its faculty, staff. students, and com­munity," Haynes said. 
To build a venue as 
large as the Morris' or 
Notre Dame Stadium 
would also cost around 
$350 million, Haynes said, 
and would have to be a 
much taller building to 
keep in accordance with 
the collegiate gothic 
design of its neighbors. 
He added that a building of that magnitude would be a mediocre setting for all types of performing art because it would not be able to effectively meet all of the needs of a state of the. art concert hall, per­forming stage and organ hall. Therefore, Haynes said, the University found it most appropriate to construct five separate venues -the Decio, the Judd and Mary Lou Leighton Concert Hall. the Chris and Anne Reyes Organ and Choral Recital Hall, the Michael Browning Family Cinema and the Regis Philbin Studio-that could simul­taneously entertain five different performances in the most advanced ven­ues. 
In addition to housing this spectrum, the Center also serves as an academ­ic unit. 
"It is engineered for both teaching and per­forming, making it quite unique," Haynes said. 
The University hopes to create a Center-specific endowment to compensate for the financial problems that could arise from the combination of booking big-name acts and allow­ing students to attend shows with reasonably priced tickets. 
"The earnings from the endowment will override the money lost from [stu­dent discounts)." said Haynes, adding that in its funding search, the Center will continue to look for donors with a passion for the performing arts. 
While the University began to address its need for additional performing arts space after receiving a grant from Edward DeBartolo in 1989, actual building progress was not made until 1996, when University President Father Edward Malloy and Provost Nathan Hatch appointed Hardy, Holzman, Pfeiffer and Associates as the architec­tural firm to oversee the project. In addition to hiring HHPA, the University also employed Theatre Project Consultants and McKay Conant & Brook to ensure state of the art perform­ance venues with perfect­ed acoustics. 
Over the next several years, the project team worked with University Architect Doug Marsh and with University faculty and staff to best asse·ss the campus and communi­ty's performance arts needs. 
Contact Patricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 15, 2004 Cotv1PlLED FROM Tt--IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sanctions will be ineffective 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -Threats of sanctions 
against Sudan because of its handling of the 
Darfur crisis will only make matters worse, 
the country's vice president said Tuesday 
after meeting a senior U.S. aid official. 
At the United Nations, the United States softened its threat of oil sanctions against Sudan to try to get Security Council approval for a resolution pressuring Khartoum to rein in Arab militias accused of attacking civil­ians. 
The revised U.S. resolution, obtained by The Associated Press, still raises the possibil­ity of punitive diplomatic and economic measures against Sudan, particularly against its oil industry, if the government doesn't act quickly against the militias, known as the Janjaweed. 
U.S. and E.U. split over Iran 
VIENNA, Austria -A U.S.-European rift surfaced Tuesday over how harshly to deal with Iran and its suspect nuclear program, with the Europeans ignoring American sug­gestions and circulating their own recom­mendations to other delegates at a key meet­ing of the U.N. atomic agency. 
Diplomats at a board of governors meet­ing of the International Atomic Energy Agency had suggested earlier that the United States and the European Union were making progress in drafting common language for a resolution that would set a deadline for Iran to meet demands designed to dispel fears it was trying to make nuclear arms. 
But the latest draft was nearly exactly the one that France, Britain and Germany came up with Friday -a text that U.S. officials had said would be unacceptable. 

. NATIONAL NEWS 
Couple arrested for wearing T -shirts 
CHARLESTON, W.Va.-A couple arrested 

for wearing anti-Bush T-shirts to a July 4 
presidential appearance filed a federal law­
suit on Tuesday alleging their First 
Amendment rights were violated. 
Nicole and Jeff Rank were removed from 

the event at the West Virginia Capitol in 
handcuffs after revealing T-shirts with 
President Bush's name crossed out on the 
front. Nicole Rank's shirt had the words 
"Love America, Hate Bush" on the back and 
Jeff Rank's said "Regime change starts at 
home." 
Their lawsuit was filed in federal court by 

American Civil Liberties Union attorneys. 
"What is at stake her~ transcends politics," 

Jeff Rank said at a news conference at the 
Capitol. "What is at stake is the right of all 
Americans Democrats, Republicans and 
independents, all Americans to peacefully 
voice their dissent to their government." 
Trespassing charges filed against the cou­

ple were later dismissed. The City Council . 
and Mayor Danny Jones have publicly apolo­
gized. 
The lawsuit names Gregory Jenkins, deputy assistant to the president and direc­tor of the White House Office of Presidential Advance, and W. Ralph Basham, director of the U.S. Secret Service, as defendants. 
The couple wants a judge to declare unconstitutional any policy that led to their arrest. 
LOCAL NEWS 
6-year project nears completion 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. -Crews are working on the final sections of a project to widen a 1 0-mile stretch of Interstate 65 in southern Indiana, meaning the last of six years of construction headaches could be gone by Thanksgiving. 
The $250 million project, started in 1999, has added lanes to the highway in the area just north of Louisville, Ky., rebuilt inter­changes and created a new system of frontage roads. Work is down to two loca­tions within the project area, which stretches from the Ohio River north to Sellersburg. 
Gulf Coast braces for storm 
Over a million people are urged to evacuate as Hurricane Ivan approaches 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -More 
than 1.2 million people in 
metropolitan New Orleans 
were warned to get out 
Tuesday as 140-mph 
Hurricane Ivan churned 
toward the Gulf Coast, 
threatening to submerge 
this below-sea-level city in 
what could be the most dis­
astrous storm to hit in 
nearly 40 years. 
Residents streamed 
inland in bumper-to­
bumper traffic in an ago­
nizingly slow exodus amid 
dire warnings that Ivan 
could overwhelm New 
Orleans with up to 20 feet 
of filthy, chemical-polluted 
water. About three-quar­
ters of a million more peo­
ple along the coast in 
Florida, Mississippi and 
Alabama also were told to 
evacuate. 
Forecasters said Ivan, blamed for at least 68 deaths in the Caribbean, could reach 160 mph and strengthen to Category 5, the highest level, by the time it blows ashore as early as Thursday some­where along the Gulf Coast. 

"Hopefully the house will still be here when we get back," said Tara Chandra, a doctor at Tulane University in New Orleans who packed up his car, moved plants indoors and state to open their homes tidal surge they are saying, size Lake Pontchartrain. It tried to book a Houston to relatives, friends and co­the fishing boats are all relies on a system of lev­hotel room. Chandra said workers. going to be in the trees," ees, canals and huge he wanted to ride out the At 8 p.m. Tuesday, Ivan said Jamee Lowry, owner pumps to keep dry. storm. but his wife wanted was centered about 325 of a bar and restaurant in The city has not taken a to evacuate: "All the news miles south-southeast of Perdido Key, Fla., near the major direct hit from a reports are kind of freaking the mouth of the Alabama border. hurricane since Betsy in her out." Mississippi River and mov­New Orleans, the nation's 1965, when an 8-to 10­
With hurricane-force ing north-northwest at 10 largest city below sea level, foot storm surge sub­wind extending 105 miles mph. is particularly vulnerable merged parts of the city in from its center, Ivan could The National Hurricane to flooding, and Mayor Ray seven feet of water. Betsy, a cause significant damage Center in Miami posted a Nagin was among the first Category 3 storm, was no matter where it strikes. hurricane warning for to urge residents to get out blamed for 74 deaths in Officials ordered or strong­about a 300-mile swath while they can. The city's Louisiana, Mississippi and ly urged an estimated 1. 9 from Apalachicola in the Louis Armstrong Airport Florida. million people in four Florida Panhandle to New was ordered closed Experts said Ivan could states to flee to higher Orleans and Grand Isle in Tuesday night. be worse, sending water ground. Louisiana. Forecasters said Up to 10 feet below sea pouring over levees, flood­
"I beg people on the Ivan could bring a coastal level in spots, New Orleans ing to the rooftops and coast: Do not ride this storm surge of 10 to 16 is a bowl-shaped depres­turning streets into a toxic storm out," Mississippi Gov. feet, topped by large, bat­sion that sits between the brew of raw sewage, gas Haley Barbour said, urging tering waves. half-mile-wide Mississippi and chemicals from nearby people in other parts of the "If we get the kind of River and Rhode Island-refineries. 

IRAQ 

59 killed in bombing and shooting 
Associated Press  Insurgents appear to have only grown deadlier since Allawi's interim  car bombing. The al-Qaida-linked group launched a surprise assault in  
BAGHDAD  - Guerrillas bombed a  government took power in June,  Baghdad on Sunday, killing dozens,  
Baghdad shopping street full of police  despite U.S. claims that Iraqi security  and boasted it had the upper hand in  
recruits and fired  on a police van  forces  are showing more resolve_  the fight against the Americans.  
north  of the  capital Tuesday in  against insurgents.  Tuesday evening, another loud  
attacks that killed at least 59 people and struck at the heart of the U.S. strategy for fighting Iraq's escalating insurgency. The car bombing and shooting the latest in violence that has killed near­ly 150 people in three days were part of an increasingly brazen and coordi­nated campaign to bring the battle to Baghdad, sowing chaos in the center  The mounting attacks aim to wreck the centerpiece of the U.S. plan for defeating the militants: building a strong Iraqi security force able to bring some calm before elections slat­ed for January. Doing so is also a key prerequisite for any withdrawal of American troops. The Tawhid and Jihad group, head­ed by Jordanian militant Abu Musab  explosion rocked Baghdad near the Green Zone, where Iraq's interim government and the U.S. Embassy are located. There was no immediate word on the cause. The morning car bombing was the deadliest single attack in Baghdad in six months, wrecking buildings and cars on central Haifa Street, leaving charred bodies and hurling body  
of authority for Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and his American allies.  al-Zarqawi, posted a Web statement claiming responsibility for Tuesday's  parts, shoes and debris into nearby trees and homes.  



..-­
~ 
f 
' ~ 
f 
•I page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
I I I 
Studies 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame is the best pro­gram in the United States," O'Buachalla said. 
While the University does not offer a major in Irish Studies, the minor is a very popular option. 
Currently there are 120 stu­dents involved in the Irish Studies program, which, according to O'Ciardha, is more than are studying Russian. Considering the rela­tive sizes of the countries, that statistic is important, he said. 
According to literature pro­vided by the Keough Institute for Irish Studies, students desiring to minor in Irish Studies must demonstrate proficiency in the Irish lan­guage, complete four Irish Studies courses across at least three departments and write a Capstone Essay in their sen-

Political foes unite against trafficking 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -There was an unusual sight last week in the gilded elegance of the State Department's main reception room: anti-abortion activists standing shoulder-to-shoulder with abortion rights campaign­ers in shared commitment. 
With Secretary of State Colin Powell presiding, members of this odd coalition were attend­ing a ceremony that highlighted the scourge of human traffick­ing and why united action was necessary to combat it. 
Among those present was Jessica Neuwirth, president of the women's rights group Equality Now. 
"This would be one of the rare moments I would find myself in the State Department," said Neuwirth, whose organization advocates women's rights throughout the world including a right to abor­tion. 
Among other projects, her group has been battling U.S. sex tourism companies that pro­mote travel by Americans to Southeast Asia for encounters with women and children forced into prostitution. 
Also at the ceremony was Rep. Chris Smith, R-N.J., a lead­ing congressional activist against abortion and trafficking. He has introduced two major anti-trafficking laws passed since 2000. 
For some, trafficking is an issue that carries a deep moral resonance. 
Perhaps the most repugnant form of trafficking constitutes the kidnapping of children and forcing them into prostitution. If these luckless youngsters are the 21st century's slaves, Smith, Neuwirth and others trying to free them are the new aboli­tionists. 
Among them is former Rep. Linda Smith, R-Wash., who said an encounter with an 11-year­old girl in India years ago was a life-transforming experience. 
literatures. Dougherty­McMichael plans to stay involved with Irish Studies past graduate school, possibly teaching at the university level. 
For junior Meghan 
Wednesday, September 15.. 2004 

Police report additional arrest at game Saturday 
ior year that links the minor with their major. 
"The problem has always been making classes avail­able," O'Ciardha said. 
Students have various rea­so..ns for following the Irish Studies track. 
"The rele­vant thing about Irish Studies is the "The problem has 
way it con­always been 
nects to so 
making classes 

many differ­
ent areas of available., 
study," said 
graduate stu­
Eamonn O'Ciardha

dent Jessica 
professor of Irish studies 

Dougherty­McMichael, who is study­ing Irish and Native American Kate Fitzgerald 
abroad 
a l s o 
entices s t u ­dents. 
wanted to go abroad 
t 0 
Ireland v e r y much," junior said. "I 
Whealan, Irish was an intriguing, if not career-ori­ented plan of study. 
"lt might be something I'd pursue after college, but right now I just thought it would be really interesting," she said. 
The prospect of studying 
thought the minor would be a good way to help me get ready to learn more about the country." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

By AMANDA MICHAELS A~sicuate News Editor 
The Notre Dame Security/Police logged a third arrest made Saturday during the Michigan game, in addition to the two previ­ously reported by State Excise Police. 
Ryan Sorrentino, 23, of Ann Arbor, Mich., was arrested on the charge of a public intoxication, and registered a .24 blood alcohol level when tested, NDSP assistant director Chuck Hurley said. The incident occurred at 3:35 p.m. inside the stadium, and both NDSP and St. Joseph County Police were involved in the arrest. Sorrentino is not a Notre Dame student. 
The other two arrests ­
Elizabeth Ryder, on counts of pos­session of fake identification, minor in possession, minor in con­sumption and resisting law enforcement and John Khym, on counts of public intoxication and battery to a police animal ­occurred outside the stadium. Hurley said that Ryder was stopped at the Juniper Road entrance to the stadium lot and Khym, at the stadium lot by 
·Legends. 
Hurley also said 15 of the 29 
citations issued on Saturday were 
given to Notre Dame students, and 
that the majority of them were for 
minor in consumption or related 
issues. All of the parties were cited 
outside the stadium. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 




Wednesday, September 15, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
fa~~$ 10,318.16 +3.40 
·~ s.;~ • Co=~:;r-
AM£X  1 ,248.54  ]~j.±2.3,p  
NASDAQNYS£ ·'""''''···  1,915.40 +5.02 6,594.21 ,;:'~}'':fTI2~~fi0  
S&PSOO  1,128.33  +2.51  

lNIKKB(TOf<YoJtr l.l ,29:~..6~-~!iig:l:!l'~ft-2 .4Z~~i FTS£ IOO(London) 4,545.60 -12.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.14  -0.03  20.77  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.66  -0.07  I 0.55  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.19  +0.19  27.44  
JDS UNIPHASE QDSU)  -0.57  -0.02  3.50  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0.49  +0.10  20.35  
Treasuries  ·  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.20  -0.10  49.33  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.43  -0.18  41.33  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.95  -0.32  33.43  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.43  +0.07  16.23  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.52  43.87  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  + 1.50  406.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +1.175  93.525  
·  Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 09.60  
EURO  0.8159  
POUND  0.5566  
CANADIAN$  1.2930  

IN BRIEF 
Sony readies for MGM merger 
LOS ANGELES-Sony Corp. is a step closer to acquiring famed Hollywood studio Metro­Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. in a $3 billion deal that would give it a considerable library of more than 4,100 titles. 
The sale would mark the third time billion­
aire investor Kirk Kerkorian has sold MGM, 
one of Hollywood's most storied names and 
once best known for its musical hits like 
"Singing in the Rain" and "Meet Me in St. 
Louis." 
Under the proposed deal announced Monday, Sony has agreed to pay $12 per share for MGM, or about $2.. 94 billion cash, and assume about $1.9 billi~n in MGM debt. MGM said its management will recommend the "proposed merger" to its board by Sept. 27. 
The sale is also subject to regulatory approval. 
For the past two years, MGM has been hunt­ing ways to grow larger. The company made ' an $11.5 billion all-cash bid for Vivendi Universal Entertainment last year, but lost that contest to NBC. 
ITT Educational investigated 
CHICAGO -ITT Educational Services Inc. continues to cooperate with an ongoing probe by the Justice Department, which is investigat­ing claims that the for-profit education compa­ny committed fraud by allegedly manipulating student-enrollment data and other records, the company's chief executive said Tuesday. 
Rene Champagne also told investors and others during an investment conference in New York that a recently consolidated class­action suit filed against the Carmel, Ind.-based company contains a series of "unsavory alle­gations" that ITT Educational plans to dispute in court. 
Separately, an ongoing investigation by the California Attorney General's office is now in its 24th month, with no charges or specific allegations, Champagne said. 
Champagne declined to discuss any specifics of the cases during a question-and-answer session following his presentation, though he emphasized that the company has taken ade­quate measures to ensure regulatory compli­ance acr-oss several fronts. 
OPEC divided on oil output 
Trading went well despite a hurricane threat; leaders meet to discuss oil output 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria 
OPEC members were divid­
ed Tuesday on whether 
their output should be 
increased in a bid to boost 
global supply that might 
cause oil prices to drop. 
Elsewhere, traders were 
unnerved by Hurricane 
Ivan heading toward the oil 
and natural gas rigs in the 
Gulf of Mexico and an 
attack by insurgents on a 
crucial pipeline juncture in 
Iraq that showed the coun­
try's vulnerability. 
Some members of the 11­
nation Organization of 
Petroleum Exporting 
Countries echoed their sup­
port for increasing global 
supply, including oil giant 
Saudi Arabia, which con­
firmed that existing quotas 
were not being observed. 
"OPEC is doing its part, but OPEC is not the only player in town and people do want to make money," Saudi Oil Minister Ali Naimi said. "They know there is no better way to make it than to do what they are doing in the market. There is not much that we can do." 

Oil prices have soared in recent months because of the extremely thin margin of spare output capacity worldwide and fears of· supply disruptions around 500,000 barrels a day, del­for a rise in crude future he told The Associated the globe. egates said. The panel, prices. Analysts said that Press. "And then, you have 
The two main issues which will present the pro­regardless of where the to check the damage." being considered at the posal on Wednesday, also hurricane made landfall, its Light sweet crude futures meeting are whether to suggested that the group size was sure to threaten for October delivery rose increase quotas and meet again in November or many oil rigs and platforms 52 cents to settle at $44.39 whether to raise the price December to assess the off the coast of the United on the New York band, said Leo Drollas, market. States. Several rigs in the Mercantile Exchange. On chief economist for the Predicting that prices Gulf of Mexico have been London's International London-based Center for would stay at current high evacuated and production Petroleum Exchange, Brent Global Energy Studies. levels through the end of halted as Ivan moved crude futures closed up 67 
"Both issues are not rele­the year, Drollas said "the north. cents at $41.73, off its vant today because the demand side drives the Jan Stuart, head of ener­intraday high of $42.02. market is still tight and prices, rather than the sup­gy research at FIMAT USA, Traders also reacted to most OPEC countries are ply side." a brokerage unit of Societe Tuesday's attack in Iraq. very near capacity. ... Nigeria's OPEC represen­Generate, said Shell began As OPEC members There's nothing they can do tative, Edmund Dakoru, pulling workers off its plat­arrived in Vienna for or say" to change the mar­said he wanted the OPEC forms Sunday. BP and oth­Wednesday's meeting, ket, he said, describing the price band to be raised to ers followed suit Monday. saboteurs in Iraq blew up a meeting as "a bit of a non­$30-$40 from its current "Today, we started to junction where multiple oil event." $22-$28. shut down refineries. We pipelines cross the Tigris 
Late Tuesday, an OPEC "The market is well-sup­now know that there is River near Beiji, 155 miles panel decided to recom­plied," he said. going to be a crude oil pro­north of Baghdad. The mend that ministers raise In trading Tuesday, duction shutdown and a blast left the entire country their output ceiling by Hurricane Ivan was blamed product output shutdown," without power. 




New business venture freezes eggs 
was 30. But now the Internet boom bearing until their 40s that isn't jus­
Associated Press 

was over. tified by the technology's limited his­
NEW YORK -Christy Jones says So Jones developed and founded tory and significant failure rate. And her idea for a business to freeze Extend Fertility, which charges with only about 100 babies ever women's eggs came when her own $15,000 to freeze eggs for women born worldwide from frozen eggs, biological clock alarm rang at age 40 and under as a kind of biological experts say that is too few to judge 
32. insurance policy. The eggs can be if the procedure causes health 
It was 2002, and two of her close implanted later, as ova quality drops defects. friends were having trouble getting dramatically after age 35 and is a Jones said her success rate should pregnant. A new, much-publicized chief cause of infertility. be about 30 percent; critics say she book contended that childless exec­Some experts have doubts about shouldn't cite any rate since the utives in their 40's had themselves the procedure, and about marketing company is so new it hasn't yet to blame, for waiting too long to it to target group women in their helped one woman conceive. have a family. 30's that has strong emotions about Even as she was launching her 
Jones' contemplation of mother­about fertility and might be easily company this year, Jones froze a hood coincided with a need for a exploited. dozen of her own eggs, at a Stanford new project. A formerly high-pow­Several prominent fertility special­University clinic. "This is an issue ered tech executive, she had graced ists think it gives women a sense of I'm personally passionate about," Forbes' cover three times before she security about postponing child she said. 


----------------------~----------------------------------------------------.. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
Indiana struggles with education
Antidepressants called 
Associated Press

problematic for minors INDIANAPOLIS -has done a better job of preparing high school students for college
Government scientific advisors urge cautious 
but still struggles to make 
college affordable, a new
use, warn of negative side effects in children 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Anti-depres­sants should come with the nation's strongest warning -in a black box on the label -that they can sometimes spur suicidal behavior in children and teenagers, the government's sci­entific advisers decided Tuesday. 
It's a rare risk, and therefore families need detailed informa­tion on how to balance that con­cern with the need to treat depression, which itself can lead to suicide, cautioned advisers to the Food and Drug Administration. 
So antidepressants prescribed to minors also should come with an easy-to-read pamphlet that explains how to decide if the child is an appropriate candidate for the drug and what are the warning signs of suicide, the panel concluded. Also, FDA should consider the extra step of making parents sign a form that they understand the risks before the child receives the first pill. 
There may be a backlash to such strong warnings, cautioned FDA advisory committee chair­man Dr. Wayne Goodman, psy­chiatry chairman at the University of Florida. 
"It will make prescribing more difficult. I anticipate there will be alarm from parents and the child," said Goodman, who still backed the big step. "I think that's worth that complication, because it will raise the thresh­old to prescribing" these drugs to minors. 
On the other hand, the drugs seem to help some desperately ill children, said panelist Jean Bronstein, a California nurse who opposed the black-box warning. 
"The biggest message I heard from the consumer is they want to be warned about what the risk is," she said, referring to hours of emotional testimony Monday from families who blamed their children's suicides on drugs they didn't know might be risky. 
Tearful families greeted Tuesday's decision with applause. 
The FDA isn't bound by its advisers' recommendations, but it usually follows them and has indicated it is eager to update the outdated warnings on today's anti-depressant labels. They state that a link between suicidal behavior and antidepressants hasn't yet proven. 
The FDA's latest analysis marks a sharp reversal of that position: For every 100 youths given an anti-depressant. two or three may display increased suicidal thoughts or behavior due to the drug. 
The controversy erupted last year, when British health author­ities declared that most popular antidepressants might sometimes increase the risk of suicidal behavior in children and teenagers. They declared all but one -Prozac -unsuitable for depressed youth, but stopped short of a ban. 
The FDA stresses that 24 stud­ies of 4,000 youths found none who killed themselves. 
Still, in March, the FDA strengthened anti-depressant labels to urge close monitoring of patients for suicide warning signs, including increased agita­tion or hostility, especially when 
report shows. Indiana scored a "C" in col­they first start the pills or change 
lege preparation, a "C-plus" a dose. 
in college participation, a "D" It called this week's two-day 
in affordability and a "B" in meeting to see what other safety 
college completion, according changes are needed. 
to the report released Some studies suggest a greater 
Wednesday by the National risk for certain drugs, such as 
Center for Public Policy and Effexor, and initial worries about 
Higher Education. antidepressants focused on a 
The state's "D" in afford­newer drug family called SSRis. 
ability is similar to other "We are unable to conclude 
states. No state scored an "A" that any single agent is free from 
in the category, and only risk at this time," FDA's advisers 
three received a grade better voted unanimously, urging that 
than a "D" or "F." new warnings cover all anti­
"Every state faces chal­depressants given to children. 
lenges in expanding higher That's because studies of the 
education opportunities," issue so far are small and flawed. 
said Patrick M. Callan, presi­The suicide risk can occur not 
dent of the San Jose, Calif.­only when anti-depressants are 
based group. prescribed for depressed youth 
The report, titled but for other conditions, too, 
"Measuring Up 2004," said such as obsessive-compulsive 
Indiana's investment in need­disorder, Goodman added. 
based financial aid is high compared to other states. lege affordability, which is However, the state's low-and expected to make recommen­middle-income families still dations by December. spend nearly 40 percent of "Clearly, affordability is a their income, even after hot-burner issue for the next financial aid, to send a stu­session of the General dent to a public two-or four­Assembly," Jones said. year college. Indiana's "C" grade in 

"Indiana has made no preparation is an improve­
notable progress in pro­
viding afford­"Indiana has made able higher ed u­no notable cation opportu­
progress zn 
nities over the 
providing
past decade," the report said. affordable higher 
Stan Jones, education ... ,.
Indiana's com­
missioner for higher educa­"Measuring Up 2004" tion, said afford­education report ability is always a concern. 
ment from a decade ago,
according to the report. The state ranked in the top 10 for increasing the percentage of students enrolling in upper-level sci­ence. About 46 percent of Indiana high school students 
After a General Assembly take Upper-level math class­proposal to cap tuition failed es, while 30 percent take earlier this year, Gov. Joe advanced science. Kernan asked colleges to Those rates still lag top­limit tuition increases to 4 perfonming states, where 59 percent. Kernan has asked percent of high school stu­for a similar cap on next dents took upper-level math year's increases and has and 41 percent were enrolled formed a task force on col-in upper-level science. 




Ideas that let you know you're O.K. 
At GE, we believe in the power of ideas. Ideas like the LightSpeed® CT scanner that can scan your entire body in a matter of seconds. 
We invite you to come power your ideas at GE. We offer careers in Engineering, Finance, Human Resources, IT and Sales & Marketing. 
gecareers.com/notredame An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Come see us at 
Engineering Industry Day Wednesday Sept. 15th The Joyce Center -Heritage Hall 

Wednesday, September 15, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAQ 
Explosions disrupt oil pipelines 
Associated Press from Kirkuk's huge oilfield to 
an export terminal in Ceyhan,
KIRKUK, Iraq -Saboteurs Turkey. With crude oil sellingwrecked a recently repaired above $40 a barrel, the fre­pipeline junction Tuesday and quent sabotage has cost Iraqthe fire set off a cascade of more than $2 billion, interim power blackouts that under­Prime Minister Ayad Allawi 
lined the frustra­tions faced by 
U.S. engineers trying to upgrade northern Iraq's creaky oil facili­ties in the face of relentless bomb­ings. 
The 3 a.m. attack blew up a junction where multiple oil 
has said. "If you build it ..If you build it they they will come 
-and try to
will come -and 

blow it up,"
try to blow it up.,, 

said Lt. Col. Lee Morrison, a U.S. Lt. Col. Army Corps of Lee Morrison Engineers offi­
cer who heads 
U.S. Army Corps officer a Kirkuk-based 
oil security team. "It's defi­
pipelines cross the Tigris nitely one step forward, one River at the northern city of step back. You fix it and it Beiji. The burning oil melted blows up." power cables, causing a short Instead of being sold on the that knocked power plants off international market, oil 
line and cut off electricity burned on the desert and across Iraq until late after­poured, still aflame, into the noon, officials said. Tigris. Aerial photos showed 
The breach also shut down flaming slicks of oil floating the pipeline ferrying crude oil downstream while black 
I 

thuriday

september16 
3:00pm-8:00pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 
Student ID card required Attire is business casual 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 


findoutrnore! 
For more information about the participating employers, job descriptions, and conta<;ts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 

• 
Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in BCF, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 




UNlVERSITYOF UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA
The Career Center 
COLLEGE OP BUSINESS 

smoke billowed into mam­
moth columns visible 25 miles 
away. 

Officials at the state-run North Oil Co. said the flames were extinguished late Tuesday. 
Jan Stuart, head of energy research at FIMAT USA, a brokerage unit of Societe Generale, said the attack just added to tight oil supplies that have pushed prices up. 
"It is a risk that is evidently there. Quite simply, a refiner cannot count on getting that crude and needs to bid up prices to secure crude from somewhere else," he told The Associated Press from New York. "The risk of interruption is in the price and that risk is borne out time and again." 
Especially disheartening for Morrison, the sabotage came just two days after Northern Oil engineers completed a two-month replacement of critical valves destroyed by a previous bombing. 
TURKEY 

Party seeks to block proposed adultry .ban 
Bill would enable spouses to seek legal action 
Associated Press 

ANKARA, Turkey -Turkey's opposition party dealt a critical blow to a government proposal to outlaw adultery, saying Tuesday it will block the meas­ure that has drawn protests from women's groups and criti­cism from the European Union. 
The proposed adultery ban would be part of a major over­haul of the mostly Muslim country's 78-year-old penal code undertaken as the 25 EU states prepare to decide by year's end whether to begin talks on Turkey's membership. 
The penal code package, which lawmakers began debat­ing Tuesday, includes more severe punishments for rapists, pedophiles, torturers, human traffickers and women who kill children born out of wedlock. It also recognizes rape in mar­riage and sexual harassment as crimes. 
The government has been hoping to tack the adultery ban onto the draft penal code, apparently to appease Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's conservative and devoutly Islamic base. 
As parliament opened debate, Justice Minister Cemil Cicek said only measures that both his ruling party and the opposition agreed on would be brought to the floor. 
Ali Topuz, a senior lawmaker from the opposition Republican People's Party, made it clear that there would be no consen­sus to send the adultery pro­posal to the floor. 
"We're strongly against the proposal on adultery and so it 
will not come to the floor," Topuz told private CNN-Turk television. 
Haluk Ipek, a senior member




careerfair 

of the Justice and Development Party, said the government would still push for a consen­sus on each article of its draft, "including adultery." 
The government has an absolute majority in parlia­ment but if it insists on a con­
sensus, the adultery measure would fail. 

pa~~C:!pating ~ 
The proposal has generated

AAA Chicago Abbott Laboratories Abercrombie & Fitch Accenture ACNielsen BASES 
A.G. Edwards Aon Bain & Company Baker Hill Corp. Barclays Capital Becker Conviser 
Professional Review BKD Boeing bp cow Central Intelligence Agency CGI-AMS Chicago Consulting Actuaries Coachmen Industries Cochran, Caronia & Co. Credit Suisse First Boston Crowe Chizek and Company Davis & Hosfield Consulting Deloitte Deutsche Bank DirectEmployers Association DISH NETWORK EchoStar 
Communications Corp. E.&J. Gallo Winery Eaton Ernst & Young Federal Bureau 
of Investigation Federated Mutual 
Insurance Company Fifth Third Bank Ford Motor Company General Electric General Mills GlaxoSmithKiine Grosvenor Capital 
Management Harris Nesbitt H-E-B Grocery Company Hewlett-Packard Honeywell Houlihan Lokey Howard 
&Zukin Houston's Restaurants Humana Indiana CPA Society Indiana State 
Personnel Department lnteCap Johnson & Johnson Katz, Sapper & Miller* 
strong criticism in the EU, 
Kirkland & Ellis ...-111 
where there is already wide­
KPMG ....., 
spread concern about mem­
Kraft Foods 
bership for Turkey, whose ter­
LaSalle Bank and Standard 
ritory lies mostly in Asia and
Federal Bank 
~
McGiadrey & Pullen Morgan Stanley Morningstar Motorola National City Corporation Navigant Consulting Newell Rubbermaid News America Marketing Oldcastle, Inc. Panda Restaurant Group 
(Panda Express) Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Piper Jaffray PNC Financial Services Group PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Pulte Homes Quicken Loans Ryan & Company* SBC Communications SCORE! Educational Centers SIRVA Smart and Associates St. Paul Travelers Steak 'n Shake Stockman Kast Ryan + Co Stryker Instruments Target Teach for America 
The Boston Consulting Group The Gallup Organization The United States Navy The Vanguard Group Towers Perrin 
U.S. 
Dept. ofTreasury, Internal Revenue Service 

U.S. 
Dept. ofTreasury, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency* 


Wachovia Securities Walgreens Weiser* Wells Fargo Bank William Blair & Company WPS Resources Corporation Xerox 
• R~tsum~t drop 

whose cultural profile is often at odds with the more liberaltD leanings prevalent across the European continent.
iil 
Details of the anti-adultery 
proposal have not been made public. Cicek said the measure would only be applied if a spouse complains. Legislator Haluk Ipek said Monday that adulterers could face six months to two years in prison. 
The debate over the penal code amendments could last all week. 
Erdogan says an adultery law would protect the family and women who have been wronged by their husbands. 
Women's groups counter that such a law would be used against women-who they say could be imprisoned and lose custody of their children. They say the measure would encour­age "honor killings," in which family members kill girls or women deemed to have dis­graced the family. 
About 600 people, most of them women, marched from Ankara's central square to parliament, holding banners that said, "Keep your hands off my body" and "No! to the male-dominated penal code." 
Lawyer Senal Saruhan, a woman's rights advocate, said, "It's a backward approach ... that will allow the state to intervene in our private lives." 
In a speech to party lawmak­ers, Deputy Prime Minister Abdullah Gul called the pro­posed code "much more mod­ern" and said it sought to pro­tect women. But Gul also appeared to leave open the possibility that lawmakers might drop the adultery arti­cle. 

------------~------­

-----~···~------------------------------------------------­
p

page 10 
Wednesday, September 15, 2004 

THE OBSERVER · 
rr..J-,nulnt<i ~""""""""~"' N<Jtrt .()_.•":" s.~ A(..,~> . 
P.(), &~ Q_, Norrc; Dain~dN 46556 · 024 Sol.tth Dilling H:cll, Norte Dame., IN 465.56 
EDITOR IN CHIEf · Matt lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR BOSlNllSS MANAG£R Mcghanoe Downes · Mike Flanagan 
As..tt. MANttcmc Enrroa .·. ·· Joe Hettler 
. . . 

·•Ntws Emro~t* Claire Hein:iriger .. VLEWi>OlNT EDITORS Sarah Vabulas ·. SPORTS E!>lll)R; Heather Van HoegM!en SCENE EDooJU Maria Snl.itb IN Focus Eorrolb Megban Marrin 
< SAmr MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kdtey .> GR.APHrcs Emrolb Mlk~ HarJW,i · ADYERTISJNC MANAGilu Carrie Franklin ·· AD DESIGN MANAGER; Kelly Nelson SYsTEMs ADMrNISTRATOR: ·Mary Allen · CoNTROUER; Paul:~. Garda 
0FAC£ MANAGER & GENERAL 
INFO .• {574) 63¥7471 
) fAX. · 
. <?~~r~t~~27 

(5:74)4.31 ~~90() < •< i;;b$64@nd.edu · . EDITOR Ill CHIEF ()74) 63h4S42 . . MANAGING EOITOR (~74) §3 1"~541 .•.... C}b~me@p~.edu · ···• .· AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (~f4.)(;~b4~24 . 
BUSINESS OFFiCE 
•.. :=~~·~·~ 
··tt.;u.:D-.1~~~1:1!1•·· ·.• ·.~ ~ejlil4~t N<.tit.Oilnlt: ·•· ••·•• 
.· · and.~·" m.iDos ..rr.c..,. 
i~~,._~.... <<··· 

:. 'New~ ..................·. ·............. sp~rt~ c 
Claire H~ininger . ~a_tt Puglisi ... MeganO~NeH Eric Retter .·· •· JearminePrivat Mike Gilloon 
Viewpoint .. ··•• Seen~ · .. Maureen .Maria Smith ··. Reynolds ·Becca Saunders . 
Eileen Duffy. Illustrator Graphics Katie Knorr Desiree Zamora 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Give women more balanced treatment 
I will never get used to the imbalanced recently raped. As she described her treatment of women at Notre Dame. The campus' health center and resources, I 
experiences had by male and female undergrads at Notre Dame are dissimilar, to say the least, and if Notre Dame is to be truly excellent, some things will have to change. Allow me to give a few exam­ples. 
Last weekend was a football weekend, and I had two friends come to visit me in Farley. My male friend had to sign in and sign out every time he left the building. My female friend didn't have to do a thing. The University has decided that it is in my best interest for them to monitor the comings and goings of my male visi­tors, even in the middle of the day. 
At the football games themselves, male and female students must listen as their fellow students (usually male) yell slurs at the opposing team that are offensive to females. 
And then there's the issue of health care. I was speaking this summer to a friend from another university who was realized once again that here at Notre Dame we offer neither a rape crisis bot­line nor a women's health center. The University Health Center doesn't even have rape kits available or nurses trained in rape counseling. If you go in for a preg­nancy test, they do not ask ifyou were raped, and most students don't go in at all since they fear punishment under Du Lac. 
The attitude towards women at Notre Dame manifests itself in more subtle ways as well. Here at Notre Dame we have ''men's dorms" and "girls' dorms." Both are subject to autocratic rules, but only men's dorms are lax about enforcing them. 
We have graduate programs in the tra­ditionally-male schools of business. law and architecture, but no professional pro­grams in education, nursing or social work. 
And fmally, even though women have been students at Notre Dame for over thirty years, people still sing the old fight song, "While her loyal sons are marching onward to victory." I love this place, but I look forward to the day when the student body sings the version that includes all of the students, "While her loyal sons and daughters march on to victory." 

This week marks the grand opening of the much touted Gender Relations Center in LaFortune. It's a step in the right direc­tion on the part of the administration, and the University is to be applauded for rec­ognizing and attempting to address the problem of gender relations at Notre Dame. Yet, it remains to be seen whether the center will actually work towards changing Notre Dame, or will just be a safe place for respectful dialogue about the problems of gender relations on cam­pus. 
Anna Nussbaum 
JUOJOC 
Farley Hall Sept. 14 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..The gift ofteaching is a peculiar talent. and
For what will you use the DeBartolo 
implies a need and a craving in the teacher
Performing Arts Center? 
himself'' 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
John Jay Chapman 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
author 


Good teacher, bad teacher 
"It doesn't matter what you put on the TCE. It doesn't matter if you say that I am a bad teacher. I have tenure." 
That is my favorite quote by a Notre Dame professor (a whiny, snobbish­lance sounding man I never Gallop saw directly, complain­ing about how it was The Third beneath his dignity to Wayteach freshmen, comes in second). I will refrain from mentioning names, though if you do a little bit of digging and question the right people you can narrow the field down to a handful of persons rather quickly. 
Notre Dame possesses some extraor­dinary professors (all one needs to do is take a summer course elsewhere to appreciate this) and many extraordi­nary teachers in general. I cannot credit them enough, and they do not always get the respect they deserve ­they form the core of the real value of Notre Dame. This article is not about the great teachers; it's about the other kind. 
Naturally extraordinary teachers are never easy to find -the NDToday rankings always tend to favor easy-of­use over real teaching ability and the freshman dream of mentoring with Robin Williams is quickly broken ­but the search is made more difficult by the admixture of crud. The experi­ences of any one of the upperclassmen will tell just how deficient a bad pro­fessor can be. I don't believe that any one of us graduates totally unscathed. 
Students have known about this problem for a long time, and so has the administration. The latter doubtlessly has elaborate solutions involving recruitment, peer-review, high salaries and big offices to try and correct the problem. Students would be happy if the administration just published the TCE reports so that we could stop wasting our time with pro­fessor I-Never-Thought-I-Would-Be­Quoted and his colleges. 
And while publishing TCEs is a nice idea and should be done as a matter of principle, I don't believe it would go far enough toward fixing the problem to be effective. The professorial sys­tem as it stands simply has too many long-standing flaws to simply be band­aged. 
We students know perfectly well how Professor INTIWBQ got a place on faculty to begin with. Although apa­better, and we demand it. 

I do not ask that the hiring of pro­fessors be placed in our hands. nor the firing. nor the tenure process, nor the salary, nor any other power that sanely belongs with the administra­tion. I do ask that the power of deter­mining who is and is not permitted to teach an undergraduate course at this University belong to the students, with University advice of course, but with­out the possibility of a University veto. 
In short, give us a vote. Not a TCE to 
fill out, and subse­

quently have no idea 
thy cannot be com­if anyone reads it or
"It is dangerous because
pletely ruled out, he not (and I honestly probably was not an there is the possibility of believe the answer is angelic lecturer of real change, and the no). The TCE is a 
great virtue who fell blank slip to invest
necessity ofreal trust. It
from grace through our anger in, and it is the tragic temptation is dangerous because to a little more than a of academic hubris. certain extent, everything false hope that insults He was a probably a us with its pretense.
that is worthwhile is a
damn good Give us the power, by
little dangerous.,,
researcher who was vote, by council or by 
brought on board because he could make the University look prestigious and bring in government grants. We all understand this, and I for one accept it. It is good for the University to have these researchers, so by all means continue hiring them. But I do have one request: If "professors" can­not teach well, do not force them teach. In fact do not even ALLOW them teach. 
There must be accountability on the part of the faculty. There must be accountability to the students as well as the administration. We deserve that much; we pay an almost unthinkable amount of money and spend a tremen­dous amount of time in pursuit of a quality education. To force us to endure terrible professors is disre­spectful of our dignity as learners. Notre Dame has no right to subject us to low-quality teachers. We deserve court perhaps, to call 

University faculty for­ward and remove them from the ros­ter of those who may teach classes. 
This is a dangerous proposition, I know. It is dangerous because there is the possibly of real change, and the necessity of real trust. It is dangerous because, to a certain extent, every­thing that is worthwhile is a little dan­gerous. But, if you, the administration, honestly trust us as much as you always claim that you do, if you really believe that our education is in our own hands, and furthermore, if you have any faith in your own professors. grant us this responsibility. We prom­ise you, things will never be the same. again. 
Lance Gallop is a fifth-year senior majoring in computer science. philoso­phy and theology. He can be reached at lgallop@nd. edu. 

ND lacks true community 
"The University of Notre Dame seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appre­ciation for the great achievements of human beings but also a disciplined sensi­bility to the poverty, injustice, and oppres­
sion that burden the  
lives of so many.  Brian Moy  
Residential life endeav­ 
ors to develop that  Guest Column  
sense of community and  
of responsibility that  

prepares students for subsequent leader­
ship in building a society that is at once 
more human and more divine." 
During my time here at Notre Dame, I feel I have learned what it means and how it is to be a part of the Notre Dame family as partially outlined above in DuLac ... until Saturday. A good friend of mine, whose father graduated from Notre Dame and who has long been a Notre Dame fan, came up for the weekend to sec what turned out to be an absolutely amazing game. Prior to the game, as we were hanging out at a friend's tailgate in the lots adjacent to the stadium, I saw an alumnus with an extra ticket that perhaps I could buy for my friend. So I approached him and asked what he wanted for the ticket. I was offered face \'alue, and so I figured I would look around a little while longer to see if I could find a better deal for my friend. Not more than 10 minutes later, a Michigan fan walking by was also in search of a ticket. The alumnus and the Michigan fan began to speak and eventu­ally he was offered the ticket for $30. I turned around and immediately offered $40. To my dismay. he did not think twice about handing the ticket to the Michigan fan. 
This was absolutely ridiculous. I, a Notr:.e Dame student/fan with a Notre Dame shirt and a Notre Dame friend/fan in need of a ticket, was refused when I offered $40 for the same ticket that a Michigan fan was sold for $30. In an incredibly pompous way, the alumnus said to me that I was already offered the ticket and I refused it. I was extremely upset, to say the least. To this day, I have never had a problem with any Notre Dame alumnus. I have met and become friends with many distinguished people who have graduated from Notre Dame. This man, though, seemed to have no sense-of community and completely treated me as if I didn't belong here. 
Now as for the game, I eventually found a ticket for my friend for $40. When I got to my seat with my fellow Dillonites, we were unpleasantly surprised to have two Michigan fans wearing "Rudy Sucks" shirts in t!Te middle of the student section -in our seats. These two guys were apparently friends with two Notre Dame students who had brought them into the student section. 
Normally, I would have no problem with friends being brought into the student sec­tion. I wouldn't have had a problem this time except for the fact that it s.eems com­pletely illogical to wear a shirt that direct­ly insults every single student and Notre Dame fan in the middle of the our student section. These Notre Dame students did nothing to prevent what would seem to the average eye an obvious conflict of interests. Sometime during the second quarter, one of the male Notre Dame stu­dent hosting these guests (after spending the time previous of the game flirting with his girlfriend and paying absolutely no attention to the game or to the simple respect and decency of their surround­ings) asked me to move over in an already crowded area so he could have more room to watch the game. I told him this was not possible, and that because his two friends were here, that space was limited. He immed!ately started yelling at me. 
There was then a long exchange of words between myself. some other Notre Dame students and these four "trouble­makers." The Notre Dame student tried to tell me that his friends were also students here and that hating Notre Dame was their reason for wearing their blasphe­mous shirts. I just laughed as they exchanged ticket packets so they could return after going to buy food. 
I was then threatened by the Notre Dame student, who said he was going to beat me up and punch me in the face. I told him to go ahead and punch me. He then got confused and told me that I was­n't making any sense, although it was his uncalled-for attitude that did not make sense. As arguing persisted, his girlfriend came roaring out of nowhere down the aisle as if to punch me. After I brushed her away, a ruckus ensued but was even­tually broken up. I was completely both­ered by how two Notre Dame students could be this narrow-minded as to respecting other Notre Dame students. Community and family? I think not. 
The night before, at a party at Turtle Creek, a bunch of Michigan fans showed up and started causing problems. The next thing I knew, one of my friends got nailed in the face by a cheap shot. A bunch of us ran over there and broke it up. Lots of words were exchanged, and we later went home, but we let them know that we would back up our friend no mat­ter what. This is the sense of family that I have come to know here at Notre Dame; watching out for our friends and standing up for them at all times. 
Lastly, because Saturday commemorat­ed the third anniversary of the Sept. 11 tragedy, emotions seemed to be running high. The student standing next to me at the football game with whom I had an altercation was wearing a white T-shirt with "9/11 Never Forget" written on the back in black marker. He and his girl­friend also wore pins remembering Sept. 
11. Maybe this student should have writ­
~.ten "9/11 N~ver Forget" on the front of his shirt, because he apparently forgot what he was remembering while instigating a ~ght and showing extreme stupidity in causing a problem at a game surrounded by 8,000 Notre Dame students. He defi­nitely was not thinking about peace at that moment, though he probably was not thinking at all. I thought the odds were slightly out of his favor, but maybe I was just naive. After. all, we were a 13 1/2­point underdog and won by eight. He was an 8,000-person underdog, but I guess he still had a chance. 
In honoring the victims of Sept. 11 by wearing a shirt or a pin, it is important to not forget the reasons for doing so. To "Remember 9/11" one day out of the year is not sufficient enough to think that you have the privilege to flaunt around your "patriotism" in such a disrespectful way. Wearing the pin everyday is the proper way to show others how much the tragedy has affected you; don't wear it for the wrong reasons. It is not to be trendy and it is not something-that makes you cool. It is something sacred that needs to be respected everyday of the year, not just one. There are children who lost their parents who can't walk to school or watch television without seeing numerous refer­ences to Sept. 11. They can't escape it; don't add to their pain by pretending to be patriotic if you don't know what it means. 
After Sept. 11, America witnessed and experienced a sense of community and togetherness that had never been felt before. We should learn from an experi­ence like Sept. 11 that if we are to succeed in times of tragedy, then in these times of relative peace, we need to live and act with an appreciation for one another. My experiences this past weekend were far from this. It is this University's mission "to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good." Only with friendships and close communities can we accomplish this mission; it cannot be done with disrespectful attitudes and behaviors. 
Brian Moy is a junior biological sciences major. He can be contacted at bmoy@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 

Left's views on war hypocri_tical 
It seems that the popular thing to do these days is to criticize the progress of the war ,in Iraq. Michael Moore used it to help sell his movie, and John Kerry is trying to use it to get
himself elected Alex Hughes president. So, has 
the war been a 
The Daily Lobo 
success? 
Despite popular liberal sentiment labeling it a fail­ure, I feel that we are winning the war in Iraq. That having been said, to pull out now would be dooming the United States to a new onslaught of terrorist attacks worse than anything that we have seen thus far. 
We removed one of the most sadistic and brutal dictators in his­tory from power, and we did so with a rela­tively small loss of 


American life. As a "Looks like John Democratic presidents. result of the war in Kerry isn't the only Since I'm on the Iraq, Libya voluntari­topic of Vietnam, I'm
liberal that likes to
ly gave up its nuclear starting to grow
flip-flop.,,
weapons program. extremely tired of the that they both are wars the United States participat~d in. "But Iraq is a quagmire just like Vietnam," lib­erals say. 
Iraq is not a quagmire. Despite a bumpy road, we have been making steady progress toward our goal of establishing a free and democratic government there. We succeeded in getting the forces of al Sadr to come to the bargaining table, and we have done so by showing resolve. 
Yes, American lives have been lost, and I agree any loss of American life is a tragedy. But we are in a war, and in any war, life will be lost. The war in Iraq just crossed the threshold of 1 ,000 American lives lost, but that is still nowhere near the over 50,000 lives 
lost in Vietnam to a 
war that was waged 
primarily by, surprise, 
Neither of these 
things would have 
happened had we not made the 
decision to invade Iraq. 
What really gets me is how the majority of the left wants to have it both ways when it comes to things like the Iraq situation. Here are a few of my favorite examples of lib­eral hypocrisy: 
It is absolutely wrong and moral­ly reprehensible for President Bush to decide to invade Iraq to remove a genocidal dictator and to help bolster American national security, but it was a necessary humanitari­an mission for President Clinton to send troops to Kosovo to stop the genocide there. 
Bush's decision to invade Iraq had more to do with oil than with some high moral purpose, but the French and Russians who had vast ties to Iraq's oil economy under Saddam opposed the war on purely idealistic grounds. 
The other thing that never ceases to irritate me is the constant com­parison of Iraq to Vietnam. Iraq and Vietnam have absolutely noth­ing in common other than the fact obsession over what 
the two candidates 

were doing during Vietnam. 
Military credentials do not make 
for presidential credentials. If that 
were the case, Ulysses S. Grant 
would be, without a doubt, the best 
president in AmeriCan history. 
In reality, he was at best a mediocre president, and if it were not for his Civil War victory, he would be as well known as, say, Millard Fillmore. 
As a final point, in the 1960s, lib­erals felt that service in Vietnam was to be rewarded by being spat upon and being called a baby killer. Why is it that in 2004 they sudden­ly find it to be a prerequisite for the office of president? Looks like John Kerry isn't the only liberal that likes to flip-flop. 
This column originally appeared on Sept. 13 in The Daily Lobo, the daily publication at University of New Mexico. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
' 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TI-1 E0BSER.VER 
E

page 12 


Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
Mark: Terminator 3: Redemption is everything the name implies -redemp­tion of the series. Not since the original PC series has there been a decent Terminator game -until now. 
The events in the game focus on the events occurring in the third Terminator movie, which may be seen as a negative by some garners. However, the game branches from the movie plot by empha­sizing parts that are not seen in the film. Most of the game takes place in the future as the T-800, Arnold's onscreen persona, battles Skynet directly. 
Game play is divided into three cate­gories -on foot, driving or shooting. Each of these seg­ments is done quite 
Terminator 3: 
well. When Arnold is on foot, he has a Redemption list of about 20 
Atari
melee combos that hl:' performs on the Available for xBox, enemy robots. Each Playstation 2 and of the combos is GameCube actually useful, as 
Mark's Rating: 8 
he can use them to gain an additional Trevor's Rating: C-weapon or n~charge his ener­gy. 
As the game progresses the character runs into a vehicle. With a press of a button, that vehicle is commandeered and under player control, regardless of whether the acquiring of the vehicle was friendly or not. The driving segments are all about one thing-speed. 
Explosions happen fast enough during the driving segments to satisfy even the 


Golf, Football, Fi~ 
Students review some of th~ 
REVIEWS BY MARK BEMENI 

Terminator 3: Redemption 
most bloodthirsty gamer. In one of many driving segment scenarios, the character is chasing a SWAT van trying to rescue Kate Brewster from the T-X. In another segment. the T-X is clinging to the hoarse and must be knocked off. 
Another thing of note is the T-800 him­self. Although Arnold does not supply the voice, it is well done by a competent impersonator who provides enough Arnold-isms to keep one entertained. The damage that the T-800 receives is portrayed well. The damage the T-800 endures is a constant feature in all of the Terminator movies and it is believably depicted throughout Terminator 3: 
Redemption. 
The one real com­
plaint with the 
game, but a large 
one, is that the 
game is very strict 
with how one may 
progress through 
the level. Unless it is 
done exactly as the Photo courtesy of xbox.gamezone.com 
designers intended, 
one can expect to if the $39.99 price tag seems enticing, The co-op feature is excruciatingly 
see "Mission Failed" buyer beware. After the first mission of bland. This mode of play transports you 
too often, even on walk and shoot, the game progresses and your roommate into the bodies of 
into a driving mission. Usually, these two human soldiers, flying high above 
Overall Terminator 3: Redemption is fast-paced action sequences are the the action of the game in a helicopter. generally tlecent way to avoid doing spotlights of shoot 'em up games. In Each player has his or her O\Vn colored homework. Terminator 3, however, it is simply a targeting receptacle that can be moved 
switch to another style of underdevel­across the screen as the camera flies the 
Trevor: Bland is the word -bland oped gaming. Missions seem to be same fixed route over the battlefield graphics, bland missions, bland every­monotonous and simpleminded, while until each and every enemy Terminator thing. If mindless destruction and unin­waves of Terminators with nonexistent is destroyed. Yawn. spiring game-play is what you desire, artificial ·intelligence throw themselves Even if you are a diehard fan of the you should still pick another game. Even at your feet. Terminator movies, rent before buying. 



Street Fighter: The Anniversary Collection 
Mark: Street Fighter: The Anniversary collection rocks. It is close to being the best video game that has come out dur­ing this half of the year. 
It is Capcom 's gift to the fighter fan. Not only does it come with every DVD version of Street Fighter 2, it comes with Street Fighter III and the Street Fighter anime. What more could one ask at a price tag of $30? 
For those who have been absent from the video game scene, and have never heard of Street Fighter, I have one ques­tion -where have you been the last 15 years? Street Fighter has been a large part of video game culture, one of Capcom's pride and joys. 
The premise is simple-a tournament is being held to attract the strongest fighters around the world. Gameplay is just as simple with three kicks and three punches each of varying strengths. Blocking an attack is as simple as hold­ing back on the controller. But it has been that simple premise that spawned countless sequels and imitations. 
Mastering a character can take weeks, as each character has unique strengths, weaknesses and attack patterns that can be explored and exploited in a variety of different games. Street Fighter III included a parrying system, which added increased depth to the game. 
Replay value lies solely on the gamer. The lone gamer may find the game somewhat short, as unlockables 

Brothers Melee. The fighter genre has been a longtime staple on consoles and in arcades everywhere for years and years. A game with history, the Street Fighter franchise has been a long-time contender in the battle for fighting game supremacy. The only other title that comes to mind with a comparable amount of history and following is the dreaded Mortal Kombat chain of games (which has also spawned numerous sequels, both suc­cessful hits and 

are hard to find 
disappointing
Street Fighter 

and mastering a fluffs).
the Anniversary 

character doesn't As far as game­have the same Collection play goes, master­flavor when the ing the many
Capeom

only thing wit­combo moves and nessing the fight­Available for x8ox special attacks is er's skills is the in . and Playstation 2 the name of this game opponent. game.Button The social gamer Mark's Rating: A+ mashing will only will find this get you so far in
Trevor's Rating: 8 

game has almost battle, so strategy 
unlimited re-playability, with matches that can last for almost 10 min­utes with two garners are of equal cal­iber. 
In an age where 3-D pretty graphics are almost required for a game, it would be easy to overlook this gem. Don't make that mistake. At a price tag of almost half your average game, as well as three different features being included in the game, this should be a welcome addition to aHy gamer's library. 
Trevor: The only fighting game that has made it into my gaming library is the Nintendo Gamecube 's Super Smash and tactics are the 

only way to win. Like Mark mentioned above, it would be easy to bypass this old school title for the flashy new graphics boasted by games like Soul Calibur 2 . 
I wanted to give the Street Fighter game a fair fight in this review, but given that each gamer's tastes may vary, I must admit that I personally would hold no interest in buying this particular title. However, if you are a hard core fighter who holds classic games in high esteem, there should be nothing keeping you from investing in this solid title that has proven its worth over the span of 15 years. 

Wednesday, September 15, 2004 page 13 
~hting and Arnold 
e hottest ne1p video games 
)ERFER AND TREVOR GASS 
Trevor: Another year, another Madden ... apparently the saying still stands, if it makes money, make another one. The Madden games span all three­console platforms (as well as the PC, and Gameboy Advance) and have proven to be a highly successful series. Would any football craving college stu­dent disagree? Why not look into the history of Madden -Madden 2004, Madden 2003, Madden 2002, etc. It would be safe to say that Madden is the Final Fantasy of Football. The most recent installment in the growing dynasty of this pigskin pastime proves to be a step above last years, specifically in the defensive options now available to footbaJl addicts 

everywhere. 
Madden NFL 

The offensive game-play from 2005 Madden 2004 
Electronic Arts 

remains rela­tively intact. 
Modes of play Available for xBox, include the GameCube and familiar fran­Playstation 2 chise mode and 
owner mode, Mark's Ratihg: B+ with a new 
Trevor's Rating: A 
practice mode 
and "mini 
oa:m!p~: .gam-es: Beyond actual gameplay, days of home­work can be neglected as you fine-tune each player on your bench and even design your own fans. 
It is a frequent occurrence in male dorms to be walking down the hall and hear the ruckus of a touchdown from a 


Madden NFL 2005 
room full of guys hunkered down around a TV. Playing against your best friends is a reveled pastime on campus­es nationwide. Now, with the inclusion of on-line gaming, you can be running through the defensive lines of oppo­nents living time zones away. 
Overall, Madden 2005 continues the tradition of further enhancing the game each year. Fans of previous Maddens will have few qualms with this smash hit series. Improvements in the fran­chise mode (as well as aesthetic tweaks) keep the game-play solid, yet still familiar. On a final note, audio wise, not much change can be noticed between 2004 and 2005. Madden's ritu­

:1 
al commentary is fundamentally the same, which can be good or bad. You choose. 
Mark: Madden, Madden, Madden ... when will the dynasty end? The essential elements are all the same. It's still football, as authentic as it gets. There's no "pad" building, no cars to 
steal, and players do not spontaneously combust. For fans of football or Madden, it's hard to find a better game. 
For the average gamer though, he or she may find it better to hold off on buy­ing this game for a few months, or even think about buying an earlier version. 
Even though this is the best version yet, with the most realistic gameplay and increased defensive measures, some may find that plunking down another $50 on this game seems a little pricey­especially considering anyone could find last year's version for about $15. 
Something worth mentioning is that this year, EA Sports released a special edition of Madden. Included on it are three retro _versions of Madden, as well as more teams, trivia and vide.os. It costs $10 more, but considering the lim­ited production run, it's worth picking up. Finding it a year from now, or even in a couple of months may prove diffi­cult. 
For some, it doesn't get much better than Madden. However, the average gamer may find the Madden series is getting a little stale. Sure, there are improved roster.s and some improved game elements, but the game is essen­tially very similar to all the previous versions of Madden football. This little detail wouldn't detract from the game much for your average Madden fan. But it lacks the originality that is found in this year's earlier football title, NFL Street, as well as the price tag that was attached to ESPN NFL 2K5, which hap­pens to only be $20. 

With all the alternatives currently on the market, .this year's Madden may appeal more to true Madden fans than otherwise. Great game, best one yet, but the alternatives certainly are appealing this year as wel1. 
Trevor: Golf is a sport that is not for everyone. Some people may love the sat­isfying thwack as they hit the perfect shot straight down the fairway. Other people can't believe that golf is a tele­vised sport (not to mention the goofy pants). Realizing golf may not appeal to the average person, Hot Shots Golf Fore is catered towards a specific crowd. 
When it comes to golf games, Hot Shots Golf Fore is not exactly on the cut-

Hot Shots Golf Fore 
ting edge of gameplay. For those who have enjoyed the franchises' predeces­sors, there is not much difference in the mechanics of 'Fore." 
The same three-button swing that has been implemented in many older golf games makes another appearance in this "update". One tap of the X button starts the swing meter, while subse­quent taps determine distance and accuracy. Most other recent golf games have realized the potential of using the digital analog control for shots, giving the swing more of a realistic feel and greater control. 
Other aspects of the game are big fac­tors in determining whether Hot Shots Golf Fore is right for you. If goofy look­ing characters playing original­

ly designed Hot Shots Golf 
Mark: Not much courses (15 to left to say after that
Fore

be exact includ­review, Trevor cov­ing a par-3 ered all the main
Sony Computer 

course and a points well. Most of
Entertainment couple of the the previous com­mini-golf vari­Available for ments are ones that 
ety) is what you Playstation 2 I can agree with, crave, "Fore" is such as lesser qual­a game you may Mark's Rating: B+ ity graphics and 
want to· look very repetitive dia­
Trevor's Rating: B-

into. If big-name logue. However, the 

players, hacking it out on courses like Pebble Beach is more your style, then Tiger Woods might be a better fit for your taste. 
Graphically speaking, "Fore" is an update over its predecessor Hot Shots Golf Three. However, it is still inferior to the beautifully rendered fairways and backgrounds of other golf games like Tiger Woods or Links on the X-Box. Hot Shots Golf Fore hits the ball short in the audio department as well. Simple cyclic background music attempts to be a dis­traction from the inanely repetitive quips that the over 25 golfers continual­ly spout out before and after every shot. 
Compared to other golf games on the market today, "Fore" seems to be sorely outdated and outclassed. The addition of an online play option (sorry kids, nroadband only) adds new life to the game, but the absence of a voice chat option sorely detracts from the overall experience. Given the amount of compe­tition "Fore" has to deal with, this sim­ple update from Hot Shots Golf Three may be considered a let down in many 

golfers eyes. 

actual gameplay, although not exact­ly original, is quite good. 
The game may not use the digital ana­log shots newer golf games have adapt­ed, but the method it uses is a tried and true one (seen before in the previous Hot Shot games, as well as Mario Golf). 
Although this game can be seen as a bit harder than Mario. The swing meter moves a little faster than the meter in the Nintendo game, and is a little less forgiving. This can lead to some frustra­tion because the difficulty increases as the gam~ progresses. One may find unlocking some of the more secret char­acters to be as fun as Finals week. 
Overall, it was a pretty fun game. Any golf game that allows you to play as a gopher to relive those "Caddyshack" moments is a winner in my book. 
r-..... 
' ' ~ : I' page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
~ ~ ~ : 
I 
MLB 

I i ' .. 
; I ' \ 
' I ~ I Kazmir outduels Martinez, leads Devil Rays to 5-2 win
' \ 
I I I \ 
• 

Associated Press the seventh on RBI singles by games, reached on a fielder's Huff off Alan Embree and choice in the eighth and came 
BOSTON -Rookie Sc·ott Jose Cruz Jr. off Mike Timlin. around on Alex Rodriguez's Kazmir outpitched Pedro Huff hit an RBI grounder ih double off Dennys Reyes. Martinez to lead the Tampa the eighth. Gary Sheffield's RBI single Bay Devil Rays over Boston 5-Boston threatened in the scored Rodriguez. 2 Tuesday night and sent the fifth with no outs on a double Detroit 11, Cleveland 3 Red Sox to consecutive losses by Kevin Millar and a walk to Dmitri Young set the stan­
I; for the first time in more than Orlando Cabrera. But Kevin dard for Detroit when it came
'.') 
~I 
five weeks. Youkilis struck out, Gabe to hitting and attire. The Red Sox, who lead the Kapler fouled out and Kazmir Young homered and major leagues in runs, were picked Millar off second. matched his career high with ') shut out for· a season-high 16 NY Yankees 4, Kansas City 0 five RBis to power the Tigers 
~ 
.i straight innings before pinch­Mike Mussina pitched over the Cleveland Indians 
\ hitter Trot Nixon's two-run three-hit ball for eight 11-3 Tuesday night, stopping homer in the eighth off Travis innings and struck out a sea­a four-game losing streak. Harper. son-high 11, leading the New Then he gave Tigers out­
Boston dropped four games York Yankees over the Kansas fielder Craig Monroe a tip. behind the AL East-leading City Royals 4-0 Tuesday "Fix your collar, Craig," 
I 
'\ Yankees, its largest deficit night. Young said. "We're represent­since before play on Aug. 31. Jason Giambi went 0-for-3 ing the City of Detroit. We're The Red Sox, who start a with a walk and a long drive no rag team." three -game serie.s in New to the right-field warning Young went 4-for-5 with a York on Friday, had not lost track in his first start for the three-run homer in the fourth back-to-hack games since Yankees since July 23. inning off Kyle Denney, who 
Aug. 4 at Tampa Bay and Recovering from a benign lost in his major league Aug. 6 at Detroit. tumor, intestinal parasite, debut. It was the fourth five­
Kazmir (2 -1). a highly strained groin and respirato­REI game of Young's career, regarded prospect acquired ry infection, the 2000 AL MVP the first since May 6 last year from the New York Mets on is hitless in his last 24 major at Baltimore. seven shutout innings, and man three times, and Augie July 30 for Victor Zambrano, league at-bats. "It feels good to get some the Minnesota Twins used a Ojeda and Blanco both made his fourth major league Derek Jeter hit a two-run hits because I've hit a lot of nine-run sixth to beat the reached base on four balls to start and struck out a season­single, helping New York balls hard, but right at people lethargic Chicago White Sox start the sixth. Shannon high nine, including five in a bounce back from a 17-8 for the last month," Young 10-2 Tuesday night and Stewart moved them up with row. He allowed three hits in drubbing Monday night. The said. "The big thing to me is extend their winning streak to a sacrifice that set up Jones' six innings and walked three. Yankees. who led the AL East watching the Detroit Tigers seven. clutch hit. 
Danys Baez pitched the by 10 1/2 games in mid­organization getting back Santana (18-6) won his 10th Then the White Sox self­ninth for his 16th straight August, boosted the margin respect. When you consider straight start and 11th con­destructed. Eight straight bat­save and 27th in 29 chances. over second-place Boston to how dismal 2003 was, take a secutive dec.ision, and the ters reached. Chicago made 
Martinez (16-6) struck out four games, their biggest look now, we're a couple of Twins incr e ase d the i r I ead two errors and 11 men came 10 but walked .a season-high advantage since they were up pieces away from challeng­over the White Sox in the AL to the plate against four five and allowed solo homers by 4 1/2 games before play on ing." Central to a season-high 11 pitchers. 
to Carl Crawford and Rqcco Aug. 31. Boston comes to New Detroit went 43-119 a year 1/2 games with 18 to play. After an RBI double by Torii Baldelli, leaving after six York for a three-game series ago, setting the AL record for The Cleveland Indians are 14 Hunter, Justin Morneau was innings. He dropped to 9-2 at starting.Friday. losses. games back. walked intenti~nally and Ford Fenway Park this season. Mussina (11-9). who Staked to a 9-1 lead, Santana is 16-2 in 19 starts hit a two-run· stngte'"l'tJ'ililehasei 
The Devil Rays won their snapped a career-worst five­Jeremy Sonderman (10-11) since· June 9 with 179 strike­Garcia and make it 4-0. third straight game after los­game losing skid in his previ­improved to 4-1 with 42 outs and 62 hits allowed in Santana walked Jamie ing 12 in a row, but it was a ous start, gave up just three strikeouts and a 2.00 ERA in 140 1-3 i'nnings. He is one shy Burke on a full count with disappointing homecoming for singles. He dominated a team his last five starts. The 21-of the most consecutive victo­two outs in the seventh, and the Red Sox. They were 5-2 that roughed up seven New year-old right-hander, 6-19 as ries for the team since it Joe Crede crushed a line; drive on the trip that ended Sunday York pitchers for 18 hits the a rookie a year ago, gave up moved to Minnesota in 1961, to right center that could've with a 2-0 loss at Seattle and night before. It was the 38th three runs and six hits in 5 2-a mark set in 1991 by Scott given Chicago its first run. began with a three-game time he struck out at least 10, 3 innings with seven strike­Erickson and tied in 1997 by But Hunter raced over to sweep in Oakland. and he improved his career outs and four walks. Brad Radke. make a fully extended diving 
The Red Sox, who began the record against Kansas City to "It sure feels better this Lew Ford and Henry Blanco catch and end the inning, night 4 1/2 games ahead of 15-6 .. In 12 starts in year," Bonderman said. "I felt each drove in. two runs for the though replays showed the 
Anaheim in the wild-card Kauffman Stadium, the 13-like I would never get off six Twins. ball bounced on the turf first. race, are 16-4 in their last 20 year veteran is 8-1. wins." There was a no-hitter alive Garcia hit Hunter on the games, with three of the loss­Tom Gordon struck out two Detroit had 16 hits, three by in the sixth, and -surpris­hand in the first, possibly 
es against rookies they faced in a perfect ninth, finishing Omar Infante, who also ingly-it wasn't Santana's. retaliating for Hunter's hard for the first time. New York's fourth shutout of homered along with Jayson Freddy Garcia stymied the charge toward home plateMartinez struggled in the the season. Kansas City Smith and Brandon Inge. Twins u n til J a c q u e J o n e s that knocked over and injured
first inning, allowing (three) and Colorado (two) "It was a big night for slapped a single to left that Burke when the teams met in Crawford's ninth homer of the are the only major league Dmitri, just what the doctor simultaneously spoiled the Chicago in late July. year and walks to Julio Lugo teams with fewer. ordered," Tigers manager shutout. Santana hit Carlos Lee on 
/ and Aubrey Huff before retir­Royals rookie Zack ~reinke Alan Trammell said. "I would Garcia {11-11) unraveled, the elbow in the fourth, and ing a batter. He gave up just (8-1 0) went six innings, giv­like to see us spread .the runs and the White Sox followed both benches were warned. two hits the rest of the way: ing up just three hits and two around over a few games, but his lead. He allowed six runs Lee took out Ojeda with a Baldelli's 13th homer in the runs on Jetr..'c:: bases-loaded I'm not complaining. -five earned -three hits hard slide at second base, and third and Toby Hall's single in single in the fifth. Minnesota 10, Chi White Sox 2 and five walks in 5 1-3 shortstop Cristian Guzman 
the sixth. Jeter. who has hit safely Johan Santana turned in innings. had words with Lee as the Tampa Bay made it 4-0 in and scored in 10 straight another dominant start with Garcia walked the leadoff inning ended. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS 
The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer re5erves the right to edit 
Looking for JV Soccer coach for Wanted: NO football tix. Buy/Sell NO football tix. Home & Make your own hours college prep school in La Porte Top$$$ away games,including Mich.St.& All you do is sell the Hawaiian WANTED area. Contact: FoR SALE 251-1570. Tenn. Tropic Break 2005 Chris Balawender at 219-326-7450 574-289·8048. Travel Program Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886-or cbalawender@laluiere.org HOUSE FOR SALE 915 E. NO ftball tix Represent an American Express 4189 Washington Close to campus; 3 booght & sold Student Travel Company 
MSU tix 3 pair at face. Cash. $104 bdrm 1.5 bath & lots of a.m. 232-2378 PERSONAL Guaranteed Highest Now hiring per pair. Call Katies cell. 630·776-closets/storage, 2 car garage. 289-p.m. 288-2726 Commission, Free Trips & Great for Kitchen help & hostess. Apply 4979 5922. Spring break 2005 Challenge ... Resume Your pay equals your Between the Buns Sports Bar, JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, find a better price! efforts South Bend Babysitter needed Oct. 8 and/or 90 Honda Civic OX 4DR, 94K, great NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX F Lowest price specials! AmericanStudent Vacations 
Ave. Oct 9. 7-10o. $13 per hour! Call condition, $1700 OBO OR ANY NO FOOTBALL GAME. FreeMeals! 1·800-336-2260 www.americanstu· Kate (NO 97) !574)289-0811 CALL November 6th deadline! dent info Kaplan needs PT student advisors. at 773-832·0689 674·6593. Hiring reps·eam free trips and cash! / Flexible times. $7/hr. By Turtle www.sunsplashtours.com Nancy, sorry I never came to Creek Apts. LOVE KIDS!! Professional Mom TICKETS Need BC GA tix. Will be used not 1 800-426-771 0 Gorch's-some things came up-Call 272-4135 for 1nfo. needs help picking up children from resold. love, don't hate 
.two area BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX 269-684-61 02. Spring Break 2005 Short·Nanny Needed From 9/27-Catholic schools close to NO & PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273· with STS, Gotta love them fast 10/1 7am tv 5:30pm in Granger for SMC Mon-Fri. 3911 Need BC GA tix. Will be used not Americas #1 Catholic girls 2 kids, ages 4 Wonderful girls and resold. Student Tour .Operator. Go Walsh Football 
and 7. One person all day of split good money for For Sale: ND football tix. Good 269-684-61 02. Hiring campus part tie. Non·smoker, willing to very little time involved! We would prices. 232-0964. reps. Call for group discounts. 303-Heartland Thursday transport love to hear from you! NeedWAtix. I nfo/Re:;erv ations kids a must Contact Jen 674-Call Karen Stonehill For Sale: NO football tix. Good Will trade PU or BC. 1 -800-648-4849 Let's go Joe. You can do it Go 9876. at 272·5013. prices. 232-0964. 57 4-634·3082. www.ststravel.com. Zahm Baseball 

Wednesday, September 15 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 

Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -The Oakland Athletics and Texas Rangers disagreed over who's to blame for an altercation in the stands that led to the arrest of ....--......,=""--...., Rangers reliever F r a n k Francisco after he threw a chair that hit a woman and broke her nose. 
D a v e 
Rinetti, A's vice president of stadium oper­ations, said Tuesday a review of the ninth-inning fracas the night before -which took place in the lower-box seats between the Texas dugout and bullpen -showed the fans' behavior wasn't over the line according to baseball's rules of conduct that are posted at every ballpark entrance. 
"The incident became ugly when players approached the seating area," Rinetti said before the teams played the second game of the four-game 



Are you passionate about your goals? Do you view challenge as a motivator? Do you strive to surpass benchmarks? 
If you answered yes to these questions, you already have several things in common with Bank of America. Ambition. Curiosity. Passion. A willingness to do what it takes to succeed and surpass expectations. 
Get on a career track that will start you well ahead of the competition! To learn more about the exceptional career opportunities at Bank of America for Engineering, Mathematics, Statistics, Computational Finance and Physics majors, join us for these University of Notre Dame events. 
Engineering Industry Day Quantitative MAPs Interviews 
Wednesday, September 15th, 2004 Thursday, October 14th, 2004 The Joyce Center Flanner Hall Interview Center 6:45pm-9:45pm 
If you are unable to attend, visit us online: www.bankofamerlcacareers.com/college. Please indicate Ad Code NDT091504 in the text of your resume when applying. Bank of America is an Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/0/V. 
~ 
BankofAmerica V'HigherStandards 
Blame for baseball brawl in Oakland still up in the air 
Texas Rangers relief pitcher Frank Francisco arrested on charges of aggravated battery after Monday night's brawl in Oakland 
series. 

He noted the fans didn't yell racial slurs or swear at the Texas players. 
Yet Rangers manager Buck Showalter was quick to point to previous problems the Rangers have had in the Oakland Coliseum. He claimed the Rangers had asked for more security in the area, but Rinetti said neither he nor his security staff had been approached .with such a request. 
Still, the A's beefed up secu­rity for Tuesday's game and the remainder of the series ­and probably for the rest of the season. Several additional officers from the Oakland Police Department were brought in to assist the Coliseum's reg­vice president of baseball operations, and Kevin Hallinan, senior vice president of security, were en route to Oakland on Tuesday afternoon. 
With two outs in the ninth inning, Texas' Alfonso Soriano tied the game 5-5 with his sec­ond homer of the night. Moments later, with Hank Blalock batting, tbe Texas bench and bullpen cleared. .­
Francisco threw a plastic chair used by a ball boy at a fan in a lower box near the Rangers' bullpen along the right-field line. The chair hit one man in the head, then bounced and struck the woman on her left temple. 
Bob Watson, the vice presi­dent of on-field operations for 
baseball, will 
decide what 

ular security staff, "There is no excuse punishment will which was be handed out
whatsoever for any
increased by 10 to the players, people in the visit­attack ofour fans while Selig said ing bullpen and by any ofour he would moni­dugout. tor the process.
players under any
The Rangers had "There is no 
a lengthy team circumstances." excuse whatso­meeting before the ever for any game and their attack of our
Bud Selig 
clubhouse was not fans by any of
MLB Commissioner
opened to the 
media the usual 3 1/2 hours before game time. 

Francisco was arrested Tuesday morning on a charge of a.ggravated battery after he threw a chair into the right­field box seats and hit two spectators in the head during the 7-6, 10-inning loss. 
The injured woman, identi­fied by her lawyer Tuesday as Jennifer Bueno, 41, of Livermore, wants Francisco to be prosecuted. A civil suit is also a likely possibility, since she'll need medical treatment, 
said  the  lawyer,  Gary  
Gwilliam.  
Bueno's  husband,  Craig  

Bueno, is a battalion chief with the Hayward Fire Department. Gwilliam wouldn't comment on what Bueno might have yelled 
at the Rangers' such actions,"
"It was a real
players before Hicks said in a the fracas, saying break from the statement, adding he would let the normal trash you that he had been man speak for in contact with
hear from fans. 
himself at a news the commission­
We've had
conference on er's office. He did Wednesday. problems about not say whether "There is no Francisco or any
every time we've 
justification for other player
come here. " 
what they did," would be pun-Gwilliam said. ished. "Fans are fans Texas reliever
Buck Showalter 
and they have a Doug Brocail was
Rangers manager 
seen screaming atright to have some fun and do some badgering if they want." 

Gwilliam said it wasn't just Francisco who went after the A's fans. 
"It's the whole damn team that tried to charge and fight with the fans," he said. 
Francisco was taken from the stadium to jail, where he was booked and his mug shot was taken. He was released about two hours later on $15,000 bail, Oakland Police 
spokeswoman  Danielle  
Ashford said.  
Major League  Baseball's  

commissioner Bud Selig said he was "very concerned about the incident." 
Sandy Alderson, executive 
our players 
under any cir­cumstances," Selig said in a statement. 
The A's were trying to con­tact the woman to apologize. 
After the game, Showalter said the fans "went over the line." 
"It was a real break from the normal trash you hear from fans. We've had problems about every time we've come here," he said. 
But on Tuesday, Texas owner Tom Hicks apologized "for the conduct of some members of our club last night in Oakland." 
"Their behavior, especially the injury to a fan, was unac­ceptable. Even in a difficult or abusive environment, players should never be provoked into 
a male fan, and the pitcher had to be restrained by his teammates and bullpen coach Mark Connor. Others also had to be held back. 
Security ran to the scene and a small section of fans was cleared from their seats. 
During a 19-minute delay, there was talk between the umpires and managers of sus­pending the game. clearing the stands and forfeiting the game. 
Last season, an Oakland fan was charged with assault after throwing a cell phone from the second deck that hit outfielder Carl Everett, then with the Rangers, in the back of the head. 


·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
NFL 

Smith has surgery, Panthers search for replacements 
' ' 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE. N.C.-Steve Smith had surgery Tuesday on his broken left leg, leaving the Carolina Panthers searching for replacements for their top receiver and punt returner. 
Both candidates -Keary Colbert at receiver and Chris Gamble at returning kicks ­are rookies. 
"Obviously that's a blow to lose a guy like Steve Smith," coach John Fox said. "Obviously he's a big-play guy for us both offensively and in the kicking game. But as is football, there's injuries." 
Smith, who signed a $27.5 million contract extension in the offseason, was Carolina's game­
breaker. He led the "Steve Smith is position where it Panthers last sea­was mental mis­
very special out 
son with career takes that put us · 
there for us; he's
highs in receptions behind 24-7. It (88), yards receiv­our home run was bang-bang ing (1,110) and back-to-hack
hitter. .. 
touchdowns (7). He turnovers, so also averaged 28.1 that adjusts how yards a kickoff Mike Minter you play when return. Panthers safety you are down 
He broke his leg late in the fourth quarter of Carolina's 24-14 Monday night loss to Green Bay when he rolled his ankle as he was being tackled after a catch. 
Smith made his way through the locker room on a pair of steel crutches after the game, needing help from a Panthers staff member to put his sock and shoe on his good foot. 
One by one, the rest of the Panthers made their way to his locker to check on him. 

"Steve Smith is very special out there for us; he's our home run hitter," safety Mike Minter said. "We are definitely goh"~g. to miss him." 
Fox said he was unsure how long Smith will be out, but bro­ken fibula's typically take at least eight weeks to heal. 
So the Panthers will turn to Colbert, their second-round pick out of Southern California. 
Colbert was inactive against the Packers, but is expected to make his first start Sunday at Kansas City. In limited presea­son action, Colbert caught eight passes and averaged 34.6 yards per catch. 
"We feel good about Keary Colbert," Fox said. "Steve Smith was a big-play guy and really everything Keary Colbert's showed us, he's a big­play guy. He's going to get his opportunity." 
Gamble r.eturned kicks last season at Ohio State, totaling 92 yards on 20 punt returns and 115 yards on six kickoff returns. The Panthers used him once in the preseason, when he returned one punt for 2 yards. 
Carolina will also try Eugene Baker at returning kicks this week, but he likely won't see any game action because he's a receiver and the Panthers already have four who are active each week. 
So the job will probably fall to Gamble by default, and the first-round pick is already adjusting to starting in the sec­ondary. 
"Chris Gamble is going to be a very good football player in this league, sooner rather than later," Fox said. 
The Panthers better hope it is very soon after falling flat in their opener. 
The defensive line, so good at stopping the run the past two years. was surprisingly out of sync and allowed Ahman Green to run for 119 yards. Green also had two touchdowns rush­ing and caught a third. 
And their offensive line was worse than expected. failing to open up holes for Stephen Davis or giving Jake Delhomme time to pass. 
But Fox refused to blame either line for the loss, pointing instead to two third-quarter turnovers that led to 14 Green Bay points. 
"Let me make this statement -a lot of people think our 0­line and D-line lost that game. That wasn't the case a·t all," Fox said. "We just got in a 
24-7. 
"Do we need to improve on the offensive line? Yes. But are they the rea­son we lost the game? No." 
Fox indicated there will be changes to the offensive line this week. 
Todd Fordham, acquired Sept. 14 in a trade with the Steelers, will likely start at right tackle instead of Matt Willig. And guard Tutan Reyes, slowed most of the preseason with an ankle injury, should replace Doug Brzezinski against the Chiefs. 

Offering afful!"'lHble 
·•. flying lessons 
•,: from South Bend 

For more information contact Nancy O'Connor at631-.5432 

St~ve Smith lies on the ground after breaking his leg late In the Panthers Monday night game ag:-:.lnst the Packers. Smith will be sorely missed this season. 
There's no better place to begin your career than St. Paul Travelers. As America's 2nd largest property-casual­
ty insurer and one of the largest financial firms, we offer a wide variety of opportunities and training with our 
exceptional development programs. Whether you'd like to begin your career in Actuarial Science, Finance, 
Information Technology or Insurance, we have the program for you. If your degree is less specialized, we 
offer programs for Liberal Arts majors. We also have leadership development programs and specialized 
product training. If you're looking for a company that is interested in personal contributions and career growth, look no further. 


OPPORTUNITY: IT, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, FINANCE 
Visit St. Paul Travelers at the Career Fair: Date & Times: 9116104, 4pm-8pm Location: Joyce Center 
Engineering Career Fair Date & Times: 9/15/04, 6:45pm-9:45pm Location: Joyce Center 

If you can't join us, please submit resume to: College Relations, St. Paul Travelers, One Tower Square, 1MN, Hartford, CT 06183-7150. Fax: 860-277-1970. E-mail: college@stpaulstravelers.com 
For more information about our opportunities, visit our Web site: stpaultravelers.com 
- -­ ---­------­ -­ ----­ - -----­ -­- - --­ ----­ 
~  - - - --­ -~  - 
When it's the presti­ 
gious luce scholarship,  
finding you an exciting  
1-yearjob in the Far  
East, strategically cho­ 
sen to match your  
career goal.  
Apply by  
November 5, 2004  
Interested? 29 or  
younger?  Have you no\V  
(or \Vill you have by the  
end of l\Jlay 2005 ) an N D  
degree? No east-Asia  
experience?  

Wednesday September 15, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Marlins defeat Expos during 'home' win in Chicago 

Associated Press afternoon games on a weekday, down the right-field line and a his fifth career complete game. a spirited crowd of 5,457 came fan reached onto the field and His last one also came againstCHICAGO -Maybe the out Tuesday, paying $15..-$5 appeared to pick the ball up. Atlanta, a six-hitter for Florida Marlins should make went to hurricane relief"-for Schneider was credited with a Pittsburgh in a 2-0 shutout on 
Chicago their permanent home. the rare opportunity to see a double, but pinch-runner Ryan June 15, 2000. 
Bringing an appropriate end National League game in an Church scored from first on the Benson (12-11) can become a to their odd stay, Jeff Conine American League park. There play, cutting Florida's lead to 6-free agent after the season and drove in the go-ahead run with were 4,003 at Monday's game. 3. his agent is in negotiations with 
a walk and the Marlins beat the Though the crowd again McKeon protested, but the the Mets on a multiyear deal. Montreal Expos 8-6 Tuesday for seemed to be split between call stood. The Cubs fans in the The lanky right-hander is a sweep of their miniseries at Marlins and Expos fans, the audience cheered, maybe think­beginning to gain some lever­
U.S. Cellular Field. Florida groupies were much ing it was some kind of cosmic age, throwing 15 consecutive "I think we're going to look at more vocal Tuesday. McKeon karma reversal for that fan who scoreless innings after skipping
the whole month of September looked like a politician as he deflected a foul ball in Game 6 a start because of a tired shoul­and realize what we've accom­signed autographs before the of last year's NLCS. der. plished," said Conine, who also game, and fans gave him a The following inning, Tony Cincinnati 7, Philadelphia 6 
hit one of Florida's three standing ovation when he Batista hit a three-run homer Felipe Lopez hit a tiebreakinghomers during a six-run third argued with umpires over a no­off Rudy Seanez (3-1) to tie the two-run triple in the sixth inning. call on fan interference. game. inning and the Cincinnati Reds "A lot of weird stuff has hap­Fans gave the Marlins anoth­"He threw me a fastball and I held on to beat the Philadelphia
pened." er standing ovation after the was looking for a fastball," Phillies Tuesday night. You think? game. Batista said. The Reds have won the first With Hurricane Ivan bearing "I hate to leave here," At least the Marlins can look two games of the three-game
down on Florida, Major League McKeon said. "These fans were forward to going home now. set, giving them their first Baseball decided last week to great. Did you see how they They left Miami last Thursday series win since taking two of 
move the first two games of the were after the game?'' not sure how long they'd be three from St. Louis Aug. 24-26 Marlins' five-game series with The Marlins made sure the gone or even where they were -four losses and one split in the Expos from Miami to fans got their money's worth, headed. They flew home after between. Chicago. The Marlins were too. Florida took a 6-1 lead Tuesday's game and will play With two outs in the sixth and already in Chicago for a week­after Conine, Alex Gonzalez and the Expos in a doubleheader the score tied 5-all, Lopez lofted 
end series against the Cubs, and Miguel Cabrera all homered off Wednesday. They'll finish the a drive off reliever Ryanthe White Sox, the normal resi­of Expos left-h ander Scott series with a game Thursday Madson (9-3) that one-hoppeddents at U.S. Cellular Field, Downs. Cabrera's two-run night. the wall in left-center field, were out of town. homer gave him 100 RBis for NY Mets 7, Atlanta 0 scoring Jacob Cruz and Ryan
The Windy City is a long way the season, making him only While manager Art Howe's Freel. from South Florida, but the the sixth active player to do that future with the New York Mets Jim Thome pulled Marlins took to their new home before his 22nd birthday. is uncertain, Kris Benson is Philadelphia to with his 41st 
like, well, a fish in water. They But the Marlins let the Expos making quite a case for remain­homer, a 437-foot shot off Gabe won both games. making them back into the game, getting ing in their rotation next year. White in the seventh. winners of seven of their last 10 some help from an overeager Benson pitched a four-hitter Ryan Wagner (3-1) allowed in Chicago, and discovered they fan in the sixth inning. for his second career shutout one hit over 1 2-3 innings of have quite the fan base here. With two outs in the sixth, and first complete game in relief for the win. 
Despite short notice and Brian Schneider hit a grounder more than four years, leading John Riedling got the last out New York to a victory over the of the seventh and Joe Atlanta Braves on Tuesday Valentine pitched a scoreless night. eighth. Danny Graves came on 
David Wright. Eric Valent and for the ninth and put runners Cliff Floyd homered to send the on second and third before get­Mets to just their fourth victory ting Jason Michaels to fly out to in 24 games. Bvt they have won center for his 40th save in 49 two of three against the NL chances, his first 40-save sea­East-leading Braves since a son. newspaper reported that Howe The Reds batted around in the will be fired after the season. first against former teammate 
Howe met with owner Fred Cory Lidle to take a 5-0 lead. He Wilpon and general manager used just five pitches to retire Jim Duquette on Tuesday after­the first two batters before noon. "All I can say is I'm man­walking the next three and giv­aging tonight," Howe said ing up a two-run single to Wily before the game. Mo Pena, an HBI double by 
It turned out to be a good way Jason LaRue and a two-run to spend the evening, thanks to triple to former Phillies 
A? three Mets homers and the prospect Anderson Machado, The Marlins lsmael Valdes delivers a pttch during the team's game pitching of Benson, who struck the first triple of his career. agains the Expos In Chicago. out seven and walked n_pne in Machado was traded by the 
How far would you go for a chance to work for one of the best companiesin the entire country? · ·. 
How about across campus? 
Meet our Recruiters at the 
We're Quicken Loans and Rock Financial, one of FORTUNE 
Joyce Center Field House Magazine's Top 100 places to work in America and the nation's #1 online mortgage lender. Thursday, September 16th from 3 to 8 
We offer 1 month paid training, mentor programs, excellent benefits, high-end technology, world-class marketing and one of the best work environments you'll ever find. Come see what we're all about. Meet our recruiters on campus or go to quickenloanscareers.com. 

FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 


llnanclal COMPANIESg 
• UICHI lUll CUIIH TO WORK FOR c-... 
Phillies to the Reds with pitcher Josh Hancock for reliever Todd Jones and a minor league out­fielder on July 30. 
Lidle, who was acquired from the Reds for three minor lea­guers on Aug. 9, threw four scoreless innings after the first. He allowed a total of five hits and five runs with four walks and three strikeouts. 
The Phillies scored a run in the third against Cincinnati starter Jose Acevedo on consec­utive one-out singles by Jimmy Rollins and Placido Polanco and a double by Bobby Abreu. 
They tied the game in the fifth on Abreu's three-run homer, his 28th, and David Bell's 16th, which ended Acevedo's night. 
Acevedo gave up eight hits and five runs -four earned ­with one walk and three strike­outs in 4 1-3 innings. San Francisco 3, Milwaukee 2 
Brewers manager Ned Yost said he and the Miller Park crowd would be happy if Barry Bonds hit his 700th homer and Milwaukee beat the San Francisco Giants. Neither hap­pened. 
Bonds went 0-for-2 and drew two walks, one of them inten­tional, in a 3-2 victory over Milwaukee on Tuesday night. 
Before the game, Yost said he wouldn't pitch around the San Francisco slugger just to keep him from joining Hank Aaron and Babe Ruth in the 700­homer club. 
Bonds worked counts full his first two times up, popping out to shortstop in the first and walking in the fourth. With the score tied at 2 and a man on second in the fifth, Bonds was intentionally walked, drawing boos from the crowd of 27,209 -fans packed the right-field bleachers while leaving some of the ballpark's best seats empty. 
Edgardo Alfonzo promptly lined a pitch from lefty Doug Davis (11-11) to left for an RBI single that made it 3-2. 
Bonds kept the Giants ahead in the sixth when he fielded Brady Clark's single to left and threw out Bill Hall on a one­hopper to the plate. Hall tried to score from second and should have stopped at third but was waiveli through by base coach Rich Donnelly. 
In Bonds' last at-bat, he sent a hard ground ball to right field in the eighth. but second base­man Keith Ginter was shifted perfectly and he threw out Bonds by a half-step. Droves of fans began heading to the exits. 
San Francisco entered a half­game ahead of the Chicago Cubs in the NL wild-card race. 
Yost had said Bonds wouldn't have to worry about another "not-in-my-ballpark" manager ordering his team to pitch around him this week in Milwaukee. As fans and sou­venir seekers began filing into the ballpark, Yost said his pitch­ers wouldn't automatically pitch around Bonds but would chal­lenge him whenever the situa­tion was appropriate. 
"I think they'd love to see us win and see Bonds hit a home run, too, which wouldn't bother me in the least," Yost said. 

Yost hoped the Brewers could pitch to Bonds a dozen times in their three-game series that ends Thursday "because that means we're in a good position" -where Bonds can't decide the outcome of a game on one swing of his mighty bat. 



I I I 
. I , I 
I I I 
'\ 
'' 
\ 
I I 
I I • 
i 
( 
~ t 
. I 
:~ 
I f f 
I 
i! 
): ' 
page 18 




around the dial 
MLB Yankees at Royals 1 p.m., ESPN Pirates at Cubs 1 p.m., WGN Devil Rays at Red Sox 6 p.m., ESPN2 Astros at Cardinals 7 p.m., ESPN White Sox at Twins 7 p.m., FOX Padres at Dodgers 9 p.m., ESPN2 
POKER World Series 6 p.m., ESPN 
COi\1PrLED FRO!'v'\. 'T'HE l1BSERVUtS VVIRI SERVtCES Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
HOCKEY 

Associated Press 
TORONTO -The World Cup returned to Canada after 13 long years. How long hockey will be gone is anyone's guess. 
Joe Sakic, Scott Niedermayer and Shane Doan scored on the first shot of each period Tuesday night, and Martin Brodeur shook off a wrist injury to make 27 saves in Canada's 3-2 win over Finland in the World Cup of Hockey championship game. 
The host nation celebrat­ed the victory, but the joy was tempered because the NHL is set to impose a lockout on Wednesday because of a labor dispute with the players associa­tion. 
No negotiations are scheduled before the cur­rent collective bargaining agreement runs out at midnight Thursday. The NHL's board of governors will meet during the day, and a lockout announce­ment is a forgone conclu­sion. 
But Canada will always have this victory to savor. 
Fans counted down the final seconds that could be the last ones played in North America by Mario Lemieux and Finland's Teppo Numminen if the NHL lockout lasts a year or longer as feared. 

Canada clinched the tournament, formerly known as the Canada Cup, for the first time since 1991. The Canadians lost the World Cup in 1996 to the United States, but rebounded to win the event for the fifth time. Canada has reached the finals all seven times the tournament was held. 
Doan netted the clincher just 34 seconds into the final period when he cut from the corner and came in front to take Joe Thornton's no-look, back­hand pass from behind the goal and give Cana'da a 3-2 lead. 
Miikka Kiprusoff only allowed six goals in Finland's first five games. He withstood tons of late pressure and kept it close, but his teammates couldn't net the equalizer in the biggest hockey game in the history of the small European nation. 
Sakic started the party early for Canada (6-0) when he took a beautiful pass from Lemieux in the slot and fired a shot past Kiprusoff 52 seconds after the opening faceoff. 
Riku Hahl tied it at 6:34 when he deflected Toni Lydman 's shot from the point past Brodeur. 
IN BRIEF 
Indianapolis 500 retools The second 11 spots will be simi­could get on top of him early, he qualifying format larly determined on day two and the might get a little nervous and go for 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis final 11 positions will be decided on some shot he normally wouldn't. I 500 announced a revamped qualify­the third day. think that's what happened. ing format here, breaking with tradi­The fourth day, Indy's traditional It's an indication for me that I can 
tion in an effort to bring excitement "Bump Day" will allow any unquali­win a tour-level match." back into time trials for the fied car to try and bump the slowest Anderson signs with American oval classic. qualifier in the field, regardless of Tennessee for second time 
Indianapolis Motor Speedway where on the grid the car is located. NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Gary owner and Indy Racing League presi­Fish needs little time to Anderson is back with the Tennessee dent Tony George announced that sweep Pedroso Titans. the 33-car field for the May race will DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -Second­The Titans announced on their 
be filled with a four-day qualifying seeded Mardy Fish deff;ated qualifier website Tuesday that they have method in 2005 that features bump­Andres Pedroso in straight sets agreed to terms with the kicker. ing of slow cars each day. Tuesday night in the first round of On Friday, the Tennessean report­
Previously, the positioning for all the Millennium International Tennis ed that Anderson had told the Titans 3 3 spots was determined by the Championships. that he once again would come out of fastest qualifiers on the first day of A silver medalist at the Athens retirement to kick for the team. time trials, then all second, third and Olympics, Fish needed just 59 min­Anderson, who kicked the game­final session qualifiers filling out the utes to defeat fellow American winning field goal for the Titans in fled regardless of speed. Pedroso, who qualified for his first last year's wild card game against 
Now the first 11 positions will go to ATP main draw this week. Fish, from the Baltimore Ravens, will fill the the 11 fastest qualifiers on the open­nearby Vero Beach, improved to 24-void left by Joe Nedney, who was ing day and once those spots are 15 with the 6-1, 6-2 victory. placed on injured reserve filled, rivals will try to bump out "I think I really played well," said Wednesday. slower cars and gain a berth among Fish, who won his first-round dou­Anderson is expected to be ready the 11 fastest. bles match Monday. "I felt like if I for next week's game with the Colts. 
Wednesday, September 15, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
RYDER CUP 
Woods challenged to win the Ryder Cup 
Associated Press 
BLOOMFIELD TOWNSHIP, Mich. -Tiger Woods has been chasing Jack Nicklaus in golf record books since he was a kid. When it comes to the Ryder Cup, though, Tiger does­n't mean Jack. 
Woods has won more PGA Tour events than Nicklaus at this stage in his career, and his eight majors put him on pace to break Nicklaus' all-time record. 
Now, U.S. captain Hal Sutton wants him to bring that same purpose to the Ryder Cup. 
"Nobody has to give Tiger Woods a pep talk," Sutton said Tuesday after the first day of practice at Oakland Hills. 
"All we have to do is just say, 'Hey, Tiget, it's time you felt this is important. I want you to realize that this is going to be an area that guys are going to judge you by down the road, whether you like it or dislike it. You're the one who chose to be as great as you are. Let's give it all you've got and lead this team."' 
Woods can only contribute 
five points to the 14 1/2 points the United States needs to win back the Ryder Cup, but his record has hardly been an inspiration. 
He is 5-8-2 in his three Ryder Cup matches. 
He has been shut out on the first day the last two times, allowing Europe to seize early control. 
He comes into this one no longer No. 1 in the world, his five-year reign atop the world ranking uprooted by Vijay Singh two weeks ago outside Boston. 
Even so, he is the star of the American team, and in that regard, his captain's urging is new to Woods. 
"It's not any different than the rest of the captains have said," Woods said. "I qualified No. 1 in points every time. All I know is that I've tried my best. Unfortunately, I just haven't gotten more points for our team. Hopefully, I'll be able to their European counterparts get more points for our team for pride and patriotism. The where we can win this thing." rest of the time, they are try­
Players take one week every ing to win major champi­other year to compete with onships, and Woods drove 
. ·MAKE IT PERSONAL 
Many on the Notre Dame campus have probably been affected in some way by cancer's wrath. Maybe it was a loved one or a friend who had to battle or is battling the disease. Regardless, the toll cancer takes can be painful both physically and emotionally. But we can fight back. We can take action by participating in this weekend's events to help raise money for cancer research and education. On Friday night, 9/17, the Relay for Life will be taking place at Stepan Center. On Saturday, 9/18 @ II am, the annual RecSports Domer Run begins. Make it personal and take a walk or go for a run Saturday to support those who have been affected by this disease. Either way, you will be doing your part in the fight against cancer! 
DOMER RUN Saturday, September 18, llam 
Hesburgh Library quad Uust north of the stadium). 
This year's proceeds will benefit ovarian cancer research and education. 

Pancake breakfast to follow. All finishers will receive a Domer Run T-shirt. 
Awards will be presented in the following categories: 
3 Mile Run -Men & Women 
* 
undergrad, grad, faculty/staff, off-campus, youth 6 Mile Run -Men & Women 

* 
undergrad, grad, faculty/staff, off-campus, youth 


Register now until Spm, September 17 in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for $6 or $10 day of the race. 
The 2004 Domer Run is in memory of Barbara Link, deceased wife of Dave Link, Dean Emeritus of the Notre Dame Law School. 

home that point with a quiz for reporters. 
"I'm sure all of you guys probably know what Jack's record is in the Ryder Cup, right?" he said. looking around a crowded room and getting no takers. "Anybody? No? 
"How many majors did he win?" Woods continued, and heard murmurs of "18" across the room. 
Then again, Woods got him­self in trouble with the British press two years ago at the American Express Championship in Ireland, a week before the Ryder Cup. He was asked which week was more important for him to win, and he picked the World Golf Championship. 
"Why? I can think of a mil­lion reasons," Woods said, referring to the $1 million winner's check. 
But comparisons to Nicklaus come with a caveat. 
Nicklaus (for those keeping score, his record was 17-8-3) played in a different era of the Ryder Cup, a time when the Americans only had to show up to claim the gold trophy. 
The United States was 5-0-1 in Nicklaus' six Ryder Cups, only one of which came after continental players were added to the European team to make it more competitive. 
The first one was the famous tie, when he graciously con­ceded Tony Jacklin a short par putt on the final hole of the final match. 
In the other five matches, the Americans won by at least five points, a margin that now would be considered a blowout. 
Europe has captured the cup six of the last nine times, so it's no surprise that Phil Mickelson (8-5-3) and David 
>· 
Toms (3-1-1) are the only U.S. players with a winning record. 
"Guys, I go out there with the same attitude, and that's just to win, period," Woods said. "I don't go into any tour­nament thinking it would be great to lose. It would be asi­nine to think that way." 
Sutton doesn't believe he has anything to worry about. 
He looked like a college foot­ball coach during the Tuesday practice round _ the square jaw, the sunglasses, arms fold­ed across his paunch _ as he watched Woods hit a wedge that spun back over the cup on the 11th green. 
Someone mentioned that Woods was in a slump, having won only one time this year and losing the No. 1 ranking for the first time in five years. 
"Oh, man, I was out there watching him play. I don't know if you've been out there, but I've been licking my chops over it," Sutton said. "I don't think he's in any sort of a slump right now. I aspire to be in his slumps. 
"No, no, don't be worried about Tiger Woods. If that's your only worry, you have no worries." 
Europe wasn't buying into it, either. 
Padraig Harrington of Ireland, his team's highest­ranked player, said he thought ·woods might be tougher this week at Oakland Hills than at his other two Ryder Cups. 
"His record has not been as good as he would like," Harrington said. "He's out to prove something. There's defi­nitely going to be a backlash from Tiger at some Ryder Cup. It's going to happen. l would think it's more of a wounded Tiger at the moment, and it would be very dangerous to play against him. 



I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!P.-----------------------------· 
• DESICN CUT&. STYL£ *ADVANCED COLO"-INC &. CO"-"-ECTION * P"-OFHSIONAL MAKE-UP* $20 OFF *MEN'S STYLINC * AV(DA SPA MANICV"ES &.. PEDICU"-H • BODY&. FACIAL WAXINC * 
HI-LITE AND HAIRCUT PACKAGE! 
-Exclusively with our Designers, Creative Designers and selected Master Designers­
·­

Illusions-> 
AVEDA· 
OONCEPT SI\LON 
OPEN MONTHRU SAT GIFT CERTIFICATES
574-272-03I 2 

Designers Trained in London, Toronto, Los Angeles, Atlanta & Chicago Offer valid thru October 31, 2004 '"-;;;;;o;;;;;N;;;;;w;;;;;o;;;;;o;;;;oiiiiiisiiiiiiEiiiiiiH•'N ..
~~~;;;lSA;;_;i;;l;;;;;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiOT•H•E•c•o•"•N•E-R..;;;;;;;;;;;o;;;;F;;;;;;r;;;r;...,;;;;;r;;;E;;;;;R;;;;;o;;;;;.2.;;;3;;;;;&...... ..oiiiiiiiiiiOwiiiiiisiiiiiwiiiii;...,iiiiiiyiiiiiiiiiiOiiiiiiiiiiO;;j:;;;;;!=~·li-=:iiiiiiiiiiO~~~~~:;;c;;i:iiiiiti~~ _1L!"~s!~~.: ~r:_ I~!~E-~E-c!"~ ~~E!!_E_F2~ :,oJ~ _.. 
-l-,-------­
page 20 Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

Giambi returns to Yankees lineup, ready for Boston 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Jason Giambi returned to the New York Yankees' lineup Tuesday night for the first time since July 23, batting sixth against the Kansas City Royals. 
"I feel great," said Giambi, who went 2-for-16 with two doubles and four strikeouts in a rehabilitation stint at Triple-A Columbus that ended Monday. 
Manager Joe Torre said his plan was to use Giambi strictly as a designated hitter. With the Clippers' elimination from the International League playoffs, all of the Yankees' farm clubs have completed their seasons, so the major league team was the only place to get Giambi game time. 
Giambi was activated with an eye toward the Yankees' upcoming weekend series against Boston, which began play Tuesday night trailing New York by three games in the AL East.

•) In two games against the Royals, Giambi could get seven or eight at-bats. 
Spartans 
continued from page 24 
"The front-four just played tremendous for us," 

"I tell you, he was excited about it," Torre said. "You're thinking about obviously play­ing the Red Sox this weekend and you have to find out where he is at this point. 
"We think he'll need about 24 or 25 at-bats," Torre said. 
The 2000 AL MVP, recovering from a benign tumor, intestinal parasite, strained groin and respiratory infection, is hitless in his last 21 big league at-bats. He felt weak all season and was hitting just .221 with 11 homers and 36 RBls. 
"Certainly the curiosity about Jason and the fact that he start­ed the year as this club's cleanup hitter, it could have a big impact," Torre said. 
Torre said once Columbus was eliminated, there was sim­ply no other effective way for Giambi to continue getting his game up to speed. 
"I spent five days down there and I did OK," said Giambi, greeted with hugs all around the clubhouse. "The thing is just to keep playing, go from there. 
"I did some hacking. I got some hits. What I need is to get 
front seven." 
On the Notre Dame side of the ball, quarterback Brady Quinn said he is ready to make improvements since the Michigan game in which he was 10-for-20 for 17 8 yards in 
Goolsby said. "The phase I the air. "There were "We try to be
started with this 
times where as tough critics and
week was their
a linebacker looking at the I'm trying to defensive phase, tape there were get into my defensive team .,, a ton of things 
gap and there that obviously I was no gap missed out because they Ty Willingham there, and I 
had everything Irish coach could have 
closed up. They clogged everything up for us. Those front-four rotating in and out did a greatjob for us." 
Willingham was also pleased with his defense and its ability to stop the run. 
"The luxury it gives us is it really forces the opponent into one dimension in this game," he said. "Any time you can force an opponent into one dimension, then you can kind of slowly take apart that other dimension. In the game of football, it is impor­tant that the dimension that you take away be the run." 
As far as the Michigan State team that the Irish face, W.illingham said he was impressed with its front seven on defense. 
The Spartan defense gave up 263 yards on the ground and 93 yards in the air to Central Michigan last week, but only seven points. Willingham, however, said he is concerned with the Spartan front line. 
"The phase I started with this week was their defen­sive phase. defensive team," Willingham said. "I was extremely impressed with their front seven, really thought it could be the best front seven that we've seen so far this year. 
That should be saying a lot because I think Michigan's group is highly touted in terms of their skill, their size, their ability. But I was really impressed with Michigan State's defensive 

played better," 
Quinn said. "With our offense there were some things that we could have tightened up with the running game and passing game to put more yardage on the board." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
some good at-bats. I'll take it game by game and go from there." 
He said his strength is return­ing. 
"It's getting back there. I'm working out and I'm staying on top of it. Playing is the only way we'll be able to gauge how far away I am." 
Giambi again declined to answer questions about the tumor. 
He excited Royals fans crowd­ed around the railing when he came out with the other players to stretch. 
"Hey, Giambi, welcome back," one fan yelled. "Are you playing tonight?" 
"Thanks," Giambi said with a smile. "Yeah, I'm in there." 
Torre said Rick Down, a Yankees hitting instructor, said Giambi is "still in the process of getting comfortable." 
"But he thought his swings were good. He thought he was on the fastball pretty good. So we'll see,"Torre said. 
The Yankees will be studying Giambi 's swing the next few days, not his results. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Tenn remembers the rain 

Associated Press sort of thing happen." Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Playing said Tuesday. in the rain against Florida Florida scored 24 points in brings back some bad memo-the second quarter while ries for Tennessee. Tennessee fumbled on four 
The No. 13 Volunteers (1-0) straight plays during one may face wet conditions when sequence. the 11th-ranked Gators (1-0) Quarterback Casey Clausen visit Saturday night. fumbled three snaps, and full-
Forecasts have the remnants back Troy Fleming lost the ball of Hurricane Ivan coming right before halftime. through the area later this The game was so bad Fulmer week. apologized to fans afterward. 
When Tennessee played "That second quarter was an Florida in the rain in 2002 in embarrassment," he said after Knoxville, the Vols fumbled the game. eight times and lost 30-13. Though no more embarrass­
"We self-destructed offensive-ing than what happened in ly. We've got to not make that 1995 in Gainesville, when rain turned The Swamp into a swamp. Tennessee took a 30-14 lead late in the second half behind quarterback Peyton Manning, only to see the Gators score the next seven touch­downs and win 62-37. 
This year, Tennessee has two freshmen quarterbacks playing in their first Southeastern Conference game and one that usually helps decide the East division champion. 
The man snapping the ball, center Jason Respert, is a sen­ior, but he moved over from guard this season. 
The Vols will use wet footballs in practice to prepare for the worst.

Wednesday, September 15, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
fOOTBALL 
Cornerback Ellick steps up to the challenge 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Editor 
Senior cornerback Dwight Ellick has emerged as a leader in the Irish secondary. Against Michigan, he forced a fumble, recovered a fumble and inter­cepted a pass, while playing solid defense against arguably the best receiving corps in the country. 
"Dwight has really stepped up his play," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "He came into this season very focused, commit­ted to being even better than he had been in our program:·And so far his work ethic and his desire to improve has really led him to be. His first two ballgames are pretty good, give or take a few plays here or there, but his play has been really good. And, of course, we came into the season believing that was kind of a green area for us. Those guys are start­ing to kind of shore up the play in the back end." 
Ellick is joined in the secondary by senior cornerback Preston Jackson, who also played well against Michigan after a good game against Brigham Young, registering five solo tackles and a pass break-up. The safeties are redshirt freshman Tom Zbikowski and senior Quentin Burrell. who had five and six tackles, respectively, against Michigan. Zbikowski also broke up a pass. 
Gardner gone 
Willingham confirmed Thesday 

1.5GHz Pentium® M Windows XP Pro 
14.1 Inch screen 40GB Hard Drive 

with  Integrated 802.11 big Wireless Networking  1.5GHz PentiumAM with Windows XP Pro  Integrated 802.11 a/big Wireless Networking  
56Kbs Modem  14.1 Inch screen  56Kba Modem  
Ethernet NIC  30GB Hard Drive  Ethernet NIC  

256MB DDR SDRAM 3-year warranty 512MB DDR SDRAM 3-year warranty 
CD-RWIDVD Combo Drive CD-RW/DVD Combo Drive 
j

$1.649.00 $1.934.00 . 
Popular Options and Accessories flliscount.d Prlcu R.ftact.dl 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Rash Drive $55.00 73P3599 $39.95 01N1575 $314.00 73P2582 $49.95 08K8214 
The featured models Include: 3Year Parts a. Labor Warranty CBatterv: 1 Yearl, 24 HourToii-FreeTechnlcal Supf'Ort. Rapid Restore Rescue and Recovery Software, Norton AntiVirus 2004 COEM Edition). Internet Scroll Bar. Spiii-Real•tant Keyboard. Touchpad ..nd Trackpolnt, Hard Drive Shock Absorber. 

Bring in this ad for $2.00 admission One per person Must be 21 w/ valid picture ID 
Dueling Piano Bar & Grill 

~J ~ 1{·1;It:J!{i:lll11·l~:' l;il 
Check out our great food specialsll World fatMous dueli"g pia"o show 
ever ni ht! 

100 N. Center St. Mishawaka (In the 100 Center behind Hacienda) 
(574) 259-7522 

www.rumrunnet"susa.com 
-

that redshirt freshman corner­
back Isaiah Gardner had left the 
team. He was not listed on the 
roster this week. 

"He is no longer a member of the team," Willingham said. Willingham could not elabo­rate. 
Stovall stronger in second week 
After committing three penal­ties against BYU in the first game, the junior wide receiver stepped up against Michigan last weekend. 
He caught five passes for 82 yards against the Wolverines, a team high. He is also returning kicks for the Irish, and playing on special teams in other situations, as well. 
"I think Maurice Stovall is play­ing very, very good football," Willingham said. "What is very good football for me is just that he's giving absolute effort. And you see that not just in his receiv­ing abilities, which he's made some key catches for us this year, but you see it in how he's con­tributed in special teams, block­ing, all the other areas. He's play­ing excellent football." 
After BYU Willingham said that receivers coach Trent Miles talked to Stovall about being aggressive without penalties. 
"That was probably more his coach that took the leadership in that, coach [Trent] Miles, that really just addressed [the penal­ties]," Willingham said. "But, no, we love it when you're aggressive. That's the way the game has to be played. And he's doing that. He's being a great leader for our team, he's mak­ing big plays." 
Walker's Impact 
True freshman Darius Walker leapt onto the scene of college football against Michigan with 31 carries for 115 yards and two touchdowns in his collegiate debut. But Willingham was quick to say that the freshman still has a lot of maturing to do, despite the solid performance. 

"Well, first of all, we're still early, okay?" Willingham said. "We've got a lot of growing to do in Darius, we've got a lot of grow­ing to do in our back field. .> Hopefully performances like this clear the air a little bit and starts to stack things a little bit so you know who you can depend on." 
When asked who he would start if Walker, Travis Thomas, Marcus Wilson and Ryan Grant were all healthy, Willingham said he would probably start Grant. 
Contact HeatherVan HoeGarden 
at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Bethel 
continued from page 24 

game, but our defense didn't perform that well." 
The loss drops Saint Mary's to 1-6 on the year. 
The Belles' inability to com­municate on both offense and defense has been a problem for them thus far this season. 
Also, their slow starts contin­ue to hinder them later in the contests. 
The Belles have more than enough ability and talent, they just need to have more focus 

However, there are still two teams below them "We have enough in the MIAA, 
talent, but we need to
where the Belles 

put it all together 
currently stand at 1-4. and just play our Saint Mary's has 
game and have fun ... 
plenty of confer­ence games left on its schedule Michelle Gary and can still make Belle llbero a run in the league. 
and stick to their original game plan once the match begins. 
Saint Mary's gets a nice break, not play­ing again until Saturday at 
4:00 p.m. against Adrian College. 
The Belles 

"At this point, we are down in some ways, but we still want to win," Gary said. "We have enough talent, but we need to put it all together and just play our game and have fun." 
will continue to polish up their game as they prepare to battle another conference opponent. 
Contact Justin Stetz at 
jstetz@nd.edu 


KEVIN HART Notre Dame Professor of English 
Teacher of "Poetry and Prayer," "In Parables," "Wallace Stevens," and "Religious Poetry: Herbert and Hopkins" 
Author of The Dark Gaze: Maurice Blanchot and the Sacred; The Trespass of the Sign: Deconstruction, Theology, Philosophy; Flame Tree and other books of poems 
speaking on #Poetry and Revelation" 
Thursday, September 16 7:30pm, CCE Auditorium 

Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

\ \ 
I \ 

' ) 
Indiana 
continued from page 24 
three of the past six NCAA titles. 
"There have been a couple of storied programs in men's soc­cer and Indiana is one of them," coach Bobby Clark said. "They've always had excellent players and played a very good schedule-never hidden from anyone." 
As one might expect from the nation's top team, the Hoosiers bring everything to the table, boasting strengths on both offense and defense. 
"They defend very well, very hard," Clark said. "They play­they score goals, there's no question. They do a good job at 


'Ii 
:· ~ Hoosiers 
I } 
I ) I ( continued from page 24 
season, the Irish will take the field tonight as underdogs. 
This game is pivotal for the men's soccer program, and it gives the Irish a chance to put yet another record in the books. 
They have the chance to walk away with a victory against the top-ranked team ­and they have the talent to make that chance a reality. 
This year's 3-0-1 start is the best for any team under fourth-year Irish coach Bobby Clark. 
They return an All-American keeper in Chris Sawyer and what may be the nation's best defense, anchored by Goldthwaite and Jack Stewart. The trio of captains have one overriding goal for this season, 

! 
and it is to take home the ) national title. To do that, the Irish have to start scoring goals. They have the opportunities. 
i 
{ They have the talent. However, 
I ? most of the experienced go-to 
I men are gone.
:: 
A variety of players, includ­ing Stewart and his fellow 

~ 
defender Christopher High, 

~ 
( have put up key points for the ( Irish. Justin McGeeney, Brian 
J ) Murphy and Ian Etherington
I 
everything." 
While the Irish managed to knock off the Hoosiers, 1-0, at Alumni Field last year, Clark stressed that the big victory last season has no bearing on the game tonight. 
"(Last year's win has] absolutely no importance at all this year," Clark said. "What happens before doesn't really hold a lot of credence in what's going to happen the next time. It's what we do tonight that will be important." 
One thing is for sure -Clark certainly won't have any trouble pumping up the team for the contest. 
"I don't think we need to wind them up and get them excited," Clark said. "This is a little bit like football playing Michigan. It's important that we keep our 

all looked on the verge of mak­ing things happen in Sunday's 0-0 tie with Cal State­Fullerton. 
Nate Norman was undoubt­edly one of the most dangerous offensive forces in any game. 
However, a goal-scoring machine has yet to step up for the Irish. 
Their opponent tonight has proven to be able to score goals, defeating Evansville 4-0 over the weekend. 
The Irish had a number of nearly-perfect scoring oppor­tunities in their game against Evansville, but were unable to capitalize until the final two minutes. 
But with the forward line becoming more confident in the red zone, the Irish may have the perfect one-two punch to knock off Indiana. The defense is considered one of the nation's foremost and has the ability to make every game a shutout. 
Taking advantage of ball control in Hoosier territory will create chances that could convert into goals. 
The combination is the punch-jab that can send the Irish back to South Bend with a "4" in the win column. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact 
heads and keep thinking out there." 
While they produced a num­ber of scoring chances, finishing was a problem for the Irish this weekend at the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. 
The Irish took 34 shots before finding the back of the net in a thrilling 2-1 victory over Evansville Friday night, before battling Cal State Fullerton to a 0-0 double-overtime stalemate on Sunday afternoon. 
Friday's game against the Purple Aces proved to be a test of tenacity and patience as the Irish continually produced prime scoring opportunities, yet time and time again failed to close the deal. 
After 88 minutes of scoreless soccer, the Irish finally punched through when midfielder John Stephens lifted a perfect ball into the center of the box and found the head of charging defender Christopher High for a 1-0 Irish lead. 
Notre Dame didn't have to wait long to celebrate once again. 
Forward Justin McGeeney gained possession just across midfield, beat a Purple Ace defender, and calmly put the ball in the left corner of the net with 53 seconds remaining. 
McGeeney's tally ultimately stood as the game-winner. 
Evansville forward Ian McAuley knocked home a loose ball at the 89:41 mark to foil Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer's bid for his second shutout of the young season. 
Notre Dame dominated the contest's peripheral statistics, outshooting the Purple Aces 36 to four and registering 11 cor­ner kicks to Evansville's two. 
Despite once again controlling the contest, the breakthrough never came Sunday against Cal State Fullerton. 
The Irish recorded 27 shots to the Titans' 14, yet both teams were left with goose eggs on the scoreboard. Nate Norman were named to 


"We're obviously disappointed the all-tournament team for to have created opportunities their play over the weekend. and not have taken them," After challenging Indiana Clark said. "There were pleas­tonight, the Irish head home to ing features of [last weekend's host Georgetown Saturday night performance], but there were at Alumni Field. also things that we can improve on -tidy up a little bit." 
Defender Jack Stewart and Contact Matt Puglisi at midfielders Greg Dalby and mpuglisi@nd.edu 


University ofNotre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay, or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
-~7:30PM 

119 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 Academic Year 2005-2006 Fall 2005-Spring 2006 Applications available: www.nd.eduf....,intlstud 

Wednesday, September 15, 2004 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 
--------------------------------------------------~----------------------­
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
IS IT OKAY IF I TAKE ON FIVE NEW PROJECTS AND TEN DELIVERABLES? ) UM ... OKAY.  MY MOTIVATIONAL E-MAIL MESSAGES ARE WORKING.  CAN YOU HELP ...  WHOA! DON'T YOU KNOW HOW MANY PROJECTS I HAVE?  
'­ 
PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  


IT'~ EM6ARRA551NG SITTING HERE WITHOUT AN'/ CLOTHE5 ON .. 

JUMBLE 

I I r tJ 
C2004 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Righ Is Reserved. 
RIM EN 

rJ I rJ
1 
RAMAAD 
1 

rJ 
www.jumble.com
tFACTUE t

IJ I J I 
AILs: 

A"[ I I I I ]" OF [ I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: WHOOP NEWLY ISLAND BABOON Answer: When the tornado hunters spotted the twister, they-were-"BLOWN" AWAY 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
Now I can hang this up and 
real~ ~"dy 11 
1 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as _... suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

imre~~\tr Uorkante,;
Crossword 

Edited by Will Shortz No. 0804 
ACROSS 37 "Tell Laura 67 Griffin of the 1 Variety of guitar Her'' (1960 hit) N.B.A. 6 Walked (on) 40 Burrowing 68 Bird that "at insect heaven's gate 
10 Touches with a 
sings," in
live wire 41 "I mean it!" 
Shakespeare
14 Volcanic 42 Leeway 
69 Within the hour 
creation 44 Not healthy 
70 Rough tools
15 Part to play 
45 Hand raiser's 16 Jacques's cry 
DOWN
steady 
50 Fountain basin 

1 Stock market 
17 Make smooth feature 
turns
18 Crude org. 53 Violinist Leopold 
2 Parliament city 
19 Mushroom cap 54 Yes, to 
3 Not piquant 
part 16-Across 
4 Take back
20 Hand raiser's 55 Hand raiser's 
5 Opera with "Ave
declaration request 1 
Maria"
23 _de guerre 61 Girl in Lou 
6 l'oeil
24 Far from haute Bega's "Mambo 
7 Part of a
cuisine No.5" 
climber's gear
25 1945 John 63 "Dies 
8 Couturier 
Wayne western 
64 Confident way 

Cassini 
27 Hand raiser's to solve 
9 Figures out
shout crosswords 
10 Quick sidestep 
32 The Louisville 65 Not completely 
11 Protein acid
Lip closed 12 Person who sits 
33 Freedom ·from 66 "Don't look at 34 "Dream 46 Adopt, as a pet 52 It was played by
in front of a
hardship me!" Children" George
cabin 47 March sound
essayist . Harrison 
13 City famously 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 35 Threshold 48 Harder to grasp 56 Suffix with sock 
visited by Martin Luther King Jr. 36 Peddle 49 "Beverly Hills 57 Denouncer of in 1965 38 Short biography 9021 0" girl Caesar, 63 B.C. ~-::::--f~ 21 Motion picture 39 Body of good 50 Fable 58 Supports angle: Abbr. conduct conclusion 59 Use scissors 22 "Beyond the 40 Hurry-scurry 60 Squeezes (out) 
51 Board used in
Sea" singer, 
43 Waifs "The Exorcist" 62 Torah holder
1960 
26 Numbers game For answers, can 1-900-285-5656, $1.2.0 a minute; or, with a
27 Banshee's c,.Y 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
28 " Enchanted" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
~~-::;-+=+=-t-:-11-:i (2004 film) 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
29 Gasser 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 --=-~~r-:-t~-=-1 30 Ask for more past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). issues 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ....;;..!~.,;..;;.~~.,;..;;.~....;;....a~ 31 Beaver, e.g. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
. THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-

Narne ________________________~-----------------­Address ____________________________________ ___ 
City ________ State .___:...___ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Adam Lamberg, Callum Keitt Rennie, Sam Neill, Joey Heatherton 
Happy Birthday: The sooner you secure yom position both personally anc professionally this year, the better. Once you have everything in place to yow specifications, you will..rest much easier. Let others fend for themselves Your numbers are 3, 6, 15, 24, 35, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can form alliances with colleagues anc make presentations that will ensure a better work environment. Opportunitie~ to move into a better position are present. ** * TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Today is all about love, socializing and doin! what you enjoy the most. You can be creative with youngsters or just plar something special with the person you love the most. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may want to make personal changes 01 alterations to your home, but now is not the time. Expect things to backfin and don't rely on getting help from friends or family.** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be a big hit at anything you attend today 
Your knowledge and excellent memory will pay off. Love is apparent, so don' back down if you are attracted to someone. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stop thinking too big. Once you get the concept o "less is more," you will begin to move forward. You can make critical careei moves if you are smart and think about the best way to get ahead *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Leave yourself a little extra time to pul everything together. You will be a little unpredictable today, which rna) surprise everyone who knows you well, including yourself. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Prepare to put in some time getting thing~ organized at home. Outd(')or and indoor renovations or decorating will go wei 
as long as you stick to your original game plan. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You are a Good Samaritan and nothing wil stand in the way of you doing whatever you can to help the underdog Organize an event or fund-raiser for those in need in your community **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may overstep your bounds today Overspending and making unrealistic promises will result in bad feelings Avoid keeping secrets.** 
' CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get involved in as many projects as you set fit. You will have a tremendous capacity to indulge in whatever grabs you: interests. Follow through with what you believe in. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money, legal and health issues may al play a role in your life today. You will have w take on added responsibilities. Thi~ is not the time to back down.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put yourself on the line today and, if you likt someone, let them know. Personal relationships will develop if you are ope1 and honest.*** 
Birthday Baby: You have a very determined nature. You are honest, loyal an< will never let anyone down. You do what you say and welcome challenges 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com 

~ ------~­

...... 

Wednesday, September 15, 2004 page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Rivalry renewed 
Irish ready for grudge match with Indiana 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Tonight the Irish look to take a bite out of the top dog. 
Notre Dame travels to Bloomington to lock horns with in-state rival and consensus No. 1 Indiana {4-0-0) at 7 p.m. 
While Indiana and Notre Dame both participated in the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic and the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament, respec­tively, the past two weekends ­the Hoosiers won both tourna­ments while the Irish recorded a pair of runner-up finishes ­tonight's match marks the first time the squads have met head­to-head this season. 
Historically, Indiana has been one of the nation's premier pro­grams, winning last year's national championship and 
see INDIANA/page 22 

NO looks to remain undefeated against No.1 Indiana 

They have circled each other like wary boxers in the ring, playing together in Kate Gales tournaments for two con­secutive 
Sports Writer 
weekends, but never stepping on the turf as oppo­nents. Indiana took home titles 

in both, with Notre Dame pick­ing up the respective runner­up prizes. But now the Hoosiers are hosting the Irish in Bloomington, and there are more things at stake than defending their No. 1 ranking. 
The Hoosiers cannot have forgotten the feeling of leaving Alumni Field after giving up a goal with four minutes left in the second overtime period last season. Over 2,100 fans packed the stands to watch defender Kevin Goldthwaite tap the ball in for the winning golden goal. 
Notre Dame would go on to peak at No. 3 in the national rankings, bring home the Big East championship and bow out of the NCAA Tournament in the round of 16. 

Indiana, however, would fin­ish the season with the NCAA Championship, going undefeat­ed in its final 18 games and losing only three all season. They look to repeat the feat this year. 
And so, for the first time this 
see HOOSIERS/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
-Belles lose to the Pilots 
Loss drops Belles to 1-6 on season 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

On Tuesday night, Bethel College proved to be the better squad as they knocked off the Saint Mary's volleyball team. 
In three games, the Pilots handed the Belles one of their worst losses this year. 
"Bethel had some very strong points, but they were not the most difficult team we have played by any means," senior Michelle Gary said. "The scores did­n't reflect the games and we just didn't put it together as a team." 
The Belles failed to put points on the board, but their defense is where they struggled the most. 
In the three games, Saint Mary's was outscored 90­51. 
Losing the first game, 30­14, the Belles went on to drop the next two games by scores of 30-17 and 30-20. 
"Tonight, it was the drive," Gary said. "We were slow to gain momentum. The offense played a strong 
see BETHEL/page 21 
r 
fOOTBALL ~ 
j: 
r
Irish, Spartans ready for battle this weekend f· f 
I
I
Against Michigan, the Irish were able to match the physi­r 
I
cal play of the Wolverines with I their size and strength, espe­I 
cially on defense. Linebackers Mike Goolsby, Derek Curry and Brandon Hoyte stepped up, making play after play and getting the defense fired up. Goolsby led the group with 14 tackles, Curry contributed six, including one sack and Hoyte registered nine tackles. Goolsby acknowledged the defensive line on Monday as one of the keys to holding Michigan to 56 yards on the ground.

By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
It's a rivalry where the last five games have been decided by 10 points or less. Notre Dame-Michigan State is usual­ly not a disappointing game, and no one knows that better than former Spartan quarter­back and Irish coach Tyrone Willingham. 
"What I would say is that Michigan State believes that it plays its best football against Notre Dame," Willingham said at his weekly press conference Tuesday. "That belief has been passed on going back probably many, many years, that they just feel like that is a game they play great in." 

The Irish are preparing for a second straight physical battle, after Saturday's matchup against Michigan. 
"I would say that, without question, those two ballgames will be two of the more physi­cal ballgames you play, espe­cially the Michigan State game," Willingham said. "As you mentioned, I have history with that game. You know what's said in the locker room, you know what they think, what they want to do in that particular game." 
FOOTBALL 

Cornerback Dwight Ellick steps up his play for the Irish. 
page 21 
FOOTBALL

MLB 
HOCKEY 
Tiger Woods is ready

Slugger Jason Giambi 
Canada 3 

returns to action for the 
to compete for the 
Finland 2 

Yankees. 
Ryder Cup. 

page 20 
page 19 
page 18 

Carolina Panthers wide receiver Steve Smith has surgery on his borken leg. 
page 19 

see SPARTANS/page 21 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Minnesota 10 White Sox 2 

page 14 
NFL 



. . . 

n caiJ1pus. .·.......·!'••n.u. 
dirett'tor of· the " Monk [Malloy] . . ?·one or the things · :in~rnational greatn~................ 
Wednc
page 2 The Observer + SCENE SPOTLIGHT Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
Above left, the Michael Browning Family Cinen1a is the only THX certified cinema in the state of Indiana. The rating requires strict standards for many details including quality of projection. Below, The Judd and Mary Lou Leighton Concert Hall is designed with tunable acoustics. Acoustic tuning devices include heavy duty velour banners and plastic reflectors over the stage.
•
PHOTOS COURTESY OF TOM BARKES 
PAC 
continued from page I 
and the University. 
"In some ways it's our bridge to the broader South Bend community and beyond," Malloy said. "We hope that people from the broader area would feel eager and welcome to attend the various performances that will take place there." 
Unlike public and commercial per­forming arts centers, however, the PAC was designed primarily as an educational facility. Smaller per­forming spaces than commercial theatres were chosen partly to accommodate student performers. Larger control rooms were built to allow groups of students to observe the use of equipment, and the equip­ment and technical spaces are also easier to use. 
"When it comes to colleges and universities, we pay very careful attention to the fact that this is a theatre with a mission. The mission is to educate," said Brian Hall, director of design for Theatre Project Consultants, the consulting firm for the PAC. "A lot of the people using their spaces are not profes­sional actors or professional musi­cians. We try to make the spaces even more intimate." 
The spaces"may be smaller than in a commercial theatre, but this does not mean they are inferior. Visually and acoustically, the PAC is the equal of most professional theatres. 
"We try to make the look of the space extremely professional, so stu­dents get an idea what real perform­ances are all about," Hall said. 

By now most people know about the opening ceremonies for the PAC this weekend, including an open house from 4:00 to 1 0:00· p.m. on Friday and an inaugural perform­ance by Wynton Marsalis on Sunday. Most people know that the building is an improvement over Washington Hall. Most people also know that instead of one main performing space, the PAC contains five. What most people don't know is exactly how big an improvement the center is, and what this will mean for stu­dents and audiences. Each space is specially designed to fit its own role in the future of Notre Dame fine arts. 
The exterior 

When Hardy, Holzman and Pfeifl'er Associates began working on the PAC, they faced the challenge of resolving two very different styles of architecture. The PAC needed to fit in with the newer architectural style .of buildings like DeBartolo Hall and the Mendoza College of Business that surround it. The University also wanted the building to tie in with the Gothic style that characterizes older parts of the campus· such as Main Building and the Basilica. 
"The board's interest was in going back to the Gothic, to be a conduit between those two architectural lan­guages," said William Murray, prin­cipal architect for the project. 
The distinctively sharp 60-degree angles and striped slate of the roof were chosen to reflect Gothic style, but the architects chose cleaner lines to reflect the building's modern neighbors. Unlike the Eck Center, another modern building built in Gothic style, the PAC lacks heavy ornamentation. 
Doors on both sides of the build­ing, facing onto the quad and towards Angela Road, signify the University's intention for the PAC to be a bridge between communities. 
The Leighton 
The 900-seat Judd and Mary Lou Leighton Concert llall, located to the right when entering the building from the campus side, is the largest and most versatile of the spaces in the building. This is the room that will host the Wynton Marsalis, the New York Philharmonic, the Notre Dame Glee Club and countless other famous performers. 
The most striking visual aspects of the concert hall upon walking in the door include the stenciled banners hanging from the ceiling and the canopy of plastic reflectors hanging over the stage. 
The banners arc partly intended to match the Gothie dPsign of the out­side of the building·. But the most important thing about a concert hall is how the music sounds, and like most aspect of the space, the aes­
. . . •, . 
The Observer + SCENE SPOTLIGHT 
thetic aspects have a distinct affect on the music. 
One of the most important things to consider in designing a concert hall is what kind of music is going to be performed. Not every room is well suited to make every kind of music sound its best. 
"On the one hand you have to do the Messiah with a big choir and the orchestra, the next day a Beethoven program, and the next day some actors doing a little bit of Shakespeare," said principal acoustician Ron McKay of McKay Conant Brook Inc. "These have very different acoustic requirements." 
In order to host the widest possi­ble variety of acts, the room itself is tunable. The banners, made of heavy-duty double layered velour, are lowered to absorb vibrations for performances that need a less rever­berant room. Velour-covered fiber­glass panels over the ceiling and the walls of the upper Ieve l can be raised and lowered .for the same purpose. 
The plastic reflectors over the stage can also be raised or lowered from stage level for cleaning to 37 feet over the stage for large orches­tral performances. · 
"[During testing] we had every kind of act imaginable, and with the combination of moving the two things, you could change the acoustics of the room so it would work for everything," McKay said. "You name it, we had it in there and made it work." 
The Reyes 
The Chris and Anne Reyes Organ and Choral Recital Hall, home of an prgan handcrafted for the room out of Douglas fir, is perhaps the most unique space in the PAC. 
Notre Dame has always had a strong sacred music, and hopes to use the hall as part of a proposed program offering a master's degree in sacred music through the depart­ments of music and theology. 
"[W]hat we're attempting to do is to build quality programs in sacred music at the graduate and under­graduate levels. We think that this is a natural fit for a Catholic universi­ty," said Craig Cramer, professor of music specializing in organ. "(T]he Reyes hall for organ and cho,ral music will provide a magnificent addition to our offerings." 
The organ, pew-style seating and three levels of galleries give the room the feel of Gothic church, but the galleries have a more utilitarian purpose. 
The Reyes, like the Leighton, is designed to have tunable acoustics. Heavy curtains in the third acoustic gallery can be drawn to reduce the reverberation of the room. With the curtains pulled back a single hand clap can sound for up tO" four sec­onds, but with the curtains drawn the reverberation is reduced to half. 
The second gallery will hold 
see PAC/page 4 
Above center, the Chris and Anne Reyes Organ and Choral Hall is meant to augment the University's program in sacred music. The handcrafted organ is ­made of400-year old Douglas fir. Above right, the 
Patricia George Decio Mainstage Theatre features a backstage with 36 line sets and a trapped floor. Below, the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre offers a completely variable space with catwalks over the entire room and flexible lighting design.
•

PHOTOS COURTESY OF TOM BARKES 

Wednesday, September 15, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + SCENE SPOTLIGHT 
Performing arts at Notre Dame for fall 2004 
DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
Sept. 19 
Sept. 24 Oct.1 Oct. 8 
Oct. 13 Oct. 14 
Oct. 22 Oct. 24 
Nov.· 5 Nov. 6 Nov. 7 
Nov. 11 
Dec.10 

Wynton Marsalis and the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra 
Marcus Roberts Trio 
Here Come the Irish 
Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul 
Mariza Academy of Saint Martins in the Fields 
Seco·nd City Comedy Regis Philbin 
MacHomer MacHomer King's Singers 
Victoria 
Empire Brass 

Department of Film, Television and Theatre 
· Sept. 24-0ct. 3 
Nov. 3-13 
Nov. 3 and 6 
Feb. 11 and 12 Feb. 22-Mar. 3 
Feb.· 26-Mar. 2 Avanti: A Postindustrial Ghost Story 
Fortinbras 
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
Othello 
The Laramie Project 
Dead Man Walking 
Sept. 26 Sept. 27 
Sept. 30 
Oct. 8 Oct. 12 Oct. 27 Oct. 29 
Nov. 4 Nov. 12 Nov. 12 Nov.17 
Nov. 19 
Nov. 20 
Dec. 2 and 3 
Dec.4 
Dec.S Dec. 5 Dec.S 

ND Music 
Libor Dudas Gene Bertoncini and Tom Knific ND Collegium Musicum 
Bach's Lunch Concert PB&J Concert ND Schola Musicorum ND Glee Club 
ND Symphony Orchestra Bach's Lunch Concert ND Glee Club and ND Bands ND Symphonic Band and Winds ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra Student Chamber Music Concert 
ND Chorale: Handel's Messiah ND Glee Club· Christmas Concert ND Jazz Bands ND University Band ND Collegium Musicum 
PAC 
continued from page 3 

choirs, string ensembles or other musicians for various performances. 
The Decio 
When the idea of a new performing arts center was first conceived, the main purpose was to provide an adequate venue for dramatic per­formances that came to town. One of the biggest controversies surrounding the construction of the PAC is that the 350-seat Patricia George Decio Mainstage Theatre is actually smaller than the 571-seat Washington Hall. 
While the Decio is not as large as its predeces­sor, it is undeniably better designed and equipped for its purpose. The stage is equipped with an adjustable proscenium that can be moved by one person and allows anywhere from a 36 to 46-foot stage front. The orchestra pit lift can be lowered into the basement or raised to stage level. The backstage also has a 16 by 30­foot trapped floors, 36 line sets and a grid run at 67 feet. 
"It's what a baekstage should be, and what it rarely is," said Sarah Prinee, director of techni­cal services for the PAC. 
The smaller size of the theatre limits the audi­ence for dramatic performances, but the smaller size and design also allow even soft noises from the stage to carry throughout the audience. 
"[The drama theatre] is tight acoustically, so someone being educated in voice can reach the audience easily," Hall said. 
The Browning 

The Michael Browning Family Cinema has been the first of the spaces in the building to meet with wide commercial success. Several screenings of the documentaries that have come to the theatre have already sold out, and admin­istrators have already begun to consider ways to add screenings and facilitate the popularity of the films. 
Students who have attended the initial screen­ings can already testify to the quality of viewing in the only THX certified cinema in the state of Indiana. · 
"There was a strong interest from Film, Television and Theatre to have that [rating]." Murray said. 
The angle of the screen, quality of projection and clarity of images in THX rated cinemas is carefully regulated to avoid any viewing distor­tion. The rating also requires strict acoustic neutrality and sound isolation. 
"We ran thP audio system in the studio up to 115 deribf"ls, and outside in the corridor you could ban~ly pick up the bass coming through," Murray said. "The whole cinema is built like a free standing box." 
The Philbin 
At first sight, the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre might not look like the best place for a dramatic performance. The room can be completely cleared of. seating, scenery, stage and light setups. 
The Philbin Studio Theatre is also known as a black box theatre. The completely flexible space has equal walls and equal catwalks over the entire ceiling. The stage can be set up anywhere in the room with any kind of seating arrange­ment and light design. 
"You don't find a lot of these theatres out there," Murray said. 
The 100-seat Philbin is the smallest space in the PAC, but also provides one of the most unique opportunities. The chance to experiment with lighting and stage design is unlike anything students have been able to do before. 
"Washington Hall doesn't have an orchestra pit or real catwalks, the things any student will find in the real world," Murray said. "This can teach students all these things." 
The future 
The capacity of the PAC as an educational building is not limited to the five performing spaces. The building contains 177 rooms, including 14 film editing studios, a costume shop, scenery shop, practice rooms, offices and classrooms for the FTT department and a recording studio set up to record performances in all the performing areas. 
The facility itself is undoubtedly a new point of pride for the University, but as always, the most important thing is the opportunity the PAC will provide to the students and community. 
The schedule for the building's inaugural sea­son includes the New York Philharmonic, The Chieftains, Natalie McMaster and many other nation and world famous acts. 
"There's no one in the community besides Notre Dame, now that we have the building, to present artists of this caliber in the community," Haynes said. "With regularity you will see things you used to have to drive to Chicago to see." 
If the PAC continues to have as prestigious a schedule of artists in coming years as it does for its first, the building will indeed be able to change the face not only of arts education but also of arts appreciation both at Notre Dame and in the surrounding areas. 
"What's important at the facility is what hap­pPns inside," Malloy said. "I think it's a wonder­ful attractive building, but the reason we put it up is because of the wonderful things that are going to happen inside these spaces." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

• 
· 

The modern interior of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts provides a sharp contrast with the center's Gothic exterior. 




