------.. ~---­
---===--.. 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mar;/s 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 53 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 15.2004 
Students -react to last home game 
Seniors reflect on fours years offootball 
By RICKY MCROSKEY 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame seniors, 
Saturday's 41-38 loss to 
Pittsburgh capped off four years 
of mixed emotion as their expe­
rience of Notre Dame football as 
students came to a disappoint­
ing end. 
In a game that exemplified the 
inconsistency and unpredictabil­
ity of Irish football this year, 
most seniors sought to cherish 
their last game in the Stadium 
while reflecting on their memo­
rable experiences as students. 
''1-think Notre Dame football is 
one of the biggest parts of being 
a Notre Dame student," senior 
Frankie Bott said. "We'd be a 
different place without football 
and the tradition that goes along 
with it." 
see SENIORS/page 6 


Marshmallozo fights escalate during halftime, '4 or 5' seniors ejected for unrelated incidents 
the incident as "the worst marsh­The article said that rumors year, 56 ·students were ejectedBy KATIE PERRY mallow throwing" he had fwer suggest the ushers have tradi­for throwing marshmallows. 

News Writer 
witnessed. · tionally given seniors the go­However, this year, only 27 stu­"It involved a larger quantity, ahead in their final marshmallow denl<> total were ejected, includ­

P~nalty flags wPre not the only was wider-spread and lasted war. The article also added, how­ing "four or five in the senior sec­objects flying rampantly in Notre longer," Gagnon said. ever, that these rumors were tions for unrelated incidents," name Stadium on Saturday. According to Gagnon, studenl'> "unconfirmed." according to Gagnon. 
It was a j~t-puffed finale for the were not removed from the Gagnon maintained the lack of The joint task force of Indiana seniors at this weekend's final game because an article printed ejections was directly due to sta­State Excise Police. St. Joseph season home game against in The Observer on Friday dium personnel's concern that County Police, South Bend Poliec 
. Pittsburgh. Yet despite the bla­implied that rules· would be more seniors held erroneous expecta­and Notre Dame Security/Police tant escalation of the usual half­lenient because of the nature of tions regarding the consequences also issued a total of 39 citations time marshmallow fight, no stu­the final season home game. of marshmallow throwing at the Saturday for alcohol-related dents were ejected from the "It was reported that the ush­la<>t home game. offenses, NDSP direetor Rex gam~ for partaking in the tradi­ers were not going to eject sen­"It would be unfair to remove Hakow said. These offenses tion. iors for marshmallow throwing," people under these conditions," include minor in consumption, Coordinator of Stadium Gagnon said. "We didn't want to Gagnon said. Personnel Cappy Gagnon called hold it against the students." At the final home game last see FIGHT/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Assault Awareness. Week begins 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
Combining various elements like shocking posters. classic television and a comedy show, the Student Senate committee on gender rela­tions presents "Be Aware," or, Sexual Assault Awareness Week, beginning today and ending Friday. 
The committee will be plaster­ing posters around campus that proclaim shocking statistics like, "84 percent of rape victims knew their assailant," and "A woman L<> 10 times more likely to be raped than to die in a car crash." 
"The statistics are in your face, and perhaps scary," said Badin senator and chairperson of the gender relations committee Uzzie ShapeII. 
"We are hoping that the posters will start conversation and pro­mote awareness among student'>,'' said Stephanie Pelligra, Welsh Family senator and member of the committee on gender relations. · 
Wednesday evening, each dorm will host an event with its broth­er/sister dorm called "Must Sex TV," focusing on the effect that popular television shows have had on gender relations. A 20-minute video montage of shows including "Saved by the Bell," "Salute Your Shorts," "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" and "The O.C." will b~ fol­lowed by discussion and a free dinner. 
"We are trying to reach student~ in an entertaining manner," Shappell said. "A<> odd a., that may sound." 
Pelligra is hoping the video will make people rPally think about how television shows have 
see WEEKIpage 6 

ND student~athletes rank· second in graduation rates 

The University shares ranking zvith Northzvestern and Stanford, proves consistent with results from past years 
By STEVE KERINS News Writer  graduations is nothing new. "If you looked at the rank­ings themselves or the gradu­ -third behind Northwestern and Duke. Among men, Notre Dame graduated 82 percent,  
ation  rates  themselves,  ranking third behind Duke  
The  NCAA  ranked  Notre  they're almost the same as six  and Stanford.  .  
name student-athletes second  years ago, which says that  Additionally, Notre Dame  
1among Division 1-A colleges  things have been done consis­ graduated 71  percent of its  
and universities in its gradua­ tently  over  the  course  of  black studt:>nt-athletes, rank­ 
tion rate, according to a study released in October.  time.·· Heisler said. "We've been routinely in the top half  ing ninth nationally and 77 percent of Irish football play­ 
Notre Dame sharPs its rank­ing with Northwestern and  dozen in the country." Aceording to the formula  ers graduated, eighth.  ranking  
Stanford, each with a four­year averag{' graduation rate  used by the NCAA, an athlete is considered to have graduat­ Among athletes who com­pleted all four years of athlet­ 
of R7  percent of student-ath­ ed if he  or she matriculated  ic eligibility, 99 percent grad­ 
letes. First-place Duke gradu­ within six years of entrance.  . uated, compared to a national  
ated 90 pcreent of its student­ Students who leave  or trans­ average•of 84 percent.  
athletes. ThP national average  fpr for any reason are ronsid­ The NCAA Graduation Rates  
for Division 1-A schools is 61  erPd non-graduates.  Report is  a  federally mandat­ 
percent.  The report also states that  ed survey compiled each year.  
Senior Associate Athlt>tic  Notre  Dame graduated 94  The 2004 report COVf'rs stu­ 
Directnr John  Heisler said  percent of women  competing  dents enrolled between 1994  
being ranked high in athlete  in varsity athletics, ranking  and 1997 at all 328 Division 1  


Student-Athlete Graduation Rates 
Graduation rate of all • Notre Dame graduated 71 student-athletes at per,ent of Its African­Division I -A schools: American student-athletes. 
ranking ninth nationally.Duke 90% Also, 77 percent of Irish football players graduated,
Northwestern 87% 

ranking eighth. 
• Among athletes who 
Stanford . 87% completed all four years of athletic eligibility, 99 percent at Notre Dame graduated,
National Average 61% compared to a national average of percent.


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2· Monday, November 15, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT QID YOU THINK ABOUT THE PITTSBURGH GAME? 

Barrier to peace 
The wall separating the Palestinian territories from Israel has been under construction since 2002. Israel is building a "security fence" in hopes that it will bar ter­rorists from Israel and height-Susan Klppels en overall securi­ty. The wall will be 25 feet tall Ad Design and 400-miles long when com­plete. It will include guard towers, patrol roads and a no-man's land. It is difficult to think of any historical 
instance where the construction of a barrier large enough to be referred to as a wall promoted peaceful coexistence; the painful legacy of the Berlin Wall is still in recent memory. 
Like the Berlin Wall, Israel's secu­rity fence owes its origins to the great political dispute of its day. Despite some similarities, however. Israel's barrier is much worse­after Berlin, people should know better. The new wall in Israel is over four times as long as the Berlin Wall and more than double the average height. 
Living as an American in Jerusalem for five years, I witnessed and heard in detail about many human rights violations inside the region. Despite being used to such things, nothing could have prepared me for my first view of the gray, looming wall in the village of 

.. Qalqiliya. Constructing a massive physical division between two peo­ples is a ridiculous way to try and promote a future peace. Instead of creating stability, this wall will ensure the Palestinian and Israeli conflict persists for much longer. The barrier cuts into the Palestinian West Bank and is chiefly a scheme to seize disputed land and complicate any possible plans to ereate a Palestinian state. Once the wall is complete, 10 percent or more of the West Bank will be confiscated by and for Israel. The wall will not only rob Palestinians of land. It will also separate communities and dis­connect people from their hospitals, schools and workplaces. In July, The International Court of Justice in The Hague ruled that Israel's West Bank barrier is illegal and stated that its construction should cease. This is a ruling that Israel has no intention of following. The only thing the General Assembly could theoretically do is enforce economic sanctions on Israel, and this will not happen. If peace is to prevail in the region, Israel must dismantle the wall. return confiscated land to its right­ful owners, and compensate Palestinians for damage caused. Worldwide. people closely follow the situation in Palestine and Israel and sympathize with those who live there. The abortion display on the South Quad of miniature wooden crosses attracts a huge amount of attention from the Notre Dame pop­ulation. Why, then, does a 25-foot tall concrete wall. harming millions of adults and children, draw com­paratively little campus concern? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Susan Kippels at skippe/s@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize.rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conract us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 







Matt Cahill 
sophomore Knott 

··IfI'd had batteries, I would have thrown them at those refs. , 
Courtney Harris 
freshman LeMans 
··1 cried myself to sleep.,, 
Brad Reed 
sophomore St. Ed's 

"I'm in the band. I wanted to go to the Gator Bowl. ,, 
Dave Farley 
sophomore Knott 
"All/ want for Christmas is Gruden. ,, 

Clare Hollorah 
sophomore P.E. 
··1 thought it was fun anyway because I got to work on the sidelines.·· 
Nathan Catanese 
sophomore Keenan 
"/ enjoyed the Keenan lnterhall Championship much more!" 


Guadalupe Madrigal acknowledged she got the words wrong. while singing before an Oct. 30 soccer match between teams from Guadalajara and Monterrey, Mexico's Interior Depart-ment announced Saturday in a written statement. 
"She indicated she was sorry to have sung the national anthem poorly," the department announced. "She indicat~ ed that she did not do it on purpose or with bad intentions, but recognized that she had made a mis­take." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Charges dropped In case of •w• dollars 
GREENSBURG, Pa. -A case of funny money has ended happily for a woman who had been charged with passing a bogus $200 bill with President Bush·s picture on it. 
Prosecutors in Penn­sylani a's Westmoreland County dropped all charges Friday against Deborah 1.. Trautwine, 51, after she paid the store in real currency. 
Trautwine "wasn't aware that it ... wasn't actual legal tender," said her attorney, Harry Smail Jr. 
Trautwine could not be 
reached for comment. A clerk at a Fashion Bug clothing store also thought the bill was real and gave Trautwine $100.58 in change from her August purchase. 
There is no $200 denomination bill, even without Bush's picture on 
it.  
Woman  fined  for  
bungling  Mexi can  
anthem  
MEXICO  CITY  - A  

woman who fumbled a few phrases of Mexico's national anthem while singing the song beforp, a soccer game in Guadalajara has been fined $40 for the blunder. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a: 
UJ 
::z:: 
~ 
UJ 

~ 
.... 
c( 
(.) 
0 

..... 

55 
40 


HIGH LOW 

55 38 

54 38 
IN BRIEF 

The 2004 recipient of the Richard II. Driehaus Prize for Classical Architecture Demetri Porphyrios will give the lecture ''(~lassical Architecture" today at 5 p.m. in the Decio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
KelJogg fellow Emily Osborn will lecture at 12:30 p.m. Tuesday on ..Melting Cans and Recycling Traditions in Kankan, Guinea (West Africa): Aluminum Casting, Social Change and Global Commodities, 1940­2000.. in C-1 03 I Iesburgh CentPr. 
Visiting fellow from the Kroe Institute Carol Pollack will lec­ture Tuf'sday at 4:15 p.m. on ..How Strictly Should Corporations be Held Accountable for Human Rights Abuses" in C-1 03 llesburgh Center. 
The lecture ''An Alternative Leadership Model for tht.~ 21st Century: Keeping Your Sanity, Sense of Humor and Soul in the Marketplace," will take place on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Giovanini Commons in the Mendoza College of Business as part of the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will take on Northern Iowa on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notte Dame Symphonic Band and Winds will perform in concert Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The ObserrJer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an ez,ent to obsnews@nd.edu. 
----·----------­
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 

57 
41 

Monday, November 15, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
MBA students link corporations in serVice 
Special to The Observer 
While more and more <~ol­leges and universities now include a service project as part of their orientation experience, Notre Dame is taking the concept to. a new . level with the innovative MBA Community Partners program, an ongoing initia­tive that utilizes the business skills of MBA students to connect corporations and r:tonprofit organizations. 
During orientation week this summer, Notre Dame MBA students met with local corporate executives and not-for-profit directors to examine the ways in which businesses engage in com­munity outreach and the needs of participating agen­cies. In the succeeding weeks, the students built on their preliminary research to develop a network of infor­mation and knowledge in a comprehensive database designed to encourage fruit­ful partnerships between local nonprofit groups and area companies. 
The initial findings of this resource and partnership initiative were presented to participating organizations Oct. 27 in an event at Notre Dame's new DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The students shared early successes, including several student appoint­ments to local nonprofit boards, and described the partnership links they have established. 
All 200-plus members of the entering MBA class par­ticipated in the MBA Community Partners orienta­tion, and many students are involved in the project as it continues throughout the academic year. Nineteen local companies and 17 local nonprofit organizations are involved in the project. 
1.!1 addition to proposing and arranging matches between participating organ­izations, the students also learn from their interactions with business executives and nonprofit leaders, while sharing their own skills and expertise. 

The Observer makes clarification 
In Friday's edition of The Observer, information concern­ing the Notre Dame Stadium policy on ejecting students for marshmaJlow throwing was incorrect. 
ln the article titled "Seniors bid farewell to football: Class of 2005 looks back at game tradi­tions," the article stated, "In the past, the ushers haven't been as strict at the last game as they were earlier in the season when enforcing the rules concerning the halftime marshmallow throwing. Rumors are that the ushers usually give seniors the go-ahead for their traditional marshmallow war, though that stands unconfirmed." · · 
Due to reporting and editing errors. Notre Dame Stadium policy was not confirmf'd with Coordinator of Stadium Personnel Cappy Gagnon prior to the article bP-ing published and was based on student-held belief. 
The Obsetver regrets these errors. 


Committee plans inauguration 
Special to The Observer intellectual gathering of the 
highest caliber that will rep­
Provost Nathan Hatch will resent the kinds of discussion chair a committee drawn and inquiry that are possible from throughout the at Notre Dame," Hatch said. University of Notre Dame to He noted that an internally 
plan activities for the inau­guration of Father John I. Jenkins as the University's 17th presi­dent. 
The events are tentatively scheduled _for Sept. 22-23, 2005. Among the possibili­ties to be con­sidered, Hatch said, will be a symposium involving high­

..We'd like to enz,ision an intellectual ·gathering ofthe highest caliber that will represent the kinds ofdiscussion and inquiry that are possible at Notre Dame." 
Nathan Hatch Provost 
significant event such as the inaugura­tion is also an opportunity to exhibit the University's identity and aspirations to those beyond campus bor­ders. 
Activities on Friday would likely include a Mass in the morning, a luncheon and an academic Jenkins and Patrick McCartan, cha.irman of. the Board of Trustees, and includes wide representation of the University community. Assisting Hatch as vice chairs are William Goodyear, a trustee, and John Affleck­Graves, executive vice presi­dent. Other members are drawn from the Board of Trustees, alumni, adminis­trators, faculty and the stu­dent body. 
Jenkins, 50, was elected in April by the Board of Trustees to a five-year term, succeeding University President Father Edward Malloy, 63, who has been president since 1987. Father Jenkins, now serving as. president-elect, was (or­merly a vice pres·ident and assoc'iate provost of the University and is an associ­ate professor of philosophy. He will officially take ove_r the presidential responsibili­ties from Malloy July 1 . 

profile international leaders · on Thursday, Sept. 22. The inauguration itself will be on the following day. · 
"We'd like to envision an 

convocation and inaugura­tion in the afternoon, Hatch said. 
The committee planning the events was formed by 
.Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series November 17,2004 4:00 p.m. Law School Courtroom Fighting for ''Caucasian Rights": Mexicans, Mexican-Americans and Civil Rights Legislation in World War II Texas Presenter Thomas Guglielmo Department ofAmerican Studies Commentator Jimmy Gurule The Law School  


~ 
' 
~\ 
~ 
'"' 
-.~. 
; 
,, 
~J 
" '" 
·.•i· 
.. , 

you have priorities. let them guide you as you build your career. define what's important to you and see what's important to others. 

Monday, November 15, 2004 CoMPILED FRO,\\ Tt·tE ()nsERVHt'S \VJRF SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Namibia election displays end of era 
JOIIANNFSBUIHi. South Africa-Aftf'r a 23-year war or indPpPndenen and three terms as prPsident. Sam Nujoma of Namibia is readv to stPp down. bringing an end to an Pra· marked by tiNy rhPtoric as wnll as pragmatism and stability. 
Thn 7:>-ynar-old Nujoma is tlw ratlwr of' his southwPst African nation and tlw only leader its 1.8 million pnopln havP ever known. But aftPr (HPsidential elections i\1onday and Tunsday, Nujoma will prepan~ to hand over power, presumably to llifiknpunye Pohamba, his hand-picked successor and fornwr comrade in arms. 
The e Inction. which rwutral observers Pxpect to be fmp and fair. underlines how southern Africa -except for dPnply trou­bled Zimbabwe -has •~mergNI from tur­moil and sett!Pd into df'mocratir routinPs. 
U.S. military occupies Fallujah 
FALLLUJ\11, Iraq -U.S. military otlkials said Saturday that American troops had now "oceupiod" the Pntire city of Fallujah and tlwre were no morn major conn'ntrations of insurgents still fighting afh~r nearly a week of intense urban rombat. 
A U.S. of'fieer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Fallujah was "oeeupiNI but not subduPd.·· 
ArtiiiPry and airstrikes also w••re halted after nightfall to prevnnt mistaknn attacks on 
U.S. and Iraqi fon~es who had takPn up posi­tions throughout the city. 
Iraqi officials dPclared the operation to free Fallujah of militants was "accom­plished" but acknowiPdged the two most wanted figures in the city -Jordanian ter­ror mastermind Abu Musab ai-Zarqawi and Sheik Abdullah ai-Janahi-had escaped. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Cheney's medical tests found nonnal 
WASHINGTON -Vice PrPsident Dick Chent~y. who has a history of hf~art trou­ble, went to a hospital Saturday afUH experiencing shortnPss of brPath. Tests found no abnormalitiPs, an aide said, and Cherwy lnft after three hours. 
"I feel fine," the 63-ycar-old vice presi­dent said as he walked out with his wife, Lynne. 
Clwney smiled and waved people gath­ered outside the hospital entrance. 
A pacemaker implanted in Cheney's chest three years ago indiceted no irregu­larities during the past 90 days. said Mary Matalin. a spokeswoman for the viee pres­ident. The device gives doctors a thn'f~­month n~adout. ShP said an e!Pctrocardio­gram, whieh mNtsures the hPart's electri­eal activity, showed no changn. 
Peterson battles for his life and appeal 
REDWOOD CITY -The jury that con­victed Scott PPterson saw a man with two face's: in public. a loving father-to-be with a steady job and stable home, and in pri­vate a cheating husband who yearned for bachelorhood and was willing to kill for it. 
Convicted Friday of murdering his preg­nant wife and lwr fetus, Peterson must now present a unific~d image on two fronts -he must convince jurors that his life is worth sparing while arguing to the courts that he was wrongly convir.ted. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Firm investigates leaky dam 
NEVADA MILLS -A private consulting flrrn is investigating a lf'aky dam that re­gulates water lf'vPis in five nortlwastPrn Indiana lakes fn·quented by tourists. 
Officials with tlw Department of Natural Hesourc.<~s say they do not bf'lif'VP the leak disr.overPd two wPeks ago in tlw Nevada Mills dam on tlu• LakP James t~hain of lakPs has lnft tlw structure in immediate danger of !'ailing. 

GAZA STRIP 

Gunfire erupts at mourning tent 
Fezv hours after neeD election date set, rnilitants opened fire killing 2 guards 
A.~sociated Press 

<iAZA CITY -Mahmoud  
Abbas, the temporary sue­ 
r.essor to Yasser i\rafat.  
rsraped unharmed Sunday  
whPn militants firing  
assault rilles burst into a  
mourning tent for the  
deePasPd Palestinian IPader,  
killing two security guards  
and wounding six other  
peopln.  
The shooting raised grave  
concerns about a violent  
power struggiP in the post­ 
Ararat era. Some of' the  
gunmen shoutPd slogans  
calling Abbas, a modPrate  
who has spoken out against  
vioiPncP, an agPnt of the  
United States.  
The bursts of gunfire  
camP just hours after  
Palestinian oflicials set Jan.  
9 as the date for elections  
to choose a new leader - 
the first vote in nine years.  
The temporary Pales­ 
tinian leadership, headed  
by Abbas, has been trying  
to s<md a message of unity  
since Arafat's death  
Thursday. Arafat's respon­ 
sibilities were divided  
among sfweral leaders. and  
officials held talks with rival  
l'adions in Arafat's Fatap  
movement and the militant  
opposition groups llamas Bodyguards secure Mahmoud Abbas, former Palestinian Prime Minister and 
and Islamic Jihad.  
Vasser Arafat's successor, after gunfire erupted in a mourning ceremony.However, those rivalries  
burst into the open minutes aftnr Abbas, the new PLO chif'f, entered the Gaza City mourning tent. wht~re some 10.000 people -including about 3,000 armed men. most of them police officer" gathered Sunday evening. Abbas, accompa­nied by liaza strongman Mohammed Dahlan and surrounded by security guards, shook hands with mourners. Moments later, a group of at least 20 gunmen barged into the tent shouting, "Abbas and Dahlan are " h A . ,..agtmts tor t e mencans. Gunfire then popped through the tent. It appears most of the shots were fired in the air -the casualty toll likely would have been  far higher had the gunmen taken aim at the larg£~ crowd. Abbas' bodyguards hus­tled him into a corner as frightened mourners scrambled over plastic chairs to flee. Abbas was taken to Palf'stinian head­quarters. The gunmen reportedly . melted into the gigantic crowd and escaprd arn~st. Speaking to reporters, Abbas tried to play down the incident. "While we were receiving condolences, a huge crowd gatht~red there and then random shooting broke out, but not in my direction." he said. Abbas said he did not hear any slogans against  him and planned to contin­ue talks with rival Palestinian factions. Abbas has tried in the past. as primP minister. to persuade militants to halt attacks on Israel. However. militants sig­nalPd Sunday thPy were not interested in a cease-fire. In a Gaza City parade, masked militants unveiled a new rocket, which they claimed had an extended range that could reaeh the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon. The long, green "AI-Yasser 1" rocket, named after Arafat, was shown to a cheering crowd as Palestinian securi­ty looked on. Sunday's shooting raised questions about the ability of the Palestinians to carry  out their election peaceful­Iv. · Abbas. also known as Abu Mazen, is widely expected to run for Palestinian Authority pn'sidcnt. llowever. victory is far from certain. None of the likelv candidates. ·including Abbas, has the stature of Arafat, and many Palestinians consider Abbas' gpneration of poiiti­cians to be taintPd by cor­ruption and out of touch with the masses. "They realize vPry clearly that without a popular mandate. they can't make any important decisions," said Mouin Habbani. senior Middle East analyst with the International Crisis Group in Amman, Jordan.  


Lawmakers blame CIA and Congress 
As~ociated Press gf'nce agencies' budgets. ning to lnavP this week and otlH'r 
J) i sar r a y i n t he gov e r n nu• n t ·s rPsignations are said to hP in thP 
WASHINGTON -lntelligenee intelligence operations is mnst evi­works. News rPports citP clashes agfmcies came under sharp attack dPnt at the CIA less than two between the officials and mPmbers Sunday from lawmakers. as did months after a new director. for­of Goss' nPw administration who CongrPss. where a bill to put in mf'r Rrp. l'ortPr <~oss. vvas sworn workrd with him on tlw commit­place~ recommfmdations from the in. Goss, a Florida HPpublican. was tf'n. . SPpt. 11 commission lias stalled chairman of tlw llousf~ lntrlligPnCP Undf'r thP curn~nt systf~m. the hf'ading into this week's postelec-Committee. CIA chief' also is the director of tion session. . "The agency seems in free-fall in crntral intPlligPnce and has nomi­
Hep. Jane Harman, the top Washington, and that is a very. nal oversight of the nation's SPcuri­Drmocrat on the House verv bad omen in the middle of a ty agPnciPs, but little po\vPr to con­lntelligencfl Committee. said wa;." Harman said on CBS' "Face trol spending. Deff'nse Secretary Donald II. thP Nation." Harman said the Whitn llousP Humsfeld was an obstaele to a The agPncy's No. 2 official has was trying to build ronsPnsus dur­compromise because hP does not rPsigned. tlw deputy chief of' thP ing thf" weekPnd for a bill that want to diminish the PPntagon's dPpartmPnt in charge or clandPS­thrPe-quartt>rs of the House and ovPrwhelming control ovPr intf'lli-tine operations is rl:-'portPd plan-almost all the Senate favor. 
page 6 Monday, November 15, 2004
The Observer • NEWS 
~============================~-~~==~=-=================================~= 
Week 
continued from page 1 
changnd sexual perceptions. 

"WP were all thinking, how did our gPneration 's concept of S<"X and· relationships ennw to bP? We realized that tPlevision is onn thing that nmlly affected our generation," Pelligra said. 
"We watched "Putting up these · Audrey de 
go to a game," senior Steph
shows and dis­Guire, a sopho­
Sellinger said. 'Til come bark
signs will have a 
covered how more from 
again with my family and friends
similar effect to ·cay
our vision of Pasquerilla 
when I've graduatf~d. Plus, Notrf' 
sexuality has fine by me' shirts and WPst Hall, was 
Dame football is such a uniquf'hP<-m skewPd." very interPsted 
tradition -nowhere elsP dm~s The final in thP "Must 
crosses in South Quad 
PVPryone have thP same spirit
to make us more
event of Sexual Sex 'IV' ev<mt. 
and excitement." 
Assault aware ofabortion. "Taking 
However, the same students Awareness People will either examples from 
also felt great disappointment at 
week is "Sex pop culture 
what they consider yet another
think it is stupid, or it
Signals," a helps us relate lackluster Irish football season 
comedy show will get their attention to 'the bigger 
in a series of underachievingabout the eol­issues,"' she
for about 1o minutes 
years.
lege-dating said. "We may 
"You come hen~. and you don't
before they forget 
srenP. Th(~ hot know any­show bPgins at about it. " one who has 
Debartolo Performing Art.'! Cnnter. 
"The event asks tough ques­tions, but presents the college dating scene in a humorous light," Shappell said. 
Mairin Amato, a Lewis Hall sophomore, praised the poster publicity campaign. 
"These signs will definitPly bP. attention-getters," she said. "I think that listing facts will help students, especially females, rnalize that this ean happPn to them, and hopPfully we will bP able to pnwent this from hap­pening to each other or our-
think you'll be the class that ''I'm obviously disappointed in loses nine home games in four the loss. but I've hPPn looking 
Sf~lvPs." 

Sophomore Mark llotovy of Keenan llall disagnmd. 
"Putting up these signs will have a similar em-~ct to the 'Gay fine by me' shirts and the cross­es in South Quad to make us mon~ aware about abortion," he said. "People will either think it is stupid, or it will gpt their attr~ntion for about 10 minutes 
bPfore they for­
gPt about it." 

Seniors 
continued from page I 
· Oth<~r se11iors agreed their times at Notre Dame football games were unforgettable and ean still look forward to support­ing Irish football in a new dimension-as alumni. 
"I was sitd that it was over, but it's not going to be the last time I 
9 p.m. bnen sexually Thursday night assaulted, but
Mark Hotovy
in the Decio seeing the char­

sophomore 
FightTheatre of the acters we're 
familiar with on 
continued from page I
TV, we can get some idea of how people deal with those situa­
minor in possession and publictions, or how they happen." 
intoxication.
But for Shappell, she just 
Nine custodial arrests wPre also hop<"S this week will raise awareness for all students. 
"Our basir aim for the week is just to Pducate.," Shappell said. "We want to make people real­ize that sexual ac;sault can hap­


NCAA 
pen at Notre Dame, and make sure that people understand the 
continued from page I
numbPrs." 

dents enrolled between Contact Eileen Duffy at 
1994 and 1997 at all 32S eduffy1@nd.edu 
Division I institutions, includ­years }wre, .. sen­ior Pat Donlin 
"It's incredible 
said. "It's incred­
ible disappoint­disappointment. /'l)e ment. I'v<~ bef'n been watching ND watching ND 
football my whole l{fe,
footba~l my whole life, and and the past four 
the past four years have been some years have bPen 
ofthe most 
some of the most 
disappointing in Notre 
disappointing in Notre Dame his­Dame history." tory." 
Senior Mike 
Pat Donlin
Sheehan voicntl 


senior
similar disap­
pointrrwnt. 
"It's pathf'tic, what a way to go out," he said. "At least we can be inconsistently ronsistPnt." 
Underclassmen too felt dis­couraged at thP team's inability to end on a high notf' in a sf'ason that startPd out on a particularly low note. 
made on game day, S(wcn befon• thP game and two during tlw game, Hakow said. Two Notre Dame students werp arrested prior to the game for public intoxi­cation, and a student and an alumnus were arrested during the game for resisting arrest, public 
ing the 117 in Division 1-i\. 
Heisler said achieving this ranking will only continue to push student-athlPtes to achieve his or her bt>st. 
"It speaks very well for our academic support system in generaI. 1e sat . n P ry o 
" } "d "lA/ t t 
losP, ewryon<~ 
forward to next 
year sinre thP 
BYLJ gam<'," jun­
ior Chris Collins 
said. "i\t least 
therP's basket­
ball season." 
i\t thP same 
timn, most stu­
dents agrf'Pd the 
Notre Dame 
football experi­
ence is upheld 
by a uniqueness 
that looks 
b('yoml thf~ win­
loss column. 
• "WhPn w~~ stays for thP Pnd 
and still supports the team," frPshman Thomas Manning said. "The tPam spirit is there even when we're losing." 
Contact Ricky McRoskey at rmcroske@nd.edu 
intoxication and disorderly con­duet. They wnre removed from the Stadium. 
Claire 1/f'ininger contributed to 
this report. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

tell people if you're a solid enough student, you're going to get your degree with very. very rare exceptions." 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 





Are you a sophomore Accounting Major looking for great pay and a tremendous business experience? 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! 
The Observer is now accepting 
•


applications for Controller! 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Paula ·Garcia at pgarcia2@nd.edu or Michael Flanagan at mflanag1 @nd.edu. 

Monday, November 15, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
.. . Stocl<s . . 
Dow 10 539.01 +67.17
Jones  '  
~  Some:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2.,477  153  •  1,532,046,464  

AMEX 1.356.24 +15.31 NASDAQ 2,085.34 +24.07 NYSE 7.0.14.1 R ~'.+63.21 S&PSOO 1,184.17 +10.69 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,019.9R . 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,793.90 +17.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.03 -0.0 I 29.97 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.24 +0.52 23.69 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2..77 +O.!l2 19.26 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +8.31 +0.32 4.17 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.90 +0.25 13.39 
, . . Treasuries . 
30-YEAR BOND -1.07 -0.53 49.12 I 0-YEAR NOTE -1.27 0.54 42.00 5-YEAR NOTE -0.87 -0.31 35.29 3-MONTH BILL +0.34 +0.07 20.36 
_ Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.19 47.41 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +2.90 438.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.78 I 0 1.40 
·..:..·_ · fxcha Rates 
YEN I 05.6600 EURO 0.7708 POUND 0.5388 CANADIAN$ 1.1933 
IN BRIEF 
Delta pilots accept pay cuts 
ATLANTA -Delta Air Lines pilots have agreed to slash their salaries by nearly a third and forgo pay raises for five years to help the struggling airline avoid bankruptcy, their union announced Thursday. 
The $1 billion in annual wage concessions from Delta's 7,000 pilots is a huge victory for the Atlanta-based airline, which has lost more than $6 billion since early 2001. 
The plan received 79 percent support from pilots who voted over 10 days by p_hone and over the Internet. Voting ended at noon Thursday. 
The agreement, which becomes effective Dec. 1, was tentatively reached by union .lead­ers and Delta after 15 months of negotiations. 
"Our airline has been managed to the brink of bankruptcy and the Delta pilots had to decide between two bad choices," said John Malone, chairman of the pilots union's Pxecu­tive council. "They chose the lesser of two evils." 
Novell sues Microsoft over WordPerfect 
SALT LAKE CITY -Days after collecting a $536 million antitrust settlement from Microsoft Corp.. Novell returned to court Friday to claim the technology giant used its market dominance to shut out WordPerfect and other software in the mid-1990s. 
The federal suit, which partly dovetails with a U.S. government antitrust case. accused Microsoft of holding down the word process­ing program and the Quattro Pro spreadsheet application by making its operating system inhospitable to them. . 
Microsoft also leveraged its ubiquity to keep Novell from offering its programs to con­sumers,· the suit said. 
"We intend to pursue aggressively a goal of recovering fair value for the harm caused to Novell's business by Microsoft's anticompeti­tive actions," said Joseph A. LaSala, Jr., Novell's senior vice president and general counsel, in a statement. 
In a statement, Microsoft argued that trade­secret provisions allowed it to withhold terh­nical spf'cifications to protect itself. and said Novell is trying to blame others for its own bad business derisions. 


Internet represents future ofnews 
Head ofAssociated Press says media outlets must tailor products for online demand 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-The futun~ of news is online, and traditional media out­lets must learn to tailor their products for con­sumers who demand instant, personalized information, the head of The Associated Press said Friday. 
The growth of high­speed broadband connec­tions is leading to a future in which computers are always on "and so are the users." Tom Curley, presi­dent and chief executive officer of the world's largest news organization, told the Online News Association conference in llollywood 
ThP. Internet is picking up the readers and view­ers that newspapers and TV news shows have been losing, Curley said. It also has changed the balance of powe·r from news providers to consumers, who use Web-surfing pro­grams and video record­ing devices to control what they want to know and when and where they'll learn it. 
Curley, who was pub~ lis her of Gannett Co.'s 
•

USA Today newspaper Tom Curley, chief executive officer of The Associated Press, delivers a keynote before becoming the AP's spE'ech Friday at the Online News Association conference In Hollywood. top executive in 2003, offered a scenario in That already is leading many consumers are used through Web logs, citingwhich a "news enthusiast" to changes in how news is to getting their news for one recent estimate that would download to vari­covered. free, he said. The market there are 4 million "blog­ous electronic devices an For example, Curley is out there, Curley said, gers" making 400,000 array of news -sports said AP is furnishing U.S. citing a recent study that posts per day. scores, headlines, finan­bureaus with cameras to found 29 percent of "That works out to cial reports and analysis provide video for multi­Internet users -about 43 roughly 16,000 posts an -from a variety of media use and is increas­million people -go hour, or about as many­sources. ing coverage of news of online to get news three stories as the AP sends 
In the world of person­interest to young audi­or more times per week. out in an entire day," he 
alized news, "the content ences. Stephanie Busack, 22, a said. 
comes to you; you don't News media also may journalism student at "It will get even tougher 
have to come to the con­need to consider nontradi­Ohio University who to be heard above the 
tent," Curley said. "So, get tional services for the attended the conference, roar of the Internet ready for everything to be Internet. said she gets most of her crowd, and the business 'Googled,' 'deep-linked' or Curley noted one site in news online. bets will have to be for 'Tivo-ized.' " K~nsas already offers a "I just go to the Web great er stakes. " 
"You have to let the con­Web cam service local col­sites, basically ... it's right Still, Curley predicted 
tent flow where the users lege students can us·e to there, everything you current news giants will 
want to go, and attach see how long the lines are need to know," she said. survive. 
your brand -and maybe at a pizza parlor. "I don't like reading "The bloggers need a 
advertising and e-com­More media companies newspapers." baseline of facts and pro­
merce -to those free­will have to learn how to Curley also touched on fessional analysis on 
flowing 'atoms,· " Curley make their Web opera­Internet users who dis­which to base their work." 
said. tions profitable when seminate news and ideas he said. 

GM, Ford offer anti-ro_llover systems 
anti-rollover system by the end of for Highway Safety released a study
Associated Press 
2005, and it plans to try to market its that said stability control systems 

DETROIT-Electronic anti-rollover technology to other automakers. could save up to 7,000 lives each year systems will become standard equip­Ford said this summer it would add if they were standard equipment on ment on 1.8 million sport utility vehi­·the stability control system as stan­all vehicles. cles from GM and Ford in 2005, th~ dard equipment to the 2005 Ford The findings mirrored those of an automakers announced Thursday. Explorer, Mercury Mountaineer, earlier federal study. 
General Motors Corp. said the vehi­Lincoln Aviator and Lincoln Ford has said the stabilizing tech­cles include the Chevrolet Tahoe, Navigator, but it didn't provide esti­nology also will be available on its 15­Suburban, Avalanche and Trailblazer; ~ mates on quantities until Thursday. passenger Econoline vans startingGMC Envoy; Hummer 1131 Saab 9-7X; The system also will be standard on with the 2006 model year -a stepand Buick Rainier. The Hummer H2 • the 2005 Volvo XC90 and available as designed to increase the safety of a will get the system in 2006. an option for $595 on the 2005 Ford type of vehicle the federal govern­The Cadillac Escalade and GMC Expedition. ment and some motorists' lawyersYukon Denali already feature stan­Ford began offering the stability contend has a significant roll-over 
dard stability control. control system in 2003 on the Volvo · ·risk. 
Ford Motor Co. said more than XC90 and expanded it the next year GM made electronic stability con­500,000 of its sport utility vehicles to the Lincoln SUVs. trol staAdard on 15-passenger vans in will be equipped with the company's Last month. the Insurance Institute 2003. 



p 
THE OBSERVER 
page 8 
Monday, November 15, 2004 


THE OBSERVER 

Hear the voice of death in Darfur 
P.O. Box Q, Nou:~ Dam~. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. No= Dam~. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mart Loz.ar 
..  
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
jo<'! Hettler  

NF.WS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Angela Saoud ' PHOTO EDITOR: Claire: Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike: Harkins AoVFRTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CoNTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
' 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6917 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(S74) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.l@nd.edu ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 63 t-8767 phoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (S74) 631-8839 • 
THE · OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrrarion of either inscirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse> advertisement.~ based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
()bservcr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and mLL~t include contact information. 
Qtmtions rrgardi"f; 0/nnwrpolici~ should bt di"~d to Editnr in Chief Matt l...tJzar. 
POST 0FACE INFORMATION 
·n., (Jin.:rvcr (USPS.$9') 2-40011) i• puhli.htd M<ond•y <hmugh Frid.y <ucv< durifl!l ex.am and v:Kation ptti•Kh. A sub.:ription ro The {)bstrv('r is S100 for on~ academic ynr: S'i5 fnr one srmrs:rt'l'. · 11u-("lbs.:rvcr io • mcmhc• .,{the Asoociau:d Prn.s. All reprodoo;rinn righ<> arc 
r(S(:rY\.-d. 
n,. ( lb.cn=;, puhli•h...! .,. P.O.I\uxQ 
024 South Dln.ng 1-UU . 024 South llini"!l H•lt 
No<rc !lorn<. IN 465'51\~;'l'J Nmr. Oame, IN 41W~6..on9 
l\-rindial ptm<~gt.' fQid :n Nc.t~ Dame and 11ddirional m.ailin~ oflico. 
I'OST!\.fASH.R ~ add~ correc'tionfl: rn: 
Tht• ('*-"'"'t..-r 
'l1rObotmr i< a m<mh<r nfrh< o\owcilt<d P""". All ropro<lucrion righr<..., 
rnervcd 

The genocide currently taking place in Sudan necessarily raises the ques­tion-how much is human life worth? The response of the international community to this continuing crisis­especially the response of the United States -brings us to the conclusion Michael that human life Poffenberger 
matters little. And 
its value is less-Say Why Not ened when the interests of indi­viduals with power are not at stake. For, plain and simple, if the political will existed to end the violence in Darfur, it would be ended this week. 
Instead, the severity of the crisis intensifies daily. Government-spon­sored militias are attacking camps for displaced people, killing all in their way and gang-raping mothers and daughters ages eight to 80. Thousands of bodies have been found in mass graves throughout the region. Millions more people have been forced out of their homes in fear of this violence and now live in refugee camps where disease is rampant and food scarce. An estimated 70,000 human lives have already been lost and hundreds of thousands more are at risk. 
After 18 months of this systematic abuse of human rights, the only response from the international com­munity has been of toothless diplomat­ic pressure and hollow threats. The United Nations has left the responsi­bility for ending the crisis in the hands of the Sudanese government, the very government responsible for ordering and arming the militias that have per­petrated the mass murder. Moreover, the United States and European Union have offered few funds for the human­itarian assistance needed for those who are displaced. 
The inaction of the Bush 

Administration has been especially 
egregious. President George W. Bush 
took the important step of leading the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
world to label the atrocities "geno­cide." Rut there are certain legal obli­gations of intervention that come with the genocide label, however, that are not being fulfilled or even supported bv the administration. These choices h~lVe Qndermined these obligations and set a precedent for future conflict of looking the other way. Promises made by the international com­
munity following the the genocide, and the threat of Holocaust and again follow­military intervention would ing the genocide in carry significant weight. Rwanda -· the promises Clearly, there are ways of "Never Again"-are that the value of life of the made hollow by this citizens of Darfur can be inaction. affirmed by the interna­

At this point, the tional community -ways deaths in Darfur can't that are not yet being solely be attributed to explored. Let us not the racist regime in allow this situation to be Khartoum; indeed, the another instance of Africa hands of the entire being ignored by the rest world are bloody. of the world. What action 
There are many possi­would the international bilities for intervention. community take if this Arms embargoes that can genocide was taking place in prevent the government the United States or a country from continuing its support of in Western Europe? Are some 
the militias have not been placed on the country. Targeted sanctions can be used to freeze the assets of the regime. Government leaders can be prevented from traveling internation­ally. Threats of prosecution in the International Criminal Court can be made. The international community must take these actions in order to punish the Sudanese government for supporting the genocide. 
Further, for an emergency on this scale, issues of sovereignty should be put aside and U.N. peacekeepers should enter the country. While the sovereignty of countries is important to maintain, inaction in the face of such violence can be an extremely dangerous precedent to set. The Darfur region is the size of France, and right now there are only approxi­mately 3,000 ill-equipped African Union troops prPsent. Romeo Dallaire, the former U.N. general who was on the ground when the genocide in Rwanda broke out, is calling for 44,000 troops (far fewer than the 67,000 who were flown into Yugoslavia by the United Nations). Right now, this option is not being . considered. The Sudan('se government 

has been given no reason to halt 
lives more valuable than others? 

Though the international community has been unwilling to fulfill its respon­sibility to respond to this violence, putting pressure on our legislators to take greater action is something all of us can do. Lives are at stake, and you can work to help save them by joining the green ribbon campaign for aware­ness on campus and by communicat­ing your concern to (')ected leaders. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major and is working with the Notre Dame Peace Coalition to raise au,areness about the crisis in Sudan. Contact him at mp(~[fenb@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Angela Saoud Justin Schuver Kelly Meehan Katie Seryak Jen Howling Mike Gilloon 

Do you think TCE results should be 
Viewpoint Scene 
"Wzthout a struggle, there can be no progress. "
accessible?
Justin Spack Christie Boisen Graphics Illustrator 
Frederick Douglass
Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
activist 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
-----------------·-----.. ---~------­

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Political parties shouldn't conform to public 
This letter is in response to Bryan Hambley's viewpoint on Nov. 11 that the DPmoeratic Party must become pro­liff'. In his article Hambley daims that, on Nov. 2, the pro­life movement struck a fatal blow to the pro-choice posi­tion, and the pro-choice movement has been defeated. He basrs his claims on three things: first that Bush and his· pro-life stance clearly won the election, second, an anec­dote of his personal experience with a friend, and third, that 80 percent of the 22 percent of the electorate voted for Bush based on moral values. The first piece of evi­dence assumes a: large causation between abortion and the Bush platform. The second is an isolated incident that should not be used to generalize a trend in the country. The third assumes abortion is the only moral value the electorate votes on. 
In regards to Bush's victory being based on his stance on abortion I must disagree. I believe KP,rry lost based on personal characteristics in addition to differences in poli­cy. Kerry did not lose because he had an unpopular stance on the abortion issue, Kerry lost because on the morning of Nov. 2, 56 percent ofAmerica thought he said what people wantPd to hear, and only 40 percent thought he said what he believed. Hambley's proposal for the Democratic Party is that it should all do the same by changing one of il<> platforms to the other side solely because the population voted against it. 
Much ha..r.; been made of the faet that 22 percent of the country voted for moral values and that 80 percent of them voted for Bush. Is abortion a moral value? Absolutely. Is it the only moral value? Absolutely not. If abortion were the only moral value that mattered on elec­tion day, President George W. Bush would not have taken 80 percent ofthe moral value voters on Nov. 2. The statis­tic not provided in the article is that when asked if a per­son thought abortion should be always legal, mostly legal, mostly illegal or always illegal, the electorate responded in percentages of 21, 34, 26 and 16 respectively. It appears from the data that 55 percent of the country believes abortion should be mostly legal or completely legal, cer­tainly not the position of the pro-life movement. The moral value where America does go Bush's way? Gay marriage. Of the 72 percent of the country that stated gays should not be allowed to marry, 61.9 percent voted for Bush. 
Does this mean I think the Democratic Party should · switch to an anti-gay marriage platform to win over the populacf'? No. In fact, I'm insulted by the suggestion that a party should ever change its ideals because of thn popu­lation. If all political parties did that, there wouJd bf' no ideologieal divide and each party would be the slaws to whatever the current market research numbers WNC sug­gesting. . 
In light ofthese numbers I will have to conclude that Hambley has jumped the gun when he declared the pro­choice movement defeated. Living on this campus and in small-town America-I am from North Dakota-I can empathize with his beliefthat the country seems to be more pro-life then pro-choice. But our individual experi­ences shou1d not bring about broad generalizations to describe the nation. According to this data and similar result<> from 2000 I believe the pro-choice movement still remains strong in this country, and a Democratic depar­ture from that would not only be fundamentally wrong but also unbeneficial. 
Dan Geffre sophomore Morrissey Manor Nov. 13 

Students sound off on football issues 
I would just like to thank Kellie Middleton for enlightening us ignorant masses about Notre Dame football. You see, like so many, I used to be concerned about the path of Notre Dame football. I guess I didn't realize just how impressive a close win over a completely injury­depleted Tennessee team was. I thought that we were fortunate to catch them when we were coming off a bye week, they were coming off eight straight games, and they were down to their third-string quarterback by the end ofthe game. But now I've learned that it was because of coaching. 
I then went on to learn that Notre Dame football can't be great because of parity. When pro­grams like Baylor can occa'isionaly beat a barely top-25 team, how can Notre Dame be expeL-t­ed to win consistently like the Oklahomas and USCs of the world? Apparently coaching plays no part in the recent success of teams like Oklahoma and USC. Or with the impressive tum­around ofprograms like Utah. It's just parity. 
Then we were told that "the ship is pointed in the right direction," despite overwhelming evi­dence to the contrary. In 2003, Notre Dame gave up more poinl<> at home -168-than any other team in our history. In the 41 years from 1960-2001, we lost by more than 30 points four times, or roughly once every 10 years. In the two years since coach Tyrone Willingham took over, we lost by more than 30 points four times, or roughly once every five games. 
I also realized that my goal of Notre Dame winning a national champiom;hip is not the ulti­mate goal of the program. According to Kellie, "Ty har.; been able to attract and motivate fout­ball players that can play at a top 25-program level." Top 25'? Alright. But that won't happen every year -Ty has shown a rnmplete inability to keep a team at a high level from game to game, let alone year to year. And as for attracting players, last year's recruiting class was one of the lowest ranked in years, and early returns on this year's recruiting clao;;s are not impn~s­sive. 
I wish W:tllingham success, be it here, or someplace else. But the fact is, he and his staff are not championship material. There is no evidence to indicate that they are, despite Kellie's attemplo;; to defend him without any. Notre Dame can be great every year with the proper leadership. Bob Davie wa'i not the right man. Willingham is not the right man. That has become very apparent, and the administration should not drag this program any further down by continuing to accept mediocrity. 
Patrick Burke 
senior 
off-campus . 
Nov. 11 
As Pittsburgh kicked the go-ahead field goal, a Notre Dame senior began to vent his frustration. From all the expletives, the one line I vividly remember is "Doesn't anyone care about Notre Dame football anymore?" 
This is the same senior who foolishly ended up leaving the game early, ignoring postgame rituals such as singing the alma mater and not wisely taking some time to reflect on four years in the student section. He like many fellow seniors will unfortunately have to remember their last home game with a loss. Seniors will feel like their football experience is unful­filled, and will think of what might have been. However, many will not truly find the missing piece to the void about their experience because it's not on the football field but shattered among the stands ofl' the field. These are the seniors who paid more attention to petty marshmallow fights than the game. They are the same ones who were loitering around trying to find cuter guys and girls to sit with. They are also are the same seniors purposely trying to act spontaneous when they really weren't being spontaneous at all. This group described above will pay attention to an Irish touchdown or two, but quickly wander off into the aforemen­tioned activities. 
No wonder these seniors missed out. Part of the Notre Dame lore is the student section full of energy and class cheering on the Irish, win or lose. Many of the seniors failed to do their part in replenishing an integral part of the unique Notre Dame atmosphere. I saw countless seniors not partici­pating in the cheers and being unusually apathetic for their last home game. When seniors were trying to soak up the atmosphere at the end of the game hoping for that last hoorah, it was too late. They missed their opportunity, and it's tragic. I hope for those seniors who genuinely cheered on the Irish with dignity and having fun the right way will not let the other bozo seniors deter their experience. People did care, but he did­n't. 
And he'II regret walking out. 
Michael Kim junior St. Edward's Hall Nov. 13 
U-WIRE 







Morals not defined by Christianity 
The election is o~er. It was the longest campaign this country has ever seen, practically four years in the making. But has anything been resolved? Does it really seem possible that this one day will solve the great divide that separates this nation? 
The fact is we are still at a cross­Blake roads and there are national discus­Swenson sions that must take place. Morality 
University
must be the first topic. 
Daily Kansan

Twenty-two percent of voters cited 
University of

moral issues as the most important 
Kansas

voting topic. These supposedly include marriage, family, reproduc­tive choice and bio-ethics. My question is who decided these wNe the only moral issues in the election? 
Does an issue become a moral issue only because a Christian leader says it is a question of morality? 
These are not the only moral issues I saw in the elec­tion. The war in Iraq and the right to health care were also moral questions. These two subjects deal directly 
with life and death. 
We can not define our nation's morals on"Christianity alone. This country is supposed to be the protector of religious freedom and therefore encourage a national discussion on our population's morality. 
We divide each other by throwing around terms like pro-life in respect to only abortion. I may support the women's right to choose but I am still pro-life. 
I disagree with the war for a multitude of reasons, but most importantly because it is literally govern­ment-sanctioned killing. This war has led to the death of real people with histories, futures, families and homes. 
Our invasion of Iraq has led to death totals of more than 1,100 American soldiers and 15,000 Iraqi civil­ians. How can someone call themselves pro-life and support a policy that leads directly to the end of life? 
What about health care? We live in the most affiuent country in the world and you are telling me we can not afford health care for all our citizens. 
The most important role of government is to protect its citizens. I don't know when in history this protec­tion was limited to military security, but protecting our nation's well-being is just as important. 
We all sign an implicit social contraet upon our birth in this nation. I accept the social contrar.t wholehPart­edly. ­
I have great faith in humanity and government because of this binding contract. Government was cre­ated to fight for equality, social justice and protect the collective interests of the citizens of the republic. 
Both sides have a lot of assumptions about one another, but what is the truth? This is what we must learn to better the world. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 12 issue ofthe Uniz,ersity Daily Kansan. the daily publication at the University ofKansas. 
The l'iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not nc>cessarily those of The Obserzwr. 
THE OBSERVER 
CE

page 10 

Monday, November 15, 2004 
RESTAURANT REVIEW 

Rocco's is a not-so­modern ptzzerta 
For the college student, pizza is a cheap, fast and ~asy wa} to satisfy your cravings. Sometimes quality just doesn't matter these days. Goofy com­
Megan
mercials 
McFadden and 
of mup­
pets. Jessica Stoller string­
ing 
chi~CSC l·'l!TF: We Taste 
and a 
Food 
man 
claim­ing to be your father try to srll poor quality, non­authentic, Italian disappoint­ments (no wp're not talking about Arn1ani knockoffs). Wouldn't you rather come to place where everybody knows your name? We're not talking about some trashy Roston bar, but Hocco's on St. Louis Ave. It's a little hometown pizzeria that's been servin' it up since 1951. 
\'Ve gave the atmosphere at Rocco's four sporks out of five. The eclectic environ­ment not only gives a sense of the 70s, but it also pro­vides wonderful topics for conversation. From a curi­ous painting we'd like to call "lady wedged in dirt with camel" to the hanging lanterns from 1<J72, thPre was never a dull moment in 

our bur­our table.

Rocco's 
gundy The price pleather was a few booth. You bucks mere

Restaurant 
could also than your 
tell average Hocco's pizza. was a but the family taste was 
estab­W£>\1
\\\ 
football-weekend tradition. 
Next we'd like to give the culinary pleasures at Hocco's three and a half sporks. The pizza is warm, delicious and an olfactory sensation. Although it's a little crispy, thf~ ingredients were natu­ral, plcntiful and tastetasti­cal. When asked about the pizza, student Erica Valdez replied, "It lacks that plastic appearance of most dining hall pizza pies, and I believe it's simply fabulous." Also, if you ord(~r more than one pizza, the pizza is delivered in a tower shaped form with one pizza on top of another ­brilliant. Unfortunately, we only ordered one pizza, but later thought we decided the next time we'd order an imaginary pizza to get the pizza tower. 
The service at Hocco's was worthy of three sporks. The waitress was in tune with our pizza needs for the first half of our dining experi­ence, but after the pizza arrived, we were neglected in our booth for a good half hour. Since we're not great at carrying on in-depth con­versations with one another, this provPd near fatal when a raging ganH~ of "catch this utensil" broke out. 
After wounds were mend­ed and our waitress n~turned from Eastern 
Siberia, the 
check 
arrived at 
lish­ment by all of tlw employees strange­ly rt'sembling one anothrr anrf also by srveral photos of littlP Tony's tirst communion adorning the r.ntranec. If that's not enough to entice your int<'rests. they havl' an employPe who outdatr.s tlw d1;cor. Cash n·gistPr Betty and her ancient rash regis­trr have br.Pn "chi-chingin" togl'ther at Horco's for decadt'S. 
You can tell that Hocco's is a good friend of the Notre Damr community lJy all of the memorabilia and signed photographs of Hrgis Philbin (you'd think one ,,·ould be enough). Many Notre Dame fans have made Hocco's a 
worth 
thP extra invPstment. Shockingly, Hocco's doesn't accept credit cards or checks-mavbP bPcausP its cash rPgistt>r is from thP davvn of time, but we're just guPssing. 
From ttw classv d('cor and the great pizza t<.l the warm f'ri Pnd ly environmt>n t, Hocco 's pizzeria set>med to be a winner. If vou're look­ing !'or a great hometown classic and a football vveek­rnd Pvent. Hocco's is the place to go. 
Contact Megan McFadden and Jessica Stoller at mmcfadO1@saintmarys.edu and jstoiiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Get warm and to~sty with a chili party 
As the South Bend temperature begins to dip and that walk to DeBartolo seems to take just a little longer than usual. a bowl of steaming chili may be just what you need to warm up as winter creeps onto campus. The thing about this southwestern tre<it is there are usually endless amounts of leftovers. You 
Maureen Malloy
might as well just invite some 
friends over and have a chili 
party. 
5'cene H'riter
EVf~ryone has their own favorite stvle of chili. so be sure to have small bowls filled with toppings such as grated cheddar and Monterey Jack cheeses, chopped onions, sour cream, hot sauces, diced tomatoes and minced cilantro. Also have lots of warm, tasty bread on hand to sop up the wsty goodness and serve some sides like tortilla chips and guacamole to balance out the heat of the chilL For a more festive touch, encouragP evPryone to wear cowboy hats and break out your favorite country music playlist. Most impor­tantly, have lots of drinks on hand to wash down your spicy meal. Enjoy this chili recipe from Tabasco brand peppf>r sauce's PepperFest or experiment \\'ith one of your own favori~es. 
Red-Chill Con Carne 
2 pounds lean coarsely ground beef or venison 
1 medium onion, chopped 
3 large cloves garlic, minced 
1 (15-ounce) can tomato sauce 
2 cups water or beer 
2 tablespoons chili powder 
1 tablespoon cumin seeds or ground cumin 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon dried orPgano leaw~s. crushed 
1 tablespoon Tabasco brand llabancro Pepper Sauce 
2 tablespoons Tabasco brand Green Pepper Sauce 
Cook meat in a large skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat until brown, about 10 minutes, stirring to break up chunks. Pour ofT excess drip­
pings, if any. Add onion and garlic and cook 5 min­
utes or until onion is tender. 
Stir in tomato sauce, water, seasonings, Tabasco brand I labanero Sauce, and Tabasco brand Green Pepper Sauce. Kring to a boil; reduce heat to low, cover and simmer 1 hour or until meat is tPnder and flavorings are blended, stirring occasionally and adding more water, if needed. 
Makes(, to S servings. Hccipe murtesy of Tabasco brand pepper sauce's PPpper F1~st. 
Impress your friends with homemade tortilla chips. Divide tortillas·into eight wedges and coat with olive oil spray. Sprinkle to taste with salt and spices (like Essence of Emcril) and some limejuice if you prefer. Bake at 325 dPgrees for 12-15 minutes, turning occasionhlly, until golden brown and crispy. St>ne hot vvith guaearnolf~ or any of your other favoritP dips. 
Mf'.xican Ic£~ Crram Sundars are a grPat way to round of'(' tlw meal. Servp warm cinnamon saun• over chocolate in' cream and garnish with a cinna­mon stick. For ttw sauce. melt 3/4 eup butter in a small saucepan. Add 1 cup confectioners' sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, l/2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1/4 tea­spoon nutnwg, and 1/2 cup water. Bring to a boil. then simmer until thickened, about 5 minutes. 
Cinnamon Sauce recipe courtesy of www.sweet-. babynwdia.com 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl @nd.edu 

ABC is in the midst of resurgence. After years of being the worst of the Rig Three in terms of ratings ABC has two of the highest-rated shows this season "Lost" and "Drsperate Housewives" heavily employ the themes of sex and the attainment of personal 
satisfaction without regard for  
the effect on others. If ratings  
are any indicator, the formula  Broderick Henry  
works. Moreover, ARC appar­ 
ently has dr.cided to utilizl' the  
formula in the network's other  L':,'cene ~Vriter  
productions, like Sunday  
night's 32nd American Music  

Awards. Held in LA's Shrinr. Auditorium, the award show was markPd by dreadful production along with unPnding ovt'rt rdcrences to sex, drug-s and violence. 
GW('n Stefani. lead sing(~r of No Doubt, set tlw offensive tone for the evening. She sang· the first single. "What You Waiting For'?," from her forth-


Jimmy Kimmel hosted the American Music Aware show to Anna Nicole Smith after her appearance. 




Rapper 0.[ 

Tang Clan and was working on an album when he di1 
n l 1·1 I · ) : ~ I > 
THE OHSERVER 
Monday, November 15, 2004 page 11 

so en an entertain 

coming debut album. Accompanied by Chinese influ­enced music and stage production, Stefani advocat­ed "Take a chance you stupid ho!" 
Lenny Kravitz, with his newly shaved head. was chosen to follow Stefani. lie performed an inspired version of his song "Lady." 
For this awards show ABC chose a slightly differ­ent approach from comparable shows like the MTV Video Music Awards or the Grammy's. Dick Clark, producer of the event, chose to present performers in pairs so that vievvers ended up seeing artists of different genres back to back. There is no question it was to the detriment of the show. I am not sure anyone wants to or can even bear seeing pop star Jessica Simpson and country singer ·Kenny Chesney with Uncle Kracker, one right after the other. 
Jimmy Kimmel was emcee for the live telecast. The talk show host and late night comedian tried his best to offend as many artists and viewers alike. llis opening monologue attacked Michael Jackson 
and very casually glo­rified the use of mari­juana by music's larg­er acts. 
Throughout the evening Kimmel made sure not to allow viewers to forget Anna Nicole's Smith's disturbing appear­ance. Smith was at the ceremony to pres­ent a performance by best new artist nomi­nee Kanye West. whose latest video features her. The reality-television star at times appeared confused, crazed, illiterate and heavily intoxicated on drugs of some nature. ln a tight black number, Anna Nicole asked the audience if they liked her body. After mistakenly calling West a female. pro­ducers quickly cat away from ·her for West's performance. 
In terms of awards. Usher was the big win­ner. His latest album, "Confessions," which has sold more than 7 million copies, won best pop/rock album. The 27­year-old music sensation also won fo,r favorite male soul/R&B artist and best soul/H&B album. Usher performed his hit single "My Boo" with his rumored girl­friend, Alicia Keys. Their performance, which included a staged makeout session, received one of the few standing ovations for the evening. Keys also per­formed by herself and won an award for favorite female soul/R&B artist. Clearly. it was a memorable evening for the couple. 
Country artist Toby Keith won favorite coun­try male artist for his album "Shock'n Y'All" and Brooks & Dunn won favorite country band. Gretchen Wilson took home her first American Music Award and per­formed "Bedneck Woman." The song was full of offensive stereo­types and coarse ian­guage. It fit in well with the overall theme of the festivities. 

Bon Jovi was honored with the event's most pres­tigious award for its overall career achievement. Bon Jovi accepted the Award of Merit and thanked the fans for their support over the years: "Even when I couldn't, you gave me the chance to dream." Clad in tight pants and cropped hairstyles, one was confused as to whether the group had left the 1980's. The moment was, as Bon Jovi described it, "surreal but much appreciated." 
American Idol winner Fantasia Barrino shined 

Photo courtesy of abc go com Kimmel later dedi­. on ABC, and dedicated the cated the evening to Smith. 
once again, delivering one of the few strong per­formances of the show. llcr delivery was stecped in soul and likely reminded viewers why they chose 
her as their idol. Yet, someone failed to-tell Barrino her hair looked like an unkempt toupee. 
Overall, Kobe Bryant's appearance produced the greatest audience reaction. While presenting the award for best souVH&B album attendants both cheered and booed the star basketball player. Bryant's reception was symbolic of ttie night's pro­ceedings. Some performers deserved praise while most should have stayed home. Maybe then viewers would not have had endure such disinterest and dis­respect. 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenryl@nd.edu 
1.B. dies in Manhattan recording studio 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Autopsy results for the rapper known as O.D.B.. who died at a l\tanhattan recording studio, will not be available for SPveral days while authoritit~s conduct nwdical tests. officials said Sunday. 
Hesults of the tests could take morn than a week, said Ellen Borakove, a spokesvvoman for the New 'York City medical examiner's oflice. 
O.D.B., whose lt~gal name was HussPll Jones, com­plained Of chest pains before collapsing Saturday at the Manhattan studio. lie was dead by the time para­medics reached him. said Gabf~ Tesoriero, <t spokesman for Hoc-a-Fella records. 
The cause of death was not immediately clear, but O.D.)3. had rect~ntly finished a. prison sentence for drug possession and escaping a rehab clinic. He would have turned 36 un Monday. 
Vu­~eanwhilc. the music world on Sunday mourned 
d. the rapper's death as many of the industry's stars 
gatherPd in Los Angeles for the 32nd annual American Music Awards. 
O.D.H., also known as 01' Dirty Bastard, was a founding mcmbt~r o!' the rap group the ·Wu-Tang Clan. · 
\Vi t h his u n o rt h o d o x d e I i v e r y -a Ill) r n a teIy slurred, hyper and nonsl'nsical -O.D.B. stood out even in the nine-man Clan, and as a solo artist he released hit singlPs such as "Shimmy Shimmy Ya" and "Got Your Money." 
lie had been \vorking on hi's comeback album for more than a year and was almost finished, Tesoriero said. · 
Information about funeral plans \Vas not immedi­ately available. 
O.D.B. was the latest in a string of rappers to meet an untimely death, among them Jam Master Jay of Hun DMC, who was fatally shot in late 2002, and Notorious B.l.G. and Tupac Shakur, who were both shot to death in the late 1990s. Those killings remain unsolved. 

Photo courtesy of tcemagaztne.com 

O.D.B., also known as 01' Dirty Bastard, would have turned 36 years old today. 

--~-·-o--------~--~ 
Monday, November 15, 2004 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
This year's .version of the Irish more complete 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer Teresa Borton posts up during Notre Dame's win over Nebraska Sunday. Borton was 6-for-10 from the field. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish float past Panthers, Spartans 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Two weeks after a double dis­appointment against Arizona State and Purdue, the No. 24 Irish rew~rsed their fortunes at the Rolfs Aquatic Center on Friday. The Irish easily tri­umphed over Pittsburgh and Michigan State, defeating them by scores of 172-12R and 199­101, respectively. 
Irish coach Bailey Weathers was satisfied with the way his team performed. 
"We did pretty Well. we won a lot of events and the kids eom­peted hard, so things looked good from our end," he said. 
The Irish took control with the first event and never looked back, winning the 200-meter relay to start the meet and win 10 of 16 events overall. The team of freshman Caroline · Johnson, sophomore Jessica Stephens, junior Christel Bouvron and sophomore Rebecca Grove finished with a and 3-meter diving competi­time of 1 minute, 46.01 seconds tions. After six events this sPa­beating their nearest competi­son, Perry-Eaton has five victo­tor by more than half a second. ries already under her belt. 
Stephens and Bouvron had a The trio of Stephens, Bouvron successful evening, each cap­and Perry-Eaton took part in turing two individual titles as seven of the Irish's 10 victories. well to go with their relay suc­''I'm real pleased [with the 
cess.  Stephens  way  they  per­ 
won both the 200­ formed],"  
meter individual medley as well as  ..We won a lot of  Weathers said . Outside of the  
the  200-meter  events and the kids  contributions of  
breaststroke, dom­inating the latter  competed hard.''  those three, the Irish showed  
with a career-best 2:18:31 and finish­ Bailey Weathers  plenty of strength F r i d a y  
ing more than four  Irish coach  Sophomore Ellen  
seconds  faster  Johnson had one  
than second place.  victory and two  
Stephens  just  second-place fin­ 

missed the breastroke sweep, ishes on her own, as well as a losing in the 100 by 0.08 sec­win as part of the 400-meter onds. Bouvron swept the butter­freestyle relay. Johnson won the fly events, winning both the 100 200-meter freestyle, and placed and 200-meter events by con­second in the 200-meter back­siderable margins. Senior diver stroke and 500 freestyle. Meghan Perry-Eaton was virtu­ally unchallenged on Friday Contact Eric Retter at night, dominating both the 1 eretter@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles finish 7th 
Division III schools dominate invite 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
The Belles came in seventh place out of eight teams on Saturday at the Maroon Division-III Invitational hosted by the University of Chicago. Competition at the meet was stiff, with the slate of oppo­nents featuring the top­ranked Division-III school in the nation, Washington University. 
Washington easily took first at the invitational, followed by Luther College and Illinois Tech in second and third. The host school finished in fifth place, behind Illinois Wesleyan. 
This year is the first season that Saint Mary's has partici­pated in the Maroon Invitational. 
Junior Sarah Nowak was pleased with the way her team performed at the meet on Saturday. 
"It was an invitational that we'd never been to before ... [with] team~ that we weren't used to," Nowak said. "I think that just getting up and racing against some of the bigger teams was an accomplish­ment." 
Nowak, who placed 11th_out of 38 in the 200-yard freestyle and fifth of 25 in the 200-yard breaststroke, also turned in impressive performances in the 100-yard butterfly and 400 freestyle relay, with team­mates Rachel Boury, Kelly Tighe and Kelly Nelis. 
Going into the race the team was coming off a week of tough workouts, with the addition of more weight train­ing to the regular practice schedule. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africano.edu 

Brenna Gray leapt in front of the Nebraska guard, tipped the pass and took it coast-to-coast to rompiPtc the steal and thP bucket. Then in the second half, she did it again­this time on the left side. 
Fueled by a strong effort on the boards and on defense, the Irish 
pulled away 
Heather from the 
Cornhuskers Van Hoegarden at the end of the first half, Sports Editor much like they did two days ago against Illinois State. This Irish team is hungry. Sure they have a star in Jacqueline Batteast, a presea­son All-American and presea­son National Player of the Year. But they had her last year. Then there's last year's Big East Most Improved Player, Megan Duffy. She doesn't turn the ball over, and chances are, you're not going take the ball when she's dribbling. She can score, she can shoot. But they had her last year too. So why is this year's Irish team different? What they didn't have was 
this year's Teresa Borton. The mild-mannered senior has been aggressive on Hffense and on the boards. Sunday she put up 13 points and grabbed 11 rebounds in 24 minutes of play. Borton's contributions were big, as she was Notre Dame's second leading scorer and their leading rebounder. 
Borton hit almost every shot she took, making 6-of-1 0 from the floor. She pulled down almost every rebound in her immediate area. Right side, left side, it didn't matter­Borton finished. When Courtney LaVere got in early foul trouble, it was Borton who raised her game. . 
"It's really great to see dif­ferent people stepping up," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Borton's play Sunday is a microcosm of this year's Irish team. Her hustle and aggres­sive play is seen throughout this Notre Dame team. 
Gray put up a career-high 12 points while shutting down Nebraska's Kiera Hardy, hold­ing her to-2-of-16 from the field, days after she scored 28 points on Western Illinois in the Cornhuskers' previous game. It was a career day for Gray. 
And while her "teammates 
are missing shots, Charel Allen 
was all over the boards. The 5­
foot-11 freshman grabbed 
eight rebounds, most of them 
coming ofT her own hustle and 
nose for the ball. 
Duffy is all over the court, 
even if she isn't shooting well, 
like Sunday night. Batteast is 
all over the boards and on 
offense, she is as aggressive as 
she needs to be. But when she 
is doubl(~-teamed, she knows 
what to do with the ball. And 
her teammates know even bet­
ter. 
This Irish team is not the 
team from a year ago. 
They move the ball better on 
offense. They hustle more. 
S•1re, the defense is compa­
rable. 
But the real difference in this 
Notre Dame team is its aggres­
siveness -and the fact that .Batteast is not the only threat. 
And for the Irish, that's just 
what they needed this year. 
That's what has won them two 
straight games by at least 15 
points. 
Now a true test will come 
Wednesday night when they 
face No. 6 Duke. 
That's when this team will 
really need its other players to 
rally around Batteast. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those ofthe author 
and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. 
Contact Heather Van 
Hoegarden at 
hvanhoeg@nd. edu 

FoR RENT 
2--6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO MMMRentals com 532-1408 
6·7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND W/D, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05 ALSO-3 BDRM HOME.W/D.NEAR 
CORBY~STJOECHURCH. 
AVAIL NOW CALL JOE CRIM­MINS 574·229·3659 OR 679-2010. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES · NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY­
ERS 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWWDOMUSKRAMER COM OR CONTACT KRAMER (574)234· 2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave across from radio tower available for 06· 
07. Completely renovated,large rooms,3 full baths. NO Ave house w/5bdrms available for 05-06_ 
Will lease to as few as 3 students,good location & competi­
tive rent. Email ndhouses@ yahoo.com 
MISHAWAKA 2·3 bedroom.2 5 bath, 1.200 sq ft + full basement + 
2-car garage. $875/mo. 574-273­
9000. 



PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sunl Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan; Cameron & Cabo. Organize a group-GO FREEl 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise' 5 Days $2991 Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $4591 Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1· 800-678-6386 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Hiring campus reps 
Call tor group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www ststravelcom 
No more Big East refs 
Carlyle Holiday. A real Notre Dame man. Carrie and Mo. You are both amazingly awesome' Congrats Walsh football! Who are Who are. We are W-l·l-01 These aren"t my classifieds. guys 

Monday, November 15, 2004 page 13
The Observer + SPORTS 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish teams place 2nd 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sporrs Wrirc:r 
As the common saying goes, the second-place team is the first loser. 
This was not necessarily true for the men's and women's cross country teams as they both finished second in the Great Lakes NCAA regional race this weekend. 
By finishing second, each team received automatic bids to the NCAA championship race, which will take place Nov. 22. The top two teams qualified for the NCAA championships. 
Kurt Benninger continued his solid season for the Irish, finish­ing in third place overall, seven seconds behind the leader with a time of 30:17. He was the first Notre Dame runner to cross the finish line. 
Kaleb Van Ort and Tim Moore also placed in the top 1 0 for the Irish, both finishing with times of 30:25. · 
"Our front four fellas ran especially well," head coach Joe Piane said, referring to Benninger, Van Ort, Moore and Sean O'Donnell, who finished in 19th overall, with a time of 30:35. 
Piane was also quick to give credit to the other Irish run­ners, namely Vinny Ambrico. 
"Vinny Ambrico, our fifth man, did a fine job. He did exactly what I asked him to do, and that was go out a little bit more conservatively ... and try to work I his] way through the pack," Piane said. "We'll proba­bly have to change that strategy a little bit for the next time we raee, but I thought he did a great job." 
The g2 points for the Irish were 55 behind that of Wisconsin, who won the race.. The Badgers are currently ranked No. 1 in the country. 
"We were pleased, we went there to get an automatic quali­fier and we did," Piane said. 
Coach Piane also stressed that it would be very important to repeat the same intensity that the Irish had in this weekend's race, next Monday in the NCAA's. 
"[We need to] reproduce that kind of performance, and prob­ably move it up just a notch," Piane said. 
For the women, Stepha,nie Madia led all Irish runners, fin­ishing in fourth place overall with a time of 20:10. 
Coach Tim Connelly praised his team for running the race they did, commenting at length about the performances of Madia, Olding, Meagher, Lauren King, who finished 24th with a 21:02, and Jean Marinangili, who finished 26th with a 21:13. 
"l thought our kids competed really well, and got done what . we needed to get done," 
Connelly said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at bgriffi3@nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 





ND surprises Pittsburgh 
1st victory ever over ranked opponent 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Wrirer 
· Blink and you literally would have missed it. 
The average human blink lasts 0.4 seconds. But when sophomore Tim Kegelman touched the wall ahead of Pittsburgh's Darryl Washington last Friday, only .04 seconds separated the two swimmers in the decisive 400-yard freestyle relay. Point zero four seconds was all the time need­ed for the Irish to upset the eight-time defending Big East champion No. 17 Pittsburgh and give Notre Dame the biggest win in the 4 7 -year his­tory of the program. 
"It was a huge win for us," head coach Tim Welsh said. "It allows us to enter a whole new level. We have been close against some ranked programs before. But this is the first time we have won a dual-meet against a ranked opponent, so it's at least the biggest win since joining the Big East lConference]." 
The victory gave Notre Dame (5-1} its first-ever win over a nationally-ranked opponent and the 155-145 victory snapped Pittsburgh's 26-meet winning streak against Big East Conference foes. The Irish also defeated Michigan State 213-87 in the triangular meet. 

In a late-meet situation that mirrored the one against No. 22 Brigham Young two weeks ago, the Irish found themselves leading 142-141 entering the final relay and needing a victo­ry in the final event to win the meet. 
"I think the fact that we have been there before and that we didn't win helped us," Welsh said. "The most important thing for us is that we did the 
Kegelman faced the task of holding off a rapidly gaining Washington, an eight-time all­league honoree, who made up a large chunk of Notre Dame's lead early in his leg. Washington got into a virtual tie in the final 10 yards but Kegelman's fingers reached the touchpad just before his. Entering this weekend, just 13 Division I programs had field­ed relays that had gone quick­er than the time posted by Notre Dame's match-clinching one. 
"One of the 

last relay the "It was a huge win most exciting right way. That things for us is
for us. It allows us 
was a very clear that we're learn­
to enter a whole
example of a lit~ ing to win close tle bit of experi­new level ... and it's not easy ence helping us to do," Welsh sta;y cool in a said. "It was just
Tim Welsh 
pressure situa­an incredibly
Irish coach
tion." close meet and to 
Making their competitive debut as a 400­yard frees{yle quartet, Notre Dame's relay team of senior Frank Krakowski, sophomores Louis Cavadini and Nick Fanslau and Kegelman snatched away the first-place finish with a time of 3:04.13 while. the Panthers' relay team came in just behind at 3:04.17. Krakowski, Cavadini and Fanslau swam very well in the first three legs of the relay, building a 1.12 second advan­tage when Kegelman took to the water. 
In the final 50 yards, 

DAJ 
1111111111111111111 

Educational Technologies &Services is looking for qualified students to work on our 
Classroom Support Staff. 
Students must have some AN and computer trouble shooting experience. 
-
Job duties include set-up of AN equipment, assisting professors with equipment matfunctions and troubleshooting. 
Time slots most needed: M-F am, M-Th evenings, Sundays 
Interested students should contact: Jason A. Railton, Supervisor of Classroom Support, jrailton@nd.edu 

the credit of our guys. they won those close races." 
l'he final relay capped a closely contested meet in which neither team was able to pull away for long. The two teams traded leads and neither was able to build up a lead of more than 15 points at any one time. Three of the races were decided by a total of 0.11 sec­onds . 
"This is collegiate swimming the way it's supposed to be," Welsh said. "The races were dose but spirited. They were competitive [and the] relation-. ship between the two teams 
was at a very high level. There was great sportsmanship everywhere. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumm@nd.edu. 
. < ·•·. . . . .•.-c----Fi/iil~ 


MESIWI -I 
Offering I aifon:JabiB I 
Hying lessons 
from SouUl Bend I Regional Airport 

onlyat ~ C 

Sminutes a
&om DUTPDST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 


Come out to su la~tQ.ome match 



Associated Press Top 25 
team ,.ecord points 
1 usc (51) 10-0 1,608 2 Auburn (6~ 10-0 1,536 2 Oklahoma (8) 10·0 1,536 4 California 8-1 1,409 5 Utah 10-0 1,316 6 Texas 9-1 1,301 7 Michigan 9-1 1,279 8 louisville 7-1 1,279 9 Wisconsin 9·1 1,012 10 Florida State 8·2 1,004 
. 11 Georgia 8·2 979 12 Miami 7·2 834 13 Boise State 9·0 797 14 LSU 7·2 786 15 Tennessee 7·2 733 15 Virginia Tech 7·2 733 17 Iowa 8·2 626 18 Virginia 7·2 541 19 Boston College 7·2 490 20 Arizona State 8·2 442 21 West Virginia 8-2 330 22 TexasA&M . 7-3 274 23 Oklahoma State 7·3 223 24 UTEP 7-2 152 25 Bowling Green 8-2 42 
"''::»'1i~'ffil':. 

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 
1 usc (51) 10-0 1,514 2 Oklahoma (6) 10-0 1,435 3 Auburn (4) 10-0 1,433 4 California 8-1 1,311 5 Texas 9-1 1,222 6 Utah 10·0 1.203 7 Michigan 9-1 1,191 8 Florida State 8·2 999 9 Wisconsin 9-1 948 10 Georgia 8·2 J947 11 LouiSVIlle 7~1 . 880 12 BoJse State 9-G 827 13 Miami 7·2 nc 14 LSU 7·2 ·+171 15 Virolnla Tech 7-2 688 16 Tennessee 7·2 580 .&.:~ 17 Iowa 8·2 519 18 Virginia 7·2 501 19 Boston College .-.·... 7·2 U3 .. 

-:~;:­
~

20 West VIrginia . , . 1-2 419 21 Arizona State >a-2 411 1 
:~ 

22 Texas A&M _. _,_,~·""'' .. 7-3 z212 23 Oklahoma State , :~~J!¢~y: ,; e:~-7-3 228 
"".:-:, .. -...... 2 
24 Bowtlna Green 117 25 UTEP 7·! 81 


,~_, ...,_._:c:AftmJ'®~W'~:)l1l*1MW~})Wi~'l~fl'it!!t'if:~!/1!~if#§. !!1!1,,.~~~
Men's CCHA Hockey_, 
· _....-. 
Conference 
tt>am CCHA Overall 
Ohio State 8~2·0 14·5·2 Michigan 7-3-D 14oo4-2 Alaska Fairbanks 6·3-1 15-3-3 NebraSka-Omaha 5-2·3 18-6-4 Bowling Green 6-2-3 9-5-4 
< 
··~~~

Northern Michigan 5·3-2 8-8-3 
Michigan State 4·5·1 6--10-3 ·m·
NOTRE DAME 4-6-0 10·8·1 Western Michigan 3-5-2 6·7·4 :::~lake Superior 3·6-1 6--11·1 Miami 3-7-o a..g..2 Ferris State 1·5-4 4-8·5 

around the dial 
NFL 

Eagles at Cowboys 9 p.m., ABC 
NBA 

Warriors at Cavaliers 7 p.m., NBATV 
FIGURE SKATING ISU Grand Prix: NHK Trophy 9 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 2004 WTA Championships 10 p.m., ESPN2 




OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S \VIRE srRvJcrs Monday, November 15, 2004 
MLB 


Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Omar Vizquel hopes to revitalize his career with a new team in a new league. The San Francisco Giants just hope the veteran shortstop has a few more good years in him. 
Vizquel agreed to terms with San Francisco on Sunday. The deal is worth $12.25 million over three years, a person close to the negotiations told The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity. 
At 37, the defensive wiz­ard is headed to the· National League for the first time in his career after spending the last 11 seasons with Cleveland. He turned down a two-year offer from the Chi:cago White Sox, in part because he wanted to play on the West Coast near his Seattle home. 

··People say I have a real­ly young heart," he said. "That's important in this game ... I think I can be really strong another two or three years. I think com­ing to a new league is going to keep me sharp. I hope I can pick up the pace real quick." 
Vizquel, a nimHime Gold Glove winner, is the first of 207 free agents to join a new team, and the second to sign overall after Texas reliever Doug Brocail returned to the Rangers on Friday on a $1 million, one-year deal. 
The switch-hitter batted .291 with seven homers and 59 RBis last season for the Indians. The Giants hope Vizquel can provide. a boost to their defense and improve production in the No. 2 spot in the order. 
Though Vizquel's produc­tion and durability have been questioned in recent seasons, general manager Brian Sabean believes Vizquel still ean be an everyday contributor ­and the Giants are never seared ofT by aging players. 
"To get somebody of Omar's caliber is certainly a godsend," Sabean said of Vizquel's defensive abili­ties. "I think if you watch him play, he has a passion 
for  the game  and  is  in  
great shape."  
Vizquel  filed  for  free  

agency last month after. the Indians declined to pick up his $5 million option for 2005. Vizquel had said he wanted to return for a 12th season in Cleveland, wherP he grew into one of the franchise's most popular players, but the Indians said his return would be "a long shot." General manag­er Mark Shapiro's priMity this offseason is pitehing. 
IN BRIEF 
D.C. United wins its fourth 
MLS Cup over Kansas City CARSON, Calif-Peter Nowak had 
· an empty feeling when he left the MLS Cup four years ago. He was beaming this time. 
D.C. United's rookie coach and his team had just won the franchise's fourth MLS Cup, beating Kansas City 3-2 Sunday. 
"I got my trophy back," Nowak said after Alecko Eskandarian scored twice to lead United. 
Nowak was the MVP of Chicago's 1998 victory ov.er United in Major League Soccer's championship game. then was on the field again when the Fire lost 1-0 to Kansas City in 2000. 
··when you raise a trophy as a player or a coach, it's a satisfying feeling," Nowak said. 
"They (the players) make me look like a genius, all their hard work. I put thPm through hell. really worhd them, but now they get to Pnjoy it." 
"What a great ycar we had," said Eskandarian, a 22-yPar-old formcr 

University of Virginia star taken with the first pick in the 2003 MLS draft. 
"We had a meeting last night and Earnie Stewart said that this group of guys will be on the field together for the last time. It was a great finish." 
Kansas City pulled within 3-2 on Josli Wolff's penalty kick in the 58th minute. The Wizards were awarded the kick when United's Dema Kova]enko, protecting the goal line, used his hand to knock a shot by Davy Arnaud over the bar. 
Kovalenko was ejected, the first player sent ofT in the nine-year histo­ry of the Cup. 
Despite being down a man. United held ofT the Wizards the rest of the way. Dav~nport defeats Williams,continues stay on top 
LOS ANGELES -Lindsay DavPn­port rallied for a 3-6. 7-5. 6-1 victory over Serena Williams in tlw WTA Championships on Saturday, al­though her No. 1 ranking remainPd in peril. 
Davenport owns a 351-point lead over No. 2 Amelie Mauresmo, who still has a chance to regain the top spot she held for five weeks after the 
U.S. Open. 
Mauresmo defeated Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova 7-5, 6-4; both players advanced to the semifi­nals out of the Black Group. Mauresmo was 3-0 in round-robin play; Sharapova was 2-1. 
"The match wasn't the best ever played," said Mauresmo, who had never played Sharapova before. "It was very difficult for both of us to stav focused because we have both qmi.lified." 
Sharapova hit 3;) winners to Maurcsmo's 19, but the 17-year-old Hussian also committPd 35 errors in losing for the first time in thrPe matchPs. 
"I was a little tirPd from Friday night. I didn't have enough time to n•st," Sharapova said. "It was sort of a practice match: I sort of PnjoyPd mysdf. Shp's very ronsistcnt." 
Monday, November 15, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 

It was the second game where Teresa and IBreona] stepped up had 11 points in just 12 minutes Notes:Irish Notre Dame had numerous play­to help Jackie," lri'ih head coach of play, thanks to foul trouble. + Allen logged 28 minutes 
continued from page 20 
Invitation Tournament with a 73-57 win against Nebraska on · Sunday night at·the Joyce Center. 
ers contribute to the win. The Irish had six players score in dou­ble figures in beating Illinois State 92-73 on Friday. 
"It's really great to see different people stepping up and today Muffet McGraw said. 
The win means the Irish will face No. 6 Duke at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. on Wednesday in th~emifmals. 
Notre Dame's Courtney LaVere 






' 
•'· 
f-. 
f·~' 

.we~re here tosupportyou! 
NP/lLA/lS NOADE ,.,Worklife ,.,American CancerSociety NMom Er Dad ,.,Aunt ntly 
NA\7A.Jf) f~ODI~ 'l'ili..KI~Il: !Ill. lll~ltltiL J... SilNJH)\'1ll.. 
LISTEN AS THIS WARRIOR RECOUNTS HIS EXPERIENCE ASONEOFTHELEGENDARY 
With LaVere stuck on the bench, while also adding eight rebounds, Borton said she knew someone good for second on the team. 
needed to pick  + Fellow freshman  
up the slack.  Tulyah Gaines did not  
"Courtney had fouls, and I knew that I would be playing more,  "'It ·s really great to see different people stepping up ...  dress for the game because of a neck injury she sustained against Illinois State.  
and  I tried  to  McGraw said Gaines  
contribute more to the team to get the win,"  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  is doubtful for Wednesday's contest. + Students inter­ 

Borton said. 
Borton and Gray's play, along with the rest of the team, took pressure off Batteast. To no one's surprise, Nebraska double-teamed Notre· Dame's All-American on nearly every possession. Batteast didn't force her shot, but instead found an open teammate. 
"I knew someone would be open if they double-teamed me," said Batteast, who finished the game with a career-high seven assists. 
Notre Dame used a 49 to 37 rebounding ·advantage and some crisp passing to pull away from the Cornhuskers early in the sec­ond half, after leading 35-26 at intermission. The Irish, led by Borton, played aggressively in the paint and muscled their way for positioning against undersized Nebraska. Notre Dame routinely converted open lay-ups thanks to nifty passing. 
The Irish couldn't shake Nebraska in the first half as the Cornhuskers drilled 6-of-12 3­point attempts. But Notre Dame's stifling defense took away the 3­point shot in the second, holding Nebraska to just 1-for-7. 
"I thought we really did a bet­ter job in the second half [defend­ing the 3-point shot]," McGraw said. 
Nebraska's Kiera Hardy scorched the Cornhuskers' first opponent Western Illinois for 28 points Friday, but was a non-fac­tor Sunday. She was 0-of-9 in the first half, and fouled out late in the second half after shootin~ just 2-of-16 from the field for only f(mr points. 
"I thought Breona and Chan:~l [Allen] both did a great job on her," McGraw said. "I think we frustratf~d lllardyl early. She did­n't get a lot of open looks." 
Nebraska's Chelsea Aubry led the Cornhuskers with 16 points on 5-of-13 shooting. 
The Irish opnnnd the ~arne with <t 10-3 run, but after a Nebraska timeout, the Cornhuskers charged back to take a 14-12 lead on Jessica Gerhart's 3-point­er. 
Notre Dame then slowly took over the game by outrebounding Nebraska and seorin~ inside. Twn free throws from Batteast with five seconds left put the Irish ahead by nine at half. 
The Irish started the second 
half on a 13-5 run, capped ofl' 
with a Borton free throw with 
15:22 remaining. Notn~ Dame led by as many as 20 points on six different occasions. 
ested in purchasing 

tickets for Wednesday's ~arne against No. 6 Duke may do so Tuesday by going to the ticket booth at the Joyce Center. Tickets are $7 for an)"'ne 21 and under. The Preseason WNIT mandates ticket prices f(>r the semifinal matchup, not Notre Dame. Notre Dan1e stu­dents showing a student ID wilJ be admitted for free to aU regular season women's games this sea­son. Notre Dame 92, Illinois State 73 
Notre Dame used a late first­half run to pull away in the first round game of the preseason WNIT against Illinois State Friday night by the score of 92-73, despite playing for the majority of the first half without Batteast, who was in foul trouble. 
"I thought we broke the game open when we figured out how to attack the press," Mc~raw said. 
Six players scored in double­digits for the lrish, led by LaVere's 18 points. LaVere saw increased playing time when Batteast picked up two fouls with more than·17 minutes to play in the first half. 
"In the first half, I tried to come out with a lot of intensity," LaVere said. "With Jackie in foul trouble, I felt like I had to step up and score some points." 
Batteast fmished with 13 points in just 17 minutes, but the real story wa'i the other lrL"ih players. Ml\gan Dully srornd 15 poinl"i on 5-for-8 shooting, including 3-filr-4 beyond tho are, and freshman Allen had 14 points and six rebounds in her collegiate debut. 
"I was really pleased with Courtney and Charnl tonight," McGraw said. "I thought they both playl~d really well. Megan is going to bn steady for us, we expect Megan to do what she did, but I was really pleased with Courtney and Charel." 
Notes: 
+ 
Gaines was injumd after she hit her head on the floor Friday night. She did not play-Sunday and was wearing a neck brace. MrGraw said she sufl'ered a neck injury. 

+ 
Every Irish player scored Friday with the exception of Gaines. The last time the Irish had six players in double digits was in 1999. 


1/eather Van 1/oegarden con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 15, 2004 
Title 
continued from page 20 
in all three games. They dug a hole for themselves in falling behind the Mountaineers 10-6 in game one and 9-3 in game two, but the team rallied behind Carolyn Cooper's .455 hitting percentage for the match. The team hit .424 in the third game after a hitting percentage of only .1 05 in game two. 
"I think that we finished really strong in Game 3," Brown said. "Even at the beginning of game three we WPre still not very effi­cient and not playing very well." 
Brown called a timeout mid­way through the third game after a sPrvice Nror by Emily I,oomis and with the teams tied at 14. 
"From that point I think there was just a really good focused efl'ort," Brown said. "We didn't have ttw unforced errors and just a much stronger drive to finish it and finish strong." 
The play of Cooper helped to kP.ep the Irish in the match as the middle blocker led the team with 14 kills. Lauren Brewster had 13 while Emily Loomis tal­lied 10. 
"!Cooper] had a really strong game one and a really strong Game 3," Brown said. "I think in 


Game 2 she got a ..We don't want to go into then come little bit flustered back really
a match and think that 

and hesitated a strong with 
we don't have to play

couple times and her other made some well or that we can just parts of the uncharacteristic game."
roll over somebody. " 

errors. But she The Irish came back and finished the finished really Debbie Brown conference strong in Game 3 Irish coach season with 
which was huge for us." 
Team captain Meg Henican hustled for a match-high 24 digs at her libero spot while Adrianna Stasiuk chipped in 16. But Stasiuk's powerful serve was the strongest part of lu~r play as it flustered the Mountaineers all afternoon. 
"(Stasiuk'sl serving was prob-


CLEMENT SUHENDRA/The Observer Notre Dame's Adrlanna Stasluk, left, and Carolyn Cooper go up to block a West VIrginia attack. 

ably the best I've seen it all year," Brown said. "It was very consistent and really took them out of their system the whole time. She passed really well and played good defense. 
"It was really good to see~hat 
she could struggle a little bit with her hit­ting and 
a r~cord of 
9-1, while Syracuse and Pittsburgh both ended at 8-2. 
As regular season champions the Irish will be the No. 1 seed at next weekend's Big East tour­nament in Pittsburgh. Though Pvery team will be eager to knock th('m from their perch, Brown wouldn't have it any other wav. 
"I thin-k for us to go in and know that we have to play well and that everyone's shooting for us, I think that's OK," Brown said. "We don't want to go into a match and think that we don't haV'e to play well or that we can just roll over somebody." 
NOTRE DAME 3, WEST VIRGINIA 0 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE OA\'tE 30 30 30 
Wf'st Virginia 23 25 19 

NOTRE DAME-Kills 51 ICoopf'r 14), A-;sists 47 (Tarutis 39), Digs 58 IHf'nkan 24), Blocks 13 (Loomis, Brewstt>r 51. Hitting percentagP .250 (Cooper .455 ), AcP.s 7 tTarutis 41 OPPONENT-Kills 40 !Zolna 14), A'isists 37 !Studnicka 32), Digs 45 (Studnicka 10), Blocks 7 (Hockenson 4.1. Hitting pereent­agP. .101) (Ebert-Santos 1 .000), Aces 2 (ZI'manski. Zolna 1 l 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

....
1 
, 
J 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 



2004 Fall Concert 
Bach's 11German Magnificat," BWV 10 Excerpts from Haydn's Harmoniemesse Renaissance Motets 
8:00 Friday, November 19, 2004 Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
Free and Open to the Public 
J 


,#'...... ~ 
.J• L 


Monday, November 15, 2004 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

Knights 
continued from page 20 
favored Knights would roll to an easy victory early in the game, as they scored on their first play from scrimmage. Laumann launched a 64-yard touchdown to Jon Wood to give Keenan an early advan­tage. 
After a three-and-out by the Knott offense. Keenan figured to get the ball back with a chance to build on their lead. Instead, the Juggs successful­ly executed a fake punt, with quarterback Justin Gillet tak­ing the snap and completing a 14-yard pass. 
This was crucial in swinging the momentum toward Knott as the emotionally-charged Juggs went on to score to end th~t drive. Gillet connected with tight end Mike Talerico for a three-yard touchdowh to 
Walsh 
continued from page 20 
break knotted at 7. 
The defensive battle inten­sified in the second half, as neither offense could string together successful plays. 
As the clock ran down and the score remained tied, it became clear that one big play could decide the out­come. 
Walsh coach Dave Grennan was sure that it would be the Wild Women who made that play. 
"Our games have been close all year and we've always pulled it out," he said. "We just Pxpeet to win the close ones." 
account for the tally. 
The Juggs became the first team to score on Keenan in the playoffs. Wooldridge's first failed kick of the game. how­ever, left Knott trailing 7-6. 
Keenan's balanced attack allowed them to respond immediately with a 13-play, 65-yard drive, culminating with a 10-yard pass to receiv­er Danny Zenker, who tight­roped along the sideline for the score. The Knights' extra point was blocked, leaving them with a 13-6 halftime advantage. 
The underdog Juggs came out in the second half with an inspired effort as they con­trolled much of the play on both sides of the ball, outgain­ing Keenan 91 to nine. The Juggs were able to crack the vaunted Knight defense, com­bining the running ability of John Lyons and the accurate passing of Gillet. 
The quarterback was able 
to find holes in the secondary throughout the half complet­ing 7 -of-1 0 passes after half­time. Knott was able to tie the game with a 14-yard play action pass to Trey Patrick. 
Patrick's twisting, over-the­shoulder catch late in the fourth quarter gave Knott the opportunity to win the ganw as the Juggs had the ball inside the Keenan 15 with less than two minutes left. A holding penalty and a sack pushed the Juggs out of field goal range as the clock expired. 
Zenker's acrobatic catch on the second play of overtime gave the Knights the 20-13 advantage. 
Knott's overtime possession left them two yards from the end zone on fourth down. Gillet found Joe McCarthy on a play-action pass to set the stage for the missed kick. 
"'We just told [Wooldridge] after that game that you win 

Grennan's confidence guished Cavanaugh's dim­proved prescient. After both ming championship hopes teams traded punts for much with an interception that of the half. Walsh linebacker once again gave Walsh the Patty Rose snagged an errant ball deep in Chaos territory. Cavanaugh pass and Sullivan found the end zone returned again, this the inter­time with a
"We knew that we were

ception rushing 
inside the better than [our touchdown. 
Chaos 10-preseason rank ofeighth/ and put the yard line. game out of
and we worked all year 

Two plays reach. With 
I a t e r , to prove it.'' less than a another minute left, M a r y Cavanaugh's
Dave Grennan 

Sullivan last posses­
Walsh coach

touchdown sion or the toss gave season was the Wild Women a 13-7 lead ended -not surprisingly ­with only a few minutes with another interception. remaining. Sullivan took a knPP and 
Moments later, Walsh cor­the jubilant Walsh fans nerback Patty Hose •~xtin-stormrd the 11old to congrat­
--------·-· -· ----~--·· ----· 
.
$ ·Clear Coat •I
TAKE INDY 
• Premium Soft Cloth •I 
Wash


BY STORM 
Please Visit: www.SunlakcApartmcntHon1cs.com 888-414-9225 
·Spot-Free

www.SunblcstApts.com 
Rinse 

866-390-3823 
and lose as a team," Knott captain Drew Donovan said. "He didn't miss a kick for us all during the regular season and playoffs. and without him we wouldn't have even been at the Stadium." 
The drama of the final play incited a raucous celebration as the Keenan fans rushed the field to congratulate their team. 
Laumann's excitement reflected that of the entire team, especially that of eap­tain Pat Downey, whose injury limited him to a coaching role for the majority of the season. Laumann's comments showed the team's respect for Downey's leadership ability. 
"It was a tough role reversal for him, but he made all the right calls today," Laumann said. ''I'm glad to play for the 
..
guy. 

Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer I @nd.edu 
ulate their champion Wild Women. 
The win capped a season for Walsh that was both amazing and unexpected. 
The Wild Women were ranked eighth in preseason polls, but Grennan knew his team was championship cal­iber. 
"We knew we were better than that, and we worked hard all year to prove it ... it's a fantastic feeling," he said. 
With a talented squad returning next year including the freshman Sullivan -the Wild Women are unlikely to be ranked eighth in next years poll. 
Contact Brian Cardile at bcardile@nd.edu 
I l I I I I I 
j 
52694 State Road 933 1 South Bend, Indiana 46637 t 2 mi North of NO I Offer good at the South Bend /oaJllon only I
_________.,.........,.....,. __.~ 
Are you interested in the business world? 
Do you want to get marketable skills along with your NO degree? 
Do you like to learn about cutting-edge technology? 
Are Computing and Information Technology relevant to your primary 
major? 
If you say "yes" to any of these, CAPP or TBS might help you 
Come to a CAPP/TBS Information Night. 
WHEN: Tuesday, November 16th at 6:30PM WHERE : Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Sponsored by the Computer Applications and the Technology, Business & Society Programs, along with the Career Center. 
Refreshments will be served. 



NCAA 
continued from page 20 
However, despite the impres­sive first half. the Irish found dif­ficulties in finding shots at the goal during the second half of play. 
"We were a little lackadaisical to get the rhythm in the second half," Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame continued to struggle until.late in the half when defender Kim Lorenzen managed to knock in a goal, fol­lowed 48 seconds later by another goal from senior Candace Chapman. Chapman took the ball from the midfield to the left side of the field before tiring a shot past an Eastern· Illinois defender. 
"The angle she scored from was a tough ang_le," Waldrum said. "It was an incredible goal." 
The Irish found the going against the Badgers to be more difficult. Though Notre Dame registered 18 shots on goal. the Wisconsin defense played a physical style that disrupted the Irish ball control. Three yellow eards were handed out during the game, two of which went to the Badgers. 
"That's Big Ten soccer," 
Waldrum said. "It's a very diffi­
cult style to play against. They 
take you out ofyour rhythm." 
The going was particularly dif­
ficult for Thorlakson, who otlen 
fa~ed multiple defenders while 
trying to maneuver on ofl'ense. 
"They were on my back the 
whole game," she said. "Usually. 
[opposing defenders] start out 
with that foeus and then they 
lose it during the game, they 
can't find me as much. But 
(Wiseonsinl seemed to find me a 
lot. I just have to stay persistent 
and try and do what I'm going to 
do." 
About the only time 
Thorlakson had any room was 
during eornnr kieks. However, 
through 89 minutes of play, the 
Irish had been unsuccessful on 
their three previous attempts. 
On Notre Dame's fourth and 
final corner kick, Thorlakson 
lined the ball into the goal box 
where the 5-foot-11-inch tall 
Krivacek leapt and deflected the· 
ball into the right side ofthe net. 
Her first goal of the season 
proved to be a timely one even 
though the play was not drawn 
up for her. 
"Mainly I'm there for a dis­
traetion but this time she played 
a ball which I was able to get 
to," she said. "I had their goalie 
basically on my back and no one 
fronted me so I was able to get a 
good 11iek." 
With the win, Notre Dame now 
puts to rest many of the fears about a repetition of an early posl"ieason exit. A loss in the Big East championship this year reealled memories of last sea­son's Big East semifinal loss to Boston College and subsequent second-round 1-0 loss to Michigan in the NCAA tourna­ment at Alumni Field. The Wolverines seored on their only shot on goal in that game and, though his defense only allowed one shot on goal on Sunday, · Waldrum worried that the same 
result might happen again. 
"I was kind of seeing shades of 
Michigan again," he said. "If 
we'd have ever got one lgoalJ, I 
felt like we could've broken it 
opPn with four or live. As a staff, 
we felt the heat a little bit of get­
ting past !the second) round." 
The Irish have a week to prac­
tice bofon~ they play ai Alumni 
Field Saturday against 
Connecticut. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu and Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil<Pnd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 15, 2004 
HocKEY 

Irish saddle Broncos for first league victory 
"It was an interesting week­

Weekend zvin against 
end for Evan," Poulin said. "He Western Michigan is pPrformed for us once again, even with the pressure of hav­
first on road this year ing to play in front of his home­town and at the arena where he grew up skating. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER "[Hankin's] energy is great; 
Associate Sports Editor his goal-scoring habits are what really make him a great player -things like keeping his stick 
The Irish bucked a pair of on the ice, stopping in front of dubious streaks against the the goal for deflections -that's Broncos this weekend. the sort of things that make him 
First, the Irish picked up their stand out." first point on the road this sea­Saturday the Irish got ofT to a 
son, tying Western  quick start, with  
Michigan  2-2  Mike Walsh and  
Friday night. Then, Notre Dame (2-5-4, 1-4-3 in the CCHA) won its  ..It was especially nice to do well on the road ...  Rankin assisting on Cory McLean's third goal of the season at 6:1 S of  
first  road  game  the first period.·  
and CCIIA game of the year, knocking otT the Broncos 3­ Dave Poulin Irish coach  Each team scored twice in the second period.  

2 Saturday. 

"It was especial­ly nicP to do wPll on the road in a building where we haven't played well as -of latf~." Irish coach Dave Poulin said since his team lost both road games against Western Michigan last season. "I think it added a bit to the rivalry we've got going on with them. It was really good to pick up that first win in the con­ference." 
.·? 
With its win Saturday, Notm Dame also broke a five-game winless streak (0-2-3) dating back to a 3-2 win over Boston College on Oct. 22. 
An especially encouraging sign for Poulin was the play of both his goalies, each of whom had struggled at times during the season. Senior Morgan Cey started Saturday, making 38 of 40 saves in the win, while soph­omore David Brown got the call in net Friday, stopping 28 of 30 Bronco shots. 
"Both of our goalies have been good on occasion, but they'd never really both played well on the same weekend until this weekend," Poulin said. "We have very high expectations for our goalies, because they've had so much suc·cess before. 
"But [Brown and Cey] put a lot of expectations on them­selves, as well." 
The Irish had difficulty getting started Friday night, falling behind 1 -0 after the first period after being outshot 17-10. Mike Erickson picked up a loose puck and poked it past Brown at 4:51 of the first period. 
Neither team scored in the second, and it didn't take long for the Broncos to add to their lead, with Erickson scoring his second goal of the game just 
1:06 into the frame. All that goal did was get the Irish going. 
Notre Dame's Noah Babin broke through on Bronco goalie Dan Bellissimo at 4:56 of the period. flipping a wrist shot past Bellissimo's glove for Babin's second career goal. 
It was freshman forward Evan Rankin who picked up the equalizer off a three-on-one rush just three minutes later. Rankin used Tim Wallace and Brock Sheahan as decoys and slapped a hard shot from the right circle past Bellissimo. It was Rankin's second-straight game with a goal. 
The tally was especially sweet for Rankin, who is from Portage, Mich., a suburb of Kalamazoo, Mich., and learned to skate at the Broncos' Lawson Arena. 
On an Irish power 
play, defenseman Wes O'Neill scored his team­leading fourth goal of the sea-

The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in B11siness and The Institute for Ethical Busin~s.'\ Worldwide 

Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Ser~es (Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"An Alternative Leadership Model for the 21st Century: Keeping Your Sanity, Sense of Humor And Soul in the Marketplace'' 
Robert Catell CEO KeySpan Corporation 
Kenny Moore Corpor~te Ombudsman KeySpan Corporation 
Tuesday, November 16, 2004 7:00p.m. Giovanini Commons Mendoza College of Business 
son at 5:01. 

Western Michigan's Brian Bicck scored two goals for the Broncos to tie the game at two apiece, but forward T.J. Jindra scored the game-winner with just 33.3 seconds in the second period. 
Sheahan threw a cross-rink pass to Jindra at the Bronco blue line, and· the sophomore forward skated in and fired a wrist shot from the slot to beat Bellissimo. Cey then closed out the Broncos in the third. 
"The second and third periods Saturday were about the best hockey we've played all sea­son," Poulin sciid. "Even though they tied it up in the second, we knew that we had the energy and were going to come away with it." 
The Irish will face the U.S. National Team Development Program Under-18 team in an annual exhibition Friday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
TIM rThe 

Tim Wallace looks up the Ice during Notre Dame's 44 tie with Bowling Green on Nov. 5th. 
Monday, November 15, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 



PEANUTS 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

8:-r.±~~R 12 Less adulterated -=+..,;+.~ 13 Sudden jump -:-:+=+:::-1 21 Be behind in payments 22 50/50 share ~-:-:+=+:::-! 23 Besmirch -:-t-:-:+::-:+:=+:~ 24 Down Under critter 25 "A Doll's House" -=-+=+:::-t playwright 
*i-r.~+=-+-=-B 28 Dolphins' venue -=+-=+~:,..+;::.+;~ 29 Onetime Dodges 
WILLSHORTZ 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 


-
C2004 Tribune Med•a Servoces. Inc. 
All Roghts Reserved. 
CO NTH 
www.1umble.com 
LEMING j 
Saturday's I Jumbles: Answer: 
HOROSCOPE 
WHEN THE: 
SCHOL-AR? TOOK A NIGHT FLIGHT 
THEIR C.ONVEI<'?A­
TION WA? ON A--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

MOUNT TEMPO BASKET TROPHY When everybody stood for the toast it was ­"BOTIOMS" UP 
EUGENIA LAST


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Used a broom 6 Opened just a 
crack 10 Doesn't guzzle 14 Place for a 
barbecue 15 ''Uh-uh" 16 Threaded 
fastener 17 Proverb 18 Managed, with 
"out" 19 avis (unusual one) 20 Bathroom fixture sales representative? 23 Way to the top 
of a mountain 26 Stave off 27 Hanging 
sculpture in Alabama? 32 Alleviated 
. 
33 Words said on the way out the door 
34 E.M.T.'s skill 
37 Pub drinks 
38 Gasps for air 
39 "Scram!" 
40 Dashed 
41 Sunday 
newspaper 
color feature 
42 Continue downhill without pedaling 
43 Warsaw refinement? 45 G-rated 48 Accustoms 49 Majestic summer time? 54 Solar emissions 55 Really big show 56 Lubricated 60 Victim of a prank 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
r.7T-:T=-r=r::-r::::-r::,..., 
61 Choir voice 62 State fund­raiser 63 Retired fliers, for short 64 Spinks or Trotsky 
65 Company in a 2001-02 scandal 
DOWN 1 Hot springs 
locale 2 Bankroll 3 When a plane 
should get in: Abbr. 4 Dirty places 
5 Initial progress on a tough problem 
6 From a fresh angle 7 Wisecrack 8 Copycat 9 Cincinnati team 10 Endeavored 11 Dumbstruck 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS UAY: Travis Barker, Yanni. Prince Charle~. Veronica Lake 
Happy Birthday: You may tinJ it Jit1icult to make up your mind this year. Keep things simple and follow your gut feelings. If you take too much time to think. you may miss the opportunity to achieve ~omething great. Your numbers are 3, 17,29,33,40,41 
ARIES (March 21-ApriliCJ): You need a little excitement in your life. Plan to attend an event or take a Jay trip that will lead to adventure. Friendships are apparent if you participate in group activities. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Look over your personal papers and consider your options regarding work and money in the not-too-distant future. Make the first move and you won't he left out in the cold.*** GEMINI (1\lay 21-.lunc 201: The more active and involved you b..:come in social or group events. the hetter. Get to know your neighbors hetter. Spend time nurturing a relationship that is spedal to you. *** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): It's time you took better care of yourself. Put together a daily routine that will lead to fitness. proper diet and feeling good. *** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You will have everyone looking up to you ami wanting to help you achieve your goals. Take advantage of the good will being offered, hut he sure to do something nice in return. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have to go it alone. If you try to summons help, it will result in setbacks, opposition and probably a loss of a friendship. Less talk and more action will get you what you want. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: Bend over backward to help a friend. You will be praised for your selfless. action. Talks will lead to a better understanding of what you want in the future. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Taking a chance with your money will probably result in loss. Donate it to a worthy cause but, before you do, make sure you've left enough to cover your expenses. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Follow through with your plans. Someone special will be glad to assist you if you want company or help. Talks will lead to solutions. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. I CJ): A secret may be revealed. Be careful how you handle the information you receive. You could end up being blamed for something because of what you know. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. lH): Travel down the information highway. The more you learn about something that ·interests you, the better equipped you will be to handle an opportunity that comes your way in 1he future. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): Don't expect anything from anyone and you won't be let down. You must fend for yourself and protect your interests. False information will lead you astray. ** 
Birthday Baby: You have insight and can tune into the feelings of others with ease. You are a crusader and will never Jet down anyone you care about. You arc solid in spirit and in mind. You welcome a challenge. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at asrroadvice.com and eugenia/ast.com. 
30 Mess up 31 Contingencies 34 Committee 
head 35 Search party 36 Some I.R.A.'s, 
informally 38 One in the legislative biz 
39 "Eureka!" cause 41 Swindles 42 TV cabinet 43·Purposes of 
commas 44 Little, in Lille 45 Deck of 52 46 Hawaiian feasts ~7 "Aida" setting 
50 Bluish green 
• 51 Car rod 52 "What've you 
been ?" 53 Hired thug 57 Epistle: Abbr. 58 W.W. II arena 59 Underworld 
boss 
F.or answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 




THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one acaden1ic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------------------------------------­
Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip_________ 

Monday, November 15, 2004 page 20 

By MATT MOONEY and 
DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writers 

Notre Dame found a way to 
~-·· 
get the same result out of two very opposite games. 
The fourth seeded Irish {21­1-1) advanced to the Sweet Sixteen of the College Cup NCAA Tournament after two different victories in the first and second round. Both games were held at Alumni Field. 
The Irish trounced Eastern Illinois (13-6-2) by a 4-0 score on Friday night and then nar­rowly squeaked by Wisconsin {16-6-1) 1-0 on Sunday after­noon. Midfielder Jill Krivacek provided the heroics on Sunday when she scored on a header ofT of a corner kick with 53 sec­onds remaining in the game. 
After losing to Connecticut during the finals of the Big East tournament last weekend, the 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Better late than never 
Krivacek's goal with 53 seconds left lifts Irish over Badgers 
Irish were determined to get out to a quick start in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"They were angry losing to [Connecticut], and they were anxious all week to get out and get a game," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "They didn't feel sorry for themselves during the week. They really just wanted to get out and get started." 
To begin the match against Eastern Illinois, it did not take long for Notre Dame to find the net. 
Notre Dame drew first blood seven minutes into the game. The goal came from freshman forward Amanda Cinalli ofT of a corner kick by midfielder Katie Thorlakson. 
After an assist on the first goal, Thorlakson quickly found the net eight minutes latf~r for the 2-0 lead. 
see NCAA/page 1 7 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Team beats Huskers by 73-57 score 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
For the second straight game, Notre Dame didn't solely rely on Jacqueline Batteast to win. The rest of the Irish held their own just fine. 
Teresa Borton had See Also 13 points 
"This year's 
and a car­eer-high 11 version of the Irish 
n~bounds, 
more complete"
Breona Gray added a page 12 career-high 12 points and Batteast tallied 24 points to help Notre Dame advance to the semifinals of the Preseason. Women's National 
see IRISH/page 1'5 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish win 9th regular season Big East title 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Two match•~s. Two wins. One con­ference championship. 
Notn~ Damt~ clinched the Big East conference regular season title Sunday afternoon at the Joyce Center by swePping West Virginia 30-23,30-25,30-19. 
"It's huge," Irish coach Debbie Brown said when asked what it meant to win the Big East regular season title for the ninth time in school history. "It's a goal we haw every year." 
The Irish were put into position to win the league outright after they defPatPd Pittsburgh on Friday 3-0 in a mateh played in the Joyce Cf'nter prior to that night's football pep rally. 
Lauren Kelbley led Notre Dame with 14 kills while Meg llenican scooped up 25 digs in beating the Panthers 30-25, 30-22. 30-19. 
Sunday's match against West Virginia tf'etercd back and forth bPtwePn the two squads as it fea­tured 1 X IPad changes. including 10 in the pivotal sPcond match. ThC' Irish wPn~ plaguPd \·vith slow starts 
see TITLE/page 16 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 

To the victors go the spoils 
Walsh defense stops Cavanaugh in 20-7 Wild Women win 
By BRIAN CARDILE Sports Writer 
Walsh captured the women's interhall champi­onship Sunday, beating Cavanaugh 20-7 on the strength of a stellar defen­sive performance. 
A sizable Notre Dame Stadium crowd watched the Wild Women usc three sec­ond-half interceptions to seal both the win and an unbeat­en season. 
"The interceptions were huge ... they really gave us the momentum and we were ablP to keep it going," Walsh quarterback Mary Sullivan said. 
The Chaos had the better start, forcing a punt on Walsh's first drive and-then easily finding the <'ndzone on the ensuing possession. 
But a Mary Sullivan touch­down p~ss just before half­time sPnt the game into th<' 
see WALSH/page 17 



Missed kicks haunt Knott in 20-19 OT loss to Keenan 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
In a game filled with long passes, crucial tackles and trickery. it was one of the most overlooked plays in football that decided the mPn's inter­hall championship. 
Erie Wooldridge's missed extra point in overtime, Knott's second failPd conver­sion of the day, gave Keenan a 20-19 victory in front of a spirited rrowd Sunday at the Stadium. 
"This couldn't be any bet­ter," Keenan quarterback Eric Laumann said. "We had a great team and put forth a great effort today. I'm so happy for all of our guys, especially the seniors." 
Laumann's thnw touchdown passes accotmtPd for all of the scoring for tiH' Knights. who finishPd the season undef'Pat­nd. 
It appParPd as though ttw 
see KNIGHTS/page 17 

--------=----===================================================================-==­

HOCKEY 
Irish pick up first CCHA win 
The icers skated to a 2-2 tie and 3-2 win against Western Mich­igan this weekend. 
page 18 
MLB 
Vizquel signs deal with the Giants 
The free-agent short­stop agreed to a three­year deal with San Francisco. 
page 14 
NO MEN·s SWIMMING 
Irish earn first win over ranked foe 
The swimmers defeat­ed No. 17 Pittsburgh by a score of 155-145. 
page 13 

NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Teams finish 2nd at NCAA Regional 
Both the men's and women's teams quali­fied for the NCAA Tournament. 
page 13 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles participatein Maroon lnv1te 
Saint Mary's finished seventh in the t>ight­team invitational meet. 
page 12 
-=-~­r«J 'NOIVIF1fS ~ Women knock off 
Pitt, Michigan St. 
The Irish defeated the Panthers 172-12~ and the Spartans 199-101. 
page 12 


rHE 

Monday, November 1S, 2004 OBSERVER Pittsburgh 41, Notre Ihme 3R 
~===--================:::.:...:::__ ---------· -----------------~----=--­

Cummings' late field goal propels Pittsburgh over Notre Dame 

"llonestly, I 1wver imagined fumble to be~(in a drive that penalties madP a big difTernnr.o. score at 3X apil•cP.By KATE GALES 
losing this game -having four would lnad to thP first Irish In the Pantlwrs' final touchdown TIH~ Panthnrs strung togetlwr Sports Writer 
Iossf'S the rnst of thn sPason,.. touchdown -5-yard WalkPr drivf:', two pass intf•rfen•rH'P six plays for 55 yards to .gPt Irish quartnrback Brady <)uinn run. calls proVPd costly -including within fipJd goal rang<' for tlw [)pspitn finding a way to be said. ''I'm in a statP of shock Both of Walkf~r·s touchdown onn that ncgatPd a Tom winning scorP. On that drivP, r·onsistent on of'fnnsn, Notre right now.·· runs eanw in tlw first half, as Zbikowski goal-line interePption. Irish linPbackPr Mikf' Goolsby Dame found a way to lw inron­Quinn eomplded 15-of-26 well as a 40-yard run -the "I don't think therP was wPnt for thP strip instPad of try­sistPnt ovPrall yd again. passPs !'or 2!>9 yards, threP team's long('st of tlw sPason. abSPilCP ol' prPSSUrP, ing to tackle Pittsburgh rPct'iVPr 
Pittsburgh's TyiPr Palko thrnw touchdowns and two intpn·pp­Maurin' Stovall would finish tlw Willingham said. noting that tlw l·:rik Gill, who hrokf' two tackl«'s fur :B4 yards and a NotrP tions. Matt Slwlton IPd n•rnivnrs drive by catehing a 17-yard pass elusivP Palko was forcPd to !'or a 3(•-yard gain. The Pantlwrs Dame-opponnnt rPcord fivp with thrPe grabs !'or 12~ yards for his first touchdown of tlw seramblf~ 13 timPs for a nnt gain f' ndNl thc dr ivP on t h n ga nw­touchdowns, and Josh and one touchdown, including a year. of 30 yards. ThP Irish rrcorded winning field goal hy Cummings, Cummings kiek1Hi gam1~-high 4(,-yard "We kind of thrPP sacks on whkh gavP tlw Pantlwrs tlw 41­a :{2-yard field catch. played our !wart the day !'or a net :1X win. goal with orw sec­..for this team, it Thn 1:-ish gener­out ... lbutl then•'s loss of 20 yards. "This game was about missPd
"This game was 
ond nn thP clock ated 43~ yards of alway:; stuff that I But Palko opportunitiPs," said linPbackPr
comes the hard about missed
to lwat tlw Irish total of'fensP, can do tw t te r ,'' stPprwd up and fkr<'k Currv. "\Vp had opportu­41<1S. way. including 112 WalkPr said. "I dPfi­opportunities." madP tlw big nitiPs to rm;kP plays but WP did­"For this tnam. yards on thl' nih~ly coulda. woul­plays wlwn tlwy n't stPp up and makP tlwm." it comes the hard ground from da, shoulda on a lot WPI'I' nPCPSsary. Tlw sPniors, \vho had a partk­
Tyrone Willingham Derek Curry
way." Irish roach Darius WalkPr, but of the plays and including a ularlv bittPr dc•I"Pat in tlwir final

Irish coach Irish linebacker 
T y r o n c tlwy wPn' unabll' runs and things." f() u r th-a11 d-r() u r honH.' ganw, WPr«' !!'ft S!'arching Willingham said. to stop tlw ThP Notn• Danw ronvf'rsion on a for answPrs. ".'\s bittt>r. as Pa n t ho r s (6 -:{ ) • offense produced. flip pass latP in "It's lwPn kind of an up-and­painful as this day is. tlwy'll con­who bPeanw bowl-Piigihll' with hut a porous secondary could thP fourth quart!'r that IPd to tlw down sPason." said Carlyl•' timiP to work." tlw win. not stop th<' Panth<'rs in thP first .Pantlwrs' go-alwad tourhdmYn. lloliday. "WP lwat sonw gn•at 
A Wf~ek aftPr upsPtt ing then­()uinn was intPrecptnd on the half. Pittsburgh mardwd down­Af'tPr LhP usually rnliahlt> Irish tPams and WP lost to som.­No. 9 TPillli'SSIH\ tlw Irish found op\~ning driw by .Josh Lay. who field on four consecutiw drivns tight Pnd Anthony Fasano tl'ams WP thought WP could thPIIlSPIVI~S SParc·hing for rPturrwd tlw ball !'our yards to and was not foJTPd to punt until droppPd a ball on third-and-fivn. lwat." 
answPrs aft<'f tlwir third honw tlw Irish :n. Palko droppPd a tlw SPI'Oild half. IU. Fitzpatrick kirkPd a 44-yard loss this sPa..,on -this mw on bad snap on Sl'rond-and-onP Tlw NotrP Danw dPfPnsP tight­fiPid goal ofT tlw IPft upright Contact Kate Gales at SPnior Day. and Mik(• (;oolshy n•covPrf'd llw PnNI up in thP spcond half. but with 1:11 rPmaining to til' tlw kgales@nd.edu 
-=======--------~======-:__ 
player of the game 


Tyler Palko 

The sophomore quarterback led t.he Panthers to the win with hisficw touchdown passes. the most ever against Notre Dame. 
stat of the game 


9-for-17 
Pittsburgh's third-down conl'er­sion rate. The Panthers were able to convert on many key third downs to keep dril'es aliue. 

play of the game 

Palko's 36-yard completion to Gill 
Irish linebacker !vfike Goolsby uwntfor the hall against Erik Gill and mL~sed the tackle, leading to the biy play that put the Panthers in.field-goa/ range. 
quote of the game 
"lVe came out.f7at. He didn't conw out with enough energy. " 
Dwight Elllck Irish cornerback 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 15, 2004 





report card 
8­ quarterbacks: Quinn thn~w two inter­<:('ptions, hut besides those, he played a solid game. The om~nse put up 3~ point.., and lw threw fi>r 2S9 yards on 15-of-26 pa.'ising.  
8+  running backs: Walker broke a few big runs, finishing with 112 yards rush­ing and two touchdowns. llowever,  


B 
Crant was not as em'ctive. rushing for just Ii2 yards on 1:> carries. 
receivers: Stovall finally caught a touchdown pass f(>r ttiP first time this sPason. Fasano droppPd a key third­dmvn pass in the fourth quartPr, hut SIH'Iton had 12~ yards n'cPiving. 
offensive line: The lim~ gave up just onf~ sark and tlw Irish ran f(>r 179 yards on thf~ ground. They looked solid for thP most part, but did pirk up a few pPnalitics. 
defensive line: The defensive line con­
tained the Pittsburgh ruJJ as a whole, but when the Panthers really needed to run, it seemed they could. Palko was sacked three times and was under pressun~ ocassionally. 
linebackers: Curry and G()olsby com­binPd fhr just 11 tackles. Goolsby missed a big tackle in the fourth quar­ter while going fiJr the ball. lloyte wa<> quiflt, with six tarkles., 
defensive backs: The unit gave up the big play over and over. Ellick wa.<> burned by LPe and DelSardo, and Richardson droppPd a potl:'ntial interc(lption during Pittsbuq~h's final tourchdown drive. 
special teams: Fitzpatrick kick(ld the gaml:'-tying 45-yard field goal aft(lr a bad snap and bad hold. He had three of his f(mr punts inside the 20. Campb(lll and lloliday had big returns. 
coaching: Somehow, someway, thi<; team wasn't •~xcited to play on Senior Oay. 
Decent defensive adjustments wen~ 
made at the half, but when it came 
down to it. the Irish didn't get it don(~. 

F 
A­D 
2.33 
overaH: NotrP Dame did it again, losing to a team it shouldn't haVf~. The Irish are left to pick up the pieces with one more game to play. 
adding up the numbers 
number of times Pittsburgh entered the red zone on offense -all seven times the 
7

Panthers scored at least a field goal 
5 
number of touchdown passes Tyler Palko threw for against the Irish, the most ever 
by an opposing quarterback 
yards receiving by Matt Shelton, a career high, including one touchdown 
128 

4 
streak of Senior Day games the Irish had won 
coming into Saturday's game against Pittsburgh 
number of times Pittsburgh punted in the first half, en route to scoring 28 
0

first half points. 
3 3 4 
yards passing by PiHsburgh's Tyler Palko, the sophomore's fourth 300-yard passing game this season 
penalities committed by Notre Dame lead­
5 

ing to five Pittsburgh first downs 
9•23 
time of possession for Pittsburgh in the fourth quarter alone, almost double Notre 
• Dame's time of possession of 5:37 
The down was third-and-one. 
Notre Dame had one timeout left. Pittsburgh needed a field goal to win. And as the Panthers linfld up at the Notre Dame 24-yard line with 29 seconds remain­ing in the fourth quarter, the Irish def'Pnse showed confi­dence. 
They waved their arms to pump up the crowd. They dug in their cleats. They waited for tiH~ snap. Ami then they gavl:' up a 13-yard run straight up the middle to Pittsburgh tailback Marcus Furman. 
That play told the story of Saturday's ballgame. It told the story of Notre name's currl:'nt season. And it told the story of the despicable state of this program. 
Granted, there were some legiti­matP. excuses this time. 
Josh Lay's second interception of Brady Quinn came after a blatant pass intl:'rference penalty that was not called. The flag thrown on Preston Jackson for a fourth-down pass intP.rference penalty was a bad call that all but handed Pittsburgh a go-ahead touchdown. 
But Notre Dame players said they did not ll:'t the bad calls bother them. 
"You've just got to keep fighting through it and not focus on officiat­ing because playing 11 guys plus those guys is even hardf'r," Irish linebacker Derek Curry said. "So you've just got to play against the 11 [offensive players] that are out there." 
So Notre Dame's offense kicked a field goal to tie it and gave the defense anothl:'r shot. But Pittsburgh recl:'ived the ball, put its 11 players against Notre Dame's 11, and in six, penalty-free plays of 55 yards gaim~d. the Panthers show~d another loss down thP. colle~tive Notre Dame throat. 


This one hurt, and Furman's run epitomized the reasons why. 
The run showed the continuing failure of Notre Dame coa(~hes to manage game situations. Furman found a gaping hole in the middle of the Notre Dame defense even though the situation dictated that <>xact play call. 
Pittsburgh had third-and-one, two timeouts and a 12-of-17 field goal kicker alnmdy one-for-one on the day. The Panthers wanted to center the ball and get the first down to run out the clock. Pittsburgh had to run the ball up the mid­freshman running back walked ofT the fiPld well behind his teammates. Coach Tyrone Willingham called to Walker. 
"Darius," he said. Walker did not answer. He was in a dazl:'. "Darius," Willingham said. Walker heard him this time and broke into a trot. But Walker did not hear his coa~h's first call becausP. his helmet was still on. Chinstrap, still locked tight. The nwssage was clPar. Darius Walker wanted to keep playing untit he won. 
But hP couldn't, because the Pittsburgh Panthers had just made his team 6-4 staring straight at a season finale with the No. 1 h'am in the country. 
Pittsburgh quartP.rback Tyler Palko used an expletivP. to describe his Pxcitement after 
dle, and everyone in tlw win. A Notre 
..You've just got to 
Notre Dame Stadium Dame assistant coach
keep fighting
knew it. But Notre used the same exple­Dame was not ready through it and not tive to tell the officials for it. how he felt about
focus on officiating
MP.anwhile, their performance.
because playing 1 1 
Furman's run also And that is what it showed the inconsis­guys plus those guys has come to. Hight tency of the players now, expletives define
is even harder." 
on the field. Notre Dame football. On a crucial fourth­The inconsistency is 
Derek Curry 
quarter play, Notre frustrating, tlw home Dame's defensP gave Irish linebacker losses debilitating and 
up tne 13-yard run in a 'running' situation to a team that aver­ages 107.8 rushing yards per game against opponents like Temple, Syracuse and Furman. 
But most of all, Furman's run erased any pride Notre Dame could have salvaged to finish the season. 
Pity the seniors. Carlyle Holiday, Carlos Campbell, Kyle Budinscak and others made differences in their final career home game that still did not put a desperate team over the top. 
Pity players like Darius Walker. As Notre Dame players raisf'd their helmets to the crowd, the 
thP PXCUSCS, tiresome. 
At least two pPople 

usPd that same Pxpln­tivP whi!P standing on the Notre Dame Stadium turf Saturday. Right now, nothing is sacred. 
"We just didn't play," Derek Curry said. 
It might take one more drubbing at the hands of a left-handed quar­terback to convince this tf'am that something needs to change. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Monday, November 15, 2004 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Defense fails against Panthers 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spons Editor 
Coming into the ganw. the NotrP Danw dt>fPnse was about the only part of the foot­ball team that had hm~n con­sistfmt. The~ run defense~ was outstanding, and the pass dt>fense~ was shaky at timPs, but good enough. 
Saturday, that all changed, as the NotrP Dame defmlSP was lit up for 41 points, the most cvnr scored by PitLo.;butgh against a Notn~ Dame team in the~ (,2 times tlw teams have met. 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said the dd'ensP. didn't makP plays to start tho game. Ao.; a result, as the game progressed, it became harder fin· them to do so. 
"Each time you don't make a play, it makes it more dillicult to step up and make it, because it's all about confi­dence," Will'ingham said. "And those guys have to continue to work and mah the plays and get the job done." 
In the first half. the Irish secondary was beat by Pittsburgh quarterback Tyler Palko. The sophomore threw for 214 yards and four touch­dow11S in the first half alone. Gn~g l.ee was on the receiving end of five of' Palko's throws­good for 95 yards -while tight end Steve Buches caught two touchdown passes. The Panthers beat up on the Irish defense for 267 total first-half yards and 28 first-half points. Every time the Panthers touched the ball in the first half, with the exception of their first possession when Palko fumbled the snap and Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby recovered, they scored. Pittsburgh did not punt in the first half. 
"The first half we were not 
really ourselves defensively," 
Willingham said. " I thought in 
th(~ second half we came out 
and put some stops together, 
and we seemed to get some 
control of it, but then they 
slipped in some big plays." 
In the second half, the Irish defense stPppnd up a bit. They stoppPd the Panthers three straight times to open the half be~fore giving up a field goal. But the defense let up again, giving up a tourhdown with a little ovc~r two minute~s to play. llowPver, even that wasn't the dagger. 
With just ovN a minute to play, Pittsburgh got the ball with the game tied 3R-:~8. The Pantlwrs wen~ driving down­liPid, and it looknd like Palko's pass to Erik Gill was going to b(~ a short completion. But Goolsby went for the strip and missf~d the tarklP. The result was a 36-yard gain to the Notre Dame 3:3-yard line, set­ting up the game-winning field goal. 
"Going into that series, I was telling the defensive backs to play aggressive and not play scarnd, and I was thinking the same thing myself," Goolsby said. "They threw an out to thn tight end and I had [the ball! in my hands, but he took it away from me. Then I was trying to strip it, and I couldn't make the tackle. I was trying to bn aggressive." 
Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer echoed Goolsby's motivations for going for the ball first instead of the taekle. 
"Somebody being aggres­sive, trying to make a play," Baer said of Goolsby. 
Despite the fact it gave up 41 points, the Irish defense played fairly well in the second half with the exception of the last drive. However, on the game, they did give up 13 fourth quarter points after holding the Panthers scoreless in the third quarter -the only scoreless quarter of the game for either team. 
"We made a lot of adjust­

ments (at halftime]," Kent 
Baer said. 
However, it wasn't enough on senior day for the Irish. The defense was filled with fifth-year seniors playing their last home game at Notre Dame Stadium, but it wasn't enough for the unit to come through. On the day, the defense surrendered 432 yards of total offense, includ­ing 334 in the air and five passing touchdowns by Palko, who threw for the most pass­ing touchdowns ever against Notre Dame. The defense also played a big role in 110 yards of Irish penalties, albeit some questionable. 

Arguably the biggest penalty came late in the game on Pittsburgh's second-to-last drive. Cornerback Preston Jackson was called for pass interfenmce with just under three minutes to play in the game on a fourth-and-10 pass by Palko that was intercepted by Tom Zbikowski in the cor­ner of the end zone. The play was ealled back due to the penalty, and two plays later, Palko threw for his fifth touch­down to put the Panthers up 38-35 -the only Pittsburgh touchdown of the second half. 

But despitP a decent second half, thl~ Irish defense knew it didn't get th<~ job done ­especially in the first half. 
"We came out with a differ­ent attitude Iin the second halfl," Goolsby said. "We had our head up our you-know­where in the first half. and then just eame out with a dif­ferent attitude. 
"We weren't really foeused in the first half defensively." 
Another fifth-year senior, Kyle Budinscak was extremely disappointed with the loss and the play of' the defense. 
"We let up big plays, espe­cially in the first half, and that ended up being our demise," he said. "It's something that's not easy to talk about now." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Palko drops bombs orl Irish 1D' 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
Tyler Palko became the first quarterback ever to throw for five touchdowns against the lrish. Eleven others have com­pleted four touchdown passes -most reecntly Purdue's Kyle Orton in this season's Oet. 2 game. 
"There's no better feeling then to come in here and get a win , " Palk o s a i d . ''I' d g i v e those five touchdowns back and get a win anytime," 
Palko was also able to scramble in the pocket, rush­ing for 50 yards in the game bdore sa<~ks wen~ fi!-,rured into the stats. 
"I thought their quarterback did a great job," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "I thought his ability to run bailed them out of situations where drives were just about to be stoppt•d but his feet kept the drive alive." 
In a postgame interview with 
NBC, the sophomore used an expletive in describing the game. lie apologized for the slip after the game. 
Holiday, Campbell shine 
In his last game at Notre Dame Stadium, fifth-year sen­ior Carlyle Holiday made something happen after a dis­appointing season. 
Holiday returned a punt 68 yards in the third quarter, whieh lead to the Hash(m Powers-Neal 
19-yard touch­
..i felt like I had the

down reception from Brady chance to make Quinn, tying the 
something good 

game at 28. 
happen.··

"I felt like I had a good chance to make Carlyle Holiday something hap­
Irish punt returner 

pen," II oliday said of Notre Uame's longest punt return this season. "It was definitely good just to rush for more than 10 yards, just get the feet mov­ing and being able to celebrate doing something and helping the team out." 
Holiday said the Irish spe­cialists had worked on a difler­ent blocking scheme in prac­tices against Tennessee. 
"We did set up a difTnnmt return this week,·· he said. "We worked on it this whole week in practice, and it was suecess­ful in the game today." 
In his final game at Notre Dame Stadium, Holiday was able to make something hap­pen for an Irish offense that 
has struggled all year with consistency. 
"I just tried to get up the side­line and make the kicker miss if l had the ability to," Holiday said, "but all I was thinking was 
touchdown." 
Carlos Campbell was also able to make an impact in his last game, returning a kickoff 41 yards, Notre Dame's longest_ of the season as well. 
"It's just me on my last day, trying to get out there and make a play for the team," Campbell said. "They gave me the opportunity I asked for on senior day, and I took advan­tage of it." 

Penalties problematic 
The Irish were called for 10 penalties for a season-high 119 yards. The team gave up a key pass-interferenee penalty late in the fourth quarter, which calfed baek a Tom Zbikowski intereeption in the red zone. 
"It was difficult for me to see," Willingham said after the game. "But it's the way the game goes." 
The two penalties on thf~ way to the Panthers' final touch­down allowed the drive to con­tinue twice. 
Gameday capt:ains 
Saturday's captains for Notre Dame were Holiday, linebacker Derek Curry, running back Ryan Grant and linebacker Mike Goolsby. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Pittsburgh 7 21 0 13 41 7 14 7 10 38
Notr(~ Dame 
First quarter 
Notn~ Damn 7. Pittsburgh 0 
Darius Walker 1-yard run with 7:21 remaining 
(D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 10 plays, 74 yards, 5:59 elapsed Pittsburgh 7, Notre Danw 7 Derek Kinder 3·yard reception from Tyler 
Palko with 2:23 remaining (Josh Cummings kick) Drive: 15 plays, 82 yards, 4:58 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Pittsburgh 1-1-, Noln~ ·nanw 7 
Steve Buches 1·yard reception from Palko with 12:34 remaining (Cummings kick) 
Drive: 9 plays, 43 yards, 3:32 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Pittsburgh 14 
Darius Walker 5-yard run with 9:35 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) 
Drive: 6 plays, 67 yards, 2:59 elapsed 
Pittsburgh 21, Notre l>anw 14 
Greg Lee 3·yard reception from Palko with 
5:39 remaining (Cummings kick) Drive: 8 plays, 66 yards, 3:56 elapsed Notre DamP 21, Pittsburgh 21 Maurice Stovall11·yard reception from Brady Quinn with 4:28 remaining (fitzpatrick kick) Drilfe: 5 plays, 80 yards, 1:11 elapsed 
Pittsburgh 28, Notre Dame 21 Ruches 20-yard reception from Palko with 
2:55 remaining (Cummings kick) Drive: 5 plays, 65 yards, 1:33 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Pittsburgh 2X Rashon Powers-Neal 19·yard reception from Quinn with 13:23 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 1 plays, 19 yards, 0:06 elapsed 
Fourth quat·ter 
Pittsburgh 31, Notn~ Dame 28 
Cummings 27·yard field goal 
Drive: 11 plays, 78 yards, 6:14 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Pittsburgh 31 
Matt Shelton 36·yard reception from Quinn with 
7:21 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 3 plays, 42 yards, 1:30 elapsed 
Pittsburgh 38, Notre Dame 35 
Erik Gill 9·yard reception from Palko with 
2:24 remaining (Cummings kick) Drive: 13 plays, 69 yards, 4:57 elapsed 
Notre Dame 38, Pittsburgh 38 
Fitzpatrick 45-yard field goal with 1:11 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 53 yards, 1:13 elapsed 
Pittsburgh 41, Notre Dame 38 
Cummings 32-yard field goal with 0:01 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 55 yards, 1:10 elapsed 
statistics 

total yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

34-179 rushes-yards 38-98 15-26-2 eomp-att-int 26-42-0 4-103 punt. returns-yards 1-0 0-0 fumbles-lost 1-1 10-119 penalties-yards 4-39 18 first down'i 23 
Monday, November 15, 2004

page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 

fAREWELL 
Pittsburgh's Tylflr Palko thnwv for fh:p touchdowns and tlw Panthers scored 
28 first half points Pn routP to tlw upsPt of No. 24 Notn• Dam0 on Srmior Day. jliSt one week after Notre Damn dd'Patnd No. 9 Tennesse(~ on the road. Thr~ Irish ddensn struggiPd all gamP. giving up mon~ than 400 yards of total offense. Tlw secondary strugglf'd to makP plays while f'antlwr rneniwrs madn big onPs. With the win, Pittsburgh lw!'amn bowl-nlif.,Tihlr\ and thn Irish continued thf~ir ineonsistlmt play this sPason. 




SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 
TIM SULLIVAN,The Observer 

From top left to bottom left, Irish receiver Maurice Stovall runs into the Pittsburgh's Allen Richardson as he calls for a fair catch. Stovall catches his first touchdown pass of the season. Carlyle Holiday returns a punt. Holiday had a 68-yard return, the longest by the Irish this season. Mike Goolsby celebrates in the second half after making a stop on defense. Darius Walker breaks a tackle on a run. Walker finished with over 100 yards. Derek Curry misses Tyler Palko as he scrambles. 






