
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 94 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19,2004 
IU med school keeps low profile 
Students study, dissect, research in Haggar basement 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
Tuchd away in tho base­ment of Haggar llall, lies one of Notre Dame's best kept seen~ts -a medical school. Sinw 1972, Indiana University has been renting space in Haggar llall for the South Bend Cr,nter for Medical I·:ducation, one of eight centers in the Indiana University Medical School system. 
When the South Bend Center lirst opened, just one IU faculty mPmbr,r worked there. The n~st of tlw teaching stuff was made up of Notre Dame facul­ty, primarily from the biochem­istry department. The Center was Pventually taken over by full-tinw IU faculty, eight of which arc curn~ntly on staff. 
With only 16 students in each class at the centers, the IU School of Medicine system 
seeMED/page 6 



Campus organizations sponsor blood drive 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
HecSporl<>, in affiliation with the University Health Services, Irish Health and the South Bend Medical Foundation, will be spon­soring a blood drive today and tomorrow. 
"Normally we fill up just about every time slot," said Andrew Szwak, a HecSports supervisor. "Usually we even have people on a waiting list." 
Szwak said slots were about half full as of 'luesday afternoon. The event, which will run from 9 a.m. 
to 3:30 p.m. at Rolfs, has two time would really help someone." 
slots per 15-minute period. After the 
"We provide the facilities, and the South Bend Medical Foundation provides nurses•. along with Health Services," he said. 
Freshman Brigitte Sanchez participat­ed in the last RecSports-spon­sored blood drive. 
"It was my first 
"You don't realize how much you can make a difference." 
Brigitte Sanchez Freshman 
drive, Sanchez received a card telling how her contribution was used. 
"You don't real­ize how much you can make a differ­ence," she said. 
Szwak, who plans to give blood, said donors must undergo a two-month wait­

time [donating]," she said. "I was ing period. Those who donated on kind of scared ... I always won~ or after Christmas are not eligible dered what it would be like, ifyou to participate. Potential donors are also asked a series of ques­tions regarding their health and safety practices. 
According to the American Red Cross website, few of those able to iive blood actually donate to the supply of healthy blood necessary for nationwide emergencies, mili­tary casualties and bank use. 
The campus-wide blood drive is taking place from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. today and tomorrow at Rolfs. Call the RecSports information desk at 631-6100 to sign up for a time. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 
Observer editors address members 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Hepresentatives from The Obs1~rver addressed the Senate at Wednesday's meeting to clarify Viewpoint section policies and pro­cedures that have reeently been called into question. 
Editor-in-chief Andrew Soukup, managing editor Scott Brodfuehn~r and next year's edi­tor-in-ehief Matt Luzar defended the decision to publish controver­sial Viewpoint letters, explaining that the section's purpose is to promote debate on campus. 
"One of The Observer's respon­sibilities is to encourage discus­sions on viewpoint and perspec­tive, and that's what these letters do. However, 1 have to make it clear that the opinions of the writ­ers do not reflect the opinions of The Observer staff," Soukup said. 
Addressing the issue of two let­ters in particular -one regarding homosexuality and the other, affir­mative action -Soukup said that they met the standards of good writing and were neither hateful nor ignorant, and therefore there was no reason not to run them. 
sec SENATE/page 9 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University employee struck by vehicle 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
A University employee was struck by a vehicle Wednesday morning as she attempted to cross a stretch of Juniper Hoad adjacent to Grace Ilall. 
The female employee, whose identity was not released by Notre Dame Security/Police assistant director Chuck llurley, was attempting to climb over a snow embankment in order to cross Juniper when she lost her balance and fell onto the road. The victim hit her head on the side of a south bound vehicle a<> she was !~tiling, I lurley said. 
A witness and the driver con­tacted police, and police and fire rescue vehicles responded to the call, Hurley said. The vic­tim was transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center, though it was not clear what treatment, if any, she received or whether she had been discharged. 
"She was alert and r.onscious at the hospital," Hurley said. 
The victim attempted to cross the street at an area not desig­nated as a crosswalk -places that Hurley said can be espe­cially dangerous at this time of year with ice and excessive buildup of snow. 
"The crosswalks are cleared," Hurley said. "If you try to cross in areas where there aren't crosswalks ... you still have [snow) embankments on the sides of th.e road. We would advise people to be sure they're crossing at the crosswalks." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
SIMI describes m_igrant experience 
By MERYL GUYER 
News Writer 
Members of the Scalabrini International Migration Institute (SIMI), based in Home, visited the Hesburgh Library Wednesday to speak in a lecture entitled "Border Policy and the Migrant Experience." 
Father Claudio llolzer and Brother Gioacchino Campese, members of SIMI. were joined on stage by Allert Brown-Gort, asso­ciate director of the Institute for Latino Studies, which sponsored the event. SIMI is an international organization that studies the migration of people through multi­cultural and inter-religious methodology. 
sec SIMI/page 9 


Thursday, February 19, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Voting seriously 
Most students on the Notre Dame campus do not seem to think student body presidential elections matter very much. Possibly they are right. However, the attitude of the student body in the last election infuri­
ated me. I encoun­tered far too many students who clearly voted on what they per­ceived to be the candidate's per­sonalities instead of genuinely con­


sidering the candi-Marla Smith date's proposals. This is far more 
disturbing then the Scene Editor stereotypically shallow high school popularity contest it resembles; students apparent­ly did not even vote for a candidate they personally liked as much as against a candidate they thought they might per­sonally hate. I do not intend to criticize the new student body president, or to criticize anyone who compared the candidate's platforms and goals and chose to vpte for Adam Istvan. However, anyone who did choose to vote for Istvan should have made sure they were voting based on their faith in his ability to achieve the things he ought to achieve and not on a poorly based or secondhand notion of Charlie Ebersol's personality. There are cases where it is legitimate to oppose a candidate on the grounds that he or she is not a good person. Politics should not be a moral waste­land, whether it be on the level of stu­dent go"ernment or in the highest gov­ernment offices. However, in the case of our student body presidential elections, there was no possible moral issue that should have effected any student's vote more than the legitimacy of the candi­dates' platforms. 
I am not attempting to attack or defend Ebersol himself. I don't know what kind of person Ebersol really is. 
Nevertheless, I know Ebersol as well as many of the students who voiced the opinion that they weren't going to vote for him because they didn't like him. 
This attitude is juvenile, and epito­mizes exactly what can go wrong on a larger scale with a governmental sys­tem which our country goes to great effort to defend despite its flaws. Not taking the time to look past the unreli­able impression of a candidate's per­sonality churned out by the rumor mill · leads to poor decisions and unjustified biases on the parts of too many voters. 
If you want to justify your right to vote, figure out what it is you want done and decide who you think is best quali­fied to do it. If you don't care about an election enough to spend any time researching a candidates' actual qualifi­cations for an office, don't vote. And more than that, don't encourage peo­ple's tendency to exaggerate and mis­construe the actions and possible flaws of people they can't possibly claim to know or understand. 
We are not high school students, and student government is not the prom court. Don't base your opinion or your vote on rumors. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU DOING ANYTHING SPECIAL THIS WEEKEND TO AVOID JPW? 

• 






Philip Wells  Usa Lu  Adam Frisch  Michael Gerardi  Aaron Zielinski  
Sophomore Dillon  Freshman Breen Phillips  Freshman Keough  Freshman Keough  Sophomore Stanford  
"/would go to  "No ... it will be  ''I'm going to  "I am the slave  "Heavy, heavy  
Wzndsor. but I  interesting to  Florida to surf  ofJPW I have  drinking."  
have to do a  find out what  with the ND  to perform in  
concert."  JPWis all  Surfing Club.''  the band  

about." 
.. 

concert., 

MICHELLE OTTOfThe Observer 
Notre Dame professor David Cortright lectures to students Wednesday as part of the ND Peace Coalition lecture series In the Coleman Morse Lounge. The lecture was the second part In the series. 
OFFBEAT 

Stored bullets explode In Wis. oven 
HOWARD, Wis. -A man and his wife ducked behind a refrigerator when bullets began exploding in their oven, authorities say. 
Capt. Craig Kohlbeck of the Brown County Sheriff's Department said the hus­band had put the ammuni­tion and three handguns in the oven before the couple left on a vacation. 
He told officers he thought the items would be safe there in case someone broke into the home while they were away. 
After returning from their turned on the oven to pre­pare dinner and the bullets ignited, Kohlbeck said. 
trip  Tuesday,  the  wife  
TODAY  
a::  

No one was hurt. 
Robot receptionist even gets testy on job 

PITTSBURGH -She might not be paid, but Carnegie Mellon University's newest staff member does all that a stereotypical receptionist can do: give directions, answer the phone -and even gossip about her life. 
University officials on Wednesday unveiled what it considers to be the world's first robot receptionist with a personality of her own. 
The blond receptionist, named "Valerie," dons a headset and interacts with people by talking about her boss, her psychiatrist and her dream of being a lounge star. 
"We wanted to give her an underdog character, strug­gling to make it in a world of humans," said Kevin Snipes, 26, a graduate stu­dent in drama writing, one of four writers who came up with Valerie's fictional char­acter. "After a while on the job, she gets testy. But she can be charming too." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
..1 
ct 
(.) 

..J 0 HIGH 36 HIGH 41 HIGH 45 HIGH 40 Low· 29 LOW 35 LOW 35 LOW 20 IN BRIEF 

Steve Watts, president and CEO of Sokieski Bank will deliver a lecture entitled 
· "Ethical Crisis at a Bank: Re­
. percussions and Response." The lecture takes place this afternoon at 12:30 p.m. in the Mendoza College of Business Giovanini Commons. 
Yingxi Zhu of the Division ol' Engineering and Applied Science at Harvard University, will present a seminar titled "How D.oes Water Meet a Solid Surface?" The event, sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry and Biomolecular Engineering, takes place today at 3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo room 138. 
NO Cinema presents "Spellbound," a film that chronicles the National Spelling Bee. The film will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium. 
The class of 2007 will host a dinner in the Dooley Room of LaFortune tonight at 7:30p.m. Tickets are on sale for $1. The dinner will be catered by Famous Dave's BBQ. 
O'Neill Hall is sponsoring "Holy Hour," an opportunity for prayer through meditation, the rosary and Eucharistic adoration in the O'Neill chapel tonight at 8:30p.m. 
Senior Night will take place at Legends tonight from mid­night until 4 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

¢: 
¢: 

HIGH 34 HIGH 
30 

LOW 17 LOW 
15 

Atlanta 64 I 42 Boston 39 I 26 Chicago 44 I 37 Denver 42 I 23 Houston 72 I 58 Los Angeles 66 I 49 Minneapolis 36 I 22 New York 45 I 33 Philadelphia 48 I 30 Phoenix 64 I 45 Seattle 50 I 39 St. Louis 62 I 45 Tampa 66 I 47 Washington 53 I 35 
Thursday, February 19, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Notre Datne places cam.pus ban on cabbie 
Man accused ofrape, confinement 
The University issued the 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
order, Storin said, out of con­Associate News Editor 
cern for its students and employees. The victim is not a 
Notre Dame issued a no tres­student or employee of the passing order to a Mishawaka University, he said. taxicab driver who has been The woman's name did not 
accused of rape. 
Piara Singh, a 30-year-old cab driver for the Yellow Cab Co., faces eharges of rape, criminal con­finement and crim­inal deviate con­duct after an inci­dent involving a woman in Misha­waka on the evening of Feb. 8. The victim alleged that Singh forced her to engage in sexual intercourse and other sexual 
"We want University personnel to be aware ... and [know] that he,s not allowed on campus. lt,s a public safety issue., 
Matt Storln University spokesman 

acl<; while confining her against her will, according to an order issued by the St. Joseph Superior Court. 
Singh continues to wo•·k for the taxicab company. lie usual­ly, but not always, drives vehi­cle number 35, said University spokesman Matt Storin. 
appear in the Saint Mary's student directo­ry. 
"We want University per­sonnel to be aware ... and !know) that he's not allowed on campus," Storin said. "It's a public safety issue." 
A representa­tive for Yellow Cab said 
Wednesday that no one was 
available to comment on the incident or the company's poli­cies on the matter. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this story. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 


End nears for constitution changes 
By KATE DOOLEY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Government Association is close to completing the over­haul of its constitution, a proj­ect that will have taken three years by the time it is finished. 
The constitution is the outline of the bylaws and policies that must be.followed by student government. It includes descriptions of meeting and attendance policies, particular boards' roles and other guide­lines. The decision to rewrite parts of the constitution was made when errors were found in the text. 
"When the constitution was revised five years ago, there were quite a few things mixed up or excluded, said Sarah Brown, SGA vice president. "Other parts of the constitution were out of date and needed to be updated. It's been a big proj­ect." Once all the committee mem­
The SGA Constitution bers approved the amend­Committee, composed of 15 ments. the new constitution members, began the process by was sent to the Board of looking through the constitu­·Governance for approval. The tion and informally debating approval process started in 
what needed  early December. and  
to  be  modi­ portions  of  it  arc  
fied. Brown said  "Jt,s been a big  being studied a­pproved at each BOG  
that, after dis­cussing and  project . .,  meeting. Brown said the revisions will  
deciding on changes to be  Sarah Brown  hopefully approved  by  be the  
made,  the  SGA vice president  April 1 turnover.  
SGA members  The  constitution  
talked to their  committee members  
constituents  to  see  if they  said they hope the revised con­ 

approved of the planned revi­stitution will flow more sions. The writing of amend­smoothly and be free of errors. ments then began, which has Brown also said members been the most time-consuming attempted to write the docu­aspect of the project. ment in a way that would make 
One of the largest amend­constant revision unnecessary. ments added to the constitution "Our main goal is making the is a formal policy on impeach­document timeless," she said. ment or resignation. Brown said the former constitution did Contact Kate Dooley at not address this at all. dool611O@saintmarys.edu 

Guthrie Theater presents 'Othello' 
Special to The Observer 
Summer Shakespeare at the University of Notre Dame will welcome the Guthrie Theater of Minneapolis on its national tour of William Shakespeare's tragedy "Othello" in five perform­
ances Feb. 26 and 27 at 7 p.m., Feb. 28 at 2 and 8 p.m. and Feb. 29 at 2 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium Theater at Saint Mary's College. 
Admission ranges in price from $12 to $22.50 and tick­ets are available in advance at the O'Laughlin box office or by calling 574-284-4626. 
The production is one of six Shakespearean plays that will tour the country as part of the National Endowment for the Arts' Shakespeare in American Communities ini­tiative. 
Junior Class Office Candidates 
The candidates running for junior class office are listed from top to bottom in order of President, Vice­President, Treasurer, and Secretary. Elections will be held on Monday, February 23, 2004 
Candidates: 
Mike Tallarico  Stephen Miller  Erik Powers  Vijay Ramanan  
Kathryn Reynolds  Ben Zerante  Greg Parnell  Lauren Mullins  
Luke Maher  Patricia Adams  Mike Malatt  Emily Short  
John Roche.  Erika D'Addabbo  Steve Rzepka  Lauren Halleman  

o/ote february 23, 2004 at: fz.ttns:Ilinms. mf.ecfulefections 
1 1. 1 

o/oice ry'our Cftoice 
(04 

Thursday, February 19, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
SAB works to increase entertainment options 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Wrirer 

The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board is working hard to combat the challenge of boredom on the College's campus, where students claim chances for enter­tainment are few and far between. 
Many students report having never been to campus-sponsored activities during their time in col­lege. Senior Fran Dunker is one of those women. 
"I don't really participate in activities," Dunker said. "Nothing has ever appealed to me before." 
Other students would like to participate but said finding time for campus entertainment is not easy. 
''I'm just too busy," freshman Lisa Goepfrich said. 
Goepfrich also said that the times at which activities are held make it difficult to attend. 

"It's seven o'clock on a Wednesday night," she said. "That's my time that I do my homework; that's my time that I do other things." 
To change this situation, the SAB and its two entertainment chairs, Stacey Stark and Maureen Garavan-Oskielunas, have been making concerted efforts. 
Earlier the two chairs attended the National Association of Collegiate Activities conference to plan entertainment for Saint Mary's. 

"Most of the acts that come to campus we saw at NACA," Garavan-Oskielunas said. "It's basically a showcase of every act that could come to your campus so you can book them." 
This gives the SAB more artists to choose from, Garavan­Oskielunas said. 
"I think that, in recent years, that we've had a lot more variety of acts to work with -more comedians, more bands," she said. "We've also done more surveys to compile the kind of entertainment the students are looking for." 
So far this year, bands Red Wanting Blue, the Clayton Miller Blues Band and Rhett Butler have performed at Saint Mary's. Comedians Elvira Kurt, Megan Mooney and Alex House have also presented shows. 
SAB has also put on several of what Garavan-Oskielunas calls "homegrown" events. 
"Our president, Becca Doll, insti­tuted a rule that entertainment needs to put on three big events and three homegrown events, with students, each semester," she said. 
Some students are noticing that difference. "I think they try. They make good attempts, like the comedians 

Students advanced to semi-finals of moot court 
Special ro the Observer tion before losing to a team 
from the South Texas College 
University of Notre Dame of Law, the eventual champion. third-year law students Carah The Notre Dame law stu­Helwig and Julissa Robles dents defeated teams from the reached the final four of the law schools of Seattle National Moot Court University, Boston College and Competition held earlier this the Universities of Pittsburgh month in New York City. and Alabama to join South 
Helwig and Robles, coached Texas, the University of by Edward Sullivan and Robert Minnesota and Drake Palmer, both adjunct assistant University as one of the compe­professors of law at Notre tition's final four. Dame. went to New York after The competition is sponsored winning a regional competition by the Association of the Bar of in Indianapolis last year. They the City of New York and the advanced to the semifinal American College of Trial round of the national competi-Lawyers. 
experience efeyaill di;uny wilbseaso11alflair. 
Visiting your son or daughter is made 


&serva#ons &commnuleJ 
631-2020 www.Jot-insnd.cotn 
and Finding Nemo," senior Jessica Millanes said. "This year has been better with Wednesdays at Dalloway's." 
The Wednesdays at Dalloway's program is put on by SAB and the campus eatery. While Millanes' favorite activity was Jeopardy, other games such as "How Well Do You Know Your Roommate?" and "Friends" trivia have been played. Dalloway's also invites local artists, such as Notre Dame's Tom Schreck to perform. 
Saint Mary's may draw Notre Dame artists, but it does not seem to attract Notre Dame students. 
"I have never attended any event at Saint Mary's," junior Mark Ellestad said. "There haven't really been any turnoffs to coming to Saint Mary's, but nothing has really drawn me there." 
None of the Saint Mary's stu­dents interviewed reported attending any events on Notre Dame's campus. Ellestad said she blames the weather. 
"When its winter, they seem to hibernate over at Saint Mary's," he said. 
For now, Saint Mary's students say they would like to see a few changes on their own campus before heading to Notre Dame. 
Dunker said more mainstream artists will lure a larger crowd. 
"There should be one big activi­ty night, with a bigger-name con­cert or a popular play," she said. 
Ellestad and Saint Mary's senior Robin Blume agreed. 
"A good concert or something like that would draw crowds, but I'm not sure if [Saint Mary's stu­dents] have the venue or money for it," Ellestad said. "Or maybe have like a SUB movie night but make it newer movies than SUB plays so people won't care about the commute." 
"I think a lot more people would go to that," Blume said. "They should also do more to include off­campus students. We never hear about anything." 
SAB hopes that there will be high attendance rates for year-end activities such as Midnight Madness. featuring "Last Comic Standing" funnyman Oat Phan and the SMC Tostal, which will host two bands and the movie "Mona Lisa Smile." 
Rising stress levels may attract students to what Garavan­Oskielunas calls the "big event" for this semester. 
"March 2, Antigone Rising, a big female rock band, will be in the dining hall at 8 p.m.," she said. "It's in the middle of midterms, so we're going to do a take a study break, chow down on junk food and have some fun." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 






ftq&Ca~~[~!!l~u. 
Apply for a job or internship NOW! 
ImmediateApplication Deadlines forTop Notch Companiesl 
Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
Shell Oil -F/T 2120 ENG 
Nestle USA-F/T 2/20 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 
National City Corp-FIT 2/21 A&L, BUS 
Caremark -FIT 2/21 A&L, BUS, ENG 14 apps for 13 slots 
ACNielsen -F/T 2/21 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 20 apps for 13 slots 
Technology Service -FIT 2/21 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 
COW-F/T 
3/2 BUS, ENG, SCI 16 apps for 18 slots 
Deloitte-Externship 3/2 A&L, BUS, SCI 
Enterprise Rent-a-Car -F/T 3/2 A&L, BUS ONLY 8 applicants 
Notre Dame Athletics -Int. 3/2 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG ONLY 5 applicants 
15 apps for 13 slots 

L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 19, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Haitian cops refuse to fight rebels 
CAP-HAlTIEN, Haiti -Frightened police barricaded themselves inside their station Wednesday and said they could not repel a threatened rebel attack on Haiti's second­largest city, the last major government bas­tion in tho north. Officers in other towns deserted their posts with no guerrillas in sight. 
liven as police made clear they were too scared to patrol the streets of Cap-llaitien, militant defenders of President Jean­Bertrand Aristide vowed to take a stand against the 2-weck-old rebellion, which has killed some 60 people and has attracted leaders with murderous backgrounds. 
Euro leaders stage economic talks 
BI\BLIN -German, French and British leaders agreed Wednesday on broad propos­als aimed at making Europe the world's pre­mier economic power this decade, but they drew criticism from countries who were left out of the summit. 
Demonstrating unity after last year's divi­sions over Iraq, German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. French President Jacques Chirac and British Prime Minister Tony Blair called for a fresh push to cut red tape, promote new technologies and avert a crisis in social programs that Europeans hold dear. 
All three leaders emphasized the need for changes to make Europe more business­friendly and reduce unemployment -but also to uphold welfare-state comforts financed by a shrinking pool of working peo­ple as Europe's population ages. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
AAA: Elderly drivers at risk 
WASlllNGTON-Drivers over 65 arc more 
likely to get into crashes because of declining 
perception and motor skills, but the biggest 
risk is to themselves, not others on the high­
way, says a study based on nearly 4 million 
traf'!ic accidents. 
The study, released Wednesday by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety, also found that drivers 65 or older arc nearly twice as likely to die in a crash as drivers between 55 and 
64. Drivers over 85 were nearly four times as likely to die. 
As they grow older, some drivers are more likely to cause a crash because of a lapse in perception, such as failing to yield or run­ning a red light. 


Bush backs away from job claims 
WASHINGTON-President Bush distanced himself Wednesday from White House pre­dictions that the economy will add 2.6 mil­lion jobs this year, the second embarrassing cconomie retreat in a week and new fuel for Democratic criticism. 
Jobs arc a sensitive political issue for Bush as he lights to keep his own job in a second term. The economy has lost 2.2 million pay­roll jobs since Bush took off1cc, the worst job-creation record of any president since llerbert lloovcr. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Fired cop appeals to high court 
SOUTII BEND -A former Indiana state trooper who lost his job after refusing to work at a casino for what he said were reli­gious reasons has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to hear his case. 
In a petition f1led Tuesday, attorneys for The Hutherford Institute, acting on behalf of Ben Endres, asked the Supreme Court to reverse an appeals court ruling. 
A federal appeals court rejected Endres' discrimination complaint, ruling it was unreasonable to require a police agency to juggle assignments to make them compatible to the religious beliefs of officers. 
Endres was fired by the state police in April 2000 for insubordination after superi­ors said he disobeyed two orders to report to the Blue Chip Casino in Michigan City. 




Dean drops White House bid 
Move comes after 17 straight primary losses; former Vt. governor stays defiant 
Associated Press 
BURLINGTON, Vt. ­Faster than you can say dot.com bust, Howard Dean's quest for the presi­dency ended Wednesday as the Democrat, winless in 17 contests, bowed to political reality and aban­doned his bid. 
Once the little-known former governor of a small Northeast state, Dean took a summer ride to presidential campaign heights, attracting scores of followers and a Democratic record $41 million in campaign dol­lars largely through the Internet. 
Exactly one month ago, Dean was the candidate to beat -front-runner in national polls and poised to begin his primary romp with a win in the Iowa caucuses. It all crashed when the real votes were counted. 

Dean finished a poor third in Iowa, second in New Hampshire and man­Edwards. an overflow crowd of will live on long after aged just single digits in A day after his distant more than 500 flag-wav­Dean's candidacy. several states through third-place finish in ing supporters and staff. His address Wednesday early February. One of his Wisconsin, Dean "Sending delegates to the was quieter but not much biggest union backers -announced that he would convention only continues more reflective. It was a the American Federation no longer actively pursue to energize our party. call to build an enduring of State, County and the presidency, but "we Fight on in the caucuses. political movement that Municipal Employees -will, however, continue to We are on the ballots. Use will help to elect like­bailed out on the day of build a new organization your network to send pro­minded Democrats to the Washington and using our enormous grass­gressive delegates to the Congress and local offices Michigan caucuses. roots network to continue convention in Boston." and unite to defeat 
In the meantime, rival the effort to transform the Historians will have the President Bush in the fall. John Kerry had cruised to Democratic Party and to final say, but Dean was Although he encouraged 15 wins and seized the change our country." the candidate who rose supporters to continue front-runner moniker. Striking the defiant tone from obscurity to a main voting for him, he did Dean dubbed Wisconsin a that has been the hall­draw on the Meetup.com make clear he would not must-win, then a not real­mark of his candidacy, the Web site, newsmagazine seck to derail the party's ly. After the votes were former Vermont governor cover boy and unrivaled ultimate nominee. tallied Tuesday, the race urged his delegates of grass-roots organizer. It "I will not run as an had become what Dean some 200 to stick with never paid off in Iowa, independent or third­had predicted -a two­him. and all that was remem­party candidate," he said, man contest but "Keep active in the pri­bered was a high-octane as his wife Judy stood between Kerry and John mary," Dean declared to concession speech that behind him. 
IRAN 

Train derails, explodes; 200 dead 
blood supplies and appealed through smoke billowing about 500 yards
Associated Press 
loudspeakers for donors. Hardest hit ahead. 

NEYSHABUR -Runaway train was Hashemabad, where 41-year-old The blast was so powerful that cars carrying a lethal mix of fuel and Zahra Rczaie, whose mud home was windows were shattered as far as six chemicals derailed, caught fire and near the tracks, was cooking lunch miles away. In an apparent indica­then exploded hours later for her family when she heard the tion of the explosion's force, Iranian Wednesday in northeast Iran, killing explosion and felt the ground shake. seismologists recorded a 3.6-magni­more than 200 people, injuring at Then the ceiling collapsed. tude tremor in the area, IHNA least 400 and leaving dozens trapped "It knocked down and broke some reported. beneath crumbled mud homes. dishes. I was sure it was an earth­Many of the buildings that col­
Most of those reported dead were quake, and my first thought was to lapsed in a Dec. 26 earthquake in firefighters and rescue workers who rush to the school and save my chil­Bam, in southeast Iran. also were had extinguished most of the blaze dren," Rezaie told The Associated mud-brick structures. That tragedy outside Ncyshabur, an ancient city of Press. Her children were safe. killed more than 41,000 people. 
170,000 people in a farming region An AP photographer who arrived Authorities were investigating what 400 miles east of the capital, Tehran. in Dehnow, one of the most severely caused the 51 cars to roll out of the The dead also included top city offi­damaged villages close to the train Abu Muslim train station, outside cials -including Neyshabur's gover­tracks some 500 yards from the Ncyshabur, at 4 a.m. Forty-eight of nor, mayor and fire chief as well as blast, said most of the village's homes the cars derailed on reaching the the head of the energy department were flattened. next stop at Khayyam, about 12 
and the director-general of the "The houses are all built of clay, miles away, and caught fire. 
provincial railways -who had all and nearly every one has been Iranian TV showed footage of black gone to the site of the derailment, the destroyed, like they had collapsed in plumes of smoke and orange flames official Islamic Republic News an earthquake," Hassan billowing into the sky from the cars, Agency reported. Sarbakhshian said. "Everyone 17 of which were loaded with sulfur, 
The explosion devastated five vil­appears to have been evacuated," he six with gasoline, seven with fertiliz­lages, where authorities rushed in said, adding he could see thick, black er and 10 with cotton. 
~ ---~-----­
Thursday, February 19, 2004

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Med 
continued from page 1 
allows for an intimate intro­duction to medical school. Students and professors have the opportunity to learn and teach in a personal setting that is conducive to informal discus­sions. 
"You really get to know your professors," said Minhaj Khaja, a first-year student at the South Bend Center. 
According to the Center's Web site, students at the South Bend Center are considered "special graduate students" of the University of Notre Dame. This means that even though 
U.S. soldier charged with trying to aid al-Qaida 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON A National Guardsman attempt­ed to provide the al-Qaida terrorist network with infor­mation about U.S. troop strength and tactics. as well as methods for killing Army personnel, the military alleged in charges made pub­lic Wednesday. The charges could lead to a death sen­tence. 
Spc. Ryan G. Anderson was formally charged Feb. 12 with three counts involving efforts to supply intelligence to the enemy. but the Army did not release that informa­tion until Wednesday. 
In each count, Anderson is accused of "attempting to provide intelligence to the enemy" by disclosing infor­mation to people he thought belonged to the terror net­work but who were actually 
U.S. military personnel. the military alleges. 
The charges do not allege that Anderson ever actually passed information to real al­Qaida members. 
The Uniform Military Code says attempts to aid the enemy can be punished by death. 
Anderson. 26, of Lynnwood, is a tank crew member from the Fort Lewis-based 81st Armor Brigade. The 2002 Washington State University graduate converted to Islam in college. He joined the Guard on May 15, 2002, according to Lt. Col. Stephen Barger, an Army spokesman. 
Barger refused to say whether the investigation was continuing or whether others might be involved. He also refused to discuss how Anderson's activities came to the Army's attention or how the Army set up the sting that led to his arrest. Anderson is being held at Fort Lewis. 
In the first count, Anderson. also known as "Amir Abdul Rashid," is alleged to have attempted to provide information about 
U.S. 
Army troop strength, movements. equipment, tac­tics and weapons systems. as well as methods of killing 

U.S. 
Army personnel and vul­nerabilities of Army weapons systems and equipment. 



they are actually students of Indiana University. they are still afforded the privileges of full-time graduate students, which allows them to use University facilities and buy tickets to sporting events. The Center also participates with the University in graduate pro­grams for Master of Science. Ph.D and combined M.D./Ph.D degrees. 
Despite attending classes on campus on a daily basis and their status as "special," many students at the South Bend Center still do not feel like they are a part of the Notre Dame student body. Nevertheless, students who have an interest can find ways to get involved with the larger Notre Dame community. 
And some do. 
Layne Pantea. a first-year medical student at the Center, has been involved with two campus theater productions this year. Pantea, who also attended Notre Dame as an undergraduate, said opportuni­ties do exist for students at the Center to become part of the University community. 
"I think there are ways for students to get involved," she said. 
After students at the centers complete their second year of medical school, they continue their studies at the Indianapolis campus, where their time is spent almost exclusively in hos­pitals. Medical schools require what Robert Kingsley, a faculty member at the Center since 1974, called large referral hos­pital facilities -those that per­form specialty procedures that smaller hospitals cannot accommodate. Indianapolis hospitals have the ability to perform those procedures in a cost-effective manner that is not possible in South Bend. 
"Indianapolis is the only place in the state that has those hospital facilities," Kingsley said. 
Students spend their fourth year of medical school taking elective courses. which do not need to be taken in Indianapolis. Kingsley said many students choose to return to South Bend at this time and complete their elective work at St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center. 
After more than 30 years of hiding in Haggar Hall, the South Bend Center is moving to a roomier and more conspicu­ous location -a brand new 66,000 sq-ft. building at the corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Angela Blvd. The building. which is currently under con­struction, will be owned by Indiana University. The close relationship between Notre Dame and the South Bend Center, however, will not end with the completion of the new edifice; Notre Dame plans to rent 46 percent of the new building to house the W.M. Keck Center for Transgene Research. 
Contact Kevin Allen at kallen@nd.edu 
*US.Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 



NO Dl SAPPOINTMENTS 


• 900 Local Anytime Minutes (For 
tht first 6 mos., $40 thtrufter) ,_.If?if'}'''=: • Includes Nationwide Long Distance 
• Unlimited Nights and Weekends 
• 
Free Roadside Assistance for 1 month* 

• 
Free Motorola T731 


(after $30 mail-in rebate) 

• 1 monlll free tnat available to new Roadsrde Ass stance subscribers only Frrst month free. $2 95 a monlll thereafter. MJst call to cancel Diller restrrctrons apply Airbme and phone offers valid on 2 year customer servrce agreements of $40 and hrgh..-. 50% access dscount valid for the frrst 6 monllls of a 2 year agreement 50% off offer not valid rn combinatron wrlll any otll..-specral offer or promobon Promohonal phone rub1ect to changeCustomEr IS respoos1ble t<l' aR sales taxes Oilers may exptre if you change your callrng plan Nigh\ and weekEirld m1rutes am valid M·F 9 pm to 5·59 am and all day Saturday and SUnday Nrght and weekerld m1nu\es are avarlable 
rn tile local calling area only F\lammg charges. fees. surcharges and faxes may apply, 1rciUdtng a Federal and 0\her Regulatory Fee charge of$ 55 All service agreem ants subject to an ea~y termination fee Acttvabon lee 1s $30 Offers valrd rn lllrne>s and lndrana any. Not val1d in F\lck Island or Herry Counties 1n Illinois Limited bme offer 02004 US Cellular CorpCA'at1on 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Thursday, February 19, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 671.99 -42.89
jones ' 
·~· Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1.289 174 • 1.364.657,152 

AMEX 1,244.43 -11.23 NASDAQ 2,076.47 -3.88 NYSE 6,719.14 -51.13 S&P 500 1,151.82 -5.17 NIKKEJ(rokyo) 10,750.07 +73.26 FTSE IOO(London) 4,442.90 -18.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) ·0.82 ·0.22 26.77 JDS UNIPHASE QDSU) -0.39 ·0.02 5.08 DOBSON COMMS CP (DCEL) -36.55 ·2.65 4.60 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.68 ·0.21 30.60 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) + 1.69 +0.37 22.31 
TteGSUries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.04 ·0.02 49.15 10-YEAR NOTE +0.02 +0.0 I 40.49 5-YEARNOTE +0.1 0 +0.03 30.20 3-MONTH BILL +1.67 +0.15 9.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.38 34.48 GOLD ($rrroy oz.) -3.70 412.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.275 94.175 
fxchan Rates 

YEN I 06.4 EURO 0.786 POUND 0.5285 CANADIAN$ 1.324 
IN BRIEF 
lnt'l Steel to buy Weirton 
WEIHTON, W.Va. -International Steel Group Inc. struck a $255 million deal for bankrupt Weirton Steel Corp. on Wednesday, giving the 2-year-old company a chance to surpass U.S. Steel as the nation's largest steel producer. 
ISG. based in Cleveland and built from the remains of other struggling or bankrupt steel­makers, would acquire one of the nation's largest tin-plate mills if its offer for Weirton wins approval from a bankruptcy judge. 
Given the complexity of the sale and the need for an agreement with the Independent Steelworkers Union, Weirton chief executive 
D. Leonard Wise said ISG will likely prevail in the court-run auction required to complete the deal. 
Rough winter hits housin~ starts 
WASHINGTON -The number of housing projects builders broke ground on in January declined by the largest amount in nearly a year as bad winter weather played havoc with construction activity. 
The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that the number of residential buildings under way dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.90 million units, rep­resenting a sharp 7.9 percent drop from December's stellar pace of 2.07 million units. That had been the best pace since February 1984. 
Martha lawyer defends statements 
NEW YOHK -Martha Stewart's lawyer showed jurors a slew of 2-ycar-old news reports Wednesday that speculated the domestic entrepreneur sold ImClone Systems stock on insider information and even was romantically linked to its now-jailed CEO. 
The evidence was designed to show Stewart was simply trying to discredit inaccurate reports and was making smart business deci­sions in the summer of 2002 when she issued statements saying her lmClone sale was prop­cr. 
Stewart was never charged with criminal insider trading, and she has denied having any romantic relationship with fallen ImClone founder Sam Waksal. 
GE exec talks ethics at MCOB 
GE Supply general counsel addresses corporate responsibility for multinationals 
By TRICIA de GROOT News Writer 
Continuing the Mendoza College of Business' cele­bration of Ethics Week, John Gschwind. general counsel of General Electric Supply, delivered a lecture Wednesday titled "Ethical Implications of Operating a Multinational Corporation" in the Giovanini Commons. 
Gschwind. a 1981 Notre Dame graduate, spoke about the importance of integrity in the $14 billion dollar global business. 

Gschwind began his lec­ture by sharing statistical information about General Electric so that his audi­ence could understand the national and international authority held by the cor­poration, including its presence in more than 20 countries and its employ­ment of more than 75,000 people worldwide. and broadcast over the Then, depending upon are made for how to han­
GE prides itself on its news, Gschwind said. GE which job position the dle compliance problems direct customer contact has become such a house­employee holds within the and frequent meetings arc and thus places a high hold name over the years company, he or she might held, all so that GE can emphasis on integrity, he that it must be very con­have to further this train­maintain integrity as a said. scious of the power of the ing. multinational corporation. 
"We take compliance and media, he said. He said the next respon­"Key leadership is integrity and drive it into "[GEl makes the leaders sibilities -detection and imperative, and at GE, it is the business," Gschwind responsible for making respo_nding -are com­the way we run our busi­said. sure the employees read posed of monitoring, con­ness," Gschwind said. "It is 
llis PowerPoint presen­the policies and proce­trol measures and han­a two-way street between tation indicated that GE's dures," Gschwind said. dling communication con­values and integrity." values define "who we are, "Here at GE, we take com­cerns. Finally, Gschwind dis­what we believe, where pliance and drive it into a "We try to create of cussed the lack of toler­we're going and how we'll leadership responsibility." number of different ance GE has for employees get there." Concluding his avenues for them [GE who cannot adhere to GE 
In addition, he said GE PowerPoint presentation employees] to raise values. encourages its employees with GE's emphasis on issues," Gschwind said. "We move swiftly if we to adapt values of curiosi­integrity, Gschwind out­"We are very serious about believe people aren't buy­ty, passion, resourceful­lined three key leadership encouraging raising ing into the GE commit­ness, accountability. team­responsibilities: preven­issues." ment," he said. "People work, commitment, open­tion, detection and GE wants to provide its won't be employed ... if ness and energy. Internal respond. employees with a comfort­they cannot comply with and external pressures Changes have been made able forum for presenting this." impose a very high risk, in the field of prevention both foreseen and unfore­The last of the Ethics and, therefore, GE focuses now that GE has expanded seen problems and there­Week lectures will be held a lot of its attention on to so many international fore issues periodic com­in the Giovanini Commons integrity, he said. companies, he said. All GE pliance revues. he said. in the Mendoza College of 
GE operates in an envi­employees are required to Certain leadership respon­Business this afternoon. ronment where any mis­take a level one training sibilities are established, take will immediately be course. which focuses on individuals are asked to Contact Trisha de Groot at picked up by the media GE policies, Gschwind said. lead by example, checklists pdegroot@nd.edu. 

CORPORATE SCANDAL 

Enron ex-CEO to face indictment 
the sources said they would likely be ing personal reasons he has not 
Associated Press 

conspiracy and fraud. explained. Other former executives, 
HOUSTON -Jeffrey Skilling, the Skilling, 50, would be the highest­including Lay, invoked their Fifth former Enron chief executive who profile former Enron executive to date Amendment rights and declined to tes­resigned less than four months before to face criminal charges. One of his tify before Congress. the company imploded in scandal, was lawyers, Bruce Hiler, went to the fed­Skilling would be the 28th individual expected to surrender Thursday on eral courthouse in Houston Wednesday to be charged in the Justice charges related to the company's col­to familiarize himself with its layout. Department's methodical investigation, lapse, sources told The Associated Skilling's former boss, Enron founder which passed its two-year mark last Press on Wednesday. and former chairman Kenneth Lay, month. 
The criminal charges come almost has not been charged, and the sources Former Enron finance chief Andrew exactly two years after Skilling told said it was unclear when or if he Fastow pleaded guilty last month to Congress he knew nothing about seri­would be. two counts of conspiracy and agreed to ous problems at the energy trading Both men through their lawyers help prosecutors pursue other cases. company. have staunchly maintained their inno­Fastow was one of Skilling's first 
1\vo sources close to the investiga­cence of any wrongdoing since Enron hires shortly after Skilling joined tion, who spoke on condition of collapsed into bankruptcy in December Enron in 1990. In his guilty plea, anonymity, said Skilling was expected 2001. Fastow admitted that he and others to surrender to the FBI early Thursday 'I\vo years ago, Skilling insisted dur­manipulated Enron's books so the and then appear before a federal judge ing testimony before two congressional company would appear successful on charges related to Enron's collapse. panels that he believed Enron was while using various partnerships to 
It was not immediately clear what financially healthy when he abruptly enrich himself, his family and chosen charges Skilling would face, although quit after only six months as CEO, cit-colleagues. 

----~ ---------­
Thursday, February 19, 2004

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Expert's caveat: Yucca Mountain tnay leak 
Associated Press 
RENO -The nation's 
nuclear waste dump proposed 
for Nevada is poorly designed 
and could leak highly radioac­
tive waste, a scientist who 
recently resigned from a fed­
eral panel of experts on Yucca 
Mountain told The Associated 
Press on Wednesday. 
Paul Craig, a physicist and 
engineering professor at the 
University of California-Davis, 
said he quit the panel last 
month so he could speak 
more freely about the waste 
dump's dangers. 
Yucca Mountain, about 90 
miles northwest of Las Vegas, 
is planned to begin receiving 
waste in 2010. Some 77,000 
tons of highly radioactive 
waste at commercial and mili­
tary sites in 39 states would 
be stored in metal canisters 
underground in tunnels. 
"The science is very clear," Craig told the AP in an inter­view before his first public speech about the Energy Department's design for the canisters. 
"If we get high-temperature liquids, the metal would cor­rode and that would eventual­ly lead to leakage of nuclear waste," Craig said. 
"Therefore, it is a bad design. And that is very, very bad news for the Department of Energy because they are committed to that design," he said. 
Craig, who was appointed to the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board by President Clinton in 1997, spoke to about 100 people later Wednesday night at a commu­nity forum in Reno sponsored by the Sierra Club. 
"I would never say Yucca Mountain won't work. What I would say is the design they have won't work," he said Wednesday night. He said he's convinced the Energy Department will have to post­pone the project and adopt a different design. 
"It would require years of delay and my guess is that is what is going to happen. The bad science is so clear they will be unable to ignore it for­ever," Craig told the AP. 
The 11-member technical review board outlined its con­cerns about the potential for corrosion in a report to the Energy Department in November about the metal for the canisters, called Alloy-22 -"an upscale version of stainless steel," Craig said. 
It was the most important report the board has pro­duced since Congress created the panel in 1987, he said, but largely has been ignored by Congress and the depart­ment. 
"The report says in ordinary English that under the condi­tions proposed by the Department of Energy, the canisters will leak," Craig said. "It was signed by every single member of the board so there would be no confusion." 
Energy Department spokes­man Allen Benson defended the design plans for the repository and the metal in the storage casks. · 
"We stand by our work," he said Wednesday in Las Vegas. He said the department was preparing a formal response to the board's November report. He had no further comment. 
In Washington, D.C., offi­cials with the industry's Nuclear Energy Institute did not immediately return tele­phone calls seeking comment. 
The board's report in November said the govern­ment had failed to take into account "deliquescence" -a phenomenon regarding the reaction of salt to moisture ­in its plans to operate the dump at temperatures well above boiling water, or about 200 degrees. 
At those temperatures, the metal canisters would heat up, causing salts in the sur­rounding ground to liquefy, thus leading to corrosion, Craig said. 
"It turns out the metals which look like they act pretty good at temperature levels below boiling water -those same metals act badly with temperatures that could exist" at Yucca Mountain, he said. 

Labels to fight counterfeit drugs 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The govern­ment says smart prescription drug labels-bearing tiny hid­den transmitters -should lead the way in fighting counterfeit drugs. 
But Mark McClellan, the Food and Drug Administration com­missioner, said Wednesday the government will not order pharmaceutical companies to adopt the technology or other measures to combat what he described as a small but grow­ing problem. 
Instead, McClellan said, he expects the industry to come up with its own plan for putting in place technology that can track drugs from manufacture to consumers' medicine cabinets. Widespread use of radio fre­quency identification, or RFID, is expected by 2007, said an FDA report on counterfeit drugs that McClellan and Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson released Wednesday. 
"By 2007 .. . Americans should expect to know with confidence exactly where their drug was made and where it's been," McClellan said. 
He called RFID technology one aspect of a comprehensive approach "that uses 21st centu­ry solutions to combat criminal efforts to inject counterfeit drugs into our drug supply." 
To that end, he said, the FDA will continue to hold off on rules that would require a paper trail to validate every sale between drug makers and distributors. Critics say bring­ing back that "paper pedigree" would be a good interim solu­tion, but McClellan said the paper trail rules would be cost­ly and still leave gaps in the system. 
FDA officials provided a demonstration of how an elec­tronic pedigree might work, using a database that would record each stop made by a shipment of drugs from manu­facturer to wholesaler to phar­macy to consumer. Such a sys­tem also would make recalls easier, they said. 
For now, questions remain about the system's cost and whether it could compromise the quality of drugs. 
The report also said compa­nies could cut down on coun­terfeiting by shipping in smaller "unit of use" sizes -say, 30 pills in a blister pack instead of hundreds per shipment that smaller distributors then rebut­tie. The FDA will encourage its adoption, the report said. 
Anti-tampering technology alone will not solve the prob­lem, the report said. Other recommendations include: increasing penalties for coun­terfeiters, drawing up a nation­al list of drugs likely to be coun­terfeited, enhancing interna­tional cooperation. 
Fewer than 1 percent of drugstore sales involve coun­terfeit drugs, McClellan said. But the FDA has investigated about 20 counterfeit cases a year since 2000, compared with five a year in the 1990s. 
One of the biggest cases came last year, when more than 150,000 bottles of the choles­terol medicine Lipitor were recalled. Consumers complain­ing of a bitter taste alerted the FDA that knockoffs from over­seas were mixed into the real version. 





MEDICINE 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A panel ofalumni and alllmnae reflect on the inte_qration offaith and docial concern<! into Life beyond Notre Dame. 
Sunday, February 22 4:00-5:30 prn Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 

Medical Director, Greenwich Hospital Breast Center; Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery, Yale University School of Medicine 
Roger Klauer, MD '75 Medical Director, Outpatient Rehabilitation Services Memorial Regional Rehabilitation Center Lisa Novak Mullaly, DO '97 Family Medicine Resident, Flint, Michigan 
NOTRE DAME VOCATION INITIATIVE 

Thursday, february 19, 2004 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Senate 
continued from page I 
"We do routinely pull oflensive letters on· the page ... But in the case of tlw allinnative action let­ter. many of tllC instances cited were based on what the author had actually seen. There is a dif­filrence between actual experi­ence and broad generaliza­tions," Soukup said. 
Soukup al'io said the apology requested by the Diversity Council was not necessary becaus<l other letters contradict­ing those in question were print­ed afterwards. and that it was a viewpoint that needed expres­sion. 
The meeting also questioned The Observer's policy of endors­ing a candidate in the student body prPsidential elections. 
"Endorsement is common­place. It allows the editorial staff to say if they think one candi­date is hotter than the others. We also strive to make sure those on the editorial board do not report on the election," Soukup said. 
In response to a question about tho Jan. 27 letter falsely accusing Bishop Daniel Jenky and Father Hichard McBrien of covering up sexual abll'ie allega­tions, Soukup said The Observer L'i now in tlw process of reexam­ining its Viewpoint fact-checking policies because of the incident. 
"Wo will be publishing in the Viewpoint section all the policies and procedures, even though many of them are already on the Web site. because we hope to clear all of thL'i up," Soukup said. 
Brodfuehrer also encouraged students to contact The Observer directly if they had cmnptL'i concerns. 
'The Obsorver is an independ­ont student newspaper, so we don't have a staiT sponsor like the Senate or other organiza­tions," Brodfuehrer said. "So we encourage students with con­
cerns to contact The Observer 
staff directly." 
Adam Istvan and Karla Bell, student body president and vice­president elect did not attend Wednesday's meeting. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
Howard senator Brin Anderson told senators to pro­mote participation in Operation Hice Bowl, a drive to raise money for 40 countries and the local diocese sponsored by the Junior Class Council and the service and spiritual commit­tees. Students will be provided with boxes in the shape of rice bowls, into which they can col­lect their extra change during the 40 days of Lent. After collec­tion, 75 percent of the proceeds will go to a global cause, while 25 percent will go directly to the local diocese. Organizers will distribute the boxes on Monday and Tuesday in DeBartolo, O'Shaughnessy, LaFortune and north and south dining halls, as well as Ash Wednesday mass. 

+ 
A resolution requesting the creation of a campus life council task force to address social awareness issues was passed with only one dissenting vote. The task force would investigate the need for a class to create a common base of social under­standing among students. 


"We don't want to make any demands-we just want to see if it's feasible to get a three-credit course, or incorporate social awareness into freshman semi­nars," said Badin senator Laura Feeney. 
+ Zahm senator Drew Sandstrum asked senators to encourage their constituents to write letters to soldiers overseas. 
"Morale's getting low-some of these guys are no older than 22, so they'd really appreciate support from here," said Sandstrom. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Writer 

Despite rumors that Notre Dame's night hall monitors may be released, their counterparts at Saint Mary's said they feel comfortable in their positions. 
Beverly Moyer, who has worked at the Hegina Hall front desk for the past 15 years, said she feels her position holds significant weight at the College and she does not believe her employment is threatened. 
"I feel comfortable in my position right now," Moyer said. "It's good to know that if something happens in the middle of the night and the girls need someone, I can be there and security can come quickly to help back me up." 
Moyer described her job as a desk worker with security precau-


SIMI 
continued from page 1 

Campese, who spent time work­ing with the Casa Migrante in Tijuana, Mexico before coming to Chicago, spoke about his experi­ences and discussed future possi­bilities for immigration policy in the United States. Though the talks were not designed to debate poli­cies taken by the United States or Mexico, references were made to President Bush's recent immigra­tion reform proposal. Currently, the Bush plan is only an outline, but the evening's speakers agreed that reform to the current system is needed. 
Brown-Gort, who spoke after Campese, discussed the socio-eco­nomic eiTecl'i of immigration on the United States and Mexico and the social justice that should be paid to immigrants from a Christian point 
SEVENTH ANNUAL 
THOMAS AQUINAS SYMPOSIUM 
On 
THE COMMON GOOD 
Little Theatre, Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's College 
4:00p.m. 
"Positive Law and the Common Good'' 
M. Cathleen Kaveny 
7:00p.m. 
"The Common Good, Globalization and Justice" 
David Hollenbach, S J 
8:15p.m, Reception in Little Theatre Lobby 
Friday, February 20,2004 
... 
Sponsored by the Joyce McMahon Hank Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology With the support of the Centers for Spirituality and Women~$ Intercultural Leadership 
Information call (574) 284~4636 


SMC night 111onitors feel secure 
tions included. 
"Yes, I file work orders, and I sort the mail," she said. "But I also help maintain law and order. I make sure that boys aren't coming in to spend the night and make them leave ifthey try to." 
Saint Mary's Security Director Dave Chapman said there is not a high number of incidents during the nighttime hours. 
"I feel our nightly security meas­ures are sufficient," Chapman said. "Our night monitors are well equipped to do their jobs." 
There are no plans for cutbacks in the Saint Mary's night desk moni­tor staff at this time, Chapman said. 
Saint Mary's junior and Hegina Hall resident Michelle Cooper said she likes having a nightly desk monitor. 
"I think it makes me feel that, if I had a problem at night, there would be someone there to assist 
of view. Brown-Gort referenced the 2002 pastoral letter en titled "Strangers No Longer: Together on the Journey of Hope," a joint publi­cation of American and Mexican bishops that calls for comprehen­sive immigration reform. for his speech. Brown-Gort also accompa­nied his talk by showing slides of the metal double-barrier which functions as the border between the U.S. and Mexico, and of immi­grants attempting to attain the "American Dream." 
Brown-Gort called the audience to take stock of why impoverished Mexicans would risk their lives and leave their families to cross the border. He pointed to American economic interests as a major motivation. 
"At the bottom of it, do we as the rich country, or as fairly well-off citizens . . . should we be asking for our lifestyle to be subsidized?" Brown-Gort asked. Brown-Gort also drew attention to what he called the "supply-side" of immi­gration, adding that studying migration from a Christian point of view requires consciousness of all factors. He commented on the cre­ation of everyday objects, which may have been made by illegal immigrants, who were employed by legitimate U.S. companies. 
"Do we hear about illegal busi­ness? Do we think of these as ille­gal businesses? Do we think of ourselves as illegal consumers?" he asked the audience. 
me," Cooper said. "I feel safer knowing someone is there, watch­ing the entrance and able to call for help ifsomething arL'ies." 
Cooper said although she under­stands financially why Notre Dame might want to eliminate the securi­ty monitor position, she feels they arc an important part of campus life. 
"I think by taking them away, you're just asking for trouble," said Cooper. "I have a feeling that there would be a lot more problems at night with rule-breaking than there currently arc now." 
At this point, Moyer said she is not concerned. 
"There has been no talk, as of yet, regarding cutbacks," Moyer said. "I plan to just keep doing what I've always done." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Holzer ended the presentation 
with a discussion of the role of the 
parish in caring for immigrants. 
Holzer works in a province of the 
SIMI called the Saint Charles 
Borromeo Province in Melrose 
Park, III., which is in the archdio­
cese of Chicago. 
The speech discussed character­
istics of the immigrants as poor, 
uneducated and undocumented 
and the characteristics of the wel­
coming community. 
"There is not an ideal situation or 
approach as a church or as a socie­
ty," he said. 
Holzer focused on the state of immiw.ants who are experiencing culture,.shock, illiteracy and the drastic change from a rural society to an urban U.S. city. These immi­grants then go to a parish, which must strive to keep an open mind, .he said. Some obstacles Holzer mentioned for integrating immi­grants are still prevalent race ten­sions, even among immigrants and the power of the word "illegal" as a 
limiting force. 
Campese also contributed to a 
recently published compilation of 
articles on the topic of migration 
entitled "Migration, Heligious 
Experience and Globalization." 
"Border Policy and the Migrant 
Experience" lecture was part of the 
one-credit course "Migration and 
C'.atholicism." 
Contact Meryl Guyer at mguyer@nd.edu 
SMC Student Activities Board is holding auditions for amateur comedians. 
Two Winners will be chosen to open for DATPIIA.N. W"mner of NBC• Lut Comie Stantlillfl. 
on March 19th at 7pm in O'Laughlin Aud. 
Auditions will be Friday February 27th, starting at 6:30pm. Space is Limited. Please sign up early to reseiVe YOUR audition spot, by contacting SAB@saintmarys.edu. 
•'Ifyou get an audition, you will be notified by SAH on Feb. 20. • • 


I
I 
' 
THE 0BSER\'ER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 19, 2004 
Virtues and Vices of Modern Sports 

Sports have much power in our society. But what is the focus of that power? 
Athletes bring crowds to their feet, defY our human weaknesses and make us believe in the impossible. Yet sometimes the athletic courts seem to be breeding Andrew grounds for crime, DeBerry scandal and vio­lence. Is the charac­
ND Changing
ter of sports eroding 
Times
away to the vices of unbound competi­tion? 

On one hand -and for good reason ­sports will always be held up as a way to promote virtues such as perseverance, responsibility and teamwork. Over two­thirds of our student body played sports growing up, which adds a special element to our community that few other universi­ties can match. 
On the other hand, teamwork can be a one-sided, destructive force. In the book, Lessons of the Locker Room: The Myth of School Sports, Andrew Miracle and Roger Rees report studies showing that some athletes "have a tendency to shrug off moral decisions as not their responsibility and exhibit a self-serving bias when judg­ing what violent behavior is appropriate." Examples from sports media immediately come to mind as support. 
In this competitive society, sportsman­ship becomes increasingly important in keeping our sports firmly grounded in character. It's a classic battle of good ver­sus bad on a moral playing field. Where does this put Notre Dame, a bastion for both ethical and athletic excellence? 
When asked during a talk in Keough Hall about the professions where he would like to see more Notre Dame grad­uates, Father Edward Malloy gave the reply one may expect from a university president: the Presidency of the United States, higher education and politics. But on the end of this academic list, Monk tacked on coaching. Why? 
Psychology Professor and Kroc Fellow George Howard, who teaches a summer 400-level course on coaching youth sports, explained Monk's reply: "If we really are more value-oriented than most institutions, then we should work harder to get our people to appreciate what sports do, and have them be centrally involved." 

To counter a shift from fair play to win­ning at all costs in the sports culture, Howard teaches that coaches are to be educators first. This shifts the focus to player development before winning. He believes that "if you're always focused on winning the next game, you sacrifice the long-term interest of the players and the team." 
This view seems idealistic. Then one name comes to the surface: John Wooden. 
Ninety-three year-old John Wooden is ESPN's Coach of the Century for his record 10 NCAA championships (the sec­ond-best record has four) at UCLA. Since his early high school coaching days in South Bend, he has intently focused on developing players according to their abil­ity. Last week at the Air Force Academy, the poet at heart quoted lyrics that explained his rationale: "At God's foot­stool to confess I A poor soul knelt and bowed his head. I 'I failed,' he cried. The Master said, I 'Thou didst thy best, that is success." 
Denver Bronco's manager Ted Sundquist also emphasizes the personal virtues of teamwork in believing that rela­tionships are strengthened through shared sacrifice. Teams are ultimately united by shared scars from common struggles. 
Bill Yoast, coach of the T.C. Williams Titans featured in "Remember the Titans" proves Sundquist's point. He tells audi­ences about the racial tensions pulsing in the Alexandria, Va. after three rival high schools were combined. The integrated football team was ironically the source of acclaimed community solidarity as the team advanced to win the state champi­onships. 
Sports programs have the power to rev­olutionize communities. They give inner city youth alternatives to crime and drugs. In case you're interested, the summer National Youth Sports Program facilitated by the Center for Social Concerns pays students to work with teenagers from the local community. 
If you are skilled at basketball, you have tremendous power in the city. Being a baller can earn you the respect of many hardcore players off the street. 
Sports can bring unity even across national borders. You have tremendous power on the international scene ifyou are skilled at soccer. While teaching in Uganda during the 2002 World Cup, I could relate to people anywhere in the country through this one sport. 
Recognizing the value of sports, the U.S. State Department has even created International Sports Initiatives which relate athletics to foreign relations through "sports diplomacy." 
The ethical climate of athletics is grow­ing more threatening. In renewing a focus on the character of sports, athletics can continue to be a force that brings commu­nities together on all playing fields. 
Andrew DeBerry is a tenth semester senior counting down the 90 days till graduation. His column usually appears every other Thursday. He can be contact­ed at adeberry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Diversifying diversity 
While race, gender, sexual preference and religion con­with disabilities that require assistance. tribute significantly to the Notre Dame community's Students who use wheelchairs have discovered that definition of "diversity," another group of students 
Notre Dame is not the most accessible place for on campus equally promotes diversity. Students them. It was also in 1995 that Notre Dame with disabilities overcome obstacles and chal­made its first attempt to increase disability 
lenges on a daily basis. 

Approximately 110 Notre Dame students have disabilities. There are currently Notre Dame students with visual impairmentE, hearing impairments, learning disabili­ties, cerebral palsy and other disabilities. 
Today's Observer insert on diversity featured three articles on race, four arti­cles on gender, two articles on sexual preference, one on religion and none on disability. Disabilities are often over­looked as a part of diversity. 
In 1998, Tim Cordes was the first blind student to be the Notre Dame valedictori­an. 
In 1995, the Office for Students with Disabilities was built to provide students with disabilities the same opportunity to enjoy a Notre Dame education as the non-dis­

awareness. Only been in the last few years 
that Notre Dame Disability Awareness 
Week has gen·erated support from the uni­
versity. 
To exclude or ignore the value of stu­dents with disabilities suggests that Notre Dame is failing to widen its per­ception of diversity. What is diversity here if part of the diversity that exists is not equally recognized? 
Diversity means being open minded and looking beyond ourselves to the needs, struggles and value of others. If 
we are going to strive for a commitment to diversity, we must be sure we are not 
leaving out a valuable part of our  Notre  
Dame family.  
Laura Hoffman  

abled students. Located in the back of Badin 
Senior Hall, the Office for Students with Disabilities is not Lyons Hall large enough to accommodate the number of students Feb. 18 
OBSERVER POLL 

Should the student government constitution be amended so that, in the future, the Senate will not decide an election in which a candidate does not achieve a majority? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One ofthe penalties for refusing to participate in politics is that you end up being governed by your inferiors." 
Plato philosopher 


THE OBSERV'ER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 19, 2004 page II 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
McCarthyism at Notre Dame 
Though you probably do not care being the apathetic, ignorant people that you are, the majority of you who voted in the election are really taking a beating. 
Apparently, Charlie Ebersollost because he drives a Hummer, which seems a poor exeuse sinee we had a U.S. President that was fairly popular despite rccniving one. Seriously though, not only was that the deciding factor in the race, but the results "reveal that your political apathy is beyond ridiculous" and that you arc "ineredibly immature." 
Sounds harsh, I know. But there is more. Your moral consciousness has been called into question and the election process, as a result of your failings, has bceome "so un-Notre Dame." You mean Notre Dame students have flaws, make mistakes and sometimes make judgments based on biased information? Before all of you rent your garments and wash your hands in dismay, there is some very compelling Iogie behind all of these claims. 
By a peeuliar mode of reasoning which I have dubbed MeCarthyism after its originator-no not that McCarthyism, but almost equally dismissive and irra­tional -it was proven yesterday that if someone expresses a negative opinion about another, then all people who do not vote for that person in a popular elee­tion must share that opinion and would vote based on that premise. 
Take a moment to lift your jaw off the table after this startling revelation. I heard from a few women that "Charlie Ebersol is hot," and that this was their imp1~tus for voting for him. A further application of McCarthyism leads to the obvious conelusion that you are also immature and irrespon­sible with your vote if you are female and voted for Ebersol. 
So unless you are among the majority who voted Ebersol in Carroll, Siegfried or Keough Hall, please take the advice of the wise, always rational, always prudent, always mature philosopher-whose genius will never be appreciated in her own time -"Learn from your stupidity, grow up and, next time, vote like the mature 18-to-23-year-olds that you are supposed to be." 
Stephen Reynolds sophomore Keenan Hall Feb. 17 

Accepting the popularity contest 
On Feb. 17, Miss Distler and Miss more so, than McCarthy expressed their disdain a feline. with the student body because the Finally. candidate they supported did not either Miss win. While student-body elections Distler or Miss really are no place for meaningless McCarthy in their mudslinging -everyone knows you research of this fantas­have to wait till you run for real tic election notice the political office for that to mean any­chart on the cover of Monday's thing -these two young ladies have Observer? failed to see the glaring realities of Something more than throwing the situation. votes behind another candidate was 
While Istvan/Bell did not win the going on when only three women's 50 percent plus one vote, they dorms voted for the Isvan!Bell ticket. received over 200 more votes than I'm sure everyone can put two and Ebcrsol/Leito. I want to remind both two together. For as long as most of Miss Distler and Miss McCarthy that us have been in school, from elemen­the day before the election Ebersol's tary to today, student-body elections main platform promise -a large have been popularity contests. concert -was rejected by University I'm a senior, so none of this elec­officials. That has nothing to do with tion nonsense really affects me -did the fact that people may or may not it ever? Why not give Adam and like Mr. Ebersol. Karla a chance? I am confident that 
Secondly. it is just as unfair for they will be able to do what every Miss McCaithy to attack Istvan's and student-body administration has Bell's lack of student body experi­done before them: try very hard, not ence as it was for people to make always successfully, to give the stu­remarks about Mr. Ebersol's car. dents a voice. Why must we underestimate two Instead of everyone getting so young people who decided that they . upset, move forward and try to get wanted to try their hand at some­thing accomplished, no matter who is thing new. in charge. 
Also, and this is before anyone's By the way, the people in charge time and is not officially documented work in the Dome, not LaFortune. on those fancy plaques in LaFortune, from 1972-1973 the official Student Erin Fitzpatrick Body Vice President was a cat. I'm Senior sure that Miss Bell will be able to do Farley Hall her job just as competently, if not Feb. 17 


Experiencing Success 
The personal attacks and property potential candidate how to work with­damage that Mr. Ebersol has been in the system and 2) it gives the can­subjected to are deplorable by any didate an opportunity to "prove" their account. These actions, though per­aptitude for further service .and sub­petrated by a minority of our stu­sequently "earn" positions of greater dents, are an embarrassment never­responsibility. theless. Mr. Ebersol has held a major stu­
Beyond that issue. I cannot agree dent government position for almost with the pro-Ebersol letters to the one year. but experience does not editor of the last two days. The necessarily equal success. underlying bitterness of these articles I would like to suggest to his sup­exuded the condescension that "Notre porters that it is possible that many Dame, you don't know what's good informed individuals evaluated his for you," and could only explain the record of service .and decided not to election results on superficial vote for him -shocking. I know. To grounds. such as Mr. Ebersol's cur­the majority of the student body, rent mode of transportation and the Ebersol's term in SUB has been apparent sentiment that "he's not marked by misadventures such as the nice." However. I do not dispute that UM football ticket lottery and the those disappointing claims are cer­costly David Spade show. tainly true to some extent. Furthermore, I don't recall attend­
Nevertheless, as an informed stu­ing one "Top 4U concert" this year, let dent and former office-holder. I find alone the two that were promised. lt these insinuations insulting, not to has been my experience that many mention arrogant, when applied in people are not satisfied with his per­
blanket fashion to the entire vot­formance in the past year. ing constituency. They If voters are dissatisfied with a can­assume that, aside from didate's past performance, it is prob­these shallow consid­able that they would not be willing to 
erations, it would essentially "promote" that individual to the highest office a student can hold. 
By all counts, this was the weakest field I have observed in four elec­tions. There was a definitive lack of experience, with the exception of the Ebersol!Leito ticket. Past experience certainly adds a degree of certainty to a voter's decision. However, based on tpe past term, I believe that the kind of certainty that Mr. Ebersol provided was not necessarily of the sort that begs for a repeat performance. 
Of course, it is always more of a gamble to vote for an unproven indi­vidual. However, implicit assumptions of incompetence are also unfair and unwarranted at this time. Istvan/Bell will have the chance to prove them­selves worthy-or otherwise -soon enough. I, for one, am interested to see how they will do. 
Kevin Conley 
senior 
Stanford Hall Feb. 17 

Voting responsibly 
. 

In Tuesday's issue of the Observer, Michelle McCarthy talked about how immature the student body was in its refusal to elect Charlie Ebersol. She claims that people voted for the Istvan/Bell ticket because they did not like Ebersol as a person and then she declares that this was immature because so few of those wlio voted truly know Charlie Ebersol. 
At the same time, though, she believes she knows exactly why people voted the way they did. The whole argument is hypocritical. In fact. there are many people who voted for Istvan/Bell without taking into consideration that Ebersof drives a Hummer or that they heard he was a jerk from other people. 
I admit that I did not necessarily vote for Istvan/Bell when I chose them and was just casting a vote against Ebersol!Leito. However, the reason behind this had nothing to do with the things I heard about his personality or Hummer. 
The reason I voted against Ebersol was because as the head of SUB, he showed that he was incapable of leading the school. The day of the primary election, The Observer ran a perfect example of Ebersol's incompetence on the front page. His plan for the benefit concert at Notre Dame Stadium failed. Lots of readers probably saw this as good publicity for Ebersol's campaign to show that he wanted the best for the student body. I only saw it as Charlie Ebersol being an ineffective leader. 
As a result, I lost total faith in Ebersol as a leader at Notre Dame. On the same day that his platform promised great changes and major progress for the school, I read about his failure at one of his latest endeavors. 
Charlie Ebersol had experience, but that was about all he had to offer. Just because someone has had student government experience does not mean that he will be a good student government president. [ would much rather give someone else a chance instead of rewarding. someone who has already proven his own inability. 
Joe Latta! Freshman Dillon Hall Feb. 17 




THE 0BSERVIR 




CENE

page 12 
Thursday, February 19, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Nelly offers 'derrty' versions 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Red West begins its migration 
Photo c9urtesy of theredwest.com Upcoming band, The Red West, hails from southern California but varies from traditional surf bands. 

West's debut album, they evoke memo­ries of every­thing from Jack Johnson to Dispatch. 
The Red West 
The Red West 

The self-titled 
disc is the 
work of a

Atlantic Records 
band that has ~¥· :.: the ability to 
~1/l.llli: :~Jj(r ~n~s;e~:!~e~r
L_____________J 
music togeth­er and create 

Southern California community of Thousand Oaks, and it was there that they began to gain popularity. Their good friend and professional surfer Tim Curran helped support them as they recorded a ,demo in a home stu­dio. The demo would prove to be the catalyst the band needed to get their sound to the masses. Their relation­ship with Curran allowed The Red West to find their niche in the Southern California surf scene and land them on numerous surf sound­tracks, as well as the WB's summer reality series Boarding House: North Shore. 
Although The Red West might con­jure up images of surfing and the Southern California coast, they are anything but your stale traditional surf music. The boys of The Red West have managed to create a depth of sound and emotion that is as close to the Beach Boys sound as Siberia is to San Diego. On The Red 
musical anthology rather than a feeble ~ttempt at musical har­mony. 
The Red West excels in a few areas, but none more so than their accessibility and famil­iarity. The band's sound is not groundbreaking or revolutionary, but it works because it does not have to be. Songs like the disc's second track, "Don't Fall In," are comforting because they contain sounds similar to ones we may have heard before. However, The Red West's ability to tran­scend what makes us feel comfortable -by using a myriad of sounds -allows them to succeed where others fail. 
The best song on the album might be the one that made Smith and Belt realize they needed a full band to achieve the full potential of their work.. "Crazy Cold" is a hybrid of quick acoustic picking and power chord rock that sets the bar high for the band's sophomore release. It is this song that stands out from the rest because it sounds more unique than any other track on the album. 
The Red West is not reinventing the wheel with its self-titled debut album, but it doesn't have to for the record to 

By ARIENNE THOMPSON Scene Music Critic 
Nelly's latest effort may disappoint those fans expecting a disc containing entirely new music, but his remixes of old songs -"Derrty Versions," as he prefers to call them -will surely please those who appreciate a good musical makeover and artistic innovation. 
By restructuring and reformulating the beats, ,melodies and even lyrics of many chart-toppers from the past albums Country Grammar (2000) and Nellyville (2002). Nelly (Cornell Haynes) and his gang of producers, 
By BRIAN FOY 
Scene Music Critic 
Few bands possess the talent and diversity necessary to branch out and play several styles of music on a single album, but that is exactly what The Red West has done on their self-titled debut. The band came together a little more than two years ago, when col­lege roommates Andy Smith and Jayson Belt began collaborating on several songs that would go on to become the bread and butter of their debut album. The nature of some of the tracks made a full band a necessi­ty, so Jayson enlisted the help of his cousin, Ryan Gleason, to play the drums. Subsequently, Matt Bethancourt would be recruited as the bassist and The Red West would be complete. 
The Red West hails from the 
courtesy mtv.com 
Nelly reworks many already populat, hits on his lat­est effort, Da Derrty Versions: The 11einvention. 
most notably David Banner and Jason "Jay E" Epperson, prove that the "Nelly sound" is rooted in musical creativity and clever rein­terpretation. Perhaps taking a cue from the troubled king of the remix R. Kelly, Nelly proves that making over an old song is a great strategy for creating a new hit. 
The somewhat unsavory but thumping remix of the 2000 hit "E.I." is the prime example; it has received substantial radio play and is accompanied by a quasi-porno­graphic video enjoying regular rotation on a late-night cable show. On the guitar-heavy "Air Force Ones," Nelly delivers a totally new rap with the help of David Banner and 
Eightball, injecting his now­popular brand of fast-paced humor and mild-mannered thuggery. In what has become a popular technique in rap. he shouts out to popu­lar Southern cities, claiming them as allies of his home­town of St. Louis, saying "This for [anybody'sl city that used to be a plantation ... I We hold it down for country folk I [Cuz] we in the same boat I Trippin'? Get that 'Force One' print on your throat I It's no joke." Employing another tech­nique from the rapper's handbook, Nelly is no stranger to the collaboration, as he enlists the help of Ronald Isley on the even funkier version of "Pimp Juice" and the voice of Destiny's Child star Kelly Rowland on the pop smash "Dilemma." The most unex­pected of these collaborations, however, occurs on the "derrty" version of an ever-pop­ular party song, "Ride Wit Me." Cleverly com­
bining genres and musical interests, the remix is guided by an interpolation of col­lege-favorite John Mayer's breakthrough sin­gle "No Such Thing," which Nelly hails as one of his favorites. 
Despite these successes, some of the remixes fail to be anything more than lazily recycled versions of their former selves. This is especially apparent on· "Country Grammar" and "Hot In Herre," which ironi­cally are the two singles that catapulted Nelly 
· into stardom during the summers of 2000 and 2002, respectively. The attempts to "reinvent" these singles show that some things are better left untouched. Sprinkled among the remixes are a few new songs from soundtracks and compilation albums, including "If' from the Neptunes' latest album. The most prominent of this group is the frenetic and fun "Iz U," released for last year's Eddie Murphy stinker "The Haunted 

Da Derrtv versions: 
Universal 


Mansion." The song is backed by an interpo­lation of the theme from television's "People's Court" and features Nelly's standard female­oriented banter about cars, sex and money. 
With this album and its hits, Nelly manages to tweak an old adage by showing that you can fix it even if it ain't broke. He certainly "reinvents" past hits with a competence and strategy that point to a seasoned understand­ing of the need to remain fresh and consL<;­tent in an industry of flops, favoritism and finances. Sure to add to his already mam­moth popularity, Da Derrty Versions will sat­isfy those fans and newcomers with an ear for creativity and enough patience to wait for the next group of new hits coining tlris sum­mer. 
Contact Arienne Thompson at athompsl@nd.edu 

have quality or for it to be deemed a success. The band's first attempt shows that The Red West is clearly capable of having a positive future. As the band travels away from its musical influences toward its own sound, the songs will gain more depth and uniqueness. If this happens, The Red West will spread east to new horizons. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 
I 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE

Thursday, February 19, 2004 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
In the name of Africa 
into the mix.
By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
In the Name of the Love, by Artists 
Scene Musk Critic 
United for Africa, was recorded to raise money and awareness for issues in There arc not many musical groups Africa. Part of the proceeds from every brave enough to cover a classic U2 album sold will go to World Vision and song-not in the name of money, music Sparrow Records, and then directly to or success, anyway. Bands and perform-the Mwakankomba village in the African ors seem to think differently, however.• nation of Zambia. The village has a total 
when llw cover is done In the Name of J.ove. Sparrow Hecords has just released an album composed of hit U2 songs per­formed by various Christian recording artists, showcasing all of the sides of U2, with rock bands, gospel singers, musi­eally middle-of-the-road Christian bands and singers, and even a little rap thrown The lyrics and feeling of the song are very fitting for a female voice, 
a n d 
Nordeman does an incredible job mak­ing a musically and lyrically similar cover sound (the instrumentals begin to seem a bit drawn out in Nordeman's ver­sion) unique from the original. Delirious? sounds similar to U2 as it is, so it is no surprise that "Pride (In the Name of Love)" sounds like the original; sounding like U2. however, especially while singing one of their songs, can never be a negative thing, and the song sounds terrific. 
Other highlights are a more folksy and acoustic version of "All I Want is You" by Jars of Clay and a slower, different but beautiful version of "One" by Tail. "Where the Streets Have No Name" by Chris Tomlin, "Sunday Bloody Sunday" by Pillar, "Mysterious Ways" by Toby Mac and "Gloria" by Audio Adrenaline are overall successfully done as well. "40," by Starfield, sounds like a great 


Jars of Clay develops new style 'instead' 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
As one of the best known Contemporary Christian bands in the industry today, Jars of Clay, a four piece band originally from Illinois, had quite an expectation to live up to when they recorded their fifth original album, Who We Are Instead. The title sounds like a question without a question mark and that is precisely because by the end of the album, that question, in terms of the band, is answered. Who We Are Instead is a large departure from the previous Jars of Clay albums. There is no "Flood," "Love Song for a Savior" or "I Need You" on this album. As far as of 246 children and 55 orphans and is just a miniscule part of the whole conti­nent, but the artists reason that every bit helps. U2, especially its lead singer, Bono, have always been strong advo­cates for Africa, so the album focus is 
very appropriate. While it is initially hard to hear anyone but Bono and the Edge singing, the album overall is very success­ful. The best song ren­ditions are "Beautiful Day" by Sanctus Heal, "Grace" by Nichole Nordeman, and "Pride (In the Name of Love)" by Delirious?. Sanctus Real's "Beautiful Day" features a harder and dirtier sound, chang­ing up the melody a bit, but it ends up being a great interpre­tation of the song. Though not quite as powerful as the origi­nal, this album's "Beautiful Day" is a 
terrific track. Nichole 

In the Name of
Nordeman 's rendition of 

Love
"Grace" makes the 
Artists United 
song sound as if it had been 


for Africa
written for her to sing. 

Sparrow Records 



comparable songs, many of t.he songs on the album sound similar to "The­Valley Song (Sing of Your Mercy)," which was released on Furthermore, the greatest hits/new songs album Jars of Clay toured with last year. This change is by no means a bad thing, but it is unquestionably different from what many Jars of Clay fans may have been expecting. 
Of this supposed musical change on Who We Are Instead, Jars of Clay feels that it has not changed that much. In fact, "they are happier with the new album than ever, and feel that a lot of people may hold memories from the times when the first album came out, and have a nostalgic feeling about it now. If anything, the band has purpose­
fully changed their sound slightly because they must change with the times. and not continue to write songs that sound exactly like "Flood."' 
Who We Are Instead carries themes of blue­grass and old gospel in more than half of the songs. This album is a step away from rock for Jars of Clay and a step toward more adult contempo­rary sound of Christian music. The band is 


Who WeAre 
Instead Jars of Clay 
Brentwood/BMG Records 

maturing along with its fans and is undeniably aging well. 
Lyrically, the album is terrific, deep and moving. Jars of Clay has often claimed to begin its albums with a ques­tion, and Who We Are Instead tackles "the issue of who we are truly called to be as Christians in a world that is not our home." The band found answers in songs like the slow, acoustic, bluegrass­toned "Only Alive," with lead singer Dan Haseltine claiming, ''I'm only alive with you I I won't get by and I won't get through." "Faith Enough," another high point on the album, is a bluesy song inspired by a line from Ernest Hemingway's novel A Farewell to Arms: "The world breaks every one and after­ward many are strong at the broken places." The lyrics bring up issues of weakness bringing greater faith: "This body frail enough for fighting I I'm worship song, and "When Love Comes to Town" by Chris Tomlin and "Love is Blindness" by Sixpence None the Hicher arc both mediocre, but not at all bad. 

Any hardcore U2 fan will appreciate this album for the most part, although it is possible to simply feel offended when "With or Without You," one of the grnat­cst rock ballads in history, is remixed (think P-Diddy remixing The Police's "Missing You") and backed with rap. llowcvcr, beyond that one seemingly serious offense, the rest of the album is interesting, different and overall a good project. Beyond the great music and great idea, there is a great cause. In the Name of Love is an album to own in exactly that: the name of love. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
... 

home enough to know I'm lost" and ulti­mately asks the question, "Should the world rely on faith tonight" at the end of the chorus. "Show You Love," "Jealous Kind," "Sunny Days" and 
-
"Sing" are also standout songs on the album. 
In their fifth original record, Jars of Clay show exactly who they arc instead. This is not a band that sings upbeat rock songs for entertainment. but instead committed Christian artists __ whose musical styles change, just as their faith grows and matures in their lives. While it may not be a classic Jars of Clay album, any real fan will grow to love the album as soon as the initial shock wears off. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
-

Thursday, February 19, 2004

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


Wake Forest upsets Duke in ACC showdOwn 
.. 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.­Chris Paul scored 12 of his ·23 points over the final 5:10 to help No. 15 Wake Forest hand No. 3 Duke consecutive losses for the first time this season with a 90-84 victory on Wednesday night. 
In a testy game that came down to the final seconds, Paul a fearless freshman carried the Demon Deacons (16-5, 6-5 Atlantic Coast Conference). 
He scored 19 points in the second half as Wake Forest overcame a 13-point deficit. He added eight assists and kept his teammates calm as Duke (21-3, 1 0-2) tried to pull it out. 
But Paul capped his scoring with a pair of free throws with 
6.5 seconds left to seal the win. Wake Forest students stormed the floor in celebration of the Deacons' second home win over Duke in two years. 
The loss didn't hurt the Blue Devils in the ACC standings, though, since second-place North Carolina State lost to Clemson two hours earlier. North Carolina State beat then No. 1 Duke last Sunday. 
Luol Deng led the Blue Devils with 20 points, Daniel Ewing scored 19, Shelden Williams had 18, and Chris Duhon 12. 
J .J. Redick was held to two points and without a field goal for the first time in his career. 
Justin Gray had 17 points, and Eric Williams, who had his streak of 50 consecutive starts snapped three games ago when he was benched, ended a nearly six-week long slump. He had 16 points and 11 rebounds in a reserve role and gave Wake Forest a strong inside presence. 
After Paul scored on a fast­break layup that drew a foul, and Trent Strickland added a basket for an 85-80 Wake Forest lead, the game tightened up on Ewing's 3-pointer and a follow from Deng that made it 85-82 with 39 seconds to go. 
Eric Williams made two free throws to put Wake back up by five, but Ewing's basket with 16 seconds left cut it to 87-84. 
Strickland made one of two free throws, and after Duke turned it over on Paul's steal, he made both his free throws to seal the win. 
The game got off to a rough 
-CLASSIFIEDS 
and physical start with Redick shoving Paul in the face away frorri the basket, but only receiving an offensive foul for it. Although Paul partially pro­voked it by talking trash before the swat, he was stunned Redick wasn't called for a tech­nical but didn't back down and responded with a long steely stare. 
It was the first of a flurry of stare-downs, shoves, tie-ups and fouls. 
Wake Forest coach Skip Prosser was called for a techni­cal for his reaction on a call against the Deacons. Duke's Nick Horvath was hit with a technical for swatting at Strickland after the two locked up and Strickland taunted him with a wide-eyed glare. 
That prompted Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski to scream at the referees to "Control the game!'' while admonishing the Blue Devils to compose them­selves. 
After a brief conference with the coaches, the referees tried to restore order with quick whistles. They called 19 person­al fouls in the first half and 38 for the game. 
No. 2 St. Joseph's 72, Fordham 54 
Saint Joseph's stayed unbeat­en with another easy win. 
Jameer Nelson had 18 points and nine assists to lead the sec­ond-ranked Hawks to a 72-54 victory over Fordham on Wednesday night. 
Saint Joseph's (23-0, 12-0 Atlantic 10) and No. 1 Stanford (21-0) are the only unbeaten teams remaining in Division I, and the Hawks made sure they stayed that way with a 33-4 run bridging halftime. 
The Hawks clinched the Atlantic 10 East Division title with the win and will have a bye into the quarterfina~s of the conference tournament. The victory also makes Nelson and fellow senior Tyrone Barley the winningest players in school history with 91. 
This was the 1Oth time in the 
last 12 games Saint Joseph's 
has won by at least 10 points. 
Fordham (4-18, 1-10) made this 
one look closer by closing the 
game with a 14-2 run against 
the Hawks' reserves. 
Delonte West had 16 points for Saint Joseph's, which has won nine straight over Fordham, including a 79-35 vic­tory Jan. 13. 

Michael Haynes had 24 points for the Rams, who have lost nine in a row overall. 
Fordham, playing in front of an enthusiastic sellout crowd of 3,200, was within 21-19 when the Hawks went on a 16-2 run to close the half. Nelson had eight points and two assists during the run in which the Rams made one field goal over 7 1/2 minutes. 
The Hawks opened the second half with a 17-2 run to go up 54-23, and again it was Nelson leading the way with seven points. 
Both Nelson and West, the starting backcourt that accounts for 50 percent of the Hawks' points, were out the game with 9 minutes to play. 
The Hawks play Temple at the Palestra on Saturday and then have games at Massachusetts and Rhode Island before play­ing their final home game against St. Bonaventure. 

The Atlantic 10 tournament will be held in Dayton, and the Hawks are looking to become the first team since UNLV in 1991 to enter the NCAA tourna­ment without a loss. 
Illinois 65, No.12 Wisconsin 57 
Deron Williams scored 31 points and Illinois overcame some cold first-half shooting to defeat No. 12 Wisconsin 65-57 Wednesday night. 
Williams was 5-of-9 from 3­point range to lead the Illini (17 -5, 8-3 Big Ten) to their fifth straight win and avenge a 76­56 loss to the Badgers on Jan. 
24. He finished 9-of-18 from the field and was 8-for-8 from the free throw line. 
The win moved Illinois into a second-place tie with Wisconsin in the Big Ten, percentage points behind Michigan State. 
Wisconsin (17-5, 8-3) led by as many as six points before halftime, but couldn't hold off a 12-4 Illinois run in the final five minutes of the half that gave the Illini a 30-28 lead. 
The Badgers got 16 points from Devin Harris, 14 after halftime, and 10 points from center Zach Morley. Harris overwhelmed Illinois with 30 points and Mike Wilkinson had 24 in the game last month. Wilkinson scored only seven Wednesday. 
Luther Head scored 10 points and James Augustine added nine for the Illini, who also got six assists from Dee Brown. 
The Badgers took a 31-30 lead when Wilkinson hit a 3­pointer to start the second half. But Illinois quickly regained the lead for good as a 13-3 run put Illinois up 44-36 with 12:38 to go. 
Illinois built the lead to 58-49 and coasted after Wisconsin was forced to foul. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, · 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
HIRING AT BOOKMAKERS PUB,  COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8  VERY NICE 3bdrm home in  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
SERVERS AND BARTENDERS.  LEASE 2004-2005 Academic year- BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM  EastBank area w/washer-dryer &  not go it alone. If you or someone  
NOTICES  EXP. GOOD BUT WILL TRAIN. APPLY IN PERSON 2046 SOUTH  Available June 1, 2 Bdrm -2 Bath ­Fully Furnished -Security System.  HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON- alarm system incl. Nice yard for vol­leyball etc-full bsmt.Walk to  you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
BEND AVE. SHELLY, MISSY, OR PAT.  (626) 441-1275 or  DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004­ Corbys&StJoe Church.  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  salvaty@ earthlink. net  2005 SCHOOL YEAR....  Call Joe Crimrnins@574-514­ more information, see our bi-weekly  
Search 24 bookstores with 1 click!  Looking for full or part-time work?  WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO  643(cell)or574-273-0002(home)  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  Reach Your Potential in outside  FOR SALE-Like new weights set  LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  
sales with Media Direct, a growing  with incline bench, leg lilt. Will deliv- SCHOOL YEAR ...  1903 Oak Park Dr. Rental: 2BR/1 B,  #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun,  
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 0 min  cable TV sales, marketing and audit  er. $150 277-1345  CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE  1/2 ile ND, great area. incl. Stove,  Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &  
from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes  company. Salary plus commission.  234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR  refrig,washer/dryer. $625 mo.  Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels,  
less than rent 574-299-4997  Bonuses, health benefits and paid  SHOWINGS  273-1717  Best Prices! Book Now! 800-234­ 
Freshmen check out  training. Hard working, enthusiastic people wanted. Sales experience is  FoR RENT  MOVING TO CHICAGO? Condo for  1903 Oak Park Dr. Rental: 2BR/1 B,  7007 endlesssummertours.com  
www.nd2007.com  a plus not a requirement. Phone  sale by 2 ND 1995 grads. Bright 1­ 1/2 ile ND, great area. incl. Stove,  
- 1-800-376-7961  B&B for JPW/grad/lootball for up to  bedroom condo on 24th floor in  refrig, washer/dryer. $625 mo.  A white devil is watching Ray.  
920 Oakridge Dr. Rental: 3 BR/1 B,  12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email  secure building steps from lake &  273-1717  
1 ile ND, great area, incl. Stove,  Summer Camp counselor for chil­ domercondo@ yahoo.com  public transportation. 10-1 5 minute  I'm Rick James...  
refrig. washer/dryer, $960. mo. 273­ dren w/disabilities. $i' -$11 hr., 35  walk to grocery & Wrigley Field.  1006 White Oak Dr. Rental: 3  
1717  hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  May 2004 closing.  BR/1 B, 1 mile ND, great area. incl  Deuces, John. Deuces.  
Summit County, Ohio. Visit  CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM  773-929-3178 or  Stove, refrig, washer/dryer  
WANTED  www.akroncyo.org -download an application. EOE  mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  nasserweiss@ ~ail. com  $850/mo. 273-1717  Slap!  
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3  NICE HQMES JUST NORTH OF  There's a magic in the sound of  
Wanted-Old paintings, especially  full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky- ND GREAT AREA FOR 5-6 STU- their name...  
Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359  FoR SALE  lights. $1640/mo. Call574-232­4527 or 269-683-5038.  DENTS 2773097  PERSONALS  Ahhhhhhhhh.  

Thursday, February 19, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NBA 



Baker released, Celtics terminate his contract 
Asso<:iate.l Pre« 
BOSTON -Vin Baker's short, disappointing stay with the· Boston Cnltics may be over. 
The Celties rnlnased Baker on Wednesday aftnr the forward clean~d waivers following his suspension for violating the terms of his alcohol treatment program. 
The move terminates Baker's contract, and may allow the team to avoid paying Baker the $:H, million he's owned for the remaining 2 1/2 years on his contract. It also is likely to initi­ate a showdown between the team and the NBA players' association. 
The union has said it would file a grievance over any attempt to void the eontract. That could thwart the Celtics' plan to release him, but Celtics attorney Neil Jacobs said Baker wasn't ready to play as his con­tract required, and the team had a right to let him go. 
"lie has not been performing and that is tlw basis of the deci­siOII," he said. 
Jacobs added that there was "sadness" about releasing Baker. a Connecticut high school star whose return to New England was viewed as a homecoming. 
"The team had always hoped that the issues Vin has been involved with would be worked out," he said. 
The team placed Baker on waivers last Friday after he missed the 10th straight game of his latest suspension for vio­lating the terms of his alcohol rehabilitation aftercare agree­ment. That triggered a clause in the agreement that gave the Celtics control over his future. 
Baker missed two months and the playoffs last year after he checked into a Connecticut rehab center. lie agreed at the time to a follow-up program this season that would involve frequent testing. 
Baker failed to meet the terms of the agreement at least three times before being sus­pended indefinitely on Jan. 23. According to the agreement, only a doctor agreed to by both sides could determine when he's ready to return. The doctor didn't clear Baker to play before the suspension reached 10 games, giving the team the right to release him, said Jacobs. 
"It's difficult to imagine the team could have done more for Vin than it's done," he said. 
The matter is now likely to wind up in arbitration. Billy Hunter, head of the National Basketball Players' Association, said last week that the union will fight any attempts at "sub­terfuge." 
In his last public comments last Thursday, Baker issued a 

statement saying he'd done 1997-98 season. everything required of him to The Celtics signed Baker remain in compliance with his before the 2002-2003 season, program. but he averaged just 5.2 points 
Baker averaged 21 points and per game before he was sus­10 rebounds over his last two pended on Feb. 27, 2003 amid seasons in Milwaukee before he reports of a drinking problem. was traded to Seattle for the Bakm:Jater said he was an alco­
holic who began binge drinking during the 1998-1999 lockout. He returned in better shape to make it up to his teammates. 
He scored in double figures in 21 of his first 35 games, but then his production dropped off again. 
. . -­


Laf'ayette Square To'"'nh.omes 
••All the fun of c:ollege~ ,,,ithout the education~' 
N e'v Three l~crson Rates -$298..00 P·er Person., Per 1\'.lo.nth 
+ 
Pruud~y Severing the Notre Dan1c aru.l S~int 1\>f.ary • s C""vmr:m.mhy 

+ 
T''he I..•ARGeST Studen:t Housing Apa.rtm.cnts Availttbtc 


• 4 & 5 BedttXmt Uuih; 
+ \VAS.HER and DR'\~R in E;owh Unit 
• f)ii~Sin;\•a.~her 
+ 24-·HQu.r Emcrge:n'I..1Y !v:l.tti.ntermnc>~: 
+ /\.DT /\Jarrn S:ystcrrts 
+ CJ.ose to <.:.:<'lnlp;us 

Fo·r.1'\lt~"·f# Jnn:~nna.~h;m~ :Real Hstate M.aJnagef~~ent Coq~>or--adf:m 
P.O. Box 540 South Hend~ lN 41:'•624 Telt;:phon~; 574-l.J-4-9923 Facsin-.ik: 574-234-9925 
JblwJ@.fi;:l)~~h,c,~.:,l~:re 

'\,.ou"'ve tried tbe rest., noV\' live at the best! 

Notre Dame Apartment.s 
Starting at just $120..00 per person~ per tnontb! 
• Just 4 Blocks South ofth.-e Notre nrune (.mnpu.s• Sp~itm!S 2~B~ln..l~-..m. ..i\partro~;:nts on Notre Dan1c Avenue + Current !~year&. 10-l:nonth Lcast;:"S. A.vaHahle: • On#Si:te Ln.undry FaciJ i'ty• 2 Closet." and I r>e:Sk h~ l':ru.::1't B(::(ll'GI\l•tn• Priva~~ P~~t<rkin:g U.'ts 24-h-our En1ic:rgcnc)'•l\.<1.aintcna.nce
• 
tJp ro 4 P~rSt.")lll~s. Per Aparlrc~1>~;:~1:t.
• 

For l\-fo£C In£opnation: Rc.aJ l::st.ate 1\o'lanagement C'o~)t"'><l.t.i(m 
P.O. Box. 540 S•:•vth Bc:nd,.. IN' 46624 Telephone: :574-234-:9Y23 Fa-cs'i rnHe: 574-2.34~9925 Jblad(.~itchr:csb.co:n:li. 

-
-
-

... 

-

Apply Online (Deadline: March 19) www.nd.edu/JW~teamwork 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' ­
' 
eamwer 


omorrow 
.. 



Thursday, February 19, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FooTBALL MLB 
Colorado rocked by scandal Owners argue 
Associated Press 
BOULDEH, Colo. -Nobel laureate Carl Wieman figured he had put the craziness of college football behind him wlwn he left the University of Michigan 20 YIHtrs ago. What lw is seeing at Colorado may hn far worse. 
For three weeks, professors, students and residents have been hit with an almost daily barrage of accusations against Colorado's football program, induding rapes and alcohol­fueled sex parties for recruits. After a former kicker came forward to say she was raped by a teammate, coach Gary Barnett described her as a "terrible" player. 
Wieman. a physics professor, said the furor over the football team has taken the focus away from more pressing issues, such as the state's vulnerable higher education budget. 
"Out of that program, we regularly have issues that embarrass the university," Wieman said. "That tells you that they occupy much too much importance. Something's fundamentally wrong." 
While proud of its academ­ics, the school has caused embarrassment for Boulder over the years. 
In 2000, raucous off-campus parties turned into student riots. Princeton Heview recent­ly declared Colorado the No. 1 party school. based on its stu­dents' lack of studying and affinity for marijuana and alcohol. 
The football team has a long history of scandal: In 1962, questions over whether recruits were paid to attend cost a coach his job. A Sports Illustrated cover story in the 1980s documented how play­ers were accused of everything from drunken driving to serial rape. The school was slapped with NCAA sanctions two years ago for recruiting violations. 
The latest scandal appears to be the worst yet, and its roots date at least to 1997, when a 17-year-old high school stu­dent accused a football player of rape after a recruiting party. 
No charges were filed, but three women have since sued the school, saying it fostered an environment that led to their rapes by football players or recruits at or just after an off-campus party in 2001. 
Boulder County prosecutor Mary Keenan decided against assault charges but has reopened the investigation and says she believes the athletics program entices recruits with sex and alcohol. That allega­tion was denied by university officials but prompted a demand for action from Gov. Bill Owens. 
University oflicials are look­ing into recruiting practices and are hiring a special assis­tant to oversee athletics, but the allegations have not stopped. A player admitted taking a recruit to a strip club, while a former recruiting aide said he used a school cell phone to call an escort service fur his personal use. 
On Tuesday, former kicker Katie Hnida, one of the first women to play college football, said she was raped by a team­mate at Colorado four years ago. 
While university officials urged llnida, 22, to tell her story to police, l~arnett said he knew of no one who could back up her claim. Asked why she left Colorado after the 1999 season, he said, "Katie was not only a girl, she was terrible.... There's no other way to say it." 
University President Elizabeth Hoffman criticized Bar-nett for making in "unac­ceptable remark" that essen­tially blamed the victim. She also said she wants to know what Barnett knew and "if the allegations are true, we'll probably have new personnel ... My job is at stake as well." 
Boulder has been abuzz with the scandal. 
"I've always been much prouder of the fact CU won the solar decathlon than that CU had a winning football team," said Mayor Will Toor, also director of the University of Colorado Environmental Cen­ter. 
Players, their parents and alumni say the media have blown the cases out of propor­tion and insist no sex parties are arranged for recruits. 
Still, said former quarter­back Bobby Pesavento, football players are treated differently from other students. "You're kind of put on a pedestal, and people notice who you are," he said. 
In an opinion piece for the Boulder Daily Camera newspa­per, Wieman said the universi­ty might better be called an "academic appendage to the football program." 

over Rodriguez 
-
Associated Press tus quo will not be preserved," BOSTON -Bed Sox owner Henry wrote. John Henry thinks a salary cap "There must be a way to cap could be good for baseball after what a team can spend without watching the rival Yankees 
hurting player compensation ... trad.e for Alex Hodriguez -a 
without taking away from the deal his own franchise could players what they have rightful­not complete. ly earned in the past through 
Henry, whose team failed to negotiation and in creating obtain Hodriguez from Texas in tremendous value. There is a December, said in an e-mail simple mechanism that could response to reporters right a system woefully out of Wednesday that he is changing whack." his mind on Henry's com-whether the sport ments come after needs a salary cap his team failed to
"It is time to get on
"to deal with a land the reigning team that has with life and forget American League 
gone so insanely the sour grapes." MVP. 
far beyond the The Hed Sox resources of all tried to trade 
George Steinbrenner 
the other teams." Manny Hamirez Yankees owner Yankees owner for Hodriguez. But 
George Stein­brenner quickly responded, say­ing: "We understand that John Henry must be embarrassed, frustrated and disappointed by his failure in this transaction." 
The Yankees' payroll is about $184.8 million for 25 signed players after they acquired Hodriguez from the Texas Hangers earlier this week in exchange for Alfonso Soriano and a minor leaguer to be named. 
But the number would come down by about $4.8 million if third baseman Aaron Boone is released. Boston is expected to be second at about $125 mil­lion. 
"One thing is certain the sta­
talks fell apart 
because the team 
could not agree on how to divide the remaining $179 million on Rodriguez's contract. Boston and Texas were apart by about $15 mil­lion. and the Red Sox wanted Rodriguez to lower the present­day value of his contract by $20 million more than the players' association would allow. 
"Unlike the Yankees, he chose not to go the extra distance fur his fans in Boston," Steinbren­ner said of Henry. "It is under­standable, but wrong that he would try to deflect the accountability for his mistakes on to others and to a system for which he voted in favor. It is time to get on with life and for­get the sour grapes." 
The Yankees were able to absorb Rodriguez's salary in exchan·ge for Soriano while Texas is assuming $67 million of the rest of Hodriguez's salary. 
"Baseball doesn't have an answer for the Yankees," llenry said. "Hevenue sharing can only accomplish so much. At some point it becomes confiscation. It has not and it will nut solve wha~ is a very obvious prob­lem.. 

-

Announcing the Year 2004 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2004 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign.study in Italy. Grants will be made in amotmts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover aU expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofItalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in :Pisa, Miami University in 
Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long.term goals  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow  
4)  a budget indicating the costs ~nvolved  
5)  the names oftwo references.  
Application Deadline: Thursday, March 4t\ 2004  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

~--------~ ~--------. 

-
page 18 

around the dial 
-
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgia Tech at Maryland 7 p.m., ESPN2 Arizona at Oregon 10:30 p.m., FOX Sports Net 
NHL 
San Jose at Chicago 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Sacramento at Minnesota 7:30p.m., TNT Philadelphia at Seattle 10 p.m., TNT 
Thursday, February 19, 2004 

MLB 

Associated Press 
MESA, Ariz. -Bringing his career full circle, Greg Maddux is back home with Chicago Cubs. 
Maddux signed a $24 million, three-year deal Wednesday, returning to the team that gave him his start in the big leagues. His return delighted Cubs fans, his new teammates -and Maddux himself. 
"It's a privilege to have the chance to come back and play in Chicago," Maddux said at an evening news conference. "I spent nine great years here when I first started, and I never forgot that. I'm just glad this day has come again where I have chance to come back and finish where I started." 
He'll also have an oppor­tunity to earn his 300th career win while wearing a Cubs uniform. He needs only 11 more victories to reach the mark. 
Maddux will make $6 million this year and $9 million each of the next two seasons. But the Cubs can void the final year of the deal -with no buyout -if Maddux doesn't pitch 400 innings over this sea­son and next. 
Maddux has failed to reach 200 innings just twice in his career. In 198 7, his first full season in the majors, and in 2002, when he pitched 199 innings. 

"As great a story as it is, it's really about the fact that Greg Maddux can still win a lot of baseball games," Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said. "It's a feel-good story, but it's a story based on Greg making us a better ball­club." 
Chicago already had one of the NL's best rotations in Kerry Wood, Mark Prior, Matt Clement and Carlos Zambrano -a foursome that took the Cubs within five outs of the World Series a year ago. 
Add Maddux to that mix, and the Cubs' rotation has to be considered one of. if not the best in the game. 
"The more the merrier." Wood said. "He would defi­nitely help our ballclub, no question." 
Maddux, who turns 38 in April, may not be the same pitcher he was in his youth, but he's still one of baseball's best. Despite a slow start, he was 16-11 with a 3.96 ERA last sea­son -his 16th straight year with at least 15 wins. His 289 wins are second to Roger Clemens among active pitchers. 
In his 18-year career, Maddux is 289-163 with a 
2.89 ERA. 
IN BRIEF 
Raptors Carter suffers ankle injury 
TORONTO -Toronto star Vince Carter was on crutches and sched­uled for an MRI exam after injuring his left ankle in the fourth quarter Wednesday night against San Antonio. 
The All-Star guard will be exam­ined Thursday. 
Carter wondered whether San Antonio's Bruce Bowen intentionally tripped him up. 
"I question whether it was an acci­dent or whether it was on purpose because it's not very often where you see somebody put their foot right under you like that," Carter said. 
The Spurs, who won 86-82, had already left the arena when Carter spoke. 
Carter rolled his ankle after going up for a jumper. He remained down for several minutes clutching the ankle before two teammates and the trainer helped him to the bench. He scored 22 points. 
Earlier in the game, Toronto rookie center Chris Bosh re-sprained his left ankle and didn't return. 
Bosh missed three games earlier this month because of the injury, and left Toronto's previous game against Seattle after aggravating it. 
"It's a nagging injury that won't go away," Bosh said. "It's frustrating. I'm tired of sitting out games. I'm tired of being bored before the game." 
He was listed as day to day. 
The Raptors are already missing Jalen Rose, who will miss at least a month with four broken bones in his left hand. 
U.S. boxers advance to finals 
TUNICA, Miss. -Flyweight Ron Siler Jr., one of America's brightest hopes for a boxing medal in Athens this summer, easily advanced into the championship bracket finals of the U.S. Olympic team trials on Wednesday night. 
Siler posted a 32-10 decision over Aaron Alafa of Visalia, Calif. 
Siler, from Cincinnati, took a fast 15-2 lead. At that point the only one unhappy in his corner was his father and coach, Ron Siler Sr. 
"I had to fuss at him for a few min­utes," the elder Siler said. "I don't like them showing the score because when you get up, you get lazy." 
Siler, 23, competed at the 2000 Olympic trials but failed to make the team. 
If he wins his next match Friday night, he'll advance to the Feb. 27-28 box-offs in Cleveland. 
''I'm going to wait until I'm victori­ous before I celebrate anything," he said. 
The winner of the box-offs in each of the 11 weight classes earns a spot on the U.S. Olympic team. 
Andre Berto advanced to the final of the championship bracket in the welterweight class with a 20-19 vic­tory over 17-year-old Vanes Martirosyan of Glendale, Ariz. 

Thursday, r:ebruary 19, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Men 
continued from page 24 
makes us a very competitive team wlwn the meet is at the same spnml as we are. If we are in the meet. we're going to bt~ all over it because of that dt~pth." 
No. lh Pittsburgh (12-1) looms as tlw biggest obstacle standing between the Irish and the Big 1\ast title. The Panthers fea­ture seven 
divers. while "We're balanced and semester!, whereas first
the Irish will we're deep ... If we are 
only send semester we
in the meet we're going 
o n tl were racing Pittsburgh to be all over it because against teams 
looks like a of that depth. that tradition­
solid bet to ally were not take horne 
on our sched­
Tim Welsh 
ule."
the crown for an eighth head coach In addition start, the Irish have been a different team in 2004, fin­ishing 7-2 to preserve a win­ning dual meet mark for the seventh time in the past nine years. According to Welsh, several factors account for the Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde semester record splits. 
"This is, without question, the toughest schedule we have ever faced." Welsh said. "We were able to measure our progress against teams that have traditionally been on our sched­ule [second 
c o n s ~~ c u t i v e 
season. 
"Pittsburgh will have the strongest diving team in the field and is the opposite from us in the sense that they're a team of power -we're a team of depth." Welsh said. "If you were handicapping tho meet, you would say that Pittsburgh has the advan­tage, not only as defending champions but also on the year." 
After stumbling out of the blocks to a disappointing 1-5 
to the 
strength of the schedule, Welsh points to the squad's consistent improvement as a crucial factor not only in causing the turnaround, but also in sparking success this week­end. 
"We improved all year long," Welsh said. "That's been the key, and it will be the key this weekend, also." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Batteast nallled Naisnlith Finalist 
Junior forward still in running for Player of the Year 
Special lo the Observer 
Notre Dame junior forward Jacqueline Batteast has been chosen as one of 20 finalists for the 2004 Naismith College Basketball Player of the Year Award, it was announced Tuesday afternoon by Jackie Bradford. President of the Atlanta Tipoff Club. With Tuesday's selection, Batteast remains poised to become the second Irish player in four years to win college basket­bail's most coveted award, fol­lowing in the footsteps of All­America center Ruth Riley, who claimed the honor in 2001. 
Batteast is averaging 14.4 points and 8.3 rebounds per game with eight double-dou­bles this season, while leading Notre Dame to a 16-8 record and a second-place standing in the Big East Conference with a 9-3 mark. The talented Irish wing has been at her best against top competition this year, averaging 14.9 points and 8.6 rebounds with three dou­ble-doubles and three near double-doubles against nine ranked opponents. ­

Batteast's best effort against a Top 25 team came on Jan. 13 when she piled up 23 points and 11 rebounds to help Notre Dame knock off No. 4 Connecticut, 66-51 at the Joyce Center. 
Batteast currently ranks among the Top 10 in the Big East in scoring (10th), rebounding (fifth). field goal percentage (10th). blocked shots (seventh) and double­doubles (second). She also was a preseason all-Big East First Team selection and was named to the WBCA Classic All­Tournament Team on Nov. 15 after averaging 20.0 points and 
7.5 rebounds with a .529 field goal percentage against nation­ally-ranked Auburn and Colorado. 
The Naismith Award winner will be honored in Atlanta on April 9. 
The Naismith Awards pro­gram was founded by the Atlanta Tipoff Club and is in its 36th year of recognizing top college basketball players in the United States. 


MEN'S BASKETBALL  
Thomas  Sophomore Class Office Candidates  
honored for vveek  The tickets of candidates running for sophomore class office are listed below. Elections will be held on Monday, February 23, 2004.  
Assoda!cd Press Named the  BIG  EAST  

Conference Player of the Week on Monday, junior Chris Thomas, who has averaged 2(d points and 3.8 assists irt the Irish last four outings ­three of them victories -also was selected as ESPN.com's Player of Week and was tabbed by Dick Vitale as his Co-Player of the Week. 
Vitale also chose Notre Dame as his Team of the Week in recognition of its three consec­utive BIG EAST wins against No. 5 Connecticut, Seton flail and No. 24 Syracuse. 
Zach Holobowski 
A.J. Cedeno 
Maggie Teske Afiya Wilkins 
Vote 'Fe6rua1)• 23, 2004 at: J.i!JJ.I§;/Aurps.. tuf.ecfu/di:ctions 
Jason Laws Bill Andrichick Megan Spokes Laura Horne 
·"f/&ic.e <rC.mr Cfioice 
'04 

Peter VanLoon Lauren Usignol Sagar Navare Stephen Shepard 
-
--
Unlimited Minute 
MISHAWAKA 514 W. McKinley Corner McKinley & Grape 574.252.5820 
SOUTH BEND 117 North Main 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.288.9450 
4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860 

'Airtrme offer valrd on two·year consumer servrce agreements of $39 95 and hrgher Promotrondl phone sub1ect to change Phone pmng rncludes a$30 mali·rn rebate Customer rs responsrble for all sales taxes Reduced access fee valrd f01 frrst 
3months of 24-month Servrce Agreement Free lncomrng Mrnutes avarlable n local callrng area only Nrght and weekend mrnutes are valrd M·F9 pm to 559 am and all day Saturday and Sunday Nrght and weekend mrnutes are avarlable rn local callrng area only Optron of 3000 Nrghts and Weekend Mrnutes. wrth a 7 pm stan trme. rs ONLY good on the promotronal rate plan of $39 95 for I000 mrnutes Roamrng charges, fees. surcharges and taxes may apply Actrvatron fee $30 All serv·
~PREMIER rce agreements subject to an early termrnatron fee Other restrrctrons may apply See store for detatls lrmrted trme offerC"? LOCATIONS" 
f< US.Cellulm: 
OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 28, 2004

AUTHORIZED AGENT 
Thursday, February 19, 2004 
page 20 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-78oo ministry.1©nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 
-
-
--
Freshman
Freshman

51• 
toda 
Retreat #53
Retreat #52

Get involved, go on a retreat 
More info 8: applications in Room114 
February 27-28 April 2-3 

Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 
Sign up deadline:
Slgn up deadline: February 20 March 26 

Sign ups open Monday 
Notre Dame Encounter #81 
April 2~4 

Sign up deadline: March 5 

frfd~ 01/ '1? 2"! .
} ~ ' u, l""'" .{; 
Mass for Peace 
First Friday dinner & discussion follows at esc 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
saturdav. 02..21 
junior Parents Weekend Rejoice! Mass 
2:30pm 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Junior Parents 
Weekend Liturgy 
5:3opm 
JACC 
Su·n·d·-""~.\.1 •""~v' '1 ~ 
. . U-Jt. V.e.,.,.t. 
RCIA Session 1o:oo a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Celebration and Handbell 
Choir Concert 
8:oop.m. Basilica of the sacred Heart 
tuesday_ a.:z.,:.,:;2.2,_,_4-­
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
wednesday 02.25 
Ash Wednesday liturgies 11:3oam and 5:15 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Interfaith goes to the Movies The Passion ofthe Christ 
see website for details 
Find the latest 011 upcoming retreat · sigm.tps, mass schedules and special campus 
events at campusministry.nd.edu 

Please join us for an afternoon of,discussion designed for dating couples who ate discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment 

mass schedule 
,__c_o_n_s_i_d_e_ra_tl_·o_n_s_._.·---------­
lent 

God brings the image of Christ to perfection in us 
by Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Director, Campus Ministry 
Next Wednesday is Ash Wednesday, which marks the beginning of Lent. The Masses that 
day, in the Basilica and in the residence hails, will be filled with students who will receive ashes 
on theitforeheads as a symbol oftheir desire to change aspects of their lives and "believe the 
Good News." Because the pace of life at Notre Dame is so hectic, it is probably a good idea to 
think about how we wane to live the Lenten season this year before it is upon us, , . Lent is a season q[ C9!1W:rsion and grace during which we prepare ourselves to celebrate the 
great feast ofEaster. During the forty days, we prepare ourselves to celebrate the passion, death and resu.rrecrion ofJesus, and in this way, to be renewed and invigorated in the way we try to live our Uves as disciples of Christ. 
Two days of Lent, Ash Wednesday and Good Friday, are days of fast and abstinence, when Catholics are required to abstain from meat and to fast, which means having smaller meals and not eating between meals. The Church calls on all of us to make use of traditional ways of marking Lent, namely. through fasting, prayer and almsgiving. It is customary to make a resolution for each of these three disciplines as our "Lenten resolution" and to be as faithful to it as possible. 
Fasting, except as described above, means that we "give up" something that would be a normal part ofour way oflite (desserts, candy, alcohol or smoking), This small sacrifice re­minds us of the season we are living and the reason for it. 
We examine where we are in our relationship to God and as people of prayer, we try to intei1sify our prayer life in some way (an extra daily visit to the Grotto or our residence hall chapel, attending daily Mass once or twice a week, reading and thinking about part of the passion narrative from each of the four Gospels, saying the rosary or attending Stations of the Cross in the Basilica). 
Almsgiving means that we make the poor a part of the forty days (placing money in rhe "poor box" at rhe Basilica or in our residence hall Sunday collection, volunteering once a week, thinking abourhowwe will serve the poor nowand later as professionals). 
These ate only examples, ofcourse, and over my years at Notre Dame I have discovered that friends and roommates often find ways ro celebrate Lent together. Unfortunate!}~ the Spring Break comes in the middle of Lent, and those welcome days can be a time when we are tempted to set aside our Lemen resohnioL1S and become discouraged. 
What is important is for us to find a way of using Lent as a very important time when we deepen our personal commitment to Jesus Christ, to our discipleship and to our relationship to God and other people, Words from the Lenten prefaces might serve to remind us ofwhat we are about: 
'i1s we recall the great events thatgive us new life in Christ, you bring the image 
ofyour Son to perfection within Jts. "{Lent I) 

'This grtat season ofgra.ce is yourgift to your family to renew us in spirit. You 
give us strength to purifY our hearts, to control our tksires and so to serve you in 
freedgm, "(Lent II) 

"You ask us to expmt our thanks by se/fdenial. ~ are to master our sinfulrtess 
(UJ.d conquer our pride. ~ are to s/Jow to. thoJe in needyour ioodness to oursdve~·. " 
(Lentil!/ 

Seventh Sunday in Ordinary Time · 
basilica of the sacred heart 
around campus (every Svnday.J 

Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m, s:oo p.m. 7:oo p.m. s:oo p.m. 10:oo a.m. Spanish Mass taw School Mass MBA Mass Rev. John Jenkins, c.s.c Rev. John Jenkins, c.s.c St. Edward's Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB 
11:45 p.m. Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Robert Pelton, c.s"c 
1st: 1 Sm 26:2,5·8,12-13,22-23 2nd: 1 Cor 15:45-49 ·Gospel: Luke 6:27-38 

Thursday, February 19, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page ll 


WELCOME JUNIOR PARENTS 
Lunch or Dinner Reservations 6JJ..4678 Meetings and Private Parties 631-46 79 
..:JPW...Take full advant:age of it:! 

Tur1:le Creek Apar1:men1:s... 
Living here is a tradition your social life can't afford to miss out on! Bring your parents in for a tour and sign for your 
apart.rne;nt for next school year ON "'"HE SPOT. No waiting 
No wondering No hassles CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT TODAY!!! Turtle Creek Apartments 
574-272-8124 
vv-ww. t.Lll1.lccrccknd.corn 
Do You KnoW' 
THATGuy... 

who was sent to the hospital during your dorm's SYR? 
Are YOUThat Guy? 


If you are, call: Office ofAlcohol and Drug .Education 1-7970 The Counseling Center 1-7336 
Sponsored by Student Government 
WoiDen 
continued from page 24 
"We'd like to win at least three of the relay events," Weathers said. "We also want to put kids in position to quali­fy for NCAA's -that's always important." 
Although some might view 
the lengthy Big E a s t Championship winning streak as an albatross of added pres­sure, Weathers believes the exact opposite. 
"I think [the seven-year streak] is extra inspiration for the girls," 

-
-
the pool. Hamstringed by the outbreak, the Irish swam to a disappointing seventh place finish in the seven-team field at the Texas A&M Invitational in late November. Once the sickness cleared up, however, Notre Dame got back on track, finishing the year 4-1 in dual meets and winning the Puerto Rico Training Meet in Encantada, Puerto Rico over 

"I think {the .seven-year streak] is extra inspiration for the girls. They realize that they can win. " 
Bailey Weathers head coach 
Weathers said. "They realize that they can win. We swim more to win than not to lose, and we're focused on the posi­tives." 
During the fall, illness kept a number of swimmers out of winter break. 
Healthy and well-rested. the Irish are primed to defend the title and continue their streak. 
"We had a stretch of ill­ness in the fall, but we've been healthy for the last couple of 
months," Weathers said. "We're where we need to be to 
... 

swim well at the meet, and we're excited about that." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

-

MIAA 
continued from page 24 
start from the get-go, begin­ning with the preliminaries. 
Petcoff expects standout performances from senior Megan Ramsey and sopho­more Sarah Nowak. Ramsey is competing for a berth to the NCAA Championships in the 100-yard freestyle after miss­ing the cut by 1.07 seconds last season. Nowak will com­pete in her first MIAA champi­onship meet after joining the 

-
squad midway through the season. 
Petcoff expects the rest of the team to feed off of Ramsey and Nowak's success. 
"You have to take care of your business individually, and that is what helps the team," Petcoff said. "Having the best times breeds confi­dence. This will have a snow­ball effect on how well the team does." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 
Mazoo 
continued from page 24 
streak and allowed the Belles to regain their tempo. 
A Saint Mary's 8-2 run fol­lowing a technical foul by Kalamazoo coach Michelle Fortier put the game back in
-
the Belles' hands for good. 
Bush hit a crucial lay up late in the second half to push the score to 60-55. Bush had 13 points and 5 rebounds. 
Saint Mary's held forward Ashley Riley to 10 points on 5­7 shooting. The Belles played great defense all night on Riley, who came into the game leading Kalamazoo in scoring with a13.5 points per game scoring average. 
Mary Brown, who scored 20 points on 7-of-14 shooting from the field and 2-of-5 from three-point range, led Kalamazoo. Her offense kept Kalamazoo in the game in the second half, as she made sev­eral key baskets during the Kalamazoo 15-0 run. 
Not only is the win important for the Belles, allowing them to regain some confidence going into their regular season finale Saturday -it was the last home game of the year for Saint Mary's. Katie Miller, who was honored before the game as the lone senior on the young Saint Mary's squad. 
Miller scored 7 points on 3­of-7 shooting and had three assists and two steals in the final home game of her career. She received a nice ovation as she exited the court in the final seconds of the game fol­lowing a Bridget Lipke free throw. 
Saint Mary's will travel to Olivet this Saturday in what will be their final regular sea­son game of the year. 
The last meeting with Olivet on Feb. 3 resulted in a 77-69 Belles win. The victory ended a seven-game conference los­ing streak. 
The Belles surrendered 32 points to Olivet center Amanda Johnston, but the Saint Mary's bench contributed 33 points over the course of the night. 
Stopping Johnston will be the key for a Belles victory. 
SAINT MARY'S 64, KALAMA­
Z00 59 
at the ANGELA ATHLETIC 
FACILITY 
SAINT MARY'S (7-17, 2-11) Creachbaum 7-13 2-3 18, Bu.<h 5-10 3-4 13, K. Boyce 0-2 0-0 0, Miller 3-7 0-0 7, B. Boyce 3-7 2-2 9, lipke 2-7 4-4 8, Mangan 1-2 2-2 4, Mullen 2-41-1 5 
KALAMAZOO (13-11, 5-8) Sleder 3-10 0-1 6, Riley 5-7 0-0 10, Neu 2­10 6-6 11, Basler 2-6 0-0 4, Brown 7-14 4-7 20, Salasky 4-6 0-1 8, Lappan 0-0 0-0 0, Kotlarczyk 0-0 0-0 0 
1st 2nd Total SAINT MARY'S 29 35 64 KAlAMAZOO 23 36 59 
3-point goals: Saint Mary's 4-14 (Creachbaum 2-5, B. Boyce 1-4, Miller 1­1). Kalamazoo 3-15 (Brown 2-5, Neu 1-6). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Saint Mary's 9-35 (Creachbaum 11). Kalamazoo 8-29 (Riley 6, Sleder 6). Assists: Saint Mary's 16 (lipke, 5), Kalamazoo (Brown, 5). Total fouls: Saint Mary's 15, Kalamazoo 15. 
Contact Bobby Griffm at bgriffin@nd.edu 
.... 

~ANY $VII OR WRAP WITH.A FOUNTAIN l$fHK, AND GEl' ANOTHEA 
~-!1.11 Olt.WM'-...~.1~9'--~VM,~f~ 1/,®UNll!.MARCH31,2004ATMIC~tOCAT~USWlootVAUOwm-tAI>IYOTHI;R~ C<JIJPON~ !WECIAL !"MMSHAWAKA-snaN. MAW ST.~ U!OM $AAlS'(;W$ mM !tAM&.'I' llll:lOO BW.IJIN.O. 21!l'-0056 ''S001H !Ifill& Sl1933 & AI1!Hi IW.. W THE FAMILY W)B) ~DJNC. ~11-411~ • 'DOWMO!tm-IN TilE I.OIIIW Of THE·~ FOOTIJAll HAll.Of FAME. :wi-0136 
....,.... 
-
,. 
-
(574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 

Thursday, February 19, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Come and taste why lePeep has been voted #1 breakfast/brunch restaurant in Dallas, Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Houston, Milwaukee and lndianapolisl lePeep is the best breakfast without egg-ceptionl 
located: 

•127 
S Michigan across from the College Foo1ball Hall of Fame (288-PEEP) 

• 
307 E University Dr in Mishawaka next to SuperTarget (271-PEEP) 


Hours: 

• Mon-Fri 6:30am-2:00pm and weekends 7:00am-2:00pm 
Several great low carb entrees available.lOOO/o smoke free. Call ahead seating available. 
r-------------------------~
: LePeep Observer coupon : 
1 ~uy at1 et1tree get ~3.00 offthe secot1d et1tree.  1  
:  Not good with at1y other offers.  :  
I  Expires 3/19/04  I  

~-------------------------~ 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
A Talk on Robotics, AI and Implant Technology Is it a Glimpse into the Future? 

Dr. Kevin Warwick 
Univei':Sity of Reading, UK 
Thursday, February 19, 2004 131 DeBartolo 
3:30pm 
''()'borg Hngineering: Praclir:al Experimenls U~·tng Implant Technology" 
For More Information: 
Jhttp://xml.ee.nd.edu Ihttp://www.kevinwarwick.org/ ihttp://www.cyber.rdg.ac.uk/people/K.Warwick.htm 

Nl> Conbtd: l'anu.~ Antsaklis, Hept or ~:lecl.rica.llt:n~ineerin~ (anb:tkli.~.l@nd.edu) 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The student's #1 choice in OFF-CAMPUS housing! urww. turtlecreekn d. conr 574-272-8124 
-
...............,....,,..., 


at NOTRE 
ThTh=urs~day:-n,Fe~bru=ar~y19~,20~04~=-=,.,.,=--..,=~-1-DAME
.._,~oBS~T~-fu:-R
2 
,.. .... J' 
? 

~ 
,_,_ f 
~-~t·~..·,··..; 
, . 1: ~ ' 
·4 . 
'1-· 
., .. 

A BLACK FEMALE ADMINISTRATOR 

----------------The Observer 2 February 19,2004 --------------­
A BLACK FEMALE ADMINISTRATOR 
"l!Jiversity/ makes everybody better. It makes the University truly Catholic, because it is becoming truly universal." 


nson 
L 
S T 0 R Y B y ANDREW THAGARD istf~ning to Chandra Johnson, assistant to the president, talk about her work as she sits behind a large desk in her Main Building office, it's hard to imagine that this Notre Dame administrator was an undergradu­ate student herself only a few years ago. Then again, Johnson wasn't your average Notre Dame student-and she's not your typical administrator . 
.Johnson is a blaek Catholic from the West Coast. 
Sho livod in Los Angdes for most of her life, where 
she sm"Vod <L<> a M<L<>ter Catnchist for the archdiocese 
and workod f(w financial institutions in corporate 
Amorica f(w 20 years. 
Sho marriod shortly after graduating from high school but h<L'> boon divorced for the past 18 years. Botwonn hor marriago, caroor and family, Johnson novor had tho opportunity to attend college. 
Thon in 1992, at hnr brother's urging, she began tho collogo application process and saw Notre Damn's roputation as a top-ranked Catholic univer­sity <L'> an attraetivo option . When she was accept­Pd. a :18-yoar old Johnson packed her bags and lwadod to South Bond. 
Tho idoa of starting collogo away from her family and friends and at a school halfway across the eountry W<L<> frightening to say the least, according to .Johnson. 
"I loll my family in L.A. and I had never lived out­sido of Los Angnlos in 38 ymtrs." she said. "I wasn't quill~ sum how I would do in the da<>sroom." 
(;oing from tho Wost CmL<>t and the corporate sphon~ to the Midwest as a student is not a route that is commonly taken. But Johnson said it was one of tlw bost decisions she ever made. 
"I rnally began to see what other people had always soon in me," she said. "Education opened up a whole now world for me." 
Johnson majored in theology with a concentration in African-American Studies and graduated in 1996 with honors. Shn credit<> her success in part to sup­port shn rm:niv1~d from students and faculty. 
"Tho studnnts wore my gmatest allies bneause t.lwy nnvnr made mn f(~el like I wa<> different," she said. 
Still. Johnson said that she fhced some diflieulties, particularly inside the dassroom. Bocause of' her unique baekground. professors often struggled to critiquo hnr papers and occa<;ionally opted not to make any comment<> at all. Some of' her theology prof'nssors, who wero accustomed to work from more traditional college-age student<;, didn't quite know how to rnaet to a paper written from the per­spective of a black woman in her late thirties. 
Johnson also said that her fellow younger, minor­ity students wore not always treated as nicely as she was and that she could often sense tension within the campus community. Because of her unique sit­uation and perspectiw~. minority students often approached her to share their experiences and seek advice. It's a role that Johnson accepted then and continues to relish today. 
When she was appointed to her current post in 1998, she found herself in a position to address many of the· concerns that current undergraduate students voice. She describes the difference between her time as a student several years ago and today as "night and day," but still acknowledges that the University has work to do in promoting diversity. 
"Our students seem to be enjoying a much fuller experience now," Johnson said. "I can definitely say that students of color are being welcomed genuine­ly. They hear the reeof,rnition for the unique gifts that they bring." 
Indeed, since 1992 when Johnson first arrived in South Bend, Notre Dame's minority student popula­tion ha-, increased by nearly 20 percent and the number of minority students in leadership positions continues to ri-,e. 
Johnson attributes the change in part to a renewed commitment by the University to address the diversity concerns and a gmater degree of toler­ance and open-mindedness within the current stu­dent body. Tho message now, she said, is for minor­ity students to not only come to Notre Dame but to be themselves when they are at the University. 
She praised m<\iority students for the progress they've made in embracing diversity and compared the Notre Dame of today to the environment within the early Church of' accepting gentiles into an organization with a Jewish tradition. 
"They're doing it and it's so wonderful," she said. "It makes sense. !Diversity] makes everybody better. It makes the University truly Catholic, because it is becoming truly universal." 
Despite the progress, Johnson said that she still receives visits to her oflice from minority student<> with complaints naeh week. Johnson believes that such probl~)ms generally stem from misunderstand­ings and she encourages minority student<> to dis­cuss their problems and lind a solution, rather than simply internalizing them. 
"My job is to give young people the tools to work it out," she said. 
Johnson can still relate to some of thoso com­plaints. She said that she occasionally feels that her ideas or opinions aren't valund <L'> strongly or endorsed as readily. 
"When I express my insight in montings, it's rare that it is echoed back to mo," she said. "Them is a sense that it isn't contributing to tho common good. But I do it anyway because my heart's in the right place." 
Johnson added that as a top black administrator, she is called upon to deal with issues of race con­stantly. 
"It's difficult consistently addressing race," she said. "For the most part, when you address raeo, you're addressing nogative realities of IW~. At tho end of the academic year, it's almost unbearable." 
Johnson, however, said she derives tremendous satisfaction from her job and overcomes IH~r tempo­rary feelings of despair by reflecting on tlw good that has come out of the past few years. In tho future, she ·would like to see Notro Dame eontinue to increac.;e recruitment of minority student.. while maintaining the University's Catholic character. 
Johnson is unsure what she will do once University President Fathor Edward Malloy retires from his position of University prnsidnnt. but she knows that she wants to continue to devote her energies toward promoting diversity. Judging from her life so far, Johnson doesn't seem likely to shy away from a challengo. 
"I don't have a clue what I'll be doing," she said. ''I'm waiting fbr it to become clear to me what area I want to use my gifts. I will always bo in a role where I will be helping people of color and embrac­ing their insight and value because that's what I do best." 
The Observer 3 February 19, 2004 

THE MINORITY FEMALE DEAN 
"There was no question that [my colleagues] wanted me to succeed. When I came here, they told me, ·we·re not going to bring you problems without solutions.,,, 


S T 0 R Y By BETH ERICKSON 

hen Carolyn Woo first became dean of the Mendoza College of Business, she felt like an outcast in a white, male, Notre Dame-affiliated world. 
"If you were not affiliated with Notre Dame, there was a very strong sense that you were an outsider," she said. "It was very male, and very white. I could not have been more different." 
In her first few years at Notre Dame, Woo learned not to rely on external affirmation or a sense of belong­
ing as markers of success or happiness. 
With this realization, she stayed away from the social activities of many of in her professional cir­cle, which revolved around golfing, hunting and country clubs. 
"That is just not my world," Woo said. "Now that I am older, I don't have that sense of a need to belong." 
However, seven years after coming to Notre Dame, the small Asian woman has created a niche for herself in the predominantly white male busi­ness school. 
According to Woo, the alienating atmosphere she first encountered gradually vanished as Notre Dame became a more welcoming place for minorities. 
Woo attributes much of her hard-won success to the support she found in her colleagues in the College of Business, whom she calls "tremen­dous," and her friends within the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
"There was no question that [my colleagues] wanted me to succeed," she said. "When I came here, they told me, 'We're not going to bring you problems without solutions."' 
Because of these friendships, Woo has developed more of a sense of belonging to the Notre Dame community and she said now she feels cared for. 
In addition to the bonds she formed, Woo cred­its her ability to succeed at Notre Dame to her upbringing, which instilled in her strength and a passion to achieve her goals. 
Born in Hong Kong, Woo was raised in a very traditional Chinese family and was the first female in her family to attend college. 
Woo was educated by the Maryknoll Sisters in a Catholic, all-girl institution, where she imbibed the language, knowledge, imagination and faith of these American missionaries. 
The sisters served as incredibly strong, inde­pendent and courageous role models, said Woo. 
"Where there was a desire, they made things happen," she said. "They allowed me to imagine a different path from my mother and sisters, and that was very important to me." 
In school, she learned to cooperate in an extremely competitive society, forming deep bonds with her classmates. "We learned to sup­port each other and to succeed as a group," said Woo. 
Woo has maintained these skills of cooperation and has worked her way to the top through collab­oration rather than competition. 
Woo also ascribes her aptitude in business to the mixed cultural milieu in which was raised. In this atmosphere, she gained a "Western-style individ­ual assertiveness" while retaining her "team-ori­ented Eastern culture," she said. 

She has never lived in a homogenous environ­ment, and said she has never allowed her race or sex determine her goals or her performance. 
Because women often have to "run twice as fast as men" to succeed, Woo said that she has let her "work, due diligence, and performance do the talking." 
The Maryknoll Sisters also taught her to follow her own passions, and in striving to do so, she turned down higher positions because of her love for Catholic education. 
"I've only chosen things which I really love to do," Woo said. 
According to Woo, she has achieved success in the once foreign world of business not through competition or conformity, but by enjoying her work and the challenges this world has presented her. 
The most unexpected result of her experience at Notre Dame, Woo said, is the way in which she has improved as a mother. 
"I have gained some insight and wisdom," she said. "I have developed a deeper appreciation of what is important in life." 
The Observer 4 February 19, 2004 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
A FEMALE OFFICER 

"You must dot every T and cross every 't' to prove that you belong. You work without the assumption that you belong. I never expected anyone to be happy with the minimum." 


aro oone 

STORY BY AMANDA MICHAELS hen Carol Mooney used to walk across Notre Dame's campus as a Saint Mary's undergradu­ate, it was not uncommon for a young man to stick his head out of his dorm room window and scream an obscenity at her. 

Now, from the office of vice president and associate provost of the University, the future president of Saint Mary's College looks out on a changed campus, one closer to gender equality than she could have dreamed 30 years ago. 
"There ha<; been a great deal of progress. It would be hard for [students today] to imagine. When I was an under­!-,trad, tho campus was not a hospitable environment for young women. There was clearly a feeling of not belonging­
being on someone else's turf," she said. 
Mooney graduated from Saint Mary's in '1972 -the yoar Notre Dame opened up to women. Sho went on to earn hor law degree at the Notre Dame Law School, where her male classmates openly said that women should not be there tak­ing up seats. 
"ITlwir taunts! made me made angry," she admitted, "but I just hoped that they would learn bnttm someday." 
And lnarn tlwy did. Arter graduating first in her dass, she joim~d the law school's faculty in ICJHO, was awarded Teaeher of the Year three years latnr and was recently named a member of tho U.S. Judicial Conference Advisory Committen on Fedora! Hules of Appellatfl Procndurn by U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice William Hnhnquist. Today, she stands as the highest-ranking female ol'licer of the University and in Docnmbnr was named tho president of Saint Mary's. 
"I have always lwen a goal-oriented person and my pan~nts preadwd that I could be any­thing I wanted to be, but growing up in the 1950s, I didn't expect much. I did have an image of adult-life where I wouldn't be doing the things I'm doing today," she said. 
In her struggle for advancement, Mooney never faeed obvious discrimination, finding that in a dose group of peers, even "unconscious prejudiees are rare." However, to integrate her­self into these groups, she learned she had to follow "the rules of the game" if she was to be eonsidered an equal. 
"I faeed the challenges of any 'outsider,"' she said. "You must dot every 'i' and cross every 't' to prove that you belong. You work without the assumption that you belong. I never expected anyone to be happy with the minimum." 
Mooney also attributes her suceesses to her edueation in an all-female environment, which gave her a store of confidence to draw upon later in her eareer, when she often found herself to be the only woman in the room. 
Now that same confid(mce has advaneed her to a position that, fittingly enough, allows her to r(~eruit minority faeulty members -a task she says takes on both a personal and intellectual aspec.ts for her. 
"Just a few years before I entered law prac­tice, a lot of the big firms' doors wnre not open to women. In fact, a lot of doors were not opnn to women. If it hadn't been for the politieal force of those older than me, I might not have gotten where I am today. so my job is important to me personally," she said. "I also believe that the intelleetual vibraney essential to any univer­sity campus needs to draw upon a variety of viewpoints, based on gender, ethnic, religious differences. The plaee is poorer without diversi­ty. " 
Though the days of open hostility toward women are over, Mooney knows tho struggle against discrimination is not. 
"You ean't divoree Notre Damn from the rnst of soeiety, and everywhere, thoro is still a fair distance to go befon~ people really view women as equals," sho said. "Not that mueh farther, but the journey isn't over yet." 
Editor's note: This inten,iew t.l'as conducted before Mooney was named the 12th president of Saint Mary's College in December. 
The Observer 5 February 19, 2004 

----~---------:-~~-~----------------------------------, 
A MUSLIM STUDENT 


The Observer 6 February 19, 2004 
A MUSLIM STUDENT 

"The students here think too much ofthemselves. There·s this general impression ofelitism that they feel.·· 

N 
STORY BY CLAIRE HEININGER ahyan Fancy knows quite a bit about elitism -in religion, in academics and even in football ­and always seems to end up on the receiving end of the arrogance. When the inevitable backlash from the Sept. 11 strikes hit the Notre Dame campus, Fancy, a Muslim, felt the predominantly Catholic student body around him formulate an idea of terrorism that was entirely too convenient. 
"It was difficult because there were a lot of people spouting out lines [about Muslims] that were clear­ly taken from Fox or CNN," he said. "There wasn't a general unwelcomeness when you talked to indi­viduals ... but there is always the odd person who will never change their views based on what the media told them and is pretty much a war-mongerer before they have even gone to war." 
Unfortunately for Fancy and his Muslim Knox were every bit as intellectually gifted as the gridiron to their divisive comments about peers, these inflammatory stances were the the undergraduates he now interacts with as a religion, Notre Dame undergraduates have a most sensational, causing sparks that placed teaching assistant at Notre Dame-and much lot to learn about complexity, Fancy said. them consistently in the public eye. more modestly grounded in reality. "The Notre Dame student body just isn't as 
"You would pick up the paper and read the "The students here think too much of them-critical in their thinking, which perhaps leads classic article bashing Muslims completely out selves," Fancy said. "There's this general them to accept a lot more of what the media is of ignorance," Fancy said. "And you just had impression of elitism that they feel." telling them [about other religions!," he said. • to dismiss it as an undergrad who believes This arrogance breeds a sense of entitlement Instead of engaging in deep exploration of everything that the government or the media so pervasive, Fancy said, that it borders on the the cultural and religious similarities that link tells them." irrational-like justifying football failure with them together, Fancy said, they all too often 
It was easier to dismiss explieit discrimina-academic success. When the Irish lost 38-0 to take the easy way out. lie regrets that the tion in print, Fancy continued, because out-Michigan earlier this year, Notre Dame stu-same students who can thoroughly learn right verbal attacks were few and far dents chose to reassure themselves by assert-chemistry or insightfully write a paper have between. ing their supposed intellectual dominance been trained to swallow information instead of 
"As for the people who did hold hateful over Michigan students -a reaction that to synthe'size it. views, our paths didn't cross," he said. But Fancy found repulsive. "So [many] of the undergraduatelsl are shel­despite a lack of individual confrontations or "They said that the game didn't matter tered and less aware of things," Fancy said. "I comments direeted specifically at him, Fancy because they will be getting the higher jobs wish they would engage a little more." couldn't help but sense the tension in the envi-that these [state school students] won't be," he He said Notre Dame will only engage in the ronment. "Heferences," he admits regretfully, said. "It was another case of oversimplifying diverse dialogue that his liberal-arts back­"did pop up." and taking the Notre Dame administration or ground makes him crave when Catholics and 
These references, which ranged from the the U.S. News and World Report at their Muslims, graduate students and undergrads subtly aecusatory to the blatantly offensive, word." alike drop their self-satisfaction, shed their dashed with Fancy's expectations for a sin-Fancy was less personally upset with the stu~ sense of entitlement and engage in discussions core intellectual dialogue -leaving him long-dents' condescension than he was disappoint-such as those put on by the Notre Dame United ing for the kind of respectl'ul debate he ed with their ignorance. Muslim Association, of which Fancy is a lead-engaged in during his own undergraduate "They haven't interacted with enough ing member. experience. Michigan students to know [if] they really are While he thinks a "pluralistic and tolerant 
Bel'oro hn became a graduate student at better than Big Ten colleges," he said. "But society" is still a possibility, Fancy knows from Notre Dame, Fancy attended Knox College in they still have this idea that Notre Dame is a experience that convincing the complacent Illinois, a school he described as "a second-or better academic institution -so that makes will be a challenge. third-tier liberal arts college that rankings-them far superior to people at other schools." "It always really difficult to help people wise, doesn't fit in." lie said his classmates at From their conceited approach to grades and who've made up their minds," he said . 
.. 
The Observer 7 February 19, 2004 

THE CO-PRESIDENT OF THE HAWAIIAN CLUB 
·7 specifically recall ripping up a letter asking me to be a host for spring visitation because I was offended at the wording in it requesting that I host someone in order to help the University recruit •students ofcolor.,, 


ownes 
1-STORY BY BETH ERICKSON 

M 
ariel Downes, co­president of the Hawaii Club, rejects the label of 'minority student' that is so liberally applied at Notre Dame. After all, she comes . from a region so culturally diverse that this label itself 
is foreign. 
"In Hawaii, there is hard­
ly ever a need for such 
racial dialogue because of 
its diversity," Downes said. 
"I have always been aware 
that being Asian made me 
part of a minority, but it 
was a minority that existed 
in places on the mainland, 
not Hawaii." 
Because neither · Asians 
nor Pacific Islanders are 
considered minorities in 
Hawaii, Downes resents the 
preset minority group in 
which the Notre Dame com­munity routinely places her and holds little esteem for the University's brand of diversification. 

Downes' view of diversity sets her apart from leaders of other campus multicul­tural clubs, but unlike clubs geared towards stu­dents of different nationali­ties and ethnic groups, the Hawaii club unites students merely by statehood. 
"Many of the club mem­bers who are from Hawaii find themselves in an awk­ward position once reach­ing the University," Downes said. "We often find our­selves pressured to per­form as a token minority group when most of us have grown up completely unfamiliar with what it means to actually be a minority." 
Upon acceptance to Notre Dame, she immediately received a flood of congrat­ulatory letters from various campus minority groups. Then, as a freshman, she was irritated by the inun­dation of requests soliciting her help in increasing cam­pus awareness of minority issues. 
"I specifically recall rip­ping up a letter asking me to be a host for spring visi­tation because I was offended at the wording in it requesting that I host. someone in order to help the University recruit 'stu­dents of color,"' she said. "I realized that diversity is an important issue on cam­pus, but at the same time I was disgusted with the overabundance of refer­ences to 'them' and 'us."' 
THE CO-PRESIDENT OF LA ALIANZA 
""Notre Dame does have a diverse campus -there are people from all so states and more than 6o countries -but I feel that the diversity is not as celebrated as it could be.,, 

.. 
STORY BY AMANDA MICHAELS 
W
ith a father from Nuevo Leon, Mexico and a Mexican mother from Houston·, Stephanie Garza knows the reality of diversity at Notre Dame first-hand. 
Co-president of La Alianza, a group representing students from diverse backgrounds including Mexicans, Cubans and Puerto Ricans, and inter­national students from such countries as El Salvador and Panama. Garza is a leader in the effort to foster the blending of groups while preserving the uniqueness of each individual culture. 
"A person can learn about their culture through the cele­bration of that culture or through the experience of new cultures," Garza said. "The eth­nic groups on campus do this service for Notre Dame, [like] La Alianza, which commits itself to the [expression] of the diverse Latino and Latin American culture." 
For her, La Alianza is a way to help those sharing her cultural background by providing them with a familiar, comfortable environment in which to express themselves. 
"Every year, more Latinos are admitted and attend Notre Dame," Garza said. "My involvement in La Alianza is motivated by that and it is an opportunity for me to make sure that other Latinos feel a sense of the Notre Dame com­munity, which includes the cel­ebration of all the diverse cul­tures that are all members of the Notre Dame family." 
Though dedicated to La Alianza, Garza was also a member of the Hawaii Club in her freshman year -an expe­rience which exposed her to a culture completely unfamiliar to her. 
"The cultural organizations on campus are open to · all members· of the Notre Dame community, regardless of ethnicity," Garza said. "I am not Hawaiian nor have I ever been to Hawaii, but I felt accepted and I enjoyed myself just the same." 
Despite her efforts and those of La Alianza, in conjunction with other cultural groups like the Asian American Association, Black Cultural Arts Council and Filipino American Student Organization, she sees room for improvement. 
"Notre Dame does have a diverse campus -there are people from all 50 states and more than 60 countries -but I feel that the diversity is not as celebrated as it could be." 
The Cbserver 8 February 19, 2004 


THE PRESIDENT OF THE ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION 
"People need to be challenged to step out oftheir comfort zone ... to seek new experiences.Ifyou don't actively seek [these], I think college is a wasteful experience." 
STORY BY JOE TROMBELLO 
S 
ophomore Hyan Leung didn't want to be labeh~d. categorized or lumpnd into a group bncausn or his nthnicity. 
l.nung, whose parents are from !long Kong, did not imnwdiately become involved in tho Asian American Ao.;sociation, though he now snrvos as the club's prosidont. lin said he did not want to be perceived as just anothnr Ao.;ian and believed that asso­ciating only with Asians would brand him in a way he didn't want to be. 
"I didn't want to be labeled as one ol' the Ao.;ian kids," he said. "I wantnd to stand out ... so I wouldn't be confusnd." 
l.nung remembers first feel­ing difl'errmt from others in gradn school. when white stu­dents made fun of him for having smallnr nyes. 
"I felt more shocked than anything," he said. "I had never experienced that before -people put me in a special category. 
Although Leung attended some meetings of the Asian American Association as a first-semester freshman, he initially wanted to keep his associations with Asian stu­dents strictly inside the club. 
"I tried not to be seen with them [Asians] in public as much ... a huge obstacle.I wanted to overcome was being labeled," he said. 
Despite these fears, Leung said that gradual contact with the Asian American Association, its efforts to edu­cate the community about diversity issues and the friend­ships he formed with mem­bers helped to change his mind. 
"I got to know a lot of people in the Asian American Association and became good friends with them," he said 
Leung said that several activities that he took part in as a freshman, such as the Learning to Talk About Races retreat in November 2002 and the In Focus Conference in February 2003, caused him to re-evaluate his personal views on ethnidty and his involve­ment in promoting cultural awareness on-campus. 
Leung said he encourages students of all ethnicities to broaden their exposure to dif­ferent cultures. 
"People need to be chal­lenged to step out of their comfort zone . . . to seek new experiences," he said. "If you don't actively seek [these], I think college is a wasteful experience." 

THE. PRESIDENT OF VOICES OF FAITH 
.~ -... ....... 
"People always ask, 'So why do you all sit together in the dining hall?' The reason is it's comfortable. It's important to see someone who looks like you and to relate to them." 
Terri Baxter 
-
BY CLAIRE HEININGER

STORY 
T 
erri Baxter realizes that talking often falls short of bringing Notre Dame's black students out of the campus background. So instead, she sings them into the spotlight. 
As president of Voices of Faith, Baxter leads the gospel choir's efforts to offer a setting where black students can express themselves and white students can learn to appreci­ate a different sound. 
"With Voices, gospel music is traditionally African-American -it's not Catholic, it's what you know from home," Baxter, a junior, said. "You get to move and rock and be happy and singing to the Lord." 
Even students who didn't grow up with gospel music quickly feel at ease, she added. 
"A lot of Caucasians are enlightened when they hear it. 
It comforts them." 
Baxter emphasized that since the choir is "spiritually based," it "has no color line" and is open to students of all races. However, it does attract mostly African-Americans, reflecting the trend of per­ceived exclusivity among black students -a trend that Baxter resents. 
"People always ask, 'So why do you all sit together in the dining hall?"' Baxter said. "The reason is it's comfort­able. It's important to see someone who looks like you and to relate to them.... And African-Americans can relate on the level of skin color." 
The need to see that skin color in positions of achieve­ment contributed to Baxter's decision to co-found Shades of Ebony, a current issues/com­munity service club for black female students. 
"People need to see people who look like them in educa­tion, on lV, in politics," she said. "On the professional level, black women tend to be a higher percentage than black men . . . and black women here need to be uni­fied." 
Through her leadt~rship in both !,1foups, Baxter gained a positive outlook on thn future of blaek students at Notre 

-
Dame. 
"It really is a microcosm of the real world -we might be the only minority there when we enter higher professions, just like now we may be the only minority in most of our classes," Baxter said. "That may be the situation, but it shouldn't be the situation ... The world is changing, and Notre Dame recognizes that." 
The Observer 9 Februaty 19, 2004 

THE INDIVIDUAL '"/ think the temptation is to associate yourself and act ... according to whatever group you judge yourself to act. I think diversity is about breaking down those [distinctions].,, 


owns 


STORY BY AND.REW THAGARD 
T
he chances of finding Josh Towns at a Notre Dame multicultural event are pretty slim. The jun­ior attended Spring Visitation before enrolling at Notre Dame and participated in Black Images, an event showcasing the talent of the University's black students, his freshman year. 
Since then, howev·er, Towns has been busy focusing most of his time on an English and PLS double major and juggling Glee Club, marching band and various jobs in student government. 
-
Please don't misunderstand him. 
Many Notre Dame students, including some minorities, are hesitant to get involved in the multicul­
tural scene on campus. Some students say they prefer to branch out and are fearful that by becom­
ing involved in these activities they could inadvertently define their friendships solely on race. 
·~ 
Others find the students involved too cliquish. 
Towns doesn't really fall into either of these categories. The Alumni Hall resident, who boasts African and Native American ancestry, appreciates the presence of multicultural ven­ues on campus but says he's more of a free spir-, it when it comes to celebrating diversity. 
"I think the temptation is to associate yourself 
-
and act ... according to whatever group you judge yourself to act," he said. "I think diversi­ty is about breaking down those [distinctions]." According to Towns, individuals show their uniqueness by using their talents to the full potential. Jazz greats like Louis Armstrong and his contemporaries, for example, focused their attention on producing great music and in doing so they created a musical genre with a distinctly African American flavor. "Through the use of [their talents] they devel­oped something that was essentially black and new," he said. 
Likewise, Towns said he tries to use his tal­ents and unique perspective to add flavor to the Notre Dame community, both in and out of the classroom. 
"My activities are passion-driven," he explained. 
In class, he finds his Native American ances­try to be an asset. Towns' mom is a profession­al storyteller and she used to relate tales of the Black Foot tribe, from which his family descended, when he was growing up. 
"I love stories," he said. "It adds a new per­spective to my literature studies and I think I can bring that to the classroom. It's an element that is not very prevalent in the anthology." 
If students wish to promote diversity in a more formal way, the multicultural clubs and events that they h"st can provide a good oppor­tunity, he said. though b.e believes some prob­lems exist in the way by which they are promot­ed. 

He said, for example, that many events are not interactive enough and emphasize obser­vance rather than participation. 
"[Notre Dame's] a dynamic community," he said. "It's being presented, it should be a dia­logue." 
Towns said he is also concerned that multicul­tural events unintentionally carry a "minorities only" message to a majority of students. 
"There's a lot of flyers around that don't seem to welcome other people," he said. "There's no exclusion with activities here, but I think that's an unwritten rule." 
For diversity to thrive at Notre Dame in the true sense, Towns said, multicultural events must be inviting to all students. 
"In order for diversity to exist," he said, "everyone needs the opportunity to partici­pate." 
--------------------The Observer 10 February 19,2004 ------------------­
·A BLACK PROFESSOR 

"If realized!/ may as well start telling students what I believe because they are going 
to assume that about me [otherwise].,, 


• 


____Vlll 
STORY BY JOE TROMBELLO 
H 
e 's been called a nigger more times than he can count and was strung up on a tree by a makeshift noose in elementary school, but Alvin Tillery, assistant professor of political science, considers his experiences with prejudice to be mild in comparison with those suffered by his parents and grandfather. 
Tillery's early experiences with racism and prejudice-both personally experienced and related to him by family members -have motivated him in part to pursue his current academic work on identity and _politics. Tillery said that he wanted to understand why others treated him so differently. ­

"My push into the linld hogan as a search of answers as I finmd myself !victim tol lbrms of racism," he said. "It pushed me to want to know things ... why I wa.<> being treated diflimmtly." 
Growing up in Glassboro, N.J., Tillery and his par­ent.<> livod in an intof,Tfated community, and one wlwre ho quickly poreoiv!~d diflimmccs between himself and tho white majority. Tillery said that as a child, ho W<L'> often sul~jeet to racial slurs. 
"It W<L<> almost ~L'> if my name wore 'nigger' when I W<L<> f,Tfowing up," he said. "Every single day, on the way to school, home from school, tho playground, I I was called that!." 
Tillery also recount.<; an experience where a white frinnd with whom he carpooled a.<;ked Tillf~ry's moth­or to drop him ofr a block away from school, so he would not bo seen walking into school with a black child. 
"llo said, 'I just don't want the other kids to see me with Alvin, bocauso they'll call me a nigger-lover.' " 
Tillery said that these early experiences, a<; woll a.<> his sum.1ring of a mock-lynching during elementary school. "dev<L<>tatod" his parent.<>. 
"They li1lt. like integration w<L.'> something of a sham," ho said. 
Ito also said that despite a comfort level with toachors during nlomentary and high school, he never fdt eompletnly comf{)ftable with some of his 
peers. "Interaction with student bodies never made !mel feel like II] really belonged," he said. In retrospnet, however, Tillery said he harbors no ill will toward those who discriminated against him. 
After attending Morehouse College, a historically black institution, and Harvard University, Tillery joined the Notre Dame faculty in 2000. He says he has earned a reputation for holding what he calls controversial viewpoints, including support for the payment of reparations to black Americans for the legacies of slavery and segregation. 
"I believe that states have a responsibility to fix problems they create, like the race problem," he said. "The state made this problem by failing to enforce the citizenship rights of black Americans until 1965. This means that black Americans missed out on important sodal benefits, like patronage in the late 19th century and the G.l. Bill for World War II veterans in the middle of the last century, both of whieh fundamentally expanded the American mid­dle class." 
Tillery said that although he wa.<> reluctant to artic­ulate these opinions in his early years as a profbssor, he now uses his positions to encourage students who feel diflimmtly to prove his argument." fallacious. 
"My job is to encourage debate and to challenge ­that might lead me to become unpopular," he said. 

"I hope that students would road my opinions on tho issue and if thny still think that I'm wrong-prov!1 me wrong. If that happons, I've suceood!1d <L.'> a pro­fessor." 
He mcalb a spodfk incident when a stud1mt eallml him th!~ "Jessie Jackson of' Notre I >ame" a<> indkativo of'the rea.,ons why he began integrating his opinions and research into classroom discussion. Tillory said that he wants to set student.<> straight on his stance on issues rather than have them makn faulty assumptions regarding his opinions. 
"[I realized] I may <L." well start telling student.. what I believe because they are going to a.<>sume that about me [otherwise)." 
Tillery also said that dnspito p<L<>t nxperiences with _ racism, he ha<> been encouraged by Notre Danw's public commitment to diversity and aflirmativ!~ action and feels well-supported by the administra­tion and colleagues. 
"Notn~ Dame is working very hard and h<L'> gonn on record <L<; saying they are going to put rosourcns behind the African and 1\friean-/\meriean studios department and the recruitment of morn faculty of color," he said. "They arn doing this at a time when universities across tho country are scaling back their commitment." to diversity ... they have stood by aflir­mative action and diversity in a way that is very ""' admirable." 
---------------------The Observer 11 February 19, 2004 --------------------­
~--------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~---------­
A HOMOSEXUAL STUDENT 
"The attitude on campus seemed to be that a lot ofpeople seemed to be much more comfortable. People didn •t seem to be having problems . ... People were starting to come into Notre Dame being out. ,, 


___man 
R 
STORY BY SHEILA FLYNN ick Friedman is not what you would call an imposing figure. Slight of stature, polite and soft-spo­ken, he's another sweater-clad, reserved Notre Dame guy. But Friedman, unlike the majority of Notre Dame students, is openly gay. The fifth-year archi­tecture and psychology student came out to friends and family when he was a freshman at the University. Since then, he has been active in OutreachND and various campus groups and committees 
dealing with gay, lesbian and bisexual issues. 
Just because he's been involved, though, does not 
_ mean he has always been confident about his sexu­ality. In high school, Friedman never had a real romantic relationship with a girl nor did he date guys. He was, according to himself and his friends, "a'lexual." Inwardly, however, he was questioning his orientation, and when a friend at Notre Dame came out, Friedman began to confront his own homosexu­ality during January and February of his freshman year. 
"He was telling me all about Outreach, how he joined Outreach about a month and a half before," Friedman said of his friend. "I went to Outreach a couple of weeks later and met a bunch of people there -they were all really welcoming." 
He told his friends and roommate he was gay sev­eral week'> later, and he also told his family -under rather unfavorable circumstances. Friedman hesitat­
-ed in a phone conversation when his mother ques­tioned him about his sexuality, and his parents sub­sequently drove to Notre Dame in the middle of the night from Crown Point, Ind. They arrived after parietals, and Friedman said his rector was "not very understanding at all." "I went down and explained to him sort of what had happened and explained to him they were com­ing and ... we needed somewhere to talk," Friedman said. His rector suggested they go outside or to LaFortune, but, Friedman said, the discussion he anticipated was "not one of those conversations you 
want to have outside Burger King." "He pretty much sent me away, told me he was too busy," Friedman said. 
So Friedman walked with his parents around cam­pus and the lakes, and they accepted his homosexu­ality reluctantly but fairly well. 
Most of all, though, Friedman's fellow students were the ones who proved overwhelmingly accept­ing, he said. 
"It was pretty much a very welcoming thing," Friedman said. "I never had any problems." 
When he told his roommate, for example, Friedman said the situation was slightly awkward for about a day, but after that his roommate accepted the fact and moved on. When he told his two sophomore year roommates, Friedman said one was slightly more hesitant, but the other set the tone, saying, "You were our friend before, you're our friend now; I agreed to room with you before, I'm rooming with you now." 
And he has found that atmosphere of acceptance to be lasting and even increasing on campus. Since Friedman's freshman year, he said OutreaehND membership has largely decreased. He believes this is becau.-;e fewer people are in need of its support structure now that other avenues, such as coffee hours sponsored by the Standing Committee for Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Students, have been estab­lished. 
"The attitude on campus seemed to be that a lot of people seemed to be much more comfmiable," Friedman said of his senior year. "People didn't seem. to be having problems. . . . People were starting to come into Notre Dame being out. People started com­ing out younger just as a whole." 

But Friedman maintains that multiple support structures, including those provided by OutreachND, are absolutely necessary. He cites his junior year, which he spent abroad in Rome and was the only gay student among the Notre Dame group. The separa­tion from Outreach ND left hin1 feeling isolated and detached. 
"I guess if you spent your time with all gay people, you'd eventually feel it, too," Friedman said of hetero­sexuals. 
So he looked for a gay bar, discovered one, paced around outside for awhile and then sat down across the street. 
"I was scared to go in ... people would look at me if they went in and out," Friedman laughed. "But just being there -just walking down towards it ­could see gay people. And it ju.'it made me so much happier." 
That experience made him more committed to pro­viding support to other homosexual student'> on cam­pus when he returned. He ran for the OutreachND board and got elected. It's too easy, Friedman said, to move on once you have accepted your orientation and forget about the support structures that facilitat­ed your adju.'itrnent. 
"If you do that," Friedman said, "there's no one left to help the next person." 
-------------------------The Observer 12 February 19, 2004 ----------------------­
A NON-CATHOLIC STUDENT 
"Though I don •t believe in Jesus as a savior in the Catholic sense, I can still look at Touchdown Jesus and be 
-
reminded ofall those who were persecuted for beliefs. But the crucifixes in every room are kind ofcreepy ... ·· 

STORY BY AMANDA MICHAELS 
N . 
otre Dame students have probably passed Christy Ruggiero's church dozens of times without noticing it. The First Unitarian sits on the corner of Indiana 933 and North Shore Drive, sim­ple and unimposing amidst the bustle of South Bend traffic -much like Ruggiero herself who 
is a quiet breach of the norms of belief at an overwhelmingly Catholic university. Though Ruggiero harbors some suspicion that her grandmother secretly had her baptized, she has been a practicing Unitarian Universalist for over 10 years. ­The daughter of a former Catholic and a disillusioned Dutch Reformist, both Ruggiero's parents rejected their respective religions at a young age, largely leaving her to her own beliefs. 
/\ftnr her parents' divorce, she and her mother joinod a new faith community-one made up of a diverse group of people who lost touch with tlwir own religion, or just sought acceptance. 
1\ largely tolerant religion, as described by Huggiero, Unitarian Universalism functions on the tenets that there is just one all-loving, all­poworful (;od who is not divided into the Trinitarian Father, Son and Iloly Spirit. Huggiero said there is salvation for everyone because "such a God would never create the race of Men just to damn them to IIell." 
B<~sidns those basic ideals, the practices of the ehureh celebrate the teachings and holidays of a wide variety of faiths, as Huggiero discovered when her roligious odueation classes examined Buddhism, Islam, voodoo and traditional Protestantism. 
"/\t first, I was a little confused by this new world view and got very angry. I had always thought the lloly Wars were fought some over huge dill'erence, but there I was, 12 years old, realizing that Jesus, a man that tried to bring the church tog<~ther, was causing all of this violence and death," she said. 
Coming to Notre Dame was a dilTicult choice for Huggiero, for she feared how she would be accepted on the strongly traditional, conservative campus. 
"My father is a physics professor [at Notre Dame]. so I came for the free tuition and the aca­demics," said Ruggiero. "But I was unsure at first. I have a friend at the University of Indianapolis, which is Methodist, who was sin­gled out for not worshipping with them. Though that didn't happ<~n to me here, Catholicism was uncomfortable for me freshman year, because of my lack of exposure to it." 
Three years later; she has gained a deep respect for the religion and the attractions of what she calls "the Catholic Disneyland". 
"Though I don't believe in Jesus as a savior in the Catholic sense, I can still look at Touchdown Jesus and be reminded of all those who were per­secuted for beliefs," she said. "But the crucifixes in every room are kind of creepy, because in my church, we focus on Jesus' life, not his death." 
Only once in her years at Notre Dame has any­one ever directly insulted Huggiero's beliefs, questioning whether it was a "real religion." 

"That had never happened to me before, and it moved me to tears," she said. "People are pretty tolerant, but 1 just want them to realize that we're not some tiny little bizarre seet. So, we don't believe in the Trinity or llell. When it comes down to it, the differences between our relihrions are really not that big." 
Huggiero chooses to go_ ofl'-eampus to mass when she can, saying that her services ~tre "very different from the inter-faith serviens provided by ­the University." She also thinks that students would benefit from the opportunity to go to a Unitarian mass on-campus, even if only once a year. 
"lA mass] would give students an opportunity to experience diil'ernnt belief's, especially if they're _ not from a background like mine," she explaim~d. "It breaks my heart to see some of the intolerance on campus that stems from simple misunder­standings about things like homosexuality. Why not try to expose students to these new ideas while they're still in college?" 
---------------------The Observer 13 February 19, 2004 -------------------­
-
-
-
--

The Observer 14 February 19, 2004 

THE JEWISH PROFESSOR 
"What Notre Dame does not seem to address ... and I can see the reasons, is the question ofreligious diversity. " 
-

S T 0 R Y B y ANDREW THAGARD 

alking down a second-floor corridor of Malloy Hall, there are so many office placards with the letters "CSC" following the occupants' names that it's easy to stop paying attention to the abbreviation for the Congregation of the Holy Cross order altogether. 
But another religious man shares the same floor as these priests -Michael Signer, a theology profes­sor and rabbi who has been working to advance Jewish-Catholic dialogue at Notre Dame for the past decade. 
Bol'on~ knowing about his life and work, it might was and I respected him for who he was. I learned gious diversity here with that idea in mind. IIe IH~ dillicult to imagine what exactly a Jewish pro­so much from him." believes that students hero can be exposnd to fnssor from tlw West Coast is doing in Notre Dame Later, Signer returned to Los Angeles and other faiths without compromising or endanger­at a school that is more than 80 percent Catholic. worked with Monsignor Royale Vadakin, the ing their own. Hn and his wife Betty take a group 
For this mndieval studies scholar, however, the Ecumenical Officer for the archdiocese. Vadakin of students to the Auschwitz concentration camp move to Notre Dame made perfect sense. was impressed with llis work and Signer admired in Poland every other summer, and he teaches 
"I think we wern looking for an adventure,':. the monsignor's enthusiasm and energy. Signer's courses on campus that focus on tho historical Signor said regarding he and his family's decision. work also caught the attention of a Notre Dame relationship between Jews and Catholics. "I was looking for somewhere where I eould use faculty member who invited the rabbi to attend a "I have to deliver a lot of bad news to my stu­the whole Latin side of what I was doing." conference at the University on "Nostra Aetate" in dents," he said. "I don't tell them this to demean 
Signer grew up in Los Angeles in a community 1985. tho faith community of which they are a part." with a rich variety of religious traditions that Signer said he was received warmly by the Hather, he said, an understanding of the past eoexistod well together. Notre Dame community. After the conference, he can facilitate better relationships in the present. 
"I lived in a kind of multiracial, multi-religious accepted an otTer for a year-long fellowship at the Students and members of the Notre Dame com­aroa. We got along," he said. "L.A. in the 1950's University and he came to Notre Dame perma­munity have been supportive of his efTorts and was a very open plaeo." nently in 1992. presence on campus, Signer said, dting a rnqunst 
From a young age, Signer took advantage of his Signer uses his time here to expose mostly from a freshman to discuss his perspective of ­backyard's religious pluralism and worked to Catholic students to other religious faiths and tra­"Nostra Aetate" as an exampln. lie praised the bring together people of different traditions. As ditions, and he distinguishes the general concept work of Pope John Paul II in seeking forgiveness the president of his synagogue's high sehool youth of diversity from what he believes its definition to for his Church's prior transgressions against other group, for example, Signer organized an inter­be at Notre Dame. faiths and emphasis on the value of other reli­faith program with students from the Buddhist "When Notre Dame talks about diversity it's gions. tmnplo and Catholic, Methodist and African­about ethnic and racial cultural diversity among "You can't have reconciliation without penitence American ehurehes. Catholics," he said. "What Notre Dame does not and you can't have penitence without reflection," 
After earning his undergraduate degree at seem to address ... and I can see the reasons, is Signer said. "At the core of Catholicism is recon­UCLA, two priests whom he became friends with the question of religious diversity." ciliation and love." and a Vatican II document -"Nostra Aetate" -Signer can relate to concerns among some Despite progress in promoting education in dif­whieh aflirmed a more positive relationship with members of the University who are wary of pro­ferent religions and the support of the University non-Christian religions, drew him toward moting religious diversity and said similar hesita­community, Signer still sees some problems at Catholicism in particular, a religion whose tradi­tion exists within Jewish communitios. After all, Notre Dame. tion of intellectualism he had always admired. many Catholic parents -like their Jewish coun­He said the fact that the University's calendars 
Signer earned his Ph.D. at the University of terparts -send their children to a religious insti­don't include the dates of the other major reli­Toronto's Center for Medieval Studies. There, he tution to grow in their own faith, or at least meet gions' holidays often means that meetings or ­worknd with Father Leonard Boyle, and the stu­a future husband or wife with a strong religious events get scheduled on Jewish or Muslim holy dent and prof(!ssor became friends. background, he said with a smile. days. He feels frustrated and detached from the 
"lin was the bnst teacher I've ever seen in my "In many ·ways there is a resonance between Notre Dame family, he added, during remem­lifi,,'' he said of his mentor. "I was the first rabbi what's going on here and what's going on within brances that take place on campus for the he had ever met and he was the first priest I had the Jewish community,'' he said. "The fear is that anniversary of September 11 because they're cen­talknd to in an in-depth level." if you open the window too wide you dilute the tered on Catholic tradition. ­
Tho nxperionco sot the tone for how Signer envi­specific claims of your own community. How can "All public observances at Notre Dame are sioned communication between members of dif­we do things that opnn up doors without opening Catholic observances-there's the rosary and the ferent faiths. up the floodgates?" Mass," he said. "That's when I realizn how alone 
"lie was who he was and I was who I was," he Signer said that he views Notre Dame as a those of us who are spiritual people of other faiths said. "lie respected me in the fullness of what I parish and approaches eft'orts to promote reli-[are here]." 
----------------------The Observer 15 February 19, 2004 --------------------­
THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 
"1 believe in general people should just be well rounded and experience as many things as they can.-Ifthey can grab more experiences ... they're better off." 

S T -0 R Y B Y M A U R E E N REYNOLDS 

hen Emily Chin entered Notre Dame, she was told that diversity was "an experiment." "That was disheartening," said Chin, the first female Asian student body vice president. "Because diversity should never be an expe.riment." Experience, to Chin, is a much better word than experiment. An active member of the 
Asian American Association, she believes that diversity events organized by multicultural clubs offer 
-
good opportunities for further fostering of open-mindedness. The sophomore plans to use her position in student government to help promote these events, such as Asian Allure. "We have enough diversity events; we just need to enhance them," Chin said. "Promoting other eth­nic shows on campus will remind people to be open-minded-to not close the door to opportunities 
that you can gain by talking to other people. 
"People should just be well-rounded and experience as many things as they can," she said. "If they can grab more experiences ... they're better off." 
During her own two years at the University,Chin said shared experience has played a major role in her best interpersonal relation­ships and her overall positive encounter with the institution. 
-"I've been surrounded by people who are open-minded and love to share with me their experiences and want to learn about me," she said. "Chin said her time on campus has helpedher decide that other facets of the University should be promoted to draw students from all types of backgrounds and to make .student s
-
more open-minded to the experiences of oth­ers. "I hope we will promote other aspects of the school so we can attract other types of stu­dents," she said. 
As the second-highest student government-· official, Chin has had a chance to voice these views. Appointed to the position in January,she works closely with student body president Jeremy Lao, who took his own spot in the University's history when he became the first Asian to hold that office. 
And Lao, too, stressed the importance of open-mindedness and firsthand experience.He, however, placed greater emphasis on the need for improvements in these areas. 
"The great friends I've had ... have just been excellent guys, and I think we're friends because we like each other as people," he said. "The fact that we want to get to know each other on that level has made my experience a good one. 
"I think at the same time, my experiencescould have been better if there was more open­mindedness," Lao said. "I guess there are some nuances that are unique to me and aren't caught by other students." 
But an enormously positive stride toward a broader mindset came, Lao said, when two minority students -he and Chin -steppedinto the most well-known student positions on campus.

"It s almost like saying that we made a bigstep forward when we elected the first female [student body] president," Lao said. "It's simi­lar to that. It is a step that shows the students are willing to be open-minded." 
And Lao said he will try to implement that increased tolerance, understanding and first· hand knowledge by using the power of the stu­dent union, echoing Chin's enthusiasm for events and shared, multicultural participation. 
"Student government will have to help clubs champion their events or activities," Lao said. 
Both the president and vice president have numerous Ideas about their hopes for the future of diversity at the University. Both want minorities to have a greater presence on cam­pus and become more involved, and, once again, Lao reaffirmed the importance of shared experience between people of all races, backgrounds and religions.
"I want whoever comes in . . . to maintain their identity -whoever they are -and to share," Lao said. 
The Observer 16 February 19, 2004 


Thursday, February 19, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI

FIVES 
See those four guys? They all come from different 
Gentlemen...I give you Sports backgrounds and families, but they're all getting along 
IIIU$trated's Marisa Miller ... 
-gasp!­

with each other right now. It's nice to see that 
something can bring people together, cspedally 
now that diversity Is such a big issue on campus•.. 
( 


SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
WELCOME TO DOGBERTS ~ 
OUR fiRST LESSON 
SCHOOL fQR WORTHLESS ! 
IS "HEAD NODDING 
SYCOPHANTS. ~ 
fOR BEGINNERS:
1 



HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRlON ­

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles. one 
letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
CREMY 
j 


-
I CI I I 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reserved. 
THIRM 
(J 
'r-0-N GRA.Nffi FaX
tCUTLED 

j 
WHt:N THt: KIDS L-ISTt:NEO TO RAP MUSIC..

J I I 
www.jumble.com 
LAXAGY 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: BEGOT TARRY SINFUL HOURLYYesterday's 
Answer: What the king received lor his autobiography­
"ROYAL· TIES" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 30 Around 53 "Beetle Bailey" 
Celebrities born on this day: Justine Bateman, Prince Andrew, Stan Kenton, dog Smokey,Robinson, Lee Marvin, Margaux Hemingway, Jill Krementz
1 European capi-33 Hasp. picturetal of 2112 million 54 "Me, too"
34 Not worth Happy Birthday: You're in the driver's seat. Now all you have to do is make 5 Part of debating 58 San _, Italy your moves. Don't let anyone stand in your way •• and whatever you do, invest N.A.A.C.P.: in yourself, not others. If you are confident in yourself, others will feel
59 Mouselike ani·
Abbr. 35 Birthplace of comfortable supporting your issues. Don't be afraid to tell it like it is. Your
mal
Hans Christian numbers: 12, 19, 23, 30, 36,42
9 Business school 
Andersen 60 Order beside asubj. car door ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Your opinionated attitude will surely ruffie 
36 Pioneer in vac-
feathers if you don't control your tongue while interacting with groups. Listen
13 Mouth site? 
cination 61 About half of 
to others for a change. They may have some valuahle advice. *** 15 Endangered binary code TAURUS (April20-May 20): Spend time with the ones you love. Someone 
38 Rampaging
goose you work with may not be on your side. You will have difficulties dealing with 
62 Milk dispensers 
39 Watching government agenci<;s or institutions today.*** 
16 Prefix with mag· 
63 Certain race ... GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Group endeavors will be in your hcst interest. 
netic 40 Copycat 
or a cryptic title You will meet new romantic partners and enhance your reputation because of 17 Love 41 Computer units: to this puzzle your dedicated contributions. Leadership should be your goal. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will make the wrong decisions if you allow 
18 Nursery offering Abbr. 
your jealousy to stand in the way of good judgment. Confusion on an emotional 19 Certain rug 42 Commercial DOWN level will be reason enough to let things ride. ** worker prefix with foam LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are in a high-energy cycle. Your discipline will 
1 Spectra maker 
help you accomplish your goals. Don't waste the day waiting for others to get
20 Like LP's 43 Careered 
2 Polit. designa­moving. Take matters into your own hands. ***** 22 Latin 101 verb 44 U.S.S. _,ship tion VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Opportunities to spend money will be present; however, you will have to use discrimination to make the right choices. Take 
23 Appropriate in 2000 news 3 "Xanadu" rock 
time to make sure elders have their papers in order. *** 26 Comic strip set 45 1933 RKO hit group LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your time and efforts into pursuing your goals. Luck will be with you, and love will be plentiful. You can make purchases that 
in Coconino 4 Greeting card
47 0 letters 
will improve your self-image and your appearance. ***
County features 
48 Plant with pods SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep an eye on individuals who are working for 28 Messes up 5 Frontal, to an you. Be cautious when working with machinery or electrical equipment. You 50 Doesn't ignore anatomist can advance if you're willing to bend to your boss's suggestions. ***
29 Article in Die 25 It opened its first 35 Tense 46 Boxing need 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Changes regarding risky financial ventures
37 "1 000 Oceans" may not be to your liking. Direct some of your energy into doing things with
48 Other: Sp.

Polonius Winston-Salem, 
singer, 1999 children. Creative ideas will be difficult to get off the ground. ***** ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Blessed act? N.C., in 1937 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Problems at home will end in disaster if you 
38 Some women's 49 Neato 

aren't willing to listen to the complaints of loved ones. You will have to give a 
27 1950's-60's
8 Not self-suffi· shoe features 
little more of your time to your personal life. **
-Hungarian pre-51 Bother
cient 40 Peter or Paul, AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Romantic opportunities will surface if you go 
mier Janos
9 Wagered but not Mary 55 Downed on vacation. Communication will be infonnative about other people's private 31 In working order affairs. Listen carefully, but don't divulge your own secrets. **** 
43 One way to the

10 Classic comedy 56 Bit of time: Abbr. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Overspending on children or entertainment will 
figure 32 Less wordy top? 
result in financial limitations. You must be sure to gauge your spending habits 11 "_bien!" 34 Physics particle 44 Baby 57 Publicity and look into doing things that don't cost so much. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will thrive on the unknown. Your interest in becoming as 
12 Reason for an R --------------------­
rating · For answers, call 1 -900·285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a knowledgeable as possible will not only help you achieve, but also bring you an credit card, 1 -800-814·5554. enhanced reputation. The more you discover, the greater your self-confidence 
14 Business card 
-
will become. 

abbr. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
21 Barely make Need advice? Visit Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialasl.mm 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 23 Presto and oth· past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ers Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 24 Out-and-out nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ 
Address ____________________________~------­
City _________ State _______ Zip______ 
.--------------------~--­
-------. 
THE 0BSERV'ER 

-
PORTS

Thursday, February 19, 2004 
page 24 
NO SWIMMING
I 
! I ­
Irish hope to splash in NewYork
t 
Men need depth at Big East championships 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The Irish are ready. And they're bringing all the necessary tools. 
The men's swimming and diving team ho_pes to take home its first Big East title when it invades the Nassau County Aquatic Center in East Meadow, N.Y. to compete in the three-day 2004 Big East Championships Thursday through Saturday. 
"We're going in there with a lunch bucket and a lantern because it is going to take us all day and 'all night," head coach Tim Welsh said. "We're going to keep working at it." 
The squad has met with a signifi­cant degree of success at the annual meet in recent years. After finishing second in both 1999 and 2000, the Irish (8-7) have finished fourth each of the past three years, landing behind Pittsburgh, Virginia Tech and Rutgers. 
Provided that Notre Dame remains competitive, Welsh believes the Irish · have a chance to make a splash in the standings and break the string of fourth place finishes. 
"We're balanced and we're deep," Welsh said. "We have a lot of people at about the same speed and that Photo courtesy of www.und.com 
Sophomore Doug Bauman brings see MEN/page 19 expertise In the backstroke. 

Women look to win eighth consecutive title 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The women's swimming and diving team looks to secure its eighth consec­utive Big East title when it travels to Long Island, N.Y. to compete in the annual Big East Championship Thurs.day through Saturday. 
The No. 21 Irish dominated this sea­son, finishing 8-2 in dual meets and taking home a couple of first place fin­ishes in larger meets. The girls once again figure to be the favorites at the most important meet of the season, and the Irish are confident they have the talent necessary to bring home another title. 
"I don't know that there is that big of a difference between this year's team and previous years," Weathers said. "We're not quite as deep in the dis­tance events as in the past, but we've always been a strong stroke team, and we still are." 
Virginia Tech, Rutgers and Pittsburgh are teams with similar records and skill levels. The three teams are expected to pose the stiffest competi­tion for the Irish. 
"[The Hokies, Scarlet Knights and Panthers] are all fairly even," Weathers said. "It's hard to pick out who will be 
see WOMEN/page 21 


Photo courtesy of www.und.com Meghan Perry-Eaton will dive for the women this weekend. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Creachbaum scores 18 to beat Kalamazoo 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
A strong first half and solid defense throughout the game proved to be key for the Belles Wednesday night, as they defeated Kalamazoo 64­59. 
-
Led by Emily Creachbaum and Maureen Bush, the Belles controlled the pace for 
most of the game and improved their record to 7­17 overall and 2-11 in MIAA conference play. 
Saint Mary's shot 44 per­cent from the floor, including 48 percent in the second half. They out-rebounded Kalama­zoo 35 to 29 and shot 88 per­cent from the line. 
Following two easy baskets to start the game from Kalamazoo forward Ashley Riley, the Belles went on a tear, going on a 10-0 run including two wide open threes from Creachbaum. 
Creachbaum played out­standingly for her third con­secutive game, scoring 18 points on 7 of 13 shooting and grabbing 11 rebounds. She faced tough defense all game, and Kalamazoo (13­11, 5-8) did a great job of keeping the ball out of her hands down low. 
After leading 29-23 at half­time, the Belles went cold to start the second half and 
Kalamazoo went on a  15-0  
run.  
Creachbaum's  two  free  

throws with 12:10 remaining snapped the Kalamazoo hot 
see MAZOO/page 22 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles seek the MIAA title 
Preparation for championships will combine training, rest 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
At the end of their season, the Belles find themselves in a catch-22. 
As Saint Mary's heads into the MIAA Championships this weekend, the team must try to achieve a balance between training and rest. Finding this equilibrium could not only redeem the team's 0-6 MIAA conference record. It could also establish Saint Mary's as a threat at the championships. Furthermore, success at the MIAA Championships would erase the memory of a year that has been eclipsed by the loss of a top swimmer and several injuries. 

Frequent intense training hindered Saint Mary's success against conference rival Alma College this season, said Saint Mary's swimming coach Greg Petcoff. 
"What happened at this meet was that we worked hard the week before and we knew that we would be swim­ming tired," Petcoff said. "We are now bringing the volume down and giving the girls more of a rest." 
Saint Mary's has been utiliz­ing several methods to ensure that the team's confidence will peak during their final week of the season. 
Petcoff has made several adjustments to practice during the past two weeks, customiz­ing each swimmer's workout schedule in order to boost confidence and trim times. 
"The biggest difference is that we try to individualize things a lot more," Petcoff said. 
The team is also carrying on its tradition of pairing swim­mers as "psych partners, which gives each swimmer a person to depend upon in the weeks leading up to the con­ference meet and bolsters the entire team's confidence. 
The coaches have also kept an eye on each individual's physical and mental well­being as tension before the meet increases. 
"It is not so much the com­petition we have to worry about," Petcoff said. "It is hav­ing to watch the girls put so much pressure on them­selves." 
In addition, the swimmers have to concentrate on indi­vidual races instead of worry­ing over the entire meet. The Belles view each competition as an occasion for individuals to do their best for the team. The team hopes for a strong 
see MIAA/page 21 

U) WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
MEN'S BASKETBAll 
MLB 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NBA 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

w 
Chris Thomas 
Owners bicker 
Colorado football 

1--
Co) Jac~ueline Batteast 
Baker contract 
Wake Forest 90 

z cou d win Naismith 
receives honors 
threatened 

terminated
John Henry of the 
Duke 84

1:1: ~ The junior forward is a 
The junior guard has 
Red Sox and George 
Scandal surronds the 

The Boston Celtics 
The No. 15 Deamon 

=: 
finalist to win the National 
led the Irish to three 
Steinbrenner of the 
Buffaloes program. 
Deacons upset the No. 3

could not tolerate 
Player of the Year award. 
straight wins over top 
Yankees have words. 

violation of their alcohol 
Blue Devils. 

conference opponents. 
treatment policy.
D.t;c page 19 
page 17 
page 17 
page 14
page 19 

page 15 
U) 







