

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 12 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8. 2004 NDSM.COBSERVE · 
Vigil will mark 1,000 
U.S. deaths in Iraq war 
By K. AARON VAN OOSTERHOUT News Writer 
1,000. 

When divided, each part repre­sents one mortal life now extin­guished. When joined, the whole burns brightly in the American mind as a tragic symbol of the U.S. mili­tary dead. 
In honor of those 1,000 military personnel who have perished in the Iraq War, two members of the Notre Dame Peace Coalition have organ­ized a local manifestation of the can­dlelight vigil held by the Win Without War National Coalition. 
"We are doing this in gratitude of the sacrifice [soldiers] have made," said Stephanie Gharakhanian, co­head of the Notre Dame coalition. "We realize that these soldiers are not thP statistics that we see on the news." 
Participants will meet at the flag pole on South Quad with their own eandles and walk to the Grotto for prayer and reflection, according to Gharakhanian. 
"This is something that's happen­ing across the nation," she said, 
see VIGIL/page 8 

Bomb scare evacuates LaFortune 
Suspicious packages bring police, bomb squad to campus in eventual false alarm 

By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
Police ordered an evacua­tion of the LaFortune Student Center Tuesday afternoon after the discovery of two sus­picious packages -initially thought to be potential explo­sives -outside the building's east entrance. 
The situation was ultimately declared a false alarm, but not before a South Bend Police bomb squad was called to the scene and about 200 students and staff were evacuated. 
A LaFortune employee dis­covered the first package at about 1:25 p.m.. said duty Notre Dame fire department officer Wayne Bishop, who was one of several security oflicials already on the scene due to a JTiedical call. 
Once police arrived, the employee reported his discov­ery to officers at about 1 :45 p.m., leading police to seal off the area behind LaFortune with tape and to request the bomb squad's assistance. 
Police also began working with student activities officials to evacuate students and staff from LaFortune through the South Quad exit. 
Since LaFortune does not Top, officials discuss suspicious packages discovered in have a PA system, having stu­LaFortune Tuesday. Bottom, a detonation specialist wear­dent activities staff check all ing a protective suit enters the building. rooms seemed to be the quick-
Mooney returns as leader of alma mater 

By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
As the new president of Saint Mary's, Carol Mooney has her work cut out for her. But she wouldn't have it any other way. 
Just three months into her newfound presidency, Mooney is already learning what it takes to lead the 160-year-old institution. 
''I'm getting acquainted little by little," Mooney said, adding that she is excited to finally have students back in South Bend and classes back in ses­sion. 

"Trying to learn over the summer was difficult when there wasn't anyone on cam­pus. Even though I am an alum, it's been a lot of years for me, so I'm learning all over again." 
After working in various posi­
see MOONEY/page 6 
est way to clear the building, said Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities. 
Bishop described the first object as a standard size black leather briefcase, which was eventually identified as a mechanic's tool kit. 
After the discovery of the first package, Bishop said offi­cers immediately began can­vassing the area for other potential explosives or suspi­cious packages. Both Notre Dame Security/Police Director Rex Rakow and Bishop said it is standard police procedure to begin searching for addi­tional suspicious objects after a potential explosive is discov­ered. 
Though police were search­ing the vicinity, the second package was discovered by a male freshman student in a flower pot near the east entrance. The box was wrapped in brown paper and about the size of a CD case. 
"You always look for second­ary devices," Bishop said. "He just found it before we did." 
Because bomb technicians needed to move the second package to examine it. police decided to eventually expand the security tape perimeter around all of LaFortune, Bishop said. 
see SCARE/ page 8 


Board votes to sink Boat Club 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
The unsinkable Boat Club may finally be headed ­slowly -underwater. 
Despite staging a remark­able recovery from the largest raid in South Bend history, the popular student bar could lose its liquor license in the coming months. The Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission voted Tuesday to not renew the permit for the bar. 
Though The Boat Club will be able to appeal the deci­sion if it so chooses -pro­longing its possible demise for at least a month -the board's decision marks a major setback for the bar. All Indiana taverns. must be approved yearly by the ATC or be forced to sell or remit their license back to the 
state. 
The Boat Club could, how­ever, remain open through­out the appeal process, said Bart Herriman, chair of the four-member commission. 
The Bo?.t Club was raided Jan. 24, 2003 by Indiana Excise police, who cited 213 minors -most of them Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students -for underage 
see BOAT/page 6 

OIT reports smooth beginning 
By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 
Wary of last year's back to school woes, the Office of Information Technologies pre­pared for the worst. But to staffers' surprise, OIT has faced a significant decrease in student technology problems so far this fall. 
This year, the OIT help desk received 2,975 calls during the first week of school. In 2003, they received 4,514. 
Wait times for machine repairs are also down. The 
see OIT OFFICE/page 6 

ERIC SALES/The Observer Dozens of personal computers walt to be serviced In the OIT center Tuesday. 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Real men ·drink beer 
Real men drink beer. Period. Obviously, real men don't have to consume alcohol, but I am concerned about the growing tolerance men have for "girly drinks." Although I am not a man, as a bartender in the Kate Gales state of Pennsylvania I think I am quali­Sportsfied to say this. 
production
This summer while serving alcohol, I had a disturbing number of men order drinks like Smirnoff Ices, Mike's Hard Lemonade, Bay Breezes and Bacardi 0 with Diet Coke. I'm sorry, guys, but to me this is socially unacceptable. If you consider your­self a mari, and you choose to drink, you should strive to drink in the manliest way possible. 
Real men drink beer, and not carb­conscious fake beer beverages like Aspen Edge and Michelob Ultra. Low-carb beer is about as manly as two guys sharing a large floral umbrella. Particularly in college, the unique flavor of a Natty Lite or , Keystone should not be undervalued. As you develop into real men, you should be embracing the man's choice beverage -beer. 
Real men drink beer, or maybe a tough, harsh, feel-it-in-your-toes sort of liquor. Swigging tequila, Southern Comfort, whiskey or vodka-prefer­ably straight out of the bottle, with no chaser -proclaims the feats of strength and character you can per­form. Note that manly liquors do not include peach schnapps,.Malibu rum or anything fruit-flavored. Ever. 
Real men drink beer, whether in crowded bars, smuggled into dorms in backpacks or via the always­inspiring keg stand. They can play games like kings, flipcup, and Beirut, also known as beer pong. They can also have case races -the ultimate test of drinking strength and endurance -the marathon of beer. Although drinking games can be haz­ardous to your health, in an appro­priate context the real man should be able to enjoy and, hopefully, be competitive at the table. There's a reason it's beer pong and not Mike's Hard Lemonade pong. 
That same Mike's Hard Lemonade has attempted to give men an alter­native to beer, with a slick ad cam­paign and minimalist packaging. I blame this on the metrosexual move­ment, which has destroyed our mod­ern concept of manhood. Why do men wear pink? This is a concept that baffies me. Pink is not a manly color. Pink is about as manly as two guys having salads for lunch togeth­er while watching Sex and the City. What's next? Men having manicures? Men wearing makeup? Men drinking Cosmopolitans while reading Cosmopolitan? Have they no shame? 
I realize that if someone wrote a similarly gender-biased column ­like about how women shouldn't watch football-I'd probably be offended. Also, I'm not telling people that they need to drink to be manly. I'm just taking a stand and saying that I expect men friends to drink like a Natty Ice champion today. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

• 
CORRECTIONS 
Due: to a reporting error, the Saint Mary's soccer coach was misnamed in an article in Tuesday's edition ofThe Observer. The current coach is Karyn Mackenz.ie. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE AWAY GAME TICKET LOTTERY? 




Cara Spicer Erin Fox Patrick Vassel 
senior senior sophomore 
Lewis Lewis Dillon 
"My first time "I got out in "It's definitely through was a less than five more positive minutes, rm streamlined experience. ,, happy." this year. Everybody seems happy.·· 

.OFFBEAT 
Prison school reunion a hard 'cell' 
AKRON, Ohio -As many as 3,000 students once attended this school, but fmding alumni for an upcom­

_.ing reunion has been diffi­cult. 
Donnell Haynes has been helping plan Saturday's reunion for students who took high school or college courses at the Ohio State Reformatory, a maximum­security prison in Mansfield. and their teachers. 
''I've been working on this for about a month and I've only been able to get hold of 14," said Haynes, himself an alumnus of the school. 
TODAY a:: 

Upstk:k Juggler faces theft charges 
BERLIN, Germany -A man who walked into a shop and amused shoppers by jug­gling with lipsticks and other expensive cosmetics from its counters faces charges after being seen pocketing them during his performance, police said Thesday. 
The juggler had bagged more than 200 euros in cos­metics in the store in the western town of Euskirchen when staff realized some­thing was amiss and called police. 
"People watched the 18­year-old man gradually put the items in his bag." a police 
Chris Orenchuk 
senior O'Neill 

':4 lot better run. It's way more efficient this year. •• 
spokesman said. 
Man fights for fat buzzards 
BOGOTA, Colombia-A Colombian environmentalist is working to save buzzards at a garbage dump who got so fat gorging on trash they couldn't even fly. 
A new, more sanitary garbage disposal center out­side the Caribbean city of Santa Marta is burying waste within 15 minutes -hardly giving the 7,000 hungry buz­zardS time for a light snack, Alex Rodriguez told daily El Tiempo. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
Jon VanWyck 
senior off-campus 
"Way better than the basketball ticket lottery, because not only freshmen got tickets. •• 

Polly Husmann 
senior 
PW 
'fl lot better than last year. [Last year1I waited in line for five hours and didn't even get a ticket. , 

IN BRIEF 
Pianist Jacqueline Smith, 
tenor Paul Appleby and cellist Nicole Thorn will perform clas­sical music Friday from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the Penote 
Performer's  Hall  in  the  
Debartolo  Center  for  the  
Performing Arts.  

Several book signings will be held in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Friday after­noon. From 2 to 4 p.m., Cappy Gagnon will present "Notre Dame Baseball Greats" and Connie McNamara will present "Go Irish (My First Notre Dame Words)." From 4 to 5:3Q p.m., Ted Mandell will present "I Play For Notre Dame" and University President Father Edward Malloy will present "Monk's Travels: People, Places and Events." 
The documentary Super Size Me, which follows one man's arteries-clogging quest to live on only McDonald's for a month, will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. Thursday in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the DeBartolo ticket office. 
Double Domer Emil Bolongaita, now a consultant with the World Bank, will lec­ture Thursday at 8 p.m. on "The Enemy Within: Challenging Corruption in Post-Conflict Countries." The iecture will be held in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium and is sponsored by the Kroc Institute's Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

74 
54 


78 
57 
LLI 

::z:: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
~ 

CJ .9 HIGH 75 

LOW 57 


63 57 

76 52 


73 55 

Atlanta 77 I 66 Boston 76 I 68 Chicago 72/55 Denver 86/ 54 Houston 88 /66 Los Angeles 90 I 64 Minneapolis 72 /54 New York 78 I 70 Philadelphia 80 I 70 Phoenix 101 I 82 Seattle 70/ 56 St. Louis 79/ 59 Tampa 89 I 77 Washington 80 I 72 
·-·-···--------·------------·---­
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Away game ticket lotto avoids past years' pitfalls 
Tutoring program flourishes 
Teamwork for Tomorrow receives record number ofapplicants 

By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 

. The Student Union Board leader­ship avoided the controversies of recent years when organizing the ticket lottery for the Michigan State .away game, which officials said went 
smoothly Tuesday. 
Those picking up a lottery ticket were to go to the club side of Legends from noon to 5 p.m., carry­ing a maximum of six I.D.s. Rows of chairs were set up to accommodate students waiting in line, and organ­izers were waiting at a long table to scan the I.D.s and distribute tickets and instruction sheets. 
SUB president Jimmy Flaherty called the process "flawless," and while he would not comment on the total number of students that showed up for tickets, he estimated that the line was, at its greatest, 30 strong. 
"There has been a good steady flow all day, and the crowd control measures we had set up kept things moving," he said. 

Flaherty reported no student com­plaints, and reaction from those leaving Legends with tickets in hand supported his claim . 
"It wasn't bad at all. I kind of expected there to be a line," said junior Alex Fortunato, who picked up his lottery number at the tail end of the five-hour time slot. "(The lot­tery] was run much better today than it was last year at Reekers." 
Junior Mike Tully agreed. 
"There were only a couple of peo­ple in front of me, and all I had to do was hand [the organizers] the I.D.s to swipe. It was a really easy process," he said. "I tried to go last year when the lottery was all screwed up, and this seemed like it went really well in comparison." 
The winning numbers were drawn after 5 p.m. Tuesday, and are print­ed in today's Observer and posted outside the SUB office. 
Flaherty said that the same system will be used for the Oct. 16 Navy game ticket lottery. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
In early 1998, a group of dissatisfied Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students decided that South Bend needed an effective tutor­ing program, one with a clear structure, purpose and focus on literacy that would help promote 
·change in schools. The students joined together and Teamwork for Tomorrow was born. 
After entering into a partnership with the City of South Bend Housing Authority, Teamwork for Tomorrow was given per­mission to run an after­school program for chil­dren between ages 8 and 12. 
The program is built around five core values: purpose, commitment, mutual trust and respect, affirmation and accounta­bility. Teamwork for Tomorrow aims to improve reading skills through tutoring, to build strong mentor-student relation­ships and to enhance posi­tive social development. 
"Teamwork for Tomorrow serves children who have all the odds stacked against them," said Maggie Lee, president of the program. 
The program began with just two tutoring days a week at Saint Patrick's Community Center in South Bend, but in the six years since its conception it has grown immensely to 
become one of the most popular tutoring projects on campus. 
"When we put out the application for fall tutors, we had no clue how huge the response would be." Lee said. "We had 130 applicants for 30 positions as mentors and had a hard time accepting the fact that we would have to turn 
away 100 Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents who would make incredible mentors." 
Due to the quick suc­cess of the program, Teamwork 
began a replication site last spring at St. Casamir's Parish in South Bend. Originally 
"We had 130 
D a m e · s applicants for 30 Institute for Educational
positions as 
Initiatives,
mentors and had a 
which facili­hard time tates the train­accepting the fact ing of mentors. 
The program's
that we would 
undergraduatehave to turn away executive staff 
IOO ... students.·· also completes a rigorous lead­ership program
Maggie Lee 
and is advised club president by an experi­
serving 20 students twice a week, the new program now runs two smaller pro­grams, with a total of 40 students, Monday through Thursday. 
"We can maintain the small, personal feel of Teamwork and foster really positive relationships between the mentors and kids," Lee said. 
The uniqueness of the program has also been rec­ognized by the South Bend community. In May 1999, it was commended for excellence by the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials. 
"Teamwork focuses on the empowerment of a child through literacy, and feels that if we can help better a child's reading and writing skills, he or she will be able to do their home­work on their own and feel good about the work they did." Lee said. 
Teamwork for 
Tomorrow unit­
ed with Notre 
enced educator. 
Due to the 
popularity of the program, the selection process has become very competitive. 
"I think that the competi­tive nature of Teamwork for Tomorrow reflects the student body's desire to make a difference in the South Bend Community," Lee said. "The remarkable relationships formed are life-changing to all who participate in Teamwork for Tomorrow -mentors and children alike." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 



~----~----------------------------------~ 
page 4 




College leaders gear 
up for annual trip 
in inner-city Cincinnati and the
Catalyst Road 
Highlander Research and 
• Educational Center in New

Trzp promotes 
Market, Tenn_, which trains · l · f · groups in social equality and 
SOCia JUS lCe social justice issues. 
_______.:..._______ Along the way, participants By MARISA SANDAHL are encouraged to engage in News Writer conversation and discussion about social justice and The Catalyst Road Trip, an women's issues. annual program from the Some community leaders Center for Women's who have attended in the past Intercultural Leadership include Mary Morgan, a Saint (CWIL) at Saint Mary's, aims to Mary's alumna who is now CEO create a weekend of conversa­of Girl Scouts of America, and tion with the prospects of social Johnnye Gibbs, a retired social change. work director for the Head Every fall break for the past Start program. three years, CWIL has spon­This year, Bazata feels that sored this unique trip, which is the trip is garnering more open to Saint Mary's students interest. She said she hopes it and faculty, as well as to will prove to be as insightful an women leaders from the experience as it has been in Michiana area. past years. Bonnie Bazata, the woman The trip has also received behind the trip, hosted a 30-attention through the support minute film Tuesday in Carroll of Saint Mary's faculty mem­Auditorium that documented bers. At least five professors, the experiences of six different who teach in areas such as women who attended last year. Women's Studies, Social Work Students, including former stu­and Psychology, are offering dent body vice president Sarah extra credit of some sort to stu­Brown, and faculty, like CWIL dents who participate in this director Tracy Robison, shared trip. their particular journeys in the The community leaders documentary. attending this year were all The trip, which kicks off with sought out through invitation, a short preparatory workshop and the spots have been filled. at Saint Mary's, is a weeklong However, there are still seats excursion that first takes par­available for students, and ticipants to Grailville -a 300-applications will be accepted acre education and retreat until Sept. 24. center in Loveland, Ohio. The trip also includes visits to the Contact Marisa Sandhal at Peaslee Neighborhood Center sand9052@saintmarys.edu 

Charges are dropped against U.S. soldier 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 


Saint Mary's iStore on the rise 
Campus technology outlet lowers student expenses 

Associated Press 

DENVER -Military officials on Tuesday dropped criminal charges against a soldier accused of forcing an Iraqi civil­ian to jump to his death from a bridge over the Tigris River. 
Sgt. Reggie Martinez, 24, was initially charged with involun­tary manslaughter in the Jan. 3 drowning death of 19-year-old Zaidoun Hassoun near Samarra. 
Martinez received a "nonjudi­cial judgment" in the case, meaning he will not face crimi­nal proceedings or jail time. 
A similar judgment was given to another soldier, Spc. Terry Bowman, 21. who was accused of assault for allegedly forcing a second man into the river. That man survived. 
Details of the judgments were not disclosed, Army officials said. 
Involuntary manslaughter charges are still pending against a third enlisted soldier, 1st Sgt. Tracy Perkins, 33. 

The three men from Fort Carson's 3rd Brigade Combat Team admitted forcing two Iraqi curfew-breakers to jump in the river, though they said both men made it safely to shore. 
Also Tuesday, their com­manding officer waived his right to a hearing to determine whether he will be court-mar­tialed. 
First Lt. Jack Saville was charged with involuntary manslaughter and attempting to cover up a death. He also faces an aggravated assault charge from a separate incident in December. 
Saville's attorney did not return calls seeking comment. 
Defense attorneys have dis­puted the circumstances of Hassoun's death after he and his cousin were picked up for being out after curfew. They said investigators bungled the case by not exhuming the body and doing an autopsy. 
• DHIGN CUT&. STYLE* ADVA.NCED COLOJI...ING &. COJI...JI...ECTION 
ByAPRIL THOMAS News Writer 
The Saint Mary's campus iStore reinforces the old adage that -even when it comes to technology-it's not what you know, but who you know. 
Through vendor agree­ments, the iStore allows Saint Mary's students, faculty, staff and alumnae, and Notre Dame and Holy Cross College students to purchase comput­er equipment, software and cellular service at discounted rates. 
Founded last year, the iStore has shown improved profit this ·fall -30 percent. according to Keith Fowlkes, director of Information Technology at the College. But profits are not first on the iStore's priority list. 
"We are looking at this as a student service venture more than [as] a revenue stream for the college," Fowlkes said 
He attributed this focus to a merger between iStore's for­mer most popular vendor, OmniTech, and MPC, which yielded 
"We are looking at
better prices have been down 
and a new this as a student even though stu­standard service venture dents could get the three-year 10 percent dis­
more than [as] a
warranty. count," said 
The popu­revenue stream for Fowlkes. larity of the college. ,, Many students Macintosh's said they simply did OS X operat­not know about the
Keith Fowlkes 
ing system cellular option. boosted sales Information Others had existing of Apple com-Technologies director loyalties with home­
puters. which were on dis­play at the iStore's kiosk dur­ing summer orientation events. Here parents and stu­dents could buy computer sys-terns, accessories, and soft-ware-including a Windows XP Professional update vital for compatibility with the Saint Mary's network. 
"For the first time, students can purchase Microsoft soft­ware at even lower than nor­mal educational discounts," said Fowlkes. 
The iStore upgrade cost stu­dents approximately $70 with shipping. Circuit City's Grape Road location did not display standard upgrades, but offered the entire XP Professional operating system for $299.99. 
ERIC SALES/The Observer 

Laptops are on display at the Saint Mary's campus !Store, which In Its second year of existence has shown a 30 percent jump In Its profits. However, the store Is not just focused on sales -It also assists students with technology needs. 
However, sales of cellular service, though a campus sta­
ple,  have  fallen  
short.  
"NEXTEL  sales  

based compa­nies. 
"I was in the market for a new phone, but I still probably would­n't have [gon·e through iStore] because I'm on a family plan and it seems like too much of a has­sle," senior Katie Nallon said. 
F o w l k e s a c knowledged that the new 

iStore is still gaining recogni­mation is correct," he said, tion among students. To fur­"the campus iStore is fulfilling ther the store's efforts this its purpose." year, Information Technology promoted the service to Contact April Thomas at incoming first-year students. thom3549@saintmarys.edu 
"/ still probably wouldn't have [gone through iStore] because I'm on a family plan and it seems like too much of a hassle., 
Katie Nallon senior 
"Students received the brochure· in April and again during orientation, along with pricing information," he said. 
With advance notice, the iStore predicted students could arrange to address technology needs on campus. It was apparent during orien­tation technology meetings how many first-years took advantage of the service said 
Camille Kelly,  a  Le Mans Hall  
Residential  Computer  
Consultant.  

"At least a quarter to a half" of the students at each meet­
ing raised their hands when asked if they bought from the iStore," she said. 
A year into its existence, the iStore is building a positive reper­toire of patrons, with Resident Network records showing satis­fied, less-incon­venienced cus­tomers Fowlkes said. 
"If our infor­


ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a n1eeting for any Notre Datne freshman students interested in 
• MEN'S STYLING* A VEDA. SPA. MA.NICUJI...H &. PEDICUJI...H *BODY&. FA.CIA.l WA.XING * 
the student athletic training program. 

The meeting will be held on Monday, September 13, at 4:15 p.tn. in the 
CONCEPT SALON 

Joyce Center Athletic Training
OPEN MON'THRU SAT GIFT CERTIFICATES574-272-03I 2 
Roon1.
Designers Traint'"_d in London, Toronto, Los Angel{'".s, Atlanta & Chicago THE COR..NEP-.. OF 5lA.H RD. 23 &. IP-..ONWOOD BEHIND 5UBWA.Y 

Wednesday, September 8, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chinese floods kill over I 00 
BEIJING-Floods and landslides triggered by torrential summer rains have killed at least 143 people and left dozens missing in southwestern China, officials and state tele­vision reported Tuesday. 
Thousands of army and navy personnel and other rescue workers were in Sichuan province helping displaced residents, unload­ing emergency supplies and guiding those trapped in muddy, swirling waters, the offi­cial Xinhua News Agency said. 
Authorities put the enormous Three Gorges hydroelectric project on alert as flood crests passed through the swollen Yangtze River and more rains were forecast, Xinhua said. 
Xinhua said 89 were killed and 41 were missing in Sichuan, while another 54 fatali­ties were reported in sprawling Chongqing municipality, upstream from the Three Gorges. Some 16 people were missing in Chongqing, even as some residents in the area's Kaixian county were being allowed back to their homes, it said. 
Hurricane Ivan hits hard 
ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada -Packing fero­cious winds, Hurricane Ivan made a direct hit on Grenada Tuesday, blasting apart scores of homes and hurling hundreds of the island's landmark red zinc roofs through the air. 
The storm, coming just days after Hurricane Frances, also damaged homes in Barbados, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and appeared set to cross the Caribbean Sea and bear down on Jamaica by Thursday. 
In Grenada, howling winds raged through the hilly streets of St. George's, the capital, thrashing ~oncrete homes into piles of rubble and uprooting trees and utility poles, knock­ing out telephone service and electricity. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Marriage ban struck down 
OLYMPIA, Wash. -Washington's ban on 
same-sex marriage was struck down 
Tuesday by a second judge, who ruled that 
marriage is a fundamental right that should 
be available to gay men and lesbians. 
The case in Thurston County, along with a 
similar ruling in King County, will be 
appealed to the state Supreme Court. One 
critic of the rulings said a drive to amend the 
state constitution to ban gay marriage is all 
but guaranteed. 
Thurston County Superior Court Judge 
Richard Hicks held that Washington's consti­
tution offers broad guarantees of equality. He 
said those guarantees are violated by the 
state's 1998 Defense of Marriage Act, which 
defines marriage as the union of a man and 
a woman and bars same-sex civil marriage. 
U.S. death toll tops I 000 
BAGHDAD -U.S. military deaths in the 
Iraq campaign passed the 1,000 milestone 
Tuesday, with more than 800 of them during 
the stubborn insurgency that flared after the 
Americans brought down Saddam Hussein 
and President Bush declared major combat 
over. 
A spike in fighting with Sunni and Shiite insurgents killed seven Americans in the ·Baghdad area on Tuesday, pushing the count 
to 1,003. · 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gubernatorial debate set 
INDIANAPOLIS -The candidates for gov­ernor have agreed to at least one debate before the Nov. 2 election. 
Gov. Joe Kernan, Republican Mitch Daniels and Libertarian Kenn Gividen will partici­pate in a 90-minute debate sponsored by public television station WFYI at Franklin College on Sept. 28, state Democrats and the Daniels campaign said Tuesday. It will begin at 7 p.m. EST. 
Franklin College is in Johnson County, just south of Indianapolis. 
RUSSIA 

Over 100,000 mourn in solidarity 
Citizens gathered outside the Kremlin in a peaceful protest against terrorism 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Tens of thousands of people answered a government call and rallied outside the Kremlin on Tuesday in a show of solidarity against terrorism, nearly a week after militants seized a school in southern Russia in a standoff that claimed more than 350 lives, many of them children. 
Mourners in the grief­stricken city of Beslan lowered caskets into the damp earth in a third day of burials from the siege, which officials have blamed on Chechens and other Islamic militants. 
The Moscow crowd of about 130,000 people some bearing banners saying, "We won't give Russia to terrorists" and "The enemy will be crushed; victory will be ours" observed a moment of silence at 5 p.m. on the cobblestones near St. Basil's Cathedral, adjacent to the Kremlin. 
The hourlong demon­stration, which was organ­ized by a pro-government trade union, echoed President Vladimir Putin 's call for unity in vast, mul­AP 
Russian citizens, numbered at about 130,000, gathered in solidarity against terror­
tiethnic Russia and sought 
ism In Moscow In response to the killing of over 350 In a school in southern Russia. 
to rally its people against 
enemies he says have aid  heavily advertised on  spontaneous.  bombings.  
from abroad.  state-controlled television,  Militants seized the  The man, originally from  
"I have been crying for  with prominent actors  . school in Beslan on Sept.  southern Russia's  
so many days and I came  appealing to citizens to  1, a day after a suicide  Krasnodar region, made  
here to feel that we are  turn out. Banners bore the  bombing in Moscow killed  money by illegally selling  
actually together," said  white, blue and red of  10 people and just over a  tickets at Moscow's  
Vera Danilina.  Russia's flag, and speakers  week after two Russian  Domodedovo airport.  
Although some in Beslan  echoed Putin's statements  passenger planes crashed  Interfax said. Both planes  
have criticized Putin for  that terrorists must be  following explosions and  that crashed took off from  
not meeting with survivors  crushed.  killed all 90 people aboard  that airport.  
of the tragedy, the presi­ "We came here to show  attacks authorities suspect  In footage broadcast  
dent has avoided the brunt  that we are not indifferent  were linked to the war in  Tuesday on NTV televi­ 
of the anger over the  to the series of terrorist  Chechnya.  sion, hundreds of hostages  
attacks.  acts that have taken  Russian prosecutors  were shown seated in the  
"Of course I support  place," said Alexander, a  Tuesday said authorities  school's cramped gym.  
him, and it's necessary to  student at a Moscow tech- had arrested two people  Many of them had their  
be even more harsh with  nical college who did not  suspected in the plane  hands behind their heads.  
terrorists," said Galina  give his surname.  bombings. The suspects  A ihick streak of blood  
Kiselyova, a history  However, the 18-year­ were not identified. The  stained the wood floor.  
teacher who was at the  old criticized Russian  Interfax news agency cited  NTV said the pictures  
Moscow rally. "We cannot  authorities' handling of  an unnamed source as  which showed the  
let go of Chechnya the  the hostage crisis, and  saying one of the men is  hostages sitting beneath a  
Caucasus is ours."  noted the rally was organ- suspected of selling plane  string of explosives dan­ 
"Putin, we're with you,"  ized by authorities who  tickets to two Chechen  gling from a basketball  
read a banner at the rally.  "told us where and when  woman believed to have  hoop was recorded by the  
The demonstration was  to come" and was not  carried out the Aug. 24  assailants.  



Bush National Guard records found
• 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush was ranked in the middle of his Air National Guard class and flew more than 336 hours in a fighter jet before letting his pilot status lapse and missing a key readiness drill, according to his flight records belatedly uncovered Tuesday under the Freedom of Information Act. 
The Pentagon and Bush's cam­paign have claimed for months that all records detailing his fighter pilot career have been made pub­lic, but defense officials said they found two dozen new records detailing his training and flight logs after The As~ociated Press filed a lawsuit and crafted new requests under the public records law. 
"Previous requests from other requesters for President Bush's Individual Flight Records did not lead to the discovery of these records because at the time President Bush left the service, flight records were subject to retention for only 24 months and we understood that neither the Air Force nor the Texas Air National Guard retained such records there­after," the Pentagon told the AP. 
"Out of an abundance of cau­
tion," the government "searched a file that had been preserved in spite of this policy" and found the Bush records, the letter said. "The Department of Defense regrets this oversight during the previous search efforts." 
The records show Bush, a lieu­tenant in the Texas Air National Guard, was ranked No. 22 in a class of 53 pilots when he finished his flight training at Moody Air Force Base in Georgia in 1969. 
Over the next three years, he logged 326.4 hours as a pilot and an additional 9.9 hours as a co­pilot, mostly in his the F-102a jet used to intercept enemy aircraft. 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Mooney 
continued from page 1 
tions at Notre Dame since 1980, Mooney left her position as an associate provost at the University in May. 
And while she's learning the culture of the College quickly, she's not rushing in to any major projects. 
"It's too early for me to decide if there are going to be any changes," Mooney said. "I think it's a big mistake for a person to come in and make a whole bunch of changes. It's far wiser to learn from those who are here and who have been here." 
Student body president Sarah Catherine White said Mooney has made a large effort to connect with the student community. 
"During freshmen move-in, President Mooney helped the class of 2008 unload their belongings,. and she's now planning dessert nights in each of the residence halls so the residents can meet with her," White said. "Saint Mary's College is in wonderful hands. Under her leadership, I know our college will reach new heights." 
As for Mooney, one of her first moments of connection with the 

student body came during the All 
School Mass held two weekends 
ago at the Church of Loretto. 
"It was a moment of reattach­
ment to this community," she 
said. 

To combat the recent drop in 
enrollment at Saint Mary's, 
Mooney has already taken steps 
to reroute the admissions process. 
After conducting the admissions 
process with a different system 
last year than in previous years, it 
was decided that last year's sys-. 
tern would not be used again. 
Mooney said other changes 
include making small changes to 
the College's marketing materials 
and promoting the new student 
center and on-campus apart­
ments. 

For now, Mooney plans to con­
tinue acquainting herself with the 
campus and making the College 
as functional and student-friendly 
as she can. 
"The future of Saint Mary's is .looking very good," Mooney said. 
"We have a strong faculty, a com­
mitted staff and great students. 
Like all institutions, we have chal­
lenges to overcome, but I'm confi­
dent we can." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Boat 
continued from page 1 
drinking. 
"Certainly having over 200 minors in a bar is a gross violation of the law," Herriman said. 
He added that the com­mission's decision relied heavily on the recommen­dation of the local St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Board, which in its August meeting stood firmly against The Boat Club. 
Generally, the ATC gives significant weight to coun­ty boards because local officials know best what their area desires, Herriman said. 
"We give the local boards deference, [and] you may have some com­munities that put a greater emphasis on cer­tain activities," he said, adding that the St. Joseph Board "feel(s) strongly about minors being served alcohol." 
The Boat Club will be made formally aware of 
the commission decision and will have 15 days to file an appeal with ATC hearing judge Mark Webb. 
Webb could then consid­er both written and oral briefs by The Boat Club and make a recommenda­tion to the committee, Herriman said. The ATC. then makes the final deci­sion, which could be fur­ther appealed through the Indiana court system if the bar owner so chooses. 
"They seldom make it that far," Herriman said. 
Neither Boat Club owner Mike McNeff or the bar's lawyer Mitchell Heppenheimer could be reached for comment Tuesday afternoon. 
The Boat Club faced rel­atively light penalties from ATC prosecutor Fred Bauer, who fined the bar $5,000 and suspended its license for one week. Bauer has said he will waive the suspension if The Boat Club goes one year without further underage violations. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

Opportunities are available in the following areas: 
Computer Science Mechanical Engineering Computer Engineering Math Electrical Engineering Physics 
Systems Engineering Aeronautical Engineering Optics 
• 

Check out our website at rayjobs.com/campus for further information, including our ~~;~'l;l9ftijf{9'~~~~ 
. • . .~'"":::~;;€~-<?< '"'~~ 
Start your JOb search by chclc•ng :ff.l.'!C1r:.~:lo.,t;~ 
,, . .,.~. ""''""~ .. ,_ 
The power of applied intelligence. 
One of the most admired defense and aerospace systems suppliers through 


Raytheon
world-dass people and technology. Our focus is developing great talent. 
C 1004 Raytheon Comp.~ny. All nghts r~tved. Ray1heon IS in~ opponuni~ Mid 01tfirmalive act100 
Customer Success Is Our Mission
employer •nd -lcome-s a~ diversity or OApphcants. u.s. Citizenship 01nd security c!Mrance may be reqUired. 
OIT 
continued from page 1 
turn-around time for less 
serious problems has been 
one to two days, according 
to Katie Christman; man­
ager of the help desk. 
While there is still a wait­
ing list, the wait time is 
down from past years she 
said. Students usually 
encounter a six-day period 
from the time they report 
the problem to when they 
are called to bring in the 
machine. Last year, wait 
times were two to three 
weeks. 
"It has been by far the best back-to-school we've · had in a really long time," said Christman. 
Viruses often hit campus when students return from a break. During the back­to-school weeks last fall, two viruses infected stu­dents' computers, con­tributing to the high num­ber of help desk calls. When students returned from spring break last year, a new virus hit. 
Preparing for another onslaught, OIT implement­ed a Take Charge Tool that students downloaded when· they registered their com­puter. Christman credited this precaution with pre­venting many of the antici­pated problems. 
"It did a fabulous job of getting the network as secure as could be," she said. • 
The year has not been without its glitches. A lightning storm that hit during the first days of school left many with hardware problems. But the majority of problems, especially network connec­tivity and spyware con­cerns, have been less seri­ous Christman said. 
In spite of the year's smoother start, several students who have had more serious computer problems. such as part­replacement, have encoun­tered a longer turn-around time. 
Junior Annie Mantay said she dropped her computer off the second day of class­es, and has yet to reclaim it because the pick-up day continues to get pushed back. 
"I was impressed with [OIT's] willingness to help me and their knowledge of the problem, but they have now had my computer for two weeks," said Mantay. "It is really starting to become an inconvenience, especially since all of the computer clusters always seem to have a line out the door." 
The help desk staff con­sists of aight full time staff and three students, the same as last year. However OIT has hired an addition­al contractor to help with repairs, and is in the process of hiring two more Christman said. 
To avoid computer prob­lems, Christman recom­mended that students check that their virus defi­nitions and Windows updates are current. Machines should be pass­word protected, and file sharing programs, such as Kazaa, should be avoided she said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish @nd.edu 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.80  -0.16  19.89  
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI)  +9.01  +0.21  2.54  
CISCO SYffiMS (CSCO)  + 1.60  +0.30  19.05  
MICROSOH CP (MSFT)  +0.92  +0.25  27.36  
AmJID MATL (AMAl)  -0.06  -0.0 I  15.69  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.97  -0.49  50.12  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.09  -0.47  42.46  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.14  -0.40  34.58  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.93  -0.15  15.97  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.68  43.31  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -3.10  399.40  
PORK BELLIJ? (cents/lb.}  -0.95  95.75  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  I 09.27  
EURO  0.8265  
POUND  0.5627  
CANADIAN$  1.2888  

IN BRIEF 
Funds group settles for over $300M 
DENVER-Invesco Funds Group and its sis­ter company agreed Tuesday to pay $376.5 million and surrender another $75 million in fees to settle allegations of improper trading, a deal that will send nearly all the money to investors harmed by the practice. 
Denver-based Invesco will pay $325 million to resolve litigation alleging it permitted excessive market-timing in its funds, Attorney General Ken Salazar said. Its sister company, AIM Advisors Inc. of Houston, agreed to pay $50 million. 
The money will go to investors in what Salazar called one of the largest settlements yet in the market-timing scandal that has swept the $7 trillion mutual funds industry over the past year. 
..1 believe this sends the strongest message yet that mutual fund companies will be held accountable for behavior that harms con­sumers and average shareholders," Salazar said. · 
Amvescap, the London-based parent of the two companies, did not acknowledge wrong­doing under the settlements. It said it already has taken s(eps to better monitor trading activities and will hire an independent con­sultant to oversee distribution of the money to shareholders. 
Oil prices fall as supply increases 
WASHINGTON -Oil prices fell Tuesday as OPEC's president said supplies were growing faster than demand and traders breathed eas­ier knowing that petroleum production in the Gulf of Mexico did not suffer as a result of Hurricane Frances. 
"There's no news to keep prices from falling," said Ed Silliere, vice president of risk management at Energy Merchant in New York. noting that the market has even shrugged off recent pipeline sabotage in Iraq. 
Light crude for October delivery dropped 68 cents to settle at $43.31 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
With only a thin margin of spare output capacity worldwide, energy markets have been jittery all summer due to the possibility of output disruptions in Iraq, Russia and Venezuela. 
Deficit projected to swell to $442B 
A new high will be set by this year's deficit, topping last year's $375B 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 
federal deficit will swell to 
a record $422 billion this 
election year but fall short 
of even more dire fore­
casts, Congress' top budget 
analysts projected Tuesday 
in a report that became 
instant fodder for both 
political parties. 
The nonpartisan 
Congressional Budget 
Office said the shortfall 
would shrink to $348 bil­
lion next year still the third 
worst ever in dollar terms. 
Last year's $375 billion gap 
was the previous record. 
The projections reverber­ated on the campaign trail. where Democrats immedi­ately criticized President Bush for what will be the fourth consecutive year in which the budget's bottom line has worsened. They linked the figure to the 900,000 net job loss since Bush took office and the recent announcement that· Medicare's premiums will rise by 17 percent next year. 
"W. stands for wrong, the wrong direction for America," said Democratic presidential candidate Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts, invoking Bush's middle initial. 

A $42 2 billion deficit would be the· biggest dollar sign of the economic year has less than four taxes or spending for the amount in history, though growth that is a result of weeks left, running next decade. the shortfalls of \Vorld War President Bush's leader­through Sept. 30. It does That left them ignoring II were larger when the ship on tax relief," said not include money Bush expensive steps that would figures are adjusted to Tim Adams, policy director wants to help Florida worsen deficits. The report even out the impact of for the Bush campaign. recover from recent hurri­said preventing Bush's tax inflation. Such a deficit would canes $2 billion he cuts from expiring as Bush 
"This is absolutely an equal 3.6 percent of the requested Monday and has asked Congress to do unsustainable course for U.S. economy, well below another proposal expected would add $2.2 trillion to the country," said Sen. the 6 percent peak reached soon. the shortfalls through Kent Conrad of North under President Reagan. The government is 2014, including the govern­Dakota, the Senate Budget Many economists consider expected to spend nearly ment's added borrowing Committee' top Democrat. that ratio to be the most $2.3 trillion this year, costs. Easing the alterna­
But Republicans noted important measure of the which means it will borrow tive minimum tax's impact that the forecast was better deficit's economic impact. about one of every five dol­on middle-income earners than the $4 77 billion deficit "Our policies are working lars it spends. would cost another $435 congressional analysts pre­to create a stronger econo­The congressional report billion. dicted in March and the my, more jobs and a lower envisions shortfalls gradu­On the other hand, the $445 billion gap the White deficit," said House Budget ally easing to $65 billion by budget office as legally House expected in July. Committee Chairman Jim 2014 for a 10-year total of required assumed that Coupled with other recent Nussle, R-Iowa. nearly $2.3 trillion. But the extra money provided last data, they said, the new The $422 billion deficit analysts noted that their year for wars in Iraq and numbers were evidence of forecast should prove forecast, meant as a neu­Afghanistan would be an improving economy. largely accurate because tral measuring stick, repeated annually through­
The improvement is "a the government's budget assumed no changes in out the decade. 


US Airways faces trouble with union 
The airline is seeking $295 million ment's most recent proposal to the
Associated Press 

a year in cuts from its 3,000 pilots, general membership for a ratifica­
ARLINGTON, Va. -US Airways' and $800 million from all its unions tion vote. But the four pilot repre­efforts to extract $800 million in cost as part of an overall plan to cut costs sentatives based in Pittsburgh and cuts from its unions and avoid a by $1.5 billion a year. Philadelphia, who have taken a return to bankruptcy suffered a Details of the contract proposal tougher stance throughout the nego­major setback when a divided pilots were not made public, but people tiations, were able to block a ratifi­union refused to submit a contract familiar with the negotiations said cation vote under union bylaws proposal to its membership for a they would have required pilots to because they represent a majority of vote. accept a pay cut of about 20 percent pilots. 
US Airways has warned that a and cuts to their retirement plan of Fred Freshwater, a representative bankruptcy filing could happen in about 50 percent. of the Pittsburgh pilots, said Tuesday the coming weeks if it cannot cut Monday night's vote of the Master he is confident that his vote to block new labor deals with its unions. A Executive Council of the Air Line a contract vote reflected the views of study commissioned by the pilots' Pilots Association revealed long-sim­his constituents. union concluded that bankruptcy mering divisions within the pilots' Pittsburgh has been particularly loomed as soon as mid-September if union. hard hit by US Airways' restructur­the airline could not implement A majority of the 12-member ing, having lost its hub status earlier changes to its current operations. council supported sending manage-this year. 
' 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 8, 2004 

CIA to consider new role 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Sept. 11 commission members thought it would be too dif­ficult to break up the CIA and rearrange the Pentagon's spy agencies under a single national intelligence director, as is being proposed in the Senate, the commission's viee chairman says. 
Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Roberts, R-Kan., wants Congress to transfer the nation's major intelligence gathering from the CIA and the Pentagon to control by a new national intelligence director. 
FBI Director Robert Mueller and acting CIA Director John McLaughlin will get to weigh in on pos­sible changes to the n~tion's intelligence agen­cies at a · Senate Governmental Affairs hear­ing Wednesday. 
Some people have opposed the idea, with Roberts saying Tuesday his plan has been deemed by some as radical and others ~s "~ol~ -.not as many
bold as radical."' 
But former Rep. Lee Hamilton, the vice chair­man of the Sept. 11 com­mission, did not reject the idea when asked about it at a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, calling the idea "a very bold move. It's a lot bolder than we made." 
The commission wanted "achievable and pragmatic" goals, and didn't consider change on the scope that Roberts did, Hamilton .said Tuesday. 
"We just didn't look at it that boldly," Hamilton said. "What we said was the NID needs to control the budget of these groups and we thought that was sufficient. And we did not recommend pulling these agencies out of the DoD because we thought that was too much of a change." · 
Some lawmakers started a push Tuesday for Congress to adopt all the Sept. 11 commission's rec­?mmen~ations for revamp­mg the mtelligence commu­nity. 
"This bill would enact bold and comprehensive reform that changes the status quo, because the sta­tus quo in intelligence and diplomacy has failed us " said Sen. Joe Lieberman, 0­Conn., who introduced the 280-page bill along with Democratic Sen. Evan Bayh of Indiana and Republican Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. 
Reps. Chris Shays, R­Conn.. and Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., will intro­duce a House version. 
Congress is working on several different bills inspired by the Sept. 11 commission, making it unlikely that it will just accept legislation based strictly on the commission report. 




How far would you go for a chance to work for one of the best companies in the entire country? 
How about across campus? 
fully on deception to create what is a genuine national disaster," he said. "Many of us believe that the U.S. should repent and seek atonement for the hatred and violence we've stirred up." 
Aside from the 1,000 U.S. military deaths, the vigil will also honor those "estimated 13,000 [killed Iraqi] civilians," according to Peterson. 
Above all, however, Gharakhanian stated that she hoped to see a big turnout Thursday night. 
"I invite [the Notre Dame commu­nity] to join us," she said. "I hope to see as many people there as can come." 
Contact K. van Aaron 
Oosterhout at kvanoost@nd.edu 
p.m. and the bomb squad departed shortly after. 
Both Rakow and Horvath said no further investiga­tion would be necessary. 
"It fit the protocol of being suspicious," Rakow said. "It falls .in the category of better safe than sorry." 
Rakow, who has been at the University for 23 years, added that Notre Dame has experienced previous simi­lar threats. but nothing serious. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 



Dueling Piano Bar & Grill 
Students and staff who evacuated said they were

Scare 
unaware at the time of the possible explosive threat. 
continued from page 1 
"They just told us to evac­

When the bomb squad uate the building. They arrived, technicians first X­never really told us what rayed the briefcase and was going on," said Karen then used specially-trained Mann. a Lauren Studios K-9 dogs to sniff it, said representative helping with division chief Gary Horvath senior yearbook pictures. 
of the bomb  "I was going  
squad. When  i  n  t  o  
these tests showed no indication of  "Based on the X-ray, we were  Starbucks," Notre Dame sophomore  
explosives,  able to quickly  Chrissy  Igoe  
an agent wearing a bomb suit  determine what we had.,,  said. "I was just mad." Officials  
opened the  reopened  
brief  case  Gary Horvath  LaFortune at  
and  deter­ division chief  about  4:30  

mined that it was not dan­gerous. The squad team then proceeded to use X­rays and a dog to check the second package. When nei­ther produced alarming results, an agent also opened the second package to verify that it contained no explosives. 
"Based on the X-ray we were able to quickly deter­mine what we had " Horvath said. ' 
Rakow said the second package contained a note and small air horn and appeared to be part of a scavenger hunt. 
Bring in this ad for $2..00 admission One per person Must be 21 w/ valid picture ID 

Check out our great food specials!! World fat~tous dueling piat~o show ever ni ht! 

100 N. Center St. Mishawaka (In the 100 Center behind Hacienda) 
(574) 259-7522 
www.rumrunnersusa.com 
We're Quicken Loans and Rock Financial, one of FORTUNE Magazine's Top 100 places to work in America and the nation's #1 online mortgage lender. 
We offer 1 month paid training, mentor programs, excellent benefits, high-end technology, world-class marketing and one of the best work environments you'll ever find. Come see what we're all about. Meet our recruiters on campus or go to quickenloanscareers.com. 
-Dt­


FORTUNE' 
financial 
COMPANIES~ 

A IIICl£1 lOAfS CUIAII TO WORK FOR~ 
Quicken Loans is an equal 

....... -........ 

Meet our Recruiters at the Joyce Center Field House Thursday, September 16th from 3to 8 
100 BEST 

Wednesday, September 8, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
GAZA STRIP 



Palestinians condemn attacks 
Associated Press "No crime goes unpun­was used to train militants to 
ished.," he said. "For sure fire mortars and rockets. In 
GAZA CITY -Palestinian there will be retaliation, and the past month, Hamas Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia the retaliation will be justified assembled a large bomb and condemned an Israeli if it happens." a suicide bomber's explosives
airstrike that killed 14 Hamas While Palestinian leaders belt at the training camp, the militants in unusually harsh always criticize Israeli army added. terms Tuesday, warning the attacks, Qureia's reaction was The attack sparked an out­attack will invite a tough especially harsh, hinting that pouring of rage. Children response from the militant he would tolerate a Hamas stayed home from school, and group and saying retaliation reprisal. In the past, Qureia black smoke billowed over the will be "justified." has distanced himself from city as students burned tires 
Palestinian officials said Hamas, which has carried out in spontaneous demonstra­
Qureia's comments reflected dozens of suicide tions. Some 30,000 people,his people's outrage as well as bombings.Qureia's comments including dozens of militants, his impatience with the politi­appeared to reflect the joined a funeral procession.cal paralysis within the Palestinian public's anger As men fired machine gunsPalestinian Authority. They over the airstrike. But a gov­into the air, the crowd said Qureia told Cabinet min­ernment minister said Qureia screamed for revenge. isters he was so frustrated he also was frustrated by his "Our response to this crime wants to resign. general sense of powerless-is coming, God willing, and 
The Israeli attack, which ness. our twin attack struck a Hamas training camp Palestinian in Beersheba is in Gaza City shortly after mid­leader Yasser only one partnight, came a week after Arafat has ..Our response to of many strikes Hamas ·suicide bombers blew repeatedly to come," a
this crime is com­
up two Israeli buses in the blocked efforts to Hamas militant Israeli city of Beersheba, reform the cor­ing, God willing. shouted over killing 16 people. ruption-plagued and our attack in loud speakersBut Israeli Prime Minister Palestinian mounted on a
Beershedba is only 
Ariel Sharon said Iate Authority, while car.
part ofmany
Tuesday that the attack was Sharon refuses to Since the not Israeli retaliation. negotiate with strikes to come. •• current round "The action against Hamas the Palestinians. of fighting with was not revenge for the horri­"We as a t h e
· Hamas militant 
ble murder in Bersheba," he Cabinet are not Palestinians told a party gathering in able to do any-began in Jerusalem, "rather, part of thing," the minis-September 
our continuous war against ter quoted Qureia as saying. 2000, Israel has frequentlyterrorism which we will not "I am going to Arafat. I will targeted militants. end until terrorism is tell him we can't work like But Tuesday's attack was stopped." this," Qureia said, waving a one of the deadliest. The 
Early Wednesday, about 25 resignation letter in front of strikes are usually aimed at Israeli tanks moved into them. very specific targets -usual­northern Gaza. an area where It wasn't immediately clear ly top leaders or militants on militants fire rockets at Israeli whether Qureia would follow their way to an attack. towns just outside Gaza. No through on the threat. He has "No one is immune when he clashes were reported. Israeli made similar threats in the carries out terrorist attacks military sources said a limited past -and briefly stepped against innocent Israeli civil­operation was underway. No down in July -only to back ians," Foreign fv1inister Silvan gunfire or casualties were down under pressure from Shalom said. reported. Arafat. The airstrikes have enraged
The airstrike was one of the An Israeli official, speaking the Palestinians and drawn deadliest of dozens Israel has on condition of anonymity, international criticism, partic­launched since fighting broke brushed off Qureia's com­ularly because of the frequent out with the Palestinians four ments on retaliation, saying civilian casualties. Hamas years ago. Thousands of the prime minister lacked the said all 14 people killed Palestinian mourners in Gaza power to do anything. Tuesday were militants. clamored for revenge, and The Israeli helicopters In Washington. Secretary of Hamas vowed to avenge the struck the Hamas camp with State Colin Powell urged attack. five missiles early Tuesday, Israel and the Palestinians to 
Qureia, speaking at a killing 14 militants and seek a way o·ut of their con­Palestinian Cabinet meeting wounding 30 other people. flict. Of the airstrike, Powell in the West Bank city of The army said the camp, said, "I don't think they (retal­Ramallah, said he was out­located in the Hamas strong­iatory raids) are very helpful. raged. hold of Shajaiyeh in Gaza City, The situation is very tragi~." 

IRAQ 
Rebels storm house, kidnap aid workers 
Two Italian women are among the captives 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Gunmen raided 
the house of Italian humani­
tarian group Tuesday and 
abducted four hostages, 
including two Italian women, 
in a bold daytime assault in 
the center of the capital. wit­
nesses and police said. 
About 15 men in olive green uniforms swarmed outside the office used by the group, "A Bridge To ... ," witnesses said on condition of anonymity. The men claimed to work for the office of interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi -a charge Iraqi authorities flatly denied. 
Armed men stormed into the office, placed guns to the heads of the aid group's guards and grabbed the four workers, said Jean-Dominique Bunel of the NGO Coordination Committee in Iraq. An Iraqi woman resisted, but the kid­nappers subdued her and threw her into a car and sped away, witnesses said. 
"We had no sign of danger," Lello Rienzi, a spokesman for the group, told reporters in Rome. He said the women "believed they were working in complete security." 
The two Italians were identi­fied as Simona Pari and Simona Torretta, both 29, the group said. The two Iraqis were identified as Raad Ali Aziz and Mahnaz Bassam. 
The organization was sup­plying water and medicines to Fallujah. Najaf and Baghdad. 
The attack was only the sec­ond known kidnapping of for­eign women since the wave of kidnappings began earlier this year. A Japanese aid worker captured in Fallujah in April was released a week later. 
In Italy, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi assembled his min­isters of defense, interior and foreign affairs, as well as with · intelligence officials. for an emergency meeting, his office said. Foreign Minister Franco Frattini spoke with his Iraqi counterpart, who "assured the public security forces' full commitment" to obtaining the safe release of the two women, according to a statement released by Berlusconi's office. 
Frattini also conferred with his counterparts from Kuwait, United Arab Emirates and Qatar, according to the state­ment. 
The recent wave of kidnap­pings of foreigners has alarmed the international community here, prompting organizations to review their security options. 
However, Bunel said he knew of no immediate plans by other private aid organizations to evacuate the country because of the kidnapping. A car bombing last year at the offices of the international Red Cross prompted many aid groups to flee the country, although some returned. 
Insurgents have kidnapped more than 100 foreigne-rs since the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003. Numerous Iraqis have also been abducted by criminal gangs demanding ransoms. 
In another ongoing hostage drama, France's foreign minis­ter, Michel Barnier, was pre­pared to return to the Middle East at any time to help secure the release of two French jour­nalists held in Iraq even as experts continued to analyze 
whether a  ransom  demand  
posted  on  a  Web  site  was  
authentic.  

Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin said a day earlier that the ransom demand had "pro­voked a lot of skepticism from experts." 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Herve Ladsous said the Web posting, found Monday on a site known for militant Muslim comment, was still being examined. 
Signed "the Islamic Army of Iraq," the name of the group 

that has claimed responsibility for the kidnappings. the demand gave France 48 hours to pay a ransom and accept other conditions. 
When it's the presti­

gious luce scholarship, 
The statement -written in unsophisticated Arabic and

finding you an exciting 
lacking the hallmarks of such messages -raised doubts

1-yearjob in the Far 
among regular contributors on 
Islamic Web sites. A new message Tuesday, 
East, strategically cho­

sen to match your 
apparently sent by the contrib­utor who sent the other

career goal. 
demands claimed proof of authenticity would come "the day you see the heads of the
Apply by 
French severed if they don't agree to our demands." The
N ovcmbcr 5, 2004. 
message also claimed the group was linked to al-Qaida. 
The journalists, Christian Chesnot and Georges Malbrunot, disappeared Aug.
Interested? 29 or 
20 on a trip to the southern 
Iraqi city of N ajaf. Five other Italians have been 
younger? Have you DO\V 
(or will you have by the 
kidnapped in Iraq, two of whom have been killed. In
end of1v1ay 2005 ) an ND 
April, four security guards were abducted, and one was
degree? No east-Asia 
executed. The other three
experience? 
were released. Last month, an Italian freelance journalist was kidnapped near Najaf and
For more informatio.n contact Nancy O'Connor at63l-5432 
killed. 




Choose the hard road: vote Bush 

This election should come as no surprise to many. The issues grind down to two starkly contrasting courses of action for America. Before us are the "two roads diverged in a yellow wood" described by Robert Frost. Although 
Tom

John Kerry may claim 
Rlpplnger

the contrary, his road is the easy way out. We 
Confessions
apologize, back down, 
ofa campus 
tighten our economy 
conservative
through good old protec­tionism, and increase the size ofgovernment programs in a way that plea'ies the most public opinion polls. Democratic politicians depend on one thing to spearhead these initiatives, and those are the politics of class warfare. 
Although the tax cuts were broad, the fact that the rich also received one is played up to create animosity in the lower cla<;ses. These are the politics of Marxism 101, by duping the poor into government dependency before they have a chance to do it on their own. For Democrats to take power, it is necessary for them to portray Republicans as evil, selfish, capitalist peo­ple that somehow. want to keep them in perpetual poverty for their own personal gain. Is Dick Cheney really some evil Bond villain that wants to enslave you in a salt mine and turn the world into a labyrinth of crisscrossing oil pipelines? I think we are all grown up enough to stop believing this childish rhetoric coming from "informed" sources like Michael Moore. 
Why didn't the Communists win the Cold War, in that case? Their society was far more egalitarian than ours. The whole Soviet bloc had free health care and every­one was guaranteed a job. It would've been a Democrat's dreamland. People lived in equal drab tenement blocks but there weren't any ghettos or mansions, right? Why would people try to escape over that Berlin Wall? I mean, why they would want to escape to countries full of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
horrible capitalist imperialist bigots such as ourselves is beyond me. 
The answer is, to seek the freedom to determine a destiny independent of gov­ernment interference. In the year 2004, why do Democrats want to go back to what has failed? Why do they want to go back to the same arguments? In the face of being the most successful nation in the his­tory of the planet responsible for one-third ofthe world's productivity, Democrats want to create a vision oftwo Americas at the time we should be most united against terrorism. We won the Cold War through economic freedom and a strong defense. 
Democrats call an economy with only 5.4 percent unemployment economic ruin when, under Clinton in 1996, they called it economic success. Don't they realize what another terrorist attack would do to the world economy? All it would take is one attack on Los Angeles harbor to cripple 30% of our imports. Please, with all due respect; put your priorities in perspective! Do you elect a president that is proposing an outsourcing of our security to the inter­national community, and has a long track record of voting against defense spending during our most desperate hour? 
If you are a Republican, you say no very quickly. First and foremost, this president has proven that he will provide the securi­ty needed to protect his citizens regardless of his popularity. Ruling out the occasional dirty bomb or anthrax attack is usually a prudent step to keeping the economy sta­ble. Second, by creating a pro-growth economy, the president has turned around a recession he inherited from Clinton in 2000 into a growing economy. Read the January 2004 report ofthe Congressional Joint Economic Committee for further information on how the tax cuts are help­ing our economic recovery from the tech bubble burst and Sept. 11. At the same time, Social Security should receive a much needed overhaul so we don't perpet­uate a Depression-era system that is pro-· jected to give us a 1 percent or less return on our money and cause us to go bankrupt in 2018. President Bush will address this issue with innovative reforms, while the 
Democrats w.ill address it with tax hikes and benefit cuts for our generation. Health care can and will be innovated by this president without Washington taking over through Health Savings Accounts, Tort Reform and respect for the dignity of human life. One must only look as far as Canada to realize the budgetary night­mares of a government that runs the · healthcare system. 
Instead ofturning government into a one-stop shop for all of life's problems and manipulating the poor into our viewpoint, let's keep the country on track to economic recovery and increasing security. Unfortunately, this is a tough sell when you can easily blame all of life's problems on evil corporations, power structures, and everything except personal responsibility. Why don't we take the hard road? Let's take these terrorists down, expand eco­nomic liberty, optimize our social pro­grams to get our government in the black and keep this nation's policies in line with principles of good sense, courage and per­sonal integrity. "I shall be telling this with a sigh. Somewhere ages and ages hence: 1\vo roads diverged in a wood, and I-I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference!" I urge my gener­ation to stand up to the terrorists, the dic­tators, and support economic policies that encourage innovation over stagnation. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political sci­ence major. He supports President Bush and is the Co-President ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you gamble in your dorm? 
·rhere is no such thing as a free lunch.,. 
Milton Friedman
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
economist
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


The candidate and the agitator 
History is being made in Illinois. The U.S. Senate race, between State Senator Barack Obama and Alan Keyes, features the first ever senatorial campaign between two black candi­dates from the major parties and will produce the fifth black 
U.S. Senator in our nation's history. This race, while not close, presents an interesting example of political 
Kamaria

discourse in America. Illinois faces definite 
Porter

problems. Recent figures show that median 
income figures of the state have fallen $5,7 52 
since the reign of President Bush began. Breaking the 
Manufacturing jobs continue to disappear Habit 
from the landscape, while the few jobs creat­
ed pale in comparison in terms of wages and benefits. 
Barack Obama, a magnificent contender in this race since the 
Democratic primaries, vigorously tours around the state talking 
to people about real issues and real solutions. He has substan­
tive plans to improve education, the economy, and health care 
for Illinois residents. After giving the most impressive and 
uplifting speech at the Democratic National Convention in 
Boston, Obama has not become complacent with his "rising 
star" status by holding public events all over the state weekly. 
Alan Keyes from Maryland-who is so right-wing he scares 
some Republicans-moved to Illinois last month to replace the 
disgraced Republican challenger in the senate race. Keyes' 
decision to relocate for this campaign is highly suspect consid­
ering his scathing critiques of Senator Hillary Clinton's senate 
campaign in New York. 

Yet, beyond not being from the state, Keyes' statements 
reflect his being out of touch with not only Illinoisans, but also 
most Americans. His only plan for the economy details abolish­
ing the income tax and instituting a national sales tax. This 
plan would obliterate the infrastructure for progressive income 
tax policy -which promotes social equity -and replace it 
with strictly regressive tax policy. Keyes spends more time on talk shows making inappropriate metaphors and playing the culture war game. Abortion, school prayer and institutional ·homophobia are his only talking points for Illinois voters. In a 
state with failing schools. a depressed economy and struggling 
workers, the Republican campaign is politically bankrupt com­
pared to Obama's. 

Additionally, Keyes' rhetoric of division extends to racial mat­
ters. In this historic campaign for black Americans, Keyes 
declared that Obama-the son of a Kenyan immigrant and 
American mother-should not call himself an African­
American because his ancestors were not slaves in America .. 
Keyes' move to separate and discriminate within the black 
community -while not supporting Affirmative Action that 
exists to support black descendants of slaves -disgusts me as 
a black American. Slavery wounded the heart of blacks exploit­
ed in the Americas and continental African communities that 
lost their members. The legacy of slavery belongs to all blacks 
and should be a point of unity and constructive relationships 
within the United States and between the United States and 
African nations in peril. 

The Illinois senate race -and the presidential race -show­cases conflicts between two types of ideas and two types of political discussion. Obama exemplifies political discourse of meaning. He travels and speaks about issues of worth and con­sequence like job creation, public school improvement and expanding health insurance possibilities. Obama furthers a message of inclusion, progress and hope for the future. He rec­ognizes differences between our citizens, but more importantly sees and focuses on what brings Americans together. 
Keyes falls in line with the strategies of Bus4fRove -to alien­ate, inflame, and distract voters from true problems. The Republican Party has taken the dialogue from culture wars between choice and life, homophiles and homophobes, NASCAR and PGA enthusiasts, lattes and instant coffee and fundamen­talists and atheists to divide Americans and further their real agenda of free market economic policies that endanger work­ers and consumers here and abroad. Whether outright lies or insincere promises, the Republican Party excels in the divide­and-conquer politics of turning neighbors against each other and increasing unrest and unease. 
For too long, political discourse has been an embarrassment. As one nation, our fates intertwine in a myriad of ways. Politics should feature discussion of how all Americans can live the promise of our forebearers. The late Sen. Paul Wellstone of Minnesota said it best: "Politics is not about power. Politics is not about money. Politics is not about winning for the sake of winning. Politics is about the improvement of people's lives. It's about advancing the cause of peace and justice in our country and the world. Politics is about doing well for the people." 
Barack Obama, John Kerry and the Democrats employ this ideal in their campaigns-and will carry it to Washington. If their opponents continue with their distracting rhetoric, we as voters and constituents must see beyond politics of fear and alienation to constructive policy makers who will advocate for the common good in public service. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major and an Illinois Democrat in exile. She can be contacted at kporter@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Verify sources before making accusations 
I am enrolled in the seminar to be taught by Tariq Is it so wrong for Ramadan to present to us an Ramadan, and I have been closely following the cov­alternate viewpoint? I find it hard to believe that he erage of this case. Upon reading Kathleen planned to come here under the guise of profes­
Sappey's letter, I noticed that many of her sorship so that he could convert the entire arguments are those that appeared in campus, as Sappey seems to fear. He an Aug. 29 editorial by Daniel Pipes came here knowing that his religion in The Chicago Tribune. Ramadan would place him into a tiny minori­refuted each of these arguments ty, yet this did not stop him. two days later. Even ifyou do Perhaps our student body needs care to read Ramadan's some ofthis courage in order response, some of you might to step outside our comfort still be swayed by the insidi­zones. I would feel cheated ous libel and slander that has out of tens of thousands of haunted Ramadan. I can only dollars ifI did not learn hope that you might be something at Notre Dame moved to investigate some of that challenged my own his works before passively beliefs. accepting others' interpreta­If Ramadan's visa was tions as your own. revoked for a legitimate rea­
I encourage Sappey to care­son, of which the Department fully check her sources before of Homeland Security can pres­"quoting" Ramadan. She claims ent concrete proof, then. and 
that he wrote, "And into the spiri­only then, Sappey, will I accept this tual void left by Judaism and case as protection of national securi­Christianity, Islam can enter and over­ty. Until then. it is merely evidence of come, no longer enduring modernity. but rampant, unfounded fear and silencing of 
islamicizing it." Upon investigation, one will easily discover that this quote is attributed to Vatican reporter Sandro Magister, attempting to characterize Ramadan's viewpoint. To follow such a gross mis­quotation with a horridly disrespectful comment such as "I guess we should all get our prayer rugs ~ out now" is nothing more than yet another instance of slander against Ramadan and his faith. 
U-WIRE 

Nader rebukes Bush, Kerry 
President Bush wasn't the only presidential hopeful in town last week. 
Independent candidate Ralph Nader spoke at Columbia University's 
Rebecca

Miller 
Aronauer

Theater last 
Tuesday at 
Columbia Daily 
the Campus 
Spectator

Anti-War 
Counter-
Convention. Nader, who is run­
ning for president on the 
Reform ticket, has petitions 
under way or in court to get on 
the ballot in 46 states. 
"The [Democratic National Committee] is obstructing our attempt to get on the ballot ... they want to deny the opportu­nity of millions of voters to vote for me," he said. 
In 2000, Nader ran for ,presi­dent as a member of the Green Party with hopes not of becom­ing commander-in-chief, but of gaining 5 percent of the popu­lar vote so the Greens would get federal matching funds in 2004. 
Nader received three percent' of the vote. But many Democrats believe his presenc·e on the Florida and New Hampshire ballots took votes away from AI Gore, allowing Bush to win those states by a small margin. For this election, the Greens backed David Cobb, who is not campaigning in swing states. · 
With New York secured as a blue state, many disenchanted voters feel they can vote safely for Nader if his petition to get on the state's ballot is approved. Nader only briefly mentioned his campaign during his speech, spending most of his time criticizing his political foes. Nader noted Bush's lack of military service and blamed his aggressive positions in Iraq on his incomplete understanding of war. 
"War to George W. Bush is not something that Dwight Eisenhower experienced," Nader said. He also compared Bush's leadership in Iraq with Saddam Hussein's dictatorship, and called the rebuilding of Iraq a failure. 
But Nader did not stop with Bush, attacking Democrats almost as harshly. He repri­manded liberal members of Congress for not building a movement to impeach the pres­ident for the war in Iraq and rebuked Democratic presiden­tial candidate Sen. John Kerry, Mass., for sharing many of Bush's stances. 
He scolded voters as unabashedly as he criticized his political opponents. 
"Millions of voters refuse to exert the level of diligence to become informed citizens as they do to become sports fans," Nader said, blaming ignorance for bad political leaders. 
Like a conventional presiden­tial rally, cheers from the audi­ence interrupted Nader several times as he spoke about the problems of American politics. The crowd rose to its feet when he finished his speech. 
In a question-and-answer session reminiscent of ..Ask President Bush," one student 
differing ideas. I wasn't aware that this was in the job description of the Department of Homeland Security. 
Monica Boomer sophomore Lyons Hall 
Sept. 7 
asked what he could do to make third parties more promi-­nent. Without much pause, Nader responded, "It can't be done with just one cycle.... The system is very, very rigid. It requires a 12-to a 16-year effort. You might see some dif­ference in your 30s." 

Many supporters in the audi­ence could empathize with Nader's struggles. Adam Lhimienti collected signatures for Nader in New York and said that the people he approached were often rude. 
"I faced a lot of hostility from a lot of people," Lhimienti said. 
But Lhimienti believes Nader should be on the ballot because "he opens up some debate that's neglected by the media and politicians and makes some headway for a third party." 
Sophomore Taylor Black cam­paigned for Dennis Kucinich during the primary and is undecided between Kerry and Nader. 
·'I'm starting to feel less com­fortable voting for Kerry because of his lack of opposi­tion to Bush," Black said. 
"If Democrats want to win elections, they should go after the people who don't vote," Black said. 
This column originally ap­

. peared on Sept. 7, 2004 in the Columbia Daily Spectator, the daily publication at Columbia University. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
E
page 12 


Wednesday, September 8, 2004 Wednesday, September 8 , ~ 


Snite Museum presents photography exhibits 
Exhibit features various pieces ofblack and white photography from Ansel Adams and various black and white work from Richard Serra 
because he allowed many of his prints upward into a town with a graveyard, person. "Billie Holiday" (1999), and "Muddy
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 

to be used in Sierra Club campaigns. shadowed mesas, snow-capped moun­The 37 works currently on view at Waters" (1987). Others like "The Moral 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Adams actually had a series of almost tains, ephemeral clouds and the full the Snite museum were chosen by the Majority Sucks" (1981) make an inter­
religious revelations while hiking in moon. The multi-layered composition artist and Allison Kemmerer, curator of esting statement. Works like "Iceland," 
The most notable parallel between California's High Sierra, and his photo­is highlighted by the vast expanse of the Addison Gallery of American Art, "Paris" and "Reykjavik" reveal the the two new exhibits at Notre Dame's graphs are essentially a quest to cap­black at the top of the photograph. In Phillips Academy. inspiration of places on the artist. Snite Museum of Art is that they are ture the divine movement and change this work, Adams captures not only the The use of varied techniques includ-Serra is well-known in the art com­both in black and white, but the simi­· of nature. fleeting natural munity as a larities end with Transitive elements, such as the world around us, sculptor, and that lack of color. but also the his works The natural photog­evanescent have been raphy of Ansel nature of exhibited in A d a m s human life The Dia Photographs from with the Center for the the collection of inclusion of Arts in New John and Barbara the grave­York, The Glynn and the bold yard. Museum of images of Richard "The Golden Contemporary Serra: Large Scale Gate Before Art in Los Prints are stylisti­the Bridge, Angeles, the cally different, but S a n Guggenheim both are equally Francisco, Museum in intriguing. 1932" pro­Bilbao, Spain 
As a concept, vides a con­and the black and white crete example Museum of nature photographs of the chang­Modern Art in don't seem like the ing nature of New York. best idea because life because it Recently, they neglect" one of shows the bay Serra was the most prominent area prior to given $20 mil­features of the nat­the construc­lion to create ural world, which is tion of the a permanent its abundance of Golden Gate installation of color. The collection Bridge and sculptures for of Ansel Adams' the urban Guggenheim work reveals that sprawl of the Bilbao. nature photographs city. To see The exhibit can be just as effec­the site of a of Ansel tive, if not more, now major Redwoods, Bull Flat Creek, California, 1.960 by Ansel Adams. Adams is known Adams' work than their full-color metropolis as for his black and white photographs of nature. will be at the relatives. Without an uncluttered Snite from the distraction of natural land-Sept. 5 color, the intricate scape has an especially profound ing paint stick, etching and color litho­through Oct. 31 in the Milly and Fritz details that are impact on the modern viewer: graph on different types of paper gives Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery, and often overlooked Richard Serra began making each work a different texture, appear­Richard Serra's work will be on view can be appreciated prints in 1972 and continues to ance and unique character. Serra from Sept. 5 through Nov. 14 in the in its full splendor. do so to this day. He uses print­works entirely in black and white O'Shaughnessy Galleries West and 
Ansel Adams is "Billie Holiday" by Richard Serra is one of the many Serra making in bold new ways, and because he wanted to avoid the con­Entrance Atrium. The Snite Museum is one of the most his works must be experienced nections with nature that color evokes located on the Notre Dame campus,
pieces currently on display at the the Snlte Museum. 

famous photogra­in person in order to grasp their and instead focus on the structural and gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. phers in the world, full impact. On paper, Serra's aspects of his work. on Tuesday and Wednesday, 10 a.m. to but he is also one of the most misun­yv~ather or light, emerge as the central work seems to be nothing more than The names given to Serra's works 5 p.m. on Thursday through Saturday, derstood. Many think that he was an focus of Adams' work. The best exam­black shapes on white canvases, but are an especially interesting aspect of and 1p.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday._Admission environmentalist who took photos for ple may be in this work "Moonrise, the sense of mass and movement cre­viewing them. Many are named after is free. use in environmental campaigns, but Hernandez, New Mexico," in which the ated by his deceptively simple work is famous individuals, such as "Rosa he has only gained this reputation foreground of sagebrush expands incredibly powerful when viewed in Parks" (1987), "Bessie Smith" (1999), Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 




Richard Serra's Bessie Smith, 1999, an etching on tan Somerset Satin paper. 
------------------------------------~
..---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


2004 page 13 
Notre Dame Cinema starts with a bang 
Sold out screenings show a strong interest in documentaries and 
independent films 

By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
Do you ever get tired of heading to Movies 14 for the same old Hollywood hits? 
This year Notre Dame is offering a unique chance to catch some of those unique and fascinating films you don't always get a chance to see, but only if you act fast. 
Since the Notre Dame Presents film series opened on Aug. 26 five of the six shows have sold out, demonstrating a high demand for the intelligent and less mainstream films the series presents. Both showings of "Control Room" the first week sold out with an estimated 100 to 200 people being turned away. The first three showings of "Fahrenheit 9/11" on Sept. 2 and Sept. 3 also sold out, and only 16 seats were left open at the last 
10:00 p.m. showing that Friday. 
This semester the series focuses on documentaries, including several recent high-profile documentaries dealing with the war in Iraq and American politics. 
Jon Vickers, Cinema Manager for the PAC, has also scheduled critically acclaimed films at the Vickers Theater in Three Oaks, Mich. for several years. 
"What we did was brainstorm a list of potential films ~ .. and started choosing films we thought we wanted to show," Vickers said. "Coincidentally, a number of them were documentaries, so we decided to focus on documentaries for the fall." 
Other films in the series include a doc­umentary about the life of Portuguese singer Amalia Rodrigues and the earliest screen adaptation of Bram Stoker's "Dracula." 
The series was introduced to make use of the' Browning Cinema in the new Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. "The Browning," as it is colloqui­ally called, is the only THX-rated theater in Indiana. The rating requires such details as strict standards for the equip­ment, seating and acoustic neutrality of the space. 
The theater seats 200 people, which is obviously not enough to satisfy the University's and local community's demand for the films that have been scheduled. 
Administrators at the PAC decided to run a lighter schedule during the the­ater's first semester to avoid having the films and other opening events for the PAC overlap. Beginning in the spring Notre Dame Presents will feature differ­ent films most Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays. While this will offer a wider variety of films, it will only offer 400 peo­ple the chance to see every film, which could be a problem if scheduled films attract as much interest as the first two. 
"If things continue to go well this fall we'll continue to evaluate whether we need to add screenings," Vickers said. 
In the meantime PAC administrator Tom Barkes encourages people to buy their tickets early if they're particularly interested in a show. 
"I If people come) the morning or after­noon of the screening they should have their ticket," Barkes said. "There is absolutely no guarantee that we will have tickets at the ticket office right before any of the screenings." 
Tickets for all shows will cost $3 for students, $5 for stafT and $6 for the gen­eral public. The box offkr is open from noon until 6 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Tickets go on sale the Monday before each shov.·. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


tre 
I 

FIIIICIIIIIIII 
SUPER SIZE ME [96 minutes) Sep1.9 1p.m. &10 p.m. 
BON VOYAGE 1114 minutesJ Sept.23 1p.m. &10 p.m. 
OUTFOXED mminutesJ .. Sept. 3D 1p.m. &10 p.m. 
ART Of AMALIA 190 minutesJ Oct.14 1p.m. &10 p.m. 
AMERICA'S HEART AND SOUL 184 minutesJ Oct.15 Jp.m. &10 p.m. 
NOSFERATU 190 minutesJ WITH LIVE MUSICAl ACCOMPANIMENT BY PERCUSSIONIST CAROLYN KOEBEl Oct.28 1p.m. &10 p.m. 
"All THE PRESIDENTS FILMS" Oct.30 11 a.m. to 12 a.m. 
11a.m. 119601 PRIMARY 12:30 p.m. 119641 THE BEST MAN 3p.m. 119931 THE WAR ROOM 5p.m. 120001 JOURNEYS WITH GEORGE 
1p.m. 119981 PRIMARY COlORS 10 p.m. 119911 WAG THE DOG 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
HOCKEY 
Americans advance to semis of World Cup 
! Associated Press 
l 
ST. PAUL -Keith Tkachuk
( 
I 
~ had four goals and an assist to lead the United States into the World Cup of Hockey semifinals 
with a 5-3 victory Tuesday
\ 
\ night over Russia. The St. Louis Blues forward 
i normally the target of boos at the Minnesota Wild's Xcel Energy Center was the differ­ence for the Americans, who avenged last week's loss to the Russians by eliminating them from the tournament. The United States will play either Finland or the Czech Republic, who advanced from the European Division, on Friday night in St. Paul. Canada hosts Slovakia in Toronto on Wednesday with the final semifinal berth on the line. After Russia made it 2-all with a quick goal in the third period, Tkachuk had a chance 

to score after Russia's Dmitry Kalinin turned the puck over in the neutral zone. His shot deflected off a defender's stick, but Scott Gomez of the New Jersey Devils was there to punch a shot past goalie Ilya Bryzgalov at 4:25. 
Just 22 seconds later, Bill Guerin made a nice pass from the left circle to a cutting Tkachuk, who scored his fourth goal of the tournament to give the United States a 4-2 lead~ 
Russia pulled to 4-3 with 8:56 to play when Ilya Kovalchuk's slap shot from the left circle beat Robert Esche's glove dur­ing a four-minute power play. Russia couldn't convert on the second half of the advantage, created when Brian Leetch cut Dainuis Zubrus in the face with a high stick. 
But the Americans played tight defense the rest of the way and Tkachuk added an empty netter with 54.7 seconds to play to seal the victory. 

Canada's Mario Lemieux also scored four goals in a game during the 1987 Canada Cup, the tournament that predated the World Cup. 
Again opting for a younger lineup, U.S. coach Ron Wilson scratched Brett Hull, Craig Conroy, Brian Rolston and Eric Weinrich. The quicker team helped defeat winless Slovakia last week for the United States' lone win in round robin play, and Wilson didn't want a repeat of his team's lackluster play in its 3-1 loss to Russia. 
Last week, the Russians started off fast against the slug­gish Americans. On Tuesday, the United States was more aggressive on both ends of the ice. 
The Americans led 1-0 with Tkachuk's first goal at 11:20. After Mike Modano worked his way into the slot, he airmailed the puck toward the net, and Tkachuk tapped a shot past Bryzgalov. 

Hejduk helps Czechs topple Sweden in World Cup win 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM -Milan Hejduk scored two goals as the Czech Republic routed Sweden 6-1 Tuesday night in the quarterfi­nals of the World Cup of Hockey. 
The Czechs, who finished next-to-last in the European pool, will face either the United States or Canada in the semifi­nals when the tournament moves to North America this weekend. 
The United States eliminated Russia and advanced to the semifinals with a 5-3 victory Tuesday night in St. Paul, Minn. Canada hosts Slovakia in Toronto on Wednesday with the final semifinal berth on the line. 
Martin Straka, Martin Havlat, Marek Zidlicky and Radek Dvorak also scored for the Czechs, who led 5-0 before the Swedes pulled one back when playing short-handed late in the third period. 
The Czechs quickly neutral­ized whatever home-ice advan­tage the Swedes hoped for and never looked back after taking a 2-0 lead in the first period. The Swedes managed only four shots on goalie Tomas Vokoun in the opening session and half of them came during the open­ing minutes. 
The Czechs started the tour­nament with two straight loss­es, at Finland (4-0) and Sweden (4-3). But they showed improvement in the last period against Sweden. scoring three goals. and then trounced Germany 7-2 in the round­robin finale in Prague. 
"It was an unbelievable game. and I'm very glad our guys showed what they can do," said Vladimir Ruzicka, who replaced Ivan Hlinka as coach after the former Pittsburgh Penguins coach died in an automobile accident in the Czech Republic on the eve of the tournament. "They played with a lot of heart, and really showed the true face of this team." 
For Sweden, which lost on an overtime goal to Canada in the semifinals of the inaugural World Cup in 1996, it was one of the most bitter setbacks in international hv"key. It came after losing two straight finals to Canada at the World Championships. And 2 1/2 years ago, there was a stunning loss to Belarus in the Olympic quarterfinals. 

Going into these quarterfi­nals, Sweden had, the most impressive offense with a tour­nament-leading 14 goals. The line of Fredrik Modin, who helped the Tampa Bay Lightning win the Stanley Cup last season, captain Mats Sundin and Daniel Alfredsson, had the top three scorers dur­ing the round-robin. 
The Swedes' special teams, so impressive in the first three games when they went unbeat­en against Germany, the Czechs and Finland, fizzled when it counted most. After clicking on eight of its 20 chances in round-robin play, the Swedes missed all four power-play opportunities Tuesday. 
Markus Naslund, the Vancouver sniper who's been the NHL's top goal scorer the last two seasons, didn't get a goal in four tournament games. 
Peter Forsberg, the MVP in the NHL with the Colorado 

AP 

Hartin Havlat (24) of the Czech Republic jams the puck In the World Cup quarterfinal game against Sweden. 
Avalanche in 2003, was also a gerous on the counterattack." disappointment, although his Sundin agreed. rustiness could be explained by "They were better on every-stomach muscle surgery last thing," the Toronto captain month. said. "They had better legs, 
"They were a lot better," said they were better mentally and Forsberg, who plays on the they fully deserved the win." same NHL team as Hejduk. The first two goals came after "They were stronger in the Swedish mistakes on the blue neutral zone and always dan-line. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit ,. all classifieds for content without issui.ng refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Clean 1 bedroom. 1 bath apart-men!. 1909 Lincolnway West $450/month. 246-4634 
Live in Turtle Creek? Want to make some $$$? Some 98 grads seek to re-live glory days in Turtle Creek Townhouse Sat 9/11. Well pay to rent your place for 1 night. Email Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886­4189 
LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club LaSalle are hiring for the following postions: Cocktail Server (Must be over 21) Main Dining Room Server (Must be 21) Flexible Hours avail­able. Please pick up applications at 115 West Colfax Avenue, any time after 2:00PM Love kids? Mom needs help picking up children at area Catholic schools and taking them to activities between 3:00-6:00p.m. Mon-Fri. Great kids -daughters ages 11 and 
14. Schools and home close to ND and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
Nanny needed 1-2 days a week 12:00-8:00pm. Must have own transportation. Call for interview 651-3633. 
91 HondaAccordEX 4DSedan/1 03500M NewMuffler&Battery $2400/0BO 
1613 McKinley-GREAT 3bdrm home with fenced yard & garage near ND. Freshly painted,some new carpet. move right in. ALL appli­ances including W/D. $80,900. Open House 9-12·04 from 2-4pm. Home Gallery Realtors, Michelle Becker 574-235-3544. 
FoR RENT 
TICKETS 

A businessman needs season tick­ets for clients. 277-1659 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PL.EASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674­6593. 
ND alum needs 2 tix for Michigan game on Sept. 11. Please call Mary at 917-763-6842. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold. 269-684-61 02. 

For Sale: NO footballtix. Good Need BC GA tix. Will be used not prices. 232-0964. resold. 269-684-6102. 
leehambright@yahoo.com 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for south side elementary school local­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $30 per soccer game. Call 574-291-4200. 
Love 'kids? Mom needs help picking up children at area Catholic schools and taking them to activities between 3:00-6:00 p.m. Mon-Fri. Great kids -daughters ages 11 and 
14. Schools and home close to NO and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
FoR SALE 
Condo. 1434 Marigold Way #114. Large 1 bedroom w/garage,perfect condition, most appliances stay,. Open House Sun. 9/12,2-4pm. Near entrance of North Shore Condo s on right. $73,000. Call Reed 276-4131 . 
Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart­ment. 1909 Lincolnway West $450/month. 246-4634 
2 bedroom apartment for rent. $525/month. Students welcome! 1909 Lincolnway West. 246-4634 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
WANTED: GA home football tix. Call 276-8507. After 5 p.m. call784­8638. 
Need WA tix. Will trade PU or BC. 574-634-3082. 
PERSONAL 
Spring break 2005 Challenge .. .find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-7710 

Wednesday, September 8, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Boilermakers look to improve after trouncing Syracuse 
Going into the season ranked No. 25, Purdue prepares for Ball State match-up 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The casu­al observer might have diffi­culty finding fault in No. 25 Purdue's 51-0 romp over Syracuse. 
Purdue coach Joe Tiller and quarterback Kyle Orton had no trouble at all Tuesday. 
Tiller and Orton poked holes The Boilermakers held the in the Boilermakers' most Orange to 197 yards of total lopsided shutout since 1917 offense on Sunday and rolled and said they have to get bet­up 5 71 yards of their own, ter to win against Ball State both good for fifth-best in on Saturday. school history. 
"I know we didn't play our Just one of Purdue's seven best game," Orton said. "We touchdowns was shorter than need to get better." 32 yards and the team gave 
Try telling that to Syracuse. up no sacks while committing 
MSU TICKET LOnERY NUMBERS 0256, 0265, 0267, 0277, 0280, 0282, 0292, 0307, 0311, 0324, 0328, 0329, 0343, 0346, 0347, 0353, 0355, 0364, 0367, 0370, 0375, 0378, 0379, 0392, 0393,0396,0405,040~0408,0416,0419,0425,042~ 0429,0430,0439, 0447, 0449, 0463, 0465, 0468, 0469,,0475, 0477, 0482, 0497, 0661, 0664, 0676, 0678, 0679, 0682, 0683, 0691, 0692, 0695, 0703, 0713, 0715, 0718, 0725, 0726, 0729, 0735, 0736, 0737, 1631, 1634, 1637, 1639, 1647, 1649, 1651, 1658, 1661, 1663, 1669, 1671, 1676, 1681, 1692, 1696, 1703, 1705, 1708, 1725, 1727, 1739, 1744, 2255, 2260, 2262, 2270, 2273, 2275, 2276, 2278, 2283, 2287, 2298, 2299, 2306, 2307, 2308, 2309, 2317, 2321, 2328, 2332,2339,2340, 2343,234~ 2350,2370,2372, 2380,2381,2382,238~ 2390,2392,2395,2399,2412,2422,2429,2434,2450,2453,2461,2475, 2477, 2490, 2931, 2934, 2939, 2940, 2947, 2949, 2968, 2970, 2974, 2978 Winning numbers will also be posted outside of SUB Office {201 LaFortune) Wednesday, September 8th Winning ticket numbers can buy one pair of tickets for $52/ticket ($104/pair) MUST HAVE ND STUDENT ID AND WINNING TICKET NUMBER TO PURCHASE TICKET At opening of Box Office on Monday, September 13th remaining tickets will be made available to any Notre Dame student (winning lottery tickets become invalid) Go Irish, Beat Spartans 
sub.nd.edu brought to you by the student union board 

on ESPN Radio's Mike and Mike in the Morning at the College Football Hall'of Fame Friday, September lOth from 5 am-9 am Free shuttle running from main circle every halfhour 
• Appearance by the NO Cheerleaders and The Leprechaun 
• Free Admission and Giveaways by Papa John's, Krispy Kreme, Comcast, & ESPN 
• Most Spirited Fan Contest 
• Tally points in the Hall of Fame dorm contest 
Questions? Call 235-7582 for more information! 
zero turnovers and just one Orton threw touchdown penalty. passes of 75, 33 and 67 
The result was the school's yards, then capped the day biggest shutout since a 54-0 with a perfect 32-yard strike win over Franklin College. down the sideline to running 
Tiller called it · the most sue­
.cessful season­opener in his 14 "I can't believe I years as a head 
missed a couple of
coach, but he still had plenty of those passes that I gripes after look­missed. I'm not ing at the game 
expecting those for 
film. 
Saturday. I was a
"There's al­ways something little overhyped out there that and really never
didn't go right," 
got into the flow 
Tiller said. "We were horrible in early. Later on in returning a kick­
the game, I settled 
off. .. . Fortu­
down."

nately we didn't have to do a lot of it. If we were Kyle Orton relying on our 
Purdue quarterback
return team to give us good field position, we 
back Brandon Jones. 
"That's proba­bly one of the better throws I've made since I've been here." Orton said. 
But, "I've got to be better about not miss­ing those easier throws," he said. 
Two of Orton's touchdowns went to receiver Taylor Stubble­field, who sprained his col­larbone. Tiller said he planned to hold
Stubblefield out of contact drills this week, but 
would have failed at it miser­hoped to have him for Ball ably." State. 
Nit picking? Maybe. But The Boilermakers go into reading between the lines, it's Saturday wary because they easy to tell that Tiller doesn't know what can happen when want his young team to get they overlook a team from the 
cocky. Orton, who 
threw for a "There ·s a great career-high four sense ofurgencytouchdowns 
on this football 
against Syracuse, said he has to be team. You look at more accurate. the last two weeks. 
He completed just 
we've aotten better 
v

16 of 30 passes 
as a whole. You can
and missed sever­al open receivers never measure in the early 
your team by your 
going. 
first gam e. " 

"I can't believe I missed a couple of those passes Kyle Orton that I missed," Purdue quarterback 
Orton said. "I'm not expecting Mid-American Conference. 
Last year, MAC power Bowling Green shocked then-No. 16 Purdue, 27-26 in the season opener. 
This time around, the Purdue players came into the practice facility voluntarily on their day off to view tape and make sure they are ready for the Cardinals, 

those for Saturday. I was a who stayed with Boston little overhyped and really College most of the game last never got into the flow early. week in a 19-11 loss. Later on in the game, I settled "There's a great sense of down." urgency on this football team 
to get better," Orton said. "You look at the last two 
weeks, we've gotten better as a whole. You can never meas­ure your team by the· first game." 


' . 
I ~ 
. ' II page 16 
. I ' , I \ NFL 
. { 
. i 

Porter has chance 
\ \ 
~ 

to be top wideout
l 
l \ \ 
I 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA -When Jerry Porter joined the Oakland Raiders, the team had Tim Brown and Andre Rison. Later, Jerry Rice came aboard. 
Porter patiently waited for his chance, a difficult task for a confident and sometimes brash 

I receiver well aware of his big 
i'I potential. Still, he decided to learn all he could from the greats in front of him, knowing that many never get the chance to play alongside one, not to men­tion two, of the best ever at their position. 

"Did I have a choice?" said Porter, Oakland's second-round draft pick in 2000 out of West Virginia. "You control what you can control. When I carne in, I think Tim Brown was in his 14th year, Andre Rison was like in his 13th, and the next year they bring in Jerry Rice, and he was like in his 16th year. It was always said, 'They can't play forever.' Now's my time." 
Porter is the Raiders' new No. 1 option at wideout. 
The opportunity actually came sooner than the 26-year­old Porter expected. The Raiders released Brown, the franchise's longest-tenured member, during training camp when he wouldn't accept a drastically reduced role. 
Brown quickly landed with former Raiders coach Jon Gruden and ex-Oakland gener­al manager Bruce Allen in Tampa Bay, and Porter embraced his upgraded role. 
"Tim was still here, Jerry was still here. I didn't expect to be starting this year," Porter said. "I really didn't think they could do it. Tim Brown is Mr. 

I I Raider. He's a lifer." Porter still talks to Brown a 
. ' } I ) couple days a week, either by } cell phone or via text message. ) This preseason, Porter
'~ 
·'I caught seven passes for 100 yards, totals that ranked him
'~ 
third behind Doug Gabriel and 1~ Alvis Whitted. But the numbers t( ,/ are misleading because the ,i first-team offense plays fewer
I 
snaps during the exhibition schedule. 
Porter is 6-foot-2 and 220 pounds, and possesses the kind of athleticism that makes him a viable deep-threat option just the kind of receiver owner AI Davis loves. 
In college, Porter was a free 
safety, filled in as an emer­
gency quarterback, and played flanker. He even returned kicks. He also was a sprinter for the West Virginia track team. 


"Jerry Porter is a talented guy, a guy that has played." Brown said. "The only question about him in my mind is can he play every down? He hasn't played the whole game as a starter before, so can he play the amount of plays that he's going to have to play? 
"Physically and talentwise, he's obviously as good as they come. He can be one of the best in the league if he dedi­cates himself to the game and does the things that he's capa­ble of doirig." 
Porter is finally healthy, which could be a major factor in his durability. 
His painful stomach limited his every move last season. It was worse than most people knew, in part because he forced himself to play through it whenever possible. 
He underwent what the team called multiple hernia surgery last Sept. 12, and he believes he was rushed back partly by his own doing. 
"I put the blame on 50-50 me and the organization," he said. 
Porter played at about 50 percent all season, aggravating the problem and needing another procedure in January, essentially to repair the wall of his lower abdomen area. It turned out not to be a hernia. 
Porter appeared in· nine games with one start, finishing with 28 catches for 361 yards and one touchdown. 
·"I think people knew that I was hurt," Porter said. "They just didn't know the severity of it. I didn't know the severity of it, but I knew it was more than what was being let on. I never felt 100 percent at any point in time in the preseason. It was tough. It was tough to get out there and know that a healthy me could dominate the guy across from me, but I'm play­ing in a shell of myself." 
The Raiders are eager to see what he can do now as their top receiver. Porter will have quite the supporting cast, too. Oakland kept seven receivers and four tight ends on its 53­man roster, including the 41­year-old Rice and talented rookie receivers Carlos Francis and Johnnie Morant. 
That hasn't affected Porter's lofty goals. 
"I want 2,000 yards," he said with a smile. "I set my goals really high. If I don't hit them at least I aim pretty high." 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Bucs try to regain winning form 
Revamped ·team will challenge Gruden 
Associated Press 

TAMPA -Jon Gruden is always looking for a way to give his Tampa Bay Buccaneers an edge. 
He rises early, works late and uses a variety of motivational ploys to get players ready for games. 
But even a guy as relentless and creative as Gruden needs assistance when it comes to helping a team regain champi­onship form. 
Seventeen months removed from leading the Bucs to their first Super Bowl title, the youngest coach in the NFL called on Hall of Farner Deacon Jones to speak to the club. Six weeks later, Reggie White and Stanley Cup champion coach John Tortorella visited training camp. 
"All' I did was remind them of the Super Bowl year. They don't need me, they don't need coach, they need to remember that year because that's the kind of football they've got to play if they want to repeat," Jones said. 
"There are enough guys on this team that were there during that period of time to bring back that drive .... That's the only way you can do it. They know what they have to do. They've just got to be reminded of it." 
Gruden and his players have stopped trying to figure out what went wrong last fall, when nickel back Mario Edwards complacency, injuries and front­were the biggest additions to a office turmoil contributed to a 7-defense that has ranked among 9 record that left Tampa Bay out the league's best for most of the of the playoffs for the first time past decade. in five years. Most of the newcomers are 
Cornerback Brian Kelly senses over 30 years old, but Gruden a hunger that was absent head­and Allen are confident the ing into last season and is confi­moves give the club a chance to dent the Bucs can rebound, be better. despite the loss of Warren Sapp "It's a new beginning," quar­and John Lynch on defense and terback Brad Johnson said. Keyshawn Johnson on offense. "Whether you've had a winning 
"You can see the intensity season or a losing season, you out there on the practice move on. It's a new team, a new field," Kelly said. "We really identity.... For some of those 
were  flat last  guys, they want  
year this time, maybe hung over a little bit. We were a  "'They need to remember [2003] because that's the kind offootball they've  to put a Super Bowl ring on their finger. For me, I'm  
bit cent.  compla­We did­ got to play. ,  trying two."  to  put  
n't have that drive. We  Deacon Jones  Linebacker Derrick Brooks  
acknowledged  Hall of Farner  said the key to  
it and we're  regaining  
coming back  championship  

this year with a new vigor." form will be recapturing the 
Gruden was reunited with for­attitude of the 2002 team, which mer Oakland general manager was willing to do the little things Bruce Allen shortly after last on and off the field that make a season and spent most of the difference. spring and early summer over­Last year's team, the 2002 hauling the roster. NFL Defensive Player of the 
The team signed 25 veteran Year said, got away from that. free agents and also obtained "Looking back on it, we never speedy receiver Joey Galloway came back as the same team in a trade that sent Johnson, that left the Super Bowl. It was deactivated for the last six obvious from the general man­games of 2003 because of differ­ager on down," Brooks sajd. ences with Gruden, to Dallas. "In some ways, we were a vic­
Ex-Raiders Charlie Garner tim of our own success. We and Tim Brown, along with line­wanted to be the best of all time men Derrick Deese and Matt and forgot to be the best today. Stinchcomb, were brought in to ... That's not going to happen help the offense. Ian Gold and this season." 

IBM+ND IBM ThinkPad R51-BTS2DD4 
F.\CULJY. STAFf. STUDENT RATES 
1.6GHz Pentium® M with Integrated 802.11 big Windows XP Pro Wlreless Networking 
14.1 Inch ecreen 56Kbs Modem 40GB Herd Drive Ethernet NIC 266MB DDR SDRAM 3-year warranty CD·RWIOVD Combo Drive 
$1.649.00 
IBM ThinkPad T41-BTS2DD4 
1.5GHz PentiumR M with Integrated 802.11a/b/g Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking 
14.1 inch screen 56Kbs Modem 30GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 512MB DDR SDRAM 3-yeer warranty CD·RWIOVD Combo Drive 
$1.934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories (Discounted Prices Rellemdl 
Targus Backpack Kensington lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash Drive . $55.00 13P3599 $39.95 01N1575 $314.00 73P2582 $49.95 OBKB214 
The featured modele include: 3Year Parts & labor Warranty (Battery: 1 Veer), 24 HourToii-FreoTechnical Support, Rapid Restore Rescue and Recovery Software. Nonon AntiVirus 2004 (OEM Edition). Internet Scroll Bar, Spill-Resistant Keyboard, Touchpad andTrackpoint. Hard Drive Shock Absorber. 
-

Wednesday, September 8, 2004 page 17 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees sting Devil Rays, maintain slim lead over Sox 

He gave up eight hits, struck out two and didn't walk a batter. 
Alfonso Soriano homered and Mark Teixeira went 2­for-4 with three RBis for the Rangers, who have won just two of nine to drop eight games back of Boston in the wild-card race entering Tuesday's games. 
Carl Everett had two dou­bles for the White Sox, who fell 8 1/2 games behind the first-place Minnesota Twins in the AL Central. 
Soriano's 25th homer in the first inning gave Texas a 1-0 lead. Chicago tied it on con­secutive doubles by Everett and Joe Crede. 
Texas got just three hits while scoring seven times against Jose Contreras (12-8) in the second to open an 8-1 lead. Contreras walked five and hit a batter during the inning. 
Minnesota 3, Baltimore 1 
Mike Cuddyer snapped a tie with a two-run homer in the ninth inning, and the Minnesota Twins rallied to beat the Baltimore Orioles Tuesday night. 
The Twins pulled even with an eighth-inning run, then took control in the ninth against Jorge Julio (2-4). Pinch-hitter Jason Kubel 
drew a one-out walk, and after Cristian Guzman hit a fly ball, Cuddyer drove a 1-0 pitch deep into the left-field seats. 
It was his ninth home run, the first since July 31. 
Julio then threw a high inside pitch that nearly hit Augie Ojeda in the head, and plate umpire Ron Kulpa promptly ejected the right­hander. 
J.C. Romero (7-1) pitched a scoreless eighth for the Twins, extending his club­record run of shutout innings to 34. Joe Nathan worked the ninth for his 39th save. 
Kansas City 6, Detroit 2 
Dee Brown homered twice and drove in four runs to lead the Kansas City Royals to a victory over the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday night. 
Jimmy Serrano (1-1) picked up his first major leagpe vic­tory with three scoreless innings of relief, helping the Royals win for just the fifth time in 16 times. 
Carlos Pena and Craig Monroe homered for the Tigers, who had their two­game winning streak end. 
Nate Robertson (12-8) allowed five runs and nine hits in six-plus innings, los­ing for the first time in four starts. 
Boston tops A's, still leads wild card race 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Alex Rodriguez and Hideki Matsui each hit two-run doubles, and Jon Lieber struck out a season-high nine to lead the New York Yankees past the slumping Tampa Bay Devil Rays 11-2 on Tuesday night. 
Gary Sheffield had four hits and Bernie Williams home­red for the Yankees, who won their third in a row. They entered with 2 1/2­game lead over Boston in the AL East. The Red Sox played late Tuesday night in Oakland. 
Rocco Baldelli hit a two­run homer in the first inning for Tampa Bay, which lost its ninth straight. 
New York's new 1-2 punch sparked the offense again. Leadoff hitter Derek Jeter had three of the Yankees' 16 hits, including a two-run sin­gle. Rodriguez, moved up to the No. 2 spot Monday for the first time since 1999, had three RBis. 
Every Yankees starter scored. Matsui, the new cleanup hitter, snapped an 0­for-16 skid with three hits. Sheffield's fourth hit in the seventh prompted chants of "MVP! MVP!" 
The Yankees were sharp in almost every facet despite a daylong wait Monday for an afternoon doubleheader that got turned into a single night game. Hurricane Frances caused the Devil Rays to 
arrive three hours after the scheduled start but the Yankees were annoyed at the commissioner's office for the way everything was handled. 
The postponed game will be made up Wednesday as part of a doubleheader, beginning at 4:05 p.m. 
Boston 7, Oakland 1 
Johnny Damon hit a leadoff homer in his return to the Red Sox lineup after missing four games with a jammed right pinkie to start Boston's win over the Oakland Athletics on Tuesday night. 
Derek Lowe '(14-10) won his fifth straight decision and hasn't lost since a 4-3 defeat at Detroit on Aug. 6. Kevin Millar homered and finished 3-for-3 with a double. 
Gabe Kapler added a two­run homer and Orlando Cabrera hit a two-run double for the Red Sox, who stayed 2 1/2 games back of the first­place Yankees in the AL East after New York beat Tampa Bay 11-2. 
The Red Sox lead the wild card and have won 13 of their last 14. They got three more homers after hitting two in their 8-3 victory Monday night, and are get­ting solid contributions from their entire lineup. 
Oakland had its division lead trimmed to 1 112 games over of the Anaheim Angels, who beat the Toronto Blue Jays 5-2. 
The highly anticipated Red Sox-A's series finale Wednesday features Oakland ace Tim Hudson against Red Sox star Pedro Martinez. 
Boston has taken seven of eight meetings with the A's 
this year. The Red Sox elimi­nated the A's in five games in the AL division series last season Oakland's fourth straight first-round exit. 
Anaheim 5, Toronto 2 
Bartolo Colon pitched seven strong innings, Chone Figgins and Garret Anderson home­red and the Anaheim Angels beat the Toronto Blue Jays Tuesday night. 
Colon (14-11) limited the Blue Jays to six hits. The Angels' burly right-hander struck out seven and walked one to help Anaheim win its fourth straight. 
Gregg Zaun hit a two-run homer off Colon in the sev­enth for the Blue Jays' runs. Zaun's fifth homer just cleared the short wall inside the right-field foul pole. 
Francisco Rodriguez pitched the eighth inning and Troy Percival the ninth for 
the Angels.  
Rodriguez  struck  out  
Orlando  Hudson  for  his  
110th strikeout of the  sea­ 

son, a club record for a reliever. rhe old mark was 109 by DeWayne Buice in 1987. 
Percival earned his 27th save in 31 chances. · Texas 10, Chicago 3 
Kenny Rogers allowed three runs over seven innings, David Dellucci keyed a seven-run second with a three-run double and the Texas Rangers snapped the Chicago White Sox's four­game winning streak with a victory Tuesday night. 
Rogers (16-7) is now one win shy of matching the best season of his 16-year career 17-7 for the Rangers in '1995. 

from one an­other. The RCIA gives you a chance to walk with some­one as you ex­plore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adven­
ture of faith. 
For more info. 
Contact: Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 

schmitz.B@nd.edu 
308 Coleman­
Mane Center 

A.-e you thinking about beconalng Catholic? 
Learn more about: 

* Tlae Sac:.oa.neaits ofInitiation Baptl•na• Eaahanst1 & Co:nfbont.atlo:n: for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic ChUTch. 
*Full Conant.a:nlo:n: for baptized persons wanting full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
RCIA INFO SESSIONS  Sunday, Sept. 5th Candidates and Sponsors l-2PM 330 Coleman-Morse Center  
Sunday Sept. 12th Candidates and Sponsors l-2PM 330 Coleman-Morse Center  

()

Champzon water conditioning 
& Bottled Water Service 
208 E. Sample St. South Bend, IN 46601 288-7555 
I 
I 9 0 . UAYS FREE COOLER 
RENfAL 
20 8-ALLONSOF WAfER 
FREE 
*New customers only *Deposit required expires 9/30/04 

·---------------------------· 
\ ~ \ 
!! 





ATION 


"'I 
'\ Page 18 
d \ 

around the dial 
TENNIS U.S. Open 2004 10 a.m., USA 
MLB 
White Sox at Rangers 7:05p.m., Fox Sports 
WORLD CUP OF HOCKEY Canada vs. Slovakia 6 p.m., ESPN2 
Coi\1PILED FRO!vt THE OBSERVER'S vVIR.E SERVICES Wednesday, Seprember 8, 2004 
u.s. OPEN 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Unfairly, unbelievably, Serena Williams was robbed of a point by an umpire's mis­take at the U.S. Open, just like her sister was at Wimbledon. 
It happened in the open­ing game of the third set between Williams and Jennifer Capriati, who went on to win their Open quar­terfinal 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 Tuesday night. 
The match was tight and testy, the way it almost always has been during the 17 matches between the two: contested calls, spiked rackets, a bit of gamesman­ship and strokes pounded with power. A lot of power. 
Capriati played superbly, without a doubt, but what always will be remembered is the miscue by chair umpire Mariana Alves of Portugal. 
She gave a point to Capriati at deuce to start the final set after Williams hit a backhand that clearly landed in -and was ruled good by the line judge. 
Williams wound up being broken in that game, and though she did break right back, she was broken again to 2-1 and never recovered. TV replays also appeared to show at least two other incorrect calls that went against Williams in the final game, when Capriati needed three match points to serve it out. 
"I didn't even, like, look at it. It was close. I was just going to what the umpire said," Capriati told the crowd afterward, drawing some boos and murmurs. 
"Believe me, I've had things go against me many times, plenty of times. I deserve to get a call once in a while." · 
In the semifinals, the eighth-seeded Capriati will face No. 6 Elena Dementieva, who outlasted No. 2 Amelie Mauresmo 4­6, 6-4, 7-6 (1) in an earlier match marred by 24 dou­ble-faults, 82 unforced errors, 36 break points, and 14 service breaks. 
After racing through the first set, Williams started playing more poorly, allow­ing Capriati to build up her confidence and narrow her head-to-head deficit to 10­7; 12 of those matches went three sets, including six of seven at majors. 
Williams won eight straight until Capriati won two in a row on clay this year, including the French Open. 
But Williams' 6-1, 6-1 victory at Wimbledon was the most lopsided defeat Capriati ever had at a major. 
So Tuesday's encounter was their third straight at a Slam, and much like Venus Williams' loss to Lindsay Davenport in the fourth round Monday, this one could have been for the title. 
IN BRIEF Hoosiers sian new J)ost
player from N"etherland"s 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -The Indiana Hoosiers have signed a 6­foot-10, 230-pound post player from the Netherlands. 
Lucas Steijn (Stine) spent three years on the Dutch national team and played last season with Notre Dame Academy in Middleburg, Virginia, where he averaged 12 points and eight rebounds. 
Indiana was looking for another inside player after recruit Robert Rothbart decided to forgo college and play next season in Europe. 
Indiana coach Mike Davis says Steijn should give the Hoosiers a shot-blocking presence inside, while Rupp said he was most impressed with Steijn's work ethic. 
Brewers bring up three 
players from Tnple-A 
P-ITTSBURGH -The Milwaukee Brewers recalled infielder Trent Durrington and pitcher Travis Phelps and purchased the contract of catcher Mark Johnson from Triple-A Indianapolis on Tuesday. 
The moves came a day after the Brewers' top farm club ended it sea­son. The Brewers added pitchers Ben Ford and Gary Glover from Indianapolis over the weekend. 
To make room for Johnson on their 40-man roster, the Brewers released right-hander Nick Neugebauer, who has missed the last two seasons with shoulder prob­lems. 
He was 2-8 with a 4.99 ERA in 14 games for Milwaukee in 2001 and 2002. 
Devil Rays,_ Yankees game
reschedulea 
NEW YORK -· The New York Yankees withdrew Tuesday their request that a postponed game with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays be forfeit­ed, and Major League Baseball announced the game would be made up as part of a doubleheader Wednesday. 
"It was the only option unless you wanted to play it at the end of the regular season," Yankees manager Joe Torre said Tuesday. 
On Monday, the Yankees asked the commissioner's office to award them a forfeit over Tampa Bay after the Devil Rays failed to arrive in time for a scheduled doubleheader because of travel problems due to Hurricane Frances. 
Commissioner Bud Selig made it clear that he had no intention of awarding a forfeit. 
"We appreciate the continuing accommodation of the New York Yankees and their fans and apolo­gize to them for any inconvenience that the delays may have caused," Bob DuPuy, chief operating officer of the commissioner's office, said in a statement Tuesday. "As the commis­sioner made clear, it is critical that the outcome of the pennant races be determined on the field." 
' 
(' 
Wednesday, September 8, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cardinals fall, but Ankiel pitches well in return to majors 
Astros pull within a sprainetl elbow. He had recon­unearned runs. totaled three hits 
structive elbow surgery last year. and lost its 1Oth game in a row. 
halfgame ofwild card Pittsburgh 2, Milwaukee 0 The winning streak by the 
Dave Williams pitched 6 1-3 defending World Series champi­
shutout innings for his first victo­ons has put them back in the 
Associated Pr-ess ry in nearly three seasons and playoff race. They began the 
Jason Bay homered, leading the night trailing NL wild-card leader 
SAN DIEGO -Pinch-hitter Pittsburgh Pirates past the Chicago by three games. Roger Cedeno's go-ahead, two­. Milwaukee Brewers on Tuesday Houston 9, Cincinnati 7 run double in the sixth inning night. Roy Oswalt became the 
helped the St. Louis Cardinals The Pirates ended a five-game National League's first 17-gamebeat the San Diego Padres 4-2 on losing streak with only their sixth winner and the Houston Astros Tuesday night for their 10th win victory in 21 games. The Brewers extended their winning streak to in 11 games. lost their ninth in 10 road games, 11 games with a victory over the 
Rick Ankiel, whose once-prom­and are 1-5 in Pittsburgh this Cincinnati Reds Tuesday
on 

ising career was derailed by wild season. night.pitches and elbow surgery, made Williams (1-1). making only his Oswalt (17 -9) gave up four runs his first appearance for the second start since May 27, 2002, on six hits in 7 2-3 innings,
Cardinals in more than three pitched out of a two-on, two-out improving to 9-1 in his last 11 years. He allowed one hit in a jam in the first, then allowed only starts and 11-0 in 15 career scoreless inning in relief of Jeff one more hit Craig Counsell's sin­games against the Reds. He Suppan (15-6). gle in the fifth. He was lifted after struck out nine and walked 
The Padres, trying for their walking Keith Ginter with one three. first postseason appearance since out in the seventh, but Salomon Mike Lamb homered and drove 1998, stumbled again, losing for Torres retired the next five bat­in four runs and Carlos Beltran 
the sixth .time in eight games. ters. hit a two-run shot for the Astros, They remained 2 1/2 games Jose Mesa pitched the ninth for who are on the second-longestbehind Chicago in the NL wild­his 37th save in 42 opportunities, winning streak in club history.card race. The Cardinals, base­wrapping up the Pirates' sixth The team record is 12 straight 
ball's best team, swept the shutout. Mesa had been scored from Sept. 3-14, 1999. Padres last week at St. Louis, upon in six of his previous 11 The Astros have won 14 of outscoring them 20-7. outings. their last 14, and 19 of their last 
The Cardinals returned to form Williams hadn't won in five 22 in improving to 31-19 since a night after having their nine­decisions as a starter since beat­the All-Star break. They entered game 'hinning streak snapped. ing the Brewers 3-2 in the night just 1 1/2 games behind Edgar Renteria and John Milwaukee on April 17, 2002, Chicago in the NL wild-card race. 
Mabry singled off Jake Peavy to and is 6-13 in 37 career appear­Beltran left in the seventh open the sixth, and scored when ances, including 29 starts. inning after being hit by a pitch Cedeno, pinch-hitting for Suppan, Florida 7, New York 3 from Aaron Myette. The team doubled to the right-field wall. Playing for the first time in five said he bruised his right elbow 
Ankiel started the bottom of the days following Hurricane and is day to day. sixth by allowing a single to Frances, the Florida Marlins Montreal 7, Chicago 6 Xavier Nady, then retired the picked up right where they left Brian Schneider hit a go-ahead side. It was Ankiel's first big off. single in the 12th inning and the league appearance since May 10, A.J. Burnett allowed two hits in Montreal Expos beat the Chicago 2001. 6 1-3 innings, Miguel Cabrera hit Cubs on Tuesday night. 
Ankiel is best known for throw­a. tape-measure homer and the Chicago is a half-game ahead ing nine wild pitches and walking Marlins extended their longest of San Francisco and Houston in 11 in four innings in the 2000 winning streak since 1997 to the NL 'hild-card race. playoffs. He was demoted to the eight games by beating the New Juan Rivera beat out an infield minors in May 2001, and missed York Mets Tuesday night. · single to start the 1_ 2th against the entire 2002 season with a New York allowed two Todd Wellemeyer (1-1}, the Cubs' 
DID YOU COMPETE IN POLICY DEBATE IN HIGH SCHOOL? NOTRE DAME IS STARTING A POLICY DEBATE TEAM THIS YEAR! 
Students With experience are highly encouraged to join the team! We will be travelling to a variety oftournaments like Kentucky, Wake Forest a.nd Berkeley. The schedule isflexible and the team will make accomodations based on the needs ofthe students. 
This year's topic is 
RESOLVED: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
SHOULD ESTABLISI-I AN ENERGY POLICY REQUIRING A 
SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION IN THE TOTAL 
NON-GOVERNMENTAL CONSUMPTION OF FOSSIL FUELS IN 
THE UNITED STATES. 
It is an exciting year for Notre Dame debate, join us! You can contact Kiley Kane at kkane2@nd.edu for more information. 

eighth pitcher, and advanced on 
pinch-hitter Henry Mateo's sacri­
fice. 
Schneider hit a hard single to 
center on a 2-2 pitch to give the 
Expos the lead, and Jamey 
Carroll added a sacrifice fly. 
Chad Cordero (5-3) got the vic­tory with two innings of scoreless relief on a windy night at Wrigley Field. Joe Horgan pitched the 12th and gave up Corey Patterson's second homer of the game with one out before fmish­ing for his second save in three chances. 
Colorado 8, San Francisco 7 
Jeromy Burnitz hit a tiebreak­ing two-run homer in the eighth inning to overshadow Barry Bonds' 698th homer and lift the Colorado Rockies to a victory over the San Francisco Giants on Tuesday night. 
Colorado took a 6-4 lead in the seventh inning on Mark Sweeney's grand slam, only to give it back on Ray Durham's two-run double off Tim Harikkala (6-3) in the eighth. 
Burnitz followed with a two­run homer in the bottom half off Jason Christiansen (4-3), giving Colorado its fifth win in six games. 
Shawn Chacon gave up Deivi Cruz's RBI single and loaded the bases with two outs in the ninth, but struck out Marquis Grissom for his 33rd save. 
Michael Tucker also homered for San Francisco, which failed to make up ground on the Chicago Cubs in the NL wild-card race. 
Bonds is within two homers of joining Hank Aaron (755) and Babe Ruth (714) as the only play­ers to reach 700. 
Los Angeles 8, Arizona 2 
Pinch-hitter Robin Ventura hit his 18th career grand slam to tie Willie McCovey for third place on the career list, Hideo Nomo won for the first time in 11 decisions and the Lps Angeles Dodgers beat the Arizona Diamondbacks Tuesday night. 
Coming off a 6-7 road trip that ended with three straight losses at St. Louis, the Dodgers moved 4 112 games ahead of San Francisco, who lost to Colorado. Los Angeles is 35-19 against divi­sion opponents, with 22 of their remaining 25 games against the West. 
Nomo (4-11} allowed two runs and five hits over six-plus innings and struck out six in his second start off the disabled list, sending the Diamondbacks to their fifth straight loss and 14th in 16 meet­ings with the Dodgers this sea­son. The right-hander missed two months with inflammation in his rotator cuff before losing 3-1 at Arizona last Wednesday. Nomo's last win came on April21 at Colorado. 
The loss put the Diamondbacks a club-record 54 games under .500 (42-96). Arizona's next defeat will tie the club record for losses, set in 1988, when the Diamondbacks finished their inaugural season 65-97. 


... 
••1 
~ 
~ 
. 
I 
I I I 
I 
; 


J 
) 
' 
I 
) 
~ 
\( 
H 
) \
l\ 
\1 
I 
I
'· 
~­
'.I 
\ 
\ 
( 
"" 
?
. 
.,. 
) I 
;p'I' ' > ;)j 
:lj) 
' 
~ ; 
:I 
' 
' 
i I 
I 
:i 
; ~ 
:i: 
,;­,I. 
:!, iI 
, I 
. I 
:,f ~ 
l 
Wednesday, Septermber 8, 2004 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles hope to end losing streak by taking on Kalamazoo 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's looks to halt its los­ing streak at three games today as they take on Kalamazoo College at home. Having strug­gled to find its place early on in the season, the Belles will once again try and win its first game this year. 
The Hornets are currently in first place in the MIAA with a record of 2-0 and 4-2 overall. In 2003, Kalamazoo beat Saint 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Attorneys for the woman accusing Kobe Bryant of rape went on a public relations offensive Tuesday, appearing on network television to bolster her public image and dispel specula­tion that a settlement is in the works in her civil lawsuit against the NBA star. 
"We fully expect that case to be aggressively litigated," attorney John Clune said on the CBS "Early Show." 
The criminal case against Bryant was dropped last week, but the civil suit seeking an unspecified dollar amount is pending in Denver federal court. In separate television appear­ances, Clune and attorney Lin Wood said the civil case is a strong one. 
Experts said Clune and Wood were seeking to pressure Bryant, · possibly by suggesting that dam­aging or embarrassing informa­tion about him might come out if the lawsuit goes to trial. 
"It's all an effort to manipulate public opinion with a long-term goal of procuring from Bryant a greater monetary settlement," Denver attorney Scott Robinson said. "I'd be doing the same thing." 
In their TV appearances, Clune and Wood said there have been no talks about settling the civil case since the felony sexual assault charge was dropped. 
On NBC's "Today Show," Wood stressed that the standard of proof in civil court is a "prepon­derance of evidence," rather than the tougher standard in criminal trials, where prosecu­tors must convince the jury beyond a reasonable doubt. 
Wood and Clune said their client was a normal woman caught up in abnormal circum­
ill ~((;(QY11uiT~TI11 
Mary's in three games. The Belles are keeping the game in perspec­tive, but still seek to make· some headway in the conference. 
"I do.n't think our team's success will be defined or determined by just one game," said outside attacker 
consecutive like to win and are taking very seriously." This season, Saint
·~1 don't think our 
Mary's has been led team ·s success by the consistently good play of middle 
will be defined or 
determined by just one game., 
Michelle Turley Belles volleyball 
Michelle Turley. "However, it is a er Ann 
conference match that we would improved and should get even 
NBA 
Alleged victim keeps civil suit in public_eye 

JB~J]) ~ ].~~~~ilFL~~~~tllO\ iBremen, IN 46506 
574-220-6672 
• 
30 min from Notre Dame· ·-·-·-:-·-·-·-·-·-· 

• Indoor full-size pool !www.scottishbb.com 


L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·
• 
Free continental-plus breakfast 

• 
Park-like country setting for relaxation 

• 
King & Queen Select Comfort Mattresses 

• 
Indoor smoke-free • Washer &dryer access 

• 
TV/DVD in every room • Putting Green 

• 
Co uter fax &mail service 


stances. 
"She made some mistakes," Wood said. "This young girl was a true victim and (tbe public) will feel very sorry for what she had to go through and what her fam­ily went through over the last year and will have to put up (with) for the rest of her life. It's a real tragedy." 
The attorneys did not return calls from The Associated Press. 
It was at least the second time they went on national TV. Shortly before the lawsuit was filed Aug. 10, Clune and Wood criticized the court for mistakes, including the release of her name and of closed-court testimony by a defense DNA expert. 
Bryant has not yet formally responded to the lawsuit. His criminal defense attorneys did not return a call, and it was unclear who will represent him in the civil case. 
In the lawsuit, the 20-year-old woman claims that after she flirted with Bryant and kissed him in his room at the Vail-area resort where she worked last summer, he became violent and raped her. 
She is seeking damages for pain and emotional distress she says she has suffered since her accusation became public 14 months ago. 
The civil suit is similar to the criminal case, which prosecutors dropped last week as the final phase of jury.selection was set to begin in Eagle County district court. 
Prosecutors said they dropped the charge at the woman's request because she was no longer willing to testify. Repeated court mistakes made her doubt the criminal justice system could protect her, Clune has said. 
As part of the dismissal, Bryant released an apology in 
"Feeling at home 
~ while away" 
: 2180 Miami Hwy 
hitter Elise Rupright on offense. Turley contil)ues to excel on the court both offensively and defensively. Middle hitter Shelly Bender and outside attack­Carpenter have also 
better as the season progresses. 
Hopefully, the Belles will recov­er from their losses and find a way to build upon their strengths and improve any weaknesses. Lack of communication has been one major factor so far. However, ifthe team can fmd a way to solve this problem they have enough talent to still win a lot of games this season. 
"I feel that after our loss against Albion, we all decided that per­sonal responsibility is going to play a large role in our future suc­cess," said Turley. "I think that our match against Albion showed the team some areas of weakness that we can strengthen during practice, before we face Kalamazoo on Wednesday." 
This will be the third confer­ence match-up of the year for Saint Mary's. With a bit of luck, they should knock ofT the Hornets and start another streak in the opposite direction. The Belles will take on the Hornets at home tonight at 6 p.m. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

which he said he believes they had consensual sex but can understand why she believed it was rape. The statement said the woman agreed not to use his apology against him in the civil case. 
Larry Pozner, a Denver attor­ney and former president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said Clune and Wood are unlikely to be able to put additional pressure on Bryant in the civil case. 
"[The plaintiff has] the same leverage as in every other civil case: Is it worth your time, money and brain damage to con­tinue in the civil case?" Pozner said. "For a guy like Kobe Bryant, who has enough money and other things to occupy his time, there is some number he pays just to make it go away, just to have peace of mind." Colo., in August after a pre-trial appearance. 

I It 
GET ON THE 

saturday ... september 18 
BUS LEAVES FROM LIBRARY CIRCLE TO EAST LANSING @ NOON & RETURNS Y2 HOUR AFTER GAME 
$10 per ticket ... 4 tix per ID ... 1 ID per student On sale while they last at the LaFortune Info Desk beginning Wednesday, September 8 
(Bus ticket is for transportation only and does not grant admission to the game) 
NO ALCOHOL ... SEATING IS LIMITED 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES ... QUESTIONS? 631.7308 

IRISH 


Wednesday, September 8, 2004 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 

and Samford -and one confer­ence game against Villanova. Syracuse comes to the Joyce continued from page 24 Center Jan. 10-the day before classes start for the springus," Brey said. "It will be a big semester. Pittsburgh visits March week." 5 -the same day spring break 
The Michigan, Indiana and starts for Notre Dame students. 
DePaul games will be televised "We have no control over when on ESPN or ESPN2, as will a Feb. we play league games, only non­27 non-conference home game league," Brey said. "You'd like to against UCLA. have your whole "We'll continue to crowd there play a great non­[against Villanova 
Schedule 
"With each month,
conference sched­and Pittsburgh]. ule," Brey said. I've gotten more The [people who 
"Kentucky rotated pissed offthat we schedule] work 
off this year, so we with everybody
didn't get a bid. ,,
add Michigan. If on things. They UCLA rotates off know students [next season]. we'II Mike Brey [want to be there probably rotate on for the games],
Irish coach 
Georgia Tech or and usually you some other pro-have to play one gram ofthat caliber. game like that. But we're gonna Last season, Kentucky pounced have to play two. TV plays a big on Notre Dame at the Joyce part in this thing, also." 
Center, 71-63, but the Irish went The Big East conference on the road to defeat the UCLA schedule could not get any Bruins, 75-60. tougher for Notre Dame, as the 
"You have to schedule for RPI Irish play three of the toughest [Ratings Percentage Index] and teams twice in Connecticut, 
strength of schedule to be con­Syracuse and Pittsburgh. Notre sidered for an at-iarge bid," Brey Dame also plays Providence at said. "That's if you don't win an the Dunkin Donuts Center on automatic bid." Feb. 19 and Boston College at 
After the DePaul game, stu­home on Feb. 8. But Brey has dents go on winter break and confidence his team can with­miss five home contests, includ­stand the storm. ing four non-conference games "Since I've been here, we've -Army, Marist, Western Illinois never been 8-8 or worse in the 
"Talk about easy! With nine ATMs on cam­pus, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union is right where I need them." 
"As a team, we weren't good; we fell pretty flat," Brown said. "It was very frustrating to watch. I know what our team is capable of, and the team was playing at a level below their performance ability." 
The Irish are set to take the courts again this weekend, when they will meet Fresno State Friday and Sacramento State and Cal Poly on Saturday. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

Loss 
continued from page 24 
turned the tables on the Crusaders, registering a 30-24 victory. Freshman Adrianna Stasiuk and sophomore Danielle Herndon each con­tributed an ace to the Irish effort, while Lauren Kelbley led the team with five kills and 12 attack attempts. Kelbley matched her career high Thesday night, leading the team with 22 kills. She finished the niglit with a .365 hitting per­centage, nine digs, and a pair of aces. 
In the fifth game, Valparaiso took the wind out of Notre Dame's sails for good. Valparaisb broke the late-game 12-12 tie, collecting three con­secutive points to pull ahead 15-12 for the win. 
Brown said that the team's mindset was what set off the loss. 
league," Brey said. "Only two teams .have had a winning record in the Big East [in each ofl the last four years. And it wasn't the' national champion [Connecticut]. It was us and Boston College." 
Playing the conference's top teams twice-for two consecu­tive seasons -is questionable, but Brey believes playing the best conference teams can only be a plus. 
"If we were to go 8-8 in the league, we'd have enough power games out of conference to get into the [NCAA] Tournament," he said. 
That was not the case last sea­son. 
The Irish played a similar con­ference schedule in 2003-04 but did not receive what would have been the seventh bid from the Big East conference to the NCAA Tournament. 
Brey still has a bad taste in his mouth. 
"To go 9-7 against who we played last year, even with [an early season loss to] Central Michigan, and not make the tournament, that was a disap­pointment," Brey said. "With each month, I've gotten more pissed off that we didn't get a bid. We did everything we could have done." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

SMC SoccER 
Overtime victory gives Belles win 
St. Francis falls under fen Concannon's 2 solo goals 
Concannon and Ashley Hinton, 

By RYAN DUFFY the two center midfielders, 
Sports Writer both played very well." 
With a new coach and a new 

The Saint Mary's soccer game plan, it was important to 
team took its first step towards the team to start the season 
an MIAA title Tuesday with a smoothly. 
3-2 overtime win against the "It will be really great for 
University of St. Francis (Ind.). our confidence to go into our 
Team captain Jen Concannon next game after a game like 
scored two ·unassisted goals to this, where we scored goals 
keep the Belles· in the game, and were victorious in over­
and midfielder Katie Nable time," Shannon Culbertson 
broke the tie in overtime, scor­said. "We played really strong­
ing the game-winner off an ly with the flat-back four 
assist from Carrie Orr. defense." 
"Being our first Culbertson also game, we really is satisfied with played well the influence together as a "Everyone did a MacKenzie has unit," sophomore 
good job ofgetting had. 
McKenna Keenan "Sh.e's really said. "It was back when they made an impact great to start off needed to. The already in the the season with a preseason. She
strong defense
win. I think we has brought a lot
helped tprovide
had a really good more focus and chemistry going opportunities for support to the among our defen­our offense. ,, team this year, "• sive line." MacKenzie said. The defense "We're very 
was the focus of Carrie Orr happy to have 
Tuesday's game, Belles player her as our 
with the Belles coach." 
implementing a Despite the 
new system for loss, St. Francis 
the first time under coach played the Belles well, demon­
Caryn MacKenzie. Rather than strating the strong technical 
using the standard plan of game that has made them one 
three defenders in the back­of the better teams in the 
field, Saint Mary's now uses a NAIA. Although the game was 
"flat-back four" system w~ich a non-conference competition, 
features four defenders in a the players still have their 
straight line. The new strategy sights set on an MIAA champi­
is already proving to be effec­onship. 
tive. "We're all really enthusiastic 
"It was the first chance to about this year's team, and 
test out the new defense, and about our chances this sea­
it worked really well," Orr son," Orr said. "Our main goal 
said. "Everyone did a good job this year is to win the MIAA 
of getting back when they and go to the playoffs." 
needed to. The strong defense 
helped provide opportunities Contact Ryan Duffy at 
for our offense, and J en rduffy1@nd.edu 
:-··········ur;h:;e·r·siiY.·Re.soijrces······~ 
•

•

• for Gay, Lesbian, & • 
•

• Bisexual Students •• • 
•
• 

• COMIIITTECI< ON 
e Q.r."' AIIID I.Cll•o.r.~ ..• 
• &TV~NT N££01 • ­
•----• 
The Standing Committee on Gay and •
• Lesbian Student Needs
• . .•
• 

(Confidential information, educat1on, and resource~
•

• Contact Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC,-$550, or student •
•

• members (see web site for stl.lti!romtact info.) :
• •
• 

• Office of Campus Ministry : 
•

• 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning student~

• 
:


and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 CoMo; confidential discussion and support) : Contact Tami Schmitzj -3106: schmitz.8@ nd.edu 
University Counseling Center ­
(Individual counseling) Contact Dr. Maureen Lafferty alafferty.3@nd.edu 
•

• For more information, check out our website:
•

• http://W\V\v.nd.edu/-scglsn
•
• 

.,-­

Football 
continued from page 24 
they are to score against the Wolverines. 
"We are all very disappointed [in the offense at BYU] because I felt comfortable in my belief that this would be a good, solid, total offensive performance for us," Willingham said of the BYU game. "And saying that, I still have great respect for BYU's defense ... But I still felt like we would be able to come out and have an excellent per­formance and have a balanced attack, and we didn't do it. I'm disappointed, not disillusioned, and still confident that we can do some things offensively. But at the same time, really disap­pointed that we didn't." 
The offense struggled most on the line, as evidenced by the lack of rushing yards. The line returned all but one starter from 2003, but some had shift­ed around since last season. Junior Bob Morton moved from center to left guard and sopho­more Ryan Harris went from right tackle to left tackle. Willingham said that might have played a role in the offen­sive line's subpar performance. 
"It does take time," he said. "It's like learning a new job. But at the same time, I don't say that in order to say that's 
'') 
' ) an excuse for us not executing and performing the way that we should, because I have great confidence in that group in that they can do some very good things." Second-year quarterback Brady Quinn threw for 265 yards, completing 26 of 4 7 passes with one touchdown. But he was only able to convert 3-of-16 third downs, and many times his passes didn't even go past the third down marker. Willingham attributed that to Quinn taking what he could get. 

--. 
page 22 Wednesday, September 8, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

. Holiday sees little action at wideout 
"You always want to take what they can give you," he said. "But you hope the option they give you is the one that you prefer in those situations. We are constantly working every day ... the down-and-dis­tance markers are right there." 
Defensively, the Irish have more to build on. They gave up just 22 rushing yards and Preston Jackson returned an interception for a touchdown. With the exception of three big plays, the defense limited the Cougars. 
"I think there's a lot of things to build on from Saturday, and there's some negatives you have to learn from and if you build on the positives, and also learn from the negatives, I think you'll be fine," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. 
In the special teams area, the Irish struggled as well, consis­tently getting pinned inside the 20-yard line. Rhema McKnight made questionable decisions in the return game for the Irish, but Willingham said he was just trying to make a play. 
"What you are trying to get them to do is one, get Rhema to be aggressive, to have a very close decision-making process that you can field one and return it; then you really take away that weapon that they are trying to gain on you," he said. "And in the process of doing that, he was a little too aggres­sive in trying to make some­thing happen." 
Now, the Irish must use the rest of the week to prepare for a tough Michigan team after a disappointing loss. 
"You quietly tell your football team that we look at every foot­ball game as being very impor­tant," Willingham said. "There's not one that's· more important when you look at it, but at the same time, you know where your big games are." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
.., 
·, 
MICHELLE OTIO/The Observer
! r 
~ Cornerback Preston Jackson, left, keeps a hand on tight end
' 
; John Carlson in a coverage drill. 
I I
l 
) ~ 
' I 
~ >t 
,f 
) ( 
i 
'
~ 
) I 
;( 
,(, 
1./.
,.. 
/, 
1: 
·i{ ,· ,/ 
,J' 
:~ . 
>1. 
f 
' p' 
I
)
I 
:; 
,, 

By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 

After Brady Quinn took over at quarterback, Carlyle Holiday switched to wide receiver. He spent most of the spring and second half of the season learning a new posi­tion. When this fall came around, it appeared that he was ready to have an impact on an experienced receiving corps. 
However, Saturday night against Brigham Young, Holiday saw little action, and no passes were thrown his way. Tuesday, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said this won't be the norm. 
"We would like to see Carlyle play a bigger role," Willingham said. "For what­ever reason, sometimes the rotation doesn't work out in one's favor, but that's some­thing that we will be looking at to see if we can find ways to get Carlyle more involved in what takes place." 

When asked if he wished that he had someone like him who could make something happen when the Cougars were so aggressive in coming after the Irish, Willingham replied, ''I'd have to say yes to that." 
Grant may play 

Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said that senior Ryan Grant might play Saturday against Michigan. 
"Right now he'll begin the week practicing as our No. 1 back, and we'll see where that goes," Willingham said. "That may mean he may be in the lineup, or he may not be in the lineup. It just depends on how strong he is and how the injury responds to prac­tice this week." 
Grant had said last week that he was going to play against Brigham Young. However, by game time. he said he wasn't quite ready. 
"I think that [not facing con­tact in practice] was part of it," Grant said. "It was more of the fact that there were other guys who had taken more reps and [the coaching staff] just felt that if I would have went that maybe I wouldn't have been prepared and maybe that would have hurt my leg more." 
Grant also said he wants to play. He feels he can help his team win. 
"I feel like the team needs me because I know I can help the team," he said. "I definite­ly don't think that's an excuse for what happened [on Saturday]. We as a team did­n't play up to our ability. But I'm just happy because I feel that I can be a boost to this team in a lot of different ways." 
Calling their number 

During Saturday's game, officials called the number of the player that committed the penalty. Last season. they did­n't call the number. the just announced the penalty. Willingham said he wasn't sure what to expect, but he didn't mind it. 
"I gather from the first game, it's been a pleasant surprise for me," he said. "I was once not necessarily in favor of that, but it didn't seem to create any undo problems.. The officials did a good job with it and struc­turally it went well." 
Goodbye, GameDay 

ESPN's College GameDay will not. be coming to Notre Dame Saturday. as originally anticipated. 
Instead, the college football show will travel to the 
. University of South Carolina, where they will broadcast the South Carolina-Georgia game. Former Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz, who led the Irish to a national championship in 1988 and left the program after the 1996 season, is now the head coach of South Carolina. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
-




Wednesday, September 8, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

DILBERT 
OKAY, I CONVINCED MY COMPANY TO MAKE 'v'OU OUR SINGLE­SOURCE VENDOR.. 
PEANUTS 
QUICK, MARCIE, I NEED TO BORROW ANOT~ER 
I A5SUME YOU'LL BE MAKING ME A JOB OFFER. NOW. ANY VP TITLE WILL BE FINE. 
POLONIU5 SAID, ''NEIT~ER A BORROWER. NOR 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ __ 
Address _____________________________________ ___ 
City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
·~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL JUST 
THERE .. .
TAKE AN 
IS ...A.. .
EMPTY 

OFFICE. WAITING 
PERIODIJ 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 
POINT TI-4AT KID OUT TO ME, AND I'LL TEAC~ ~IM TO 



-:-:+:+.::+::+::-4 11 Florid a player 12 Bouquets 13 "Seduced" 
senator of film 18 Man in black? 22 Cry on a hog· 
farm 25 During 26 "2001" mainframe 
27 See red? 
28 Structural members 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I -. 
57 Topper made popular by 17­and 36-Across 
59 Retro phone feature 60 Laughing gas, 
for one 61 "Born Free" lioness 
62 Lodges 63 Baseball datum 64 Part of CBS:. Abbr. 
DOWN 1 Kodak 
competitor 2 Mideast carrier 3 Reserved 4 Commission's 
task 5 Top-notch 6 Mail may be 
sent in this 7 Award for Tony 
Kushner 8 Like old records 9 Summer on the 
Seine 
10 Wilbur or Orville Wright 
29 Votes in Versailles 30 Kirsten of "Spider-Man" 34 Marble feature 36 Genuflection points 37 Without a hitch 38 Proverbial brickload 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for. young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 
39 Seagoing letters 48 Angel's favorite letters
40 Trials 51 Dancer's
41 DNA structures 
exercise 42 Granola 

52 13-Down player ingredient 54 ltar-news
-
43 One who's "out" agency 

46 Any of the Fahd 55 E.R. order ruling family 57 Med. test result 47 12 and 20 58 canto 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Oops! Oro~ -o 
another ~ one ~~~ ~ 

~~~~.I ~ ..!!t:.~) .-c::>

rrr ..
" ~ 'ro 
DRINKING BE:a< 'NHIU: PLAYING

I SLUDON j PICNIC. BASE:BAU.. 1 CAN L..EAD ror x rJ 
4

www.jurrblecom THIS.
tUSEBUD I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

FLANK LUSTY MYSELF BURIAL
Yesterday's I Jumbles: 
Answer: What the yachtsman found at the boat shop -A SAIL SALE 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Devon Sawa, Corbin Bernsen, Julie Kavner, Gloria Gaynor 
Happy Birthday: Don't think too big or you may find yourself in an awkward predicament. Less is more this year. Restraint should be on your mind 
..:> 
regardless of what you do. Hold back and you will gain more ground. Your numbers are 8, 16, 26, 34, 42,43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Go to whatever lengths it takes to help a friend today. The support and loyalty you get in return will be worth it. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you aren't happy with the direction you are heading, do something about it before it's too late. Stop following others and start doing your own thing. *** · · GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional ups and downs may be taxing on someone you are close to. Show affection instead of being critical. *** .. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Watch your back. Someone may say something negative about you today. Focus on what you can do to brighten up your living quarters. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Attend functions that will allow you to schmooze with your peers. You will impress others with your ingenious ideas. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have a problem getting ahead today. Don't push something that won't budge. Retreat for now; don't feel defeated. 
** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is a five-star day, so don't hold back. Get out, meet people and follow your dreams. You will feel success and satisfaction at the end of the day. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money matters may not run as smoothly as you would like. Don't let someone swindle you out of your cash. Fight for a cause, but don't donate. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are looking for a hug, but if you come across as being needy, you aren't likely to get what you want. Stand tall and everyone will gravitate to you. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stop worrying about what everyone else is doing. You know in your heart what is right, so just do it. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on doing something that will do you some good --working on something that you enjoy. Love is in the air, so have 
-
some fun. ***** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Idle time will cause you to dwell over past mistakes. Learn from your experiences and don't let someone trying to rule your world take over. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are very much involved in the game of life. You are clever but must question some of your motives along the way. You are emotional and react quickly. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. ­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 White House affair, maybe 5 Beyond's partner 10 Part of Latin 
101 conjugation 14 Bator 15 Measure from 
the elbow to the , •. end of. the middle finger 16 Results may do this 
17 With 33-, 36­and 40-Across, American born 7/28/1929 
19 Press 
20 Hip bone 
21 Vital 
22 Actress Hayek 
23 Boating mishap 
24 Neighbor of a 
Vietnamese 26 Period of time 
28 Gary's home: Abbr. 31 Periods of time 32 Off 33 See 17-Across 35 Hall of F arne QB Dawson 
36 See 17-Across 37 Name that's an alphabet trio 
40 See 17-Across 41 Modern medical grps. 42 Composer/ writer Ned 44 Cable inits. 45 Ages and ages 46 Most blue 48_-mo 49 Right hands 50 New Deal inits. 
53 Celebrity photographer Herb 
56 Where D. D.E. went to sch. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
., 
,, 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Wednesday, September 8, 2004 

page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 


By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
The offense didn't perform as well as expected, the defense gave up two too many big plays and the decision­making was poor in special teams. Now the Irish are left to solve these problems this 
i ~~ 
week in practice before No. 
:~ 
f 5/No. 8 Michigan comes to \ town Saturday afternoon. "When you don't have suc­cess, it is amazingly disap-
Irish return four starters from a 19-13 team that advanced to the quarterfinal round of the National Invitation Tournament. 
"Having 11 [nationally] televi<;ed games says something about the credibility of this program and what we've done here," fifth-year coach Mike Brey said. 
Brey is 85-44 over the past four 
seasons at Notre Dame for a .658 
winning pereentage. 
Notre Dame opens its schedule against Harvard on Friday, Nov. 19 at the Joyee Center, the first of 17 home games on a 27-game schedule. The first and only other meeting between Notre Dame and Harvard was on Jan. 3, 1942, 
··~· 
when the Irish prevailed 39-31. 
MICHELLE OTIO!The Observer 
Harvard is the first of three

:I From left, Quentin Burrell, Brian Beidatsch, Brady Quinn and Marcus Wilson stretch before 
straight home games. Then the
'-; Tuesday's practice. 
,·, ·' 
en 

FOOTBALL 
SMC SOCCER 
MLB 

NCAA FOOTBAll 
HOCKEYNFL 

u.l 
u 
Saint Mary's 3 
u.s. 5

1--z Updates on Carlyle Oakland and Tampa
Rick Ankiel returns to

St. Francis 2 Russia 3 
Holiday's transition to 
pitch an inning of score-

Bay anticipate the
Jen Concannon scores Boilers still looking to
cc ::5 
receiver and Ryan 
less relief in a 4-2 loss 

beginning of a success-two unassisted goals in 
Czech Republic 6
improve after dominat­
c:s 
Grant's health. 
for St. Louis. 

ful NFL season.
a non-conference over-
Sweden 1 

ing Orangernen. 
Q ~ 
time win. 
a. ti 
page 22 page 21
en 
page 19 page 14page 16 page 15 
Practice doesn't make perfect 
Valparaiso takes win for first time since 1980 

By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Mter Monday's practice, a win against Valparaiso seemed almost certain. 
The Irish (1-3) thought they had remedied their offensive downfalls from last weekend's Nebraska match and appeared ready to dominate against the Crusaders (4-1) Tuesday· night. 
"I thought they were extreme­ly prepared," coach Debbie Brown said. 
Instead, Notre Dame played an uncharacteristically scrappy match against Valparaiso, resulting in an anticlimactic 3-2 Irish loss. Tuesday night's win was the first the Crusaders have had against Notre Dame sinee 1980. 
The typically articulate Brown had little to say following the match. She searched for words to describe the heartbreaking loss, pausing to collect her thoughts. 
"The best thing I can say is that it was a huge, disappointing loss," Brown said. 
Notre Dame notched a 30-26 win in the first game, finishing the game with 23 kills and two aces. Junior Lauren Brewster led the team with a .429 hitting percentage. 
Valparaiso stepped up its effort in the second game, besting Notre Dame 30-24. The Irish kept the Crusaders at arms length for the first half of the game, earning twelve points before Valparaiso took the lead. 
Notre Dame became visibly frustrated as Valparaiso's lead grew. The team recorded just 12 kills during the second game in comparison to the first game's 
23. Valparaiso, meanwhile, post-
pointing, to our players as well as to our coaches," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said at Tuesday's media conference. 
The first problem the Irish had against Brigham Young Saturday was on offense. They gained 11 yards rushing and were unable to decipher a Cougar defense that consisted of blitz after blitz. Willingham said he and his staff anticipat­ed the Cougar blitzing schemes. 
"We tackled [the blitz] every week in preparation for every team," he said. "We spend 
ed 17 kills. Brown had only words of praise for Valparaiso. 
· "They played a very balanced attack," Brown said. "We just didn't play well in praetically every aspect of the game. Mter the second game, our offense sputtered the rest of the night." 
The Irish seemed to bounce back during the third game, jumping to an early 3-1 lead. Valparaiso matched its efforts and kept the score tied for the majority of the game. However, the Irish hit a seoring drought as the Crusaders earned their 18th point. By the time Notre Dame's offense surged back, Valparaiso held a 24-21 lead. The Irish ehipped away at that lead, but were unable to regain the tempo of the match and lost 30-26. 
In the fourth game, the Irish 
see LOSS/page 21 
CLEMENT SUHENORA/The Observer Emily Loomis, left, and Lauren Kelbley go up for a block against Nebraska on Friday. The Irish lost 3-2 to Valparaiso Tuesday. 
fOOTBALL 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Squad is searching for answers 
Irish announce 2004­
probably an over-adequate amount of time. looking at 
05 season schedule 
blitz, analyzing blitz, practice blitz, taking on blitz, putting them in almost every eonceiv­able situation we can put them in." 
Now the Irish have to pre­pare for a Michigan defense that gave up just 33 rushing yards at Miami University (Ohio) last weekend. Willingham knows he has to regroup with his offense, as they must perform better if 
see FOOTBALL/ page 22 
Irish go on the road for their first major test of the season, visiting non-conference foes Michigan and Indiana before returning home to host DePaul. 
"That will be a tough stretch for 
see SCHEDULE/page 21 
Notre Dame 2004-05 Men's Basketball Schedule 

liMit  
Nov. 4  ST. JOSEPH'S (Exhibition)  
Nov. 10  QUINCY UNIVERSITY (Exhibition)  
Nov. 19  HARVARD ·  
Nov. 23  IPFW  
Nov. 26  CHARlESTON SOUTHERN  
Dec. 4  at Michigan  
Dec. 8  at Indiana  
Dec. 11  DePAUl  
Dec. 19  ARMY  
Dec. 22  MARIST  
Dec. 28  WESTERN ILLINOIS  
Dec. 30  SAMFORD  
Jan. 5  at Seton Hall  
Jan. 8  VIllANOVA  
Jan. 10  SYRACUSE  
Jan. 1 5  ST. JOHN'S  
Jan. 19  at West Virginia  
Jan. 23  at Georgetown 
Jan. 26  at Villanova  
Jan. 30  CONNECTICUT  
Feb. 5  at Syracuse  
Feb. 8  BOSTON COllfGE  
Feb. 12  at Pittsburgh  
Feb. 16  GEORGETOWN  
Feb. 19  at Providence  
Feb. 21  at Connecticut  
Feb. 26  UCLA  
Mar. 2  RUTGERS  
Mar. 5  PITISBURGH  

Mar. 9-12 Big East Tournament 

MIKE HARKINS!The Observer 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
The 1OOth anniversary season of Notre Dame inen's basketball will be a cause for celebration, and the media knows it. 
The team released its 2004-05 schedule Tuesday that includes 11 games on national television, inducting three on CBS, and con­ference series against Connecticut, Syracuse, Pittsburgh, Villanova and Georgetown. The 



