---~o:""!"'"''"''"~---~~r-1""..-----------~1""1""'---.."""""".,.......,-r .-~--:-r~--~<t-,-.---.....,..~'T'rr'T"T'.,...---ro-....,.....-:-""~,.....----:--;---,-,--:-,.,.-.,...,--,,,-,,.------:-,-rt>i-r<-,.,~----.] 
I I , 't ' ~ ' ·, • 1 I I ~ I , . ' I -t 
1 0 
• r I It I 1 I I 1 • '• o If I 1 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint .Mary's 


oves on 
Jenkins will succeed Malloy after June 2005 
President vows to stay Associate provost calls involved at Notre Dame choice a 'flattering request' 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer News Editor 
WhtHl FathN Theodore llesburgh Fresh ofT a ynar-long stint of' aea­stPppnd dilwn as prnsident of Notre demie research and personal rellec­Danw. lw lllf't his suen~ssor with two tion as a visiting professor at the promises. University of' Chicago, Father .John 
"I will do evnrything to leavn the Jnnkins returned to facn another Univnrsity in good shape and then get challengn -having 14 months to out of thn way,'' Univnrsity Prnsidnnt prepare to become Notre Damn's Father Edward Malloy rer.allod 17th president. llnsburgh saying. Jenkins called the limn period a 
Sovontnen "great luxury," 
years later, saying ho will "You follow the Malloy intends to use the ynar of "It is part of follow the tradi­transition to
spirit. you my vocation. 
tion his predeces­absorb thn expe­
make part l~{my
sor established. riencn and wis­decisions. you lie announced dom of depart­call. I will give Friday his dnei­ing presidnnt
have no it everything I 
sion to stnp down Fathnr Edward
regret:·;, you have to do the
as the presidont Malloy. move on. " of Notre Dame. "I really look best I can." The Board of forward to this Trustens electnd year of working
Edward Malloy John Jenkins 
vice president with Monk on
University University
and associate this transition 
president provost Father and learning all president-elect .John .Jenkins to that's involved in replace Malloy. · this job," the 50­
lin will bneonHJ thn 17th presid1mt of year old president-elect said. "This is Notre Damn on .July 1, 2005. a tremendous honor and a great 
Tho Board also announced the responsibility to lnad this great appointnwnt of currnnt vice president University and I look forward to this and assor.iatn provost John Affleck­challenge." Graves as the next exeeutivo viee pres­Malloy insisted that thn transition ident. between himself and his sueenssor 
.ft~nkins, who praised Allleck-Graves' will be "seamlnss" bncause a nlt~ction, said he was consulted during Congregation of lloly Cross priest will the search process regarding whether continue to bn at the University's hn would rneornmtmd Alllnck-Graves, University President Father Edward Malloy, left, talks with President-elect Father head. 
John Jenkins after the Board of Trustees announced Jenkins' appointment. Malloy, see MALLOY/page 2 who has served as president since 1987, said he would step down In· June 2005. see JENKINS/page 2 


Affleck-Graves named to No. 3 post 
Former associate provost becomes first lay executive vice president in ND history 
Malloy said the Board of Trustees mnnt was also solidtnd as a dodsion 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 

waited to announce the choke of John approached. News Editor 
NTieck-Graves-tho first layperson to "I responded with unboundnd enthu­hold Notro Dame's third-ranking post siasm," he said. "IAfllnt~k-Gravnsl is 
For nearly a year a.ftnr the msigna­-to eoineide with thn selection or the going to bn a gn1at executive vien pres­tion of Father Timothy Scully, new president, as Father John idnnt." University Presidnnt Father Edward Jenkins' input was instrumental in Afllnck-Gravns' appointment takns Malloy assumnd the traditional duties both the selection process and in ell'ect irnmediatnly, Malloy said. of executivn vicn president in addition AlTieck-Graves' formal approval. Jnnkins and A('flnck-Gravns have to his own -a movP. that ultimately "At a certain point, I was askod my work11d dosnly for thrnn ynars. While allowed Notre Dame to follow its recornmnndation and I enthusiastically serving sidn by side as assodatP 
John Affleck-Graves was named executive vice recent precp,dnnt of eleeting both top supportnd [Nlleck-Gravesl," Jenkins 

president at a press conference Friday. officials at once. 
-====-.---­
1.1.1 Many students were Q surprised when they 
learned about Malloy's-decision to step down. 
en 
z 
page 3

-
While Malloy will step down in 14 months, the Board of Trustees approved his most recent strategic plan. 
page 3 
The process that result­ed in Jenkins' appoint­ment was unlike any other Notre Dame presi­dential search. 
page 6 

said, adding that his formal endorsn-see EXEC_UTIVE VPIpage 2 
As new administrators prepare to take over, an Observer senior hopes that Notre Dame will maintain its Catholic identity. 
page 6 

The provost's office has a gaping hole in it after three top officials annouced their depar­tures within five months. 
page 7 
Malloy and jenkins write letters to the Notre Dame community after Friday's announcement. 
page 8 


-----r--r-.--:---,-..
~-.-----;-~----:-~,-------:, 

... I l I, • 
Saturday, May 1, 2004
page 2 The Observer + NEWS 

tions. strongly as everybody," he said. "Our pri­Huang, offered a glowing endorsement. 
"The top three officers in the University ority is to be a Catholic University, and we "I don't think there was any better have historically collaborated on just buy into every part of that." chairman than he was," Huang said. "For continued from page 1 about everything," Malloy said, referring Protecting the University's financial the post of executive vice president, I think to Hatch as well as Jenkins and Affieck­future now falls to the 53-year-old Affieck-they finally got one who was totally dedi­provosts under University Provost Nathan Graves. "You can take it Graves, a native of cated to Notre Dame, immensely talented, Hatch, the pair developed a relationship for granted that those South Africa and a nat­very collegial and extremely knowledge­both men believe will serve them well in three officers will be in "For the post of executive uralized U.S. citizen able of the ins and outs of the University." their future roles. each other's company vice president, I think whose duties as execu­Affieck-Graves said his relationship with "I find him a wonderful colleague and constantly." tive vice president will the finance office will be critical in ensur­
Executive VP 
they finally got one who
also a good friend," Jenkins said. The collaboration include administering a ing Notre Dame a fiscally sound future. He 
was totally dedicated to
Malloy stressed the importance of the between the officers $650 million annual also recalled the past, praising Father president's ability to have a strong rela­will be aided, not dimin­Notre Dame, immensely operating budget and a Edmund Joyce-whose relationship with tionship with his executive vice president, ished, by Affleck­$3 billion endowment, President Emeritus Father Theodore
talented, very
whose duties include overseeing many Graves' status as the as well as overseeing Hesburgh initiated the closeness between
collegial and extremely
financial aspects of the University. first executive vice pres­more than 4,000 Notre the two positions-as setting an impecca­
Malloy's two previous executive vice ident who is not a Holy knowledgeable ... " Dame employees and ble standard for the executive vice presi­presidents left their posts under tumul­Cross priest, Jenkins directing the dent position. tuous circumstances. In 2000, Father believes. University's construc­"I think it's a standard that no one else
Roger Huang 
William Beauchamp, who at the time was "I don't see an issue," tion program. can achieve, but everyone can aspire to," 
Finance department chair 
responsible for overseeing the University's he said. "I think the While he is looking Affieck-Graves said. "He was dedicated, athletic program, resigned after Notre wonderful thing about forward to learning hardworking, disciplined, energetic-but Dame's football program was placed on Notre Dame is that you more about these day­at the same time he was visionary." NCAA probation for the first time in school have priests and lay persons working to-day processes of the University, Affieck­Stepping into the mold Joyce created history. Three years later, Scully resigned together on a common issue." Graves is already well-versed in its finan­and the vacancy Scully left, Affieck-Graves before the Board of Trustees was sched­Affleck-Graves shared this belief, prais­cial operations. After teaching at his alma will try to continue that vision. 
uled to hear a report on his behavior. The ing the willingness of the Congregation of mater, the University of Cape Town in "It's an enormous challenge," he said, 
South Bend Tribune reported that Malloy Holy Cross to share leadership across the South Africa, for 11 years, he joined the "but one !look forward to." said he would step aside if Scully did not University. Notre Dame faculty as a finance professor -a rare breach in a partnership tradi­"As a lay person, I support the Catholic in 1986 and ascended to department Contact Claire Heininger at tionally crucial to Notre Dame's opera-mission of the University hopefully as chair. His successor, professor Roger cheining@nd.edu 
.. ' 
.. 
''I'm kind of the grey beard on the block when I go to presidential meet­


Malloy 
ings," Malloy said, later adding, "I think that all of us recognize, especially when 
continued from page 1 

you are a religious community member, who will now oversee the University's that you live under obedience and what business and financial operations. This God calls you to do at a given moment to follows a trend as both Hesburgh and do as well as you can." Malloy entered the office with their Malloy said when he officially steps executive vice presidents, Fathers down on June 30, 2005 he will probably Edmund Joyce and William shed a few tears wheri he departs his Beauchamp, respectively. fourth floor corner office for the last 
Though Malloy is stepping down as time as president. But, citing a resilien­president, he does not intend to stop cy he enhanced as a ·.varsity basketball serving Notre Dame. player for Notre Dame during the 
''I'm not retiring, just shifting focus. I 1960s, Malloy said he would rather have no intention of going anyplace focus on the great memories he had as else," Malloy said. "Father Hesburgh president and what lies ahead. His fifth provides a great model -he got away, booj( is scheduled to be published this 
he came back, he's done great things." summer and Malloy is already writing 
Malloy said he informed the Board at his sixth book. its October 2003 meeting of his intent to Malloy said he also hopes to continue step down at the conclusion of his cur­teaching and serving on the boards of a rent term in June 2005. But Malloy also variety of not-for-profit organizations. said he wanted the board to ultimately "I certainly want to imitate all the suc­decide if a new president should be cess Monk has had," Jenkins said. "I named. will work closely with Monk to learn 
Malloy said that after praying and what he has done to move this consulting with others, University." he entered this week's During his tenure as meeting prepared to ''I'm not retiring, just president, Notre Dame turn over the reins of completed the
shifting focus. I have no
the University to his Generations campaign successor. intention ofgoing that raised $1.1 billion, "You follow the spir­anyplace else. Father increased student body it, you make decisions, diversity, redirected
Hesburgh provides a 
you have no regrets, academic and faculty
great model-he got 
you move on," Malloy priorities to emphasize said. away, he came back, research, increased financial aid, made
The chairman of the he's done great things." 
Board of Trustees, major capital improve­
Patrick McCartan, said ments and increased he told the Board's Edward Malloy the academic profile of nominating committee University president its students. in January to begin While Notre Dame 
the presidential saw great success search process. Although other candi­under Malloy, his tenure was not with­dates besides Jenkins were considered out its blemishes. In 2000, the football during the four-month search process, team received its first sanction from the McCartan did not identify who else the NCAA after it was discovered that dur­committee considered. ing Lou Holtz's era booster Kim Dunbar 
"As Trustees, we all look forward to had illegally given football players working with Father Jenkins," money and gifts, which resulted in McCartan said in a statement. "The NCAA violations. Due to a struggling superb academic credentials he brings economy, the endowment decreased to the leadership of Notre Dame at this dramatically in 2002 leading to the time in its history will be of critical Board's decision to halt many capital importance to realization of our aspira­improvements, including the new secu­tion to become one of the great research rity building and post office. universities of the world with a distinct­Additionally, all University budgets ly Catholic character." were decreased, with the exception of 
Though Malloy said that today's financial aid. announcement was bittersweet, he does But the numerous accomplishments look forward to taking a sabbatical and during Malloy's 17 -year tenure over­expects to continue his writing projects shadowed these problems. and teaching. "Ali one needs to do is to tour our 
"I never would have imagined when I campus, consult the rankings, examine first took the job that 17 years later, I'd the credentials of our faculty and the still be doing it," Malloy said. outstanding qualifications of our stu­
Malloy -who has served as Notre dent body to realize what he has accom­Dame's president since 1987-is a rar­plished for Notre Dame," McCartan said ity among university presidents. who in a statement. often are replaced more frequently than "He leaves a truly remarkable record at Notre Dame. In the past 51 years, and legacy." only two people-Hesburgh and Malloy -served at the helm of Notre Dame's Contact Meghanne Downes at top office. mdownes1 @nd.edu 
CHUY BENITEZIThe President-elect John Jenkins shakes hands with University President Father Edward Malloy at a press conference Friday afternoon. 
... Notre Dame is in good hands with John Jenkins as president."

Jenkins 

Jenkins' extensive academic back­continued from page 1 ground -which also includes two philosophy degrees from Oxford Jenkins, a Holy Cross religious University and leadership roles on superior of priests and brothers at Notre Dame's Academic Council and Notre Dame from 1997 to 2000 and Code of Honor Committee -will priest since 1983, also stressed the prove equally vital as he moves for­role his faith has played in his career ward into the presidency. Pointing to and will play in his leadership. the award-winning teaching efforts of "It is part of my vocation, part of my Affleck-Graves, Jenkins emphasized call," he said. "I will give it everything the University's commitment to out­I have to do the best I can." standing undergraduate education 
The search for that vocation began and said he would emulate Malloy in during his undergraduate experience seeking advice from other institu­at the University, which Jenkins tions. recalled as a "process of reflection" "It's a wonderful chance· to learn," that eventually led to his religious Jenkins said of outside committees in calling. Though he did not set out which he plans to participate and the with the goal to work at Notre Dame conversations he plans to have in -much less occupy its highest posi­preparation for taking office. "That's tion -his ambition evolved out of an what Father Malloy suggested -talk­admiration of the University's unique ing to other people is a great thing to combination of Catholicism and top­d0. " level academics. Remembering his own start in the 
"I dreamed of working at Notre administration -"I thought I knew Dame in whatever capacity I could," the University inside out, but I deter­he said. "That's my dream. The very mined that there were whole offices I flattering request to serve as presi­didn't know existed," Malloy said ­dent was a specific way to move for­the University president promised he ward with that dream." will provide balanced guidance over 
Professor David Solomon witnessed the coming year, offering Jenkins a that dream taking shape firsthand, as combination of steady support and he taught Jenkins as both an under­necessary freedom. graduate and graduate student at "I look forward to working with Notre Dame and has worked along­John in a very close and collaborative side him in the philosophy depart­way," he said, "but [I will] give him ment. the leeway that he will need to make 
"At every stage, I've found him a decisions that go past next summer." superb philosopher and a dedicated and inspiring priest," Solomon said. Contact Claire Heininger at "He is a man of vision and principle cheining@nd.edu 
'I 

Saturday, May I, 2004 page 3
The Observer + NEWS 
Jenkins will follow Malloy's plan 
Trustees approve "Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise" 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Writer 
Though University President-elect 
Father John Jenkins did not outline 
a specific plan for when he takes 
over as president July 1, 2005, he 
reiterated several times his com­
mitment to the recently approved 
strategic plan and his desire to see 
its successful completion. 
"We do have a strategic plan 
here, a very ambitious one," 
Jenkins said. "I intend to move for­
ward even more as a research uni­
versity, as an undergraduate insti­
tution and as a premier Catholic 
university." 
The plan, "Notre Dame 2010: 
Fullilling the Promise," calls for the 
rcaflirmation of great teaching, an 
emphasis on research and graduate 
education and the promotion of 
Catholic intellectual life. . .Jenkins will spend the next aca­
demic year working closely with 
University President Father Edward 
Malloy to learn more 
about the dynamics of 
Citing the strengths of the undergraduate and graduate student body, the fac­ulty and Notre Dame's resources, Malloy added that Notre Dame's future is bright and that the objec­tives outlined in this plan, while realistic but challenging, will be realized. 

"I will look back over this period as a chance for us to build on the outstanding tradition [where we can] make our mark as a research institution and a place where our 
professors and grad­uate programs are aspiring to be top notch," Malloy said. 
Though Malloy will no longer be leading the efforts for the completion of the plan and directing Notre Dame's future after June 2005, he said he had great confidence in his suc­cessor Jenkins. 
To guide Notre Dame into the future and to sec this plan realized, Jenkins will be relying heavily on his provost, Nathan 
Ilatch, and executive vice dent, John Affleck-Graves. 
presi­
Malloy said that historically these top three officers have collaborated on near­ly all issues involving 
the  direction  of  the  
University.  
"You  can  take  for  

granted that those three officers will be in each others' com­pany constantly and all the fundamental things will have to at least go through them," Malloy said. 
the job and how to move the University forward with respect to this strategic plan. 
Malloy, who as an administrator has played a role in the University's past three strategic plans, said this plan is a continua­tion of the previous two. 

"Monk has been a wonderful example, saying our priority is to be a great Catholic university." 
John Affleck-Graves executive vice president 
A significant portion of this plan addresses academic issues, and its success will be greatly impacted by the new officers as both Jenkins and Affleck-Graves previously served in Hatch's office as vice pres-


ND students 
surprised by 
Board's move 
Keenan residents happy to hear Jenkins plans to move to their dorm 
By MATT BRAMANTI Senior SraffWrirer 
Many Notre Dame students were surprised Friday when they learned University President Father Edward Malloy will step down in 2005 and be replaced by Father John Jenkins. 
Sophomore Erica Williams said she didn't expect the announcement, which was formally made at an afternoon press conference. 
"I never thought it would ever happen," Williams said. "I thought the review of his per­formance was kind of a farce." 
"Honestly, I had no clue that he resigned," sophomore Rebecca Eckstein said. But not all students were caught off-guard by the news. 
Junior Larry Banda said Malloy's review had recently been a major topic of discussion among his co-workers at the First Year of Studies offices. 
"I think people saw it corning," Banda said. "It didn't come as a total surprise, especially at !the First Year of Studies]. 
"It'll be interesting to see someone step up and take the University in a new direction." Freshman Molly Eyerman praised Malloy, but said she looks forward to .Jenkins' presidency. 
"[Malloy) has had a good run here, but it'll bn good to get some new leadership in and see what [Jenkins] can do for the university," Eyerman said. 
Many students, like senior Joe Friel, cxprcssnd hope that Jenkins, currently an associate provost, will make undergraduate education a focus of his administration. 
"There should be a commitment to undergrad­uate teaching," Friel said, "even in the face of pressure for gradu-ate programs and "It'll be interesting 
research." to see someone 
Senior Kurt Copper 
step up and take
agreed, saying that commitment should be the University in a Jenkins' top priority. new direction." 
"A president should, first and foremost, 
Larry Banda
focus on the quality of education this universi­junior ty provides," Copper said. "This is an aca­demic institution that is only as good as the students it graduates." 
Senior Danielle Carducci said administrators should be careful not to emphasize research at the expense of teaching. 
"While it is important that Notre Dame be a good research university, I don't think it should be a top priority," Carducci said. "Professors should focus on teaching, not research." 
Freshman Chris Sebastian said he hopes Jenkins' tenure is marked by Notre Dame's national prominence. 
"He should focus on getting Notre Dame back to the mystique [it] used to carry," Sebaslian said. "It kind of seems like we've fallen off the radar a bit." 
Jenkins said after his introductory press con­ference that he intends to move out of Sarin Hall and into Keenan Hall -which prompted a slew of positive responses from many Keenan resi­dents. 
"I think it'll be a good opportunity to get to know him on different levels," Keenan vice pres­ident Kevin Fussner said. "Obviously we'll get to know him through the policies and changes he makes, but this will give us a good opportunity to get to know him personally." 
Keenan sophomore Joe Boyle suggested that Jenkins' presence could parallel Malloy's resi­dence in Sorin Ilall. where the University President was known for "Monk Hoops" -pick­up basketball games with the dorm's residence­in the early years of the former Irish varsity bas­ketball player's presidency. 
"Everyone knows that Monk was in Sorin, so there's certainly the possibility that !Jenkins] will really be a part of Keenan Hall," Boyle said. "It can only be a good thing." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

idents and associate provosts. Coupled with the objectives outlined in this strategic plan is the funding needed to accomplish it. Affleck­Graves, who is a finance professor and holds a Ph.D in finance, will be 
"We do have a strategic plan here, a very ambitious one. I intend to move forward as an undergraduate institution and as a premier Catholic 
university. " 
John Jenkins University president-elect 
directing the capi­tal campaigns and will be assisted by chief investment officer Scott Malpass and vice president of finance John Sejdani, whose leadership he praised. 
This strategic plan also empha­sizes Notre Dame's commit­ment to its Catholic identity. Though Affleck­Graves is a Catholic layper­

son and Hatch is a member of the Christian Reformed Church, Jenkins did not see this as an impediment to Notre Dame's progress or towards the University's relationship with the Congregation. 
"I think the wonderful thing about Notre Dame is that you have priests and lay people working together on a common issue," Jenkins said. "I don't see a problem." 
Affleck-Graves reiterated Jenkins' commitment to Malloy's vision for the future of Notre Dame, specifi­cally with regards to teaching and research. 
"Monk has been a wonderful example, saying our priority is to be a great Catholic university," Affleck­Graves said. "We buy into every part of that." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

..

~: .. ..
I I •' 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Saturday, May 1, 2004 

procession and student reception commemorate Malloys presiaency. " 

alcohol policy. After a year of receiving recommendations from 
----~ ·. 

students and task force members, the University issued a new alcohol policy barring alcohol at hall formals. The new policy was finalized during a five-day meeting of 12 University 
officers. 
Julfl 1. 1987 ' 

M;Ioy officially takes office and replaces Father Theodore Hesburgh as Notre Dame's president. 

February 5, 1990 The University announces a contract with NBC to broadcast all Notre Dame home football games. The contract meant national exposure for the University as well as millions in revenue that greatly helped the financial aid endowment. .~ . Since the inception of the r· 
contract, over 1,200 ~ ~ students have received 

more than $12 million 
in aid from the 
revenue. 

· Se~tember 23. 1987 The niversity cancels classes as activities including a Mass, Convocation, academic 

The Gay and Lesbian Alumni Assoctation (GALA) begins, unaffiliated with the University, as a group for homosexual students who felt alienated during their time on campus. The group later came into conflict with Malloy after it was banned from publishing ads in The Observer. 
Falll988 Malloy proved himself to be a rare exception among the nation's university presidents by continuing to teach throughout his tenure. Aside from his first year in office, MaJloy has taucltt '?ne freshman seminar in both the fall andspnng semesters. 
· S.Ummex 1993 


Fat~~=be~~sw1 
Ground is broken on renovations to Notre Dame Stadium. 

September 12. 1995 The Mendoza College of Business opens. 
l.22Z 
Concern underw] merchaQ· time asp 
NotreD~ 
universit for the tl1 
produ~ 
to actuMl conditior products 
May 1.1997 The University ann of the "Generations" largest fundraising in history of Catholic hii Although the Univer~ goal of $767 million, 11' over $1 billion four yf raised is used later tol scholarship funds, a~ faculty positions and quality of University 

-·-~~---· 
' 
1 I o I 
',· '1
''
'' 
I',
1 I

I' • I''' •
''. 

Saturday, May I, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 5 
1 



d Malloy's Tenure at Notre Dame 
March 13.2000 Malloy ann?ut;ces Kevin ~hite as the University s 11th athletic director and the first to report directly to the University's president 

Fall2002
rather than the executive vice­The University unveils its latest president. White's hirin~ came after campul? J?lan, which foc~ses ~n a restrucuring of the ~nive~sity's maintaining the pedestnan-fnendlyathletic department, Including the nature of campus, addressing parkingresignation of athletic director concerns, improving the quality of 

Michael Wadsworth and the removal 
residential life and initiating the ·of Father William Beauchamp from creation of a college town styleall athletic duties. 
complex. 
~Dame expanded its study 
March 18. 2002
abroad program during Malloy's University announces changes to tenure. In 1998, the London program its alcohol policy. The revised policy,relocated to a larger building in presented tn response to results from Trafalgar Square. Notre Dame later a student survey on alcohol that begancame in first place in the 2000-01 in 2000, included a ban on hard alcoholacademic year for the highest in residence halls and in-hall dances. It percentage of students who choose also included a rewriting of the tailgati~g .
to study abroad. The Universtiy offers policies to permit of-age students to dnnl< 1n aesignatedparking lots on home football weekends. Previously, the University banned alcohol from hall formals during a Board of Trustees meeting in July 1988. 
;
.; 


workers and the conditions they produce Notre Dame increased during Malloy's 
became the first Bob Davie is fired asto establish a set of conditions 

acturing of its licensed football coach after two losing seasons and later became the first in the past three years. Davie served as monitor the working footbal1 coach for five years, compiling in factories where its a 35-25 record-the third lowest winning made. percentage in Irish history. During his time as head coach, the football program suffered its first·ever sanctions, when former players w~re fo~nd to have h~d inappropriate relattons wtth booster Ktm Dunbar during Lou Holtz's time as head coach.
February 5. 1999 ......... ,n, 
the start Malloy says that the decision. of 
the Board of Trustees to vote agatnst 
pai6n-the 
joining the Big Te_n affirmeative tn the 
education. NotreUame's untque -""'..-.......... identity. "Notre Dame
establishes a 
has a core identiy: campaign nets Catholic, private andrs later. Money 
independent. An association with the 
100 chaired Big Ten wouldance the 
only involve one element of that 

--..-~------~id~en~t~it~~':_'~in~d:e~p=e~n:d:e~n:Ce:·_"~~~_:_----~~--~IN~FO~R~MA~T~IO__:.N-=_CO_:_M_P_ILE_D_b_:_y::l!'L~'~,,~!;!JJ~~~_m~~ 
1 ' 


, J I I 
page 6 Saturday, May 1, 2004
The Observer + NEWS 

Process differed from Malloy search 
Jenkins marks only second time Trustees pick president 
future has in store," Malloy said in an But just like any big announcement, 
By MATT LOZAR article published in The Observer there was a big rumor. 
News Writer April 23. The Chicago Tribune broke a story 
The process for finding candidates on Nov. 2, 1986 saying Malloy was 
The election of Father Edward to become president of the University going to be named the 16th president Malloy to succeed Father Theodore begins with a formal presidential can­of the University. Malloy denied the Hesburgh as University President was didate recommendation to the nomi­claim made by the Tribune, calling it the culmination of a four-year public nating committee by Father David "foolish." Trustees and University storyline. Tyson -the provincial superior of officials continue to refute that state­
This time, nobody knew anything the Indiana Province of the ment leading up to the Trustees' about the process. Congregation of Holy Cross. The November meeting. 
Hesburgh announced his intentions nominating committee is comprised Twelve days later the Board elected not to seek another term when the of seven to 10 Trustees and chaired Malloy. This time, the process has Board of Trustees elected him for his by the Board chairman. been less public. seventh term in 1982. After becoming Former Board chairman Thomas Current Board chairman Patrick the 15th president in Notre Dame his­Carney went to the student body in McCartan confirmed the nominating tory in 1952, Hesburgh knew his time 1986 to form a com-commihee met in as the University's top official was mittee of five students January, February, coming to an end. to provide input on "/ think they felt it was March and April 
"Father Ted had almost stepped the selection of this year to discuss
better to try to make a
down at one time previously when he Hesburgh's successor. Malloy's successor. was asked to stay on, so I think in The students' commit­decision and get all of McCartan also con­that case, [there] was much less cer­tee formed a report the suspense out firmed the nominat­tainty about which way to go," for the Board gather­ing committee con­
ofthe way."
University spokesman Matt Starin ing opinions from stu­sidered other can­
said. "He had been president 35 dents across campus. didates but declined years, and it was a process that was a Administrators and Matthew Storin to disclose their better part of a year. faculty also were con­University spokesperson names. 
"But I think a lot of the difference sulted in the process. Everyone knew was what was made public and what Starin said the the Board was happened in the public." Board considered making the process meeting Thursday and Friday to 
Malloy didn't go public with his public like the process was to replace name an executive vice president. But desires to step down as University Hesburgh, but felt it was best to just hearing the Board was going to name President, but he never made a make an announcement when a can­Monk's successor came as a shock. strong public claim for the Board to didate was elected. Similar to the way Hesburgh chose re-elect him for another five-year "I think that they felt it was better Father Edmund Joyce and Malloy term either. to try to make a decision and get all of chose Father William Beauchamp to 
Indications were pointing that he the suspense out of the way," Starin be his executive vice president, was ready to move on. said. Father John Jenkins recommended 
''I'm not seeking to stay on, because In the weeks prior to the final deci­John Affleck-Graves for the position. I think that should be the decision of sion in 1986, trustees confirmed the Board -but I will do whatever there were five leading candidates to the Board wants in terms of what the succeed Hesburgh. Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Notre Dame must truly be a Catholic university 
In his 1989 address to Catholic universi­ties, Pope John Paul II made a strong dec­laration on the "crisis" facing the world's institutions of higher learning: 
"It is a crisis not so much of means as of identity, of purpose and of values." 
Nowhere is this more true than at Notre Dame, often known as "the place where the Church does its think­ing." 
Its administrators have a solemn respon­sibility to make sure that thinking is done in the context of a well­formed institutional conscience. 

Friday's develop­ments mark a key mile­stone in Notre Dame's history. Beginning in July, a majority of the top three officers will be laymen and only two will be Catholics. 
Compounding the significance, these 
,. 


Matt Bramanti 
Senior Staff Writer 
decisions come at a time when critical moral issues are on Notre Dame's horizon. 
The Supreme Court case examining affirmative action at the University of Michigan has brought a new sense of urgency to the issue of creating race-and nationality-based diversity among students. 
In recent years, administrators have judged the success of their tenure by Notre Dame's position in highly-publicized rank­ings, usually determined by the leaders of secular "peer institutions." These rankings are strongly influenced by the academic reputations of faculty members and the trappings of high-dollar facilities. 
Members of an unofficial gay-straight alliance have unsuccessfully petitioned the University for official recognition in recent years, and will likely continue to do so in the coming years. 
These are not negotiable issues of aca­demic freedom. As the newly-tapped leader of a truly Catholic institution, Father John Jenkins has an obligation to bring the Church's teaching-and the love that underlies that teaching-to bear on Notre Dame policy. 

Christ's love for his people is the founda­tion that supports all of Catholicism. Notre Dame's top policymakers must reflect that love. 
Jenkins must decide how to apply that love to the policies he will touch. 
He will examine if love for members of under-represented minorities means tak­ing race into account in admissions, or if it means instituting high, but color-blind standards. 
He will determine iflove for Our Lady's University requires the rapid construction of buildings and the hiring of big-name academics, or if a Catholic university is more than a high-priced physical plant and a stack of research grants. The Notre Dame family will rightly expect the new president to explore whether a true, deep love for Notre Dame means administrators should build on the University's heritage of teaching at the expense of steel and stone. 
He will decide what it means to love and include the gay and lesbian members of our Notre Dame community. He will exam­ine if love for an individual requires the acceptance of that individual's lifestyle. He will determine the best way to call mem­bers of the Notre Dame family to use their sexuality like they should use all their fac­ulties -for the benefit of others and the glory of God. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh and Father Edward Malloy bore the enormous respon­sibility of shepherding Notre Dame through the highs and lows that more than 50 years bring. 
With Friday's momentous announce­ments, that responsibility will pass to a new president. The Notre Dame family will look to Jenkins and executive vice presi­dent John Affieck-Graves to maintain the University's Catholic character. 
With this is mind, I remind Father Jenkins of the pope's words 15 years ago this week: 
"Do not be afraid; then, beloved brothers and distinguished teachers, to profess the Catholicity of your institutions." 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu. 

-;--:---~ ----.~:--:-----:-:-~':""'\""----~~~-----~~:-­
.'.".'.I
' ..
I' I I I 1 1, 

' .. 

Saturday, May 1, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 7 



Three top academic slots now unfilled 
·­
Trustees respond favorably to Lao's report 
Student government requests $1 million program1ning endowment 
student government ollicials to project," Lao said. "The board By MATT BRAMANTI pursue their proposal through the would like to take the approach of Senior Staff Writer 
Office of Student Affairs and vice creating an endowment that ­president for student affairs would align itself with the 
Former student body president Father Mark Poorman. University's mission." Jeremy Lao and vice president "They asked us to work with Lao said a current sophomore or Emily Chin made a report to the Father Poorman on setting up a junior could see signilicant devel­Board of Trustees during their formal campaign," Chin said. opments in the creation of an meeting Thursday, where they Chin acknowledged there was endowment. presented a plan for a $1 million no firm commitment from the Lao, a rising senior, said he will programming trustees to fund work with new student body pres­endowment. the endowment, ident Adam Istvan and vice presi­
Under the pro­"We want enough to but she remained dent Karla Bell to push the endow­posal, the optimistic that the ment.
bring in the really big 
endowment board would ''I'm going to still be around next would be expect­names and the really eventually semester," Lao said. "Adam and ed to generate big acts." approve the plan. Karla have already extended me about $50,000 a "They were in an offer to keep working on this year, which full support of the issue."
Jeremy Lao

would be used to idea," she said. He also raised the possibility of fund big-ticket former student Lao agreed, but requesting more money from tl10 concerts, speak­body president said the project board, saying that high-dollar ers and other will take more events will require more funding. events. time than was ini­"We want enough to bring in the 
Chin said the trustees responded tially expected, as student leaders really big names and the really big favorably to the idea. will integrate the endowment pro­acts," Lao said. "We're going to "They really liked the endow­posal into the University's strategic need more." 
BI:NITEZ!The Observer ment," she said. "They thought plan, entitled "Notre Dame 2010: 
Former student government leaders Jeremy Lao and Emily Chin our students delinitcly needed it." Fulfilling the Promise." Contact Matt Bramanti at 
presented a report to the Board of Trustees Thursday. Chin said the trustees directed "It's going to be a longer-term mbramant@nd.edu 
I' 
Provost's office decimated by departures ofJenkins, Affleck-Graves and Mooney 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Assistanr News Editor 
With Father John Jenkins named as the next University president, John Allleck­Graves named as executive vice president and Carol Mooney named as Saint Mary's president. all three of Notre Dame's vice president and associate provost positions are vacant. 
According to Mary Pugel. the executive assistant to the provost, these vacancies will not directly afl'ect the critical functions of the ollicc but will force remaining mem­bers to take on additional work. 
University President Father Edward Malloy "said that the loss of Mooney, Allleck-Gravcs and Jenkins would keep Provost Nathan !latch busy. 
"The top three olliccrs in the provost's ollice arc going somewhere else," he said. "[That] creates pressure on Nathan as provost." 
Malloy said that Hatch. the University's second-ranking olliccr, is "already in the process of looking for candidates for the positions," and noted that the Board of Trustees executive committee, who must approve any nominations, can do so between the BOT's regularly scheduled meetings. 
An extensive search for Mooney's replacement is being conducted with the help of a search consultant to interview candidates both inside and outside of the University, and Pugel said that Hatch hopes to make a decision on this position by mid-May. 
l'ugel said that !latch will now also have to focus his attention on searching for can­didates for the two other vacancies. 
"[!lei will immediately be turning his attention to the other two positions," Pugcl said. "That will be one of his top priorities. They'll certainly receive immediate atten­tion because they arc key positions within the oflice." 
i\lthough Pugel said she is unaware of the specifics of the search process ­including a possible timelinc or the usc of a consultant -for Jenkins' and Alllcck­Gravcs' replacements. she said it is Hatch's policy to lind the best candidate possible. 
"[lie I always looks to the best possible person," Pugcl said. "Sometimes [a search process! might take a little longer. Whoever he will lind (will) be the best per­


PROVOSTS LEAVING THEIR PosTs 
JOHN AFFLECK-GRAVES 
• The provost's office expects to name a replacement for Mooney by the end ofMay, while the timetable for replacing Jenkins and Affleck-Graves remain.~ unknown. 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graph1c 

son. whether internal or external [to the slack. I'm sure that some other proj-Pugel said that although Jenkins. University]." ects ... would need to be put aside," Pugel Mooney and AfOeck-Graves share the Pugel said that although Hatch makes said. same job title, their responsibilities differ. the final decision on the But she said critical "Each the jobs have distinct areas of replacements for each areas will not be affect­responsibility," she said. "Each of the posi­position, she expects ed. tions calls for some difl'crent set of skills."
"The top three officers in
that he will be in consul­"Anything that would Pugel said Mooney was primarily tation with both Jenkins the provost's office are impact faculty decisions responsible for faculty issues such as and Malloy. -any critical areas that tenure and promotion, faculty grievance
going somewhere else. 
She also noted that someone would need to and faculty well-being. AfOeck-Graves'
[That] creates pressure
Hatch would probably have a decision on -duties included "academic budget issues. turn to other members on Nathan as provost." those Will be made," academic space utilization and information of the office to fulfill Pugel said. technology" while Jenkins was responsible some of the core duties As Jenkins has been for "undergraduate education and interna­
Edward Malloy

and anticipated some on leave this academic tional studies." 
University president 
projects of lesser priori­year, Pugel noted that Hatch could not be reached for com­ty would need to be set associate provost Maura ment. aside. Ryan fulfilled many of 
"As necessary, I'm sure Hatch will look to his responsibilities in his former associate Contact Joe Trombello at other people in the office to take up the provost and vice president position. jtrombel@nd.edu 



.'' 

.. , '' .
•'' I' 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Saturday, May 1, 2004 
It's the right time to say goodbye 
(574) 631-5313 
News DEsK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews, l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-'5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
(574) 631-4324 smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor govemed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible, Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and coltunns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe 
..... Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Q;<estions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 59'-) 2-4000) i~ puhhshed Monday through Friday except dur­
ing exam and vacation periods. A subscripuon to The Observer _Is $100 for one aca­demic year; $5~ for one scmestt"f. 
-
The Obserwr i~ publisht:"d l!.t; POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Send address correctiom to~ Notre Dame, lN 46556-077? TheObM:rvcr Pt:ri:odkal po~tagc paid at Notre Drone P.O.Iltl•Q and addid1mal mailing offices. 024 South. Dining Hall 

Notn: Dam~:, lN 46556-0779 
The Observer i.!i. a member of tht: 1\b.sodar~ P.r('SS. All rc.-producdon rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Letters from the leaders 
Members of the Notre Dame community, 

For the last 17 years I have had the honor and privilege of serving as President of this wonderful University. On Friday at the trustees meeting, I announced that in June of 2005 I would step down as President and begin a period of sabbati­cal. This will eventually be followed by a recom­mitment of my time and energies to teach­ing, writing, pastoral ministry and service on various not-for-profit boards. 
What a wonderful opportu­nity I have enjoyed. I am very conscious that what­ever has been achieved through the years has been a collective effort of students, faculty, staff, fellow adminis­frators, trustees, alumni and benefac­tors. I am convinced that Notre Dame has only begun to realize its potential as the premier Catholic university in the world. This University named after Mary, the Mother of Jesus, has always flourished with her patronage and in fruitful­ness to the call of her Son. 

I look forward to this coming academic year. I will do everything I can to begin the process of implementing our new strategic plan and to effect a smooth transition to the leadership of our President-elect and my fellow Holy Cross priest and friend, Father John Jenkins, C.S.C. 
I thank you for your encouragement and sup­port through the years. 
Monk Malloy President of the University of Notre Dame April 30, 2004 
To the Notre Dame community: 
It is a great honor, as well as a tremendous responsibility, that the Trustees have bestowed on me in making me president-elect of this great University. It is, at once, exciting and humbling. 
All of us -faculty, students, staff, alumni and friends of Notre Dame -are blessed to be part of one of this nation's truly outstand­ing universities, and the world's finest Catholic institution of higher learning. In very general terms, my hope and goal is to continue the wonderful · upward trajectory set by Father . Malloy, Father Hesburgh and their 14 predecessors. I look forward to working with Father Malloy in the com­
ing year to prepare myself to take on this responsibility. 
As the 17th president, I know that in the years to come, the challenges before us will be many, 
but so, too, are the resources. Principal among them are the faith we ·have as a community in a loving God and our own dedication to serving the mis­sion of Our Lady's University. I want to thank the Board of Trustees for the tremendous honor of leading Notre Dame, and I pledge that I will 
give every bit of my talent and dedication to move her for­ward as a university dedicated to the very best combination of under­graduate teaching, research and service, all in concert with a never­ending commitment to our Catholic identity and ideals. 
As we work together during the next year of transition, and then into the future, I ask for your prayers and promise that you will be in mine. 
John Jenkins Presidenr-elect of the University of Notre Dame April 30, 2004 
Chuy Benitez Matt Bramanti Scott Brodfuehrer Meghanne Downes

-Mike Harkins Claire Heininger Joe Hettler Matt Lazar 
Michelle Otto Pat Quill Maureen Reynolds Paul Ronca! Andrew Soukup Andrew Thagard Joe Trombello Sarah Vabulas 
OBSERVER POLL 

What do you think of the Board of Trustees' decision to elect Father John Jenkins as the 17th president of Notre Dame? 
Vote at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

7 dreamed of working at Notre Dame in whatever capacity I could. That's my dream. The very flattering request to serve as president was a specific way to move forward with that dream. " 
Father John Jenkins University president-elect 

THE OBSERVER 
'l.1n bulependmt, Daily Nnvspapn-s~rving Nom Dame zmd Sn.int M.gry's 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 . 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Lori Lewalski  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWs EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Chuy Benitez GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERSTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 

MANAGING EDITOR & ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

Every good leader needs an impeccable sense of timing. Stay too briefly, and questions will always remain about what more could have been accomplished. Stay too long, and the welcome fades. Departing University President Father Edward Malloy made neither mistake when he chose to step down at the end of his 18th year in office -a tenure that should not be questioned in its achievements, its longevity or its legacy. 
Malloy was a fresh face with a daunting task when he suc­ceeded President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh in 
1987-a tough act to follow by any standard.  
Yet Malloy not only upheld his predecessor's standard of excellence, he also modernized it during an unmatched period of growth in the University's history. The academic reputation skyrocketed, with the average SAT score rising  OJhe userver Editorial  
from 1240 to 1360. The endowment multiplied,  

growing from $350 million to more than $3 billion. Buildings went up across campus, notably Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, the new DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, and buildings on both DeBartolo and West Quads. The faculty increased by more than 500. The diversity of the student body -both racially and economically -improved dramatically. 
Internationally, Notre Dame students have made their mark during Malloy's administration, as the study abroad prDgram continually expanded to its current status as best in the United States, claiming programs in 17 nations. Students from foreign countries are also expected to make up three percent of the class of 2008 -a reflection of the University's ascent to worldwide prominence. 
Malloy himself is also far more recognizable than when he began. Known across campus for his Sorin Hall residence, basketball prowess and ubiquitous nickname, "Monk" stands out in the University community as an individual, not just as an administrator. 
However, with these personal and institutional strides came struggles, such as NCAA sanctions imposed in 2000 and a severely decreased endowment in 2002 that led to budget cuts across the board. 
As eventful as his tenure has been, Malloy recognized that it 
was nearing its natural conclusion. In asking 
the Board of Trustees to evaluate his perform­
ance, he exhibited an unselfishness and concern 
for the wider University community, yet did not 
hesitate to clearly inform them that he was 

ready to move on to another phase of his life. 
Malloy said the solid advice and spiritual guidance he received during his discernment process led him to the realization that his heart -while always with the University -was no longer in the President's Office. He knew stepping down was the right choice. 
What remains to be seen is whether Father John Jenkins is the right choice for the next president. His solid Catholic and academic background made him a strong candidate, and the insight he gains from Malloy over the coming year will be invaluable as he begins to grasp the role he will play in the University's future. 
Jenkins has promised to realize Malloy's vision for Notre Dame -and he will need the judgment, the tenacity and the timing to do it. 





