
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 114 FRIDAY. MARCH 26.2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SpringVisitation draws minorities to ca•npus 

By SHEILA FLYNN Senior Staff Writer 
Nearly 160 students arrived on campus Thursday for this year's Spring Visitation week­end, hosted annually by the University in an attempt to recruit the most qualified and talented minority students in the country. 
"It brings students that Notre Dame would normally lose to other schools that I think benefit the campus as a whole," said student coordina­tor Alex Santana, who oversaw Latino recruitment this year. 
Santana attended Spring 
Visitation himself in 2000 and said the weekend played a compelling role in his choice to leave the Los Angeles area and attend Notre Dame. 
"If I wasn't flown out to See Also visit the cam-"Panel discusses 
pus, I 
w o u l d ' v e blacks in been one of education" those stu­dents that page 3 
would've ended up just staying in California," Santana said. "That's the type of student that Spring Visitation really tries to target -[the student] that otherwise would not visit the 

Author discusses autism 
Presentation marked conclusion ofDisability Awareness Week 
By STEPHANIE YAHN News Writer 
Patricia Stacey, author of "The Boy who Loved Windows: Opening the Heart and Mind of a Child Threatened with Autism," offered insight into the challenges she faces as a mother raising an autistic son. The Thursday evening event marked the conclusion of Disability Awareness Week at Notre Dame. 
Stacey read several excerpts from her book, an account of how her family's life changed forever, when their youngest child Walker was diagnosed with autism, at the early age of six months. 
Following a traumatic birth, Walker's parents were immedi­ately aware that their son was different. As the first months 
see AUTISM/page 6 

IRAQ: ONE YEAR LATER 


War dominates campaign 

Editor's Note: This is the fifth part in a Jive-part series examining issues in the Iraq War. 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Rarely does a presidential election turn contentious 
before Labor Day -not to mention before Memorial Day -but with the Iraq War still fresh in voters' minds, both the George W. Bush and John Kerry campaigns have already begun to escalate their claims about what has occurred in the broken country and what should happen next. 
Bush standing firm 
Eight months before Americans go to the polls, and on the frrst anniversary of the United States' declaration of war on Iraq, the Bush admin­istration's stance remains essentially the same as it was 
see IRAQ/page (5 


Donation makes SMC building reality 
parents Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile, former owners of lams Company, have agreed to match up to $3 million in additional funds to be raised by Saint Mary's. 
"The faculty are thrilled with the generosity of one young alumna," said Vice President and Dean of Faculty Patrick White. "She is a profound example to all 
see BUILDING/page 8 


By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
Plans are in the works to build a new $15 million aca­demic building at Saint Mary's, thanks to the gen­erosity of one alumna and her parents. 
Jennifer Mathile Prikkel, a 1995 graduate and member of the board of trustees. pledged $3 million for the new academic building. Her campus and would end up going to an in-state school." 
This year, the University flew in 156 students for Spring Visitation, said Gil Martinez, the assistant director of admis­sions who oversees the event. 
"There are eight Native Americans, 64 African Americans, 29 Asian Americans and 55 Hispanics," Martinez said. 
The purpose of Spring Visitation, he said. is to show those students the campus and the real Notre Dame experi­ence -a decisive opportunity they would most likely not 
see VISITATION/page 9 
Students host peace conference 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
The annual Kroc Institute­
sponsored Student Peace 
Conference, which organizers 
say will be the biggest and 
best attended in the event's 
ten-year history, kicks off this 
afternoon at the Hesburgh 
Center. 
The two day event -com­pletely organized and run by undergraduate students ­draws national and interna­tional participants to campus for lectures, roundtable dis­cussions and workshops aimed at promoting a more just soci­ety. 
''I'm just elated about this," said Nadia Stefko, a senior English major who is co-chair­ing the conference along with sophomore Monica Jacir and a committee of 25 students. "It's going to be a great group of people. It's [awesome] to see them all get together and talk about something they're pas­sionate about." 
The conference opens with dinner at Greenfields Cafe in the Hesburgh Center, followed by a keynote address by Mariclaire Acosta, an interna­tionally renowned human rights activist from Mexico. 

"She's done some phenome­nal work with human rights in Mexico, " S t e fk o said . "We thought she'd be ideal in terms of the mix of personal stories and scholarly [approach]." 
The conference continues Saturday with five sessions in which participants can choose between moderated discus­sions and debates focusing on war and peace, reconciliation, social justice and updates on service projects carried out 
see PEACE/ page 4 



Friday, March 26, 2004

page2 Tht Obstrvtr + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

How proud? 
One of my favorite South Bend estab­lishmentci, The linebacker, closes down each night with the song "Proud to be an American." 
It's something I assume the bar chose as a show ofsup-Lauren Beck port for U.S. troops 
serving in Iraq. But regardless of my Associate support for the Viewpoint Editor 
men and women in the Armed Forces, regardless of my utmost grief for the victims of terrorism, it's some­thing that bothers me every time 3 a.m. rolls around at the 'Backer. 
To me, this song epitomizes the unquestioning, so-called "patriotism" that seems to be all too popular these days. 
This week, people around the world have remembered the one-year anniversary of the U.S.-led war in Iraq. While I no doubt appreciate the oppor­tunities this nation affords me, I find it difficult to pronounce my nationality with pride at such a somber time. 
·"Proud." It's such a strong term, with many connotations: pleased, satisfied, honored, even arrogant ... 
I am not pleased to be an American when our government floutci interna­tional law and just war principles. 
I am not satisfied with my country when it abandons the responsibilities it has elsewhere -namely, Afghanistan -in favor ofitci own war of choice in Iraq. 
I am not honored to be an American when our leaders hubristically espouse unilateralism. 
I am not arrogant about my nationali­ty when I discover how many other countries detest mine. 
While studying abroad in London last year. the disgust the world had for our country hit home when three men, who recognized me as an American, fol­lowed me on the street. They shoved a newspaper bearing photographs of the devastation in Iraq at me, taunting, "Why are you doing this?" 
I certainly wasn't proud to be an American then. Embarrassed, ashamed, angry -but not proud. 
Sure, I could console myself all I wanted by thinking this was the govern­ment's fault. But as long as I failed to and demand changes, then it was my fault as well. 
I worry that, post-Sept. 11, Americans assume that protesting or criticizing the government is somehow unpatriotic. Quite the contrary, I believe holding our government to higher standards through protest and criticism is one of the most patriotic things we can do. Patriotism is a call to action, not blind loyalty. 
When I think of true patriots, I think of the founding fathers, women's suffra­gistci, civil rightc; activistc;, war protest­ers-all those who improved our coun­try by demanding change. 
Indeed, we should celebrate our free­doms and mourn the loss of our troops abroad. But it is equally our duty to criticize government policy. 
The Backer's last song ends with a variation on George W. Bush's most beloved phrase: "God bless the U.S.A." 
Until, however, we begin to adopt policies to the tune of "God bless the whole world," I cannot be fully proud to be an American. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact w at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU RATHER DATE AN ENGINEER OR AN ATHLETE? 





Nick Satta Beth Doyle Brita Hellge Mary Dubon Megan Horner Pete Dubon 
Senior Senior Senior Sophomore Senior Senior Off-campus Off-campus Off-campus Welsh Family Off-campus Offcampus 
"An athlete, ' "Both an ath-"For sure a "I'm all for ..Either one that "I prefer engi­because I could lete and an pole-vaulter." interhall O'Neill I pick makes me neers over teach her to engineer. I like athletes." look like. a jerk." athletes." 
hold my to date two footballs." boys at once. " 


DAVE ROONEY!The Observer 
Notre Dame junior Molly Savage smiles for the camera on Wednesday. Savage posed for a photo for the senior section of the 2005 yearbook, which Lauren Studios Is planning throughout the week. 
OFFBEAT 
charged with disturbing the peace and obstructing an officer early Monday morn­ing. 
Some residentci of her sub­division said Travoss drunk­enly harassed them after a volatile Homeowners Assoc­iation meeting, where she had lost an election to the board. 
One neighbor called police claiming Travoss was intoxi­cated and would not leave his yard, and another resi­dent said Travoss called her five times within 15 minutes, according to police reportci. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Woman asks state to return bribe money 
HARTFORD. Conn. When Rebecca Messier asked for her money back, she drew snickers from the courtroom crowd. The cash she requested was $8,500 from a failed bribe to a pros­ecutor that got her and her husband arrested. 
Messier appeared in Hartford Superior Court on Thursday to argue that she is entitled to the money she gave a bagman for a crooked proseGutor six years ago. 
The bagman was to give the money to the prosecutor, who was to argue for the early release from prison of 
TODAY a: 
Messier's husband, convicted child molester Joseph Messier. 
• The Messiers got in trouble because the prosecutor was­n't on the take, and the bag­man was an undercover investigator with the chief state's attorney's office. 
"Chicken Soup" poet accused of harassment 
McDONOUGH, Ga. -A Henry County woman who contributed two poems to the popular "Chicken Soup for the Soul" books series was arrested after leaving a less­than-heartwarming impres­sion on her neighbors. 
Jill Grubb-Travoss, 51, was 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 

8 ::c 3: 
.... 
cc 
CJ 



0 
HIGH 68 HIGH 65 HIGH 70

...J 
LOW 40 LOW 50 LOW 45 


68 40 

IN BRIEF 
Latin Expressions 2004, a showcase of diversity and talent, will take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Free transportation to the auditorium will be provid­ed from Library Circle starting at 6 p.m. The event is sponsored by LaAlianza. 
The Human Rights International Film Festival will present the film "Welcome to Hadassah Hospital" tonight at 7 
p.m. The film takes a close up look at the people who work and stay in this Jerusalem Hospital. A discussion will fol­low. 
A Night on Broadway: The 2004 Pemco Musical Review will take place tonight at 7:30 
p.m. The event is directed by Shawna Monson and Cheryl Turski and features musical director Tom Mucchetti. Ticketci are $5 for students and $6 for the general public and can be purchased at the LaFortune box office. 
The Clayton Miller Blues Band will perform tonight at 10 
p.m. at Legends. 
ND Opera will perform a fully staged production of Gian-Carlo Menotti's opera "The Consul" tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The opera fea­tures Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and will be per­formed in English. 
Enjoy night club dancing at Legends tonight. The fun starts at midnight and continues until 4a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

60 38 

HIGH LOW 

page 3
Friday, March 26, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 



Panel discusses blacks in education 
I 
By KATIE lAIRD 
N~ws Wrir~r 
Members of the Erskine Peters Fellowship Symposium met Thursday night in the Eck Visitors' Center to discuss the role of blacks in higher educa­tion and the nature of the rela­tionship to bridge a stronger connection between black aca­demia and the community sur­rounding it. 
The discussion consisted of seven panelists from a variety of fields and universities. Participants from Notre Dame included Richard Pierce, assis­tant professor of history and associate director of African and African-American studies, Rhonda Brown, director of the Office of Institutional Equality and Donald Pope-Davis, pro­fessor of psychology and asso­ciate vice president. 
Also included were the 2003­04 Erskine Peters Fellows, Jessica Wormley of Fordham University, Brandi Brimmer of the University of California at Los Angeles, Sherwin Bryant of Ohio State University, Paul Minifee of the University of Texas, Austin and Dorian Warren of Yale University. 
Mindful that only 6.1 percent of blacks making up the faculty at universities nationwide, panel members discussed how to build bridges between the field of learning and the com­munity that many black live. 
"We have to form a connec­tion between what we do in the academy and what we do in black faculty members to the community," Pope-Davis reach certain goals and per­said. form a certain amount of serv­
Panelists discussed personal ice and research in order to experiences and hardships that reach tenure or full-time pro­they faced to climb the aca­fessor. demic ladder due to their race "African-American students and other personal obstacles. want to be taken seriously, to 
Wormley gave advice for be engaged, to be motivated in high school students on gradu­some way," Bryant said, ate life. adding that mentors have 
"Read broadly ... reading helped them to make those broadly is the key," she said. type pf connections. 
Brown said that children of Wormley also emphasized color need to also be aware of the importance of black repre­
the other impor­ sentation in fac­ 
tant things in life  ulties.  
besides studying  "We have to form a  "I have never  
and academics. "These are things we have to do better. Be clear on who you are ... know yourself and know your value.  connection between what we do in the academy and what we do in the community.··  had a black teacher of a black professor ... I would have liked to see myself repre­sented. I think  
When you question  black students  
worth, you lose the game," Brown said.  Donald Pope-Davis panel member  need black mentors because there  
Pope-Davis  are issues that  

urged the engagement of both are really relevant," Wormley students and faculty into the said. community, and discussed the The discussion was also importance of mentoring. opened up for the audience, in Blacks need to have mentors which two professors voiced and role models that they can their experiences and opinions turn to for advice, assistance Paulimis Odozor, a theology and guidance, she said. professor at Notre Dame from 
"It is very natural for stu­Nigeria, explained that profes­dents of color to seek out facul­sors sometimes concentrate ty of color," Pope-Davis said. too much on publishing books "This is more than a profes­and journals when in reality sional commitment, it's a per­they should be aiding students. sonal commitment." "The greatest commitment 
Panelists also discussed the you can make is in human extra burden that is placed on beings ... push aside whatever you're doing. ·That is the greatest book you can write," Odozor said. 
Johnnie Griffin, Ph.D., a Sodology professor at Indiana University in South Bend, said that she hears certain themes over and over again from stu­dents, whether thev be black or not. These themes include the attitude that "college is not for everybody." 
"We talk as though this is a black problem," Griffin said. "This is a people problem. There is something universal." 
With Notre Dame's desire to commit to diversity, Pope-Davis said that it can be very diffi­cult. 
"When institutions talk about diversifying, they don't always get it. They invite you to the table without knowing what you like to eat . . . it's not igno­rance, it's just they don't have experience," Pope-Davis said. "We are all engaged in a process of renewal . . . I think this is a good place to have this kind of dialogue." 
The Erskine Peters Dissertation Year Fellowship was established in 1999 to enable outstanding black doc­toral candidates in the human­ities, social sciences and theo­logical disciplines to experi­ence life at Notre Dame while devoting their full energies to the completion of their disser­tations. 
Contact Katie Laird at k.laird@nd.edu 
Expert to lecture on industry 
Special to The Observer 
Michael O'Sullivan, senior vice president for development for FPL Energy, LLC, will pres­ent a public lecture at 12:50 
p.m. Monday in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium at Notre Dame. 
His talk, "Engineering Careers and the Energy Industry," is the second install­ment in the 200 3-04 Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series presented by Notre Dame's College of Engineering . 
During his lecture, O'Sullivan will address the importance of energy in a global economy; wind energy, one of the most exciting developments in power generation today; and the bene­fits of engineering education. 
O'Sullivan, who was appoint­ed to his current position in July 2001, is responsible for FPL Energy's business develop­ment and asset acquisition activities. He previously held management positions at Commonwealth Edison, NRG Energy and AES Corporation. 
O'Sullivan earned a bache­lor's degree in civil engineering from Notre Dame in 1982 and a master's of business adminis­tration degree from the University of Chicago in 1987. He is a registered professional engineer. 

Taize Lectio Divina Ignation Meditation 
Saturday, March 27th 1:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge No Sign-up Necessary! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

For more information contact Keara Coughlin at 631-3389 or kcoughli®nd.edu 

Friday, March 26, 2004 

page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

SMC students submit advanced W 
WHW names Snow 
By CLAIRE VALLEY 
News Writer 
'woman of the year' 
By LISA GALlAGHER 
News Writer 
The second annual Women· Honoring Women dinner, held in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's College Wednesday, announced chemistry professor Joanne Snow as "woman of the year." 
Fourteen women were nomi­nated to receive the 2004 Women Honoring Women award. Nomination forms were complet­ed by members of the student body who responded to a letter requesting nominations of women meeting the Women Honoring Women Award descrip­tion, according to Sarah Brown, student body vice president. 
"The original fourteen nomina­tions were carefully reviewed by the Women Honoring Women planning committee and three [contenders] were chosen to be presented to the Student Academic Council as this year's nominees," Brown said. 
Mary Pat Nolan, director of admissions; Joanne Snow, math professor; and Dorothy Feigl, 
"Sophomore year, in math Mary's College is a step above courses, expository papers are the senior comprehensive," written," said Connolly. "They said junior communications are then submitted to a writing major Kara Flynn. "It is a fan­committee where specific feed­tastic way to improve your back is given. The student knowledge of your major chooses one through intense paper to polish writing and to understanding.
and submit ..It is critical that 
her portfolio." Although some
you learn how to
Junior year, say it is tedious, it the same process write in the is the final step is executed discipline you plan before you are 
except with an handed the diplo­
on working in.·· 
analytic paper. In ma." the student's Other Saint senior year, a 20-Mary Connolly Mary's students, 30 page formal department chair however, said that paper is submit­they believe the ted as a result of project should be independent research for her deemphasized. senior composition. "The advanced W should be 
A Business major must one paper instead of three, and demonstrate her writing profi­your graduation shouldn't ciency through three papers to depend on papers," said junior receive her advanced W. These Linney Markin. papers are reviewed by the stu­Despite complaints voiced dent's academic advisor and a about the advanced W, many professor. professors say it is a positive 
By submitting these papers, a exercise. student demonstrates that she ··It is critical that you learn can communicate with preci­how to write in the discipline sion and style, said Jill Vihtelic, you plan on working in," said chair of the Business Connolly. Administration and Economics Department. Contact Claire Valley at 
"The advanced W at Saint Vall2244@saintmarys.edu 

Peace 
continued from page 1 
within the South Bend commu­nity. 
The events are predominate­ly led by graduate and under­graduate students from Notre Dame but also include presen­ters from other colleges and universities. Participants will have the opportunity to hear a presentation by Elvia chemistry professor, were announced last week as the fmal three nominees. 
The women were chosen based on how well they met the mission statement of the award, which recognizes women who encour­age students to grow intellectual­ly, spiritually and personally. 
According to Jackie Zins, who was on this year's planning com­mittee, the three women were chosen based on the number of nominations by students and how they best represent the mis­sion statement of the award. SAC then selected Snow. 
"I can tell you that I am extremely grateful to belong to a community where students take the time to write good nomina­tions," she said. "I appreciate and cherish the different mem­bers of the community. I am also grateful that the students have invited me into their intellectual lives as well as their hearts and their entire lives." 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at 
lgallaO I @saintmarys.edu 
Alvarado, a peasant leader in Honduras, focusing on human rights issues and land reform struggles. Conference organiz­ers collaborated with the Progressive Student Alliance, Peace Coalition, Institute for Latino Studies and Kellogg Institute, among other spon­sors, to make Alvarado's visit to campus possible. 
"She does a lot of work with human rights and land reform," Stefko said. "Her speech will be in Spanish ... 
By now, most Saint Mary's upperclassmen have turned in their advanced W submissions. The advanced W is the second part of the writing proficiency needed to graduate from Saint Mary's. 
Unlike larger institutions, Saint Mary's can provide the labor intensive individual atten­tion and feedback because of its size, said Mary Connolly, Mathematics Department chair. 
The advanced W process for chemistry majors begins in the spring of junior year. With the help of an advisor, the student chooses a topic with one major reference. 
"During the summer there is the option of doing research," said Deborah McCarthy, chair of the Chemistry Department. "In the fall of senior year, she can keep the same topic or change for the research paper she will write. The paper, which is submitted at the end of the semester, can either be a litera­ture or lab research paper." 
In mathematics, the advanced W consists of three papers. 
but there will be a translator there." 
The conference concludes Saturday at the Grotto with a vigil against hate crimes. Afterward, those interested will have an opportunity to take salsa dance lessons back at the Hesburgh Center. 
The conference has been daunting to organize and pub­licize, particularly for under­graduate students, said sopho­more Mary Beth Welch, a member of the event's publici­
ty committee. Nevertheless, organizers said that they are confidant the event will increase awareness of impor­tant issues among the Notre Dame community and beyond. 
"I hope this will [happen] in a spirit of scholarly activism. Everyone coming here is inter­ested in peacemaking and peace building," Stefko said. ..The world is sitting around debating [these issues] ... We'll be making these decisions in 20 years. We wanted to talk about what the world will be like when we're in charge." 
Registration for the confer­ence will take place this after­noon from noon until 5 p.m. in the atrium of the Hesburgh Center, though Notre Dame students are free to attend any of the events without formally registering, Stefko said. Over 100 people have registered for the event thus far. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
·--------------------------· 
:ERASMUS BOOKS: 
I I 
:• Used Books bought and sold 1• 25 Categories ofl3ooks · :• 25,000 Hardback and 1 Paperback books in stock :. Out-of-Print search service 
1• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 



come see... 
TBltMNQ'fUDAME ~~AttlOOM_ IN\'11ATIQNAl 
Saturday, March 27 9:30am-8:00pm South Dining Hall (East Wing) 
FREE ADMISSION! 

All interested in work:ing as a computer cluster consultant are i:nv:ited to come to 



Cluster Consultant Job Fair 
on Sunday, M.arch 28 in the Coleman, Morse Cluster fro:m 1 p=m-Spm 

Friday, March 26, 2004 Cotv~PILED FROtv~ THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS, 
Hamas assassination condemned 
UNITED NATIONS -The United States vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution Thursday condemning Israel's assassination of a Hamas leader, calling the measure "one­sided" and saying it ignored the group's bloody record of terrorism. 
The United States had demanded that the resolution on the death of -Ahmed Yassin include a mention of attacks by Barnas and other militant groups. Algeria, the resolution's sponsor, had resisted identifying the groups by name or citing specific attacks. 
"This Security Council does nothing to con­tribute to a peaceful settlement when it con­demns one party's actions and turns a blind eye to everything else occurring in the region," 
U.S. 
Ambassador John Negroponte said before the vote that came after days of bitter debate. 

S. 
Africa to be asylum for Aristide 


BASSETERRE, St. Kitts -Ousted Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide will take per­manent asylum in South Africa but not until it holds general elections next month, Jamaican officials said Thursday. 
But a spokesman for Aristide said it was too soon to say for sure where he would go. 
"Mr. Aristide is still in consultation. A final decision has not been made," Huntley Medley said by telephone from Jamaica. "The discus­sions are continuing with several places and people." 
The Jamaican officials said on condition of anonymity that South African President Thabo Mbeki's government believes the delay is nec­essary. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Jackson trial jury selection begins 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. -Dozens of prospective grand jurors arrived at an assem­bly room Thursday so court officials could begin selecting a panel to hear evidence in the child molestation case against Michael Jackson. 
Court officials struggled to maintain secrecy about the grand jury's activities, which are usually confidential. Several reporters and news crews arrived hours before prospective grand jurors. 
An order issued by Superior Court Judge Clifford Anderson on Wednesday barred news crews from photographing or speaking to prospective grand jurors and members of the final panel. 
Madonna's label sues Time Warner 
LOS ANGELES -Madonna's Maverick Records label sued Warner Music Group and Time Warner Inc. for breach of contract on Thursday, accusing the record company and its former parent of mismanagement and improper accounting that cost the singer and her partners millions of dollars. 
The lawsuit, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court, is the latest chapter in a long-running dispute between Madonna and Warner over Maverick, a joint venture the singer and record company launched in 1992. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Drug promotion investigated 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co., already under federal investigation for the way it promoted an osteoporosis drug, said Thursday it faces a new federal probe of its marketing practices. 
The Indianapolis-based company said it believes the new probe also likely focuses on the osteoporosis drug Evista, as well as Lilly's current top-seller, the antipsychotic drug Zyprexa, and its former blockbuster antidepressant Prozac. 

Fetus rights bill passes in Senate 
Proponents call legislation a precedent for future abortion rights cases 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Senate voted Thursday to make it a separate crime to harm a fetus during commission of a violent federal crime, a victory for those seeking to expand the legal rights of the unborn. 
The 61-38 vote on the Unborn Victims of Violence Act sends the legislation, after a five-year battle in Congress, to President Bush for his signature. The White House said in a statement that it "strongly supports protection for unborn children." The House passed the bill last month. 
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said the bill was "powerful because this act is about simple humanity, about simple reality." 
But abortion rights law­makers contended that giving a fetus, from the point of conception, the same legal rights as its mother sets a precedent that could be used in future legal challenges to abortion rights. 
It was the second big win for social conserva­tives, who last year pushed through protections for the unborn with enactment of the so-called partial birth al crime can be prosecuted the same tougher penalties ly members are victims of abortion ban. That ban is for separate offenses • for attacks on pregnant domestic or sexual vio­now tied up in the courts. against both the woman women as outlined in the lence. 
The Senate cleared the and her unborn child. The DeWine bill but made no Supporters of the bill way for passage with a 50-legislation defines an attempt to define the have named it after Laci 49 vote to defeat an "unborn child" as a child beginning of life. Peterson and her unborn amendment, backed by in utero, which it says Feinstein said that by child, Conner, victims in opponents of the bill, that "means a member of the defining when life begins, the highly publicized mur­would have increased species homo sapiens, at the bill was "the first step der case in California. penalties for harm to a any stage of development, in removing a woman's California, one of 29 states pregnant woman but did who is carried in the right to choice, particular­with an unborn victims not attempt to define when womb." ly in the early months of a law, is trying Peterson's human life begins. "This bill recognizes that pregnancy before viabili­husband, Scott, on double 
Sen. John Kerry, D­there are two victims,"said ty." She said it could also murder charges. Mass., President Bush's Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, chill embryonic stem cell Laci Peterson's stepfa­opponent this fall, inter­a chief sponsor. research. ther, Ron Grantski, said at rupted his campaign Americans, he said, "intu­The Senate also defeated a Capitol Hill news confer­schedule to vote yes on the itively know that there is a an amendment by Sen. ence that he and Laci 's amendment. He voted no victim besides the moth­Patty Murray, D-Wash., mother had received sev­on final passage. er." that would require eral hundred thousand 
The bill states that an The key obstacle was an employers to give unpaid sympathy cards and "they assailant who attacks a amendment by Sen. leave, and states to pay all mourned our loss of pregnant woman while Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., unemployment benefits, to Laci and Conner -not committing a violent feder-that would have imposed women when they or fami-Laci and the fetus." 

EGYPT 

Likely al-Qaida tape urges Pakistani coup 
The speaker also called for a mili­in its pursuit of terrorists.
Associated Press 

tary uprising in Pakistan. In Washington, Defense Secretary 
CAIRO, Egypt-A tape purported­"Musharraf seeks to stab the Donald H. Rumsfeld said he heard ly recorded by Ayman al-Zawahri, Islamic resistance in Afghanistan in news reports about the tape and the No. 2 figure in the al-Qaida ter­the back," the speaker said. said if it was authentic, the speaker ror group, called Pakistani "Every Muslim in Pakistan should "is clearly an individual who is very President Pervez Musharraf a "trai­work hard to get rid of this client high-ranking and is capable of, and tor" Thursday and urged people to government, which will continue to has in the past killed Innocent men, overthrow his government. submit to Amerka until it destroys women and children. And so one 
The pan-Arab satellite channel Al­Pakistan." has to recognize that." Jazeera broadcast a seven-minute Pakistani Foreign Ministry The tape comes as Pakistani excerpt from a tape it received spokesman Masood Khan said the troops are in the second week of a Thursday. Its authenticity could not government has no immediate com­campaign along the Afghan border immediately be verified, but the ment on the purported al-Zawahri in South Waziristan, a longtime hid­speaker sounded like al-Zawahri tape. When an al-Zawahri tape ing place and stronghold of Islamic and made references to the Islamic released in September called for militants from al-Qaida, holy book, the Quran, which is Musharrafs overthrow, the govern­Afghanistan's Taliban and their known to be al-Zawahri's style. ment said it would not be deterred Pakistani supporters. 


Friday, March 26, 2004

. page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Iraq 
continued from page 1 
one year ago. The president has repeatedly insisted that the Iraq War represented a significant step in the war· on terror, and his speeches have consistently sought links between the Saddam Hussein government and the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks -a period when Bush's approval ratings soared. 
"That's their strong point, that's their best hope for beating Kerry," said Jack Colwell, profes­sor of American Studies at Notre Dame and political columnist for the South Bend Tribune. 
Colwell said that since current polls reveal skepticism about Bush's record on the economy and other domestic issues, the best strategy for the incumbent is to remind voters of the "decisive leader" they saw in the 9/11 aftermath. 
"People rallied behind the president in a time of crisis," Colwell said, adding that Republicans are not only trying to push the war on terror as their party's area of strength, but also as Democrats' chief weakness. And with a candidate whose poli­cies and identity are not yet ingrained in voters' minds, the race is on to defme John Kerry. 
.Defining Kerry 
"When you actually ask voters what makes Kerry more 'elec­table,' they can't really tell you why," said Louis Ayala, assistant professor of political science at Notre Dame. 
While the Democratic primar­ies made it apparent that the Massachusetts senator would be better competition for Bush than would John Edwards or Howard Dean, Kerry still lacks a clear-cut stance. 

"Kerry is in a tough spot, because criticism of sitting presi­dent isn't enough," Ayala said, adding that he must develop a specific and hard-hitting policy of his own in order to succeed. 
"[President George W.] Bush is insinuating that Kerry doesn't have a policy," Ayala said. "Bush has a coherent policy, but Kerry's got to defme his ... He can't hem and haw." 
A difficult challenge, said politi­cal science professor Peri Arnold, since American entanglement in Iraq has been so nuanced, and voter support so uneven. 
"He's got to fmd a perspective for critiquing the administration while supporting an American effort -it's politically very tricky," Arnold said. "If nothing else, even for a strident critic of the war, it's like saying you break it you buy it. 
"We bought Iraq. We broke it. Now we've got to put it back together." 
Arnold stressed that while Bush's rhetoric has been plain in support of the war -"we get a lot of black and white, good and evil language from the presi­dent," he said -Kerry's criticism of it will call for a more intricate analysis. 
Vulnerabilities In Bush campaign 
Arnold pointed to three areas of vulnerability in the Bush administration's handling of Iraq that the Kerry campaign has begun to target, especially the initial justification of the war on the grounds that Iraq p6ssessed weapons of mass destruction and displayed definite links to al­Qaeda and other terrorist groups. 
favor of it" -Kerry will have to  "'Wzth all these  Arnold agreed, and added that  
rely on his for­eign affairs back­ground to con­vince the public that he could have fought it  controversies put in context ofcampaign, you get a whirlwind ofcharges ... "  while attempts at a democratic gov­ernment and sta­ble political process will be vital steps for the  
with more United Nations input and support.  Perl Arnold political science professor  region, the United States' duty to protect and assist  
Arnold agreed  Iraq  will  not  
that  perceived  lessen.  

unilateralism on the part of the "A pre-constitutional arrange­Bush administration could be ment ... doesn't make Iraq a another area in which Kerry will more governable place, it just try to distance himself from gives the Iraqis a shot at it," existing policies. If Kerry is able Arnold said, citing a "badly to convince voters that America degraded infrastructure" as a rushed into a preemptive, indi­result of decades of government vidualistic war, Arnold said, the under deposed dictator Saddam Iraq conflict could be extended Hussein. into a larger c~iticism of Bush's "On a basic level, we're still stuck -and if we to try to leave, I think that would be the height of irresponsibility." 
The transition will also come during a time when voter interest in elections traditionally wanes before spiking again around Labor Day. 
As recent television ads have demonstrated, however, this campaign has become heated early-and ugly fast. 
Arnold said that Bush's $150 million in campaign finances to spend before September will mostly be directed toward paint­ing a negative picture of John Kerry, a practice he believes will grate on voter interest. 
"I think it's a bad situation for the electorate to ramp up eight months before the election," he said. "My real fear is that this would turn voters off . " 
Campbell expressed similar concerns about voter exhaustion, but said he didn't think either party had the momentum to sus­tain such a tense exchange throughout the summer ­unless, he added, unforeseen cir­cumstances throw voters for a loop. 
"If the body bags accumulate, the war's popularity will drop," he said. 
As long as most voters do not harbor hostility about Iraq, Bush will continue to emphasize his commander in chief role, and Kerry will continue to walk the fme line between precise evalua­tion and all-out opposition, Campbell said. 
"Kerry has a much more com­plicated position," he said. "If he's too critical he becomes another Howard Dean." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Autism 
continued from page 1 
went by, they found themselves questioning their son's perpetu­al cold, his discomfort breath­ing and the Excema covering his body. Even more so, they questioned his inability to look at people, to connect emotion­ally with his parents, or his older sister Elizabeth. They wondered why their baby wouldn't cry when he felt pain. Why would he recoil when a rattle was put in his hand? 
By four months old, Stacey noticed Walker seemed more interested in windows, than the people around him. 
"He searched the windows obsessively. compulsively," she said. "What was it about those windows?" 
While he experienced bound­less joy and energy over a squeaking bath toy, at four and a half months, he continually slipped deeper and deeper from those around him. 
"A veil had fallen," said Stacey. "[Walker] seemed to be suffering some disturbance of the soul." 
While many parents of autis­tic children notice similar symptoms, over the years, autism has experienced an expanding definition in the medical world. It is a disorder attributed to genetics, but also the possible influence of toxins and chemicals in the environ­ment and has seemed to involve an increasing number of diagnoses in recent years with an evasive sense of what it really entails. 
Stacey's family was able to find a significant amount of help especially from doctors and some forward thinking therapists, including Dawn 

Smith, an educator, when try­instructing them on their were told that in order to fice and devotion of time, love ing to understand the biological arrival to "get down on the increase Walker's chances of and energy. However, with the disorder that their son suffered floor." living a more normal life, they help of student volunteers, from. Smith told the Staceys He invited them in their would need to spend 20 min­therapists, tutors, community, about an intervention program three-hour appointment to utes to a half hour 10 times family and friends Walker was developed by Dr. Stanley challenge Walker, to inspire each day, in playtime and inter-able to advance in develop­Greenspan, commonly known him without telling him what to -action with him, a rigorous ment, physically, mentally and as the "floortime method," do, as they played with him on commitment for both Walker emotionally. which was to change their life the oriental rug of Greenspan's and his family. However, they Today, he is a seven year old, in a drastic way. office. were willing to do whatever it in the first grade and as his 
They took their five-month­Up until that point, Walker took, she said. mother says "is functioning old son from their home in had been listless, withdrawn, Within just' a month's time, wonderfully." He has recently North Hampton, Mass. to failing to respond to his par­Walker was communicating tested in the 97th percentile of Betheseda, Md., to visit a doc­ents, make choices or express more effectively, and the standardized testing, and is tor who would give them hope emotion. In that initial session, Staceys were seeing that their developing friendships at that they could be proactive in they found a joyousness in son was changing so much, and school. helping improve their son's engaging with him, which they so quickly. It was not an easy condition. Greenspan taught had been unable to find before. road to travel, and it involved Contact Stephanie Yahn at them the "floortime method," Following the meeting, they an incredible amount of sacri-syahn@nd.edu 
INTERNATIO·NAL STUDE.NT SERVICES & ACTIVITIES PRESENTS: 
INTERNATIONAl FESTIVAl WEEK MArch 27-Apri I 2 
look 'for int:ct-nat.iona l menu it:cmsthis woe~ in t.hc dining halls! 
2-Spm PAKISTAN STUDENT ASSOClATJON PRESENTS A rnehnai FltST, SMALL FEE FOR EACH TATTOO. Fat' I ey Hat I BAsemen·t lounge 
sUNDAVr MaRCH 28 
12PM c::HlNESE CUL.TURAL SOCIETY PRE'.S£NTS the Film 1'lnFernal AFFairs.-'' Spring rolls and ather reFreshments. Montgomery Theatre 2PM iRISH hURLING dEMONSTR.rJtjon. SOuth QUa.O 
' m.ONDAY. mARCH 29 7:JOPM JNOI AN STUDENT ASSOCIATION FILM: TIFIRE • wit:.h DISCUSSION7 
AND Indian FOOD. mONTGOMERY THEATRE 
tUESDAY. mAR.CH 30 4pnl: Pro'f'essor Michael Nwanze. Howard University~ Department of' Pol itic.a J Science, speaks about a'Frica. Debartolo 119 
lpm: A 'lim From New ZeaI and. WHALE RIDER." DebsrtoIo 117 
The Schedule continues·through Friday. Apri I 2. For the complete schedu Ie. see Wednesdays OBSERVER. the ISSA Web site~ ~.nd.edul-lssa. or phone: 631~3825 


The absence of concrete proof in both of these aspects, Arnold said, was problematic before Kerry's name even appeared on the national radar. 
"It's a major question of credi­bility and accountability," he said. "With all these controver­sies put in context of campaign, you get a whirlwind of charges­and a very strong reason for the administration to defend itself and find a compelling rationale to explain what is being done." 
That defense has been straightforward and will contin­ue to be through November, said Dave Campbell, assistant profes­sor of political science. 
"It will essentially be what we've already seen -Bush will be adamant that it was the right thing to do," he said. 
Campbell said that since the Iraq War is not widely unpopular -pointing out that "the average American is still saying he's in military and security record. 
"There has been a huge expen­diture of wealth and soldiers," he said, then identified a critical dis­tinction that voters will have to make before they go to the polls. 
"Is the Iraq war a major step in war on terror or is it a distrac­tion?" 
The answer may become clear­er, Ayala said, after the new Iraqi government's official transition to power takes place in June. 
A Challenging Transition 

Ayala said that any slipup -or worse, violence correlated with the shift -will face heightened media scrutiny. 
"Everything comes down to June," he said. "The press is going to have its ears perked up." 
Campbell, however, down­played the significance of the turnover, saying that "there will still be a lot of hand-holding on 
the part of the 
United States." 


Friday, March 26, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

fc,~":s 10,218.82 +170.59 
·~, Same: • Composite Volume 2;358 183 • 1,48 I ,326,848 
~ex~·!·~~~£~:~·j.l(:·;r:~··:~~1:22~:55''*W*"';o.}p~' .. * 
_NMilll{~mr·.. ,·. ·•M<t@''''J1967.17 +57 .69 ·~ l:fi~~~~;&;:iii:i:;[.ID!r.1:lli;.iO.. ;. J~,464.4~.M ,.:t88.75.\ S&PSOO 1109.19 +17.86 
iiB!!ggi(ToRVoJ;l;i,1t~7o2:61 ·+f7i.zj 
FTSf IOO(London) 4,373.60 +64.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +3.20 INTEL CORP (INTC) +4.75 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.01 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) . +3.56 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +4.62 
. Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.54 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.67 5-YEAR NOTE +0.75 3-MONTH BILL -0.11 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.} GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+0.78  25.19  
+ 1.26  27.79  
+0.91  23.58  
+0.41  I 1.94  
+0.96  21.73  
+0.25  46.64  
+0.25  37.14  
+0.20  26.65  
-0.01  9.18  
-1.50  35.51  
-0.50  416.90  
+ 1.90  1qs.95  

Excha Rates 

YEN I 06.0 EURO 0.8242 POUND 0.5529 CANADIAN$ 1.331 
IN BRIEF 
Judge refuses mistrial in Tyco case 
NEW YORK -Jurors in the Tyco International corruption trial told the judge Thursday that deliberations have "turned poi­sonous" and threatened the outcome of the five-month trial. He refused to call a mistrial and gave them the night to· cool off. 
One or more jurors "does not have an open mind," they said in one of three notes sent to Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus. "The dis­agreement is so intense that it has resulted in very bad acrimony. Perhaps this jury cannot continue. What shall we do?" 
"The atmosphere in the jury room has turned poisonous," the jurors said. 
HP sues Gateway for infringement 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Hewlett-Packard Co. flied a patent infringement lawsuit Thursday against Gateway Inc., alleging its rival refused to pay licensing fees on six HP patented designs. 
Alleged culprits included laptop hinges, key­boards that require passwords-even the cur­sor that points to icons on a computer's video display. 
According to HP attorneys who filed in San Diego federal court, Poway, Calif.-based Gateway paid licensing fees from 1994 to 1999 to Compaq Computer Corp., which HP acquired in 2001. After the first licensing agreement expired in 1999, HP attorneys say, Gateway kept using patented designs but did not pay for them. 
Disney member defends Eisner 
LOS ANGELES -A Walt Disney Co. board member defended the company's performance Thursday and said the board has confidence in current management, led by chief executive Michael Eisner. 
"Disney's board continues to believe we have the right leadership for the company," Judith Estrin told a gathering of the Council of Institutional Investors in Washington, D.C. that was Webcast. 
Roy Disney, who has criticized Eisner's pay, among other issues, was to address the Council Friday morning. 
EXECUTIVE FRAUD 
I




Olis sentenced to 24-plus ye.ars .l 
Dynergy executive's punishment dwarfs those offormer Enron executives 

Associated Press 
HOUSTON -A former Dynegy executive was sen­tenced to more than 24 years in prison Thursday in an accounting-fraud case that fell under tough new federal rules aimed at cracking down on corpo­rate corruption. 
Jamie Olis, a former sen­ior director of tax planning for the energy company; is obliged to serve nearly all of his sentence of 24 years and four months because there is no parole in the federal system. He is 38, and would be behind bars until he is 62. 
U.S. District Judge Sim Lake said the punishment "reflects Congress' intent" that white-collar criminals deserve harsh prison sen­tences. 
"I take no pleasure in sentencing you to 292 months," he said. "Sometimes good people commit bad acts, and that's what happened in this case." 
The punishment easily surpassed sentences in more prominent fraud cases, and dwarfed those 
of some Enron Corp. exec­utives who have pleaded guilty in that company's accounting scandal. Olis took the chance of a trial and was convicted. 

Federal probation The courtroom was authorities maintained that packed with Olis support­Olis' actions in illegally dis­ers wearing yellow rib-guising com-bons. Among pany debt in them were his 
2001 eventu­..Sometimes good wife Monica 
ally resulted people commit bad and the cou­in more than ple's 6-month­
acts, and that's

$500 million old daughter. 
in Dynegy what happened in Many, includ­stock losses, this case.·· ing Olis him­and they had self, quietly asked for 24 wept after
Sim Lake

to 30 years L a k e in prison. U.S. District Judge announced The maxi­his decision. mum possible sentence "I want to thank all of was 3 5 years for one count our longtime supporters," each of conspiracy, securi­Olis said after Lake gave ties fraud, mail fraud and him a chance to address · three counts of wire fraud. the court. "It means a lot 
to us." 

Olis' attorneys contended that the government can­not possibly pinpoint stock losses caused by revela­tions of a 2001 deal that wrongly boosted cash flow because Dynegy, like other energy companies, was besieged by months of bad news in the aftermath of En ron's collapse in December 2001. 
"All you can do as a citi­zen is put your faith in the justice system, and that's what Jamie did," lawyer David Gerger said when asked if his client should have reached a plea deal. 
Olis was charged in June alongside two co-conspira­tors, his former boss, Gene Shannon Foster, and a for­mer company accountant, Helen Christine Sharkey. Foster and Sharkey each pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy in August, and Foster testified against Olis in his November trial. 
Foster and Sharkey each face up to five years in prison, but both are coop­erating with prosecutors and probably will receive lesser sentences. Olis declined to cut a deal, choosing to face a jury that returned with a guilty ver­dict after less than two hours of deliberations. 
STOCK EXCHANGE 

Accountability attracts applicants 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Stock Exchange has received more than 100 nominations for seats on its board of directors as part of the exchange's pro­gram to broaden its leadership and increase accountability, the exchange said Thursday. 
NYSE spokesman Raymond Pellecchia said about 100 submissions were received by Wednesday, the last day the exchange accepted them. Some submissions were expected to have more than one indidvidual nominee named within, he added. 

Nominations were accepted from both NYSE members and, in a first for the exchange, anyone holding shares in a NYSE-traded stock, effectively broad­ening the nomination process to most of the. public. 
While the NYSE was not naming those nominated, two nominees have already been announced. The California Public Employees Retirement System announced it had nominated former Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Arthur Levitt, and New York state comptroller Alan Hevesi said he nomi­nated North Carolina treasurer Richard Moore. 
The NYSE changed its board nomina­tion procedures in the wake of the salary scandal that ousted former chairman and chief executive Dick Grasso in October. The board, at that time, had approved a $187.5 million payment package for Grasso, leading many critics to question the independ­ence of the board. 
The nominations have been forward­ed to the current board's nominating and governance committee, which will present recommendations to the full board of directors at a meeting April 1. 
--------· ---­

Friday, March 26, 2004 
page8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
... 

Building 
continued from page 1 
alumnae as to how they can affect their own institution." 
Prior to Prikkel's pledge, the college had aheady raised $7.5 million for the facility through a $2 million grant from Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, a large donation from an anonymous donor and through a variety of other sources. The grand total of $16.5 million would not only cover construction costs, but would also leave a $1.5 mil­lion endowment for future expenses the building may have. 
"Saint Mary's faculty and students deserve a state-of­the-art facility in which to teach and learn," said Prikkel, in a written statement to the College. "Saint Mary's profes­sors changed my life by chal­lenging me to be my· best intellectually and spiritually. I can't think of a better way to express my gratitude than by helping to create an environ­ment that meets their mod­ern-day needs." 
The proposal calls for an 82,000 square foot building­12,000 square feet bigger than the current academic building -Madaleva Hall. It will house many mid-size and small classrooms, conference rooms and office space. 
"A lot of powerful teaching on this campus goes on out­side the classroom, and we wanted to give everyone places to facilitate that learn­ing," said White. "Some of the most important learning takes place after a class when a few students continue a topic with a professor. We wanted to have offices and classrooms together so we can have seamless learning, instead of having to make a student fol­low a professor back to his or her office, which might be across campus." 
Many current offices on campus will reside in the building upon its completion including CWIL, the Center for Spirituality and the Center for Academic Innovation. 
The building will include wireless technology and addi­tional laboratory space for various disciplines in order to allow for changing education­al needs. 
"The new building will house classrooms with what we call collaboratories, where computers are integrated right into the classroom," said White. "We need to be able to adapt to the growing and changing technological advancements on this cam­pus. and this building will allow for that." 
Before Prikkel's donation, the college had discussed ren­ovations to Madaleva Hall. but felt bringing technology into the building would make any renovation too costly. At this time, the college does not have concrete plans for what will happen to Madaleva, which has served as the main academic building since 1968. 
"We have many ideas for Madaleva, but the issue is not yet resolved," said White. "We're thinking about using parts of it, possibly keeping Carroll auditorium, but noth­ing has been decided yet." 
With the construction of the on-campus apartments com­ing to a close and the building of the state of the art student center, which is scheduled to be completed in February 2005, White said he hopes to start the construction on the academic building next year. However, building wiB not begin until 100 percent of the project costs are committed through contributions. 
Saint Mary's has hired MPA Architects to assist with the design of the new building. 
White said he is excited for the new building and for the future of Saint Mary's. 
"At Saint Mary's, we want to continue to attract a vibrant, rich and excellent student body," said White. "In order to do that, we need to have good facilities, and thanks to Prikkel, now we will." 
Contact Angela Saoud at -saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

DON'T· DEL-AY..... COME LIVE WHERE YOU PLAY! TURTLE CRE,EK APARTMEN'TS Cl<ll~~>et 0 c..={]vr ~-th : 1\e(Jnx.-Y.m ~-~J.).Y,.:·'\ 0IDed.r-oom -............... A "'-..._ •"''--.~...·"' p:~ ~l'l Cio5et I Din!=n~ I I i Livi04: Room. 11HS 2. BEUH.OO.l\111 ~·~ L~AT11 T'ClWN1101\lli (:l~N l3E y'"{)lJR .NE\V Ht)lVIE FC>R <JNl ..'{ $280 PER 1\-fONTH PER PERS()N!~ CALL US AT 272-8.124 FOR DET.AH.S! W \'V\'l.'I' U RTLtCRt.tK N l.).("'()M  


CHECK OUT THESE LEASE OPTIONS 
> Sun"ua 2004 only (May21-*-Ang ~ > lymr (Jlllla 2004-May2005) )o 1year (July2004-June .2005)> 1 ,car (Augu4t2004-Ju.ly 200S) > --student ur (Auguit ~-May 1~) 
*-"FLEXABLEMOVE-IN DATEs---cALL FORDETAILS~~",. 

CHECK OUT THESE EXTRAS 
> Swimmingpool i1 apa1 EARLYMAY UDtil LA.m SEPTBMBBR. > W.ALKlN6 dilltatlCCto NOTRE DAME campDI> On-lite~ and ma:nagmni!D'ft > Sand voUeyball coun > 24 hourlock Old &enricc > NEWLY RBMODEI .BD units availabJ.t, > LAROE STUDENT POPULATION-NOTRE DAME & SAINT 
MAR.Y,S 
OPTIONS AND EXTRAS... _ THAT IS WHAT YOU,LL GET WHEN YOU CHOOSE TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS. 
CALL US ORSTOP BY OUR LEASING CENTER TODAYFOR A TOUR! 
574-%72-8124 
"WWW.turtlecreekND.eom 

-

Friday, March 26, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
live in dorms with their hosts, some prospective and current very often, is different from friends for a lifetime through attend classes. eat in the din­students saying that," the prospective students' home Spring Visitation."

Visitation 
continued from page I 
have had without the University-organized weekend. Real student interaction and a physical introduction to the school are "critical" Martinez said. 
The high school seniors are paired with current students 
• -some minority and some white -who have been instructed to "be honest about their experience at Notre Dame" and "talk to them about not only the great things about it but also things that they find difficult." Martinez said. Throughout the weekend, the prospective students will 
· tlt nn m n 
<·>>•·.···.·-·-·-·-<·:-:-:-.-:-:..-.·.·. 

ing halls. meet faculty and take part in a variety of special events designed to introduce them to all aspects of the University. In addition to edu­cational and logistical forums or meetings about topics such as financial aid and academic life, the prospective students will also enjoy cultural events such as Latin Expressions and the BCAC Fashion Show. 
Such a concentration of cul­tural events on Spring Visitation weekend, however, has occasionally been criti­cized, and student coordinator Arienne Thompson said stu­dents sometimes complain of "deceptive diversity." 
"We've had problems with 
Thompson said. "Clearly, the demography of the people that we invite for Spring Visitation is not totally reflective [of the majority of the student body)." 
Thompson said, adding, however that the authentic experience of everyday life provided by the weekend gives students a good glimpse of what the reality is. 
"If you go to the dining hall or go to class with your host or anything, it's not possible for you to be deceived," Thompson said. 
Santana agreed. 

"The white students on cam­pus don't disappear for three days," he said. 
He said that Notre Dame, 

·. .. ....···· · _·.F·,····e······:'R·· ...... ·_N····.,
.t··R~·.·,·'K:··_ J.···e· F:.. .. _···s·····.:-o···.. .. 
P. n··..<. •••···•••••· ·. . .·. ... / •· •·· ·•·· 1 / ) . :~ . •· ··••··. . . . ·• ·. ··•• ..·. . / ..·• •... .·· ·•· >. ••· ·.·..• 
STUDENTS LOVE US ! 
Now Leasing 1 & 2 bed­room apartments Starting at $466.00 per month 
Stop in today or visit us on the web at 1 Bedroom www.parkjefferson.com 
All Utilities Including Electric Paid.
3001 E. Jefferson B1vd. 18011 Cleveland Rd
South Bend, IN South Bend, IN
574-232-3333 574-272-8100 

Health aWellness Fair 

Pr(llt'OOtlttg Heaimv Llv..s 
Who: Graduate Students and their families When: Saturday, March 27, 2004 
T-Ime Informational Presentations 
Strei£ MM~igt!me.ntl 11:00 
A.('l~ati{l'l Tra:Jlm~ -~. l.~~r:d 1'-iktumm 
AklooDemo

l1 ::ro 
~..,. ...4..· £­
• n(Tia_>,. ~,;.sfll 
EufOiYlll D&no

11:30 
• Ale'Xantfra lmre 
[Jfr.otf~& 

1:00 
fatfrtQ Di~.:rrde.i~ ·~ Jia1ene stapts 



FREf Lunch will be a.vailable to graduate students and their families. throughout the event. 
Booths with f:nformatfon: OBGYN Options, Alternative Medicine, HealthWorks Museum, Community Health Care Options 
Ewnt sponsored by the Gradua.tc Student Union and co­sponsored by Lhc Alumnf: 1\srociation ·~ fntt-miltiontJt Student Servf-ces &. Activities and Student Activities 
communities, with differences ranging from demographics to the weather. And when the high school seniors come for Spring Visitation, he said, hosts and organizers "give them the real deal." 
"There're some greai: pluses, and there are some negatives that may affect some more than others," Santana said. "It's up to each individual per­son to assess whether or not they can handle it. Notre Dame's not for everyone." 
And those students who do decide that Notre Dame is for them usually end up staying, Thompson said. 
"We have great retention rates," she said. "People make 
Organizers said the weekend is mutually beneficial for stu­dents and the University, showing targeted students that Notre Dame is the best institu­tion for them while helping to facilitate increased diversity on campus. 
''I'm making Notre Dame a better place by recruiting these bright young individuals. but I really do feel that, for a lot of these kids, I'm showing them a better way," Santana said. "A lot of them would have a better chance at suc­cess in life coming to Notre Dame." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

Beauty queen's ex held liable for topless photos 
Associated Press 
LUMBERTON, ·N.C. -A jury Thursday found a former beauty queen's ex-boyfriend liable for the e-mail he sent about topless photos that forced the Miss North Carolina to give up her crown. 
Jurors determined that Tosh Welch's anonymous e-mail, sent a month after Rebekah Revels won the state pageant, interfered with Revels' contract with the pageant and interfered with a potential contract with the Miss America Organization. 
They found that Welch did not intentionally inflict emotional distress on Revels. She also had accused Welch of invasion of pri­vacy, but the judge threw out that claim. 
"This is a very happy day for me," Revels said after the ver­dict. ''I'm just elated right now." 
Welch.and his attorney, John Regan, declined to comment. 
The Robeson County Superior Court jury, which deliberated less than two hours before reaching a verdict, was to return Friday to begin deliberating damages. 

Revels wants compensatory damages for lost income and punitive damages, and claims the scandal cost her $20,000 to $30,000 in appearance fees. 
In a July 2002 e-mail to the 
Miss America Organization, 
Welch wrote: "Would you want to 
be represented by someone with 
a past? Nude pictures of Miss 
America bring in big bucks these 
days." 
Revels' attorney argued that 
Welch acted out of vengeance, 
but Welch testified Thursday that 
he sent the e-mail out of a desire 
to reveal the truth. 
"In my mind, they were just very good questions," Welch said. 
Shortly after the e-mail was sent, state pageant officials asked Revels to resign or be ter­minated. 
In testimony Wednesday, the 25-year-old Revels denied she violated the morals clauses in her contract with the Miss North Carolina pageant, which pro­hibits immodest and immoral behavior. 
Revels has denied posing for photos, saying Welch snapped one picture while she was dress­ing in her dormitory room when the two were a couple in college. She said she did not realize until later he had taken a second photo of her topless at his fami­ly's house. 
In October 2002, Welch turned over a computer disk that con­tained images of Revels to her lawyer, who retains custody of the disk. 

GLUTTONY, SURGERY, AND SERVICE!!! 
Operation Smile needs your help:. Present this token at Hacienda (5836 Gra.pe Road) on Monday, March 29th alf day, and a portion of your bm wm be donated to support an indigent chUd in need of corrective· facial surgery, Applies to au food and drinks.
p•:·-------·www..operationsmUe.org....... 




___________.... 
I  a  
~ •  ..-1\'1•. IIIICI­ : .a  
I  ~  
I  I  
I  I  
'·II 1  Group:  operation smile  II I  
~ • I  Date: Location:  1\fondav ~farch 29,. 2.004 : 583() Grape.. lt(.;.·(J I ..,... . . I  
:  Y~~ mu:~t rYt.~\'eo !1~1~ f:l~~~ l~>m your u~.rm.1+~i~!11 prinr ~~  I  

1· ynur ~~•"mi. •li<;lnms£i£1n nflhi~ ~.l'!lcL~ f.'!n Hilt:'.iLn:l~ ('T-~\'11)-' I 1 will J~tmlliY til~.. ~:tJ::~'llli73.~i~.u. fr~,m...twd,·W@ ~J11: S)J(li<...<:-:od.:.. I I ·tilt>"I C-'IUM \HI.~. !'I'~H I~M:\.;t"J"n:u ·n.• ~l.ill\.1\ I
I· ji.~'\'U~~·:r I-"'UI ~l<llf' I>.I:N0:1•1.\~:'\tTt'H 1HUii.-:fl..'*~·~ • 
---~-~-~-------~-------~-J 

--~-~ ---~~~---~~~---------------~ 
page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 26, 2004 
SehoCartv If~ entities in Transition: 
l>igitat/MeMorv/Archive 
How are areltr~les cons-titu.,tive· ol seltola,=rt·v icfen=tities7 How ar,e= dig=ita=t ar-4 6=io(o,'i~a~ tr·a:nslor"'ation.s O·f e<rc,ives· f)oriu tue·stio:n.s =to scfto~.ers .aflout =the iftte:r.se<!tfons o·l th:e·rr: .ee·arJeMic· praetite:S art.4 cligit:&( a:rtf· 
The Center for Creative Computing, in partnership with the Identities in Transition Study Group is pleased to host a morning workshop devoted to the changing experience .of the archi:v·e and the i:n·te·rsectio=ns of scholarship in the humanities wiith mult·imed:ia art: . 



Sponsored by The Nanovic l:natitute for :European Studies www.:nd.edu/...nanovic 
page 11

Friday, March 26, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IVORY COAST

Lafayette Sq11are Tolvnl1o1nes 




Rebels withdraw
"All the fun of college,."·ithout the education" Ne"· Three Person Rates -$298.00 Per Person, Per Month 

from_ government
+ Pmudiy Severing. lh{:: Notre Dame ttnd S.'l.iru Mru)'·~ Cornmunily 



Vic.w photos and floor plans at WW\\'.~Cl.co1n 
+ Tlw I,ARGPST St.udi.:tlt I h.m~;ing AJ.lUJtmt..:nb ..\v~1 
• 4 & 5 t::!edr-oom Units Associated Press 
+ W.!\SJ IER anci f)RYER in I:.C'tch Unit 
+ Disbw~~h<:r 
ABIDJAN -Rebels and the

• 24-Hl"lUr l:.meq!;ency Maintenance 
main opposition party pulled out

• AOT Alt~nn Sy~~..,n~ 
of Ivory Coast's power-sharing

+ CI<>Sc t~ Campm; 
government Thursday after 25 

For More Intixmation: Real E.s.tatc Managcm~-nt CQ.I'POI"mon· people died in deadly clashes P o n,,, ~40 between security forces and $.1..1utl• fl~-.1d, IN 46624 opposition supporters, who 
·'l'dephonoe-: 574-234-9923 marched in defiance of a gov­FacfoiirnHe: .:H4-234-99'2S ernment ban. Jbladi{~')cbn;ltb. com The street skirmishes were the bloodiest to hit this West
You've tried the rest, now.. live at the best! 
African nation's commercial capital since a failed September 2002 coup bid split the country in two. 
Among the dead were two police and 12 civilians killed by protesters armed with machetes, Abidjan Police Chief

Starting at just $120.00 J>er person,-per n1onth! 
• 
Yapo Kouassi told reporters. Security forces struggling to
Just ··1 Blocks South t.~·thc Notre Drunc Campus 
• 
maintain order shot dead sever­
Spaciou.'l-2-Hedmom Apamnents oo N~"ltre Uame Avenue
• 
al others, he said, giving no
Cun\..·nl 1-y<..".NI' & JO-monll1 Lr.~~c~ Av.NilH:bk
• 
details.
On-Site Latmdry Facility
• 
Amid the violence, Air France
2 Closet.~ and 1ueik in l:.ach Hedmom
• suspended flights to the country,
Priv~ttc Ptu·king l.ilJls 
and the French Foreign Ministry 
2·1 -h<.,ur Emergency Maintcnan<:c 
• 

l Jp 1.0 4 Per.~.nn~ Per .1\partmerll 
called on all parties to show
• 

restraint. There are about 4,000 J'()r More lnf0£'m3tioo:: 1te.1J 1::-.~tate Managemeot CorpOf'atinn 
French soldiers in the Ivory 
P. 0 Ht'l'll S4() 
Coast. Soutb Bcn.d, rN -16621 
The events dealt a serious ·1·e1ephone: ~ 74-23-l-9923 
blow to the January 2003 peace 
f-'a~;sim~lc: 5 74-21-4-1:14)2~ 
deal brokered by France that 
Jblad<~~cbrcs:b.txlm 
established a power-sharing government. 


Bacongo Cisse, spokesman for the main opposition Rally of the Republicans, said his party also would suspend its participation to protest the violence. 

The opposition Democratic 
Party of Ivory Coast pulled out of 
the government March 4, saying
J IS 6 1 OIC llUNJ 
PLUS 
2 MI'LI WALII 
-

Saturday, April3~ 2004 
11:00 A.M. Stepan Center 
I 
' 
II 


Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality houses close to campus for the 
u::n·u :::.-.~J F·OOJ:i -'if!r\I'N:::IO$ 

2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 

Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 


"We have suspended our par­ticipation in the government to protest against today's killings," rebel spokesman Alain Lobognon said. 
Rebel forces in the north were put "on alert," he added without elaborating. 
President Laurent Gbagbo was 
not fully implementing the 
accord. The same complaints 
were behind Thursday's march. 
The United Nations is prepar­
ing to deploy 6,240 U.N. peace­
keepers early next month to 
back about 4,000 French and 
1,400 West African troops 
already deployed. 
Opposition militants gathered early in Abidjan's outlying, poor· er suburbs ~nd planned to con­verge on the city center's barri­caded Plateau district; where the presidential palace is guard­ed with tanks and armored cars. They never got close. 
Security forces fired tear gas to disperse them. Then, accord­ing to witnesses, paramilitary police opened fire with assault rifles, killing several in the crowd. 
As tires were set ablaze in the streets, two fighter jets and sev­eral helicopter gunships flew overhead. 
Much of the violence subsided by dusk, and one opposition spokesman, Djedje Mady of the Democratic Party of Ivory Coast, urged protesters to go home. 

··Faced with the barbarity of the soldiers, I have asked our militants to withdraw and to keep themselves safe," Marly said...We are asking them to go back home." 
Most streets were deserted ­except for patrolling security forces. The government declared Thursday a public holi­day and ordered all schools closed. 
Thousands of rebel supporters launched anti-Gbagbo demon­strations in the rebel-held towns of Bouake, Korhogo and Buna, said French army spokesman Lt. Col. Bruno Misset. Protesters also took to the streets in the capital, Yamoussoukro, Kouassi said. 


Encourage all prospects to visit 
Ranked eighth on the U.S. News & World Report's list of night with an assigned student host is not the equivalent of.a "dream schools," Notre Dame clearly attracts its share of carefully planned weekend offering a family aspect to many national attention from prospective students. But unlike other prospects at once. schools, Notre Dame does not market specific days for prospect Clearly, the University cannot afford to facilitate a weekend as visits during the spring semester. However, there elaborate as Spring VISitation for every admitted are two notable exceptions where prospects are OJhe student. However, a simple and financially feasi­
userver

invited to participate in a programmed visit. ble solution does exist. The attraction of Spring One of these exceptions, Spring Visitation, is this VISitation is in its community emphasis, and by weekend-signaling the arrival of nearly 160 selecting several weekends during the spring 


Editorial
prospects-and the Notre Dame community and semester to market heavily to all admitted stu­
administration should use this well-planned event as an exam­dents, the University can count on higher attendance that will 
ple of what it could offer for other prospects. merit better organization and therefore better-informed admit­
Spring Visitation stands out for its organization. The ted students. University provides a structured itinerary that ensures invited Signature Notre Dame events such as Bengal Bouts, Bookstore students can attend classes, eat in the dining halls, live in the Basketball and the Fisher Regatta provide ideal opportunities dorms with a host, talk with current students and ask the for such weekends to be held. These events represent the administration questions or concerns they may have. A special unique community that Notre Dame has to offer -and by des­visit planned for prospective engineering majors, held each ignating them as target weekends for prospects, the University's February, shows a similar effort in extending a well-organized collective welcome will not have to stop at Spring Visitation. By and specifically geared welcome. following its own example, this organized welcome could be 
After Spring VISitation is over, however, the number of student extended to all admitted students. The University would not be visitors dwindles back to the usual trickle. Prospects who wish required to invest as much time or funding in these weekends as to stay on campus must be very proactive, as the scheduling it does for Spring Visitation. However, these weekends would burden falls on families instead of the University-a practice show prospects, as they decide whether to attend the University, that discourages many from taking this initiative. And for those not only what classes and social life are like but also what the who do, the visits they experience are very individualized. One Notre Dame family is all about. 
Confusion on the home front 
Notre Dame's policies on homosexual how can an inclination toward a disor­liberal academic could imagine that issues are a paradigm of incoherence. dered act be itself anything but disor­those events were neutral academic Our leaders act sincerely in what they dered? And if an inclination is not disor­exercises. see as the best interest of Notre Dame dered why may it not be acted upon? Despite their denial of formal recogni­and its students. But in their pursuit of This is important because our leaders tion to activist homosexual groups, our political correct-wrongly imply that the prohibition of leaders convey by their actions the mes­ness, they have homosexual acts is not rooted in the nat­sage that the legitimacy of the active 
Charles Rice 

misled students, ural law and the law of God but rather homosexual lifestyle is at least an open especially those that it is an arbitrary edict of an insensi­question. While that message accords with homosexual tive Church. with political correctness, the de facto inclinations, and Right or This misdirection is compounded by official religion of Notre Dame, it poorly they have acqui­Wrong? the University's readiness to combat serves the members of the University esced in the other disordered inclinations. Students community. The Letter on the Pastoral exploitation of inclined to eating disorders, smoking Care of Homosexual Persons. issued Notre Dame by activist movements hos­and excessive drinking are the object of with the approval of John Paul II, states: tile to the Catholic Church. 
elaborate programs to control "[D]eparture from the Church's 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the 1990 Apostolic those inclinations. Smokers, teaching or silence about it, in Constitution on Catholic Universities especially, have achieved the an effort to provide pastoral requires that the "essential characteris­status of virtual pariahs. care, is neither caring nor tics" of "every Catholic university" must Not for them the welcom­pastoral. Only what is include: "Fidelity to the Christian mes­ing solicitude extended true can ultimately be sage as it comes to us through the to students inclined pastoral. The neglect of Church." That message on the homosex­toward sodomy rather the Church's position ual issues is clear: than tobacco. prevents homosexual 
1. 
Persons with ··homosexual tenden­To alumni, donors men and women from cies ... must be accepted with respect, and the public our receiving the care they compassion and sensitivity. Every sign of leaders present an need and deserve." unjust discrimination in their regard image of fidelity in The teaching of the should be avoided." Catechism, No. their refusal to recog­Church in this area, 2358.. nize student groups rooted in the natural 

2. 
Homosexual acts are ··intrinsically condoning homosexual law as well as disordered. They are contrary to the acts. To the students, Scripture, is a hopeful natural law. They close the sexual act to however, they offer cog­and constructive testimo­the gift of life." "Scripture ... presents nitive confusion. If they ny to the dignity of the [them] as acts of grave depravity." No. are so adamant about person. Notre Dame stu­2357 refusing to approve homosex­dents are entitled to a coher­

3. 
The homosexual inclination is not a sin. But, as an inclination toward an for three years. Univei:sity sponsor-the fullness ofthat teaching. Here, as objectively disordered act, the inclina­ship of The Vagina Monologues, a play in other areas, they are shortchanged. tion is itself ··objectively disordered." No. which commends the lesbian exploita­2358. tion of a teenager by an adult as a "sal­Professor Emeritus Charles E. Rice is 


Notre Dame refuses to recognize stu­vation" for the victim? And why did our on the Law School faculty. His column dent groups which approve homosexual leaders allow University sponsorship of normally appears every other acts. It refuses on the ground that such the Queer Film Festival which exalted Wednesday. He can be contacted at acts are prohibited by "official Church homosexual and transgendered lifestyles plawecki.l@nd. edu. teaching." The University, however, so as to hijack the reputation of Notre The views expressed in this column refuses to acknowledge that the inclina­Dame in support of a politicized agenda are those ofthe author and not neces­tion toward such acts is disordered. But hostile to the Catholic Church? Only a sarily those ofThe Observer. 
News 

:::::AndrewThagard 
OBSERVER POLL

··· Matt Smedberg Meryl Guyer Viewpoint 
Should the United States 
Nicole Cl~.ey 
withdraw from Iraq by. Graphics··· the June 30 deadline?

Graham Ebestch 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 162 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..It is error alone which needs the support of government. Truth can stand by itself., 
Thomas Jefferson president 

THE OBSERVER 
p· 


Friday, March 26, 2004 

page 13 

While surfing through my cable chan­nels, I happened upon an Animal Planet program featuring magicians with animals. It was educational to watch how these masters ofillusion utilize the natural char­acteristics of their animals. For Gary Caruso example, one magician took advantage of a Capitolpigeon's sensitivi­
Comments 

ty to the spotlight to make it appear that the bird kept turning away from him as though to ignore his conversation. 
This year's unprecedented early presi­dential television attack advertisements between the two apparent party nominees could have been politics as usual ifthe commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks had not met this week. Since the nonpartisan commission's findings could weaken or discredit the president's strongest public perception, namely his handling and credibility regarding terror, the White House began an orchestrated effort to discredit its primary critic, former terror expert Richard Oarke. The White House attack dogs' performance this week would make President Bush's act, "The Amazing W," a hit on the Vegas strip. 
It is ironic that the Bush 2000 campaign portrayed AI Gore as a person who would say anything to get_elected. It seems that for almost four years the Bush team has flip-flopped more than they are trying now to portray Senator John Kerry's record. One can easily say that the Bush team's parsing of words surpasses any definition of "is" that President Ointon made famous. 
The Amazing W's act is one based on slight of hand, sometimes showing its attack dogs like the press secretary, com­munications director and chief of staff who all criticized Clarke this week. At other times it lets its principals disappear, like its refusal to allow National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice to publicly testify before the commission although in a single day she certainly made herself available to all the news networks to publicly refute Clarke's claims. 
The current White House is desperate to refute Oarke's claim that Ointon had no higher priority than AI Qaeda while Bush thought AI Qaeda important but not urgent. In an effort instead discredit Oarke's creditability, the vicious White House attack sneaks and cheats with the truth. 
The White House press secretary pub­licly refuted that just a week after Sept. 11 Bush authorized a plan in invade Iraq. A day later the White House chief of staff reverses that assertion by confirming that they did have such a plan. The White House also claimed that since Oarke lost his cabinet-level status under Bush and did not receive a promotion at the Homeland Security Department, he was disgruntled. Then, the \\'1tite House released Oarke's resignation letter ofJan. 2003, in which they point that he did not write one dis­paraging word. A true professional serving the president, and in his case serving three Republican presidents and one Democratic president, only writes a classy. positive let­ter. 
Most importantly, the White House con­

tends that Oarke's book and sworn testi­
mony before the Sept. 11 commission con­
tradicted his comments to reporters. The 
White House even went to the unusual step 
oflifting its restriction on a terror briefmg 
that Oarke once gave to reporters "on 
background." When a background briefing 
is given, reporters can quote a "White 
House advisor" or "senior administration 
official." It is unprecedented for the White 
House to now publicly reveal Oarke's 
name, a similar tactic to the illegal leak of 
the CIA officer's name whose husband 
opposed the notion that Iraq bought 
nuclear materials from Africa. In fact, ifa 
reporter had revealed Oarke's name as the 
background speaker, it would have been 
considered a breech of professional ethics. 
Oarke defends himself against the White 

House attack machine by saying that as a 
Special Assistant to the President, he was 
asked to make a case to the press regard­
ing the Ointon and Bush policies and time­
lines. Clarke contends that he was asked to 
highlight the positives of the Bush policies 
and minimize the negatives. As a back­
ground source, he would never have per­
sonally used that information publicly, nor 
expected the White House to break the 
rules ofjournalistic ethics. 
It is not unusual for an incoming admin­istration to suspect everyone from the pre­ceding staff, especially when the new pres­ident is of another political party. When Bill Clinton entered office, retail vendors who sold items like shirts and coffee cups were dismissed as "Republicans" even though some had become vendors during Jimmy Carter's term. It is understandable and for­giving for the current Bush team, many of whom served under the first Bush presi­dency, to suspect holdover employees. The problem is that Oarke originally was a Reagan and Bush employee. It speaks vol­umes on how the current White House staff suspected anything affiliated with Clinton ranging from staff to serious Middle East policies to terror threats. 
It is·good that Oarke's book and testimo­ny surfaced now in the election cycle. It gives the voting public time to digest whether or not the conquest of Iraq was a distraction on the terror war. It gives all of us time to evaluate the Ama1Jng W's pars­ing of his words leading up to the invasion of Iraq ... the ••grave and gathering threat," the "direct threat," the "immediate" not "imminent" threat or the possible "mush­room cloud." 
The Amazing W may have already released the attack hounds against Clarke and Kerry, but Americans will remember how Bush scared the hell out of us last year during his ··march to war," Bush's own account for the economy's slow recov­ery. The big top is crowded. The three rings are active. Let the circus begin. 
Gary Caruso. class of'73. served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His col­umn appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. ­
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Define and address the issue at hand 
The recent debate on homosexuality and its place at this University would have made me physically ill ifanything substantial had actually been said thus far. Instead, I find myself merely annoyed at the arrogance, rhetoric and avoidance that have characterized these letters thus far. Everybody thinks they know the answers, but nobody really wants to talk about the question that drives the whole affair. 
Let's look first to the "facts" both sides throw around. What, exactly, is being discussed? Nobody wants to say. Is it homosexuality, homosexual individuals, accepting them, supp(lrting them, changing them, blah blah blah nobody wants to take a stand on that. People will dance around the issue of tolerance and acceptance and speak euphemisti­cally of "the homosexual act." It's sex, people. You can disagree with it, but you can still say it. Sex. If it's not sexual activity, but sexual orientation, say that. But either way, it ties to sex or the potentiality of sex. Any other euphemisms and fancy terms just dance around the issue and make everyone involved look childish. This is an impor­tant topic, we can call things what they are -or should be able to. 
Now, we're told people have to under­stand that this is a Catholic institution, and that Catholics are going to disagree on this topic even when they're wrong. If they didn't believe-the Catholic doctrines were correct, they wouldn't be Catholic, and likewise if the school didn't enforce Catholic policies. it wouldn't be either. But let's be serious here. The problem here is sex. The Catholic Church can't even fathom the idea that unmarried heterosexuals could, would or should have sex. You think they're going to let homosexual sex slide? After all, homo­sexuality is strictly concerned with sex 
and isn't a lens through which people of 
any particular sexual orientation view 
their entire lives, so there'd be no other 
benefit, right? Right? Why are you look­
ing at me like that? 
The Catholic Church is consistently intolerant of sex for everyone outside of procreative purposes. This comes from the quaint old philosophical idea, inher­ited from our old Greek friends Plato and Aristotle, that every thing and action has an end and that using it for some­thing else is a perversion of the natural order ofthings and, extrapolated to a religious level, sinful. Of course this con­veniently puts homosexuals in a sexual Catch-22. There's a humorous side-note owing to the origin of this perspective, but I'll leave it to the well-read and intel­ligent minds of the Notre Dame commu­nity to figure it out. 
The point is that some people here are saying the Catholic Church is wrong. ~hey're saying that the will of God has been arrogantly assumed by human beings and that the will of the Church just might not be God's will after all. It's fine to say the Catholic Church is right, but that doesn't justify your argument. You're going to have to make more rea­soned, intelligent and referenced argu­ments. Tell us why the Pope says this or 
that. Tell us why Saint Paul introduced this heretofore-unmentioned edict back in Corinthians. Hopefully, they'll be countered by similarly intelligent ones from the other side. I think we're mature enough to discuss this openly, without veiling what it is we support or object to. 
Peter Scott junior Carroll Hall March25 

Examine your faith first 
Despite the belief of many on this campus, the Catholic Church has made many sig­nificant mistakes in the past. I mean, selling indulgences? Give me a break. Now while I realize this situation is not quite the same, I'd like those in the Notre Dame communi­ty to take a look at themselves and their faith before condemning a group of people. 
No one is asking you to become a homosexual. No one is even asking that you agree with the idea of homosexuality. A tolerance for everyone is all that is being asked for_ Wl?.Y is it that there is such contempt for this group of "sinners" and not for other groups of "sinners?" I thought the Catholic Church preached acceptance? I guess not when it involves something with which you aren't comfortable. No one seems to have a problem with the equally ··sinful" and hedonistic practice of drinking to drunkenness every weekend, yet there is no movement to attack this group. For the record, I have no problem whatsoever with either practice. Perhaps ifwe were all more in touch with our own sexuality -no matter what it may be -. we will become more accepting of others'_ ­
Before immediately lashing back against something that may make you uncomfort­able, take a moment to really examine your faith. If you are indeed a true Catholic, take a moment to see ifyou are acting as one. 
Jack O'Brien junior O'Neill Hall March 25 

page 14 Friday, March 26, 20( 





New stars shine in the Pasqt Musical Company Music~ 
'A Night on Broadway' brings veteran performers and 


Above, Joe Garlock and company sing "All I Care About." Left, Dave Moisan and Tim Gibeau dress as women and perform a song from "Fiddler on the Roof" Below, a group of students show off their talent singing "Skid Row" from //Little Shop of Horrors. " 
•
Photos courtesy of 
MEGAN DAVISSON 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
If you went to see West Side Story in February, you already know it's worth coming to see some of the show's stars from the Pasquerilla East Musical Company take the stage again this weekend in their yearly musical review entitled "A Night on Gibeau heard his fellow performer propose the idea and jumped on the bandwagon. 
"I did a big depressing number last year about my father who gambled away all the family's money and left us," Gibeau said. "So I wanted to do something more fun." 
The show is also a great way for freshmen to continue to perform past high school and find a 
Broadway.·· Natalie "I've definitely been crowd.. Martinez is as adorable Kate VanDamme, the
able to learn a lot
and Jenny Radelet is as only Saint Mary's
from the

magnetic in the Revue College student in the as they were on the upperclassmen. It's show, read about stage of Washington PEMCO in The
like a lot of big

Hall. Matt Curtain and Observer following a
brothers and

KC Kenney have just as fall performances and much character. sisters., decided to try out. B~~-th,e best thing VanDamme is a strong about the R'e~ife ts its addition to the girls'
Allis~n Giovinazzo

variety of acts and tal­group number "My
cast member 
Strongest Suit" and to

ents. Singers and dancers who haven't performed in a lead role on campus shine in individual performances of Broadway show tunes. 
Some of the Company's newest members steal the spotlight this year in their musical theatre debuts. 
Keough resident assistant Luke 
. Slonkosky is confident and charming performing "Sixteen Going .on Seventeen" with junior Katie Welch in his first vocal performance onstage. 
Slonkosky has been excited about the chance to sing onstage, practicing his number in his spare. time ­including in the car while driving to and from Ohio-to get ready for the show despite a busy sched­
ule. "They get ready Monson and Cheryl 
"I've always loved themselves. We just Turski chose about watching musical the­half the acts for the
take them up to the 
atre .... Some of the final performance. 
next level.··

cast members encour­The show is divided aged me to audition." into sections by sub­Slonkosky said. "I'm ject, and the cast ties
Shawna Monson 

surprised how much it all together with
director 


more confidence it takes to sing than act [on stage)." 
Sophomore Eric Buell is quirky and entertaining in his slightly ironic per­formance of "King Herod's Song" from Jesus Christ Superstar. 
"I think it's wonderfully heretical," Buell said. "I hope to rattle some the­ological cages." 
Junior Dave Moisan chose a striking number for his debut, performing a slightly raucous rendition of "Matchmaker" from Fiddler on the .Roof in drag with senior Tim Gibeau. 
Moisan is used to performing with the campus band currently known as For the Love, but wanted to try a dif­ferent genre of creativity. 
"I wanted to do something in the show and I didn't want to do anything serious," Moisan said. "And I'm used to wearing dresses, so I thought I would be more comfortable like that." 
The two singers did not meet until the night before auditions, .when 
the tap dance trio of "Go Into Your Dance" from 42nd Street. 
"It's been wonderful, mainly because of the people," VanDamme said. 
Freshman Allison Giovinaz-zo, a strong singer who has been dancing as long as she can remember, played a small part in West Side Story but shines as a soloist in the Revue. 
"I've definitely been able to learn a lot from the upperclassmen," Giovinazzo said. "It's like a lot of big brothers and big sisters." 
Students chose and prepared their 
own musical numbers before audi­tions for the show in late February. Directors Shawna 
movie quotes from 
such favorites as The 

Wedding Singer, Finding Nemo and When Harry Met Sally. 


"The show has gone amazingly," Monson said. "That is because of the people in the show working so hard on their individual acts. 
"They get ready themselves. We just take them up to the next level." 
Whether they're old hands or new performers, the singers, dancers and actors in "A Night on Broadway" are talented, full of life and full of charac­ter. Most importantly, the show is fun for the cast, crew and audience alike. 
Perhaps cast member Joe Garlock ~!~1'1: says it best when he quotes George 
·:V:· 

~~oor::,. My Best Friend's Wedding mid­
"Maybe there won't be marriage, :::::: maybe th~re won't be sex. But by :I:: 
::::::. 

Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

)4 Friday, March 26, 2004 page 15 
1erilla East tl Revue 
new talent to the stage 

Above, KC Kenney and Natalie Martinez sing "Follow Your Heart. II Right, Dave Moisan demonstrates his ath­letic ability in "Clean­Up Crew. II Below, Natalie Martinez leads group in "My Strongest Suit."
•

Photos courtesy of 
MEGAN DAVISSON 


Latin Expressions promises diverse show with over 100 student performers 
tant perspective of Latino culture and issues. 
By MEEG CONROY Gonzalez's piece will reveal some economic 

Scene Writer 

and political issues of Latino culture, helping to emphasize the show's overall presentation 
Although La Alianza, the Latino group of of Latino culture. Notre Dame, can't control the weather, it can There is one act returning after a few heat up your weekend with Sabrosura: Latin years absence. Gabby Obregon will perform Expressions. Latin Expressions has been a traditional Flamenco dance. Although Latin 'spic.ing' up Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Expressions has offered Flamenco dance since its 'colder' premiere in 1990. However before, this will be the first time in many this year, as the title suggests, will be excep­years. tionally tasty, or a 'Sabrosura.' "Until now we just haven't had anyone with 
In its 15th year, Latin Expressions will the experience," Garcia said. bring .together talents, Obregon has been practic­
ideas and creativity of . ing Flamenco dance for many over 100 students. This "We have about a dozen years and will display her tal­year is special because ents in a solo act.
acts that showcase 
Notre Dame and Saint Introducing all of these acts Mary's students will per­freshmen through seniors. will be returning emcee form all of the acts. In Latino and non-Latina favorites Alex Santana, Jesus previous years, outside Bravo and Nicole Orozco. All
students. and a wide
performers had filled three are very familiar with ...... ~open spa<;es. ·:· range of artistic expres--­the acts and layout of the · .-· This year's executive sion. ·· show. Their comedic and 
director is April Garcia. comfortable approach will "We have about a help audience members join
April Garcia 

dozen acts that showcase in the celebratory atmos­freshman through sen­executive director phere of Latino culture. iors, Latino and non-Latin Expressions hasn't Latina students, and a always been as festive an wide range of artistic expression," April event as it is today. In its first year, Latino Garcia, executive director of the program. groups on campus organized the show. 
The show's performances will include poet­Funds from the show were put towards a ry, dancing, singing, artwork, bands and scholarship for a Latino student to attend even a political act. Notre Dame. Acts were performed in the 
As Latin Expressions has gained acclaim Hesburgh Auditorium, and had a ·political' and support through the University, the audi­quality. tion standards have also risen. This year the "Most of the acts were poetry and skits, yet executive board found themselves turning with an angry undertone," Garcia said. students away. "Instead of a celebratory mood, a more 
"There were a lot of quality acts, but we harsh and political tone presided." just col!ldn't fit them all because of time," The event sought more to profess political Garcia said. and social concerns of Latino culture rather 
As a result, a very unique, and diverse than share its rich diversity. group of students was selected to represent In years fol1owing the 1990 debut, many the artistic and Latino diversity on campus. changes were made to the event. After a few 
Guests will enjoy Latin years at Hesburgh, the show expressions from 'Station moved to Stepan center. This 
One,' Troop NO, the Irish was done to support the
"A lot ofpeople only have 
Dance team and various growing demand for audi­other groups. Some of the one view ofLatino culture ence and performance shows' highlights include space. While at Stepan,
they're comfortable with. 
Ballet Folklorico, Saz6n, a many of the shows were
It's important to expand
spoken word piece and a composed of "outside" acts. Flamenco act. upon this view and get a Latino performers and musi­Ballet Folklorico will .better understanding of cians from surrounding perform two pieces. The areas would come in to
the culture's diversity.·· 
first comes from the state showcase their talents. of J a lisco, and is all Although some students par­female. In the second April Garcia ticipated in the acts, a piece, six couples will majority was comprised of
executive director 

perform a traditional alternative sources. wedding dance from the In its 15th year, Latin state of Vera Cruz. This Expressions finds itself at St. dance is a symbolic representation of unity. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. The new Dancers will gracefully tie a ribbon with location allows for bigger audiences and a their feet, imitating the bond tied through more formal atmosphere. marriage. Another dance act, although quite Garcia hopes the show will expand view­different, is Saz6n. Saz6n is composed of four er's ideas of Latino culture. ­females who will perform a medley of Latino "A lot of people only have one view of dance styles. This act is the first of its kind in Latino culture they're comfortable with," the show's history, and is sure to please Garcia said...It's important to expand upon guests. this view and get a better understanding of 
Melody Gonzalez's act, a spoken word the culture's diversity." piece, may bring back the tone of the show Tickets for Friday's 7 p.m. performance from its first run in 1990. Her piece is a will be sold for five dollars at the O'Laughlin poetic commentary on the tomato wages of Auditorium. Taco Bell. Although not the typical act in Latin Expressions, it will still offer an impor-Contact Meeg Conroy at mconroyl@nd.edu 
• 
THE OBSERVER_ 
page 16 
Friday, March 26, 2004 




'The Consul' brings unique musical e·xperience to Notre Dame 
Opera provides students opportunity to test out techniques learned in the fall 
Magda asks the secretary to plot, while delivering the notes into each line.
ByJON RETARTHA

I , 
see the consulate personally, perfectly. He draws very While the cast does an excel­
Scene Writer 

but the secretary refuses near to actually overpow­lent job in their own individual repeatedly. ering the other people performances, the ensemble
: ! 
The sounds of death, love, Magda returns home to he is on stage with, really shines in their combined . 'I and politics fill Washington her mother in law and but this helps the deliveries. The performance of Hall this weekend as the ND son, who is now very other actors to be John, Magda, and John's
~ 
Opera presents Menotti's "The ill. Magda has night­the best they can mother before John leaves is Consul." The story (sung in mares about her be to keep up. incredibly powerful as the English) focuses around the husband and ill Rebecca three sing together in rounds. Sorel family. John, his wife son, but finally Paul plays Another similarly impressive
Magda, his mother, and the receives some Magda, performance belongs to the couple's infant son all live news from the John's wife. people waiting in the con­together in a small apartment glass cutter. She has a sulate's office. and John regularly takes part John is wait­beautiful The set design is very plainin secret meetings against the ing in the voice, and with white ·walls, an armchair, 
l 
·• government. mountains perhaps crib, and shelf for the apart­One night, the meeting is for them to· has -the ment, and a desk and chairs raided and John is wounded. leave the toughest for the consulate. The periodMagda and John's mother country. role to for the costumes is somewhere become very upset, and hide Again, p l a y in the mid 1950s, with trench John when the secret police Magda goes because coats, suits, and fedoras for come to interrogate Magda. to the con­of the the men. Magda and her moth­She keeps quiet, but when sulate, to extreme er wear middle class clothing
John emerges from hiding, he beg for a emotions befitting homemakers of the decides that he must seek visa. What and pain decade. 
( 
refuge outside the country in follows is a she must "The Consul" is a very enter­order to protect his family. The race against deliver. taining and unique musical family shares a tearful parting time to save a Paul does experience. It would certainly
and John warns Magda to family and to an excel­provide a fun evening for those watch for news of him from escape the lent job and who are long time opera fans,the local glasscutter. John also authorities. blends with and for first time viewers. The tells Magda to go to the local The ND Opera Appleby very English lyrics are for the most consulate to gain visas to leave was started in well. part very understandable, and ., the country. 1991 as a way for Krysta Dennis it is not hard at all to keep up I Magda travels to the con­students to learn plays John's with the action. It provides an 
( sulate's office, but the waiting opera techniques and mother, and while excellent introduction into theI room is full of people experi­then perform in front she. may not have world of opera.~ encing problems with gaining of an audience. In the the most powerful./ visas. Some do not have prop­fall semester. the students voice in the ensemble, "The Consul" plays at
) 
j 
I er identification, others do not learn about opera and the she delivers her lines Washington Hall Friday and have the correct forms filled methods by which opera is clearly enough so that the Saturday at 7:30 pm. Tickets out, and others like Magda performed. In the spring, they audience understands them. are $5 for students and senior cannot wait months for a visa put together a full production John Stephen Lancaster plays the citizens, and $10 for generalwhen they need to leave the that puts to use the skills the Riley-Schofield from Yorkshire, secret police representative. public. Tickets are available at 
country as soon as possible. students have learned. England directs this year's His delivery is perhaps the the LaFortune Box Office. I production. He has performed most articulate of the ensem­at the Huddersfield School of ble. He takes his time with his
~ 
I 
Music, along with the Royal delivery and puts a great Contact John Retartha at
I 
l 
Academy of Music in London. amount of thought and effort jretarth@nd.edu He has also been involved with produc­
tions with the English National Opera and the Netherlands Opera. Along with teaching, he is an accomplished opera singer, classical 
-singer, and pianist. 
John Apeitos con­ducts "The Consul." A native Australian, he has conducted the National Radio Symphony of Athens, Greece, as well as other productions in Italy, Australia, and the Czech Republic. 
Paul Appleby plays John Sorel, the fugi­tive freedom fighter. His voice is incredibly powerful, and it car­ries extremely well over the orchestra. He also does an excellent job of dis­
-playing the emotion needed to further the 



Friday, March 26, 2004 page 17
The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Blake, Hughes lead Wizards to victory over L.A. 
floor, but finished with a 10-for-Kings.
Associated Press 

15 burst. Wade was 8-for-10 Mike Bibby, who scored 31 
and Odom was 8-of-11. points in a 103-101 victory over 
LOS ANGELES -A strong Over the second and third the Lakers last month, had 12 
first half by Larry Hughes and quarters, the Heat put the game points and six assists. He shot 
two spurts of instant offense by out of reach by scoring 60 4-of-16. 
rookie guard Steve Blake were points while shooting 54 per­Bryant arrived at Staples 
too much for the Clippers to cent (22-for-41). The lead Center an hour before tipoff 
overcome. reached 23 points late in the after attending a pretrial hear­
Hughes scored 24 of his 30 third quarter, although Orlando ing in Eagle County court on his 
points before halftime, and cut the deficit to 12 in garbage sexual assault charge. He will 
Blake had seven of his 17 points time. return Thursday for another 
in the final 4:42 as the · Miami, in sweeping its appearance.
Washington Wizards ended a intrastate rival for the first Bryant made a 12-foot left­
five-game road losing streak time, topped 100 points in all handed bank shot leading to a 
with a 103-94 victory over Los four games. Against the rest of three-point play during the 
Angeles on Thursday night. the league, the Heat has only 13 third-quarter run that extended 
Hughes, playing his third 100-point games, and two were the Lakers' lead to 86-56. game since coming off the in overtime. By that time, the Lakers' biginjured list, shot 11-for-20 and For the Magic, losers of six four of Bryant, 6'Neal, Malone tied a career high with 12 straight and six of eight at and Payton, playing togetherrebounds to help the Wizards home, reserve Drew Gooden for just the 28th time this sea­win for only the third time in 13 had 2 3 points and seven son, had reached double fig­games. It's the second straight rebounds. ures, as had Medvedenko. season that they've swept the Lakers 115, Kings 91 Spurs 84, Pistons 75 Clippers. LOS ANGELES -The Lakers SAN ANTONIO -The San 
"We know how well we can turned what had been billed as Antonio Spurs didn't look like play when we're healthy," a Western Conference show­one of the NBA's top defensive Hughes said. "It has just been down into a blowout. teams in the first half. Theyhard for us to play consistently. Kobe Bryant scored 36 points certainly did when it counted. It was good for us to come out after spending most of the day The Spurs limited the Detroit and play with the intensity we in a Colorado courtroom, and Pistons to only six baskets in showed tonight, and I feel we Shaquille O'Neal had 17 points, the fourth quarter and took full can play with anybody in the 16 rebounds and six assists as advantage of Ben Wallace's. league when we are at full the Lakers beat the Sacramento late-game ejection to pull away strength." Kings. for a win. 
Jerry Stackhouse had 20 The Lakers used a 25-1 first­Manu Ginobili scored 14 of points for the Wizards. Leading quarter run to take command, his 17 points in the second half scorer Gilbert Arenas, who sat and a 17-1 third-quarter spurt for the Spurs, who pulled within out Tuesday's loss at Utah after in handing the Kings their most two games of Midwest Division playing 22 scoreless minutes lopsided loss of the season. leader Minnesota with 10 with a sprained right ankle at The Lakers (48-23) have won games remaining for both Miami, returned to the lineup six straight games and 10 of 12 teams. and missed his first six shots to move within 2 1/2 games of Ginobili said he wasn't reallybefore finishing with 11 points the conference-leading Kings concentrating in the first half in 33 minutes. (51-21), who lost for the fifth when he missed all three of his 
Corey Maggette scored 2 5 time in eight games. · · ·shots. · 
points and Elton Brand had 18 The Lakers also moved within "So after halftime I felt that I for the Clippers, who matched a half-game of Minnesota (49-needed to step up and produce their longest losing str_eak of 2 3), and can overtake the more," he said. "We have 10 
the season with their sixth Timberwolves when the teams more games and of course we straight defeat. Quentin meet Friday night. want to win the division and be Richardson sat out for the The Lakers had beaten their in the best position." said, referring to O'Neal. who unglued in the second half to fourth time in five games previous five opponents by a San Antonio coach Gregg was out with a bruised left improve to 3-0 in games with­because of back spasms, and total of 20 points, and all but Popovich said playing the knee. "We've had depth all year out O'Neal this season. Matt Barnes was scratched one of those wins came over Pistons was tough, given that he and this is a chance to show O'Neal, the team's leading 
because of the flu. teams who won't make the learned how to coach from everyone all these great, young, scorer and rebounder, said he Heat 105, Magic 90 playoffs. Detroit's Larry Brown. talented players on this team. expects to miss at least two 
ORLANDO, Fla.-The Miami They were much, much better "It's like playing ourselves," This game was a good indica­games, but he hopes to be back Heat won their season-best in this game, shooting 51.6 per­said Popovich, who was an tion of that." for Sunday's game against sixth straight game by running cent to Sacramento's 41 percent assistant in San Antonio under It sure was. Miami. past the Orlando Magic. and outrebounding the Kings Brown for three-plus seasons. Ron Artest had 20 points, Dallas was missing a star of 
Eddie Jones scored 17 of his 55-33. "We do a lot of the same things. eight steals and eight rebounds its own. Michael Finley, the 28 points in the third quarter, Gary Payton scored 20 points, We like the same kind of play­to lead six Pacers in double fig­team's second-leading scorer, and Lamar Odom had 20 points Slava Medvedenko came ofT the ers." ures in their win over the did not dress because of a and 14 rebounds for his 33rd bench to get 15 points and eight Pacers 103, Mavericks 99 Dallas Mavericks. strained right calf. double-double. Dwyane Wade rebounds, and Karl Malone INDIANAPOLIS-Some might AI Harrington had 17 points The Pacers used their superi­added 24 points and seven added 11 points and seven have seen Jermaine O'Neal's and eight rebounds, Austin or depth to their advantage, assists. rebounds for the Lakers. absence as a tough break for Croshere scored 16 and Jef'f getting solid contributions from 
Miami shot 48.8 percent, with Bryant also had six rebounds the Indiana Pacers. Reggie Foster added 12 points and 12 Croshere and Harrington to fill 54 points in the paint and 31 on and six assists. Miller saw it as an opportunity. rebounds for the Pacers. O'Neal's void. fast breaks. The Heat also Peja Stojakovic had 20 points "Everybody has to raise the Just as important, Indiana "Everybody thought without made 20 of 21 free throws. and eight rebounds and Chris level of their intensity, especial­was able to keep its composure J ermaine we were going to 
Jones started 1-for-7 from the Webber added 18 points for the ly with the big guy out," Miller while the Mavericks came lose," Harrington said. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Wanted· Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
Flexible Summer PT position. Teach for Kaplan or Work in our study center. Call 272-4135 to apply. 
ND alums looking for summer live· in help. Will provide competitive salary, separate bedroom, week­ends off & training in applied behav· ior analysis to work with autistic daughter. Responsibilities include childcare but no cleaning. Must be energetic, able to drive & swim. Located in Mt Kisco (40 mi from NYC). Call914·241·9238 

Need car driver from Naples Fl. To 
South Bend between April-June 
Call2395977 438 
FOR SALE 
Home by owner. 1 8827 Darden Rd. 3BR 2BA W/BSMNT. 100x360 lot 5 Mins to ND. 623·826-8819 
Computer: 400MHZ, Monitor, Win XP, CO-Burner, $200/offer 287­6459 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272·1525 DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HASA8 BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR .... WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer·dryer & alarm system inci.Nice yard for volleyball etc-full bsmt. Walk to Corbys&StJoe Church.Call Joe Crimmins@574·514­0643(cell)or574-273-0002(home) 
NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND GREAT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097 
Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
Oakhill Condo, 2·3 bedroom, 2 bath, one block from ND, $425.00/person times 3 people, utilities included, available June, 231·8823 after 4:00. 
2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near campus. Only a few left for next school year. Cali Justine, 234·9923. 
6·8 Person house on Notre Dame Ave., perfect location across from soccer fields, 2 min. walk to cam­pus. Completely rennovated with all new appliances, 3 full baths. Available for 2004-2005 school year. Email ndhouses@yahoo.com 
Edwardsburg lake cottage com­pletely furnished. $750/month plus utilities. 850-3347. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. Call 574-232·4527 or 269-683-5038 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. For more informa­tion, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
WHERE IS THE BEST BLUES 
BAR? 
MIDWAY TAVERN 810 W4TH ~.• MISHAWAKA 
CALL255-0458. 
www.themidwaytavern.com 
Enroll in a 
Kaplan Test Prep Class in March and get $100 back! 
Caii1·800-KAP-TEST for info. 
Dan is just a little guy. 
Once I thought I had mono for an entire year. Turns out I was just bored. 
.. 


page 18 Friday, March 26, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.Friday, March 26, 2004 
r.:l ..... 

l .Qi• ·0 ~l..., .tdl ...........~· .·~·:';~ .1#'# =
•. .: . ~ ... · .:.·. = ·. 11,1: ~· ·.··. ·.··...:.··. ·: ··. ,VTJ'aJ 

:r 
:t:
,

•• T
' 

' ~ H 
I 

s 
F 
R I D A 
y 
•' 

~ 
broug:·.·.=ht= ·to ~ou b\l·lhe student •u:····nlo-::n··,·.· ·b··~d··• .ncJ... ..ecJ...:•u•·1··.-..·•u.:.b...
. . . ''. .. .. r . . . .. . ... .... ... . .. ·v-....~ • . • . . . . ~.-. 
. .. 
.. 


Friday, March 26, 2004 Co~1PILED FRO;\,\ THE OBSERVER'S WHU: SERVICES Page 19 

around the dial 
GOLF The Players Championship, 12 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Dallas at Miami, 7:30p.m., ESPN Minnesota at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m., ESPN Indiana at Orlando, 7 p.m., WB 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 

Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD -Jameer Nelson, Delonte West and Saint Joseph's put on quite an eye-pop­ping performance for Billy Packer. 
With their No. 1 neme­sis watching from the front row and their fans chanting his name in the final minute, the Hawks showed they were a wor­thy No. 1 seed. 
Nelson and West each scored 24 points Thursday night, keying an 84-80 victory over Wake Forest in the semi­finals of the East Rutherford Regional. 
The celebration almost came too early, though. Trailing 76-68, Wake Forest whittled its deficit down to 82-80 with 11.9 seconds left. 
But then Nelson escaped a double-team trap in the corner and passed to West, who was fouled. 
West made both free throws, and the Hawk mascot began flapping in earnest. 
The only thing left to do for coach Phil Martelli was walk across the court and shake hands with Packer. 
The CBS analyst and Wake Forest alum, hav­ing said the Hawks did not deserve a top seed, smiled broadly. Connecticut 73, Vanderbilt 53 
Ben Gordon lost his footing climbing the steps to the stage for a postgame interview and banged his knee. That's about the only thing that went wrong for Connecticut. 
Connecticut hit from outside, pounded the ba.ll inside and just plain dominated Vanderbilt 
, most of the night. 

Now the Huskies are a win from becoming the Final Four team they were expected to be. 
Gordon had 20 points, nine rebounds and five assists and Connecticut beat the cold-shooting Commodores in the semi­finals of the Phoenix Regional. 
The second-seeded Huskies {30-6) advanced to Saturday's regional final against Alabama. 
"A team has to beat us," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said. "I don't want to lose." 
Rashad Anderson had 15 points and Emeka Okafor added 12 points and 11 boards for the Huskies, who staved off a 16-3 second-half spurt by Vanderbilt that cut the 
lead to  52-45  on  Corey  
Smith's  jumper  with  
12:07 to play.  

Anderson then sank a 3-pointer on his first shot of the half to start an 8-0 run that put Connecticut up 60-45 with 8:35 left. The Commodores (23-10}, outrebounded 41-17, never got closer than 13 again. Oklahoma State 63, Pittsburgh 51 
Solving one of the nation's most rugged defenses got Oklahoma State to the regional final and kept alive hopes for longtime coach Eddie 
Sutton's first national title. 
Oklahoma State took Pittsburgh's pushes, shoves and banging for 33 minutes, then deliv­ered a knockout blow with a late 17-5 run that carried the Cowboys to a win. 
"We played loose, got a chance to run and we capitalized on that," Cowboys guard Janavor Weatherspoon said. "We like to get up and down, and in the second half we got opportunities. That was the difference." 
Oklahoma State (30-3) will face Saint Joseph's on Saturday in the East Rutherford Regional for the right to go to San Antonio for the Final Four. 
It will be the sixth regional final for the 68­year-old Sutton. He has been to the Final Four twice, but he has never gotten to the champi­onship game. 
This one would be spe­cial. Just two years ago, two players and eight other people associated with the program died in a plane crash in Colorado. 
After being held to 30 percent shooting from the field in the first half, Oklahoma State hit 16-of­25 shots in the final 20 minutes against the Panthers' aggressive man-to-man defense. 
The Panthers were the second-toughest team in the country to score against this season, allowing 56.2 points per game. 
Alabama 80, Syracuse 
71 
Sit down Syracuse. Join top-seeded Stanford on the sidelines. 
The Tide is on some kind of roll! 
Alabama, a No. 8 seed, beat the defending national champions in the Phoenix Regional semifi­nals, five days after stun­ning Stanford. 
Kennedy Winston and Earnest Shelton put Alabama (20-12) ahead from the outside in the first half, then Chuck Davis got rough inside in the second and the Crimson Tide is in an NCAA regional final for the first time in the school's history. 
Next up Saturday is a matchup against No. 2 seed Connecticut. 
Shelton scored 22 points and Winston 19 for Alabama, but the differ­ence maker was Davis, who scored 17 of his 19 in the second half as the Tide pulled away. 
The Crimson Tide sank 11 of 12 free throws over the final 8:10 and were 19-of-23 at the line over­all. 
Gerry McNamara scored 20 of his 24 in the second half, but Hakim Warrick managed just four in the last 20 minutes after a 15-point first half. 
Syracuse (23-8), a No. 5 seed, was out to prove it could get back to the Final Four without super­star Carmelo Anthony, who left for the NBA after helping coach Jim Boeheim earn his first national title. 
Friday, March 26, 2004

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 21 Irish travel south to face two top ACC teams 

By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Writer 
This weekend will be any­thing but a cakewalk for the No. 21 Irish as they face No. 33 Wake Forest and No. 9 North Carolina. 
Wake Forest (8-7) upset North Carolina 4-3 Wednesday to end its three-match losing streak. The Tar Heels (13-5) claimed the doubles point, but dropped four of the six singles matches for the loss. 
"Wake Forest was really beat up last year because of injuries," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "They lost a lot of close matches and had a tough schedule. They have better depth this year." 
North Carolina is prepared for a quick win after Wednesday's loss, Louderback said. . 
"They're after everyone at every position; they won't 

overlook anyone. After losing to Wake [Forest], they'll be in a bad mood," Louderback said. 
Wake Forest brings a tough lineup to Saturday's match. Several team members have returned after nursing injuries in previous meets. In addition, Wake Forest brings the No. 22 player in singles, Karin Coetzee, and the No. 40 dou­bles team of Coetzee and Aimee Smith to the match. Coetzee won her match Wednesday 6-2, 6-2 against North Carolina's Lee Bairos, while the duo of Coetzee and Smith lost 8-6. 
North Carolina's young team includes No. 29 singles Aniela Mojzis and the No. 23 doubles team of Mojzis and Kendall Cline. Wake Forest's Ashlee Davis defeated Moizis 6-1, 6-0. Mojzis had an earlier win in doubles against Wake Forest's Coetzee and Smith 8-6. 
Last weekend the Irish col-
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish travel to Ball State for match on Sunday 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 


As the weather improves, so have the Irish. 
After moving to 11-7 with a win over Michigan Tuesday, the No. 36 Irish look to establish a winning streak as they travel to Ball State Sunday. 
Notre Dame is 4-2 since the beginning of March. A win this weekend could begin a win streak similar to the four-game stint the Irish went on in mid­February. 
Ball State is 5-10, winning none of their ten matches against ranked opponents. They are picked to finish second in the Mid-American conference in 

~ a tight race with Western
i 
I 
Michigan.

I 
I 
I "We feel we have a reasonably
I i 
good chance to beat them,"

! !
I ~;I ·, coach Bobby Bayliss said. "[Our rI i team is] guardedly optimistic.I {I,1 We know they're scrappy. The 
1; 
Northwestern [coaching staffl

\( 
warned me that they could be

~ ~ 
) trouble." i I The match is scheduled for the >~ outdoor courts, a first for the r Irish in the regular dual-match 
season. Bayliss has used the

fj 
spring weather to help transi­

~. 
; 
~~ 
~~ 
~~ 
~ ~ 
"~tbe...low..KI~--olhnof...
( ~ 
~} 
·----··---··----··----··----· 
I $IS I I I I $69 I I I I $79 I
$l6 $79
I I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I H' hi' h I I Mens Cut I ICut & StyleI I On;t~ I I Perm. Cut & Style I I c~~ &l~;i~ I 
~ 
~ 
) ~ 
·----··---··----··----··----·
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us.
'/ 

You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
l )~ 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must b~ pr~unud to Ru~ptionist B~for~ Savic~s Ar~ Perform~d 
l': ) I, ', 
Off~r Good Wich KJ -Kelly -Elena -Chrissy -Desire~ -Scephanie -Jennifer 
No< valid .... .pr..l penns. Ux1tl a< Unood haU add $10. No ocher dio. ATRIA SALONI; 
........, applj< Open oon¥ ~ ATRIA Solon .....-d... ritlh• oo I i 
tdU..c ICI"'Viae to ..-.y dicnt wh.o.c h.is O>ndirion il unae.ao.t.bk. 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
Comer ofEdison
! t 
i; 
OFFER EXPIRES 4-15-04 289-5080 :: ( '',. 
~ i ~ ' 
l 
tion the Irish from playing indoors. 
"If we get outside tomorrow, it will help us." he said. "I actually hope we play outside because we need the outdoor play to pre­pare for [upcoming matches at] Florida State and Virginia Tech." 
The Irish beat the Wolverines 
· 5-2 on Tuesday in a match that was closer than the score indi­cated, despite the illness of three top players battling illnesses and the difficulty of a Big Ten oppo­nent. However, the health of the team should not be a concern this weekend. "I expect everyone to be at 100 percent," Bayliss said. Matthew Scott, Luis Haddock and Ryan Keckley practiced Thursday and are expected to be at full strength by the Sunday match. After the trip to Michigan, the Irish spent two practices honing each player's personal tech­niques. "We've been focusing on some ofthe things that have shown up in matches that we really need to stress individually," Bayliss said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgalcs@nd.edu 
lected a win against No. 47 Iowa 6-1, securing the doubles point and nearly sweeping sin­gles with four wins. They look to garner their ninth and 10th wins of the season after this weekend's matches. 
"If we compete hard, we'll have a shot," Louderback said. "They'd better be ready. We're coming." 
Playing on outdoor courts will be the team's greatest challenge this weekend. Since spring break, the team has only played outdoors once. Weather plays an integral role in outdoor competitions, as the sun and wind factor into the ball's speed and direction, Louderback said. 
The Irish hit the courts at Wake Forest on Saturday at 1 
p.m. and at North Carolina on Sunday at 1p.m. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 



THE U~IVIRSITY CLUB
>ft 

• ~:'t\'NI'ital. .PRIVATEOINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE CAME 
. . . . 
WHERE MEMBERSHIP PAYS FOR ITSELF WITH EVERY MEAL OR DRINK! 
. . 

Daily Lunch Lightlunch Soup& 1/2..Sandwich Souppr ~..lad · 
· Special Entree ·soup &HalfSandWich 
.. ' . " . 
.errtree 


Coffee. orTea 
Coffee or Tea
.·····Coffee or T:ea 


·. .$6.95 $4.95 $3.95 
. CHEAP AND CLOSE.••.YOUR UNIVERSITY CLUB.....MEMBERSHIP INFORMATION 1-4685 
1E1TV.sllST-PISIllSDEIIIUBUIIW­
1111 InlmllrsTIILITEI 

The Student Activities Office Is seeking student employees lor the 2004-2005 academic year. 
Positions Include: 

LaFortune Building Manager 24 Hour Lounge Monitor Information Desk &Box Offlce ND Cske Service Attendant Billiards Hall Attendant LaFortune Ballroom Monitor Stepan Center Manager Facilities Assistant Program Assistant 

IMPORTANT DATES 
INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday, March 24,9:00 PM Notre Dame Room~ LaFortune Come and learn more about the job opportunities with the SAO and how you can join the team! 
APPLICATION DEADLINE Wednesday, March 31 Application is available on the SAO web site. 
' , • r • • -• ~ • ? • • • , 
Friday, March 26, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC GOLF 

Belles to play in Northern Kentucky Invitational 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's hopes to cap­ture a fifth-place finish this weekend at Northern Kentucky's Invitational. 
Teams from Divison I, Division II and Division III are included in the 18 schools competing in the Invitational. Coach Mark Hamilton said the Belles look forward to the meet, describing it as an 

opportunity to compete against deeper teams. 
"Some of the teams we'll be competing head-to-head with, and other teams we'll be play­ing just for pride," Hamilton said. "We're looking to shoot 320 each day, and we'll see 
where  that  score  falls  
amongst the fray."  
Hamilton  said  the  team  

looks forward to facing stiffer competition. 
"We're like amateurs play­ing pro's, but the amateurs 
still have a really good invitational should be chance," Hamilton said, refer­approached like a chess 
ring to the large, talented  "We ·re like amateurs  match, Hamilton said, with the  
Division I and II teams the Belles are set to  playing pros. but the amateurs still have a  Belles aiming to stay one step ahead of the  
meet.  really good chance . .,  game.  
Included  in  Mentally, this  
the tournament are seven teams the Belles have  Mark Hamilton coach  will require Saint Mary's to remain focused  

faced in previ­ous meets, five of which they have defeated. This weekend's 

Holy Cross Cclleoe could make your Wlsb cometrue. 
tfyou haw a friend or refatfve who would Ilks tn be cioser to you next year,1sll them about HolyCross CoUeoe-wejre right ntXt door to Niltre Dame and Saint MarYs.. ·They could COJTll)lete ourAssooiate ofArts cumcdum. transfer~ or-pursue our ~or of Arts In liberal Studles degree.. 
Give us a callll239-8400 or a-mall admisslons@hc&nd.edu. Freshmen and transltr applicants are cumtntty being accepted for Summer and fall 2004 admission. 

I 
I 
i 
I 


UPCOMING MOVIES 
April22·24 
on the course and calm in pressured situa­tions. 
"We're a couple of players short, so we'll need the underclassmen to step up this weekend, especially if things get tight," Hamilton said. 
Hamilton expects the most of the pressure to come from DePauw. 
''They're playing good golf right now," Hamilton said. "It's going to take 315's all weekend to beat them. We 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

ROWING Solid Irish cre-w vvill face highly-ranked opponents 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
Senior StaffWriter 
This Saturday the Irish face another Top-20 team when they take on No. 2 Michigan and Clemson in Ann Arbor. The Wolverines, who took second place in the 2003 NCAA varsity eight race, will provide stiff the competition, but the rowers hope to build ofT of their solid Spring Break performances against No. 8 Michigan State, No. 13 Tennessee and No. 18 Duke. 
During the 2002-2003 season, the Irish had a difficult schedule, which concluded with a frustrat­ing two-point loss to nationally ranked Syracuse ih the Big East title race. This year's competition promises to be equally difficult, as the Irish will face at least one Top-20 team each weekend. The Irish are not discouraged, though, and with returnees such as team captains Natalie Ladine and Katie Welsh, Alice Bartek ­who holds the Notre Dame 2,000-meter erg score record ­and Danielle Protasewich, the team is working to improve each week. 
"Challenging ourselves all sea­son will hopefully put us in a good position as we go into Central Regionals, our most cru­cial race of the year," said Welsh. "Our ultimate goal is to earn a team bid to the NCAA champi­onships. and as invitations are extended only to the top twelve teams, it is essential that we face some of the best competition throughout the season." 
Notre Dame's performances on March 13-14 demonstrated that the team is ready to take on the best. The Irish held their own. winning six of their last. 15 races against the Spartans and Lady Vols Saturday. The team gar­nered a varsity four victory and two novice wins over the Blue Devils the following day. 
"Last week's· competitions gave us a much better idea of where we stand as a team," Welsh said. "Competing made us more aware of our strengths and weaknesses, as well as those of some of our biggest competitors." 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 


page 22 Friday, March 26, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles to open hnme ... schedule with Alma 
Struggling team hopes to end a six-game losing streak with a win over tough Alma 
anything going on offense. The 
By STEVE COYER 

Belles had two hits the entire Sports Writer 
doubleheader.­This season Saint Mary's has 
After a tough stretch of more experience against Alma games on the road, the Belles and will look towards return­will begin league play at home ing starters Libby Wilhelmy, Saturday. Erin Sullivan, Jackie Zurcher 
Saint Mary's (5-8) has lost and Marnie Walsh. six straight While the games and will Belles have 
get little rest as ..We don't want to nearly every they meet play catch-up starter return­defending MIAA ing from last 
anymor~.,
champions Alma year, Alma like­College in a dou­wise has their bleheader. Anna Welsh key players Alma (18-2) back this sea-
coach
has been domi­son. Alma nant with seven bo-asts three shutout victories so far, and players from last year's All the team looks to be on course MIAA-first team, including for another league champi­Erin Carson -who received onship. Against a strong team the league MVP award. like Alma, the Despite the Belles realize challenge posed 
they cannot fall "In order to reach by Alma, Saint behind early in our goals on the Mary's feels 
the game as has confident they
season we are going
happened previ­can play com­
ously this sea­to make adjustments petitively pro­son. -to help us get vided they start "We don't want the game
prepared to
to play catch-up strong. 
anymore," coach have a better start "In order to Anna Welsh in the first inning. " reach our goals said. "Once we on the season begin to start we are going to
Anna Welsh
--<' playing aggres­make adjust­sively from coach ments to help inning one, therr us get prepared we will be .-a · to have a better much more successful team." start in the first inning," 
In a doubleheader last year Welsh said. against Alma, the Belles were Saint Mary's will play at shutout in both games losing home this Saturday at 1 p.m. 8-0 and 9-0. In each game, Saint Mary's fell behind in the Contact Steve Coyer at first inning and failed to get scoyer@nd.edu 
I 
!' 
,,{ 
,-. 
'·' 


Anention Class ol2006 
Now Accepting Applications for ..JPW 2005 Chairperson 
Help select the committee. theme, decorations, speakers, food and everything else for your Junior Parents Weekendf 
We are looking for hard-working, dedicated, responsible, visionary student leaders to work with a team of your peers on the biggest event of the year. 
Fill out an application this week in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, or call631-7308 for more-det~ifs. 
Applications Due FRIDAY, MARCH 26th at 5:00pm. 
Hate Crimes Vigil 
Hatred paralyzes life; love releases it. Hatred confuses life; love harmonizes it. Hatred darkens life; love illumines it. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. (1929-1968) 
Saturday, March 27th Grotto 8:ooPM 
Come give a tin~ part of~our evening in unit~ for peace 


Light a candle forjustice and forgiveness 
Sponsored by Student Government 

Friday, March 26,. 2004 

The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

/ 
( 
Anyone interested in running for Off-Campus President, Off­Campus Senator, or Off-Campus Programmer needs to inform the Judicial Council immediately. Contact: 
.. 

Judicial Council jcouncil@nd.edu or call_631-7668 asap. 
INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 


l.)''''!.lf!!I!IH!'.'''...·.....Itl 

OBC ENGLISH
t:m ezw:nz e 

CONVERSATION SCHOOL 
is seeking university graduates for a 
one year teaching position in Japan. 
Attractive salary, benefits and travel 
opportunities. 
RECRUITING DATES: March 30 & 31, 2004 at Career and Placement Services 
Japanese language skills NOT required 
Open to all majors. 
SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
The End 
continued from page 28 
praise for its resilience finally 
crumbled. 
..We," the Irish coach smiled half-heartedly after his team lost 65-61, "rode these guys hard." 
How else can you explain what happened in the final minute of Notre Dame's sea­son-ending loss? You know, where the Irish pulled to within two with 48.8 seconds left but placed the game in the hands of their defense by deciding not to foul? And when Oregon's all­everything guard Luke Jackson started driving toward the bas­ket with 18 seconds left, it was easy to start wondering if Brey made the right call by trusting his defense. 
But Jackson's layup rolled off the rim, and Torrian Jones gave the Irish new life by quickly grabbing the rebound -then just as quickly kicked them back into the grave by throwing the pass out of 

bounds. ..We just couldn't "You get to But the Irish ride a wave of a 
bounce back. We had 
weren't done game, am:l you
all those 
yet. Jackson look for signs," went to the line opportunities. " Brey said. 
needing to "Those weren't make two free­great signs.
Mike Brey
throws to Those were
Irish coach 
clinch the 
game. The first 
one swished 
through the net. The second 
one caromed off the rim, past 
Colin Falls' outstretched hands 
and right back into Jackson's hands. 
The Irish season was finally dead. There could be no more late comebacks, no more sec­ond-chance tournaments; just time for jerseys to be pulled over heads (like Chris Thomas did), staring at the ceiling (like Jordan Cornette did), or sitting stone-faced on the bench (like Tom Timmermans did). 
It was hard to tell what stunned them more -that Notre Dame's season was over, or that the Irish were out of chances. 
"The NIT set it up for us to go to the Final Four. To lose ... , " said Thomas as his voice trailed off. 
The lack of depth finally caught up to the Irish. When Torin Francis played his last minutes of the year in a win against Connecticut, the Irish were stuck with only seven players the rest of the way. And if one was off, the Irish were in deep trouble. 
Few could have expected that the player who sparked so much of the Irish success ­Thomas -played the final games of the year with knees so bad he went days without being able to practice. 
Fewer could have imagined that Rick Cornett would emerge to replace Francis in the low post, giving the Irish hope of winning their first NIT title. 

Brey loved to say throughout the season that the Irish had been read their last rites time after time. But no matter how resilient the Irish may have been, the priest always stood by to read them again. 
So when a controversial charge call against Thomas went in Oregon's favor, and when Oregon went 8-for-10 from the field in a crucial sec­ond-half explosion, the Irish couldn't help but wonder if 
their time was 
finally up. 
tough. We just 
couldn't bounce 

back. We had all those opportunities." 
In the end, Notre Dame's lack of depth along the bench finally caught up with them. And in a game that seemed to be a microcosm of Notre Dame's season, the Irish rallied from a nine-point deficit, only to lose so much energy trying to come back that they could never take the lead. 
So the Irish trudged off their court for the final time this year, left to ponder what could have been. 
"We didn't have that extra level to push it to," Thomas said. "Maybe some extra rest would have helped that. 
"Now, we get a lot of rest." 

The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 

asoukup@nd. edu. 

U.. D'
. : ; . ; . : =: .· ·: ...• ~ : E': ; r· , r./=­
PPER , , -~CI< 
• Notre Dame Grad.uation Tent Parties at Coveleski Stadium-Friday and Saturday Nights 
• Great for Jp·w and 
Graduation Parties 
111-1115. 


-
Friday, March 26, 2004

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 

f~ 
\ 
. \ 
·, 
l' 


By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior StaffWriter 
He made his decision nearly six weeks ago, but Chris Thomas didn't want many people to know about it. 
So the junior point guard who flirted with the NBA Draft as a soph­omore waited until the eve of Notre Dame's final game of the season to tell the media that he decided to return to Notre Dame for his senior season. 
"My teammates knew, my coach knew. I just wanted to get it out so people would quit asking me ifI was coming back or not," Thomas said after Notre Dame's season-ending 65-61loss to Oregon Wednesday. "I knew a long time ago and I didn't want to do some formal thing." 
It was widely speculated that Thomas, who had been plagued by knee problems for most of the year, would return for his senior season. And NBA rules prohibit players from declaring for the draft to test their status and then withdrawing more than once. 
Brey said he thought Thomas 
. .. . .. 
. ·,·. 
· .. · .-·· 
neeJin:g tHJitln ill~ t~e taefQY Industry 
llniWf'. •reb 29. 2to~ 12:" It: f.;"!I , .•.. 

wanted to help make an NCAA Tournament run next year as a major figure of a team that would irdude Chris Quinn, Torin Francis, Jordan Cornette and Dennis Latimore. And the chance to chase down Austin Carr and Adrian Dantley, who are first and second on Notre Dame's list of career scorers, was intriguing, but something Notre Dame's eighth most prolific scorer 
dismissed. 
"He said, 'I don't know ifI'm going to score that much, because we have all those big guys,'" Brey said. "That says a lot about the kid we have coming back." 
Brey said Thomas will most likely have his knee examined, and the Irish coach didn't rule out the ~i­bility ofoff-season surgery. 
"I think he's made three great decisions,'' Brey said. "He made a great decision last year to explore. I thought he made a great decision to come back when the information wasn't favorable. And I thought he made a great decision this year." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Ducks 
continued from page 28 
straight to open that nine­point lead. The Irish rallied by preventing a Ducks field goal for 8 minutes, 43 seconds eliminating that 58-49 Oregon lead to tie the game at 59. 
Then the Irish had two opportunities to get over "the hump, but they couldn't con­vert. 
Brey decided not to foul down 63-61 with 48.9 seconds remaining. The Irish forced Oregon's Luke Jackson to miss, and Torrian Jones grabbed the rebound and tried to get the ball to Chris Thomas. 
But Jones threw it out of bounds. 
"I was trying to get him the ball. He was coming to get open. There was some mis­communication," Jones said. "He thought he was getting held, but it was just careless­ness with the ball. I should 

have held on to the ball a little longer and make sure he was open before I passed it." 
Jones fouled Jackson, who made the first free throw and missed the second. 
But Oregon grabbed the rebound and iced the game ­and Notre Dame's season-by making an additional free throw. 
"We kind of folded there at the end," Thomas said. "We had our chances, but if I would have taken a couple less crazy shots, maybe that would have made up for the points." 
Besides ending Notre Dame's season, the loss also kept the Irish from getting 20 wins for the first time since the 1998­99 campaign. 
"It would have been nice to get that 20th win so we could have four in a row, but it's unfortunate," Thomas said. 
"I think that would have been a really great achieve­ment for our team to get that 20th win for what we've been through," he said. 
OREGON 65, NOTRE DAME 61 at the JOYCE CENTER 

NOTRE DAME (19-13) 
Cornette 1·6 0-0 2, Timmermans 1-4 0-0 3, Thomas 7-25 0·1 18, Quinn 8-17 0-0 17, Jones 3-5 0·0 6, Cornett 2·4 5-7 9, Falls 2-2 0-0 6 
Oregon {18-12) 
Platt 2-4 0-0 4, Crosswhite 5·9 2-4 12, Brooks 3·8 0-0 8, Jackson 4·10 4·8 14, Joseph 6-9 0-1 16, Davis 2-5 0-0 6, Kent 0-0 0-0 0, Short 0-0 0-0 0; Lincoln 0-1 0-2 0, Zahn 1-2 1-2 3, Anderson 0-0 2·2 2 
1st  2nd  Total  
NOTRE DAME  32  29  61  
Oregon  32  33  65  

3·poiot goals: Notre Dame 8-27 (Thomas 4-14, Falls 2-2. Quinn 1·6, Timmermans 1·1, Cornette 0-4), Oregon 10-20 (Joseph 4-5, Brooks 2-7. Davis 2-4, Jackson 2-3, Crosswhite 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 37 (Cornett 10), Oregon 35 (Crosswhite 10). Assists: Notre Dame 10 (Thomas 4), Oregon 15 (Jackson, Joseph 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 15, Oregon 14. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 



• 
• .J • _.I ' • • ­
. . . ~ . . . ·-. . -.. , 
Friday, March 26, 2004 page 25
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENTS 
~~===:Notre Dame Women's Lacrosse~~~~== 
\ 

Friday"' I\1arcll 26 at 7:00pm 
Sundayi :rviat~ch. 28 at l:OOpnt #3 Women's Lacrosse vs.. Virginia Tech #3 W.omen's Lacrosse vs. Bosto.n Coll·ege 
at Loftus Sports Center 
-Fil'5t 150 fans will receive a vou~her tu b(~ "~._'!..~med. upon exit for spaghetti and bre.adsticlts spcnt..cmred by Fazvli's 

fo.US.Cellular. 
A U: T R e I< I ll El A., C: II T 
at Moose Krause Stadium 
-Brine fla~ First .lOU fans \.'\>ill :rec~h·e a mi:ni lacru!isc slick! "'F".lftjl150 lami wiD rta"'CCM :&c.c hot chBr.01ate 
' 

-First 500 tam. will rcL-ci'\.'C a Kri!t<-py .Krcmc doug:hnm 
-One Jur.ky fan ~ill "in a y~,at·•s supply of Krispy .K.rcmc doughnuts! 
MI&HAWAKA 514 W. MdCinllll~f Com~f' MdtlrJc-v &. Gr:3pe 57>1.,5?-~ 

T1111el 
$OU1'H .1110 1'17 rt~h M~h 1 bk. 'SOl~~ of D:fh-4: 
S14..2S8.:.945ll 
_.,!i Pl.iflmi' Fk'J.:.d Maarm & wa~ ·S74.Z~.286C: 
•t~!l:¥~~:~_..,~~ ~:~·>~A :~:s.f~;~~~~::·fl&fr.:,. ~·'#»;'.;~~!Jt,... '>4~-::·~.,d:,·K<'¥< ~~~·~.,s;i:~·-· :~::a~~~·~·~.~... ~'.:.ii:U,;~·b.:·~..;M.;""' <~~.,j ~s:;u'4>, ~*~~~ ~~a~;~}!f.~N'.I!Ilr rw ~:~.::W ...~.·l!lm-:tt:.~.:ne·~~· ~.lei'~~~ ~~~ @ .•.,.ffi~ m~ ~~--" 't-£..?.i;;,g:,,v.JA '"..'' ~fl!·~~·.~'fl1X~ ~.~ ~-=·=-• ~·'-<a 
~·~ '~A~'lt ~~~p;;s~:~~--,~~ ~,,~iF" •J:.>ll ~:<';, f:.rJ#<' ~=>.ii'l_~~~<"G ~-=i\'leOmsf,;§ar imn~~~~-::~~ =~~~:p~t!~$~V~·-•~~,~~·''''"""~~ ·•·~")< ~~~~~.!1;;~12~""11!!\~~-. rmr:wmt::liSn~'~· ~•maklr~~iW:111i:ill:~~& 
{lf(ll ttat~fi'S ~\~0 :~~:,. :~M 
-
•· urr;~;e~ 
f~, fNflfMitllll 
~~~~NSIU;" 
t1::4SI«t. ~ 
CamieDuo: 

-1.6nedi~Rd~ tuiH bep~r:nr ~ 
S'ld'e4JJ/11'11DrJt)Old 
J.f!!l··~'~..¥0l<~ 00Nat 

·.-~·~
~:G'·: ~«:1 /fd~l' 

-
Quality Diamonds 
:-----········..······-: ®j 

L----················"''''" 
John M. Marshall's 
lnco.t"pOrated 1965 
-
Jewelers I GemologistsGofdsnliths l Phltinutnsmith.s 
Key Bank Buildin_g, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
287,1427 

page 26 Friday, March 26, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Mountaineers present first league challenge 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Senior StaffWriter 
Now it's really time for the Irish to don the targets. 

This weekend No. 6 Notre Dame (14-3) travels to Morgantown, W. V., to kick off Big East Conference play and take on West VIrginia (8-10). 
As perennial conference front­runners and favorites to win the Big East title in 2004 as selected by the conference coaches, the Irish often present opponents a chance to make a big statement in the league. 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri wel­comes the early season expecta­tions and the challenges his squad will likely receive in mak­ing a title run. 

"I hope everybody is shooting at us, to be honest," Mainieri said. "That's the plan. The plan good teams we'll have to beat this year is to go out and win this this year, starting with [West thing." VIrginia] this weekend," Mainieri 
The Irish will get a real test to said. "It doesn't take a long open the conference schedule memory to remember them com-this weekend ing in with the ever-h e r e 
dangerous Mountaineers. Last year, West  "/think we have a team that can challenge for the title, but  a n d beating us in  
Virginia came into South Bend in early May  these Big East schools are never going to hand it to us ...  two out of three I a s t  
and took two of  year."  
three  games.  Paul Malnlerl  The  
T  h  e  Irish coach  Irish got  
Mountaineers  some  
proceeded  to  revenge  
finish the Big  in  the  

East regular season 18-6 and conference tournament, as they claim second place in the stand­smacked the Mountaineers in the ings -one spot ahead of the first round on their way to the Irish who finished third with a Big East Tournament title. 16-7 conference record. But Mainieri wants to be sure 
"There are going to be some his players remember what hap­pened in their first meeting with West Virginia, as he is aware that any conference squad would love to upset the Irish in a big weekenri series. 
"I think we have a team that can challenge for the title, but these. Big East schools are never going to hand it to us," he said. "They have a little disdain for us, and they're going to give it every­thing they've got. ... We know we're going to have a battle this week, and we're looking forward to it." 
First, the Irish skipper is hop­ing his team can break out of the offensive struggles that have plagued them of late. Notre Dame started to get back on the right path Wednesday with a 16­6 win over Detroit, but problems still exist. Senior tri-captain Steve Sollmann is only batting .227 thusfar, and power-hitting first baseman Matt Edwards enters the weekend series with West VIrginia mired in an 0-for­16 slump over the last four games. 
"A couple of the guys are really struggling," Mainieri said. "Steve Sollmann and Matt Edwards ­those are our guys, and our offense is going to go as they go. Both of them have not been swinging the bats the way I know they are capable of." 
But Mainieri still has the utmost confidence in the abilities of his big hitters and believes [ they will turn it around very ' ' soon. 
"But I'm not concerned at all about [the offensive struggles]. Everybody goes through these things," he said. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

Irish fencer to have a sub-par appearing to regain the winning time tied at four. Kryczalo had n't attack so much because she is performance. The Irish received form that earned her the 2002 numerous off-target touches a very good defender." 
Champs 

the usual sparkling efforts from epee championship. She fmished before fmally connecting for the From a team standpoint, continued from page 28 seasoned veterans Alicja right behind Providenza and touch and the win. Bednarski feels the women need­
Kryczalo and Kerry Walton. Kryczalo with a 12-2 mark. Ament won the next bout ed to open up a much bigger lead half of the rookie saber duo was Kryczalo, in search of her third Kryczalo and fellow foilist against Hanna (5-2) before sub­today before the short-handed not nearly as dynamic. Angela NCAA foil title in as many years, Andrea Ament-dubbed the "A­sequently losing to her sister by a men's team begins its half of the Vincent, who posted the most matched Providenza's 13-1 Team" -fenced in one of the 5-3 margin. Kryczalo then faced competition on Saturday. wins at saber during the regular mark, tying for the best among more intense pairings of the day, Hanna, scored the first touch and "If the lead maintains like this, season, struggled most of the all weapons. facing off against the talented opened the floodgates as she it will be very hard to get to the day. She mustered only five wins Walton made many of her Thompson twins of Ohio State, scored four more in twenty sec­top," he said. "[The object of and lost all six of her bouts bouts exciting as three of them Hanna and Metta. The twins onds to secure a 5-2 victory. Friday] is to build up the lead." against Ohio State, Penn State went into the one minute, sud­gave the A-Team all it could han­"With Andrea, I think we had and Penn. den-death overtime. But she dle. Kryczalo and Metta fenced in similar strategies [against Contact Matt Mooney at 
Vmcent, though, was the only calmly won all three bouts, an epic duel that went into over-Hanna]," Kryczalo said. "We did-mmooney@nd.edu 
I 
It· } II _I ' 

, 
::·-. -. · __ 
,'' 
Two small _Cheese Pizzas. 
~1 
.-..... ···:~r·:·.·:-. :.r;·.: -·-:~:~~ . --­
~} 
-.: I . 
r 
Five Buffalo Wings & an
One small, 1-topping
~ 
) 
order of Bread Sticks 
, I 
j pizza & a 20 oz. Coke®.
'i 
,;j 'I or· Cina Stix~. 
;~ 
I'! One small Cheese pizza & One order of Cheesy 
.' J I ' 

5 Buffalo Wings. Bread &Domino's DotsTM~ 
VISA.,

NOTRE DAME 
We accept credit and debit cards at no extra charge. All
271-0300 
personal checks require a 50¢ surcharge. 



Friday, March 26, 2004 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
~LLY IS IN THE MEN'S ~ I ~NT TO FALSE 
ROOM. I'VE ACCEPTED ~ SCREAM TO 
ALARM. 

A POSITION AS HIS ~ THE WORLD, YOU'RE"LOOK AT
SEAT FILLER. FIRED.
I 
ME NOWI ~ 
l~ 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 

Why William Shatner should never be a SportsCenter anchor: 
,oHrv,~.
AYld so .•• +h&\+.•. pI ~y 

Conn ... 
' --~~ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VINEA 
j
[J r±
02()()4 Tribune Media SeNicea, Inc. All Righta Reaetved. 
GOYGS 
IIJ I I 
www.junble.oom 
VALERM 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
[ I J [ ] 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

"( I I I I I ]" HER ( I ·I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

APPLY FAUNA HYBRID JAILED
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: When the bucket brigade fought the. blaze, they were -ALL •FIRED" UP 
.. 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  35 Honky-tonk  68 Old World duck  
1 Phony 11 Endowment  player 37 Gossip's ques­tion  69 Chug-a-lugs  
15 Flat turndown  42 Nonsense  DOWN  
16 Fertile Crescent's place 17 Do a perform­ance  43 "Mother Goose Suite" composer 44 Part of a guffaw 45 Super power  1 Complications 2 Cover made of silk 3 Ancient Greek state  
18 Depression 19 Chef d'etat 20 Not so strict  48 W. W. II bond designation 52 Canada's _ Island National ­ 4 Where pins are made 5 Really smart  
21 Unoccupied 22 _'_ Fyne,  Park 53 Zip  6 Bird whose male hatches the eggs  
Scotland  55 Was appealing  7 Memorial Day  
24"_ me!"  56 Jumble  solo  
26 Fraternity chap­ 58 Thingum  8 Grant-_  
ter  62 Lab offering?  9 Filter  
27 Went slowly  63 Sign in the dark  10 Colorful fish  
31 U.S. code and 64 Risque displaycipher grp. 66 Clip 32 Pack animal 67 Person at a 33 Attunes fR''Pdafjpg ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  11 Ship's spar 12 Volunteer's con­fident declara­tion IS IOidk@ ]6Sl1 ight 14 "Congratula­tions!" 23 Soprano's note  38 Hurdle for a doctoral student 39 Job setting 40 Carrier to Tampere 41 Time before  49 Title city in a 1960 #1 hit 50 Gentle under­water creature 51 Player of the . Texaco Fire  57 Hasenpfeffer, e.g. 59 Animal shelters 60 "Hard !" (helm com­mand)  
sword 28 Passed illegally, maybe  46 One who's hurt­ing 47 "Now!"  Chief, on old radio 54 Hullabaloos  61 Darkens 65 Hardly a girl's dream date  
29 Put away  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
34 Camera inits. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday36 West_, Long crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Island weather 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
station locale 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 37 They're intrigu­Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ing solvers: nytimes.comllearninglxwords. 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON miS DAY: Joan Crawford, Chaka Khan, Moses Malone, Erich Fromm 
Happy Birthday: You'll be your own worst enemy this year if you try to push your will on others. Do your own thing; don't rely on what others can contribute. You have the know-how and the energy to do things yourself. Go it alone and you'll discover that it's much easier in the long run. Your success will be determined by your efforts. Your numbers: 2, 9, 18, 27, 36, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Ask for favors, but don't take others for granted. Do not give donations if it will mean doing without necessities. You may have a problem with co-workers. *** · TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your emotional response may cloud issues. Don't make irreversible decisions. Your reluctance to see your partner's position could make you the victim ofa lonely heart. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be extremely creative. Get involved in projects that will allow you to do what you want. Children can be a source of motivation if you spend time listening to their point of view. *** * CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have to take care of those who can't do for themselves. Rewards for your actions will be granted. Financial matters such as real estate and other solid investments look good. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel a little cool toward your mate today. Confront the situation head-on and clear the air early in the day. Socialize, so that you both can talk to other people. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your vitality is down. You are likely to catch minor ailments if you don't get enough rest. Limitations due to bad eating habits or frustrations at work are apparent. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get involved in some form of physical activity. You will need to bum off some of that excess energy. Your laziness may lead to tension and upset in your home.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have to be careful of how you deal with family members. Someone may try to take you for granted. You will have to gauge how much time you can afford to give.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make sure that your car is in good order before you take off on a family jaunt. Check your money situation and limit family members that want to take advantage of your good nature. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Financial problems may be a worry. It's best to refrain from spending on unnecessary items. You will be experiencing some personal changes. Be willing to accept the outcome. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You're holding yourself back if you don't realize your ideas. It is best not to confide in friends or relatives today. Your reluctance to do what they want will only cause discord. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your depression will m<lunt regarding the problems that exist between you and your relatives. It is best to let the situation calm down before you try to talk to those concerned. ** 
Birthday Baby: You're bright, witty, articulate and have a huge capacity for helping others. You will always pitch in and help the ones you love accomplish 
·-­
their goals. Selfless and giving, you are a wonderful little tyke to have around. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home . 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ 
-;..
City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
• -­
' 
... 

Friday, March 26, 2004 page 28 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish duck out of NIT 
Oregon's Luke Jackson seals Notre Dame's fate with late free throws 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 

Watching Oregon shoot better on 3-point­ers than from the free throw line may sur­prise some people, but not Irish coach Mike Brey. 
Brey knew coming into the game the Ducks were See Also deadly from behind the arc, 
"Thomas 
so their 10-of-20 perform­ance Thursday night wasn't announces he unexpected. 
will return next 
The Irish couldn't over­

year"
come that long distance shooting and lost 65-61 in page 24 the third round of the National Invitation Tournament. 
"They really made some big 3-point shots," Brey said. "A big concern was guarding the 3-point line. [Oregon] making 10 of them was too much to absorb. It's not a fluke. They are a great offensive team and got in a rhythm to get us down nine. 
Oregon broke the game open making 5-of­7 3-pointers in one stretch, including three 
see DUCKS/page 24 
FOOTBALL 



Baker waits months and chooses Purdue 
Indianapolis player renegs on verbal commitment to ND 
By PAT LEONARD 
Associate Sports Editor 
'/ After deliberating for almost two months, Ryan Baker of Bishop Chatard High School in Indianapolis chose the Purdue Boilermakers over Notre Dame Tuesday night. 
The 6-4, 235 pound tight end/ defensive end verbally commit­ted to the Irish on Jan. 25 but did not appear on the official list of signees on national sign­ing day, sparking inquiries of 

I < coach Tyrone Willingham. 
i ~ '} I Willingham did not comment
' I 
specifically on Baker's situa­tion•. though he mentioned

~/.
~~ 
there was one player who still ~~~ 
had not made a definite deci­~~: sion.
~~·~ 
·.':.:._, 

Baker's father, Jerry, said~· Thursday night that his son felt
:
IJI, 
"really conflicted." 

"He made a verbal commit­·U ment to Notre Dame, and when it came time to make the deci­
;, 
sion and the national letter of 
intent came, he didn't honor his 
commitment," he said. 
Baker took an unusual 
amount of time to make the 
decision, though the commit­
ment of defensive end Ronald 
Talley and the presence of 
defensive ends Justin Tuck and 
Victor Abiamiri on the field for 
the Irish next season could 
have something to do with 
Baker's choice to head to West 
Lafayette, Ind. 
Baker's father said his son 
withstood a "long and tedious 
struggle" in making his deci­
sion. He also said Notre Dame 
did all it could in recruiting 
Ryan. 

"Notre Dame did an excel1ent 
job," he said. "I consider it an 
honor that Notre Dame would 
recruit my son. They have a lot 
of great people there, and they 
have an incredible coaching 
staff." 

Notre Dame recruited a class of seventeen players this win­ter. In Baker, Purdue gains a ·USA Today second team All­
American. 

Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
~ 
~. 'I 
SMC GOLF~·,, en SMC SOFTBALL 

LLI

~~ 
1-u Alma at Saint 
Northern Mary's 
KentuckyInvitational
J~ a: ::5 z 
t ·Saturday, 1 p.m.
.'. J' 
Saturday-Sunday
The Belles open their 
IJ .; home schedule. The Belles will face 
!. 
== 

stiff competition. 
.. A.ti 
page 22 page 21
. ' en 

• TIM KACMAR/The Observer Chris Quinn drives past Oregon star Luke Jackson Thursday in a 65-611rlsh loss. Notre Dame ended its season with 19 wins. 
Final comeback unsuccessful as Notre Dame season ends 
When the fuel tank is on empty, the car can only run on fumes for so long. 
And Thursday night, the Irish finally sput­tered to a halt against an Oregon team that was too deep and too hot for Notre Dame to com­pete with. . 
But it shouldn't surprise anyone who has been follow­ing the Irish all year that Notre Dame came up short. They came close in losses to Kentucky and Pittsburgh, only to see furious comebacks fall short. They came close to making the NCAA Tournament, only to have a late loss to Providence pop their bubble. And against Oregon, the Irish once again came close -rallying from a nine-point second-half deficit-before falling short. 
The team that Irish coach Mike Brey loved to 

Andrew Soukup 

Senior Staff Writer 
see THE END!page 23 
FENCING 

Women fencers take lead 
Irish look to expand lead before men begin competition Sunday 
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 

As etiquette is a big part of fencing, it is appropriate that the NCAA Championships begin with the ladies first. 
The top-ranked Notre Dame women took to the strip on Thursday as they opened the defense of their national title in the Gosman Center at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass. 
After the first four of seven round-robin rotations, the Irish are at the top of the team stand­ings with 63 victories. Ohio State is right on their heels· and only four points behind. Penn State lurks at third with 48 and Pennsylvania is fourth with 43 points. Perennial contender St. John's, whose strength lies in its men's team, is biding its time with 25 points in eighth place. 
Though the Irish have only a narrow 63-59 lead, Thursday was an intense day of competi­tion in which the women com­peted against the best teams in attendance. The formidable line­up included No. 2 Ohio State, No. 


CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 
Aaron Adjemian fences in an early season match. The Irish lead the field at the NCAA championships after the first day. 
3 Penn State and fourth-ranked wins. Her only loss came at the Penn in all three weapons. hands of Penn State's Sophia 
"The harder part is over with Hiss. now," said saber Valerie Head coach Janusz Bednarski Providenza. was impressed. 
Level of difficulty proved not to "She was very good," he said. be an issue for Providenza. "She had some problems at the Participating in her first national beginning where she was very championships, she blazed her nervous. But bout by bout when way to a 13-1 record on the day. she gets the confidence she start­Her wins were by no means easy ed fencing extremely well." victories, as numerous times she The Irish needed Providenza to faced the deciding point with a have a big day because the other 
4-3 deficit. But she showed poise and persevered to three 5-4 
see CHAMPS/page 26 
WOMEN'S BBALL Irish in Sweet 16 
The team faces Penn State on Saturday in the Sweet 16. 
Insider 
• 
ROWING 

BASEBALL Notre Dame races 
Notre Dame at Saturday 
West Virginia 
The Irish travel to 

Saturday-Sunday 
Ann Arbor to face No. 2 

The Irish open Big Michigan and Clemson. 
East play against the · Mountaineers . 
page 26
~age 21 

HOCKEY 
NCAA Championships 
The Irish travel to the NCAA championships to face defending champion Minnesota. 
Insider 
-


Rob Globke and Aaron Gill lead the Irish in their first NC Tournatnent appearance 
Photo Illustration by SOFIA BALLON and MIKE HARKINS 
' 

' • I ' ... ' .. ' 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 26, 2004 
Irish prepare to face defending-champion Minnesota 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associ2.te Sports Editor 
Talk about your baptisms by fire. 
No. 4 seed Notre Dame (20­14-4) will face No. 1 seed Minnesota (26-13-3) in the first round of the NCAA Midwest Hegional Saturday at noon in Van Andel Arena in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
The Golden Gophers are two-time defending national champions and are making their NCAA-leading 28th appearance in the tourna­ment. 
This is Notre Dame's first appearance. 
"What better way to start," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "What better way to earn 

''What better way to
your first games. berth than by earn your first berth "It's pretty playing the neat for Lefty
than by playing the
two-time Smith to have
two-time defending 
defending two former national national champion?, players coach­champion? I ing against talked a lot to each other in
Dave Poulin
[Irish base_. the NCAA's,"
Irish coach 
ball] coach Poulin said. 
Boston College are No. 1 seeds in other regionals this year. Poulin sees nothing dif­ferent in his team's next opponent. 
"When we are conscious of it, and we play on the defen­sive side and play smart, we can really play with anybody in the country," he said. "I think we've definitely proven that this year." 
This weekend's matchup is a reunion for two former Notre Dame teammates. Poulin and Minnesota coach Don Lucia were teammates on the Irish from 1978-81, playing under head coach Lefty Smith. 
Poulin, a forward, scored 196 points in his 135-game career and Lucia, a defense­man, scored 30 points in 124 
[Paul] Manieri about the first time they went to the College World Series and how they had to go through Florida State, who was No. 1 at the time, to get to that point. 
"He talked a lot about the respect they earned doing [it] that way, so as I see it there's no better way to go right into this thing. We'd have to get through Minnesota at some point, so why not just do it here in the first game." 
Notre Dame earned its first NCAA tournament bid by virtue of a difficult non-con­ference schedule that includ­ed wins over then-No. 1 Boston College, then-No. 3 Maine and then-No. 4 Wisconsin -Maine and 

"Donny and I 
have kept in touch over the years and obviously he's done a won­derfuljob in Minnesota." 
Notre Dame's last game was a 6-5 loss in overtime to Ohio State March 18 in the first round of the CCHA's Super Six Championship. 
Senior forwards Aaron Gill and Rob Globke each had four-point nights in the loss, with Gill scoring three goals and one assist and Globke chipping in one goal and three assists. 
"I think they have been and will be the leaders of this tournament," Poulin said. "We need other people obvi­ously to help out, but those two wanted to be and have 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Neil Komadoski, right, and Mike Walsh celebrate Walsh's game-winning goal in Notre Dame's 1-0 win over Boston College Oct. 24. The Irish face Minnesota in the NCAA tournament Saturday. 
been the leaders for us all season. 
"Obviously we fell a little short, but now we have a new goal ahead of us." 
Minnesota is coming off the Western Collegiate Hockey Association championship, defeating Minnesota-Duluth 
7-4 in  the semifinals  and  
North  Dakota  5-4  in  the  
championship game.  

Lucia's roster is laden with talent. Minnesota boasts two of the best players in college hockey in forward Thomas Vanek and defenseman Keith Ballard, who are both nomi­nees for this year's Hobey Baker award. 
The Golden Gophers have five players with 30 or more points, with Vanek and for­ward Troy Riddle leading the team with 48 points each. Vanek also leads the team with 24 goals. 
Minnesota is led in net by freshman Kellen Briggs, who has a 2.63 goals-against average and a .895 save per­centage while compiling a 24­
10-3 record. Briggs has four shutouts this season. 
The winner of Saturday's game will go on to face the winner of the game between No. 2 seed Minnesota-Duluth and No. 3 seed Michigan State. 
That game will be played at 1 p.m. Sunday. The winner of that game then advances to the Frozen Four in Boston April 8-10. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

COACHING OFFENSE DEFENSE SPECIAL TEAMS GOALTENDING INTANGIBLES 
w 
~ 
ct 
Q 
w
a:: 
1­
0 
z 
i! 
0 
f/) 
w 
z 
z :E 
f/)-f/) 
~ 
ct 
z 
c( 

Dave Poulin has done a fantastic job of coaching the Irish to a competitive level in the CCI-lA. His teams have made it to the Super Six three of the past four years, and this is their first NCAA appearance.  Notre Dame's oil'ense this season has come primarily from senior forwards Rob Globke and Aaron Gill. Sophomore Mike Walsh and freshman Jason Paige have con­tributed as well, but the Irish are prone to dry spells.  The Irish are built on defense. They were the CCIIA's leader during the regular season in goals against average, and have shown an ability to shut down offensively-talented teams several times this season.  Notre Dame's penalty killing this year was some of the best in the nation. Despite a hiccup against Ohio State in the Super Six where the Irish allowed three power-play goals, the team still has the ability to stop their opponent's power play.  The Irish have two of the best goalies in the country in Morgan Cey and David Brown. They have already come up huge in earlier upsets of ranked teams this year, and they'll more than likely have to make some great saves against Minnesota.  This is the first time in the history of Notre Dame hockey that the Irish have advanced to the NCAA's. This year's seniors are hungry to show that the Irish belong in the same league as the Minnesotas of the world.  
Don Lucia has coached the Golden Gophers to two consec­utive national champi­onships. Before coming to Minnesota, he helped to rebuild the Colorado College pro­gram.  The Golden Gophers have 16 players with 10 points or more. Thomas Vanek is a Hobey Baker finalist, and there are very few teams in the country that boast the amount of depth that Minnesota has.  The Golden Gophers have a Hobey Baker candidate in Keith Ballard, but they're not quite as focused on defense as the IrL-,h are. They allowed 2.9 goals per game to their oppo­nents, compared to Notre Dame's 2.5 goals allowed per game.  Minnesota has one of the best power plays in the nation, connecting at a rate of 26.2 per­cent. Vanek and the rest of the Golden Gophers make a living scoring goals on the man­advantage. Their killing rate of 85.0 percent is average.  The Golden Gophers start freshman Kellen Briggs in net, and it is his job to allow fewer goals than the Golden Gophers score. Whether it's a 2-1 win or a 6-5 win, Briggs is able to just do enough to help Minnesota win.  Minnesota is the two­time defending national champion, and they're used to the different kind of hockey needed to win at this time of the year. Lucia will have the Golden Gophers focused, and they won't be looking past the Irish.  
Even though Poulin is a very good coach, it's hard to compete with Lucia and his multiple champi­onships. He's been down this road before, and Poulin has not.  This one isn't even close. Minnesota has four talented offensive lines that they can throw at the Irish. Vanek might just be the best player that Notre Dame has seen so far this season.  If the Irish are able to play their best defensive game, they can pull offthe upset. Notre Dame has three seniors on defense and experience is key come playoff time, when goals are hard to come by. Plus, the Irish give up fewer goals per game than Minn(~ta  This matchup might be the key to the game. Notre Dame will need to stay disciplined and take as few penalties as possible. Minnesota's power play i'i too good, if given the chance. It's Notre Dame's job not to give the Golden Gophers that chance.  Notre Dame wins this battle easily. Briggs is not a great goalie, but ~ith the offense he has helping him, he doesn't have to be. Either Cey or Brown has the abili­ty to steal a game, and goaltending is always key at this time ofyear.  The Irish have the "nothing to lose" mentali­ty on their side, while Minnesota has to deal with the pressure of try­ing to three-peat. When it's all said and done, though, the Golden Gophers' experience in the NCAA's gives them the edge here.  

r 
• 1 I · 
' 

' ' ' I ' ... 
Friday, March 26, 2004 page 3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Lords of the rink 
Irish senior forwards Rob Globke and Aaron Gill pace the Notre Dame offense and provide veteran leadership 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The date was Oct. 7, 2000. Notre Dame was playing its opening game against the University of Minnesota, in the Hall of Fame Classic at the brand-new Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul, Minn. 
Aaron Gill and Rob Globke were two young freshman for­wards on that team, whose first experience of Notre Dame hockey was to see their team fall to th'e Golden Gophers by a score of 7-3. 
Fast forward four years, where Gill and Globke are sen­ior leaders on this year's Irish and have a chance to do some­thing that no Notre Dame has ever done -win an NCAA tournament game. It just so happens that opponent is the very same Minnesota Golden Gophers. 
"I think it will be pretty neat to go up against Minnesota," Globke said. "It would be good to end their season after they gave us that loss the first time." 
The No. 4 seed Irish travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., Saturday to face the No. 1 seed Golden Gophers in the first round of the NCAA Midwest Regional. Minnesota is the two-time defending national champion and currently has a 15-game postseason winning streak. 
It's unlikely those numbers scare either Globke or Gill, who have no desire to end their Irish hockey careers in the same way they started. 
The captain 
The captain is supposed to be the team's leader, both on and off the ice. He's supposed to help the team through the hard times, and to be the guy everyone looks at to inspire the team when they're down. 

Nowhere was that more 
obvious for Gill than in the 
CCHA Super Six game against 
Ohio State March 18. Although 
Notre Dame lost that game, 6­
5 in overtime, it certainly was­
n't because of any lack of hus­
tle from Gill. 
Gill scored a hat trick, just the second of his career, and also notched an assist on a four-point night for the Irish. 
"You definitely have to be playing well at this time of the year," Gill said. "Going into the tournament, you're not going to see much scoring. This time of the year you go into every game thinking that it could be your last game and I think that's the approach we want to have. 
"You just want to go out there and give everything you have anytime you get that chance.'' 
It's not very often that the Rochester, Minn., native does­n't give everything he has on the ice. Irish coach Dave Poulin uses Gill in nearly all situations, even-strength, shorthanded and on the power play. 
Poulin doesn't worry about playing Gill too often, because the forward is ranked second on the team in plus-minus with a plus-14. 
"Our team's strength is defense, and that's including the forwards as well," Poulin said. "We need everyone on the ice to do their part if we're going to be successful." 
Gill has been doing his part on the ice for a long time. He began playing hockey with the Rochester Youth Hockey Program when he was just five years old, and went on to 


SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 

Rob Globke protects the puck from a Lake Superior State defenseman in Notre Dame's 5-3 win over the Lakers Nov. 21. Globke leads the team in goals this season. 
become a star with the United State Hockey League's Rochester Mustangs for three seasons before coming to Notre Dame. 
"Part of me wanting to come here was the school and the great traditions at Notre Dame," he said. "The other part was wanting to come to a younger hockey club and real­ly help to build a program. 
"One of my goals has always been to try and help the team achieve something that they hadn't done before and we finally did this year, which is great especially me and the other seniors." 
As a freshman, Gill stepped in and was able to contribute to the Irish offense instantly. He ended up tied for third on that team in scoring along with Globke and current sen­ior defenseman Brett Lebda. 
Both Gill and Globke earned 

honorable-mention CCHA hon-with his stick and whip it past ors as a result of their per-both Marvin and the Bronco formance in the 1999-2000 defender who was covering season. him. It was a simple move, yet Gill continued to be a model a remarkable offensive play. of consistency in his sopho-Globke has made a living of more through junior years, making the remarkable plays, providing a scoring punch and he has done so numerous while also being a responsible times this season as well, player both on and off the ice. leading the team in both scar­Those qualities impressed ing with 39 points and in goals Poulin, who named Gill the with 19. He has seemed to team's captain for this season. especially rise to the occasion 
"I just try to help the guys at clutch times this season, achieve what we want to scoring a team-high five achieve," Gill said of his eap-game-winning goals. tain 's duties. "Sometimes we Those skills allowed Globke get tired mentally and hope-to achieve a piece of Irish his­fully I can help push some of tory, becoming Notre Dame's those guys through those hard highest-ever draft pick when times. he was selected by the Florida 
"We've always said that Panthers in the second round whatever we have to give, it's of the 2002 NHL Entry League worth it in the end, and I think Draft. this is the proof here going to "It was awesome being able the NCAA's." to go up there and get that 
[Florida] jersey on the podi-The superstar urn," Globke said of his draft-
Whereas Gill is asked to help day experience. "Of all the the team in all aspects of the great players that have come game, Globke's role is less from here, to be the highest broad. That's not to say drafted player ever is really Globke is allowed to just shirk just a great honor." his defensive responsibilities. Globke's trip to Notre Dame but at the same time he's not followed a familiar course, as asked to be the team's best all-the West Bloomfield, Mich., around player. native made a name for him­
"I think pretty much offense, self on the U.S. Under-18 in any shape or form, is my National Team. The Irish have main role with the team," used the U.S. National Team Globke said matter-of-factly. as a pipeline in recent years, 
Every team needs a player and Globke is one of eight like Globke, especially a cham-players currently on the Notre pionship-caliber team. He is Dame roster who came the kind of offensive presence through the U.S. National that can take over a game and Team program. really provide a spark when "There's more to life than the team needs one. just hockey, and this place has 
Globke is the kind of player so much to offer besides ath­who can score goals like the letics, so that was one big one he scored against Western draw," said Globke of his deci­Michigan on March 14, to send sion to attend Notre Dame. "I the Irish to the CCHA's second also knew the coaches before I round against Ohio State. With actually came here so I felt thP score 4-3 in favor of Notre really comfortable around Dame, Globke picked up a free them and felt that it \'Vas a real puck and skated down the left good fit for me here." side toward Western Michigan goalie Eric Marvin. 
With one defender to beat, Globke made just a simple lit­tle hesitation move, that Contactjustin Schuver at allowed him to quickly slide jschuver@nd.edu the puck over to the right side 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 26, 2004 
Irish have proven naysayers wrong all season 
If you've ever seen the movie "Major League II," then you know about Randy Quaid's minor uncredited role as a heckler named Johnny in the 
stands. No matter what the Cleveland Indians do on the field, Johnny is convinced that they will eventu­

ally blow it Justin Schuver later in the 
season. 
"We just Associate won the Sports Editor pennant," an excited Indians fan screams. "Who cares," Johnny says, "They'll just blow it in the playoffs." 
No matter what the Indians do, it's never enough for Johnny, who seems to enjoy heckling his team more than cheering for them. So what if Johnny were a Notre Dame hockey fan this season? 
"So we beat Western Ontario in a meaningless exhibition game," Johnny says. "So what? Let's see this team beat No. 15 Ohio State on the road in front of a crowd of scream­ing Buckeye fans." 
The Irish did just that, upsetting Ohio State in its home opener on Oct. 10 by a score of 5-2, giving Rory Walsh his first win as a Notre Dame goalie. Unfortunately, the Irish then lost their next game to the Buckeyes by a 
score of 3-1. 

"Ha, I told you so," Johnny says. "This team does nothing but choke. Just watch when they play Boston College. Then you'11 see just how far these Irish have to go to play with the big boys." 
Notre Dame not only showed they can compete with the big boys,buttheyshowedthey can win against them as well, knocking off then-No. 1 Boston College 1-0 in the Golden Eagles' home opener. Goalie David Brown made 27 saves in the win. 
"So what," Johnny says after that game. "Boston College had a few key players injured, and the Irish aren't going to get that kind of goaltending in every big game. Wait until they play Maine over the Christmas break. Then you'll see. They've got the best goalies in the country in Jim Howard and Frank Doyle; there's no way the Irish can win that one." 
The Irish showed that they've got a pretty good pair of goalies themselves, using Morgan Cey in net as Notre Dame collected a 1-0 win over Maine on Dec. 28 at the Everblades College Hockey Classic in Estero, Fla. 
"Fine, I guess even a blind squirrel finds a couple of acorns," Johnny says. "But just wait until they go on the road to Wisconsin later this January. The Badgers have one of the toughest environ­ments in the whole country to play in at the Kohl Center in Madison. The Fighting Irish will be the Crying Irish when 
it's all over there." 
Against then-No. 4 Wisconsin, Notre Dame came away with a 2-2 tie and a 3-1 win. At this point, Johnny's getting a little frustrated. 
"Ha," he says. "It was a meaningless non-conference game for Wisconsin. They just didn't want to get any players hurt for the Western Collegiate Hockey Association season. Just wait until Notre Dame's last home series against Michigan. Those Wolverines will show the Irish how CCHA hockey is played!" 
After all, Michigan was ranked No. 4 in the nation at the time, and was fighting with Miami of Ohio for that coveted first-place position in the CCHA. It would make sense to believe that the Irish would be lucky to come away with a tie against the mighty Wolverines that weekend of Feb. 27 and 28. 
The result? -Friday, Notre Dame 4, Michigan 1; Saturday, Notre Dame 5, Michigan 2. 
"Yeah, well Michigan was just looking ahead to Michigan State, their big in-state rival," Johnny says. "And besides, Michigan beats Notre Dame at everything, so I guess they fig­ured they'd be nice and let the Irish have a few games on the ice. Just wait until the CCHA Super Six -they'll lose like they always do!" 
Unfortunately, Johnny was right for once, as Notre Dame lost 6-5 in overtime against 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer 

David Brown makes a kick save against then-No. 1 Boston College in Notre Dame's 1-0 victory Oct. 24. 
eventual CCHA champion Ohio State. The Irish controlled the flow of the game and had two separate two-goal leads, but simply were unable to hold off the charging Buckeyes. 
"Ha," Johnny says, in a rather good mood. "That over­time goal probably cost the Irish their chance at the NCAA's. Too bad, guess they'll just have to get their golfing equipment ready. And there's always next year." 
What Johnny didn't realize, though, is that all those times he was wrong earlier in the season allowed Notre Dame to just squeak into the NCAA tournament bracket, earning a chance to take on No. 1 seed and two-time defending national champion Minnesota 

this Saturday in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
"Ha, you see," Johnny says. "Minnesota's the class of col­lege hockey. Notre Dame's the little kid from whom bullies like Minnesota take lunch money. This one will be a blowout. I guarantee it. And believe me, even if they do get past the Golden Gophers, there's no way these Irish could ever win a national championship. No chance at all!" 
To be continued ... Saturday. 

The ideas and opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd. edu. 

----~---~­

.· THE

Friday, March 26, 2004 
OBSERVER 
. ; ~-. 

,,._: • '•. I.. -.,... .. ' ., ~ . 
.... 
. 


.... .. 
~· 
~ 
~UTBI 
·.~; 
~ 

131-< 
• f 

~
•' 
• 
' 

-.}:P_,;l 



.. 


...
I 
• I 
• ­


..'ri.· 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 26, 2004 
Penn State poses numerous challenges for Irish 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 

In Penn State's second-round game against No. 8 seed Virginia Tech, Nittany Lion All-American Kelly Mazzante strug­gled, going just 4-of-16 from the field for nine points. 
So All-American and two-time Big Ten Defensive Player of the Year Tanisha Wright and guard Jess Strom picked up the slack, combining for 45 points in the team's 61-48 victory. 
That game showed what kind of chal­lenges Notre Dame faces tomorrow when it faces No. 1 seed Penn State for a chance to advance to the Elite Eight. The Nittany Lions have a core of talented players, so stopping just one or two is not enough to beat them. 
"That's the thing, you can't just key on [Mazzante], even though she's averaging 20 points a game," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "All four of their starters are capable of having a big night, so you can't just concentrate on one player." 
Besides being an All-American, Mazzante is the back-to-hack Big Ten player of the year and is the conference's all-time leading scorer. She leads the team in scoring and is second in minutes played. · 
Wright and Strom both have more than 130 assists on the season and aver­age in double figures in scoring to com­plement Mazzante. Jess Brungo adds 9.9 points a game for the Nittany Lions. Penn State will play just six players throughout the game, not going deep into the bench. 
Notre Dame needs to continue playing aggressive on both ends of the floor to have any success Saturday. 
"You have to be aggressive, especially at this time of year because the referees are letting the plll;yers d~cide the gaf!le .... McGraw said. "So it's going to be a btt1e more physical, so I think the team that comes out with more aggressiveness is going to get the momentum quicker and things are going to go their way a little be easier. 
"Whatever our game plan is, we've really got to attack the basket." 
The Irish have been led all season and postseason by Associated Press All-

MICHELLE OTTOfThe Observer 

Jacqueline Batteast dribbles against Middle Tennessee State Tuesday night. Batteast and the Irish face a tough Penn State team tomorrow afternoon. 
PosT 

COACHING STYLE OF PLAY 
PLAYERS 

PERIMETER 
BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS 
McGraw has now taken six of her last eight teams to the Sweet 16 and has reached the Final Four twice, including in 2001 when the Irish won the title. She knows how to push her team to the next level.  Notre Dame relies on defense to stay in games and beat oppo­nents. The Irish used an effective 2-3 zone last game and totally shut down MTSU. Batteast continues to be the main source of offense.  The Irish feed the ball to Batteast and LaVere for much of their low­post scoring. Erwin and her ability to log solid minutes and produce could be the key here. The interior defense continues to improve each game.  DuflY and Severe have run the offense well in the tourney, while Joyce found her stroke last game. DufiY may need to give the Irish more offense. Severe should continue to drive to the hoop and look for the open teammates in the paint.  Erwin played 25 minutes last game and Flecky got into the mix as well. McGraw knows beating Penn State will take a team effort and she needs all eight of her regu­lars ready.  Notre Dame has stunk all year away from the Joyce Center. They play entirely worse on the road and if that doesn't change Saturday, it could be a long day for the Irish.  
Portland is in her 24th season as Penn State coach and is one ofjust seven coaches to win over 600 games in her career. She has led her team to six confer­ence championships and 20 tournament appearances.  The Nittany Lions score a lot and don't allow a lot of points. They have one of the best defenders in the country in Wright and one of the best offensive threats in Mazzante. They play well on both ends of the court and will pose problems for the Irish.  Penn State doesn't use its post as much as its perimeter, but the Nittany Lions are still strong inside. Brungo is the leader inside, and even though she's tech­nically a guard, Wright will make her presence felt.  Mazzante is ridicu­lously good and she can take over any game at any time. Add Wright and Strom and it's easy to see why Penn State has been so good this year. All three average in double figures for their team.  Penn State only plays six girls consistently. Those six just happen to be really, really good. The Nittany Lions have still suc­ceeded using that limit­ed rotation all season.  Penn State blew out Virginia Tech on the road last game and are eager to be in a more neutral environment. They are confident and playing very good bas­ketball right now.  
McGraw has the championship ring and Portland ba$the ·~wins. :These are two of ~.the top to~bes in the ' na'tion' and'they' will have their teams pre­pared for Saturday.  Penn State has too man and they· ugh dete ish  The Irish need LaVere to not only score but continue her impressive .d.e.t:e~e. 'Yhile Ba~ea.st {must score and rebOund ·!'like s~ ba$, a.tfse-.&.<;Oa;l: ;:~ Sfttte WDt tottntef with Wright and Brungo -both of whom could make Notre Dame's night long.  Notre Dame needs big game ll its ne Hern great and !P.".~11~~...~. ~.~.=::·w~h'"tie etfel3':1:r to sfrugg1e. It's ~likely Mazzante will have two bad games in a row.  The Irish must uti­lize its depth· to win. They will need big contributions: froin Erwin and Joyce to stay in the game. If Notre Dame can hang around. they might be to weaf down' Penn State.  The Irish may be play­ing the eir  

LLI 
:E 
Cl: 
Q 
LLI 
0: 
.... 
0 
z 
LLI 
~ 
.... 
en 
z 
z 
LLI 
c. 


American honorable mention Jacqueline Batteast. Batteast scorched Notre Dame's second-round opponent Middle Tennessee State for a career-high 27 points in the Irish 59-46 win. She will be· looked upon to be a huge contributor against Penn State, but McGraw knows Batteast will need help from others. 
"I was really happy with the overtime against [first-round opponent] Southwest [Missouri State] because everybody con­tributed, and that's what we want," McGraw said. "We can't rely on Jackie to do it all, we don't need her to do it all. We need everyone to contribute." 
Besides Batteast, one of Notre Dame's biggest contributors has been forward Courtney LaVere. LaVere scored 11 points, including four in overtime, in the Irish win against Southwest Missouri State. She has also become an increas­ingly impressive defender, blocking three shots and swiping two steals against Middle Tennessee State. 
"She's really, really developed into a great defender and she is now an intimi­dating presence in the lane," McGraw said, "and that is so important for our defense, especially when we're in the zone. People don't feel like they can come in there and get ofT an easy shot. 
"She's really had a marked improve­ment in her defense." 
Notre Dame also got solid bench con­tributions from Jeneka Joyce and Crystal Erwin against the Blue Raiders. Joyce knocked down 3-of-4 3-pointers, while Erwin scored six points in 25 minutes. 
Even though her team will be under­dogs for the first time this tournament, McGraw said the Irish are excited and ready for the challenges that await them in Hartford. 
"We kind of feel like this is where we expected to be. We're getting down to business and ready to go," McGraw said. "I don't think you saw a lot of celebrat­ing after the [Middle Tennessee State] game: tast year after· l<ansas State we were so excited. We felt like we over­achieved to get there as an 11 seed. As the five seed, we figure this is where we expected to be. Now let's see if we can get one step further." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Friday, March 26, 2004 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page J 
Stepping up ­
Jacqueline Batteast and Megan Duffy have lead the way for Notre Dame en route to its second straight Sweet 16. 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN  wouldn't play very much, espe­cially after she scored just two points in her debut.  
Sports Editor  "It was shocking. I didn't  
expect to have as big of role as I  
The dynamic duo, the tag  did," Batteast said. "I was a  
team, the 1-2 punch, call them  freshman, they had just won the  
Thelma and Louise; it doesn't  National Championship. I  
matter what you call Jacqueline  thought I'd come in, play a cou­ 
Batteast and Megan Duffy, when  ple minutes, get a couple points."  
they're playing well, the Irish are  But Batteast quickly turned  
tough to beat. Batteast is a domi­ into Notre Dame's newfound  
nating force on the offensive end,  star. She averaged 27 minutes a  
and Duffy runs the show.  game, and scored 13.8 points  
The two have led the Irish to  and grabbed 7.8 rebounds per  
the Sweet 16 for the second  game. Batteast was named sec­ 
straight season, and have  ond team All-Big East and she  
emerged as leaders on a team  was named honorable mention  
that returned all its starters from  All American by WBCNKodak.  
last year.  By the end of the season, she  
"Jackie and I work well togeth­ was touted as the best freshman  
er," Duffy said. "She leads so  in the country.  
much by example, and it's my  This led to high expectations  
job to be loud. We have become  sophomore year, and Batteast  
leaders, even though we're not.  struggled.  
seniors, but  "Sophomore year there was so  
we do it by our play."  much pressure," she said. "I was  
Batteast and Duffy have lead  on everybody's scouting reports.  
loudly through their play this  Everyone knew about me so  
year. When Batteast gets the  there were so many defenses."  
ball, she has the confidence to do  This led to Batteast taking  
whatever she wants with it, and  what could be considered a step  
when Duffy handles the ball,  back. Though still a great player,  
there are very few that can take  she struggled to continue to  
it away. With the dominating  become the player everyone  
off-ensive presence of Batteast  knew she could be. Batteast was  
and the savvy court presence of  named second team All-Big East,  
Duffy, the Irish have found them- but her scoring average was  
selves two unique players.  steady at 13.9 points per game,  
Handling the pressure IBatteast wanted to get out of  and she was frustrated with her season.  
South Bend. When the  "The pressures of trying to win  
Washington High School product  were overwhelming at times,"  
was being recruited, the one  Batteast said. "I think I hit the  
thing that she wanted was to go  wall last year."  
away from home. But when her  Batteast struggled the most in  
parents thought otherwise,  the NCAA Tournament, when  
Batteast reconsidered and chose  she went 6-for-43 from the field  
the Irish.  in three games, good for just 13  
"They were really pushing me  points. But the Irish still went to  
to go to Notre Dame during the  the Sweet 16 as a No. 11 seed,  
recruiting process," Batteast  upsetting Arizona and Kansas  
said. "I was really adamant  State before losing to Purdue.  
about going away, but I decided  This was a turning point for  
that I really liked having my  Batteast, who realized that she  
family around, so I decided to  didn't have to do it all for her  
stay here."  team to win.  
For the Irish and Batteast, the  "Last year we got to the Sweet  
decision, made without an offi­ 16 without me being a big offen­ 
cial visit to campus, seems to be  sive power," Batteast said. "I saw  
the right one so far.  that my teammates were able to  
When she came in as a fresh- help and I didn't have to do  
man, Batteast was named the  everything and that took a lot of  
U.S. Basketball Writers'  pressure off me."  
Association National Freshman  So the season ended as some­ 
ofthe Year. She was immediately  what of a disappointment for  
deemed Notre Dame's go-to  Batteast, and she had to focus on  
player, and she was counted on  her junior season.  
to score. Quite a surprise for  And what a different season it  
someone who thought they  has been.  

illlii!iiiiiiiiil 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Megan Duffy looks to drive against Boston College Jan. 31. Duffy has stepped up this season to lead the Irish. 
Batteast has been unstoppable 

in games this season, something 
that she has always been capa­
ble of. But this year, she has 
been consistently outstanding. 
For Batteast, it is simply her 
mindset that has helped improve 
her averages to 15.4 points per 
game and 8.8 rebounds per 
game. 
"I came in with confidence this 

year and I knew that was one of 
the things I was lacking last 
year," Batteast said. 
With her confidence, Batteast has led the Irish over then-No. 4 Connecticut posting 23 points while missing just three shots. This week, she scored 27 points against Middle Tennessee State, taking the game over when the Irish were struggling. 
"I can just let the game come to me," Batteast said." 
Batteast was named Associated Press honorable men­tion All-American, and while she didn't let the pressure get to her in this year's tournament, she didn't forget last year either "Last year was in the back of my head," Batteast said. "I was a lit­tle nervous. I didn't want to do like I did last year. I Just came in and I was relaxed, and it speaks for itself." 
Making a point 
Unlike Batteast, when Duffy arrived at Notre Dame, there was no other place she wanted to be. 
"Notre Dame has always been my dream school," Duffy said. "It was always in the back of my mind that I wanted to go to school here -really before bas­ketball came in.'' 
So when Irish coach Muffet McGraw called Duffy at the beginning of her junior year, she didn't hesitate in accepting the offer. 
"I figured it would be my best offer close to home," the Dayton, Ohio native said. 
After accepting, Duffy had a stellar junior season, being named honorable mention All­American by Street & Smith and USA Today at Chaminade­Julienne High School. When sen­ior year came around, her team was ranked No. 1 in the country, and expectations were high for Duffy and her teammates. 
Then it happened. Thirteen games into her senior year, Duffy tore her ACL and was forced to have reconstructive surgery, effectively ending her season and her high school career. 
"The first few days, I thought my whole world had crashed in," Duffy said. 
But a prompt call from McGraw and the realization that she would be okay motivated Duffy to work hard to come back strong. 
After she was finally cleared by her doctors at home, Duffy came to Notre Dame only to find out that their doctors said she needed more rehabilitation. Finally, after six months, she was ready to play again. 
"It took a lot longer than I thought to heal," Duffy said. 
But Duffy was ready to go for her freshman season, and the highly-touted newcomer seemed poised to make an impact. 
As a true freshman, Duffy saw significant playing time, averag­ing 23 minutes per contest. However, she only managed three points and 2.2 assists per 

tiftI& a 
MICHELLE OTTO/The Observer 

-
.Jacqueline Batteast drives against Middle Tennessee State in the second round of the NCAA Tournament Tuesday night. 
game, numbers that didn't 
reflect her true talent. Sparks of 
potential were seen throughout 
the season, but consistent play 
was lacking from the freshman 
who seemed to still be recover­
ing from her knee injury. 
"It was almost like freshman 

year was a nightmare," Duffy ·said. "I wasn't playing like myself. I just didn't have the freshman year that I was sup­posed to have and that I expect­
ed myself to have." 
But the Irish were still able to 

manage a Sweet 16 appearance, 
behind the play of Duffy, who 
stepped up come tournament 
time. When they lost to Purdue, 
DuffY decided it was time for her 
to start over for sophomore year. 
"I went back to square one and 

worked hard to get back [to 
where I was in high school)," 
Duffy said. 
She spent last summer in the 

Joyce Center, taking shot after 
shot. Duffy said she took at least 
1,000 shots every day. She 
played pickup at Rolfs 
Recreation Center to supplement 
team workout~ and conditioning. 
This led McGraw to give Duffy 
the arduous task of running the 
point for the Irish last summer. 
"She gave me the green light to 

run this team, and to lead this 
team," Duffy said. "It's always 
been my role in every team I 
played on. It was pretty much 
my team [this summer)." 
Now Duffy is reaping rewards 

for her hard work. In her sopho­
more season, she was named the 
Big East's Most Improved Player. 
She is averaging 9.2 points and 
3. 9 assists per game, and is shooting 40.7 percent from beyond the arc in 33.5 minutes per contest. 
But Duffy's play goes beyond 

the stats sheet. She is one of the 
toughest players on the Irish 
squad. 
"That's always how I have 
been able to survive [by hus­
tling)," Duffy said. "I'm not the 
most athletic kid you've ever 
seen, so I have to be able to get 
on the floor, get loose balls." 
But for Duffy, this season was­n't about improving; it was about 
finding her game after she tore 
her ACL. 
"Everything happens for a rea­son," Duffy said. "I knew that· something good was going to ­come out of it, and obviously I didn't expect that kind of award. It's a nice award to get." 
And now Duffy can play in the Sweet 16 without celebrating every single win in the Tournament. 
"It's funny, because all last year when we won those two games, all it was was celebrating," Duffy said. "This year, it's more like we're expect­ed to be here." 
Teaming up 
Batteast and Duffy have become the 1-2 punch that Notre Dame has been looking for all year. They credit it to their friendship. 
"She's probably my best friend on the team, which makes it eas­ier when we're on the court too, just knowing where we are," Duffy said. "It's fun to play with her." 
But sometimes even Duffy is awed by her buddy. 
"She's unbelievable," Duffy said. ''I catch myself sometimes just watching her. It just seems so easy for her out there." And for Batteast, she is just glad that she has someone else on the court to count on. 
"It makes it a lot easier for me to have somebody else to go to to score," Batteast said. "It has .-· really helped with taking the pressure ofT." 
But if you watch this tandem on the court together, it's hard to guess that they are good friends. 
"You wouldn't tell just from looking us at practice that we're friends," Batteast said. "But ofT the court, it's different." 
But no matter what, this pair had something to prove, and they've done that so far this sea­son. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at bvanboeg@nd.edu 
'I
' page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 26, 2004 
Irish hit the road again for one last chance 
Notre Dame enters entirely new territory this weekend. 
Gone are the friendly confines of the Joyce Ce_~ter and a bois­terous home crowd. Say good­bye to playing smaller con­ference foes 
.
like 
.
Q
Southwest Missouri 
:~~. 
State and 
1'·tii~
Middle Tennessee State. Adios 
Joe Hettler
to being the favorite in any game. 
A funny Sports Writer thing happens when you advance in the NCAA Tournament -the competition gets tougher. 
A lot tougher. 
Notre Dame will experience this transition first hand. when they battle No. 1 seed Penn State at noon Saturday in Hartford. If the Irish win, they'll likely face No. 2 seed Connecticut in the Huskies' backyard on Monday. 
Just how good is Notre Dame? The nation will see this week­end. 
This is a team that went 7-3 against top-25 opponents in the regular season, including beat­ing five straight at one point. A team that knocked off then-No. 4 Connecticut by 15 points in January. And a team that is 14­4 in its last 18 games. 
But it's also a team that lost to lowly Georgetown, went 5-9 on the road and lost its first game in the Big East tournament. 

You don't have to be clever to 
know that Notre Dame must 
play its best basketball of the 
season this weekend to advancg 
to the Final Four in New 
Orleans. They have to figure out 
how to beat teams a'.vay from 
the Joyce Center. They need 
more people than 
All-American honorable men­
tion Jacqueline Batteast to con­
tribute on the offensive end. 
And they must continue to play 
suffocating defense. 
The Irish have been impres­
sive in the tournament so far. 
They defeated a pesky and 
determined Southwest Missouri 
State team in overtime, before 
handling defeating Middle 
Tennessee State in the second 
round. 

But those teams aren't even 
close to the same caliber as the 
Nittany Lions or Huskies. 
Penn State is 27-5 this season 
and has a veteran group of tal­
ented players that won 20 of 
their last 22 games. The Nittany 
Lions are the Big Ten champs and have all-time conference ·scoring leader Kelly Mazzante. 
And all five of Penn State's loss­
es were against stiff competi­
tion. 

It's safe to .say Penn State will 
give Notre Dame many more 
problems than Sun Belt confer­
ence champion Middle 
Tennessee State did in the sec­
ond round. 

Perhaps the greatest advan­
tage Notre Dame has heading 
into its next game is the tough 
schedule it played this year. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw has said all season that facing diffi­cult competition in the non-con­ference and conference sched­ule was meant to prepare the team for March. So playing an outstanding team like Penn State shouldn't put the Irish into shock because they've faced teams with this much tal­ent before. 
Confidence is the other advantage the Irish have. After losing to Rutgers in the Big East tourney, Notre Dame has picked up its intensity in the last two games and is playing its best basketball of the season. The team is as confident as ever, and is getting contributions from just about everyone. 
They'll need to keep that con­fidence level high for Penn State, who will present as many, if not more, challenges than any game thus far this season. 
A year ago, Notre Dame sur­prised the country by knocking off No. 6 seed Arizona and No. 3 Kansas State en route to a Sweet 16 berth. They faced No. 2 seed Purdue in that game and were outmatched, losing by double digits. 
But this season has been dif­ferent. After a slow 7-6 start, the Irish turned the season around by finishing the regular season 19-10 and earning a No. 5 seed in the tournament. The team isn't content just reaching the Sweet 16-they want to advance. 
Notre Dame gets that chance tomorrow. A very dangerous Penn State team waits, with an array of ability and experience. 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Teresa Borton goes up for a shot against Middle Tennessee State Tuesday night In the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
But Notre Dame has shown The opinions expressed in this all season it can beat teams column are those ofthe author with Penn State's talent level. and not necessarily those of 
Now it's the time the Irish The Observer. Contact Joe prove it again. Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu. 







