
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 43 FRIDAY, OCTOBER29, 2004 
Students' Opus Dei experiences vary 
Editor's Note: This is the sec­ond article in a two-part series exploring South Bend's Opus Dei community. 
By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 

Students have taken an array of paths through Opus Dei. Some have deepened their spiritual lives. Others have had emotionally distressing expe­riences. 
All have been profoundly affected by the influence of Opus Dei while at Notre Dame. "An awesome experience" 
Brothers Hich and Phil Moss, a sen­ior and a sophomore, were raised by Opus Dei parents in a Wa'ihington D.C. suburb, and attended one of the coun­
. try's five Opus Dei-sponsored high schools. Their family life, they said, was like that of a normal, devout Catholic family: Sunday Mass, saying the Rosary, grace before meals. As adolescents, their parents never forced them to pay vL'iits to the local center -· they went because they enjoyed it. 
"It was just one of the things I looked forward to every week, the nights I went down to the center and got to hang out with the priests and the guys there," Phil Moss said. 
Senior Cara Farr converted from Methodism to Catholicism with her family. Although familiar with Opus Dei in high school, she did not attend a center until she was a freshman at Notre Dame. 
"I knew that Opus Dei was very seri­ous about Catholicism, and coming into college I knew that I really wanted to develop my faith;" Farr said. "It really emphasizes personal holiness, and that was something that I was also interested in." 
Classmate Dave Cook heard about the men's Opus Dei center soon after he began dating Farr. He was struck by the genuine hospitality of director Jeffrey Iangan and the other students at a Friday meditation. He continued going for spiritual direction with the Opus Dei priest once a week. 
"[We would] just talk about small things, like what time do I get up in the 
see OPUS DEl/page 8 

Ticket shortage leaves many empty-handed 
By ANNA GELHAUS News Writer 
In what should have been a familiar seene for many fans of Notre Dame men's basketball, the approximately 3,000 tickets allot­ted for student" sold out by 10 a.m. Thursday -panning out to equal one sale every four seconds. 
Incidents of student camp-outs aside, director of ticketing Josh Berlo said this year's sale wa'i simi­lar to la'it, as the same number of tickets was sold out in approxi­mately the same time. 
Berlo aL'io said this is the second year in a row that tickel'i have sold out in less than a day, when just a few years ago it took a week. 
Though Berlo admitted to sever­al "early arrivals"-students camping out well before the sale's 7 a.m. start-he said that most students arrived about an hour befilre start time. 
"There is a strong demand," Berlo said. "I think the sale went efficiently for processing 3,000 booklets in three hours." 
Senior Aaron Wagner agreed. 
"I thought it wa'i fine," he said. "It showed people were excited about the program and actually wanted to wait in line." 
Wegner got in line at 6:30 a.m. and had his ticket" by 9:30. 
Fellow senior Maria Welch dis­agreed, deseribing the ticket distri­bution as "extremely inefficient," she said, "There ha'i to be a better way." 
But this was not the biggest problem in Welch's eyes. Though able to get tickets herself, ·she was disappointed that many students 
see TICKETS/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Bar closes early due to fight 
Football player named as suspect 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Ediror 
A Notre Dame football player 
is a suspect in an a'isault that 
took place inside The Library 
Irish Pub early SWlday morn­
ing, police said. The altercation 
led to the early closing of the 
bar. 
An off-duty South Bend Police officer saw James Ryan, 20, a junior offensive lineman, punch the alleged victim, 23­ye~r old South Bend resident Kevin Marriott, in an alterca­tion inside the bar, South Bend Police Capt. John Williams said. 
Marriott, who could not be reached for comment, had cuts on his forehead, blood on his face and possibly a broken nose, but neither he nor Ryan required medical attention, Williams said. 

Due to time constraints, the Sports Information Office did not permit The Observer to contact Ryan Thursday. 
The alleged victim did not ini­tially ask for an assault report to be completed, but changed his mind after learning the sus­pcet wa'i a football player at the University, Williams said. 
Library owner Chuck Hammons said Ryan and Marriott were asked to leave the bar at approximately 1 :45 a.m., at which point he and police decided to dose the bar early. 
"Things got a litUe rowdy and the decision was made ... to shut down and avoid further problems," Hammons said. "That time in the morning, tempers start to flare." 
see FIGHT/page 6 



Vaccination effort suffers low attendance 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Despite concern over whether the University would be able to adequately supply flu vaccines to the specified population of high­risk individuals at Notre Dame, only half the number of individu­als anticipated by Health Services showed up for the Thursday vac­cination clinic. 
Approximately 1,000 doses of the vaccine were administered, out of a total supply of nearly twice that amount. High-risk fac­ulty and staff members received roughly two-thirds of this total, while students of this same iden­tification comprised the remain­der. 
"The University spent addition­al funds to ensure the entire high­risk population could be provided with vaccination," Health Services director Ann Kleva said. 
The abundance of vaccinations remaining has prompted Health Services to hold more clinics in the coming weeks. According to Kleva, there is still a large num­ber of high-risk individuals on campus who have not received 
see FLU SHOTS/page 8 

Youths trick-or-treat on campus • 
By JEN ROWLING News Writer 
Young trick-or-treaters from the South Bend area ran fi·om dorm to dorm collecting sweets a'i part of Keenan's annual "Great l>umpkin" event Thursday. 
'lbe event originated in 1997 and now r,atcrs to over 100 elementary student., from local !,1foups, including the Boys and GirL" Oub, Teamwork for Tomorrow and Slice for llie. 
Keenan residents constructed an eerie haunted house in the dorm's basement, complete with exorcist music and ghosts, clowns, butchers and wolverines. They also helped the children carve pumpkllL'i. · 
After the carvings were perfected, Notre Dame ~iudent'i esc.orted the children a'i they hunted for 
see PUMPKIN/page 6 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, October 29, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



For love of the game 
October is coming to an end and I am stoked. Not because ofthe crazy cos­tume parties and scary movie marathons happening this weekend, but because in three days November begin'i. November is the month of the · biggest binge day, Maggie Oldham but more impor­tantly, the begin­Sports Wlre ning of the finest 
Editor 
sports sea'ion ­
college basketball. . 
College and ba<>ketball. Two words already great by themselves, but put them together and you get hysteria com­bined with incredible athletic talent to create the greatest sportc; spectacle in the country. 
I am blessed to have lived in Indiana my entire life. Call it Hoosier hysteria; in this state, basketball is sacred. And with Notre Dame's men's basketball team pre­dieted to place high in the Big East, it's likely to bring life back to Indiana ba'iket­ball. Last year, the only Indiana team to make it to the NCAA tournament was Valparaiso. March was a sad month indeed. 
My love for college basketball started when I was too young to remember. My Dad, an avid IU ba.;;ketball fan his entire life, introduced me to college hoops. When I was in elementary school, my Dad took me to nearly every IU home basketball game. The drive through southern Indiana was great, but Assembly llall wa'i even better. 
For four years, I fell in love with high school basketball as well. The movie "Hoosiers" chronicles a small-to\\'n Indiana high school basketball team's journey to the state tourney. This true story inspired many Indiana boys to prac­tice their free-throws in the backyard in hopes ofone day leading their team to victory. Although my basketball career never left the driveway, I loved being a cheerleader and traveling with my high school's basketball team across the state to face the best athletes in the nation. 
My junior year of high school, Indiana ba<>ketball was at its finest. Notre Dame entered the NCAA Tournament in March 2002 seeded eighth in the South Region. And, as my friends and I, on a big screen on the beach in Ft. Myers Fla., watched IU beat Oklahoma to make it to the final game, I thought that Indiana basketball had finally redeemed itself. Last year's tournament proved otherwise. 
Thi'i year, Notre Dame has a chance to bring Indiana basketball back up to its prestigious level. With senior captains Jordan Cornette and Orris Thomas, and junior captains Torin Francis and Chris Quinn leading the Irish, the Leprechaun Legion can expect a strong performance and a tournament bid this year. 
Nothing beats the adrenaline in a field­bouse packed wall-to-wall with people screaming and hammering the bleachers during the final seconds ofa close game. The smell ofpopcorn, the sound of the pep band and the beat of bac;ketballs dribbled up and down the floor-I can't 
. think of a better college sports atmos­phere. I was lucky to get tickets this year, and I will definitely be at every home game. And thus my love ofthe game continues ... bring it on, November. 
P.S. Good luck to all the guys that attended Notre Dame men's basketball walk-on tryouts Thursday (especially if you are an Indiana boy living out a hoosier dream!) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Maggie Oldham at moldhaOl @saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mist<tkes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR HALLOWEEN? 





Alec White Doug Schlaman Emily Burgardt Paul Wallenberg Peter Seipel Tyng Gulick 
sophomore freshman freshman freshman freshman sophomore Sorin Carroll Cavanaugh Knott Knott McGlinn 
"My rector told "No clue. " "Putting a sheet "/ am dressing "/ am dressing "/ am going as me never to be over my head up as a up as O-ren Ishii from quoted in this.·· and pretending leprechaun. ·· Spiderman. •· Kill Bill. " 
to be a ghost. " 

the candidates. 
The restaurant in the city of Foshan in Guangdong province has put up a ban­ner urging customers to "come in, participate and select the candidate of your choice." 
On the menu is a spicy concoction to match Bush's "war-mongering personali­ty," and a bonier version with sauce with hints of Kerry's "keen-witted and capable nature." 
So far, Kerry duck is ahead with 53 percent, while Bush duck trails with 47 percent. 
• Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Baby Is worth his weight in public relations 
ESSEXVILLE -Oh, thank heaven: 7-Eleven employee Erin Kappen got a bonus for having a baby that weighed 7 pounds, 11 ounces. 
Kappen cashed in on her son, Parker John Van Wormer, who was born Oct. 4. She got a check for $711 from Garb-Ko Inc., which operates the 7­Eleven store where she has worked part time for 18 months. 
Saginaw-based Garb-Ko pays the $711 bonus to any employee giving birth to a 7-pound, 11-ounce baby. It operates 90 stores in Michigan, nine in Indiana. 
and eight in Ohio. 

"It's not something that happens every day, but through the 26 years that I have been with this compa­ny, it has happened several times," said Larry Hauck, the company's marketing director. 
Patrons share their taste in politicians 
BEIJING -Looking to please your political palate? How about Bony Kerry? Or Spicy Bush? 
Customers at a restaurant in southern China are expressing their opinions about the coming U.S. presi­dential elections by choos­ing duck dishes named after 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY a: 
1.1.1 
~ 
~ 
1.1.1 

3: 
...I 
ct 
(.) 



_,0 HIGH 70 HIGH 62 HIGH 61 LOW 50 LOW 45 ·LOW 48 

60 50 
IN BRIEF 

The Student Union Board will screen "Spiderman 2" at 8 and 10:30 p.m. tonight and Saturday in 101 DeBartolo. Tickets cost $3. 
Rajmohan Gandhi, profes­sor/activist and grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, is featured speaker today at 11 a.m. at the annual John Howard Yoder Dialogues on Nonviolence, Religion and Peace. The lec­ture will be followed by a buf­fet lunch and discussion. 
Gerhard Bowering will lee-· turc today from 4 to 6 p.m. on Islam and Christianity: The Inner Dynamics of Two Cultures of Belief. This lecture is the third of an eight lecture series. 
"Before Sunset'' will be shown in the Browning Cinema at 7 and 10 p.m. tonight. 
The All the President's Films festival will go on all day Saturday in the Browning Cinema. "Primary" will be shown at 11 a.m., "The Best Man .. at 12:30 p.m., "The War Room" at 3 p.m., "Journeys With George" at 5 p.m., "Primary Colors" at 7 
p.m. and "Wag the Dog" at 10 p.m. 

Flipside sponsors the Cedar Point Halloweekend. Tickets are $30 and may be purchased at the Info Desk in LaFortune. The bus picks up 7:15 a.m. at LeMans Circle and 7:30a.m. at Library Circle. The bus will arrive at the park around 11 
a.m. and depart at 11 p.m.. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

60 
43 

HIGH 55 LOW 39 

.........
~----------------------------------~---­
Friday, October 29, 2004 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Campus rests without football 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 

With the majority of weekends in the semester thus far filled with the hustle and hassle that charac­terize Notre Dame home football games, students and campus employees are relishing the break from the action. 
"When I'm wearing the 'Cappy the Fan' hat. I'm disappointed. When I'm wearing the 'Cappy the Usher' hat, it's a relief," Cappy Gagnon, manager of stadium per­sonnel, said of his feelings about the break. 
Gagnon said that preparing for home games, which have sold every seat for 178 consecutive games, is a major process that requires plenty of planning. This includes sign-in sheets for the workers, payroll each week and his own special procedures con­tingent on the game. 
Training the world's largest usher program, with 857 mem­bers -the. majority of whom are volunteers -from 15 different states presents a unique chal­lenge for Gagnon and the stadium crew each week. Gagnon said the relief from games this weekend will aid in that process. 
"These are people you see only six days a year. You have to put together training programs each week that go very quickly and very effectively in a short amount oftime," he said. 
Hammes Bookstore General Book Manager Kathy McGowan also emphasized the short length of time available to prepare for back-to-hack games. 
"Our fans start coming on Wednesdays, so you've got to be up and ready to perform." McGowan said. "We have six-day work weeks, Monday through Saturday. When you have three weeks consecutive like we just did and you have six-day work weeks, you're mostly just getting things reorganized, but you've already got to be settled in [for the next weeki." 
The influx of fans on fall foot­ball days seems to overwhelm all campu·s businesses, said South Dining Hall employee Carrie Miller. Miller said that game weekends are highly stressful to workers. 
"Last weekend, we had 27,000 people that went through those doors," she said. "The other day, they were lined up out to the side­walk. I hate working football weekends." 
Miller said that South Dining Hall averages about 2,000 people a night. She also said that while the game weekends are hard on employees, she truly appreciates being able to meet students' fami­lies as they come in to eat after the game. 
Students themselves seem to have mixed reactions about the frrst break from football thus far this season. 
"I don't know what I'm going do on Saturday," freshman Vince Cano said. "Anything from home­work to being lazy to doing noth­ing." 
\Vhile Cano may joke about the lack of activity on campus on non­game weekends, he says he is serious about Notre Dame football and wants to see the team 
redeem itself from last Saturday's 
Boston College game. 

"I've been going to the games for years and years, since before I came here [as a student!," he said. "Everyone felt bad about this last weekend. It wasn't that we lost, it was how it ended." 
Saint Mary's freshman Allie Greene attends the games as well, but she said was relieved that the schedule is taking a break. 
''I'm going to Chicago this weekend because there's no game," she said. 

She added that she especially appreciated the weekend off from attempting to balance studies and sports after the hectic schedule of three home games Washington. Purdue and Stanford -in a row. 
"I can't believe it, there are five home games in a row next year," she said. "So much for that home­work." 
Senior Mark Ellestad, who will not have to deal with that prob­lem next year, does not find bal­ancing work and play difficult. 
"Game weekends aren't stress­ful. they're, like, so fetch," he said. "They keep me so young." 
Gagnon, who spends his football weekends surrounded by stu­denlc;;, has taken a clue from them and will be participating in a beloved student activity in the absence of a game. 
"Normally I'm up at four o' clock to be at the stadium by five," he said. "This week I'm going to try to sleep in until noon." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Rabbi lectures on 
religion and politics 
By TRICIA deGROCT News Writer 
With the election less than a week away, the Rock the Vote series wrapped up Thursday with a lecture by Rabbi David Saperstein on "Religion and Polities in Election 2004." Saperstein began his lecture with references to past exam­ples of reli­gion in polit­ical, includ-Saperstein 

i n g 
Kennedy's presidential cam­paign and the Republican's belief that Democrats would ban the Bible. 
He then touched on several hot religious controversies and concluded this part of his pres­entation by saying that "what is good for religion is good for Ameriean democracy, and what is bad for religion is bad for American democracy." 
Saperstein talked about the shift in voting patterns in America over the years, going from votes determined by eth­nicity and race to today's voting, which is influenced primarily ~by religion. According to Saperstein, one of the reasons why faith is playing a large role in election is because of this recent breakdown of voting pat­terns. 

The focus of the lecture then 
shifted to an illustration of 
Judaism. 
Saperstein described Judaism "not re~lly as an evangelizing faith" and as a people not man­dated to Judaize America. At the same time. however, the Jewish faith is one that believes in "the perfectibility of human beings and human society," and while thev don't believe that they can make the world per­fect, "we could constantly be perfecting the world." 
The Jewish people were described as being believers in "what we own we own a trust relationship with God," and are thus required to share God's wealth with those less fortunate. 
"[Therefore]. one political sin was sitting on the sidelines and doing nothing," Saperstein said. 
The final issue that Saperstein addressed was that of Church and State. Saperstein first point­ed out that America is unique in that it says citizens' rights are not something given by the gov­ernment but rather something entrusted to the government to protect, and this has given Jews more rights than they have known anywhere else. 
"America is the greatest nation in the world for us because of religious identity in connection with the state," Saperstein said. 
Contact Tricia deGroot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
IJi\(~Ji l~ltfttl Iltl\(1, 1\Nit Ill~ltl~ 'r(t 'rlli~Ii 

'l'f)NJt;JJ'I' 7:!JO t•:tt, Sil'l' Oil)J, )Jf)lli~AIJ SI~)IINilllY 
Friday, October 29, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Friday, October 29, 2004 CotvtriLED rRotvt THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arafat heads to Paris for treabnent 
RAMALLAH, West Bank -An ailing Yasser Arafat -too weak to stand, unable to hold down food and spending most of Thursday sleeping -agreed to leave his battered West Bank compound for the first time in more than two years and fly to Paris for urgent medical treatment. 
The 75-year-old Palestinian leader's planned departure Friday, a decade after he arrived in the West Bank with the promise of statehood, could mark the end of an era. Arafat, who hoarded power and declined to groom a succes­sor, leaves behind a people in disarray. 
Blood tests revealed he had a low platelet count, though it was unclear what caused the ailment, his doctors said, ruling out leukemia. In deference to his deteriorating condition, Israel lifted its travel ban on Arafat, allowing him to leave his battered headquarters com­pound in Hamallah for the first time since 2002 and to return ifhe recovers. 
Violence erupts during mass burial 
PATTANI, Thailand -Fresh violence erupted Thursday with the bombing of a bar in Thailand's mostly Muslim south, while villagers held a mass burial for some of the 78 protest­ers who suflocated while in army custody this week. 
The bomb exploded Thursday evening at a bar in the town of Sungai Kolok in Narathiwat province, on the border with Malaysia, killing at least two people and wounding 21 others, police said. No one claimed responsibility for the bombing and police named no suspect-,. 
Also, officials in Narathiwat's provincial capi­tal defused a 22-pound time bomb minutes before it was set to explode at a food stall where residents gather to give offerings to Buddhist monks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Town settles with abuse victims 
DAVENPOHT. Iowa -The Roman Catholic Diocese of Davenport agreed to pay $9 mil­lion Thursday to settle 37 claims of sexual abuse by priests -a deal that could lift any immediate threat of bankruptcy. 
The settlement averts a potentially embar­rassing series of trials over the church's han­dling of abuse claims dating back 50 years or so. 
"This has been a tragic time for our church," Bishop William Franklin said. "It is my prayer that true healing may now begin in the Diocese of Davenport." 
The settlement, reached after weeks of negotiations, will be covered by insurance and diocesan funds, Franklin said. 
Before the settlement, the diocese had warned that it might file for bankruptcy -a step already taken by dioceses in Tucson, Ariz., and Portland, Ore. 
Judge orders release of documents 
DENVEH -Dozens of previously sealed court filings and transcripts of closPd-door hearings in the Kobe Bryant rape will soon be released to the public after certain information is edited out. 
District Judge Terry Huckriegle said Thursday he agreed with media attorneys that there was no reason to keep the material sealed after prosecutors dropped the charges in September because the 20-year-old woman was no longer willing to participate in a trial. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Meth's toll on Indiana mounting 
The number of methamphetamine cases in Indiana has risen nearly 200 percent since 1999. and the state is paying the price -at least $100 million a year, according to report released Thursday. 
But reversing the trend will require a com­bination of education, treatment, new proce­dures and new restrictions on the sale of key · ingredients, the Methamphetamine Abuse Task Force contended. 
The task force was created by the General Assembly earlier this year to develop ways to combat the drug's spread. 



Threat intelligence has quieted 
U.S. officials declare ebb in information picked up about potential election threat 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -U.S. 
government officials say the 
level of information picked 
up about an· election terror 
threat has ebbed somewhat 
recently, but they still 
believe the danger posed by 
al-Qaida has not waned. 
Law enforcement authori­
ties are making arrests and 
increasing surveillance, 
tracking several hundred 
people nationwide in a final 
push to break up any poten­
tial plots before Tuesday's 
elections or beyond. 
Officials have been on 
alert for a possible ai-Qaida 
strike since intelligence 
sources this spring and 
summer indicated the 
group's interest in such an 
attack. The sources were 
never specified publicly. 
In the past four or more weeks, however, the various sources of intelligence infor­mation have quieted down. That includes a decrease in "chatter" -or the contacts and c6mmunications among terror suspects and sympa­thizers that governments can monitor. This often­ambiguous dialogue can include messages as easy to track as postings to Internet chat rooms. 

U.S. authorities are pick­ing up less of that kind of traffic, according to oflicials who spoke on the condition pie are under tighter sur­States; FBI interviews with those fears. of anonymity. veillance ahead of Tuesday's an estimated 10,000 "Members of our commu­
Within the past week, l).S. election. They declined to Muslims, Arabs and others nity have been targeted for onicials also have said that give a precise number. based on investigative leads; reasons that are often unex­some of the information Since Oct. 1, agents have and immigration database plained or untold," Ahmed from one intelligence source arrested 1:37 people on alerts triggered when some­said. who led to the heightened immigration violations in a one violates the terms of a Democrats have suggested election concerns now has stepped-up enforcement visa, such as failing to that the timing of some been deemed not credible. action aimed· at finding attend college as promised. highly publicized terror They say other sources do those who may pose a "We now have systems in warnings this year was remain credible. threat to national security, place to address this vulner­desif:,TJlCd to improve support 
As counterterrorism ofli­ICE offieials said. The ability, and we are doing so for President Bush. cials try to assess the intelli­names of some of those aggressively," ICE chief That includes a summer gence, the FBI and arrested appear on govern­Michael Garcia said. warning from Homeland Immigration and Customs ment lists of those with pos­Some Muslims worry the Security· Secretary Tom Enforcement agents are sible connections to terror­arrests and interviews could Ridge that terrorists might arresting people who are ism. intimidate Muslims from try to disrupt the political considered a possible threat; Those people under voting. said Council on process. The announcement they are usually being taken heightened government American-Islamic Helations came shortly after in on charges unrelated to a scrutiny were identified spokeswoman Habiah Democratic presidential potential terror threat. through methods such as Ahmed. The FBI has had candidate John Kerry 
Law enforcement oflicials intelligence gathered inside town-hall meetings and named Sen. John Edwards said "several hundred" peo-and outside the United other forums hoping to ease as his running mate. 

AFGHANISTAN 

Foreign election workers kidnapped 
Kosovo. The third was a male diplo­before pulling out. Heporters also 
Associated Press 

mat from the Philippines. All work saw U.S. troops checking vehicles 
KABUL -Armed men in military for Afghanistan's U .N .-sponsored leaving the city on the main road to uniforms stopped a U.N. vehicle in election body. the west. Kabul on Thursday, bt~ating the driv­A man claiming to speak for a The American military was ready 
er and abducting three foreigners in Taliban splinter group, Jamiat Jaish­to help "lqcate and if need be to res­Afghanistan to help oversee land­al Muslimeen, said it was responsi­cue these individuals when they are mark presidential elections. ble. The veracity of the claim could found," spokesman Maj. Mark 
The daylight kidnapping followed not be verified. McCann said. warnings that Taliban militants could After the kidnapping, Afghan forces Afghan and U.N. ofTicials said the target foreigners in an echo of the mounted roadblocks inside and out­three were stopped and abducted by 
brutal insurgency roiling Iraq. It side of Kabul, as NATO helicopters about five gunmen. came less than a week after a suicide searched for clues from the sky. An Interior Ministry official said attack killed an American translator Norwegian armored vehicles the Afghan driver, who was beaten in Kabul. briefly sealed off a street in the and left behind, told investigators a Two of the kidnap victims were upscale Wazir Akbar Khan neighbor­black four~wheel-drive vehicle with hood. Police said NATO troops tinted windows pulled in sharply in
women: on<~ with joint British-Irish nationality. and ·another from searched about a dozen houses front of the U.N. car. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 29, 2004 
Fight 
continued from page 1 
An on-duty South Bend officer 
was sent to the bar to make an 
assault report, but by the time of 
dispatch, 2:20 a.m., Ryan was no 
longer on the premises, Williams 
said. 
According to the police report, Marriott claimed an individual struck him as he walked through the crowded bar, Williams said. After Marriott said "excuse me" with "an attitude," Ryan struck him directly, and the two exchanged blows until the officer intervened, Williams said, adding that Ryan· later claimed Marriott spilled beer on him. 
Williams said no witnesses were formally listed on the police report. 
South Bend police have assigned the case to a detective for investi­gation, Williams said, but he was unable to comment on any progress made. 
Assault reports that are not assigned to a detective are sent directly to the St. Joseph County prosecutor's office, Williams said. 
Chief deputy prosecutor Ken Cotter confirmed the office had not yet received a police report and did not have Ryan's name on file. 
Ryan was not custodially arrest­ed or issued a citation for being an . underage patron in. the bar. Williams said he was unaware of the circumstances as to why the player was not issued a citation. 
"Ifhe was in that bar at 20 years old, he should've been arrested," Williams said. 
Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin said there are University­wide policies in place that apply to any student who breaks Indiana law. 
Normal channels would include questioning the student about proper behavior and potential vio­lations of state law, Storin said. 
Irish football coach Tyrone Willingham said team policy is con­sic;tent with University regulations. 
"We go strictly by everything the University adheres to. We should treat our guys just like they're a regular student," he said. "Now that does not mean that if some­thing happens there can't be an additional penalty, but the University guides the conduct of our students." 
Any additional penalties·are determined on a case-by-case basis, Willingham said. 
The Library regularly employs off-duty South Bend and Mishawaka police officers to check patrons' identification and provide security, Hammons said. 
Whether in or out of uniform, off­duty officers retain their power to make arrests, both South Bend and Mishawaka police said. 
"If you're in the state of Indiana, a South Bend police officer has police powers 24/7," South Bend Police Capt. Phil Trent said. Mishawaka patrolman Tyler, who would not reveal his first name, said the same applies to Mishawaka police, including when officers are in South Bend jurisdic­tion. The library is located at 113 
E. Wayne Street in downtown South Bend. 
Security officers have made arrests in The Library before, I Iammons said. 
He said police have not contacted him since the incident, and added that although he had seen Ryan in the bar before, he would not call the player a regular patron. He said he was unaware that Ryan played football. 
Megharme Downes, Joe 1/ettler. /leather Van 1/oegarden and Amanda A'ficha.els contributed to this report. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Tickets 
continued from page 1 
were left without. 
"It's unfortunate that they don't offer more [student tickets)," Welch said. 
Even students that arrived before the 7 a.m. start time were left with­out tickets. Sophomore Jonathan Kiechle was among the first to be turned away. 
"Around 9 . . . the ushers started coming around and said the person in front of us was 'on the bubble,"' Kiechle said. "The only way we would not get them they said was if every person in front of us was pur­chasing six tickets. That obviously was not true." ' 
A policy change was implemented after the ticket shortage problems last year, and is aimed at allowing more students to see the team play. For the first time, students are encouraged to share ticket booklets. 
To gain admission to the game, a student "'ill only need that game's ticket and their student I.D. The entire booklet, as in years past, will not be needed. 
"Any student can use any other student's ticket," Berlo said. "We are trying to satisfy demand ... We want as many students as possible to be able to come to the games." 
Also changed was the distribution venue, as the desire for quick and organized sales prompted the use of the stadium box offices this year, which have more windows. 
Concern over ticket shortages extended beyond the student body. Message boards on NDNation.com contained postings from season ticket holders who heard about the quick sell-out. Some responded by offering to sell their unused tickets to students for the student price. 
Berlo said the now consolidated student section makes for a better atmosphere in the JACC. He explained that in years past the stu­dent section divided in half. 
Students who purchased tickets also received Leprechaun Legion T­shirts emblazoned with "No Shirt. No Shoes. No Tie. No Problem," in honor of head coach Mike Brey's tradition ofwearing turtlenecks, not ties during games. 
Brian Tracy, president of the Leprechaun Legion, agreed the tick­et and shirt distribution went well. 
"Our main purpose is to unite the student body and create a good atmosphere," Tracy said. "Thank you to everyone for making that happen." 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 

Pumpkin 
continued from page 1 
treatc; across campus. 

"We are giving an opportunity for underprivileged kids to trick or treat around the 1\il) eampus,'' Keenan Intra-Hall Commi'iSioner Nathan Catanese said. "This event also provides all the dorms a chance to give service." 
For the first time in "Great Pumpkin" history, every dorm sent volunteers to assist in activi­ties or passing out candy to the children. 
"It's one of the greatest service project<> on campus and one of the only service events to ever have every dorm participate,'' Keenan co-president Dan Zenker said. 
Co-president Ben Kaplan agreed, lauding the opportunities it provides for both children and college student<>. 
"It is not only an opportunity for all the kids that come but also for the students to engage in vol­unteer and social events," he said. 
Individual dorms attempted to make their dorm an exciting place to visit. Elizabeth Cuda said that Farley passed out medical 
gloves filled with popcorn and candy com for finger nails. "Something more crafty and fun then candy," Cuda said. 
Walsh president Mary Ellen Botta said they had a party in the basement of the dorm for the young visitors. The kids played 'Stick an Eyeball on Frankenstein,' decorated cook­ies, bobbed for apples and smacked the pifi.ata. 
"We tried to make it more exciting for them by dimming the lights and putting up strobe lights and cob webs," Craig Brede, Alumni Hall president, said. "We wanted to have a Halloween night feeling for them." 
"I was really happy with how the 'Great Pumpkin' went. The kids seemed to enjoy all the activities from bringing in load<> of candy to being enthusiastic with the pumpkin carving and haunted house," Ed Lerum, Keenan co-president, said. 
Shaquille Melchor, a trick -or­treater, was extremely excited to be on campus. 
"I am excited to eat candy and to go to Notre Dame someday," Melchor said. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
Super-Sweet Events +.Free Stuff+ A Whole Lot o' Knowledge = 



Alcohol Awaranass Waak 
Sunday, October 31: Kick-Off Bash on North Quad, 11 am-3 pm Bungee Run, Moonwalk, Free Information and BAC cards 
Tuesday, November 2: Catch 'em With Their BAC Card. Have your BAC card on you and you might win free stuff!!!! 
Wednesday, November 3: Goody Bags at LaFortune, 11am-2pm Come pick up a bag chock-full of free stuff during your lunch break 
Thursday, November 4: Movie Night in Keenan, 8pm-12am When a Man Loves a Woman and 28 Days, featuring Meg Ryan and Sandra Bullock both struggling with alcoholism 
Friday, Novembers: Rock Idols Josam Scott @ Reekers, spm-8-pm Check out a great campus band, get coupons for CHEAP Reekers Food, and sample MARVELOUS MOCKTAILS!!! 

tl1 


,rollS .~-s 
pi~~' 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 311 LaFortune 631-7970 



Friday, October 29, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 004.54 +2.51
jones ' 
,·~ Same: Q9wla: Composite Volume: 1,713 164 • 1,628,610,048 
AMEX 1,307.60 -7.24 NASDAQ 1,975.74 +5.75 NYSE 6,670.50 +4.63 S&PSOO 1,127.44 +2.04 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 10,766.88 -86.24 
fTSE IOO(lDndon) 4,642.80 +12.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE OSDU)  -I 0.54  -0.37  3.14  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  + 1.23  +0.27  22.27  
1'11CROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.50  -0.14  28.0 I  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +2.16  +0.40  ·18.95  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.90  +0.04  4.47  
.  Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.10  -0.05  48.39  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.17  -0.07  40.80  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.63  -0.21  33.33  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.53  -0.10  18.67  
·  Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.54  50.92  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  +0.50  426.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.60  94.75  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 06.3100  
EURO  0.7849  
POUND  0.5464  
CANADIAN$  1.2230  

IN BRIEF 
Company posts bigger loss 
NEW YORK -Martha Stewart's multimedia company, reeling from the jailed domestic diva's legal woes and declining ad revenue, posted a bigger third-quarter loss than a year ago, and predicted a larger-than-expected drop in the fourth quarter. 
Still, Thursday's results beat Wall Street expectations, and Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. said it is "increasingly opti­mistic" about prospects for an advertising recovery in 2005, when Stewart is expected to return to her company. 
Stewart, founding editorial director and for­mer chairwoman and CEO, was convicted in March of lying to investigators about her sale of ImClone Systems Inc. shares, and began serving a five-month prison term Oct. 8. After her release, Stewart, who owns about 60 percent of the company's shares, will be serving another five months of house arrest. She's appealing her case. 
Martha Stewart Living posted a loss of $14.97 million, or 30 cents per share, during the three­month period ended Sept. 30. That compared with a loss of $3.94 million, or 8 cents per share, in the year-ago period. 
Analysts expected a loss of 4 7 cents per share. 
Preparations begin for conversions 
HAVANA-Cuba's banks and exchange hous­es began large-scale conversions of U.S. money into a local currency on Thursday as Fidel Castro's communist nation moved to dump the dollar from general circulation. 
Cubans lined up several hours before exchange houses opened to convert the American dollars widely used here for 11 years for the local Cuban convertible pesos that will now be the main currency accepted for con­sumer goods. 
''I'm not going anywhere, I don't need dol­lars," said 68-year-old port worker Ramon Gonzalez, among about 80 people lined up out­side the main exchange house in Old Havana. 
"For me, it's just the same," Gonzalez said of the convertible pesos, tied at one-to-one to the 
U.S. dollar. "Jtjust has a different face." 
"As long as it keeps the same value, there is no problem," added 57-year-old custodian Alberto Serra. 





Fuel prices negate cost-cutting 
Soaring expenses undermine airline industry's attempts to rein in labor costs 
Associated Press 

Ewm as big airlines are 
beginning to successfully 
rein in labor costs-$1 bil­
lion in annual concessions 
from Delta's pilots being the 
latest example -soaring 
fuel expenses are essential­
ly negating their effects, 
leaving many of the carri­
ers in perilous financial 
shape. 
"It's like they're all tread­
ing water, but they've got 
1 00 pound weights around 
their necks," said airline 
consultant Robert W. Mann 
of Port Washington, N.Y. 
"You can only do it for so 
long." 
As a result of cutbacks in 
recent years, labor expens­
es for the airline industry 
as a whole are about the· 
same today as they were a 
decade ago at about 34 per­
cent of total costs, accord­
ing to the Air Transport 
Association. But that masks 
the differences between 
high -cost carriers such as 
Delta Air Lines Inc. and 
UAL Corp.'s United Airlines 
and competitors. such as 
Southwest Airlines Co. and 
JetBlue Airways Corp. that 
pay workers lower wages. 
And while all carriers 
have been hit by higher fuel 
costs that Mann says will 
account for about 17 per­
cent of industry-wide oper­
ating costs in 2004 -up increases the pressure on service employees. This is months of 2004. 
from 12 percent in 2002 -Continental Airlines Inc. in addition to the $300 mil­And with oil prices trad­
executives of high-cost air­and Northwest Airlines lion in annual savings ing above $50 a barrel, 
lines face the most pressure Corp. to squeeze conces­already achieved through even the plucky budget car­
to find other ways to cut sions out of their workers. negotiations with pilots and riers are beginning to show 
costs. After slashing its annual other workers. signs of strain. 
For Delta, that meant costs by $5 billion -more "It's not clear any of these ATA Holdings Corp.'s ATA winning an agreement latP. than half of which came business models works well Airlines, the nation's 1Oth­Tuesday from negotiators from labor -UAL is now with these energy costs," largest carrier, filed for for its pilot union for a new seeking an additional $1 said Mann. Indeed, prof­bankruptcy protection on contract that calls for a billion in savings, a signifi­itability is as elusive today Tuesday. And on Thursday 
32.5 percent wage cut cant portion of which is for large carriers as it was JetBlue said third-quarter effective Dec. 1 and no rais­likely to come through lay­shortly after the Sept. 2001 profits fell to $8.4 million, a es for the rest of the five­offs at its United Airlines terrorist attacks. decline of more than 70 year pact. The airline's unit. On Thursday, US Airways percent from a year ago. roughly 7,000 pilots, some Similarly, US Airways, and UAL reported third The carrier's chief execu­of whom earn as much as which was thrust into bank­quarter losses of $232 mil­tive, David Neeleman, $300,000 per year, must ruptcy court for a second lion and $274 million, blamed the company's dis­still vote on the contract. time as higher fuel costs respectively. The seven appointing performance on 
Analysts said the Delta drained its cash, says it largest U.S. carriers report­record high fuel prices and pact, following earlier labor needs $650 million in give­ed more than $1.3 billion in a "weak 'pricing environ­cost reductions at bankrupt backs from unions repre­combined net losses for the ment" -a revealing, if dis­carriers UAL and US senting machinists, flight third quarter and lost $5.1 heartening, assessment Airways Group Inc., attendants and passenger billion for the first nine from a low-fare airline. 
. 


FBI starts Halliburton investigation 
sion to interview Bunnatine Greenhouse was for stepping for­
Associated Press 
Greenhouse, the Army Corps of ward," said Stephen Kohn, one of her 
WASHINGTON -The FBI has Engineers' chief contracting officer attorneys. begun investigating whether the who went public last weekend with "The initiation of an FBI investiga­Pentagon improperly awarded no-bid allegations that her ag~ncy unfairly tion into criminal misconduct will help contracts to Halliburton Co., seeking awarded KBR, a Halliburton sub­restore public confidence," Kohn said. an interview with a top Army con­sidiary, no-bid contracts worth billions "The Army must aggressively protect tracting officer and collecting docu­of dollars for work in Iraq, according Ms. Greenhouse from the retaliation ments from several government to documents obtained by The she will encounter as a result of blow­offices. Associated Press. ing the whistle on this misconduct." 
The line of inquiry expands an earli­Asked about the documents, FBI agents also recently began col­er FBI investigation into whether Greenhouse's lawyers said Thursday lecting documents from Army offices Halliburton overcharged taxpayers for their client will cooperate but that she in Texas and elsewhere to examine fuel in Iraq, and it elevates to a crimi­wants whistleblower protection from how and why I lalliburton got the no­nal matter the election;-year question Pentagon retaliation. bid work. of whether the Bush administration "I think it [the FBI interview "The Corps is absolutely cooperat­showed favoritism to Vice President request) underscores the seriousness ing with the FBI, and it has been an Dick Cheney's former company. of the misconduct, and it also demon­ongoing effort," said Army Corps 
FBI agents this week sought permis-strates how courageous Ms. spokeswoman Carol Sanders. 

An American Airlinesjet is refueled at the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Grapevine, Texas. Fuel costs are leaving many carriers in poor financial shape. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 29, 2004 
Opus Dei 
continued from page 1 
morning, how much do I pray each day, how are my relation­ships, stuff like that. Just half an hour a week, but so much good came out of that." Cook said. "Just to grow in virtue and to learn the Catholic faith more, it's just been an awesome experience." 
Cook, Farrand Phil Moss attend the South Bend centers regularly, but they arc not members of Opus Dei. According to Langan, in the 1 0 years he has been Windmoor director fewer than 1 0 students have formally joined Opus Dei; many more have simply lived devout Catholic lives apart from Opus Dei or have joined the priest­hood of c:mothnr religious order. 
I lowever, many more students become involved in Opus Dei while at Notre Dame. Like these three, students attend activities and receive formation offered at the center. Meditations at Windmoor bring about 30 men each Friday night. 
The students say the amount of participation at the center is up to each individual, and the range of the centers' activities varies. 
"At any given moment, [some­body would] be in the study room, there'd probably be a talk going on upstairs and there's probably be a whole bunch of guys watching TY," Bich Moss said. "So all three things go on at the same time really. And a lot of the guys participate in all three -the spiritual, the study and the fun." 
Hich Moss lives at Windmoor, and has taken the first of several promises to become a supernu­merary, an Opus Dei member who lives the spirit of Opus Dei through dedication to family. 
"I've made a commitment." Moss said. "Joining Opus Dei, it's not a dub -there is a vocation to Opus Dei, and I believe that. It's like a calling." 
While the parents of Farr and the Moss brothers were familiar with Opus Dei, Cook said at first his father was not receptive to his par­ticipation. 
"I think [my dad's negative reac­tion] was based on what most peo­ple say about Opus Dei," Cook said. "I think now he's seeing that what he thought about Opus Dei at first is kind of unfounded, and he's see­ing me grow and mature. I think he thinks now 'How can it not be good?"' 
The students take the call to apostolate seriously. All say they occasionally invite fiiends to come to the center, mostly because they enjoy going themselves. 
But they fall short of calling Opus Dei a recruitment effort. "The goal of Opus Dei i'in't to be a presence on campus as Opus Dei, 
--------------------------,
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 

we don't go around vocalizing the fact that we are Opus Dei," Cook said. "I think the point is ... to spread living a Chrio;tian life, being a good example and really develop­ing strong relationship with your dorm, with your teachers, with whomever." 
"Opus Dei is a means of forma­tion basically," added H.ich Moss. "It's a way of getting people to be closer to God, and anyone in Opus Dei will tell you that it is not the only way." "A crisis of faith" 
Junior John Schneider began attending Friday night meditations at Windmoor in late October of his freshman year. 
Schneider had interest in a voca­tion to the priesthood since he was a sophomore in high school. He wa<; attracted by the disciplined life Opus Dei offered, the regular access to a priest and strict adher­ence to Omrch doctrine. 
Over the next several months, at the encouragement of a numerary undergraduate, he steadily increased his involvement at Windmoor: he started receiving spiritual direction, he took a small theology course called a "circle" and he went on a center-sponsored retreat. 
At the retreat, Schneider said he wanted to talk about his possible vocation to the priesthood. It was suggested to him that he also might want to consider a vocation to be a numerary. 
Schneider wa<; not familiar with this term. Nearly 30 percent of Opus Dei members are numer­aries, laymen and laywomen who live celibate lives, direct centers and give spiritual direction. That he was unaware of this prompted him to say in retrospect, he "didn't know which way was up" with the structure of Opus Dei, even after months of going to the center. 
This pattern would repeat itself over the course of his second semester of freshman year ­Schneider increased his involve­ment, and was then given· more information about Opus Dei. 
Though Windmoor director Jeffrey Langan declined to com­ment on Schneider's specific expe­rience with Opus Dei, he said Schneider's experience was not an exception to his general statement<; about the organization. 
Langan said that the unfolding process Schneider felt fits the struc­ture of any relationship, including one with Opus Dei: the two parties embark on a process of better get­ting to know each other and more information is disseminated through talks. 
"The Church requests the talks 
we give people [after joining]," 
Langan said. "That way they have 
enough information to make a 
good choice." 
Schneider was also invited to 
read certain books kept under lock 
and key -writings by Opu<; Dei for 
Opu'i Dei that were not to leave the 
center. 
Langan confirmed the presence 
of such books, saying that most 
contain the rules of Opus Dei, and 
that anyone can learn the spirit of 
Opus Dei through reading the 
founder's published writings. 
"It i'i enough in the beginning to 
know the spirit," Langan said. "If 
you go right away to all the rules, a 
person may get caught up in all the 
rules; then they don't understand 
the spirit or the rules." 
Schneider said the combination 
of his inherent trust for Church 
authority, and the gradual unravel­
ing of the numerary life made it dif­
ficult for him to critically reflect on 
what he was being asked to accept. 
It wasn't until the summer after 
his freshman year that he began to 
have serious doubts about Opus 
Dei. 
On a three-week long retreat for 
new numeraries in Boston, 
Schneider said he began to reex­
amine the organization "from top 
to bottom," and have misgivings 
with aspects of Opus Dei philoso­
phy, which he declined to comment 
on. He felt uncomfortable not being 
allowed to talk to the women who 
served him meals, even to say 
thank you, and with his perception 
that he might not be able to uphold 
his duties· as the eldest son in a 
family of six children. His under­
standing was that a numerary 
turns over his paycheck to Opus 
Dei and that Opus Dei did not guar­
antee (as he felt a religious order 
did) that they would unconditional­
ly provide should his family need 
financial support. 
Langan said that a numerary 
only turns over the excess of his 
paycheck to Opus Dei, and that 
every effort to provide for family 
members is made. 
The intensity of the previous 
months culminated during this 
retreat. Schneider became severely 
depressed. He had a momentary 
crisis of faith when he doubted the 
existence of Jesus Christ in the 
Eucharist. This only lasted for 15 
minutes, but it was terrifying, he 
said. 
"Things just weren't making sense anymore," he said. "I was ·emotionally di'itressed." 
Upon returning to school the next 
fall, Schneider began to consider 
leaving the organization, and con-

suited local priests during his delib­eration. 
During this time, Schneider said he was very worried about the con­sequences of leaving Opus Dei. 
In retrospect, Schneider said he was overly concerned, and that his departure went smoothly. But because he had continually di'icov­ered new facet<; of Opus Dei during his entrance, he said he was not sure how easy it would be to leave. 
Schneider is still considering becoming a priest, and says many things about Opus Dei remain appealing, but "it was not worth the trouble." 
I le said he believes that better disdosun~ could have prevented his di<;tress. 
"ff they had told me in the bf~gin­ning what would be required of me, and laid out the evenl<; which would have followed, I would have said, 'Thanks, but no thanks,"' Schneider said. "Instead, over the course of months, they told me bit by bit by bit. 
"Personally, I'm okay if you were to allow someone to direct your life in that way. I have no problem with that. 
"My problem is that it i'i my fear that they do not properly draw peo­ple's consent as they draw them into the organization." 
The big picture 
Not all who leave Opus Dei organization have the same experi­ence as Schneider. Opus Dei boa'its an estimated international network of 700,000 supporters, called coop­erators, who support the Opus Dei mission through work, money and prayer. Many cooperators were once part of the organization. 
Furthermore, the intensity of training and commitment of a numerary is yastly different from that of a supernumerary, by virtue of a supernumerary's main devo­tion to family, while a numerary more fully dedicates his life to Opus Dei. 
But Schneider's experience is also not unique. Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry, acknowledges that other Notre Dame student'i have sought the counsel ofCampus Mini<;try, but could not provide names, and because there have been no recent situations comparable to Schneider's. 
The continuous growth of Opus Dei in membership and influence will undoubtedly affect the lives and faith of young men and women, as it has with those at Notre Dame. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnl@nd.edu 
Flu shots 
continued from page 1 
the vaccine. 
The University plans to keep the supply on campus until it has been exhausted by the pop­ulation of students, faculty and staff who have a heightened risk of contracting the virus. 
"We are strongly encourag­ing the remaining high-risk individuals to come in," Kleva said. "It's extremely important 
. d"
they are vaecmatc . 
Dates, times and locations for these extended clinics will be announced in the form of a pending campus-wide email. 
For the future clinics, llealth Services will expand its defmi­tion of high-risk to include thosf~ individuals living on cam­pus who have an infant and University priest<; over the age of 65. If a surplus still remains after these offerings, the University plans to donate the remainder of its supply to vari­ous other agencies and venues in the community -including Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 

In response to the suspension of a crucial manufacturing license .at the Chiron Corporation -Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sole provider of the vaccine -the University was forced to seek out alterna­tive supplies for its high-risk population. The supply used for the recent vaccinations was obtained from an Ohio-based company run by a graduate of Saint Mary's College. Kleva was unable to disclose the name of this company. 
In November, Health Services will offer the intranasal influen­za vaccine FluMist to all mem­bers of the community who are younger than 50 and demon­strate good health. The University has acquired rough­ly 700 doses and will offer the vaccine for a fee of $20. 
In contrast with the chaos looming across the country regarding the shortage, Kleva described Thursday's clinic as "efficient and enjoyable." The recent media hype caused some individuals to bring chairs in anticipation for a six to seven hour wait, but Kleva said that 350 shots were administered in the first 75 minutes alone. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 


'rhc Center for Asian Sntdics prcscnt"i 
Professor Stanley Sue l )istinguishcd Professor University ofCalifornia, l)a\·is 
:\londay, 1\'ovcmber 1 fi·om .f:3o-6:oo 126 DeBartolo 
Asian American Studies: 
Pa."it, Present, and Fun1rc 
This presentation discus.."iCs the nx>ts ofAsian American Studies programs a."i a means ofunderstanding the fumrc trends. From the begin­nings ofAsian American Studies in the 1960s and the student movement<; that help the programs to becom~ established, we now witness a tremendous national growth in the number ofprograms (and department<;) and increasing student enrollments. Factors that account fclr growth arc examined such a.-, continuing student actiYism, academic legitimacy, interdisciplinary/multi-disciplinary orientation, awakening student inter­est, and political influcm ..'C. Also discus.."iCd arc different mcxicl ofAsian American Sn1dies. 
Traditionally. Asian American Studies has been taught fi·om historical, literary, political, critical theory, and dcmo~'Taphic orientations. One rclati\'cly new direction in Asian American Studk.>s !s the imulvcmcnt ofpsychology and mental health pcrspccti\·c. This pcrspccti\·c is presented a."i a means ofaddrc.•·;sing the is..-,uc ofwho Asian Americans arc. The cftcct"i oft:ulnJrc/a."isimilation, family. sex roles, and racism on adjusm1cnt and mental health arc covered. Questions arc raised such a."i: Is acculturation a.'isociatcd with personal and psychological health? Arc traditional Asian Yalut.>s sexist? How do Asian American family and child rearing practices enhance resilicnt.'C or risk for mental health problems? Audience participation in the presentation is encouraged. 
Dr. Sue is a clinical psychologist whose research interests include ethnic and cros..-,-cultural influences on behaYior. Specifically. his focus is on mental health and personality issut.>s a."i they pertain to ethnic communities. especially Asian Americans. Dr. Sue ha.'i swdicd the cftcct'i ofethnic match between therapists and clients, prc\·alcnt.-c ofpsychopathology among ethnic populations. and cros..-,-culwral Yalidity oft.l")."iCS..'imcnt instru­ments. 
Questions about this talk? 631-HH;3 

Friday, October 29, 2004 Cotv\PILED FROfv\ THE OBSERVER's w1 RE SERVICEs page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Republicans and Democrats trade 
pre-election accusations in Florida 
MIAMI -Pre-election tensions mounted 
Thursday in Florida amid claims of voter 
intimidation, promises that absentee ballots 
will reach the Broward County citizens who 
are missing them, and concerns that 
Republicans will question the authenticity of 
thousands of votes on Election Day. 
Workers at Broward's elections office pre­
pared 1,000 absentee ballots for overnight 
shipment to Floridians in other states, and 
expected to send up to 14,000 ballots by 
Friday to residents who requested them 
weeks ago. 
Meanwhile, state Republican leaders said they are protecting "the integrity of the process" by compiling a list of voters who they say are improperly registered and should not be allowed to cast ballots Tuesday. 
"I presume they will use it as a basis for challenges," said Howard Simon, the execu­tive director of the American Civil Liberties Union in ·Florida. "And when they're using a list that's very likely inaccurate for chal­lenges, I think we're in for hand-to-hand combat at the precincts." 
Republican National Committee chairman Ed Gillespie said he was "disconcerted" by claims that supporters of Democratic chal­lenger John Kerry are clogging early voting locations and attempting to dissuade backers of President Bush from voting. 
Celebrities stump for candidates 
INDIANOLA, INDIANA -The presidential campaign trail is looking a bit like Hollywood Boulevard. Or a rock 'n' roll stage. 
The Boss is stumping for Democratic Sen. John Kerry, while actor Leonardo DiCaprio and rocker Jon Bon Jovi join up with Sen. John Edwards' entourage. President Bush is countering with a movie and political heavy­weight -box office star-turned-governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
Celebrities are joining the candidates on the trail in the presidential campaign's final days, providing a little 11th-hour starpower in bat­tleground states. 
As they have all year, more are turning out for Kerry than for Bush. Still, the president has his big-ticket backers. 
California Gov. Schwarzenegger, whose pre­political life included "The Terminator" films, is to join the president Friday in Columbus, Ohio, for a rally. Country singer Sammy Kershaw and his band warmed up a subur­ban Cleveland crowd for the president Thursday. And, a day earlier, boxing promot­er Don King accompanied Bush in Pontiac, Mich. 
The stars of song and screen appear with Kerry and Edwards nearly every day. 
The point? "Have some fun, add to the great energy, excitement and momentum that surrounds this campaign right now," said Mark Kornblau, an Edwards spokesman. 
And, no doubt, ensure gymnasiums and other venues are packed to the rafters. 
In Madison, Wis., thousands turned out Thursday to see Kerry -. and Bruce Springsteen, who sang "Promised Land" and "No Surrender," the latter adopted as the Democrat's campaign anthem. Sheryl Crow and Bon Jovi, too, have been the Massachusetts senator's opening acts this week. 
Wartime leadership questioned 
Candidates exchange charges over commander-in-chief's responsibilities 

AP Left, President Bush speaks at a campaign rally in Findlay, Ohio on Wednesday. Democratic candidate Kerry embraces singer Bruce Springsteen after Springsteen performed at a campaign rally at Ohio State University Thursday. 
Associated Press 
SAGINAW, Mich. -Bitingly personal, President Bush called Sen. John Kerry too 
weak  and  wavering  for  
wartime  leadership  
Thursday  while  the  

Democrat held Bush respon­sible for missing explosives in Iraq. "The commander in chief is not getting his job done," Kerry said. 
The blunder should cost Bush his presidency, the challenger argued. The Republican incumbent fired back: "John Kerry is the wrong man for the wrong job at the wrong time." 
For the fourth straight day, the candidates exchanged harsh words over the disap­pearance of nearly 400 tons of explosives stored at Iraq's Al-Qaqaa military installa­tion. The 11th-hour political stir, which Bush advisers say has slowed their campaign, is a reflection of how the war in Iraq and terrorism have overshadowed domestic affairs throughout the cam­paign. 
Another example was news that the FBI has begun investigating whether the Pentagon improperly award­ed no-bid military contracts to Halliburton Co., the for­mer company of Vice President Dick Cheney. Democrats hoped to make a campaign issue of it. 
Their eyes cast abroad, many voters even in econom­ically strapped battleground states are judging the candi­dates on their ability to lead a nation at war. Thus, char­acter is a final-hours issue. 
"A president cannot blow in the wind," Bush said in a s!inging reference to Kerry. In neighboring Ohio, the four-term Massachusetts senator called on his rival to "start taking responsibility for the mistakes that you've made." 
Chief among them, he said, is Iraq, where insurgents slaughtered 11 Iraqi soldiers Thursday in a bloody reminder of the trouble that awaits whoever sits in the Oval Office at a minute past noon,Jan.20,2005. 
Five days before Election Day, the polls were close and the crowds huge. Looking out at 10,000 faces at a Bush rally, failed GOP presidential candidate Bob Dole quipped, "I couldn't get a crowd like this in 1996." 
Across the country, anxious voters and election official braced for an uncertain out­come Tuesday. The Justice Department said 1,090 fed­eral poll watchers will be sent to monitor elections in 25 states to assure compli­ance with voting laws. 
Time running short, the campaigns reached into their near-empty arsenals of TV ads. Kerry unveiled a new commercial while the Bush campaign was forced to defend a day-old spot, acknowledging that an editor had doctored a picture of 
U.S. troops. 
Kerry opens his latest com­mercial with five words that should warm hearts through­out the campaign-weary bat­tlegrounds: "Soon, the cam­paign will end," he said. 
His running mate, Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina, told CBS the Halliburton deals are part of a "long pattern of favoritic:;m" between the Bush adminis­tration and its well-connect­ed friends. Kerry aides debated whether he would criticize Bush on the issue Friday. 
Pop culture merged with politics as rocker Bruce Springsteen endorsed Kerry and sang at the Massachusetts senator's rally in Madison, Wis., that drew thousands. Bush didn't have the Boss, but country singer Sammy Kershaw warmed up the crowd in affluent Westlake, Ohio. 
Earlier, Kerry donned a Boston Red Sox cap to cele­

brate the World Series victo­
ry of his home-state team. 
Not everybody was a team 
player, however; Boston 
pitcher Curt Schilling told a 
TV audience to "vote Bush 
next week," then scheduled a 
campaign appearance with 
the president in New 
Hampshire on Friday. 
A spate of new state polls had Bush ahead in Florida, the Democrat leading in Ohio and Michigan and the candi­dates essentially tied in Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Oregon. Republican-leaning Arkansas is back in play, with Bush buying ads there. 
Private polling conducted for the candidates them­selves showed the race even tighter. Both campaigns believe they lead in the con­tested states by a percentage point or two. 
Bush's polling, which showed him making gains last weekend, flattened out this week, and aides blamed the missing weapons flap for stopping their boss' momen­tum. That was certainly Kerry's intention when he accused Bush of "shifting explanations" for the missing explosives. 
"You were warned to guard them," Kerry said in direct challenge to Bush. "You didn't guard them." 
SOUND BITE: SUDAN 
Under what conditions, if any, would you commit U.S. troops to the effort to end the genocide in Sudan? 
"Our nation condemns the atrocities that have occurred in Sudan and encourages an international diplomatic approach to put a swift end to the genocide ... The State Department is pursuing-a comprehensive approach to creating peace in Africa that does not, at present, include a major commitment ofUS. troops. We played a key role in negotiating the April 8, 2004, cease-fire in Darfur and in negotiating the entrance ofAfrican Union monitors. We are working with the United Nations to organize an international humanitarian 
force. have been asked by the African Union to airlift African Union 
monitors. and we will consider sanctions on the Sudanese govern­ment iftheyfail to cooperate with international peace efforts., 
"'/he African Union has committedJ,(XJO troops to halt the violence against civilians and monitor the cease-fire agreement in Darfur. Sudan. At present. there is no request nor any requirement for US. or other non-African combat forces. The US. should prmJide generous logistical andfinancial support to the African l!nionforce The African Union needs an estimated$220 million for this mission. But so far, the US. has pledgedjust over $20 million -a woefully inadequate swn to halt the genocide. I will provide far more generous support. Should the African l !nion require additional assi.•;tance to halt the genocide, I would mnsider providing tmique U.S. capabilities, such as command 

Kerry controL romrmmication and intelligence support, ifrequested"



Duty doesn't end Election Day 
erly ca'ited votes arc counted. While Hepublicans and Democrat.<.; project confi­If a repeat of 2000 occurs, the topic of revising the dence, both sides have also prepared for the likeli­Constitution will surely be raised. This election 



I~Htorial 
Is there a conservative gene? 
THE OBSERVER 
EO. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Damt•, IN 46)56 EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWs EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Yabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574} 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

. ( OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES

f 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. • 
The n£..-ws is rqxmed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depanment editors. 
C.-<>mmentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions "f.tlrding Obsauer po!icii!S should br directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th< Oi>«rv<r (USPS 59') 1-4000) is publi<hed Mo~y lh"ough Friday ne<pt during cum a11J Y3.c:.ation period). ~ suhscriptiorl w 1h; Ob:ieT¥t:T is $100 fOr ()ll(' ac.tdm1k year;. $SS for one st"tne<~ter. The Observer is a membtor of rhc Associ.n('d Press. All reproduction righrs arc­
rncrved 
Tht" O~rv<:r h puhli:Jmf al: ro. BoxQ 

024 Snuth Dini~ H.ll  024 !>oU!h Dining Hall  
N.~"' D:uno. IN 46~56-0779  :--;.,,. Dan><. IN 46556-0779  
Pt:rio«.iic:al po~ragc paid .tt N<lU'C Damt:  
and addi{ioll.ill mailing otl'k-es.  
I'OS'fMNiTF.R  
Send a.ddn:5.!J com.:ctiolllli to:  
The Ohocrv<r  

lb< Ob.<<V<r is • member of the .A,sociattd !'r<:'>. All ~produclion right> an: r=rvtd. 
TODAV's STAFF •
News  Sports  
Amanda Michaels  Justin Schuver  
Eileen Duffy  Bobby Griffin  
Maddie Hanna  Maggie Oldham  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Alyssa  Molly Griffin  
Brauweiler  Illustrator  
Graphics  Graham Ebetsch  
Mike Harkins  

Open a newspaper or turn on the television and you are bound to hear about the election. Day in and day out, the candidates exehango barbs on the campaign trail-and the public hangs on every word. Staying oblivious'? Not an option. 
Political pundiL"> have said this is tho most bitter and hotly-con­tested election in years. The indecision of Americans is evident in polls that constantly fluctuate bHtwmm President Goorge W. Bush and Sen. John Kerry, never by more than a few percentage points. 
Soon. however, the polls will be meaningless and the stump speeches will be a distant memory. OtJhe Someone has to win. 
hood that there \\ill be no clear winner the morning of Nov. 3. Hemembcring the ambiguity of the 2000 presidential election, both parties are already making legal preparations for the possibility of a recount. Just this week. approximately 58,000 absentee ballots were reported lost in Florida. 
As Americans learned in 2000, there is no guarantee an election will end on i':lection Day. In the same vein, the civic responsibility to remain inf(:>rmed does not end after casting a vote. After such a heated campaign-coupled with the history that precedes it-cit­izens have no excuse but to stay attuned not only to politics but to.. 
While growing up my favorite televi­sion show was "Family Ties." As an avid young Republican, I was quite taken by the character of Alex P. Keaton, the ultra-conservative Reagan-loving son 
John lnfranca

of two liberal par­
ents -parents so -liberal they even Dissident Poetry 
worked for a pub-. 
lie broadcasting company. Happily 
ensconced in a warm and supportive 
conservative home, I could celebrate 
that I did not have parents of such 
questionable character. At. the time, I 
never wondered how conservative wis­
dom could become incarnate in such 
an unlikely household. 
But what made Alex Keaton a con­
servative? It does not seem that he 
was the product of his environment. 
Alex's siblings either shared their par­
ents' political proclivities or simply 
expressed no interest in politics. The 
Keaton parents did not allow cable 
and so Alex and his siblings were often 
forced to watch the public television 
station his father worked for. As we all 
know, public broadcasting dispenses 
nothing but liberal propaganda and 
tote bags. Perhaps the source of his 
political identity was genetic rather 
than environmental. Could there be a 
recessive gene for conservatism that 
had become dominant in young Alex 
Keaton? Might a similar gene be 
responsible for liberalism? 
I did a bit of research on the issue 
and came across varying opinions. 
According to one, perhaps not very 
reliable, source on the Free Republic 
Web site: "The answer manifests itself 
in the structure of the human genome. 
Liberalism can be explained by the 
notion that liberals lack the gene 
required to process reality." I will con­
tend that this questionable science is 
likely politically motivated. A more 
scholarly analysis of the psychology 
behind our political orientations was 
published in the May 2003 issue of the 
Psychology Bulletin, the journal of the 
OBSERVER POLL 
Who are you voting for? 
a. George W. Bush  63~  
b. John Kerry  35%  
c. Other  I%  
d. Not Voting  I%  

*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 675 responses. 
this election's impact on Consitutional areas such a."> the Electoral College and the United States' reception and role on the interna­tional stage. 
In 2000, the world took notice when the candidaU\ who won the presidency was not elected directly by the people but ultimately wa"i elf\Cted by a Supreme Court decision. The world ha<> watched the Bush administration develop its current international policy OQjectives. BP a'isured it will watch whether the Unit<\d States ­
billed a'i the leader of the democratic world -can 
run it<> own accountable elf'ction in which all prop­

could represent the precipice for America's Constitutional foundation and our interaction with and role in the international sphere. 
All too often, people become informed beeause they feel they have to. Now is not the time to become informHd because you feel you have to -whether to cast a responsible vote or to fulfill some­one else's expectations. Now is the time to beeome informed because you want to-to understand the consequences and last­ing impact your vote may have, and to seim the outcome you deserve. 
Am•'rican Psychological Association. The article appraised the past 50 years of study on the psychology of conservatism. 
The study claims that conservatism is a form of "motivated social cogni­tion." Conservative ideology, like any belief system (including liberal ideolo­gy), is said to develop in part out of psychological need. This is not to say that such an ideology is not responsive to reason or grounded upon strongly held principles. It might, however, be initially motivated by some psychologi­cal factor and then further developed and articulated into a set of core beliefs. 
The psychological variables that the study claims might contribute to the adoption of a conservative ideology include anxiety regarding death, intol­erance towards ambiguity, resistance to change, avoidance of uncertainty, need for order, structure and closure, fear of loss or threat, aggression and lower than normal levels of self esteem. It is worth noting that none of these are inherently good or bad char­acter traits. One might reasonably concur that contrary traits could lead to the development of a liberal ideolo­gy. 
What brings us as individuals to our particular political persuasions is worth considering amid this most heated and divisive of elections. It is probably a complex interaction of per­sonality traits, genetic disposition, environment and experience that turns us into liberals or conservatives or anywhere in between. Much of this complexity is lost in the process of try­ing to so clearly paint people in partic­ular political stripes. It is worth con­sidering that even the most vaunted political principles we hold and express so dearly might be less the product of our own rational thought than we care to admit. Perhaps our genetic traits and the environment in which we find ourselves predispose us more than we would like to admit towards a particular political position. This might offer reason for thinking a bit more deeply not only about the basis of our own political principles, but also the factors that have brought those around us to opinions that might be very different. 
In the years since my youth, my love for "Family Ties" has faded and with it my admiration for both Alex Keaton and Ronald Reagan. Interestingly, I now share with that character the experience of being a black sheep, the left-leaning child of two party-line Republican parents. Now I have a hard time making sense of why my parents insist on watehing Fox News while I would rather turn to public tel­evision. My parents' experiences and personalities are similar but in many ways far different than my own. While at times we might attempt rational discussions of politics these often devolve into the kind of fiery argu­ments only a family of hot-blooded Italians is capable of. 
At the end of the day there is some­thing that has formed our political ide­ologies that can not be reduced to pol­icy positions and factual analysis. As I argue with my parents across the din­ner table I also realize that someday I might be battling my own children as 
· they argue on behalf of lower taxes and increased military spending. There remains no clear explanation for the source of an individual's politi­cal orientation. Perhaps it is some­thing we are born with but not always comfortable expressing. If so I hold out hope that one day, perhaps through some form of coun­seling, disordered conservatives might finally recognize the nature of reality and embrace their true identity. 
John Jnfranca is a theology graduate student. He can be contacted at jinfran 1@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You should try everything once. except incest and folk dancing.·· 
Old Scottish Proverb 
_______________________........________________________________________________ 

. 



The funding crisis in graduate education 
Notre Dame aspires to be an elite unlversity, rivaling Harvard, Princeton and Berkeley. Reaching that goal means achieving excellence in under­graduate education, graduate educa­tion and research. 
Don Howard

Progress in 
research and 
graduate educa­
Guest Column 

tion is a top prior­ity in our new strategic plan. Judging by such meas­ures as the U.S. News & World Report rankings, we're well on the way toward elite status in undergraduate education. In graduate education and research we've made great strides, but still face major challenges. Some of our Ph.D. programs are among the best in the world -Philosophy, Theology, the Medieval Institute and the History and Philosophy of Science Graduate Program are there already -and others are prepared to step into the top ranks. In too many fields, however, ours are still what are termed second, third or, in a few cases, fourth quartile programs. 
A necessary condition for maintain­ing the standing of strong programs and improving the rest is recruiting the best new graduate students, and a necessary condition for successful recruiting is offering competitive financial support. But here Notre Dame faces a crisis. As recently as six years ago, we were in a strong com­petitive position. This year, however, is the third straight with no growth in the value of basic stipends or special fellowsh~ps. This year, for the first time, modest support is provided for health insurance, but that covers only about one third of the total cost for those on basic graduate stipends. 
How serious is the problem? It's hard to say because the university has 
·not made available good, timely, com­parative data. But some of us have collected our own data. Here's what I found in my field, History and Philosophy of Science. A February 2003 survey of 20 top pro­grams with which we com­pete revealed that, on average, our basic nine-month stipend of $11,700 was $2,500 dollars below what our competitors offered, and vir­tually all our competitors covered health insurance, making the· total average difference more like 
$3,500. This information is already over a year old, and we've again had no growth in funding at Notre Dame, so we're now even further behind. To cite just one more recent example, a gradu­ating Notre Dame philoso­phy major received an offer from Princeton last spring for over $20,000. 
Savor the magnitude of the problem. Our stipends would have to grow by over 30% to reach the average among our competitors, and that would only put us in the middle of the pack. It won't do to say that we can muddle through because the cost of living -is low in South Bend. It's not that low, and the cost-of-living argument is not persuasive with new recruits. In addi­tion to the problem of recruiting new 
students, there is the problem of treating current graduate stu­dents with justice and fair­.ness. $11,700 isn't a liv­ing wage, even in South Bend. For a married graduate student with one child, a family income of 
$11.700 is almost $4,000 below the 
poverty level for 2004 as defined by the Department of Health and Human 

Services. We face other pressing finan­cial needs, including under­graduate financial aid, library fund­ing, research infra­structure, faculty salaries, and new facul­ty hiring. But none of these challenges is as seri­
ous as that which we face in funding graduate education. Here we have reached the crisis point. If sub­stantial new funding is not provided immediately, then the quality of the graduate students recruited to study at Notre Dame is guaranteed to decline. We're already losing top-qual­
ity graduate students to schools offer­
ing more generous support. If we 
don't act quickly, the damage will take 
many years to repair. 
Some might argue that spending to recruit the best and brightest gradu­ate students is not important, if all they do is serve as research assistants to the faculty. I can't speak for all fields, but in the humanities this isn't the point of graduate education. In the humanities, our mission is to train the next generation of university profes­sors. Heretofore, especially but not only in fields like philosophy and the­ology, Notre Dame has distinguished itself in this respect. Notre Dame Ph.D.s are found on the faculties of the most prestigious universities in the United States and around the world. That's one important reason why the reputation of Notre Dame looms so large in academia. 
If Notre Dame is serious about its professed commitment to exceiJence in graduate education and research, then dramatic action is needed now. Not two years from now, but now. And we don't need to study the problem. We know what the problem is. The question is whether Notre Dame-by which I mean the central administra­tion, donors who have high ambitions on behalf of the university and all fac­ulty members who have a voice in set­ting academic and budgetary priori­ties-will do what needs to be done. 
Professor Don Howard teaches phi­losophy and is the director ofthe Graduate Program in History and Philosophy ofScience. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Democrats play the fear card 
Mter Vice President Dick Cheney suggested that John Kerry's approach to fighting· terrorism is more con­ducive to terrorist attacks on America than the incum­bent's, Democratic talking heads had a field day grum­bling about Republican fear-mongering on the cam­paign path. Keeping true to their hypocrisy, Democrats have Bill Rlnner excused similar tactics of instilling fear into the electorate as long as A Voice ofReason Bush happens to be the target. 
Embracing a no-holds-barred approach to defeating President Bush and installing the hollow man John Kerry to placate the liberal masses whose stomachs churn at the prospect of four more years of "nuclear" being mispronounced on a semi-reg­ular basis, Democrats have "subtly and unsubtly inti­mated that Bush's policies pave the road to national disaster. 
On the question of national security, fear is a natural byproduct of the debate over which candidate will pro­vide a more sound and effective approach to preventing terrorist attacks against America. While political ana­lysts cried havoc over Cheney's rhetoric, few com­plaints emerged about Ted Kennedy's equally alarmist warning made in a speech at George Washington University in late September. 
Kennedy warned that "the war in Iraq has made a mushroom cloud more likely, not less likely," and that "the only thing America has to fear is four more years of George Bush." 
The feisty senator's comment echoes Cheney's own words, which sound less alarmist and more "nuanced" when placed in proper context. Rather than directly warning the electorate that a Kerry vote is synonymous with increasing risk of terrorist attack, he referenced a potential attack to express concern of falling into the pre-September 11 mindset of treating terrorism as a problem of law enforcement: precisely the message that Kerry has imparted time and again. 
Since the first duty of a president is to provide for the common defense, both candidates and their surrogates may justifiably fan the flames of fear over national security, but Democrats have routinely issued unfound­ed warnings about the dangers of reelecting Bush to a second term. 
A favorite topic amung Democrat critics is the myth of disenfranchisement in the 2000 election, now fre­quently repeated to present Bush and Republicans as attempting to suppress the black vote. Taking solace in the comforting notion that no Republican can win an election without directly disenfranchising the voter, embittered Al Gore-supporters have repeated the myth ad nauseam without producing credible evidence. Janet Reno, still serving as attorney general in late 2000, and Gore's team of lawyers failed to corrobo­rate wild claims beyond isolated instances that did not suggest a pervasive trend. 
Fast-forwarding to the current elec­tion, John Kerry routinely states that he will not allow "one million African Americans being denied their right to exercise the vote" as his standard line when touring black churches along the cam­paign trail. Instilling a sense of fear, in this case baseless, serves to energize (or simply enrage) his traditional base. The historical truth of the mat­ter is but a mere triviality, and reporters are more likely to investigate the latest Elvis sighting than the veracity of his claims. 
Unlike Bill Clinton, who exuded sympathy and was once dubbed "the first black president," Kerry's awkward attempts to transcend his elitist heritage have met limited suc­cess. What better way to mobilize the black vote than to portray Bush as deviously attempting to limit their influence? 
One egregious example of anti-Bush fear-mongering recently found its way into my email box from a con­cerned yet deluded liberal friend afraid that Bush's sec­ond term will hail the reinstatement of the military draft, despite the near-consensus of expert military opinion to the contrary. Few events can cause more fear than the prospect of being rounded up by the gov­ernment and sent to the fron.t lines to fight the enemy, and hinting at the possibility of a draft serves as the perfect means to inspire naive young voters to the polling booths. 
Last year, Democratic Senator Fritz Hollings and Democratic Representative Charles Rangel introduced two draft bills in a cynical attempt to voice their dis­taste with the administration's policies. They argued that their draft bills would help remedy the purported racial gap in active military service and even declared 
all women eligible as well, as everyone between 
ages 18 and 26 could be drafted without col­lege deferments. Both sponsors of the bill are strong critics of the administration 
and continued American military efforts in general, and they kept silent when conspiracy theorists claimed that Bush continues to push for a draft. However, both bills died in Congress, the administration 
has taken a unanimous stance against the necessity of a draft, a vast majority of active senior military personnel dismiss the 
exaggerated claim, and open 
public records would indicate 
whether any similar proposals have momentum. Rock the Vote, the MTV outfit that claims to be non-partisan but harps on Democratic talking points as their modus operandi, still discusses the draft as an important factor to con­sider for the election, on par with jobs and the national debt. Next week's election may be one of the most important of our generation, and the anti­
Bush desperation manifests itself all too clearly while 
reasonable voices drown in the baseless rhetoric. 
Bill Rinner is a senior economics major. His column 
appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at 
wrinner@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 · Friday, October 29, 2004 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 

The film "The Grudge" will be screened Nov. 11 on the Notre Dame campus at 7 and 10 p.m. at the Browning Cinema in the Center for Performing Arts. Notre Dame alumni Steven Susco, the film's screen­writer, and William Mapother, one of the film's stars, will be present to participate in a question and answer session for students. 
Both men have come a long way in Hollywood since their days as Notre Dame students. William Mapother has become a successful actor in such films as "Mission Impossible ll, and Steven Susco is an up-and-coming screenwriter, with "The Grudge" being his first major motion picture. 
To start with a Notre Dame-oriented question, what dorms did you live in? Mapother: My freshman year I lived in Grace Hall, and my sophomore year through graduation I lived 
(.',~ 
in Morrissey. Susco: I started out in Pangborn, and just after I 
t had made all of my friends and settled down, they 
\ announced that they were changing it to a women's dorm. All of my friend's moved to Cavanaugh, but I missed the cut and had to live in St. Ed's. They then­announced that Cavanaugh was becoming a women's dorm, and we· were about to moV{1 to Flanner when they announced that it was going to become an office building. After that, I took the hint and moved off campus. 
How did each of you become involved with "The Grudge?" 
Susco: I met up with some producers in 2002, Hoy Lee and Doug Davison. They had had these tapes that they showed me that they loved. These were the original tapes of "The Grudge" movies. I loved them, I had ideas and I was attached as the writer/director in 2002. There was concern because I had directed only shorts, not fea­tures, and this became a major hurdle. The producers ultimately decided to keep the original director [Takashi Shimizu]. 
Mapother: [Executive direc-· tor] Sam Haimi said that he wanted to have Shimizu to 
I direct in order to retain the (. flavor of the original. He did­n't want to Americanize it tooI much. 
( 
Susco: Basically, over the 
i 
~ 
course of the first year, Shimizu made the first fea­ture version. Sam Haimi saw it, and said "I want to do this with same director." I negoti­! ated staying on as writer, and that's where I came into the 
· project. It was a long process but worth it. 
Mapother: I met with Sam and his partner [producer] Rob Tapert for another proj­ect that was in development. About two months later I got call asking me if I would be 
({ .I interested in "The Grudge." 
I 
I They had enjoyed the meeting and my work, and they thought I would be a good fit for role of Matthew. Sam wanted me, but Sony said "hang on, make sure he can do it." So I read, and I got the 
part. 
Susco:. William was one of first people I heard of i I getting cast. I was a huge, huge fan. One of myI favorite movies was "In the Bedroom," so when I 
heard that, I knew the film was becoming very legiti­mate. The ·uriginal idea had been to do the film in Tokyo for 3 or 4 millioh with up-and-coming actors. 
William and I met the day he arrived. Sarah [Michelle Gellar] and Jason [Behr] and KaDee Strickland and myself all went out with him, and the two of us ended up talking for hours. 
Mapother: Not only that, but after we hung out in 



Notre DaiDe aluiDni Ina) 
An interview with William Mapother and: 
new horror movie "The Grudge" dnd on • 
entertainment industry has affected the tl 
Tokyo and we were back in the States, I said come over, and he came and watched the Oscars with his fiancee. Sony had a few online journalists come over too, and I forwarded the article to my sisters, both of whom had gone to Notre Dame, and one said, "Is that the Steven Susco who went to Notre Dame?" We spent time in Tokyo and in the U.S. together, and did­n't know that we both went to ND. The Notre dame connection is almost incidental, but it's there 
Susco: When you go to Notre Dame, it's usually one of the first things you talk about. It's astounding that 

we never talked about it. 
For Steven, what challenges did you face writing the script, which was based on a Japanese film, "Ju-On: The Grudge"? How did you make the work your own? 
Susco: The biggest challenge was really wanting to do it well when the decision was made to do it in Japan with Shimizu. There was a lot of internal pres­sure to do it justice; I imagined myself being in his shoes doing the original and having to work with another writer and having someone remake the material and try to add in new things. It was hard feeling like I was doing the right thing. It was pres­sure that, at the end of the day, was rather unjusti­fied. Shimizu is a very good collaborator. He has a very specific vision of what he wanted, but he was still open to a lot of outside ideas. The language dif­ferential was very difficult, particularly communicat­ing ideas without offending anyone. It was really challenging, but everyone was really out to make same kind of movie, so that made things that were difficult go smoothly. 
For William, tell us about the character that you 
play in the film. What do you think that you bring 
to the role, and how did you prepare? Mapother: Matthew Williams, my character, has been hired by a Japanese corporation to do finan­cial work. He moved mother and wife of three or so years -CIPa [Duvall] and I had talked about it and come up with something -to Tokyo for work. When we meet him, he has only been there a few days. For my character, this is a thrilling opportunity, but at same time, he is concerned about moth­er's health and wife's ability and willingness to adapt to Japam'se society. 
How do you think going to Notre Dame prepared you for your career? 
Mapother: It really breaks down into two aspects. First: my major. We didn't have the FTT major, but being an English major helped me in several ways. First, it taught me value of pursuing something that I love. I chose English because I loved it and having made that decision, it was easier to choose a career that I love. It also helped to develop critical thinking and gave me an awareness of the story­telling tradition, which allows me to read and break down scripts easier. Second: The environment. I made a lot of friends and like most felt a bit castigated, but within that safety I was able to explore who I was and what I wanted. 
Susco: I would give essentially the same summation: do what you love to do in terms of looking for­ward in life. Don't look at the odds, and do what makes you happy. I had three different 

majors: philosophy, FTT and CAPP. Philosophy opens up limitless career choices, and as if that did­n't frighten my parents enough, I told them I was looking to pick up second FTT major. My parents met at IBM. I think that for me, film production and theatre were the things that helped me with writ­ing. I learned about the filmmaking process, not just liking it, but the economics and the nature of collab­oration, being able to make films, meeting with peo­ple like producers and learning that it is a truly col­laborative medium. Theatre: I did a lot of acting, and what that helps me with now is writing characters and in directing, it helps me communicate and use the language of the theatre. I don't subscribe to George Lucas's, "Do it again and do it bigger" philos­ophy. I like to enable actors to do their work better and allow them to find their own things. Legendary film moments are often things that actors come up with on the fly. Philosophy was invaluable because it opened me up to different ways of thinking. Particularly in "The Grudge", it helped me figure out what about the original film was especially resound4 
', 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 13

Friday, October 29, 2004 

ke it big in HollYlVood 
Steven Susco about their work on the how choosing a career in the 1e paths their lives have taken 
ing, what the filmmaker was trying to say. It basical­ly enables me to figure out what the film means, to convey the· story and the characters. They [philoso­phy and FTTJ ended up meshing together really well. 
What skills do you think have allowed you to suc­ceed in such a difficult industry? 
Mapother: Persistence. 
Susco: Same thing I was going to say. Same page as always. 
Mapother: It really is perseverance. Also a sense of professionalism. There is cliche that town is small and it is. Reputation builds quickly. 
Susco: A quote I always think of says something to the eff~ct of. "The person who succeeds is per­son who wakes up and says, 'I'm going to give it another try.'" I've been writing since '96 and I've been shut down so much. Your breakfast, lunch and dinner is rejection. 
Mapother: How do you want your rejection'? Over easy'? Raw'? 
Susco: You don't eat for the broccoli, you eat for the pie. That's how I view it out here. As long as you. understand that you're going to be told "no" 100 times a day and you're completely fine with that and you only care about the "yes" you might get, it's worth a shot. 
M_apother: I give advice along the same lines. If there's some­thing else you want to do, you should do that. Persistence comes from having no exit strategy. It is perseverance, but it takes self­questioning out of the equation. 
Susco: For writing, and possibly the entire industry, you can't come out to Hollywood because you love being a screenwriter but because you love trying to be a screen­writer. 
Mapother: As a trade-off, actors get rejected more often, but it can be harder for a writer. Actors invest a few days preparing for an audition, but a writer has a lot more at stake. Each hurts in its own way. It's rejection in quality or quantity. 
Susco: This is something you'll 
law school. With anything in the entertainment industry, there's no path. You can ask anyone and you'll never get the same answer. I went to film school, and in terms of opening doors for me, it did­n't do much. Some people who didn·'t go to film school are the most talented in the world. There's no set path that will lead you to the goal, and there's no sure formula that leads to success. 
Mapother: There's also no promise for your next job. The career for writers and actors is one of uncertainty. You can't let up. Ironically, I love the 

find in any profession -road­William Mapother graduated from Notre Dame in 1987 with an degree in English. He has had a allows actors to be better. I successful career In Hollywood, with roles in films such as "In the Bedroom", "Mission need someone to acknowl­
blocks. You're going to have to 
prove yourself, and win people Impossible II," "Magnolia" and "Born on the Fourth of July". He has appeared on such televi­edge my thoughts, and I need over. It sounds daunting and you sion shows as "CSI: Miami," "Law and Order: Special VIctims Unit," "Touched by an Angel" to bounce ideas off of some­and "Lost." Mapother worked as a school teacher in Los Angeles for three years before 
need a thick skin, but it's sort of one. 
deciding to pursue a career as an actor In Hollywood.
like anything else. You're not 
going to be happy if you don't do what you love. 
Mapother: As an addendum to the advice I gave earlier, I usually say that to someone after they've come out and are having a crisis. First advice, come out and try, because you'II regret it if you don't. It's when you're not sure that you have to evaluate and determine if it's worth it. 
Susco: It's a brutal road. 
Mapother: There's more underlying all of this "des­perate love" of what we do. I don't want to paint a portrait of suffering and self-sacrifice and nobility in pursuit of my craft, but it's an acknowledgement that it's a tough road. 
Susco: There's no set course. If you want to be a doctor, it's a hard road, but there is a set path. You graduate and take the MCATs and go to med school, and there's a likelihood of employment. Same with sense of fear that that instills. It keeps me motivated and working my hardest. In addition to the motiva­tion of doing what I love, I can't afford to do less than my best. 
Susco: It leads to creative evolution. You intuitive­ly understand that you need to keep pushing, grow­ing, and redefining. It's that fear that you need to love. You need to be driven by that. It keeps every­thing churning. Turn it into a positive. As soon as that feeling that stops, I'll find something else to do, but I don't think that I will ever happen because writing, reading and movies are something that I've loved since I was a kid. 
What is the most exciting project that you've worked on? 
Mapother: For me, it's always the most recent project, if it's not the one I'm working on. That's because I feel as if I'm ever-growing and learning about myself. The most recent is where I have set the bar the higher, and that's the most exciting part of it. For me right now, it would be "The Grudge." It gave me first scene with a woman where I wasn't raping or killing her. I've been in Swordfish, Mission Impossible II, and serials on TV (Law & Order, CSI, etc}. I was excited about playing someone unequivo­cally loving with other characters. For me in my career, that was a big challenge because I have an intensity, I've been told, and I wanted to work on channeling it on that end versus where I have chan­neled it in the past. 
Susco: I think it's interesting because when I met William, I was walking through this breeze way and I saw him and recognized him from "In the 
Bedroom." He turned around with the biggest smile on his face. Every time you see him, he is always playing the bad guy. It was a pleasure to write a character much closer to who he is in real life. I agree with William. You at least strive to have what­ever your most recent project was be your favorite. ''The Grudge" is the first project that I've had come to fruition. I was extremely lucky because they kept me involved in the entire process. I felt like I was creatively part of the family. I learned a great deal 
about being so intimately involved in so many different aspects of the project. It was really a big step forward for m(l and it was a creative evo­lution. I wanted to work with them again. I'm already potentially involved with a number of projects relating to the movie. 
Tell me about working on the film. 
Mapother: First, I'd like to say how much fun I had mak­ing this movie. Like all, it starts with the script. Keeping the essence of the story and adapting it for an American cast going to Japan is a very difficult task. I have to say he [Steven Susco] did a fantastic job with story and characters. There are so many moments that brought characters to life. He kept the non-linear structure but made it clearer but without violating Shimizu's original structure or vision. A.s an actor, the script is all you have, and I was excited. Susco: That's great to hear. 
Mapother: He [Susco]  was  
more  than  willing  to  talk  
about  the  move  and  was  

receptive to new thoughts, which isn't common. That spirit of collaboration is rare. 
Susco: Is it really that unusual'? 
Mapother: I would say it's not that common. New writ­ers are usually more protec­tive of their work. Openness 
Susco: I had been working 
on the film for two years 
when I met William. I went from being director to writer to maybe not being involved at all. When I went to Japan for the first time, it was thrilling. We shot the movie in the same house where they shot "The Seventh Samari." The night that it really clicked, it really exploded for me, was when I went to dinner and talked about his character. That was what I missed. I had collaborat­ed, and had spent so much time talking about mak­ing creative decisions based on business things, and just talking about William's character was great. The whole thing was a lot of fun, but it was truly that moment that I realized that it was going to be excit­ing. The clouds that were over the project vanished for a few days after that. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
Friday, October 29, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish ready for two road games 
. ) 
,) 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Away games can be a source of anxiety and frustration. 
Playing on an unfamiliar court in front of a fervent crowd cheering in favor of the home team can be more than intimidating. 
But for Notre Dame, this is a non-issue. 
"We've had one of our crazi­est traveling years yet," fresh­man Adrianna Stasiuk said. "But being on the road hasn't really affected us. We just. focus on playing." 
The Irish (11-6, 4-0 in the Big East), have registered a 9-2 away record this season and hope to add to their road suc­cess as they face Georgetown on Saturday and Villanova on Sunday. 
} 
The last time the Irish took to 

,\ ,I the courts, they defeated St. John's in just three games 30­16, 30-17, 30-20. 
l ) Notre Dame showcased its
\ 
offensive skills in the contest, hitting .330 in every game and '· ending with a .356 attack per­centage.
.~ 
Since that match, Stasiuk

:( 
I) said the team has worked to 
) ) hone its serving and passing skills in practice. ··we've really been focusing
t 
on scoring points when we ~ ) have the serve and getting on a I 
·I 
run to finish off our oppo­nents," Stasiuk said. "Everyone's had a really great work ethic in practice, and they're giving 100 percent." 
Additionally, the Irish have been sizing up their opponents by watching tapes of games and learning about each team's strengths and weaknesses. 
Georgetown (13-1 0) boasts big hitters, according to Stasiuk, and is known for put­ting up a fight. After losing to West Virginia on Sunday 30-26, 30-25, 30-26, the Hoyas will likely be looking for redemp­tion. 
Villanova (7-14) also looks to be a tough competitor, as it will be thriving off the momentum the Wildcats gained from Wednesday's win. The Wildcats defeated Wagner in three games 30-21, 30-9, 30-19. 
Despite the challenges the Irish will face this weekend, Stasiuk says the Irish have a chance at winning if each indi­vidual plays their best. 
"If everyone does their job, we'll do well," Stasiuk said. "We've been kind of frustrated this season because even though we're 4-0 in the Big East, we've been up and down in non-conference matches. We've kind of been using that as our motivation for winning." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Hokies rally at Georgia Tech 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -If Virginia Tech goes on to win the Atlantic Coast Conference, remember the last 5 1/2 min­utes at Georgia Tech. 
For most of the game, the Hokies couldn't do anything right. 
Then, in a stunning turn­around, they could do no wrong. 
Bryan Randall threw two long touchdown passes and Roland Minor finished off the Yellow Jackets with a 64­yard interception return, ral­lying No. 22 Virginia Tech to a wild 34-20 victory Thursday night. 
For the Hokies (6-2, 3-1 ACC), this was a crucial vic­tory. They remained one game behind Miami in the loss column, with a season­ending game against the Hurricanes at the Orange Bowl. 
"This is one of those wins that is great for your football program," coach Frank Beamer said. "I hope we build on it. The way we did it, the way we hung in there, we never gave up." 
Randall passed for 304 yards, also hooking up with David Clowney on a 34-yard touchdown in the second quarter. 
But Randall really shined at the end. He threw an 80-yard scor­ing pass to Eddie Royal with 
5:28 remaining, then com­pleted a desperation pass for the tying 2-point conversion. 
"When we tied it, we knew we had the. momentum," Randall said. "We dido 't think our defense would give up any more points." 
But Georgia Tech's did. On the Hokies' next series, Randall ran for 32 yards, then connected with Josh Morgan for a 51-yard TD with 3:10 remaining. 
Minor, a redshirt freshman, intercepted two passes by Reggie Ball in the final 2 1/2 minutes, returning the sec­ond for the touchdown that capped a 25-point fourth quarter by the Hokies. 
Georgia Tech (4-3, 3-3) scored two touchdowns less than a minute apart in the second quarter for a 14-0 lead. But the Yellow Jackets couldn't hold it, their highly ranked defense falling apart in the final period. 
After giving up a total of 265 yards in its two previous games, the Yellow Jackets were burned for 446 yards in this one. 
"It hurts to let one get away like this, where we thought we were in pretty good shape going into the fourth quar­ter," coach Chan Gailey said. "We gave up some big plays and just couldn't sustain any­thing offensively." 
Randall completed 18 of 31 passes and also played a big role in the running game, accounting for 64 yards on nine carries. 
Georgia Tech was still looking good after Travis Bell kicked his second field goal, a 34-yarder with 5:44 remaining for a 20-12 lead. 
"Things were going wrong," Virginia Tech coach Frank Beamer said. "It looked like every time things were turning around for us, we did something else." 
But the Hokies managed to survive on a foggy, wacky night in downtown Atlanta. The teams combined for seven turnovers, 173 yards in penalties and plenty of head­scratching playf}. 
Ball inexplicably ran out of the back of the end zone in the third quarter to give Virginia Tech a safety. The Hokies had to settle for a field goal early in the fourth quarter after having first­and-goal inside the Georgia Tech 1. 
In the first half, the teams spent plenty of time giving each other the ball. 
Randall fumbled deep in Georgia Tech territory, while Georgia Tech's star running back, P.J. Daniels, lost the ball twice on the Hokies side of the field. 
After Daniels' second fum­ble, Randall gave the ball right back with an ill-advised pass over the middle tbat was picked off by Butler and returned to the Hokies 39. 
Finally, someone took advantage. Ball threw a 27­yard pass to Nate Curry, then hooked up with Calvin Johnson in the back of the end zone for a 9-yard touch­down. 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Swimmers take on Arizona St., Purdue in meet 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
, 

After dominating the Dennis Stark Relays at Notre Dame, the Irish hit the road to take on Arizona State and Purdue at West Lafayette in a three­way meet tonight. 
The Irish enjoyed nearly a month of rest between the relays and this weekend's competition, which allowed the team to adjust to new swimmers and new talents. 
"Over fall break we stayed 
here and we had a week of really, really intense training," senior co-captain Georgia Healey said. ··rhis week we had a little bit of a rest at the beginning of the week, took down the intensity and we're just trying to get psyched up for tomorrow." 
The Sun Devils finished 14th in the NCAA Championships last year, and the Boilermakers were ranked 36th at the season's end. The Irish finished action as Big East champions and 25th in the NCAA. 
The team this year seems to be stronger than ever. 
"I think we're definitely in a great position this year to do well," Healey said. "We have a big team. We have a lot of depth." 
Sophomore Katie Carroll was named the Big East Championships Most Outstanding Swimmer last year and opened this season with a time that may qualify her for the 400-meter individ­ual relay at the NCAA champi­onships. Other strong mem­bers returning to the team include Ellen Johnson, Christel Bouvron, Ann Barton and Laura Stafford in the 800­meter freestyle relay. Seventeen swimmers have already posted qualifying times for the Big East Championships. 

The team will be able to use this weekend's meets as preparation for a tough Big East conference schedule. 
"There will be some [swim­mers] that get switched around because we have a bunch of people who are strong in sev.eral different areas," Healey said. 
Healey was also excited about the addition of assistant coach Carrie Nixon, a 2002 graduate and former Irish All­American. 
"She's been tough, but she's been very inspirational," Healey said. "The addition. of her has really been a great asset to the program. I have a lot of confidence in what we're going to be doing this year." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost, set of keys on silver key ring with etched letter A. If found please call Anikka at 634·1057 
WANTED 
PART· TIME WORK Great pay,flex sched.,sales/svc.all ages18+,cond. apply, 273-4878 
Student seeking odd jobs painting,raking,cleaning,etc. Call 
412-977-3092. 
CHILD CARE WANTED: 23-month· old twins in our home. 1 or 2 week· days (5·6 hours each day). Must provide own transportation. Call Kara at 574-621-1540. 
FoR RENT 
2·6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from ND MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
LARGE 3 bd/2 ba. 4 blocks from campus on Sorin with w/d, garage and basement. Please contact Matt at 876-1456. $1,150/mo. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2005·06 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. 
WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·3·5-7 BED­ROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIG­HBORHOODS,SECURITY SYS­TEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234· 2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
Fum. 1-bdrm. apt. for 1-2 weekend visitors. 5 miles away in a safe neighborhood. 
574-286·9392. 

1 bdrm efficiency unfurnished apt. Historic downtown location. $350/ mo.plus $350 dep. You pay electric approx $40/mo. Gas &water paid! Call Derek 317-201 2791. 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. W/D, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAIL.NOW. CALL JOE CRIMMINS:574-229­3659 OR 679-2010. 
TICKETS 

BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. ND ftball tix bought &sold 
a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288·2726 
Buying and selling ND football tix, especially Boston College 574·289-8048 NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call Amy 219-872-5932 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Help us complete our family, baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan 877-895·9790 Toll Free 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City &Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1· 800-678-6386 
Cold Season is here Flu-shot alter­native All Natural! Protect yourself from colds & flu. Contact Mandy Hosier 574-876·7525 AdvoCare. com or debtbusters@ ureach.com 

I .. 
Friday, October 29, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC SWIMMING 
SMC SOCCER 

Perfect home record looms 

By ANNA FRICAN0 Sports Writer 
The Belles will participate in their first conference challenge of the season this Saturday as they face opponents Olivet and Hope, in a meet held at Hope College. 
Saturday marks the first day of contest within the MIAA swim competition. All of the schools in the conference will be making their first attempts at capturing conference points to start the season off in a comf(Jrtable posi­tion in the standings. 
The Belles will swim in three conference meets, including Saturday's, before the MIAA Swimming and Diving Championships at the beginning of February. 
With only two returning sen­iors on the team, captains Michelle Stanforth and Ashley Dyer, the Belles are going to have to deal with the challenges that inexperience will cause for the team. 
Eight freshmen joined the 
Belles look to begin season against Hope 
team this season, replacing the six swimmers that graduated after last year. 
But with the innxperienee comes a fresh outlook that might be exactly what the Belles need. 
Saint Mary's will be diving in headfirst on Saturday for their competition against Hope and Olivet. Hope has won the league championship for three of tho past five years, with Calvin claiming the title during the other two years. 
In order to really be successful in the 2004-05 season, Saint Mary's will have to overcome the deficit of divers that the team has experienced in recent years. Two new divers added to the ros­ter should give the Belles the boost that they need in order to be really competitive within the conference. 
Saturday, Saint Mary's will be able to put its new roster to the test, and see what it has to offer to the conference competition for the 2004-05 season. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africano@nd.edu 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
With their season all but fin­
ishnd, the Belles still have one 

more goal to check off their list 
-going undefeated at home. 
Saint Mary's will attempt to 
finish the season 8-0 at home 
when it takes on conference 
rival Calvin College Saturday at 
noon. 
"We're undefeated at home, 
so winning this game leaves us 
undefeated for the year," junior 
d(~fender Shannon Culbertson 
said. "We want to win for our 
seven seniors, so it's a really 
important game." 
The Belles will face a tough challenge in Calvin, who cur­rently sits atop the MIAA stand­ings. Saint Mary's has proven itself capable of knocking off a top team at home once already this year, defeating then-con­ference leader Hope 2-0 Sept. 29. 
"\Ve 're undefeated on our home field, and we plan on keeping it that way," goalie Laura Heline said. "We want to play our game at home so we can have a big win at the end of the season. There's always a lot of confidence at home. We get a lot of fan support, and we've been playing well on our field." 
Saturday will mark the sec­ond matchup for Saint Mary's against Calvin. In their first meeting, Calvin got two goals from 2003 MIAA MVP Sarah Weesies in a 3-1 defeat of the Belles. 
"We've never lost to a team twice this season, and we're hoping to keep that record," Culbertson said. "We're capa-

Observer File Photo Belles' midfielder Katie Noble dribbles up the field. Saint Mary's looks to complete an 8-0 home record Saturday. 
ble of winning. We know we're a talented team,· but we just came up short a couple times. We just want to go out there and play our best, and get one more win at home." 
The loss to. Calvin earlier in the year came on the road, where the Belles have had little success this year. Had they even held a .500 record on the road this year, Saint Mary's would have been near the top of the conference, in strong position to make the playoffs. Instead, they are left wondering what might have been. 
"Individually, we're a very talented team, but for whatever reason, we just find it easier to put it together at home than on the road," Culbertson said. 
The Belles will look to rebound from Wednesday's 3-2 loss to Hope, their second in their last three games. 
"We played a good game against Hope, and we're disap­pointed we lost, but we're focused on playing a big game on Saturday," He line said. 
The Belles will receive some extra motivation knowing that this weekend's game against Calvin represents the last home game for the team's seven sen­iors. 
"The seniors are tremendous leaders; they've turned the Saint Mary's soccer program completely around," Heline. said. "We went from being a consistent last place finisher to competing for rrrst every year. I don't even know how to put 
· into words the great things they've done." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffY 1 @nd.edu 
IL 
THECUSHWACENTER= FOR THE STUDY OF=
--,IF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
U presents 
"Jonathan Edwards: A Life" 
By George Marsden Saturday, October 30, 2004 g:ooam McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education 

FoR RENT 
Spacious 4 bedroom 2.5 bath home 1 mile from ND 
. 

CR/DR/Kitchen/3 season patio with built in Bar-B-Q $1800I month + deposit + t utilities 



574-339-1638 


SENIORS: Return your yearbook proofs this week 9;5, LaFortune Dooley Room 
en~ur{l th{l po~{l you went i~ in th{l 2005 PJom~ 

*7:35PM vs. #15 Northern Michigan First 500 fans receive a Notre Dame Hockey License Plate and Holder courtesy of Drive and Shine Car Care Center 
7:05PM vs. #15 Northern Michigan The first 500 fans receive an authentic NDFD T -shirt courtesy of the Notre Dame Fire Department 
• 
7:30 PM vs. Connecticut 

First 250 fans in costume get a 
... 

MEIJER Trick-or-Treat bag with candy courtesy of Meijed 

Halftime costume contest! 
..1111111• 

1 PM vs. St. John's BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP Quarterfinals P; ~ 
~a.•••Jr# ~-/_.., 
·~· \....~ 

Division I MONDO Men's Cross Country Top 25 
team region points 
1 Wisconsin GL 418 2 Stanford w 401 3 Colorado M 388 4 Arkansas sc 387 5 NOTRE DAME GL 359 6 Cal Poly w 346 7 Georgetown MA 325 7 Michigan GL 325 9 Arizona Slate w 308 10 BYU M 300 11 Florida Stale s 274 12 Air Force M 272 13 Indiana GL 240 14 Butler GL 237 15 lona Nt: 220 16 North Carolina State SE 212 17 Colorado State M 186 18 Villanova MA 178 19 Minnesota · MW 173 20 Florida s 142 21 Okt,ahoma State MW 134 22 Providence NE 133 23 New Mexico M 123 24 Northern Arizona M 102 25 Central Michigan GL 75 
Division I Finishlynx Women's Cross Country Top 25 
team  region  points.  
1  Stanford  w  390  
2  Providence  NE  376  
3  Colorado  MT  364  
4  Michigan  Gl  349  
5  Duke  SE  336  
6  NOTRE DAME  Gl  329  
7  North Carolina  SE  308  
7  Arizona State  w  302  
9 10  Missouri North Carolina State  MW SE  285 267  ...  
11  Michigan Slate  Gl  248  
12  BYU:>:  MT  244  
13  Southern Methodist  236  
14  Tennessee  s  225  
15  Villanova  MA  214  
16  UC·Santa Barbara  w  189  
17  Georgia  s  178  
18  Wake Forest  SE  167  
19  Princeton  MA  151  
20  Arkansas  sc  145  
21  Indiana  Gl  138  
22  West Virginia  SE  102  
23  Idaho  w  99  
24  Colorado State  MT  96  
25  Boston College  NE  72  

CSTV Division I Men's Hockey Standings 
team record 
1 Minnesota-Duluth 5-0-1 2 Boston College 2·1·0 3 Michigan 4-1-1 4 North Dakota 4·1-1 5 Wisconsin 4·0-0 6 Minnesota 3·2-0 7 Maine 4·3-0 8 Colorado College 4·0-0 9 New Hampshire 3-1·1 10 Miami 4-2-0 11 Denver 3-2-0 12 Dartmouth 0·0·0 13 Ohio State 4·2·0 14 Cornell 0·0·0 15 Northern Michigan 3·1·0 


around the dial 
NBA PRESEASON Detroit at Minnesota 7 p.m., ESPN Phoenix at Sacramento 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Carlos Beltran got off to a fast start in the free-agent market, too. 
After hitting eight homers for the Houston Astros to tie the postseason record, the speedy center fielder was among 65 players who filed for free agency Thursday on the first possible day, just hours after Boston complet­ed its historic sweep of St. Louis in the World Series. 
Acquired during the sea­son from Kansas City, Beltran has said he would consider re-signing with the Astros if they keep the core of the team together. 
"I experienced being on a team where they don't do anything to help the ball­club," Beltran said. "One of my priorities if I stay with this ballclub will be keeping the young guys ... our young players have potential to be real good." 
Beltran; who is represent­ed by Scott Boras, could get the biggest deal of the off­season. 
Dodgers third baseman Adrian Beltre, who led the major leagues with 48 home runs, also filed along with Dodgers outfielder Steve Finley. Beltre, also a Boras client, had arthroscopic sur­gery Thursday to remove two large bone spurs from his left ankle. 
"Obviously there's a lot of interest in those guys," Boras said. "We're getting a lot of calls, so we thought we'd file." 
Also filing Thursday were Toronto first baseman Carlos Delgado, Chicago White Sox outfielder Magglio Ordonez, Minnesota right-hander Brad Radke and Philadelphia right-hander Kevin Millwood. 
While the Red Sox have 17 players potentially eligi­ble for free agency, a group that includes Pedro Martinez, Derek Lowe, Jason Varitek and Orlando Cabrera. Backup outfielder Gabe Kapler was the only player to file Thursday. Players may file through Nov. 11 and start negotiat­ing money with any of the other 29 teams the follow­ing day. 
Cardinals right-hander Chris Carpenter, sidelined since mid-September because of nerve damage in his right biceps, filed condi­tionally. St. Louis must decide whether to exercise a $2 million option for 2005. 
Florida right-hander Carl Pavano and Philadelphia left-bander Eric Milton are among the other starting pitchers eligible to file. 
Preliminary talks figure to start Nov. 8, when general managers gather for a week of meetings in Key Biscayne, Fla. The New York Yankees ended three days of high-level meetings in Tampa, Fla., on Thursday as they prepared for the off­season. 

IN BRIEF Texas' Francisco faces a 
lesser charge 
OAKLAND, Calif.-Texas Rangers reliever Frank Francisco will face a misdemeanor assault charge rather than a felony for breaking a woman's nose when he threw a chair into the stands during a game. 
"He has no record. He threw a plastic chair. It's not a gun. It's not a knife," Alameda County Senior Deputy District Attorney Norbert Chu said Thursday. explaining his deci­sion. 
While Francisco still faces a maxi­mum three years' probation and one year in county jail, if convicted, he escaped the three years in state prison connected to a felony convic­tion. A misdemeanor charge also means that Francisco does not have to appear in court for some proceed­ings, including the initial arraign­ment, Chu said. 
Francisco threw the chair into the 
right-field box seats and hit two spec­tators in the head during a Rangers­Oakland Athletics game Sept. 13. 
He hit Jennifer Bueno, whose hus­band, Craig, was part of a group of fans heckling the Rangers before the fracas. The couple's attorney, J. Gary William, said he expected such an outcome. Mauresmo, Sugiyama reach quarterfinals 
LINZ, Austria -Top-seeded Amelie Mauresmo reached the quarterfinals of the Generali Ladies Open by beating Polish teenager Marta Domachovska 6-4, 6-0 Thursday. 
Defending champion Ai Sugiyama also advanced, cruising past Daniela Hantuchova 6-2, 6-1 to set up a match against Mauresmo. 
Mauresmo, briefly ranked No. 1 this year and now No. 2, withdrew from recent tournaments in Zurich and Moscow because of a groin injury and played Thursday with her right thigh taped. 
But Mauresmo said she "was not hindered at all." 
In other action, Meghann Shaughnessy of the United States beat qualifier Julia Schruff 7-5, 6-2 and will play 2003 runner-up Nadia Petrova in the guarterfinals.Pacers pick up option on Jones, waive tliree rookies 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Pacers exercised their option for reserve guard Fred Jones on Thursday, extending his contract with the team through the 2005-06 season. He will become a restricted free agent at that time. 
Jones, a first-round draft pick out of Oregon in 2002, averaged 4.2 points in his first two seasons with Indiana. 
The Pacers also waived rookie guard Rashad Wright, their second­round pick out of Georgia, and rook­ie free agents Randy Holcomb (F, San Diego State) and Desmon Farmer (G, Southern California). 

page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

Kurt Benninger has placed in runners, Kerry Meagher, 
the top 10 twice already, tak­Lauren King and Stephanie ing eighth in the Pre-Nationals Madia, who all finished in the and second in the Notre Dame top 20. 
13 AlMs on Campus 
Invitational. Benninger has King won the race in 2002. clearly been a major reason The race will begin today at for the men's success all year. 11 a.m. for the men and 11:50 
On the women's side, Molly a.m. for the women. Huddle has been a model of consistency this season with a Contact Bobby Griffin at third-place finish in the Pre-rgriffi3@nd.edu 
with NO surchargel 
. 
.. o • .. 
0 

We have ATMs near you­NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION I
right where you need . Call Sean at 
You can bank on us
them, whenever you to be better I Anlan Propertiesneed them. 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org I . 574-532-f895 . 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Welsh hopes squad will rise to challange 
200-meter butterfly) and Louis
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Cavadini (50-meter and 100­
"Spons Writer 
meter freestyle), senior captain Matt Bertke (200-meter freestyle), juniors Doug
This weekend's meets will 
Bauman (200-meter back­
measure more than just speed 
stroke), Patrick Davis (500­
for the Irish. 
meter freestyle) and Tyler
Notre Dame travels to Utah 
Grenda (200-mete·r breast­
this weekend, first facing Utah stroke) all raced to individual
today and No. 22 Brigham 
victories for the Irish. 
Young on Saturday in the 
The diving team showed itsteam's second meet of the sea­
son. prom'ise as well, led by fresh­man Sam Stoner's victory on
Coach Tim Welsh anticipates the 1-meter board and sopho­that swimming at a higher alti­more Scott Coyle's win on thetude in front of a home crowd 3-meter board. Welsh praised.
will allow Notre Dame to gauge the divers for solid perform­their resilience in the face of 
ance.
adversity. 
Both Irish swimmers and
"We're hoping to satisfy our 
divers will encounter their
curiosity this weekend," Welsh share of challenges this week­
said. "We've been training 
end from their competitors.
extremely well and every thing 
Utah's 500-meter free relay,
we see is positive. We're pretty 200-meter free relay and 100­balanced; we have some strong meter individual medley relay swimmers in each event. What 
demonstrated their potential
we don't know is if we're fast with wins at the university'senough." 
Beehive Relay. 
Welsh emphasized that the 
Brigham Young's sophomore change in altitude will likely Chay Jung Jun looks to be a
provide one of the most legitimate threat in the 100
demanding challenges for the 
backstroke. 100-meterIrish this weekend. Notre 
freestyle and 200-meter
Dame's opponents are used to freestyle, while senior Scott
training above sea level and 
Randall looks to excel in diving. 
coping with the effects of the Despite the talented competi­thinner air. 
tion Notre Dame will face thisThe Irish hope to match the weekend, Welsh said the Irish
success they enjoyed three 
are focusing on their individual weeks ago at the Dennis Stark performances instead of theirRelays. Notre Dame used a mix opponent.<;.
of explosive youth and consis­"We want to be aggressivetent veterans to win the meet and unified in our approach,"157-55 point victory in the dual Welsh said. 
meet against Evansville. 
Sophomores Ted Brown Contact Ann Loughery at (400-meter individual medley, alougher@nd.edu 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish compete in Big Easts today 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
The Irish look to continue what has been a successful season to this point when they compete in the Big East Championships today. The Irish have displayed consisten­cy all year, which will be a huge positive for them going into the race. . 
Both the men and women face tough opposition in Boston this weekend, as they will be racing against several competitive teams. 
The men, who are currently ranked fifth in the nation, will have to face a slew of ranked opponents. 
Georgetown heads into the race ranked seventh, Villanova is ranked 18th and Providence is ranked 22nd. 
The women do not have it much easier. Hanked sixth in the nation, the women will have to face Providence and Villanova, among others. According to one poll, Providence is ranked second going into the race, and Villanova is ranked 18th. 
As their rankings indicate, both the men and women have performed extremely well all season. 
Both teams finished first in the National _Catholic Championships, and then against stiffer competition, the men took second in the ND Invitational while the women beating this year has been Nationals and a second-place took third. Stanford, who finished ahead finish in the Notre Dame 
On Oct. 16, both teams again in both the Notre Dame Invite. finished second in the Pre­Invitational and the Pre­The Irish women have had a National Championships. National Championships. lot of success in this race. 
The only team that the Irish The Irish have been led by a They are two-time defending have had consistent trouble solid group of runners all sea­champions, and last year, son. Huddle finished third in the For the men, sophomore eve,nt leading a pack of Irish 

Independent of the Unlverr.ity 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.J 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 29, 2004 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
'--· 
No.2 Welsh Fam meets No.7 Breen-Phillips Sunday 
game, the senior Feltault is her defense will set the tone been working on a defense to running the ball, Lyons should 
By MIKE LASKEY, MIKE 
not ready to hang up the early. stop her, and. we just need definitely feel threatened. 
TENNANT, PETER 
spikes just yet. "Our defense is really good implement it." No. 1 Cavanaugh vs. No. 8 
CRAOCHIOLO AND 
No. 3 Walsh vs. No. 6 at gaining momentum, and According to the Phoxes, Badin
THOMAS BARR Pasquerilla West our offense keeps up the ener­Kazmerski is the loudest roar In many occasions the first 
Sports Wrirers 
It'll be a devil of a rematch gy," the senior Wild Woman that the Lions can boast, but seed is expected to breeze Sunday as the Wild Women .said. stopping her will be hard through the' first round, but For Breen-Phillips, merely and the Weasels square off in Leading the Walsh defense work. Pangborn has not for­this matchup between the qualifying for postseason play the opening round of the play­will be senior cornerback gotten about its only tie this undefeated Cavanaugh Chaos is not good enough. The sev­offs. Katie llesmond. llesmond season. Murrary believes her and the eighth seeded Badin enth-seeded Babes will look to Walsh and Pasquerilla West and company have only team's offense developed Bullfrogs looks to be different. shake up the playoff bracket battled to a 6-6 tie early on in allowed two teams to score on gradually throughout the sea­Neither team is taking this this weekend when they take the season in a defensive them all season, one of which son, but especially after the game lightly as there is a bit on the second-seeded Welsh struggle where both teams was Pasquerilla West in the Lyons tie. of a rivalry between them. Family Whirlwinds. The game failed to convert on their Wild Women's second game of "Our offense was a little Although this is their first is scheduled for 4 p.m. on extra points. the season. slow coming off, but it has meeting of the season, they 
<;..­
Sunday at the McGlinn Fields. But Weasels captain Abby The Weasels defense has built up very nicely," Murray have played in the playoffs 
Babes captain Jaimie Nerlinger is confident this been impressive as well, said. "It started to turn the last few seasons. Feltault is excited at the game will be different. thanks to strong play from around during the first Lyons In the last meeting between prospect of playing spoiler. "When we played them, it their line and a superb season game. I'd say that if the game these teams the Bullfrogs 
"We're coming in as under­was our first game of season, from senior linebacker Gina had gone on we would have knocked the Chaos out of the dogs. It's a make or break sit-and that makes a difference," Lopresto. won." semis. uation," Fcltault said. . the Weasel senior said. The Wild Women finished Despite what ha~ happened The Bullfrogs, led by cap­
The Babes find their team The Wild Women will be the season strong, winning in the past, the future of the tain Stephanie Heath, ended slightly hobbled heading into dealing with a different their last four games after seasons lies in Sunday's the season 3-3 and realize the playoffs, losing several Pasquerilla West team this tying the first two, gaining the match up. Not only is Murray they are up for a challenge. players to injury and finishing time around, as the Weasels third seed in the playoffs. confident in the offensive They know it will be a tough the regular season with two have since found a quarter­Meanwhile, the Weasels have attributes of her ..team, but the game and realize that a key to tough losses and a tie. back in junior Heather Van worked their way to a 3-1-2 defense looks solid as 'Yell. stopping the Chaos is to some­
"We've improved on some of Hoegarden. -record, leaving them with a "I think our defense has how keep their solid receiving our weaknesses," Feltault ''I'm confident our offense six seed. been strong pretty much all corps in check. said. "We're going to have to will be strong," Nerlinger No. 4 Pangborn vs. No. 5 season. Our tackling is dead­They do not run a set keep our defense strong. A lot said. " ... We have some of Lyons on most the time," Murray defense every week but adjust of our players are still the best receivers in the Pangborn has a game plan said. to opponen.ts' offenses. They improving, and we have some league." to continue its success this With the generally strong . are similarly adaptable on the players back from injuries." Van Hoegarden's targets will season. defense plus the changes offensive side of the ball. 
Both the Babes and the include sophomore Maureen The Phoxes only tie has implemented to contain Lyons I)espite missing a few key Whirlwinds have found them­Spring and junior Brenna come from this weekend's quarterback, Pangborn should players for undisclosed rea­selves in a similar situation Mannion, both of whom are opponent Lyons. Pangborn's be all set. However, it doesn't sons, Heath expects her squad before, as the teams have having good seasons at wide inability to shutdown Lyons stop there. Pangborn has to step up and give the clutch squared off in the playoffs receiver. earlier this season has forced weapons. performance that a game of several times over the past The Walsh offense will be them to re-evaluate its strate­"Mary Davis, our receiver, this magnitude against a team few seasons. led by freshman quarterback gy. has unbelievable hands, she of this caliber requires. 
"We've had a good rivalry Mary Sullivan, and will cer­"We really need to contain can catch just about any­
with them the past few tainly be looking to reach the Traci Kazmerski, their quar­thing," Murray said, "Trish Contact Mike Laskey at 
years," Feltault said. "We're end zone often. terback and captain. We've Conneely and Brynn Johnson mlaskey@nd.edu, Mike Tennant 
looking to have this one end "Scoring is always a key," been watching their games, are our key running-backs as at mtennant@nd.edu, Peter 
our way." Walsh captain Carrie and we know her best well." Craochiolo @pcraochi@nd.edu 
In what could potentially be Campbell said. receivers," Pangborn captain With Davis going deep as and Thomas Barr at her final interhall football Campbell is also confident Katie Murray said, "We've well as Conneely and Johnson tbarr@nd.edu 

Thank you Michelle McCarthy And the Class of 2006 for the SPOOKY Parents Night Out! Your favorite goblins on campus . and their parents at University Village 




Student, Faculty/Staff and Family 
TENNIS CLINIC 
Presented by: Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis T earns 
Wednesday,November3,2004 5:30 p.m. -7:00 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Free of Charge/Must have valid Notre Dame I.D. 
BRI~G YOUR OWN RACQUET TENNIS SHOES REQUIRED NO RUNNING SHOES ALLOWED 
Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. Open 
to all N.D. students, faculty/staff, and their families. 
Where can you'll:'''' to, emost inexpen­sive housing and S get your own bed­room?? 


Answer: 

At LAFAYETTE SQUARE!! Our 4bed­room units are only $267.50/ student and our 5·bedroom units are $254/student. Think ofhow much money you can save and spend. on more important things. Can you believe your luck?? OPEN HOUSE Wed., NOV. 3 from 4-6 PM Sign alease for 05-06 and get a $100 gift certificate from the Bookstore! 


Friday, October 29, 2004 
The Observer • SPORTS 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look to reverse woes 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
Sports Writer 
Beginning today Saint Mary's  
will play its final four games of  
th,.e regular season. The Belles  
are currently on a five-game los­ 
ing streak matching their longest  
skid since beginning the season  
0-5. Their recent lapse has  
dropped their regular season  
record to 5-15 overall.  
Saint Mary's will travel to  
Illinois to partake in the  
Benedictine Tournament, a two­ 
day trip which pits the Belles  
against four non-conference  
teams. So far this season, the.  
Belles have played four teams  
outside of their league and have  
yet to win. The Belles will take  
on Monmouth College beginning  
Observer File Photo at 4 p.m. The Fighting Scots  
Elise Ruprlght, left, will be crucial to the Belles if they arecome intQ. the contest with a  
going to reverse their five-game losing streak this weekend.record of 17-10.  
Saint Mary's did not play  
Monmouth last year and will  Their final match begins at  Benedictine Tournament, the  
have its hands full against a very good volleyball team.  noon and the Belles will be fac­ing one of their most difficult  Belles will begin the MIAA Tournament which begins on  
Following the match, the  opponents of the year. The Big  Tuesday. The games have yet to  
Belles will have little time for  Blue of Millikin College are 24-8  be de-termined; but Saint Mary's,  
rest as they immediately take  this year, and Saint Mary's must  who finished seventh in the  
the court again against Clarke  bring its best game if it hopes to  league, will probably face  
College at 8 p.m. The Crusaders  have a shot at coming away with  Kalamazoo College who current­ 
are only 5-28 this year.  a victory.  ly resides in third. place in the  
At the conclusion of tonight's  Saint Mary's will be relying on  conference.  
games, Saint Mary's will be at it  players such as Michelle Turley,  This weekend's tournament  
once again on Saturday to finish  Elise Rupright and Shelly  will hopefully give the Belles a  
up the last two matches of the  Bender to lead the team's  chance to polish up their game  
tournament. At 10 a.m., the  offense. The Belles will look to  and tie up any loose ends that  
Belles will play Benedictine  Anne Cusack to continue her  still remain. It is vital they finish  
University, the tournament's  dominance on defense. She  the season strong if they hope to  
host. The Eagles have had an  leads the team with 323 digs.  have any chance at making a  
up-and-down season until now,  Teammate Amanda David  run in the conference tourna­ 
winning their first four and then  should also help the defense  ment.  
dropping seven of their next  after accumulating 131 digs this  
nine. They are currently 16-14  year.  Contact Justin Stetz at  
on the year.  At the completion of the  jstetz@nd.edu  



Off-Campus Housing 
Offere_d by Domus Properties. 
Now leasing for 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 school years 
• 
Close to campus • Washers & dryers 

• 
Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers 

• 
Security systems • Internet ready 

• 
24-hour maintenance staff 


To view all of our houses, visit 
W\NVV. domuskramer com 

Call today­properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 (574) 234-2436 
5¥~· .. · 
.. ··iii 
··~······ 
page 19 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles' season comes down to MIAA race 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 

Saturday will determine the Belles' fate in the MIAA stand­ings, as the Saint Mary's cross country team will travel to Calvin College to compete in the conference championship. 
The team finished sixth place at its only other confer­ence race this year, the MIAA Jamboree. In order to achieve a fourth place spot In the final standings, the Belles will need to have one of their best per­formances of the season. Albion, Kalamazoo and Alma will all prove to be obstacles for Saint Mary's to overcome. 
Coach Dave Barstis knows that the team has a challenge ahead. 
"If we can beat Kalamazoo and Kalamazoo can beat Alma, we'll finish fourth over­all in the standings," Barstis said. 
Saint Mary's is poised and ready to capitalize on any opportunity that the Belles have to move up in the confer­ence standings. Freshman Megan Gray is confident in her team's ability to compete on Saturday. 
"All of the workouts ... and especially the hill workouts ... have made us stronger run­ners. At this point, the poten­tial is there, we just have to relax and run," Gray said. 
Senior and co-captain Risa Zander also has high hopes as well as high expectations for her fellow teammates. 
For the seniors on the team, 
this Saturday may mark the 
final cross-country meet of 
their collegiate careers. 
Zander, along with co-cap­tain Elizabeth Commers and senior runners Sara Dunn, Ashley LaLonde, Aubrey Szany and Kristin Zaininger will all run in their final team compe­tition. Although the top seven runners in the conference race will go on to compete in the regional meet, Saturday will be the last time that the entire 2004 team will run together. Zander looks upon her final race with the team as some­thing to remember. 
"Being a part of this team is going to be one of the things that I will miss most about Saint Mary's, if not the single most," Zander said. 
There would be no better way for the ladies to finish off their four years than with yet another step up the ladder in the MIAA Conference stand­ings. 
After finishing sixth place in the 2003 season, their highest finish since running in their first championship in 1998, the entire team is ready to again improve upon their per­formance and again make his­tory for Saint Mary's. 
The team will travel to Calvin with this goal in mind, as well as the potential to make it a reality. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africano@nd.edu 


versity Hair Sty t 
All Licensed Hair Stylists 
631·5144 
Pull service QA\-1 •9PM M·THR 9t\M·7PM F 9AM·4PMSAT LA Fonune center Notre Dame. Indiana +6566 


we are afull-serviCe salon that offers Haircuts .. Color .. Perms ·EYebrow Arches 
No cover ever with studet1tiU 

•1 Sports Sar i" South Se"d 204-6 South Jet1d Ave-Across frotft Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 NU Football Headquarters Otdi"e sports it1fo 
"C.reat Food, C.reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football fuEs: CoLLE&E NttHr .. VJ & SPECIALs fsrAtnNt Ar *1.00) Wed: fRIVIA Night -~ring your teattts -Prizes 
fHUtS: VJ .,. fiRSf THURSPAY EVERY MONfH: JASSY &tAll 
Fri: Live Et1tertait1met~t 
fHURSgAY SFEACIALS 

Sat: NU games 
SfAtT AT t2.00!

Sun: Sports -14-sereet1s 
rr ­
··\ 
)lj) 
)I 
!! page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 29, 2004 
jl 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS
~ 
tl
,\ 
•} 
,\ 
); 
I' 
·) ,, Carroll looks to bounce back against Fisher 
'I 
I l 
•I 
I ~ ~ By JOHN EVERETT, TOM DORWART, ANNA FRICANO AND RAMA 
;\\ GOTTUMUKKALA ,( 
Sports Writer 
';~ 
·,\ 
\I ·I The playoffs are a welcome 
.l 
l 
,\ ., novelty for Carroll, but they are not about to relax now. Carroll finished the regular season with an impressive 3-1 record which included a defeat of two-time defending champi­on Siegfried and a victory over a very tough Fisher squad. However Carroll heads into the 
I first-round with a bit of disap­pointment surrounding them. The Vermin lost a chance to fin­ish the season undefeated when they were crushed 34-13 by previously winless Sorin. 
In that finale, the Carroll offense performed miserably, and the Otters made them pay for it. Two of Kory Wilmot's passes resulted in Sorin touch­downs. 
Once the Vermin were so far behind, their offense was forced to pass on just about every play, limiting their effec­tiveness. Carroll will be looking to return to its earlier, more productive form Sunday. 
Knott had an up-and-down season, and managed to sneak into the playoff picture at 2-2. This fact, however, does not mean that Carroll, or any other interhall team, can afford to take the Juggs lightly. When Knott plays at its best, they can look like a truly difficult team to beat. 
The Juggs feature an espe­cially potent rushing attack, with both John Lyons and Joe McCarthy capable of carving through the defense. Quarterback Justin Gillett is also a threat to run, and pro­vides the passing game to bal­ance out the offense. 
The job of stopping Carroll from scoring will fall into the hands of the very capable Knott defense, led by an outstanding defensive line. Defensive tackle Justin Cheers has been racking up the sacks this season and is a disruptive force at all times. 
If Carroll hopes to continue its dream season with a playoff win Wilmot's passes must wind up in the capable hands of the Vermin's receiver core, led by Kyle Kownacki and Mike Versagli. Knott will be hoping to show people that they are bet­ter than their record. It should make for an interesting battle. · 
No. 1 Keenan vs. No. 8 Morrissey 
Each sitting at 1-0 at the time, the Keenan Knights and 
-· Morrissey Manorites battled in a back-and-forth game full of turnovers, in the second game of the interhall season five weeks ago. 
Keen an prevailed 18-7. Somehow, the Keenan captain and coach knew his team would see the Manorites again. 
"We had a feeling we were going to see them again," Patrick Downey said. 
The second time around hap­pens to be in the first round of the single elimination playoffs. First-seeded Keenan (4-0) clashes with eighth-seeded Morrissey (1-2-1) Sunday at 1 
p.m. at Stepan fields. 
Downey recognizes the Knights' need to handle the pigskin much better than they did in their first meeting with Morrissey. 
"In the first game, we turned the ball over four times. In the playoffs, we know that is just not going to cut it. We got away with it before, but we have to eliminate the mistakes. Hopefully we've worked all the bugs out," Downey said. 
The Knights ride a four-game winning streak into the matchup, while the Manorites squeak into the contest after edging Stanford for the final spot in the playoffs. 
"The playoffs are a whole new season. Anything can hap­pen," Morrissey captain and wide receiver Aaron Ronsheim said. "We were disappointed after the last game [with Keenan]. We're using it as motivation." 
After falling in quadruple overtime in the semifinals of last year's playoffs, the Knights remember what it feels like to be one game away from playing in Notre Dame Stadium and lose a nail-biter. 
"We definitely have that haunting us. We were really close last year," Downey said. "We've got a little extra motiva­tion." 
While neither team has played for at least two weeks because of fall break, Keenan's layoff has been three weeks because of a bye before fall break. 
"There's been some rust, but we've had a good week of prac­tice," Downey said. "In the reg­ular season, you can afford some hiccups but not in the playoffs." 
Both teams boast balanced ofl'enses, and both teams show­case formidable defenses. 
"Our team begins and ends with our defense. We rely on them. Once we have a lead, we feel really good about our chances. Our defense has only given up two touchdowns this year and no sustained drives," Downey said. 
"We've been intense lately. We're flying around," Morrissey captain Ronsheim said. "We're a lot better than a month ago." 
As Morrissey looks for revenge and Keenan looks to cast aside the frustration or last year's quadruple overtime semifinal loss, this first round meeting is huge. 
No. 4 Fisher vs. No. 5 Siegfried 

Enclosed Porch • Large Vard Secluded Downtown Location $333/month/BedroomLiving, Dining, Family, Den w /Shelves, 2 Bathrooms $333 deposit required/bedroom 
317-201-2791 
This Sunday on the South field at 1 p.m., Siegfried and Fisher will be playing in the first round of the interhall play­offs. 
Both teams have won three games, but each team also has one loss going into this game. Now that it is time for the play­offs, each game is much more important. 
"We're trying to get more guys out to ·practice," Fisher captain Jerremy Morene said. "[We are] preparing, like every game, to win. They throw the ball a lot, and we're preparing for that." 
Last year when Fisher and Siegfried faced each other, Fisher came out on top with a tight score of 10-7. · • 
"They are defending champs," Morene said. "They are tough competition. We know it's not impossible to beat them. It can be done." 
Some of the players on the Fisher team that have been playing well this year are quar­terback Pat Gotebeski, running back and linebacker Andy Pfister and linebacker Tom Bufalino. 
"Our whole offense has done good this year," Morene said. "[They are] playing like a unit and giving the quarterback time." 
This game is a deciding game on who will continue on in the playoffs. This game is very essential to both teams because whoever loses does not get to continue on. 
"LWe'vel got to go out and play like every other game," Morene said. "Go out and win." No. 3 Dillon vs. No. 6 Alumni 

· At first glance, this weekend's matchup between the No. 3 and No. 6 ranked teams in the men's interhall playoff bracket is just that -a playoff game. But intangibles give any game a whole new, unique spin. Especially considering the two teams are neighbors, Dillon (2­0-2) and Alumni (2-1-1 ), heated rivals whose last regular sea­son game ended in a 6-6 tie. 
In a strange coincidence, the Dawgs and the Big Red find themselves facing each other again on Sunday for the first game of the playoffs. This time, though, the stakes have been raised and only one team can take that crucial first step towards being one game away from playing in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"Our team is obviously pretty pumped about playing Dillon again," Alumni captain A.J. Remen said. "It's always been a big rivalry and everyone is going to be going out there and, on both sides of the ball, giving 110%. Everyon·e played their hearts out last game and it ended up in a tie. But, unfortu­nately, someone's got to go home with a loss this game and hopefully it's Dillon." 
Although Dillon has the advantage with a zero in the losses column, Alumni holds the distinction of being the only team to score on the tough Dillon defense all year. The Dawgs hope to replicate that success for this Sunday. 
"Their defense is a pretty solid defense," Remen said. "They've been good basically all year. So obviously our biggest concern is being able to put points on the board against their tough defense. And offen­sively, [our biggest concern is] trying to get our offense into a little better rhythm so that we're a little smoother as far as precision in running routes and blocking." 
Facing a challenge to their defense in their last game, Dillon hopes to set the tone early defensively in Sunday's game and channel the mentali­ty that has served them well throughout the season. 
"We're not changing much from what's worked for us in the past," Dillon captain Mike Roaldi said. "We know what we saw from them last time so that gives us a little bit of heads up. But we'll try getting to the quarterback and get a few sacks early as well as first stop­ping the run and making them throw the ball, which is what we did last time." 
But no matter how much ten­sion there is in this matchup, one simple fact remains. In the playoffs, the win or go home mentality takes a whole new importance, no matter who the opponent is. 
"Once you're in the plQ.yoffs, that stuff goes out the window," Roaldi said. "If you can't get excited about a playoff game, you shouldn't be playing. We're looking for a tough game with four tough quarters." 
The Big Red and the Dawgs face off at 2 p.m. on Sunday at the Riehle West field. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu, Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu, Anna Fricano at africano@nd.edu and Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

at7pm 

with the uou\l'f W'lf\
•rouu\\tto , ....sta•
5esnard L_akes u . ."'18rnetrau.u 
notre \\am&s wvn.nd.odu 

Friday, October 29, 2004 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Wildcats 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame will also be look­ing to continue its positive momentum after defeating then­No. 1 Boston College Oct. 22 by the score of 3-2. Notre Dame's upset win knocked the Eagles to No. 2 this week, and moved Minnesota Duluth to the No. 1 spot, prompting Poulin to joking­ly say that the Irish are "the only team in the country that's played two number one teams already." 
One crucial part of Notre Dame's success against the Eagles was the play of senior goalie Morgan Cey. Cey was rewarded for his 50-save per­formance with a bevy of weekly awards, including being named the CCHA goaltender of the week and the USCHO/ITECH defensive player ofthe week. 
"It's all starting to come together for Morgan," Poulin said. "I think his freshman year he came in with a lot of raw tal­ent but wasn't quite as strong as he needed to be, and had to take some time to feel that out. Sophomore year the team strug­gled in front of him. Junior year he had to deal with injuries, and I think the culmination of all the hard work he's done is really starting to pay off now." 
Cey's play has been especially impressive at home, where the goalie has a tie against Minnesota Duluth also to his credit. The Irish as a whole seem to play better at the Joyce Center, and Poulin hopes to use his team's home ice this week­end as an advantage. 
"We've created a really nice advantage in this building over the years," he said. "We're com­fortable here and get to practice here everyday -a lot of teams aren't able to practice in their buildings every day. We've been able to maximize what we have to work with." 
offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 2nd 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30 -9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-~Aorse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Among the players who played well at home last week was sophomore defenseman Wes O'Neill, who Poulin singled out as one of the best players so far this season. The stats back up the coach's assessment ­O'Neill leads the team in scoring with five points [one goa] and four assists] and tied for second on the team with a plus-1 rating through the first five games. 
"He keeps getting better and better," Poulin said about O'Neill. "I thought the BC game was one of the best games he's played in an Irish uniform, and he's played some good ones." 
Defense is a key part of Northern Michigan's team, as well. The Wildcat defense has held opponent<> to just 1.7 5 goals per game, with its goalies amassing a combined .949 save percentage. 
Defenseman Nathan Oystrick is considered one of the top blueliners in the country, and leads the team with a plus-2 rat­ing. Offensively the Wildcats are led by Jamie Milam's six points (two goals, four assists). 
Coming into the season, Northern Michigan's biggest question mark was in net after the graduation of workhorse Craig Kowalski. But senior Tuomas Tarkki and freshman Bill Zaniboni have each been impressive between the pipes so far. 
"[Northern Michigan] is fast, skilled and good," Poulin said. "Their strength is really at the defense position and we have to get to the defense and force them to get rid of the puck early because all of their defensemen can really handle the puck well." 
The Irish face the Wildcats tonight at 7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center, and face Northern Michigan Saturday with the face-ofl' scheduled for 7:05p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish get ready to host UConn 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The No. 5 Irish (12-2-2, 7-1-1 in the Big East) hope to avoid a let­down after securing their first regular season conference title since beginning Big East play in 1995 when they welcome No. 21 Connecticut (8-6-2, 4-3-1) to Alumni Field Saturday night at 7:30p.m. 
While they have already locked up the Big East., with two regular season games and the Big East Championships in the near future and the NCAA Tournament on the horizon, the Irish need every win they can get to ensure a top rank­ing come national tournament time. 
"It's very important that we win as many remaining games as we can because ... you want to be one of the top four seeds in the country [going into the NCAA Tournament)," coach Bobby Clark said. 
Hosting elimination games at Alumni Field and not being forced to travel to an opponent's turf offers a number of advantages for the Irish. 
"[Being a top-four seed] means that the team can stay and pre­pare at home here in South Bend," Clark said. 
A victory Saturday night would mark the first time in program history the Irish have won eight conference games in a single sea­son -they posted seven Big East victories in 2001. 
Fighting for a position in the Big East Championships slated to start begin Nov. 6, Connecticut finds itself in need of conference points -in a tournament where the top four Big East finishers host a first round match, the Huskies currently occupy the sev­enth spot. 
Behind a pair of second half goals from leading scorers Justin Detter and Devon Prescod, the Irish knocked the Huskies out of the Big East Championshiv quar­terfinals with a 2-0 victory at Alumni Field last November. 

While most students used fall 
break for some much-needed rest 
and relaxation, the Irish were 
busy securing the Big East on a 
three-game conference road trip. 
Notre Dame kicked off the 
make-or-break trip with a 1-1 tie 
against No. 10 St. John's Oct. 16. 
The Irish struck first when mid­
fielder Ian Etherington's corner 
kick found the far corner of the 
net 21 minutes, eight seconds into 
the contest. 
The Red Storm fired back just over 45 minutes later when a 20­yard blast from forward Matt Groenwald beat Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer and knotted the game at 1-1. 
While the St. John's tally broke both Sawyer's 618-minute score­less streak and his six-game shutout run, the draw allowed the Irish to remain atop the Big East standings. 
The Irish followed the tie against the Red Storm with a 1-0 victory over No. 17 Seton Hall Oct. 20 to move one step closer to the regular season conference title. 
After playing 80 minutes of scoreless soccer, the Irish finally broke through on a goal created by a pair of freshmen in Lapira and classmate Alex Yoshinaga. 
Needing a victory to lock up the conference, the Irish finished otT the trip -and the Big East ­with yet another shutout in a 1-0 victory over Rutgers last Saturday. 
Senior midfielder Luke Boughen put the Irish in front at the 36:31 mark, tallying what would be the game's lone score. 
Following the goal, the Irish defense once again reigned supreme, limiting Scarlet Knight chances to provide the equalizer. 
Although Notre Dame netted only a trio of goals in three games over break, Clark was more than happy with the trip's result<>. 
After battling the Huskies Saturday, the Irish welcome Michigan State to Alumni Field Tuesday to conclude the regular season. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 29, 2004 
and Purdue, as the in the fourth quarter in the and getting the defense on the passing offense led by talented Boilermakers sliced through middle of Boston College's field so we could win the freshman quarterback Erik
Angry 
the team's defense for 413 game-winning scoring drive. game," Irish safety Tom Ainge. 
.\ 
) 
' 
t 
continued from page 24 
''I'm not going to take any credit away from their quar­terback," Irish cornerback Dwight Ellick said. 
"He found open receivers and he definitely hit them when they were open. At the same time I think some of those plays were because of us not doing our responsibility.·· 
The Notre Dame secondary has been a bit of an anomaly this season. The team held Michigan and its vaunted receivers to just 240 yards through the air and one touch­down, but could not stop Heisman candidate Kyle Orton 
Revenge 
continued from page 24 
In addition to her goal, it. was not long for Buczkowski to reg­ister an assist for the Irish. She sent the ball 35 yards to the left side of the box for Katie Thorlakson in the 29th minute of play, which gave the Irish a 2-0 lead going into the half. 
"We didn't have too many things to correct after the first half," Waldrum said. "Their [Irish] mentality was let's make this five or six during the half. But we never felt they had put the game out 
of reach and people are,"
"'We are at that point of 
came out with Waldrum
the year where we have
the same said. intensity in learned our mistakes "Tomorrow the second we are going
from last year" 
half." to review 
Halfway those things through the Randy Waldrum and use the second period, Irish coach tfme on 
freshman Amanda Cinalli set up an assist to Candace Chapman in the cen­ter of the box and scored her ninth goal of the season and third in two games. 
"Our main focus was to beat Michigan. What happened last year was a big motivation. It is always better to get a quick start and stop them early," Chapman said. "A quick goal definitely stopped their momentum." 
The momentum clearly was continuing for the Irish as they were once again able to break through the defense once again to score the fourth and final goal of the contest. 
In the 73rd minute of the match, Cinalli took a pass from Thorlakson and dribbled the ball towards the left side of the box. Cinalli then sent the ball back to Thorlakson who took advantage of the opportunity and scored in the upper left corner of the net for the 4-0 victory. 
On Sunday, the Irish will begin postseason play in the Big East Tournament at Alumni Field. Although the Irish are the regular season Big East champions, the team remains cautiously confident. 
"They [Big East opponentsJ are all good teams on any given day. It is not going to be an easy run through the tourna­ment," Waldrum said. "It is dif­ficult because you have to prove yourself again." 
Notre Dame enters the tour­nament as the No. 1 seed and will face No. 8 St. John's in the opening round. Despite the 4-6 record St. John's holds against conference competition, the Irish remember the last time these two teams met and are not looking past the program's intensity and competitivf'ness. 
yards passing and four touch­downs. 
"Right now I don't think we're playing our best game," Irish secondary coach Steven Wilks said. "We're in position at times and not making plays; we're not breaking on the b.all as we should. 
"A lot of times we're playing too far off on first down and giving up the hitch [route] and that's just something that we can't do; we've got to mix our coverages up, and one thing we've got to do for sure is make tackles." 
Perhaps the most-noticeable miscue by the Notre Dame secondary Saturday came late 
"St. John's is fully capable of beating us if we are not ready to play," Waldrum said. "They are very strong defensively and competitive. They didn't have a lot of star players last season, but they had enough of a fight­ing spirit to make it difficult for us to play them." 
Adding to the difficulty is the Red Storm are the only remain­ing team the Irish have not played this season in the Big East. Despite this challenge, Waldrum believes this will only help the team to remain focused for this weekend's matchup. 
"We've got a good idea of 
who their key 
Saturday to 
prepare." 

In preparations for the first game of the postseason, the Irish are fully aware of their ability and have learned from last season to not look past each game. 
"We are at that point of the year where we have learned our mistakes from last year," Waldrum said. 
"So the team is just continu­ing to focus on what is the next step, St. John's." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
With 1:33 left in the game Zbikowski said. "When that 
and  facing  h  a  p p  e  n  s  
fourth-and-13,  you've just got  
Peterson  had  "'You know that  to  regroup  - 
plenty of time to find a wide­open Larry  eventually they're going to complete a few  that's football. "You know that eventually  
Lester on the right sideline for a 17-yard  passes, and you've got to step up after that. "  they're going to complete a few passes,  
pass,  giving  and you've got  
Boston College  Tom Zbikowski  to  step  up  
a  much-needed  Irish safety  after that."  

first down and helping the Eagles gain some positive momentum in the hostile road environment. 
"We were really honing in on getting that play stopped 

54586 Ironwood Road South Bend, IN 
271-6058 
M-F 9-9; Sat. 9-6; Sun I 0-S 
W£ CARRY GREAT CUPS, AMERICAN CREW AND MATRIX HAIRCARE PRODUCTS. 
H'Ai'RcuT-&oL'OW'o'Av-•-H'A•R'CuT& B'LO'W'D'Rv I $ 3 9 g I $ 3 g g No~ valid w;<h <><her j
No< valid wi<h o<her

I ~=~r::~~~:~r!,t.~'G=~~n I ;:;~~~~,!,te';."~o~~n I 
• participat:1ng locations. • partic.ipating locations. 
I OFFER EXPIRES 11/30/04 I OFFER EXPIRES 11/30/04 I 
I Q··-·-····-·-···-· I ......_________ '] I ·---·---~ ~;..:·~~=::::;· 
I ..,_ Gl-eatCiip I ~Clips fot-hait: I 
The Irish 

pass defense -like the rest of the team ­has a much needed bye week to work· out its fundamental problems and get ready for Tennessee and its quick-strike 
Further down the road is USC and another Heisman hopeful in quarterback Matt Leinart. 
"We've got to go back this week and work on our funda­mentals -working on antici­pating the hitch and the slant [routes]," Wilks said. 
"All that stuff is what we're going to see against Tennessee -that quick passing game. 
"It gives you an opportunity to go back and work on the basics, and that's really what we've been focusing on this week." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Bowling for Riley Hospital Noon-6PM Saturday, October 30th 
Strikes & Spares Bowling Center 5119 Grape Rd. Mishawaka phone (574)243-bowl 
$to/hr (per-person) with t/2 ofthe bowling fee going to Riley's Children's Hospital 
P~Wj-' 
Fve.-&shoe rental Fve.-&raffle ticket Fveer-giveaways every 30 minutes 
Buy raffle tickets for $1 each or 6 for $5 for other great prizes ... 
•20" 
flat screen Emerson TV 

•
ND football jersey signed by Coach Willingham 

•
ND Women's Basketball tickets for Dec. 2 with signed souvenir book by Coach Muffet McGraw 


Ironwood Road opping enter 


Friday, October 29, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 


----------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
DILBERT 
THERE WILL BE NO 
VACATIONS UNTIL 
THE PROJECT IS 
FINISHED. 

PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I WILL CONTACT MY 800 WEDDING GUE5T5 AND TELL THEM THAT 
MY ARRANGED MAR­RIAGE 15 CANCELLED. 
THANKS. 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
HENRI ARNOLD ­
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each £quare, to form four ordinary words. 

SYKAH ­
j
I I r 
C2004 T11bune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
URRYC 
j
I I r 
I QUOMESj
I [l
www.jumble.com 
BLUEBB [) I 
. Print answer here: 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FRAME CHESS VERBAL DOMINO Answer: What the King reduced when he sold the royal crowns-HIS "OVER HEAD" 

A TEEN'S ROOM IS OFTE:N IN THIS SH~. 

[ J Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
rrrxxiJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  29 Cargo carrier  49 Popular  
1 Place not much  30 Pouter's riposte  vacation spot  
heard from 9 Mr. on "Mission:  32 Speaking one's mind?  50 Tells 51 High points  
Impossible"  34 Familiar  52 Neon or helium  
15 How spokes go  redhead since  
16 "Hey, hey, hey!"  1918  DOWN  
17 2004 political exile 18 "Friends" actress  35 "Empedocles on _"(Matthew Arnold poem) 36 Blood letters  1 Bring unwillingly 2 of Avon  

3 Western "so
37 Lots

19 Rejoices (in) long" 
20 Is divisive 38 Snorkelers' 4 Strippingwear 21 What England's . C . d 5 Luxuriously 
39

George VI arne smooth lacked 40 Hunky-dory 
6 Layers 22 One pulling 41 Melodic musical 
7 Futuramic of 
strings? passages 

the late 40's 23 Exotic land, in 44 Brendan and early 50's verse Behan's "_ 8 Ship rope or Boy'' chain
25 Whence Ahab's story 47 Rancho 9 Mocking, with (fossil site) "at"
26 Its first song was "Video 48 Main way to a 10 Be a Killed the Radio 49-Across, homebody? Star" maybe 
11 Like Esau vis­a-vis Jacob ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 de Triomphe 13 Bit of intrigue 
14 They may be pulled in two directions 
...:..+~~ 20 Woes for toes 
.,..,..,.....::-+-::~ 22 Draw 
23 Ad_per 44.=+:~ aspera (Kansas' motto) 24 Doctor's order 
.;.+:,:+;;+:;~R 

..:;:.+,:,+,~~ 25 Mau Maus, e.g. 
~~~~ 26 Chiang Ch'ing's mate 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puule by Manny Nosowsky 

27 Big case 38 Kaleidoscope 43 Suffix with part discern 28 Sacred Hindu 
39 Natural
text 44 ''Tres . !" 
cleanser ­

30 Byways -40 Might 45 The U.N.'s Kofi , Annan
41 Amman's31 Takes all the Queen
money from 46 Lacking
International Airport

33 Camper's 48 Actress supply 42 File Meyers 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The 0 bserver and n1ail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ __ --· Address ______________________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joaquin Phoenix, Julia Roberts, Bill Gates, Dennis Franz 
--::1 

Happy Birthday: So many things are happening this year. You will have to hang on and do your best in order to accomplish the most. This won't be a year of rest, but can be progressive if you don't procrastinate or let others slow you down. Your numbers are 10, 13, 17, 22, 35, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be thinking clearly when regarding your position and the direction you want to take. Nothing should stop you from checking out the possibilities. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional matters may escalate but, if you arc prepared to handle the situation. you will clear matters up quickly. Trust in your own abilities. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Dig deep to get to the bottom of any situation you face. Someone may be holding back vital infonnation. Don't trust a fellow colleague or friend to cover for you.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more accepting you are, the better you will do today. Your wisdom and good sense will allow you to make a difference to an organization you decide to help. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a moment to realize what everyone else is doing. You don't want to go against the grain, but you also don't want to be a part of something that may not be totally honest. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can do whatever you want by using your creative imagination to accomplish your goals in a cost-efficient way. You'll stir up interest if you are vocal about your ideas. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Invest more time and effort into moneymaking ideas or property. You will be able to adjust your lifestyle to suit your budget if you give up some luxuries you don't really need. *** SCORPIO (Oct. ~-Nov. 21): Sudden romantic infatuations may confuse you today. If something or someone appears to be too good to be true, back off. Time is on your side, so use your head. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your colleagues or friends will have interesting ideas for you. Don't let children or social events take priority when there is work to be done. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Count on a social event turning into a profitable affair. Love is in the picture and you will enjoy the company of someone special. Children may play a role in your life. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan_ 20-Feb. 18): Don't count on anything and you won't be disappointed. Take a closer look at your present situation and prepare to make changes that will better suit your lifestyle. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can have it all if y.:>u are prepared to make changes and pursue the skills you require to follow through with yout plans . You will be introduced to someone special. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, dependable and will always contribute your own style to whatever you do. You are resourceful and will think matters through to the end. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com . 

THE OBSE"RVER 
p

Friday, October 29, 2004 

page 24 

-
!'·
H 
( ) ,· 
~ :~ 
) 
H 
...... l ! 
I ' 
) ~ f 
r.~ 
,,
f \· 
f ~· 
f • 
~t 
-
,) 'tI
I~ J : ' 
' 
I 
, I 
' 
j 
·, ~· 
F 
~ 
t 
l ( I' 
t 
,) 
I 
: l
,;i 
r~
' ;" ( I l ) 
:ii 
I ( 
f
li 
i 
I ,. 
I 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
A dish best served·cold 
Notre Dame gets revenge on Michigan with 4-0 drubbing 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
For the fourth time in the program's history, the No. 2 Irish (17 -0-1) have finished the regular season with an unde­feated record after a 4-0 victo­ry over Michigan. 
"We did not have one bad performance," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "The last few weeks we've controlled games, but have not been get­ting the goals until late. It was huge because this is what we didn't do to Michigan last year in the playoffs." 
Last season, Michigan ended the NCAL\. playoff run for the Irish in the second round with a 1-0 victory. 
But it was apparent the Irish were out for redemption in Thursday afternoon's rematch. The Irish came out quickly as sophomore midfielder Jen Buczkowski scored her sev­enth goal of the season within the first five minutes of play. 
see REVENGE/page 22 
fOOTBALL 

Secondary upset with play 
Irish defensive backs allowed 297 yards passing in second half against Eagles 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Spons Ediror 
Paul Peterson's game-win­ning 30-yard touchdown pass to Tony Gonzalez with 54 seconds left in the game was a microcosm of how the Eagles victimized the Irish secondary in the second half of Notre Dame's 24-23 loss to Boston College on Saturday. 
After intercepting Peterson twice in the first half and holding the Eagles' quarter­back to just 86 yards through the first two quarters, the Notre Dame defensive back­field fell apart in the second half-. allowing 297 yards and two touchdowns. 
see ANGRY/page 22 


HOCKEY 
Irish ready to take on Wildcats 

Irish goalie Cey named USCHO/ !TECH defensive player of the week 
By JUSTIN SCHlNER AssClciate Sports Editor 
It just doesn't get any easier for the Irish. 
Notre Dame is set to face its fourth ranked opponent of the young season this weekend when No. 15 Northern Michigan travels to the Joyce Center for a two­game CCl-IA series with the Irish. 
"These kinds of games force you to up your level," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We are prac­ticing better and faster; the inten­sity has increased in practices because the guys have seen how we have to play in order to be successful." 
see WILDCATS/page 21 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Batteast on top of the Big East 
Irish forward named conference preseason player of the year 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN . 
Sports Editor 
Just two days after being named the preseason National Player of the Year by Basketball News, Irish senior Jacqueline Batteast \Vas named the Big East Conference Preseason Player of the Year. 
Batteast. averaged 16 points and 8.6 rebounds per game as ajunior, and was named first team all-Big East. She was a unanimous selection for this year's preseason first team all­Big East as well. 
Meanwhile, Irish junior guard Megan Duffy was named to the preseason all-Big East second team. Last season, Duffy was named the Big East Most Improved Player after a campaign that included aver­ages of 9.9 points and 3.9 assists per game. 

Both preseason selections were announced Thursday at the Big East women's basket­ball media day, held in Newark, N.J. 
Also at media day, the Irish were picked to finish second in the Big East after a poll of the Big East coaches. one year after finishing second with a 12-4 league record. 
Three-time defending nation­al champion Connecticut was picked to finish first. The lrish beat the Huskies last season by the score of 66-51 in South Bend. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
en 

MEN'S SOCCER 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
LLI

1--c.:» Notre Dame vs. 
MIAA 
Big East 
ND at Utah 
z Connecticut 

Ctiampionships 
ND at BYU
ChamStionship

IZ: ::5 Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
Satur ay

Carroll takes its No. 2 
Welsh Family and 
Today 
Today-Saturday 

seed against No. 7 
The Belles need to run 

Breen-Phillips meet in 
The No. 5 Irish face 
Fisher in the first round 
well at conference 

the first round of the 
Notre Dame travels to 
Meets against Utah 

No. 21 UConn in a game 
of the playoffs Sunday. 
championships to finish 

playoffs Sunday. 
Boston to run in Big 
and No. 22 BYU should 
== 

Saturday at Alumni 
in fourth. 
test the Irish. 

East Championships. 
a.= 
Field.

en page 21 
page 20 
page 19 
page 18 

page 17 
page 17 

'I 









