

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
New policies help applicants 
Affirmative action is a high priority 
By CLAIRE HEININGER Assistanr News Editor 

Saint Mary's students adjust to return home 
By MICHELLE EGGERS 
News Writer 
As the semester's second week draws to a close, Saint Mary's students who recently returned from studying abroad struggle in their adjustment to campus life. 
For junior Cynthia Rodriguez, who spent the fall and previous spring semesters in Seville, Spain, returning to Saint Mary's is "just weird." 
"It is hard to go from being in a fun city like Seville to being back in South Bend," she said. 

Sophomore Jenny Robbins, who spent last semester in Rome, is happy to be back in the Saint Mary's community, but misses Rome's cultural activities. 
"When I was bored last semester, I could walk around Rome," she said. "Now when I am bored, all there is to do is sit in my room and work." 
According to Saint Mary's counselor Gina Christiana, boredom is a major concern for returning students. Most expe­rience difficulty transitioning from the stimulating abroad experience back to the demand­ing academic pace of campus. 
"It's hard to integrate yourself back into a normal routine," she said. 
Establishing a normal routine often means increased amounts of homework and heavier course loads. 
"The first day back, it was · overwhelming to look at the list of all the things I was going to be doing this semester," Rodriguez said. 
The Rome campus did not offer many courses Robbins needed for her double major. In order to compensate for last semester's lack of credits, she now has a heavier than average course load. 
"It will be a big semester," she said. "But I am prepared for it." 
In addition to establishing a normal routine, most students have trouble emotionally 
see ADJUST/page 4 


Revue tickets hot item 
Free tickets for next weekend's show run out in record time 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
Tickets for the 28th annual Keenan Revue sold out in record time Thursday, as the popular but controversial show continued to draw students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Keenan senior Blake Haan, who coordinated ticket distri­bution, said the free tickets went faster than organizers expected. Distribution was scheduled to last for an hour, but students snatched up all 1,300 tickets much more quickly, Haan said. 
"We sold out within 30-40 minutes," he said, adding that the 300 tickets earmarked for Saint Mary's students went even quicker. 
"It was over in about 25 or 30 minutes," he said. "They just went that quickly." 
This year's revue, entitled "Keenan Mutant Ninja Revue," features irreverent sketches about life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The revue will be 
see REVUE/page 4 


As the final applications are weighed for the class of 2008 -the first class of applicants since the University of 
policy was 

Michigan's racial preference admissions reviewed by the U.S. Supreme Court-Notre Dame remains firmly committed to affirma­tive action, director of admis­sions Mundy said Thursday. 
The class of 2007 was the 
By CLAIRE HEININGER Assistant News Editor 
While controversy swirled throughout 2003 over the early decision admissions option offered by many of the nation's most prestigious uni­versities, Notre Dame's non­binding early-action alterna­tive flourished. 
The University received 2,983 early action applica­tions for the class of 2008, a slight decrease from last year's total of almost 3,100, 
but a much higher total than 
that of previous years, direc­
tor of admissions operations 
Robert Mundy said Thursday. 
"Last year, we had a huge 
jump," Mundy said. "As the 
applicant pool goes, so goes 
our decision-making. We've 
offered admission to about 
1 ,300." 
Notre Dame's sustained commitment to early action, which gives exceptional stu­. dents the opportunity to apply in October and receive a deci­sion by December, has paid 
off in an era when colleges who use binding early deci­sion have come under critical attack. Unlike early action, which allows students to apply to more than one school and to make their college choices up until May, early decision force~ applicants to apply to only one school, and, if admitted, obligates them to immediate enrollment. 
Colleges that practice bind­ing early decision have been accused of using the process to increase their own rank­
ings, rather than for student benefit. Early decision has also been said to favor stu­dents from more elite high schools and to discriminate against financial aid appli­cants who can't afford to commit to one school before comparing all scholarship offers. These criticisms ­coming from students, par­ents, guidance counselors, and publications alike ­prompted Yale, Stanford, the 
see EARLY/page 6 

Boat Club: One year downstream 
Lawsuits remain under appeal with no closure in sight 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
On Jan. 24, 2003, 231 underage drinkers, over 200 of whom were Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, were cited for minor in a tav­ern charges in a now infa­mous raid on the Boat Club and later sued by Boat Club owners, the Millenium Club, Inc., for $3,000 each. 
Three hundred and sixty­four days later, the issue is no closer to being resolved. The 40 suits dismissed in August are being appealed and the remaining suits were delayed until April. 
Ed Sullivan, attorney for those students whose cases are now under appeal, said that it is impossible to know when the process will come to an end. 
" It'S 0 U r tUrn t0 Write a 
see BOAT/page 4 

TIM KACMAR!The Observer Last January, the Boat Club bust resulted in over 200 law­suits against students. Those suits still remain in court. 
Friday, January 23, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Happy 
• 

ann1versa~y 
Happy anniversary. 

That's right, it's been exactly one year since 230 of my underage drink­ing buddies and I heard the music cut out, saw the lights come on, and felt our invincible lit­
tle worlds come crashing down. 
For the first anniversary, it's tradition to give your significant other some form of paper. But after the smudged blue 

Minor in a Tavern 
Claire Heininger 
tickets, the taunt­ingly rosy court 
Assistant

summons, the emblem -stamped News Editor white ResLife let­ters and the add-insult-to-injury yellow lawsuits, newsprint is all I have left-so here goes. 
Happy anniversary to the urban leg­ends: the townies who tipped off the cops (false) and the girl who snuck out after hiding behind the fridge for five hours (true). Happy anniversary to the lucky ones, the regulars who were there with us every single Thursday -except of course this one -because of an early accounting test or a late out-of-town visitor arrival or just because the universe liked them better. 
Happy anniversary_ to that bouncer with no front teeth who looked the other way when two of my fake ID­less friends and I decided to skip the shivering wait for passbacks and oh­so-slyly sidle in the back door. Happy anniversary to whoever invented watered-down dollar pitchers and made inducing the white boys to go upstairs and dance so affordable. 
Happy anniversary to the crowd that packed the usual sweat-soaked second-floor double in Dillon before we called the cabs, descended the stairs, and skidded to Main Circle in a euphoria of Cam'ron, Madonna and Styx. 
Happy anniversary to my mom, whose tone on the other end of the phone line the next morning I will never forget. Happy anniversary to my dad, whose insistence that I pay every penny of every fine was some­how less upsetting than the look on his face when we met the lawyer on the last day of finals week. 
Happy anniversary to Ashley, my best friend and partner in crime who gleefully drank kamikazes with me that night, jokingly posed for "mug shots" with me the next morning, and g:udgingly but realistically accompa­med me on our 40 hours of communi­ty service that April. 
And finally, happy anniversary to Boat Club itself. Yes, it's suing a lot of us for a lot more than it deserves to get and a lot more than we can afford. But to give credit where credit is due, people are going back for a reason. Patronage now surpasses even pre-bust levels. Students are once again having a great time. And Boat is getting the kind of paper it most craves for its first anniversary present. 
Greenbacks. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
• •o0 ...... 
o'?r~a_ct ?~r :r:o:.. :_ •.... :, ._ . ·_;:.. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE A SANDWICH, WHAT KIND OF SANDWICH WOULD YOU BE? 

Juan stamos Michael Torres Seth Erwin Catherine O'Boyle Patrick Ross Chris Ban 
Sophomore Freshman Senior Senior Junior Junior Siegfried Dillon Off-Campus Off-Campus Off-Campus Italy Program 
'Td be a sloppy "Roast beef "I'd be a "J feel like a ':4 manwich." 'Td like to be a 





joe ... extra sandwich with ribwich." beer-soaked sloppy.·· extra cheese ... brat.·· 

ANDY KENNA/The Observer Campus musicians perform at Thursday's Irish New Year party held at Legends. The event also featured music performed by the Notre Dame Bagpipe Band. 
OFFBEAT 
Hiking magazine apologizes for mistake 
LONDON -Britain's biggest-selling hiking magazine apologized Wednesday after its latest issue contained a route that would lead climbers off the edge of a cliff on Britain's tallest peak. 
The February edition of Trail magazine gives advice on making a safe descent for hikers caught in bad weather on Ben Nevis in Scotland. 
But the magazine's directions would instead lead readers off the north face of the 4,406-foot mountain, which is notori­weather and has claimed the lives of several climbers. 
ous  for  its changeable  
TODAY  
c:::  

 


Guy Procter, the editor of Trail, acknowledged the magazine had inadver­tently deleted the first of two crucial bearings need­ed to get off the summit. He said that happened during the editing process. 
11-year-old girl gives birth In Ukraine 
KIEV, Ukraine -An 11­year-old girl has given birth to a healthy baby boy, becoming Ukraine's youngest mother on record, a newspaper reported Thursday. 
Surgeons at hospital No. 5 in the eastern city of Kharkiv delivered the infant by Caesarean sec­tion Tuesday, the Fakty daily said, citing the unidentified mother's doc­tor, Valentyn Gryshchenko. 
The newborn's alleged father is a ·26-year-old neighbor who fled fearing criminal charges when he learned of the girl's preg­nancy, Fakty said. If con­victed of having sexual relations with a minor, he faces a maximum prison sentence of three years. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
U.l :I: 
~ 
U.l 
3: 
_. 
c( 

d 

** *'* *
(.) 0 

...1 HIGH 21 HIGH 16 HIGH 26 HIGH 21 LOW 18 LOW 15 LOW 14 LOW 19 


six foot long sub and I wouldn't attack Jared for killing my Subway brethren." 
IN BRIEF 

The Late Night Olympics, an all-night sports extravaganza and fund raiser for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics, will be held tonight from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. Come participate and support Special Olympics. 
The wildly popular Notre Dame Student Film Festival screens tonight, Saturday and Monday and features creative, intelligent and entertaining student films produced during the past year in the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. Screenings are at the Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium at 7:30 and 9:45 
p.m. Tickets may be purchased 
at  the  LaFortune  Student  
Center Box Office.  
Come  enjoy  one  of  the  

nation's top comics. Kevin McPeek, tonight at Legends. McPeek will perform from 10 
p.m. to 12 a.m. 
"Mother Theresa's Message: Explaining the Purpose of Life. Explaining How to Serve, Prescription for Healing Humanity, Prescription for Obtaining and Sustaining Peace and Happiness" will be lectured on by Paul Wright, M.D., '72 today from 11:30 
a.m. to 12:45 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Lunch will be provided. 
Welsh Family Hall will hold its Dance Show this Saturday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free, and seating is first come, first serve. Doors open at 6:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsn ews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
* . . *!.r*• *:Jc.*
. 


HIGH 33 HIGH 
26 

LOW 19 LOW 
10 


Atlanta 41 I 35 Bos~on 23 I _1 0 Chicago 24 1_15 Denver 57 I 23 Houston 56 I 48 Los Angeles 74 I 48 Minneapolis 18 1 6 ~. ~~~w York 25 I 15 ~htladelphta 2€) (.15 Phoemx 65 I 45 Seattle 48 I 38 ~t. Louis ~5 I 36 Tampa 63 I 41 Washington 30 1 18 
' ~ ••• ,, ~ ~. • • -~ (-•• I~ .. f 10 .. '·-•. • • • • ~ <\' .. .. • .. .. • ""· • i -i ~ 11·· • .i • • . ~ .~ 'I
• • • ,_<1 • • . i. 
-

Friday, January 23, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Controversial oven mitt giveaway revised 
motion since its adjustment.
ByJOE HETTLER "We had received a couple 
News Wrirer of calls, but already inter­
nally we said, 'Maybe peo­
A controversial marketing ple are going to look at this promotion for an upcoming and it's not the right idea or men's basketball game has sexist.' However, that wasn't been changed, but not in our idea to leave out men or response to a recent Sports even to say that the women Illustrated reference that are the only cooks," Cundiff mocked the promotion, a said. "Our idea was simply spokesperson for the athlet­that it's Valentine's Day and ic department said women like to receive giftsThursday. on Valentine's 
The original Day. That's promotion "Internally we what we we're 
included distrib­going at. The
said, ·Maybe 
uting potholders sponsor liked to the first people are going to the idea of 
1,000 women look at this and it's oven mitts and 
fans at the Feb. pot holders."
not the right idea 
14 game Cundiff also between Seton or sexism. said that she Hall and Notre However, that has attended a 
Dame, but has past Green Bay
wasn't our idea to
been changed to Packers game now include leave out men or and St. Louis 
men. said even to say that Cardinals 
Monica Cundiff, game at which
the women are the
director of oven mitts and 
events and pro­only cooks.·· potholdersmotions. The were given to giveaway was fans.
Monica Cundiff
referenced in 
director of events and The main
the Dec. 15 reason for the
promotions
"Sign of the promotion was Apocalypse" to try some-section of Sports thing different Illustrated, where unusual that had yet to be done at a quotes or facts are brought Notre Dame sporting event, to readers' attention. she said. According to 
Cundiff said the sports Cundiff. staff in the sportspromotions department promotion department col­changed the promotion sev­laborate and choose promo­eral months ago, and not in tions for all Irish sporting response to the Sports events. Illustrated mention. She has. received only three e-mails Contact Joe Hettler at concerning the original pro-jhettler@nd.edu 


Late Night Olympics kick off 
Reagan said that a challeng­1 attraction of Late Night 
By JOE TROMBELLO ing component to the event is Olympics is the sense of giving 
News Wrirer the teamwork req).lired among back." 
dorms in the athletic competi­Students said that they espe­
Tonight's Late Night tions, which range from dodge cially enjoy the charity aspect Olympics is expected to draw ball to kayaking. of the event, as well as the approximately 1,200 Notre "It's a good chance for Notre athletic activities in which they Dame and Saint Mary's stu­Dame and Saint Mary's stu­participate. dents into the Joyce Center dents to work together -"I like all the sports we get an d RoIfs A qu ati c C e n t e.r, that's the most to play," junior according to RecSports offi­difficult part. Brandon Wolf said. cials, where students will have They have to get "It's a good chance "It brings me back the opportunity to participate together and to my childhood.
for Notre Dame 
in more than 15 athletic events communicate." Late Night
and Saint Mary's 
to raise money for Special This is the Olympics is like Olympics. 18th year the students to work endless recess. The 
Bill Reagan, RecSports assis­event has been together. , fact that all the tant director, said that last held. Sally money raised is year's event featured nearly Derengoski, the going to such a 
Bill Reagan 
1,500 students and brought in current director good cause is the $6,700 through a variety of of RecSports, RecSports assistant best part about fundraising events including conceived of the director [it]," he said. entrance fees, donations and idea based her Kate Marcuccilli, penny wars. This year's event experience Pasquerilla East will also feature a raffle and engaging in a similar event representative for Late Night will include one Master of while enrolled as an under­Olympics, said she believes Business Administration Team. graduate at Indiana University. many girls in her dorm are 
"This is the single largest "I came from IU and they looking forward to the event. participatory event that our had an event called the Spirit "I realized that Late Night department puts on," Reagan of Sport All-Nighter," she said. Olympics is something that said. "Bengal Bouts is the "It was just fun to be playing most individuals want to be a largest evep.t in terms of sports -I loved sports -and part of," she said. "I feel that observers, but this is an to be out at all hours of the this is a unique opportunity for opportunity to participate." night running from event to me as a freshman to get 
Students will participate in event. I think I enjoyed the involved because it puts me in the events with at least one craziness of it." a leadership position that other opposite-sex dorm, Derengoski said that the involves the whole campus and forming teams that compete event at Indiana raised money affects those beyond the Notre for half of the proceeds for Indiana's Special Olympics Dame community." earned, which may be used by charity, and her experiences Students will be required to their respective dorms as seen with Special Olympics as well sign waivers before competing fit. Dorms from Saint Mary's as Notre Dame's history with in each event, and any intoxi­will also participate, as will a the organization and its com­cated students will be asked to team of graduate students on a mitment to service made the leave by ushers and security one-year trial basis. group an appropriate charity. staff, Reagan said. 
"(This] had always been an "This campus and its stu­Students employed by undergraduate dorm-versus­dents really love to be a part RecSports will also be on hal\d dorm competition," Reagan of something that is good in to monitor and referee some said. "We were petitioned by the way of charity and volun­events. an MBA group .... [and decid­teerism, so the event fits nicely ed] it [their participation] was into the culture of the cam­Contact Joe Trombello at for all the right reasons." pus," she said. "I think the No. jtrombel@nd.edu 
THE 1 STH ANNUAL NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 

FILM 
FESTIVAL 
•oK.. here's my idea, .. therE's tstsNunrio>ht?. 
k. ' 
afld sh9's smo 1.n a cigarette,oK · · • 

THURS • FRI• SAT • MON JA 
7:30 c. 9:45PM • HESBURGH LIBRARY CAREY AUDITORIUM • $5 ADMISSION TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHILE THEY LAST) PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE 



DR~MWORKS PICTURES PRESMS ARSHBVWICK PRODUCllON AROBERT lUKITlC ALM "WIN AOAlt WITH TAO HAMIIT~N!" KAlt BOSWORTH 
iOPHffi GRACE JOSH DUHAMEL WITH SfAN HAYES AND NATHAN lANE su~~ lAURA WASSERMAN AND DARREN HIGMAN M~~ EDWARD SHfARMUR 
PG-13II'ARBITS STRONGLY CAUTIOIIEDC& fo~ WilliAM S. BfASlEY GAll lYON Pfi~ DOUGlAS WICK ANO lUCY HSHffi WRrnr, VICTOR lPJIN h•oMolotlollloylelo-ro,rl...lorCIIIIIIr••-n • lliRICIHI ROBBIT lUKEllC www.wlnadatewllhtadhamllton.com "'=:.:12: ~;,'!;;," II ~ SUIJAl CONlBit SOME DRUG REffiiBICES MD L.A116UAGE BY -ffi..'Ml -·--·'••••-"' 
Coming soon to theatres everywhere 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 23, 2004 
Adjust 
continued from page 1 
adjusting. Rodriguez was one of four Saint Mary's students in Seville, so it is difficult for her to find people who can relate to her experience. 
"You go abroad and make great friends where you were at," she said. "You come back and you miss your friends, your professors, and your classes. You want to see them and talk to them." 
Rodriguez does not talk much about her experience around her Saint Mary's friends for fear of creating jealousy or boredom. Reconnecting with these friends after a year apart concerned her most as she returned to campus. 
"It is hard to relate, hard to connect," she said. "Everyone grows and changes in their year apart." 
While Robbins agrees that connecting with her friends has been difficult, she now feels like she has twice as many friends -those from Saint Mary's and those from Rome. 
Staying in touch with friends from the abroad experience is important to the adjustment process, Christiana said. 
"Talking with your abroad friends helps keep the experi­ence alive," she said. 
• The biggest mistake students make upon returning is not expecting to have some nega­tive feelings, Christiana said. They do not realize it is a griev-

Revue 
continued from page 1 
performed nightly in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's from Jan. 29 to Jan. 31 at 7:30p.m. 
It has drawn the ire of some students at Saint Mary's, who say the show's content is demeaning to them. However, in 2001, a school-wide referen­dum showed 67 percent of stu­dents surveyed said they sup­ported keeping the show at Saint Mary's. Following that survey, the College's Board of Governance voted unanimously to acknowledge Saint Mary's students' support of the variety show. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL ++sPRING BREAK++ Book early and save ~~! Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge beachfront hot-tub, lazy river ride, water slide, jet skis, parasail. Sandpiper-Beacon Beach Resort 
800-488-8828 
www.~an~(2i(2erbeacQn.cQm 
Trustin Howard's new fast-selling book "My Life with Regis and Joey" gets a big boost from Regis Philbin on ABC's "Live -with Regis and Kelly" Friday, January 23rd. Book tells how the Johnny Cason -Joey Bishop rating wars were every bit as fierce as the Jay Leno -David Letterman nightly TV battles. Book avail­able at local bookstores. 

ing process. 
"You have to let go of some­thing close to you," she said. "You are going to grieve." 
Both Christiana and students returning from abroad agree that the number one method to help with adjustment is to get involved. 
"Getting involved takes your mind off things," Robbins said. "When I look at Rome pictures, I still get sad. If I keep my mind of things, I am OK." 
Rodriguez said staying active and keeping a positive attitude are also important. Even after just one week back, she has settled into a routine. 
"Find a schedule and stick to it," she said. "Keep a positive attitude, be thankful for the memories, and know that one day you will go back." 
Contact Michelle Eggers at egge2272@saintmarys.edu 
Boat 
continued from page 1 
brief, and we'll be doing that within three weeks. When we're complete with our brief, the plaintiff gets to write a reply brief," he said. "When it's fully briefed, it would be with the Court of Appeals, and they can take what time they think is appropriate to examine the case." 
Sullivan added that the case could be further appealed to the state Supreme Court, though it would be a rare occurrence. 
"The fact that it's a case of first impression, meaning one like it has never been decided in Indiana, is one of the fac­tor the Supreme Court looks at for accepting transfer of a case," said Sullivan. "However, the Superior Court judge here made an accurate and solid decision, and it should stand." 
Neither Boat Club owner Mike McNeff nor Mitchell Heppenheimer, the attorney for Millenium Club, Inc., could be reached for com­ment. 
Students affected by the raid admit to being more cautious about when and where they go out, though the incident has not deterred them from drinking altogeth­er. 
"I took different precau­tions for a while, but I got another fake ID, and I'm pretty much just being care­ful. I'm trying not to go some­where to get busted," said a Dillon sophomore involved in the suit, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. 

··we went to the Boat Club three times a week for most of the first semester and had some best times we've had at Notre Dame. 
"Of course I would have preferred not to be there that night, but Boat Club was still worth it," the Dillon sopho­more continued. "We're actu­ally all going tomorrow night for the anniversary with some of the other freshmen." 
In the wake of the incident, McNeff implemented security measures aimed at keeping underage drinkers out. Those entering the bar now are given a wristband instead of a stamp to indicate that they are over 21. Patrons must also sign an affidavit stating that they are of legal drink­ing age. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


WHAT ARE YOU CALLED-TO DO? 





NOT--FOR PROFIT 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A panel ofalumni and. alumnae reflect on the integration offaith and Jocial concerfld into life heyond Notre Dame. 


Sunday, January 18 4:00 -5:30 p111 Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 

SpeakerJ 

Julie Hodek 1 01 Organizer, UNITE Chicago 
Chris Nanni 188 Associate principal, Cristo Rey High School, Chicago 
Susan Ranaghan 195 Director, L'Arche South Bend 
CENTER FOR 

ndvi

SOCIAL 
NOTRE DAME

CONCERNS 
VOCATION INITIATIVE 


Friday, January 23. 2004 Co~\PlLED FRO~\ THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chinese mark New Year holiday 
BEIJING -The Year of the Monkey arrived Thursday, casting an eerie holiday calm over China's capital as hundreds of millions of people hunkered down in theit hometowns and hoped for promised prosperity -and a season free of two fearsome diseases the government is racing to contain. 
Authorities announced stepped-up holiday efforts against SARS and bird flu, tightening checks on air, bus and train passengers and enforcing a crackdown at border posts with Vietnam to prevent suspicious fowl from entering. 
Muslims embark on pilgrimage 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -Muslims are converging on Mecca for the ha.ij, Islam's annual pilgrimage that has been plagued by fires, stampedes and occasional riots. The risks are even greater this year, with Saudi authorities also worried about diseases and terrorism. 
More than 2 million Muslims are expected for the pilgrimage that will climax late this month, a devotion required once in the life­time of every able-bodied Muslim who can afford it. 
Turkish PM to warn Bush on Iraq 
ANKARA, Turkey -Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he will warn President Bush that Kurdish control of an autonomous ethnic zone in a future Iraqi state will threaten the country's stability. 
Erdogan, scheduled to meet Bush at the White House next week, said Wednesday that neighboring Syria an~ Iran also are wary of the aspirations of the Kurds, who were close allies of the United States in the campaign to oust Saddam Hussein. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry goes for personal touch 
PEMBROKE, N.H. -Democratic presiden­tial candidate John Kerry is going personal, working overtime to connect with voters while trying to counter his aloof image and capitalize on his success in Iowa. 
When a teacher recently complained about low pay and crushing student loans, Kerry pressed her. "If you don't mind me asking, how much do you make?" he asked. 
When a backer of a fringe candidate used her question time to give a speech, Kerry ignored the hissing crowd and patiently heard her out. 
Pentagon defends e-voting system 
WASHINGTON -The Pentagon is standing by an Internet voting system it developed for 
U.S. citizens overseas despite an independent analysis that said it was so vulnerable to attacks that it should be scrapped. 
In a report released Wednesday, four com­puter security experts said the Secure Electronic Registration and Voting Experiment, or SERVE, could be penetrated by hackers, criminals, terrorists or foreign governments. 
"Internet voting presents far too many opportunities for hackers or even terrorists to interfere with fair and accurate voting, potentially in ways impossible to detect," the computer experts said in a statement. 
LOCAL NEWS 

FEMA to give aid for chem cns1s 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Emergency Management Agency will provide $2.99 mil­lion for emergency equipment to be used by counties near the Newport Chemical Depot in western Indiana. 
The grant will go to Vermillion, Parke and Fountain counties, said U.S. Sen. Evan Bayh and Gov. Joe Kernan. The two Democrats requested the grant and announced the award Thursday. 
"The firefighters, police and EMTs of Vermillion, Fountain and Parke counties are our first line of defense in event of an emer­gency at Newport," Bayh said. 
MARS 


Spirit rover stops transmitting 
'Extremely serious anomaly' cr~pples robotic vehicle; twin to land Saturday 
Associated Press 

. PASADENA, Calif. NASA's Spirit rover stopped transmitting data from Mars for more than 24 hours, tnission man­agers said Thursday, call­ing it an "extremely seri­ous anomaly." 
NASA received its last significant data "' from Spirit early Wednesday, its 19th day on Mars. Since then, it has sent either random, meaningless radio noise or simple beeps acknowledg­ing it has received com­mands from Earth, said Firouz N aderi, manager of the Mars exploration pro­gram at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. The last such beep was received Thursday morn­ing, Naderi said. 
Initially, scientists believed weather problems on Earth caused the glitch. They said they now believe the rover is experiencing hardware or software problems. 
"This is a serious prob­lem. This is an extremely around Mars. lion miles of space. If the weather as the source of serious anomaly,'' project Engineers worked to pin­problem lies with the the communications black­manager Pete Theisinger point the yet-unknown rover's hardware, the situ­out. said. problem. ation would be far more Spirit landed on Mars on 
Spirit is one half of a "It's not clear there is grave, Theisinger said. Jan. 3 for a three-month $820 million mission. Its one cause ... that would The six-wheeled robot mission to search Gusev twin, Opportunity, is explain the observables had been scheduled Crater, a rock-strewn scheduled to land on Mars we're seeing," deputy proj-Thursday to grind away a stretch of dusty, streaked on Saturday. .P-et manager Richard Cook tiny area of the weathered soil that scientists believe 
NASA last heard from said. face of a sharply angled . may be the bed of an Spirit as it prepared to Preliminary indications rock dubbed Adirondack. ancient lake. If .Mars once continue its work examin­from the spacecraft sug­Examination of the rock had surface water, it had ing its first rock, just a few gest its radio is working beneath could offer clues the potential to support yards from its lander. and it continues to gener­to Mars' geologic past. life. ~ 
Since then, Spirit has ate power from the sun Spirit has since remained Until Wednesday. Spirit transmitted just a few with its solar panels, Cook immobile, Cook said. had functioned nearly beeps to Earth in response said. On Wednesday, NASA flawlessly. It moved out to attempts to communi­It was unclear if the scientists said a thunder­from its lander on Jan. 15 cate with it. It also has problem was with the storm near a Deep Space into its surroundings. Since skipped several scheduled rover's software or hard­Network radio antenna in landing it has snapped communications opportu­ware, Theisinger said. Canberra, Australia dis­thousands of pictures of nities, either directly with NASA can fix software rupted controllers' efforts Mars, including microscop­Earth or by way of two from Earth, beaming fixes to initiate the drilling. It ic images of the martian NASA satellites in orbit across more than 100 mil-has since discounted the soil and Adirondack. 

Bush to sign $373B spending bill 
the measure since last month, one would let them remove the labeling
Associated Press 
more than the 60 votes needed. With delay, but the White House and the White House and GOP leaders House GOP leaders refused to budge. WASHINTON -The Senate over­adamant about not changing the "Take it or leave it," said Sen. came Democratic delaying tactics measure, enough Democrats suc­Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., describ­Thursday and sent President Bush cumbed to its tons of home-state ing what he said was the GOP's atti­an overdue $373 billion bill financing projects and spending boosts for tude on the bill. "This is one senator a vast swath of government and popular programs. who's going to leave it because of · bearing a bushel of victories for the "It is time to move on," said Senate what it will do to working families White House. Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn. and women and veterans of this 
Senators approved the measure "The country demands that we com­country." 65-28 a month after House passage. plete action on this bill." Had Democrats succeeded in The bill finances agriculture, veter­The bill would let the administra­blocking the measure, Republican ans and most other domestic pro­tion proceed with new rules that leaders were threatening to replace grams for the budget year that began would let companies pay overtime to it with a bare-bones bill that would Oct. 1 -nearly four months ago. fewer white collar workers, and have financed most of government at 
The mammoth measure also pro­allow media conglomerates to own last year's levels -about $6 billion tects Bush administration policies on more television stations. less than the stalled legislation. overtime pay, media ownership and It would also postpone for two That would have meant dramati­food labeling. Angry over those years a requirement that meat and cally less money for fighting AIDS issues, Democrats had succeeded on many other foods sold in stores have overseas, the FBI and other anti-ter­Tuesday in blocking a vote on final labels identifying the country they rorism efforts, and many other pro­passage. come from. With last month's discov­grams. It was unclear whether GOP 
But on Thursday's showdown, the ery that a Washington state cow had leaders would have ever gained suffi­chamber voted 61-32 to end mad cow disease, many Democrats cient votes to push such a bill Democratic delays that had slowed hoped they had gained leverage that through Congress. 
-~­
Friday, January 23, 2004

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Early 
continued from page 1 
University of North Carolina, and several other institutions to change this year to early action instead. 
Mundy said that early action is preferable because it is "more student-friendly." Because there is no binding commitment signed in October, students admitted to Notre Dame still have the chance to visit campus, examine finan­cial aid and consider other schools before making a final decision, he said. 
Marilyn McGrath Lewis, director of admissions at Harvard University, agreed that a nonbinding system pro­vides the best early admissions opportunity because it doesn't accelerate the anxiety of stu­dents who are unprepared to make a final decision. 
"With early action, students don't feel stampeded or insti­tutionally pressured," McGrath Lewis said. "We still think of early action as a somewhat exceptional choice -regular action is still a great option for most people." 
Harvard, like Notre Dame, has consistently opted for early action over early deci­sion. However, after a one­year trial period of allowing its early applicants to apply to an unlimited number of other schools -an experiment that McGrath Lewis called "an extreme example in our histo­Dame than any other high ry of flexibility" -Harvard school in the country, said that 

Diversity
reverted to its old "single she recommends early action choice" system this year. to students who prove their 
continued from page 1 

The flood of early applica­qualification. tions "overwhelmed us," she "It is a real plus for many of said. "We've returned to the them, especially those with 
most diverse in University system we liked for many honors and AP courses," Utz 
history, with 20.4 percent of years that is designed for said. Hearing a decision in 
its enrolled freshmen coming those who are sure of their December instead of March 
from minority backgrounds. first choice." enables them to "concentrate 
Mundy said that the A timely answer from the on the rest of their lives," she 
University hopes to "at least 
applicant's first-choice school still 
"Wzth early action, 
stands as the chief advantage students don't feel of early admis­
stampeded or 
sions at Notre 
institutionally
Dame, despite popular miscon­pressured." ceptions that applying early 
Marilyn McGrath 
will increase a 

Lewis
borderline stu­dent's chances. director of admissions "We always tell at Harvard University 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Since Sunday, two prison guards have been held hostage by a pair of inmates in a three-story, gray­block watchtower flanked by barbed wire fence and believed to be stocked with weapons. 
Over the long days and nights, coffee and water have been sent in; at least one gas canister has been tossed out. But aware that the inmates hold the high ground and the lives of two guards, authorities are doing the only thing they can: keep talk­ing. 
The tower is a freestanding structure with two enclosed floors and a screened third floor and overlooks a yard for high­risk inmates. Prison officials will not say whether the tower is stocked with weapons, but note that it was built to be secure. 
Because the inmates have a high position on open ground, few options exist to end the hostage situation quickly, said Paul Sutton, a criminal justice professor at San Diego State University who has studied prison life. 
Law enforcement "can't rush it. Snipers are going to have a real tough time shooting. All they can do is talk," Sutton said. 
The inmates probably chose the best place in the prison to hole up, he said. The negotia­tors' best hope is that the inmates finally get hungry or otherwise desperate enough to let them in, Sutton said. 
Talks with the two inmates continued for a fifth day Thursday, an encouraging sign to prison officials. 
"The longer [the talks] go on, the more the quality and quanti­ty improve," said Ivan Bartos, a prison warden in Yuma who has been helping officials at the Arizona State Prison Complex­Lewis in Buckeye, west of Phoenix. 
The hostage standoff began Sunday morning after an inmate attacked two guards and a worker in a kitchen. That pris­oner and another inmate then under fire in recent months during the University of Michigan's legal battle over a controversial system that gave an automatic bonus to applicants who come from ethnic backgrounds. While the Supreme Court applaud­ed the school's intent to encourage diversity, it ruled that the point system itself must be changed. 

Mundy said that while he understood the benefits of a point system for schools as large as Michigan, such a system cannot produce a completely fair evaluation for each applicant. 
"For Michigan and large state schools, when you're dealing with a huge volume of applicants, the point sys­tem made more sense," he said. "I understand what Michigan was doing ... but under close examination by the court, it showed its weaknesses." 
Notre Dame's policy avoids the point system, as each application is read in its entirety at least twice, given a final review and may even be sent to a committee. 
"Once you start to assign points for what only appears to be something that's simi­lar," Mundy cautioned, "at some point that will fail you." . 
He said that Notre Dame's comprehensive system has been very effective -last year in particular -in admitting qualified minority applicants and that the University has no plans to change it. 
''It makes for some pretty intense times from December to March," Mundy said. "But it has clearly served us well in the past." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
said. 

She strongly supported early action over early decision. "If they can't consider another place, they're obviously limiting them­selves," she said. "Financial aid is a big factor." 
From high schools to 
duplicate" that number this year, if not build upon it fur­ther. 
"Our objective is to simply get better," Mundy said. "We were stuck at that 16 to 17 percent figure until last year ... so we certainly hope for [more improvement]." 
Mundy emphasized that since the potential for minor­ity enrollment is contingent on recruiting a large minori­ty applicant pool, it is unre­
students it's a lit­ · Harvard, despite  alistic to have a specific  
tle more competi­ its flaws, the  quota in mind.  
tive," Mundy said. While the  early admissions option only9  "It's tough to fQrce," he  
admit rate may appear signifi­ continues to grow in populari­ said. "It all focuses on the  
cantly higher for early deci­ ty. Mundy said that he antici­ applicant pool -as long as  
sion than for regular decision,  pates interest among Notre  we can generate inquiry and  
he said, it is a consequence of  Dame applicants to remain on  make more contact."  
a pool of early applicants that  the rise, as well as a strong  Notre Dame uses various  
is "much more qualified."  return rate from students  recruiting techniques to  
"Students don't get any  accepted under early action in  encourage contact with  
bump for applying early," he  this year's class.  minority students, Mundy  
said. "If anything, we're more  "We have 122 confirmations,  said. The admissions office  
conservative ... if a student out  only about 5 percent of the  often purchases the names of  
there is thinking 'I'm not a  class, but we have a long way  minorities with outstanding  
slam-dunk,' they should wait  to go," Mundy said. "There are  PSAT scores and mails them  
for regular decision."  plenty waiting for aid pack­ invitations to reply and show  
Kathy Utz, director of guid­ ages to come through."  an interest in the University.  
ance at St. Joseph's High  Those who respond are  
School in South Bend, which  Contact Claire Heininger at  quickly rewarded for their  
sends more students to Notre  cheining@nd.edu  curiosity.  
"We build a pool of inquiry  
with follow-up e-mails,  

phone calls, mailings," Mundy said. "If we visit a high school where we see interest among students of


Prison hostage standoff continues 
color, we'll make an appoint­ment. We do some subtle got into the observation tower 
things, some obvious things." where the two guards were sta­
Minority recruitment and tioned. 
affirmative action came 


Friday, January 23, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 623 18 -0.44
}ones ' · 
6Same: ~: Composite Volume:
""'"'M' 1;717 168 • 1,693,706,112 

AM.EX 1,218.76 -3.67 '"" f NASDAQ ! 2,119.01 -23.44 NYSE. 6,657.09 ,yi<;~1~23. S&P 500 1,143.94 -3.67 NIKKB(Tokyo) "'' 10~989~17 -11.58 FTSE IOO(London) 4,476.80 -34.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU)  -7.96  -0.43  4.95  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.02  -0.29  28.0 I  
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  +8.25  +0.25  3.28  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -2.53  -0.14  5.52  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.77  -0.57  3 1.63  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.24  -0.61  48.55  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -1.68  -0.68  39.69  
5-YEARNOTE  -2.18  -0.66  29.56  
3-MONTH BILL  -1.73  -0.15  8.52  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.35  34.9~  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -I. I 0  41 0.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0. I 0  82.375  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  I 06.2  
EURO  0.7865  
POUND  0.5428  
CANADIAN$  1.295  

IN BRIEF 
NYMEX energy futures climb 
NEW YORK -Crude oil futures settled 1 percent higher Thursday in New York after a bearish reading of weekly petroleum inventory and natural gas storage data gave way to renewed buying based ,on tight U.S. crude oil and gasoline stocks. 
Gasoline futures led the rise late in the day, with traders saying a large refiner, finding itself in need of supply, bought February futures. With cash prices in New York Harbor and in the Gulf Coast trading at a premium to the futures price, buying in the February futures contract, set to expire at the end of trading next Friday, became more attractive, the traders said. 
Economic number hits new high 
NEW YORK-A key measure of future eco­nomic activity rose 0.2 percent in December to its highest level ever, helped by relatively strong consumer spending and growing indi­cations the job market is improving. 
The report released Thursday coincided with government data suggesting that the employment picture may be improving. 
The increase in the Conference Board's • Composite Index of Leading Economic Indicators, calculated since 1996, matched analysts' forecasts, and brought the gauge to 114.3, surpassing the previous high of 114.1 in November. 
"All indicators point to continued economic growth," said Ken Goldstein, economist for the private industry group. 
Web fraud complaints surge 
WASHINGTON -Reports of Internet-related fraud now account for more than half the con­sumer complaints filed with the Federal Trade Commission, the agency said Thursday. 
Internet-related fraud was the subject of 55 percent of the more than half-million com­plaints filed in 2003, up from 45 percent a year earlier, the FTC said. The median loss for victims of Internet-related fraud was $195. 
Identity theft -stealing someone's personal information for financial gain-was the most common complaint the FTC received for the fourth consecutive year, the agency said. It represented ,42 percent of all complaints in 2003, up from 40 percent the year before. 
IMAGING 

Kodak to cut 15,000 workers 
Photo giant wields ax as company moves to digital imaging; shares rise 1Oo/o 
Associated Press  lion, down dramatically from $113 millio-n a year  
ROCHESTER,  N.Y.  - ago.  
Eastman Kodak Co., which  Wall Street appeared to  
t_urned picture-taking into  welcome Kodak's sharper  
a  hobby for the masses a  focus on digital technology.  
century ago,  is  cutting  In midday trading on the  
12,000 to 15,000 jobs, or  New York Stock Exchange,  
close to a quarter of its  Kodak climbed $2.85 to  
work force,  as it struggles  $30.31. In October, the  
to  make the wrenching  stock was down to nearly  
transition from film to digi­ $20, an 18-year low.  
tal photography.  "It's needed, but it radi­ 
The job cuts, announced  cally increases the risk pro­ 
Thursday, will be made in  file of the company. You've  
Kodak's traditional film  got a company that's going  
photography businesses  from oligopoly to  a very  
and will take place over the  competitive landscape."  
next three years, bringing  said analyst Shannon Cross  
the  company's  total  of Cross Research-Soleil  
employment down to World  Securities in Short Hills,  
War 11-era levels of around  N.J.  
50,000.  Kodak's global workforce  
Kodak became a symbol  peaked· at 136,500 in 1983.  
of American ingenuity and  It now employs 35,500 peo­ 
one of the most recogniza­ ple in the United States,  
ble brand names on Earth  including 20,600 at its fad­ 
during the 20th century.  ing manufacturing hub in  Getty  
But its film business has  Rochester. It eliminated up  A consumer  picks up Kodak film in London. The  
. been on the wane for more  to 6,000 jobs in 2003.  Eastman-Kodak Company announced massive layoffs  
than a decade, its decline quickened in the 21st cen­tury by filmless digital cameras, which record pic­tures on computer chips. Kodak was slow to get into digital photography, and now, without a swift conversion, risks fading into history, analysts·warn.  Founded in 1881 by George Eastman, Kodak turned point-and-shoot photography into an overnight craze when it came out with a $1 Brownie camera in 1900. By 1927, it held a virtual monopoly of the U.S. photo­graphic industry. ·  Thursday, as it transitions from traditional film to digi­tal photography. America and Western For all that, Kodak is still Europe this year. struggling to find its footing During the recent fourth against rivals like Hewlett­quarter, Kodak's consumer Packard and Canon. digital camera sales leaped To get deeper into the 87 percent, and revenue game, Kodak spent about from its online photo-shar­$750 million for five com­ 
"We've got good momen­tum, particularly in our digital portfolio," which  By the 1980s, Kodak still had nearly two-thirds of color-film sales worldwide.  ing service surged 55 per­cent. But U.S. sales of con­sumer film products,  panies last year. Kodak also said Thursday it has offered $35 million to buy  
turned a profit for the first time in 2003, chief execu­ But it was slow to exploit new markets, such a;;  including 35mm·1'ilm and single-use cameras, sank  the remaining 41 percent stake in Japanese digital  
tive Dan Carp said Thursday. "We can see now into the future and have scoped out a three-year plan to ensure we stay ahead. We believe 2003 marks the bottom, and we'll build on our perform­ance going forward."  point-and-shoot 35mm cameras, enabling Tokyo­based Fuji to jump from obscurity 25 years ago to challenge Kodak for No. 1. In 2003, digital cameras began outselling traditional film cameras for the first time in the United States.  10 percent. Kodak has poured more than $4 billion into digital research in the past decade, securing hundreds of patents and developing a vast array of products and services, including its Picture CD software, online  camera supplier Chinon Industries that it does not . already own. Kodak's digital business­es generated only $4 bil­lion, or about 30, percent of the company's $13.3 bil­lion in 2003 sales. It said it expects digital imaging to  
The announcement came  Last week, Kodak said it  photo-sharing service and  ·  account for half of its pro'fit  
as Kodak posted a fourth­ will stop selling reloadable  easy-to-use line of digital  and 60 percent of sales by  
quarter profit of $19 mil- film  cameras  in  North  cameras.  2006.  

Ex-Enron accountant surrenders 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Enron Corp.'s former top accountant was led away in handcuffs Thursday to face allega­tions he was "a principal architect" of the accounting scandal that caused the energy giant to collapse. 
Richard Causey, 44, pleaded inno­cent to federal conspiracy and fraud charges in an indictment that accused him of }?eing a key partici­pant in widespread schemes to mis­lead government regulators and investors about the company's earn­ings. 
His arrest could bring prosecutors closer to Enron's executive suite. The indictment noted Causey report­ed to Enron's chairman and chief executive officer but did not name former Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay or former CEO Jeffrey Skilling. 
Causey, who surrendered to the FBI before daybreak, entered his plea before U.S. Magistrate Judge Frances Stacy. He was released on $1 million bond, secured by $500,000 in cash provided by a brother-in-law. 
"Rick Causey is a decent, honor­able and innocent man," his attor­ney, Mark Hulkower, said. "He has done nothing, absolutely nothing, wrong. We will vigorously contest these charges, and we look forward to the day when Mr. Causey's vindi­cated in this courthouse." 
The indictment alleged the schemes included inflated asset val­ues, hidden debt, sham asset sales, use of energy trading profits to make the company's money-losing energy retail unit appear healthy and faking earnings in Enron's sickly broad­band unit. 
It also alleged Causey had secret agreements with former Enron finance chief Andrew Fastow that the finance chief wouldn't lose money when his shady partnerships did deals with Enron. 
"The scheme extended into every major business at Enron," prosecu­tor Sam Buell said. 
Causey's handcuffs were removed after he sat down in the Houston courtroom. When Stacy asked if he 
was employed, he replied: "I am not." 
Causey was fired in February 2002 after an internal probe concluded he failed in his duty to adequately look out for Enron's interests when the energy giant did deals with Fastow's partnerships. 
Causey is charged with one count of conspiracy and five counts of securities fraud. If convicted of all six charges, he faces a maximum sentence of 55 years in prison and a $5.25 million in fines. 
His indictment, handed up Wednesday and unsealed Thursday, came on the heels of guilty pleas last week from Fastow and Fastow's wife, Lea. 
Fastow pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy, admitting he and others in Enron's senior man­agement manipulated Enron's books while skimming millions of dollars for himself, his family and selected friends. 
His wife admitted to helping hide ill-gotten income on a false tax return. 
.. . . .. . . .. .. .. .. . . .. . .. . .. .. .. 
Friday, January 23, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Investment adviser acccused of fraud 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -A Southern California investment adviser suspected of stealing hun­dreds of millions of dollars from thousands of clients across the country was arrest­ed Thursday at a Houston motel. 
James Paul Lewis Jr., 57, had arrived at the motel in a Mercedes and was taken into custody before dawn, said FBI spokesman Bob Doguim. A federal judge told Lewis later Thursday to contact his attor­ney and scheduled another court appearance for him Friday. 
Lewis was booked on a sin­gle count of fraud, and federal prosecutors in California said more charges are· possible. If convicted on the fraud count, Lewis could face up to 30 years in prison and a $1 mil­lion fine, federal prosecutor Michael Kusin said. 
Federal authorities allege Lewis, who owned the Orange . County, Calif., firm Financial Advisory Consultants, operat­ed a 20-year Ponzi-like 
scheme, stealing from new investors to pay off older ones. 
"That money was never invested in anything," Doguim said. 
A New York attorney, Michael Handwerker, said he had been contacted about Lewis' arrest but had not been retained as counsel, adding: "I really don't have any com­ment. I don't even want to say anything." 
U.S. Magistrate Judge Frances Stacy told Lewis· his arraignment and trial would take place in Orange County. 
When the FBI raided his office Dec. 22, Lewis was sup­posed to have $814 million for 3,290 clients worldwide, but bank accounts held about $2.3 million. Federal authorities froze those accounts. 
The FBI and Securities and Exchange Commission allege Lewis fabricated more than $730 million in interest pay­ments to his investors. 
Lewis withdrew $3 million in July· at the same time he was telling clients they could not have their money, authori­ties said. 





Emmy academies reunite 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The East and West Coast television a cad­emies that control the Emmy Awards are putting aside their longtime rivalry and crafting a new alliance, top academy executives said Thursday. 
"This is such a monumental step, hopefully erasing 30 years of antagonism," said Dick Askin, chairman of the Los Angeles-based Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, organizer of the prime-time Emmys. 
He was joined in a phone news conference by Dennis Swanson, chairman of the New York-based National Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, the branch that administers news, sports and daytime pro­gramming Emmys. 
The new cooperation will "simplify the . process of rewarding excellence in televi­sion," Swanson said. 
The two academies -and the rancor between them ­dates back to a 1977 agree­ment that resulted in a so­called "divorce" and the estab­lishment of separate groups and leadership. 
Swanson and Askin, both rel­
atively new to their posts, said grams competing for more than they began negotiating to one Emmy. improve relations a few months "It's premature to suggest ago. what the final outcome will be," 
Among other things, they will Swanson said Thursday. work together on areas includ­Askin reiterated ATAS' posi­ing Web sites and marketing to tion that Latin Emmys were not 
enhance  the  a priority because  
academy brand,  Spanish-language  
Swanson said, although the academies have  "This is such a monumental step.  programs are honored by the International  
yet to develop a  hopefully erasing  Academy  of  
framework for implementing the changes.  30 years of antagonism. ••  Television Arts & Sciences. Under the new  
It was unclear  alignment,  the  
how the reconcili­ Dick Askin  international  
ation will affect a  chairman of ATAS  academy  will  

recent bitter clash between the two academies regarding establishment of Latin Emmys. 
NATAS filed for arbitration in December 2002, claiming ATAS was refusing to cooperate in establishing Emmys for Spanish-language programs and had interfered with NATAS' attempt to initiate a ceremony. 
ATAS had questioned the need or feasibility of Latin Emmys, noting that Spanish­language programming already was eligible for the internation­al Emmys given each fall. Academy rules preclude pro-become a division 

of ATAS rather than NATAS. The groups said it was a logical move because ATAS and the international academy both handle prime­time programming Emmys. 
The possibility of combining all Emmys under one unified organization was not a topic of discussion, the academy execu­tives said. They now cooperate on the daytime Emmys. 
''I'm not sure the two organi­

. zations should be under one roof," Askin said. "We're both now really well-defined in our areas." 
Poll: Public stlpport for Iraq war strong 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Public sup­port for the war in Iraq remains strong, with almost two-thirds of the American public saying that going to war was the right deci­sion, a poll out Thursday found. 
The number who said going to war was the right decision. 65 percent, is about the same num­ber who felt that way in December, soon after the capture of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, according to the poll by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press. 
More than 500 U.S. service members have died since the beginning of military operations in Iraq. · 
The Pew poll found the public believes President Bush is striking about the right balance in advo­cating the United States' interests oyerseas. Almost half said Bush is "about right" in the amount that he pushes U.S. interests overseas. The remainder were evenly split between feeling he is too aggres­sive or not aggressive enough. 
Almpst half. 46 percent, said Bush gives an appropriate amount of attention to the con­cerns of U.S. allies, while 30 per­cent said not enough attention was paid to their concerns. 
The partisan divide on the war with Iraq is growing after it diminished when Saddam was captured. 
An overwhelming number of Republicans think going to war was the right decision, while two­thirds of independents feel that way. Only about four in 10 Democrats said it was the right decision to go to war in Iraq. 
The poll of 1,503 .adults was taken Jan. 6-11 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 

Fire kills three in retirement home 
Associated Press 
MARYVILLE, Tenn.-A fire that killed three people at a retirement home was traced to a bedroom electrical outlet. and state fire marshals Thursday ruled the blaze an accident. 
Special agent Bob Pollard said an appliance was plugged into the outlet, but fire damage made it unclear what kind. Investigators also could not tell whether the appliance or the wiring caused the blaze. 
Lucille Law, 87; Molly Wright, 84 and Rosa Cheeks, 82, died in the fire Tuesday night at Home Away From Home Inc. retirement center in Maryville, about 15 miles east of Knoxville. 1\velve oth­ers were injured. 
Three victims remained in critical condition Thursday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center's burn unit in Nashville. Three others were in stable condition at Blount 
Memorial  Hospital  in  
Maryville.  
The fire  occurred in  an  

upstairs bedroom of a con­verted ranch-style house built in the 1960s. The bedroom was occupied by three of the facility's 15 residents, but it was unclear whether those were the three who died. 
The building had been licensed as a retirement home since 1988. It lacked a sprin­kler system, but state rules do not require them for older facilities. 

Pollard said the building had smoke detectors and alarms, but 56-year-old stroke victim Gary Crisp said he never heard an alarm. Crisp was in bed trying to go to sleep when a woman alert­ed him. He fled out a back door from his downstairs bed­room. 
"I didn't take no hesitation about it," Crisp recalled from his hospital bed Thursday. 
The fire comes four months after a blaze at a four-story nursing home in Nashville killed 15 residents. That cen­ter also lacked a sprinkler system. 
APARTMEN.TS 
.,Hmme.. mnn mmnB~H~'-B ..................................... <......................:x.: 1: !! !!l!!H 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/1801/ Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/(574)272-BJJO 
Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 Bedroom Apartments still available 

• 
Security patrolled nightly 



• 

Friday, January 23, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
New security for buses introduced 
Associated Press 
RAMAT HASHARON -Israel unveiled a new security system Thursday that is designed to keep suicide bombers off buses, one of the deadliest forms of Palestinian attacks. 
Thirteen times during three years of violence, Palestinians carrying bombs boarded buses and blew themselves up, killing 139 passengers. The attacks have deterred many people from riding buses, Israel's most common and cheapest form of mass trans­port. 
The key element of the new system, displayed Thursday at Israel Military Industries out­side Tel Aviv, is a simple turn­stile. The driver monitors pas­sengers boarding his bus, and if anyone arouses suspicions, he presses a button to lock the turnstile, keeping the person off the bus. 
However, Palestinian bombers have taken to dis­guising themselves, some as women, others as Orthodox Jews, to avoid detection. 
A more sophisticated version of the system includes elec­tronic sensors to detect explo­sives up to three feet away, 
setting off an alarm near the driver. 
A bomber-could still deto­nate his explosives outside the bus, but there would probably be fewer casualties. 
The system was developed by the Israeli bus manufactur­ing company Haargaz, the Israeli Transportation Ministry and Israel Military Industries, which also deals with more sophisticated threats, like pro­tecting aircraft from missile attacks. 
"There's no doubt that we have been forced in recent years to deal with terrorist activity that targets buses," Transport Minister Avigdor Lieberman told reporters. 
Five city buses with the basic version of the system will be on the road next month as part of a pilot project. 
The buses will also have a turnstile at the rear door to allow passengers to exit and prevent bombers from climb­ing aboard from the back. 
Armored glass may also be installed beside the driver's seat and at the front of the bus to reduce the impact of an explosion. 
"This will definitely save lives," Mizrahi said. 
ITALY 




Berlusconi reappears in public 
Associated Press 

ROME -After weeks out of the spotlight, Premier Silvio Berlusconi was back in public sight Thursday, playing down a long absence that led to wide­spread speculation that he was ill or having cosmetic surgery. 
The premier, speaking to journalists on a Rome street corner, grinned when asked what he'd been up to in recent weeks. 
"I've always been working, eh," he said. "I took a few hours for myself every morn­ing to get back in shape -a little checkup." 
During his absence, uncon­firmed reports said he had plastic surgery. There were no obvious signs of any plastic surgery Thursday, but he appeared much thinner. 
Berlusconi denied newspa­per reports that he had gone on a Tibetan diet and drunk goat's milk, although the pre­mier said he had fasted. 
"I enjoyed reading all the fantasies that came out in the newspapers," he said. "I lost a lot of weight, and above all I revived myself after the European toil that was terri­ble" -a reference to his six­month term as the rotating president of the European Union, which ended Dec. 31. 
Earlier Thursday, Berlusconi skipped a ceremony at the that he might be sick. His aides Carabinieri police headquar­have shrugged that ofT, saying ters. A day earlier, he pulled the premier needed a rest 
out  of  a  after the six-month  
planned meet­ing with the  "IfBerlusconi does­ EU presidency, and is now at work.  
Maltese presi­dent. Many had expected him to re-appear at a Saturday  n't appear in pub­lic, it is only because he's busy in private."  "He is fine, he looks like my son," Cabinet Minister Umberto Bossi said before Berlusoni's appearance  
rally to the  mark 1Oth  Umberto Bossi  Thursday. "If Berlusconi doesn't  
anniversary  Cabinet Minister  appear in public, it  

since the bil­lionaire busi­nessmen stepped into politics, founding the Forza Italia party that has become this country's largest. 
"He absolutely can't miss that," a Cabinet minister, Rocco Buttiglione, said earlier Thursday. 
Berlusconi's last appearance before the Italian public was at a Dec. 20 year-end news con­ference. He has spent much of the last month at his villa in the posh Sardinian resort of Porto Rotondo. 
He has come back to Rome on a few occasions, meeting privately with coalition allies and aides. 
There had been no published photographs or TV footage of the premier. 
Berlusconi's near-disappear­ance prompted speculation 
is only because he's busy in private." 
Mystery also surrounds the premier's reported plastic sur­gery. A doctor first said Berlusconi had a touch up 
around  his eyes, but then  
denied  he  knew  anything  
about it.  

A newsweekly, the left-lean­ing L'Espresso, insisted this week that the conservative Berlusconi underwent exten­sive plastic surgery on his face and neck. The magazine said the operation took place in a Swiss clinic late December, and was led by a top Californian surgeon. Berlusconi's convalescence was complicated by a swelling around one of his eyes, the magazine said. 
The premier's office has declined to comment on the reports. 

UNITED NATIONS 
Japan seeks to lower UN dues 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Japan, the second-biggest financier of the United Nations, wants to cut its contributions to the world body, a Japanese U.N. official said Thursday. 
Tokyo contributed about $263 million to the United Nations general budget in 2003. The sum accounts for nearly one­fifth of the budget. and ·Japan pays hundreds of millions more for peacekeeping, development and other U.N. programs. 
The United States is the only country the pays more, giving more than $300 million. Jun Yamazaki, the Japanese U.N. mission's minister for budgets, said he didn't know numbers but confirmed a Japanese media report that Tokyo wants to pay less. 
" ... I think there is an overall sense in Japan that Japan would like to see its rate of 
assessments going lower," 
Yamazaki said. 
A senior Japanese Finance Ministry official told the Kyodo News agency Wednesday that the reduction, which could amount to millions of dollars, reflects Tokyo's fiscal austerity as the economic slowdown shrinks tax revenues and investments. Kyodo didn't iden­tify the official. The report said Japan plans to cut its contribu­tions to the global organization beginning in 2006, when the United Nations is set to reassess country contributions. 
A government panel headed by a senior aide to Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has recommended that Japan ask the United Nations to lower its share to 15 percent. 
Analysts say Japan may also be trying to put pressure on the United Nations to accept its request for a permanent seat on the 15-member Security 
Council. Five countries -the 
United States, Russia, China, 
France and Great Britain ­
have permanent seats that give 
them veto power over any reso­
lution that goes before the 
council. 
But Security Council reform, a central issue at the United Nations for more than a decade, moves very slowly and 
U.N. officials say it's unlikely changes would happen as soon as 2006. 
The United Nations has not received official word that Japan wants to lower its dues, 
U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq said. Japan has long been a leading contributor to the United Nations and other inter­national programs, and consid­ers doing so part of its foreign policy. On Thursday, for exam­ple, Japan extended a $6 mil­lion grant to the U.N. Development Program's effort to help the Palestinians. 
SWITZERLAND 


ElBaradei: No signs Iran is not complying 
Associated Press 
DAVOS -The head of the 
U.N. atomic agency on Thursday rejected suggestions that Iran may be reneging on its promise to fully suspend uranium enrichment -a process that can be used to make nuclear weapons. 
Tehran announced it had suspended uranium enrich­ment late last year as it sought to blunt concern it was run­ning a secret weapons pro­gram and to deflect U.S. attempts to gain U.N. Security Council involvement. 
Western diplomats and nuclear experts told The Associated Press this week that even key European nations that negotiated the deal with Tehran have started to ques­tion its commitment. They said Iran appears to be using semantics -the meaning of the word "suspend" -to keep some of its nuclear enrichment program operational. 

But International Atomic Energy Agency Director­General Mohamed ElBaradei said Thursday the U.N. agency had seen no indications Iran had reneged on its promise. He spoke on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum. 
"I see no reason why Iran should backtrack on its pledges," ElBaradei said, adding that U.N. inspectors were working in Iran this week. "Obviously it would have serious implications if they do not cooperate fully with us ... I hope and I am confident they will continue to cooperate. 
M. Tennis vs. Texas A&M
< 

Friday, January 2.3rd at 4pm at the Eck Tennis Pavilion 
* First 1 oo fans receive Gold GameT-shirts sponsored by AfROPOSTAU 
.... ....



···""' 
··.fR 
a·asketball vs. KentuckJ 
Sunday, January :zsth at 4pm 
197 4 Reunion Basketball Team p.resented at halftime. *<l·st.soo NO Students receive ratty towels 



-••••••••••• -.......... , •• jjl ........... . 

THE OBSERVER 
.,..1~~~~~~~--s...p~ 
P.O.f\ox Q_, N~~ Dam~ lN 41i~5<i 024 South Diili~ HJ111; llf~ r>atn~.IN 46S.~ 
EDlrotlll'l ClltEf 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING El>rroR · BUSINESS MANAGER 
s,ott Brodfuehrer wri Lewalski 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR Sheila Flynn 
NEWS Eorroru Mcghanne Downes VlEWPOJNT EorroR:. Sarah V.ahulas SJ>()llTS EDITOIU J0eHcttb S<:£N£ Eorroll: M~;~ Smith . SAINT MARY's EorroJb Allnel~ Woolford 

. .. . 
GRAPHICS Eorr0R: MikeHarkiris AoVUTISlNG MANII.G£& Maura Cenedella AD JnslQoi· MANAGI!l!.~ .Tom Haight SYsTEMS Al>MINI$TMTOll: Ted Bangett WEB ADMINLSTRATOR.l Todd Niito CoNTROl..LER: Paula Garcia 
,. CONTACT Us OFRCE MANAGER &GENEfiAL JNFO (574) /i';V747l ,:: ...,::·.fAX·· .,,.. 

.(,]4Y~;H6®el~ .. •n ., • 
Ellirott u. CHIEF , .> .' < <: /.,•.·' (S74l9lh~$4~ .) .·······<'< < >
MANAGING Eo#cm & AsslsrAittMMIA.GttiG EnitoR ·. · (57;4},()at,;.iM1 d:J~rutedu·..,·' .·.·. BIISUUSS 0FAC£ .(5.74) ~ll·$313 ·, 
. . ..·. NmOOit 
(574} 63h5.323>~meW-s~ l@nd,edu .· ...·· ' . > Vl!wPOINT 0£SIC ~ (57~}· 63l-5303,·...·viewf9int;l@nd..edu 
SPORtslkSK >.·', .··.. ·'. <····'·. (574) 63t~;~' ~~·l®nd.edu·' 
::< .· . $Cat[lJESK . C?1<Q §~H~il~P ~~1~11iL~u .,·,.·'·.,. 

(574} (i~l~j~~~~,v;~~!j~ \ ··•··· .· ·•· 
. ··•.·•···.:···.·...··· ••· > Pmomc ·· ·.. · ·· .· 
.···.·.. •rs?~·Vvi~7~ ;l~~~~rORs ···••••···.· 
(574l"l•8839 
ili.1i(: '; l~-~.,~ii :l'ii," 

..•.•••.·•Th~ Obser\'eJ' ~ t~ fu4el>endcs\t, daily 4~ <> ·•·. published in prirlt an<fPilli~~: J# t!t.e ~~ pi"~ , .. . .·· t1ni~$1t)Y of~P#Mc AA~ilt\4 $.#lliM#Y.f •• .. .Colleg~. Eclitorialc<1nr~4 im;Juding ~a:.w •· notgovemeci·W•~·of'tt~t•~~.~~itl#r ••··•.••.·.•• 
instinu:ion,1M~~thedgbt ~~ ....... .advt;tu~ub#Moo~~t: ..···········.•·•··.··•··· ,. < < : 
The•~iS•re['Oit~#~fdr•an.ao~#·•·•····· JQSib~-.U~d edit<idsiep~(tlieo~!)ij 9L ···· 
.. =r;rtJJg~t~~~et~·······
Commentaries, lec:tef$ andIXllumm pr~t tlie views 
of the authors and not~Ur tho6e. ofthe.•• ..·.·...
Observer. ·.. . ·. . . . . . 
VKWpOint lpaetisaWilabk to all readers. The free eqm:s9on ofaU opinions through letters is enrouraged. Leners [0 m~; Edh4f mt4t .b¢· $ignedand ffli.I.Sdndmi~; conr.acr information. 

·~·:--.· 
POST 0FftCE INFORMATION 
,.~(\.J$1'$ m l--~!4 p<!hli>l>cd Moo><~., tb-d> frHio, """"'' <!..~ """' ond ""'""""~A ~'P'""',;, ~ Ob.tr..r is ~100 r..,..,.,. ~i< 
1"'' J551i>•-........,., ·I'O$TM.\STER
ill< 01>...... is pol,li,h«j '"'··'·· '· :·
1lH S..orh Pouoc ti.JI · · ··· s....t~~l«,;,!l$ w.. Noc..-U....C:.IN-165~ 
~Ob.c""' l't•~~p.id.,~D~ . 00. liot Q. : . . . ·>.·. ..,d .oid.liilobol roolliDj ..al.:ia;. · · <914 S...<t. D~ia& li.JI •• · No<... o....e;,N46~~c;;am · 
. . _. -.. 
--..·· . . . . ·. .. ·. 
1-...~·li·~l;cr~~~~~Ail~i;.,;,ri~Ji.;.~

mcm:d. . . . .... . .. . . . . . . . . 
·. 
....... 
>····· ,·..·.···.···s····...,., .. ·...••... 
.TODAY S TAFF 
News <craphlcs··. Anneliese Graham Ebetsch Woolford ·sports 
Will Puckett Pat Leonard Matt Bramanti Justin Schuver Viewpoint ·Scene Nicole Oery KCKenney, Illustrator Vanessa Saenz 

Ceremony deserves better planning 
Members ofthe 1973-74 men's basketball team will be Students in the lower seats often wait in line for hours on honored on the 30th anniversary of their victory over UCLA end to sit close to the court and cheer for the team. But that snapped UCLA's record 88-game winning streak at the against Kentucky this Sunday -one of the biggest and men's basketball game Sunday. Such great Irish players as toughest home games -these die-hard fans will not be Dwight Clay, John Schumate and Gary Novak and coach near the court. Digger Phelps will be recognized at halftime. Even though students may be disappointed These players, coaches and their families will OJhe they'll be losing their seats so close to the sit in the lower arena of the Joyce Center, in oserver court, they probably won't mind that legends about 70 seats normally occupied by mem­will be taking their seats. Still, the University bers of the student section. and athletic department should have formulat­

Editorial
While coach Mike Brey and the athletic ed a solution that gave both these returning 
department should be praised for bringing . back this great team, the University and athletic office should have found a better place for them to sit. By placing the former players and coaches in the lower arena -and taking seats away from students -the rowdiest Notre Dame students will be farther away from the action on the floor, lessening the "homecourt advantage." In a place like the Joyce Center where the majority of fans rarely stand and cheer, the students are the most involved fans. 
greats and the rowdiest students courtside seats to create biggest home court advantage. Next year, it should consider reserving seats at the beginning of the sea· son in section 13 and 16 in the lower arena for returning players and other honored guests, rather than displacing students at select games. But this year, poor planning has not only upset some student basketball fans, but also will hamper rather then help Notre Dame's home-court advan­tage against one of the top teams in the country Sunday. 
LETTER TO EDITOR 
Minority voices share opinions 
In response to Joseph Muldoon's question regarding the negative light in which President Bush is often viewed in The Observer, I would simply say that the bulk of those who write are probably feeling unheard. Whether true or not, the common campus perception is that Notre Dame students generally support Bush. Consequently, those who oppose him consider themselves a minority, fueling their desires to voice opinion more than those who support Bush. 
Another reason for "Bush-bashing" is that his adminis­tration has been unabashedly bold in its policy and demeanor. The so-called "Bush Doctrine'' and the mentali­ty that produced it has been fertile ground for those in the market of expressing discontent. As the arena of politics is one in which heated argument is amply available and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should Saint Mary's continue to host the Keenan Revue? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
widely accepted among the general public, the views become intensified. Thus, when combined with such non­interactive, opinion-based communication as a Viewpoint article, it lends itself to more extreme views, as voices go unchecked and attempts are made to gain attention and support via such methods as "slamming." 
I would be reluctant to say The Observer, or any other individual media source, reflects the views of its "commu­nity." But it is a revealing text for students of-rather than at-Notre Dame. 
Mike Zawada semor St. Edwards Hall Jan. 22 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Real knowledge is to know the extent of 
, . 
ones zgnorance. ~, 
Confucius Chinese philosopher 

• 
p

Friday, January 23, 2004 page 11 


A first step 
The border fence near the airport in Tijuana, Mexico bears a grim memorial: hundreds of crosses, each marking the life of a man, woman, or child who attempted to cross the U.S.-Mexican border. While preserving the memory of these 
John lnfranca

lives, cut short along a dangerous journey, the crosses 
Dissident

also compel deeper reflection on the Poetry nature of the highly fortified fences dividing Mexico from the United States. These fences are in part the product of Operation Gatekeeper, a heavily publicized effort to heighten security at this, the busiest section of the border. Such security is only the most visible element of an immigration policy that often seems as confusing as it is controversial. Amid the many disagreements that divide interested parties, there is one point many agree upon: current American immigration poli­cy is in deep need of revision. 
It is at this point that agreement ends and deep division arises regarding the form this revision should take. So it should surprise no one that President Bush's recent proposal to bring about major changes in U.S. immigration law drew crit­icism the moment it was unveiled. The plan includes provisions to allow illegal immigrants already in the United States, as well as individuals who apply from abroad, the opportunity to work the U.S. for three years. To gain such status, one's employer must prove that no American desires the job in question. Immigration control advocates complain the plan rewards those who have broken the law by entering the country illegally. Others deem it a threat to the job quality of cur;. rent American workers, liable to replace­ment by individuals willing to work for less money and fewer benefits. Immigration advocates claim the plan will result in the exploitation of workers, who face deporta­tion should they not succumb to potentially unfair demands from their employers. 
Churches and other proponents of social change have also commented on the legis­lation. The Chairman of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishop's Committee on Migration had this to say in his own response: "While ...an important first step in a long overdue reform of our immigra­tion system, this particular proposal does not provide a solution to the serious prob­lems we experience as the result of contin­uing undocumented migration and an immigration system that is broken. What is needed to respond to these problems is truly comprehensive immigration reform that will provide opportunities for legaliza­tion for the undocumented currently living in the United States, temporary worker programs with full worker protections and a path to permanency, as well as a reform of our family immigration system that will 
allow immigrant families to reunite in a timely fashion." 
Only time will reveal what fmal form, if any, legislation seeking to implement Bush's proposals might take and whether it will pass into law. Many have already complained of the seemingly political nature of its timing. The President has already acknowledged that politics were involved in his decision. This should of course surprise no one, being as the elec­tion is less than a year away and Hispanics are fast becoming one ofthe nation's most important voting groups. There is also concern that the plan. unlikely to be implemented prior to the election, will be quickly dropped by congressional Republicans should Bush be reelected, allowing the President to use the issue to his political advantage now and then drop it when no longer of use. Regular readers of this column will know that I do not hesi­tate to criticize this administration. That being said, I believe the President's inter­est in this issue prior to September 11 bespeaks an honest desire to, at a mini­mum, revise American immigration policy and at most, reveals some level of concern for the situation of undocumented workers here in the United States. Be that as it may, President Bush's proposal has ensured that an important, complex and at times confusing issue will receive atten­tion during the coming political election. Such attention is, at the very least, a first 
step toward improving current policies. 
American consumers -who enjoy agri­culture and other goods produced in large part by undocumented workers-and the unfortunately far less numerous group of American voters, would serve themselves well by examining this issue in depth. They might thereby avoid the knee jerk nativism that should be foreign to a land of immigrants as well as naive notions of reform that lack careful consideration of economic and political repercussions with­in and outside of the United States. 
Last evening members of the Notre Dame community gathered for the first session of a four-part series entitled "Strangers No Longer: Catholic Responses to Migration." The series will examine the issue ofmigration from pastoral, political, and economic perspectives while also spurring discussion regarding ways in which individuals and churches can sup­port migrants in their own communities and advocate for fair and just national policies. A complex issue such as immigra­tion reform demands committed, rea­soned, and informed dialogue. I encourage readers to join this series and enter into a debate that is crucial to our nation and to the lives of those whose predecessors are now remembered by crosses on a fence. 
John Infranca is a theology graduate student. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at jinfran 1 @nd.edu. 
' 

Nothing wrong with Elam's schol~rship 
As a Notre Dame graduate and a current Kent State graduate student, I strongly disagree with The Observer's moral superiority with respect to Abram Elam's KSU scholarship. I support NO's strict standards but I hardly think that gives you the right to judge, with permanent consequences, what other institutions, under different cir­cumstances, do or do not do. Mr. Elam's convictions are mirrored by others at many other universities -are you particularly offended because he was one of ours? He paid society's price-what gives you the right to determine what additional penalty he must endure? And of course he was recruited at Kent State because he was need­ed. You see, I am a convicted felon with an academic scholarship at Kent State, and thank God they did not feel it necessary to judge my past mistakes, just my academic record. Your sanctimonious self-righteousness belies your Christian mission. 
Pat Kerrigan Class of 1971 Kent, Ohio Jan. 21 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Stereotypes reflect lack of research 
Boy, Joey Falco, that sure was a clever article. It is amazing how people like you can invoke certain crude stereotypes to show that other people, like George Bush, are the real bigots. Same goes for using something so mean­spirited to imply that someone else is really the mean one. You and your friends will look through his record until your glasses fall off and never find anything at all to support that dumb joke about the indentured Mexican ser­vant. No need to let that stop you, though. Republicans are racists, everyone knows that -why let facts and logic get in the way, when you have your own cheap and ready prejudices to protect you from having to think or make a serious argument? All the support Bush got from Hispanics while governor must have been because they were under threat-no way could it be that a Republican could actually consider them dirty brown-skins equal to us true Americans. 
Likewise with the "former Enron executives" line-so what if many of them are already in jail or on their way to jail? Clear-thinking and enlightened folk like Mr. Falco and his cartoon-fan friends know for an absolute fact, proved on MTV, that all Republicans are rich, evil plutocrats -either that or homopho­bic, racist, misogynist, Taliban, skinhead, Nazi, fascist, gun-loving, fundamen­talist Jesus-freaks; or both, like Dubya-and no amount of evidence to the contrary will shake that firm, heroic conviction. Putting those crooks in prison must have been just a publicity stunt. Most likely they are actually in Iraq right now, drinking fine gin and whipping those smelly, bearded towel-headed infe­riors who exist to drill more oil for the divine Emperor Dubya. 
I think it would be a great help to the Notre Dame community for some wise person like Mr. Falco to come up with a definitive list of which stereotypes are acceptable, and which are not. I cannot imagine, after all, seeing in print a parody of a speech by some black figure, playing on ghetto slang and carica­tures, nor would I want to see one. Yet it seems alright to make fun of conser­vatives, Texans and southerners in general. So here is a start -mocking Texans good (especially if they are not liberals), mocking blacks bad. What we need is a giant of the mind, a Mr. Falco, to finish it. 
Finally, I hope the cowardice and dishonesty of the sort of satire used by Mr. Falco is not los.t on his readers. This is a technique used to great effect by AI Franken, for instance. Write a straightforward article and make serious accu­sations, and people can refute you; you could even get found out to be a liar. Couch even viler and more baseless accusations in a semi-humorous way, though, and you can say you were just joking, and that those who take offense need to lighten up. This saves you from having to back up your malicious insinuations and cheap shots. Keep reading "The Onion," Mr. Falco. Dealing with actual facts is hard work. 
Paul Duncan Class of 2001 Stamford, Conn. Jan. 21 

Marriage and civil union different 
In his Jan. 21 letter to the editor concerning the sanctity of marriage, Nicholas Coleman erroneously states that ''President Bush is clearly against the civil union of homosexuals," citing the State of the Union address as evidence, and goes on to propose that those concerned with the sanctity of marriage should not ''get upset with gays" but rather indi­viduals such as Britney Spears. 
Nowhere in the address, however, did President Bush mention the phrase "civil union." Rather, he warned against "activist judges [who] have begun redefining marriage by court order." Marriage and civil union are not, as Mr. Coleman seems to believe, interchangeable. Marriage is a sacred institution blessed by the Church while civil unions are merely legal contracts that extend the benefits of marriage. The Federal Marriage Amendment currently being discussed does prevent the civil union of homosexuals but President Bush has not revealed his opinion on the legislation. Thus far he has only promised to defend the "moral tradi­tion of marriage." 
The actions of Britney Spears and others do indeed make a mockery of this "moral tradition" but such behavior is not a reason for throwing open the doors of marriage to homosexuals, as Coleman proposes. If anything, it is a reason for tightening the controls of the institution. The sacredness of marriage must be defended on all fronts and just because we may be losing the battle on one of them doesn't mean we should capitulate on another as well. 
Sean McFarlane freshman Siegfried Hall Jan. 22 


page 12 Friday, January 23, 2004 




Moliere' 
Morris Performing Arts Center presents a Rogers and Hammerstein classic this weekend 


The French language adds something Sl the audience at this theatrical productiCJ Moliere returns for its tenth run at Notre By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
Scene Writer 
The hills are alive this weekend as the national tour of "The Sound of Music" rolls into the Morris Performing Arts Center. Presented by Troika Entertainment, pro­ducer of such other touring musicals as "Saturday Night Fever" and "Cats," this time­less musical has become one of the most well known works of all time, continuing to entertain generations of the­ater-goers. 
The musical tells the true story of Maria Rainer, a pos­tulant at an abbey in Austria who is planning to be a nun. II er love of freedom and nature brings the Mother Abbess to believe that Maria is not yet suited for religious life, and she places Maria in charge of tending to the von Trapp children while their father, a retired Navy captain, is in Vienna with his new fiancee. Maria brings music, joy and happiness to the chil­dren, who have been bur­dened with a military-style household ever since the chil­dren's mother had died. When the Captain returns with his fiancee, Elsa, and a friend of the family, Max Detweiler, he is shocked at the way Maria has been dealing with the children but soon finds the happiness he lost by hearing Maria's music. 
The tale then shifts to the oncoming of the German Anschluss and the rise of the Nazi regime. The Captain promises to stand up to the Nazis no matter what it takes, but Elsa believes differently, and the engagement is bro­ken. Maria and the Captain then realize the love they have for each other and are mar­ried several weeks later. The climax comes as the Nazis arrive to force the Captain into service, and the family must find a way to escape. 
Hichard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, two of the most acclaimed musical com­posers of all time, composed the soundtrack for "The Sound of Music." They are known best for introducing the musical play into modern theater, and the mixture of musical comedy and operetta have produced such global smash hits as "Oklahoma!," "Carousel," "South Pacific," "The King and I," "Flower Drum Song," and the televi­sion musicals "State Fair" and "Cinderella." Together, the duo has been awarded 34 Tony Awards, 15 Academy Awards, 2 Pulitzer Prizes, 2 Grammy Awards and 1 Emmy Award. 


"The Sound of Music" first opened in 1959, starring Mary Martin as Maria. With the best seats selling for $5, the musi­cal took in advanced sales upwards of $2 million, which would be close to $30 million by today's standards. It ran for close to 1,500 performanc­es and won seven Tonys, including Best Musical. A United States tour began in 1961, starring Florence Henderson. Since then, there have been professional pro­ductions of the musical around the world in countries such as Britain, Japan, China, Sweden, Iceland, the Netherlands, Finland, Peru, South Africa, Israel and Greece. It has also become a very popular selection for high school theater compa­nies, which benefit from the large ensemble cast. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization has presented over 20,000 productions since 1960. 
And, of course, there is the film version starring Julie Andrews. In 1965, the film won five Academy awards, including Best Picture, and has gone on to become the most popular movie musical of all time. It was the highest grossing film of all time from 1965-1972, according to Variety. New York magazine placed it only behind "Gone with the Wind" as the second­biggest film of all time, pro­jecting a modern-day domes­tic gross (with inflation fac­tored in) of $944 million (in comparison, "Titanic" only made about $600 million domestically). 
For decades now, NBC has owned exclusive television rights to the film, and it is aired on a yearly basis by the network. The home video ver­sion is the longest running best seller in Billboard histo­ry, placing itself in Billboard's Top 40 for 300 weeks in a row. 
The soundtrack, featuring such classics as "Climb Ev'ry Mountain," "The Sound of Music," "Do-Re-Mi," "Edelweiss" and "My Favorite Things" has sold over 11 mil­lion copies, and both the film soundtrack and cast record­ing have been translated into dozens of languages. 
"The Sound of Music" has become an icon of popular culture that continues to influ­ence the world of theater and film. By simply walking down the street and stopping a stranger, odds are he or she will know the tune to at least one song in the musical. It is an experience of song and drama that will appeal to peo­ple of all ages and theater experience. 
'The Sound of Music" will be at The Morris Performing Arts Center at 8 p.m. tonight and Saturday, and 2 p.m. on Saturday and Sunda~ .<;tudent tickets are $20 (non­students range from $21­$51). Tickets are available by calling 574-235-9190 or by ordering on-line at www.BroadwayTheatreLeagu 
e. com 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 


Friday, January 23, 2004 page 13 



comedy marks 10th French language play 

By MERYL GUYER Scene Writer 
Moliere returns to Notre Dame this weekend in costume, poetry and language. A small cast of Notre Dame students and direc­tor Professor Paul McDowell will take over the Lab Theatre at 7:30 p.m. tonight and Saturday for the annual French play. Each year the play is cho­sen from among Moliere's come­dies to create an evening of French culture and language. Thi~ year's selection Les Femmes Savantes or The Learned Ladies proves to be a rich choice for physical humor, vibrant characters, and the occasional lovers' quarrel. The play is acted entirely in French, but spectators receive a synop­sis of the story in English. The play is open to all guests, regardless of previous training in French. Moliere's comedies have had continued success at Notre Dame, despite the rela­tively low population of French speakers. "We have had 2,800 spectators in 10 years and they always laugh in the right places because there is lots of physical 

special for humor and they have an English :ion as the synopsis," said McDowell. e Dame. Les Femmes focuses on a 
domineering mother who imparts to one daughter a love of philosophy and poetry, caus­ing the daughter to forsake her love interest for a fraudulent poet. Meanwhile, a second daughter falls in love with her sister's rejected boyfriend. 
This tumultuous combination is highlighted by a famous scene in which Trisotin, the fraudu­lent poet played by senior Karl Reifsteck. reads his poetry to the ladies of the house, and they swoon over his words. 
The 16th-century period cos­tumes and rhythmic sounds of the dialogue· are reminiscent of France's rich history of theatre and literature, and the student actors benefit both from com­municating in French, and also from putting the play on a stage where it takes on more life than the pages provide. 
"The plot of French theater is usually simplistic, but the lan­guage makes it a beautiful art form and you get a deeper appreciation of language," said Reifsteck. 
The French Language play celebrates its 10th year this weekend. an accomplishment among universities. McDowell cites the program, a one-credit hour, one-semester option for undergraduates that results in a 
play in a foreign language, as 
an entirely unique concept. 
McDowell conducts tryouts at 
~

the beginning of each academic .. year, from which the director chooses individuals to join the course, which culminates in the actual production of the play. 
At the end of the dress rehearsal Wednesday evening McDowell emphasized his confi­dence with this year's cast, say­ing that they have been so good that for the first time he could pay attention to details as minute as shoe buckles. "There are lots of very funny moments that these guys do so well because they have been working since August. They have put in countless hours and they are so ready for an audience that the audience will be happy to have them," said McDowell. 
Les Femmes Savantes runs two hours. in eluding a 15 minute intermission, and McDowell aduises interested spectators to purchase tickets in advance from the Department of Romance Languages in 343 0 'Shaughnessy Hall. Tickets are General Admission, $5 each. 
Contact Meryl Guyer at mguyer@nd.edu 

Pomeroy makes Legends a stop on their tour 
Unique flavor and infectious rhythm is making hip-hop/R&B band a fast hit across the U.S. 

By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Writer 
This Friday Legends is bringing in the new up and coming band Pomeroy. A four-piece band with a hip­hop/R&B kind of sound, Pomeroy is well known throughout the Midwest. The band is composed of Matt Marron on vocals and guitar, Chris Davis on drums, Dean Hopkins on bass, and David Fairbanks on vocals and per­cussion. Pomeroy is a mix of the hip-hop, pop, rock, and funk, thus creating a sound similar to that of Jamiroquai and Maroon 5 type bands. Their label explains Pomeroy as speaking ''with nimble rhymes and soulful three part harmonies over intricate, bouncing grooves". 
Pomeroy has two full length CDs, "Inside the Shine" and "Cocoon Club". Just recently. Pomeroy released a five song EP called "Identity". The band calls "Identity" "its best mate­rial yet." The songs are an easy listening, but with a unique flavor that belongs only to Pomeroy, helping the band to become such success. 
While Pomeroy's music is terrific alone, lucky for Notre Dame students at Legends this Friday, Pomeroy is best know for their impressive live show. With guitar, drums, bass, keys, and vocals the band puts on a show worth seeing. Pomeroy is known as having, "that movie-like abili­ty to step onto a new stage as strangers only to close their set with a legion of new fans pulsing to their infectious beat. They deliver pure ener­gy that takes over every room they visit." This sounds much more promising than intoxi­cated students playing volley­ball, which is the other cam­pus-sponsored event on Friday. 

Just recently Pomeroy has been signed by a Chicago management team called "FreshTracksMusic," along with signing on Atlanta power agent, Rodney Stammel of the Metro Talent Group. Matt Marron, the lead guitarist tells, "We have finally found those missing pieces to the puzzle that were stuck in between the sofa cushions, and we are totally stoked about getting out and touring hard in 2004." Well thankfully South Bend has not been over looked in this tour. 
Pomeroy has toured all over the Midwest and also in parts of the West Coast. Throughout all of their tour­ing they have played with The Dave-Mathews Band, Stone Temple Pilots, 311, Incubus, All American Rejects, The Used, Three Doors Down, Godsmack, Nelly and the St. Lunatics, Christina Aguilera, Sevendust, Smashmouth, Goldfinger, Filter, Fishbone, Reel Big Fish, G-love and Special Sauce, Phunk Junkeez, Kottonmouth Kings, the Urge, Zebrahead, 2 Skinee J's, City High, Bif Naked, Pato Banton and The Reggae Revolution. 
This Friday they will add Legends to their list and it promises to be a gre~t show. Pomeroy plays a mix of genres in their music and thus makes a concert enjoyable for almost anyone. Add in the element of being a great live band and all that leaves is a great concert for anyone smart enough to experience them. Friday night Legends is hosting a terrific band that promises through reputa­tion to put on a great show. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunders@nd.edu 


hiJay, January 23, 2004 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 


Hull ends goal drought in Red Wings' victory over Kings 
Tampa Bay took a 3-1 lead
Associated Press 

with a two-goal second period. 
LOS ANGELES-Brett Hull "We honestly felt we could ended the longest scoring come back," Isbister said. "We drought of his career with his went out with that in mind. But first goal in 21 games, and we can't wait until the third defenseman Mathieu Schneider period. It's a difficult thing to had two goals against his for­come back two goals in the mer team in the Detroit Red third period." 
I 
' Wings' 5-4 victory over Los Lecavalier picked up a lose Angeles on Thursday night. puck in front of the net midway Well-traveled defenseman through the second and slid a 
) Jamie Rivers snapped a 33-backhand shot past Tommy game goal drought and Curtis Salo, who had three shutouts in
l 
\.... Joseph made 25 saves, helping his previous eight games. the Central Division-leading Red The goal, Lecavalier's 14th, Wings end a three-game win­broke a 1-1 tie. Earlier, he
I 
less streak. assisted on Kubina's goal. 
Alexander Frolov scored twice Then, with Edmonton for the Kings, who also got enforcer Georges Laraque power-play goals from Trent about to be penalized for rough­Klatt and Luc Robitaille. ing Martin Cihak, Richards fired 
Hull, the third-leading goal a shot past Salo with 2:34 left. scorer in NHL history behind Dvorak made it interesting Wayne Gretzky and Gordie midway through the third when Howe, got his 17th of the sea­he tipped in a goal-mouth pass son and 733rd of his career on from Isbister to pull the Oilers a power play at 3:47 of the sec­to 3-2. The goal, Dvorak's ond period while Kings defense­eighth, came at 9:49. man Jaroslav Modry was serv­Isbister scored on the Oilers' ing a hooking penalty. first shot, beating goalie John 
The eight-time All-Star Grahame just 29 seconds into on a wraparound shot midway whole career," Anderson said. Avalanche 1, Thrashers 1 parked himself in the low slot the contest. through the second period. "It was great that it was a Atlanta goalie Pasi Nurminen and redirected Nicklas But the Lightning tied it less Phoenix managed just three shutout. I don't have to worry had an unusually quiet night Lidstrom's wrist shot from the than four minutes later on shots in the first period but took about my first win now." against an unlikely opponent. top of the left circle past Roman Kubina's goal. Kubina came in a 1-0 lead early in the second Columbus rang three shots off Nurminen made 20 saves and Cechmanek, tying the score at alone from the blue line to beat when Sillinger followed a ·the posts. the Thrashers held Colorado's 2-all. It was his 47th goal in 66 Salo. rebound of Jeff Taffe's break­David Vyborny beat Anderson NHL-leading power play score­games against Los Angeles. away chance, muscling the with a backhanded shot eight less in a tie Thursday night. 
Schneider, acquired by Detroit puck under Nabokov. It was minutes into the second period, The 21 shots Nurminen faced
Coyotes 2, Sharks 1 
last March in a multiplayer Sillinger's first goal in 22 games but the puck deflected off the tied a season low for Atlanta,
Ladislav Nagy scored the go­
trade that sent Sean Avery to since Nov. 30. crossbar. which was facing the third­
ahead goal, Brian Boucher
the Kings, put the Red Wings Less than four minutes later, Darryl Sydor had a chance highest scoring team in the
made 34 saves and the Phoenix
ahead 1 1/2 minutes later with Primeau snapped his own 28-late in the second, but his close­league.
Coyotes snapped a five-game
a wrist shot from the right cir­game goal-scoring drought by range shot hit the near post. "I kind of felt like I didn't have 
winless streak with a victory 
( cle while Cechmanek was tipping Niko Dimitrakos' excel­J aroslav Spacek also hit the to do too much," he said. "I
over San Jose on Thursday
screened by Kings forward night. lent pass past Boucher. near post with a power-play can't say it was easy, but Derek Armstrong. Primeau, the younger brother slap shot early in the third. they're have been harder
Mike Sillinger also scored for
Joseph preserved the lead by of Philadelphia All-Star Keith The goalie stuck to basics in games."
the Coyotes, who snapped the
stopping rookie Scott Barney on Primeau, has earned raves for the final minutes. The Avalanche had converted
Sharks' four-game winning
a breakaway with about 10 1/2 his checking and defense this "Make the other players beat 24 percent of their opportuni­
streak a day after San Jose beat
minutes left in the second peri­season, but he hadn't scored a you with a good shot," ties with the man-advantage
Phoenix 4-2 in Arizona. 
od after Detroit defenseman Jiri goal since Nov. 11. Anderson said. "Don't give them coming in, but they squandered 
Wayne Primeau scored for the 
Fischer misplayed a bouncing Patrick Marleau, the Sharks'
Sharks, who wasted a chance to easy goals." five chances against the 
puck at the red line and fell leading scorer, was awarded his Travis Moen, Bryan Berard, Thrashers, including a brief
pad their healthy lead in the
backward. first All-Star berth earlier in the Steve Sullivan, Mark Bell, Tyler five-on-three in the second peri­
Pacific Division against a spiral­ing opponent. San Jose was a day. Coyotes captain Shane Arnason, Igor Korolev and Ryan od. Lightning 3, Oilers 2 step slow for most of the night Doan also will make his first Vandenbussche scored to help That shouldn't be a surprise, Vincent Lecavalier had a lot of while losing in regulation for All-Star appearance. Chicago set a season high in because the Thrashers lead the fun at the Edmonton Oilers' just the third time in 17 games. goals and snap a five-game win­NHL in penalty killing at home. expense. Boucher was outstanding in Blackhawks 7, Blue Jackets 0 less streak. "This is the best game our 
Lecavalier scored a goal and his first victory since recording Craig Anderson got a lot of "A couple of pucks went in," defensemen played this year," added an assist to lead the his fifth straight shutout earlier help from his Chicago team­Chicago coach Brian Sutter. Atlanta coach Bob Hartley said. Tampa Bay Ughtning to a victo­in the month. mates -and the goal posts. "We were ready and played the "There's no rest playing against 
ry over the Oilers on Thursday He prevented San Jose from Anderson made 30 saves for same way we did the last couple these guys. We missed a couple night. making its usual fast start with his first NHL victory and of games. You'd like to see some of chances, but I think we gen­
"Playing here was a lot of 12 saves in the first period. shutout, and seven players of the goals that went in tonight erated a lot and we kept their fun," Lecavalier said. "Right off Boucher also made several big scored for the Blackhawks in a go in the last couple of games." big guns pretty quiet." the bat there were people car­saves on San Jose's 15 shots in victory over the Columbus Blue "Definitely getting a win like Frantisek Kaberle gave rying the puck up and down the the scoreless third period. Jackets on Thursday night. that showed we can come out Atlanta a 1-0 lead early in the ice. It really gets you in the Evgeni Nabokov stopped 18 Anderson, a Chicago-area and play," Arnason said. "It was first period on a power play, game. It makes it fun." shots for the Sharks, who failed native, entered the game with a nearly flawless game." and Brad Larsen tied it in the 
Brad Richards and Pavel to earn a point at home for just an 0-11-2 record in his two­Columbus, 3-4-3 in its last 10 second. Kubina also scored for Tampa the second time in 18 games. year NHL career, including an games, was held scoreless for Both goals came from unlikely Bay. Radek Dvorak and Brad Nabokov was solid, but he prob­0-8-0 mark in nine games this the seventh time this season. scorers -it was Kaberle's sec­Isbister both had a goal and an ably should have stopped season. Columbus backup Fred ond of the season and Larsen's assist for Edmonton. Nagy's team-leading 21st goal "I've been waiting for this my Brathwaite faced 39 shots. third. 

The Observer accepts cla.ssifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

·-~ 
all cla.ssifieds for contenr wirhout issuing refunds. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Happy B-day, Brittany. MO.,FURN. CAMPUS not go it alone. If you or someoneNOTICES 272-6306 MMMRENTALS.COM you love needs confidential support Don't worry. We'll sign T.O.
WANTED 

mmmrentals@ aol.com or assistance, please call Sr. Mary 
LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION-272-1525 Louise Gude, CSC, at 1 ·7819. For Grow a 'stache. COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND more information, see our bi-weekly Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! Karen 1-866-780-2866 Independent IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS ad in THE OBSERVER. Shuv' is rockin' the Thrasers S&H calculated. Sales Rep 2773097 TICKETS alternate jersey. 
www.bookhq.com Olympics of the basketball sort on New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2-Need 2 Pitt Bball GAs. Friday, and olympics of another sort What up, Jigga FREE MONEY Between the Buns car garage, fireplace, sky lights, Will pay or trade 2 UK or UConn on Saturday. True. Team Russia, 
FoR RENT

restaurant is offering clubs and close to campus student tx. what? El libro = the book organizations the opportunity to $1640 monthly, call574-232-4527 Call Jenny earn free money. Hold a "Kickback" 4 bedroom house. AC, garage, or 269-683-5038 634-4507. Like Victor Hugo once said: "light "Landing on a runway in Chicago..." 
.

at the "Buns' and receive a 15% great location, ample space, nego-that ... donation from what is spent that liable rent. B&B for JPW/gradlfoolball for up to Harvard, Lovell House, second evening. Call Phil for more details. Contact Mike 216-408-0780 or Man 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email Happy Belated Birthday, owner of floor, right on the couch ... That's his 247-9293 216-408-4 7 44 if interested domercondo@yahoo.com PERSONAL Magic Panda. name: I Need Money. 

Friday, January 23, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~ ~
. .
THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRS.I__ ROUNO GAMES :Fridav.. Januarv 23~ 2004 
7:00 Pl\l ~ 4:00 A~'l
FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. TIMES FOR FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED .Joy{·e Center ()JJ ..fllOO
AT THE END OF THE FIRST ROUND. 
1...~ ~') ... ,~-,. / -~ . . ... ; .· '...... ......_ .· . ..,.. . ,•'Y • "" . s·'l_.... 1 . . .• . l ··;··. l ! . . . . ~: , i'1;' tlll LNO J1edals Were Donated by~:·I' l ~·ri s·... .
lt.. t1:_!_\tb:...;.... C ltUUjJlO!l ... ,_ tlf!J.Uilt ..,pt.Cftt. ( )-l!lj.JU$~ <>4 
the /\/otre DiltJw 4./umni .A.ssociation \t1 1)·1 i 1)-, .*" · • . -·. 1.) <:.i . . . ., , J' :;s J •.. 1 tl 0 ln . 
. p .. cu .i.. OlU.-tt!Olln.t.QULS~.:ct'> dl-1le :/OOr


XVIII Keough/Welsh Family Sorin/Walsh/McCandless 
Teal!! A i>:C:O Men'~ ?~cq~eLbdll CAl.I. 1-6100 Volleyball 'f·eam J, 9:00 ~!en't:: Racquetball CALL 1-elOC Te.arn E. a: lo Woz.~r.·s Rac~etball CALi. l·HllO Team B a:o& Women's Rae~etball ~<.&. Men'3 Baske~ball "f"eam A 7:()(1 Co-Ree B:r=b<sll .!l.: 3\l :Mer: • s Ba:e:ketball Team 'A S:OG Co-Ree Sroomball 8:00 
!earn B 8' co Team B 'SA Women's Baak~tball ::tearn 1~ 7:C-!l ·' ·J(;iGkball H.: so Women's Baske::baH. !'l'A Kickb.-.11 ll.: JC Kerr Fcot:ball Team A 7:00 Wiff.ieball 7:.115 Ner! .:foot.ball Team A 9:1S Witfleoall 8:0() 
'l'eam E 7:15 Monster D~eball 12:00 'l"e<J.:n B ~i); 30 MOG&teJ: D•:::dgei:-all 12:(:0 1'eiilr.t 11. 9:45 l1mertub~· Wilt!: r l?olo 10:1G 'l'ar.get Gel£ 'ie-am A 9:lS lnnert.u~ W;;.t.sH :::>ole rm 'r~l!l B 6:15 !.NO Obs~.ac le Course 9:00 Team B !--."A LNO Obstacle course ~:3ti 
Co-Re: So-::ce:::-'!'earn ;., 7 '(l!) Table 'r'en!:"..i.S CALL 1-6100 Team A 7:40 Table Ter.ni~ C:Ar.:I, 1-6100 1'eam B S:C:l Pance ~!aratl:lo!\ Te;;.m A-13 lC:!'lu Team B ~~: 0(; Kayald;tg ream A 9' 0~1 'ream A 10:45 
T~c>m B 11:1.5 



Farley/Keenan 
Volleyball '!'earn !1 a:J\1 M~n's Racquetball C'J...LL 1-ElOIJ Volleyball T~am A '?:OC !!.en' a Ra!.:quet.bal1 CALL 1-6100 Teal!l :a '}: 00 Women' 5 R;>.cq\.ietball CALL 1.·610(; Team B B:IJC WO>:Jen' s Ra-::::quet:ball N1• Te.ata A ·1:48 Co·Rec Brco~bull Team r.. 3<30 
'l'eam 1>. 7: HI Co·l<e.c B::::c.,<..nal'.'all 9:30 
Team B '1: 2·0 'ream a 9:0G Women, s Basketball Team !'<. 7:40 Kickball } . .l:3C illome1t' s 3ae-ketba1l 1:4C Kickban. ll:5G l<~rf Football Team !1. a:oo WHf.Jeball 7:15 'rei'im B 7:2C Wifflenall 8:1.5 
'I'E'.&I'l B S:l.l> Mon:.ter Dcdgei:-all l2:0C Nert: toot:ball Team A 8:00 !-!onster DodgF.i:>a D. l2:(;C 'raJ:g~t ~olf· · ream A 8:0(1 In.nert\lhe Wate:r Polo !): 30 Team B 7!45. rnnertube WGter Pole 5:5(: 'redm B a: IS LNC Ob.ata.(:1e Cour:sn Team A 9: lS Target C'.oH 'ream A 8:lC i..NO Ql:;;sta.c1e Ccuree !{~ Co-R~c Soccer '!'e.;m .t. 8:20 "('~em R Hl :0() Ca~Rec Scccer '!'earn A 11 :I)(J Table 'rm>.n.iso ~A Te.a.tD I! e:an Ttl.ble Te!!r~l!l CALL i·610Q Team B 11:20 Kayaldng 9::1.5 Dance N~.ratnon ·rea1<1t..-C lC:iJC NA 
Dillon/'Lewis 
Volleyball T~am A '7: 00 ~e~·~ Rac<rJetball c;.::.,r.. 1-GlO(i 'l'eal'l '2 9:30 womerr • e Rac:quetball .::A.:,r. 1~ 61 co '!eal"J A 6:30 c~.::·-R!!C rs-roo:nball i!:\lO Team A 7:40 Co-R~c Broomball 8:Qf: 'teat:~ l! NA Team B 9:30 
wc~e" • s R'\;o~etb..,.Jl &\ .Kickb.-..U. 1:00 '!'earn A 7:20 l<.ickt;all 1.2:30 
!·ier! f\')ot.ba'U Teall< A Wif!le.ball 7:45 'r~>~m B e:t!C &~i!fleball o:4S 'l'eOL~ 2 9:30 Monster Dodgel>all 12:CO t:erf Football Teall! A 7:0!l Mor.s~er Oodg~ball 12:0() Tea:r, A 9:00 :rnnertube Water Polo 'l'ea,~ A 'l! :.10 Team B 7 :-iS 1:r..n.er.t:ube Water Pclo 8:50 Team 3 NP.. ·Team B 9:10 Ta.rg~:<t Golf NA !.flO Cbstacle Courae 'l'eo.!!l A 9:3C 

Co-Rec Soccer: Tea<l~ 11. 9:,t0 LNO Chstacle Co"-rse l::l:JO ~·-Ret:! S=cer 
10:20 'l'e.am .f! 10:1~ Te.a.rr. B a :4.C: "r·ean :a 1 o ' 1 5 t~A '!'able Te!lnis Team A <!:15 lO:lS '!'4ble 1'ennis CALL 1-6100 KayJ-king NA PAr.c-e Marat;.l"-..cn Team A-3 10: oo 


Alumni/McGlinn Carroll/Pangborn/LeMans 
Volleyt>all 'l"eatr, A. s :l)!l Ken'~ Racqu~~al1 CALI.: . 1 •·610a Volhyball Team 11. 9:00 Men' s Rae:que th_,_ll (.:A}:.L l-6li)C Team B ':a.c Wo~n• S HAcq'.J.totila~l CALL 1-61.00 Team B NA WG!l!en' B lt<liC<JUP.tb~ll CALL 1-6100 
Men's Basketball 'ream A 8:20 Co-R~c:: Broq:-r.bcr.ll B:OC 1-len• a Basked::!•.11. Team A 9:00 Co -Re::-Sroor.tball N'A 'tesm B 8:20 'l'~am fl Mll Tearr~ A 8:00 Kickball ll:l.D Team A . 7 '00 Kidtboll:!. .NA Tc<:>tr' tl 7:40 Wiffle.ball 5•15 '.l'ea!ll B NA Wiffleball 7::15 
Nerf Pc-ctl:oal.l Teall' A 7:30 MOn3ter D~d9eball 12:00 t>er.f Pootball Team A 9:20 t<!onster OQ<Ig~t<;tl}. 1~~00 Tea~ B 9:45 Tnn~r.tube Wat~r Polo 1C>:50 Team S Nl\ 1nnert•.1be Water Pole NA ·'ra!:get Golf 'TeiU!': A S:CO 'l'ar<aet:: Gol! Tea!!< 1'1 9:JO LNO Ol::~t.acle Cour:!!e Nll 
:1:~~ LNO Ob~t.dcle COU!."Se Team .li. l.G: 3 a Co-R.ec S<:.ccer ~A Table 7<.mn:is CALL :; -6 iC<O '!'eo:<n: A 7:0() Tea~1 B lC :4~ l".ayaking ;~aw. B 8:00 ";ai;;le Teor.H:l CT.!:!.. 1-6100 "''' 7e<tl'!! A 9: lS Dance M<:i.IO<~thm: Tear.~ a-D :::.c: OD ·reaw ~ 11:30 

:-:·~ .... 
S ~:.~:~~_.;v,~.:...
:«.o;.;.••• 



Stanford/Badin 
Voll~yba1.~ T~arn: A 5':00 Men's Rac-::r--tetl:-all CALL. 1-6100 Volley.baH r·eam ,\ 7::!0 Me~'& Racquetball C..il.LL l 6100 Till'ill1l F. tJA Wo~en• ;o Ro3C::qt.:~>tb<~ll CAI,:::, 1-6101) Team B NA r'iom~Z:n' s Racquetball. NA Men'5 Basketball :"ear.1 Z.... 7:iB Co·Rec Broomball 9:0.() Tei<III A Sl:30 Cc,Rec Broo~b~il 8:30 1'e~ :s e:Oo 'ream a NA VIDmcn•~ Ba£ketball 7:20 Kickball. 1o:;o Team A NA JC..ickbal1 1l :10 t~!lrf Food>,~ :1 ~~am .A 7:30 wi ffleball 7~30 Team B NA \"iiffleball S:CO 
T~al'!! B a: 15 Mon.-:te:r DocigebalJ. ::.2:0C !~~rf ~·ootball Team A NA Mor,ster. ~odge;:,,d.l U:OO 
Targat. C'..ol f 7~~m .r.. 8:]() 1n~er.tube Wate.r Polo 10:10 !'eiim n :~ Inn1.lr-tul:>e Water P·::lo S::!O Team B Ut<, U10 Obst.il::J.e Cours~ :tEl :30 '!'arget Golf NA. LNO Obst~c1e Cou•~c ~:GO 1'eam A S':4U ·rahl~ Tenrria CALr, 1 -E:1 ::J() C:o-RH!.: Soc-cer Tear.: A 10:00 '!'able Ten.'1is CALL 1·6100 T"am B t:A Dance ~~a.ra:::hon TeamA lC:OC Te.;~m B NA 
Kayaking Te>am A 10:00 Kayaking l.'.l :)0 

Fisher/Howard/Regina 
T~a."l 11 .12:00 1{en. 1 s Ra(:que:tball CALL l-6lCO Vc·lleyball '1'-ee.:n 1l 7:00 Men'~ Rac~~etbdll N?. Team 3 11:)(; Women' 5 ?.acquetba!.1 CAJ.,t, ·: .. !j JGC. Tea"' n S:OO Women's Racquetball CJ.GL !·61(}0 Mr.r.. •:~ B=s.sketball Tea"! A 7:ilu Co-Ree ~:ro:Jtlli."'<~ll 9 :)0 !~en's Basltet:ball Te;;;m A e:·~o Co-Ree BJ:"oox.ba13. e : 3 n 'feaon :a 7 ,:;r, teick'ball lll! 50 Team .a 9:(10 Wo:nEm' s Baalo'.at.ball Tea3l A S:Oc; Wot:~en •s Baaketi:>al_l Team A 7:40 Kic~all 1:.<:10 Team 3 7:!lC 'illiitl(!bal1. 7:.3(l '1'eam B Nll. ll.'iffle.ball 9:CO Nezf Foot:ba.ll Tea:n A 8:-IS. Mons~er Dodgeball 12:CO ~<erf: Foottall Team A l.C:OO Monster Dodgeball 12:00 
Tea.m .a 7cls· Inner~~ Water Polo 'ream A 9:50 Team B N!l. In.nertu.C~ W~ter i'~Io !iA. Tar.get Golf Te.us A 8:4!; Tea~t. B g,::.c Target Gol! Tealtl A 8:15 LNO Obst"cla Course 9:45 Co-R::l.; Socce-r T~am 1;, 9::20 Tea~ A. !I: 1 5 Co-Ree SOCC@r '.tea:n A S:20 '!'able 1'enr.l a 8:45 
Tea!ll 3 7 :2C . ;o;am a 9:45 Team B 8:4.0 oanee :«.arat..no~ 'l'ea"'l 11.-D 10:00 Team ll. NA Table Tenni.s Cl\LL _ 61.0 0 Kayat..ing 're<~orn 1\ 11:00 Tea'l'l 4 Nl\ Dance Jo'~ra t: . .'ton 'l'eam j\ 1a ' c0 Team B 12:00 
,-'<'

Siegfried/Pasquerilla w. MBA Association 
Volleyball Te;uJ~. A 7:00 Men's Racquetball Cl\'!:.:1 1-61\l() Volleyball Team A !t:30 Men's Racq~e~ball CAl.!. 1-61~0 Tean1 8 :l:Oil Women's Racquetball CIIIU. 1 • 61.00 Team B t<~ Wo;r:eG' s Racqueti.Ja.: 1 CAr·<• J·-61.()0 Men • e Basketb:!.ll Tearr. A '/; 00 Co-?.ec Hroornball 9:00 ~en's Basketball '!'earn A 8:40 Co·Rec ~~·~bclll 9:!10 Tea:::! l3 '7: ZQ 
Team 3 ·~: 20 Hoo,~n·~ B~&ketball 7eam A 7:20 Kick.lJall n:lu Team :.. 7:00 Kickball l2:SC 
Te:a.m ~ 6: (H) Wiftl~b.;.ll 8:30 Tea;r. B NA Wi ff.leball Nl' Nerf Foot.b.rtll Teal:! A 9:00 
Mons~er Dodgeball L2: {IQ Nerf ?ootball Teilll' 'A 9:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:GC 
T~g!!t Golf Team Il 9:00 In~e=tube Water Polo 10:30 'tearr.. a N.l\ lnne=tube Water Pole 9:30 Teal!l B Ni>. LNO Obstac_::.~ Cl:lurse lO:JC Target: Golf Team 1. ~:15 LNO Obstacle Cours~ 1(}:CO '!'~.-:;.~ A 7:00 Table 'l'll'.r.~:Ls o...r..r, l-6100 co-Ree Soccer" !'eam (!!. 9:00 Table T~nnts C'.Al.L l-610C 
T~am B 7:20 tlilm'!e !tlar<~tho:t Tea!f. A-ll: 1G: OG 7~0311! B NA. D~n::-..e Marthon ?eo1:r.A..B l.J:GO 

Team A 9:3C -.-,. ~ :·.. . . Kayalting NA 
Te<lill a 11:45 



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------..... 







ATION 


Page 16 Col\tPrLED Hzotvt THE OBsERVER'S ~VIRE sERVICES Friday, January 23, 2003 


I 
~ 
!· 
'( 
I 
' 
I 
<" 
I I I I 
:I:~ 
,. 
I,/ 
around the dial 
SATURDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL Michigan at Penn State 12 p.m., WHME Virginia at North Carolina 12 p.m., ESPN Duke at Georgetown 2 p.m., CBS Temple at Massachusetts 2 p.m., ESPN2 Illinois at Wisconsin 2:30 p.m., WHME UCLA at California 4 p.m., CBS New Mexico State at Western Kentucky 4 p.m., ESPN2 Southern Utah at Valparaiso 4 p.m., FOXCH Indiana at Minnesota 4:30p.m., WHME 
~ ~
••••••• ... !'., .... .... , •••.• ,.,., 
•• T ••••••••••••• ., ...... , •• 
NHL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New York Rangers captain Mark Messier was added to the NHL's Eastern Conference All-Star team Thursday, four days after his 43rd birthday. 
On the other side of the ice he'll see Columbus' Rich Nash, making his All­Star debut at 19. 
Messier will become the third oldest All-Star when he suits up Feb. 8 in St. Paul. Minn. Nash, the NHL goal leader, will be the first teenage All-Star since Jaromir Jagr and Owen Nolan in 1992. 
Nash will be 19 years, 

237 days on game day, making him the youngest All-Star since Wendel Clark, who was 135 days younger in the 1986 game. 
Only Gordie Howe, who was 51 when he represent­ed Hartford in 1980, and St. Louis defenseman Doug Harvey. 44 in 1969, were older All-Stars than Messier. He will be the fifth to play at least 15 games. 
Messier, who passed Howe on the NHL's career points list earlier this sea­son, leads the Rangers with 13 goals. He has 1,869 points -second only to Wayne Gretzky. 
His 1,727 NHL games played trails only Howe. 
Messier is tied with Ray Bourque for the most All­Star assists with 13 and is fourth in points with 18. 
Five East teammates, Florida goalie Roberto Luongo; defensemen Adrian Aucoin of the New York Islanders, Nick Boynton of Boston. and Montreal's Sheldon Souray, and Washington forward Robert Lang, were chosen to their first All-Star game. 
The third goalie, playing behind New Jersey starter Martin Brodeur, is Montreal's Jose Theodore -asecond-time All-Star. 
Theodore has regained the form that made him the MVP and Vezina 
Trophy winner two years ago. 
For the West, goalie Dwayne Roloson -fourth in the league in goals­against average and save percentage -and defense­man Filip Kuba will be making their debuts while representing the host Minnesota Wild. 
They will be joined by All-Star rookies, goalie Tomas Vokoun and defenseman Kimma Timonen of Nashville; for­wards Pavel Datsyuk of Detroit, Shane Doan of Phoenix, Patrick Marleau of San Jose, and Alex Tanguay of the Colorado Avalanche. 
IN BRIEF 
Joe Namath will undergoalcohol counseling 
BRISTOL, Conn. -Joe Namath is undergoing counseling for alcohol abuse a month after a television interview in which he slurred his words and twice told a sideline reporter he wanted to kiss her. 
"Well, I've enrolled, or I've gone into a center, and I'm getting person­al help there," the Hall of Fame quar­terback told ESPN in an interview to be aired Sunday. "Yeah, these people are experts and we need to talk." 
In an interview during a New England Patriots-New York Jets game in December, Namath appeared intoxicated when he twice told ESPN reporter Suzy Kolber he wanted to kiss her. Namath subsequently apolo­gized to Kolber. 
Namath said he had been drinking for several hours prior to kickoff. 
"We had been going since 3 or 4 in the afternoon, and I did the wrong thing," he said. "I'm very disappoint­ed with my behavior, because of how I've embarrassed my family, and the people that I work with and my friends and all. 

Spiders upset Jayhawks, snap streak 
LAWRENCE, Kan. -Tony Dobbins' fadeaway jumper with a second left gave Richmond a 69-68 victory over No. 12 Kansas on Thursday night, snapping the Jayhawks' 52-game home winning streak against unranked opponents. 
Mike Skrocki scored 23 points to lead the Spiders (10-8), who became the first unranked team to win at Kansas since Nebraska on Feb. 10, 1999. 
With Kansas (11-3) clinging to a 68-67 lead and the shot clock run­ning out, Aaron Miles tried a 3-point shot that Dobbins blocked. Miles got the ball back, but there wasn't time to shoot again and Richmond got the ball back on a shot clock violation. 
Dobbins dribbled into the lane on the ensuing possession, spun and swished the game-winner. Kansas had time for one inbounds pass, but the Jayhawks' Wayne Simien was called for a pushing foul and Richmond was able to run out the clock. 
Tarheels fall to Seminoles 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -North Carolina coach Roy Williams was worried that points were coming too easily against Florida State. 
He was right. 

The Seminoles erased a 24-point deficit and stunned the Tar Heels 90­81 in overtime Thursday night, end­ing a four-game losing streak. 
Florida State seemed completely overmatched as North Carolina's accurate shooting helped build a 42­18 lead with just more than five min­utes left in the first half. 
Tim Pickett scored six of his 30 points in overtime for Florida State. 
Friday, January 23, 2004 page 17
The Observer+ SPORTS 
SWIMMING AND DIVING 
..,~ 
Men's team travels to Illinois to face ranked Northwestern 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The men's swimming and div­ing team looks to hit the .500 mark and continue a strong January when Notre Dame (5­
6) heads to Evanston, IlL, tomorrow afternoon to face ofT against No. 15 Northwestern (5-2) at 2 p.m. 
"They're the highest-ranked team we've played this year and are filled with excellent frontline swimmers, but they're not as deep as we are," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "We want to limit their stars to as few points as possible and swim tough in our last test on the road before the Big East Championships." 
Last weekend, the Irish dropped a 228-123 decision against No. 17 Pittsburgh, but came away with a pair of victo­ries against Maryland and Villanova, 201-140 and 282-51, respectively, in a quadrangular meet at Pittsburgh. 
Setting the tone for the meet, junior David Maison, sopho­more Jaime Lutkus and fresh­man Ted Brown swept the top three spots in the 400-meter individual medley and fresh­man Tim Kegelman kicked in a first-place finish in the 100­yard butterfly to provide the Irish with a sufficient cushion between themselves and both the Terrapins and Wildcats at the end of the first day. 
Kegelman continued his hero­ics on Saturday, winning the 200-yard butterfly and thereby claiming his second event victo­ry in as many days. In addition, Brown won the 500-yard freestyle, Lutkus placed second in the 200-yard individual med­ley and the 400-yard medley relay team (Kegelman, sopho­mores Doug Bauman and Tim Randolph and junior Frank Krakowski) also took second as the Irish boosted their dual meet record to 5-6, including a stellar 4-1 in 2004. 
"I'm very pleased {with the meet's results} from both a pure speed and a depth point of view," Welsh said. 
Welsh recently announced the signing of the first three mem­bers of the squad's 2008 class, including Graham Parker of Cherry Hill, N.J., Rob Seery of Garden City, N.Y. and Jay VandenBerg of Beverly Hills, Mich. 
Parker owns a trio of New Jersey state championships (200 medley relay, 200 individ­ual medley relay and the 400 freestyle relay) while Seery has garnered All-America honors in both the 200 and 500 freestyle and VandenBerg has recorded national qualifying times in the 800, 1,500 and 1,600 freestyle. 
"They will strengthen our dis­tance freestyle group and give us more flexibility in distance events," Welsh said. "They make us more versatile, which should help a bunch." 
The Irish return to action next Saturday when they host St. Bonaventure at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hope to knock off Tri-State once more 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 
In a thrilling overtime game, the Belles outlasted Tri-State University in a 66-64 victory nearly a month ago. But even though it happened a month ago, the Belles would love to repeat the outcome this week­end. 
With a demoralizing 65-61 loss to Kalamazoo this week, the Belles (4-12) have extend­ed their losing streak to seven games and their conference record to 0-6. 
This Saturday the Belles will face Tri-State University (1­16), a non-conference oppo­only seven turnovers. nent that was the last team After two close losses against that the Belles defeated before Alma and Kalamazoo, the their losing streak began. Belles still feel confident that 
The losing streak has been their level of play is high 
very frustrating  enough  to  win  
for the Belles, particularly in  "We are ready to  games. The prob­lem is that playing  
their past few games. Turnovers and  get on and get after it.,,  at a competitive level has made for closer games but  
inconsistent play  not victories.  
were to blame for  Suzanne Bellina  Forward Emily  
the Belles' losses early in the  Saint Mary's coach  Creachbaum has been the leading  
streak,  but  scorer  for  the  

recently the team has played Belles this season, but overall nearly mistake-free basketball. team scoring has been very In a 70-67 loss to Alma last spread out. Eight players on week, the Belles committed the team average more than 
.PREMEDITATED: MEDITATIONS ON CAPITAL ~UNISBMENT New works by Malaquias Montoya 

SNITE MUSEUM OF ART· 
Invites you to. the· 
OPENING RECEPTION Sunday, January 25, 2-4 pm 
Gallery Talk by Malaquias Montoya at 3 p.m. 
This exhibition & lecture are free and open to the public. 
,/' 

SNITE

Mu.s~um o ·ART 


20 minutes each game and this depth has been a positive all season. 
Despite being 1-9 in their last 10 games and facing recent disappointing losses, the Belles are far from giving up. 
"We are ready to get on and get after it," Belles coach Suzanne Bellina said after Wednesday's 65-61 loss. 
The Belles play at home this Saturday against Tri-State University at 3 p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 




Turtle Creek 
·For a limitedtime take advantage ofour down payment special. 
All you need is $200 to secure your spot at Turtle Creek for 2004-2005! 
Hete are some reasons to choo..!~e TC! 
• we·re close to campus 

+FULLY STUDENT OCCUPIED! 
+We have remodeled units available 
• 
We have short tern~ summer leases available 

• 
We have special lease tenns for students-We won't make you sign a 12 month lease when you'll only be here for l 0! 


+We letyou choose your apartment location 
+24 hour LOCK OUT service, along with an on-site maintenance tech. ifyou have any problems in the middle of the night 
• \VE NO\V HAVE 24 hour patrolled security. 
You can have all of this and more...all it takes is $200 from you and each or your roommates to secure your spot. Cill for details ... 272-8124. 
Or visit us at ww·w.TurtleCreekND.com © 
! ~·1 
l
L: 
I,, H
l page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 23, 2004 
=============================================================================== 
I 
. 
~ . 
\ 

-""'Y, 
I 
. ... 
I 
I 
.~ 
I'
' 
I 
I 
I~
)\ 
~ c 
lll\ 
l : i' 
I 
I 

• 
'. ~ 
ll <C 
I I 
:I I, 
f. 
I 
I·
II 
I 
c --. 
~­
-.. 

to the following outstanding 
-

University of Notre Dame students accepted into Teach For America. They've shown they have .the leadership and commitment needed to tackle one of our nation's most challenging problems. 
You can still apply! Final Application Deadline: February 15 www. teachforamerica.org 
TFACHFORAMERICA 
One d~y, all children will have an equal chance at life. 
Friday, January 23, 2004 page 19
Th,· Observer+ SPORTS 
ry," former Notre Dame guard Dwight Clay said. "When you play them that much, you aren't continued from page 24 afraid of them. They knew that 
when we beat them." The Irish started to believe 




UCLA 
Building the rivalry they could overcome that UCLA Phelps became Notre Dame mystique.
head coach for the 1971-7 2 sea­son at the age of 29 and wanted A miraculous comeback 
to make the Irish the best in In 1973, the Bruins came to country. He knew what school 
South Bend and defeated the 
and what coach he had to use as 
a model for building the pro­record for consecutive wins at 
gram. 
61. Phelps knew his team wasn't He had to follow John Wooden 
· ready to compete with UCLA 
and UCLA. 
yet.
"I said, 'What is the best pro­After a trip to the NIT champi­gram in the country?' It wasn't onship game later this season ­
Marquette, Kansas or North 
at a time when only 25 teams Carolina State. It was UCLA," 
qualified for the NCAA 
Phe Ips said. "UCLA is the Tournament -the Irish came 
Yankees, the pinstripes, Pauley into next season awaiting the Pavilion is Yankee Stadium. We 
midseason showdown with the 
need to forget everyone else, if 
Bruins. Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
we catch up to them, we know "UCLA was such a great bas-The scoreboard tells the whole story as the ACC explodes following Notre Dame's win over then­we are good." 
ketball team," former Notre No.1 UCLA 30 years ago.The passion for defeating Dame center John Shumate .. 
UCLA intensified in Phelps' first said. "You didn't need to use game against the Bruins, a 114-anything to get you ready to and everyone had counted us Walton looked to the bench at by Notre Dame. 56 loss in Los Angeles. That play UCLA. The mere challenge out coming in much less when his coach. And the Irish could do what 
>
game was the first meeting of going against the 'Wizard of we were down 11," Shumate But Wooden, who never called they practiced Friday. between the teams since the Westwood,' Walton, Keith said. "When coach called a a timeout in the second half, Irish defeated the Bruins the Wilkes, Pete Trgovich and Dave timeout, and I can still see the didn't want to slow down the Looking back season before, ending the four­Meyers was enough. If you snarl, the passion in his eyes, momentum. The place now known as the time defending couldn't the belief and his love for Notre Meyers missed a shot, and Joyce Center has seen as many champion's 48-get ready Dame, he pointed to each and Brokaw hit another jumper to upsets as any other building in
''{Digger 1 said, 'If you
game non-confer­for the every one of us. cut the lead to one. Walton the country. The Irish have ence winning don't believe that we can Irish ver­"He said, 'If you don't believe made a timeout gesture while defeated five top-ranked teams, streak. sus UCLA, that we can do this, then leave looking at Wooden, but Wooden including giving UCLA its last
do this, then leave and go
The domination y 0 u and go to the locker room right . refused to acknowledge him and loss before its 88-game streak
to the locker room right
by Wooden's team weren't a now. If you stay here and wanted the Bruins to keep play­and knocking off 29-0 San wasn't what dis­now. If you stay here and basketball believe, then we can do this.'" ing. Francisco in 1977. turbed Phelps. It believe, then we can do player." Phelps moved Shumate to the A charge by Wilkes gave the But that win on Jan,. 19, 1974, was the fact The top­top of the press, and after a lay-· Irish a shot to complete their sticks out over any of Phelps'
this.,,
Wooden contin-ranked up, a steal and another lay-up improbable comeback. Not accomplishments, including rhe ued to press with Bruins by Shumate, the lead was down wanting to give the Bruins a 1978 trip to the Final Four, in Bill Walton and John Schumate came into to seven in less than half a chance to regroup. Phelps didn't his 20 years as Notre Dame Henry Bibby former Irish center the ACC minute. call a timeout, and the Irish set coach. despite having a and took After another Notre Dame up a two-man game for "When you look at that game, 41-point lead with the crowd steal, a lay-up by guard Adrian Shumate and the suddenly hot we beat all these No. 1 teams. eight minutes remaining. out of it early, building a 17-Dantley made the score 70-65. Brokaw. nothing reflects back to that 
And with Notre Dame playing point lead in the first half. Their A travel by UCLA gave the Irish But the Bruins forgot about moment," Phelps said. UCLA twice a year on national streak appeared to be moving another opportunity, and a Clay in the corner. Tommie That shot from his spot in the television -a big deal in the toward 89 straight games as the jumper by guard Gary Brokaw Curtis drifted off Clay to double­corner has lived with Clay his early '70s-the rivalry natural­Bruins were up 70-59 with 3:22 cut the lead to three. team the streaking Brokaw and entire life and made -him a leg­ly grew. remaining. At this time, after Notre Dame left Clay open to make his only endary name in Notre Dame 
"When you schedule UCLA They wouldn't score again. had reeled off eight points in shot of the second half. sports history. home and away, it built a rival-"We were down by 11 points, less than a minute and a half, "That was my spot in that "It stays with me constantly ­


Irish fans rush the court following Notre Dame's 71-70 win over UCLA on Jan. 19, 1974. The win broke the Bruins' 88-game winning streak. 

,__,University Club-.; 
/R' .,.,._/· /I/~ v=;-·
0:11/ ,n_e eaqpu# '7/ ;_Abd& 9~Pl& 
Wedding Receptions 
Rehearsal Dinner 
Graduation Parties 
Anniversaries 
Birthdays 
Meetings 
Seminar 
Lunch or Dinner Reservations 631-4678 
Meetings and Private Parties 631-4679 
gym. We would break down the the two million that saw it on zone in practice, and Gary television and one million that would pass [to me] from the top were there," Clay said. "That of the circle," Clay said. "I rotat­was my 15 minutes of fame that ed from corner to corner. I prac­lasted for 30 years." ticed that shot all the time." Shumate was having doubts 
The Bruins finally called a about coming back for Sunday's timeout after giving up a 12-0 ceremony because of his health run in less than three minutes. and fighting the potentially bad They had a number of close weather. But when his old coach looks before the buzzer sounded heard about that, he gave but couldn't convert anything. Shumate one last tongue-lash­
One of those misses belonged ing. to Walton -only his second "Coach Phelps had gotten missed field goal in the entire wind of me not coming and told game. ·me, 'You get [up] and get back 
"The last 29 seconds were here to enjoy and savor the just an eye opener for all of us. moment that we were all a part We were still in awe that we had of," Shumate said. "Now I'm so the lead," Clay said. "We just elated -so appreciative -of had to just play defense and get whoever put this weekend the rebound. They all had together, that I can be a part of opportunities, All of a sudden, the tradition of the Fighting Shumate grabbed the rebound Irish one more time." and it was over." 
UCLA experienced its first loss Contact Matt Lozar at since Jan. 23, 1971, a 89-82 win mloza.r@nd.edu 
THt NOHt DAM£ DtPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
A GUtST ARTIST CONCERT 
JAMES HIGDON, ORGAN PROFESSOR OF MUSIC KANSAS UNIVERSITY 
WORKS BY BACH, ALAIN, MOBHRLY, PAULU~. MmiAEN 
SUNDAY, JANUARY 25 
8:00PM BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 


CALL 631-6201 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -.. .. ... ­

' 
' 
I I 
I 
I I ) 
i 
'. 
!(. ~. ) \, 
' 
I I I i 
:1'' 
' 
' 
' 
~I 
·I 
'~~ 
f 
.., . '"~1 
r 
~ 
Friday, January 23, 2004

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Irish remain on the road to face Northern Michigan 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sporrs Editor 
They've proven they can beat the best. Now they need to beat the rest. 
Coming off one of the biggest non-conferen~e wins of the sea­son, the Irish will look to keep their good play going against Northern Michigan in a key CCHA matchup this Friday and Saturday in Marquette, Mich. 
Notre Dame, who tied and defeated No. 4 Wisconsin on the road last weekend, hope to avoid a letdown against the Wildcats (10-11-1, 8-10-0 in the CCHA). 
The Irish swept the Wildcats at the Joyce Center earlier this season, defeating Northern Michigan 5-1 on Nov. 28 and 4­2 on Nov. 29. Historically, the Wildcats hold a 14-10-4 advan­tage in the series, including a 5­3-2 mark in Marquette. 
Notre Dame (12-7-3, 8-6-2) will face a hungry opponent in Northern Michigan, who has dropped three straight games to CCHA opponents. The Wildcats lost two games at Alaska Fairbanks by 1-0 and 5-2 scores last weekend. 
Currently, the Irish sit in sev­enth place overall in the CCHA with 18 points. The league is still relatively close, however, with Notre Dame just three points behind conference-lead­ing Miami (Ohio). 
Senior forward Rob Globke scored two goals and two assists in the Wisconsin series and was named the CCHA offensive play­er of the week for his efforts. That's bad news for the Wildcats, because in 11 career games against Northern Michigan, Globke has five goals and two assists. 
Three of those five goals came in Notre Dame's earlier wins this season · against the Wildcats. 
Despite being widely outshot by Wisconsin in last weekend's series, Notre Dame's goalies were able to keep the Irish in the game. 
Junior Morgan Cey started the 2-2 tie on Saturday, making a season-high 36 saves. Freshman David Brown was in net for the 3-1 win Sunday, making 30 saves on the night and collecting his second win this season against a top-five ranked team. 
The Wildcats are led offen­sively by forward Darin Olver with 20 points (eight goals, 12 assists). Defenseman Nathan Oystrick follows closely behind with 19 points (three goals, 16 assists) and is also the confer-ence's overall leader in assists among defensemen. 

Senior Craig Kowalski has started all but four games for the Wildcats in goal and has collected a 10-11-1 record with a 2.90 goals against average and a .918 save percentage in those 22 contests. 
Face-off for each game is scheduled for 7:05p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

fENCING 
Irish head to New York for weekend tournament 
By MATT MOONEY Sporrs Writer 
With brisk arctic winds freezing South Bend and most of the Northeast, the Notre Dame fenc­ing team looks to continue thaw­ing out their competition with its red-hot play this weekend. 
The team heads to New York University for Sunday's NYU Dual Meet, where 
Now, with a semester of colle­giate bouts under their belts, the freshmen will be expected to augment their contributions with their newfound experience. After emerging victorious from last semester's down-to-the-wire dual meet against archrival Penn State, the freshmen feel as though they have a newfound confidence. 
Providenza carved through the 
Penn State 
they will face ofT fencers, posting a
../really want to win
against home­3-0 record at the
this year and I just
town NYU as meet. well as St. try to motivate myself "I was just John's, Stanford, happy to help my
to do well.··
Columbia, and team out," she Yale. St. John's said. "I really will likely prove Valerie Provldenza want to win this the most formi­Irish saber year and I just try 
dable of the group, as they placed third behind Notre Dame and Penn State at last year's national championships. 
One of the biggest tasks of last semester was trying to integrate three new freshmen into the line­up. The freshman saber tandem of Valerie Providenza and Angela Vincent has stepped in nicely, complemented by classmate and epeeist Amy Orlando. 
to motivate myself 
to do well." 
If the women are hot, then the men are a raging inferno. With their corresponding victory over the Nittany Lions, the men's team extended their winning streak to 87 consecutive dual matches. 
However, maintaining that streak will prove a tough chore. especially against the likes of the Red Storm. Junior epeeist Michal Sobieraj is unfazed. 

DOWN-· 

tiiLL 

~[1!0 Ul]JQ[f) 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30 tWill VALLEY 
BUS lEAV£S liBRARY CIRCLE AT 5;00 PM COST: $35.00 INCLUDES liFT TICKET. RENTAL AND TRANSPORT $25.00 liFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY 

"[The streak] is very nice but I don't think about it while I'm fencing," he said. "I just try to keep on winning." 
In order for the men's team to keep on winning, its bumper crop of freshmen will have to sustain the maturity they displayed in the fall semester. Four rookies have already had to step into the start­ing lineup. 
Sabers Patrick Ghattas and Matthew Stearns are joined by foilist Frankie Bontempo and epeeist Aaron Adjemian as repre­sentatives of their class. 
"They're good," Sobeiraj said. "They'll [eventually] become vet­erans and they're getting better all the time." 
Some of the fencers on both sides kept their dueling skills sharp by participating in individ­ual tournaments over winter break. At the North American Cup in California, the Irish were well represented as junior foilist Andrea Ament finished third in her division followed up by senior Kerry Walton's fifth place at epee. 
The freshmen continued to shine as three more, Providenza, Orlando, and Ghattas, posted top ten finishes in their particular tournaments. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

MCNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2003 • 2004 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS:'MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2004 
.;.;,.; . 
7:30 -8:30 :tM 
~-· 

(Hots d'oeuvres will be served) 
IN ROOM 119 01SH~UGHNESSY. 
FORALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHOARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
(visit the program at http:://www.nd.edu/-mcnair/) 
·.,. ,"! 

• ....... '"' ~ • a • o .......... I • o • 
-

Friday, January 23, 2004 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Quality¥ · Diamonds ...----·-···-············ John Ms 1\tiarsltall's ln:corporaterl 1!<</) .Jew€lers! Gemo:tng·ist~Goldsmiths/ PJath1umsmitl1s KeY B~nk Building, Suite_ u1~) 1 South Bend, Inchana 4HHO l 287-1£127  


inquired earlier in the week 
about Walker's decision. 
Smith made his official visit to continued from page 24 South Bend on Oct. 17 and has scheduled an unofficial visit this 
Walker 
time. 
"I had seen enough of each school to make a decision," Walker said from his home Thursday night. "I sat down with my family, and we dis­cussed the pros and cons of each school. Coach Willingham is very intelligent and personable, which is something I was look­ing for in a head coach and not just the position coaches." 
Walker made an unofficial visit to Notre Dame in the fall. Listed as 5-foot-11, 200 pounds, he rushed for 2,048 yards and 46 touchdowns in his senior sea­son for the state champion Buford Wolves. The 46 touch­downs broke the Georgia high school single-season rushing touchdown record of 45 set by former Georgia Bulldog and NFL running back Herschel Walker in 1979. 
Walker said the history of Notre Dame's football success attracted him. He is eager for his chance to become a part of the tradition. 
"I want to . come in and do as well as I possibly can," Walker said. "I want to play and con­tribute early, and I want to rally behind the guys who are already there and bring the program back to where it was." 
Irish Insider columnist Mike Frank believes Walker's signing is a big gain for the Irish. 
"This is a huge pick up for Coach Willingham," Frank said. "What Walker gives you is some star quality to the class. Hopefully that will put the rest in motion so they can finish strong." 
As Frank indicated, Walker's commitment could attract other remaining big names to the Irish as signing day draws closer. 
According to Frank, 6-foot-5, 325-pound offensive lineman Allen Smith of Tucson, Ariz., 
Spig Roast. 
Back by noon. 
I '1,111~ 
I I I I I I I I I I 

weekend. 
Walker and Smith will both be taking their official visits this weekend to Notre Dame. Joining him will be quarterback Darrin Bragg, cornerback Leo Ferrine, wide receiver Christopher Vaughn, and cornerback/wide receiver Darcell McBath. 
At 6-foot-1, 180 pounds, Bragg threw for just under 2,000 yards, 17 touchdowns and seven interceptions for Bellarmine College Prep School in San Jose, Calif. 
Ferrine and McBath each stand 6-foot, 17 5 pounds. Ferrine runs a 4.39 40-yard dash. Vaughn has played just two years of football at St. Thomas More School in Oakdale, Conn. but the 6-foot-4, 201-pound receiver has received interest from Boston College, Iowa, UCLA and Michigan State. 
Also visiting this weekend are verbal commits quarterback David Wolke and offensive line­man Brandon Nicholas. 
Georgia linebacker Jae Thaxton cancelled a visit sched­uled for this weekend. He will decide between Georgia and Florida State. 
Smith is now a high priority for the Irish with the securing of Walker. Walker's announcement Thursday, however, was huge for a struggling Notre Dame recruiting season. 
"He [Walker] seems like a nat­ural born leader," Frank said, "and if there's any position I think a player can play early, it's tailback, because of their situa­tion and because it's such an instinctual position. He's got excellent vision and he's a pow­erful runner. 
"He reminds me a lot of an Emmitt Smith-type runner." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Sports. Spirituality. 
In time for Super Bowl•: at 6:.25pm. 
NO TRACK 

Irish host second meet 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame indoor track and field team will begin its second meet of 2004 tonight at 7 p.m. in the Loftus 
-Center. The men and women will each take on Ball State and Western Michigan. The Irish qualified 17 ath­letes for the Big East Championships last week at Central Michigan and hope to add to that number this week­end. One strong point of both the men's and women's teams will be in the distance events. Few runners ran last week, and 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles face Alma in final meet 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

This Saturday, the Saint Mary's swimming team will compete against Alma as the Belles swim in their last confer­ence meet of the season before the MIAA Championship in February. 
Despite Alma's 0-5 conference record, the same record as Saint Mary's, in the MIAA standings, Saint Mary's is still focused on performing season-best times. 
"We need everything from frrst to fifth place finishers," senior Megan Ramsey said. "Every point we can get is important 
A&M 
continued from page 24 
ranked No. 17 and 19, respec­tively, in singles. 

The Irish will take on St. John's at 9 a.m. on Sunday. Last year, the team lost to Notre Dame in the Big East Championship quarterfinals.
·:'::·:· ·. 
because we lack divers." 

Alma will be coming to the meet prepared with four experi­enced divers who are generally fmalists at the conference meet. To overcome this initial scoring deficit -since Saint Mary's does not compete in the diving com­petition -will be a challenge for the Belles, as they have struggled all season to make up the difference. 
Despite this obstacle, Saint Mary's is anything but discour­aged in trying to win its first conference meet this season. Coach Greg Petcoff has increased both the intensity and distance during the team's workouts this past week, and the team remains confident as times have gradually gotten faster. 
"Swimming is not only a team most of them should be ready to go tonight. 

Irish coach Joe Piane is excited about his team's potential going into the meet. 
"We should do very well as a team," he said. "On the men's side, I look for us to be espe­cially strong in the 35-pound weight throw, long jump, triple jump and the 800 meters." 
The Irish are led by senior Juan Alba and junior Chip Roberts in the weight throw, Godwin Mbagwu in both the long and triple jump, and sen­ior Colin Quinn in the 800 meters. Piane also expects strong performances from jun­iors Ryan Mineburg and Chris Staron in the high jump, as well as Selim Nurudeen in the 60m high hurdles. 
Nurudeen is the two-time defending conference champi­on in the 11Om hurdles. 
On the women's side, Piane expects to be successful, espe­cially in the 800 meters on up. 
Returning All-American Lauren King will represent the Irish in the mile run. 
The junior took seventh place nationally last year and should agaiP be tough to beat this season. 
Other athletes to watch will be senior captain Tiffany Gunn, sophomore Stacey Cowan anc! freshmen Maryann Erigha and Cassie Gullickson. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgillon@nd.edu 
sport, but an individual sport. as well," Ramsey said. "But like Greg [Petcoffl says, we can't make the other teams slower; all we can do is try our best." 
Despite focusing on personal times, the Belles understand the depth and competitiveness of their conference rivals. With Olivet's surprise domination at last Friday's three-way meet and the 2-0 conclusion, Saint Mary's will not take Alma lightly and is prepared for a tough squad. 
"We want to win, and Alma is in the same position as us, so it is going to be pretty close," sophomore Kelly Nelis said. "But this season, as a team everyone is better than they were at this time last year." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
This is one of only three confer­ence matches for Notre Dame in the regular season. St. John's is returning three starters from 2003's 10-8 team, and open their season on Saturday against Illinois State. 
Illinois State will be Notre Dame's fmal match of the week­end at 5 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Friday, January 23, 2004

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

that game last fall. The effort But beating Kentucky, who was part of Brey's desire to has outscored the Irish by an
Kentucky 
connect current Notre Dame average of 18 points in its last 
continued from page 24 basketball to its tradition of the nine games, is a daunting task. past and marked Phelps' goal A ·quick, agile team that to reunite that team. The team revolves around guard Gerald 
"One of the things you have will sit in the first few rows of Fitch and forward Erik to look at is who you've the student section at the north Daniels, the Wildcats score played," Brey said. "We've end of the Joyce Center, and at most of their points by slashing played some great teams. halftime, the final three min­to the basket. But where Those national TV games are utes of the 197 4 game between Kentucky is at its best, Brey supposed to be against great Notre Dame and UClA will be said, is when the Wildcats are teams." shown. generating points off turnovers 
It seems fitting "It'll be a heck in transition. The Wildcats that CBS' Dick of an atmos­average a 38th-best-nationally Enberg will call phere," Brey said. 9.5 steals a game.
"It'll be a heck of 
Sunday's game "But I think it's However, the Irish can count­
an atmosphere.,
that features the good for our stu­er Kentucky's aggressive reunion of the dents and our defense with Chris Thomas and 197 4 Notre Dame Mike Brey players to plug Chris Quinn, who can both team. Enberg them into [that handle the ball equally well
head coach 
. was also court­history]." and help Notre Dame avoid side at the Joyce Despite the aura turnovers on which the 
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Center 30 years of history sur­Wildcats are so adept at capi­
Irish guard Chris Quinn protects the ball from Syracuse guard
ago for Notre Dame's historic rounding the talizing. 
Gerry McNamara In Notre Dame's loss to Syracuse Saturday. 
71-70 win over UClA. game, Brey knows that he des­And when it comes to neu­
In fact, some college basket­perately needs his team to tralizing Kentucky's offense, ball experts considered that focus on the present. Although Brey said the Irish have to "This is a tough team to pre­But if the Irish need any game between No. 1 UClA and the Irish have a difficult stretch remain committed to playing pare for in that they expect to inspiration for finding ways to No. 2 Notre Dame the game ahead, which includes five of solid defense. win," the Irish coach said. beat legendary programs that made college basketball their next nine games against "That should be the focus for "They have the frame of mind Sunday, they only need to viable for regular season view­ranked foes, Brey believes that us the rest of the season," Brey where they say, 'We're gonna glance at the front row of the
"" 
ing. gives the Irish an excellent said, adding that Notre Dame's get this sucker.' Preparing for student section. 
Brey and Phelps initially dis­-opportunity to enhance Notre starters may spend up to 90 that psyche is tough." He didn't ~),\ cussed doing something to Dame's fledgling NCAA percent of practice working on have to add that beating it is Contact Andrew Soukup at " honor the 30th anniversary of Tournament resume. defense. even tougher. asoukup@nd.edu 
i 
/' 
\ 
:,\
•·'~: 
I, the standings. turnovers per game. record low given up by the points per game and 1.4 blocks 
I 
q Saturday, the Irish will be "Villanova is a great team," Irish in a Big East road game. per game. 
·r: Nova 
greeted by the Big East's top McGraw said. "They're going Junior Jacqueline Batteast is The Wildcats' Liad Suez 
li;,:l 
defensive team. to slow the averaging 19.3 points and 10 leads her team in scoring with
ll• continued from page 24
.'· The Wildcats g a m e rebounds with four straight a 13.6 po-ints-per-game aver­
!!,', 
'.!·,' I }:t 
give up only down and double doubles in Big East age. She shoots 46 percent '), l then-No. 20 Villanova 58-56 53.3 points per "They're going to slow the try to play. Duffy leads the team in from the floor and 40.2 per­'}'' Jan. 25, 2003. But the Irish game, which game down and try to catch us assists, with 4.81 per game, to cent from beyond the arc.
·~' 
later lost to the Wildcats 50-39 e q u a l s napping." along with her 11.5 points per However, the Wildcats 
'' catch us napping., 
.' in the Big East quarterfinals, Connecticut for But the game average. haven't played for a week, and 
I
·t March 9. the Big East's Irish are Meanwhile, the Wildcats the Irish hope to catch them 
! ' 
I 
!· Tomorrow's game also has best. Muffet McGraw ready to haven't played since its 62-51 off guard in their first and only } \ big implications for both They also Irish coach fight back, win over Seton Hall Jan. 17. Big East regular season 
I 
f 
\ \ teams. They are tied for third lead the coun­as they They are lead by all-around matchup. place in the Big East with try in fewest played well player Courtney Mix, who "We've got to stay focused," Boston College, Syracuse and turnovers per Wednesday leads the team in rebounds McGraw said. West Virginia, all with a 3-2 game, with 9.3 per game. The night on the road after a tough (7.3 per game), assists (4.7 per conference record. Connecticut next best team, University of loss to West Virginia. They game). and steals (1.5 per Contact Heather Van Hoegarden (·~~ (4-1) and Miami (5-1) sit atop Montana, averages 12.5 gave up only 35 points, a game). She also averages 7.8 at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

\ 
Happy 21st Laura! Love, the Ho-Ward 
.') 
' and your Pucker F'er 
I. 
{ 
It,·· 

Lafa,rette Square Townhomes 

• Only 9 Blocks from Campus• Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer Fully Eqtiippcd Kitchen Including Dishwasher and Garbage 
• 
Disposal• Private Patio 

• ADT Alarm System (Optional Monitoring)• Central Air Conditioning Assigned Parking
• 

Energy Efficient Gas Heating
• 
Professionally Managed
• 

24""' Hour Emergency On-Call Maintenance 
• 

Come join the fun at the "Blue Zoo"  ForMore Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile:574~234~9925  Student  
Jblad@cbresb.com  Housing!  

Starting at Just 4 Blocks South of the Notre Dame Campus
•

just $120.00 Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue
• 

per month Current l-year & 10-month Leases Available 
• 

per person On-Site Laundry Facility
• 

2 Closets and 1Desk in Each Bedroom
• 
Private Parking Lots
• 

24 -hour On-Call Emergency Maintenance 
• 

Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment
• 


For More Infonnation: Real Estate Management Corporation 
P.O. Box 540 
South Bend. IN 46624 
Telephone: 574-234-9923 
Facsimile: 574-234-9925 
Jblad(alcbresb.conl 


Friday, January 23, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT SCOTI ADAMS 
THIS STRATEGY 

DO YOU


PROFITS ARE DOWN , 
HEAVILY DEPENDS ON 
THINK I
SO WE FIRED THE 

PEOPLE DRIVING TO 
SHOULD
SALES DEPARTMENT 

I'D TRY
OUR WAREHOUSE AND 
WRITE
TO REDUCE COSTS. 

READING
BEGGING FOR OUR 
A BOOK? 

ONE FIRST.
PRODUCTS. 

E 
8 
j 
f

~~~~:!:!::::::ii '""-ooiiiii 


~~~~~~~L--W~~~ 

. fiVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 



Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RASCY 
j
I rI 
02004 To1bune Media SeMcee, Inc. 
All Righta Ra..,rved. 
UGIED 

rJ 
1 
NARCLE 
tNAHMLY j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J ri 

1 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

A "( I I I I I I J" r x x J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: GRIPE COLON PIRACY GADFLY Answer: This can be harder than a diamond-PAY· lNG FOR IT 
I 
..... I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 Municipal 59 Double decker? facility: Abbr. 
1 Trip break 60 Bring about 36 Year Helsinki 
9 Naughty, but 61 Just 
was foundednot too 62 Not worry37 Needle hole 
15 Valentine inscription 38 "Some DOWN
meat and canna16 Just so ear: Burns 
1 Skirt feature 17 Like some 
39 Preserves fruit 2 Tenor 
forces 41 High degree 3 It may go from 
18 Fundamental 0 to 500
beliefs 43 Possible answer to 4 Relate 
19 Places where "Where are 5 Available suckers are you?"
lined up 6 Say-so 45 Kiln 
21 Fictional cabbie 7 Footnote ender: 46 Underbodiceof old radio 
Abbr. 48 Anima doctor 
22 Race's end 8 Soften 50 "Potent
23 Heat shield 9 Telecom giant, 
Potables for 
locale once 
400,_" 26 When repeated, 1oStooge with a 
51 "Amare" might 
a dolphin bowl cut 
be conjugated 28 "Walk right in!" on it 11 Ultimate solution 29 Tongs, e.g. 55 Improve a plant 12 One may be 30 Plant fungi 42 Life insurance 49 Not hard 
32 Like leftovers 58 Investigates 
moved form enough
31 Bitterroot 13 "Dragonwyck" Mountains 44 Newspaper 52 Sticking point 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
writer Anya locale circulation 
53 Holy ones: -=+~:-4 14 Author 33 Word with unit 
Abbr. 

influenced by rabbit or all 
46 Bank

48-Across 54 Conservative
34 Leaves 20 "My mistake ... home? 47 Coeur d' -56 Mouse catcher big deal!" 
40 Rosinante's 48 "Bringing Up 57 Myrna of "The 
24 "Crime and rider Father" father Thin Man" Punishment" heroine 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute· or with a ~~........,;;;;;.+..;,,_. 25 People in credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ' ' 
"=+-=-+-:-+=-masks wave 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaythem crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. -,-+-,..+.::-1 26 Gunk Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
27 Aleutian island 
~=+::::+.::.4 Cr~sswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, .........__._-'-_, 28 Sibling's threat nyt1mes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
>
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Jeanne Moreau, Princess Caroline, Rutger Hauer, Richard D. Anderson, Geoff Wigdor, Tiffani-Amber Thiessen, Earl Falconer 
Happy Birthday: It's time to tum things around by making the necessary changes. You've been on the fence for too long, so make your move. You'll need to be versatile if you want to get ahead. The more adaptable you are, the better. Keep your comments to yourself and work hard to ensure that you reach your goals. Your numbers: 9, 12, 16, 22, 25,37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Domestic purchases will be profitable today. You should be looking into real estate buys or a residential move. Listen to your friends. Their advice will be quite valuable. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't overreact or allow your temper to explode. Work quietly behind the scenes, paying special attention to detail. Your lover may take drastic measures to get your attention. * * * GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should not give to organizations today. You are likely to donate too much or give too much of your time. Investments will not be as profitable as they appear. Take a closer look. •u CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can help children with their problems. Financial investments pertinent to your home will be lucrative. Be careful when signing contracts or formulating agreements. • ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will get into arguments with friends or relatives today. Try hard not to instigate unnecessary friction with loved ones. Your own irritability will be largely at fault. Avoid travel if possible. • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you bend over backward to help friends in need, you will enhance your reputation. Your ability to look at situations logically will allow you to make constructive suggestions. *** .. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Visitors may drop by, resulting in friction between you and your mate. Try hard to keep your calm, or the silent treatment will be sure to follow. Don't take on too many projects. ****** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't spend too much on travel or friends. Opportunities to meet new and exciting individuals will develop through educational pursuits. Sign up for lectures or courses. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Unexpected visitors will be a welcome sight. You can make favorable changes in your domestic scene. Take care of all those chores that have been building up. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Instant romance will not be lasting. Take precautions if you wish to spare your heart. Your concern for older family members and those who need help will enhance your reputation. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should spend time with those who can help lift your depression. You need intellectual interaction. Don't let employers interfere with your plans. They may try to take credit for your efforts. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Concentrate on your hobbies. Don't let anyone take advantage of your generosity. You will eJo.perience financial loss if you are careless with your wallet or your investments. *** 
Birthday Baby: You take the lead and stay there. You're quick to evaluate and to make your move. Your strong vision of the way things are supposed to be gives you confidence in yourself . 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
1 
l 
~ 
I 
I 
..> 
-
...:>· 
-
-----~ ~----­
THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, January 23, 2004 

Page 24 

' \ i \ 
': 
) 
I 
\ \ 
' 
', ·' \\ 
)~ 
)· 
·~ 
;:r 
'\\·" 
\~. 

l ,· Irish host Kentucky in a must-win game under a national eye 
I 
I C 
\ I By ANDREW SOUKUP ~ \ Sports Writer 
If history is any indication, one might think that Notre Dame -which has lost nine straight games to Kentucky 
,·, and all four nationally tele­i, '' vised games this year -has I no chance at beating the No. 9 
Wildcats. 

.. 

"\ 
MEN'S TENNIS 


has played at home bitely, the Moreover, Notre Dame has Irish will welcome any help struggled in nationally-tele­they can get. The Irish are only vised games. In addition to its 6-3 in South Bend this year, four losses this season, the including an RPI-damaging loss Irish dropped its last two of the to Central Michigan in 2002-03 campaign. December, and will return to But Brey doesn't look at the Joyce Center for the first Notre Dame's TV-game strug­time since they suffered their gles as an indicator of the Irish worst home loss in the Mike wilting under the spotlight. Brey era against Syracuse Saturday. see KENTUCKY/page 22 
ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Gold Game brings No. 9 Aggies to Eck 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

The men's tennis team will open its home season on Friday against No. 9 Texas A&M in the Eck Center at 4 
p.m. They will then host St. John's and Illinois on Sunday. 
Friday's games has been titled the Gold Game and was created by the Student-Athlete Advisory Council to promote 
student interest in the match. !I' " •: The Irish arc coming off a 6­
}_'_;:_) : 
·' 
1 road victory against No. 51 
! ,• J Indiana last weekend. The , I 
.... team will look to tri-captains Matthew Scott, Luis Haddock
I
~~ 
and Brent D'Amico for leader­
~· 
tn
)i ·; 
HOCKEY 
'" ' I 
en 
LLI

~-~-: 
c.:t 

i fi 1-z 
The Irish travel to
I
f a: ::3 Northern Michigan to 
·face the Wildcats in a
If. /J =c::s 
~.....
11' CCHA two-game series.
c:a:

( ' ~ 
I r i
I I.: 
( I \ -~ " a. ti: page 20
(d
, r . 
en 

But perhaps the presence of the Irish team that ended UCLA's NCAA record 88-game winning streak might counter that bad karma. 
"At halftime," said Irish coach Digger Phelps, who coached the 1974 Notre Dame team, "we are going to get the place fired up so we beat Kentucky." 
With the way 9-5 Notre Dame 
ship, with a solid group of underclassmen capable of put­ting points on the board. 
Texas A&M (3-0) was ranked No. 9 in the preseason by the Intercollegeiate Tennis Association. They swept Monday's tripleheader against Texas A&M-Corpus Christi, Texas-Pan American and Trinity College. 
Last year, the Aggies fin­ished the season ranked No. 11 and advanced to the NCAA tournament's Sweet Sixteen. They remain threatening this season with the nation's No. 1 doubles team of Lester Cook and Ante Matijevic, who are 
see A&M/page 21 
FENCING 
Notre Dame heads to New York for a week­end tournament. 
page 20 

Wildcats planning to spoil 
Irish women must defend a 12-game home win streak 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

After splitting a pair of road games, Notre Dame returns home Saturday to face No. 
23 Villanova (13-3, 3-2 Big East). 
The Irish (1 0-7, 3-2 Big East) come off a big win at Syracuse Wednesday, but lost to West Virginia Saturday. 
Now the task at hand is to defend their 12-game home winning streak. 
"We're so comfortable playing at home mainly because our crowd has been so loud this season," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "They've been incredible." 
McGraw and the Irish face a Villanova team that has always given them trouble. The last three games in the Notre Dame-Villanova series have been decided by a com­bined total of six points. Out of the 17 games between the two teams, eight have been decided by eight points or less. 
Last year was no different. In then-freshman Megan Duffy's first start at Notre Dame, the Irish knocked off 
FOOTBALL 
Walker commits to Irish 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Tyrone Willingham had received 10 verbal commit­ments as of Wednesday night, but the Irish recruiting class was still lacking a star player. 
Notre Dame may have secured 
that play­er in Darius Walker. 
T h e Georgia running b a c k broke his 


s i I e n c e Walker a f t _e r three official visits to com­peting schools and commit­ted to Notre Dame Thursday afternoon during a press conference at· Buford High School in Lawrenceville, Ga. 
Walker was Notre Dame's priority recruit, especially after quarterback Brian Brohm committed to Louisville on Tuesday. After visiting Stanford, Ohio State and Alabama within a one­week span and receiving 60 offers over the recruiting process,. he decided it was 
see WALKER/page 21 

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer Guard Megan Duffy takes the ball up the court against 
see NOVA/page 22 Connecticut earlier this season. 
SMC HOOPS 

SMC SWIMMING NHL
SWIMMING/DIVING 
The Irish men travel 
The winless Belles get 
The Belles face Tri-
The NHL names its 

to Illinois to face ranked 
a chance to win at Alma
State this weekend, a 
reserves for the 2004 

Northwestern this 
in final regular season
team they already beat 
All-Star Game in 
meet.
earlier this season. 

weekend. 
Minnesota. 
page 17 

page 21 
page 16

page 17 
I 
I I . ! 







