.-------~-----~~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 33 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2004 

Board ofTrustees convenes at ND 
Members will discuss transition ofpresidency 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
New' Editor 
Thn Notre Dame Board of Trustr~ns will convene on cam­pus today. Friday and Saturday for its triannual meeting -the first since it elected a new University president and execu­tive vice president April 30. 
While no decisions of compa­rable magnitude are expected to be made at this meeting. thPn~ will certainly be some discussion of the leadership transition from University Pr<~sident Father Edward 

Student body vice president Karla Bell and student body president Adam Istvan work on the see TRUSTEES/page 4 SafeBus project at a recent Council of Representatives meeting. 
Student government officials to present report on off-campus safety 
importance of protecting stu­pus, and details the safety focus, though those numbers 
By AMANDA MICHAELS dents residing and traveling in precautions taken at compar­will be available for the 
Associare News Editor the greater South Bend com­ative universities. Trustees if needed, Baron 
munity and offers a four­As a solution, Istvan, Bell said. 
In what is arguably the first pronged approach to address­and Baron are offering sug­The SafeBus plan, already major milestone of their term, ing the issue. gestions for the creation of an discussed by the Council of student body president Adam The opening of the report ND SafeBus and an Off Representatives and the Istvan. vice president Karla stresses the connection Campus Safety Seminar, the Student Senate, calls for the Bell and chief executive assis­between the community and increase of student involve­implementation of a free, tant Dave Baron will deliver a University, citing statistics that ment in neighborhood groups alternative transportation report to the Board of show over half of the student and the assertion of off-cam­service for students going off Trustees today, focusing on population will eventually live pus security as an additional campus on weekend nights. the issue of student safety off campus, and adding that priority for the Notre Dame Preliminarily, Baron said, beyond campus boundaries. even more take advantage of Security/Police. the SafeBus would operate 
Titled "Protecting the Notre the South Bend nightlife. In the report, specific opera­from 1 to 4 a.m., making a Dame Family: Safety and It also brings up concern tional details for the SafeBus loop from campus to down-Security Off Campus," the over the increasing dangers of proposal are mostly omitted in presentation will address the living and traveling off cam-favor of a more conceptual see REPORT/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Rainadan reapplies for visa 
Scholar optimistic about approval 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 

Acting on the State Department's suggestion and the University's encouragement. Tariq Ramadan has reapplied for a work visa to teach at Notre 
Dame. 

The promi­nent Muslim scholar. who was barred from thn United States July 28 by the Department of Homeland Security for u n specified 
national security concerns, filed his request with the U.S. Embassy in Switzerland on Monday, University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Government officials had stated on several occasions that Ramadan was free to reapply. Starin said. 
The move sets in motion the State Department's review process, which will likely take anywhere between several weeks and two months. but could draw 


see RAMADAN/page 4 

Roemer to speak today 
Congressman to discuss 9/11 report 
By EILEEN DUFFY News Writer 
Timothy Roemer, a 9/11 Commission member, will give a talk about "The 9/11 Commission:The Transformation of our Intelligence Community," at 7 p.m. today in the Mendoza College of Business' Jordan Auditorium. 
Hoerner. 

Roemer 
w h 0 
received masters and doctor­al degrees from Notre Dame and served as Indiana's 3rd District representative in the 
U.S. House of Representatives from 1991-2003, was invited by Professor Sheri Alpert of the Heilly Center for Science. Technology and Values. 
The former representative served on the 9/11 commis­sion. which released its report over this past summer. 

"It was sort of a simultane­ous thing. I was interested in having him come to talk to my classes and of course, I wanted to offer the Notre Dame community a chance to hear him speak publicly," Alpert said. 
Roemer will speak to Alpert's classes on Computer Ethics and on Science, Policy and Politics as well as two law school classes. 
During his 12 years as a 
U.S. representative, Roemer focused on public diplomacy, the American government's communication with the pub­lic in foreign countries. At a time when the United States was considering cutting much of the funding for public diplomacy, Roemer to pre­serve it. 
He also served on the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Education and the Workforce and the Committee on Science. 
In November 2002, the U.S. 
see ROEMER/page 6 




Flu vaccinations suspended 
Shortage affects Notre Dame, Saint Mary's health centers 
By KATIE PERFY News Writer 
The suspension of a manu­facturing license for a major influenza vaccination provider caused both Notre Dame's University Health Services and Saint Mary's Health and Wellness Services to announce Wednesday they will be unable provide flu shots for students and staff this flu season. 
The Chiron Corporation ­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's only source of the influenza vaccines -said Tuesday it would be unable to supply its product this season due to problems in one its chief pro­duction facilities, University spokesman Matt Starin said in a statement. 
According to a statement from the Chiron Corporation. the Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency placed a temporary suspen­sion on the company's license to produce Fluvirin, Chiron's trademark vaccine for influenza. Consequently, Chiron was unable to manu­facture the vaccine for the 2004-05 season. 
A large dependency on the Chiron Corporation to supply flu vaccines nationwide has led to significant shortages, especially on college campus­es. Universities across the country have contacted the Centers for Disease Control in an attempt to purchase flu vaccines from other universi­ties who may have surpluses of the vaccine, University Health Services Director Ann Kleva said. 
"Everyone is clamoring. We have to be considerate to the whole population of the United States," Kleva said. 
At the present time, Health Services has been unable to obtain the vaccine from another source, but the department will continue its efforts, said Kleva. 
The University will also con­tact federal and state officials about other sources of the flu vaccine, Starin said. Health Services is currently trying to acquire a supply of "flu-mist," which is a nasal form of pro­tection against the virus, from the product's distributor. 
Health Services is also working with the South Bend Clinic to mitigate the effects of the shortage. At the present time, the clinic has 17,000 doses of the vaccine that will be made available to high-risk persons only, said Kleva. The clinic has defined those eligi­ble as individuals aged two through 64 with chronic ill­nesses such as lung and heart disease, diabetes and asthma. If and when the University obtains any vaccines from other sources, they will be granted to students on the basis of risk-level. Those stu­dents more prone to influenza will receive immunization prior to low-risk students, Kleva said. 
Kleva also noted the Notre Dame community has a "sub­stantial" population of high­risk individuals. However. although she was concerned 
see VACCINE/page 6 
Thursday, October 7, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Out of the ordinary 
In the middle of first semester I have 
perfected my daily routine. I attend my 
morning classes, eat lunch, come back to 
the room and check my e-mail, then 
head out for an afternoon workout. 
On Tuesday, I 
chose to do some 
Maggie Oldham 
ellipticizing indoors 
at Angela Athletic 
Facility due to Sports wire 
South Bend's editor 
overnight summer­
to-winter season 
change. Water bottle and CD player in 
hand, I bee bopped out of Le Mans and 
towards the library green. 
And then I saw it. 
Rows upon rows of small, white, wood­
en crosses decorated the usually bare 
green, resembling the white crosses of 
fallen U.S. soldiers. Some of the crosses 
were pulled out of the ground. Had a 
beautiful autumn backdrop not accom­
panied these crosses, this would have 
been the most eerily somber cemetery I 
have ever seen. 
As I approached, a sign hung between 
two trees hit me like a punch in the 
stomach. It read, "l\vice the population 
of Saint Mary's is killed everyday by 
abortion." 
The little white crosses forced my gaze 
upon them as I continued walking down 
the sidewalk toward the gym. I tried 
unsuccessfully to tear my gaze and 
thoughts away. It was very unsettling to 
keep walking, and very disturbing. But 
that's the point. 
It was unrealistic to banish the words flashing across my mind, words that wept for the three aborted babies repre­sented by each cross. 
Props to the NO Right to Ufe Club for their em>rts in abortion awareness. If your intent was to hit individuals like myself with a ton of bricks in the stom­ach and to open our eyes to the statistical realities of abortion, you did a damn good job. I can honestly say that a club banner has never had as much impact on me as those crosses did on Tuesday. 
But, the question is, after the crosses have been removed from the green, will that scene still bear weight on my soul? And the honest answer is, probably not. But it should, and the answer to abortion laws in the United States will never be found until the scene of the somber little crosses stays on our minds every single day. 
We can take the easy route and con­vince ourselves tl1at abortion laws are out of our control, an issue handled by our political leaders. We can pause and reflect and for a moment see ourselves rallying to change these statistics, but then continue on our way hoping that someday someone else will be able to do this. 
That is the wrong attitude to have. 
We are the future leaders of this coun­try but we don't have to wait until we are sitting in an oval office for our voices to be heard. If any issue is going to be chal­lenged, our voices have to be persistent. Awareness of issues cannot be limited to one forum, one rally, one week. Our voic­es can be strong if we exercise our right to use them. Uke the little white crosses and the babies who lay beneath, I believe that our voices and actions founded by our passion for humanity, justice, and all that is good will change the world if we have persistence. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Maggie Oldham at oldhaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH "SAVED BY THE BELL" CHARACTER DO YOU LIKE BEST AND WHY'? 









Andrew Urbany  Laura Heslin  Barbara MacDonald  Eddie Lerum  Jason Dodge  Shaun Disney  
freshman Dillon  junior McGlinn  sophomore McGlinn  junior Keenan  freshman Alumni  freshman Sorin  
':4.C Slater because ofhis sweet, curly mullet.,  "Kelly, because she's hot.,  "Zach -he was hot and had the hairstyle too.,  "Screech, because he's so cool.,  "Zach Morris, because he's the cool guy you always wanted  "Kelly because her amazing depth ,enlightens me.  


take her seat for Tuesday's meeting, said City Recorder Joan McClanahan. Councilman Tim Harrison tried to make a point of order about the seating arrange­ments, but Mayor Rusty Casto refused to recognize it until all regular business on the agenda was discussed. 
Casto called the meeting "the worst one I've seen in 25 years as mayor or a council­man." 
If the culprit is a city employee, he or she will be suspended for three days, Casto said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
to be., 
IN BRIEF 

Former Indiana Congressman. Notre Dame graduate and Sept. 11 Commision member Tim Roemer will speak on "The 9/11 Commisson: The Transformation of Our Intelligence Community." tonight from 7 to 9:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor Acoustic Cafe tonight from 10 to 11:45 p.m. in the Lafortune basement. 
The film "The Terminal," spon­sored by SUB, will be shown tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight in DeBartolo !I all Hoom 101. 
The Notre Dame Band will sponsor the drumline Friday at midnight in front of the Main Building. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team takes on Pittsburgh tonight beginning at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Kroc Institute Visiting Fellow Haley Duschinski will speak to day about "Inconstant Homelands: Political Storytelling among Kashmiri Hindu Migrants in New Delhi, India" from 12:30 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play the University of Minnesota-Duluth beginning at 
7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Sister Jean Lenz will sign copies of her book "Loyal Sons and Daughters" Friday at 3 p.m. in the Hammes Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 68 HIGH 68 LOW 45 LOW 53 
Many In Canadian town busted In pot raid 
SEYMOUR ARM, British Columbia -This lakeside hamlet is so remote it can be reached only by boat or log­ging road, and so small there is only one store. But investi­gators say many of the 60 residents were involved in one business operation ­growing marijuana. 
One hundred Royal Canadian Mounted Police officers executed search war­rants on 14 homes and 14 vehicles Thesday and found several factory-sized opera­tions within a 2 1/2-mile radius, said Police Superintendent Marianne Ryan. At least 16 people were arrested in the rustic town about 240 miles north­east of Vancouver and more arrests are likely, she said. 

"We've never seen any­thing like this before, not where a whole community is affected this way," Ryan said. 
Nameplate switch disrupts council meeting 
NITRO, W.Va. -A city councilwoman refused to take her seat because some­one switched her nameplate with another council member and glued them down, lead­ing the mayor to order the police chief to find the culprit. 
Brenda Tyler refused to 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
IJJ 
::c 
~ 

IJJ 
3: 
...J 
~ 

c:t 
0 

0 
HIGH 77 HIGH 58 HIGH 71 HIGH 71
..J 
LOW 55 LOW 55 LOW 55 LOW 48 
Atlanta 74 I 54 Boston 66 I 53 Chicago 67 I 52 Denver 70 I 45 Houston 80 I 72 Los Angeles 84 I 62 Minneapolis 65 I 50 New York 70 I 58 Philadelphia 69 I 50 Phoenix 96 I 70 Seattle 65 I 50 St. Louis 75 I 57 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 73 I 56 
• 



Thursday, October 7, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Engel discusses hit show­
,Saved by the Bell' producer speaks at ND 
By ]EN ROWLING News Writer 
Professionalism. perse­verance. and passion are the key qualities for a person to succeed in show business. a field where the next great thing is lurking around the cor­ner. said Peter Engel, pro­ducer of the hit television series, "Saved By the Bell." 
Engel spoke at Notre Dame Wednesday about his experiences in televi­sion production, including work on the shows "Hang Time," "The Last Comic Standing," "USA High," "California Dreams" and "City Guys." 
"If you don't love it, have a passion or zeal [for it]. you shouldn't be in it," Engel said. 
Engel discussed his nat­u raJ passion for stories and drama. which he believes is essential for success. 
"Everything l saw would trigger an idea," he said. 
According to Engel, ideas for production are inspired by reading and the passion to learn more about the world. 


Tb.u:Nd8i9t Ootobar , 
"Most movies come out of the 'New York Times,"' he said. "Learn more about your world, enlarge your vision." 
He stressed the need for perseverance and dis­cussed his early experi­ences at NBC. 
"No one is going to sweep you up," Engel explained. 
These qualities allowed Engel to produce the hit TV series, "Saved by the Bell," which aired for 11 years. 
"Every kid in 85 coun­tries knows Zacli, Screech and Kelly," he said. 
Engel attributed the show's success to the unique cast. 
"It was like lightning in a bottle -you only catch it once," he said. 
For the first time in tel­evision history, characters were being played by actors of the same ages. 
"The only thing the Middle East could agree on was "Saved by the Bell," Engel said. 
The producer also dis­cussed today's reality shows and the creativity he believes is lacking in many of them. 
"Television today has changed," Engel said. "I don't really like reality shows. I don't even like my own reality show -I don't find it creative. Scripted shows are about telling a story." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
SENATE 

Students talk about ICEs 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 

The long-debated subject of teacher course evaluations was again discussed at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting, as Alumni senator Vijay Ramanan, former stu­dent body president Jeremy Lao and stu­dent delegate to the Academic Council Jeremy Staley presented a Course Review Resource as a solution to the TCE problem. 
Three years in the making, the proposal sets forth a plan for a Web-based resource that provides both professor-provided infor­mation about courses -like syllabi and descriptions -and student feedback about classes. 
The student responses would be com­piled from a form handed out in addition to, but separate from. the normal TCE assess­ments. The collected data, in theory, would be posted on the official Web site so it could be viewed in conjunction with the objective facts about the courses. The distinction from official TCEs -used by administra­tion for tenure assessment, among other things -is aimed at alleviating faculty and administration concerns about publishing important and possibly sensitive informa­tion. 
"The idea is that you'll have access to course information like syllabi, reading lists and student feedback in a format that is more official than NDToday.com," Staley said, in reference to the popular online teacher evaluations not sanctioned by the University. "Students will have access to important, helpful information before they register for classes so they can make the best decisions." 
Staley added that the majority of Notre Dame's peer institutions already have simi­
~·~ 
Nigb.tolub Danoiwt 
with live DJ: 
12-4am. All events free. 
ND, SMC, HCC ID required.
www.legendsofnotredame.org 
• 
the type of USlC you play? 
This








week 
Laaali~s 
ECEN OS 
NOTRE DAME 

Jar systems in place. 'There is such a great precedent with what other universities are doing," he said. 
The proposal was sent to the Office of the Provost Wednesday, though they are still early in the process, said Lao. 
"What we're looking for right now is stu­dent support to show us that they want this system," Lao said. "And in the future, if it is approved, we'll need student support to make sure it works effectively." 
Concerns about the proposal included the added time burden to the already lengthy TCE process, the honesty of student responses and the ease of access to the Web site for both students and professors. 
Ramanan said the hassle of a longer eval­uation could be a problem, but that the time needed to fill out one extra page of brief questions was relatively negligible. 
In response to the question of putting the survey online rather than physically includ­ing it with the TCEs, Ramanan said stu­dents were more likely to respond, and to respond honestly, ifthey were given time in class to do so. 
Because the proposal is in such a prelimi­nary stage, no official timetable has been worked out yet. Ramanan, however, said he hoped at least part of it would be up and running by next semester. 
"We want the most representative, com­plete and accurate assessment of courses," Ramanan said. "So we're going to approach this the right way, and take all the necessary steps to make sure it suc­ceeds." 
Senators responded favorably to the pro­posal, but cannot vote to approve it until next week's meeting. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


---~----­
~------_ l 
Thursday, October 7, 2004
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Ra01adan 
continued from page I 

out much longer, Sturin said. Prior to the July decision. Hamadan had initially been approved for a visa after a two­month government background check. 
Hamadan told the Associated Press Wednesday that Notre Dame is "very optimistic" about his chances for approval -a position that Storin confirmed but clarified. 
Since the University is not aware of anything in Ramadan's background that would raise suspicion, . the administration has 
"We still don't 
"always had a national and degree of opti­know anything campus debate. mism," Storin said. Recognized
specific they're 
"I don't know if I'd throughout
referring to." 
say 'very opti­Europe as a lead­mistic."' ing voice in the The rationale for Matt Storln discourse 
the revocation University spokesman between Islam 
Dame. 

These circumstances make it difficult for the University to react to statements like the one made by a senior government official in the New York Times Wednesday, Storin said. The offi­cial, who requested anonymity because he consulted classified information, told the Times that the State Department's recom­mendation to revoke the visa was not based on Ramadan's beliefs, but on "his actions." 
"We still don't know anything specific they're referring to," Storin said, adding that answer­ing an anonymous source brings in further complications. , 
Ramadan's beliefs, however, 
have sparked 
intern a tiona I, 
remains unknown. On Aug. 24. when it became clear Ramadan would not be permitted to fulfill his chaired. tenured appointment in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Homeland Security spokesman Dean Boyd would not comment on the specifics of the decision to bar the scholar. Instead, he listed a potential national security threat or a public safety risk as typical circumstances for revok­ing a non-citizen's visa. 
Despite frequent communica­tion between the University and the government since, no con­crete reasons have been revealed to Ramadan or to Notre 
and Western soci­ety, he often drew scrutiny along with praise. 
While critics have accused the scholar of promoting militant Islam and anti-Semitism, sup­porters maintain he has always taken a moderate, respectful stance. 
For his own part, Ramadan expressed hope for a second chance. 
"I know my ftle is empty and I know I have nothing to hide," he told the Associated Press. "So if there is justice in the United States, it will be easy." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Trustees 
continued from page I 

Malloy to President-elect Father John Jenkins, Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Following the trustees' cus­tomary procedure, the agenda for the closed meetings has not been publicized. However, the Board does follow a specific policy calendar and may make some preliminary decisions about Notre Dame's budget for the coming year, Storin said. The budget is traditionally finalized in February at the Board's second meeting of the academic year. 
The Board is also scheduled to hear a presentation on off­campus safety and security from student body president Adam Istvan, vice president Karla Bell and chief executive assistant Dave Baron. 
Campus construction and the 
endowment have also been 
topics of discussion at recent 
Board meetings. 

Composed of approximately 60 members, the Board holds at least three regular meetings lo discuss and vote on policy 
issues each year. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Nobel Peace Prize announced Friday 
Associated Press 

OSLO, Norway -The Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to someone in the Middle East three times, and the Middle East is still in flames. Aung San Suu Kyi of Myanmar got it in 1991, and is still under house arrest. Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev won in 1990, then ordered a bloody crackdown in the Baltic Republics as he sought to save the Soviet Union from col­lapse. 
One of the big questions sur­rounding Friday's announce­ment of this year's prize is, will it go to those who tried to achieve peace, or to those who actually achieved it? 
Although there are plenty examples of the Nobel honor­ing a peace effort that became a spectacular failure, there have been clear-cut winners of this avidly watched 103­year-old international honor. 
Three prizes went to South Africans, and eventually apartheid gave way to a peaceful multiracial democra­cy. The 1996 prize was shared by East Timor independence and democracy activists Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo and Jose Ramos-Horta. and three years later East Timor was independent of Indonesia. 
"The East Timor people give us credit for their independ­ence. Maybe too much credit," said Geir Lundestad, the non­voting secretary of the awards committee. 
"Ramos-1-Iotra told me that no one (in foreign govern­ments) would even see them before the prize. He said he was sleeping in railroad sta­tions because they had no money. After the prize, they got in anywhere." 
The prize, awarded each October by a committee of prominent Norwegians in Oslo. often brings a rush of reaction and debate. praise and condemnation. joy and fury, delight and scorn. 
Many of the favorites among this year's record 194 nomi­nees are associated with efforts to curb weapons. of mass destruction, at a tinw when their threat seems more palpable than ever. But as Lundestad points out. thB Nobel is "not a magic wand that creates peace. It's a loud­speaker and microphone for the laureates. especially those who are Jesser known. It's a door opener." 
Sometimes it goes to house­hold names, like former President Jimmy Carter (2002). the Dalai Lama (1989). and sometimes to lesser known figures, among them Iranian human rights cam­paigner Shirin Ebadi (2003) and Joseph Hotblat and the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs (1995). 
You've Loved Parisi's Italian Ristorante For 25 Years Now Try Our Second Location 
e race "With a European Flair" 501 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 For Reservations: {574) 233-5000 Roberto Parisi ­Owner "That's Amore Too"  Thanks for Making Us Your Home Away From Home! The Bistro Proudly Offers: Dry-Aged Prime Steaks •Market Fresh Seafood •Potato Encrusted Tilapia•Braised Osso Bucco •And Much More... •Largest Wine Selection in the Midwest Over 350 Varietals To Choose Enjoy Live SO's 60's 70's In Our Martini Ultra-Lounge  










ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TilE ()BsERVER'S wmr SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Afghan leader survives attack 

Ki\BUL, Afghanistan -Campaigning for 1\fghanistan 's first direct presidential elec­tion· ended with a burst of violence weanesday as attackers set off a bomb in a failed effort to kill interim Afghan leader Ilamid Karzai's vice presidential running­mate. 
Despite persistent violence, the United Nations declared this hard-luck nation ready for Saturday's vote, a historic experiment with d·emocracy after more than two decades of unrelenting ruin. from Soviet occupation to civil war to the repressive Taliban and the thunderous U.S. bombing campaign that ended their rule. 
In a sign of the progress, Karzai and another top candidate held raucous, peaceful rallies at Kabul's bullet-pocked sports stadi­um, once the scene of gruesome executions under the Taliban regime that was ousted at the end of 2001. 
Car bomber strikes checkpoint 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A suicide car bomber plowed into an Iraqi military checkpoint northwest of Baghdad on Wednesday, killing 16 Iraqis and wounding about 30, as U.S. and Iraqi forces sealed off roads south of the capital in a campaign to curb the insurgency before January's elections. 
There were hopeful signs, meanwhile, that talks may produce a cease-ffre agreement with a Shiite militia headed by radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr-although residents of his stronghold Sadr City reported explosions in the area late Wednesday. A negotiator also claimed progress in talks to end the military standoff in Fallujah -the country's toughest insurgent stronghold and suspected base of Iraq's most feared terrorist group. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Kicker sought in shooting 
LAS_ VEGAS -A former place-kicker for the Oakland Raiders is being sought in a drive-by shooting at the home of entertainers Siegfried Fischbacher and Roy Horn, police said Wednesday. 
Cole Murdoch Ford, 31, whose three-year NFL career ended after he missed crucial kicks during the 1997 season, was named in a felony warrant stemming from the Sept. 21 shooting, Sgt. Chris Jones said. 
Police identified Ford as the owner of a white minivan from which shots were fired at the compound owned by the illusionists known as Siegfried & Roy. No one was hurt, but police said shotgun pellets shattered win­dows and left a hole in a wall. 
Three killed by woman's brother 
MANCHESTER, N.H.-A woman and her two young children were found slain at the home of her brother, who had run onto a highway hours earlier and was struck by a dump truck, according to authorities. 
Tricia Doyle, 30, her daughter Gillian, 4, and 2-year-old son, James, were found dead Monday night at the home of Doyle's brother, Chris Bernard. 
Police called the deaths homicides but declined to say how the three died pending autopsy results expected Thursday. 
There had been no arrests, and authorities declined to comment on what might have happened. 



LOCAL NEWS 
Theater inspired by teacher 
ANDERSON, Ind.-A retired teacher's love of drama has led her family to invest more than $1 million in a new 280-seat theater where she and her children will produce stu­dent shows. 
Darlene Lee, 58, spent about 15 years pro­ducing faculty variety shows, middle school plays, high school plays and summer student productions. 
"I decided I was ready to retire from teach­ing, but not ready to retire from drama," she said. 

No weapons evidence in Iraq 
Finding contradicts the reasonir:g for invasion and loss of over 1,000 U.S. lives 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Contradicting the main argument for a war that has cost rriore than 1,000 American lives, 'the top 
U.S. arms inspector said Wednesday he found no evidence that Iraq pro­duced weapons of mass destruction after 1991. He also concluded that Saddam Hussein's ability to develop such weapons had dimmed -not grown -during a dozen years of sanctions before last year's U.S. -led invasion. 
Contrary to prewar statements by President Bush, Saddam did not have chemical and biolog­ical stockpiles when the war began and his nuclear capabilities were deteriorating, not advanc­ing, said Charles Duelfer, head of the Iraq Survey Group. 
The findings come less than four weeks before an ele'ction in which Bush's handling of Iraq is the central issue. They could boost Democratic candi­date John Kerry's con­tention that Bush rushed to war based on faulty intelligence and that United Nations sanctions and weapons inspectors should have been given more time. 

But Duelfer also sup­real risk, that Saddam weapons of mass destruc­tions," Duelfer told ports Bush's argument Hussein would pass tion," said Levin. Congress on Wednesday. that Saddam remained a weapons or materials or The report also con­He said he believed threat. Interviews with the information to terrorist cludes that the Iraqi gov­sanctions against Saddam toppled leader and other networks," Bush said in a ernment was able to -even though they former Iraqi officials speech in Wilkes Barre, manipulate a U.N. oil-for­appeared to work in part made clear that Saddam Pa. "In the world after food program to avoid the -were unsustainable still wanted to pursue Sept. 11, that was a risk sanctions' effects for a few long term. weapons of mass destruc­we could not afford to years, acquiring billions of On specific points, tion and hoped to revive take." dollars to import goods Duelfer said: his weapons program if But Carl Levin of such as parts for missile He concluded that alu­
U.N. sanctions were lifted. Michigan, the top systems. Duelfer also in minum tubes suspected of 
"What is clear is that Democrat on the Armed the report accused the being used for enriching Saddam retained his Services Committee, said former head of the U.N. uranium for use in a notions of use of force and Duelfer's findings under­oil-for-food program of nuclear bomb were likely had experiences that cut the two main argu­accepting bribes in the destined for conventional demonstrated the utility of ments for war: that form of vouchers for Iraqi rockets and that there is WMD" Duelfer told Saddam had weapons of oil sales from Saddam's no evidence Iraq sought Congress. mass destruction and that government. uranium abroad after 
Campaigning in he would share them with "Once the oil-for-food 1991. Both findings con­Pennsylvania, Bush terrorists like al-Qaida. program began, it provid­tradict claims made by defended the decision to "We did not go to war ed all kind of levers for Bush and other top invade. because Saddam had him [Saddam] to manipu­administration officials 
"There was a risk, a future intentions to obtain late his way out of sane-before the war. 


Bad weather hampers navy rescue 
Associated Press. 

LONDON -British ships battled through rough weather on Wednesday to reach a Canadian navy submarine with 57 crewmembers on board that was drifting in the Atlantic after an electrical fire that officials said was more severe than originally thought. 
A British frigate pulled alongside the HMCS Chicoutimi and dropped off medical staff to help treat crewmen who suffered from smoke inhalation. 
"This was a major fire" said Commodore Tyrone Pile, commander of the Canadian Atlantic Fleet, adding the fire damaged the com­manding officer's cabin and an elec­trical equipment room on a separate deck. 
The vessel -one of four second­hand subs that Canada recently pur­chased from Britain -was drifting in heavy seas toward Ireland and it was unlikely its engines could be used to steer the boat to shore, Pile said. 
The diesel-powered submarine, which was on its maiden voyage as a Canadian vessel, sent out a distress call Tuesday after an electrical fire broke out on board. Britain's Royal Air Force sent a search-and-rescue helicopter to the sub, some 115 miles northwest of Ireland. 
Nine of the 57 crewmembers suf­fered minor smoke inhalation, Canadian officials said. They did not need to be evacuated, and the vessel surfaced safely, although its engines were shut down as a precaution. 
The Chicoutimi, formerly called HMS Upholder, had been turned over to the Canadian navy on Saturday and was on its way from Britain to the Canadian port of Halifax. · 
Pile said the crew had sufficient provisions on board. 
"Well, they've got emergency light­ing on board, it is probably going to get a little bit cold, but they have suf­ficient blankets and other means to keep warm on board the submarine," Pile said. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 7, 2004 
Vaccine 
continued from page 1 
about the shortage, Kleva said s he be Ii~~ v e s a Iternative sources will be able to ade­quatPly cover the demand. 
"I firmly believe that any high-risk student, faculty mem­ber or staff mnmber is going to 
be able to receive a flu vaccine if they desire to havn one." Kleva said. 
Saint Mary's 
Ill~ a It h a n d Wnlhwss Services will only allow vaccination for those students who ment "priori­ty group status," and therefore have agreed to 
share some of its surplus vac­cines with the Notre Dame community. Although the College's supply is "minimal," it is still a potential mode of alle­viation regarding this problem and its corresponding conse­quences. Kleva said. 
Preventive measures have already been launched by llealth Services. An e-mail was sent to students about precau­tionary steps they can take to lownr the risk of contracting tlw virus. 
The most important thing a student can do to minimize the risk of ini1Lwnza is to avoid a "compromised" immune sys­tem. Kleva said. This involves maintaining good health, get­ting enough sleep and not sharing pnrsonal items such as 


Roe01er 
continued from page 1 
Advisory Committee on Public Diplomacy created the Tim Hoerner Internship. to be awarded annually to a Notre Dame student in the Washington Semester pro­gram. 
Hoemer has also been rec­ognized by George Mason University, a non-profit research and educational institution dedicated to improving public policy out­comns. as a distinguished scholar. lie serves as presi­dent of their Center for National Policy. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 


r-~~~·ry~-;;;.;
'--~--\ _,.. 11-~.:r'--~ 
-----·-·---· 

food, eating utensils and ciga­rettes. 
Saint Mary's has also been significantly affected by the shortage. Vaccination distribu­tions scheduled for today and Friday were cancelled, 111nd stu­dents can only receive the flu shot on a priority basis, according to the email sent by Cathy DeCieene, director of Health and Wellness Services. 
"We have to be considerate to the whole population ofthe United States." 
Ann Kleva University Health Services Director 

Last year Health Services dis­pensed 2,500 vac­cinations within the Notre Dame community, yet 500 people were still treated for flu-like illnesses, Kleva said. 
Despite rising costs of the vacci­nation, Health Services had bud­geted to account 
for an increased number of vaccines for this season In response to the significant number of students who fell ill during the 2003-04 academic year. 
Contacf Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
action, either positively or negatively, regarding the



Report 
report. The implementation of a

continued from page 1 
seminar that addresses gener­town South Bend. from down­al off-campus issues as well town to campus, from campus as security is also a priority, to the residential complexes Istvan said .. Turtle Creek, College Park "It's not just about safety, and Castle Point and finally it's about learning how to be a back to campus. good citizen and neighbor," 
No concrete plan has been Istvan said. "Basically, it's decided upon, however, and it teaching Notre Dame students must first get approval from the things they need to know 
the Campus Life Council before it moves through the administra­tion. 
"When we address the trustees, we're not trying to get approval for a specific plan," Istvan. said. 
about living off campus."
"This report is so In regards to 
necessary to safety members of the Off-Campus
at the University. " 
Council sitting 
on the various Adam Istvan South Bend student body neighborhood 
groups, Baron
president 
said that such involvement is 

"We're hoping the Board of essential in building up the Trustees will direct the relationship between the University to make off-campus University and the South Bend safety a priority, which would community. expedite the process [of "Everyone will be better ofT approving the SafeBus]. espe­if there is direct communica­cially in terms of funding." tion of problems between stu­
While they may offer feed­dents and residents, rather back. the Trustees are not than finding out about issues expected to take any formal through police calls or tickets on cars the next morning." Baron said. 
These two previous propos­als are mainly student govern­ment actions. but fit in with the ultimate message of the report. Istvan said. 
The fourth section of tlw report is the assertion that NDSP should consider off­campus sm:urity a priority ­a point that Istvan called the "ovcrarching message" of the presentation. 
The student government leaders said they hope for a positive reception from the Trustees. 
'!This report is so necessary to safety at the University," Istvan said. "I'd expect the Board to see it as an opportu­nity to improve safety." 
Bell commented on the high value of the Trustees' input on their proposal, and Baron concurred. . "This is an amazing group of people, and it's very honor­ing to be able to stand in front of them," Baron said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 




Engineering apd Science Book Fair 
October 1 -November 1 .-·-.-.-·-·-·-·-·-· ........ -·-·-·-·-·-·-.-.-.-.-.-..

_ 

10% Discount receive a 1Q% discount* on selected Engineering and Science books: 
• 
McGraw-Hill 

• 
Wiley 



PEARSON

• Pearson 
-· 

•  Elsevier  
Over 100 titles to choose from.  
_ __,,,_ .., ... .,.,• .,,.."  '  . '' ' '  o  HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE IN THE ECK CENTER phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com . More than just textbooks. . . '-, ,._,. 1.0 , ' v ~ • ; I  

• Nol Valid wllh any oCher offer. Select llems only. bcludaa Mxtbooks, computer hardware and software. and pro­f&S£101181 reference. 
· 
, , l •' •' ,r ,. 
. 
~ 

Tt1E OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, October 7, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


10,239.92 +62.24

Jones 
<!!$,
Up: Some: ~ Composite Volume: 2,230 181 • 1,419,173,760 
AMEX 1, 276.34 -2.93 NASDAQ 1,971.03 +15.53 NYSE 6,717.43 +38.18 S&PSOO 1,142.05 +7.57 NIKK£1(Tol<yo) 11 , 3 8 5. 3 8 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,706.30 -0.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) + 15.52 +0.52 3.87 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.89 -0.19 21.13 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.53 +0.15 28.53 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.25 +0.43 I 9.53 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.25 +0.03 12.24 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.85 +0.42 49.70 
I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.22 +0.51 42.24 
5-YEAR NOTE +1.70 +0.58 34.79 
3-MONTH BILL +0.12 +0.02 16.73 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.93 52.02 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.20 420.00 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.375 97.975 
Excho Rates 
YEN 111.2600 
EURO 0.8139 
POUND 0.5618 
CANADIAN$ 1.2595 

IN BRIEF 
Personal names for companie~ 
NEW YORK -In casting about for a name for their new companies or products, entre­preneurs often decide to use their own. 
And it can work -look at the success of Ben & Jerry's and Dell Inc. But before you order your new firm's letterhead, you should think about some of the ramifications -good and bad -of sharing your name with your company. 
Craig Newmark's business started as a hobby back in 1995, when he began e-mailing friends a list of "what I thought were cool events" in the San Francisco area. As the group of recipients grew. people started refer­ring to it as "Craig's list." 
When the hobby started turning into a busi­ness. Newmark thought of changing the name to sf-events. But he decided to make it craigslist -"if I call it that, it's going to stay personal and quirky." 
Newmark sees many pluses in having his name on craigslist. which has evolved into a Web site with real estate and job listings, per­sonal ads. chat rooms and other services in big cities across the country and in Britain, Ireland and Australia. 
Changes made at Robert Mondavi 
OAKVILLE, Calif. -With its famous Mission-style bell tower and elegant arched entrance, the Robe-rt Mondavi Winery looks every inch the Napa Valley landmark it has been for four decades. 
The company plans to sell the luxury side of the business. including the Robert Mondavi Winery in Oakville, and use the money to build its $15-and-under brands like Woodbridge, which face stiff competition from Australian imports and domestic brands like California's Two Buck Chuck. 
Mondavi company officials cast the sale as a chance to put the luxury business back in pri­vate hands and away from shareholders' short-term expectations. They believe there's more room for growth in the cheaper, high­volume "lifestyle" brands and expect to realize $400 million to $500 million from the sale, which would be used to develop the lifestyle business. 
->-. •.·.·.•.. · 
.... ·'· .. . ' . 

Oil prices climb to new high 
Stocks rally late Wednesday despite predictions of a poor third quarter 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Stocks enjoyed a late-day rally Wednesday, finishing high­er despite a new record price for oil and gloomy third-quarter outlooks from several companies. Volume was relatively light as investors awaited the gov­ernment's jobs creation report at the end of the 
.week. 

With rising energy costs threatening to dent con­sumer spending and corpo­rate profits in the period ahead, oil and jobs have competed for the attention of traders on Wall Street. Many were looking ahead to the Labor Department's September employment report. due Friday. If the number of new jobs creat­ed misses expectations. it could be troublesome for stocks, particularly retail­ers. 
Analysts are also watch­ing for positive signs in third-quarter earnings reports, following a series of profit warnings. 
"What you would hope now is that we'll see some upside surprises" said Janna Sampson, co­Manager of the AmSouth Select Equity Fund and director of Portfolio Management at Oakbrook Investments. "That could buoy the market and help 93 cents higher at $52.02, "GE's breadth and indus­Lots sank 4.6 percent, or us take off. Until we get as traders examined week­trial base will tell a lot 59 cents, to $12.15. numbers out of those com­ly U.S. inventory numbers. about the condition of the Also among companies panies that haven't Crude inventories for the economy" said Ned Riley, offering bleaker outlooks, warned, I think we're frrst week of October were chief investment strategist stock dealer Knight somewhat directionless. up 1.1 million barrels and at State Street Global Trading Group Inc. dipped There's just nothing funda­gasoline stocks were also Advisors. "Those comments 20 cents to $9.39 after say­mental to drive the market higher, but a 2.1 million will be watched with quite ing it expects an operating until then." barrel decline in distillate a bit of interest, simply loss for the third quarter 
The Dow Jones industrial fuels, which includes heat­because of their size and due to "persistent lacklus­average rose 62.24, or 0.6 ing oil and jet fuel, suggests how it reflects the pulse of ter market conditions." percent, to 10,239.92, consumer spending may the consumer on the indus­In Washington, top offi­making much of the gain in come under some pressure trial side." cials with mortgage giant the final hour of trading. this winter. Further raising concern Fannie Mae, including chief 
The broader also closed With third-quarter earn­about a possible slowdown executive Franklin Raines, higher. The Standard & ings season just starting, a in consumer spending, Big defended the company's Poor's 500 index added number of large companies Lots Inc. blamed soft sales accounting practices before 
7.57. or 0.7 percent, to are preparing to issue in September on the diffi­a House subcommittee. 1,142.05. The Nasdaq com­results, including Costco cult economic environment. Regulators have alleged posite index advanced Wholesale Corp., Marriott The nation's largest close­earnings manipulation and 
15.53. or 0.8 percent. to International and Alcoa out retailer adjusted its management misdeeds at 1,971.03. Inc. on Thursday, and earnings and sales fore­Fannie Mae, which 
Light, sweet crude for General Electric Co. on casts to reflect what it sees finances one of every five November delivery settled Friday. as a broad-based trend. Big home loans in America. 

High-tech plans begin for banking 
copies of their checks. Columbus, Ohio. "It's just that bank­
Associated Press 

Because these images can be trans­ing is changing, and paper is being 
NEW YORK-High-tech changes ferred electronically, they'll clear so pushed out of the system." in the banking industry will soon be fast that consumers will have to One reason is that it costs billions affecting the most mundane of finan­learn to live without "float." Float is of dollars to transport the 40 billion cial products, the checking account. the delay· in check processing that checks consumers write each year by 
On Oct. 28, banks will begin imple­has allowed consumers to write a truck, rail and air from retailers to menting the Check Clearing for the check at the grocery store on banks to clearing houses to banks 21st Century Act -better known as Wednesday in hopes that it won't an.d back to consumers. It's the Check 21 -aimed at updating the clear their account until their pay­process used since Pony Express processing of checks from the equiv­check is deposited on Friday. days to transfer money from the alent of the Pony Express era to the Banks and other financial institu­check writer's account to the check Computer Age. tions already have begun notifying receiver's account. 
Consumers and businesses won't customers about what's coming. Another reason is national security. see big changes right away. But over "We want to make sure they don't "The terror attacks on Sept. 11 the next year or so. some of the view this as penalizing them," said [2001] were the catalyst for this leg­paper checks they write will no Wilton Dolloff, executive vice presi­islation," said John Hall of the longer come back with their state­dent of operations and technology at American Bankers Association trade ments. Instead, they'll get photo-Huntington Bancshares Inc. in group in Washington, D.C. 
. .. '.
.. ·... 
page 8 Thursday, October 7, Y
The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
BELGIUM 

Turkey gets conditional approval for EU entry talks 
Associated Press 
BHUSSEL.'i. Belgium-In a his­toric move that could extend Europe's borders to the edge of the volatile Middle East, the European Union recommended Wednnsday setting mostly Muslim Turkey on a course lor full mem­bership in the prosperous 25­nation bloc. 
Hdlecting widespread misgiv­ings, however. the 30-member EU executive commission set tough conditions to prevent Turkey from backtracking on sweeping democratic and human rights reforms. 
"This is a qualified yes," said Europnan Commission President Homano Prodi. "Our position is a positive one. but also a prudent, cautious one." 
French President Jacques Chirac said talks with Turkey could last 10-15 years "at a mini­mum." 
Such caution rellected unease throughout a prosperous and mostly Christian continent about union with a poorer Muslim nation that could be a source of unwelcome migrants. Europeans carry a deep historical memory of the Ottoman Empire, out of which Turkey was formed after World War I. as a hostile power that once ruled swaths of Europe to the gat!~s of Vienna, Austria, and Jell bnhind a legacy of corruption. 
It is now up to the EU's 25 lead­ers to approve the recommenda­

"We need to take our time on this," he said. "A "Our position is a lot still remains 
positive one, but also a 
to be done." 
Turkish Prime prudent, cautious one." Minister Hecep Tayyip Erdogan 
Romano Prodi 
bristled at any 
European Commission 
suggestion that 
president

Turkey was not a shoo-in to join the EU, saying marks" in everything from food safety to setting cross-border banking fees. 
Ankara may also face a con­tentious restriction on the num­ber of workers it can send west­ward. The commission recom­mended a "safeguard clausn" that could be invoked to restrict the number of Turkish migrants in times of economic dilliculty. 

Verheugen said opening negoti­ations with Turkny would not get Europe-wide backing if such an "emergency brake" were not included. 
tion at a summit in December, p'aving the way for the start of entry talks as early as next year. 
If that happens, as Ankara hopes, Turkey would not actually join the union until around 2015. The commission gave no deadline for a !ina! accession treaty with Turkey. 
Prodi said the EU could sus­pend or even halt membership negotiations over any serious and persistent failure to respect democracy or human rights. 
first. 

"It is unfair and will destroy the motivation of Turkey to stay the course on economic and political' reforms to get into the EU," Erdogan said in Strasbourg. France. 
Any reversal would "show dis­respect to a country which has accelerated" economic and politi­cal reforms in recent years, he said. , 
Turkey, which has h~d EU aspi­rations for more than 40 years, 
has joined every Western economic and political organiz:ation open to it, including the NATO alliance, and Europe's top human rights watchdog, the Council of Europe. 
Guenter Verheugen, the EU's enlargement 
commissioner, said th<) EU could not deny Turkey's bid this time around. 
"The choice was very clear. Turkey was simply too good ... Progress was too good'' to say no, he said. "We can trust Turkey that the country will continue ... improving the situation." 
In an effort to appease skeptics, the recommendation set rigid hurdles for Turkey to meet before starting talks. Turkey will have to meet minimal reform "bench-
LUNKER'S 

HoME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HuGE SELECTION OF 
NORTH FACE 
JACKETS, COATS, HATS, CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER's AND RECEIVE 10i'o OFF NoRTH FACE ITEMS. LuNKER's APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 269-663-3745 
WWW .LUNKERS.COM 

he would reject any outcome other than full and equal mem­bership. 
He also criticized Chirac for seeking a referendum on Turkish EU membership. Chirac has asked for an amendment to the French constitution that gives voters a say whenever the EU wants to take in a new member. 
Erdogan said the move was unjust because none of the 10 EU members_ that joined the bloc in May had to win voter approval 


Joey Callahan 
is IRISH.· is FINNY. is FREE.
';;:.·.·y,, •· 
..... . 
FRIDAY ••• 10/8 ••• 1 Opm WASHINGTON HALL 

Joey Cllll11h11n Comedy Show 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 631-7308 



~---~-~ 
ELECTION ·2004 · 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 COMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
"In less than a month you'll have the chance to vote for me. I'm looking forward to coming down the stretch with a strong positive 
, 
message. 
George Bush 
U.S. President 

"The problem is ofcourse, when you got the same old tired ideas, the same old false attacks, the same old tired rhetoric, there are no ·new ideas." 
John Edwards vice presidential candidate 

Campaigns exchange barbs over VP debate 
Bush continues Cheney's debate criticism 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND-President Bush offered a sharp if familiar critique of his rivals on Wednesday. picking up where Dick Cheney left off in the vice presidential debate while defending the war in Iraq and their economic policies. Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards was poised to answer the criti­cism in the battleground state of Florida. 
"In less than a month you'll have a chance to vote for Dick Cheney and me," Bush told cheering supporters in Wilkes­Barre. Pa. ''I'm looking forward to com­ing down the stretch with a positive, strong message." 
Bush assailed Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry as he usually does in campaign appearances, accusing the Massachusetts senator of wavering in his support of the war on terrorism, favoring scores of tax increases, and sending mixed signals to allies and ene­mies. 
Bush even offered an explanation for thr scowls and grimaces he displayed during the presidential debate last week in Miami when Kerry criticized nearly every action the president has taken on national security, taxes, education and health care. 
"You hear all that'you can understand why somebody would make a face," the president said. 
Bush and Kerry meet again Friday night at Washington University in St. Louis to take questions from voters. In the vice presidential debate Tuesday night in Cleveland, Cheney and Edwards traded jabs over jobs, judgment and Iraq in what largely was a hard-fought draw. 
"America saw two very different visions of our country and two different hairdos," Bush said to laughter. "I didn't pick my vice president for his hairdo, I picked him for his judgment, his experi­ence." 
Cheney and Edwards headed for Florida, a battleground worth 27 elec­toral votes. Cheney was appearing in Tallahassee, Edwards in West Palm Beach. 
The Bush camp claimed that a strong performance by Cheney helped break momentum that appeared to be going Kerry's way, but Democrats said Edwards more than held his own. 
"I thought it was another win for the Kerry-Edwards team. I thought John Edwards showed real strength, convic­tion. he was in command of all the facts, in control of the debate," Democratic Party chairman Terry McAuliffe told AP Radio on Wednesday. "I think the bur­den was on Dick Cheney to try and knock it out of the park. He did not do that." 

Post-debate polls were split. Cheney fared best in an ABC News poll of a 
Republican-leaning group of registered voters who watched the debate, with 43 percent giving Cheney the edge, while 35 percent said Edwards won. The Democrat was viewed more positively by 178 undecided voters polled by CBS News: 41 percent thought he had won and 28 percent thought Cheney had won. 
The candidates, seated at a table with­in a few feet of each other at Case Western Reserve University, tore into each other repeatedly. Cheney, an expe­rienced debater, and Edwards, a fresh­man senator from North Carolina who made millions of dollars as a trial lawyer, gave as well as they took. 
Edwards responds to Bush's critiques 

Associated Press 

·wEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -Sen. John Edwards, answering President Bush's blistering criticism of Democrat John Kerry, contended Wednesday that the Republican was "completely out of touch with reality" about the Iraq war and the economy. 
"He won't acknowledge the mess in Iraq. All you have to do is turn your tele­
vision on," Edwards said. "They still don't recognize that there's any problem with jobs and the economy" despite rising health care costs and record job losses. 
"You can't fix these problems until you recognize there is a problem," the Democratic vice presidential candidate told a sign-waving audience in a ware­house at the Palm Beach County conven­tion center. "They're in denial. They're in denial about everything." 
Earlier, in a speech in Pennsylvania, Bush accused Kerry of waffling in his position on the war on terrorism, pushing for higher taxes, and sending mixed sig­nals to allies and enemies. 
"In the war on terror, Senator Kerry is proposing policies and doctrines that would weaken America and make the world more dangerous," Bush said. On the economy, he added, "My opponent is a tax-and-spend liberal; I'm a compas­sionate conservative." 
Edwards responded to Bush's critical assessment of Kerry while the Massachusetts senator stayed off the campaign trail to prepare for his second debate with Bush on Friday in St. Louis. 
The North Carolina senator said that after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks Bush chose to "divert the attention to Iraq" instead of "finishing the job of killing the man who masterminded the attacks," Osama bin Laden. 
"These are the men who think their experience and value is so important for the American people," Edwards said. 
Noting that the Bush's advisers had billed Bush's speech as a major address on foreign policy and the economy, Edwards said: "The problem is, of course, when you got the same old tired ideas, the same old false attacks, the same old tired rhetoric, there are no new. ideas. There are no new plans." 
"This president is completely out of touch with reality and it showed again in his speech today," Edwards said. 
Steve Schmidt, a Bush spokesman, countered, "Their defeatist rhetoric is not consistent with the reality on the ground in Iraq." 
The No. 2 on the Democratic ticket made a beeline for hurricane-ravaged south Florida a day after debating Vice President Dick Cheney in Cleveland. Cheney was campaigning in Tallahassee in the northern part of the state that put President Bush and him in the White House in the disputed election four years ago. 
In West Palm Beach, Edwards said that Cheney "struggled with the truth" during the debate on several issues, including when the Republican denied linking Saddam Hussein with the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. 
Asked who won the debate, Edwards told reporters "the American people" because they saw clear contrasts between both tickets. 
The senator was heading to Greensboro, N.C., later Wednesday before traveling to New York City for television interviews Thursday on "Live With Regis And Kelly" and "The View." 

+ Bush leads polls 

ELECTION QUICK HITS 
+ Election worker accused of gluing chads onto ballots 
PETERSBURG, Ind. -A former elec­One couple told an investigator from ballots and one count of handling bal­tion worker accused of gluing chads the Indiana attorney general's office lots. He declined comment to the back onto punch-card ballots to that Robling told them they had Evansville Courier & Press, and tele­change votes in Petersburg's 1999 missed out on $20 by mailing their phone calls to a home number listed in municipal election says the charges ballots instead of giving them to him, his name rang unanswered are politically motivated. according to court documents. Wednesday. 
Authorities allege that Ron Robling, "I never offered nobody $20 for a Pike County Prosecutor Boyd Toler a Democrat, delivered absentee ballots vote in my life. I wouldn't. It's stupid," and county election officials sought the to voters and offered them money if Robling said after he was charged state attorney general's assistance in they would let him return their Monday with two felony counts of han­July after election officials reported marked ballots to the county court­dling and tampering with ballots·. finding a substance they believed to be house. At the time, Robling was a Another Petersburg resident, Larry glue on 99 absentee ballots from the member of the Pike County Election Freeland Sr., faces one count of aiding 1999 election. The ballots have been Board. and abetting the tampering of election turned over to state police. 

page 10 The Obserper + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 7, 2004 
Arnted Haitian rioters arrested 
At least four decapitated, 19 killed by e:zraged Aristide supporters 
Associated Press 
POHT-AUcJ>HINCE. Haiti ­Enrag1~d supporters of ousted l'residPnt Jean-Bertrand Aristide armed themselves with machetPs. guns. rocks and bottles and roamed a downtown slum. threatening to behead foreigners after 
U. N . p n a c e k e n pe r s a n.d llaitian poliC!~ arrested dozens ol' peopl!~ Wednesday. 
As gunlim crackled and two lwlicoptnrs roared overhnad. pnacnke1~pers in armored per­sonnel carriers moved into Bel Air, trying to put down a cam­pai~n by Aristid1~ loyalists who have carri~~d out gory behead­ings in imitation of Iraqi insur­gents. 
Wednesday morning, the headless body of a man lay in the street in La Salines. a sea­sidn slum. Last week. three polien officers were decapitat­nd when Aristidc supporters stepped up protests demand­ing his return from exile in South Africa. launching what they called "Operation Baghdad." 
One angry man in Bel Air thrust a gun into the face of an Associated Press reporter Wednesday. yelled expletives against President Bush and 
U.N. peacekeepers. then screamed: "We are going to kidnap some Americans and cut ofT their heads." 
At least 19 people have been killed in Port-au-Princ~. Helief workers say the violence could paralyze attempts to feed tens of thousands of people in the northwest port city of Gonaives, which was devastat­ed by Tropical Storm Jeanne last month. 

At least 46 people have been treated for gunshot wounds since Friday. Port-au~Prince General Hospital said. 
Aristide loyalists had sealed ofT Bel Air. a warren of con­crete homes overlooking the National Palace in Port-au­Prince. In Wednesday's opera­tion, U.N. troops and Haitian police surrounded the district. searching cars and people at checkpoints near torched cars 
that residents were  using to  
keep them out.  
Police  director  Henan  

Etienne said they detained some 500 people for question­ing during the sweep of Bel Air, but found no weapons. 
"They were all.bandits ... They had been firing at police," he told The Associated Press. lie was unable to explain w.hy no guns were found. 
Police spokeswoman Jesse Coicou said 75 people were arrested. 
On Tuesday. a dozen young men and children in Bel Air shot a man and tried unsuc­cessfully to hack off his head, accusing him of spyin·g for rebels who overthrew Aristide, said Ninger Napoleon, a reporter for Hadio 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music 2 -6p.m. on Fridays ·Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties 
Cold Beverages 60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. 631-2000 

www. themorrisinn.com 

Car bombing kills at least 34 in Pakistan 
Explosion rocks Islamic radical gathering 
Associated Press 
MULTAN, Pakistan-A car bomb exploded at a gathering of Islamic radicals in the central Pakistan city of Multan early Thursday, killing at least 34 peo­ple and injuring dozens, police said. 
The attack came as hundreds of people· had gathered in a resi­dential area in the city to mark 



~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, October 7, 2004 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 11 
Stern tnakes tnove to satellite ·radio 
'Barbershop' actor's 
Shock jock defects to Sirius after record censorship settlements 
rape case distnissed 
business." launched its own marketing
Associated Press 
Federal Communications weapon this week: shock jocks
Judge says Anderson accused for money 
Commission Chairman Michael Opie and Anthony, who were NEW YORK -Howard Stern Powell responded to Stern's move yanked off the air for broadcasting 
woman acknowledged having 
has long had two words for the Wednesday by saying that "it is two listeners having sex inside St. sex with both Anderson and 
Associated Press 
Federal Communications not surprising that notable per­Patrick's Cathedral. MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A judge Witherspoon over a period of 
Commission-and in 15 months, formers and journalists are turn­Stern's show will air as part of dismissed rape charges several days before the report­
he can finally utter them on the ing to a medium that allows them Sirius' basic package, rather than against "Barbershop" actor ed attack. She said those 
air. to paint with a broader palette." as a premium channel. Sirius Anthony Anderson on encounters also were forced 
The self-proclaimed "King of All Stern signed a five-year, multi­offers 120 channels of commer­Wednesday, saying testimony but she didn't report them. 
Media," perhaps the most influen­million dollar deal with Sirius, cial-free music, sports, news, talk, by his accuser was some of the Anthony is the rotund comic 
tial radio voice of the last 20 years, according to the company. Stern, entertainment and traffic for a most "suspicious" he has ever co-star of "Kangaroo Jack" 
is shifting his salacious act to along with airing his own morning monthly fee of $12.95. Customers heard. and the original "Barbershop," 
satellite radio and freeing himself show, will program two additional do not need a dish to receive the Judge Anthony Johnson said in which he portrayed a thief 
from the increasingly harsh glare channels for the company as part radio signal; it's picked up by a the woman's testimony at a who is seen throughout the 
of federal regulators. His new of the "reinvention" of a 25-year r·eceiver about the size of a car preliminary hearing did not movie trying to get away with 
employer, Sirius Satellite Radio, is career that spawned scores of imi-radio. There's a one-time fee of produce probable cause to let an automatic teller machine. 
gambling its new tators. $15 to start the service, and the the charges stand. Anderson and Witherspoon 
star can rescue a "This starts the equipment can cost up to $150. 
"One ofradio's
"This is absolutely the most refused comment on their 
company that's lost avalanche," Stern "Satellite radio is going to take suspicious case lawyer's advice 
$1 billion over the highest earners, said later in an its place as a mainstream force, I've ever as they left the 
last five years. interview with The and it may surpass AM and FM,"
one ofits''This is absolutely 
heard." the courtroom. 
In an announce­Associated Press. said Michael Harrison of the trade 
innovators, is 
judge said. the most suspicious Allan Mayer, a 
ment Wednesday "One of radio's high­publication Talkers. "Howard Defense case I've ever spokesman for 
ripping the FCC kissing terrestrial est earners, one of Stern is a catalyst who is only lawyers said Anderson, said 
and media con­radio goodbye. " its innovators, is making the process faster." 
heard."

the 25-year-old the charges were 
glomerate Clear kissing terrestrial Stern couldn't agree more. w o m a n o b v i o u s. I y 
Channel radio goodbye." Along the way, the shock jock said a c c u s e d Anthony Johnson "trumped-up." 
Communications Howard Stern Under his new he wouldn't mind putting a hurt­Anderson in judge "That said, this 
Inc., Stern told his radio host deal inked Monday, ing on Clear Channel, which hopes of getting has been a terri­
loyal audience of Stern -along with remains embroiled in lawsuits money from ble ordeal for 
12 million that he a cast of cohorts with Stern over its decision to drop him. The judge "thought this him and his family, and he is 
was abandoning traditional broad­who will accompany him to Sirius the him earlier this year from half­case needs to be stopped and eager to put it behind him and 
casting. His debut on Sirius will -will reach every market nation­dozen of its stations. stopped right now," defense move on with his life and 
come in JanuarJ 2006, after Stern wide. His show dominates the "My dream is going to satellite, attorney Leslie Ballin said. career," Mayer said. 
finishes the rest of his current deal lucrative radio market among and making Clear Channel's $85 The woman was seeking a The state prosecutor's office 
with Infinity Broadcasting Corp., males 18-49 years of age and million radio properties worth 50 job as an extra in the film said no decision had been 
the radio subsidiary of M1V owner ranks No. 1 in many of the 46 cents," Stern said. "I hope it comes "Hustle & Flow" when she made on whether to pursue 
Viacom Inc. markets where his show is broad­true." accused Anderson and assis­the case again. 
''I'm tired of the censorship," cast. In July, Clear Channel sued tant director. Wayne "We learned more at the 
said Stern, who was involved in The price tag for luring Stern to Infmity for more than $3 million, Witherspoon of attacking her preliminary hearing than we 
the two biggest radio fines ever satellite, including salaries, over­claiming Stern broke their con­in a trailer on the movie set. knew before," said spokes­
imposed by the FCC -including a head and other costs, will hit $100 tract by violating federal indecen­A rape charge also was dis­woman Jennifer Donnals. 
record $1.7 5 million settlement million a year. But Sirius, which cy regulations. The lawsuit came missed against Witherspoon. "We'll look at all the evidence 
reached four months ago. "The now has more than 600,000 sub­after Stern filed a $10 million suit Testifying to the judge, the and make a decision." 
FCC ... has stopped me from doing scribers, hopes Stern can bring against Clear Channel, the nation's along up to 4 million new recruits top radio station owner, which had and catapult its business into the $8.9 billion in revenues last year. black. They said they'd need at Like cable television, satellite least 1 million to cover the costs of radio is not subject to federal inde­signing Stern. cency scrutiny because it is avail­
It might work. Shares of the able only to paid subscribers. satellite radio company surged Clear Channel did not immedi­nearly 16 percent on word of ately return calls about Stern's Stern's defection. comments. The American Family 
If Stern pulls it off, his signing Association, a longtime critic of could become the broadcasting Stern, said his decision to join equivalent of the old American Sirius accomplished the near­Football League's contract in the impossible task of pleasing both 1960s with quarterback Joe their group and the shock jock. Namath, which provided the fledg­"He should be happy, and we're ling league with an undeniable happy he's off the publicly owned superstar and instant credibility. airwaves," saia Randy Sharp, AFA 
Sirius is one of two companies director of special projects. "Quite trying to make satellite radio a frankly, we hope one day he sees viable business. Its competition, the error of his ways and reforms XM Satellite Radio Holdings, his message to America." 
IBM+ND IBM ThinkPad R51-BTS2004 IBM ThinkPad T41-BTS2004 
FACULTl. STAFF. STUDENT RATES 

1.5GHz Pentium® M with Integrated 802.11 big 1.6GHz PentiumR M with Integrated 802.11a/b/g Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking 
14.1 Inch screen 56Kbs Modem 14.1 inch screen 56Kbs Modem 
40GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 30GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 
256MB ODR SDRAM 3"year warranty 512MB DDR SDRAM 3-year warranty 
CD~RW/DVD Combo Drive CD-RW/DVD Combo Drive 
$1.649:00 $1.934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories iOiscounted Prices Reftectedl 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash Driv11 $55.00 73P3599 $39.95 01N1571; $314.00 731'2582 $49.95 ORK811~ 
The featured rnodels include: 3Year Parts & Labor Warranty (B~.Jttery: 1 Year). 24 HourToii~FreeTechnical Support, Rapid Restore Rescue and Recovery Software, Norton AntiVirus 2004 (OEM Edition). Internet Scroll Bar, Spill-Resistant Keyboard, Touchpad andTrackpoint, Hard Drive Shock Absorber. 

THE 0HSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 12 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box ~ Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 SoUlh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDIIDR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 
MANAGING EDIIDR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDIIDR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDIIDR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus EDITOR: Mcghan Marrin SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDIIDR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDIIDR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROllER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.1 @nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLJNE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily ne-wspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. U~signed editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom r'f,an:ling Obser~er policies should br dirmrd to Editor in Chirf Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
rN-Obttrttr (Usrs '!991-4000) is puhli.hcd Mund•y rhmugh 1:riday cxcq~r during cx1m •nt.l \'aunon pt"nocb A •ubtctipnon cu·~ Ohtctrvrr is S:lOO for om-~..dcrnic )'('lr, $,.~ (orotK'W"Innlt'r flw Olncr~t 11 ~ mcml-.cr ofthe A'1001trd l'ra•. AU .qmdu(rion ns.hu m rnrrvrd. 
The Oh~vn 11 puhluhcd 1r: P.O. Ro<Q 1121 South !>uung H~l 024 South Dining Hall Nom:: lhmc, IN 4h5S6-0779 Norn: Darnt', IN 4655&-0n9 1\-nodit..ai ('O'IfiJr p.iJ 11 Not« 0amc: .vtd ~ilinonal ma1liug Q(ficn, 
l'll~~I'MA.\Tl~R 
~U .Wdrr• wrrt'l.:rion• rQ· 
Thc(lbtc-rvrr 
'llae Olurtva i.t. 1 mnnltet of tbc Auo>.:ia1a! l'reu. All n:producuon n&}tb u.:o reN"nN. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Teresa Fralish Heather Van Nicole Zook Hoegarden Kelly Meehan Mike Gilloon 
Viewpoint Maggie Oldham Lauren Galgano Scene Graphics Kenyatta Storin Kelly MacDonald Illustrator Katie Knorr 

Expressing life through music 
Lately, I have noticed high levels of  When I began to date, my dad  Sinatra CD and told me to take it "Nice  
anxiety permeating the halls of Holy  reminded me of the Supremes' "You  and Easy."  
Cross Hall. There have been sleepless  Can't Hurry Love," to show me that the  ·  Last winter, as I was left for my  
nights caused by stress. tears over  right guy will not play silly games with  semester in Home, his song of choice  
boyfriends and breakdowns in the face  me.  on the way to the airport was Cat  
of that 10-page paper due tomor- Molly Acker  As I began the process of looking for a coHege. my parents wanted to make  Stevens' "Wild World." Similarly. when I called home several months later and  
row morning. While it is. inevitable that this  Nobody likes a dumb blonde  sure that I made my own decision as to which school I would attend. My song beca:me "Go Where You Wanna Go" by  asked for more money in order to spend the summer in Europe, he cited his favorite philosopher, Mick .Jagger,  
time right before  the Mamas and the Papas.  and told me. "You can't always get  
midterms will be especially busy, I am  Eventually I did make my own deci­ what you want. but if you try some­ 
simply trying to take these potentially  sion and was excited to start college.  times, you get what you need"­ 
stressful weeks in stride.  Graduation came and went and then  apparently, I needed to come home.  
Since I was younger, my dad has  my dad let me in on a secret. He played  Now here 1 am a junior in college and  
always been a great comfort to me  Paul Simon's "Kodachrome" and more  looking towards my future. 1 told my  
when I was going through what he  or less told me that "all that crap I.  dad about this idea for a column and  
would describe as a "tough time."  learned in high school" is not all that I  he seems to think that our playlist has  
Whereas most parents would offer a  need to get by in life. However, he  come full circle. As "Thank Heaven for  
few words of encouragement or a pat  wanted me to understand that things in  Little Girls" will tell you, we "grow up  
on the back. my father has always  life aren't always what they seem, so  in the most delightful way." He is now  
related my predicaments to songs. He  he introduced me to the Kinks' classic,  confident that I can find my own songs  
remains convinced that all of life's  "Lola," which tells the story of a guy  to listen to. and even help others by  
problems can be solved by paying  who mistakenly goes home with a  helping them find the right tunes for  
attention to appropriate song lyrics.  cross-dresser.  the right moments. So when things arc  
Whether I am happy or sad, he always  College began, and I had little trouble  looking bleak, and you need some  
finds lyrics that apply to my situation.  fitting in and having a great time.  advice, it's nice to know you can look to  
and he then provides me with a tempo­ There was never a dull mmhent. My  your music collection and find the  
rary theme song.  dad called me one morning, after I had  answers. I know I am not alone. I havn  
Throughout grade school, when life  enjoyed a particularly "fun" night and  ·  noticed that other people do this to  
was simpler, my song was always  determined that the song "Good Golly  some extent. Please, if you need any  
"Thank Heaven for Little Girls." It was  Miss Molly (Devil with the Blue Dress  help finding your song. let me know  
a constant reminder that I was a bless­ on)" aptly described my first month of  and I'll see what I can do.  
ing to those in my family and an impor­ college. To this day, he reminds me to  
tant part of their lives.  keep him and my mom in mind by ref­ Molly Acker is a junior  
Once high school rolled around, it  erencing the line "While you're rocking  communications and humanistic  
became clear that one song would not  and rolling, can't you hear your mama  studies double major at Saint Mary's.  
be enough, so he expanded his play  call?"  Her column appears euery other  
list.  Like most fathers, my dad became  Thursday. She can be contacted at  
Hight before I made my Confirmation,  concerned with my relationships with  acke6758@saintmarys.edu.  
my dad played Billy Joel's "Only the  young men and pointed out that their  The uiews expressed in this column  
Good Die Young" as an example of  intentions are not always admirable.  are those ofthe author and not neces­ 
what not to do.  Naturally, he broke out the Frank  sarily those ofThe Obseruer.  
LETTER TO THE EDITOR  

Personally opposed, but • • • 
John Kerry shares the time-honored excuse of Catholic abortion rights internationally, as something we have no politicians for their support of abortion, professing some misgivings toward but are "proud" of. and he has promised form of the "personally opposed, but ... " argument. Having that his first action -if elected president-would be to recently heard several defenses of this position: in casual dis­provide funding for organizations that perform abortions cussions and lectures, I thought it would be helpful to con­overseas. sider where Kerry fits in the picture. To do this, I will con­Perhaps Kerry means that while his faith instructs him sider specifically what Kerry does not mean. that abortion is wrong, he cannot impose his faith on others. 
One argument goes that a representative of the people Aside from the many difficulties that accrue to this view, it needs to represent the will of his constituents. lf the majority too is not what Kerry means. In 1994, he said before of the constituents is pro-abortion, he needs to vote accord­Congress, "Abortions need to be moved out of the fringes of ingly. This sounds like sophisticated political theory, making medicine and into the mainstream ... And by the same token it appealing despite its many problems. Whether it's good ... tolerance needs to be spread out of the mainstream theory or not, be sure that it is not what Kerry believes. In churches, mosques, and synagogues, and into the religious his letters to pro-life constituents, where he would be most fringes." What docs this suggest? First, that because of her likely to expound this theory of representation, he says noth­pro-life voice, Kerry's own Catholic Church is on the "reli­ing of it. Rather, he writes that "after much careful study, I gious fringes," and that the Catholic Church must start remain committed to the position that no one ultimately is preaching "tolerance" of abortion. better able, and no one has a more compelling right, to So in what sense is Kerry "personally opposed. but ... "? I weigh her options than the pregnant woman. Included in suspect that with him and with so many other pro-abortion these options should be the choice of pregnancy termina­Catholics, the line is an insincere but convenient excuse to tion." It is Kerry himself, not his constituents, who has come assuage the uncritical citizen, and that regardless of the to this conclusion. soundness of any "personally opposed. but" argument, most 
Nor does he mean that he has deep pangs of.conscience politicians espouse nothing but an empty formula. when he casts a pro-abortion vote, mindful of the great harm that it causes. Instead, he told NARAL th&t "we need Kyle Bertoli to honestly and confidently and candidly take this issue senior [abortion] out of the country and we need to speak up and Dillon Hall be proud of what we stand for." Kerry promises to champion Oct. 6 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Should Notre Dame have the SafeBus 
"Man wasformedfor society and is neither 

service for students? 
capable ofliving alone, nor has the courage to do it. " Vote today by 5 p.m. at 
Sir William Blackstone

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
English writer on law 


r--------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 7, 2004 page 13 
The power to 'declare' war 
"I faced the kind of decision that comes only to the Oval Oflice," said President Bush. "Do I forget the lessons of SeptPmber 11th ... or do I take action to defend our coun­try? Faced with that choice, I will defend America every time." 
Campaign rhetoric on both sides 

Charles E. Rice
implies that the decision for war or peace belongs to one man -the President. The framers of the Right or Wrong? Constitution saw it differently. On August 17, 1787, they debated whether to give Congress the power to "make war." James Madison and Elbridge Gerry successfully "moved to insert 'declare,' striking out 'make' war; leaving to the Executive the power to repel sudden attacks." Roger Sherman said, "The Executive [should] be able to repel and not to com­mence war." They left what Justice Robert Jackson called "a zone of twilight,'' with concurrent powers in the President and Congress. The balance is hard to strike. 
The War Powers Resolution of 1973, for example, imposed probably unconstitutional time limits on the President's use of force. Presidents have put forces into combat more than 200 times. Congress has declared war only five times. The last time Congress debated and decid­ed whether to go to war was in 1917. 
The President takes an oath to "preserve, protect and defend" the Constitution, while other officers swear only to "support" it. Presidents usually seek Congressional approval before major military action. But no President has admitted that he must do so. 
President Clinton bombed Serbia despite the refusal of the House to authorize it. In the Gulf War, the Afghanistan campaign and the Iraq War, Congress gave a blank check to the President. In 2002, Congress authorized him to use the armed forces "as he determines to be necessary and appropriate ... to defend ... the United States against the ... threat posed by Iraq." The Resolution of September 18, 2001, understandably did not even identify the enemy. It authorized the President "to use all necessary and appro­priate force against those nations, organizations or per­sons he determines planned, authorized, committed or ordered the ... attacks ... on September 11, 2001, or har­bored such organizations or persons." 
In the ongoing war against what the 9/11 Commission called "Islamist terrorism,'' who will decide, for example, whether to use force to prevent Iran from achieving nuclear capability? The citizen, lacking information, must give a benefit of the doubt to the justice and wisdom of a decision to use force, whether made by Congress or the President or both. Congress, however, has a duty to inform itself and to participate in, or perhaps control, decisions to initiate a major use of force. 
The President needs flexibility to fulfill his duty of defense. But if Congress continues its habit of authorizing the President to use force as he thinks it "necessary and appropriate,'' Congress may find itself reduced to a merely advisory and funding role. Can there be a situation today in which Congress must go beyond authorization and must itself decide whether to use military force? Was House Speaker Thomas Foley right when he said the Gulf War resolution had "the moral legal, constitutional, prac­tical consequences of a declaration of war"? Maybe the best we can do is the current pattern of ad hoc coopera­tion. But the issue compels attention in light of the current expansive concept of defense. 
"The wisest use of American strength," said President 

lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Rebuilding Ratzinger 
Professor Kristin Shrader-Frechette's column, Science Watch, published last Friday both contained a large number of errors regarding the teachings of the Catholic Church and promoted a shallow understanding of Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger's statements on Catholic voting. 
First. to state that John Kerry stands with Catholic doctrine 80 percent of the time and George Bush 20 percent of the time assumes that all issues of Catholic doctrine are equal in weight. Cardinal Ratzinger made clear in his statement regarding voting that "Not all moral issues have the same moral weight as abortion and euthanasia." Ratzinger argued that issues such as the waging of war may warrant "diversity of opinion even among Catholics," but that such diversity is not possible "with regard to abortion and euthanasia." Furthermore, John Kerry has made it clear that while he personally considers himself a Catholic he does hot believe in forcing his views upon peoples of other religions. One must then conclude that although Kerry advocates some positions that are in line with Catholic doctrine, he does so not out of faith and right reasoning, but by the use of his individual conscience. Can a rational Catholic voter then really place his trust in this sta­tistie knowing that Kerry is not guided by the Church, but only by himself? 
Professor Shrader-Frechette writes, "Catholic doctrine requires the primacy of conscience. It requires informing one's conscience but prohibits ever violating it." To use this statement in the context that the professor does is a misunderstanding of what this doctrine states. The Catholic Chureh has always defined an informed con­science as being one informed by the doctrines of the Catholic Church. The Catechism of the Catholic Church clearly states that a conscience not informed in this way can be erroneous in judgment. According to Church teaching, the belief that personal conscience overrules Church teaching is a heresy. Indeed, rule-following has never dominated Catholic morality, only the recognition that to define good and evil based on individual conceptions is not to truly love God, whom we know through communion with Christ's Church, but rather is to worship a god invented by man. 
Finally, Professor Schrader-Frechette ignores the arguments set forth by Pope John Paul II in his Gospel of Life that in order to take any of the life issues seriously, one must first respect life in the womb. If one cannot respect life at conception, how can one begin to defend life issues such as welfare and pollution rights? Perhaps this is why Professor Schrader-Frechette is able to make a utilitar­ian argument at the end of her piece, "One million three-hundred thousand U.S. abortions are a tragedy. But so are the slow deaths of 18 million U.S. children. And the 1 million deaths of children in developing nations," that implies the lives of 19 million children are more valuable than 1.3 million children with relative ease. Catholic doctrine asserts the value and dignity of every individual. Putting forth arguments such as the ones found in Science Watch will not help to create a culture of life, but will plunge us even fur­ther into the culture of death. 
Christopher Brophy junior Keenan Hall Ocr. 4 
Bush, "is to advance freedom." He sees the liberation of Iraq as "a watershed event in the global democratic revo­lution." He views "our commitment to the global expan­sion of democracy" and specifically our helping Iraq to build a "democratic country in the heart of the Middle East" as a way to "defend our people from danger." To prevent "rogue states" from acquiring weapons of mass destruction, he pledges, "we will not hesitate to act alone, if necessary, to exercise our right of self-defense by acting preemptively." 
This new doctrine of seeking security by advancing a "global democratic revolution" and by preemptive military action to prevent presidentially defmed "rogue states" from getting WMDs is a presidential creation. And it is light years removed from the framers' quaint idea of "leaving to the Executive the power to repel sudden attacks." 
These remarks are not intended to focus criticism on President Bush, for whom I will vote. And Senator Kerry's multiple positions are no less dubious. The point is that, whoever is elected, it ought to be agreed that the decision to initiate major conflict, including separate phases of the "war on terror,'' must involve seriously the elected repre­sentatives of the people who will fight that war. Elbridge Gerry was from Massachusetts. But he still got it right when he said he "never expected to hear in a republic a motion to empower the Executive alone to declare war." 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contact­ed at Plawecki.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Reviewing 'alternative lifestyles' 
With much interest I read the Oct. 4 story about the demonstration of the students with orange armbands, the purpose of which was to contest "Notre Dame's No. 1 Princeton Review ranking for intolerance of 'alternative lifestyles."' The beginning was really promis­ing. I thought that possibly I would find a real openness to a variety of lifestyles, such as celibacy for the Kingdom of God; or complete self-denial for the sake of the poor; or virgini­ty until marriage and full fidelity after the wedding; or perhaps a life dedicated to pro­mote justice among the rich and the poor without love for tyrants; or even a manage­ment career that, against the stream of biological reasons such as race is a monstrosi­ty. 
Homosexual behavior, however, is not a bio­logical fact. One can accept that probably a small percentage of homosexual people have a biological root of their drives. But a sexual drive or desire is not an action. Married and unmarried people feel sexual desire towards persons that are not the legitimate spouse. But, we are not mere animals, utterly unable to control our passions. To indulge in such desire is, thus, for anyone, a sin. 
What Catholic faith teaches is that sexual pleasure is ordered toward procreation, and procreation must take place within an 

the market, heroically takes care of 
environment of unconditional love both the workers and the cus-and stable commitment, which tomers. It must be said that, being environment we call "marriage." the feast of Saint Francis, the Only this way can man and date was particularly appropri­woman have responsible sex ate for this expectation. It was and parenthood. Any behavior very disappointing to find out that violates this order is a that in Princeton's jargon the sin. Most of us are, in this or promising expression means in other matters, sinners. All only "intolerance of the of us are in need of God's lifestyle of gays and lesbians." mercy and all of us have to be However, I think that the point compassionate with each deserves a little more reflection. other. Christ was compassion­
Slowly and subtly, liberal ideol­ate with the woman caught in ogy is taking over all the spaces of 
adultery. But He also said: "Go thought in this country. It is trying your way, and from now on do not to totally assimilate to itself even sin again" (John 8: 11). 
spaces that should be shrines of alterna­tive thinking. The curious thing is that it is doing so under the banner of "tolerance." Judges, the press, and liberal colleges are denying to Catholics and other minorities the right to organize themselves in health institu­tions -to live according to their Faith-and in educational or Academic institutions -to fully understand their Faith and propagate it. The argument is that life in society has demands that cannot be overlooked for rea­sons that are proper of a particular group. "Public order" demands a complete submis­sion of every minority. "Tolerance" would be, thus, a requirement of public order. 
According to liberal ideologues, Catholics have to accept homosexuality as a "normal" way of life. Why? This is not clear, but the issue is compared with the acceptance of the civil rights of the African-Americans. Here you have a complete confusion of every juridi­cal or ethical concept. To "discriminate" means to give unequal treatment for reasons that are not relevant. To deny civil rights for 
This is not only a matter of Faith. It is also a matter of natural reason. Indeed, one can find very nearly the doctrine of the Church in a passage in Plato, a man who especially in his old age was able to stick to the truth of reason amidst a very corrupted society: Laws, VIII, 838 ff. To exclude "homo­sexual marriage" is not discrimination because "marriage" is an institution that is intrinsically ordered to procreation. Some people might not agree with this. It is a tradi­tion proper of the Western world, however, that political power does not control the spir­it, represented by the Church and by universi­ties. Thus, even if the general corruption of society leads to the acceptance of giving the label of "marriage" to homosexual unions, the traditional freedom and tolerance of the Western world should allow institutions of the spirit to disagree with the state of affairs. 
Carlos A. Casanova Senior Research Associate of the Jacques Maritain Center Oct. 6 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

Third time not a charm for Ben Folds 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Criric 
No matter how the music scene changes, Ben Folds continup,s to remain a presence just bnlow the surface of mainstream popularity. I lis brand of piano pop combined with witty lyrils nnver fhlls to charm. and his stage pres­ence is akin to what a Bruce Springsteen live show would be on piano. lli'i energy and stam­ina i1,rnite his pimto, and the audience fhlls right in step with Folds until he finally packs it in and leaves the stage. 
We haven't seen a tiill-length release from Folds since 2002's "Ben Folds Live" -17 tracks of Folds and his traveling piano. 2003 brought us two live-song EPs. "Sunny 16" and "Sp!~ed Graphic." neither of which is his best work. but both have superb moments of Folds' trademark balladeering. These two EPs con­tinued Folds' musical theme used on the tour fhnn which "Ben Folds live" was recorded ­no other instrumentation beyond vocals and piano. 

Speaking on his Web site about his decision to release his latest music via the Internet and on five-song EPs. Folds said, "Part ofme thinks I'm an idiot for 'wasting' this recording on lim­ited release [EP's], but I'm really into this method of recording and releasing quickly and making it all about music." 
Folds has certainly proved he's "all about music" by continuing to tour and release songs just below the radar of radio and M1V And now Folds has done it yet again with the third and final release in his EP trilogy, "Super D." 
Unlike the other EPs' "strictly piano" sound. "Super D" ventures into a new musical arena. Piano still remains at the forefront, but Folds includes drums, horns and even strings on many of the tracks. Despite these additions, however, the ending result is not up to the quality of work most fans are used to with Folds. 
The first song on the EP is a cover of The Darkness' "Get Your Hands Off My Woman." Folds slips into an angry falsetto during the chorus of this song, singing with venom not heard since "Song for the Dumped," released when Folds was still with his trio, Ben Folds Five. The song is "heavy metal on piano," as Folds describes it on his Web site, and the result is a somewhat startling rejection of his former piano pop sound, but will make a great live tune for shows. 

"Kalamazoo" and "Adelaide" are two of the weakest songs on the EP. "Kalamazoo" is a song Folds formerly used on demo tapes. Here it is reworked in what starts as a meandering lounge number that slowly increases tempo, adding drums, bass and strings. "Adelaide" uses spinning piano and a thumping beat that stay in sync with the vocal track. Despite the catchiness of the chorus, the song fails to make an impression. 
"Rent a Cop" is the one song on the album where Folds showcases the wit and talent that mark his previous albums. Proving no one is safe from Folds' sharp scrutiny, the song humorously thumps along to a supposedly true 



Green Day releases political 'rock opera' 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Music Critic 
Om• of tho most notnworthy as(JI~Cl'i of the eampai~-,rn trail thi'i election season lies with tlw 1~agerrwss of rock musicians to step up and voice their political opinions through albums and concert tours. 
(;men Day, a band that has mmainnd at thn fi>rdi'<mt of the altcrnatiw music scene since the mid-YO's. has aL'io taken it'i turn at the political microphone. Four years since the n~InasP of their last full-length album. the mnrnbl~rs of Grcnn Day went to the fi)Cording studio with a renewed alacrity and a clear intention of fully exercising their First Anwndmont right. The band's deep frustra­tions and <mger with the BtL'ih administration and the Iraq War inspired them to create something different and explore another dinumsion of their talents. 'llms, in thn vein of Pink Floyd's "The Wall" and The Who's 'Tommy," the band has written "American Idiot" as a "rock opera." It is always a risk for an establi'ihed band to step outside the line, but Green Day upheld passion and sincerity over playing it safe. In an MTV interview Billie Joe stated, "I think the problem vvith a lot of rock bands or pop groups or whatever is that they're so afraid of damaging their precious careers. For me, I think it is something that can enrich mine: 'Yeah, I supported thL'i. This meant a lot to me."' 

The album wastes no time getting to the point, and opens with "American Idiot." The song's catchiness and ability to stand-alone has contributed to its wide spread radio play. However, it serves as an effective prologue to the rest for the album, hooking the listener into it with its barb towards the general igno­rance that results from mindlP.ss allegiance to the media. 
The second track. "Jesus of Suburbia," is a nine-minute opus, conta.ining five cohesively transitioned parts. It is here that the protago-nist of the opera identifies himself: "The Son of Rage and Love I The Jesus of Suburbia." This self-identity is continuously being developed throughout the album. 

The most polemical track on "American Idiot" is definitely "Holiday." Armstrong's tal­ent for songwriting is blazoned through the song's powerful lyrics: "Zieg heil to the President Gasman I Bombs away is your pun­ishment I Pulverize the Eiffel Towers I who criticize your government." While these lyrics vilify President Bush as a cruel despot, it is the protagonist who feels that he bears unjust censure just because "[IIe) beg[s) to dream and differ from the hollow lies." 
"American Idiot" lowers the intensity with slower songs like "Boulevard of Broken Dreams" and "Give Me Novacaine." "Wake Me Up When September Ends" is a beautiful ballad written by Annstrong in response to his father's death. It creates a sentimental moment of repose to reflect on "Becoming who we are I As my memory rests I But never forgets what I lost." Coming full circle, the sec-story of a greasy mall security guard: 'Til be hanging at the check out I 01ecking out your girlfriend I Figure out how she's going to lit all of that I Butt into that underwear -yeah," sings Folds, tongue in cheek. ofcourse. 
The closing song on the EP is a tributP to the late Ray 01arles. In an effort to "tip the hat to the man," Folds covers 01arles' song, 'Them That Got." Romping piano marks the charm­ing little number recorded live in a perform­ance from two years ago. "I don't know the whole thing, but I like it," says Folds as tho final chord trails off amidst cheering. 
Although Folds has good moments on Suptw D-especially with the last two tracks-over­all, the EP does not live up to expectations cre­ated from other work in his musical repertoire. Nonetheless, it's a nice complement to the other EPs in the trilogy. and reveals the direc­tion Folds may be heading with his next full­length album, due out in 2005. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu. 


ond to last song is another five-part opus called "Homecoming." 
It is a ditncult task to adequately describe Green Day's latest venture because each song is made richer through the operatic charac­ter's odyssey through faith, disillusionment and even acceptance. "American Idiot" does have a specific political message and is proba­bly not for those who can not stomach a sidl) of liberalism witl1 thdr Cheerios, but regard­less of one's political leanings, the album can resonate with anyone who feels that the stall~ of things, internally and externally, are not quite right. In 16 years this is Green Day's only album to debut at No. 1, showing that risky decisions can also be the smartest. In fact. Green Day is in thn initial planning stages of turning this concept album into a full-length 
Jilm. Gmen Day will be on tour this !all with New Found Glory and Sugarcult. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu. 
THE OBSER\'ER 

CENE
Thursday, October 7, 2004 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

Interpol trumps lofty expectations 
By MATTHEW L. SOLARSKI 
Scene Music Critic 
New York City's favorite sons have returned at long last with what is by far the most anticipated indie release of 2004. Make no mistake: "Antics," the follow-up to 2002's milestone debut, "Turn On The Bright Lights," proves itself every bit as scintillating, inspired, and mystifying as its esteemed predecessor. 
The new album opens with some of the warmest electric organ chords this side of Procol Harum's "A Whiter Shade of Pale." On this introductory track, entitled "Next Exit," lead vocalist Paul Banks delivers an ode to his beloved home city, proclaiming his hopeful 
Antics 
Interp:>l 
Matador 

,,, 


intent to "make this place a heart I to be a part of I again." The song sets the mood for the remainder of the album, and one can almost see the night-lit city coming into focus on the horizon, as an approaching car and its sartorially-savvy occu­pants, brimming with all the promise of a nascent Friday night, drift past the strobe lighting of the overpasses. On this fateful night, however, sumething sinister lingers upon the air of the great city. 
"Evil" immedia~ely follows, ostensibly a love song, but darker undertones emerge in the final verse. It springs to life in much the same manner as "Obstacle 1" from Interpol's previous effort, as Banks advises with his trademark orotund delivery: "Leave some 
shards under the belly I lay some grease inside my hand I It's a sen­timental jury I And the makings of a go o d pI an . " T h e crime t h.e me carries through many of "Antics"' songs, manifested in such titles as "Narc," "Not Even Jail," and "Public Pervert" and in pithy, enigmatic lyrics. In "Slow Hands," a fast-paced standout, frantic gui­tar and bass dance about lines like "See the loving that surrounds me I dissipate in a violent haze" and finally, "We spies, intimate I Slow hands, killer." 
Both the new record and its pre­cursor exhibit a decidedly noctur­nal vibe. Where "Bright Lights" took listeners deep into the dying hours of a long night, ultimately setting them adrift with the bril­liant "Leif Erikson," "Antics" her­alds the coming of a new night, rife with new adventure, new con­frontation, and new peril. The record concludes with a gorgeous new recording of a well-known B­side, "A Time To Be So Small." Like "Leif Erikson," this dark lull­aby resolves little and unsettles more than it lulls -a fitting finale for an album so keen on precarious mystery. 
The band manages, most uncan­nily, to put together music that strays considerably frqm comfort­able verse-chorus-verse conven­tions and abounds in cryptic, occasionally downright ominous, lyrical imagery. Yet all the same, 
one cannot help but find the sound endearing in much the same way as that of significantly more liter­al bands like the Cure and the Smiths. Interpol thrives upon dialectics like these, crafting songs, which are unconventional but somehow accessible, dark and yet simultaneously uplifting, pat­ternless and yet instantly memo­rable. 
Interpol boasts two secret weapons that are hardly secrets but certainly no less formidable for it: bassist Carlos D. and gui­tarist Daniel Kessler. The former lays out rhythms like so many rail ties, achieving at once the relent­less heart of John Henry and the taut, mechanistic precision of the steam drill. Carlos injects enough twists and turns into the track to provide the Interpolocomotive ­brought to life by Kessler's crisp, chiming, evocative guitar lines ­with a diverse and altogether com­pelling journey across these dan­gerous, moon-drenched, sonic landscapes. 
"Antics" does not depart signifi­cantly from the distinct style established on "Turn On The Bright Lights." 
So then is it more of the same? Perhaps, but when the same is this good, one can never quite have enough. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu. 

Stone releases soulful second album 

By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
ThP title pretty much says it all as far as the mood and direction of Joss Stone's newest album, "Mind Body & Soul." 
Stone's second album is not a huge deviation from the tones of her first album, "The Soul Sessions," which just became popu­lar early this year. The music is generally soft with some upbeat tracks. but through it all Stone's strong voice is wonderfully compli­mented and showcased. 
Stone said that. "For me, person­ally. 'Mind Body & Snul' is my real debut album." Stone co-wrote 11 of the 14 tracks on "Mind Body & Soul." and the maturity of her voice is abundantly apparent. Whether a fast track or a slow melodic tune, Stone's voice penetrates the ear of any listener, proving there are truly talented female musicians who are actually popular and selling records. There is something almost indescribable about Stone's voice; it is powerful and addictive. She seems to sense the exact moments to go soft, fast or any direction it allows. The voice of Stone is the most exciting part of "Mind Body & Soul" an-d is simply addictive. 

The songs on "Mind Body & Soul" are also generally interesting and memorable. While there are fast and slow songs with hints of differ­ent levels of blues, jazz and pop that surface in the songs on the album, more variety in song genre would make for a stronger album. Stone is a terrific musician who is immensely talented, but as one lis­tens to the album, many of the songs have a very similar sound. On the other hand, that sound is terrif­
ic. As such, the strength of the 

album is apparent, but as one lis­tens to the addictive voice of Joss Stone, it is inevitably thought that it would be nice to see all that her voice could do in songs that are more different from one another. 
One of the catchiest faster songs is "Don't Cha Wanna Ride," with a soft yet quick beat supporting its playful lyrics. Stone sings, "I know you got the Hummer for the sum­mer, baby I But I got your number, baby I I got your number ... A car this fine don't pass your way every day I Don't cha wanna ride, baby?" While the lyrics are less than impressive, the song itself is fun and memorable. A softer song is found in "Jet Lag," with hints of an almost reggae beat that is appeal­ing to any listener looking for a softer yet funky kind of beat. 

There are not necessarily any classic tracks on "Mind Body & Soul," but there are not any that are especially bad either. They all generally flow into each other. mak­ing Joss Stone's "Mind Body & Soul" a terrific album to have playing in the background of any chill scene. Overall, the album is good music with a strong voice singing lyrics that are questionable in quality. All the shortcomings are made up for by Stone's addictively smooth yet strong voice. "Mind Body & Soul" may fall into the category of back­ground music, but Stone's voice and the future of her career certainly do not and will not. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu. 

Thursday, October 7, 2004 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Rodriguez leads Yankees to comeback win 
"This team never gives up," 
Rodriguez said. "When we fell 
behind in the 12th, we felt like 
there was a window of opportu­
nity with Nathan going out for 
his third inning. If we can just 
get some guys on, we can tie it or 
win it." 

Sheffield was intentionally 
walked before J.C. Homero 
replaced Nathan. 

With the outfield drawn-in, Matsui hit a liner directly at right fielder Jacque Jones that appeared to be too shallow to score Jeter from third. 
But Jeter took oft' for the plate, and Jones' throw didn't have much on it. First ba$eman Matthew LeCroy, who entered as a pinch-hitter in the 10th, relayed the ball to the plate, but Jeter slid in safely. 
"I didn't care, I was going no matter what," Jeter said. "Sometimes you have to force guys to make plays." 
Astros 9, Braves 3 

The Houston Astros opened this postseason without a bit of concern about the past. 
No wonder. 

They had Roger Clemens on the mound and a powerful lineup that took the burden off the Killer B's. 
Picking up where they left off in the regular season, the wild­card Astros routed NL East champion Atlanta in Game 1 of the NL division playoffs -a major step toward winning their first postseason series. · 
Clemens continually pitched out of trouble against the Braves, while Brad Ausmus, Lance Berkman, Carlos Beltran and Jason Lane homered for the Astros, who set a franchise record for runs in a post$eason game. 
"I don't think we'll look back," Clemens said. "There's such a dii'ferent cast of characters on this ballclub." 
The Astros are 0-for-7 in the postseason, losing three of their last four series to the Braves. Much of the blame fell on Craig Biggio and Jeff Bagwell :....-the heart of the "Killer B's" for more than a decade. 
Bagwell finally came through with his first postseason extra­base hit, an RBI double tHat put the Astros ahead for good , in the third inning. But he and Biggio played a secondary role in beat­ing the NL East champion Braves. who hardly looked like a team that won its 13th straight division title. 
"I enjoy being a part of the offense," said Bagwell, who came in with a career playoff average of .174. "But this it not about me and my postseason struggles." 
The Astros carried over their 
momentum from the regular 
season, which they closed by 
winning 36 of 46 games to claim 
an improbable wild card. 
"You don"t play like we did the 
last month and a half without 
team being a capital "T," said 
Biggio, a .130 postseason hitter 
coming into the series. 
"Everybody contributed." 
Game 2 is Thursday at Turner Field, with Houston sending 20­game winner Roy Oswalt to the mound against Mike Hampton. If the visitors win again, they"ll have two chances to wrap up the series at Minute Maid Park. where Houston has an 18-game winning streak. 
The Astros trailed 1-0 when 
Ausmus led oft' the third with the 
first of Houston's three homers 
off Jaret Wright, sparking a four­
run inning. Bagwell's RBI double 
was followed by Berkman's two­
run homer into the Braves 
bullpen. 
Beltran knocked out Wright in the fifth with another two-run homer. 
Clemens showed the effects of a stomach virus that kept him from making his last start of the regular season. The Hall of Farner-to-be walked six -all in the first four innings and the most he's given up in a game since 1998. 
But Clemens displayed plenty of grit in winning a Game 1 start for the first time in his storied career. The Braves stranded nine runners in the first four innings. 
''I'm going to be a little hard­headed and pitch to my spots," Clemens said. 
Red Sox 8, Angels 3 
Pedro Martinez did his part, the bullpen did theirs and now the Boston Red Sox arc heading home with a big lead in the AL playofts. 
Martinez rebounded from a wretched September by pitching seven effective innings and Manny Ramirez hit a go-ahead sacrifice fly that sent the wild­card Red Sox over the Anaheim Angels for a 2-0 edge. 
With two wins at Angel Stadium, the Red Sox will try to sweep the best-of-five matchup on Friday at Fenway Park. Bronson Arroyo can put Boston back in the AL championship series when he starts against Kelvim Escobar. 
Angels reliever Francisco Rodriguez, who won a record­tying five postseason games two years ago to help Anaheim win the World Series, threw a wild pitch that set up Ramirez's sacri­fice fly in the seventh for a 4-3 lead. 
Boston broke it open in the 

ninth. Ramirez doubled, Trot 
Nixon hit an HBI single and 
Orlando Cabrera lined a three­
run double off Brendan Donnelly. 
Martinez lost his final four 
starts last month. But a day al'ter 
Curt Schilling won with 6 2-3 
innings, Martinez went even a bit 
longer. 

He gave up three runs and six 
hits, striking out six and walking 
two. lie retired his last seven 
batters and left after 116 pitches. 
Mike Timlin took over in the 
eighth with a one-run lead. gave 
up a single to Darin Erstad and 
struck out Vladimir Guerrero. 

Red Sox manager Terry 
Francona then summoned Mike 
Myers. who struck out Garret 
Anderson. Next up, Keith Foulke 
relieved and fanned Troy Glaus 
to end the inning. 

Foulke finished up in the ninth 
for a save. 

Rally Monkeys were every­
where in the last two innings ­
on the scoreboard and in the 
stands. But the Angels couldn't 
score after the Bed Sox took the 
lead. 

It was tied at 3 when Bill 
Mueller singled to open the 
Boston seventh and Johnny 
Damon hit into a forceout. Mark 
Bellhorn walked befon~ 
Hodriguez threw a wild pitch. 
putting runners at second and 
third. Ramirez then fli1~d to cr,n­
ter, easily deep enough to scorP 
Damon. 

Rodriguez threw another wild pitch in the eighth, putting run­ners at second and third with two outs. But he retired Damon on a grounder to end the inning. 
Guerrero's first postseason hit -a two-run single with one out in the fifth -put the Angds on top 3-1. Anderson followed with a liner that first baseman Kevin Millar caught before stepping on the bag for an inning-ending double play. 
The Red Sox tied it in the sixth 
on Jason Varitek's two-run 
homer aftr,r a two-out single by 
Millar. Varitck struck out in his 
previous two at-bats against 
Bartolo Colon. 

The Hed Sox took a 1-0 lead in the second when Hamirez drew a two-out, bases-loaded walk ofT Colon. It could have been worsP for the Angels, but with David Ortiz batting and the bases still loaded, catcher Jose Molina picked oil' Bellhorn at second. 
The Angels tied it in their half on an HBI single by rookie Dallas McPherson before Martinez pitched out of a two-on, no-out jam. 
Colon allowed seven hits and three runs in six innings while walking three and striking out three. He threw 114 pitches. 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The New York Yankees waited all season for that huge hit from Alex Hodriguez. 
Boy, did he deliver just in time. 
Hodriguez hit a tying double in the 12th inning, then Derek Jeter dashed home on llideki Matsui's sacrifice fly and the Yankees bailed out Mariano Hivera with another improbable postseason comeback, beating Minnesota 7­6 to even their series at a game apiece. 
"Alex had a little trouble set­tling in here, but when you do this at Yankee Stadium in a post­season game. especially coming from behind. God only knows what it's going to do for him," New York manager Joe Torre said. "You couldn't get a bigger hit." 
After falling behind in the 12th on Torii Hunter's home run. the Yankees responded with a cham­pionship-caliber rally. No sur­prise, because New York set a major league record with 61 comeback wins during the regu­lar season. 
"We never doubted ourselves," Gary Shellield said. "We've done this all season. There's no reason to think we couldn't do it again." 
Con~y Koskie keyed the 'I\vins' eighth-inning comeback with a tying double against Hivera, who blew a save in the postseason for only the third time in 33 chances. 

Game 3 in the best-of-tive AL series will be Friday night at the Metrodome, with Kevin Brown starting for the Yankees against Carlos Silva. 
Jeter, Rodriguez and Sheffield homered earlier in this game, and it went to extra innings tied at 5. It stayed that way until Hunter against Tanyon Sturtze, who had worked 2 2-3 hitless innings to that point. 
But Joe Nathan was running out of gas. too. The 1\vins' closer had made 43 straight appear­ances without going more than one inning, but manager Ron Gardenhire sent him out for a season-high third inning in hopes of finishing it. 
"He was still throwing 94, 95, 96 mph," Gardenhire said. "It's a little disappointing. I probably left him out there too long. I did­n't like our options." 
After a strike, Nathan walked Miguel Cairo and Jeter on eight straight pitches with one out in the 12th, bringing up Hodriguez, who hit only .248 with runners in scoring position in his first sea­son with the Yankees. 
lie's making up for all that in October. A-Rod hit a ground-rule double to left-center on Nathan's 49th pitch, tying the score at 6 with his fourth hit of the game. It gave him three HB!s, and made him 6-for-10 in the series. 
M' 



Jon Leiber throws a pitch against the Twins Wednesday night In a 7-6 Yankees win In 12 Innings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW  JACK. THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity  
WANTED  LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ FoR SALE  TICKETS  NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674­ Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco,  
ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED  6593.  Nassau, Jamaica From $4591  
HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7  Duplex for Sale close to ND  Panama City & Daytona $1591  
PART-TIME WORK  BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT  Campus and downtown.  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  Buying and selling ND football tix,  www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800·  
NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY  718 E. Colfax  PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES  especially Boston College 574-289­ 678-6386  
Great pay,flex sched.,  SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF  Open House Sunday 2-4PM.  273-3911  8048  
sales/svc.all ages18+,  ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS.  Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty  Phox Phire tonight 9 pm  
cond. apply, 273-4878  VISIT OUR WEBSITE  Chuck Bultinck 235-3202  For Sale: ND football tix.  Holy Cross Hill  
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS  WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT KRAMER (574)234­ 2003 Delllnspiron Laptop  Good prices, 232-0964.  PERSONAL  Wanna date?  
WWW WORKFORSTUDENTS.COM  2436 OR (574)315-5032.  Brand new-price negotiable!  
Contact Kathleen at  Wanted: ND football tix.  Spring break 2005 Challenge .. find  You are ridiculous.  
2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06  ktallmad@nd.edu  Top$$$  a better price! Lowest price spe­ But I guess that's alright  
FoR RENT  Walking distance from ND MMMRentals.com 532-1408  2003 Delllnspiron Laptop  251-1570.  cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline!  The not so loveable Cubs.  
Studio apartment,quiet neighbor­ Brand new-price negotiable!  ND ffball tix bought & sold  Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash!  Go BoSox.  
ND Football housing. Walk to game.  hood near ND. $350/mo plus elec­ Contact Kathleen at  a.m. 232-2378  www.sunsplashtours.com  
574-315-3215.  tric. Call 57 4-271-8941 .  ktallmad@nd.edu  p.m. 288-2726  1800-426-771 0  Shoutout to row H  


Thursday, October 7, 2004 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800

Campus Ministry 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 

Twenty-Eighth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
h ' h . 
friday 1o.os 
Sign-Ups for Retreats: 
Freshman Retreat #55 Dates: Nov 19-20 Sign-Up thru Nov 12 
Notre Dame Encounter #83 Dates: Nov 19-21 Sign-Up thru Oct 15 
Applications are available in 114 CoMo or online at campusministrv.nd.edu! 
saturday 1o.o9 
Mass 30 Minutes after the Game Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Mass 45 Minutes after the Game Stepan Center 
sunday 10. 10 
Mass 8:00am, 10:00am, & 11:45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA -Inquiry Session 10:00-11 :30am Coleman-Morse 330 

TADABRIAK 
Wednesday night at 10:00 in the CoMo lounge lor an hour of praise music. 
"OTIII"C MODI. JU!T !I,.CI"C WITII YOUR tDII,.D!. 
Before hitting the books again, grab some food on us. 
mass schedule 
Saturday 
Vigil Mass at the Basilica 30 minutes after the Game Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, esc 
Bishop of Peoria Homilist: Rev. Robert A. Dowd, esc 
Vigil Mass at Stepan Center 45 minutes after the Game Rev. Thomas W. Smith, esc 

monday 10. 11 
Eucharistic Adoration 12:00 noon-7:00pm Every Monday-Thursday Coleman-Morse Chapel 
tuesday 10. 12 
Halaqa: AQur'an Discussion 
and Conversation Circle 7:00pm Coleman-Morse Meditation Rm 
wednesday 1o.1J 
/Four:?/ Contemporary 
Christian Prayer Service 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
thursday 10. 14 
Prayer From Around the World (Focus: Hindu Prayer) 7:00pm Coleman-Morse 330 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, Mass schedules and special campus 
ministry events at 
campusministry.nd. edu 
Around Campus (every Sunday)
Sundav 8:00am Rev. Thomas W. Smith, esc 
1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 
10:00 am Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass 
Rev. RobertA. Dowd, esc St. Edward's Law School Commons Mendoza COB Hal/Chapel Faculty Lounge 
11:45am Rev. Thomas W. Smith, esc 
Main Office (C • Retreats ·(~~o 114), tbr!:~ Friday 8 a.m. to 5 ,. CM Wel-~~~ (ro:::. uVu·J:'~gh I'Jl~$'da~0tpau• tnMidaigltt. 
considerations ... 

Playing, with God 

by Fr. Dan Parrish, CSC Director of Freshman Retreat Ei: Rector of Zahm Hall 
Touchdown: Notre Dame; getting an IM from your best friend; going to your first dorm dance; finally beating your roommate at NCAA2005 (isn't the Matchup Stick a great addition?); buying a Foodsales 'Za at 3 am; hanging out with God. 
If you made a list of the most fun things to do at ND, would you include time spent with God? Many people consider 'time spent with God' as serious, quiet, intense-anything but 'fun.' Maybe we should reconsider how we approach hanging out with God. 
In Matthew 18:2, Jesus says that unless you turn and become like children, you will not enter the Kingdom ofHeaven. What does it mean to become like children? After spending an afternoon with my nephew and niece, Ben and Emily, I can assure you that it involves a lot of imagination, simple games and just playing around. Everything children do becomes a game, and they do it over and over and over. Maybe that's what God wants of us adults too -to stop worrying about our lives, to stop stressing about our prayer and just be like children. 
I think our faith life, our journey with God, should be fun. We only get one shot at this life, so let's enjoy every minute as much as we can. A great dorm Mass should be like beating Stanford-by three TDs. Saying your nightly prayers should be like getting a phone call from a friend you haven't talked to in a long time. Here at Notre Dame there are many opportunities for us to move out of that serious, studious, hard-working mode and remember what it is like to play and goof around like we were kids again. There are also many ways that we can start looking at our relationship with God in those terms. The most important ingredient in having a more "fun" relationship with God is to surround ourselves with really good people, the kind who make you laugh every time you see them. Then find a way to incorporate God in whatever you are doing. 
Lucky for us that Campus Ministry also provides so many amazing ways to have fun with God. Our retreat programs are one of the best ways to start kickin' it with JC. Many retreats are offered throughout the year at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and you will regret it if you never try one out. Currently, applications are being accepted for the Notre Dame Encounter (for all ND/SMC students) and the Freshman Retreat (for ND/SMC Freshmen). Go out on a limb and sign up for one of our retreats, or one of the many other programs Campus Ministry offers. You just might be surprised at how much fun you have. 
U~tesss yo~ t~rH ttHd Gseo~~ts {!i/ls elli{!drslt, yo~ wi{!{! HOt s~ttsr tlls ICiHIJdOHt ol HsttfiOH 
.... 'Jss~s 
r· 



page 18 Thursday, October 7, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
SWIMMING 

Phelps entered in 6 events 
Olympian will swim in 25-meter pool 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Michael 
P.helps is attempting a racing 
schedule nearly as ambitious as 
what he did at the Olympics. 
But this time he won't be swim­
ming as far. 
Six weeks after winning six gold medals and two bronzes in Athens, the teenager will swim six events in a 25-rneter pool at the World Short Course Championships that begin Thursday. 
The whole world knew Phelps was chasing Mark Spitz' record of seven gold medals at the Olympics. lie just missed, but still left Greece as the biggest star of' the games. 
"He really put himself out there. lie made a statement and took a risk," Australian coach Leigh Nugent said. "He put him­self under enormous pressure. For someone to do that and come up with the goods shows what they're really made of." 
This week, Phelps isn't sure what he can accomplish. 
''I'm just going in and have fun," he said Wednesday. "Just having an opportunity to swim in front of our horne crowd is the most important thing. There's going to be a lot of good, screaming fans." 
Phelps met plenty of shrieking teenage girls during his post­Olympic "Swim With the Stars" tour. which took him around the country with fellow Olympians Ian Crocker and Lenny Krayzelburg. 
"Every single town we went to there's a standing ovation. tons of screaming fans. smiles on kids' faces. It's all been incredi­ble," he said. "Lenny said, 'It's kind of like aqua Beatles.'" 
Simply walking around became a diff'l~rent experience. 
"Sometimes people would give me looks or come up to me and ask. 'Are you Michael?"' he said. "They'd stop at that and I liked to joke, 'My name is Michael, what are you asking?"' 
This week, the local newspa­per is urging readers to call in and report any sightings of Phelps away from Conseco Fieldhouse, where temporary competition and warmup pools were built over the floor used by the NBA's Indiana Pacers. 


The 19-year-old from Baltimore smiled at the prospect of being gossip column fodder. 
''I'm here to swim," he said. "They can see me walking from my hotel and back to the hotel. That's about the only two things they'll see me doing.'' 
Teammate Amanda Beard, whose provocative layouts in men's magazines have caused a stir, noted Phelps is turning up in celebrity magazines. 
"I see this boy inside, his hot bod," she said, jabbing a blush­ing Phelps in the arm. "It does­n't happen in swimming very often. I hope it's not an every four years' thing." 
Coming so soon after the Olympics, Phelps acknowledged he's competing in the five-day meet mostly to support its first staging in the United States and plug the sport. 
"People think of swimming as a once every four years' sport," he said. "We swim every single 
The NEW AND IMPROVED 

Br. Gorch Pool Hall 
Doubles 8-Ball Tournament 
Friday, October 8 @9:00p.m. 
Prizes include gift certificates to Best Buy and Legends! 
Sign ups in Br. Gorch Pool Hall Registlation limited to 16 teams 
Brother Uorch Pool !!all also otTers same-day Kodak film development and~ shipping. 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 

day and we compete in major meets every year and the rest of the public needs to see that.'' 
Phelps has limited experience in short course meets, having competed in his first one in 1999. "He did absolutely terri­ble," coach Bob Bowman said. 
But he was 6-for-6 at last year's short course World Cup in Melbourne, Australia, and just missed setting two world records. 
Phelps is entered in the 200­meter freestyle, 200 butterfly, 100, 200 and 400 individual medleys and 800 free relay. The pool is half the length of what he usually swims in, giving him less space to maneuver. 
NFL 
SimiTis eager to start, will replace Johnson 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Chris Simms will make his first pro start at quarterback for the winless Tampa Bay Buccaneers this 
week,  replacing  Brad  
Johnson.  
"I hope I can give  us  the  

spark we need," Simms said Wednesday, when the Bucs (0­
touchdown -and tossed a clinching interception. 
Johnson, 36, Jed the Bucs to Super Bowl victory two sea­sons ago, but he has lost 10 of his last 13 starts. including six in a row dating to last year. 
Tampa Bay's offense has struggled to get the ball in the end zone, ranking next to last in the league in points. The 
4) began prepa­ration · for Sunday's game against the New Orleans Saints (2-2). 
The second­year pro is the son of former New York Giants star Phil Simms. The Bucs select­ed him in the third round of the 2003 draft, and the strong-
unit, which is missing holdout ·"! was ear to ear, receiver Keenan McCardell and
smiling all day. I'm 
several injured
excited ... it's a 
players, began long way from the season with a stretch of 11
being the last pick 
quarters with­
ofthe third round." 
out a TD. 
Johnson has Chris Simms completed 65 of 103 passes for
Tampa Bay 
674 yards, three
quarterback 
touchdowns and 
armed Ieft-hander saw his first regular-season action in relief of Johnson three weeks ago. 
Simms learned of coach Jon Gruden 's decision on Tuesday. 
"I was ear to ear. smiling all day. I'm excited.... It''s long way from being the last pick of the third round,"" the 24­year-old quarterback said. 
Simms replaced Johnson after 15 plays of Tampa Bay's 10-6 loss to Seattle on Sept. 
19. Although he led two drives to field goals, he fumbled twice -losing one, while committing the other on the Seahawks 1-yard line and forcing his team to settle for three points instead of a 
three intercep­tions in four games. 
Simms was the emergency quarterback during last week's 16-13 loss to Denver, and was inserted into the game to throw a desperation pass on the final play. He is 21-of-33 for 175 yards. no TDs and one interception. . 
While some may view the move as a sign Gruden has given up on this season and is looking to the future, Simms and his teammates say noth­ing is further from the truth. 
Hookie receiver Michael Clayton, who leads the club with 19 receptions, agn~ed. 
"There's still time to do great things this season," Clayton said. 



Thursday, October 7, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

No problems for Sheffield 
Yankee did not know he used steroids 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Yankees star Gary Sheffield will not be penal­ized by the commissioner's office after his admission that he unknowingly used a cream two years ago that contained illegal steroids. 
Sports Illustrated reported in this week's issue that the New York outfielder was supplied a cream by BALCO, the California lab at the center of a federal probe into illegal steroids distri­bution. 
Sheffield said he applied the cream on his surgically repaired right knee in 2002. He was not told it contained an ille­gal steroid, the magazine said. 
Under baseball's labor deal, players with major league con­tracts were each tested once for steroids this season. A provision allows more frequent testing if used. another steroid called "the a joint management-labor panel clear" for two months, the net­of physicians finds "reaso_nable work reported Tuesday. He said cause." it was to aid his recovery from 

"There is a reasonable-cause workouts and that he stopped provision -in the Basic using it because it wasn't help­Agreement, but it is limited to ing. activity within the last 12 Bob Holley, the lawyer for months. Obviously, this activity BALCQ president Victor Conte, 
was before the 12­ said in an e-mail  
month window,"  to The Associated  
Rob  Manfred,  "Unfortunately,  Press on Tuesday  
baseball's execu­tive vice president of labor relations,  everything always comes out when it's  that "BALCO pro­vided Gary Sheffield with no  
said  at  Yankee  a special moment  illegal substances  
Stadium  before  for me and my  and  the  check  
Tuesday's AL play­off series opener  teammates."  BALCO received from Sheffield  
against Minnesota.  was  for  legal  
"The  more  Gary Sheffield  nutritional sup­ 
important issue is  Yankees outfielder  plements."  

what are people doing today. That's why we have a testing program and we have good information on all major league players as a result of the testing program," Manfred said. 
Sheffield also told ESPN he 
'Doc..'Pierce's 
Restaurant 

THE PLACE FOR STEAKS for 28 years 
120 N Main St Downtown Mishawaka 
255-7737 
TJ Laughlin Class of '73 General Manager 

Sheffield 
refused to address the situation Tuesday but said it would rrot distract him. 
"I always speak my mind, like I told you all that before. That's a story I did before, and I stick by that and that's the end of it," he said. 
"Unfortunately, everything always comes out when it's a special moment for me and my teammates," he said. "Same­thing happened the first day of spring training, the same thing happens the first day of the playoffs. I'm looking forward to getting it behind me and mov­ing forward." 
"Sheff had to deal with this in spring training. He's all base­ball, as far as I'm concerned," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "I guess if you're going to play in any town that gets you· used to distractions, it's this one." 
"So maybe he's had some practice, being able to focus on what he needs to focus on." 

.~.....,.....,...,.-~-,-~-~~,--,·-~--­
-~><< ~ -....;:;. ' '•' ~... ., "' > 
CALLING ALL STUDENTS•.. 

WE ARE NO\V LEASING FOR 2005-2006. 
BRING YOUR PARENTS INTO OUR LEASING CENTER THIS \VEEKEND FOR A TOUR. 
PAPER'vVORK CAN BE FILLED OUT AND YOlJ CAN SECURE YOUR APARTrvfENT FOR NEXT YEAR ON THE SPOT! 
Also available are apartments for SPRINGSE!\-1ESTEB lease terms. Please call, stop by. or email our Leasing Cemer for details. 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
574-271--8124 
anfoo turtlcx."teeknd.corn \\·ww.tunlccrreknd.t."J;)fll 
NBA 

Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -LeBron James had a good reason for missing practice Wednesday. He became a father. 
The Cavaliers star guard and his longtime girlfriend, a 19-year-old Akron woman, had a baby boy Wednesday. No other details were avail­able. 
James left the team's train­ing camp in Columbus to be with her and his new son. He was expected to rejoin the team Thursday as he prepares for his second NBA season. 
During the team's media day Monday at Gund Arena, James wouldn't comment when asked "if he were about to become a father. He has always been guarded about his private life. 
Fatherhood should fit James 
well. The reigning rookie of the year, who turns 20 in December, is most relaxed when he is among children. ·This summer, he donated money to refurbish basketball courts and youth community centers in Akron. He has also donated supplies to the city's 
schools. 
James·was raised as an only· 
child by his mother Gloria, 
who was estranged from 
James' father when he was a 
youngster 
"That's my main goal, to try 
and be a better father than 
the one I had," James told the 
Akron Beacon JournaL "I did­
n't know him. I didn't know 
the situation he was in." 
Another father figure in 
James' life, Eddie Jackson, is 
serving a three-year prison 
term for mortgage and mail 
fraud. 


-r':J 
~~~chGrill 
CIIH.w •~'f' ,.,.,~
.... 
•!ltflllt·•'tlll'tri•K 
~w 
~-·.. it&;trr• -~ ....,.Ji~,J-!JWIJ'f'~ 
l.hY .4 L.illk .·4t: 
,,l.idu-1111-11l'A... 
P.JOGtupt·RJ 
17J~IJJ9 

.------------------~--------­
page 20 Thursday, October 7, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Thomas predicts Williams won't come back 
Associated Press 
DAVIE. Fla. -With running back lUcky Williams ready to n~vr.rse dirnrtions and come out of n~tinmwnt, his Former Miami Dolphins teammates were mixed in their reaction Wednesday. 
l>nl'ensivn nnd David Bowens said he would like to see Williams rPjoin the Dolphins, in part because they're 0-4. But Pro Bowl linebacker Zach Thomas said he doubted that help from Williams is on the way. 
"lin will not be playing for the Dolphins," Thomas predicted. "lie's got too many things with the fans and too much with the media. and that's the reason he ran· from it in the first place. lie wouldn't come back here." 
Thomas might be right. Gary Ostrow. an attorney who has n~presentnd Williams, said the 2002 NJiJ. rushing champion hopes to receive clearance from the league to play again before the Oct. 19 trade deadline so he can be dealt by Miami. 
Williams asked the NFI. for a lwaring to clarify his status fol­lowing reptHLted violations of the league drug program. The Dolphins say their understand­ing is·lw must serve a suspen­sion for tlw rest of this season. and the NFL has declined to comment. 
"It's very murky water. and Hicky has askr.d for a clarifica­tion," Ostrow said. "lie would like the option to play for anoth-· 
r.r team." 
Contributing to Williams' change of heart about playing was an arbitration ruling Sept. 24 that he must repay more than $S.6 million to the 

Dolphins for breaching his con­tract. There's also the $3.5 mil­lion salary he has done without while traveling the world. 
He's expressed an interest in playing for the Oakland Haiders. Their coach is Norv Turner. who was Williams' offensive coordinator during his two seasons in Miami. 
"The Haiders would fit Hicky's personality better anyway." Ostrow said. "But he may not have many options other than going back to the Dolphins. How many teams are going to have an interest in him other than Norv. who has a relationship with him?" 
Whether Miami would wel­come him back is uncertain. lie caused a lot of resentment by retiring in July, shortly before training camp. The Dolphins haven't won a game since he left. and at 0-4 they're off to their worst start in 38 years going into Sunday's game at New England. 
"It has been very difficult," coach Dave Wannstedt said. "The guy was 65 or 70 percent of our offense. I don't think we would have redone our whole offensive line and started from scratch if we knew we were going to have to start from scratch at the running back position." 
In the days following Williams' retirement, center Seth McKinney called it selfish and stupid. Williams in turn dis­paraged McKinney's blocking. Williams said players had no respect for Wannstedt, and even poked fun at the coach's mus­tache. Defensive tackle Larry Chester said Williams was act­ing like a bitter girlfriend and owed the team an apology. 


Given so much baggage, would the Dolphins embrace Williams' return? 
"There are really two lines of thought, and I'm kind .of debat­ing between the two," guard Taylor Whitley said. "You can either say, 'To heck with the guy. While we've been going 0-4 here. he's been out having a good time.' Or we can say, 'Hey, we need the help. Come on back."' 
The Dolphins have scored two 
AP 

Former Dolphins running back Ricky Williams looks up at the scoreboard during a game against the Patriots last season, Williams retired during the offseason but might be coming back. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
FALL 2005, SPRING 2006, A Y 2005-6, SUMMER 2005 
INFORMATION MEETING 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004 
5:00 PM 138 DBRT 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2004 FOR FALL, SPRJNG, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2005-6 MARCH 1, 2005 FOR SUMMER 2005 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
touchdowns this season, and because of injuries, they're on their fifth running back while Miami appears headed for its first losing season since 1988. 
So Bowens would like to see Williams return, and he thinks some teammates feel tho same way. 
"At 4-0 it would be a different story than being 0-4," Bowens said. "If we were winning. I'm sure people would be a little bit more negative." 
A major on-air presence at MTV, Gideon Yago is the face of current events to millions of young adults. As a news correspondent, he writes and delivers the network's daily "l 0-to-the-hour" 
Tickets on sale at Lafortune Box Office Students $2/ Faculty & Staff $5 Notre Dame Students Only 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1Oth WASHINGTON HALL 
7:30PM 
check out for other great SUB events! . brought to you by the student union board. 
:.-1 ~· .: ~ ' ~~ 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVER~s WIRE SERVICES page 21 
NCAA Men's Soccer Top 25 
GOLF 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 7 9 10 
11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 
. 19 20 21 22 23 24 24 
team 
Santa Barbara North Carolina Indiana Duke New Mexico Virginia Cammon California Southern Methodist Penn State Virginia Creighton Boston College St. John's South Florida NOTRE DAME Santa Clara South Carolina William and Mary Michigan Stanford Hartwick Brown Seton Hall Memphis Alabama 
record 
8·0·1 8-0·1 7-2·0 11·0·0 8·0·0 6·2·1 7-0-2 7·3·0 5·1·4 1-2·0 7-2·0 6-2·0 6-3-1 6·0·2 7-2·1 9+0 7·1-1 6·2·2 7·1·2 5+3 5·2·3 4-2·2 6·3·1 7·2·0 6·3·0 



NCAA Men's Cross Country 
1 2 3 
4 
5 6 7 7 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 22 24 25 
team 
Wisconsin Stanford Arkansas lana Michigan 
Colorado Georgetown 
NC State NOTRE DAME Butler VIllanova Cal Poly San Luis Air Force 
BYU 
Arizona State Providence Minnesota florida State Indiana 
Oklahoma State Colorado State Miami Ohio William and Mary Ohio Slate Oregon 
-points 420 404 384 383 358 336 334 318 296 276 268 266 257 245 230 185 172 161 141 137 121 113 113 88 75 

Associated Press 
SANDY LANE BEACH, Barbados -Tiger Wooos married Swedish model Elin Nordegren at an exclu· sive resort in Barbados dur­ing a sunset ceremony that reportedly cost $1.5 million. 
The wedding, held in a white-netted pagoda deco· rated with red roses, took place Tuesday evening as the sun painted a spectacu· Jar array of colors across the sky. 
"Elin and Tiger want to keep this as a family thing," the bride's father, Thomas Nordegren, told The Associated Press by tele­phone from the resort. 'Tm sorry I can't give you any more information." 
Michael Jordan, Charles Barkley and Oprah Winfrey were among more than 120 guests seen by an Associated Press reporter perched on a hill overlook­ing the club house of the Sandy Lane resort and golf course, which went to extraordinary lengths to shield the ceremony from journalists. 
The Barbados Daily Nation quoted unidentified sources as saying that the event cost $1.5 million. Woods reportedly imported 500 red roses for the cere­mony. 
The rock group Hootie and the Blowfish per· formed, witnesses said. before fireworks lit the night along Barbados' west coast. The couple spent their wedding night on a yacht, which was named "Privacy." 
As the sun rose Wednesday, a rainbow arched over the yacht and the couple sailed ashore on a skiff. They were accompa· nied by the bride's identical twin sister, Josefin. 
Nordegren, 24, met Woods three years ago while she was the nanny to the children of Swedish golfer Jesper Parnevik. 
At .the ceremony, Nordegren wore an off. 

white sleeveless gown, according to the witnesses, while Woods, 28, wore a beige suit. 
Charles Barkley, second from right, arrives with Michael Jordan at the coun­try club of the luxury resort that hosted Tiger Woods' wedding. 
Woods' father, Earl, arrived at the resort about 3 p.m. in a silver Rolls­Royce. At the reception, he cried after giving a speech, the witnesses said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Earlier in the day, the couple appeared to be adhering to the tradition of not seeing each other before taking their vows. 
NCAA Women's Cross Country 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 7 9 10 
11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 24 
team 
Stanford Providence Michigan Colorado NOTRE DAME Duke Arizona State North Carolina Tennessee Missouri Villanova Wake Forest Southern Methodist Santa Barbara Georgia Columbia 
BYU 
Michigan Slate Baylor NC State Arkansas William and Mary Idaho West Virginia 
UClA 
points 
389 378 362 336 334 327 313 297 277 248 243 232 216 209 206 202 189 178 174 149.5 134 116.5 102 100 79 

IN BRIEF 
~ud!!e allows Furcal to play 
m pfayoffs 
MARIETTA, Ga. -Atlanta Braves shortstop Rafael Furcal was cleared Wednesday to play in the postseason despite a probation violation on a drunken-driving charge. 
The ruling came hours before the Braves opened their divisional play­off series with the Houston Astros. 
Furcal must remain in home con· finement for the rest of the season. He has to return to a hotel if on the road, Judge David Darden said. 
Darden sentenced Furcal to 21 days in jail to be followed by a 28· day in-house treatment program. The judge delayed the start of the sentence until the day after the Braves' season ends. 
Furcal also must blow into a portable breath-testing machine when called by a monitoring service affiliated with the probation depart­ment. The machine, hooked up to a cell phone and video camera, will relay the test results to officials. 
"Don't take it lightly," Darden said. "The court is concerned a second violation might indicate he has a problem with judgment with regard to alcohol." Cassell's agent says pointguard will report to camp 
MINNEAPOLIS -Sam Cassell and the Minnesota Timberwolves appar· ently are back on good terms. 
Cassell's agent said the point guard would report to practice Wednesday after skipping the team's media day and the first day of workouts. Cassell, 34, was unhappy about not getting a contract extension. 
Charles Tucker, Cassell's agent, said his client would be at the team's camp in Collegeville in time for an afternoon practice. 
Tucker wouldn't comment when asked if the Wolves did anything to address Cassell's unhappiness, other than to say Cassell "has a better understanding" of the team's plans for him iri the future. 
Cassell's contract calls for him to be paid $5.65 million this season and $6.1 million next season. 'BiJ! Dog_' still has some bite 
lefffor 76ers 
DURHAM, N.C.-The Big Dog needed a smack on the nose. 
After a season plagued by injuries and a bad attitude, Glenn Robinson recognized it was time to get seri­ous, get in shape and get ready to prove he still has some bite in his game. 
After only two days of training camp at Duke, Sixers coach Jim O'Brien has already singled him out as one of the team's standout play­ers. 
"I think sometimes when you have a guy that has had the type of career that Glenn has had, you've got to throw out certain years," O'Brien said. 
Last season was one to toss out as Robinson missed a career-high 39 games because of a league suspen­sion, sprained ankles and elbow sur­gery. He averaged 16.6 points. 
around the dial 
BASEBALL Houston at Atlanta 3:00p.m., ESPN Los Angeles at St. Louis 7:15p.m., FOX 
Thursday, Ocrober 7, 2004

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Teams fight for playoff spots 
Badin and Welsh Family square off tonight 
By KEVIN BRENNAN, 
RYAN KIEFER AND 
BRIAN CARDILE 
Spons Wmns 
Playofl' s1wdings will be on the 
lirw tonight when Badin and 
Welsh Family meN at 9 p.m. at 
Hiehle West field. 
As the postseason rapidly 
approaehPs, Badin (3-1) and 
Welsh Family (:{-0-l) an~ part of 
a group of tPams jockeying for 
tlw top spol<; in the Gold I .eague 
standings. 
"It's a n>ally, rPally dosP race," 
Badin captain and quarterback 
StPphaniP !Ieath said. "Them an~ 
sewral tParns with only on1~ loss, 
and Wnlsh Family has just tlw 
onP tie. This game is really 
important for us." 
Tlw Whirlwinds will be looking 
to rebound from thfdr disappoint­
ing tie with lloward on Sunday. 
"We had a breakdown on 
Sunday and it was a reality check 
for us." W1dsh captain Mary 
Pendergast said. "I think we 
canu> into the game complacent. 
We need to improve on both 
sides of tlw ball." 
Badin fully expects that Welsh 
will eorn1~ prnpan>d to play. 
"They weren't happy with their 
last performance, so I know they 
are going to bring the int~>nsity," 
I Ieath said. 
H1~ath cites both the 
Whilrwinds' nxplosive offense 
and the team's stingy defense as 
reasons for concern. 
The Bullfrogs, however. will fall back on their potent aerial attack. Heath has developed quill> a rapport with Badin's sta­ble of talent11d receivers, particu­larly Erin Diminick and Meg Charlebois. 
Welsh will have its hands full trying to slow the Badin passing game. Both teams believe that defense will det~>rmine the out­com~> of tonight's game. 
"The key is defensive execu­tion," Prendergast said. "We know we have the tools. Wn have the athl;;ticism. We just need to executn. 
!Ieath feels the Badin defnnse must creatn turnovers and pre­vent the Welsh ofl'ensn from get­ting into a rhythm. Tlw captain is conlident lwr tnam can slow the Whirlwind attack and come out on top. 
"We just need to play our gamn and hopel"ully that will bn enough to win." Heath said. 
Lewis vs. Off-Campus 
Defense will bn the name of the game when th11 Ln.wis Chicks and Off-Campus collide tonight at Hiehln Field. 
Both teams arc coming ofT sluggish ofl'ensive performances; the two tnarns combined for sevnn points in their gamns on Sunday. 
OfT Campus (0-4) will need to improve on both sides of the ball as they have suffered two lop­sidml defeats in a row. Captain Lauren Blum r11alizes h11r team's weaknesses. 
"Our team has reached a plateau," Blum said. "We need strongnr play on both sides of the ball to bn>ak through this week." 
Th11 tnam has struggled to find its stride in iL'i initial season. but Hlum !i~nls lwr team can build on its unity to win its first game tonight. Slw and receiver Megan Furman will be critical to spark­ing the n>eently struggling Off­Campus oll'ensn. 


RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Observer A Lewis wide receiver evades a Lyons defender Sunday. The Chicks play Off-Campus tonight In the Gold League. 
Lewis (1-2-1) comes into the game striving for consistent play as it has had an up and down season. The Chicks are corning off a scoreless tie against a proven Lyons team on Sunday. Captain Sheila Dawes will look to continue to lead strong defensive play tonight against Off-Campus while quarterback Meg Bustin will look to jump-start a Chick offense that has scored only 19 total points in four games this season. 
A low scoring defensive slugfest is to be expected tonight as two hungry teams with disap­pointing records look to earn a much-needed win. 
Pangborn vs. Howard 
Tonight's interhall matchup between Pangborn and Howard pits two teams who have recently regained respectability among the women's interhall ranks. 
After four years of futility in which the Phoxes won just one game, Pangborn has reasserted itself into the women's interhall mix with a 26-0 victory over defending champion Badin and a 14-7 upset of Lewis, last year's runner up. These wins give the Phoxes a 2-1 record, putting them in good position to make a playoff run. 
The Ducks of lloward have had similar troubles of late. beginning the season with two shutout loss­es and an 0-3 record. With a game against top-ranked Welsh Family looming, a fourth straight loss seemed inevitable, but the resilient Ducks played the No. 1 team to a 13-13 tie on the strength of a last-minute goal line stand. 
With these impressive perform­ances behind them, both teams have newfound confidence in their abilities and a bright out­look on their seasons' outcomes. At 2-1. the Phoxes are likely can­didates for playoff contention and Howard -despite having yet to register a victory -remains in postseason consideration. When asked if the Ducks could usc the momentum from their impres­sive performance to get the two wins necessary for a playoff bid. Duck captain Callie Whelan sim­ply responded, "Totally". 
"We're just having fun now," Whelan said. "We played 'cap­ture the flag' at practice". Whelan hopes that the freshman, who constitute the majority of the starters, will be mature enough to help carry the team to victory on tonight against Pangborn. 
The Phoxes are equally opti­mistic about their chances in tonight's match, hoping the ride the momentum from two impres­sive victories. Whatever the result, tonight's game will feature two tough teams with newfound hope and excitement. Game time is set for 7 p.m. 
Contact Kevin Brennan, Ryan Kiefer and Brian Cardile at kbrenna4@nd.edu, rkiefer1@nd.edu and bcardile@nd.edu 
NFL 

Farve feels better, but Pederson m_ay be done 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -Brett Favre skipped practice Wednesday, still feeling the effects of a concussion to go along with a softball-sized bruise on his left leg and a loose left shoulder. 
And he's the healthy one. 

Backup quarterback Doug Pederson has a cracked bone in his back. a broken rib and a torn muscle in his side, all the result of Keith Washington's wicked sideline hit Sunday in Green Bay's loss to the Giants. 
We're getting old." said Pnderson, a year older than Favre. who turns 35 next week. "'We are getting old and we're fragile and that's the thing that even Brett real­izes. I mean, he's no spring chicken, either."' 
Favre has been knocked out of his last two games. but while he prepares for his 213th consecutive start (including playoffs) Monday night against Tennessee. Pederson is preparing himself for a possible trip to injured reserve. 
On Wednesday evening, Favre's brother-in-law died after crashing an all-terrain vehicle on the player's proper­ty in Sumrall. Miss. 
Casey Tynes, 24. the brother of Favre's wife, Deanna, was riding the ATV without a hel­met when it flipped, Lamar County Sheriff Danny Rigel said. Tynes suffered head injuries. was transported to Forrest General Hospital in Hattiesburg at 6 p.m. and was 
pronounced dead 20 minutns later. Deputy Coroner Handy Beck said. 
The Favre family did not irnmediatnly issue a state­ment. 
Pednrsorlt who has a broken transverse proenss, a small bone ofT the vertebrae wlwm muscles and ligaments attach to the spirw, said he'd consid­er retirement after tlw season if he's placed on lit 
"Knowing tlw extent of tlw injury and whPre I'm at in my carePr. it's delinilllly a reality that I'll havP to farP." PedPrson said. 
Favre suffen~d his third doc­unwnted concussion. but first in nine years, Sunday whPn William .Joseph lwat centt•r Groy Ht11~gamer. making his first start for injured starter Mike Flanagan. and dumped the quarterback on his head. 
Favre went back in two plays later and threw a touch­down pass on fourth down. which turnnd out to be his last play of the game because he couldn't answer doctors' questions correctly and had memory loss. 
"I remember it all now," Favre said Wednesday in his first public comments since the injury. "Probably toward the end of thn game it all carne back to me.... I didn't remember anything at l"irst. It's probably a good thing I didn't know it was fourth down. Maybe I would have been a little more cautious. 
"Then again, I'm glad I did what l did. If you're going to come back in for a play, that's the way to do it." 



Thursday, October 7, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 


Observer file photo 
Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast and her team 

will face tough teams throughout this season. MIKE HARKINS/Observer graphic 
Connecticut will return to the State (Dec. 2), Dayton (Dec. 9), Joyce Center Jan. 12 after being Washington (Dec. 11) and
Schedule 

upset 66-51 last year by the Irish Marquette (Dec. 19). continued from page 28 almost exactly a year earlier "Everyone on this team, from 
(Jan. 13, 2004). The matchup the players to the coaches, looks preseason All-American with Purdue is part of ESPN2's forward to the challenges Jacqueline Batteast and point Big EasVBig Ten Challenge. that this schedule will present," guard Megan Duffy. Last year's "We are also McGraw said. team finished 21-11 and made a excited to be The Irish close Sweet 16 appearance for the playing in the "Everyone on this the season with fourth time in five years. The nation's tough­five of their last
team, from the players 
Irish return four starters and est conference eight games on
to the coaches, looks
seven monogram winners from against some the road. They last year's squad. They will take very talented, forward to the face Pittsburgh, a 20-game home winning streak established challenges that this Providence, into the 2004-05 season. teams and Boston College,
schedule will present." 
Notre Dame's Big East sched­some other Rutgers and ule will be especially challeng­teams that are Seton Hall dur­
Muffet McGraw
ing. Conference play begins Jan. quickly on the ing the final 
Irish coach
2 with Seton Hall at home and rise," McGraw February then continues three days later said. stretch. with Syracuse. Nine Big East Other non-conference oppo­· The Big East Tournament is teams qualified for the NCAA nents include assistant coach set for March 5-8, with the tournament last season. After Carol Owens' alma mater, NCAA Tournament set to begin those two games, the Irish play Northern Illinois, who the Irish March 19. three consecutive games against face Dec. 30 in DeKalb, Ill., in NCAA qualifiers -Villanova, preparation for conference play. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Connecticut and Purdue. The Irish also face Michigan at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

The O'Brien-Smith Visiting Scholars Program 
John H. Cochrane 
.A1yron S. Scholes Professor ofFinance Gmduate School ofBusine.u Univasity ofChicago 
Asset Pricing Theory and the Equity Premium 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 
3:30 p.m. to 5:00p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business University ofNotre Dame 
Sponsored by: Department of Finance, Mendo7,a College ofBusiness 
Free and open to the public For information: (574) 631-3277 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Q!PMendoza College ofBusiness 
WNBA 
Bird back in Conn. for championship 
Associated Press ers with 27 points and her five 3-pointers in the second
SEATTLE -Sue Bird had half was a playoff record asa distinguished college bas­well.
ketball career at 
"We found openings andConnecticut, leading the knocked down good, solid
Huskies to two national 
.shots," Seattle coach Anne
championships. 
Donovan said. "That did sur­Now she'll lead her Seattle prise me, but that will teach
Storm against the 
me never to underestimateConnecticut Sun on Friday 
this group." 
night in Game 1 of the 
There was no rest for the
WNBA Finals at the Seattle players, who flewMohegan Sun Casino in cross-country Wednesday
Uncasville, Conn. 
morning in preparation for
"I think it's 
the next round.
quite a feat for us 
Meanwhile,
to be here right 
Connecticut has 
now," Bird said "This is our first 
not played
after Seattle beat 
step toward a 
since SundaySacramento 82­
championship in after sweeping
62 Tu~sday night New York within Game 3 of the Connecticut and I a 60-57 win at
Western 
couldn't think of 
home in Game
Conference 
a better place 2 of the East
finals. "This is 
finals.
our first step for me." 
Th·e Stormtoward a champi­
and Sun metonship in 
Sue Bird 
twice during
Connecticut and I 
Storm guard the regular
couldn't think of 
season, each
a better place for 
team winning
me." 
on its home court. Seattle
Bird played Game 3 after won 68-63 on June 11, butundergoing surgery Monday Connecticut played withoutto reposition the broken nose starting point guard Lindsay
she suffered in Game 2 of 
Whalen. The Sun knocked off 
Seattle's first-round series 
the Storm 71-64 on Sept. 12. 
against Minnesota. With a 
The series returns to
small cast on her nose Seattle for Game 2 on
Tuesday night, Bird had 10 Sunday, and Game 3.
points and a playoff-record 
14 assists. 
"''ve been playing against her for a long time, and this year you can really see the difference in her game because she has more weapons at her disposal," Sacramento's Kara Lawson said. "She's definitely a quarterback out there." 
Seattle built big leads in Games 1 and 2 of the confer­ence finals, only to see Sacramento rally, winning Game 1 in overtime. 
The Monarchs trailed 44­
43 early in the second half of 
Game 3, but were held 
scoreless for nearly eight 
minutes and the Storm ran 
off 20 unanswered points to 
finally put Sacramento away. 
Seattle hit 12-of-16 3­
pointers in Game 3 and set 
playoff records for 3s made 
in a game and in a half (10). 
Lauren Jackson led all scar-


t(.rl'.r-.t) R~~c> ~­
,a\1 
SWING DANCE LESSONS 

S.r Beginners &Advanced classes I' Seglnnet'S ·Tuesdays, 7:00-8:30 p.m. 1st class October 26-RSRC 
Advanced· Tuesdays, 9:30-11:00 p.m. 151 class October 26-RSRC 
LATIN DANCE LESSONS 
Beginners & Intermediate Beginnet'S-Mondays, 7:00-8:00 p.m. 1st class October 25-RSRC ~ 
-1-nt•e•rm•ed-ia.te•-•M•on•d•a•y.s•,1s1 c!ass October 25-RSRC•8:•00.•9•:00-p•.m•.___.· • 
Registration for both Swing & Latin Dance begin October 13, 2004 at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center@ 8:00 a.m. 
Registration fee for both Swing & Latin Dance is $12.00. Fees due at time of registration. Must have Notre Dame I.D. 
For more information call1-6100 or visit recsoorts.nd.edu 
page 24 
Line 
continued from page 28 
make a major focus for us. We have to complete drives," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "That is one of the big differ­ences on good offensive teams, [and] that is not just about yardage." 
The Irish gained 536 total yards against Purdue on Saturday and finished with 16 points. But, more importantly, Notre Dame rushed for just 76 yards on 36 carries. 
In its five games, Notre Dame has only won the three times it has rushed for over 100 yards. Establishing a solid running game is just as important as fin­ishing drives, and on Saturday against the Boilermakers run defense, the offensive line never got a strong push. 
"It's that same old good and bad [on the offensive line]." Willingham said. "We've done some good things. To be able to throw the ball as many times as we did Saturday and produce the yardage that we produced, you have to have some good things in our protection. I But] you look at our run game, [and] we did not run the ball as well as we'd like· to, [and] therefore, some things we did not finish and we didn't complete." 
"We think our

The line gav~ had only one team Quinn sufficient chances are much in the four games time on most of that has had over
better to have 

his passes, 300 yards." 
succe$S ifwe have

allowing the . The Irish know a 
sophomore our ground game solid running 
quarterback to with us." game is crucial to complete 26-of-the team's success. 46 passes for "We think our
Tyrone Willingham 

432 yards, a .chances are much Notre Dame Irish coach better to have suc­
Willingham said. "Sometimes they do some good things that make it very difficult for you to do your best at certain areas." 
But Notre Dame has struggled rushing the ball against unlikely opponents. While the Irish gained 135 yards on the ground against a Michigan team that gives up 47.2 yards per game, Notre Dame rushed for a mere 11 yards facing a BYU defense that surrenders 113.2 yards per game. 
·When the Irish tried to rush the ball against Washington to run out clock in the second half of a blowout victory, the line could not get a push and Notre Dame had to punt. The Irish fin­ished with 146 rush yards, while Washington has given up a much greater 227.2 yards per game over the course of the season. 
Against Purdue, the Irish had no answer in the running game. Now, coaches must prepare the line to face a Stanford defensive front that gave up only 99 rush yards to USC in their last game. The front includes imposing 6­foot-2, 320-pound n~e guard Babatunde Oshinowo, who has 11 tackles. 
"Well, I don't think it's just him. I really think it's their entire defense [that] is aggres­sive," Willingham said. "They are doing a great job because the stat that you mentioned is quite impressive. I think they have 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
fOOTBALL 

Willingham faces former team 

By PAT LEONARD • Associate Sports Editor 

Stanford holds no grudges -at least none that are visi­ble. 
During the 57-7 Cardinal home loss to Notre Dame last season, critics gasped when the Irish attempted a fake punt in the fourth quarter. Punter D.J. Fitzpatrick threw 14 yards to Chinedum Ndukwe on fourth-and-17, and the Irish turned the ball over. 
Stanford junior center Brian Head said he and his teammates not only have turned the page on that play -they also are not phased by facing their former coach. 
"I think about all of our opponents in pretty much the S<J,me way," Head said. "To me, it doesn't make much of a difference that we're playing against coach Willingham. I just want to go out. there and beat them in their house." 
Willingham expects the attitude Head exudes. 
"Even though some of the [Stanford players] were recruited by myself, hopeful­ly they have some fond mem­ories of our rel'a.tionship," Willingham said. "But when the game starts, I'm quite s u r e t h at t h e y will f o r g'e t who is on the other side and see only Notre Dame and see only that they want to defeat Notre Dam()." 
Willingham said he does not expect a game like last season's blowout. 
"Stanford is coming to town probably the best that 
we've seen them in the last 
two years," Willingham said. 
"They are coming in here a 
very confident team. They 
have got one loss, that one 
loss to co-national champion 
USC, and they took them 
right down to the wire." 
But Willingham would not 
rule out using the same fake 
punt-in any situation. 
"If we were to get the same rush which we had, we've had it twice this year in games, and if we are that sit­uation where we're not backed up on our goalline and the percentages are not favorable, we'll try to com­plete [the play again]." 
Injury report 
Running back Hyan Grant and wide receiver Maurice Stovall are not listed as starters on the Notre Dame depth chart this week. Darius Walker is listed as the starting tailback, and Matt Shelton is penciled in as a starting wideout along with Rhema McKnight. 
Willingham said at the beginning of the week that the statuses of both Grant and Stovall were unknown. 
"We'll see as we progress through the week," Willingham said. "Tuesday is usually our first day when we have an opportunity to really see him on the field. We start to evaluate today to pace them on the week and see where they are at." 
Walker has filled in for Grant and takeri the majority of snaps in the backfield, with Marcus Wilson seeing the field along with Walker against Purdue. The Irish, 

CHUY BENITEZffhe Observer 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham coached at Stanford before coming to Notre Dame. 
though, could use Grant's leadership and physical tal­ents to compliment Walker, and vice versa. 
"Ryan Grant has a leader­ship presence, he has a per­formance presence and he has an experience pres­ence," Willingham said. "And all of those things you count on in a play in your system: that players around him feel very comfortable. with what he adds to our football team. His running style is that of a slasher, so therefore, he can do things that some of the other backs can't do." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Stadium record. For most of the season, the offensive line has given Quinn time to throw in the pocket. 
The offensive line lost only left tackle Jim Molinaro and oft­injured guard Sean Milligan to graduation after last season, when Notre Dame rushed for 4.0 yards per carry. This season, the starters -left tackle Ryan Harris, left guard Bob Morton, center John Sullivan, right guard Dan Stevenson and right tackle Mark LeVoir-entered the sea­son more experienced and more familiar with one another. But a seven-sack, 76-rush yard per­formance against Purdue had coaches giving the Boilermaker's defensive line credit for neutral­izing the Irish at the line scrim­mage. 
"Some of it has to be the guy that you're playing across from," 


No cover ever with 
studet1t IU 

cess if we have our 
ground game with us," Willingham said. "But if not, if it's not there, we have to find another way to be successful." 
There may not be another option. While Quinn picked apart Purdue's secondary, Notre Dame is 0-7 in games which Quinn throws more than 40 passes. 
"The only time that a team wins when it passes for a lot more than 300 yards is when two teams pass for 300 yards," Willingham said. "Usually when you're throwing the ball that much that many times, ... it doesn't mean that you win and we are aware of that. That's why the run game -the addition of the run game -is so important to.what we do." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Timothy Roemer 

Commissioner, 911 -Commission 


President, Center for National Policy Former Indiana 3rd District Congressman 
11 The 9/11 Commission: The Transformation of Our Intelligence Community11 
Thursday, October 7th, 2004 7:00p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
(Reception to follow) 
Sponsored by: 

Notre Dame Law School John J. Reilly Center's Science, Technology & Values Program Computer Applications Program Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
,. 
I 
I I 
I I I 
~1 Sports Jar it1 South Jet1d 2046 South Jet1d Ave ~ Across frollt Martit1s Plaza 272~1766 
NU Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it~fo 
..~reat Food, ~reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football Tun: CoLLEO£ NI~Hr -VJ ~SPECIALS lsrARnN~ Ar •t.OOJ Wed: f~IVIA Night • ~rit1g your teatMs ~ Prizes 
THURS: VJ -flli'.Sf THURSVAY EVElY MONfH: JASSY tli'.AZZ 
Frl: Live Et1tertait1tMet1t 

THURSPAY SP£ACIAlS
Sat: NU gatMes 

SfARr Af +2.00!
Sut1: • 1 +screet~s 



Thursday, October 7,2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Hornets sting Belles in tough MIAA contest 
Kalamazoo snaps 
·Saint Mary's three­game win streak 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Belles got stung Wednesday night when the Kalamazoo Hornets beat them in three games. Saint Mary's came into the match with high expectations and on a three-game winning streak. But Kalamazoo proved to be too much for the Belles win­ning 30-27, 30-20 and 30-22. 

The Belles played hard in the first game, but fell short in a close match. They were unable to overcome an early deficit as the Hornets picked apart their defense and held back Saint Mary's offensive threat. 
In the first meeting of these two teams, Saint Mary's had a similar experience as Kalamazoo prevented a come­back by improving throughout the match. 
Michelle Turley was one of the few bright spots for the Belles. She finished the game with a balanced game of 10 kills on offense and 13 digs on defense. Shelly Bender provided some help for the team by collecting nine kills to go along with her 10 digs. 
Ann Cusack has played con­sistently well all year for 
Chiropractic... 
The Right Choice For Your Future 
Is your dream to become adoctor, to study in beautiful surroundings, with aworld-renowned faculty and state of the art facilities-what more could you want in aprofessional education? Logan College students receive all this and more! If you are ready to accept the challenge of graduate professional study in science, physiotherapy, nutrition, radiology, clinical sciences, chiropractic techniques and extensive clinical rotations, then Logan College is the place for you. 
Logan College of Chiropractic gives you the skills to help patients get well through non-invasive heallhcare while preparing you to earn asubstantial income commensurate with your position as aDoctor of Chiropractic. Most DC's work in aprivate practice setting, providing time for family and other important quality of life priorities. 
receive an ND soccer scarf! 
Hockeyvs. Minn.-Duluth 

7:35 PM@ Joyce Center 
Gold Gamest-shirts for 1st 200 fans from South Bend Orthopaedics & 1 st 1 000 fans will receive a replica mini-banner from Marathon Oil! 
Friday 10/8 Hockeyvs. Minn.-Duluth 

aertcr!ngreuiems. 7:35PM@ Joyce Center neuc:rPizza. 1st 700 students will receive a 
Papa John's schedule t-shirt! 
Sunday 10/1 0 #14M. Soccer vs. Syracuse 1 PM@ Alumni Field 1 st 250 fans will receive a stadium seat cushion courtesy ofJimmy John's! 

L__________________________________________________ ----· 


Saint Mary's and ended up with 10 defensively. Cusack, who is only a sophomore, leads the team with 194 digs on the year. 
The loss drops the Belles to 4-6 in the MIAA and 4-9 on the season. 
However, first-place Alma knocked off Adrian College putting Saint Mary's in a tie for fifth place. 
The Belles have now gone 4-4 over their last eight games and must keep them­selves from sliding any far­ther down in the standings. During the run, Saint Mary's has been able to win the first game in the set a total of five times. 
Saint Mary's must continue 
Pitt 
continued from page 28 
ing, you've just got to keep tak­ing one game at a time." 
Last year, the Irish used a sharpshooting offense to defeat the Panthers 2-0 on their home turf. However, the 2002 matchup was a different story, with Pittsburgh squeaking out with a 1-0 overtime' victo­
ry at Alumni "September is always a denly got to fill 
Field. This instant leader­
tough month. [It's] just

year, the ship," he said. Panthers have where the team is "You've got to 
already upset fighting to come fill positional 
former Big places ... and it
together and hopefully

East leader takes you a little Seton Hall. by October you're while to piece 
"The last starting to see some everything time Pitt came together."
semblance ofseeing us

here they beat The Irish fal­
as a real team. " 

us 1-0 in over­tered twice in time," Clark September. los­said. "I think ing to top­
Bobby Clark 

any of the boys ranked Indiana
Irish coach

who were around will remember that ... they're coming in obviously on a high, knowing they beat Seton Hall [this season] and they beat us here two years ago when they last visited." 
After sitting out the beginning of the season with a nagging leg injury, Kevin Goldthwaite is back in action for the Irish and was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week on Monday. 
"I think whenever you lose a player of Kevin's stature ... whenever somebody like that goes out, you lose something," to improve offensively and defensively in such a tight division as senior Michelle Gary said earlier in the week. Hope College has drawn near­er and is within striking dis­tance of the Belles. 
Now the Belles must regroup from their loss and prepare to face Calvin College Friday. Calvin is in second place in the league and has already defeated the Belles earlier this season. The Knights are 8-1 in the confer­ence and will provide the Belles with a good measure­ment of their progress. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
Clark said. "Benny [Crouse] stepped in and did a good job but it is great to have Kevin back, no question about it, and he adds so much." 
Goalkeeper Chris Sawyer was also named Big East Goalkeeper of the Week for the first time this season. He looks to extend a 273-minute scoreless streak against Pittsburgh tonight. 
Clark is pleased with the way the team has come together in recent weeks. "You've sud­


and conference-
foe West 
Virginia. 
"September is always a tough month," "(It's] just where the team is fighting to come togeth­er and hopefully by October you're starting to see some semblance of seeing us as a real team... hopefully you'll see us putting things together for the run in." 
Notre Dame will face the Panthers at 7 p.m. tonight at Alumni Field. 
Contact Kate Gales at 
kgales@nd.edu 
When: Tuesdays,Thunday's, beginning October26 5:45·7:00 p.m.·12classes Where: Rockne Memorial Room 219 

Registration begins October13atthe RolfsSports Reaeation Center@8:00a.m. Registration fee is $20.00. Fees dueattime of registration. 
Must have Notre Dame 1.0. 

.F.or moreinfoADationcalll-6100.or.visit.recsports.ncl.edu... ~ 
page 26 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 

its team's roster. Despite the loss of Hobey
Hockey 

Baker winner Junior Lessard to 
graduation. the Bulldogs still 
sport a team that is capable of 
less a rookie netminder. llis scoring at will. Last year, 
save percentage of .925 and Minnesota-Duluth averaged 
continued from page 28 

2.32 GAA led the Irish, with Cey 4.11 goals per game -the sec­not far behind with a .924 save ond-best average in the NCAA. percentage and 2.42 GAt\. Senior center Evan Schwabe 
Notre Dame's oiTense also suf­led the NCAA in assists with 38, fered a big hit this season, with and was the Bulldogs' second­graduated seniors Rob Globke best scorer with 57 points. As and Aaron Gill accounting for Minnesota-Duluth's captain this 36 of the 108 Irish goals last season, he heads an offense that season. should again be one of the best 
Junior Mike Walsh finished in the nation. third on the team In net, the in scoring last Bulldogs have
"/ think the key for 

year with 12 a solid veteran goals, and will be this year is really in junior Isaac 
expected to con­going to be that junior Reichmuth. 
tribute even more Reichmuth's
class. I'm really 

this season. Irish 2.68 GAA aver­
captain Cory expecting those guys age last season McLean is the to pick it up on offense was a big part 
only senior on of the Bulldogs'
and show what they 

offense. and tied success, and he 
can do."

for fourth on the especially team last year stepped it up in with 24 points. the post season
Dave Poulin 

"I know what on the way to
Irish coach

I'm going to get being named from Cory the Most McLean," Poulin said. "I think Valuable Player at the Grand the key for this year is really Rapids, Mich., NCAA Regional. going to be that junior class. I'm The Irish open their season really expecting those guys to against the Bulldogs tonight pick it up on offense and show with face-off scheduled for 7:35 what they can do." p.m. The two teams will meet 
Altogether, 17 of Notre Dame's again Friday with the puck drop 26 players this season are either scheduled for the same time. sophomores or freshmen. That's quite a contrast to Minnesota­Contact Justin Schuver at Duluth. who has 11 seniors on jschuver@nd.edu 

Tim Wallace skates last year with the puck. The Irish open their season tonight against Minnesota-Duluth. 
r-------------., 
. 
1  BUY 1 ENTREE,  I  
I  GET THE 2ND  I  
I  ENTREE FOR 1/2 PRICE!  I  
I  join us at any of ourThree Great Restaurants any Monday thru  I  
I  Sunday until October 17. Order one entree at the regular price  I  
I  and get another entree of equal or less value for half price! Valid Mon. Thru Sun. • Dinner Hours Only  I  
I  One Half Price Entree Per Coupon  I  
I I  Not valid w/ any other offer. Expires October 17, 2004 'Doc.9"'&erce'$ R•t.auraat 120 N. Main St.  I I  

Mishawaka, IN 121 S. Niles 2041 COUopolle South Bend, IN Ellohort.lr<llona
I.. _____________
2ss-n37 NO I
262·1500
234-!1000 

The O.­-.I•­ bserver+ SPORTS-­....­.~.~~,£~ _ _:.._..:_ __ ~~  
I I I •' !'Ir  
I' I  
I I  
I ·I  
I· I  .-r·  
I ·I  

Latino studies 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
The Institute for Latino Studies proudly presents: 
• •I 
I· 
I I' I 
I I 

Mas alia del Mar 
I ·I 
I 

(Beyond the Sea) 
I A Presentation by filmmaker Lisandro Perez-Rey 
·I 

Thursday, October 7, 2004 
'·I 

7:00-9:00 PM Hesburgh Center Auditorium
'. 

University of Notre Dame 
I, 
I 
I 

UNIVERS/T Y 0 F NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUD'Y PROGRAMS 152 Hurley Buildi111: Notre Dame. llu/iallll 46556 T: 631-5882 Fax: 63/-5711 

BERLIN 
INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Hannelore Weber 
Thursday, October 7, 2004 244 DeBartolo 
7:00PM 

Applications Available www/ nd.edul-intlstud Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004for F '05 and A Y 2005-2006 

r.. ~h~<>:. Occobe< 7, 2004 
DILBERT 
THE BUCK-PASSER 
HAVE A DO-IT FOR YOU ... 


PEANUTS 
THIS IS M'< REPORT ON AUTUMN WHEN THE LEAVES BEGIN TO FALL 
FROM THE TREES... 

The Observer+ TODAY 
SCOTT ADAMS 
r-------------------------~ur-------------------------~
.5 
f1 
THE ONE DAY THAT

::> 
~ 
I DON'T WEAR MY ti 
TEAR-AWAY SHIRT,


g 
AND THIS HAPPENS!
HERE. 

~ 
.. 
E
..
.., 
<[ 
~ 
~ 
0 N 
9 
7 
_:-­

~ 
';" 


~--~~~--------~--~--~~~--------------~--------~ 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
IF THE'( FELL FROM 
ROCKS, WE'D ALL 6E 
IN TROUBLE! 
10/7/04 
page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. I guess we'll just order out 

-.. 
02004 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
CONOR 
I [J I (] 
WHAT THE KING
IROING 
SAID WHEN THE STORM RUINED HIS PICNIC. PLANS.
[IJ I () 
www.jumble.com 

t BLIGET 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
IJ I 
b I 

Answer: 
THE [IIIJ[IIIIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: PHONY WEDGE BRANDY ABOUND

Yesterday's 
Answer: The cowboy didn't join his pals in the saloon because he was-ON THE 'WAGON" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 19th-century 63 Retained 

1 Prevalent writer/lecturer 64 It has bands who advocated
5 _&Whitney with music 
20-Across
(aircraft engine 65 Morales of manufacturer) 38 Like "der," in "N.Y.P.D. Blue" Ger.

1oFlake material 66 Division 
14 Book of the 40 "Lorna preposition Book of Mormon 41 Inspirer 67 Idyllic spots 15 Nouveau 42 19th-century 68 Proceed 16 College in New 
dress reformer Rochelle, N.Y. 
who advocated 
DOWN
20-Across

11 Barks up the 
1 Passed through,
45 Attacks
wrong tree 
as a rope 

18 Rhode Island, 46 Trol!.ope's "Lady 
2 Encroachment 
with "the" 
3 Strongholds

20 See 34-, 42-47 It may give you 
4 German steel
and 55-Across a charge 
city

22 Rakes in 50 Fed. bureau 
5 Univ. V.I.P.
with agents 6 Wealthy, in23 Mme., across 

the Pyrenees 53 Walk down the 
Juarez
aisle?

24 Subj. of a 1984 
7 Whiz of a tennis
Stephen 55 19th-century 
server
Ambrose author/hymnist political who advocated a Detentes biography 20-Across 9 sax 

25 Daycare charge 60 Needle holder 10 Snack 29 Speed demon 62 Rear end 11 Flecked horse 12 Six-footer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Dundee denial =r:-=-r.,....-;71 19 Sassy 7-t~:':+.:-i 21 Grounded jets ~:-:+:;:+.~ 26 When said 
three times, "etcetera" 

--~·:s!~~~ feature
11!1 -=+=+=fl'!" ~:+::::+::::+.::-! 28 Dreaded virus 
1:UU~··· 30 "Alas!"

I!! 31 Place to get ..::-;..,:.-.t,-..,-..::-+:~:-1 hitched, perhaps lrllrll-;::-1-:-t-;-;t-;:;-P'!!"P!!!' -:::+=:+:-I"!'!'P!"!'....,.,.F-B 32 Dash lengths -:::t':+:::+::+.:i 33 Certain whiskey -:-t-;-+;::+.-;t;:-1 35 Bruins home, for short ..::;...L..;;..L..:::...L::.L::.J 36 Like many a The clue for the three theme answers was WED quip: Abbr. 
WILLSHORTZ 

irirrt-:=+::+.~ 27 Tree or door 

37 "Open all night"  48 "Seinfeld"  56 Word processor  
sign, maybe  character  command  
38 _-jongg  49 Fearful  57 Baseballer  
39 Grp. with a famous journal  51 Feline in un jardin zoologique  Boggs 58 Neat as  
43 Author Calvina 44 Antarctica's Queen  52 Measure of capacitance 54 Nag  59 Fraternity letters so _ Beta Kappa  
Mountains  55 Elbow hard  61 Setter  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Miller. Diane Cilento. Mario Lemieux, Josie Bissett 
Happy Birthday: Don't hold back. Set your sights on your goals and forge ahead. You can have it all if you are precise, determined and confident in your pursuits. This is a terrific year to lay out your plans and take action. You will find it easy to round up the support you need if you use your sophisticated manner to persuade those in influential positions. Your numbers: 
2, 15, 17, 26, 35,44 
ARIES {March 21-April 19): This is not the day to give unwanted advice. It's best to listen and observe. You'll damage your own reputation if you insist on gossiping about others. Friends will get quite upset if you take sides.*** TAURUS {April 20-May 20): It is best to make your own arrangements if you don't want to be disappointed or left out. Don't be dependent on others. Instead, you should do things for yourself. *** GEMINI {May 21-June 20): You will have a thirst for knowledge. Listen and you will pick up valuable information. Travel should be a part of your plans for the day. Short outings will bring about love possibilities. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Expect to have sudden changes regarding your relationships. Residential moves will be to your benefit in the long term. Larger quarters or more people on your domestic scene loom. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expand your circle of friends. Don't be afraid to volunteer for positions that involve working within your community. New connections will lead to adventure and excitement. ***** VIRGO {Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend time with those who could use your help. You need to be around individuals who you find stimulating. Look into personal changes that will make you feel better about yourself. *** LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use extra discipline to enable you to control bad habits. Limitations may develop if you have children who need your attention. Beware of poor financial maneuvers. *** SCORPIO {Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social activities will enhance your love life. Don't deal with legal documents or personal papers today. Your anger will mount if a joint venture isn't working out. *** SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Follow through with projects that you can do by yourself. Dealing with those you love could lead to upset. It is best not to discuss personal matters today. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Slow down and enjoy life. Rethink your intentions and you won't find yourself in an awkward position. · Minor mishaps can be expected if you don't think about what you are doing. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your intuitive insight will give you the upper hand when dealing with others. You need to spend time with those who have the same intellectual interests. **** PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): Your overactive imagination may lead to bad dreams. Try to put your personal life in perspective. Stop running away from your problems. You can't make changes unless you're willing to acknowledge what needs to be done. ** * Birthday Baby: You have a will of your own. You are strong, determined and willing to do whatever is necessary in order to do things your own way. You were born with the ability to intellectually manipulate others. You are a born leader and a no-nonsense individual. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
----------------------------------------------~--------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE 0HSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 7, 2004 
page 28 
HocKEY 

Back on the ice 
Team takes to the rink against No. 4 Minnesota-Duluth 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
lie's lost his two leading scor­ers from last season. and three defensernen from last year's NCAA tournament team have also graduatl~d. 
This year. his team is opening its regular season with a two­game series at the Joyce Center against No. 4 Minnesota-Duluth. who made it to the Frozen Four last year before losing to even­tual champion Denver in the semifinals. 
Irish coach Dave Poulin. are you insmw? 
"I think it's a tremendous challenge," Poulin said. "What better way to start a season? When you look at last year and our NCAA run, one of the rca­sons we got there was the strength of our non-conference schedule. 
"There's only going to be two freshmen on defense [tonight]. so it's not like we're going to be throwing guys out there who have never played before. And we've got great goaltending backing us up." 
The Irish open this season 

with a defense that features only one senior in Joe Zurenko and one junior in Chris Trick ­the rest are sophomores and freshmen. 
That's a far cry from last sea­son, when graduated seniors Tom Galvin, Neil Komadoski, Brett Lebda and T.J. Mathieson combined for 486 career games on Notre Dame's blueline. This year's returning defensemen -Zurenko. Trick, and sophomores Wcs O'Neill and Noah Babin ­have played 201 career games. 
With such a young defense, Notre Dame will look to its goalies to step up even more than last year -when the Irish netminders combined for a 2.42 goals-against average (GAA) and a .923 save percentage. 
Sophomore David Brown and senior Morgan Cey enter this season as two of the best goal­tenders in Notre Dame history. Cey, barring a complete collapse this season, will annihilate the Irish records in GAA, save per­centage and shutouts. 
Brown, meanwhile, only had one of the best years in the country for any goalie, much 
see HOCKEY/page 26 

MEN's SoccER 

Irish look for more shutouts 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

In physics. the formula for momentum is simple to calru­late. It's harder for a soccer team to figure out the bPst way to utilize individual tal­ents, but the Irish am finding their stride and riding their momentum al'ter thn~e straight shutout victories into tonight's matchup against conference-rival Pittsburgh. 
"We're making progrPss every ganw," Irish roach Bobby Clark said. "You'w got to tak1~ something from PV~>ry game and try and move on a little bit." 
The No.9 Irish are 7-~-1 overall and 3-1-0 in confer­ence play, having recently posted victories against formi­dable foes Villanova and Boston College. 
"It's one of the strongest conferences in the country for soccer." Clark said of the Big East. "You've got to keep play-
see PITT/page 25 
FooTBALL 

Running game will be key 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame had the ball on Michigan State's three-yard line midway through the first quar­ter Sept. 18, and the Irish strug­gled to score. 
On first and second down, Hyan Grant ran for time yard each. On third down, Rashon Powers-Neal made no gain. See Also 
Brady Quinn 

faked a handoff "Willingham on fourth down faces former and ran -ball 
team"
raised high ­into the end zone page 24 for the touch­down. 
But the message was clear: it took Notre Dame's offense four tries to score from the three­yard line against a Spartan defense that surrenders 162.4 rushing yards per game. 
"That's something that we work on and we talk about and 
see LINE/page 24 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Schedule released for 2004-05 season 
Irish to face two top-10 teams, nine NCAA qualifiers 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
The Irish will tip off a 2004 season that includes two top­10 teams and nine NCAA qualifiers from last year with the Preseason Women's National Invitational after two exhibition games against Premier Sports (Nov. 3) and the Hoosier Lady Stars (Nov. 
6). 
The schedule, released Wednesday, has the Irish play­ing 13 games at the Joyce Center, where they were unde­feated last season. 
The Preseason WNIT is filled with tough teams, including NCAA Elite Eight participant Duke, Pac-10 co-champion Arizona State and Ohio State. 

"With the schedule we have lined up, we expect to be test­ed right from the opening tip this season," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said in a release Wednesday. "Playing in the Preseason WNIT will give us a good indication of where we stand early in the year and it will help to pre­pare us for the other strong teams that will come later in the season." 
Notre Dame is scheduled to be on national television four times, including contests at Connecticut, last year's Big East champions and against Purdue, ranked No. 9 to end the year. Both will be on ESPN2. 
This year's schedule will be a tough one for the seasoned 2004-05 Irish team. led by 
see SCHEDULE/page 23 

SMC VOLLEYBALL INTERHALL FOOTBALL MLB PLAYOFFSNFL 

SWIMMING
MLB 
Kalamazoo 3 Pangborn vs. 

Astros 9, Saint Mary's 0 
Gary Sheffield will
Howard Braves 3 
The Dolphins react to 
Olympian Michael 

not face repercussionsThe Hornets snap the Ricky Williams saying 
Phelps will swim in six Belles' three-match win 
after admitting to the 
Yankees 7,Tonight, 7 p.m. 

he wants to come out of 
events at the World 

use of steroids unknow­
streak with a three­
Twins 6 
retirement to rejoin theThe Phoxes take on 

Short Course 

ingly.
gamesweep. 
team. 

Championships. women's gold league. 
the Ducks in the 
Red Sox 8, Angels 3 
page 25 page 18page 23 page 19 page 16page 20 





