--:---.---.~.--­

STORY BY MADDIE HANNA AND JOE HETTLER 
T 
he issues that concern young voters most have assumed a prominent role in the 2004 presidential election as both John Kerry and George W. Bush strive to secure the youth vote. _ "Younger voters are particularly interested in what the future might hold," American Studies professor Robert Schmuhl said. "Whether the candidates have addressed these concerns in compelling ways is an open question. . .. Historically, economic issues tend to assume dominant importance in a presidential campaign. This year is different, with the war in Iraq and the threat of terrorism vying for voter concern." 
Media organizations such as Rock the Vote and Vote or Die emphasize the environment, gay rights, health care, education and terrorism as the most prominent issues facing voters under 30. For many Notre Dame students, national security is their top concern. 
"I think that everybody in the country, including young voters, is concerned about security issues," said Nicola Bunick, co­president of Notre Dame's College Democrats. 
Co-president of Notre Dame's College Republicans, Tom Rippinger, agrees. 
"Younger voters should be especially interested in the policy decisions that we're making right now," he said. 

Particularly at Notre Dame, with its Center for Social Concerns and strong emphasis on Catholic social teaching, issues of social welfare also tend to become a pri­ority. Kerry and Bush's respective sta-nces on these social issues will determine for whom many young people vote, said Bunick. 
"A lot of people are real­ly involved in social justice -it strikes a chord with them," she said. 
Even issues that don't directly seem to affect 
young people, such as the status of Social Security, should be considered, said Tom Guglielmo, an American Studies assis­tant professor. 
"You could make the case that Social Security is for older people, but there's the question that this will even be around," he said. 
Like Guglielmo, Rippinger cited Social Security as a concern, not­ing that the Social Security trust fund might become bankrupt by 2018, according to infor­mation provided by the Institute for Policy Innovation. 
"That's something that will directly affect us if either party doesn't do something about it," Rippinger said. 
Health care also con­cerns young voters, Rippinger said, in light of recent debates over creat­ing a government-based health care system. 
Other students are con­cerned with issues that deal with Catholic values. 
"On Notre Dame's cam­pus, there's always a lot of issues over abortion and stem cell debate. For some people, that can be a big factor," Bunick said. 
While some students are impelled to become activists in such hotbed issues, others find it diffi­cult to determine which candidate is most closely aligned with their own views. 
"[For] younger voters, mostly occupied with col­lege and work -it's hard to actually take the time to do the research and make an informed vote," Rippinger said. 
But Guglielmo believes students must take time to educate themselves so they can make an informed decision on Nov. 2 
"There are some really big issues on the table," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu and Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

r---------------,---------,--------,-----~------­
page 2 The Observer + IN FOCUS Monday, October 25, 2004 
WASIIIN<;TON -(;norge W. 
Bush lovns to tPII pnopln about 
th P ti llH~ .I a pan nse l'ri me 
Ministnr .Junichiro Koizurni com­
parPd him to ( ;ary CoopPr, lwro 
of tlw WPstPrn rnovin "lligh 
Noon." 

Anwrica's 4:{rd prPsidmJt culti­
vatPs tlH' tough-guy imag!\ ofl'l~r­
ing hirnsPif as a blunt-spoknn 
man of action. 'Tm a gut play(~r." 
lw says. 

Arnnricans do want tlwir prnsi­
dnnts to lw strong and dncisivn. 
But with l'n•sidnnt Bush. the 
qualitiPs his supportnrs find 
appnaling can also be kindling 
lin· the bonlirns of' his critics. 

Stnadfast becomes stubborn. 
Conlident bm:omes eocky. 

Bush is the n~solutn prnsident who gripped a bullhorn at Ground Znro and called out to rescue workers straining to hear him: "I can hear you! The rest of tho world hears you!" 
Less attractive to some is the 
swaggering commander in chief 
who darnd militants attacking 
U.S. forces in Iraq by taunting, "Bring 'em on." 
"Those who love him say 'leader, decisive, passionate.' llis dntractors say 'angry, petulant,"' says Doug Wead, a family friend who worked with Bush on his fatlwr's 1988 presidential cam­paign. "But everybody agrees that there's something in his gut, something that's really driving him." 
Whatever the motivation, that drive is now propelling Bush through what his wife sentimen­tally calls their last campaign. Bush himself. never one for reflection, shows no sense of nostalgia-rather a gritty deter­mination to, as he puts it, bring everything to the field, leaving nothing in the locker room. 
Four years after the Supreme Court sealed Bush's victory by delivering him Florida's electoral votes, friends and critics alike say he has been remarkably unchanged by his first term in oflice. 
''I'm the kind of person who doesn't change," he says flatly. 
But Laura Bush says in an interview that the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the nation's response to them have "added a solemnness and a seri­ousness" to her husband's per­sonality. She hastens to add, though, that he still likes to laugh. 
One lesson Bush has learned is that his hope to replicate the chummy bipartisanship he had with Texas Democrats when he was governor was but a dream. The partisan tone of Washington, where comity in private can quickly sour in public, is one of Bush's biggest disappointments, although Democrats point the linger of blame back at him. 
Physical changes in Bush are easier to pinpoint. 
"lie's grayer for sure," says Laura. Adviser Karen Hughes says that in the lines on Bush's face are etched "some of the weight of the world." 
Bush himself joked before throwing out the opening pitch at a baseball game this spring that "my wing isn't what it used to be." 
But at age 58, he is in excellent physical condition. When his knees gave out this winter after years of running, Bush switched to riding a mountain bike. 
"He attacks that thing," says Charlie Younger, a longtime friend from Texas. "His pop-off valve is exercise. He's serious about it." 
The statistics from his latest physical: 6 feet tall, 194 pounds. Resting blood pressure: 110/62 (below 120/80 is healthy). Hesting pulse: 45 beats per minute (60-100 is normal for adults, 40-60 for a well-trained athlete). 
Ask the first lady for three words to describe her husband and "disciplined" is the first one out of her mouth. ("Funny" and "compassionate" come next.) 
So regimented is Bush's lifestyle that one can almost pre­dict his conduct months in advance. 
If you want to know what the president will do on Election Day, odds are that he'll get up about 
5:30 a.m., push the button on the coffee maker, scan the day's headlines (perhaps more careful­ly than usual), then study the daily devotional for Nov. 2 laid out in Oswald Chambers' "My Utmost for his Highest." The topic will be authority and inde­pendence; the scripture will be John 14:15: "If ye love Me, ye will keep My commandments.'' (Next year, he will switch back to reading the One Year Bible; he reads it every other year.) 

On a typical day, Bush heads to the Oval Oflice by about 7 a.m., toting the 50-to 70-page briefmg book on the day's events that was his bedtime reading the night before. He will start his meetings by 8, and carve out time during the day to exercise -on the elliptical trainer, per­haps, if biking is not an option. 
Meetings are short and to the point. They start on time -early if most of the players are there. Cabinet meetings begin with a prayer offered by one of the department heads. Suits and ties are required in the Oval Oflice. 
Longtime friend Clay Johnson, who served as Bush's first per­sonnel director in Washington and handled appointments for him in Austin, says personnel meetings in the two settings were "freakishly the same ­whether it was the Fire Ant Advisory Board in Texas or the undersecretary of state for something gargantuan." 
Psychologist and political sci­entist Stanley Renshon writes in 'an upcoming book, "In His Father's Shadow," that it's as if Bush went through a "midlife crisis in reverse." Rather than rejecting responsibility in middle age and buying a sports car, Bush gave up drinking at 40 and found religion and discipline. 
Nothing has helped feed the caricature of Bush as dimwitted more than his own verbal stum­bles -so plentiful that Bush himself joked to Hughes that "maybe that woman was right," referring to author Gail Sheehy's theory that he might be dyslexic. 
Bush can be almost defiantly inarticulate. Nuclear ever will be nuk-u-lar to him. 
At a Celebration of Reading ceremony in 2001, the president rattled off a dozen of his own lulus to a delighted audience. 
"The way I see it," Bush joked, "I am a boon to the English lan­guage. I've coined new words like 'misunderestimate' and 'Hispanically.' I've expanded the definition of words themselves, using 'vulcanize' when I meant 'polarize,' 'Grecians' when I meant 'Greeks,' 'inebriating' when I meant 'exhilarating.' And instead of 'barriers and tariffs,' I said 'terriers and barril's.'" 
Cousin John Ellis calls the malapropisms "a non-issue. He's very sharp and very shrewd." 
But even some of Bush's defenders speak of a lack of intellectual heft. 
Former speechwriter David Frum says in his book that while the president's virtues outweigh his faults, Bush is "often uncuri­ous and as a result ill informed, more conventional in his think­ing than a leader probably should be." 
Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, who was fired by Bush, described the president as like a "blind man in a roomful of deaf people." 
Yet everyone credits Bush with street smarts and an uncanny ability to read people. 
"lie's got this little shtick, you 
know." former Presidfmt Clinton 
says. "Because he's not a ~~on­
ventional political intellm:tual, hn 
set it up so he gets eonsist(mtly 
unden~stimat«~d." 
Bush is orw of the most out­
wardly religious presidents of 
modern times -a subtnxt of his 
presidnncy that became morn 
pronounc1~d in the aftl'rmath of' 
the Sept. I I attacks, as lw 
framed tim light against terror 
as a battle of good vs. evil. 
"It would lw very dillicult to bP the president without believing,'' he says. 
Bush said earlier this year he wants to ld God's light shine through him -but as a "secular politician." lie says he draws strength from the Americans who are praying for him. 
Steven Waldman, editor in chief of Beliefnet, a multifaith religious Web site, said Bush's religious convictions feed into his image as a steadfast president in a time of war. But, Waldman says, "clearly some people feel that we're seeing the negative underbelly of that trait, that his steadfastness has turned into stubbornness and unwillingness to face disappointing facts." 
Wead, who worked with Bush to court evangelicals during the 1988 campaign, says the presi­dent's expressions of faith are both sincere and calculated: "I don't think George Bush knows which sometimes." 
Laura Bush jokes that her hus­band has such a strong "Alpha male" personality that even her dog, Barney, pays more attention to him than to her. 
But she also says he "has a heart of gold, which doesn't always come across." Aides mention private meetings that don't appear on the president's schedule in which he comforts the families of those serving in Iraq and Afghanistan or who have lost loved ones. 
The president loves to keep tabs on what the rest of the Bush family is up to, although he is quick to dismiss the notion that he seeks much advice from his father, the ex-president. 
Still, there are plenty of echoes of the first President Bush. 
When the son prepared for war after the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001, he declared: "This act will not stand." The same words his father had used in 1990 after Iraq invaded Kuwait. 
Bush's sister, Doro Bush Koch, says that when family members gather at the Bush compound in Kennebunkport, Maine, they sometimes congregate around the speakerphone in her parents' bedroom at 6 a.m. to call George 
W. at the White House. 
"It's 99.9 percent family stuff,'' says Koch. "He likes to know what's going on in Maine, and who are the cousins who are there." 
The president's idea of garden­ing might involve a chainsaw. But he also loves to work jigsaw puzzles, go for long walks and birdwatch -not exactly typical Alpha male activities. 
"He's the one, when we were at camp, who spotted the scarlet tanager," says the first lady. "He has great 20-20 eyesight.'' 


Monday, October 25, 2004 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 
WASHINGTON -Vietnam, anti-war protests and politics were still years in the future. In 1963, John Kerry was a college kid looking for adventure on a summer abroad. Traveling on better wheels than most, there were Kerry and a buddy explor­ing Europe in a low-slung Austin llealey, racing against an Alfa Homeo on the twisting road to Nice, chasing a Porsche across Italy. 
The gendarmes caught him in Monte Carlo: Kerry, so intent on retracing the course of the Grand Prix that he headed the wrong direction on a one-way street. 
"John had to do those types of things," says his travel compan­ion and longtime friend, Harvey Bundy. 
Even the youthful hijinks of John Kerry had an extra element of intensity about them. 
Now, at age 60, Kerry is pursu­ing the American presidency with the same doggedness and focus that are lifelong traits fi:Jr a son of privilege who nonetheless had to fight for much of what he got. The impatient young man whose first two tries for Congress fiz­zled, who waited another 15 years for the right entree to Congress and two more decades for a good shot at the White House, is right where his stars seemed fixed from the beginning. 
"He's always been the kind of guy who knew his place in histo­ry," says Daniel Barbiero, college roommate and friend since before that." 
Kerry winces at any such hint of destiny. 
Life, he says in an interview in his stocking feet aboard his cam­paign plane, too often offers a "twist of fate" to think in such terms. 
"When you lose Robert Kennedy, you lose John Kennedy, you lose Martin Luther King, you lose your very closest friends, you lose both your parent'> ... you just know every day is every day. You take 'em as they come. And it's up to others iater on to make judgments about how it all fits." 
As a child, Kerry was always "the most politically attuned," says his younger brother, Cameron. "lie was always the leader of the pack in the neigh­borhood among the cousins, the quarterback at iouch football." 
llis drive and competitiveness, s~ys C;,ameron, are "just hard­wired. 
They are still there in adult­hood, as Kerry windsurfs Naushon Island in a full-on Northeastern gale or silences a campaign heckler by declaring: "! never run away from anything, (1Specially George Bush." 
William Stanberry, Kerry's debate-team partner at Yale, says Kerry's interest in the pmsidency was clear even in college. 
"I couldn't help admire the gall, in a way, of someone who had such a clearly stated long-term objective," he recalls. "To some extrmt it was impressive, and to some extent almost ridiculous." 
Blakely Fetridge Bundy, the girlfriend, and later wife of Harvey Bundy, one of Kerry's col­lege roommates, remembers his pals presenting Kerry with a telegram and a red, white and blue cake that said "Yippee!" in May 1964 when he was elected president of the Yale Political Union, a college debating society. 

She wrote in her journal at the time: "We decided that for all fur­ther successes -especially when he's elected president of the U.S. -th~t we'll send him a Yippee! cake. 
Always a leader, always an achiever, Kerry, a four-term Massachusetts senator, nonethe­less sketches a less scripted life plan for himself, one driven by a desire to serve more than an ambition to climb. 
Early on, he says, thoughts of the presidency were only "a hazy possibility." 
"I don't think you think of it in mal terms," he says. 
He decided to run, he says, because the Democrats "had no voiee." The Republicans, he felt, were reducing national security issues to politieal slogans. 
lie wanted to offer people a "360-degree view of where America is today," as he wrote in his campaign book. 
That panoramic perspective is trademark Kerry. 
Where supporters see a refreshing openness and an abili­ty to think through complex issues almost three-dimensional­ly, his critics find waffling and ambivalence. 
"lie has this good and bad characteristic to describe at length the things that he sees," 
. says former Sen. Bob Kerrey, D­
Neb., who served with Kerry in 
Congress. "Sometimes he can 
give you the impression that he's 
on two sides of an issue. He's 
not." 
Ever was it so. 
As a 27 -year-old war protester 
who captured the attention of a 
nation, Kerry told a "60 Minutes" 
interviewer in 1971 that when he 
went to Vietnam, "I was gung-ho 
in a certain sense but had doubts 
in another sense." 
He came home from war, he 
said, with "a tremendous amount 
of hope" but also "a certain 
depression." 
Watching Kerry debate an issue 
can be "a little bit like at a tennis 
match, watching the ball going 
back and forth," says David 
Leiter, his former chief of staff. 
"He' is curious.... He's engaged 
and thoughtful. He always strug­
gles to get it right." 
The nuance that typifies Kerry's 
public statements is there as well 
in his life portrait, which is paint­
ed with blended colors and dap­
pled brushstrokes rather than 
sharp lines. 
He is the promising young man 
of Brahmin bloodlines who man­
aged to attend an elite prep 
school only through the largesse 
of a generous aunt. He is the dec­
orated war hero who evolved into 
a shaggy-haired protester. He is 
the politician who speaks of core 
principles yet is known for his 
cautious pragmatism. He is the 
candidate who can't seem to 
warm up to people yet whose 
friends speak of his uncanny abil­
ity to connect. He is the fabulous­
ly wealthy success story who 
wolfs down peanut butter-and­
jelly sandwiches. 
The first thing that people must 
come to grips with when they 
consider John Kerry, even before 
they begin to parse his words, is 
his appearance. He is so long, so 
thin, he looks deceptively fragile. 
One's head must scan up, then 
down to take in his full 6-foot-4 
frame. Ilis wingspan, when he 
gestures with his arms, seems to 
stretch to the walls. 
His face, too, is long and thin. 
Comic Billy Crystal jokes that 
someone needs to let Kerry's face 
know that he's having a good 
time. 
His lanky body only serves to accentuate the thick mass of sil­very hair atop his head. "In the ·event of an emergency, my hair can be used as a flotation device," Kerry once joked on his cam­
paign plane. 
That funny, self-deprecating 
side of Kerry, and his warm, gen­
erous side -friends say his true 
persona -doesn't always come 
across in public. Voters have 
sometimes seen him as standoff­
ish. 

"Have you had a beer with me 
yet?" Kerry protested when a 
local reporter once asked about 
his reputation for aloofness. 
What would someone learn 
about him if they did go out for 
that beer, he is asked later. 
"You just have to do it," he 
insists. "You just have to have fun, let your hair down, relax, laugh, kick some jokes around, have a good time -talk about something other than this." 
Kerry's daughter Alex, 30, says her father sometimes can get so focused that it "precludes having a lackadaisical moment." But she says he can be witty and silly, even goofy, in more relaxed set­tings. 
His younger daughter, Vanessa, 27, ·offers four words to sum up her father: dedicated, curious, intelligent, playful. 
"I like 'playful' above all," Kerry says, when offered his daughter's list. 
Then, somewhat reluctantly, he comes up with his own quartet: romantic, passionate, idealistic, engaged. 
Friends speak of small, fre­quent acts of generosity, and loy­alty built up over decades. 
Tracy Droz Tragos, whose father served with Kerry in Vietnam and was killed there, remembers how Kerry took time to make rubbings of her father's name from the Vietnam War Memorial to send to her grand­parents in small-town Missouri. 
"That relationship meant the world to my grandmother," says Tragos. 
Kerry, whose service as captain of a Swift boat in Vietnam brought him three Purple Hearts and a Silver Star for heroism, still has a piece of shrapnel embed­ded in his leg. There is a scar, he says, but the wound doesn't both­er him. 
"It's just there," he says, "part of my internal machinery." 
Kerry's service became a major campaign issue this year as sev­eral veterans who served on other boats appeared in biting TV ads questioning his record and criticizing his later anti-war com­ments. Veterans who served on Kerry's boat defended him and sometimes campaigned alongside him. 
Vanessa Kerry says she remembers poking around her father's desk as a child and com­ing across a rocket that had been aimed at Kerry's boat when he jumped ashore to chase down and kill a young Viet Cong fighter. 
"Those are the stories I grew up with," she says. "I think it has made my dad value every day. He's t~e first to say every day is extra. 
Kerry went to war with doubts about Vietnam and came home with certainty that the war was wrong; he received early release from the Navy to run for Congress as an anti-war candi­date. His candidacy fizzled because a more prominent anti­war figure was already in the race. But as a decorated veteran, Kerry quickly emerged as a spokesman against the war. 
Bob Muller, president of the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and a friend who has known Kerry since their war-pro­tester days, says Kerry was the one who "put a good face on us," who tamped down the move­ment's extremes and offered a more moderate face of dissent. 
"John has always been able to do an override on the emotions," Muller said, "to be pragmatic and to be effective." 



Monday, October 25, 2004 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 5 


his mistakes, America knows who Bush led the country through immense trou­, burdened by all the votes that came in nate for 20 years, still leaves many ques­what kind of president he would be."­
IOSitory 
1g analytical ~an beginto ~. nation/\,+!'­
"When a president is seeking re-election, the con­tt~;Jir;ew~a~ ~x,!t~~~l!ITI ,!p".§ervi£h:x )Ye
~.~:Wo~ ff•19·WSI1iJ1!l&ll,(ta •~·· ~f4~·~J!es 
on too many matters rrnportan o our country."­
Charlotte Observer 

"We have been impressed with Mr. Kerry's wide knowledge and clear thinking -something that 
beeam~ mor  apparent, gnce qe Wf!S reined in by  
thal~1Jtii  d9~atfii~iJ~l; 'flfi!s ·~!~~~'l¥%~1ling  
to re-evalua e  eciswnswwhen condihoris eliange ....  

He strikes us, above all, as a man with a strong moral core."-New York Times 
~eds a leader who sees the world as it ws how to rebuild international 
focuses on threats to homeland secu­1tlli:t g<tytfi)tn¢i1t.Qlt ~h¢ (iJ)l1 vlrtu'e tot,id~ knoillid rld [e story of national service and his ues, John Kerry is that leader." ­st Dispatch "This election is an opportunity to demonstrate to terrorists throughout the world that America is not 


Breakdown of Electoral Votes 
Presidential candidates George W Bush and John Kerry will vie for the lion·s share of the 538 possible national electoral votes on Nov. l. neecing a minimum of 270 votes to win the election. While Associated Press and New York TtmeS polls incicate that nine ..swing.. states are especially contentious in the 2004 race and 20 states have been identified as battleground areas, where candidltes continue their efforts to woo the voters to their r-espectNe tickets. 

National Presidential Poll 

from NBC-Wall StreetJournal 

Electoral Vote Totals 
Strongly for Kerry 154 Votes 
Leaning for 
60Votes
Kerry 

Swing States 
Leaning for 

56 Votes
Bush 
Strongly for Bush 

103 Votes 

166 Votes 

didat.e who 
ffers agov­"It can be assumed that the next president, be it "John Kerry is a credible, prepared, likely choice 
main silent to 
fona\:natiqn that should: ex e ·· ore sQphi.stic · ,the led -_:ij1 . . :Ct~~&l~ 
Bush has offered." -Dayton Dally News 
ter informed on health care and has sound ideas ews for creating jobs." -Des Moines Register 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------~~-------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 
Election ITiight co111e dovvn to vvho can get out the vote 
Associated Press 
WASIIINCTON-With the televised 
dPlmtes behind tlwm. Prnsidcnt Bush and 
Snn. John Kerry have little opportunity to 
shape f'urtlwr the pn\sidnntial race excnpt 
by waging an intPnse eiTort in the home 
strntrh aimnd at gnlting out the vote. 
Voters haw a pretty good idea now what 
Bush and Kerry am all about. Tlww isn't 
mtwh room f'or Pitlwr one to ''tleline" his 
opporwnt or himsdf'. 
At this point, gdting out the vote is equal­
ly-if' not mom-important than winning 
owr tlw dwindling number of' undecided 
voters. strategist<> in both parties a1-,rrnn. 
With just two weeks to go to the election, 
polls showed Bush and Kerry in a dead heat 
-bark wlwrP they wem at the bPginning of' 
tlw sumnwr bnlim· tlw party eonVfmtions. 
"If' anything, tlwm's a little tail wind f'or 
Knrry coming out of' tlw debates," said poll­
ster AndrPw Kohut, director of' the Pew 
HnsParch Cnnter. ".lust as thnn~ was a little 
tail wind l'or Bush in August. But wlwn 
would you ratlwr havn a little tail wind. in 
August or in mid-October'?'' 
Kohut said how succnssf'ul nach sidn is in 
getting out its vow "is one of' the most 
important elmnPnl<> in the mul game. I think 
them is a fair numbm· of' votes still up for 
grabs. And some people arnn 't going to get 
any mal eonvietions until we get right up to 
1\lnetion Day." 
Both tho Dnmocral<> and the Hepublicans, 
along with wPII-Iinanced activist groups on 
both thn left and the right. have spent 
months pouring rnsourees into registering 
voters after the near deadloek of' the 2000 
JJ~"~'~itleutial race and polls showing an 
extrmnely tight ran\ again this year. 
There has been an avalanehe of' new 
voter rngistrations at election boards aeross . 
tho nation. Now. with most registration 
dnadlirws passed. political activislc; f()r both 
candidalt\S arP pounding thP pavPment to 
ensurn votnrs get to polling plaees on Nov. 2. 
Partit~ular niTorts are being dirnctnd at minoritiPs, with a big pf'f'ort on the fast­growing bloc of' llispanic voters. 
Most indications am that voter turnout 
will bn high. given the high viewership of' 
tlw dnbatns and polls showing a largpr­
than-usual number of votnrs saying thny'rn 
li1llowing thn campaign dosnly. 
Turnout could mnan thn dil'l'erence 
bdwnnn victory and def'oat in dosnly con­
t.nstnd statns. 
Dnmoerats art~ turning widnspread eon­cern about the war in Iraq and worry ovnr tlw neonomy into votnr meruitment lurns. Mt\anwhiln. Hepublicans am investing f'ar morn in gnt-out-thn-votn drives than evnr lwfon~. with an assist from rPiigious and stwially ronservatiw advoraey groups. 
l>nspitn huge amounl<> spnnt by both sidns on rwgativn udvnrtising, tho throo prnsiden­tial and ono viet> prosidential debates allownd Anwrieans to see tho candidates as thny arP, up dose and unvarnislwd, sup­planting eampaign-gnruwatnd carieaturns. 
"Thnse dnbatns haw nssnntially undonn what amounL<> to $100 million in rwgative attacks," said Knrry senior stratngist Mikn l>onilon. 
Sinn~ thn nation alrtmdy had a pretty good nwasurn of Bush. Kerry bnrwlitnd tho most from the dnbatPs that shownd him morn than holding his own with the prnsi­dPnt. polls suggnst. 
Marc Haricot, Bush's campaign ehairman, said Anwricans now have bnforn thmn "thn cPntral issun of tlw campaign: who are these two pt\opln, what will tlmy bring to the ollke'?'' 
Campaigning in a dwindling number of battleground states, both Bush and Kerry will try to nner~-,rizn their political ba-;e with rod-moat attacks, even as they keep reach­ing out li1r undecided voters. 
"There is a small number out there to light for. Nnitht\r guy at this point has totally dosed the sale," said Bruee Buehanan, a politieal sdenee professor at the University oi'Texa<>. 
Monday, October 25, 2004
The Observer + IN FOCUS 


Candidates target women voters 

By CLAIRE HEININGER In Focus Wrircr 
Armed with retooled stump speeehes and flanked by polar opposite wives, President George W. Bush and Sen. John Kerry are inereasingly target­ing women voters as the 2004 presidential eampaign hits eruneh time. 
Women east 8 million morn votes than men in the 2000 election, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. And beeause women eompose a sizeable percentage of this year's remaining undecided voters­between 55 to 60 percent, aceording to polls conducted by the Associated Press, Reuters, the New now," I less said. "I think a lot of issues are just now being mentioned -and they're women's issues across the board." 
Bush and Kerry might also be playing on these issues sim­ply to seize a narrowing win­dow of opportunity, lless added. 
"Part of' it is the race is just so close that women voters are one group they might be able to capture, especially in the swing states," she said. 
Christina Wolbrecht, a Notre Dame political seience profes­sor who specializes in women's voting behavior, said swaying undeeided women to a particular side is only hall' the eandidates' battle ­
women 
must still be 

York Times "Part ofit is the race is lured into and CBS­the voting
just so close that women
both candi­booth. 
dates are in voters are one group they "The can­
hot pursuit might be able to didates of this eriti­have two
capture, especially in the
cal demo­goals: to
swing states." 
graphie. eon vi nee 
In the people who swing state Diana Hess don't know of Wiscon­who they're
League of Women Voters
sin Friday. voting for to

South Bend
Kerry told a vote for 

co-president
mostly them, and 
female crowd that he understood women's strug­gles to bala·nee family demands with the fight for equal status in the workplaee. lie promised that if' he is elect­ed, he will assist them with economic and edueational ini­tiatives. Campaigning the same day in Pennsylvania, another toss-up state, Bush eountered that such issues pale in eomparison to national security, as he courted women who believe that he is better equipped to protnet American families from terrorist attaeks. 

The last-minute onslaught of attention to women's eonccrns may be an attempt to compen­sate li>r the Iraq war's domi­nation of the initial months of the campaign, said Diana !less. co-president of the League of Women Voters' South Bend branch. 
Tho National Couneil of Women's Organizations identi­fied such "women's issu~s" as hea1th eare, pay equity, f~tmily leave. social seeurity and human righl<> as topics of' par­ticular interest to women in its "ABC's of' Women's Issues" voter guide -many of which have only recently hit the headlines. 
"Domestic issues were over­shadowed by security up until to mobilize 
those who support them already to turn out," she said. "A lot of people who didn't turn out last time were women. [The candidates] are trying to give them a rea­son to turn out and vote on a rainy Tuesday when they have a million other things to do." 
However, many women vot­ers in the arna haven't needed extra attention from the can­didates to recognize voting's importance. Hess said. The League of' Women Voters' South Bend branch registered between 100 and 150 new voters this year, she said, and agencies across St. .Joseph County have reported huge registration turnout ovorall. 
"We want to make sure women vote and arn infi1rmed voters," Hess said. 

But since women do not eomprise a uniform voting bloc -diverging along single vs. married, working vs. stay­at-home, urban vs. rural and other lines -the candidates have tended to foeus on groups of women who would benefit most from their par­ties' platforms. While Kerry has tried to paint himself as the more attractive candidate for single working women, as refleeted in his Wiseonsin speech, Bush has beeome pop­ular with married women and the "security moms" who plan to east their votes on safety and family values. 
This gap between single and married voters -and this year, single and married women -is aetually far morn aeute than the well-known "gender gap" between male and female voters, Wolbreeht said. Stable marriages often lead to a relatively eonserva­tive perspective, resulting in many married women voting for a Hepubliean ticket, she said. And since dual-ineome married eouples are better equipped to deal with sudden job loss than a single-income woman supporting herself, Demoerats' inclusive flconomie policy becomes more attrac­tive to those who aren't mar­ried, Wolbreeht said. 
"Traditionally, working women vote Democratic and stay-at-home mothers vote Republican," she said. "Single women may feel the brunt of' eeonomics more harshly." 
Despite these dil'ferenees among women voters, reeent election history indieates an overall gender gap still exislc;. Women have consistently favored the Democratic Party since the 1960's, after backing Republicans the 40 years before that. Wolbrecht said. This pattern held true in 2000, when 53 percent of women voted for the Domocratie pres­idential candidate, AI Gore, and 45 pereent ehoso the Hepublican, Bush. This year, Kerry leads Bush among likely women voters by 15 percent, aeeording to a poll published Thursday by the 
That record bodes well l'or this year's Dnmocratie eandi­date, she said. "We don't know Kerry would go into the Whitn House and do all that," she said, "but he may bn more likely to." 
Beeause many women vot­ers view the security issue as paramount, however, the gen­der gap may be narrowing. Wolbreeht said. 
"Elections often eome down to convincing people what is most important," she said. pointing to Bush's claims ­echoed consistently in his speeehes and the three presi­dential debates -that terror­ism and homeland security trump all else, and that keep­iQg f;p11ilieij sa~'e from ~ttaJ:k is of' utmost priority. That strate­gy reflects Bush's attempt to convinee women that "my issues are your issues," Wolbreeht said. 
While the president and Kerry have only reeently stepped up the intensity of their appeals to women, their wives, First Lady Laura Bush and her counterpart, Teresa Heinz Kerry, have attraeted the attention of li.1male voters throughout the eampaign. 
lleinz Knrry has been con­troversial because of her heiress image, previous mar­riage to a Hepubliean (now­dnceasnd Pennsylvania Sen. II. .John Heinz Ill) and string of inflammatory eomments in the press, Wolbreeht said. Independent and aggressive. lleinz Kerry thereli1rc stands in stark contrast to Laura Bush, Wolbreeht said. 
"Laura Bush bnhavcs morP 
like a typi­
eal first 

Associated "Traditionally, working lady, smil­
Press. ing when
women vote Democratic 
S i n c e her hus­
and stay-at-home mothers 
strides h a n d 
have been vote Republican." speaks, made on favoring issues like Christina Wolbrecht traditional abortion, professor 'First Lady 
wage equi­ty, mmi­mum wage, family leave, wel­fare, education and sexual harassment law during Democratic prosideneies, women may trust the party's history of' eneouraging reform in these areas, Wolbrecht said. 
"A hypothesis for why women have ... been more likely to be Demoerats is they favor a party thai provides more of a social safety net," she said. "I don't want to say either [party! has been perfeet ... but the Democratic Party has a better record of' fighting for [women)." 
causes' like 
eel ucation and women's health ntrn," she said. 'Teresa is less polished." 
To appnal to women voters in their parties' respeetive bases, the Bush and Kerry campaigns have spun these distinctions to create negativi­ty, Hess said. "Eaeh First Lady could be paintnd in a role that would cause ire on either side. But ultimately the impact isn't as great as the candidates themselves." 

Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Monday, October 25, 2004 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 7 


Third-party candidates hope to make impact 
But it's unlikely any can play a significant role in determining presidency 

AP photos Third-party candidates will likely make little impact on the 2004 presidential election on Nov. 2. From left to right, Michael Badnarik of the Libertarian Party, David Cobb of the Green Party, independent candidate Ralph Nader and Constitution Party candidate Michael Peroutka are all running for the presidency this year. 
By JOE HETTLER In Focus Writer  ond in the polls," Colwell said. "There was some thought he could really become president. There's nobody that  received little coverage across the coun­try. Some may deem this unfair, but Colwell disagrees.  Peroutka and the Constitution Party pledge to end abortion by 2005, strictly interpret the Constitution and withdraw  
has a chance to do that this time."  "You have to earn your coverage," he  troops from Iraq.  
Ralph Nader didn't win the 2000 pres­ Besides the two major parties, several  said. "If somebody was coming on  Colwell believes none of these third  
idential election as the Green Party's  lesser-known  strong like a Ross  party candidates have much chance of  
candidate, but he still played a role in determining the victor.  pivotal  third parties will have candidates  "There are all kinds of  Perot or Nader  even a it's  influencing this election. "There are all kinds of candidates  
Some political analysts believe Nader took votes away from Democratic candi­date Al Gore, thereby helping Republican challenger George W. Bush win key electoral states and ultimately the presidency. "Some of [the citizens] possibly would not have VIJted at all. Some of them  on the ballot in many, if not all 50, states. The Green Party bypassed Nader and instead nomi­nated David Cobb, the Libertarian  candidates running -some in only one state, some in more than that, and ifyou add all their votes, you could say they have a slight role. But, really, Nader is the only one at the end that you'd  almost unfair for the real candi­dates -the ones who have a real chance of winning -if the press devotes a lot of time to these can­ running ­some in only one state, some in more than that and if you add all their votes, you could say they have a slight role," Colwell said. "But, really, Nader is the only one at the end that you'd say played any role at all." The difference between this election and those in previous years -where  
would have voted for Bush," said Jack Colwell, a Notre Dame journalism pro­ Party chose Michael Badnarik  say played any role at all."  didates that have no chance."  third-party candidates made an impact -is the strong feelings many  
fessor who has covered politics for 40 years at the South Bend Tribune. "It  and the Constitution Party  Jack Colwell  The third par­ties offer  Americans have for or against Bush and his policies, especially the Iraq War.  
appears that most of the Nader votes  selected Michael  professor  Americans a can­ "Part of it is the country has really  
otherwise would have gone to Gore and  Peroutka.  After  dictate that is rad- become polarized," Colwell said. "Most  
the thought is that he probably played a  losing the Green  ically  different  of the voters very early realized if they  
spoiler role in the election. If he had not  party's bid, Nader decided to run as an  than  those  candidates  from  the  were for President Bush or against him  
been on the ballot at all, Gore likely  independent candidate, but will only be  Republicans and Democrats. The Green  before John Kerry became officially the  
would have won."  named  on  the ballot in  34 states,  Party's Cobb major issues include  nominee. So with everything so polar­ 
But in the 2004 presidential election,  excluding Indiana.  pulling all troops out of Iraq immediate­ ized there really weren't a lot of people  
third-party candidates likely won't have  While the third-party candidates gar­ ly,  providing  health  care  for  all  out looking for a third-party alternative.  
the same impact Ross Perot had in 1996  ner support from thousands of people  Americans and establishing rights for  If they had been, then probably some  
or Nader in 2000.  this year, they have struggled to gain  homosexuals.  Badnarik  and  the  third  party candidate would  have  
"There's certainly nobody like a Ross  national attention from the television  Libertarians promise a plan for remov­ become a lot stronger."  
Perot when he ran as a third-party can­ and newspaper media. Besides Bush  ing troops from Iraq, oppose the Patriot  
didate and at one time actually was sec- and  Kerry,  other  candidates have  Act and wish to keep government small.  Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu  


Campaign finale draws far-out rhetoric, gaffes on both 
Associated Press  Kerry has said he was just complimenting  Flu vaccine was not an issue in the  Cheney's earlier claim that a CIA report  
the Cheneys on their parenting.  debates. Since then, it has become a major  concluding that Saddam Hussein had no  
And then there was the claim by Pat  one.  weapons of mass destruction actually rein­ 
WASHINGTON ­ As the presidential race  Robertson that God told him Iraq would be  Kerry claimed ­ and the administration  forced the administration's case for going to  
winds down, the two camps are dialing up  "messy," but that Bush assured the religious  denied ­ that Bush aides got advance word  war led Edwards to say Bush and Cheney  
the rhetoric. That's led to some far-out  broadcaster in early 2003 there would be  of a supply disruption and did nothing about  were "completely out of touch with reality."  
statements, unscripted behavior and foot­ no U.S. casualties. Bush aides denied the  it. Kerry said the inability to get the vaccine  Had enough mudslinging?  
in-mouth comments from both sides.  president said any such thing.  to Americans was "a serious demonstration  If not, there always is independent candi­ 
Generating homestretch shock waves  With  people  con­ of the failure of leader- date Ralph Nader. He says this year's elec­ 
were Vice President Dick Cheney's nuclear­ cerned about the econ- ship."  tion presents voters with a choice between  
bomb terror warnings for U.S. cities, Sen. John Kerry's efforts to blame President Bush for flu vaccine shortages and Teresa Heinz Kerry's suggestion that Laura Bush  omy and Iraq, both candidates are turning to extreme politics to try to nudge the needle  "Part ofwhat's happening is the consequence ofall the tensions and anxieties  Democrats criticized Cheney and leading Republicans for getting their shots while those  "heart disease and cancer." The close race also seems to be producing gaffes that reinforce negative stereotypes; for instance, Bush as language-challenged  
never had a "real job." Heinz Kerry apologized, saying she "for­got" that the first lady worked for 10 years as a teacher and librarian.  in their favor. Kerry accuses Bush of pondering a revival of the military draft  from the fact that neither candidate made a big move in the polls after the  officials were urging healthy people to forgo inoculations to free up supplies. Cheney, who  and Kerry as vain and aloof. In a New Jersey speech on terrorism, Bush asserted: "We will finish the work we have started. We will stand up for terror, we  
The comment, which could hurt Kerry  and  planning  a  debates."  has a history of heart  will stand up for freedom."  
among undecided women voters who are  "January surprise" on  disease, did so at the  The next day he joked to supporters in  
stay-at-home moms, appeared to reflect the enormous pressures on both campaigns in a  Social Security. Bush labels the  Wayne Fields  advice of his doctor, aides said. Bush, Kerry  Florida: "ln the last few years, the American people have gotten to know me. They know  
close race.  Massachusetts senator  presidential expert  and running mate John  my blunt way of speaking. I get that from  
"Part of what's happening is the conse­ an unrepentant tax­ Edwards are skipping  Mother. They know I sometimes mangle the  
quence of all the tensions and anxieties  and-spend "liberal" too  the shots.  English language. I get that from Dad."  
from the fact that neither candidate made a  wishy-washy to stand up to the terrorist  Cheney has stepped up his attacks on  Kerry went hunting for geese in Ohio ­ 
big move in the polls after the debates.  threat.  Kerry's fitness to be commander in chief.  hoping for a photo op that would sway gun­ 
We're left with the same dead heat we had  Each suggests the other would lead the  Last week he called Kerry unsuited for deal­ owning voters. But when he bought a non­ 
at the start," said Wayne Fields, an expert  country toward despair, defeat, towering  ing with the "ultimate threat" of terrorists  resident hunting license he seem stumped  
in presidential rhetoric at Washington  debt.  who bombed U.S. cities with nuclear  when asked by a clerk what hair color  
University in St. Louis. Republicans are still seething at Kerry for  "Everybody's beginning to recognize the stakes of this election are huge, both cam­ weapons. "You've got to get your mind around that  should be entered into the computer to describe the buyer.  
mentioning Cheney's openly gay daughter in  paigns are tired, and they appear to be let­ concept," Cheney told Ohio supporters, sug­ "Salt and pepper," the graying candidate  
the final presidential debate. "I thought it  ting it all hang out," said GOP consultant  gesting Kerry could not. Kerry accused the  said. When told by the clerk that the system  
was over the line," Bush said last week in  Scott Reed, who ran Bob Dole's 1996 presi­ administration of failing to safeguard  would only let him pick a simple color,  
an interview with The Associated Press.  dential campaign.  nuclear materials in Russia and elsewhere.  Kerry settled for gray.  

page 8 The Observer + IN FOCUS Monday, October 25, 2004 
I Only in eases of rape or ineest or when a woman's life is I Yes. Would nominate only Supreme Court justices who sup­/ endangered. Signed bill to ban a procedure that opponents call j port abortion rights. Voted against partial-birth ban. 
ABORTION 
i partial-birth abortion. l 
...................................... .....j.................................-........................................................_,,,______,___......................_,,,........................................................____..,........+-···---········-··----·-----"--·-..---·..-·---..····---......-......................................................................................... i Hecord deficits in a time of war, terrorism and tax cut<;. Deficit! Cut defieit by half, at least, in first term, but has not fullyI cxpeeted to surpass $400 million this year; the government had a Iexplained how he would do so in light of major proposals on I $127 surplus three years earlier. Says deficits ean be halved in five 1 health care, education, defense and more. Hepeal of Bush tax
BUDGET I years but has not fully explained how. Bush proposes that Congress i1 cuts for wealthier Americans would eover some costs.I limit discretionary spending in programs outside defense and i 
...-th~Sn~::,:1~21 ~~r.~~~~~?.:~-~::.~~-~t-~~~r.~~.~~...~~~-t... ~?..~:· .....................................i----Opp~~es ;,other t-han i~·~;~~~;;j;~~-~~-~~t~~-;-~ti·~~-~-j-~;-d·d-~~es-
DEATH PE~-~-~!Y .... t w~-;;t·~--~f~))oa··~~=~;;pi-;;y~~~t---~~~~~~t~-t;;-h~'ip ..th~-un;~~ ...~~~K~;~~~:·.: t~;--~~t;..·r~·;-·~iddle--;~d· ..~;;=·i~-~~~;··pe<;pl~--b~t 

ECONOMY _ TAXES 
1 
-·------· --·-·-· -·-'' -----------­
~ 

EDUCATION 
______........................................................ ''"-ii· 

ENVIRONMENT 
GAY RIGHTS 
HEALTH 

IRAQ WAR 
-----...........___..___~---­

MILITARY 
_____.._______,_______ 
NUCLEAR 

RETIREMENT 
_____,_..__._,,_,______,_,_________ 
STEM CELL 

RESEARCH 
I. TRADE 
ployed with job-seareh expenses. Wants to make recently / raise taxes on people earning over $200,000. lie promises tax­passed temporary tax euts permanent, ease business regula-i payers earning less than $200,000: "I am not going to raise tions, pursue more free-trade deals, increase domestic energy ltaxes." Would increase child-eare tax erndit by $1,000. Spend on production, limit elass-action lawsuits and medieal malpractice highways, sehool construction, pollution eleanup, onergy projects liability. Also, give tax breaks, regulatory relief and investment tand more to ereate 3 million jobs in 500 days. Provide $50 billion 
incentives to needy communities. 
-----·--· -------------------· --------·---· --·-------.. ·--" -__....... _, .. 

Championed a 2002 overhaul of elementary and seeondary education that toughened standards for teaehers, schools and student achievement. Budget proposal would increase spending on poor sehool districts, children with disabilities, Pell grants to . help poor students attend college, and experimental private-1school voueher programs. The plan would cut spending on voca­tiona! education, a family literaey program, arts in education, dropout prevention and more. Budget proposal, if passed, would mark 43 pereent increase in federal spending on programs under the No Child Left Behind Act sinee Bush took oflice. 
....................._ .................................................................--................................................................................................................_ .......--+-----·---------..·-··-------.......________________,_____........._..,_.......................................................... .. Change clean air laws to use a market-based approaeh to 
Re-engage "in the development of an international elimate reduce pollution from power plants, including first national eap 
change strategy to address global warming;" no explicit endorse­on mercury emissions. Cut spending next year on low-interest 
ment of Kyoto treaty. No drilling in Aretic refuge. Has supported loans for loeal clean water projeets. lnerease federal support for 
tougher fuel eeonomy standards for vehicles. Goal of 20 percent of development of hydrogen-fueled ear. Open Alaska's Arctic 
eleetricity from renewable or alternative sources by 2020. Steer National Wildlife Hefuge to oil drilling. 
$20 billion from oil and gas royalties to development of cleaner energy. Goal of independenee from Middle East oil in 10 years. Tougher standards for companies operating on public lands. 
over two years to states struggling with budget delieits. 
..... _______________,_,___ ..................._______,_, ......................... -· --.. ­
Establish community serviec plan for high school student'> that would qualify them for the equivalent of their states' !bur-year pub-lie college tuition if they perform two years of national serviee. Provide a tax eredit for every year of eollege on the lirst $4,000 paid in tuition. Credit would provide 100 pereent of the first $1,000 and 50 percent on the rest. Opposes private-school vouchnrs. Backed 2002 changes but says insullieient money was spent on them and too much emphasis is placnd on tests for measuring stu­dent achievement. Wants to establish $200 billion ndueation trust fund to help pay for the 2002 school reforms and special edueation. 

·+ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ··t·-...........-.............-...-....-...-.......................___.___________,.,_________,..........................................-....-.-·-·----­
Proposes eonstitutional amendment banning gay marriage. lias Opposes gay marriage but also opposes constitutional amend-continued former President Clinton's policy allowing gays to serve ment against it; supports right to eivil unions. Would ban job dis­in military if they an1 not open about their homosexuality. erimination against homosexuals, extend hate-crime protections to 
gays and let gays serve openly in the military. 

Number of Americans without health insurance has risen in his Expand existing insurance system for federal employees to presidency, reaching nearly 45 million in 2003, up from nearly 40 private citizens through tax eredits and subsidies. Unemployed million in 2000. Achieved prescription drug benefit for older would get 75 pereent tax eredit to help pay for insuranee. Tax Americans that subsidizes costs for low-income patients and Icredits for small businesses and their employees for health encourages private insurance eompanies to oll'er coverage for the j insurance. People aged 55 to 64 could buy into federal employ­elderly willing to opt out of traditional Medicare. Cost of drug i ees' health plan at affordable priee. Government would help benefit and other Medicare ehanges now estimated at $534 bil-l eompanies and insurers pay an employee's catastrophic medical lion over 10 years, up from $395 billion when ehanges were 1 eosts if the firms would agree to hold down premiums. Federal debated. New tax-free medieal savings accounts can be opened 1 support to expand aceess to state-administered health insur­by people under 65 who meet eertain conditions. Monthly Iance for children. Overall costs estimated by outside analyst at Medieare premiums for doctor visits are rising a record $11.60 $895 billion over 10 years, to eover 27 million more people. next year, or 17 percent. Independent study finds family health insuranee premiums in employer-sponsored plans up 11 percent, i · averaging $9,950 annually for family of four. ' 
......._,_,_,,__, .................,...___, .......~_................................................_._..........~.-·..-·.................................................................-..................................................~ .................................-........-........._,,,__..___,_,_,...............................................___,,,_,__..._................................._..,_...., ______ 
Swift military victory followed by violent aftermath and halting efl'orts at stabilizing new government, with more than 1,000 U.S. military deaths. Won congressional approval of $87 billion for continued military operations and aid in Iraq and Afghanistan. Defends decision to go to war despite later findings that Iraq had no weapons of mass destruction, the central rationale at the time, and that Saddam Hussein's ties to al-Qaida were tenuous at most. Says Saddam had the will to foment unrest, eooperate with ter­rorists and develop sueh weapons over time.
-......_________ ­
Says military commanders believe active-duty forees are ade­
quate. "If they nHed more, I will make sure they get it." Is beginning 

an overhaul of overseas deployments, with 70,000 troops coming out 
of South Korea and Europe, many Cold-War era bases to be closed, 
and more troops to be stationed in U.S. with temporary assignments 

to growing network of no-frills "forward operating sites" in Asia, 
Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. "We're not going to 
have a draft so long as I am the president." Iraq and war on terror­
Supported congressional resolution letting Bush go to war but says he did so based on faulty U.S. intelligenee and with the belief the president would build a true eoalition and exhaust options short of war. Opposed $87 billion package for Iraq and Afghanistan. Says he would try to begin U.S. troop withdrawal in six months and complete it in four years, by encouraging allies to commit more forees. 

1--·-----------------·---­
Boost active-duty forces worldwide by 40,000, double Army 
speeial forces eapability, inerease eivil-affairs troops by half. 
boost military poliee and psyehdfbgieal-operations personnel. "I 
don't support a draft." 

ism have stretehed both aetive-duty forces and reserves.
r-·---··-----..................._.........____________....................-......-....----··----·"'""'''"'-"''"""'""'"'"'"'"' ..................-...--.--..-··-------------..........._ ...........................________.._.......--............_________........... 
Using diplomacy to try to stop nuclear proliferation in the remaining "axis of evil" countries, North Korea and Iran. May offer Iran economic incentives to suspend its uranium enrichment activities; prepared to push for economic sanctions if Iran does not concede. Six-nation negotiations have produced little progress in persuading North Korea to end its nuclear program. 
Give younger workers the opportunity to put part of their payroll tax into retirement accounts, giving them a chanee to make a higher return on that investment in return for less Soeial Security benefits. 

..._____, __,_,,....,....__,,_,___,,,,_.,_,,_,_,,_,,,,,___,_,_,.................._..__,,,,._,..____,,,.............................._,_,__ 
Signed exeeutive order in August 2001 limiting federal research money to embryonic stem-eelllines then in existence, to ensure gov­ernment does not support future produetion of embryos for research purposes. No controls on private embryonic stem-cell research. 
----------------------------·---·-------------· 
Supports liberalized trade and is pursuing a variety of bilater­
al trade deals as well as one for the Western Hemisphere. 
Supports one-on-one talks between U.S. and North Korea alongside the six-nation negotiations. Says U.S. and other nations should offer Iran nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes, then take back the spent fuel so it cannot be used to develop nuclear weapons. 
Opposes partial privatization of Soeial Security. Would require companies switehing to cheaper lump-sum pnnsion plans to offer retirees the choice of staying with traditional company pension. 

..__........................._,,__,_,,_,_,_,,_,_,___,.,__,______, _______,_,,,___,,,.,,..______ 
Would reverse Bush's restrictions and put money into the research, ensuring unspeeilicd ethieal standards are followed through "good will and good sensn." Aides say Kerry would not support creation of embryos spedfically for resnareh, but would finanee research letting sdentists study leftover embryos creatod for infertility treatment. 
----------............................_.._, 
Supported North American and world trade agreemenl<; and ele­
vated trade status with China. Would place all such trade agreements 
under 120-day review to see if they are fair, taking unspedfied "nec­
essary steps" if' they are not Would require companies moving jobs 
to other eountries to give the government and workers notiee. Says 
all trade deals should have labor and environmental standards, but 
United States cannot insL<;t in these deals that liJreign standards rise 
to the level of Ameriea's. New tax crndit for manufacturers that 
expand their U.S. work force, covering payroll taxes of new workers . 

. ·. ·. ·. 



