
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
V.OLUME 38: ISSUE 110 • MONDAY, MARCH 22,2004 
IRAQ: ONE YEAR LATER 

Students cope with family in Iraq 
Editor's note: This is the first in 
a five-part series examining 
issues in the war in Iraq. 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 

For most, the war in Iraq over the past year has been distant. only on television and in the newspapers. But for some, the fighting has hit too close to home. 
Those with family members in the military who have been deployed to Iraq deal with uncertainty and frightening news reports every day, but somehow, they keep optimistic knowing that their loved ones are where they are needed. 
"I think it brings more of a personal investment," said Erica Kane, a member of Notre Dame's Army ROTC, whose brother, Christopher, is a first lieutenant stationed in Baghdad. "When you watch the news or read the paper, it's not just something that is far away. It's close to home." 
Christopher Kane graduated from Edinboro University of Pennsylvania in the summer that she tries to cope with her tary does." "I was worried for his safety, of 2002, after serving in the step-father, Lt. Col. David Convoy is working in Basra, but glad that we're doingROTC program. Now, accord­Convoy, a Notre Dame and Iraq in a civilian capacity as what we're doing and glad to 
ing to Erica Kane, he is an Army ROTC graduate, being part of the Army Corps of be a part of what was going armor officer, in command of overseas by focusing on the Engineers. on," she said. ''I'm definitely a platoon of four tanks and 16 positive aspects. McMahon said that when proud of him for volunteeringsoldiers and has been in Iraq "He loves doing what ·he she found out her stepfather and taking his responsibilitysince May. does," McMahon said. "He was leaving, she was upset, well. But I'm still very scared 
Sarah McMahon, also a really believes in what the but remained grateful for his member of Army ROTC, said army does and what the mili-and others' sacrifices. see FAMILY/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Relatives 

deployed 
worldwide 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
During times of war, it's easy to 
concentrate only on the so-called 
"hot spots," the areas of the 
world where the fighting is 
occurring and American lives are 
being lost in seemingly rapid 
numbers. 

But there are other places ­places American soldiers live and work, away from their families and friends -that must also draw attention. 
South Korea, for example, is temporarily home to many American military personnel, like sophomore Gretchen Ryan's older brother Nicholas. 
1st. Lt. Nicholas Ryan graduat­ed from the West Point Military Academy in 2002 and then spent time in Alabama attending heli­copter flight school before being assigned to South Korea in December. Nicholas Ryan is in charge of distributing supplies to different units. according to his sister. and continues his pilot's training. 
When the war broke out in Iraq last year, Gretchen Ryan said she was relieved knowing her brother had not completed his training and could not be shipped out. 
"I knew he was still in training, 
see DEPLOYED/page 4 


Disability week aims 
to educate students 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
For senior Laura Hoffman, the efforts made during Disability Awareness Week to enlighten the campus about the realities of those with dis­abilities generate very per­sonal results. 
Diagnosed with optic nerve atrophy in first grade -a condition which qualifies her as legally blind and makes everyday tasks such as driv­ing impossible -Hoffman considers the annual event to be an integral step to foster­ing a more open community at Notre Dame. 
"One of the things that has bothered me is that disability is not often seen as an ele­ment diversity at Notre Dame," Hoffman said. "I encounter those who have never known or experienced a disability, and they tend to evaluate people with disabili­ties not by their ability, but by their disability. It takes stu­dents who are open to other ideas in order for changes to be made in society." 
In conjunction with Marissa Runkle, the Disability Awareness Week Coordinator at the Center for Social Concerns, Hoffman has helped put together four days of programs aitr.ed at cele­brating the value of those with disabilities and educat­ing students about them. Best Buddies, an organization that pairs college students with adults who have developmen­tal disabilities, is co-sponsor­ing the event, along with Saint Mary's, Howard Hall, the Office for Students with Disabilities and the Junior Class Council. 

The week will start off with a Mass at the Basilica at 5:15 
p.m. today, celebrated for stu­dents with disabilities and for those involved in volunteering with the disabled. 
"This year we are trying to integrate a faith component into the week," Hoffmann said. We didn't really have one in the past, but faith is so critical to the life of a person with a disability that I sug­gested we have a Mass to begin the week's events." 
see DISABILITY/page 6 

Grad student plans documentary 
Film to examine twin cities St. Joseph, Benton Harbor at 3:26 on 3/26 
ByK.MRON 
VANOOSTERHOUT 
News Writer 

On March 26 at 3:26 p.m., life in the twin cities of St. Joseph and Benton Harbor, Mich., will be occurring as usual. 
And that is just how Mark Cook wants it. 
Cook, a graphic design grad­uate student at Notre Dame, ·is organizing and compiling what he labels a "unique documen­tary event" of the region 35 miles north of South Bend. He, as well as anyone else who wishes to participate, will be crossing the border to capture one minute in the life of these two towns, with photographs, videotape, audiotape and jour­nals. 
"For me, [it] is a significant time and day because it's not significant, it~s a typical time and day," Cook said. 
The towns. however, are anything but typical. 
St. Joseph is an affluent city of about 9,000 residents, 90 percent of whom are white, and boasts of an excellent public school system as well as over the St. Joseph River, how­ever, he was struck by the stark contrast with Benton Harbor. 

"It just felt like I must have driven hundreds of miles to get to this other place," he said. 
Benton Harbor was "totally vacant", with "a lot of major 
see 326/page 4 
a thriving economy. In 1994, Cook, then a freshman at nearby Andrews University, viewed firsthand the area's wealth while exploring the region. "A lot of activity" stretched before him, with "a lot of quaint shops" hugging closely together on the main street. 
When he crossed the bridge 
Monday, March 22, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Get serious 
ROME -Rainbow "Pace" (peace} flags flooded the streets of central Rome Saturday. Italians, from old women to students to families with young children, marched for hours to demand peace and voice opposi­
tion to the Iraq Teresa Frallsh 
War. 

Quite literally, half the city-News Writer "tens of thou­sands" according to The New York Times-was out in the street. 
Italians are outraged. One year after the first troops marched in Iraq, their dissent seems to have diminished little. like Spain's Jose Maria Aznar,ltalian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi backed the Iraq War despite strong public oppo­sition. 
The Iraq War-whether you support­ed it or not -happened. And America, whether it wanted it or not, now has a responsibility to ensure that it leaves the Iraqis with a stable political system, not a breeding ground for political unrest and terrorism. To simply pull troops out now, like many Europeans claim they want, undoubtedly represents a danger­ous course. Doing so would almost cer­tainly lead to further political collapse in the country and probably a return to the authoritarianism ofthe Sad dam Hussein era. 
That is why recent developments in Spain are so alarming. In the face of Europe's largest terrorist attack ever, the Spanish voted in a government that promises it will pull Spain's troops from Iraq and pursue markedly cooler rela­tions with America. Spain's government seriously mishandled information in the immediate aftermath of the Madrid bombings, prompting the electorate to respond with outrage. It is hard to criti­cize the Spanish people as they attempt to cope with tragedy. 
But their electoral response can, and will be, interpreted as a major capitula­tion to al-Qaeda. Terrorists will learn that they can force Western govern­ments to acquiesce to their aims -if they kill enough people. 
Clearly Bush and European leaders agree that terrorism represents a major threat to global peace -they just dis­agree on how to stop it. 
Europeans by and large perceive President George W. Bush as a gallivant­ing cowboy and American foreign policy as reckless and unilateral. But in their calls for immediate troop withdrawals, Europeans sadly fail to grasp the impor­tance of developing a stable political sys­tem in Iraq, and the commitment this requires. 
However, for far too long, the current American administration -namely Bush, Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney-has persisted in the myth that they can thumb their nose at European views without paying any consequences. Madrid demonstrates that they cannot. 
Bush and company have failed to grasp the crucial importance of present­ing a truly united front to terrorists. American diplomacy can do better than this. First, Bush, through advisers like Colin Powell, must make a real attempt to explain current policy on Iraq and terrorism to the Europeans. 
Mer the deaths of at least 200 inno­cent people, European leaders will · undoubtedly get serious in their attempts to fight terrorism and present a united front. It's time the Bush admin­istration did the same. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake; please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO iS YOUR PICK TO WIN THE NCAA TOURNAMENT? 



Van Huang Mike Zodda Beth Franzosa 
Sophomore Senior Junior Stanford Alumni Pasquerilla West "I'll go with ... "Ifthey're not Pitt., trying to win "Is there a the Stanley rowzng Cup, I don't bracket?" 
,, 
care. 

Phllllplne town bakes 25,000-pound cake 
LA TRINIDAD, Philippines -A northern Philippine town is attempt­ing to bake itself into the Guinness Book of Records with what it claimed was the world's biggest straw­berry buttercake. 
The northern town of La Trinidad, which calls itself the Philippines' strawberry capital. has been baking giant cakes for the last three years. 
But Mayor Nestor Fongwan said the town has outdone itself this time with the giant dessert weighing 24,572 pounds. 
TODAY 
a:: 



Sara Urben  Andre Valdivia  Garrett Jost  
Sophomore Pasquerilla West  Freshman Carroll  freshman O'Neill  
..Stanford. Go  "Notre Dame ... next year!"  ..UAB, the ,Cinderella.  

Cards!" 


Farmer Insures 1M 
chickens for bird flu 
HANOI, Vietnam Craving chicken? Go ahead. If you die of bird flu, one Vietnamese farmer says he'll foot the bill. 
The Thanh Binh Animal Farming and Feed Co. Ltd .. will insure up to 1 million chickens over the next two months for 3 cents each to help entice wary customers to buy poultry again. Relatives of anyone who dies from bird flu after eat­ing the company's chickens will receive $6,400, plus medical bills. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

At 10 pesos, equal to 18 cents, a slice in the town hall, the massive cake was expected to feed 55,000 townspeople. 
About 6,614 pounds of strawberries were used in baking the cake, which measures 8.43 feet high 
. and 8.69 feet wide. The Guinness Book of Records doesn't have an entry fer strawberry but­tercakes but organizers satd they would seek a new category for their massive creation. Plant City, Fla., holds the Guinness Record for biggest strawberry short­cake. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
U.l 
::z: 
~ 
U.l 
3: 
..... 
c:( 
(,) 



..... 0 HIGH 36 HIGH 45 LOW 28 LOW 37 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 

The men's basketball team will take on St. Louis in the sec­ond round of the NIT tourna­ment at 7 p.m. today in Fort Wayne, Ind. A shuttle bus leaves the main circle for the game at 4 
p.m. and the game is being tele­vised locally on ABC affiliate WBND. 
Mass will be celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15p.m. today to mark the beginning of Disability Awareness week. 
Nanovic Visiting European Lecturer Alexandre Kiss will lec­ture on "European Integration and European Identity," at 4 
p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. 
The Human Rights International Film Festival will begin with a discussion and a screening of the film "Hana's Wedding" at 7 p.m. tonight in the Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
The New Directions in Russian Cinema Film Series will sponsor a screening of the film "A Friend of the Deceased," at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in Debartolo Hall room 120. 
Professor Kathy Gibney will facilitate a panel discussion with students with disabilities at Reekers at 8 p.m. Tuesday. Free smoothies will be provided. 
Otto Madura will present a lecture on remembering Archbishop Oscar Romero in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium Tuesday at 8 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

57 44 


HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 55 I 31 Boston 35 I 21 Chicago 38 I 30 Denver 71 I 47 Houston 67 I 52 Los Angeles 73 I 57 Minneapolis 42 I 34 New York 37 I 24 Philadelphia 41 I 24 Phoenix 94 I 68 Seattle 61 I 43 St. Louis 48 I 33 Tampa 73 I 49 Washington 43 1 24 
Monday, March 22, 20U<i 

The Observer + NEWS page 3 
War on terrOr hard to fight in court 
Associated Press 
BERLIN -The post-Sept. 11 war against terrorism is suffer­ing as much in the courts as in the streets with several legal setbacks involving suspected members of al-Qaida and other groups around the world. 
The biggest reversal came in least 2001 as a possible al­Qaida operative, even once searching his apartment, but were unable to build a case against him. Zougam, arrested two days after the bombings, operated in at least two coun­tries, Morocco and Spain. 

The court decision in Germany to order a retrial for 
Germany when a out the only conviction of a Sept. 11 sus­pect. But other cases have been hindered, too, including against a mili­tant Indonesian cleric and Zacarias Moussaoui, the only alleged Sept. 11 con­spirator charged in the United States. 
The U.S. reluctance to let witnesses in custody testify and the sheer complexity of 
court threw Mounir 
"Intelligence cooperation between countries like the United States and its allies has increased enormously, but there's still a long way to go.,, 
Richard Evans editor, Jane's Terrorism and Insurgency Center 
el Motassadeq ­charged with aid­ing the three Hamburg, Germany-based Sept. 11 hijackers -focused atten­tion on the limits of international coop­eration. "The threat is a very broad global Islamic front where terrorist operatives of one nationality will go to a second country to plan a terror operation then move to a third country to carry out their attacks," said Richard Evans, edi­tor at Jane's 

cross-border investigations are mostly to blame. 
And the Madrid bombings that killed 202 people last week showed that while investigators struggle to build judicial cases against suspects, terrorists are still successfully plotting and carrying out attacks. 
Spanish authorities had one of the chief suspects in the Madrid bombings, Jamal Zougam, on their radar since at Terrorism and Insurgency Center in London. 
"Intelligence cooperation between countries like the United States and its allies has increased enormously, but there's still a long way to go," he told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. 
In granting el Motassadeq a retrial last month, a German appeals court pointed to the lack of evidence from Ramzi Binalshibh, a Yemeni in secret 
U.S. custody who is believed to have been the key al-Qaida con­tact for the Hamburg cell that included lead hijacker Mohamed Atta. 
Judges ruled that the lower 
court, which found the 
Moroccan guilty in February 
2003 of more than 3,000 counts 
of accessory to murder and 
belonging to a terrorist organi­
zation, failed to weigh how the 
United States' refusal to allow 
Binalshibh to testify influenced 
the case. 
Fighting terrorism is no "wild, 
unregulated war," Presiding 

Judge Klaus Tolksdorf 
explained in the March 4 ver­

dict, saying authorities' need 
for secrecy can't outweigh a 
defendant's right to a fair trial. 
A German investigator in the 

case said the dilemma persists. 
"Every country and every service has its own ideas and purposes and has to be careful with human sources and infor­mation or the politics of their country. So of course the flow of information is not one-to-one," said Manfred Murck, deputy head of the Hamburg agency that tracks extremists. "Nobody gets the full information of the other services." 
U.S. authorities provided German intelligence with inter­rogation transcripts from Binalshibh, who was captured in Pakistan on the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States. But they came with the proviso that the information not be used in 
. court. 



Human rights film festival begins today 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 

Interested in seeing a movie 
with a message? The Human 
Rights International film festi­
val's traveling film series will 
be shown at Saint Mary's start­
ing today and running through 
Saturday. 

"The purpose of the film fes­tival is to help educate people about human rights and the struggles of people who are seeking to secure their rights," Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership fel­low Sister Marianne Farina, one of the event's organizers, said. 
The films center around issues of human rights, and the sponsors are hopeful the audience will take away a deeper understanding of the issues. • 
"We want the audience to see some of the key human rights issues and violations that are occurring in the world today in order to promote a greater sol­idarity," Farina said. "At Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, the students have a great interest to engage in peace and justice studies and advocacy, and these films are a vehicle in which to do so." 
The film festival will kick off tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium with a presenta­tion given by Marianne Farina 
and Isis Nusair of Saint Mary's 
CWIL program and George 
Lopez of the Notre Dame's 
Kroc Institute for Peace 
Studies. Following the presen­
tation, the film "Rana's 
Wedding" will be viewed. 

· Each of the movies will be 
viewed nightly in Carroll 
Auditorium at 7 p.m. with a 
discussion to follow. On Friday 
and Saturday, "Freedom from 
Fear," a workshop on Peace 
Building and Human Rights 
will take place at the Kroc 
Institute. All of the events are 
free and open to the public. 
Farina said she is hopeful the film festival will make an impact on the audience mem­bers. 
"Films are also a great medi­um with which to share experi­ences across cultures," Farina said. "The pictures, sounds and stories help us to have a better experience of the reality of people's situations, needs and their efforts to work for peace and justice. These are important issues that need to be seen." 
Saint Mary's Program in Women's Studies, CWIL, the Intercultural Studies Program, the Justice Education Program. the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Kroc Institute are sponsoring the Human Hights Watch film festival. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 


2004 Nanovic Visiting European Lecturer 


Alexandre Kiss 
Monday, March 22, 4:00 pm Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
"European Integration and European Identity" 
Professor Kiss is director of research emeritus at the French National Center for Scientific Research (C.N.R.S.). 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. Hosted by the Notre Dame Law School. 
www.nd.edu/~nanovic 
Monday, March 22, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Family 
continued from page 1 
every day." 

Families also cope by recog­nizing that soldiers do indeed have a responsibility that could be anticipated from the time of enlistment. 
" ... being in ROTC, you know [deployment] is always a possibility," Erica Kane said. "It's not something you're excited about, but it's some­thing that you know might happen. You have to do what­ever you're called to do." 
Any military family must cope with the absence of a loved one, but also with the fear of that person not return­ing. According to McMahon, keeping busy helps to allevi­ate some of that fear. 
"I try not to watch the news 

Deployed 
continued from page 1 

and that he would have no risk of going over there until he was done, which I knew was another six to nine months," she said. "That made it better. 
"And then when he got assigned to Korea, we knew that was the one place in the entire world where he wouldn't get further shipped to Iraq. That was comforting, although Korea has problems of its own." 
And there are other places; less threatening, perhaps, but equally nerve-wracking for the families of those soldiers and sailors stationed there. 
Junior Patty Rose's brother Paul is a 2002 Notre Dame and Navy ROTC graduate. After graduation, Paul Rose attended nuclear power school in South Carolina for a year, and then spend time training in New York and Connecticut before being stationed in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. 
Ensign Paul Rose now runs a nuclear reactor on the U.S.S. Buffalo, a fast-attack subma­rine. 
"It still feels like a long way from home," Patty Rose said, "even though he's stationed in the United States, he's away, and it's weird not knowing when the next time I'll see him is." 
Both girls agree having their brothers far away is hard on the or read the papers," she said. "I try not to think about the bad stuff. but try to think about the good stuff instead." 
"It makes me feel better that he's technically safer," McMahon continued, refer­ring to the fact that Convoy is overseas working technically as a civilian. 
Erica Kane says that her faith and willingness to be a part of the effort is helps her cope with her brother's absence. 
"I do rely on my faith and have trust in God to bring him home," she said. "This docs bring me peace of mind. 
"I send packages and do. other things for different sol­dier groups and units, not just my brother's, helping any way I can." 
Both McMahon and Kane say that they keep in touch with their family members 
family, as is the uncertainty of not knowing exactly what is happening, but that knowing they are happy in their jobs is comforting. 
"Obviously, I'm con~erned about my brother as much as everybody else, but I guess I just knew that he was doing his job," Patty Rose said. "He's glad he can make a difference. That made me feel better." 
Gretchen Ryan agreed. 
"I guess just the fact that I know he loves it and it's what he really wants to do [helps]," she said. "He does love it. That helps a lot knowing that he's happy." 
Another hardship for her Nicholas Ryan, she said, is that he is married. 
"He got married right when he got out of the academy," Gretchen Ryan said. "His wife was able to be with him in Alabama, but right now she's home in New Mexico." 
Furthermore, being able to keep in touch with their family members seems to make the separation easier, and both are thankful for the work their brothers do. 
"Cell phones are fantastic," Patty Rose said. "It's comforting to talk to him. Talking to him ... makes it seem like everything's OK, and even though he isn't over in Iraq, there is an inherent danger in everything they do." 
"I worry about him, but I'm so thankful for what ·he does and what they all do to serve our country ... and give us the free-
Attention First-Year MBA's 
Would you like tt> earn a FU.U. TUITION fellowship for your second-year? 
TM Wlllivn (~. Mc(>o-u.-w Cha.cic.ahk Fund ~$ just a'A.-..rded IN:-!\.ffi.?l p•OR= • gr.ms dat.:overs ti.ili t<11!k>n fur <h., ~~<'C<JO.i ytotr f<•r <""" 1\ffi.A stud<-a~ Applj.-~nt~ musr «>tnply wirh th~ f-..llo~ critt-ri.l: 
·-Mu~t currently be miXliJOO fuU-tittu: tn the fiut y<:n ofthe lv!B.-\ pr01,rrom. 
-Mu.r c;.ataulr h•w " 3.il GP;\ •x hlj,;h~ ·Muir ~ubmit ~ .iiKI-lOtX! \lo"t)r.d C$Ut't>a. Uu: cu.uuibuti<.om of\X!Ul:am G. Mt.-c.:.wan. fuvnrkr :~nd Chairm11:1 t>f M<:l, to tod.y'$ llwis.:c;n \loWid IU ~rat c>r rc> th<" f~kr.Clmmunu:~rioM (lcid iu partitu.lr.r. 
Mu~t ~uhmlt ~me I<"!fer nf ~:e:cc>m11:.1:ftdation from a fio\;u!IY IIJ<:mbc:r. -Mutt abiblt ¥t~nbu.:es w,;h •• i<.ho>l~rship. l:>ll!nt, lu~ttkip qnaliri~'· C'Mra,tc: aml c;r,mmuuily R'l\'t>ivcnlt:ftl 

\'{'snnco ..,iJJ lx: :mr.<>Wt'"<.l iu lht: :ifJ<istg. (;.-mt.K:t: lka.n.I.J>ht.l(~.cdu 
through e-mails and occasion­al phone calls. Christopher Kane is expected to return in early May and Convoy in June. 
Both remc,tin grateful for the sacrifices of their loved ones. which is how they get through the day-to-day worries of the war. 
Erica Kane remembered a picture her brother sent home as a symbol of the sacrifice of the soldiers and of the greater good of that sacrifice. 
"(Christopher] sent a picture of him and a little boy at a bus stop last fall," she recalled. "He said any time anyone asks why we're there, tell them, 'We're there so this little boy can have the free­doms that you've had sinee you were born.' 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
doms we have," she continued. 

Both Patty Rose and Gretchen Ryan have views of the war that are grounded in their concern for the troops. 
. "Initially I supported the war," Gretchen Ryan said, "because ... I think it was very important to take care of [Saddam Hussein]. But now that it's done with, I don't like that we still have troops over there. I think we need to let those people do it on their own." 
Patty Rose expressed the importance of support for the troops. 
" ... whether you support the war or not, ... support the men and women because that's the most important thing," she said. "We have smart people running the country ... I trust them to make good decisions. 
"We have no idea what [the soldiers] give, and we'll never be able to understand." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
326 
continued from page 1 

buildings boarded up" and had one of the nation's poorest public school systems and highest murder rates. Of its roughly 11,000 residents, 90 percent are black. 
"It seems really odd that in America. in the year 2004, two towns so 'close geographically 
can be so different in many other respects," Cook said. 
Cook had been contemplating a documentary ever since that drive 10 years ago, but finally decided to act this year for a number of reasons, the most strikjng being last sum­mer's riots in Benton Harbor. Mobs of citizens fought police and razed buildings throughout the city in response to a motorcyclist's questionable ·malls and schools. 

Cook's work has received 
attention from the area's local 
newspaper, the Herald­
Palladium, a number of radio 
stations, including 94.9 the 
Coast and 88.1 WVPE and it 
will soon be featured in the 
South Bend Tribune. 

Despite such a regional 
interest, however, Cook 
emphasized that anyone may 
take part, regardless of con· 
nection to the cities, "the more 
diverse [the 
participants] 
the better." 
death, bringing nation-wide attention to the two communi­tics. He has petitioned resi­dents of the two cities to par­ticipate in his project. 
"I really want this to be a community taking a look at itself," he said. 
Cook also said he hopes the documentary will "generate discussion about social condi­tions in Benton Harbor and St. Joseph." 
After he gathers the record­ings, Cook will then use his graphic design expertise to compile all the sights. scenes and stories into "a body of work where the viewer could be multi-present." The work will then be exhibited in local public libraries, shopping 


"It seems really With this in mind, second­
odd that in 
year photogra­
America, in the 
phy graduate 
year 2004, two student Ally Klutenkamper
towns so close 
and her class,
geographically can 
among then be so different in junior graphic design major
many other 
Andrew Borys,
respects. ,, 
will be traveling north to take Mark Cook photographs. Borys said he
graphic design 
was more inter­
student 

ested in the aes­thetic goals of the project rather than any 
social commitment. He plans on "taking pictures from one side looking at the other," using the pictures to capture the view of residents as they look across the water. 
Aesthetic ambitions aside, however. Borys remarked on the conditions that awaited him just 45 minutes away, "we get to witness how parallel two cities could be, but so dif­ferent ... how one can live in such abject poverty and the other be so affluent. 
"The only difference is their race and the other side of a river," he said. 
Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Sun in January and February! 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, March 24, 2004 5:00PM 209 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
May 1, 2004 for Spring 2005 Nov. 15, 2004 for Academic Year 2005-06 and Fall 2005 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: 
www.nd.edu/tVintlstud/ 





Monday, March 22, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Taiwcw court reviews election 
TAIP~·. Taiwan -Taiwan's High Court ordered all ballot boxes sealed Sunday as thousands of protesters demanded a recount of President Chen Shui-bian's re-election, saying it was marred by voting irregularities and an apparent assassination attempt that wounded the incumbent. 
The court said it was sealing the boxes to preserve evidence, but it did not order a recount of Saturday's vote as requested by challenger Lien Chan. The opposition also said it would seek to nullify Chen's narrow victory Saturday, arguing he unfairly received sympathy votes because of the elec­tion-eve shooting, which remained unex­plained. 
Chen, who campaigned on a China-bashing platform. and Vice President Annette Lu were shot and slightly wounded while riding in an open Jeep on Friday in Chen's home­town of Tainan. 
Opposition left takes lead in France 
PARIS -Exit polls showed the opposition left taking 40 percent of the vote in the first round of France's regional elections Sunday, with a six percentage point lead over the gov­erning conservatives. 
The extreme right, which could play the spoiler's role in next Sunday's second round, took 17 percent but was not expected to win in any of France's 26 regions. 
The exit polls showed candidates of President Jacques Chirac's conservatives lag­ging with 34 percent. 
The regional elections were widely viewed as a national test of Chirac's governing right, and the estimates appeared to confrrm predic­tions that it could be punished for France's economic and social woes. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Cigarette makers face federal trial 
WASHINGTON-Cigarette makers are no 
strangers to the courtroom, but after settling 
a lawsuit with states, they face Uncle Sam as 
the plaintiff this fall in what is shaping up as 
the biggest civil racketeering trial in history. 
Repeated efforts to get the $280 billion 
case dismissed have failed. So has an 
attempt by the Bush administration to nego­
tiate a settlement. 
Last week, U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler rejected the latest bid to have the case thrown out, and the government sub­mitted a list of witnesses it intends to call. On it is a who's who of the tobacco industry. 
Six years ago, 46 states settled their suit against the industry for $206 billion, payable over 25 years. Four states settled separately for a total of $40 billion. The states recov­ered costs for treating sick smokers. 
Gay minister acquitted in trial 
BOTHELL, Wash. -A lesbian Methodist pastor was acquitted Saturday in a church trial over her sexual orientation, and will be allowed to continue her ministry. 
A jury of 13 pastors ruled in favor of the Rev. Karen Dammann, 4 7, who disclosed three years ago that she was in a homosexu­al relationship. 
Church law prohibits the ordination of self­avowed, practicing homosexuals and the church's Book of Discipline declares homo­sexuality to be "incompatible to Christian teachings." But the church's social principles support gay rights and liberties. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Changes proposed to Title IX rules 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Separate classes for boys and girls could become more common in Indiana public schools and across the nation as federal rules prohibiting gender segregation are relaxed. 
U.S. Secretary of Education Rod Paige announced proposed changes to the 30-year­old Title IX rules earlier this month. The changes are part of the No Child Left Behind legislation adopted two years ago, but are just now being made official policy. 
GAZA STRIP 





Hamas leader killed in Israeli strike 
allied with Vasser Afafat's Fatah move­majority of them Israelis -have been 
Associated Press 

ment, also promised swift retaliation. killed in 112 Palestinian suicide bomb­
GAZA CITY -Sheik Ahmed Yassin. The Israeli army imposed a full clo­ings. most of them carried out by the founder and leader of the Hamas sure on the West Bank and Gaza Strip Ham as. militant group that targeted Israelis in after Yassin's killing, dividing Gaza into One Israeli official recently said suicide bombings, was killed by missiles three areas, preventing movement Yassin was "marked for death." fired from Israeli helicopters as he left a between them. Sharon's government has gone after mosque at daybreak Monday, witnesses Witnesses said Israeli helicopters militant leaders using Israeli helicopter said. fired three missiles at Yassin and two gunships in a controversial policy that 
Tens of thousands of Gaza residents, bodyguards as they left the mosque, has resulted in a number of civilian many of them in tears, poured into the killing them instantly. He was carried casualties in addition to the deaths of streets after Barnas announced the around in a special car that could senior figures in Barnas and other death of the quadriplegic Yassin over accommodate his wheelchair. groups. mosque loudspeakers. Masked fighters Four people were killed and 17 were The army and Prime Minister Ariel at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, where wounded in the attack, officials said. Sharon's office declined to comment. Yassin's body was taken, shot into the Yussef Haddad, 35, a taxi driver, said Deputy Defense Minister Zeev Boim air in rage. Angry mourners burned he saw the missiles hit Yassin and the told Israel Radio, ..1said for a long time tires, sending black smoke over Gaza bodyguards. that Yassin is a target for killing. He City. "Their bodies were shattered," he was not immune." 
Hamas, listed as a terrorist group by said. More than 150 Palestinian militants both the United States and Israel, Yassin was by far the most senior have been killed in targeted raids, vowed revenge against Israeli Prime Palestinian militant killed in more than according to Palestinian medical offi­Minister Ariel Sharon. The AI Aqsa three years of Israeli-Palestinian fight­cials, though that total also includes Martyrs' Brigades, a militant group ing. Since Sept. 2000, 474 people-the militants killed resisting arrest. 
AFGHANISTAN 

Soliders shoot aviation minister 
Resulting gun battle kills 100 people; Karzai sends extra troops to establish order 
Associated Press  
KABUL -Soldiers loyal  
to a local commander shot  
and killed Afghanistan's  
aviation minister Sunday in  
the western city of Herat,  
setting off a big gun battle  
in which as many as 100  
people died in vicious fac­ 
tional fighting, the com­ 
mander told The Associated  
Press.  
In Kabul, President  
Hamid Karzai's Cabinet  
convened in emergency ses­ 
sion after the killing of min­ 
ister Mirwais Sadiq ­a son  
of Herat's powerful gover­ 
nor ­and dispatched extra  
troops to try to calm the  
city.  
Presidential spokesman  
Khaleeq Ahmed said only  
that the minister had been  
shot in his car and circum­ 
stances were unclear.  
However, a top Herat mil­ 
itary commander, Zaher  
Naib Zada, told the  
Associated Press by tele­ 
phone Sunday night that his  
forces had killed Sadiq in a  
confrontation after the min­ 
ister went to Zada's home  
to fire him.  
Afterward, Zada's forces  
and soliders loyal to Sadiq  
began fighting with  
machine guns, tanks and AP 
rockets for control of the  
Afghan Civil Aviation Minister Mlrwals Sadlq cuts a ribbon In accepting an Alrbus­city's main military bar­ 
30084 aircraft In 2002. Sadlq was assassinated Sunday In the western city ofracks. Zada said between  
Herat, a government spokesman said. Gunmen shot Sadlq as he sat In his car In50 and 100 soldiers were  
killed in the first hours of Afghanistan's main western city.  
the ongoing battle.  
Sadiq is the third leading  and occasional factional  said there had been no  different account, saying  
figure of Karzai's govern­ fighting ­between his men  attack on Khan.  Sadiq had gone to Zada's  
ment, and the second avia­ and those loyal to rival war­ Aid workers in the city  residence to ask him about  
tion minister, to be killed.  lords. Sadiq was widely  speaking by phone reported  the killing of three civilians  
The father of the slain  viewed as his father's rep­ gunfire and heavy explo­ by Zada's forces two days  
minister, Ismail Khan, is a  resentative in Karzai's gov­ sions and said they had  earlier.  
former anti-Soviet com­ ernment.  been ordered to stay  Karzai's defense and inte­ 
mander who runs a large  State television had  indoors. U.N. workers  rior ministers were prepar­ 
private army and has had  reported that Sadiq's father,  scrambled into a bunker at  ing to travel to Herat to try  
firm control over Herat  Khan, had escaped a sepa­ their headquarters.  to determine the circum­ 
since the fall of the Taliban  rate attack unhurt. The  A police officer, Fahim,  stances of the killing, and  
in late 2001. But there have  presidential spokesman and  reached by telephone at the  the battles that followed,  
been persistent tensions - other officials, however,  main police station, gave a  his spokesman said.  


Monday, March 22, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Students in city schools improve 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Students in the largest urban public school systems showed improvement in reading and math in the first year under the federal education over­haul, according to a coalition of inner-city schools. 
The study by the Council of the Great City Schools reviewed state test scores from 61 urban school dis­tricts in 37 states. It com­pared 2002 and 2003 test results. 
The council's executive director, Michael Casserly said the gains in fourth-grade reading were especially impressive. 
"It's one of the first signs that the major cities are mak­ing substantial headway at the elementary school level in teaching students to read," he said. 
The report being released Monday found that 47 per­cent of the fourth-graders in the study scored at or al;>Ove proficiency in reading -a gain of almost 5 percentage points from 2002. 
For math, 51 percent of the students tested at or above proficiency, nearly 7 percent­age points better than the year before. 
For eighth-graders, 37 per­cent scored at or above profi­ciency in reading, about 1 percentage point higher than in 1992. In math,· there was a gain 
at

"It's one of the first 
of 3 percentage on these issues points, to 39 per­signs that the for the last cent proficiency. couple of
major cities are 
The scores cov­years."
making substantial 
ered the first year Sen. Edward of the No Child headway at the Kennedy, D­Left Behind law,. a elementary school Mass., said the centerpiece of study shows
level in teaching
President Bush's that city 
education agenda. students to read.,, schools need The law requires more help. He states to test stu­faulted the
· Michael Casserly
dents in grades Bush adminis­
council executive
three though eight tration for fail­
director
in math and read­
ing annually, beginning in 2005. It also calls for all children to be proficient in both subjects by 2014. 
Education Secretary Rod Paige said Sunday at 'the council's annual conference that the law "has now begun a process of reform that will make the educational system more inclusive, fair, and just," acoording to his pre­pared remarks, as provided by the Education Department. 
Casserly said the law deserves some credit for the progress, but not all of it. 

fb,e, ylir', r;i/J,a11tha-, ® CJ,{;, 
City schools improving scores 
Students in city public schools showed improvement in reading and math in the first year under the federal education overhaul, according to a coalition of inner­city schools. 
Students that tested at or above proficiency, by percent Fourth grade r:on·:i 2002 B 2003 

51 
Eighth grade ma 1992 WI 2oo3 
Reading 
~ 
Math 


About this study: Officials reviewed state
•
test scores from 61 urban school districts in 37 states. 
SOURCE: Council of the Great City AP Schools 
The law, he said in an interview, "has been an important way of focusing our attention on reading and math performance, but peo­ple have been hard work 
ing to provide 
promised 

money .for struggling schools. 
"Once again, we~re seeing that the administration's shortsighted education budg­et is shortchanging our nation's school children. Schools across the country are doing their part to improve, but their appeals for help are falling on deaf ears in the White House," he said. 
Kennedy, who was to speak at the council's conference on Monday, helped write the leg­islation. 


Disability 
continued from page 1 

Tuesday will feature a stu­dent panel discussion at 8 
p.m. at Reekers on "The Impact of the Disabled." There will be five student panelists, four of whom have disabilities and one of whom has a sister with cerebral palsy, who will share their experiences as students with or affected by disabilities. 
"I know that I want to talk about living with what is known as a 'hidden' disability because it wasn't until my time at Notre Dame that I realized just how much having a disability that is not easily seen can be extremely difficult because people have a hard time understanding that you struggle or need help," said Hoffman, who will be one of the panelists. 


Notre Dame Disability Awareness Week 
March 22-26; 2004 
5:15p.m. Mass at the Basilica Tuesday, 3/23 8p.m. at Reekers Panel Discussion by students with disabilities 
Wednesday, 3/24 9:30p.m. at Legends Theology on Tap Discussion Is there such a thing as wrongful life? 
Thursday, 3/25 ' 7p.m. -at DeBartolo 101 Autism Lecture by Patricia Stacey, author ofthe book, The Boy Who Loved Windmvs, Opening the Heart and Mind ofa Child Threatened with Autism. Free Admission. 
www.nd.edu/~bbuddies 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

Tuesday, March 23rd 
(and every third Tuesday of the month) 

7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of 

TWE IS~ ANDI"'C. COMMITT&.Ii: 0~ ClAY ANO 1-&S..AN 8TUDI:NT NtrEOS 

the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Psychology professor Kathy Gibney will moderate the dis­cussion, and it will include thoughts by coordinator of the Office for Students with Disabilities Scott Howland. 
Another faith component to the week is a Theology on Tap session on Wednesday at Legends at 9:30 p.m., which will explore the question of, "Is there such thing as a wrongful life?" During this time, Gibney and professor of biological sciences Michelle Whaley will moderate a dis­cussion exploring the medical ethics of life support, abortiol) based on amniocentesis results and stem cell research. 
Finally, the keynote lecture of the week will take place on T h u r s d ay at-7 p .m . in 1 0 1 DeBartolo, featuring Patdcia Stacey, author of the book "The Boy Loved Windows, Opening the Heart and Mind of a Child Threatened with Autism." Stacey has experi­enced the impact of disabili­ties first-hand, as she taught her son how to communicate after he was diagnosed with autism that might render him unable to walk, talk, hear or see. She was interviewed by WebMD in September and wrote an article on her experi­ences for the "'fletlantic Monthly" published in early 2003. 
The program coordinators said they hope that events throughout the week will serve to make students more open to students with disabili­ties, and more informed about their difficulties. 
"It's important to value what people with disabilities bring to both our campus and socie­ty in general," said Runkle. "That's what this week is about, valuing people's gifts and their abilities." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Monday, March 22, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow

}ones 10,186.60 -109.18 
/. Same: Qowp: Composite Volume: t,lSO 190 • 1,436,803,456 
AM£X  1,252.50  +3.94  
NASDAQ  1,940.47  -14.32  
NYSE.  .  6,501.53  -59.64  
S&PSOO  1,109.74  -12.58  
NI~(Tokyo)  11,418.51  0.00  
fTSf IOO(London) 4,417.70  +19.80  

COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.04  -0.26  24.63  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  .-2.61  -0.71  26.49  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO}  -2.89  -0.67  22.50  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.95  -0.11  11.50  
APPLIED MATL (AMAl)  -3.74  -0.79  20.34  
Treasuries  
30-YEAA BOND  +0.51  +0.24  47.19  
10-YEAA NOTE  + 1.04  +0.39  3 7.88  
5-YEAR NOTE  + 1.29  +0.35  2748  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  9.17  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.23  37.62  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +9.80  412.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.95  104.025  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  106.9  
EURO  0.8149  
POUND  0.5457  
CANADIAN$  1.335  

IN BRIEF 
Sports retailer loses profits in 2004 
PLAINFIELD. Ind. -Sports equipment and 
clothing retailer Galyan's Trading Co. said 
Thursday its profit slid 40 percent in the latest 
quarter, as higher expenses and inventory 
markdowns offset a 17 percent rise in sales. 
The company, based in the Indianapolis sub­
urb of Plainfield, reported net income of $9.99 
million, or 57 cents a share, for the fiscal fourth 
quarter ended Jan. 31. 
That's down sharply from the prior year's 
$16.7 million, or 98 cents a share. 
Galyan's said it took a pretax charge of $3.1 
million. or 11 cents a share, for markdowns· to 
improve inventory "freshness" in the outdoor 
and athletic equipment categories. 
Stocks fluctuate with terror reports 
NEW YORK-Wall Street stumbled lower 
Thursday as investors wrestled with mixed eco­
nomic data and news that Pakistani troops had 
cornered a key al-Qaida leader. Tech shares 
were dragged down by Microsoft's antitrust 
problems in Europe. 
Stocks tottered in and out of positive territory after Pakistani officials said forces had sur­rounded Osama bin Laden's top lieutenant, Ayman al-Zawahri, and possibly wounded him in a battle near the Afghan border. But while the news temporarily checked selling momen­tum after two sessions of gains, it could not fully stanch the market's downward trend. 
Senator files suit against Conseco 
INDIANAPOLIS -Former U.S. Sen. Jake Garn has filed a class-action lawsuit accusing Conseco Inc.'s life insurance division of fraud. 
The lawsuit alleges that Conseco Life Insurance Co. forced clients to pay dramatical­ly higher premiums on certain universal life policies or surrender them for cash value to bolster its parent company's troubled finances. 
Conseco officials denied the allegations on Thursday and said that benefits under the poli­cies never were guaranteed. 
The class-action lawsuit, filed Tuesday in 
U.S. District Court in Indianapolis, applies to Lifetime and Lifestyle universal life policies that were sold by hundreds of independent agents in the 1980s and 1990s. A similar law­suit was filed recently in federal court in Cleveland. 
FORTUNE 500 




Wal-Mart tops Fortune 500 list 
Leads publically traded companies for third year with sales of nearly $259 billion 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK A tail wind of improving eco­nomic conditions blew many major companies to record revenues in 2003, but none was able to knock Wal-Mart Stores Inc. off the top of the Fortune 500 list. 
With sales of almost $259 billion -nearly a quarter of a trillion dollars -the late Sam Walton's global chain of general stores topped the list of the nation's largest pub­licly traded companies for the third straight year. There was some pre­dictable shuffling among the rest of the top 10. 
Fortune's annual rank­ing, to be published in the magazine's April 5 edition. is based on the companies' sales figures as reported in financial statements for 2003. 
Jittery geopolitics kept the price of oil high, help­ing Exxon Mobil Corp. to post $213 billion in rev­enue. The 17 percent jump leapfrogged the oil compa­ny past General Motors Corp. into the No. 2 spot. 
In terms of profits, Exxon Mobil was first with $21.5 billion in earnings. Wal-Mart, which has the lower profit margins of the retailing industry, had and insurer American Fortune credited barely­parent Merck to the 83rd $9.05 billion in earnings. International Group, Inc. there interest rates, fewer spot from 17th last year. 
Carmakers GM and Ford As a group, the 500 accounting scandals, tax The magazine noted that Motor Co. came in third companies bounced back cuts and increased gov­big pharmaceutical com­and fourth respectively. from two years of profit ernment spending as help­panies as a whole took a with revenues of $196 bil­declines, posting combined ing to power the blue chip beating in 2003 due to lion and $164 billion. earnings of almost $446 boom. And although the expiring patents, competi­General Electric Co .. the billion on sales totaling war in Iraq kept oil prices tion from generic drugs provider of everything $7.5 trillion. high all year, the quick and a backlash against from jet engines to sit­"Making the accomplish­end to major fighting gave expensive medicine. coms, remained at No. 5 ment even sweeter was companies confidence, Schering-Plough Corp., for with revenue of $134 bil­the fact that few observers according to Fortune. example, dropped to 247th lion. had expected it," wrote Among the 11 debu­on the list from 187th as 
Both Ford and GE held Fortune's Janice Revell. tantes on the list. the most revenue fell from $10.2 their spots from 2002. Profits grew in 34 of the notable newcomer was billion to $8.3 billion. 
ChevronTexaco Corp. 39 industries that Fortune Medea Health Solutions, a On the upside, the moved up a spot to No. 6, tracks. And only 37 of the prescription benefits man­Federal Reserve Bank's while another refiner, 500 companies disappoint­ager that was spun off decision to keep interest ConocoPhillips. jumped ed shareholders with neg­from drug giant Merck & rates low boosted home­
• five spots to No. 7. ative returns, which the Co. Inc. last year. With builders. Cen.tex Corp .. Banking powerhouse magazine calculated by revenue of $34 billion, it Lennar Corp. and D.R. Citigroup Inc. was eighth, adding the change in a premiered at No. 41, but Horton Inc. all moved up followed by International company's stock price to its initial public offering considerably in the rank­Business Machines Corp. its dividend income. helped bump its former ings. 
ANTITRUST SUITS 
EU meets to review Microsoft fine 

Commission, the EU's executive Even a fine set at 2 percent would
Associated Press 

body. amount to around $700 million for a 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -European That's where Monti's ruling and giant like Microsoft, which expects Union antitrust officials gather fine -expected to run into the hun­to take in nearly $36 billion this Monday to review what coulq be a dreds of millions of dollars -is year.record-setting fine against Microsoft expected to be adopted. Monday's meeting comes two Corp., the final step before issuing a EU rules allow the Commission to weeks after the same advisory panel long-awaited decision against the fine antitrust violators as much as unanimously backed Monti's draft 
U.S. software giant. 10 percent of annual global revenue. ruling, which sources familiar with 
Representatives from the 15 EU The largest ever actually imposed on the 5-year-old case say finds governments were to consider a pro­a single company, however, was less Microsoft abused its Windows posal from EU Competition than 2 percent -$568 million -monopoly to unfairly gain market Commissioner Mario Monti behind against Roche Holding AG, one of share in software for playing digital closed doors ahead of Wednesday's several companies caught fixing the media and running office network meeting of the European prices of bulk vitamins in 2001. servers. 
page 8 Monday, March 22, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Victims seek answers at Nichols state trial 
Associated Press 
McALESTER, Okla. -Since her two grandsons were killed in the Oklahoma City bombing, Jannie Coverdale's thoughts have been locked on the horrific event and on answering the question that has haunted her ever since: Why? 
"The last nine years, I've just put my life on hold," Coverdale said. "Almost every­thing I do, it 
"IfTerry Nichols 

has something Jones said of his to do with the does not get the daughter, Carrie bombing." Lenz, a Drug
death penalty, we 

Coverdale Enforcement
might as well 

hopes to find Agency worker. answers in abolish the death Others oppose bombing con­the trial because
penalty in this 

spirator Terry of its cost and the
country.,,

Nichols' trial on fact that Nichols 161 state mur-is already serving der charges. Jannle Coverdale life in prison. The Opening state­case already has
Grandmother of two 

ments are cost the state
boys killed In the

scheduled about $3.4 mil­
Oklahoma City bombing 

-Monday. lion, not includ­
Nichols should be held legally accountable for the deaths of victims, who were not part of his federal trial. 
"I still don't think that my wife has been vindicated or my purposes satisfied for him killing her," Roy Sells said of his wife, Lee, a legal secre­tary for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
"Someone has to be 
accountable for 
my daughter's 
death." Doris 

Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty -something many victims' family mem­bers and survivors believe he deserves. 
They are bitter about the life prison sentence Nichols was given after his 1997 fed­eral bombing conviction. Bomber Timothy McVeigh was executed. 
"In this country we execute people for committing a sin­gle murder," Coverdale said. "If Terry Nichols does riot get the death penalty, we might as well abolish the death penalty in this country." 
Nichols was convicted of federal conspiracy and invol­untary manslaughter charges for the deaths of eight law enforcement officers in the bombing, which killed 168 people. The state charges are for the 160 other victims and one victims' fetus. 
Prosecutors allege that Nichols worked with McVeigh to plan and execute the April 19, 1995, bombing that destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building. 
Defense attorneys claim Nichols was set up by unknown coconspirators. They plan to introduce wit­nesses who claim they can identity others involved in the plot, including John Doe No. 2, a mystery man some claim to have seen with McVeigh on· the day of the bombing. 
"I will always feel that there were other people involved," Coverdale said. 
Many who lost family mem­be~s in the bombing feel 
ing prosecution expenses and security costs. 
"We think it's a waste of money, a waste of time," said Jim Denny, whose two chil­dren were injured at a day­care center in the building. "This is a black mark on our justice system." 
Bud Welch, a death penalty opponent whose daughter, 23-year-old Julie Marie Welch, was killed, said the trial "has nothing to do with the healing proces·s." · 
"Family members are being victimized again," he said. 
The trial was moved to McAlester, about 130 miles from Oklahoma City, because of pretrial publicity. 
A handful of survivors and victims' family members came for jury selection, and more are expected when tes­timony begins. · 
A fund created in 1996 to pay family members' expens­es at Nichols' federal trial in Denver will pay for up to 10 people each week to attend Nichols' state trial, said Diane Leonard, whose hus­band, Secret Service agent Donald Leonard, was killed in the blast. 
People who watched the trial's early stages expressed support for the judge's care­ful, methodical approach to picking a jury, which took just nine days of questioning. 
"We saw what happened when you don't get a good jury with the federal trial," 
said Darlene Welch,  an aunt  
of bombing victim  Ashley  
Eckles.  



Four die in helicopter crash 
Associated Press 
PYOTE, Texas-A medical helicopter crashed early Sunday en route to a hospital and killed four people, includ­ing the 3-month-old patient and his mother. 
A nurse was also critically injured in the crash near Pyote, said CeCe Wilmes, head of emergency services at Medical Center Hospital in Odessa, where the helicopter was based. The crash site is about 40 miles southwest of Odessa. 
Gusty winds, rain and light­ning were in _the area at the time, although it has not been determined if weather was a factor in the accident, said Kathleen Bartlett, a dispatcher for the Texas Department of Public Safety. 
Ana Lillia Urias had brought her baby across the border from Mexico to seek medical help, Wilmes said. Pedro Urias Modesto had been having trou­ble breathing, Wilmes said. 
The baby was being taken from a hospital in Alpine in southwest Texas to University Medical Center in Lubbock, Wilmes said. 
Wilmes said pilot Mickey Price was giving his flight coor­dinates to a dispatcher about 
Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. If you have afriend or relative who would like to be closer to you next year, tell them about Holy Cross College -we're right next door to Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's. They could complete our Associate of Arts curriculum, 
transfer, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies degree. 
Give us acall at 239-8400 or e-mail admissions@hcc-nd.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted for Summer and Fall 2004 admission. 
. 

HOLYCROSS 
~N2e~~!Tn~!:J.f.~ 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-0308 574-239-8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc-nd.edu 
£Ve'f.~ondtzed 
Notre Dame 

Graduation Announcements 
Phone, mail orfax order.Y: Jostetts Attn: PGS Order Processi11g 148 E. Broadw~· Owatonna, ~.IN 55060 
.I-800-854-7464 
30 minutes after taking off when he said "Hold on a minute." 
A minute later, Price did not respond to the dispatcher. The Department of Public Safety was called and officials located the downed helicopter at about 6 a.m. 
Bartlett said a department report shows the helicopter turned to the' southwest from its northeastern path when it flew through the Pyote area. 
The hometown of Urias and her son was unclear. The other dead were identified as Price, of Dumas, and hospital para­medic Paul Lujan, of Odessa. 



Unit•ersity of Notre Dame 

Place orders in person on:
Fax: ·J-800-655-5725 
Tuesday and Wednesday, 1\1arch 23 and 24 LaFortune Student (:enter Sorin Roon1 9:00a.m.-4:30p.m. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~·~ 
Monday, March 22, 2004 page 9
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
SAUDI ARABIA 



Authorities release 7 of 13 reformists 
Associated Press 
HIYADII -Seven of 13 Saudi reformists arrested in a crack­down on dissent that brought condemnation from Washington have been released, activists said Sunday. 
One of those released, Najib al-Khunaizi, said. they first had to pledge in writing not to peti­tion for reform of the Saudi sys­tem or talk to reporters. 
The professors, lawyers and writers, who were detained last week in several Saudi cities, had -in newspaper articles and television appearances ­criticized the kingdom's strict religious environment and slow pace of reform. 
The Saudi government began a cautious move toward reform after the Sept. 11 attacks car­ried out by 19 Arab hijackers, 15 of them Saudi. 
While it has encouraged debate and allowed newspapers more freedom to criticize, the arrests indicate the regime sees the reformists as a threat. 
"Those guys who were detained and the ideas they rep­resent have made a lot of waves, sparking a lot of debate," said Ibrahim al­Mugaiteeb, head of Human Bights First, an independent group. 

"The government was afraid the debate would not remain a debate in the papers," he added. 
Some had signed a recent let­ter to Crown Prince Abdullah calling for a speedy introduction of political, economic and social reform, including elections of the Consultative Council, which acts as a parliament and is appointed by the king. 
Ioth annual 

Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Presented by the 

SoLitlJ Bend Center for Jlfedical Education 
Spmt.mred hy the :Hedical Etluc.:lltitm Foundttti<m 
Join us for 6 informath·e e"enings as leading doctors, professionals and univcnity/mcdical school JH'ot'csso.-s discuss tht' holtl.'st topiC"s in medicine today. Free ofcharge nnd open to the general public. 
Ml'cllcal prufes.~lonal~ aH~ntlinu tb" l~duri!i> may r<!ct'i"" 2 (;;\If, c:rr:dit" pe:r $e~~ion. The lnflian:~ CniVr:n;ity Scn.lQI e>f Medidn" is acc:ceditc-.d by !be .-\.:cr;;o-d!tatfou Cuundl for Coutiuulng !\l.,dieaJ Edu~.alion to pr<l..,·ide ~:untinuin~ ntl't.!k:d i!lluo:utlou f<1r ph~·iid~n,.. 
S.~n.i.9.n..t..Tuesday, Man:h 2~. 2004 
. Uacula lJegt•m.>ruthm Ultd Glaucoma 
.Philip Gabdde, l\ID 
Ses:o;ion 3. Tuesday. Anru 6. 2UQ:I 
Tro.r1.w:ending Suj]ering: Spirituality and .ilaintaining Compa...sion in tile E11cou1tter h•itlt ll~tmau Pain 
Dominic \'adwn, :\U)h\ J'hU 
Session 5. Tuesdav. April 20. 2004 
Surgery-P<tSft Prese11tt lmcl Future 
Keith Ullenwe, MU Session 2. Tuesday, l\larch 30. 2004 

T/w Risks ami Blmejirs ofllcwmr.mt• Ther41py 
Marguerite Slu~pard, MO 
~s:-ui2n 4. Tnc~<Jav. April U, 1004 
Obesity ami Bttn'atric Surgery 
Gerardo Gomez. l\ll) 
Session (J, Tuesduy. April 27. 2004 ;'lledicltre R<~lorm: /)id the Prt•~"idelll aftd Congre~!J· Wrire a G'mJd Presaiptitm? Gn:gvry Gramefspachcr~ MO 
Time: 7:00-9;00 p.m. Place: 102 UcBartoJo Hall (west ofstadium) University of:Notre Dame To register or l"or mot·c informalion, caU Stephanie at (574} 631-7908 or Judy ut (.574.) 631-5574. 
HAITI 




U.S. Marines· shoot, wound two men 
Spokesman: men did not stop at che~kpoint 

Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE -U.S. Marines shot and wounded two men who did not stop at a checkpoint in Haiti's volatile capital, a military spokesman said Sunday. 
A French Legionnaire was accidentally shot and killed by another Frent:h soldier who was cleaning his rifle. It was the first fatality for internation­al peacekeepers in Haiti, the 
U.S. military said in a state­ment Sunday. 
The soldier was wounded Saturday night in northern Gonaives, where he was work­ing with the Third French Foreign Legion Infantry Regiment. He was flown by hel­icopter to a French ship off Haiti's coast, where he later died. 
French forces were investi­gating the accident. 
The latest U.S. Marine shoot­ing occurred late Saturday in Port-au-Prince's Pont Morin residential neighborhood half an hour after a 10 p.m. curfew imposed by international peacekeepers, Maj. Richard Crusan told The Associated Press. 
The Marines were on patrol when two men in an all-terrain 

vehicle slowly drove past 
a checkpoint and ignored 
orders to stop, Crusan said. 
Soldiers opened fire, hitting 

one man in the head and the 
other in the stomach, he said. 
Both were in stable condition at 
Canape Vert Hospital. 
Marines recovered a pistol 

with three clips of ammunition 
from the vehicle. Crusan said 
he did not know whether the 
men fired on the Marines. 
"It's still a little cloudy right 

now," he said. "We don't know 
if the Marines fired because the 
car ran the checkpoint or if the 
occupants fired at them." 
Relatives said the men were 

out buying medicine. 
The Marines form part of a multinational security force that arrived in Haiti after President Jean-Bertrand Aristide fled the country Feb. 29. 
Aristide claims Washington forced him out. The United States insists he resigned under pressure from a rebellion led by street gangs and former mil­itary officers. Some 300 people died in the three-week upris­ing. 
Marines say they have come under attack several times, apparently by "chimeres," or armed Aristide militants. Six Haitians were killed and one Marine was wounded in inci­dents before Saturday night's shooting. 
At Canape Vert Hospital, angry relatives and friends accused the Marines of shoot­ing without warning. 
Sunday morning, dozens of onlookers. gathered around the bullet-riddled vehicle, with three flat tires, windows blown out and seats smeared with blood. Across the street, the national telephone company's building was pocked with bullet holes. 
Gerald Pierre, a 40-year-old resident who claimed to have witnessed the shooting, said the men tried to pass another car stopped at the checkpoint. 
"They tried to slow down but it was too late," he said, sitting on his steps and eating pista­chios from a plastic bag. 
About 1,800 U.S. troops are in Haiti taking part in the· multinational force deployed to restore order for a new interim government headed by Prime Minister Gerard Latortue. Some 1 ,000 French soldiers also are in Haiti, but they have not reported any major clashes. 

Monday, March 22, 2004

page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


PERSPECTIVES 



Iraq: one year later 
A war of words (and the need for words), continued 
Last year I wrote to The Observer about my anxi­ety over the looming war between Iraq and the U.S. -personally, yes, but also from the perspective of a professor of literature. As I said there, quoting Wallace Stevens, "It is a world of words to the end of it" -astatement that evokes the possibility of apocalyptic 
Jacqueline

destruction but also the possi­

Brogan

bility ofspiritual and construc­
tive creativity in our actual 
world. For our actual world 
Guest

and the actions we choose to 
Columnist

make within in it begins ahnost 
always with our words, with 
how we choose to describe our 
world. 
As we all know, the words with which the United States chose to describe itself and others were not words of constructive spirituality. While calling Hussein "evil" and while saying "God is on our side," the country with the actual largest cache of weapons of massive destruction engaged in a huge media­marketing campaign labeled "Shock and Awe," which really did shock me, but not in the way intended. And despite other rhetorical maneuvers, including the toppling of a statue, the temporary draping of the U.S. flag on the statue's face, the pro­nouncement that the war is over, was justified, etc., etc., etc., ad nauseum, the war does not appear to have been justified, the war is certainly not over, but escalating, and the polarized rhetorical positions continue to escalate -again, on both sides. On my worst days, I see no possible end in sight, merely the escalation of the words between supposedly civilized countries and supposedly terrorist renegades (our perspective) which will continue to fuel actual war in increasing geographical stretches across our globe. Indeed, that is happening now with specific details (such as Madrid) that I know other of my colleagues will catalogue. 
So, what can a professor ofliterature bring to this disturbing moment in time? Currently, I am teaching a course in linguistics and another course in Critical Methodologies (focused on Ernest Hemingway and Alice Walker). The study oflinguistics naturally forces us to see that at one point in human history, the ancestors of all the countries, religions and eth­nicities involved in this crisis were literally of one family, speaking the same language on the family tree. What emerged as separate and now mutually incomprehensible languages were once mere dialec­tical variations. And the current privileging of what is called "White standard" English-over, let's say, Southern English, Ebonies, Creole, etc., is merely the imposition ofthe language ofthe people economical­ly and ethnically in power in our given region. So, too, the privileging of one language over another, one ethnic group over another, one religion over another (a salient point to remember when Judaism, Christianity and Islam each claims to be the "legiti-• mate" heir of the same patriarch Abraham). The story of the destruction of the Tower of Babel-and the resulting splintering of people and languages into incomprehensible divisions -is indeed a real story of human history, human words, human wars. It is, finally, all entwined, including the gross destruction of the earth itself in addition to human and animal lives. 
The fact that it is, finally, all entwined is a lesson we learn in this Methodology course. After examin­ing several possible ways of approaching literature, we are currently examining what I call an "eco-eth­nic-ferninist approach." Such an approach seems obvious enough when considering Walker. But what about Hemingway? We had read his famous "In Our Tune" from a formalist approach, then a genre approach, then a feminist approach -all with increasingly interesting ethical ramifications. But when we applied this eco-ethnic-feminist approach last Thursday, this generically complex work open­ing up in amazing ways that distressingly, dis­turbingly, but accurately described our own times ­our current situation, including war as the extreme consequence of certain structures that breed gender and ethnic inequalities and discriminations, gross abuse and indifference to animals and plants, a poi­soning of the earth itself which, in turns, doubles back on ourselves (a'i does war). 
Last year I urged our politicians and ourselves to summon creatively new ways of describing our­selves, new ways that would speak to our spiritual connectedness rather than encouraging ·division. In class we have struggled with words ourselves. For some, the word ''feminist" evokes man-hating, a mere reversal of the "hunter vs. the hunted," though that is far from what most feminists would ever say or do. But the word does provoke division in some cases. So we try others-when what we're con­cerned with is genuine equality. Well? Civil rights advocates are what most feminists are, but of course that phrase has its own history. Humanism does too -itstrictly described men during the Renaissance. How about some word of equality? Well, we've tried words like Socialism and Communism. And note that all these "words" become realized in our actual world. We try "Globalist," but that smacks of a con­troversial economic situation and also ignores the rest of the universe {which we now have the capability of polluting with our vari­ous wastes). 
We've finally adopted a fairly recent word in theological dis­course: not Theism (which traditionally views only God, angels, and "man" [sic] as hav­ing souls; not Pantheism (which means mul­tiple gods everywhere \-\'ith different levels of pow­ers, etc.), but pan-en-the­ism: God in everything. Such a message is clearly Walker's in "The Color Purple," when presented with its positive and creative realization. Such a message is also Hemingway's in "In Our Tune," which ruthlessly exposes the violations against women, minorities, animals, plants, the earth­and, yes, white men as well-when words and real­ized political structures deny our interconnected spirituality and insist on domination through the cliche (but rhetorically masked) "Might Is Right." 
Linguistics and a needed methodology for seeing not only literature but also ourselves together sug­gest our own culpability in our current global crisis. Together they point to the need for real spiritual · leaders everywhere -by which I do not necessarily mean Christian, Catholic, whatever. I do mean gen­uine spiritual leaders who can step beyond our his­torical differences in languages, religions and ethno­centric justifications to describe and create a future world as yet unrealized but in which we all can truly live. 
On my worst days since last year's bombings, I think this dream is impossible. But on others, usually the days I'm genuinely interacting with my students, while teaching literature, I feel the qualified but nearly explosive joy in another line by Stevens when he says, "It must be possible. Possible. Possible. Possible." Or, as he says in another poem, the need for "the sounds of right joining." 
Jacqueline Brogan is a professor ofEnglish. who also wrote a column last year on the impending Iraq war. She can be reached atjbrogan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 


A somber anniversary 
One year ago, the Bush administration claimed the Iraq war was justified to stop an Iraq that possessed weapons of mass destruction and aided al-Qaeda terrorists. Today, the Bush administration claims the Iraq war was justified because it liberated the Iraqi peo­ple and has made the world safer. Now as the fog begins to clear, it is apparent that most, if not all, of these per­ceptions were and are misguided. On this one­Peter Quaranta year anniversary of the war, we owe it to the hundreds ofdead U.S. soldiers and thousands of dead Iraqi civilians to seriously evaluate the A Call to consequences and learn the lessons of this 
Action 
ongoing chapter of world history. 

In the march to war in the early months of 2003, the Bush administration claimed it knew that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction and had ties to al­Qaeda. These two assertions represented the foundation of the justi­fication for war. On Dec. 4, 2002, then White House press secretary Ari Fleischer stated, "The president of the United States and the sec­retary of defense would not assert as plainly and bluntly as they . have that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction ifit was not true." One year later, the intelligence evidence has proven these claims were untrue. 
The failure of Bush's claims to materialize raises substantial ques­tions. Did the Bush administration intentionally mislead the American public? Would the American public have stood for military 
action ifthey had known the facts? What are the consequences for a president who misleads his people into war? No clear answers remain, but the lack of attention to these questions is appalling. Since such intelligence epiphanies, the Bush administration and others have shifted to other arguments for war, especially the liberation of the Iraqi people. There are two problems with this approach. First, making justifications for a war in its aftermath sets a dangerous precedent and undermines 
any ethical approach to war that would seek to establish criteria for entering war. Second, while these arguments may possess certain truths, they fail to completely reflect 
the available evidence. 

The most popular of these post-war justifications is that the Iraqi people have been liberated from a ruthless dicta­tor. This is an indisputable gain, but to simply look at this gain, without evaluating the larger picture. is naive. Over the past year, thousands of Iraqi civilians have been killed, with estimates ranging from 7,000 to 10,000. The war shattered an already devastated Iraqi economy. Iraq has a third less drinking water than before the war, the sewage 
of Baghdad continues to flow untreated into the Tigris River and many hospitals lack sanitary and basic equip­ment. The country's future remains unknown and civil war 
threatens as the United States plans a hasty transition of power. To simply rejoice for the liberation of the Iraqi people is to ignore the current plight ofmost Iraqis, who live in fear and poverty. Yet, the costs of this war have not been bore solely by the Iraqis. The costs for the United States have been high. More than 560 U.S. troops are dead, and 2,700 arc wounded. The U.S. army is extended as never before, with over 100,000 U.S. troops 
deployed in Iraq. These troops are facing a growing number of shootings and bombings. As for U.S. taxpayers, estimates suggest that the cost of the war has been $107,093,500,000. It is scary to think of positive measures domestically and internationally that could be undertaken with such an immense number. 
However, the question that is most pressing is this: Are we safer as a result of this war? The New York Times, in its general editorial, writes that the war has diverted scarce resources from the war on terror throughout the globe. Without doubt, the Iraq war has led to a less secure world, especially for the United· States. According to the respected Pew Forum polls, support for the United States is at a record low, which provides a scary impetus for global terrorists. The United States has alienated itself from allies and the United Nations in an unprecedented way. The tragic bombings in Spain, as part of a tremendous increase in al-Qaeda attacks over the last year, suggest deterioration of global security. It is a mistake to suggest that the Iraq war and the war on terror are convergent. 
On this first anniversary of the Iraq War, we should be somber. And we must act. First, the thousands of troops that remain in flux need our support as they face a country where confusion and chaos are more often the order of the day. We must be prepared to help with post-traumatic stress disorder and healing when troops return horne. Second and tied to this, we must not shy away from sober scrutiny of our intelligence, this war and the situation in Iraq. We must commit ourselves to never make the same mistakes again. We must learn from the past and the present, and use these lessons, both in November when we head to the polls and throughout our lives, to win the peace and secure our world. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore political science and international peace studies major. He is a member ofthe Notre Dame Peace Coalition, which meets Wednesdays at 8:30p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Contact him at pquarant@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
p 

Monday, March 22, 2004
page 12 

THE OBSERVER 

Debunking terrorism myths
11Hl~<. /Mil;r~Saft~N.~ IJ..< ...J.s.t.tM.ory~ 
P.O•.Box Q, Noue rnm~. lN 46~~ 024 South D.lnitig Halt. Notn: Dain.:,:IN46);6· 
EDiroR IN CHIEf 
Matt Lotar. . •.· •..·· ..·. 
MANAGlNG EDrt'OR BUstmss M:AN'Am!ll 
Meghanne I)Q"Wne$· · · Lor~ ~lci 
AsST. MANAGING Eorroa · . J()c: Hettler · Nm Enrroru ClalreHeirtlnger • • · VIEWPOJNT EDITOR: Sac.ithVahuw • . SJ!QRT$ EDrroa; J:iqth<:r Van H~g:u-den 
SeEN£ EDIToR; M~ria Smith 
SAINT MARY's Eo~ Angda Sao~ :PHom EDITOR: Chuy Bcmirel: Gwmcs Eorroru Mike Harkins 
ADVEimSING MANAGFJt: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESlGN MANAGE.R: Kelly Nelson 


...··••· •· ~e Obse~r is the hld.ependen_t;d,ailynewspaper 
published in print and online by the 5tudcnts of the . ··• IJtilversio/ofN&t"e Damed~L:l¢~dSaintMazy's . . •·•··. College. lli{itriri~ ~[~§ .irtC:tu4i#,g#iver~ts; ~ ........ • >·.!WtgovemC!'dll)' poticle'S ~~ admihistration ofeithei •· ·• ·.•. 
i!$titunon.1M~r ~es tbeiightfu £~~ · ·.• ·• · · 
.•.......·~d~:·~=d·~~~.·~b~ctfvdy·~···
flOssible.U~dedito~tep~nnhe opuuort of · 
•·•••· ·the majorio/ Ofth~ Edit& WChiet f¥iariagirig Edltot, ~~t M~amngf4~~9fll@#i.p~t ¥#<lrs...... Cciminen~ lt!ttci'S ~ ¢oluiJmS present file vieW5 ·. · · · ~~or~ and~tllet~~Hly~~ •.·· ... 
·•· •••·· ··. VKWpol!lt space :Is a~Labfe tb illffb.dct5. The 6:ee •· •··• expression ofaU opuuof15 tf1pugh le(ters i5 encou~<L • •• ~1'$ tQ me Edi~~i~l~( l¥i $.gned ind mU$\ itwfude
>conract information. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
Al-Qaeda, Hamas and Hezbollah: three terrorist groups that are responsible for thousands of deaths, millions of dollars in damage and a psychological toll that is beyond measure. In the post-Sept. 11 world, it seems as if the names of ter­
Greg Parnell 
rorist groups appear just as often in the news as the Ideas, Issues names of nations and themselves. Yet for Ideologuesall the coverage these groups receive, many Americans still have a very flawed view of what terrorism is all about. 
1. Terrorists are not crazy. 
Perhaps the most widespread false­hood about groups such as Al-Qaeda is that their members are all crazy. Many people comment, "Whoever planned to fly airplanes into the World Trade Center and Pentagon must have been completely insane, for who would honestly think that killing 2,000 civilians and antagonizing the United States military would help their cause?" And, "The individuals who actually carried out the orders are even more insane, because who would commit suicide to advance a vision that they would never experience?" 
In reality, interviews with members of these organizations have shown that they are in perfect mental health. Terrorist plans are not put together on a psychotic whim to satisfy an urge for mass murder, but are constructed over a course of years by a group of intelligent leaders thoroughly weighing the costs and bene­fits. They might miscalculate at times, but so does every government, and every person for that matter. Bad decisions do not necessarily mean that a person is crazy. 
Those who carry out the acts them­selves also think carefully about what their decisions entail. They make a con­scious decision to sacrifice their lives for something they believe in. The men and women who fought the hijackers and crashed the plane into the woods of 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Pennsylvania died trying to protect some­thing that they deemed to be greater than themselves. For that, we call them heroes, not lunatics. I challenge you to understand that for many, the hijackers were heroes in the same way, because they, too, were willing to die for a greater cause. 
2. Terrorists are not homeless beggars who are simply brainwashed by charis­matic leaders. 
But why would they want to commit suicide to fight America? We think, per­haps it is because they are devastated by extreme poverty and hate Americans for their luxurious iifestyle. Perhaps they are uneducated and simply do not under­stand the true meaning of American democracy. Or, most likely, manipulative monsters like Osama Bin Laden seek out the most weak-willed prey and gather them in as pawns for their diabolical war. 
The evidence suggests otherwise. Of the biographical data collected from the families of all Hezbollah members killed between 1982 and 1994, the fighters were on average more educated and less impoverished than the Lebanese citizens around them. Ukewise, most of the Sept. 11 hijackers were from Saudi Arabia, the country boasting the most wealth and best educational system of the entire Middle East. Another study of terrorist groups from around the world showed that approximately two-thirds of the indi­viduals associated with terrorist groups have a university degree, and well over two-thirds come from the middle or upper class of their respective society. 
Most terrorists fight not because they are brainwashed, but because they believe that they are fighting for a politi­cal cause. It is true that terrorist leaders use rhetoric to convince individuals to join them. However, this is no different than President Bush using rhetoric to make Americans feel that they should support a war against terrorism or in Iraq. Both situations are grounded in a political reality that demands action, and in both cases, effective leaders use emo­tion to motivate people to comply. 
3. Just because terrorists' tactics are extreme does not mean that their causes are notjust. 
Terrorism is a form of psychological warfare. It is waged when an individual or group knows that he cannot defeat his enemy using direct force. Since conven­tional war is futile but the status quo is intolerable as well, the terrorist instead attacks the "kinks in the knight's armor" -high-profile targets like civilians-in an attempt to destroy the stronger force's willingness to fight. Terrorism like this has existed for thousands of years, (although the targets, weapons of choice, and methods have changed) and histori­cally, it has proven to be one of the least effective modes of effecting change. 
As brutal and malicious as terrorism is. it is folly to automatically assume that a terrorist's cause is unjust. Israel has been an illegal occupier of the West Bank and Gaza Strip for almost 50 years, a situa­tion no different than Saddam Hussein invading Kuwait or the Communists in Eastern Europe. Many years ago, the Palestinians fought back with civil dis­obedience: pamphlets, strikes and boy­cotts. Yet for decades, the Western pow­ers have ignored the Palestinians' plea for justice. Only in recent years, a full generation after the occupation began, have Palestinians given up on a peaceful political withdrawal and have turned to more extreme measures to get the world's attention. 
I condemn terrorism as much as the next person, but I feel it extremely important that before I do, I know what it is these groups want and why they are willing to die for it. Only by understand­ing the terrorists' goals and motivations will we be able to win the war against terror. 
Greg Parnell is a sophomore political science and economics major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at gparnell@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Prioritizing law-enforcing efforts 

This letter is meant to address the St. Patrick's Day incident that occurred at the College Park apartment complex on Wednesday afternoon. We are all seniors at Notre Dame and reside in the complex. Our concerns are related to the accuracy of the coverage and the portrayal of Notre Dame students. 
We have complete respect for the work of the Police Department, and understand that their presence was necessary due to the unfortunate incident. However, we feel that the actions certain oflicers took were unwarranted and irresponsi­ble. The story that was reported in the newspaper, and other news networks did not attempt to uncover the full story, there­fore portraying the entire incident as a raucous and unlawful crowd. 
1\vo of our friends were arrested, without charge, and held in the backseat of a police car for two hours. Upon their release, they were told that they were "interfering with emergency crews"-even though the crews had already attended to the 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL .·Scott .Andrew Soukup Brodfuehrer Megan Hawley Laura Vilim Eric Retter 

Should the U.S. withdraw from Iraq by the
Viewpoint. >Scene •• ·• Eileen Duffy Maria Smith June 30 deadline? 
•·•··· ...<;raphics illustrator Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Mike Harkins Pat Quill 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 

injured student on the other side of the complex. Further, ofii­cers told them next time to "not make such a spectacle," when the only spectacle were the unwarranted arrests. 
In truth, oflicers were looking to unduly exert their authority over students. Their main concern involves drinking among Notre Dame students. At one time there were over 10 police cars at the complex to break up parties; where were they (and the news coverage) when 12 apartments were broken into over the holidays? It seems that the Police Departments need to reconsider their priorities. 
Patrick Malloy 
Michael Lane 
Kevin Rooney 
sen tors off-campus March 18 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Mankind must put an end to war, or war will put an end to makind." 
John F. Kennedy 
U.S. president 

Debating the ends 
of higher 


education 

A friend of mine called Ben, whom I have known since we were 
freshmen together at university, has for some time suffered from 
two persistent difficulties. The first is that for the duration of his 
undergraduate career, Ben's life resembled nothing so much as a 
pornographic film from which all the sex had been removed, leaving 
only a succession of implausible plot contrivances. 
To give an example of what I'm talking about, 
Ben was once invited to give motorcycling les­Peter Wicks 
sons to a group of 18-year-old high school girls. 
That (I think we can all agree on this ) just isn't 
the sort of thing that happens in real life, or Englishman 
even in reputable works of fiction. But it hap­Abroad 
pened to Ben and, even more implausibly, he 
remained chaste throughout the process. 
The pathos of Ben's situation was that he didn't want to take 
advantage of any of the girls, but sometimes he wanted to want to 
take advantage of them. I know quite a few men like that, but none 
of the others had to endure anything like the succession of tantaliz­
ing situations that was Ben's life. By our final year at Oxford I kept 
expecting a group of female aliens bearing an uncanny resemblance 
to the Brazilian beach volleyball team to land their flying saucer 
outside Ben's dorm and refuse to leave until he agreed to help them 
repopulate their planet. 
But this was only one of the two sources of Ben's frustration. The 
other was that he was a psychology student and no one except other 
psychology students seemed to have the slightest idea what that 
involved. When he told people what he studied they would almost 
invariably pause for a moment to consider this and then ask, ..So, 
can you tell what I'm thinking?" 
As background, I should explain that in England there is no tradi­
tion of the liberal arts degree. Most people attend university for 
three years and study only one subject or occasionally two closely­
related subjects. 
One consequence of this is that the vast majority of university­educated Englishmen end up basing their conception of psychology on the portrayal of criminal psychologists in Hollywood movies, which usually treat the subject with the same meticulous attention to d'etail that Hollywood has brought to the practices of computer hackers. In America, psychologists are often frustrated when they are confused with psychiatrists, just as astronomers are annoyed when they are confused with astrologers. In England, most psychol­ogists are just happy to meet anyone who realizes they are not psy­chic. 
Ben got no pity from me regarding the situation with the high school girls and the bikes, but I sympathized with his other frustra­tion because philosophy has a similar public relations problem. I know that a lot of my friends can't help imagining that when I'm in my office I wear a toga and spend hours in silent contemplation, leaning forward with my chin resting on my fist, doing my best impression of a Rodin sculpture. 
I once met a woman who, when I told her that I was a philosophy student, asked me if we read Deepak Chopra. Chopra, I subsequent­ly discovered, is the author of such seminal works as "Perfect Weight: The Complete Mind/Body Program for Achieving and Maintaining Your Ideal Weight" and the indispensable ''Grow Younger, Live Longer: Ten Steps to Reverse Aging." I'm not mocking the woman, who was clearly very intelligent, but there is something wrong with a college education that did not equip her to distinguish between Chopra's new-age wellness garbage and Plato's Republic. 
There used to be a substantial amount of books and ideas with which you could assume that every university-ed,ucated person was familiar. Classical literature occupied a central place and a large amount of history could be assumed. 
But while there is much to envy about the old curriculum, we should not mourn its loss. There was very little science, and some things had to go to make room for that. Psychology is now an important part of our quest to understand ourselves, and everyone should have at least a basic knowledge of its history and concepts. Similarly, most of what is written about the Human Genome Project is confused and misleading and everyone with a liberal education ­not just biology majors -should know enough about genetics to recognize that. To give just one more example, everyone should be taught enough about statistics to realize how easy it is to lie with them. 
The old curriculum needed to change, but what did not need to be abandoned was the idea of a core curriculum, which is closely tied to the idea of a common culture (a culture which does not replace, but rather is shared between many subcultures). There are some things that every educated person should know, some books that every educated person should have read. One of the ends to which higher education should be directed is equipping us to take part in the endless debate about what they are. 
Peter Wzcks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. His moods are so completely determined by the weather that he is beginning to suspect that he may be a plant. Peter can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu · 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Reacting to the ''Sea of Orange" 
Divorcing marriage from government 
It is irof.lic that those who have been most eager to mislabel the effort to secure equal rights for homosexuals as a quest for "spe­cial rights" are now leading proponents of laws and constitutional amendments to pre­serve the special rights of married hetero­sexuals. 
In compliance with our constitutional sep­aration of church and state, perhaps govern­ment should get completely out of the mar­riage business and leave protection of the "sanctity" and "sacred, sacramental charac­ter" of marriage to religious denominations. 
Of course, this would entail removing all of the special legal incidents that currently flow from marriage. Then, in compliance with our constitutional guarantees of equal protection and due process, and in the inter­est of avoiding the inherent inequality of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

. ~/.:~:-;* 
..:·:·.:.-.~::::~·: .........:::' ..•:l: ··-..:· 
j n,J.. i_j::.:...-:·:::·:""H.:c·>-('-;;.;•·;;~·.-o·:oo'·' 
., -i; f"l,I,D 
"separate but equal" and of promoting true "family values" that do not include hatred and discrimination, those incidents would attach to government-instituted "civil unions" open to both opposite-sex and same-sex couples. Depending upon the rules of their particular religious denomination, such couples still might, but need not, get married in religious ceremonies. 
Thus we could disentangle government from sectarian disputes over what God wants, while following the biblical directive to "render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God's." 
Lawrence Bradley class of '60 March 20 
Gus Zuehlke class of'80 March 18 



Wearing of shirts is sinful 
I read about the orange T-shirts that 1,600 Notre Dame community members purchased which read, "Gay? Fine by me." It is usually good to see unity over important issues. In this case, however, the people who bought the shirt have chosen the wrong course of action. If these people had the actual experience of counseling homosexuals as I have in my position as a lay pastoral associate in a local parish, they would realize that social promotion of the homosexual lifestyle is counter-productive to the true interest of homosexuals. 
Is it possible that the people w.ho bought the orange shirt have completely forgotten that the Church has always taught that homosexual activity is intrinsically wrong? The reason I oppose the open acquiesance to homosexual behavior now are the same rea­sons I.opposed it as a student in the late 1970s. 
I find St. Paul's argument in Romans I to be conclusive on this subject. My Jerusalem Bible says, "The more they called themselves philosophers, the more stupid they grew ... that is why God has abandoned them to degrading passions: why their women have turned from natural intercourse to unnatural practices and why their menfolk have given up natural intercourse to be consumed with passion for each other." St. Paul taught that homosexual culture and behavior were a result of the rejection of God in the society. For he continues, "Since they refused to see it was rational to acknowledge God, God has left them to their own irrational ideas and to their monstrous behavior." 
By choosing to wear the orange shirt, you are effectively encouraging a lifestyle which is directly opposed to the Gospel's way of life. By encouraging homosexual activity you become an accomplice to b~havior that is mortally sinful. Christian people can find more beneficial ways to show friendship and truth to the homosexual members of the Notre Dame family without caving in to their demands for psuedo-tolerance. 
..•. ·"'··....... 
..~·.Y 

~:;ij~l.~:;~·;··~ 
:~ .: -~ ·{[ ·:\:::.;~::-:;:_:·:-~=.:· 
<· 
I ,, .........e,oh•. 
<:f.}J:\ ·(:t':j 
·!:>-··.-.:· ~ .. 
.......... 


Monday, March 22, 2004 

page 14 



r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·· 


By KATIE WANGER and 
MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Writers 
It might be snowing this week in South Bend, but April and warm weather are coming up. It's time to get to the mall, break out the cred­it card and invest in some new styles to show off the spring break tan. 
This spring's look for women is bound to get even those who simply are not into fashion racing to the malls. 
That's because the clothes are more colorful, exotic, feminine and flattering than they have been in years. The diversity of clothing items and accessories that are in style this spring is what makes being fashionable so attractive and easy. With so many different cuts for skirts and dresses available, every girl is bound to find something ultra-feminine that flatters her figure 
Skirts 
For example, this spring's fashionable skirts range from extremely short to knee-length, to mid-calve­length, to even ankle length. Fringe is popular for all skirts and looks best on longer skirts. Ruffles and asymmetrical hems are two things to look for when pick­ing out your spring skirt. 
To give yourself a cute Euro-look try a multi-lay­ered mini with legwarmers. These-skirts somewhat resemble last year's short pleated shirts, but have more feminine flair to them. Of course sporty tennis-inspired skirts. plaid kilts and other kinds of pleated skirts are still very in this spring. These pleats can be either large or tiny. Just keep in mind that for pleat­ed and multi-layered skirts, the shorter the better. 
Dresses 

There's also more than one dress style favored by designers this spring. If you've always felt you were made for '20s styled clothes, it's your time to look your best in a silky flapper­inspired dresses. These are straight, drop at the waist and have asymmetrical hems. If you'd prefer to have been born in the '50s, you can sport this decade's dresses, too. They are full­skirted and fitted every­where else -think Audrey Hepburn. Also, don't throw out your timeless halters or strapless dresses that are frilly and full of ruffles. The best length to go with for dresses is slightly above the knees. 
Shoes 
If you are on the shorter side and just can't stand dresses of this length, put on a pair of high strappy dress shoes to lengthen your legs. Ballet flats, high-heeled san­dals, round-toed pumps and any kind of colored shoes, including sneakers, are the newest styles to put on your feet. 
Colors 
When it comes to choosing the right color for this spring, pink is your best bet. Any shade will do, but hot pink certainly is the hottest color on the runway. If pinks don't work with your com­plexion, try tropical colors such as blue, yellow, orange, lime-green, teal or soft mint green. Purchasing pants. dresses, skirts and purses with either tiny or big flower prints incorporating some of these colors would be great moves. Clothing and bags with stripes and polka dots are also in style. 
As for jackets, colored trenches are the number one buy and very short jack­ets are also very stylish. 
Accessories 
While you may feel under­standably overwhelmed by all these new accessories, tops and skirts that have been appearing in your shopping malls, don't stress. The styles of previous springs have not yet been forgotten. You can keep wearing your mules, san­dals, high boots, cropped pants, Hawaiian prints and lace. Also, use all your solid tanks and tees for layering under this spring's off-the­shoulder sweaters, shirts and sweatshirts. 
Bare your shoulders and bra-straps to feel as sexy as Sixteen Candles' Samantha Baker (Molly Ringwald) when she finally kisses Jake Ryan. 
Once you've got an off-the­shoulder, top, a very cute skirt and some bright shoes, you might want to acces­sorize. Satin ribbons and flowers are the best editions to any outfit, whether worn in the hair or on clothes. Ribbons are great for accen­tuating waists. Colorful bracelets and hoop earrings are also items worth trying. 
As for fabrics, silk, satin, 

L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· 

Women's Stinger Di! $86.99 from Dies· jacket, $88.00 fror check premium dre from Banana Repu jogger, $49.99 from Pintuck snap shirt, $34.50, patchwork clutch, $19.50, striped scarf, $16.50 each, available from The Gap. Linen jacquard skirt, $88.00, available from J. Crew. Women's marmalade stretch san­dals, $59.99, available from Steve Madden. 
THE 0BSER\l£R 
E
Monday, March 22, 2004 


page 15 

-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 

chiffon and anything sheer fit, this spring's look best, since these materials are so feminine. 
This spring's fashion is great because it leaves plen­ty of room for experimenta­tion and provides girls with the opportunity to dress as femininely and vibrantly as they desire. 
Men's fashion this spring revives some old trends, updates some more recent. ones and infused clothing with some outside influ­ences. The amalgamation of new and retro styles some­how comes together into a coherent style for this spring, even offering some 
. fashionable leeway for deal­ing with inclimate weather. The blending and borrowing between different elements of style makes these trends easy to follow, and difficult to mess up. You may already have some of the big items sitting in your closet. Athletic wear A variety of sports are being tapped as influences for this spring's fashion, including track, motocross and soccer. The key to wearing athletic pieces is to mix them up with other style elements. so as to not look like you're just an ath­lete suiting up for a game. Many of the pieces have a retro '70s feel to them, especially in the bright col­ors paired with white strips and other details. Examples of this fashion fusion would include wearing a sporty jacket with dress pants or pairing athletic shoes with a suit. 
Polo shirts 
While always a fashion staple, polos are enjoying added attention this spring. Expect to see a variety of polo styles, like fitted or classic. Patterns range from brights to stripes. Brands like Ralph Lauren and Banana Republic are always classics, but this year her­alds the Lacoste revival. The shirts were popular in the '80s and disappeared from the fashion radar for a while, but they are back with a vengeance this year. Palos are always popular among a variety of different age groups, but it is enjoy­ing its new place in the fashion world because of the athletic influences tingeing most of the spring collec­tions. 
Denim 
Jeans are another staple of every male's wardrobe, but the styles vary from sea­son to season. This spring, two completely different types of denim are in style. Dark denim with a clean fin­ish is one of the main styles, and the fact that it can be easily dressed up or down makes it an extremely ver­satile style. The other major look in denim this season is distressed jeans. These jeans are slightly ripped and faded to give the appear­ance of age. This style is less versatile than un-dis­tressed jeans, but it does add some edge to an outfit. It also goes well ·\lith athlet­ic-or punk-inspired looks. 
Shoes 
Tennis shoes are a neces­sity for every wardrobe, but that doesn't necessarily put them in the ranks of high fashion. With the incorpora­tion of athletic styles into the fashion world, tennis shoes have begun to move up the ranks of the fashion ladder. Many athletic shoe companies, like Nike and Adidas, have begun to make more fashion-friendly mod­els. Popular styles include bright colors and some throwbacks to shoes from the '70s and '80s. Companies like Prada and Dolce & Gabbana are mak­ing· shoes, revealing the trend has pervaded even the upper echelons of the fash­ion world. 

Suits 

Spring often brings new innovations to classic styles, and men's suits are a per­fect canvas for such fashion re-workings. Pinstripes and other classic styles are regaining their popularity, and one of the biggest trends in men's wear this season is pairing striped or patterned shirts and ties together to create contrast­ing textures. Another trend in suits this season is incor­porating less formal ele­ments into dressing up. Suits are being designed to be worn with tennis shoes, and many have lower waists and wider legs so as to look less fitted and more laid back. Suits now have the freedom to be completely tailored or somewhat less fitted and formal. 
Contact Katie Wagner and Molly Griffin at kwagner@nd.edu and mgriffin@nd.edu 
·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·--~ 
scovery sneakers, iel. Stretch jean m J. Crew. Color­ass shirt, $68.00 1blic. Lotus nylon t Kangaroo. 

Chest-striped jersey polo, $29.50, 1969 boot fit jeans, $98.00, available from Gap. Men's Hansel wish sneakers, $84.99, avail­able from Diesel. D-ring belt, $34.00, available from J. Crew. 

Monday, March 22, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
\ WOMEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 
~ 
I 
~ 
: I 




I Irish to face Middle Tennessee in second round 
I \ 
l ' I\ 
I!
I \ l 



Associated Press 

At left, Duke players celebrate during their blow-out win over Northwestern State. Tar Heel Camille Little, center, tries to block Jenne Webb. Middle Tennessee's win elimi­nated North Carolina In the first round for the first time In almost twenty years. At right, Texas guard Adrlanne Ross fights for a rebound against Southern. 
Associated Press were 0-of-13 on 3-pointers. Atlantic Coast Conference tournament about us." 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Patrice Holmes then made the clinching foul championship March 8. They didn't No. 1 Texas 92, No. 16 Southern 57 Holmes scored 18 points, including shots for Middle Tennessee State, show much rust, shooting 49 percent It has been 16 years since Texas was two free throws with 8.3 seconds left, which was 14-of-15 from the line. and taking an 55-30 edge on the a No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament. to lead Middle Tennessee State to a The Tar Heels outrebounded Middle boards. The Longhorns figured to have some 6 7-62 victory Sunday over No. 12 Tennessee State 46-37 and outscored In addition, Duke held Northwestern fun with it. North Carolina in the first round of them inside 48-34, but they couldn't State (24-7) to 28 percent shooting, Tiffany Jackson scored 21 points and 
the NCAA tournament. overcome their 17 turnovers. The blocked nine shots and scored 22 the Longhorns, the top seed in the 
This was just the second NCAA tour­Lady Raiders scored 20 points off points off 19 turnovers. West Regional, rolled over Southern nament victory in nine attempts for North Carolina's turnovers, while No. 1 Penn State 79, No. 16 Sunday night, putting on a show for a the 13th-seeded Lady Raiders, who North Carolina had only 10 points off Hampton 42 home crowd that didn't get to see any 
play Tuesday against host Notre of Middle Tennesse State's 14 Penn State lived up to its top billing of Texas' run to the Final Four last Dame. The Irish (20-1) beat Southwest turnovers. and had its way with Hampton. season. Missouri State 69-65 in overtime After jumping to a 9-2 lead, Middle The No. 1 seed in the NCAA East Jamie Carey scored 18 points. and Sunday. North Carolina lost in the first Tennessee went ahead 18-17 on a Regional moved on to the second Heather Schreiber added 15 for Texas round of the tournament for the first. layup by Stovall with 7:59 left in the round with an easy victory on Sunday. (29-4). combining for a flurry of first­
:tI time since 1985. first half. The Lady Raiders led the The Lady Lions (26-5) will have to half 3-pointers that buried the 
Krystle Horton had 16 points for rest of the way, including 35-26 at work a little harder on Tuesday night Jaguars early with a 55-22 halftime Middle Tennessee, Keisha McClinic halftime. when they take on eighth-seeded lead. had 13 points and nine rebounds and No. 1 Duke 103, No. 16 Virginia Tech on its home floor, but The Longhorns ran the nation's Tia Stovall added 12 points and six Northwestern State 51 guard Jess Strom said she and her longest home winning streak to 35 and rebounds. Nearly two weeks had passed since teammates will welcome the chal­advanced to the second round Tuesday 
Camille Little led the fourth-seeded Duke's last game, and the Blue Devils lenge. against the Michigan State-Arizona Tar Heels with 19 points and Bell fin­had grown tired of practicing against Virginia Tech (23-7) beat Iowa 89-76 winner. ished with 14 points and seven one another. in the early game Sunday. Rolanda Monroe and Ashley Blake rebounds. Boy were they ready for the NCAA "We've played a lot of tough teams each scored 16 points to lead 
The Lady Raiders (24-7) led 60-48 tournament to start. from the Big Ten on their home court, Southern (17 -13). with 6:30 left, but Jessica Bell scored Reserve Jessica Foley scored a so I think we'll be ready," Strom said. The Longhorns had earned their a pair of rebound baskets to spark a career-high 18 points to lead the top­Penn State's 15-1 conference record first top seed since 1988, but were 10-0 run by the Tar Heels (24-7). seeded Blue Devils past No. 16 seed suggests she might be right. coming in off a loss in the Big 12 tour­Fourth-seeded North Carolina cut the Northwestern State in the first round Penn State was trying to shake off a nament title game and struggling to lead to 60-58 when Kenya McBee hit of the Mideast Regional on Sunday. loss to Purdue in the Big Ten tourna­find the form they showed in February two free throws with 3:44 left. Ieiss Tillis had 17 points and 11 ment championship, and got started when they reached No. 1 in The 
North Carolina had a chance to tie rebounds for the Blue Devils (28-3}, right away. The Lady Lions ran off 22 Associated Press rankings. the score at 64, but 6-foot-6 center who scored the game's first 13 points points in the first half to open a 29-6 It took about 18 seconds to find it. Candace Sutton missed from under­and were never challenged. Duke lead. tacy Stephens won the opening tip neath. McClinic hit a free throw to advanced to the second round to face "I think it was a combination of over Southern's 6-foot-4 center give the Lady Raiders a three-point ninth-seeded Marquette, which beat defense and us attacking on offense," Fredrieka Lewis. Schreiber hit a 3­lead. Ivory Latta then missed a 17• No. 8 seed Old Dominion 67-64. said Kelly Mazzante, who led the Lady pointer, was fouled by Shere footer for North Carolina and Bell The Blue Devils hadn't played since Lions with 18 points in 26 minutes. Cunningham, made the free throw and failed on a 3-pointer as the Tar Heels beating North Carolina 63-47 for the "We understood that this game was all the rout was on. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Part time supply center admin DOMUS PROPERTIES ... COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR This person will be responsible for HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE... LEASE 2004-2005. Academic year Oakhill Condo, 2-3 bedroom, 2 inventory, ordering, labeling, at the 2 BEDROOM HOUSE. .. -Available June 1 . 2 bath, one block from ND,
NOTICES 

FoR SALE
supply center in Galvin Life 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... bdrm·2 bath • Fully Furnished -$425.00/person times 3 SCiences. The position AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON­Security System. (626)441-1275 or 
people, utilities included, available .hme 231-8823 after 4·oo

Catholic family offering will be approx. 10 hours a week. DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-salvaty@ earthlink.net 
Home by owner. 18827 Darden Rd. fulltime summer childcare $11.00 an hour Must have access 2005 SCHOOL YEAR .... 
3BR 2BA W/BSMNT. 1 00x360 lot. 5 opportunity to care for 4 school to email and basic excel and word WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF
Mins to ND. age children, ages 5 to 11, skills. Send information to LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 PERSONAL
623-826-8819 ND GR=AT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS Scottsdale Mall area, debra.norton@ invitrogen.com SCHOOL YEAR. .. 
2773097 

7:30AM to 5:00PM, CONTACT wages negotiable, non-smoker pre­KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Flexible Summer PT position. Teach LARGE 3 BEDROOM HOUSE for

ferred, own transportation a plus, tor Kaplan or Work in our study FoR RENT OR CELL 315-5032 Do not go it alone. rent. Beautifully redone, 2 bath­
contact Maureen @ center. Call 272-4135 to apply. FOR SHOWINGS If you or someone you love needs rooms, 2·car garage, 
(574) 231-8126. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO confidential support or assistance, w/d, basement, short walk to cam­
please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, 

CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM VERY NICE 3bdrm home in 
Catholic family offering fulltime pus. Available 5/1, $1 ,050. Call 

summer childcare opportunity to mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525 EastBank area w/washer-dryer & esc. at 1-7819. alarm system incl. 
574-876-1456. For more information, see our bi­WANTED care for 4 school age children, ages weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
5 to 11 , SCottsdale Mall area, 2 bdrm apt. for rent. NC, WID, dish­Nice yard for volleyball etc-full Student houses and apts 2-3 or 4
7:30AM to 5:00PM,wages nego­washer, spacious, close to campus. bsmt.Walk to Corbys & StJoe Wanted-Old paintings, especially bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class 
tiable, non-smoker preferred, own New appliances. $650/mo. church. Indiana and Notre Dame transportation a plus, contact Available 4/1 but flexible. Call Joe Crimmins@ 574-514-or faiL in March and get $100 back! Call 
(574) 286-9359 Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. Call Paul 514-3188. 0643( cell)or57 4-273-0002(home) 235-3655. 1-800-KAP-TEST for info. 
I 

-~-··-············· .. 
......... ·=•·· •"-•-·······"0 
. 

\.nr,,... -r t "' l ~~ ..-.. ,....{"..., ..... ,...,...,""' ,... . .... .... .' 
Monday, March 22,2004 page 17
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



If you've got ambition, we've got room. 
.. 






.. t 

. ';_-.::· .~ . ; ) 
. •·:-....... 
We set high standards. We want people who share them. People who want to work on some of the most interesting business issues, for some of the most prestigious brands in the world. You'll need to be determined, but you'll never be on your own. Because in our teams, you'll find the right experience, knowledge and support to bring you along. The sky's the limit. 

• 

·. ey.comjus/careers -. · . · •• . . . . · · . . .. . ·· ..· . .i!J·fRNST&YOUNG 
-.· . . ­
QualityIn Everything We Do 
. 
I 
I 
• 
. . 
. 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
• 
1 
' 
I 
' 
I I I I I I 
I I I 
·I 

Monday, March 22, 2004 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 







Hundreds gather to watch Vet get demolished 
Plzilly stadiu1rz's rabid fans, terrible turfgave it a legendary reputation 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA -Veterans Stadium became merely a memory Sunday when the building known for rabid fans, terrible turf and an in-house judge was reduced to a pile of rubble in just more than a minute. 
Hundreds of people gathered to watch the demolition of the place where Mike Schmidt jumped into Tug McGraw's arms after the 
and place
"In some respects.

Phillies' only granite World Series Veterans Stadium markers championship 
became a relic. We where once 

and Dick stood home
really had to let it go...

Vermeil sent plate, the the Eagles to pitchingtheir lone John Street mound and 
Super Bowl. Philadelphia mayor bases. 
It was also where a merci­less crowd cheered the ambu­lance that carried off Dallas receiver Michael Irvin after a career-ending neck injury. Pete Rose met his future wife at the Vet when she was an Eagles cheerleader -years later, the women sued 29 NFL teams, claiming visiting play­ers peeped on them in the dressing room. 
About 3,000 pounds of explosives took down the con­crete stadium, section by sec­tion in a clockwise direction as booms rang out. 

"Ladies and gentlemen, you just witnessed history," Vet public-address announcer Dan Baker told the cheering crowd. One onlooker played Taps on a silver trumpet. 
Greg Luzinski, a slugger on the Phillies' 1980 World Series team, and the Phillie Phanatic pushed a ceremonial red plunger as the explosions 
..That was a big one. It on 
began to bring 10, 1993, a down a stadi-took 2 1/2 years to build moment that um that became sym­
it and it went down
opened in bolic of the
quick.··
1971. danger of a "That was a visit to the big one," Greg Luzinski Vet. 
Luzinski said. In 2001, a
former Phillies player 
"It took 2 1/2 years to build it and it went down quick." 
A large area around the sports complex was closed off, and airspace above the stadi­um was restricted to a 1,500­foot elevation for a quarter­mile radius during the implo­sion. 
Passing truckers blared air horns in salute. Dozens of bystanders tried to cross a police barricade but were pushed back by police. The detonation began after Mayor John Street's 10-second count­down. 
When it was over, a large cloud of dust rose over the site, home to the Phillies and the Eagles for more than 30 years. All that remained was a pile of concrete slabs and pil­lars. 
Firefighters hosed down the rubble to contain the dust, which was so thick at some points that the implosion was obscured and only the thun­dering booms could be heard. 
Workers eventually will begin breaking down the con­crete pieces, which will amount to 70,000 cubic yards of material. Contractors will recycle debris on the site until July, and the spot ultimately will serve as a 5,500-space parking lot. 
The Phillies plan to paint an outline of the Vet's playing 
field across 
the new lot, 
New base-
ball-only and football-only stadiums have been built nearby. The Eagles began playing at Lincoln Financial Field last year. The Phillies played their last game at the Vet in September; their season opener in Citizens Bank Park is April 12. 
Like its predecessor Connie Mack Stadium, the Vet had become outdated. Team offi­cials, players and fans agreed the concrete-bowl design sta­dium -much maligned for rats, leaky ceilings and insuffi­cient amenities -was way past its prime. 
The Vet earned a reputation as a fearful place for oppo­nents, as much for its intimi­dating crowds as for its rock­hard artificial turf. voted the worst surface in the NFL by its players' union. 
Chicago Bears receiver Wendell Davis blew out both 
knees on one 
play Oct. 
preseason 
game between the Eagles and the Baltimore Ravens was canceled because of problems with the newly installed NexTurf playing sur­face. 
The fans often caused other problems. 
In a game against the San Francisco 49ers on Nov. 10, 1997, an Eagles booster shot a flare gun into some empty seats and there were more than 60 fights. The rowdy behavior prompted the city to set up "Eagles Court" at the Vet to arrest and convict unruly fans. 
"In some respects, Veterans Stadium became a relic," 

Please recycle The Observer. 

Street said. "We really had to let it go." 
The most riveting memory of the Vet may have come at the end of Game 6 of the 1980 World Series. when mounted police pranced their horses onto the field while snarling 
German shepherds waited nearby. 
It was at the Vet in 1981 where Hose passed Stan Musial for most hits in the National League. 
And it was at the Vet in 1993 where the Phillies lost to Toronto 15-14 in Game 4 of the ·World Series. 
"It's amazing how emotional you can get about a giant slab of concrete." 20-year-old John Middleton said. 

Cheerleading &leprechaun
Tryout Information Meeting 
March 24,2004-Joyce Center Gym 2@ 5:30 p.nt. 
Come seewhatNotre Dame 

Cheerleading isall abold. 
On CAmpus 
(it*altuAdon Weelu~od ._.5peeiAI 
t\t}Rtl 1J-'f7, 2004 
Neevt a -pLace foY 11ow.r-ftit~iltj to stat--J.. Trtj tne saertd Heart Patish ee~teY [BuLl~L~ 3:1. 0~ !:jOUY C-a~pus ~ps.J 
\fVe set a ~ro.oo ptY ptrsoV\. do~tLoll\. few tne . WttktY\..d. 
...COM€ t26R&~[T~uysc(al::j] -.STAY LAI6 [Mo~at:jJ• -...s~~ lowpr[ce. 
For Yts.erva twll\..5 please caLL: P~l.(l Sdtit:J at574-G3:1.-.T5i2 OY 
MttYtj Folt\.ftrR.o ~t 57-4-631.-='-+36 
Master of Business Administration 
Accredited by the Association "to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (www.aacsb.edu) 
• 
International Business 

• 
International Finance 

• 
Marketing Management 


Master of Arts in Government and Politics 
Accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (www.msache.org) 
• International Relations 
Rome Campus Contact Information: Via di Santa Maria Mediatrice, 24-00165 Rome, Italy Ph. 011 39 06 393 842; Fax 011 39 06 636 901 U.S. Ph. (212) 815-9216 Ext. 2 E-mail: info11 @rome.stjohns.edu Website: www.stjohns.edu/rome 

,nr r r f 8 r ~;1r.q
·Yl n f H1 ') * r 
Monday, March 22, 2004 page 19
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




No Greater Love: 
•

A Notre Dame day of prayer, mus~c, & renewal . 
No Greater Love is a half-day retreat open to the entire Notre Dame community. It is designed for those who hunger for new ways to deepen their relationship with God by exploring a variety 0£ prayer styles and traditions. Join us in this opportunity to reflect on the unconditional love God offers us through his son, Jesus. 
ar, No Greater Love will explore prayer through: 
Lectio Divina Ignation Meditation 
March 27th 1:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. 
No Sign-up Necessa~! 
information contact Keara Coughlin at 631-3389 or kcoughli@nd.edu 
l
I I 
~ ~ 
~ 
I 
I 
~ 
\ 
) page 20 
l ~ l ~ \ 
I 
I 
i 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL St. Louis at NOTRE DAME 7 p.m., ABC Oklahoma vs. Michigan 9 p.m., ESPN2 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL NCAA second-round games 7 p.m., ESPN NCAA second-round games 7 p.m., ESPN2 NCAA second-round games 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Bulls at Pacers 7 p.m., FSN 
MLB 
Cardinals at Braves 3 p.m., ESPN 


COi\1Pl LED FRO,\..\ 'IHE OBSERVER'S \\/IRL SERViCES Monday, March 22, 2004 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 

Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio-The NCAA tournament's top seed got sent back to its ol' Kentucky home. 
Mo Finley made a 17­foot jumper with 12.2 sec­onds left and ninth-seeded Alabama-Birmingham hung on to stun the heavi­ly favored Wildcats 76-75 Sunday in the second round of the St. Louis Regional. 
Kentucky's Gerald Fitch missed a 3-pointer with 
2. 2 seconds left and Chuck Hayes' tip rolled off the rim just before the final horn. 
The Blazers (22-9) advanced to the round of 16 for the first time since 1982 with their second big upset of Kentucky in the NCAA tournament, while the Wildcats became the second No. 1 seed to lose over the weekend. Stanford lost to Alabama on Saturday, leaving Saint Joseph's and Duke as the remaining top seeds. 
UAB will play fourth­seeded Kansas in the round of 16. 
UAB's win came almost exactly 2 3 years to the day that the Blazers beat Kentucky in the second round of the 1981 tourna­ment -a victory the school had claimed as the turning point in its bas­ketball program, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary this season. 
This one might just top it. Xavier 89, Mississippi State 74 
Lionel Chalmers listened to the experts who said Mississippi State was too big, too fast, too strong and too good. Then he and his Xavier teammates went out and proved them wrong. 
Chalmers scored a career-high 31 points and Dedrick Finn added 22 Sunday, helping the sev­enth-seeded Musketeers upset the Southeastern Conference regular-sea­son champions to reach the semifinals of the Atlanta Regional. 
Finn's shot from beyond midcourt put Xavier (25­
10) ahead for good at the first-half buzzer, Chalmers, Anthony Myles and Romain Sato made sure the second-seeded Bulldogs never led again. 
Xavier, which has won 15 of 16 games after a 10­9 start, advanced beyond the second round for the first time since 1990. The Atlantic 10 Conference tournament champs will face No. 3 seed Texas in the regional semifinals. 
Pittsburgh 59, Wisconsin 55 

If anybody knows how to quiet a crowd it's the Pittsburgh Panthers. 
They muffled the pro­Wisconsin horde at the Bradley Center on Sunday in the second round of the East Rutherford Regional. 
"We've been in hostile environments before. It's just basketball," said sophomore guard Carl Krauser, who led Pitt with 16 points. 
The third-seeded Panthers (31-4) will play Oklahoma State (29-3) in the regional semifinals. The Cowboys beat Memphis 70-53 earlier Sunday. 
Pittsburgh was a bit chafed at having to play what amounted to a home game for the sixth-seeded Badgers, who only had to travel 7 5 miles up Interstate 94. 
The Panthers needn't have fretted. 
They improved to 12-3 away from home, a record that includes victories over Syracuse in front of more than 31,000 at the Carrier Dome and over Georgetown at the ear­splitting MCI Center. 
"Truthfully, I was sur­prised. They weren't boo­ing us as loud as playing against Syracuse or Providence," forward Chris Taft said. "That's where we get the most boos. This was nothing." 
Nothing like the crazed crowds in the Big East, said Chevon Troutman, whose 14 rebounds helped hush the house. 
"These people are really nice up here," he said. Georgia Tech 57, Boston College 54 
The only thing Jarrett Jack could have done bet­ter was run out the clock. 
Quiet for most of the second half, Jack had a big steal and a breakaway dunk with less than six seconds left to help give Georgia Tech a victory over Boston College in the NCAA tournament Sunday. 
The third-seeded Yellow Jackets advanced to the regional semifinals for the first time since 1996. They'll play 1Oth-seeded Nevada, fresh ofT upsets of Gonzaga and Michigan State, on Friday in the St. Louis Regional. 
"This is the reason I came here," said Jack. a sophomore who was one of the top prep point guards in the country. "This is the point we wanted to get the pro­gram back to." 
Jack finished with eight points. six rebounds and six assists. B.J. Elder led the Yellow Jackets (25-9) with 18 points, while Anthony McHenry scored 10. 
Vanderbilt 75, North Carolina State 73 
With a shout to the rafters, Matt Freije roused his slumping game. He then carried Vanderbilt to victory. 
Freije scored 31 points and Corey Smith's three­point play with 21.2 sec­onds remaining gave the sixth-seeded Commodores the win over North Carolina State in the sec­ond round of the Phoenix regional on Sunday. 
Vanderbilt (23-9) plays No. 2 Connecticut in the regional semifinals on Thursday. The last time Commodores reached the round of 16 was 1993. 
Vandy trailed by 11 with 
4:20 remaining, but Freije scored 11 points from there to lead the come­back. 
Freije's open jumper from the left baseline with 
52.7 seconds left put the Commodores up 72-71, their first lead since 43­39. 
Freije was 8-for-15, 4­for-8 on 3-pointers, and made all 11 of his free throws. 

Monday, March 22, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
No. 16 Loyola hands Irish third straight loss 
Slow start again This trend of falling make the score 8-4 on But by the end of the ties. The Irish were also dwelling on what could 
behind opponents early goals by All-American match, the Irish ran out second in scoring have been.dooms Irish in games has continued attack Pat Walsh, mid­of steam and were only offense but were held to "We were disappoint­to plague Notre Dame fielder Steve Clagett and able to produce two of a season low. ed at the end of the throughout this season. attack Matt Howell. the final six goals of the Despite the offensive match but we knew
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Case in point "We started to get the game. giving Loyola the blemishes during what we did wrong,"
Sports Writer 
against North offense 13-7 victory. Saturday's Walsh said. Carolina, the going at the "Our previous two 1 0 s s "It is much 
Call it early season jit­1 
Irish were end of the losses came from two Steward better that 
ters. down 9-5 at We didn't "We haven't · 
first half top-1 0 ranked teams, so Crosland we catch Call it a slow start. halftime. come out and we it isn't anything to be excelled played 6o miutes our prob­
Regardless. the Irish Syracuse 
were still ashamed of." Walsh defensive­lems early
ready and ofhard lacrosse.
have lost their third proved to be a positive," said. "We still have ly, record­in the sea­consecutive match and closer match,. intense at the W-alsh said. eight games ahead of u~ ing 12 We have had spots son so we now find themselves at with the team beginning and "We didn't and it isn't about who is saves. ofit, but not a can fix 1-3 on the season. down 4-3 come out playing their best W e them."
they did, so whole game. We
Early in Saturday's after the first The Irish
ready and lacrosse at the begin­haven't match against No. 16 quarter. they were able intense at ning of the season." played 60 had more will have a Loyola in Baltimore, I n to get an early the begin­Not only. was it the minutes of talent ... but that chance to 
Notre Dame was in a Saturday's. 
lead on us.,, ning and third straight loss for h a r d doesn't win games. prove what 
position that was all too match, Loyola they did, so the Irish, but also the lacrosse. they have familiar-behind. had' scored 
they were third consecutive loss in We have learned 
"We were trying to three goals · Pat Walsh able to get ground balls, as Loyola had spots Pat Walsh when they stay positive after the before mid­Irish attack an early edged out the Irish 43 to of it, but Irish attack face No. 14 
first quarte·r," Pat Walsh 
field Brian lead on us." 33. D.J. Driscoll and not a Hofstra said. "We felt we could Hubschmann The Irish Matt Hyan each regis­w h o l e Wednesday score if we had better scored the continued tered four ground balls game." at the possessions and at the Irish's first point. the comeback in the to lead the Irish. Walsh said. "We had Loftus Sports Center. time were only worrying Loyola then quickly second half with Owen Corning into the more talent than both Hofstra is fresh off of a about scoring one goal responded with three Mulford scoring his first match, Notre Dame was teams, but that doesn't loss to No. 6 Princeton. at a time." more goals with only goal of the season with ranked No. 1 in the win games." Although
Loyola's 7-1 advan­nine minutes left in the 5 : 0 5 Iefi i n t h e t h i r d country in converting the Irish are off to a tage early in the game first half to take a 6-1 quartet. However, after extra-man opportuni­slow start, their 'focus is proved to be too much lead. Fortunately, the cutting the Loyola lead ties. However, they were on post-season· action 
for Notre Dame, as they Irish were able to fight to three, Loyola scored unable to take advan­and learning from their Contact Dan Tapetillo at fell 13-7. back before halftime to 40 _seconds later. tage of four opportuni-mistakes rather-than jtapetil@nd.edu 

., 

NACDA CuP 
Irish sit in 20th in latest rankings 
Special to the Observer Notre Dame stands 20th in the first set of winter sports s.tandings released in the 2003­04 United State Sports Academy Division I Directors' 

• Cup all-sports competition sponsored by the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (formerly known as Sears Directors' Cup). 
Winter competition so far has meant 52 points Jor ·Notre Dame based on a 21st-place finish in the NCAA women's indoor track and field champi­onship.

' ' . 
The Irish earned 199 points in fall competition based on their 1Oth-place finish in the NCAA women's cross country championships (60 points). their second-round appearance in NCAA women's soccer (50 points), their third-round NCAA appearance in men's soccer (64 points) and their NCAA first­round women's volleyball appearance (25 points). 
Michigan (611.5 points) leads the competition thanks to seven top-10.finishes so far in fall and winter sports while UCLA is second, followed by Stanford and BYU. 
The current standings include results from NCAA fall competi­tion in field hockey, men's and women's cross country, men's and women's soccer, women's volleyball and 1-A and I-AA football, plus winter results from skiing and men's and women's indoor track and field. 
Additional winter sport standings updates will be released April1, 15 and 22. 
In previous years in which the Directors' Cup competition has been held, Notre Dame has finished 11th in 1993-94, 30th in 1994-95, 11th in 1995-96, 14th in 1996-97, tied for 31st in 1997-98, 25th in 1998-99, 21st in 1999-2000, 11th in 2000-01, 13th in 2001-02 and tied for 13th in 2002-03. 
Current standings: 
1. Michigan 611.5 
2. UCLA 436.75 3. Stanford 414.25 
4. BYU 369.25 5. Florida 364.5 
6. Colorado 356 
7. Washington 316.5 
8. Nebraska 305 
9. North Carolina 302.5 10. LSU 300 
11. Penn State 295.5 12. Connecticut 280.5 13. Arkansas 278.5 14. Maryland 275 
15. Florida State 274 16. Wisconsin 268.75 17. Villanova 261 18. Georgia 256 
19. 
Northern Arizona 251.5 

20. 
NOTRE DAME 251. 


Monday, March 22, 2004 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Pair set Irish records in championship 
preliminaries before improving that score by more than 13 points in the event finals to claim third place with a score of 303.90 and earn All-American recognition. 
Perry-Eaton finished just 3.30 points behind first place Allison Brennan of South Carolina. 
Carroll was also busy making Irish histo­ry on Thursday, picking up the first of her two All-American honorable mentions with her second school record in one day in the 200-meter individual medley. After placing 11th in preliminaries and qualifying for the consolation final with a school-record time of 2:13.43, Carroll won the eight-competi­tor consolation final and rewrote the record books yet again with a 2:12.28 to finish ninth. 
Carroll's success continued Friday, as the Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Swimmer set her fourth Notre Dame record in as many races in the 400-meter individual medley. The freshman turned in an Irish record of 4:42.74 in finishing 13th during preliminaries, thereby once again qualifying for the consolation finals that evening. 
Carroll took fifth in the consolation finals with a time of 4:42.51 to record her fourth all-time Irish mark in two days and finish· 

By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 

It was a weekend of firsts for a pair of Notre Dame athletes and Irish swimming and diving. 
Competing in the NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships, swimmer Katie Carroll broke two school records en route to becoming the first freshman in Irish his­tory to garner All-American mention in two different events. Meanwhile, diver Meghan Perry-Eaton recorded the highest school placing in any event at the presti­gious meet by finishing third on the 1­meter board. 
"I thought they both did an outstanding job," Irish coach Bailey Weathers said. "They're both capable of what they did, but we're really excited that they beat their own expectations." 
Perry-Eaton didn't waste much time Thursday in showing why she had only lost once all season on both the 1-meter and 3­meter board heading into the national meet. 
The Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Diver posted the fourth-high­est score (290.40) on the 1-meter board 14th overall. 
The finish also gave Carroll her second All-American honorable mention in as many days. She's the first freshman and just the eighth Irish swimmer to earn All­American honors in multiple events at the NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships. 
"She made huge improvements, particu­larly in terms of initial placing and seeding · [going into the meet]," Weathers said. "I think she probably moved up more than anyone in the meet." 
Perry-Eaton competed on the 3-meter board Friday, but failed to duplicate her 1­meter performance, finishing 28th overall. 
It was a similar story for Carroll on Saturday as the freshman placed 32nd in the 100-meter freestyle and consequently fell short of qualifying to swim in the event finals. 
"Swimming the 200 IM well in the morn­ing really gave her a boost, and she dropped quite a bit from morning to night [in the individual medleys]." Weathers said. "She can be as good in the freestyle as she is in her IM, she's just a little bit fur­ther along in the IMs." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 


Monday, March 22, 2004 page 23
The Observer + SPORTS 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish sweep after rain delay, slow start 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
After a nail-biter in game one of their doubleheader this weekend, the Irish found their bite in game two. 
Notre Dame coach Deanna Gumpf picked up her 100th and 101st victories Saturday as the Irish (19-9) swept Eastern Michigan (8-10), 2-0 and 9-1. 
A late start due to a rain delay may have caused a slow start offensively for the Irish, who scored a key insurance run in the bot­tom of the sixth inning to get the shutout victory in game one. 
Starting pitcher Heather Booth picked up the win, allowing just two hits to the Eagles while picking up nine strikeouts in a com­plete game shutout. Booth improved her record to 10-3 on the season. 
Steffany Stenglein evened her record at 6­6, picking up a win in game two while strik­ing out a season-high 11 batters and scat­tering four hits and one run. 
"Heather did a great job today," Gumpf said. "She k(}pt them off their toes. Her changeup was working, and when that's the case she can have a great game. We knew we didn't need many runs, we just needed to get enough runs for the win." 
Game one started out as a pitcher's duel between Booth and Eastern Michigan's Nikki Denman. The Irish were able to finally strike against Denman in the bottom of the fourth inning, using an error by the Eagles to help. 
After Stephanie Brown and Nicole deFau were retired, Megan Ciolli put down a per­fect bunt single in front of the plate. Meghan Ruthrauff followed with a hard single to left field that dribbled under the glove of the Eastern Michigan left fielder, allowing Ciolli to score from first base. 
deFau began the sixth inning with a sharp single to center, and Ciolli bunted her over to second base. The Eastern Michigan third baseman made an errant throw toward first, however, and both Ciolli and deFau where able to advance. 
Ruthrauff loaded the bases with a little dribbler in front of the plate, and Hartmann scored deFau from third on a fielder's choice. 
Booth shut down the Eagles in order in the top of the seventh to preserve the victo­ry. 
"We really just were able to come in and keep going after it," Hartmann said. "It was a really good team win. I knew that our bats were strong and that eventually we'd get our offense going." 
That offense got going in game two, as the Irish collected a season-high 13 hits and ended the game in the si;xth on the eight­run mercy rule. Lenn collected her first home run of the season with a solo shot in the second inning, and Hartmann belted. a two-run home run that bounced off the top of the fence before going into the parking lot in the bottom of the sixth. 
"I was just looking to try to drive the ball to the opposite field," Hartmann said. "Every now and then they throw the pitch inside, so I was just looking to keep my hands in and I was able to get it out." 
Although the Irish came away with a big offensive victory in game two, the score could have been much higher, with the team leaving nine batters on base in the contest. 
"I was not happy about that," Gumpf said. "I told the girls after the game that they had done everything I'd asked them to do except score more of those runners. We have to able to get those girls in, somehow." 
Notre Dame's doubleheader against Western Michigan Sunday was cancelled due to inclement weather. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Parti ci pat i rg Organizat io rs 
A F L:CIO Organizirg Institute A II iarce for Gatt-olc Educaticn Arnate House Arrerr::an Red Cross. st. Josep. ~r Augusthian Volunteer PfOd ram Bett1ar('Ja Boys & G itis Clubs of Arrerica Boys & G ~ICiu b6: of lrdBrafXlliS Boys & Girls Clubs of Porter Cbunty Boys Hq:le Gi t1s Hope Broa.ct,;ay Theatre Le:.t.gue Buildrg wi1h E'cdltS Olitireri s fvluseurn of lrdanaJX)Iis Olurch ~Not1d Serv~e City Yea.r Corrrnunity A.gercies Corp of NJ"' Comht:an Sisters of Sprirgfield. I L FCXld Ban lc of Not1hem lrdiana G got Center for Entrepteneurial studies 

Gco:h.11illlrdu stres of ,._,1 chiara. In:. G ran:t Prairie Servces Behavb tal Hea.l1h::are Hatr r CK"fl/ Educartfi:enter Hoty C1"08s Associates Hoosier Envirot r rrat rta ICot1rc il Indiana L£ga IServices. In::. J ubiee Associa.ticrt of fvlatylard"' 
L_a-_,..rd:tle Dlristian·Hea.tth center Little B rorei'Sfren:is of 1tla Elderty fvladioon Center. In::. fvlercy Hare for Boys ard G it1s 
Publ~ Allies. lr"t:. REALSetv~~~ 
State PIRGs Tax Assistance Pl{)dtam Teach for America UnitecB:ates:::cnfe tare of Gatmlic B is~s"' Y,._,CA Carrp Pota.wotami 
"' Resume OrqJ Pa rticipsu~t 

--...._____ _ 
fENCING 
Orlando to compete in at-large slot 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
There is good news and there 
is bad news. 
The good news for the Notre 
Dame fencing team is that 
epeeist Amy Orlando, one of the 
two candidates for an at-large 
bid, secured her position to com­
pete in this week's NCAA 
Championships. The selection 
committee's decision to award 
her a spot increases the total 
number of team competitors to 
11, one short of the team maxi­
mum of two at each weapon. 
Men's epeeist Aaron Adjemian, 
the other fencer hoping for an 
at-large bid, was not selected. 
The bad news is that· the Irish 
will likely lose one of their top 
fencers for the tournament in 
foilist Derek Snyder. The junior 
broke his right hand Wednesday 
and may not compete in the 
NCAA Championships. Snyder 
broke the bone during practice 
after smashing it against the 
metal guard of an opponent's 
foil. 

The injury is a difficult one for 
both the team and the individ­
ual. Fresh off an NCAA regional 
championship, Snyder said he 
had been fencing the best of his 
career. 
"Just this year I started fenc­ing older, more wise as far as what to do in certain situations," he said. "Everything [was] just starting to click for me." 
Snyder was the only Irish foilist to defeat the highly-touted Boaz Ellis from Ohio State, doing so both at the Notre Dame dual meet in January and again for the regional championship. The possibility of having to sit out the final collegiate event of the sea­son is a tough pill for him to swallow. 
"It is pretty frustrating," he said. "One of my goals was to win NCAAs one time with the team and win NCAAs one time individually. I've been waiting all year for this tournament and I know that this year was my best shot so far." 
Additionally, because the team did not qualify the full allotment of 12 fencers, the Irish need every position to be in top form if they have any hope of success­fully defending their national title. Fellow foilist Frankie Bontempo said that losing a top fencer like Snyder is a big hurdle to overcome. 
"Derek is one of the best guys we have on the entire team, any weapon," he said. "He's fenced a lot of really difficult bouts and he's won a lot of really difficult bouts. Losing him would make things a lot more difficult." 
....
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski will still be allowed to compete his allotted 11 fencers as he will fill Snyder's spot with Bontempo, a freshman. However, for as suc­cessful as Bontempo's rookie campaign has been {44-16 record). he will have a tremen­dous challenge ahead of him try­_,.. ing to replace an experienced fencer who was arguably on the top of his game. 
"Stepping in for Derek, that's a lot of pressure," Bontempo said. 
. __,
"But that doesn't bother me at all." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
Monday, March 22, 2004

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 

Men 
continued from page 28 
somewhat interested in bas­ketball the last time I checked." 
How the Irish ended up in Fort Wayne shows the complex nature of scheduling NIT games. Because the Joyce Center was being used for NCAA first-round tournament Conference USA team that trailed Iowa by as much as 12 points midway through the second half, only to take the lead for the second time all game when Anthony Drejaj drained a 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
"They were out of that game," Torrian Jones said. "I thought it was over. I stopped watching. 
"That's a dangerous team. You know they don't give up." 
action, the Irish couldn't play in South Bend. But the arena where Saint Louis eked out a thrilling 70­69 win against Iowa wasn't avail­able, either. 
Thus, the Fort Wayne Coliseum became an option -meaning the Irish will most likely be playing in front of a Joyce Center-sized, 

"We're thrilled we're still playing. There's a lot of teams -in the NCAA and in the NIT -that aren't playing anymore.,. 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
Brey compares Saint Louis to Purdue. in that both teams have a lot of seniors, play intense half­court defense and use a signifi­cant amount of screens to free their guards to 
make shots or drive to the bas­ket. In the locker room after the win against Purdue, most of 

highly-partisan crowd. the Irish looked exhausted as 
"[The NIT is] flying blind a a result of Purdue's physical little bit because you're not style of play. sure how you're going to win," But the very nature of the Brey said, adding, "I heard a NIT has helped the Irish. little bit about Chicago and Instead of the NCAA other options, I Tournament, didn't know where teams
"[Saint Louis] is a
until after the would have to game that Fort dangerous team. You play two days Wayne could be after their first
know they don't give 
an opportunity." , game, the Irish 
up.
The mantra had four days­for Notre of rest to heal Dame's postsea­Torrian Jones aching bodies. son tournament "For where
Irish guard 
run has cen­tered on the idea that the Irish have to win three NIT games to play in the NIT semifinals in New York's Madison Square Garden. Minutes after Notre Dame beat Purdue 71-59 Wednesday, someone had scribbled on the locker room white board "Two steps". 
"We've talked about three steps to get back to New York City," Brey said. "This is step two." 
In the Billikens (19-12), the Irish will play a tough 
we are num­
bers-wise and some of the nicks and bruis­es," Brey said, "just having a couple days in between has been playing to our advantage. 
"We're thrilled we're still playing," he added. "There's a lot of teams -in the NCAA and in the NIT -that aren't playing anymore. And by Monday, there's going to be a lot more." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Posr PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
1.1.1 
::?! 
oct 
c 
1.1.1
a:: 
1­
0 
z 
fl)
-
::l 
0 
..... 
1­
z 
C( 
en 
fl)
-
fl) 
~ 
<
z 
c( 

'· 
I' 
Brey's Irish typically play some of their best basketball of the sea­son after the Big East Tournament, and the trend appears to be holding this year. The Irish coach earned his first NIT win Wednesday against Purdue.  With the emergence of Cornett in the post, the Irish have returned to an inside-outside style of play, often fun­nelling the ball to the post before Cornett kicks the ball out to open perimeter play­ers.  Cornette and Timmermans have been reliable all season long for the Irish. They create matchup prob­lems with their ability to shoot 3-pointers. But when faced with physi­cal teams, the two have trouble rebounding.  Thomas and Quinn are both playing solid basketball, and Jones continues to provide the Irish with a solid defensive stopper. While Thomas hasn't generated points lately, he has effectively dis­tributed the ball in the Irish offense.  Part of the reason the Irish don't want to stop playing is because of how Falls and Cornett are play­ing. Falls has demon­strated an ability to enter games and score, while Cornett has revitalized the Irish offense.  In Fort Wayne, the Irish will be playing before a virtual home crowd. Notre Dame has typically played well away from the Joyce Center this year. Plus, the Irish are playing some of their best basketball of the year.  
Soderberg is in his second year at the helm of Saint Louis, and he's in his first head coaching job (aside from an interim stint at Wisconsin) after being a Billiken assis­tant.  Brey compared the Billikens style of play to Purdue's, in that Saint Louis will run their offense based on screens and play tena­cious half-court defense. Like the Irish, they're not afraid to shoot from behind the arc.  Of the team's typical starters, none are over 6-foot-9 and only Sloan averages more than eight points a game. Sloan is the team's most difficult matchup, a 6-foot-7 forward who averages 9.9 and 4.8 rebounds a game.  Bryant and Fisher are the team's sparkplugs. Both average over 11 points a game and grab roughly four rebounds a game. They also are the team's most prolific 3­point shooters, and both shoot over 39 percent from the field.  Drejaj hit a big shot for the Billikens in their win against Iowa, but Saint Louis' bench ­even though they go nine deep -doesn't have a true scoring threat.  Saint Louis is coming off of an emotional win against Iowa, where they won on a buzzer­beating 3-pointer to advance to the second round. They rallied from as much as 13 down in that game to win.  
Brey has m~h more experience in the post­season.thari.Soderberg. While Sod~rbetg I~d Wisconsin to a NcAA berth. Bray Jed:· tlie Irish to the Sweet 16 iD his third year ·and knows how to dealwith postseason pressure.  The Irish· have had trouble with physical teams that play strong defense.·this tteason, becau~·theif:·~~yle of play de.pends }l.~avily on the g~pciW,t ~hot to be effedf'te'. Plus, Saint Louis is a greater · offensive threat than Purdue.  The Irish sh~lil(f be able to explqlt their height · · . advaqt~ge~ depending on •. what defense Saint Louis plays .. But Cornette •and. limmermans pose too many matchup prob­lems for the Billikens.  . The IriSh guards are too goodfor Bryant and Fisher. And ithelpS that they also have low-post scoring options to ·relieve the pressure.  Sure. Notre Dame only brings. twg,;;gllys off the bench on a reg-. ular basis. Butthose two fit into theJfish · rotation seemlessly; while Saint Louis uses their bench j'Qst to give starters breathers.  Th~ 'lrish have· a •lot in their favor~ They're technically going on the "' road (where they've excelled aU year), but get to play in front of friendly fans.  

1,' 
Monday, March 22, 2004 page 25
The Observer + SPORTS 
Women 
continued from page 28 
made a run to cut the gap to 33-27 at the half. It was during this time that the Irish were held to zero field goals in a 
12:11 span, including the last nine minutes of the first half. 
"We were standing around shooting jumpers and we really needed to attack the basket and be more aggressive," McGraw said. "We didn't do a good job of that. I was a little frustrated with our shot selection for a while." 
The Bears pulled to within two and finally tied it at 46 with 
9:48 to play on a Busbey layup. But the Irish responded, and the game went back and forth until Le'Tania Severe hit a driv­ing layup with 3:41 to play to tie the game at 55. Southwest Missouri State coach Katie Abrahamson-Henderson, in her second year with the Lady Bears. was then whistled for a technical foul. and Severe knocked down both free throws to put the Irish ahead with 3:21 remaining. 
Morgan Hohenberger tied it with a jumper, and Duffy answered for Notre Dame. But with 26 seconds to play, Hohenberger hit a layup to tie the game, and Batteast was whistled for an offensive foul on the ensuing possession to send the game into overtime. 
In the extra period, the Irish struck first on a Monique Hernandez jumper, and LaVere proceeded to score four straight points off Severe assists to seal the win for Notre Dame, and prevent a second straight upset in the Joyce Center. 
"That's what makes the tour­nament so exciting," Duffy said. "The seeds don't matter at this point. Southwest Missouri State did a fantastic job with their energy and coming out ready to play." 
Severe proved to be the differ­ence down the stretch when the Irish couldn't seem to find a 

Notre Dame's Megan Duffy defends Southwest Missouri State's Jenni Lingor in Notre Dame's overtime win against the Bears. Duffy finished with 16 points. 
way to score. On the game, she scored 11 points, grabbed 7 rebounds, had five assists and three steals. She kept her cool and helped everyone else do the same. 
"I thought Le'Tania Severe was player of the game," McGraw said. "I thought we really showed our poise, our maturity. We played with a lot of patience down the stretch." 
However, the Irish only shot 
22.2 percent in the second half, and 32.9 percent for the game, including an abysmal 4-for-23 from beyond the arc. Three point specialist Jeneka Joyce shot 1-for-1 0 from 3-point range. 
"She had a tough night shoot­ing the ball, but we have a lot of confidence in her and she will continue to shoot the ball," McGraw said. 
However, even with poor out­side shooting, the Irish were able to cash in at the line, where they made 19-of-22 free throws. 
The win improved Notre Dame's home record to 14-0, despite an outstanding showing from Southwest Missouri State fans. 
"It made for a great tourna­

ment atmosphere," McGraw said. 
NOTRE DAME 69, SOUTHWEST MISSOURI 65 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (20-1 0) 
Batteast 7-19,3-5 17, LaVere 5-10 0-0 11, Severe 2-10 7-7 11, Duffy 4-12 6-7 16, Hernandez 3-6 0-0 6, Joyce 2-12 1-1 6, Borton 0-1 2-2 2. Gray 0-1 0-0 0, Flecky 0-0 0-0 0, Erwin 0-0 0-0 0. 
SOUTHWEST MISSOURI (28-4) 
Lehman 1-1 0-0 3, Tierney 3-7 0-0 6, Lingor 3-10 7-8 15, Koch 5-18 2-2 15, Hohenberger 2-6 2-2 8, Cowgill 3-7 0-0 7, Busbey 5-6 0-0 10, Martin 0-2 1-2 1, Klaasen 0-1 0-0 0. 
1st  2nd  OT  Total  
NOTRE DAME  33  26  10  69  
SMS  27  32  6  65  

3-point goa1s: Notre Dame 4-23 (Duffy 2-8, Joyce 1-10, LaVere 1-1, Hernandez 0-2. Batteast 0-2), Southwest Missouri State: 7­21 (Koch 3-8, Lingor 2-5, Cowgill 1-5, Lehman 1-1. Martin 0-1, Hohenberger 0­1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 46 (LaVere 13). Southwest Missouri State 40 (Koch 5). Assists: Notre Dame 18 (Severe 5) Southwest Missouri State 16 (Koch, Hohenberger 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 17, Southwest Missouri State 18. Technical FoulS: Abrahamson-Henderson. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegardcn at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
PairWise. so it basically came down to Notre Dame fighting Colorado College and Colgate for the final at-large bid. 
Because of a bonus that was added this year that rewarded teams for wins over tough non-conference opponents, the Irish were able to get in over the other two schools. Notre Dame defeated then-No. 1 Boston College and then-No. 4 Wisconsin on the road and defeated then-No. 3 Maine at a neutral site. 
"During the regular season, when we went into those games after playing a tough CCHA series the weekend before, you'd almost have to ask, 'What are you doing?'" Poulin said. "Well. that's 
At~ ~ Announces the follow;ng ;ntroducto'Y offe,. of••• 
r----~·---••----••----•r----• 
I I I I $69 I 1-I I $79 
$79

I $IS I I $lG I I Color, Cur & I I I I I
Highlights,

I Mens Cut I fur & Srylel I Style I I Perm. Cur & Sryl< I I Cur & Style I One Process 
~----~~---·~----~·----·~----~ 
· Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must b~ pr~sented to R~aptionist Before Services Ar~ Pn:form~d 
Offer Good With KJ -Kelly-Elena -Chrissy-Desiree -Stefanie -Jennifer 
Not-v.did JOr spir.&l pcrnli. L.&.}f-.g or timed h..Ur adiJ S 10. 'No odla' cfu.. ATRIA SALON wums apply. Open oomc <\oU\ifll:'. /\!'RIA s.Jon n:sdV\:5 rh< rit;hr ro rrlur rrvtcr w anydiem whoa: l~r oond.irion as unrn=.t.r.ilik. 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Comer of Edison OFFER EXPIRES 4-1.5-04 289-5080 
Hettler 
continued from page 28 
just 2-of-1 0 shooting but made 
all seven of her free throws 
and recorded three steals and 
seven rebounds. 
She did the little things that must be done to advance in the NCAA tournament. Things that Severe likely learned during her time on the 2001 national championship team. 
She's been here before. and she knows how to win the tough games -games like the one Notre Dame played Sunday. 
Severe led a Notre Dame team that had contributions from just about everyone. Guard Megan Duffy played fearlessly. especially after tak­ing an elbow to the side of her head. She came back from that injury to play well late in the game, and made clutch free throws and a long two-pointer with 1:32 remaining. 
Senior guards Jeneka Joyce and Monique Hernandez made critical shots at pressure­packed times during the sec­ond half. The often-injured Joyce managed to give the Irish 25 minutes, while Hernandez contributed six points, three rebounds, three assists and two steals. 
Forward Courtney LaVere got the start and responded with 11 points and a game-high 13 rebounds, while Jacqueline Batteast had 17 points and 11 rebounds to lead all scorers. 
And while all those players made significant contributions in this team win, it was Severe's poise down the stretch that made the difference. 
"She really did a great job," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She's somebody we want to have on the free throw line. We know no one is going to score on her at the end of the game because she's such a great defender. She just has that attitude and that leader­ship that others want to fol-
exactly what you're doing. is giving yourself a chance to win those big games. 
"It's one thing to play, but you have to win those games, too. We really played very well against those teams." 
As strange as it sounds, Notre Dame's fate may have come down to the champi­onship of the Hockey East, which was played Saturday night between Massachusetts and Maine. Maine came away with the win. defeating Massachusetts 2-1 in a three­overtime thriller, with Maine goalie Jim Howard making an amazing 63 saves in the victo­ry. 
Had Massachusetts won the game. the Minutemen would low." 
After blowing a 16-point first-half lead. Notre Dame found itself down by two points with 3:41 left. But Severe calm­ly took the ball and made a layup to tie the game, then was fouled on Notre Dame's ensu­ing possession and sank two free throws to put the Irish ahead-all in just 20 s.econds. 
In overtime, the senior did a little of everything. She drove baseline and then found LaVere for an easy layup ­twice. She had a steal with 
1:50 left and Notre Dame lead­ing by four. The Bears turnover didn't lead to any Irish points, but did allow Notre Dame to milk the clock for another 30 seconds. 
And after the Bears made a 3-pointer to cut Notre Dame's lead to just two with 18 sec­onds remaining. they fouled Severe on the ensuing inbounds play. She calmly went to the free throw line and swished the first shot to put the Irish up 68-65. After an Irish timeout, Severe simply went back to the free throw line a few moments later and drained her second shot to nail the cof­fin on the Bears' upset hopes. 
Sunday's game was close, but not because Notre Dame played poorly (they didn't). The Irish played well for much of the game, but Southwest Missouri State wouldn't let up. The Bears gave Notre Dame all it could handle and showed they may have deserved a higher seed. 
But the Irish -led by a poised Severe -responded to the adversity and now live another day in the NCAA tour­ney. 
Severe can exhale for a little longer -at least until Tuesday and second-round opponent Middle Tennessee State arrives. 
The views ofthis column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu. 
have received an automatic bid. Because Maine was going to get into the tournament regardless -either as a tour­nament winner or an at-large bid -that would have been one less at-large bid available to the Irish and Notre Dame would have been left out. 
"I talked before the Super Six about not putting it in someone else's hands, and I think this is a great lesson for our underclassmen," Poulin said. "You want to control your fate as much as possible. but sometimes it's not always your choice. I told the guys Friday to not spend the week­end fretting about it, and not worry about things they can't control." 
The Irish lost in the first round of the CCHA Super Six Thursday night, falling 6-5 in overtime to eventual champi­on Ohio State and placing Notre Dame firmly on the bub­ble. Altogether, the CCHA sent five teams to the tournament this year -Notre Dame. Ohio State, Michigan. Miami-Ohio and Michigan State. 
Notre Dame will face Minnesota at the Van Andel Arena in Grand Rapids, Mich. at 12 p.m. Saturday. The win­ner of that contest will face the winner of the game between No. 2 Minnesota­
_J 
Duluth and No. 3 Michigan State. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Harvard, Holy Cross and Niagara -received automatic

Hockey 
bids despite not being ranked continued from page 28 in the top 16 in the PairWise 
rankings. Colgate for 13th in the The other three conference Pair\Vise rankings at the time winners Ohio State, of the show. Three conference Minnesota and Maine -were championship winners -already ranked in the top 16 

'{ 
;'} 
Monday, March 22, 2004

" 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
:·~ 
,. ND WOMEN'S GOLF :{ 
·~· 
Baylor tourney sees 
!~ 
;~ ·~ 
}l "" Irish again falter 
~-~ 
)~'
~ amazing first round would 
:~ By ERIC RETTER 
>~ not carry over into 
l\ Spores Writer 
Saturday. Nakazaki shot an

q 
80, dropping well out of 

~ ~ 
.., If only every day were first place. 
·~ 
I ~ Friday. The team again ended Freshman Noriko with a 319 combined score Nakazaki and the rest of on Saturday, led by
I\ 
r', the Notre Dame women's Brophy's 5-over 77. 
golf team would echo that Gebauer and Lotta each
~ 
I 
· sentiment after failing to ended the day with an 81, 
~~
'' I improve on the team's first and Bassett shot an 88. 
,, 
day score and dropping in On the tournament's final 
~~ 
I~ the standings for the second day, Nakazaki was again '·· I~ straight weekend. The Irish unable to recapture her 
'·S
I' participated in the Friday magic, scoring an 81 
r·; 
I' Baylor/Tapatio Springs on Sunday, her worst show­
I 
I' Invitational in Boerne, ing of the three-day event. 
~; 
1'-Texas, finishing in 13th However, the freshman il' place in the 19-team field.. golfer still finished in a tie
I' 
, The Irish started off the for 15th place with a tour­[' weekend with promise, nament total of 232. l' shooting a combined score As a whole, the Irish team I of 319 and finishing Friday also put up their worst 
in 11th place. Sophomore tournament numbers on Katie Brophy and junior Sunday, handing in a 323 Karen Lotta both shot 9-for a 3-day total of 961, over par-81 Friday. dropping them to 13th Sophomore Sarah Bassett place, 65 shots out of first. ended with an 86 in the Lotta led the team Sunday, first round and sophomore tallying a 77, bringing her Lauren Gebauer -in the weekend total to 239. scoring five for the first Gebauer shot an 82 to total time this season -finished 253 for the weekend, and with an 18-over par 90, a Bassett ended Sunday with frustratingly high score an 83 and a weekend score 
( considering she led the of 257. Brophy turned in an '. Irish team a week ago in St. 85 to wrap up the weekend Croix. in a tie for 64th with a 243. 
The real story of the day Indiana University domi­was Nakazaki. who was red nated the tournament, fin­hot and came off the 18th ishing with an 896, 13 shots green on Friday tied for ahead of second place first after shooting a 1-Missouri. under par 71. Unfortunately for the Irish, Nakazaki Contact Eric Retter at cooled ofT Saturday, and her eretter@nd.edu 
i 
I I I 
~[ 
~ 
\'
I' 
i.
(, 
.... 
Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality hot1ses close to campus for the 
2004-2005 school year · Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 
Free Clinic on 
Golf Etiquette 
March 24th 



Warren Club House at 5:15 PM 

Clinic is open to Juniors, Seniors and Graduate Students 
Register calling RecSports by 3/23 


Questions? Call RecSports 1-6100 

BASEBALL 
Salukis split a pair with Irish 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior SraffWrirer 
The Irish must be Southern Illinois' lucky charm. 
No. 8 Notre Dame (13-2) split a weekend series with the Salukis (3-13) in Carbondale, Ill., as the home team upset the Irish 8-4 Saturday before Notre Dame pre­vailed 5-3 in a tight contest Sunday. 
"[Southern Illinois is] playing good ball, and we had to play like heck to get a split down there, and I figured that we would," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "I expected to have two tough ball . games down there, and Southern Illinois, unfortunately, didn't disap­point me." 
· In their first meeting of the sea­son, the Irish squeaked out a 12:­11, 11-inning victory over the Salukis in the Alamo City Irish Baseball Classic March 6. 
The Salukis, who only batted .234 before a 22-6 explosion over Murray State Thursday, have had little trouble solving the Irish this year. They hit .275 and averaged 
7.3 runs in their three games with the Irish. 
"I think I've told everybody that will listen that Southern Illinois has a good team," Mainieri said. "Their record is extremely misleading. They had a murderous schedule at the beginning of the year that got them otT to a winless start." 
In the first game of the weekend, the Salukis continued to show they have an answer for Irish ace Chris Niesel. The same team that put up five runs on six hits in three innings against the right-hander in San Antonio again chased Niese} from Saturday's contest early, scor­ing six earned runs in five innings against the junior. 
"Chris [Niesel] throws a lot of strikes, and when you throw the ball over the plate, the other team has a time to hit them." Mainieri said. "Once in a while, he makes some mistakes, and he gets hurt. But I'm not worried about Chris Niesel-not at all." 
The Salukis jumped out to a 4-1 lead Saturday with a four-run fourth inning, highlighted by Eric Alvarez's two-run single and RBI singles from designated hitter Nick Baughman and third baseman Nathan Boldt. 
Southern Illinois put two more across in the sixth on Alvarez's two-run homer, which chased Niesel from the mound in favor of freshman Derik Olvey. Alvarez fm­ished the day 3-for-5 with five RBis and three runs scored. 
The Irish would fight back in the top of the seventh with back-to­hack solo home runs from third baseman Matt Macri and designat­ed hitter Matt Bransfield to narrow the Saluki lead to 6-3. 
But Southern Illinois would put the game out of reach in the bot­tom of the eighth with leadoff back-to-hack home runs off fresh­man Dan Kapala from Greg Andrews and Alvarez -his sec­ond dinger of the day. 
A solo home run from shortstop Greg Lopez in the top of the ninth would be all the offense the Irish had left, falling 8-4. 
Eric Haberer, who contributed a solid five-inning effort in Southern Illinois' first contest with the Irish, held Notre Dame to three runs in 6 2/3 innings pitched Saturday to earn his first win of the season. 
"[Haberer] pitched well against us down in San Antonio, and they were winning down there 9-3 when he left the game," Mainieri said. "He pitched well again against us again today. We hit a lot of balls hard, but with the bad luck we had, we were hitting them right at people. 
"We couldn't really cash in on our opportunities, and we couldn't quite get over the hump again." 
In the concluding game of the series Sunday, the Irish took an early 1-0 lead in the top of the first as Macri was hit by a pitch with the bases loaded to score center fielder Danny Dressman. 
The Salukis came back strong, however, matching the Irish run in their half of the first and then adding another pair in the third on a two-run home run from Andrews off Irish lefty Tom Thornton, who had just entered the game that inning in relief of Grant Johnson. 
The sophomore Thornton would bear down after that, however, retiring the next seven consecutive batters and holding the Salukis scoreless over the next five innings. 
The Irish cut the Saluki lead to one run in the fifth with a lead -off home run from second baseman Steve Sollmann. 
Notre Dame later tied the game in the seventh on an RBI single from senior Javi Sanchez and then took the 4-3 lead on a sacrifice fly from pinch hitter Chris Fournier. 
The Irish added an insurance run in the ninth with a bases loaded walk from Bransfield that scored first baseman Matt Edwards. 
Ryan Doherty came on in the bottom of the inning to close out the game for the Irish and yielded three walks, but avoided giving up a run as he earned his third save of the year. Thornton got the win for the Irish to improve to 3-1 on the season. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Monday, March 22, 2004 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
. TO DEFEND AGAINST LALJSUITS , OUR RECORDS RETENTION POLICY HAS BEEN UPDATED TO INCLUDE THIS ... 
) 

FIVES 
Wen ~eJ1o.~, if's ottiti~Ur sprl~ tl\~d I'»1 h~D.dt~ ov+ ro #u. ClV~d +o Ot!c.k 
cvt -+ht.  \.lo~~y>  a"J  #t~it"'  r4ptd fr  
111iV\t~i~~  clo*tes., •. wh o'~ w. 'th rn~?  
l  

SCOTT ADAMS 
~ 
WHAT 
THE RECORDS

~ 
WAS I 
RETENTION

TALKING 
POLICY.

ABOUT? 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

5f.!UT vPf I ~in \c. r
11"-ybt. we $~Ad vv";+ +;!\ i-t's SAW t\ f H~y... 
~k\~. 
......_.,~nn~r~ ~ , istif .U,4t 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 


It's a nice face. to form tour ordinary words. 
.> 
CORFE ± 
VELED 
[IJ 

DEWIST j AFTE:~ HE HUNG
I I [ [J 
THf: MIRRO~. 
www.jumble.com 
He:-­

I FORLEG ± Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 1 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
rx J 

AAs: "[X I XI I I X I]" ON IT 
(Answers tomorrow) 

saturday's I Jumbles: DOUGH MOUTH MUSLIN THIRTY Answer: This helped to pass the time when the power went out-"LIGHT" HUMOR 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  34 Be enraptured  63 Film part  
1 People who  36 Animal that  64 Cotton thread  
make you yawn  beats its chest  65 Disastrous  
6 Tibetan monk  37 Pleasant excur­ marks for a  
10 British fellow  sion  gymnast  
14 Creme de Ia  41 Golf peg  66 Gardener's  
creme  42 Abominates  spring purchase  
15 Had payments  43 Gillette razor  67 Outpouring  
due 16 Part of a Valentine bou­quet 17 Greek market­place 18 Glenn Miller's "In the " 19 Leave out  44 Regards highly 46 Mother of Joseph 48 Wayne film "_ Bravo" 49 Prayer's end 51 Top of a tall building, maybe  DOWN 1 Smile widely 2 Korbut of the 1972 Olympics 3 Very funny per­son 4 Raisond'_  
20 Testifier in a court case  59 After-bath pow­der  5 Charred 6 Fictional sales­ 
23 Sea eagles 24" will be done ... "  60 Fed chairman Greenspan 61 Harold who  man Willy 7 M.P.'s hunt them 8 Pussy's cry  
25 Event with floats 29 Female in a  composed "Over the Rainbow"  9 Building wing 10 Actor Hume  
pride 33 Hebrew prophet  62 Gait faster than a walk  11 Where the heart is, they say  
-------------­ 12 Sale tag caution  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  13 Dogs, but rarely  
hogs  
21 Anger  
22 Daring bikini  
25 Stickum  
26 French girl­ 
friends  
27 Synonym man.  
28 Cigarette's end  
29 Colleague of  
Clark at The  
Daily Planet  
30 Our planet  
31 Steeple  
32 Flower part  


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Robert Dillman  
34 Film designers' designs 35 Tiny 38 Not our  47 Chronicles 49 "It is _ told by an idiot": Macbeth  53 gin fizz ~ 54 vera 55 What icicles do  
39 Tea urns 40 Tic-_-toe 45 Builds 46 Speedwagon  50 Dug up 51 the Great (1Oth-century king) 52 Building near a silo ·  56 Lohengrin's love 57 Boston eager, informally 58 Leg's middle  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learninglxwords. · 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday:Karl Malden, William Shatner, Bob Costas, Matthew 
Modine, Roger Whittaker, May Britt, Lena Olin, Andrew Lloyd Webber 
Happy Birthday: Your unique way of viewing things will win you favors this year. You will be able to present your ideas in such a manner that you will receive the support you require in order to reach your goals. The more you take on, the more versatile you will become. You will be admired for your abilities and sought after for your advice. Your nu"\bers: 3, II, 24, 30, 41, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You can gain a vast amount of information if you keep an open mind and discuss your plans with established individuals. Travel should be on your agenda. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your concern about financial security will lead you toward real estate investments. Look into creative projects for the whole family. You need an outlet for your stress. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional ups and downs will be felt by your mate. Your nervousness will cause your partner to get suspicious. Try not to be fickle. Honesty will be your best bet. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will want to help those less fortunate. Your own past experiences will contribute to your understanding. You must make changes within if you wish to help others. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be stubborn and hard to live with if you can't see the other side of a debate. You should be concentrating on making changes to your home or actually moving to another place. "'*·** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Let go of the past and be prepared to make changes that will make your life better. Your creative talent should be developed. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't jump to conclusions or make unreasonable demands. Get out with friends and work on improving yourself rather than changing others. It's time to do a little re-evaluation. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let your mate twist your words. Deception is apparent. Try to be as precise as possible. Problems with older family members may cause disagreements. Do what's necessary. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will get angry with your partner if your freedom is being curtailed. You are a free spirit, and you just have to be able to do your own thing. You can expect to face changes. ** * CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Romantic opportunities will be plentiful if you get out and mingle with friends. Your open attitude will entice others. Look into joining a fitness club. It's time to get into shape. ** * AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get out with friends or lovers tonight. You will discover that if you combine social activity with a little work, you will enhance your reputation with those who Lan grant you favors. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Expect to have some setbacks in your plans. Try to visit family members who need to talk. You can help with their problems if you are willing to listen and put things into perspective for them. 
** 

Birthday Baby: You were born with great strength and stamina. You have J what it takes to be a leader and will always find a way to solve any dilemma that you face. You thrive on a challenge and will never back down from anyt~ing or anyone. 
Visit Eugenia'.\· Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The 0 bserver 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
•
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ __ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip_______ 
-


' 
~i
,, 
i \ 
Monday, March 22, 2004 page 28 
\ 
~ 
~ HOCKEY
,) 
)\' 
~~ 
l~ 'l 
Can Cinderella skate? 
il il)( Irish earn first-ever NCAA tournarnent berth, will face Minnesota Saturday 
" who I played for, and then the next and cheered in a boisterous celebra­
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER head coach Ric Schafer and all the tion when their name flashed across~ Associate Sports Editor work they've put into over the the screen. :~ years. "This is probably the best feeling
·~ 
.... 
Now Notre Dame will get to see if "There were all the great teams in I've had since I've been here," sen­Cinderella can skate. the late '70s and early '80s that ior defenseman Brett Lebda said. "I ···~ The Irish advanced to the 16-team never achieved this and my first can't even explain to you how I feel 
~~ 
" NCAA tournament for the first time thought is that it goes out to all of right now. 
-~ in the program's history, earning the them and all the work that they put "We've got a lot of work to do, and No. 4 seed in the Grand Rapids, into this program. I know this will we're anxious to get back to the !* Mich. regional. They will face No. 1 be a proud day for both of them." rink tomorrow and start preparing
' 
'% ~ seed and two-time defending nation­The Notre Dame hockey team for Minnesota." al champion Minm~sota Saturday. watched the NCAA Selection Show Notre Dame's tau rnam en t fate 
~ 
.'1 CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer "There's been so much time and at Legends Sunday afternoon at came down to the vvire, as the Irish f'i" The Irish celebrate a goal against Michigan energy over the years put into this 2:30 p.m. with an ESPN2 camera were tied with Colorado College and 
(;. Feb. 27, a win that helped Notre Dame program," Irish coach Dave Poulin crew present to record Notre
,I 
.~; secure its first-ever NCAA berth. said. "Certainly there's Lefty Smith, Dame's reaction. The Irish clapped 
! l 
I 
) 
' 
{ }a•' 
/£. NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
·~~ 
Survive and advance 
( ) < 
i ' ( : Fifth-seed Irish need overtime to slide into second round
\ \ 
i
) 
\ 
By HEATHER VAN Severe's tourney
HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
experience keys first-round win

Seconds after the Irish edged i \,I Southwest Missouri State, there While her teammates cel­) was a sense of relief in the air ebrated, senior Le'Tania 
for a team that hadn't lost at Severe simply let out a sigh home this season and for a of relief. crowd that had just witnessed You'll have to excuse an upset in the previous tourna­Severe for ment game. not throw­
After being up 23-9, fifth-seed­ing her ed Notre Dame (20-10), did not hands into score a field goal for a 12:11 the air as stretch and needed overtime to the final defeat twelfth-seeded Southwest buzzer Missouri State, 69-65. sounded 
··Now we know what they in Notre mean by survive and advance," Dame's Irish coach MufTet McGraw said. overtime Joe ..This was a game of survival for win Hettler us. I thought SMS played an out­againststanding game." 
~' Jacqueline Batteast had 17 seed points and 11 rebounds for the Southwest Irish, and Megan Duffy added 16 Missouri State Sunday.
l 
) points and three assists. You'll have to pardon her .i Meanwhile, Courtney LaVere not racing off the court with added another double-double, a huge smile. Or for not
:! 
pulling down a game-high 13 appearing to be overly
I·§: 
rebounds, including 7 on the excited after such a tough I 1.~ ·' offensive end, to go along with win against an underrated

i· 
I I· 
!! 
'I 
I I 
I(~ score 10 points in just 12 min­step in the NCAA tourna­
I' 
I . utes. 
I I ment. Notre Dame still has I I 
But the game wasn't always as plenty of work left to do.ll close as the final score indicated. The Irish played a gutsy:(f! Notre Dame jumped out to a game Sunday afternoon, led 
r ~
:~ 23-9 lead behind eight points by Severe's hustle and 
I 
from Duffy, including two 3-relentless defense. The pointers. But the Lady Bears Associated Press guard finished the game
Notre Dame's Jaqueline Batteast shoots during Notre Dame's see WOMEN/page 25 69-65 overtime win against Southwest Missouri State Sunday. see HETTLER/page 25 
I 
~ 


11 points. opponent.For the Lady Bears, Jenni You see, Severe knows a 
Lingor and Kari Koch each first-round victory over a scored 15 points, and Stephanie pesky Southwest Missouri Busbey came off the bench to State team is a just small 
: 
,,. 
U) BASEBAll 


1-LLI Southern Illinois 8 Notre Dame 4 cc: :3 ~ z 
Notre Dame 5 Southern Illinois 3 
=~ 
D.!;i
U) page 26 
SWIMMING 
Katie Carroll and Megan Perry-Eaton earned All-American honors at the NCAA Championships this weekend. 
page 22 

FENCING 
While Amy Orlando qualified for the NCAA Championships, the Irish may have lost Derek Snyder for the season due to a broken hand. 
page 23 
see HOCKEY/page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer 
Chris Quinn, shown here driv­ing to the basket against Purdue, hopes to lead the Irish past Saint Louis tonight. 
2 hour. trip for round 2 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior SrafTWrirer 

To say that Notre Dame's second-round NIT game tonight is being played at a neutral site stretches the defi­nition of the word. 
Because just after tourna­ment officials announced that the Notre Dame-Saint Louis game would be played in Fort Wayne (a two-hour drive from South Bend) instead of St. Louis, tickets sold out in less than 24 hours. 
..In the state, we're the only team playing," Brey said with a smile...Nobody else is play­ing, and we know this state is 
see MEN/page 24 
NO WOMEN~S GOLF

ND SOFTBAll
MEtrS lACROSSE 
Loyola 13 
Notre Dame 2 
13th-place finish 

Notre Dame 7 
Eastern Mich. 0 
at Baylor Invite 

The Irish fell behind 
Notre Dame 9 
The Irish again started 
early yet again as they 
Eastern Mich. 1 
strong, but faded as the 
dropped their third 
weekend went on. 

straight. 
page 26
page 23
page 21 






