----------------------~-~------~------------------------------------, 

OLUME 39: ISSUE 24 
Accident prompts 
•

rev1evv 

Athletic dept. looks at student drivers 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Last week's auto accident involving a University-issued van driven by a member of the Notre Dame men's golf team has led the athletic d~epartment to re­examine its policies regarding student drivers. 
"It's another reason to take a look at what we're doing and make sure we're doing it correct­ly," Associate Athletic Director John Heisler said. "We're just trying to get our arms around it and undf~rstand the whole thing. !Our evaluation! could be ongo­ing -it's not something you determine in just a week." 
The accident occurred Sept. 16, when a semitrailer hit and totalnd the van on Interstate 80 as the six golfers inside traveled to a practice session at Lost Dunes Golf Club in Bridgman, Mich. Indiana State Police ticket­ed freshman golfer Gregory Hodgers at the scene for attempt­ing an illegal U-turn. 
Heisll~r said the athletic department prefers scenarios when coaches drive, but less than ideal circumstances often arise. 

"In a perfect world you don't have students drive, but that may not always be possible," he said, pointing out that the use of student drivers is not unique to 
see DRIVERS/page 9 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER24. 2004 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Discourse misses Ramadan's presence 
By BETH ERICKSON News Writer 

Editor's Note: This is the third in a three-part series exploring the controversies and implica­tions surrounding the visa revo­cation of Tariq Ramadan, a pro­fessor who was scheduled begin teaching at Notre Dame this fall. 
As controversy regarding the State Department's revocation of Professor Tariq Ramadan's visa continues, students and profes­sors at Notre Dame are express­
ing concern that -without unconventional voices like 
Ramadan's­the discussion of Middle Eastern con­flict will remain uni­lateral on campus and at other aca­demic institu­

tions. Ramadan 

"In addition to relying on the sound and often brilliant scholarship of dozens of non-Muslims, it is necessary to engage the opinions and ideas of in11uential Muslim intellectuals, including, controversial ones like Ramadan," director of the Kroc Institute Scott Appleby said. "We have invited him to join our com­munity of debate and intellectual discourse as a participant in a conversation that is wide-ranging, complex and absolutely critical to peace and justice issues in our time." 
The administration has main­tained that it exercised caution in appointing Ramadan, and despite the controversial nature of his ideals, has insisted that the multi­lateral discussion he would foster would contribute to the University's mi<>sion. 
"I read his latest book, and par­ticularly concentrated on the con­clusions that he reached and cer­tain things he was writing about," University President Father Edward Malloy said in an inter­view earlier this month. "On he basis of all of that, it seemed to be that the reason for hiring him ­which was to promote a conver­sation within the Peace Institute, with Islam and with a particular 
see RAMADAN/page 9 

Budget cuts restrict band travel 

Band of the Fighting Irish to attend only one away game 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
Breaking with years of tradition, the Band of the Fighting Irish will be travel­ing to just one away football game this fall -solely as a result of budget cuts. 
"This year is a big let­down," said Lauren Fowler, band vice president. 
In the past, the full band, about 380 people, has always traveled to at least two away games, and par­ticularly to games within close distance. The band traveled to two games last 
see BAND/page 11 




Richards advocates health care 
Former Texas governor speaks at Saint Mary's 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Speaking with the same wit and energy that characterized her political career, former Texas governor Ann Hichards called for major expansionary changes in the national .health care system Thursday night in the keynote address of the "Justice for All Ages" confer­ence. 
"I think we have to begin to work for universal coverage from the youngest among us to the oldest," Richards said. 
According to Richards, 45 million Americans currently live with no health care, and the issue ranks in importance behind only terrorism and the economy on political agendas 
see RICHARDS/page 10 


Notre Dame Smokers fuel football tradition 
Moose Krause started organization 
By SARAH BARRETT News Writer 
The Notre Dame Smokers Committee is an organization surrounded by the haze of leg­end and fervor -and just a whiff of cigar smoke. 
Founded in 1943, the SeeA/soNotre Dame 
"Knights serve
Smokers tra­dition started the community"with the late, 
page6
great, Edward "Moose" Krause to help promote Notre Dame football through the hardships of the war, Smokers chairman Steve Filbert said. 
The Smokers came by their name because of the tendencies of the founding fathers to smoke cigars and play cards during meetings. One becomes a Smoker, and thus a member of its father organization the Knights of Columbus, by being a man who practices Catholicism on a regular basis and works his way up through the different degrees of being a Knight. 
The Smokers are heavily involved in service, and today the organization acts as a non­profit aimed at raising funds and working to better the South Bend community. 
Charitable funds are earned through various fundraisers and combined with money that the members have accrued and invested. 
The Smokers frequently 
see SMOKERS/page 8 

.--------------------------­
Friday, September 24, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Standing tall 
Being tall is more than just having a 
few more inches in height than the aver­
age person -it is a way of lile. Since I 
am six-feet tall I am all too familiar with 
the struggle of finding long jeans or a 
date to a dance who 
is about my height. Kelly Meehan I have been 
News Wire
above-average 
Editor
height for my entire 
life. I remember 
picture day back in elementary school 
when we were instructed to line up 
shortest to tallest. I would have a sinking 
feeling in my stomach, for I would so 
badly want to stand with my other girl 
friends in the front of the line. This would 
work for about one minute, until my 
teacher would promptly escort me to the 
back of the line to stand with all the awk­
wardly tall boys. 
Things really got out of control when I 
grew six inches during seventh grade, 
which is quite an amazing feat. It was at 
this point when I realized I would forever 
be the tall girl. 
I was questioned several times a day if I played basketball. No, I do not. When that was not a satisfactory response I was asked if I played volleyball. No, I am not athletic. It was usually about this point in the conversation when the per­son questioning me on the usc of my height would get a disgusted look on his or her face to suggest I was potentially a waste of athletic potential-which, by the way, I am not. for I am extremely uncoordinated. 
Of course there was always the point in my life where random men supposedly from a "modeling agency" would approach me at the mall or in public ven­ues to tell me and my parents that I would make a "great model" because of my height. It was somewhat flattering, but being invited to model by a random man in a small town in Ohio is not exact­ly the best way to break into the world of modeling. 
Shopping for stylish pants with a long inseam is a never-ending endeavor. I get very upset when I sec short girL<; snatch­ing up the long inseam jeans at Gap just so they could cut the bottoms otr to achieve the "worn" look. And of course wearing high heels is always a question­able quest, for the extra inches they pro­vide sends me towering above many of my "vertically-challenged" friends. 
And of course there is always the inevitable question about dating a guy shorter than me. I personally do not have a problem with it, but it seems that when I am with a shorter guy he feels uncom­fortably inferior just because of a few inches of difference. 
In all reality I like being tall. It seems that when I meet people for the first time it always gives us something to talk about. I can always reach things on the top shelf. It is always reassuring to know that most women wL'ih they were taller, and of course it is comforting to think that if I begin to shrink during my elderly years I will still be considered tall. 
It seems that being tall helps me make some fellow tall friends, with whom I can share the woes of being tall. So to all my fellow tall girls out there, stand tall and be proud of your height. And to all of you, who are on the shorter end of the spectrum. do not fret over the few inches you wish you had. and just make sure to leave the long jeans for us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kelly Meehan at kmee­haO1 @saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can 
corr~c[ our 4:'rror. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 

Ashley Cunningham  John Welsh  Cecelia Hilliard  Jenny Mayer  Marcia Erp  Peter Hadley  
Freshman  Senior  Junior  Junior  Hilda Boney  Freshman  
McGlinn  Keough  McGlinn  LaMans  SDH workers  Carroll  
"Oh yeah, we'll  "ND 24-UW 14."  "!think we're  'WD 38-UW 1o,  "Notre Dame  "/ do care. I do  
win! By three  gonna do well. "  because that's  will win ... by  want to go. ND  
touchdowns. "  what my hot  what margin,  21-UW 1J."  
teacher said. "  we don't know. "  





Court says horse does not count as a vehicle 
PITTSBURGH -The state Supreme Court ruled that Pennsylvania's drunk­en driving law can't be enforced against people on horseback, a decision that inspired the dissenting jus­tice to wax poetic. 
The court ruled Wednesday in a case against two men in Mercer County in 2002. Riders Keith Travis, 41, and Richard Noel, 49, were charged with drunken driv­ing along with a man driv­ing a pickup who allegedly rear-ended the horse Travis was riding away from a bar 
TODAY 
c::: 


granted legal permission last week by a circuit judge to change his name. 
It's just They, no sur­name. 
He also has changed his driver's license to reflect his new name. 
They said he did it for humor to address the com­mon reference to "they." 
'"They do this,' or 'They're to blanie for that.' Who is this 'they' everyone talks about? 'They' accom­plish such great things. Somebody had to take responsibility," he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
on a dark country road. 

All three men failed field sobriety tests, police said, but a judge threw out the charges against Noel and Travis after they argued that the word "vehicles" in the state's drunken-driving law doesn't apply to horses. 
Man legally changes his name to "They" 
BRANSON, Mo. -A Branson man has put a face to the anonymous ref­erences people often make to "they" by changing his name to just that: "They." 
The former Andrew Wilson, a 43-year-old self­employed inventor, was 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

'IN BRIEF 
The Student Union Board will offer screenings of "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" starring Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet tonight at 8 and 10:30 p.m. The cost is $3, and the movie will be shown in 101 DeBartolo llall. 
The well-known irnprov group Comedy Sportz is corn­ing to Washington llall tonight at 10 p.m. 
Saturday is the final day to register for the Oct. 29-31 NDE retreat. Sign-ups are all day in 114 Coleman-Morse Center. 
The Creative Writing Program joins the St. Joseph Literacy Council in its annual book fair all day Saturday at the South Bend Barnes and Noble. 
The first Dance Dance Revolution tournament will take place from 10 p.m. to 1 
a.m. Saturday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
ND alumnus and visiting artist Libor Dudas will per­form a concert of fortepiano and harpsichord music in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Suite Museum Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. music department's Graf fortepiano, a replica of an early 19th century fortepiano handcrafted by R.J. Hegier of Freeport, Maine. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

73 
52 

70 52 
1.&.1 
::::r: 
~ 
1.&.1 ...I

== ~ 


(.) 

0 

HIGH 80 HIGH 69 HIGH 72
...J 

LOW 47 LOW 46 LOW 48 

HIGH LOW 
Friday, September 24, 2004 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Faculty panel discusses current domestic probletns 
Students sit in on political conversation 
gay marriage, are likely to be
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
resolved by the Supreme
News Wrirer 
Court -a fact that Nicgorski 
emphasized. He said that four 
With the November elec­to six justices will likely retire tions just around the corner, within the next four years, Notre Dame students are making the future president's being increasingly challenged appointments all the more to evaluate their political important. views. On Thursday night, the Nicgorski also said that Faculty Panel on Domestic because the Constitution is a Issues pushed national prob­"model in our world" and has lems to the forefront of cam­provided "unparalleled politi­pus conversation when they cal stability," the United discussed domestic issues. States must have justices who 
Professors will adhere to J o r g e it. Bustamante of Betson lec­
"Choice and using
the Kellogg tured on 
Institute for our collective power healthcare, International as consumers explaining that Studies. David while politi­
should be at the
Betson of eco­cians often 
nomics and pub­forefront in health focus on the lic policy and care reform. " plight of unin­Walter Nicgorski sured children, of the Program 'of coverage for
David Betson
Liberal Studies the elderly 
each spoke about economics professor should also play domestic issues a role in the crucial to the election. He upcoming presidential elec­said that Americans do not tion. receive ample coverage for "Domestic issues are pretty the amount they pay each much in the shadow of inter­year. national policy," said ''Choice and using our col­Nicgorski. "We are, after all, lective power as consumers at war." should be at the forefront in While media focus has been healthcare reform," he said. concentrated on the situation In discussing Mexican immi­in Iraq, the panel addressed gration to the United States, key national issues such as Bustamante said that the two immigration, health care and candidates' positions "could­Supreme Court appointments. n 't be more contrasting." Two of the most debated President Bush favors a guest domestic issues, abortion and worker program that would 


allow migrant workers to come to the country tem­porarily in exchange for work, while John Kerry sup­ports an earned progress sys­tem that legalizes immigrants after they have come to the country, he said. 
"Immigration is not a crime­related problem but a labor issue," Bustamante said. 
The lecture concluded with a question-and-answer ses­sion during which students asked about the issues in more detail. 

Junior Kamaria Porter said she believed the lecture was informative and useful. 
"I really appreciated the perspectives on eoonomic issues, especially healthcare," Porter said. "There are so many people in our country without"it, and this needs to be fixed. 
The lecture was part of a series of events in the campus Rock the Vote Campaign. Rock the Vote campus coordinator Peter Quaranta said students should expect similar events this fall. 
"We will continue to pro­mote political dialogue and education," he said. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 


The Law School presents ''The SEC at 70'' 
Comm_emorating the 70th Anniversary of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
Thursday, September 23, 2004 
3:00 p.m. until 6:00p.m. Friday, September 24, 2004 

9:00 a.m. until12:00 noon Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
For program content, visit the Symposium web site at http://www.nd.edu/--ndlaw/conferences/sec/ 
Friday, September 24, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 



Fisher holds third annual roof sit to protnote charity 
Residents remain on hall roof for 50 hours 


By MEEG CONROY and JEN 
ROWLING 
News Writers 
What started in the fall of 2002 as a commemoration of Fisher Hall's 50th anniversary has evolved into an annual campus­wide event. The Fisher Hoof Sit seeks to promote community and charity through this 50 hour event that has a variety of activi­ties associated with it. Given the length this event, everyone on campus has a chance to take part. 
The Hoof Sit begins rain or shine this evening at 7:50 pm, and continues for 50 hours, ofli­cially ending on Sunday at 9:50 pm. All events are free, and, according to assistant rector Uominic Angiollo, are sure to provide a good time. 
Tonight's events will feature a local band The Royal They and HA! Comedy show. Fisher will also present Fisher Feats of 50 ­a series of random and crazy acts done by Fisher residents in the spirit of charity. Accompanying this variety of acts will be free pizza, subs and mocktails from Pillars. 
In last year's Fisher Feats one Fisher resident earned $1 per egg for each of the 50 eggs thrown at him; another guzzled a bottle of syrup in 50 seconds for donations. 
The music and food will contin­ue through Saturday with anoth­er exciting line-up. Fisher resi­dent Tom Schreck will perform at 
8:45 p.m., followed by Matt Merren & Brass ensemble. At 10 p.m. Fisher will introduce its newest addition to the 'Roof Sit': a campus-wide dodge ball tour­nament. Brother and sister dorm teams can be submitted into the tournament, which will continue until midnight on South Quad. The winning team gets $150, which will be given to a charity of its choice. 
On Sunday the Roof Sit will wind down with some equally interesting activities. Like today and Saturday, inflatable bungee­runs and sumo wrestling will be available. Although Sunday will be a milder day, the Green Waves will still be sitting to raise money. 
Demonstrating their strong sense of dedication and commit­ment to this event, not even· a football game will keep Fisher from raising money. During Saturday's game hall staff and dorm rectors take turns sitting on the roof. 
In 2002, the resident assistants of Fisher wanted to not only com­memorate the 50th anniversary, but also help the local communi­ty. Organizers decided to raise money for Betsy Greenwood, the daughter of a Notre Dame Law student with cancer. Funds raised from the event went to Betsy's care. 
Last year Fisher decided to honor the memory of Chad Sharon, a former resident of the dorm who died in February 2003 from a drowning accident, through donating funds to the Chad Sharon Memorial Scholarship Fund. In addition to this, contributions were also made to the Center for Missing and Exploited Children. 


In its third year, Fisher has decided to continue to donate to the Chad Sharon scholarship fund and rotate the second chari­ty every other year. This year some of the profits will go to St. Adelberts Church in South Bend, which is looking to replace their roof. Last year donations amounted to approximately $3,000, and this year they hope to match if not beat this previous total. 
The majority of money is raised through donations from passing students and guests. Dorm involvement is encouraged through the invitation that Fisher extends to dorm hall staffs to take turns sitting, as well as a pledge from Father Timothy Scully and Father Richard Warner. For every 50 students from a given dorm who sign in, Scully and Warner will match the donation with 50 dollars from their own pockets. 
Fisher will provide the dorm with the highest representation with a BBQ as an added incentive for participation. Spirited hall staffs that come will also receive various prizes. 
"Hopefully it will be a fun weekend," Fisher vice president Jeremy Moreno said. "The Fisher Roof Sit is for a good cause, it is for the local kids who need con­struction done to make it through the school year. We also continue to do the Sit so Chad Sharon is not forgotten and that something like this does not happen again." 
Contact Meeg Conroy and Jen Rowling at mconroyl@nd.edu and jrowling@nd.edu 


--~--~---~-----­
ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 24, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiite cleric says vote will be held 
BAGHDAD-U.S. warplanes blasted insur­gent positions in Sadr City, and American ground troops pushed into the sprawling Baghdad slum Thursday in a new operation aimed at disarming the militia of a renegade anti-U.S. Shiite cleric. 
Despite violence sweeping the country, Iraq's 

· top Shiite Muslim cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani is insisting elections promised for January must be held on time, an aide said. With car bombs, shootings and kidnappings escalating and several cities effectively under insurgent control, there are concerns that Iraq will not be ready to hold a vote by the Jan. 31 deadline. But Shiites, who make up about 60 percent of Iraq's 25 million people, are eager to hold elections since they expect to dominate whatever government emerges. Interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, in a speech to a joint session of the U.S. Congress on Thursday, vowed not to let violence derail the election timetable. 
Panic ensues in flood-ravaged Haiti 
GONAIVES, Haiti -Hungry, thirsty and increasingly desperate residents attacked each other in a panic to get scarce food and water Thursday as workers struggled to bury hundreds of corpses six days after the city was struck by Tropical Storm Jeanne. 
More than 1,100 were killed and 1,250 are missing, and the toll was rising. The storm left 250,000 homeless in Haiti's northwest province, which includes the port of Gonaives. 
I lealth workers feared an epidemic of dis­ease in the country's third-largest city from the unburied dead. overflowing raw sewage, lack of potable water, and infections from injuries. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Former aide to governor indicted 
HAHTFORD. Conn. -A top aide to former Gov. John G. Rowland was indicted Thursday along with a major construction contractor on charges they operated a corrupt criminal organization out of the governor's office. 
The 15-count indictment accuses former co-chief of staff Peter N. Ellef and contractor William Tomasso of conspiring to steer state contracts. It also includes extortion charges and alleges those involved conspired to laun­der money and pay bribes. 
Rowland is not charged in the indictment. 

The aide's son, Peter N. Ellef II, also was charged. Prosecutors have targeted two Tomasso companies and the younger Ellef's landscaping business. 
Survivors found in Montana crash 
SEATTLE -Two Forest Service workers who were believed killed in a fiery plane crash huddled together to stay warm in the freezing temperatures of the Montana wilderness. and one was in such excruciat­ing pain that he had trouble bending over to get water from a stream, a doctor said Thursday. 
New details of the workers' miraculous survival emerged Thursday as one of their doctors held a news conference to discuss their recovery, and their families described the shock of learning the news just as they were making funeral arrangements. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Too-big truck damages bridge 
CUTLER -A large truck driving through a 132-year-old covered bridge in Carroll County scraped the bridge's roof, ripping down its triangular endpiece and displacing a support beam. 
The Adams Mill Bridge, built in 1872, remained closed Thursday, two days after the accident. 
The bridge about 20 miles east of Lafayette has a 3-ton weight limit, but a truck weighing nearly 19 tons drove across it, police said. 
GAZA STRIP 

Three killed by Palestinian gunmen 
Attackers sneak into Gaza base, kill Iraqi soldiers before dying in shootouts 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY-Palestin­ian gunmen made their way into a heavily fortified Israeli army post in the Gaza Strip under cover of morning fog Thursday and started shooting, killing three Israeli soldiers in a 45-minute firefight. 
Two attackers were killed soon afterward, but a third hid near the post for several hours before firing on journalists inspecting the scene. wounding an Israeli news­paper reporter in the leg. 
The infiltration came as Israeli forces wrapped up an operation in a nearby Gaza refugee camp amid signs of increasing ten­sions and violence ahead of Israel's planned with­drawal from Gaza next year. 
The earth-and-concrete outpost guards the isolated settlement of Morag in the southeast corner of Gaza. Taking advantage of heavy fog, Palestinian gunmen slipped unnoticed into the post at about 6 a.m. and opened fire, killing an Israeli officer· and two sol­diers and critically wound­ing another soldier. the military said. 

Soldiers fired back. killing two intruders. The shootout lasted about 45 minutes, said Nissim Bracha, a Morag resident. attack. bombs targeting an Israeli fire mortars and rockets at Two AK-47 assault rifles The caller said the gun­military convoy. settlements. Fifteen were found on the two men were from Islamic However, the third gun­Palesti-nians were wound­gunmen. Jihad, the Popular man was killed before he ed when an Israeli helicop­
A third Palestinian .man­Resistance Committees -could detonate the explo­ter fired a missile at a aged to hide near the base an umbrella group of sives, Abu Abir said. group of people during a for several hours, waiting Palestinian factions -and Late Thursday, Palesti­gun battle in the camp, until journalists arrived for the Ahmed Abu El-Rish nians said Israeli forces hospital officials said. a briefing from an army Brigades, a group with ties blocked the main crossing Morag is one of the 21 commander -standard to Yasser Arafat's Fatah point between Gaza and Gaza settlements set for practice after such an movement. Israel by piling sand on the evacuation under Prime attack. One gunman was an 18-Gaza road in front of the Minister Ariel Sharon's 
The Palestinian then year-old high school stu­Erez checkpoint and estab­"unilateral disengage­opened fire, wounding a dent who had participated lishing a military outpost ment" plan. Most of Gaza's reporter for the Yediot in clashes with soldiers in there. The military had no 8,200 Jewish settlers live Ahronot daily in the thigh. the past, relatives said. immediate comment. in the large Gush Katif bloc The gunman was killed A spokesman for the In an overnight Israeli along the coast, while during the ensuing 30-Popular Resistance Com­operation in the Khan Morag is one of'several minute shootout. mittees, using the nom de Younis refugee camp, bull­settlements standing alone 
In a phone call to The guerre Abu Abir, said the dozers razed seven build­in the crowded territory, Associated Press. three plan was for two gunmen ings the army said were where 1.3 million groups claimed joint to engage soldiers in a bat­used for cover by militants Palestinians live, many in responsibility for the tle while a third planted to attack Israeli forces and poverty. 

House passes $145.9 billion tax-cut 
The Senate was expected to quickly "The choice is between raising Associated Press pass the measure as well, sending it taxes on millions of families and 
to the president for his signature. individuals next year or sparing 
WASHINGTON -The House on Republicans were eager to pass the them that tax increase," said Sen. Thursday passed a $145.9 billion legislation needed to extend the tax Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, chairman package of tax relief to extend three measures and give Bush a big leg­of the Senate Finance Committee. popular middle-class tax cuts, giving islative victory in the closing weeks "The president made this a priority, President Bush his fourth major tax of his campaign for re-election. and I hope to have a bill on his desk victory since taking office. Without action, the three provi­within days." 
The House approved the proposal sions affecting an estimated 94 mil­Debate in both chambers followed 339-65, with many Democrats join­lion Americans would expire at the similar lines, with many Democrats ing in support of the politically popu­end of this year. The legislation saying they supported the popular lar measure even though they criti­keeps the per child tax credit at tax cuts but were unhappy that cized the Hepublican-led Congress' $1,000, retains an expanded 10 per­Republicans had refused to consider refusal to pay for the new tax relief cent income bracket that affects vir­offsets such as tax cuts in other at a time of soaring budget deficits. tually .all taxpayers and retains pro­areas or spending cuts to pay for the 
The House vote came in the midst visions to provide tax relief for mar­package and keep it from making of Senate debate on the same bill. ried couples. future deficits worse. 
..-------------------~~-------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 24, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Knights serve the cotntnunity
SMC holds retreat 
By ELIZABETH CHEFFERS 
for busy students 
News Writer 


By ERICA RANGEL 
News Writer 
In hopes of relieving some stress ·ror students swamped with tests, papers and presentations, Saint Mary's campus min­istry is offering the second annual Busy Person's Hetreat. 
The four-day retreat starts on Sunday at 8 
busy to leave campus for a retreat. 
"The goal is to bring everyone together in a time of reflection and faith, while still working around everyone's hectic life schedule," campus minister Annie Crew­Henzo said. 
The retreat is free and open to people of all faiths. 
Crew-Henzo said the nontraditional format is what draws students to 
participate. "The only planned meet­Each year during the traditional 

ing is on Sunday where 

Smokers event sponsored by theeveryone meets to discuss South Bend Knights of Columbus, the goal of the retreat and there is a surge irr student inter­compare schedules," Crew­est in the Knights -an organiza­
Henzo said. "The remain­

tion that remains largely mysteri­ing four (lays are based on ous despite its easily identifiable
the schedules of those 
· 
p.m. and clos­
"The goal is to 

ing each other and the communi­
es Thursday, ually pray 

ty through educational, charita­
and was bring everyone for 30 min­

ble, religious, social welfare, war
designed by together in a time utes." 
relief and public relief works. 
Sister Olivia She also
ofreflection and 

It was founded in 1882 by aM a r i e said that the 
29 year-old parish priest, Father Michael McGivney, in 
Hutcheson and faith, while still retreat 
the Sisters of workign around allows for a 

the basement of Saint Mary's
the Holy Cross lot of per-,
everyone's hectic 

Church in New Haven, Conn.
last year to sonal atten­

The Vatican is currently inves­
life schedule" 
connect Saint tion. 

tigating McGivney's case forMary's stu­Sophomore sainthood.
dents and staff Beth Sands
Annie Crew-Renzo 

Brent Burish, grand knight at
who are too participated
campus minister 

Notre Dame, said the organiza­
stone building nestled beside the
involved. The participants 
Coleman Morse Center. 
will meet in small groups 

In fact, the Knights of Columbus 
with the retreat directors, 

is the largest lay organization in
campus ministers and sis-

the Catholic Church, with over 1.6
ters for 30 

million members in 12 countries.
minutes and 

It is dedicated primarily to serv­
will individ­
in the 

tion accepts only men so as to
retreat last maintain its goal of being

year and 

"Catholic gentlemen committedpraised its benefits. 
to the exemplification of chari­"I really loved spending ty, u:riity, fraternity, patriotism,
time with the sisters," 

and defense of the priesthood."
Sands said. "It gave me a 

The order has been called "thechance to de-stress.'' 
strong right arm of the Church"
She was also pleased 

by popes, presidents and otherwith the f1exible format. 
world leaders who laud their
"It really was convenient · staunch principles, and statesto plan all the meetings to 

that it is consecrated to' theaccommodate my sched­
Blessed Virgin Mary and is unfail­ule," she said. 
ing in its loyalty to the Pope. "It is firmly committed to theContact Erica Rangel at 
protection of human life, from
rang4 716@saintmarys.edu 

conception to natural death, and to the preservation and defense of the family" Burish said. 
The Notre Dame council was formed in 1910 and has a long history of active-participation in campus life. The organization was the founder of Bengal Bouts and its buildings housed SUB movies on campus in the past. 
While times and events have changed, the Knights are still very involved with different groups on campus. They often work with Right to Life on events and have many partner­ships with other campus groups that use their building. 
The Knights throughout the world place a great emphasis on service. In the past decade, the Knights of Columbus has donat­ed nearly $1 billion to numer­ous charitable causes and has logged nearly 400 million hours of community service. 
The Notre Dame council's 
renowned steak sale on foot­ball weekends is currently esti­mated to be the second largest fundraiser at the school, rak­ing in around $40,000 in rev­enue each year. All proceeds go to various charities, including schools, women's rights organi­zations and Holy Cross mis­sions. 
The Knights serve in the community in different capaci­ties, with some recent projects being all-campus poker smok­ers, Right to Life, women's right's lectures, the donation of a statue of the Virgin and Child in remembrance of the victims of abortion on the North side of the Basilica and various other campus service projects. Any male, who is at least 18 years old and is a practicing Catholic, may join. 
Contact Elizabeth Cheffers at echeffer@nd.edu 


SATURDAY 


Dance 
Dance 
12fV()LUTI()~ 



What is DDR? Only the coolest interactive video game ever. Ask anyone. They'll tell you. FREE FOOD. PRIZES. DDR. Sign up to compete in the DDR tournament in the Student Activities Office this week, at the 
DDR sign-up table in LaFortune on Friday (11am-2pm), or by showing up on Saturday! 
9.25.04 ... LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ... 9PM -12 AM 

Both events are brought to you by the Student Activities Office. Questions? 631-7308. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Friday, September 24, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

fc,~:s 10,038.90 -70.28 
4~'< Same: Q9WP: Composite Volume: 1,488 191 • 1,280,965,248 
AMEX 1,261.46 +6.78 NASDAQ 1,886.43 +0. 72 NYSE 6,521.43 7"27:t3 S&P500 1,108.36 -5.20 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 1.1· 1019:41: Ti~'::: QiQC)'1'!i!!! 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,568.30 -24.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.20 -0.04 20.38 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.85 +0.23 27.35 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.48 +0.02 4.22 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.32 -0.06 18.90 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.81 -0.09 11.05 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.46 +0.22 47.99 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.98 +0.39 40.28 5-YEARNOTE + 1.85 +0.60 33.11 3-MONTH BILL +0.12 +0. 12 16.85 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.11 48.46 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.60 412.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 103.375 
Exchan Rates 
YEN 110.74 EURO 0.8148 POUND 0.5562 CANADIAN$ 1.2797 
IN BRIEF Jillian 's holds bankruptcy auction 
LOUISVILLE. Ky. -Strong bidding by two other potential buyers drove up the sale price of most of Jillian's 35 restaurant-nightclubs to $64.8 million in a bankruptcy auction, a Jillian's official said. 
A joint venture of Dave & Busters, based in Dallas, and a Boston investment company called Gemini Investors III placed the high bid Wednesday, said Greg Stevens, Jillian's chief financial officer. The sale is subject to approval by the federal bankruptcy court in Louisville. 
The two joined forces when the other bid­ders drove up the price, Stevens said. Dave & Busters and Gemini Investors III were the "stalking horse" bidders for Jillian's in the sale plan submitted to the bankruptcy court, mean­ing they bid first. Dave & Busters had offered $27.6 million for nine of the newest and largest Jillian's outlets in eight states. Gemini had bid $11 million for 19 more, including the Louisville, Indianapolis and Covington, Ky., clubs. 
The new deal could include some of the clubs in Rochester, Tacoma, Memphis and Katy, Texas -left out of the original offers, Jillian's President Dan Smith said. 
Most billionaires ever in Forbes 400 
NEW YORK -The nation's billionaire's club may not be quite as exclusive as it once was. 
There are now 313 billionaires in the coun­try, the largest number ever and a huge jump over last year's 262 members, according to Forbes magazine, which Thursday released its annual ranking of the 400 richest Americans. 
The combined net worth of the 400 rose $45 billion, reaching $1 trillion this year for the first time since 2000, before the dot-com bust. 
Retaining the top spot was Microsoft founder Bill Gates, whose $48 billion in estimated wealth was up $2 billion from 2003. Gates was again followed by investor Warren Buffett with $41 billion, the list's biggest dollar gainer with a $5 billion increase, and Microsoft co­founder Paul Allen, who held the No. 3 spot although his net worth fell $2 billion to $20 billion. 
Members of the Walton family, whose for­tune comes from Wal-Mart Stores Inc., again swept spots four through eight, with each hav­ing estimated wealth of $18 billion. 

Oil prices near all-time high 
Slow economy and high energy costs continue to push stocks further down 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Investors extended their blue chip selloff Thursday as oil prices neared their all­time highs, renewing Wall Street's concerns that high energy costs would deflate third-quarter earnings. Only the Nasdaq compos­ite index managed a mini­mal gain. 
Analysts said oil prices, which continued their climb after shooting past $48 Wednesday, would keep consumer spending down and business costs rising, a combination that will squeeze profit mar­gins and lower third-quar­ter earnings. A barrel of light crude settled at $48.46 Thursday, up 11 cents on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after reaching an intraday high of $49. Crude futures closed at a record high $48.70 on Aug. 19 and set a new intraday record of $49.20 on Aug. 20. 

Oil prices were also blamed, in part, for a lower reading on the Conference Board's index of leading economic indi­cators, the third straight monthly decline. Investors believed the forward-look­ing index sent a signal that economic growth has been slowing and would losses and third in the last stocks common to the spending -increased as likely taper off through four sessions. The Dow Nasdaq. the Labor Department the end of the year. lost more than 135 points The Conference Board reported a 14,000 
"When you take a look Wednesday, and is now at said its Composite Index increase in first-time job­at the leading economic its lowest level since Aug. of Leading Economic less claims for the week. indicators, it's very clear 17. Indicators fell 0.3 percent While the hurricanes in that the price of oil is hav­Broader stock indicators in August to 115.7, follow­Florida were blamed for ing an impact on the econ­were narrowly mixed. The ing a drop of 0.3 percent the jump, investors have omy," said Hugh Johnson, Standard & Poor's 500 in July and larger than been hoping for a return chief investment officer at index was down 5.20, or the 0.2 percent drop fore­to this spring's strong job First Albany Corp. "Just 0.5 percent, at 1,108.36, cast by economists. The growth as a sign of look at the negative earn­while the Nasdaq compos­index, which measures strength in the economy. ings statements from ite index gained just 0. 72, the potential for future "This kind of data does­some of the most stable or 0.04 percent, to economic growth, left Wall n't help because it just companies out there. If 1,886.43. Street with reduced hopes adds to the uncertainty the markets are going to Stocks listed on the for a strong finish to the that the markets are deal­move higher, we're going tech-focused Nasdaq were year, although the ing with," said Jay to need some relief on the generally oversold far Conference Board said the Suskind, head trader at oil front so that the earn­more this year due to a three months of declines Ryan Beck & Co. "You've ings picture improves." weaker technology sector, were not enough to signal got rising oil prices, eco­
The Dow Jones industri­and the retreat in blue an end to growth entirely. nomic data that's mostly al average fell 70.28, or chips was seen as bring­Investors' concerns OK, questions about jobs 
0.7 percent, to 10,038.90, ing their valuations back about job growth -and and a presidential election the second straight day of in line with the small-cap the resulting consumer all weighing things down." 

Big problems found at Fannie Mae 
Associated Press • 
WASHINGTON -Federal regula­tors have raised the possibility of removing the management of mort­gage giant Fannie Mae after finding accounting problems they described Thursday as more serious than those that brought the ouster of top executives at rival Freddie Mac. 
The findings by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight warrant "immediate remedial action," the agency's director said in a letter to the Fannie Mae directors that was released Thursday. 
In addition, "we must consider the accountability of management and whether we have sufficient confi­dence in management to fully implement these corrective meas­ures and bring about broad cultural and operational changes," Armando Falcon wrote in the letter dated Monday. "The analysis and findings of this report make it difficult to assert such confidence." 

The Securities and Exchange Commission also is investigating the accounting of government-spon­sored Fannie Mae, the second­largest U.S. financial institution behind Citigroup Inc. 
The OFHEO regulators' report, made public Wednesday following an eight-month investigation, found pervasive accounting problems the agency says cast doubt on the com­pany's past earnings reports and even its financial soundness. 
Management at Fannie Mae "deliberately developed and adopt­ed" inappropriate accounting poli­cies, supported widespread viola­tions of generally accepted account­ing principles, tolerated lax internal controls and failed to properly investigate an employee's concerns about accounting, the report said. 
The report also cited the possibili­ty of deliberate accounting maneu­vers designed to bring bigger bonuses to executives. 
The OFHEO investigation contin­ues: and the regulators haven't yet quantified the result of the faulty accounting they said was wide­spread at the company. 
Friday, September 24, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Historic case celebrates 50 years 
the audience their own insight Institute of Latino Studies 
By TRICIA de GROOT and reflection on the matters director of research Timothy 
News Writer surrounding the Brown v. Board Ready began his portion of the 
of Education decision. panel by asking about the mean­
Law professor Jay Tidmarsh ing of opportunity for quality 
In celebration of the 50-year began by focusing on three points education today. He encouraged anniversary of Brown v. Board of relevant to the court decision: the audience to look at how Education, a case monumental in Background information that set everyone, at their own place at the quest for equal opportunity, the stage for the case, the case the University and in society, can the Notre Dame itself and finally fight segregation. NAACP chapter invit­the time immedi­"Educational issues are the
"! was amazed at

ed faculty and stu­ately following forefront of civil rights concerns dents to join in a how much more the decision. today," Ready said. forum about race than Brown it was. Tidmarsh also He also said that educational issues Thursday stressed that opportunity for all is still an issue
It is not something
night. although Brown today. 

The event featured we talk about v. Board of The final speaker, assistant a panel composed of everyday. " Education over­professor in American studies two undergraduate turned the idea Thomas Guglielmo, discussed the professors, one law of "separate but dangers that exist in a general,
Bobby Brown 

school professor and equal", it wasn't celebratory attitude toward histo­
law student

a second-year law until years later ry. He stressed there was no student, and was fol-that the federal actual desegregation following lowed by open dis-government took the decision of Brown v. Board of cussion and a question-and­real action to desegregate. Education and that it wasn't until answer period. The second speaker, law stu­federal money was a factor that 
The forum began with a brief dent Bobby Brown, began by the nation saw real action. introduction of the plans for the admitting his own "This is clearly a evening from Kathryn Bethea, lack of knowledge story of no steady president of the Notre Dame about Brown v. progress. Since the
"Educational issues 

NAACP chapter, followed by a Board of eighties, there has video clip themed, "After 50 Education prior to arethefore)Tontof been a marked years, how far have we come?'' being asked to be civil rights concerns desegregation The clip focused on the impor­on the panel. against blacks and
today."

tant events, people and court "I was amazed Latinos," he said. decisions preceding the historic that how much "Nothing is 1954 case. It paid particular more than Brown Timothy Ready inevitable, and attention to Charles Houston, it was," Brown director of research progress only Special Council for the National said. "It is not comes through Association for the Advancement something we talk struggle and of Colored People from 1934-40, about day in and day out so we activism. We need a new move­and the NAACP's decision to have to seek this information ment, a new activism and a new begin desegregation by fighting out." struggle because of the desegre­for equal educational opportuni­Brown told the audience to let gations." ties. the information they discover 
Following the video, each of the about the case be a guide for Contact Tricia de Groot at four guest speakers shared with their everday activities. pdegroot@nd.edu 
S01okers 
continued from page 1 

devote time and money to local charities such as the Homeless Shelter and Women's Shelters, and spon­sor scholarships for South Bend area catholic high schools. On average, the Smokers give out $1,200­1,500 each year. 
While the Smokers reach out to the surrounding com­munity, they retain a very close relationship with the University. 
Every Friday night before a home football 
With the formation of the Smokers Committee came a vow by Krause to host a speaker at each meeting -an initiative for people to gather together as a family before the upcoming game. 
As a gesture of appreciation and acknowledgement of the Smokers mission statement, a promise was made that the head coach of the Notre Dame Football team would make an appearance at one gathering each year. 
Unfortunately, the frequent turnover in the coach position has caused the promise to be neglected, per­haps due to lack of communication and the passing of 

"It's afamily
game, families of Krause. committee mem­affair." Nevertheless, bers, alumni club many great members and s·peakers have
Steve Filbert 
non-alumni gath­come to the meet­
Smokers chairman 
er at the Sacred ings, and Notre 
Heart  Parish  
Center.  
"It is  a  family  

affair," Filbert said. "We serve food, beer, wine and pop and host anywhere from 300 to 500 people each meeting." 
Bringing together old friends, classmates and fellow Irish fans, the meetings draw in devotees from all over the country. 
One man even flies into South Bend from Kansas City, Mo. every home game to sup­port the team and recount stories from his time at Notre Dame with fellow alumni and current students, Filbert said. The Parish Center reserves rooms for 150 people each home game to accommodate out-of-town fans. 
Dame baseball 
coach Paul 
Mainieri and bas­ketball coach Mike Brey are planning appearances. 
The speakers reminisce about their Notre Dame expe­riences and share with the members their love for our University. 
"People just love Notre Dame, its great history [and] great tradition," Filbert said. "It's a matter of camaraderie -go to the pep rally and to Smokers afterwards." 
The doors of the Parish Center will be open immedi­ately following tonight's pep rally. 
Contact Sarah Barrett at sbarret2@nd.edu 


THE AREA'S NEWEST FINE DINING RESTAURANT! 
Dry-Aged Prime Steaks 
~ 
Market Fresh Seafood 
• 
Private Parties 
it 
Outdoor Dining 
~ 
ENJOY LIVE 
JAZZ & BLUES 
IN OUR 
MARTINI LOUNGE 
YOU'VE LOVED PARISI'S FOR 25 YEARS, NOW TRY OUR SECOND LOCATION. 
Friday, September 24, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Rainadan 
continued from page 1 
representative of the Islamic tradi­tion -made good sense ... People don't have to agree with him, but it'd be naive to think that we could go over the next couple of decades without taking Islam seriously." 
Students enrolled in the class Ramadan was scheduled to teach have been reading his writing and reported no evidence of radical or offensive material. 
"I was supposed to be in his class this semester. and right now we're reading his works, and I can't see anything wrong with them," said sophomore Arabic and political science major Anne Kroeger, adding that though she cannot speak for her classmates, she was "pretty sure" they felt the same. "Some people say he is anti­Semitic -but when did it become wrong to express your point of view? I really feel that people should be able to speak their minds without having to fear con­sequences." 
Many at Notre Dame argue that issues concerning the Middle East stir controversy because of misun­derstanding and misinterpretation. 
"[It isl very important to get mul­tiple perspectives on events," psy­chology professor Darcia Narvaez said. "The U.S. is very ethnocentric and needs to grow up to have adult conversations about complex realities -and negotiate settle­ments instead of using violence to suppress perceived threat." 
This lack of knowledge is often seen as a danger to academic free­dom and intellectual discourse. 
"Professor Ramadan's presence will make a valuable contribution not only to the Arabic studies pro­gram but to the intellectual life of the University as a whole," said professor of classics and theology Joseph Amar. "Because we are liv­ing in a time when people are being manipulated because of their fear, all freedom is jeopard­ized -academic and otherwise. What we know cannot hurt us; the danger lies in what we do not know." 
SlOO off 
MCAT*Prep 
Save $100 when you enroll in a Kaplan MCAT course in September.** 
Call or visit us online today. Only Kaplan offers complete preparation for the MCAT. 


1-800-KAP·TEST 
kaptest.comjmcat 
Test Prep and Admissions 
"MCAT rs a registered trademark of the Association of American Medical Colleges. "'*Offer applies only to MCAT Classroom Courses, 15, 25 or 35-hour Private Tutoring Programs and the MCAT Online Course. You must enroll between September 1. 2004 through September 30, 2004. Offer cannot be combined with any other discount, rebate, or promotion. 
"Feeling at home while away" 


lilt SCOTTISH ~ 
2180 Miami Hwy BED Ill. BREAKFAST Bremen, IN 46506 
574-220-6672 


• 30 min from Notre Dame~·-·-·-·-·-·t-ti~-·h-b·-b·-·-·-· d f . lwww.sco s .com
1 11 1

• 
n oar u -s1ze poo i.·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· 

• 
Free continental-plus breakfast 

• 
Park-like country setting for relaxation 

• 
King & Queen Select Comfort Mattresses 

• 
Indoor smoke-free • Washer & dryer access 

• 
TV/DVD in every room • Putting Green 

• 
Com uter co & mail service 


Others, such as Daniel Pipes, the creator of Campus Watch, a Web site designed to review and cri~ tique Middle East studies in North America, oppose the free dialogue argument. 
"Wars are not resolved through dialogue but through one side giv­ing up; our goal should be for our allies to defeat their enemies," Pipes said. "If we forget this basic fact, we will wake up and find that our allies have instead been defeated." 
Several students have also backed the government's decision in this matter, arguing that caution must be exercised in cases such as Ramadan's. 
In August, the American Association of University Professors addressed a letter to Secretary of State Colin Powell and Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge on behalf of Ramadan. In the letter, Dr. Robert O'Neill, Chair of the Special Committee on Academic Freedom and National Security in a Tune of Crisis, criti­cized the revocation of Ramadan's visa. 
"Foreign scholars offered appointments at an Amerjcan institution of higher learning should not be barred by our gov­ernment from entering the United States because of their political beliefs or associations or their writings," the letter said. "Assuming that the work visa issued to Professor Ramadan was withdrawn for the reason stated by the Department of Homeland Security, then the action was man­ifestly at odds with our society's respect for academic freedom." 
The issues brought to light by Ramadan's case have resonated at other American academic institu­tions ever since September 11. 
"The PATRIOT Act and the cre­ation of the Department of Homeland Security have fostered an atmosphere that has led to a witch hunt on a number of cam­puses directed against professors of Middle East and Islamic Studies," said professor of Middle East studies Asma Afsaruddin. "While this nation has genuine security concerns, such concerns should not result in policing the academy and intellectuals to ensure political correctness. This very notion severely threatens our basic values of academic freedom and integrity." 

Afsaruddin also worried that the government's decisions in cases like Ramadan's will have a long­term impact on U.S. foreign rela­tions, as well as academic free­dom. 
"I think it is a highly unfortunate and ill-considered [action on the government's part] which will have an adverse effect on the academy as a whole, since it effec­tively puts us on notice that we may be penalized for speaking our conscience if that goes against the status quo," he said. "It has impor­tant consequences as well for civil liberties and for our long-term relations with the Arab and Islamic world." 
University administrators have said that at least in this case, it cannot yet be determined whether or not the PATRIOT •Act and the Department of Homeland Security are in fact stifling academic free­dom. 
"In the case of Professor Ramadan and Notre Dame, I think we have to see how this plays out before we can make any clear judgment," University spokesman Matthew Starin said. "Obviously the visa revocation did raise ques" tion." 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Drivers 
continued from page 1 
varsity sports teams. Many other organizations that "don't have the luxury of two to three full-time coaches" are forced to allow students to drive with more regularity, he said. 
"It's a University policy, not necessarily an athletic department policy, so we have to take a look at it within the University framework," Heisler said. 
That framework allows stu­dents to drive Notre Dame­owned vehicles after passing a training course, University spokesman Matt Storin said. He was unable to disclose whether or not Rodgers had taken the course. 
Starin added there are no current plans to revise stu­dent driver policy at the University level. 
"I do think it is preliminary to predict changes," he said. 
Notre Dame's insurance will cover the damages -esti­mated at $10,000-to the 2000 blue Chevy van, Starin said. 
Due to medical privacy issues, Starin declined to comment on whether or not the University paid the hospi­tal fees of golfer Scott Gustafson, the sole passenger injured in the crash. Gustafson was taken to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center with lacerations to the elbow and has since been released. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
r------~--------------------~-------------~----~---~ ~ --~­
Friday, September 24, 2004 
page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Richards 
continued from page I 
during this year's campaign season. 
Despite this. she said, the topic is not being sufficiently addressed by candidates and the media. 
"The crisis in health care is not new and it is not restricted to the elderly and the young," Hichards said. "It is everyone's problem." 
A mother of four, Hichards got her start in the public life as a volunteer for local political campaigns in Austin, Tex. In 11JB2 she was recruited by the Democratic Party and was elected state treasurer -the first time a woman elected to a statewide of1ice in 50 years. 
With her popu­larity already 
especially crucial for senior cit­izens. Richards gave details of her own efforts to become a healthy 71-year-old woman. Fat and sugar was largely elim­inated from her diet, and she exercises regularly. 
She also hailed non-western treatment such as acupuncture and message as wonderful options for maintaining good health. 
The government can help the elderly remain active by pro­viding adequate public trans­portation and even walkways, Richards said. Calling her gen­eration a "transitional group," she said elders today are more educated than any generation before it and therefore need to be engaged with lecture series and public events. 
"We have got to take respon­sibility for our health and take 
responsibility for 
talking straight to 
cemented at "The crisis in our government," home, Hichards Richards said.
health care is not 
arrived on the Americans have 
new and it is not 
national political been let down by scene in 1988 at restricted to the government the Democratic health care not
elderly and the
National only in seeking a
young."
Convention, healthy life, said where she deliv­the former gover­ered the keynote Ann Richards nor, but also is speech. Hiding on seeking a respect­
keynote speaker 
that momentum. 
Hichards was 
elected governor in 1990 and 
served one term. 
She recently published a book 
titled ''I'm Not Slowing Down ­
Winning My Battle with 
Osteoporosis." 
Hichards. who was frequently 
interrupted by cheering and 
applause from the audience, 
admitted that the health care 
issue is a very complex and· 
expensive one. Answering to 
the theme of the conference 
however, she said it is possible 
to provide health care for 
everyone in a world where the 
median age is steadily rising. 
"We can do it with careful 
planning, political will and 
money," Richards said. "But the 
devil is in the details." 
Widespread dissatisfaction 
has not been enough to over­
come the fear of a cumbersome 
and impersonal government 
replacement to the existing 
HMO system, she said. 
"I am here to tell you that is what we are doing without any help from the government what so ever." Hichards said. 
The former governor was particularly critical of pharma­ceutical companies that have made it difficult for many Americans to afford the drugs they need. 
Calling it "absurd," Hichards described how residents of New Hampshire pay as much as 200 percent more for their pre­scription drugs than their neighbors in Canada. Americans, she said, should be permitted to purchase their medication anywhere that is sale. 
Hichardson also expressed frustration about the current system's focus on treatment rather than preventive care. Costs force people to "make do" without doctors' visits, and only when a serious problem arises do they seek care. 
The final bill ends up being much larger than it would have for intervention care, she said. 
Americans' bad health is not only the fault of a weak health care system however. Richards emphasized that each individ­ual must care and be an advo­cate for their own well-being. 
"I believe your health is your responsibility," Richards said. 
Improving personal care and extending independence as long as possible, she argued, is ful death. 
Richards 
described her dismay that 
patients today are often sus­
tained for weeks by machines 
only to delay the inevitable. 
People should be allowed to die 
and be relieved of their suffer­,ing, Hichards said. 
"The point of it all is not to 
live longer but to live well 
while we are here," Richards 
said. 
The conference will continue 
today with several panel dis­
cussions focusing on the vari­
ous issues within universal 
health care. 
Contact Megan O'Neill at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
l.f&f!JW.tfM7:21 HlOili 
-~ 

_JUbT ~OOD!:> 
social & ecological a~WEAR-ness 
The products we cany are made in f.:li.r working conditions from earth-friendly materials such <1s hemp and organic cotton. Feel good-dress beautifi.Jlly! 
Located near the Farmers Market 
1211 Mishawaka Avenue 574-286-5878 South Bend, IN 46615 info@justgoods.net 
family apparel • handbags sweaters • candles accessories • home decor 

www.justgoods.net 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
"All the fun of college,
View photos and floor plans or 

without the education"
www.REMCl.com 

~.~...o.....................__.LI => Proudly Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community => The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Avail­able =:> 4 & 5 Bedroom Units ND 
ND 


Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is 
to know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report provides insight you can't get anywhere else. For only $45.95 receive 21 comprehensive issues, published weekly during the football season, monthly after the season. In addition, our annual Notre Dame Football Preview is included. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports fans. 


Notre Dame Apartments 
~ Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus ==> Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue ==> Current 1-year & 1 0-month Leases Available 
==> On-Site Laundry Facility 
==> 2 Closets and 1 Desk in Each Bedroom 
:::::> Private Parking Lofs 
==> 24 -hour Emergency Maintenance 
:::::> Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 
==> Double vanity/sinks in bathroom 


For More lnfonnation: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-2.34-992.3 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 
AV

=> WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit E => Dishwasher => 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance .::::) ADT Alarm Systems => Close to Campus 
For More Infbnnation: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rludwi&@cbresb.com 
Friday, September 24, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
this year the band will travel "The trips just aren't being really going to miss you," he Four-year band members said only to Tennessee -and exclu­funded." said. "This has been going on this year's situation was espe­
Band 
continued from page 1 
year and attended three in 2002, including a weeklong trip to Florida State. 
Due to a major budget cut, sively through money raised by band members, said band director Ken Dye. 
"There is no funding -it's just purely a matter of budget and we have to do fundraising to go to the one," Dye said. 
Many students at last week­end's Michigan State away game were surprised to see no band -and so was Michigan State, Dye said. 
"I got a very nice letter from the MSU band. They said we're 


Proceeds benefit: 

•
MADISON CENTER 

To enter, call 
574/283-1115 
or visit www.salmonchase.org 
New for .:200~: 50-yard Guppy Run for kids oges .:2-81 
Saturday, October 16, 2004 • 8 a.m. 
~) Cl~ .EXTilE.M.E
L:surkhart / 
~~ (OMMUNI<ATlONS
AstraZeneca7: 
~\CIOIIW'~t>u{kl:t.-rh•d9'.t:~ , • <;ta.phic dui.;.., • 


for years." 
According to Dye, the band's travel funds constitute a major part of the group's overall budget, and the band is not receiving the level of funds from various sources that it did in year's past. The band's operat­ing budget comes primarily through Student Affairs, which oversees the group. 
"Football travel is a huge chunk. We don't have signifi­cant resources," Dye said. "I would lika to say that there could be more funds for away games, but it really isn't up to us." 
Though Dye didn't know specifically why or how the cuts occurred, he compared Notre Dame unfavorably to other sim­ilar universities. 
"[At] other schools, there's much more support from those who receive the band -such as the athletic department," Dye said. "Most of the other schools get significant travel budgets." 
For its part, the University said no one individual bears final responsibility for decisions on the larger budget from which the band's funding is derived. 
The Student Affairs fiscal year budget is ultimately approved over the summer by Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, said Carole Coffin, Poorman's assistant. But both that budget and the Student Affairs budget are determined by a variety of administrators, she said. 
As a rule, the band always includes all members when traveling to away games. At this point, Dye said he didn't know what the total cost of the Tennessee trip would be and the portion of the total budget it would comprise. 
Band members themselves, especially seniors and juniors, said they are surprised, disap­pointed and hurt by the current situation. 
"I think it's discouraging in that most schools bring their bands here," Fowler said. "We work really hard for this. I think we don't get as much credit as we should." 
. cially frustrating given higher 
participation in previous years. 
"It's really disappointing and 
disheartening when the 
University doesn't pay for a sin­
gle thing for the band for away 
games," senior baritone player 
and four-year member Eric 
Swanson said. 
In particular, members said 
the lack of funding this year 
raised major questions about 
the University's commitment to 
the band's tradition. 
"I wish the athletic depart­
ment would see the impact that 
we have on the fans and the 
game," Fowler said. "Michigan 
State was only two hours 
away." 
Senior trumpet player and 
four-year member Erin Marx 
noted that -given the many 
additional non-football and 
non-athletic events at which the 
band traditionally performs ­
it seemed strange that funding 
was cut. 
"We kind of feel used by the 
University sometimes," she 
said. "We're getting better each 
year and we're doing less and 
less each year. It just doesn't 
make sense." 
Marx said Dye met with band 
officers and section leaders this 
fall to explain the situation, and 
to tell members that there was 
little that could be done about 
it. 
"People think it's the band but 
it's not," she said. "We'd love to 
go but there's nothing we can 
do about it." 
Band members also ques­
tioned the decision to give each 
member a $25 gift certificate, 
about $9,000 altogether, rather 
than use the funds to travel to 
an away game. 
''I'm sure everyone would 
have rather gone to MSU rather 
than had the gift certificate," 
Swanson said. 
Specifically, both Swanson 
and Fowler asked why the band 
has never been able to travel to 
the USC game. 
"USC fans always ask us why 
we don't come, and we say it's a 
matter of funding," Fowler said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 

~~--~~-·--~-----­
Open: Tues.-Sat. Jlam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take..OUt • Catering 
·~--~----~~~··~~ ------­
We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 




:Beefy Swinford, 

Two ofthe thinas 1 (ove the most in this wor(c{ are you, and'l'fotre 1Jame. 1 can't think ofa Getteryface, or Getter time to ask you to marry me than here at 1-fotre 1Jame. W1LL YOU M~'R:RY 'ME? 
:BoGGy Mota 


---------.
r------------------------­
THE ()BSER\'ER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, September 24, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. So~ Q. Notro Dam•, IN 4<05% 024 South Dming Hall, Notro Dame, lN 46)% 
EDITOR IN CHII!F Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  8UStNl!SS MANAGER  
Megbanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsS1: MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herd~r  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger YltWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Hearhet Van Hoegarden ScrNE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Marrin 
SAINT MARY'S EonoR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkim ADvERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Ffltnklin 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: MQry Allen CoNTROllER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obs~ad@nd.<:du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OfFICE (574) 631-53l3 
NEWS DESK · 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'$ DESK smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO 0ESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.~du SYSTEMS & WEB ADIIIINISffiAlORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Ohserver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the stud~nrs of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary'~ College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer rc:oe.rvcs the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately :and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A.lsisram Managing Editor and department editors. CommenrQties, letters and columns present rhe vieM of the authors and not nec=ily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is av:UIQble to .UI readers. The free expression of.UI opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contaCt informacion. 
~stions rt'garriing Obsrrv(rpolicits should b( dirrctnl to Editor in ChiifMattiAMr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tho OhKfYn" (U!ti'S ~">9 l-4000) it publbhcd Monch~ th~~PuP't lf,Khy t""t dwrtn,g: CIIQltn .nd •~U~tlnn rcdodL A suhauiption In 1'hco Olwaw.rl• SlO()-ror uncr aculenb.: y~r;$5:$furonC'IK'fQ~. 1~ Ob.c:rvct il-.rn.fttlhcr .,r~ ~i.ur:c,l Prcott..All gprQd..u:cJ,.m rigfws•"'
_,.._ 
The: OhtC'tVtt i• pwhli.Jbtd tt: P.O.ll..Q 0.1-4 5.:auth bin~"8 l·hU Ol4$ou<lt tlt.,.,g H.U N•t>< o..,,, IN 4~5$11-<)n<J Nom v...... rN 46~";..on~ t'clnmlu:al ~HliiU.\&.C r.Ud u Nouc UMRc .&nd .uidirion..J lnaiUI\g ofrl«<f. 
!Won~ ~ddrn• <:urrn1ionJ, w~ 
Th"()b-«"Yrr 
111~ C»,.u,w:r i-• m.:mb.:t {)r ~ A.uoe~ 1"rm.. AU f'J'phKhK:d4n n,Ata: ~ tttUV~. 
TODAY'S S.TAFF 

Preserve academic freedom 
When a professor charged with enhancing dialogue between the worlds of east and west at one of the world's premier Catholic universities is accused of consorting with terrorists, the academic community turns up its ears. 
Tariq Ramadan was hired by Notre Dame to call into focus centuries of theological and cultural differences that have become very real and very immediate to our world today. In the process, he has found himself embroiled in an academic conflict all his own. The U.S. State Department, at the behest of the Department of Homeland Security, revoked Ramadan's work visa just days before he and his family were scheduled to leave their home in Switzerland for a new one in South Bend. According to the University, neither O Th government agency has provided it or, by proxy, 
oserver understood nor resolved. and education will suf­the student body, with concrete evidence as to fer. why Ramadan has not been allowed to enter the The University has stood by Ramadan and its United States. decision to hire him from the moment his visa 
Editorial 
Many believe he government has every right to withhold sensitive intelligence from the public in order to ensure the safety of Americans at home apd abroad. In doing so, the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department may have an· unequivocally valid claim for bar­ring Ramadan's entrance to the United States. If the scholar does, indeed, pose enough of a threat to the well-being of the country as a whole to justify his visa revocation, the govern­ment should be praised for its vigilance. 
However, there is more at stake in the case of Ramadan than the work visa of a single man. While we cannot conclude whether the government acted justly or unjustly because of the many gaps within the story, many scholars believe aca­demic freedom is at stake. They contend that by revoking Ramadan's visa, the government is effectively attempting to 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Debates should be well informed 
Every day, I must look at the conservative opinions that appear in the Letters to the Editor and try not to upchuck my Oriental Stir Fry. So, against my better judgment, I will lend my opinions and join the small voice of liberals on this campus. 
argument with the tax cuts is not whether the 
November. First, that the debate over the candidates 
wealthy are paying a larger share of the income taxes. That is what a progressive taxing system does. Many take issue with President Bush asking the middle class, those most affected by the economic downturn seen during his administra­tion, to take on more of the tax burden while easing the wealthy's, hence the so called "tax cuts for the rich." 
Second, Hardy claims "Rock the Vote would have you believe that a draft is just around the corner." Rock the Vote never claimed that a draft was around the corner. They present a 
revocation was announced. By showing public support for the scholar in such ·a widely discussed controversy, University officials have demonstrated their devotion to aca­demic freedom and educational justice. Notre Dame's efl'orts have been laudable, and it should continue this quest for answers. It should not allow the issue to be buried under bureaucracy. 
The ramifications of Ramadan's visa revocation go far beyond that of a single professor at a single university. The University should not let this incident set a precedent in its recruitment and hiring philosophy, nor let it discourage Notre Dame from seeking out or hiring diverse or controversial scholars, for it is only through exposure to a breadth of views and experiences that understanding and true education can occur. 
silence the voice of an individual whose background runs con­trary to its own, and using the mantle of the Patriot Act to do so. 
Whether valid or invalid, the government's claims against Ramadan bring to the forefront the issues of discourse and engagement. Students, faculty and members of the University community should evaluate their own claims to academic free­dom. Given the strength of our democracy and the freedom of speech which we defend so fiercely, America's universities, particularly Notre Dame, should be places where open dis­course and continual dialogue are both cherished and encour­
aged. If individuals who espouse divergent 
views are suppressed, conllicts will neither be 
quote from Sen. Chuck Hagel, H-NE, that was said in front of the Senate Foreign Relations committee: "There's not an American ... that doesn't understand what we arc engaged in today and 
what the prospects are for the future. Why shouldn't we ask 
and their platforms must be well-informed. My disgust 
with Hardy and many others that have appeared in The Observer is, indeed, their lack of information. Second, this coun­try belongs to young people too. So vote . 
Steve McDevitt sophomore Siegfried Hall Sept. 23 
Although I had the hardest time stomaching Cullen Hardy's letter, I will spend some time re-reading it so I can refute some of the misleading statements he has made. That being said, there are a few things I must absolutely say in response to his letter. First, I take issue with the following statement: "The truth is that the wealthy are the people who pay all of the taxes ... " While it must be noted that the top tax bracket, which are all households with a yearly income of $311,951 or more, pay a high percentage of the money received by the federal government through income taxes, it is the share of the fed­eral tax burden that alarms many, par­ticularly most of those who identify themselves as Democrats. 

A study done by the Tax Policy Center can make clearer what I wish to say. Assuming that the Bush tax cuts become permanent, the top one percent's share of taxes would drop from 24.3 percent to 
22.8 percent, the bottom 40 percent's from 
2.2 percent to two percent, but the rest, the 



middle class, would see their burden rise from 25.5 percent to 26.1 percent ("Middle Class Tax Share Set to Rise," Milbank and Weisman). The 

all of our citizens to bear some n~sponsibility and pay 
some price?" Further, they also quote Congressman Charles Rangel ,D-NY, as saying, "As a veteran, I strongly believe that fighting for our country must be fairly shared by all racial and eco­nomic groups. Nobody wants to go to war. but the burden of service cannot fall only on volunteers who, no matter how patri­otic, are attracted to the military for financial reasons." It is first important to note that Rock the Vote presents the subject of a possible reinstatement of the draft as bipartisan. That being said, I believe Hock the Vote is trying to encourage awareness in young people towards the issues that will directly afl'ect them. Indeed, the end of their letter on the possible reinstate­ment of the draft says, 'This issue poten­tially afl'ects your life. Be part of the dis­cussion." All in all, I really have no qualms con­cerning what candidate the students on this 
campus vote for, although I would hope it will be John Kerry. For me. thn'lgh, there are two important things to rememt er leading up to this 
News Sports Amanda Michaels Heather Van OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ken Walsh Jloegarden Kate Antonacci Ann Loughery 


"The test ofa first-rate intelligence is the ability 
Viewpoint Maggie Oldham Arc )'OU registered to vote? 

to hold two opposed ideas in mind at the same 
Maureen Scene 
Yes 91% 

time and still retain the ability to function."
Heynolds Molly Griffin No 9% Alyssa Brauweiler Illustrator 

F. Scott Fitzgerald
Graphics Graham Ebetsch *Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com 

author
Mike !Iarkins and is based on 177 responses. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, September 24, 2004 page 13 
Dropping the ball on .nuclear 
•
terrorism 

Suppose Interstate 80-90, north of Notre Dame, has the nation's highest volumes of hazardous-waste transport. 
Suppose there are 77,000 metric tons of one hazardous waste and inhaling a mil­lionth of a gram can cause lung cancer. Suppose standing unshielded, next to its containers, delivers lethal doses within minutes. Suppose the containers have never been tested for sabotage. Suppose the United States will ship these containers to Nevada, in dozens of daily convoys, for the Kristin Shrader­next 40 years. Suppose the convoys will be unique in appear­Frechette ance, easily targeted, and mostly unguarded. Suppose more con­voys will pass through Chicago than any other U.S. city. 
Science Watch 

Suppose a rural accident could contaminate 42 square miles. An urban accident could be "devastating." Suppose 50 million people live within a half mile of proposed routes-major interstates. Suppose gov­ernment will contract private firms, using least-cost bids, to haul the waste. Suppose these firms are not legally/economically liable, even for deliberate transport-safety violations. 
There is no need to suppose. All 12 facts are from the U.S. Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Agency. All concern high-level-radioactive waste from 
U.S. commercial reactors. 
On one hand, in September 2000, campaigning for President, then-Governor Bush wrote Nevada's governor. Bush promised he "would veto any bill to send nuclear waste" to Nevada because "the best science must prevail in the designation that would send nuclear waste to any proposed site." Many scientists said the hundreds of thousands of cross-country shipments would inevitably cause "Mobile Chernobyls." 
On the other hand, in February 2002, after Vice President Dick Cheney's secret meetings with nuclear-industry lobbyists; Bush broke his campaign promises. He said transporting waste to Nevada is a "safer alternative" than continuing storage at 100 nuclear facilities. Calling for more nuclear plants, he said the Nevada dump "will enhance public confidence in nuclear power." And Bush gave the nuclear industry billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies. 
Bush and DOE say Americans will be safe. once nuclear wastes get, to Nevada. Bi.It the pro-nuclear International Atomic Energy Agency says they are wrong. Using only DOE's numbers, models and assumptions, IAEA proved public exposures from the site could be 100 million to one trillion times higher than DOE claimed. Even if DOE erred by a factor of only a thousand, many people could die, without any acci­dent. 
Is Bush-2000, or Bush-2002, correct about nuclear and terrorist risks? Contrary to Bush-2002, no other nation plans cross-country, nuclear-waste transport and immediate, unmonitored, permanent storage. For now, these nations say it's safer to keep waste at nuclear plants, where it has been for 50 years. If waste is unsafe at these plants and needs to go to Nevada, why does Bush want more nuclear plants, all having initial, onsite waste-storage? Besides, Wall Street says new U.S. nuclear plants are not cost-effective. None has been ordered since 1974. 
In current cost-per-kilowatt-hour, DOE statistics show nuclear plants are between two and five times more expensive than coal, two and seven times more expensive than natural gas, two and three times more expensive than solar-thermal and between two and five times more expensive than wind. Solar photovoltaic is more expensive than nuclear. 
The non-partisan budget-watchdog group, Taxpayers for Common Sense, says nuclear costs are even worse: "Private investors stay away from nuclear power because production of nuclear-fired electricity costs at least four times as much as other conventional energy sources. Where private investors recognize a bad deal, the federal government continues to recklessly spend taxpayer dollars." 
Why is the second-most-expensive electricity source the cornerstone of Bush's U.S. energy plan? Cross-country shipments and building more nuclear plants risk terror­ism and "Mobile Chernobyl." U.S. government document WASH-740 says an acci­denVsabotage could kill150,000 Americans and destroy areas the size of Pennsylvania. Yet the Price-Anderson Act gives nuclear interests immunity from 99 percent of worst-case liability, even for intentional safety violations. Why has nuclear received 65 percent of federal energy subsidies? 
If nuclear power is safe and cheap, why does Bush prohibit the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission from considering terrorist threats when making nuclear­licensing and closure decisions? Why has Wall Street rejected it on economic grounds? Why does the industry demand massive subsidies and liability protec­tions? Instead of nuclear-industry payoffs, why not nuclear terrorism protection, free markets and full liability? 
Natural gas, clean coal and renewables are the Kerry-Edwards focus. DOE says tiny parts of three windy, Midwestern states could supply, cost effectively, most U.S. electricity needs. 
Although the last two State of the Union addresses promised safe energy, Bush's 2005 budget cuts $114 million from energy-efficiency renewables, solar, biomass­biofuels and vehicle/industrial-efficiency programs. It cuts $12 million from energy­efficiency grants/loans and $24 million from renewable-energy agricultural pro­grams. Bush's cutting of $350 million from cleanup at nuclear-contaminated sites, throughout the U.S., risks both terrorism and public health. 
Bush says these four, promise-breaking budget cuts are needed to control federal deficits. But they total only $500 million. Bush gave $175 billion, one-third of his tax cuts, to the top one percent of Americans. Why are $500-million cuts in nuclear pro­tection and safer energy necessary to curb deficits but not $175-billion windfalls for rich people? Why build expensive, unnecessary, nuclear terrorist targets? Even wealthy Americans need protection against terrorists. 
Professor Kristin Shrader-Frechette teaches in the department ofbiological sci­ences and the department ofphilosophy at Notre Dame. Her column appears every other Friday. She can be reached at 1-2647 or through www.nd.edu/-kshrader. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Dream_ing of bipartisanship 
Look, all of this political stuff is mak­ing me sick. Absolutely sick to my stom­ach, and I can't take it any more. I'm down for politics, in fact, I champion them, but you know why voter turnout is so low in the 18 to 24 age group? The majority feel that politics is dirty and pointless. That's no secret, and I'm sure I just enlightened no one with that pre­vious sentence. My biggest problem with most viewpoints in The Observer is that there is rarely a call to action. They simply consist of complaints with no suggestion for a solution. 
Well to both sides, the Democrats and the Republicans, I call upon you to stop the name calling, stop the finger point­ing, stop the smearing and stop the hate. I know you hate each other. I can see it, and I can feel it everyday. I've seen Republicans reach to tear a Kerry bumper sticker out of their democratic friend's hands. I have friends who won't go to Republican meetings or watch the early days of the RNC with me because they simply don't want to hear it. But I'd like to point out that nothing good ever emerged from hatred. At a University that houses some of the brightest, I'd hope that at least here there's a chance of understanding that. At such a spiritual institution, I'd hope that we'd realize the hypocrisy of our ignorance. I'm no theologian, but I think Jesus would stand against nam­ing others bigots, racists and homo­phobes simply because of the label that they carry. To me that just doesn't seem like Jesus' style. 
What we all need to realize is that political parties boil down to ethics. Both parties generally want the same thing but take two different paths to get it. I'm not going to be upset that some­one wants to drive the Pacific Coast highway from San Francisco to Los Angeles as long as they realize the joy, splendor and speed available on 1-5. I can't argue with someone's world view, as long as there is sound logic behind it. The Republicans don't want to regis­ter and take voters to the polls that are likely to vote against their cause? Sure, they are definitely "grinching" the prin­ciples of democracy, but can't you understand their logic? 
If someone came up to you, a Notre Dame student, and told you that you were needed to give the USC quarter­back and his receivers a ride to the sta­dium would you readily do it? I don't support the Republican cause and I strongly oppose conservative view­points, but I can accept sound logic. 
You think you should keep most of the money you've made because you've earned it? Hmm. sounds logical, right? Great, good for you! Even though I completely disagree and personally would rather try to be more Christ-like and directly give what I can to those who need it more than I do, I fully understand your logical argument. But please don't fall for unsound logic like "They're jealous of our freedom," or "Iraq was going to develop weapons of mass destruction sooner or later," because then that is just foolish. 
In short, one group of people feels that they are privileged and should help others and the other feels that they've worked hard for their privileges and shouldn't have to share ... and I know there's more stuff in there that sepa­rates the two, but the point is that nei­ther side is evil but they are just ideo­logically at odds. So let us respect that and proceed to work together. Democrats, stop hating Republicans, and Republicans, you stop hating the abortion-loving, joint-smoking Democrats who seek to ruin every American family by allowing gays to get married. You're not bigots, they're not communists. Respect and learn from your differences. 
Those who say they aren't going to vote, I urge you to reconsider. You're right, your one vote doesn't make a dif­ference, but if everyone felt like that our governmental system would fall apart faster than Canada if anyone wanted to invade with $5 and a pop­gun. I'm not an expert on government, but I'm pretty sure democracy thrives on more participation. It's not that hard to vote, and if everyone voted then logi­cally more people would be happy with the outcome. The more people are happy, the less people bicker, so every­one wins. 
I know my dream of bipartisanship won't happen for this polarized elec­tion, and game theory says that people in politics will never be nice because it's safer to be mean, but if anyone has seen "Mean Girls," you'd realize that being mean just isn't cool in the long run. 
Be nice, accept, but don't agree and respect differences of opinion because that's what makes this country great. You can't have rock and roll without country, you can't have liberals without conservatives and you can't have Oreos without milk (well, you could but who'd want to?). 
Blake Jackson junior off-campus Sept. 23 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

~----------~--~--------------------~------------------~--~----------------------------------------------~----------------------~----------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Friday, September 24, 2004 
An intervielV lVith Ari Best: More than just your average singer-songw-riter 
playing so much in the past few years
By MADDIE HANNA 
that I developed somewhat of a name
Scene Music Critic 
for myself, and Columbia caught on to that. They also liked a lot of the songs on my last record, Story after Story. /\ri llnst doesn't rwnd to prove any-They came to me and asked about a 
thin!{ t.o anyone. 
()uidly confident, tlw 20-sonwt.hing songwritnr pt~ns insightful lyrics that reveal his dntnrmined outlook on life: '"Nnvnr was thtHo any doubt/! would rnako my way ouUI want. to know what lifo's all about/And I will get tlwrn." 
Although lw may fall into the group of singer­songwriters automatically categoriznd as following .John Mayer and other commercially successful artists, llest dPservns credit for the name lw has made for himself through his hard work and musical talnnt. This sumnwr. lw relPasPd his fo u rt.h al hum and major I a bn I ddlll t, Sonworw to Tnll. This follows Story After Story (200:11. Come llomp (200 I), and an I<: I', I ncorn plntn. 
Despite ranging from tlw infectiously nxubnrant to thn nntrandngly mel­low, /\ri 's son!{s all sharn orw key aspnct: intelli­gent lyrics with actual nwaning, a quality not oftnn found in thn manu­faeturnd guitar-pop so ovnrplaynd on thn radio today. 
Senrw Music Critic Maddin IIanna sat down with Ari llest to find out just what inspires this talented singer­songwriter. 
First of all, how would you describe your music to the average college student'! 
It's pretty exhilarating music, guitar driven, The songs are really personal and relatable to every­body. Stylistically, its rock, but with some jazz and funk. It's not really elear-cut what kind of music it is ... It's pretty diverse. 
How did you get start­ed in the music indus­try'! 
I started playing frat parties at Cornell. I would just play four-hour shows, mostly cover songs. At lirst everybody would get a drink while I played my own songs, but that start­ed to change, I liked play­ing musie; I didn't like school. I transferred to NYU to he doser to home and to be closer to the music: scene. 
When did you start 
I made a demo CD when I was still actually right at the end of my Cornell thing. I rocordnd six songs in tlw studio and used it to got shows in Nnw York. That little 1•:1' was called "lneomplnte." It was rny f"irst studio experience as a writer and a pnrformer. 
/\dually, it wasn't really hard to make tho record. I have just been 
record deal. Even though I've had a 

tening to; I didn't really have that much of an appreciation for music yet. It didn't start becoming such a big deal for me until I started making music and realized that what's on the radio isn't necessarily all that's out there. 

same time I don '1. really understand why I'm being compared to those peo­ple, I just don't get it. But I like all of them, its not like I'm like, damn. why am I being compared? 
What is your favorite part of being Ari Hest'! 
I don't know, I guess people that can do some­thing that they love and other people can relate to are lucky people. I didn't realize that whrm I start­ed playing music and thought it was just about me being happy. If I was doing something else, I probably wouldn't have that feeling, and I just consider myself lucky for that. 
Word association: what do you think of when you hear "Notre Dame"? 
Football. 
Who have you toured with, and who has been the most fun'! 
Thore's a guy narnnd Bob Schneider that we toured with and who was really fun. It was our longest tour, back in May. I've opened for bands that people have heard 
of, like Maroon 5. Guster, .Jason Mraz. It was a 
rr~ally good experience

Ari Hest got his start playing cover songs at Fraternity parties at Cornell University, but later moved to 
for me. (I've also toured

New York University to be closer to the music scene and to pursue his dream of being a performer. 
little bit of a name for myself...the songs from three or four years ago are still new to a lot of people. 
Who are your musical influences? I started playing guitar when I was 

(Now, some influences are) Jeff Buckley,· Rufus Wainwright, Jeff Rouse. 
Just wondering-do you find your­self being pigeonholed as the typical 

it a difficult process'! 

lives shows are extremely popular and he has won legions of fans with his performances. 
15. At the time I was listening to the Beatles a lot. In terms of songwriting and guitar playing I looked to them for the most inspiration, and I still do now. I was really into whatever was rr~ally cool at the time -Pearl Jam, Smashing Pumpkins and Nirvana. Whatever was hot was what I was lis­with) The Clarks, Pseudopod. 

Which of your songs is your 
favorite? I don't really have one, to be honest 
with you. They all mean something a 
little different. The ones that you like 
the most recently are the ones that mean the most to you on stage. But "A Fond Farewell," "Anne Marie," "Someone to Tell" ­those three are the most fun to play right now, because they're fresh. 
If you could he any artist, past or present, who would it be? 
Paul McCartney would be nice, Sting would be even better because of the tantric sex. 
What's your five-year plan? 
Don't have one, I'm really not into plans. I guess I'm a little bit dif­ferent than most people, I feel like in my experience if I expect something to happen and get disap­pointed ... it's better if I don't expect anything great to happen. 
Why should Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students come out and see you on the 27th? 

"sensitive singer-songwriter"? 
Yeah, I'm pigeonholed to that extent, but I'm comfortable with that term. Those people are hot today, but just because I'm a singer-songwriter does­n't mean I sound like those people. But it's the kind of thing that will help me develop a bigger fan base. At the What .are your reasons for liking it'? Thats a hard question to answer. Some 
people really like my music, I don't really understand why. Ilest will play in the Noble Dining Hall at Saint Mary's on Monday at 5 
p.m. Tickets an~ frnn, 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
releasing albums? Was Hest comes to the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community to promote his fourth album, Someone to Tell. His What do you think? 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, September 24, 2004 
page 15 
All that jazz: The Marcus Roberts Trio cotnes to Notre Datne 

Pianist Marcus Roberts went blind at age five, seven years before he learned how to play .. He earned the prestigious Helen Keller Award for Personal 
Achievement in 1998 for his accomplishments in music. 


By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
T 
he DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts is starting off with style with per­formances from some of the pre­eminentjazz musi­cians of our time. 
On Sunday the center kicked off with a performance by jazz great Wynton Marsalis. Less than a week later, it is getting ready for another swinging good time with the Marcus Roberts Trio. The musicians are renowned for elab­orating on historical styles of jazz not only with great talent but also with originality and class. 
Roberts, a pianist and compos­er from Jacksonville, Fla., grew up with the sound of music from his local church where his moth­er was a gospel singer. He decid­ed to pursue a career in jazz after hearing a Duke Ellington record­ing at the age of 10. From there he went on to study at Florida State University. His performanc­es throughout his career have earned him a great deal of recog­nition, including awards from the National Association of Jazz Educators and the Thelonius Monk International Jazz Competition. 
Roberts was particularly hon­ored to receive the Helen Keller Award for Personal Achievement in 1998. The artist has been blind since the age of five, seven years before he began formal training on the piano. 
Drummer Jason Marsalis' last name is not a coincidence. The artist will take the stage with the trio less than a week after his older brother inaugurated the hall. Marsalis, true to the tradi­tion of his highly musical family, is known as one of the strongest drummers performing today. 
Bassist Roland Guerin, the last member of the trio, learned to play a variety of stringed instru­ments growing up in Baton Rouge, La. He is also known for playing a variety of styles with equal versatility, and is one of the few bassists today who plays slap bass technique. 
The trio is active both in per­formance and education. The musicians offer clinics and mas­ter classes most places they where they perform, spreading their knowledge of jazz and help­ing younger musicians get start­ed. 
In preparation for his concert, Roberts gave some comments on his own experience with music, the group's unique take on jazz and most importantly, on why his music is meant for everyone, not just those who already know about jazz. 
Thanks for taking the time to talk to me. I heard you were busy with some workshops this afternoon. 
Yeah, we had a workshop with some young people. I wasn't sure exactly how Notre Dame was connected; they set them up with after school tutoring or some­thing. We had a clinic on jazz and explained what we do, and some of the basic principles of the music. It was kind of an introduc­tory presentation. They seemed to like it. They had a huge age range, K-12. So that is always good, when you can introduce them to the music. At least they'll be aware of its existence, that's the main thing. 
Do you usually fmd you get a good reception from younger college and high school age audiences? 
Yeah, we have found that to be the case. Some of that has to do with doing these clinics and workshops for a period of time. You get better at explaining the terminology and the musical styles in a way they can under­stand, and they can relate to it.' 

We try to make it clear that we're trying to play for the pub­
lic. They don't have to be hip enough to get what we're doing; we have to be hip enough to get what they're doing. So if we can make the melodies clear, etc., that can transcend the intimida­tion people feel about jazz. 
Jason Marsalis is also one of the few drummers I've heard who can do these spectacular things with rhythm. He can imi­tate rhythms from Brazil, and from Cuba, even other Latin countries and mix it with his own background of New Orleans jazz. He knows even quite a hit about African music. He mixes all these things in a cohesive structure. It's traditional, but still has a fresh­ness to it. When you put that together, it makes it less incum­bent upon me to showcase myself all the time, it's less boring. It makes the trio sound like a much bigger band. 
I think one of the things about jazz, especially instrumental jazz, is people listen to it and think, what are y'all doing. We just want the people to have a good time, basically, just like anything else you go to. 
How would you describe the style you play for students who haven't heard your music? 
We spontaneously draw from the entire history of jazz, influ­enced at times by Jelly Roll Morton, traditional New Orleans jazz, the sound people know, things like Charlie Parker with a bebop sound. 
One of the biggest things is we don't see ourselves as represent­ing an era of jazz. Some people cover a specific 10-year period. We cover a lot of things, but the themes are pretty clear. We will develop different rhythms and different melodies throughout a song. If you make it clear enough people will get what you're doing. Rhythmically speaking, it's pow­erful hut not hitting you over the head. There's a groove, it makes you want to tap your foot. 
We cover the whole history, hut you won't have to think about that. You'll think, I don't know what it is, but I like it, you'll be tapping your foot. When you say jazz, it has kind of an abstract concept. We like to believe it has a clarity and a virtuosity, but not a virtuosity that's overdone. 
It's like if you go a sporting event and you see a great play, you don't just enjoy it because it's a great play, it's the spontaneity and beauty of event. It's the same with playing jazz, and that spon­taneity comes from audience. [It becomes] better than in a rehearsal situation. With a col­lege audience there's a lot of youthful energy, that's a good thing. 
Another thing about Roland [Guerin]. I know a lot of young people if they see a bass they think it's boring, just goes plink, plink, plink, but he does a lot more that that. I think they will find it entertaining. He doesn't just go from jazz grooves. He grew up listening to pop music and other things, and he goes from that too. We all kind of go from all those styles. It is certain­ly grounded in the continuum of Duke Ellington and John Coltrane, a lot of the cultural fig­ures of the 20th century. 
Did you always know this wanted to do? 
I did, from the time I was prob­ably 11 or 12. Once I heard Duke Ellington the first time I was smitten, you could say. 
So you weren't a kid that had to be told to practice? 
[laughs] No. It was always an intriguing instrument. I knew early that there was a wealth of information I could never-get, and it's still that way years later. 
People like to see that you love what you do. It's important in a performance that they can see you love what you do. What makes something championship caliber is that you're reaching for something you don't normally see, and I think music is the same. 

It can also remind you of some­thing that happened 300 years ago. I shoot for the folk connec­tion. You use all you intellect and culture and performance skill, but at the end of the day what you want to do is move people with it. 
What would be your advice to younger aspiring musicians? 
I would just suggest that they do two things -you pick music that you enjoy, and that inspires you to try to learn, but that you also investigate historical refer­ences, in the same way a writer would read Shakespeare or James Joyce or Hemingway. You look at that just to understand how performers in the past han­dled the problems. 
Is there anything you'd want to add about your performance [tonight]? 
We've been paying this pro­gram, New Orleans Meets Harlem, a lot, and there have been a lot of changes. It's start­ing to become really free. Not to be whatever, but it doesn't sound old. We're fmding new things to do with what would appear to be a pretty old school program. When we play Jelly Roll Morton it's not going to be what people think. We might play a style that's "from the 20s" but we mix a style from the 50s in. If Jason works in some Mexican rhythm, then you have several cultures work­ing together on a piece. If people react well to that, it becomes an inspired thing. So it really is a collaboration between the audi­ence and the players. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
Friday, September 24, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Carroll not intimidated by defending champs Siegfried 
captain defensive end/offen­
By KYLE CASSILY, JOHN 
sive tackle Kevin Phipps had 
EVERETT AND KEN 
good things to say about 
FOWLER 
Uphaus. Sports Wri rers 
"We can do whatever we 
want with Steve in the back­
Mention the name Siegfried field," Phipps said. "We can go in any number of hall football up top, we can drop short practices around campus and passes in front of the lineback­it may elicit shudders or ers or we can go deep to [wide groans of disappoint on discov­receiver John] Kaup." ering who the upcoming oppo­Kaup is one of the keys to an nent is. Two straight interhall experienced Siegfried offense. championships will do that. bringing an extremely compe­
As the Hamblers prepare for tent outlet for Uphaus to deliv­the second game of what is er to. Phipps also liked the hoped to be the road to a third play last week of running back championship. they face the Pat Manning. who showed a Vermin of Carroll Hall. Despite f'lair for consistency. all the talk and No. 1 ranking Cornerbacks Kyree Blackwell of the Ramblers, Vermin cap­and Matt Woperer both had tain Kary Wilmot is not intimi­excellent games against Knott dated. as well. 
lie looks at a tough 10-0 loss A welcome addition to the to Siegfried last year as proof Rambler defense will be that the Vermin returning inside can hang in linebacker Kyle
''The games are so
there with the Reis who missed best· in the limited in time that last week's game. 
league. After [on] any given day "Reis will be 
going 1-3 last back this week.
anyone has a
year with a win and he will be over Zahm, chance at victory." felt." Phipps said. Carroll is look­Also a develop­ing to garner a Kary Wilmot ing last week were coveted playoff freshmen Thomas
Carroll captain 
spot. This is a Martin and Jordan definite sign of Beltz on defensive improvement, as prior to last line and Dan Flaherty on year Carroll had not scored a offensive line. touchdown in six years. The The Rambler keys to this Vermin hope to break through game are reducing mental a tough Rambler defense and mistakes, something that was use time to their advantage. executed to perfection against 
"The interhall game is con­Knott with no penalties com­ducive to winning games," mitted and solidifying posi­Wilmot said. "The games tions on both sides of the play. played are so limited in time The Vermin and Ramblers face that [on] any day anyone has a off at 1 p.m. Sunday at Riehle chance at victory." Field. 
To accomplish this Carroll Knott vs. St. Edward's will rely on an entirely new Men against Juggs is certain­backfield anchored by its ly an unusual conflict on the quarterback, Wilmot. campus of a Catholic universi­Freshman tailback Michael ty, but such will be the case Valuzzo and wide receiver this Sunday, when St. Paul Tassinari will contribute Edward's takes on Knott. Both this weekend on offense along teams are 0-1 and are looking with junior slot receiver John to turn their seasons around Tira. The Vermin have been before it gets to be too late. An stressing to its less experi­0-2 start is an especially enced players to not be intimi­sobering reality. in a four-game dated by Siegfried. season. 
Leading Carroll on defense Knott is coming off a 13-10 will be co-captain Dom loss to its archrival Siegfried, Gabianelli at middle line­which got the Juggs off to a backer and strong safety Mike poor start in this year's Johnson. Siegfried will start Flanner Cup. However, the freshman Steve Uphaus at team still possesses playoff quarterback this week, replac­aspirations, though it realize it ing Brian Vithe who played must not overlook St. Ed's. against Knott last week. Co-Knott loves to utilize its 
CLASSIFIEDS 
. 
WANTED 
Looking for a playful, kind, and responsible person tor occasional babysitting 
ot my 2 children (7 and 3yrs) Call Jill at 288-7118 
PURDUE TICKET PLEASE Help my newlywed husband see his first ND game STUDENT SECTION GAOK Kate 702-249-7974 
FoR SALE 
Condo-Villa 16113 Bent-Tree Dr Granger Open Sun. 26-Sep. 2-4pm. tel. 271-1474, 217-2004 Apartment building. (Ten 1·bdrm fur· 
nished units). 4 miles from ND 
Great investment. 
Tax write-oils. For details call Larry 
574-257-0039 or 255-9363 
FoR RENT 
ND FOOTBALL HOUSING Beautiful Historic Home One mile from cam­pus 3 double 
bedrooms available $80 per per­son/per night $150 per couple/per night CALL 
574-532-4628 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 10/26/04-5/05 call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723-7363 
ND Football housing. Walk to game. 574-315-3215. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
NO ttball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 

aggressive, run-oriented running through offense to batter down the holes provided by opponent's defensive front. Nick Stober and the _ "We like to play smash­rest of the offensive 
mouth football, just run it line. 
down their throats," team cap­This matchup is 
tain Drew Donovan said. especially important 
In accordance with this phi­for both teams, as losophy, expect running back each need a win to Joe McCarthy and the entire keep playoff hopes offensive line to contribute alive. largely if the Juggs are to suc­O'Neill vs. Keough ceed. In the battle for 
According to Donovan, this West Quad bragging 
team also under­

stands "We can do whatever t h e we want with Steve in 
impor­

the backfield. We can go
tance of 

stopping up top, we can drop the run. short passes in front of 
This job 

the linebackers or we
falls to an 

experi­can go deep to [wide e n c e d receiver John] Kaup. " defensive line. part 
Kevin Phipps
of Knott's 

4-4 align­Siegfried co-captain ment and led by 
rights Sunday at 2 p.m., Keough and O'Neill will both be desper­a t e I y searching for their first win of the inter­hall sea­son. 
Although O'Neill lost a hard-fought 

defensive tackles Justin Cheers game last weekend, and Jess Greenwood. the Kangaroos of 
Meanwhile, St. Ed's is com­Keough felt especially ing off a loss to its rival, Zahm. robbed of a win on The St. Ed's defense was Sunday. Last week's heart­exploited for 20 points, a fig­breaking, 6-3 loss to Alumni ure which disturbs head coach on the game's final play has Matt Weber. inspired the Kangaroos to 
"We gave up 20 points to redouble their efforts for the Zahm last week," he said. "We contest against their geo­can't expect to do that and graphic rivals. win." Particularly important for 
The defense has spent this ·the Kangaroos will be in-hud­week implementing new dle communication. schemes to avert On last future disasters Sunday's loss.
"We gave up 20
such as the Brian Kusper, porous perform­points to Zahm last Keough's captain ance against week. We can't and quarterback, Zahm. The line­said that mis­
expect to do that
backing core, fea­communications turing Mike and win." on routes stalled Giampa and Alex the offense on Lesiak, will be to drives in both
Matt Weber 
key to ensuring halves.
St. Edward's coach 
that the changes The Kangaroos have their desired will have to be effect. careful not to break the wrong 
It would be convenient for way on routes because the St. Ed's to pin all of its prob­Angry Mob defense showed a lems on a bad defensive effort. capacity to make the quarter­This would be an oversight. back pay against Morrissey. There are clearly offensive The O'Neill secondary inter­issues to address as well, since cepted two passes against vet­St. Ed's only managed to put eran qua.rterback Pete up six points last week. Spreitzer in the 14-6 loss on 
St. Ed's features Chris Sunday. Wagner in an off-tackle style For Keough to establish an offense. Wagner will, if all efficient offense, it will have to goes according to plan, be take advantage of a shaky 

The Obs~rver accep!S classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro e<iir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
O'Neill defensive line. In last week's loss, the Angry Mob surrendered 114 rushing yards. allowing the opposing offense to spread out and change looks. 
However, the Angry Mob will walk also walk into the game with a chip on its shoulder. 
The O'Neill offense scored only once last Sunday, looking flat the rest of the game. However. O'Neill will stay with its new formation, the wing-t. in hopes of keeping the Kangaroos off balance. 
However. for the wing-t to be effective, the O'Neill offense must improve dramatically. In particular. Angry Mob quarter­back Matt Hughie must com­plete more than just three passes this Sunday to make the offset formation work. 
That will be a tough task against a Keough defense that pitched a shutout until the final play of the game last week. 
Contact Kyle Cassily, John 
Everett and Ken Fowler at 
kcassily@nd.edu, 

everett.9@nd.edu, and · kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FORANYND FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674·6593. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold. 269-684-6102 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold 269-684-6102. 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call tor group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com. 
Enroll in Kaplan MCAT course in September & Save $100. 
1-800-KAP-TEST for details! 
Make your own hours 

All you do is sell the Hawaiian Tropic Break 2005 Travel Program Represent an American Express 
Student Travel Company 

Guaranteed Highest Commission, Free Trips & Great for Resume Your pay equals your efforts American Student Vacations 1 -800-336-2260 
www.americanstudent.info 
SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun & Cabo. Book by Oct 31 =FREE MEALS & FREE DRINKS/ Orgranize a group-GO FREE! 800-875-4525 or ' www bianchi-rossi com 
Cubs in the World Series 
GO IRISH!/! 
Wanna hang out? 
This week is almost over, good thing. 
Wanna date? 
Drinking baseball? Fine by me. 

' 
Friday, September 24, 2004 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Notre Dame vs WashingtOn Book Si'gnings 
Friday, Septe.Qlb~r 24 
Monk's Travels 
Fr. "Monk" Malloy 
2:00 -4:00pm 
Shattered Voices 
Teresa G.. Phelps 
3:00-5:00pm 
.. ;~:a~~~d~~~~m~ 
4:00-5:30 ptn 
•rales from·tfl&Notre · aame Hardwoqd 
IJifJger Ph~lps .. 4:00-e:oo pm 
Saturday, September ...~•~-·-······ 
Golden Boy 
Paul Hornung 9:00-11:00pm 
Notre Dame vs. The Klan 
Todd Tucker · 10:00-12:00 pm 
Monsignor Romero 
Fr. Robert Pelton 10:00-12:00 pm 
The Golderi Dream 
·Gerry··Fausf 
11.:30--12:30 prnr· \.···· 
~~~~~fi~"::a~na ;S:tl• '\.iiJ 
11 :00 -1:00 pm < . 
... _._A_···-·._ M 
-~
H 
IN 



OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVHt:s wuu SERViCES Friday, September 24, 2004 
AP 

Texas Rangers' Brian Jordan slides across home plate to score the winning run In the bottom of the ninth Inning against the Oakland Athletics Thursday. 
Rangers tnove within t-wo from first 
American L~~:i·;;llli
team ·. < Minnesota 
);;Obi~OO 
, :;,,ctemand 
··· Detroit · Kalmia City 
NCAA Soccer Top 20 
team 
1 Maryland 2 Santa Barbara 
3 Ml~blgan 
4 Nortb Carolina 5 St. John's 6 Old Dominion 1 HewM&Xito 8 Penn Slate S Creighton 
10 Indiana 11 Sallta Clan 12 Boston 13 Ouke 14 Coastal Carolina 15 Southerll Melllodlsl 
16 Calltornla 17 Soutll Florida 17 NOTBE DAM£ 
19 VIrginia 20 Binghamton 21 Villanova 22 Stanford 23 Wake Forest 24 Rhllda litand 

around the dial 
MLB 
Yankees at Red Sox 6 p.m., ESPN 
WNBA PLAYOFFS Los Angeles at Sacramento 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
?;2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas­The way David Dellucci's luck had been going at the plate, he figured his hard­hit liner would be caught for the final out. 
"I went from frustration to elation," he said. 
Dellucci's hit was just out of the reach of a diving Jermaine Dye, and skipped into the right field corner. The double drove home two runs to give the Texas Rangers a 5-4 win over Oakland on Thursday and a three-game sweep of the Athletics. 
"We knew we had to do that," said Brian Jordan, who scored the winning 
IN BRIEF Mickelson _pulls out of 
World Golf Cfiampionship 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. ­Masters champion Phil Mickelson withdrew from next week's American Express Championship in Ireland for personal reasons, the PGA Tour said Thursday. 
Mickelson, No. 4 in the world rank­ing, is the third player in the top 50 to pull out of the $7 million World Golf Championship event. Kenny Perry (No. 16) and Nick Price (No. 
35) also withdrew. 
Mickelson said two weeks ago at the Canadian Open, when he signed with Callaway, that he planned a busy faU schedule with the American Express, Las Vegas, one of the Florida tournaments and the Tour Championship. 
But he has not played well in the two tournaments since his great run through the majors -second at the 
U.S. Open, third at the British Open, tied for sixth at the PGA. Mickelson run. "It definitely does a lot for our confidence." 

Texas, a surprise con­tender after four straight last-place finishes, moved within two games of the AL West-leading Athletics with 10 to play. The Rangers have won five in a row and 10 of 13. 
Hank Blalock hit a solo homer with one out in the ninth, his 32nd to pull the Rangers to 4-3 against Octavia Dote! (4-2). 
Then the stage got set for Dellucci, who was in a 5­for-44 slump and had been robbed of a hit two innings earlier. But Dye couldn't take another hit away. 
"The way he hit it, it had a lot of hook on it. It was a 
was a combined 144 under par in his first 16 tournaments this year, but played the last two in 12 over (tied for 43rd at the NEC Invitational. tied for 57th at the Canadian Open). 
Green J>lans to ~lay Friday,sits out Saturday s game 
SAN DIEGO -Los Angeles Dodgers slugger Shawn Green will sit out Saturday afternoon's game against the San Francisco Giants in obser­vance of Yom Kippur. 
The first baseman-outfielder said he will play Friday night when the Dodgers and Giants, battling for the NL West lead, play the opener of a three-game series in San Francisco. 
"Playing one of the two is the most consistent with my beliefs as a Jewish person," Green said before the Dodgers played the San Diego Padres on Thursday night. 
When asked to explain, Green said: 'Tm not orthodox. I am Jewish and I respect the custom. I feel this is the do-or-die play," Dye said. "I had to dive and try to make the play. If not, it was going to the wall any­way." 
Before Dellucci's winner, Michael Young doubled for his fourth hit and Mark Teixeira was intentionally walked, his team-record fifth walk of the game. Jordan reached on a force­out. 
"I made sure to get to home plate and score. That turns the day around," said Jordan, who was 0-for-5. "I rounded second base, and I heard the fans cheer­ing." 
Mark Kotsay, Adam Melhuse and Bobby Crosby homered for the Athletics 
most consistent way to celebrate the holiday." 
Hamilton keeps cyclinJ! gold medal, with help fromlao 
LONDON -Helped by a laborato­ry's big blunder, Tyler Hamilton will be allowed to keep his Olympic cycling gold medal. 
The International Olympic Committee dropped its investigation Thursday into a blood test from the Summer Games that showed I Iamilton used a transfusion to boost his endurance. The decision was made only because the Athens lab mistaken­ly put his backup sample in a deep freeze -not because the IOC believes he was clean. 
Hamilton, who declared he is "100 percent innocent," tested positive for blood doping on Aug. 19 after his time-trial victory. But the finding could not be confirmed because there were not enough intact red blood cells in the second sample, the IOC said. 
(87-63), who lead both Texas and Anaheim by two games. Oakland plays at the Angels this weekend, and the Rangers host Seattle. 
Texas opened its final series against the A's with wins over All-Star starter Mark Mulder and Barry Zito. This was the 22nd time Mulder, Zito and Tim Hudson started in the same three-game series during their five seasons together. Only twice before, both at the New York Yankees, had the A's been swept, in April 2001 and April 2004. 
"We're still in pretty good position," said Hudson. 
•·•·team 
·•.· HewYotf( BOWlII Baltimore Tampa Bay 
1 Toroatc. 
team 
Oakland 
Anaheim 
T&q$ 
Seattle 
·:: .... 
:.;::·, .... 
team 
Atlanta FlOflda Philadelphia N11wYorll Monlreal 
team 
St. LOUII 
Chicago· 
HIIUSloll 
Cincinnati 
PIU.burgb 
Milwaukee 
team .· ··· lot AngelO$ 
San Francisco San Diego Colorado AriZOna 
record 96-57 91+60 
70-80 
64·87 
64-88 
record 81-6$ 
85-67 
85·67 
68-94 
record "N~r~>;:'<•''•ta.<.lt. ~R•I/'iHfl! 
89·63 
79·72 
78-73 
liH& 
64-89 
record 
1110:-52 
86·66 
83-69 
69-82 
68·84 
63-88 
record 
86·65 
86-66 82-70 67-85 
47·106 
~r¢•. 
..651t.'•·..:,. 
.566 
.546 
~·57 
.447 
.417·•·· 
~tc. 
.570 
.566 
.539 . 
A41 
.307 
--~ 

Friday, September 24, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Lyons, Off-Campus teams strive for consistency 
By RYAN KIEFER AND BRIAN CARDILE Sports Writers  the· season, both teams are still trying to find what will be effec­tive for them as the year pro­gresses. The Lions are building upon  made last week," "That's our biggest concern at this point of the season."  she said. tributed equally to our success last week," she said. "We feel our"We are trying to balance is a eliminate some of . strength of our  
While long passes, runs and stellar defensive plays often make the highlight reels, consis­tency and balance usually win  the confidence they received after their 26-0 defeat of Howard last Sunday. This week, the team spent most of their  Solid play on both sides of the ball keyed the Lions' win last  the mental errors we made last week."  team. Our older girls bring a great deal of experience, while our freshmen  
games over the long haul.  practice time trying to correct  week. Kazmerski  bring sheer athletic  
A sense of stability is exactly what the Lyons and Off-Campus squads will be looking for when  mistakes resulting from what captain Traci Kazmerski called "first game jitters".  was optimistic that this balance would continue  Traci Kazmerski Lyons captain  ability." The Off-Campus team did not play  
the two  teams meet Sunday  "We are trying to eliminate  this weekend.  on  Sunday,  but  
afternoon. As it is still early in  some of the mental errors we  "Our offense and defense con- captain Lauren Blum does not  

y 

(lHAl·s WHAT MiDTERMS ARE FOR) 
Dependable servie:e.. Simple plans~ That~s what we.'m for"·· 
$20{~! fi~t' ffl@ftlfl*' 
-~-~~~ \h~ft@f) Call and Tut Pl~n ~ ·moo Af4vt'm@ ~"""tu 
• 
UnUm~ ~U M~ M~tlu~ 

• 
FRE! iMOffdnulut Mo.s.s.~{Je~ 

• 
2!0 T~•t Mo~sage~ @ month FREE f(lf ~ mt\~t:h$ 


A~k about Nights & Weekends star-ting ~t l p.m. 

~US.CeDular 

Airtime and text messaging offer valid on two-year consumer service agreements of $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid foc the first 6 months of a 2 year contract Unlimited can Me Minutes are only available In the toea\ calling area and are not deducted from packaged minutes. 3000 Nights and Weekends are available In the local calling area for $4.95 per month. 'Text messaging 250 package is $5.95 thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing message beyond 250. Must call to canceL Offers may expire If you change your calling plan. All service agreements subject to an eary terminaUon fee. CUstomer Is responsible foc all sates taxes. Other restrlcllons may apply. See store for details. Limited lime offer. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges and taxes may lndudtng a FOOeral and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. Customer Is responsible foc all sales taxes. 02004 U.S. Gellu\ar Corporation 
foresee that to be an obstacle on Sunday. 

"We were happy we didn't have a game last Sunday because most of us were at Michigan State," Blum said. 
The team looked to buila upon its strengths this week, especial­ly its solid offensive line. However most of the practice time was spent trying different players at different positions in an attempt to develop an effec­tive game plan for Sunday. 
"We're still figuring out what works," Blum said. 
A unique aspect of the Off­Campus squad is that it holds connections to some of the other teams. Many team members were part of other dorms' squads last year and will look to use their knowledge of their for­mer teams to their advantage. Above all, however the team hopes to enjoy themselves this season. 
"We're a random group," Blum said. "But we all like each other, and we're out to have a good time this year." 
Both teams were in action Thursday night, and will look to make the necessary adjustments from those games to be success­ful on Sunday. Lewis vs. Howard 
First-week losses have dis­couraged neither the Chicks of Lewis, nor their upcoming oppo­nent, the Ducks of Howard. 
Despite each team dropping opening matches, the captains remain positive, looking forward to rebounding in this weekend's contest. 
Coming off a season that saw them fall an extra-point shy of the championship, the Chicks began their 2004 campaign fac­ing the team that crushed their dreams in last year's title game. While not quite as close as 2003's one-point affair, Sunday's Badin-Lewis contest was a high­ly competitive match. The two stout defenses allowed a com­bined total of one score, which came in the form of a Bullfrog 10-yard touchdown pass early in the second half. 
Despite the loss, Chick captain Sheila Dawes is not discouraged, citing a few bad breaks -most notably a fourth down pass interference penalty that led to the Badin score -as the cause of defeat. Dawes and her team are confident that the team can improve to .500 this weekend against Howard. 
To do so, however, the Chicks must ftrst overcome a team also hungry for its first victory. The Ducks fell last weekend to a well-prepared Lyons squad 26-0, and will be looking to avenge this opening week debacle. Despite the lopsided loss, a Ducks team twice the size of last year's feels its added size and experience will begin to show as the season progresses. 
The stage is set, for an impor­tant meeting for two 0-1 squads looking to get their seasons back on track after tough opening losses. As neither team has yet to fmd the end zone, a low scor­ing affair may be expected. However, Howard's seemingly porous defense might be just the remedy for the stagnant Chick offense. Whatever the outcome, it should be an aggressive match between two teams eager to prove they are better than their winless records indicate. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkieferl@nd.edu and Brian Cardile at bcardile@nd.edu 
-~~-~-~----­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 24, 2004 
Sunday's inatchup dubbed a 'must-win' for Stanford 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
' 
run, but promised that an
Griffins are looking 
overhauled playbook would get the offense back on track.
to redeem last week's 
"We've been retooling ourloss, Big Red hoping offense in practice all week," Stanford quarterback Matt
for win in first ganze McQueary said. Stanford has added several 
By KEVIN BRENNAN AND new plays which it believes MIKE TENNANT will allow the running game to Sports Writers take off with tailbacks Dan Campion and Rudi Nkinzingabo. The Griffins hope 
The second week of the sea­a consistent rushing game will son is rarely considered "do­open things up for the passing or-die" time. But don't tell that attack. to Stanford captain Yin Dillon, on the other h'and, Monaco. had a bye last week and will 
"We know that if we lose two be playing its first game of the games this early, we will prob­season. The Big Red's lack of ably be out of the playoffs," game experience worries cap­Monaco said. "This is a must­tain Mike Roaldi. win game for us." "It's definitely a disadvan-
Standing in the tage in the first Griffins' way will half in terms of be last year's "We know that if game speed and intcrhall football we lose two games knowing when to runner-up, make your cuts,
early, we will
Dillon. The two but we think we are set to square probably be out of can handle it," off Sunday at 1 the playoffs. " Hoaldi said. "We'll 
p.m. on Hiehle just have to get North Field. into it as fast as
Vln Monaco
Stanford will we can." try to rebound Stanford captain Dillon will fall from its disap­back on its tradi­pointing 7-6 tion of dominant opening game loss to Keenan rushing offense. The Big Red in which the Griffins totaled a has run the same wing-t measly 20 yards of offense. offense for the past five years. Monaco blamed the struggles This season will be no differ­on predictable play calling and ent as the team plans on run­an inability to establish the ning the ball 90 percent of the time. 

Stanford realizes it must stop the Dillon rushing attack. The team's defensive performance against Keenan leaves plenty of room for optimism. 
"The defense played very well," McQueary said. "They forced a lot of turnovers and gave us great field position." 
In addition, Stanford doubts that it will see anything too unexpected from the Big Red. 
"We have a pretty good idea of what plays they will run. but this is the first time in the last four years that we have the personnel to match up," Monaco said. "I think we will be able to neutralize their offense for the first time this year." 
Monaco feels the key to vic­tory will lie in his team's atti­tude. The captain wants the Griffins to come out with much more fire and intensity than they did last Sunday. 
Dillon believes the game hinges on its ability to run and hold onto the football. 
· "If we can control the time of possession, we will win," Roaldi said. 
Keenan vs. Morrissey 

Defense will be the name of the game this week as Morrissey takes on Keenan Sunday at Riehle Field. 
Both teams took home victo­ries last week with impressive defensive performances, each giving up just six points. 
"Any time you step on the to first-game jitters," Downey field you want to get the win. said. "We worked this week to and we did," Morrissey senior eliminate the mistakes." captain . and wide Morrissey will also attempt receiver/defensive back Aaron to eliminate some first game Honsheim said about last mistakes, including two week's victory over O'Neill. turnovers. 
The Morrissey offense was "We have to take care of the equally impressive, rushing for ball," Ronsheim said. 
over 100 yards  Meanwhile,  on  
against  the  offense,  the  
Angry Mob. It will again look to running back  "You have to take what the defense  Knights will look to establish their running game  
Nick Klein to lead its scoring  gives you.  behind sophomore running back Alex  
attack Sunday. "We'd like  to  Pat Downey  Staffieri. Downey knows  
keep  it  on  the  Keenan captain  this wi II  be d i ffi­ 
ground again,"  cult to do against  
Ronsheim said.  a  Morrissey  
"Our  offensive  defense built on  
line will be 'the key."  stopping  the  run,  and  the  

Sophomore center Tony Knights will again look to Cunningham and senior guard sophomore quarterback Eric Dave Esparza will anchor Laumann and wide receiver Morrissey's line against a Dan Zenker for leadership on Keenan defense that gave up offense. just 20 total yards to Stanford, "You have to take what the including an impressive nega­defense gives you," Downey tive-15 in the second half. said. 
"We played well, but there The 3 p.m. game looks to be are still a lot of mistakes -an intense showdown between penalties and turnovers being two playoff-caliber teams, and the big ones," Keenan senior both appear to have the same captain Pat Downey said. game plan. 
Those mistakes included two "You line up your guys, we'll separate touchdowns being line up ours and we'll see who called back by penalties, is better," Downey said. including a 56-yard punt return called back on a clip­Contact Kevin Brennan at ping penalty. kbrenna4@nd.edu and Mike 
"Hopefully we can chalk it up Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 

"'TheDa Vinci Code:' An Assessment" 
Rev. Richard McBrien 
Crowley-O'Brien Professor ofRoman Catholic Theology 
Valerie Sayers 
Professor of English 
Robert Coleman 
Associate Professor ofArt History 
'"TheDa Vinci Code:' An Assessment" with Rev. Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien Professor of Roman Catholic Theology; Valerie Sayers, professor of English; and Robert Coleman, associate professor of art history. During this panel discussion, participants will gain insights into the literary quality, discover the theological implications, and explore the historical accuracy of the art depicted in this best-selling novel as these Notre Dame experts discuss Dan Brown's book. 
Saturday, September 25 McKenna Hall Auditorium 
For more information, visit !be Saturday Scholar Series website at bttp:llsatUidayscbolar.nd.edu 

fall 2004 Schcduh.~ 

Experience an intimate discussion wirl1 Notre Dame's 1~ost engagingfaculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues ol our times. 
9/ll -Michigan 

]<:Hne~ '~hnderKam. f(ev..fobn A. 011riefl Prr~(essor t1'11.1eolr;gv 
''The Dead Sea Scrolls :md Cb.risrian Origin;;" 
9/25-Washlngton :Rev. Richard \kBrkn. Cmwle__J'·OBrien Pnjt>ssor (!!' Roman C!Jtbolic 'lbeofogl·' 
Valerit S:wers, Pro.Jf'ssur (~t Fn,~iish Robert Cok:man, Associat& Pm;b·sor (~{Art Jlistm:v "1be Da Wnci O)de: An Assessment" 
10/2-Purdue Dooald Crafton, Profi:.w)/· qf' Ftlm, Te!cvi,.;fon, and Theatre 
"The Movie Mogul: Joseph P. Kennedy's Film Career" 
10/9-Stanford Geor;;e M5~:~sd•;n, l:rmu.:i:; A ,:~h.Anar:l!J' Projes.~t;r of Histm:;· "Another .K.1nd of 1·ound:ng l·ather: JOnathan l:·.d·wards and the 
American Heritage" 

10/23-Boston College :'vburec:n HaHi.n:m, William R(: lfa:t:ef B. White Professor t.{ Soc.:iolopJ; Directm· fd' tbe Center ji!r Research 1m Fduwtional Opportunity 
''America's targesr Privare School System: A Look In~ide 
Cliholic Schools'' 
11/13 -Pittsburgh 

E. Mm'k Cwnmiug~;, ;\'Mrc Dame Chair tn Psycbr)logy 
''Children and /vhrital Contlkf' 

.H/2 hours before kickotf at the audiro.riurn in rhe 1-Iesbm:gh Cen!er fm International Studies. For more information, visit http://saturrlayscbolar.nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DA.ME 
""'  ..::; lr  
~  
•r  
~  '-0  
7  
~  
z  
~  
<U  
:D  
~  
2  
<  
·""  
~  
u:;  
,...,.,......  
v..  :-­ 
""  
~  v  
7.:  
~  
•  
~  
~  
'.1:  

~Y) 
;,J..l 
<:1 
z 
l: 
r~
<U '../ 
,....., 
,_; 
~< ~ I 
'./'; 
~ 
~ ""v 
,....._ 
~ ._, 
c 
~ 
....... 

Friday, September 24, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles to encounter first major test of season 
''I'm looking for everyone to conference for the 2003 sea­

Team set to compete in 
have their best race of the sea­son, to come out of the confer­son so far," Barstis said. ence championship with a

first conference meet 
He also said that no one has fourth-place finish or better. seen what the This weekend willBy ANNA FRICANO 

Belles runners account for one 

Sports Writer 
are capable of "Running is a very third of the points doing. This is the that will decide
mental sport, I'm 

The Belles have high expec­first race that the the final stand­tations for themselves concern­team will actual­confident that ings. ing this weekend's MIAA ly race and not what the team has The team knows Jamboree at Hope College. It treat as a work­they have a chal­
done so far will

will be the first conference out. The past five lenge ahead of meet for the women and one of weeks have been help us later on." them. Calvin only two conference races for a challenge for College and Hope the season. the runners, who will most likely
Megan Gray 
Coach Dave Barstis said that have used every dominate the con­
freshman

although he wants the girls to meet up until ference, with peak for the championship now to prepare Kalamazoo also race at the end of October. he for this critical competition. vying for a top spot. The Belles is hoping for a "mini-peak" Barstis is hoping for his know that it will require a cer­Saturday. team, who placed sixth in the tain amount of mental disci­

5419 N. Grape Rd., Mishawaka, IN-46545 • PHONE: (574) 243-BOWL • FAX: (574) 243-2696 

Friday, September 24 ot 9p.m. • leighton Concert Hall Tickets $37, $30 Faculty/Staff, $15 Students 
After astounding oNotre Dame audience last year, Marcus Roberts returns for an encore performance. Roberts began his professional career as Wynton Marsalis' pianist before forming his own group. The Marcus Roberts Trio delights and amazes audiences as they spread the word of jazz. These musicians ore masters of form-gospel, ragtime, swing, pop, and bebop-from which they have forged their own unique sound. When they play you can hear the future of jazz in America. 
The evening with the Marcus Roberts Trio will include: ARea/Slow Drag (Scott Joplin) Carolina Shout (James P. Johnson) Ain't Misbehovin' (Thomas Fats Waller) Take the Coltrane (Duke Ellington) Mack the Knife (K. Weill, B. Brecht, M. Blitzstein) What aWonderful World (R. Thiele, GD Weiss) Jungle Blues (Jelly Roll Morton) Sweet As Can Be (Marcus Roberts) 
For tickets, call574.631.2800 Noon-6p.m., Monday through Saturday. http://performingarts.nd.edu 

pline in order to outrun last season's fourth and fifth-place finishers. 
"It's going to be tough because I expect Albion and Alma to give us a fight," Barstis said. 
Everyone on the team is con­fident that her work so far will· pay off in the upcoming weeks. Megan Gray, who has finished first for the Belles in every race so far, doesn't doubt that their preparation has prepared them physically as well as mentally. 
"I know that all of our train­ing is designed to help us peak at the right time," Gray said. "Running is a very mental sport, I'm confident that what the team has done so far will help us later on." 
In order to come out of Saturday's race in a good posi­tion in the conference stand­ings, Saint Mary's will draw on the five grueling weeks of prac­tice leading up to this race. 
"This week of training will be light so the team can recharge," Barsti-s said. 

He is confident the goals that they have worked toward as a team will give them the edge in this race. Gray agreed, noting their ability to run as a team has done nothing but help them on the course. 
"It's really awesome when we are racing and come up to one another, we say good job and encourage each other," she said. "We're competitive with each other because we know that will help the team do bet­ter." 
The consensus of the· team is that they are willing to do whatever it takes to help the team do well. The Belles will have their first opportunity Saturday to see if the prepara­tions they have made are enough to make them serious contenders for at least a fourth-place finish this fall. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 2.5 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. \\VJEIUCOMUE IFOOlLIB)AILlL IFIRJJENID>§ AND lFAM[][JLY!! 
Tuesday-Thursday 

s:oo-9:oo  Full bar available  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-1o:oo  FrancescoDs needs servers  


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 24, 2004 
SMC SoccER
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles looking to snap 

Flu and injuries plague roster 
losing streak at invite 

Players try to recoup 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sporrs Wrirer 
The Belles will travel to I Iolland, Mich. to participate in the I lope College Triangular on Saturday. At the triangular, Saint Mary's is set to face two league opponents ­I lope College and Olivet College. This trip should give the team a 

into Saturday's game at Olivet
"/ can say that our
good chance to prime opportunity to 
College.
regroup amidst il<; defense has been a move up in the 

"We're feeling good about how 
current three­standings and get
problem." 

we're playing, but we'll have to
game losing back on track. Not 

deal with a couple players as
streak. only will their 

question marks thanks to a bug
I lope comes into Michelle Turley league record 

that's spread among the team,"
the Triangular junior improve but also 
with a record of 1­3 in the confer­ence and 6-5 overall. The Flying Dutch are currently two matches ahead of the Belles in the MIM. Olivet is eighth in the standings, having yet to win a match in the league and are only 4-9 on the season. 
Last year. Saint Mary's split the event with a win over Olivet and a loss to I lope. In fact, the Belles faced the Flying Dutch three times last year, including the llrst round of the tournament and failed to win one match. 
Defense has continued to be a problem for the Belles so far this season. In Wednesday's game, Saint Mary's failed to score on offense, but also gave the Maroons Saturday's game. 

Sharing her headache is soph­omore Carolyn Logan, who also suffered a hea1:1 injury in the Albion game. Logan, however, is expected to be available for the game against Olivet College, and her coach remains optimistic about the injuries situation. 
"This is a team that is capable of playing with anyone, and we've got lots of talent from top to bottom on this squad," Mackenzie said. "Something like this happening allows us to llnd out who else is capable of com­ing in and stepping up. These are the challenges you face as a team; you just have to make adjustments and adapt." 
Luckily for the Belles, their misfortune may have come at an ideal time. Olivet is 1-2 in the MIAA and near the bottom of the conference standings. Nevertheless, Mackenzie warns about looking past their next opponent. 
"I always remind them, 'Take it one game at a time, and respect your opponents," Mackenzie said. "The MIAA can be anyone's game on any day, so you just have to bring your game, step out on the lleld, and play good soccer. We keep that in perspective, and we'll be llne." 
The Belles' biggest problem this year has not been looking past their opponent, but rather. they have struggled to play at a high level for an entire game. 
"We haven't quite put together two quality halves, back to back," Mackenzie said. "We either start out really slow in the first half, or we light through the s'econd half. We've been consistently inconsistent." 
In its last game against Albion, Saint Mary's jumped out to a quick 2-0 lead and played strong, possessive soccer. But in the second half. the team's efl'ort seemed inconsistent. and it had to struggle to hold off their opponent. Mackenzie hopes this will be different in Saturday's game. 
"We really want to put two good halves together instead of lighting from behind or worry­ing about holding on," Mackenzie said. "This team has the talent to put a great game together. We've been fortunate thus far to win the games when) we didn't play consistently the whole way through. We're look­ing to change that." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffyI @nd.edu 
a lot of chances to put points on the board. Earlier in the week, junior Michelle Turley commented that this was one area that the team needed to improve upon. 
"I can say that our defense has been a problem," Turley said. "Our defense needs to play better and more consistently for us to have a chance at winning." 
For the Belles, the 
Hope Triangular is a 
their overall record 
if they can claim a couple of victories. The higher they can end up at the conclusion of the regular season. the better their chances will be in the llnal tournament. 
Saint Mary's first game is set to begin at 11 a.m., while its second is set for 1:30 p.m. Following the games, the Belles will not play for a week until they face Albion College for the second time this season Oct. 2 at 11 a.m. 
With the Hope Triangular a good way to earn a few wins, the 
Belles hope to move up in the MIAA standings. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

FOR SALE 
A NOTRE DAME FAN'S DREAM 
FULLY FURNISHED 2 BEDROOM./2 FU1.1. BATH CONDOMINIUM 
wnu 2 CAR GARAGE, DEf~K, FIREPI..A(~E. & SWIMMING POOL AN EASY WALK FROM THE NOTRE DAME STADIUM THE fiNEST ACCOMMODATIONS THIS CLOSE TO THE ACTION READY fOB OCCUPANCY -SLEEPS 1 0 PEOPLE AS-IS BUILT-IN VACUUM, WHOLE HOUSE ElECTIIONIC AJR ALTER DINING AREA OVERLOOKS QUAINT PERENNIAL G..\RDEN W/PATIO 
FINISHED BASF.MENT wilb WASHER & DRYER. 2~PmSON JACUZZI & 48.. 'IV NEW APPUANCES. UNENS, KITCHENWARE. P.IUNU~S ~1\iU SCULPWRl:S fNCLli0£0 CLUB HOUSE AVAILABl..E FOR PARTIES 
ASKING 8235,000.00 SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY PLEASE· CAU (574)277-5631 FOR AN A.PPOfllii'TMF.NT 

Shepherd Pie • Fish &Chips • Bangers & Mash 
Guinness BBQ Ribs • Steaks • Salmon • Oyster Shooters 
Traditional Breakfast (all day every day) • Sunday Brunch Buffet 
Fair Trade Coffee • Perfed Pints Certified by Guinness Wbat's Happening at Tbe Heautb ... Live Celtic Music Friday &Saturday nights starting at 9:00 pm 
This S•nday noon-1:00pm ••. "Talking Irish" 
Open forum with localsports coml11t!nfatOIS on NO atii/etks 4 IrMa 
127 N. Main Street {between Colfax aWashington) 
(574) 232-2853 "'www.fiddlershearth.com"' Open Daily lunch &Dinner 
• DESI<;N CUt &.STYLE • AOV)>..NCED COLOJI..,IN<; &. COJI...JI...ECTION • PJI...OFESSION)>..L M)>..KE-VP • • MEN'S STYLING • AVEO)>..lP)>.. M)>..NJCVJI...H &. PEDICVI!..H • BODY&. F)>..CI)>..L W)>..XINC • 
Illusions:;> 
AVEDA.· 
CONCEPT &-\LOH 
0PENMONTHRUSAT GIFr CERTIFICATES
574-272-0312 
Dt:"..signersTrained in London, Toronto, Los Angeles, Atlanta & chicago 
TH£ COI!..N€11.. OF StAT£ RD. 23 &. II!..ONWOOD BEHIND SUBWAY i:I?}~J 

before facing Olivet 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 

The only opponent the Belles can't seem to beat this year is the common cold. 
Thanks to an outbreak of ill­ness and some coinciding injuries, the Saint Mary's lineup will be less than certain heading 
coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "Hopefully, we'll be back to full health soon." 
The Belles also have had to deal with injuries suffered in their 2-0 win against Albion on Tuesday. Center midfielder Ashley Hinton, who scored a goal in that game, sustained a mild concussion when she attempted a header and make contact with another player's head instead. She has not prac­ticed with the team since and is considered questionable for 
NEW CLIENTS I 
I 
so% OFF DESIGN CuT & STYLE! I I 
-Exclusively with our Designers. Creative Designers and selected Master Designers-1 

I I I I I 
I Offer valid thru October 3 I. 2004 I I
ILLUSIONS -AN IMAGE WE CAN CREATE FOR YOU! 
-----------------------------~ 
Friday, September 24, 2004 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Sister dorms to square off in Pasquerilla Cup 
By CHRIS KHOREY, PETE 
CRACCHIOLO AND ABBY 
RICHARDSON 
Sports Wri rers 
The rivalry between Mod Quad dorms Pasquerilla West and Pasquerilla East is different than many long-standing feuds. 
"PW is our sister," Pasquerilla East captain Allison Ferber said. "If they were playing anyone else I would root for them. But when we're playing each other, we really want to beat them." 
Despite the more respectful nature of the rivalry, the Pasquerilla Cup is always a donny­brook, and it should be yet again when the Pyros and Purple Weasels face each other Sunday at 2 p.m. on West Quad. 
Pasquerilla East lost Tuesday to Farley 14-0 in a game that saw the offense struggle and the defense allow touchdown passes of 35 and 60 yards. Still, Weasels captain Abby Nerlinger is making sure her team isn't overconfident. 
"We'll be ready for them," she said. "It's always a big game with PE, since they're our sister dorm." 
Ferber also sees a lot of potential in the young Pyros squad. 
"A lot of our team is freshmen," she said. "Many of them were playing in their first interhall game." 
The Pyro offense showed more life than the shutout against the Finest would indicate, as quarter­back Laura Adams looked sharp connecting with Caroline Alley. Ferber was also impressed with the running game. 
"We moved the ball well with our rushing," she said. "We just need to get a few big plays to go our way." 
Weasel defensive tackle Sara Cermak feels confident, however. 
"Our plan is to quash the run­ning game," she said, "We're also looking to get as many sacks as possible." 
As for the Purple Weasels, they are coming off a 6-6 tie with Walsh in which their defense dominated but their offense struggled. 
The Weasels will rotate three quarterbacks in Sunday's game ­Anne Marie Hart, Brenna Mannion, and Laura Joyce. 
Each one brings a different set of skills, according to Nerlinger. 
"Brenna was our second string quarterback last year, so she has more experience," the captain said, "Anne Marie is our deep threat, she can throw longer routes. Laura is good under pres­sure." 
As for the defensive success, Nerlinger chalks that up to aggres­sion and passion for the game. 
"We played some very aggres­sive defense, especially our line­men," she said. "We love defense." Farley vs. Walsh 
The two defensive beasts of flag football finally meet. 
Walsh (0-0-2) takes on Farley (1­1-0) this Sunday in what could be one of the best defensive battles in this young season. 
Walsh has given up only one touchdown this season, and Farley has just given up three. Tuesday, Walsh tied Pasquerilla West 6-6, and Farley defeated Pasquerilla East 14-0. 
"Our defense is pretty tough," Finest wide receiver/running· back Erin Mulholland said. "We know what's at stake and I think we'll play a great game." 
Walsh, on the other hand, needs to do some major regrouping after the loss of their captain and quar­terback last game. Carrie Campbell was injured in an extra point attempt against Pasquerilla West. 
"I just have a sprained ankle, it doesn't look like I'll be playing, but you never know," Campbell said of Sullivan. 
This will force Walsh's freshman quarterback, Mary Sullivan to step up and lead the Wild Women. 
"She's got a good head on her shoulders and I think she'll do well," Campbell said of her pro­tege. 
Farley's offense should be strong, according to captain Angelina Zehrbach. 
"Our two receivers. Diane Duran and Megan Spokes are amazing, they always get open," Zehrbach said. "We are going to come out with a strong offensive line and give our QB some time in the back­field." 
Farley's game plan is to maintain what has been working for them and to adjust to its opponent. 
"One of our greatest abilities is to adapt to whichever team we are playing," Zehrbach added. 

The Finest have confidence and despite a win under their belt, Walsh feels it can play with Farley. 
"We put in a new formation and we're going to run some different plays from that," Campbell said, "[We will) generate some more passing plays and options." Badin vs. Pangborn 
One shutout its opponent and the other was shutout. 
Sunday, this is sure to change, as the Badin Bullfrogs take on the Pangborn Phoxes. 
Last week, Badin defeated Lewis with a score of 7-0, while Pangborn lost to Welsh Family 19­0. 
"As a whole, we played a very good first game," Badin captains Stephanie Heath said. "Our defense played a fantastic game." 
Meanwhile, Pangborn is still working on its offense. 
"Our offense is brand new," Pangborn captain Katie Murray said. "[The] Welsh Family game was the first time we'd ever played under the pressure of a real game." 
Now, after playing two games each, both teams are ready for the game against each other. They did not get a chance to faee each other last season. 
"We know that Badin is the returning champion," Murray said. "They're going to be tough." 
Pangborn hopes Sunday will be a springboard for the season. ''I'm hoping Sunday we can real­
ly find our groove by knowing which plays and players consis­tently perform and using that as a pattern to follow the remainder of the season," Murray said. 
Badin is ready to face the Phoxes. 
"We have continuous practices," Heath said. "We added a couple new plays and adjusted to our weaknesses." 
Badin's defense is strong and a key factor in their games. Some of the key players are Rita Morgan, a captain, and Colleen Mallahan. In the game against Lewis. Morgan made an interception that made a big difference in the game. 
Badin's offense is strong as well, although they took some time to get into the first game. 
"Our offense has a good core of receivers," Heath said. "We hope for a full 40 minutes from the offense [next game]." 
Even though Pangborn's offense is new, it has learned a lot through its experience of the games. 
"At the end of the last game, we gained some offensive momentum and things started to click," Murray said. "This week I think we can continue that momentum and use it. After Sunday's loss, every­one realized we needed to step up and everyone did." 
The game is set for 6 p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd.edu, Pete 
Cracchiolo at pcracchi@nd.edu 
and Abby Richardson at 
arichaO 1@saintmarys.edu 


page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 24, 2004 
ELLIOTT HALL OF MUSIC 
Purdue University NOVEMBER 3rd, 8 PM Sharp! 
ONLY INDIANA APPEARANCE! 
Men 
continued from page 28 
After a scoreless first half that saw the Irish double up the Mountaineers in shots, 6-3, and take three corners to the host's one, West Virginia jumped ahead at the 63-minute, 18-sec­ond mark on a nuke goal. 
Mountaineers goalkeeper Nick Noble blasted a long goal kick that sailed over Irish defender Jack Stewart's head and ended up at Smith's feet. 

• 
Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer did everything he could to keep the ball out of the net, including 
stopping Smith's initial shot, but 
the West Virginia 
forward pushed 
home the rebound Field. After
"Villanova is flying 
for the contest's Villanova outshot
high. That will be a Notre Damtl, 5-2.
only goal. 
"It was basically nice challenge. " in the first half, just a big kick the Irish came out from a goal kick -with a vengeance
Bobby Clark 
it went all the way to start the second 
Irish coach
and we half.
up, got caught without good cove~" Clark said. "Sawyer actually half­saved it, but the fellow followed up the rebound and stuck it in." 
Despite playing without the services of a handful of players due to sickness or injury, includ­ing forward Brian Murphy, defender Dale Rellas and mid­fielders Nate Norman, Jon Thompson and Ian Etherington -the sophomore was red-card­ed for arguing with the referee with just under 20 minutes remaining in the contest -the Irish played their best soccer late in the game. 
"We were missing a few guys, and then it didn't help when Ian was sent off ... so we played a man short for the last 20 min­utes," Clark said. "During that last 20 minutes, I thought we picked up the game, and even though we were a man down, actually took the game to them and played with a lot of spirit." 
On Sunday, the Irish conclude their two-game Big East road trip when they look to snap undefeated and Big East leader Villanova's five-game winning streak at 12 p.m. 
A team on the rise, the No. 21 Wildcats (5-0-1 overall, 3-0-0) placed eighth last year of 13 Big East squads (1 0-8-1 overall, 4­6), earned a national ranking (No. 25) last year for the first time in over a decade and quali­fied for the Big East tournament for the first time since 1997. 
Last year, behind goals from departed seniors Devon Prescod and Justin Detter and a pair of assists from Etherington, the Irish knocked off the Wildcats, 2-0. on Halloween night at Alumni 
Nearly eight 
minutes into the half. the rejuvenated attack paid dividends as Etherington found Prescod in the box. 
Controlling the ball, Prescod turned and fired, breaking the scoreless tie and netting the eventual game winner. 
Detter added some insurance in the 80th minute on yet anoth­er goal in which Etherington drove down the sideline and found a waiting teammate in the penalty area. 
A win against the Irish Sunday would equal Villanova's confer­ence win total from a year ago with six Big East games still remaining on its schedule. 
"Villanova is flying high," Clark said. "That will be a nice challenge. I think we're looking forward to that game." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at 

&ood Luck 
Irish! 

Visit the restaurant voted Best Breakfast 
. 

and Best Lunch by the readers of the South Bend Tribune in either of our two locations: 
•Downtown South Bend across from the Hall of Fame 288-PEEP 
•Mishawaka off Main St. next to Super Target 
271-PEEP 

6:30am -2:00pm Mon-Fri 7:00am -2:00pm Sat & Sun 
r-----------------------------------------~
Juy ot1e et1tree get asecot1d half off 
(valid anytime but not with any other ofier) Observer coupon • expire..s o9/23hoo4 
~-----------------------------------------~ 
Low Rate Auto Loansl 
The same rate on new or used-leaves our competition in the dust. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the Unlversl 

.r---------------------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------, 
Friday, September 24, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
we are going to focus on getting Conneely. "Passing the football our first first down of the sea-The Lyons defense thwarted was the game plan
Interhall 
son." the only scoring chance for the going in." Lyons 6, Pangborn 6 remainder of the game, forcing Diminick credited
continued from page 28 
"It's like kissing your sister," a Pangborn punt on a fourth­Heath for all the to take the win." Pangborn co-head coach Rob and-goal from the 30 with less catches. 
Unfortunately for the Off­Coly said of the 6-6 tie between than two minutes remaining in "Steph let me use Campus team. this perception his Phoxes and the Lions of the game. my speed," Diminick never precipitated into a reality Lyons. The Lyons tried a hurry-up said. "She places the and continued to struggle Lyons captain and quarter­offense, but failed to gain any ball really well." throughout the second half. back Traci Kazmerski dis­yardage on three plays and had The Badin offense The Off-Campus squad failed to agreed. to punt the ball away with 30 was not the only one get a first down the entire "No, it's like kissing your seconds left. causing problems for match. brother." A 50-yard boot ensured the the Ducks, as the 
"It did not go our way," Off­After the hour-long defensive tie, leaving the Phoxes in terri­defense held them Campus captain Lauren Blum battle, the two Lyons coaches ble field position with only 15 scoreless to record its said. "We didn't even win the and three Phoxes coaches, who seconds left in the game. second shutout of the coin toss and that is when we live in the same hallway in The Phoxes tried to go for it season. The Bullfrogs knew things weren't going to go Keenan. agreed on one thing. all, but a 15-yard pass play was held the Duck offense well." "We should have won," they all they could muster. to 110 yards of total 
As the second half pro­all said. Although most of the feeling offense, with much of gressed, , the Off-Campus Early in the game, the Lyons after the game was that of dis­that coming late in the defense could not seemed to be in satisfaction, Pangborn captain second half. stop Hoeck from control, opening Katie Murray took a positive "The defense was reaching the end the game with a out of the game. key," co-captain and zone for her second "[Tying Lyons] is 2-yard touchdown "Hopefully we can use the cornerback Rita touchdown of the like kissing your pass from momentum and offensive pro­Morgan said. "They game. Welsh Family Kazmerski to wide duction we established in the played really great
sister."

collected the extra receiver Meghan second half and bring it into again. We played well, point to make the Regan. On that Sunday's game against Badin," but we are going to final score 20-0. Rob Coly play, the Lyons she said. take it one game at a 
Despite its success Pangborn coach capitalized on a Badin 12, Howard 0 time." against the Off­pass-interference The Badin Bullfrogs put in The Ducks, however, Campus team, penalty two plays some new plays this week in came back in the sec­Welsh Family is still earlier, on fourth­practice to try and get their ond half and made it 

focused upon perfecting its and-goal from the 12, which offense clicking on all cylinders. interesting. After few plays later, but it was too game. kept the 65-yard drive alive. After Thursday night's 12-0 stopping Badin on its first pos­little too late. 
"We were consistent but we Kazmerski registered a stag­win over Howard, session of the sec­Despite the loss, Howard still are trying to get sharp," Sands gering 59 yards of offense on the offense proba­ond half, Howard remains upbeat and confident. 
said. "There's always stuff to the drive, but the Pangborn bly realized it "We made a lot of moved the ball "We made a lot of mistakes 
work on." defense would not allow anoth­only needs one well for the first
mistakes last week last week but we came a long
The Off-Campus team is also er sustained drive for the play. time all night. way in practice ... we were taking a similar approach to remainder of the game. Co-captain and but we came a long Although it did 
happy with our performance
looking where tonight can help With 10 minutes left in the senior quarter­way in practice. not score, the tonight," captain Callie Whelan improve its game on both sides second half, Pangborn quarter­back Stephanie team was rejuve­
said. "Lewis better make sure 
of the ball. back Katie Mooney hit Mary Heath found sen­nated after the
Callie Whelan they bring it this Sunday." 
"We looked at this as another Davis for the equalizer, a 9-ior wide receiver drive and immedi­Howard will take on Lewis
Howard captain 
practice and our defense did yard touchdown pass. The play Erin Diminick ately started play-
Sunday on the West Quad
well by keeping us within 19 capped off a long drive that early and often, ing better on both Fields at 5 p.m. Badin will look points," Blum said. "Even was highlighted by a terrific en route to com-sides of the ball. 
to improve to 3-0 when it faces though we are not going to 15-yard option pitch from pleting 12-of-20 passes for 180 The game was essentially the Phoxes at 6 p.m., also on practice until the next game, Mooney to running back Trish yards and a touchdown. won late in the second half West Quad. 
Diminick pulled down 7 of when Badin picked off Howard those passes for 125 yards, and started another offensive Contact Dan Tapetillo, Ken including a 10-yard catch for series. Fowler and Tom Stiles at the game's first score. Howard remained focused jtapetil@nd.edu, 
"Running is a little hard to do nonetheless, intercepting the kfowlerl@nd.edu and 
in this league," Heath said. ball and regaining possession a tstiles@nd.edu
It's adunn deal, 

Catie's finally 211 
Happy Birthdayl 
Love Cor. J. Beth. Ash. Gale 

NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED WAIT STAFF 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 
232-4445 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 24, 2004 

WoiDen 
continued from page 28 
physical style of play, Pittsburgh will be looking to attack and play a quickly paced game. 
"It is going to be really big for us." Buczkowski said. "These games are always competitive and it is always a huge rivalry." 
However. the Irish will be seek­ing to further their dominance over their oppo­nents, wanting all seven matchups against the Panthers that date back to 1997. The Irish hold a 30-2 scoring edge. 
I Iowever. the Panthers will be returning nine of last year's starters and could present a threat if the Irish do not focus on how to control the game. 
"Pittsburgh is a really physical team so it will a challenge for us on having to move the ball bet­ter." Buczkowski said. "We are not taking it lightly." 
After tonight's 
matchup, the Irish 
more from them­"We just go into must prepare to selves after last face the
each game 
week's games. University of
knowing it is 
"We were not sat­Wisconsin-Green isfied with last important. Bay (2-4-1) at week's performanc­Alumni Field es," Buczkowski Sunday.
Jen Buczkowski
said. "We got the This will be the 
Irish sophomore 
wins, but we have first time in 12 
something more to prove to these teams in the Big East. We want to show them how hard we work." 
One of the key players for the Irish this week will be sophomore Jill Kriveck. 
"Jill has stepped up this year she and she controlled the middle really well against UConn," Buczkowski said. "She can win headers and has a strong pres­ence in the air." 
With several returning players from the 2003 team, including Kriveck, the Irish are hoping to continue its winning streak against the Panthers. 
The last time these two teams met, the Irish defeated the Panthers 1-0 ofT a long pass from Christie Shaner to Mary Boland for the goal. 
Additionally, the Irish have won 
years the two 
teams will meet. Despite Wisconsin-Green Bay's losing record, the Irish are not underestimating its talent. 
"When you play teams that are not highly ranked, you think they are going to be easy and you're not going be mentally sharp." Buczkowski said. "And then you take it easy and they end up giv­ing you a game. That is what we did against Syracuse." 
And so the Irish will heading into the weekend and try to play at their top form against Pittsburgh and Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
"We just go into each game knowing it is important," Buczkowski said. 
Contact Dan TapetiUo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

j$1 Sports ~ar it1 South ~et1d 2046 South ~et1d Ave -Across frotM Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 NU Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
--~reat Food, ~reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football 6-Specials startit1g at ~ 1.0 Tues: College Night -UJ 6-Specials Wed: T~IVIA Night-~rit1g your teatlts-Prizes Thurs: UJ -First Thursday every tMOt1th: Jazzy ~rass Fri: Live Et1tertait1t\1et1t Sat: NU gatMes 

Golf 
continued from page 28 

In spite of the challenges in front of the team, Irish coach 
Debby King is confident in her team's abilities. 
"We had our best qualifying of the semester. and hopefully that is a sign of good things to come for us this week­end." King told und.com. 
Junior co-cap­

"If we have a top­back on track five finish, we'd be after struggling 
during the Lady
very pleased." 
NorthPrn Invitational. Debby King With the fall season barely
Irish coach 
. 
tain Katie Brophy emerged as the team's top qualifier. and is poised to lead the Irish the weekend. Junior Lauren Gebauer will also tee-off for the team in Texas. At the Lady Northern Invitational on Sept. 11-12. the two juniors led the team in scoring, as they tied 
for 17th with 11-over-par 227s. 
Sophomores Noriko Nakazaki and Stacy Brown will join them in the lineup this wPekend, as will freshman Jane Lee. Lee. who has competed in every event for the Irish. and Brown will hope to get 
underway. King still wants to make a statement 
this weekend. 

"If we have a top-live finish. we'd be very pleased, because we are competing against some of the best teams in the central region," King said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
[ 7 [ 0 Tunle Creek Drive i,the building attached mthe pool~hy the mr1ks) 574-272..8124 

NO\\' PRE-LEASING FOR 2005-2006! 
To\vnhornes from $275 a month erson! 
Friday, September 24, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  

 THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME  
Unscramble these four Jumbles,  

one letter to each square, 

Put'em in to form tour ordinary words. the back 
NOJIT 
± 
Cl2004 Tribune Medta ServiCes, Inc All Rights Reserved. 
EBOES 
± 
rJ r 
(j 


www.jumble.com

tMASALB j Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. IJ r I I 
A: 

THE 'lI I I I )"( I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's 1. Jumbles: FRIAR NIPPY JOSTLE ATTAIN Answer: When Gramps paid to fill his tires with air he considered it-"INFLATION" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom Felton, Scott Baio, Joan Jett, Andrea Bocelli 
Happy Birthday: You've got everything going for you this year, so stick to your game plan and focus on the end results. Success can be yours, but don't be surprised if you find yourself dissatisfied and moving on to something new. An added responsibility may set you back. Your numbers are 2, 9, 16, 20, 24, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Everyone will be quick to give advice but when it comes down to helping, you are on your own. Focus on your career and how you can increase your income. •• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Follow a direction that will enable you to promote what you enjoy doing the most. Money can be made and partnerships formed. A love interest may turn into a business partner. ••••• GEMINI (May"21-June 20): Put time and effort into your home and your investments. You can raise the value of your home or purchase property that will grow in value. You won't have to go it alone today. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Participation will lead to romance today if you are single or a business partnership if you aren't. Push for what you want and you will benefit. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Nothing will stand in your way if you are serious about getting ahead in the workforce. Put all your attention on what you do best and opportunities will develop. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do things with children or get out with friends. It is important to enjoy the things that spark your imagination or contribute to 
. your creativity. Today you will find the perfect solution for improvement. 
***** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Procrastination will lead nowhere. Take the plunge and make a move one way or another. The more time you let pass, the farther behind you will be. •••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't hold back if there is something you want to pursue. The time has come to ask for favors. Get involved in an organization you admire. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make headway where work and money are concerned if you apply for something that promises a future. If you feel you are in a dead-end job, now is the time to consider your options. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't second-guess yourself when you should be going after your goals. Believe in yourself and don't be afraid to create your own position or business. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Check out your assets and make sure you can afford to follow through with your plans. Don't put yourself in an uncompromising position. If you stay within your limits, you will get ahead. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love and romance are in the picture. Get out and meet new people or plan a romantic encounter with someone you are enchanted with. • ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are very pragmatic and reticent, but when something needs to be done, you are the one to take action. You are complex and confident and quite capable of getting what you want. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
DILBERT 
I HAVE A PLAN TO AVOID PAYING DIVISION PERFORM­ANCE BONUSES. 
) 
PEANUTS 
I'LL MERGE OUR GROUP WITH THE WORST DIVISION 50 OUR AVERAGE PERFORMANCE IS LOWER. HEE-HEE! 

SCOTT ADAMS 
IT SHOULD BE EASY BECAUSE EVERY DIV­ISION MANAGER IS ALREADY BEGGING TO MERGE WITH ME. 

CHARLES SCHULTZ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Edelweiss source 5 First name at Woodstock 9 "That really 
happened!" 14 Give rise to 15 National 
competitor 16 Harped 17 Bridge words 18 Gubernatorial 
right 19 AIa King 20 Ship damaged 
in the attack on Pearl Harbor 
22 Fact finder, say 24 Islamic Republic Day observer 
25 Follower of a wondrous feat 27 "Mystic River'' co-star, 2003 28 Boxing historian Fleischer 
29 Upright relatives 32 Bill of Rights 
subj. 33 Political symbol 35 Political symbol 37 33-or 
35-Across? 39 Military shell thrower 41 Popular furry 1980's toy 44 1990 Hollywood autobiography subtitled "My 
Story" 45 Took up 47 1988 purchaser 
of Motown 48 Gospel singer 
Winans 50 Zip 51 Collars may 
cover them 53 Naive 55 Special Forces 
wear 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WILL SHORTZ 

38 Dog of literature 39 AIa King 40 Engulfed 42 Transparency 43 Scraps in the 
backwoods

source 55 Inn inventory 34 Way to stand 58 Biographical bit
46 Loafer 36 Nail attachment 59 Delivery aid 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

56 55-Across's lacks 57 Reliever's triumph 60 Tough test 61 Olympics array 62 Quaint outburst 63 Parcel 64 Hot time in Argentina 65 Film, in Variety­speak 66 Father of Harmonia 
DOWN 1 Sans sense 2 Bounteous 3 A doctor may 
open one 4 Driver's choice 5 Site of a famed 
fossil find 6 It may be added to impress 7 "Good Will Hunting" setting, briefly 8 King Mark's bride 9 Noodle product? 10 Weenie 
monocled colonel in a sitcom 
12 Legal heir, at times 
13 One way to issue a warning 
21 Kitchen sink sight 
23 Grove I 

-----------------------------~-------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The 0 bserver 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
I 
1 
.._ I Name ________________________________________ ___ .I 
I Address ____________________________________ I 
l
City ___________ State _______ Zip_______ 
.------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, September 24, 2004 
page 28 
------~ --­
==========~============~~~~==========~==~========~~~================== 
ND SOCCER 

Road woes •••. returning home 
Men lose first Big East game, No. 1 women play two games at Alumni Field 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The No. 17 Irish (4-2-1 over­all, 1-1-0 in Big East) have been playing with fin~. 
Statistkally dominating oppo­nent after opponent -with thn excnption of consnnsus No. 1 Indiana -Notre Damn has stumbled to cash in on scoring opportunities, often foreing the squad to squnak out victories, as was thn case against Evansvilln S1~pt. I 0, or settle for a draw, as thn Irish did Sept. 12 against Cal Stale Fullnrton. 
Thursday night the Irish final­ly got hurrwd. 
Behind a s1~eond half goal from West Virginia forward .Jarrod Smith. tlw Mountaineers (4-3-0 overall. 1-2-0) overcame a 15-6 shooting dPfieil to knock ofT visiting Notre Dame, 1-0, Thursday night in Morgantown, W.Va. 
"It's always disappointing to lose, but the Big East is a tough league and nvnry gamP is tough anyway, but it's especially difli­cult on lhn road," coach Bobby Clark said. "Thn big thing is that you'vn got to move on." 
see MEN/page 24 


CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer 
Junior Tony Megna, left, scores a goal against Georgetown Saturday. Amanda Cinalll kicks the ball against Eastern Illinois earlier this season. The men lost Thursday at West Virginia. 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
SportS Writer 
Coming into this weekend's games as the No. 1 ranknd team in the nation, the Irish (8-0-0) are looking to continue their dominance over their opponent<;. 
This wnek, Notre Dame over­took the No. 1 position from North Carolina for the first time this season in both major polls and is awarn of the ehall1~nges it will bring. 
"Evnn though we are excited because we know how hard we work; we realize that we are going to have a huge target on our baek," sophomorn midfielder Jen Buczkowski said. "It is going to make other teams play their best against us." 
Dnspite the pressure the Irish will bP undBr to maintaining their ranking, the team has man­aged to dominate all of' il'> prnvi­ous opponents. The Irish hold a 25-6 seoring Pdge over its com­petitors and a 170-48 ndge on shol<; taken at the goal. 
The next challenger for the Irish will be Big East rival Pittsburgh (:~-2-0) tonight at Alumni Field. Known for its 
see WOMEN/page 26 
WoMEN's INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Welsh Fatnily records second shutout of year 
By DAN TAPETILLO, KEN 
FOWLER AND TOM STILES Sports Writers 
Aggrnssivn Wnlsh Family defnnsivP proved to be too rn uch for lhn OIT-Carn pus team during Thursday night's game. 
After defeating Pangborn 1<J­0 last Sunday, lhn Whirlwinds collneted their second consecu­tive shutout this season by defeating llw Off-Campus squad 20-0. 
"It  is  important  for  the  
dnf'nnsn  to  be strong," Wnlsh  
Family  captain  Mary  

l'nndnrgasl said. "It nmlly sets the mood for the ofl'nnsn." 
l>nspiln struggling for eom­plelions early in the first half. tho Whirlwind offense man­aged to establish lhn tone of thn gamn towards halftime. 
With five minutes Inft in the half, Welsh Family seored its first touchdown off an option from quarterback Melissa Sands to Lauren Hoeck. Hoeck ran for the 15 yards into the end zone to give the Whirlwinds the 6-0 advantage. 
llowevflr, it did not take long for lhn Whirlwinds to seore again al'ler Sands threw a 10­yard and conneeted with Lauren Pease two minutes later. Wnlsh Family colleeted llw extra point to give itself a I :~-0 lead going into halftime. 
Dnspite the comfortable lead, thn Whirlwinds were aware of thn talent the Off-Campus team possessed. 
"These were the best players from other teams last year," Pendergast said. "We were told that they were going to think of us as their little sisters and try 
see INTERHALL/page 25 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish to face tough match 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

This weekend, the Irish will face the measuring stick to sec where they stand against the top teams in the Central Hegion. 
The team will travel to Lubbock, Texas, to compete in the program's first-ever Central Hegional preview at the Jeanine Mel laney Invitational, held at the .Jerry S. Hawls golf course. Texas Tech, who is hosting the event, will also host the NCAA regionals in the spring. This is the first time the Irish have qualified for this tournament, as last season was thn l'irst time they qualified for the NCAA rcgionals. The tournament, a 54-hole event, will begin today and run through Sunday. 
The lield of competition will be exlrnmely tough for the Irish, ranked No. 30 in the Golfwcek.eom rankings. 
Leading the charge will b•l Missouri, ranked No. 1 in the Golfweek.com rankings. Oklahoma, Iowa State and Arkansas are all ranked in the top 20 as well. However, despite the strength of many of the compet­ing Central Hegional teams, the Invitational cannot be deemed a true preview of the NCAA regionals, which will be held in the spring. Big Ten schools, ineluding No. 2 Ohio State, No. 3 Purdue, No. 4 Michigan and No. 13 Michigan State will not be participating. 
see GOLF/page 26 


Irish junior Lauren Gebauer will play this weekend in Texas. 
en 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

MEN'S INTERHALL
SMC CROSS COUNTRY
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL
SMC SOCCER 

.... u.l 
Saint Mary's at 
Saint Mary's at 

MIAA Jamboree 
Dillon vs. 
Lyons vs.
Pas~uerllla West 
z vs. asquerilla 
Hope Triangular 
Olivet 

at Hope College 
Stanford 
Off-Campus
li: (.) 
East
c:::5 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 

Saturday 
These two dorms face 
The Off-Campus team
Saturday
Sunday, 2 p.m. 
Numerous Belles 

Saint Mary's looks to 
off in the second week 
looks to rebound from a
The Belles look to 

of interhall action. 
The sister dorms face 
must overcome injuries 

move up in the MIAA 
loss Thursday night. 
improve on their confer-
in this matchup. 
off in a day of interhall 

standings this weekend. 
ence record.
a..~ 
en 
action. 
page 21 

page 20 
page 19
page 23 
page 22 
page 22 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 24, 2004 
Irish know how the Huskies feel 

Matt Lozar 
.'iports Writer 

Two thousand, one hundred Washington started 0-2, they on offense, to compete with But the "us against the sixty-one miles separate Notre finished the year with a win­the Irish and make it a world" attitude isn'tjust on Damn and thn University of ning reeord. shootout. the Washington sideline. It Washington, but the Irish Going 0-3 would be a disas­But the Irish say they aren't also resides in the Notre rnmemlwr exaetly how the tnr:, judging . Dame locker lluskins "Wn'rn gnlling ready for a Washington room. feel right Washington lmtm that's going just by what The one-game-at-a­"Just for the now. to eome out fighting, come out they see on simple fact that
time mentality has 
;\flpr swinging. Their backs are papPr. Tyrone at the beginning 
the potential to
opening against the wall after not Willingham of the season, no l.lw SOil­starting the way they wanted hopes his spread to a one gave us any SOil with to," run_ning back Hyan Grant players aren't credit," ofl"ensive 
Washington team 
an said. "They are going to come just saying lineman Dan
coming into a hostile
mnbar­out the same way we did the right Stevenson said. rassing before Michigan. I definitely things and Notre Dame "No one thought national­know the situation. We don't actually we could do 
Stadium.
ly-tdn­want to get sideswiped and bnlinve the ·anything.... A vised want to make sure we're Huskies can couple of wins to defeat to ready for Saturday." make Saturday afternoon us doesn't really do much but Brigham The Irish know the Huskies eloser than many think it will look nice and feel good. But Young, have the ultimate opportunity be. lie knows his team has to we want to keep taking it one l.lw Irish to turn their season around build this attitude through the game at a time." knnw dropping to 0-2 with a with their backs against the week. The one-game-at-a-time loss to Michigan would be wall in a nationally-televised Waiting until Saturday mentality has the potential to devastating for their season. game. One Washington player afternoon is too late. spread to a Washington team 
No one outside the locker even said this "Hopefully coming into a hostile Notre room bnlitwed in them. and week that he's what we will Dame Stadium. tho Irish took an "us against had the Notre be is an expe­If the Irish don't continue thn world" nwntality into that Dame game eir­The Irish know the rienced foot­that attitude and start looking game. cled since he Huskies have the ball team that past the Huskies, Notre Dame 
;\ 2X-20 win apptmrs to signnd with the can look at the could return to a "backs
ultimate opportunity 

have turnnd the season Huskies coming videos that against the wall" situation around. out of high to turn their season we'll receive next week with a 2-2 record Now, the lluskies come to school. around ... in a on them and and an untested, but impres­South Bnnd following two That type of understand sive, Purdue team coming to 
nationally-televised

straight optming season losses attitude, com­that this is a town. 
game.

at hornn -a plaen wlwre the bined with thP very capable That's a place the Irish don't lluskies usnd to bn almost urgency and football tPam," want to revisit. unbnatable. Tlwir rushing desperation to Willingham defense gave up 424 yards to get the season's first win, will said. The opinions expressed in UCI.;\ last week-including send the lluskies out of the It's easy to be skeptical of this column are those of the :J22 to one player. tunnel sky-high. Washington thn Irish taking a non-serious author and not necessarily 
Tlwy haven't had a losing needs a fast start to take the attitude since the Huskies those ofThe Observer. snason since 1CJ76. crowd out of the game. This · have had a difTieult start to Contact Matt Lozar at The last two limns tnarn has the talent, nspeeially the season. mlozar@nd. edu. 
game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"They are very aggressive and we have a big challenge ahead ofus. " 

Derek Curry Irish outside linebacker 
"Nobodys getting in the endzone. They're knocking the I heck] out of you, that's what they're doing." "Ifope fully ... we can look at the videos and ... understand that this is a very capable football team. " 

Carlyle Holiday Irish wide receiverI punt returner 
"One ofthe main things we focus on is setting up a score or getting ourselves in the endzone." 



Friday, September 24, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
A Mantntoth Cause 
Defensive end Justin Tuck needs one sack to tie Kory Minor's all-time Irish record 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame defensive line eoach Greg Mattison isn't sur­prised Justin Tuck is within one sack of tying the all-time Notre Dame record. 
Simply put, the defensive end has it all. 
"The first thing is, he was born with great God-given ability," Mattison said. "He's got the range, he's got the speed, he's got the strength. But probably his biggest lass!:tl is he's got unbelievable pride. He's got great character. He really wants to be good. He has a burning desire to be good." 
After red-shirting as a fresh­man; Tuck recorded 18.5 sacks during his first two years play­ing for the Irish. He has three sacks in the first three games in 2004, giving the Kellyton, Ala. native 21.5 for his career -one sack behind all-time leader Kory Minor, who played for Notre Dame from 1995-98. 
Tuck is a play away from etching his name into Irish lore, and he still has a year of eligibility remaining if he wish­es to exercise that option. 
But for now. Tuck simply wants to help his team win football games. 
"It's not about Justin Tuck, it's about Notre Dame foot­ball," he said. 
Retiring his sneakers 
Tuck wasn't just an out­standing football player for Central Coosa County during high school. He also dominated opponents on the hardwood. 
"That was a long time ago," , Tuck said with a laugh Wednesday. 
But the 6-foot-5. 260­pounder can't deny his basket­ball skills. As a senior. Tuck was named Mr. Basketball in Alabama and the player of the year in football for his school's division. lie averaged 17.6 points and 11.3 rebounds as a senior for a basketball team that finished 23-6 and won the state championship. 
When choosing a college, Tuck had plenty of options. He considered many Southeastern Conference schools and Notre Dame among others. But in the end, Notre Dame's tradition won out. Tuck signed with the Irish -and resigned himself to choosing one sport to play in college. 
"I love the co,ntact and cama­niderie of football," Tuck said. "It's more of a team game. It was a difficult decision for me to make coming out of high school. I had to sit down with my parents and look at my options. I considered playing both, but with the academics here that'd be really hard to do." 
Tuck still has found time for basketball at Notre Dame. He has been a dominant force in the Bookstore Basketball Tournaments for the past few years -including being named the 2002 tournament MVP. 
Keeping his coach and breaking a record 
When former Irish head coach Bob Davie was fired after the 2001 season and Tyrone Willingham was hired, no one knew which assistant coaches would remain at Notre Dame and which would leave. Only one coach remained from Davie's staff-Mattison. 
Tuck couldn't have been happier with Willingham's decision to retain the former defensive coordinator. 
"That was big," he said. "Arter lonel year, you get com­fortable with that person and having to change over after being comfortable with him, that slows the process a little bit. As a defensive lineman and as a player myself, we were ahead of the game in a sense [when Mattison stayed]." 
During the 2002 season, few doubted Tuck's ability to rush the passer, especially after he recorded five sacks in his first year of collegiate football. But Tuck's major flaw was an inability to consistently stop the ·run, forcing the coaching staff to take him out on likely run plays. Tuck managed just 44 total tackles during that season. 


In the offseason, the defen­sive end committed himself even more to the weight room and becoming a complete play­er. In 2003, Tuck had a break­out season, recording 73 total tackles and breaking the sin­gle-season sack record with 13.5. 
Teammates noticed the dif­ference Tuck made when he entered the game. 
"l-Ie's an incredible football player." fellow defensive end Victor Abiamiri said. "I think his play on the field raises everyone's play around him." 
Tuck's outstanding season came to an abrupt end midway through the final game of the season against Syracuse with a knee injury. Tuck missed the rest of the game and -after surgery -could not partici­pate in spring practices. 
But the standout end didn't let this setback keep him from working even harder during the offseason on rehabilitation and preparation for the 2004 season. 
Eyeing history 

After completing rehab, Tuck still did not feel quite right on the field. He couldn't shake off the idea of re-injuring his ten­der knee. 
"When you're in rehab so much, it really doesn't cross your mind but once you're in camp, and its time to play foot­ball again and you step on the field, it crosses your mind a lot," Tuck said. "At first you're tentative. I might still have been a little tentative in some ways in the BYU game, but now I think you just have to put that away. If you play like you're trying to save yourself from getting hurt. that's when you get hurt." 
Tuck has overcome that fear and returned to his dominant form. Besides improving his abilities, the senior has stepped up in other ways for the Irish. 
"Coach [Willingham] sat down with me in the offseason and said 'We need you to be more vocal,"' Tuck said. "That's what I'm trying to do, not knocking people but get­ting them ready to play foot­ball games." · Mission accomplished. 
"He's a great motivator and leader," linebacker Corey Mays said. "He's a great player, a person with character. I·Ie's a great asset to our team on the field. He's just a beast. The way he comes, you just have to love to compete with him." 
Tuck's coach echoes those sentiments. 
"He does it from the vocal standpoint," Willingham said. "That's where you have the true measure of a leader. He doesn't just do it by example but he also has that other dimension by speaking up and knowing the right things to say to his teammates and saying them at the right time." 
Tuck continues to receive attention for nearing the all­time sack record. lie doesn't like to focus on tho individual his career. 

"When you have a 'D-line' like we have, you can't double a lot of people and if you do, [other players are] going to be free," he said. "That's a big thing ... This secondary, they give you a lot of time out there, too. I've been lucky." 
· Lucky or not, Tuck can't help 
but think about the sacred 
record he's about to overtake. 
"Mentally, I'm trying not to have a lot of focus on it," he said. 'Tm trying to downplay it a lot, but it's a big thing. Anytime you can put yourself in a category like that, with all the talent that's come through this program through the years, it's a big thing. When it happens I'm probably going to downplay it, but in the back of my mind I'm going to say, 'That's a great feat."' 

Once he tackles the sack record, Tuck will have ques­tions to answer about his future at Notre Dame. He still has one year left of eligibility. but the NFL is also a real pos­sibility. 
Tuck's in no rush to make that decision. He'd rather take everything one step at a time. 
"I would sit here and be telling you a lie if it didn't cross my mind in a way," he said. "Just like my knee, you have to put it in the back of your head because I have 12 games to play this year. 
"After we win the bowl game, I'll sit down with my family, and we'll see where we're at then." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
by the nUmbers 
number of Washington punt returns in its first two games this season 
0 

number of yards UCLA running back Maurice Drew gained aginst the Husky defense last weekend
322 
lengths of Drew's fiye touchdowns 

47,62,58, 15,37 
3 
number of Pac-10 schools on Notre Dame's schedule this season: Washington, Stanford and Southern California 
points Notre Dame scored against Washington in the last two meetings between the programs at Notre Dame Stadium  100  
20  points Washington scored in those two games  
number of wins Tyrone Willingham has against Washington in  o  
five past meetings as coach of the Stanford Cardinal  

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer accomplishment too much. giv­Justin Tuck pursued Michigan quarterback Chad Henne, left, and ing his teammates credit for .number of Division-1A teams Notre Dame has never Iosito sacked the freshman once in a 28-20 victory. helping him get to this point in with aminimum of four meetings, including Washington
8 
Friday, September 24, 2004

page 4 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEADT4
Record: 2-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Tyrone Willingham third season at Notre Dame career record: 
81-47-l 
at Notre Dame: 
17-11 
against
Tyrone Willingham Washington: 0-5
head coach 
Roster 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 
2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 at BYU-L Sept. 11 MICHIGAN-W Sept. 18 at Michigan St. -W 
Sept. 25  WASHINGTON  
Oct. 2  PURDUE  
Oct.9  STANFORD  
Oct.· l6  afNAVY  

Oct. 2;j·'"lrbSTON~OLLEGE Nov.6 at Tennessee Nov. 13 PITISBURGH Nov. 27 at USC 

NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 

fJ 
) CORNERBACK ·S·Cunningllam6·Fountatne  
" ,,._::  
TAILBACK 4-Granl 3-Walker  FULLBACK  . .  



16-Powera.12-S<:hmidt-Ne.el ~; ~~~~CKEA 
JJ~~:~~t~~~~nn 
~,

~ 
~lj 

, 
I:'Ji I INSIO~ . 
........) 
~. 
"1 
. . STRONG 
SAFETY 
26·Nawall 
No. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 
H 
H 
9 9 10 11 12 13 15 16 16 17 17 
IH 
IK 19 21 22 23 24 25 26 26 27 27 
2R 
2H 10 31 31 32 33 .14 37 37 
3H 
39 40 41 42 43 
H 
45 45 4b 47 
4H 
4<1 
511 51 52 53 53 54 55 :i6 SH 59 :i'J 
nll 
hi 
112 64 n5 
hi> 
n7 6H 64 70 71 72 73 74 75 
7h 
77 7H 79 HI! HI H2 HJ H4 H4 
H5 
H7 HH 89 90 91 Y2 93 94 Y5 
% 
97. 9H 99 
Name  Pos.  
Jared Clark  TE  
hL•ddil' Parri~h  Dll  
l>ariusWalk.l'f  Rll  
Rr,an Grant  Rll  
R lL'ma McKnight  WR  
Carlos Campbell  Cll  
Carlyk• llohday  WR/Qil  
Marty M'xmcy  QB  
QuL•ntin Burrl'll  FS  
Tom Zbikow!'iki  DB  
Pat Dillinghclm  Qll  
llrady Quinn  QB  
Marcus Wilson  Rll  
Josh &·hmidl  I'll  
D,IVid Wulkt•  QB  
Preston jc1cksun  Cll  

Rashtm PowL•rs-NL•al Fll 
Stan RL•vl'ilc QB 
Gl~offrL'Y PricL• r 
j.j.Wam•n Qll QBg,~r~.~~!:~'~dukWl' Dll 
D.j. Pilzpalrick K/1' Maurice Stovall WR Ambrose Woodtm CB Chase Anastasio WR Dwight Ellick CB N<ltl' Schiccatant, Fll WadL•I,tms DB Travis ThomclS Rll l.kmcl BolL•n DB John lbons RB 
Tn•gg Ut'rson DB Cok• Laux Fll Mikt• Richardson DB jakt• Carney FS 
A.j. Cedt•no !>II )l•ff jenkins RB Justin lloskins RB Tl•rraill .•lmbt•rt Ill! junior jabbil' DB M.tiiMilchell CB 1.<'0 Ft•rrinc nil Brc1ndon l foytl' Ill Maurin• Crum, Jr. l.ll Mikt' (;tllllsby 1.11 Anthony Vt•m.l~lid 1.11 Anthony Salvat or 1.11 juslin Tuck DE CariCioia K/1' Rich Whilm•y DB Cort·~M,ty!'i 1.11 Mite t'li·Jilomcl,.. 1.11 )l>romt• Collins TE IJ..•n•kCurry Ill I>an Santucci 01. Jam it• Ryan 01. Jot· Brm:kin~ton Ill !>.m II kkt•y 01 jost•ph Bol.md 1.11 I>avid Fitl.gt•r,lld 01. ZilChitry ( ;iJl'S t' Nick Borst•ti 1.11 Ahdt•l B.1nd.t l.ll jdmt'.!-1 Bl'nt 01. D,m Cht•rv<tnick DT/NC C.tS<'Y Culh·n I.B j.j. j.UtS<'n 1.5 Scott f{,uidon OT 
Ct1sc.'(; Dunn Ol. lim ~ritzm,m DE 
llt•n•k l..tndri NC John Kctdous 01. Ryctn ll.trrb 01. D,uin Mitchl'll lX.; ('h,lunn•y lnl',101dtl, 01. J.tml'S Bonl'lli 01. 
J~~~r~'.:~~m OL 
ur 
Dan Stl'Vl'llSon lX; Chris From\' DE 
n,,o M,,rhm lX;;c 
Grl'); Pctuly DT 
john Sullivan c 
Uri.m M.tttl·~ OL Chris Vdughn WR Brandon Jl,trris WR M,1tt Shelton WR )l>ff Samardzija WR Mikt• O'll.r.l WR Rob Woods WR 
Billy l'almt•r TE Mcucus Fn•l•man TE Anthony F.t..'iano TE john Carlson TE Brian Bt.>idcttsl'h Dl. Craig Cardillo K Ky!t• Budinscak DE Brctndon Nicolas Dl. Justin Brown DI./Lll Victor Abiamiri DE Bobby Renk<•s K/P Travis Lcitko DE Trevor Lctws Dl. Ronald Talley [)[. 
lit. WI. YR 1>-4 250 SR 6-1 202 so 5-11 200 FR 6-1 218 SR 6-1 215 Jl~ 5-11 195 SR 6-3 215 SR 6-2 210 JR 
h-{) 
195 SR 5-11 203 so 6-2 205 SR 1>-4 224 so 5-11 202 SR 6-1 232 SR 1>-4 205 FR 5-9 lHO SR 6-2 243 SR 5-11 195 SR 6-3 190 SR 6-1 1H4 so 6-2 185 FR 6-2 22.1 so (>-1 200 Sl~ 6-5 227 JR 5-11 186 so 6-1 202 so 5-10 185 SR 6-2 242 JR 5-8 170 FR 
h-{1 212 so 
6-0 2\0 SR 
6-1 \92 so 
5-10 170 FR 
5-10 240 SR 
5-11 190 JR 
6-0 192 JR 
6-0 191 so 6-0 216 JR 6-0 195 FR 5-JO !YO FR 5-11 190' FR 5-9 190 JR 6-0 IRO ·PR 5-11 2.11 SR 6-1 215 I'R 1>-4 242 SR 6-4 220 FR 6-2 232 Jl~ 6-5 261 SR 5-10 185 so 6-3 205 Jl~ 6-l 243 SR 6-3 2.10 so 6-4 25H SR 6-3 235 SR 1>-4 2Y2 JR 6-5 310 JR 6-1 225 so 6-3 224 IR 6-3 224 JR 6-4 28'\ JR 6-3 2HI SR 6-4 2.1H so 6-2 215 1'1~ 6-1 271 Jl~ 6-2 265 Jl~ 6-2 212 so 6-3 215 FR 6-6 310 Jl~ 6-4 25h SR 6-3 210 FR 6-2 27H jR 6-7 310 FR 6-5 28'1 so 6-3 2911 SR 6-6 2Hil I'R 1>-4 290 JR 6-4 2H~ SR 6-7 311J SR 6-5 293 SR 6-5 271 IR h-1 31Xl JR 6-6 295 SR 6-3 295 so 6-5 292 JR 1>-4 20:i I'R 6-1 190 JR 6-0 175 SR 6-5 215 so 5-9 175 JR 6-2 205 JR 6-3 256 SR 6-2 24H JR 6-4 256 JR 6-5 24H so 6-2 295 SR 6-0 169 jR 1>-4 275 SR 6-5 275 I'R 1>-4 225 Fl~ 6-5 2o9 so 6-0 \90 so 6-6 275 }R' 6-0 285 so 1>-4 245 FR 

-sm~~ ~ ~ 
fe..:.u~ • ~..
',1
¥._j . lf.l"J&,: 1,1
!!.:..
27-Benjamln . 3-Hemphrll . 47-Bomar 
·.· .. 2.J I '--_
1

~EFT €NO ._ (_...­
97·Mapuoleaega · 22·Eriks 

CORNERBACK 21•Johnaon 
WASHINGTON
29-Elhs 
DEFENSE 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
::!: 
<C 
c 
LLI 0::: 
t­
o 
z 
z 
0 
..... z 
" 
:I: 
(/) 
~ 

Willingham, Diedrick and Baer rebounded well from the 20-17 loss to BYU. Willingham is 0-5 all-time against the Huskies, though all of' thosn losses came when  Hrady Quinn has not had a great game, but he has made the nneessary plays f'or Notrn Dame to win twice. lie is looking downlield more to vari­ous receivers. Quinn  Darius Walker shocked the Irish nation against Michigan. Against Michi­gan State, he proved he can carry the load ol' a workhorse baek. Grant may only play sparingly  Quinn has not dominated any secondary, and it has­n't all benn thn rncnivnrs' fault. But Saturday will be a good time for him to go through all or his progres­sions. Tlw ol'fensivn linn  
he eoaehed at Stanford. Another home win would boost support f'or a much-scrutiniznd stall'.  looks uncomfortable and rushed at times, but emerging recmvmg options will help him. !'rom the lluskies first game after throwing intereoptions two touchdowns against UCLA. II' Paus does not  due to a nagging lng injury, but thn Irish omm­sive line will give Washington problems. defense doesn't rank as the nation's worst, it is Huskies surnmdernd 561 yards on the ground with their 3-4 defnnse, and Gilbertson said his entire defense missnd assign­ must give Quinn timn. but they should nflt have trou­ble against a team with no pass rush thus far.  
(;ilbnrtson has his work cut out f'or him to moti­vate a young and strug­gling Huskies squad. An three 0-2 start would be f'or­against Fresno State, giveable with a victory but he rebounded to at N1itre Dame Stadium throw l'or 200 yards and  Casey Paus was pullnd If' Washington's run d.e!'initely elose. The  Washington has just thrnn saeks against two unranked teams. Starting dnfensivn lineman Mike Mapuolesnga is out for three-to-four weeks with a partially tom posterior  
this Saturday, but a loss would be devastating ­to the team and Gilbertson's job. Gilbertson went 6-6 last  tum the ball over, he is ments last weekend. a legitimate threat. Washington needs help.  cruciate ligament. Still, Washington has sur­rnnered only 123.5 pass yards pnr game. The dm:iding factor of  
year with San Francisco 49ers draft pick Cody Pickett behind center. He is 0-2 without Pickett. If the Irish coaching staff continues to throw their best players in the right'  Paus has thrown one less interception than Ql$n, but drcumstanci~S made those turnovers glaring. Quinn will have a b(lme crowd behind him--and in Paus':ear; Quinn toul4 have his first great garn~  Notre Dame is playing a team desperate for a~~. but the road cm'lditi:ons and improved Irish rush· ing attack sJfcll'trouble .. for the Huskies' swiss•. cheese defense. The ; offensive line should get a .  whether Quinn excels will be the success of the Irish running game. If the line g.th g 11 g .• Q5d lth of options. But  
situations, Willingham should improv~ to 1-5 against the Huskie~  of .the season against" a soft defense. Paus j~ould thrQ:WJl.Jot of deopJialls.  .gg,Qd enough push, ,1lo open even bigger hples for ~~-~ning ba~  Washington's pass defense may not bend if they arn ready to play.  





Yes, Washington isn't a good football team. Yes, 
or a blowout. The first quarter will have a they lost two home games already. And, yes, telling effect on the game's outcome. they have no business beating the Irish in South Saturday has the potential to be a shootout 
Irish 

Washington will get a couple of big plays, Bend Saturday. But the lluskies .will be up l'or but the Irish are simply too good and too the game, meaning Notn~ Dame needs to come f'ocusnd to let this one slip away bel'ore next 
out sharp on all cylinders to seeun~ its third
experts straight victory. With that said, the Irish should win with rnlat~ve ease. 
week's showdown with Purdue. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Washington 13 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Washington 17
Matt Lozar 
Hditor in Chief 
Joe Hettler 
AME 

Friday, September 24, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 5 
Washington 
Huskies
HEAD 

Record: 0-2 AP: NR 
Washington Huskies Coaches: NR 

WASHINGTON ~_ OFFENSE ~ 
TAILBACK 8-Jomos 7-Sampson FULLBACK 
~~. ~'i.l':s.••.·• .··.·.· ~g-~~!;RilACK~~~<· ~....~ 
·.·~····· 
CORNERBACK 
15·Jacbon 30-Riehardson 
HUSKIES RUSHING HUSKIES PASSING 
Zbikowski elevated the secondary's play last week, and Preston Jackson has been impressive so far. The deep pass coverage is still a question mark, but the secondary is playing aggressively -including a Mike Richardson interception.  
Charles Frederick leads the Huskies with 13 catch­es for 214 yards. Paus has thrown 6 7 passes and is not afraid to put the ball up, which has hurt him in the form of costly inter­ceptions. The Huskies have two backup quarter­backs who saw playing time against Fresno State.  
Paus was pulled from the season opener but "he recovered in the UCLA game, and Gilhertqon·was-' pleased with his perform·~ ance. The Notre Dame secondary has improvcd,l but the threat.9f the deep bali is still f'i-ightening after watching" todd Watkills and BYU.  

Notre Dame's offensive line will dominate Washington. Irish backs will run the ball with ease, and Quinn will get it done through the air. The Irish will extend their winning streak and the Huskies will remain winless. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Washington 10 

Keith Gilbertson second season at Washington 
WASHINGTON 
2004 Schedule 
career record: Sept. 5 FRESNO STATE-L 
54-41 
at Washington: Sept. 18 UCLA-L 
6-8 


against Notre Keith 
Sept. 25 at Notre Dame 
Dame: 0-0 Gilbertson 
Oct. 2 
Oct.9 
Oct. 16 
Oct. 23 
Oct. 30 
Nov. 6 
Nov. 13 
NOTRE DAME 
Nov. 20 
~:~~
DEFENSE .. J 
at Stanford 
No. 1
SAN JOSE STATE 
3 3 .4 4 5 5 6 
OREGON STATE 
at USC 
7 7 8 8
at Oregon 
9 9 10 
10 11 11 12 
ARIZONA 
CALIFORNIA 
12 13 13 13

at Washington State 
14 14 14 15 
z 
21 22 22 22 26 27 29 30 31 31 

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
The Irish field goal kick­ing has been sufficient. Punt and kick coverage must improve after giving up an 85-yard touchdown return last weekend. Freshman Justin Hoskins may return kicks, most likely, alongside Chase Anastasio. Holiday has looked good on punts.  
Washington averages only 33.5 yards per punt and has not returned a punt yet this season. UCLA punted just once to the Huskies last week­end, and returns have been average. Starting field goal kicker Evan Knudson lost his spot after missing two shots.  
Neither team can win this battle in a pre-game pre­diction, because neither team proved so last week­ut 0 ass·loli k e e. t v a teanunate in practice last week and has impressed. Irish kick coverage must improve.  


Notre Dame has as much to prove as the winless Washington team. The Irish are expected to beat Washington. In front of the home crowd, coach­es and players will want to establish they are undoubtedly better than teams like this.  
Washington is desperate for a win. The last two times, the Huskies started a season 0-2, they went to a bowl game. But 0-3 is different. Gilbertson will have his playeres ready for this game. Road crowd aside, this is a Huskies squad eager to prove their worth.  
Notre Dame is expected to win the game.;1(l1e team does not express overconfide,nc.!3.· hij'ttt would be ·easy · ti,l approach this game mm:h like the 'on~ against BYU. The home crowd. ~howd mak.e ·a huge difference;-but Washington is hungry.  

32
0 
32 
-t 
34 35 36 
::a· 
JTI 
c 
37 38 
39
l> 
40 s: 40 41
JTI 
42 42 43 45 45 47 48 49 50 50 51 51
~ 
53
en 
54
% 
54 55
z 
56
C) 
57 
58
-t 
59 60 
0 
z 
61 63 65 68 70 
71 
72 
74 
74 
75 

76 77 
77 
78 
79 
80 
81 
82 
83 
84 
85 
85 
86 
86 
87 
87 
88 
89 
91 
92 
93 
94 
97 
98 
99 


Notre Dame won a game last weekend they were supposed to win. The Irish should beat Washington, as well. The Huskies rush defense is horrendous. The Irish secondary may falter, but Washington will not stop Darius Walker. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Washington 17 

15 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 20 20 21 
Roster 

Name Pas. Ht. Wt. YR C.). Wallace ss 6-0 205 so Craig Chambers WR 6-3 205 RSFR Chris Hembhill ss 6-6 215 RSFR 
Isaiah Stan ack QB 6-3 205 so Scott White !LB 6-1 230 so Sam Cunningham CB 6-0 180 SR Zach Tuiasosopo · FB 6-2 245 SR Matt Fountaine CB 5-11 !85 so Shelton Sampson RB 5-11 205 so Greyson Gunheim DE 6-6 240 FR Kenny James RB 5-10 215 so Dashon Goldson FS 6-1 195 JR Clarence Simpson CB 6-2 200 so Louis Rankin RB 6-0 195 RSFR Evan Knudson PK 6-0 175 JR Charles Frederick WR 6-0 185 SR Carl Bonnell QB 6-3 200 RSFR Derrick Bradley CB 5-9 180 FR Anthony Russo WR 5-11 180 RSFR Josh Okoebor CB 5-10 175 JR Michael Book PK 6-3 190 JR josh Lucas QB 6-3 180 FR Charles Smith WR 6-0 195 RSFR WadeGumett CB. 5-11 185 FR Steve Horan s 5-9 190 so Michael Braunstein PK 5-6 180 RSFR Casey Paus QB 6-5 220 )R Darin Harris CB 5-11 200 FR Chet Sanders FS 6-1 200 FR Felix Sweetman QB 6-2 225 so Sean Doufflas p 6-1 210 so 
Corey Wil iams WR 6-2 195 so Carlos Serrano s 5-9 175 so Mesphin Forrester ss 6-2 185 FR Quintin Daniels WR 6-0 195 so Bobby Whithome WR 6-1 185 RSFR Kyle Trew !LB 6-1 220 RSFR Derrick Johnson CB 6-0 190 SR Sonny Shackelford WR 6-1 180 so Luke Kravitz FB 6-1 210 FR Ty Eriks DE 6-2 245 JR james Sims, Jr. FB 6-1 205 JR jimmyNe"!ell 55 6-1 195 SR Evan Benjamin OLB 6-0 210 )R Cody Ellis CB 6-0 180 RSFR Robert Lukevich c 6-2 240 !'R Kim Taylor CB 6-0 190 so Steve Anderson WR 6-0 195 FR Mike McEvoy ILB 6-1 215 SR Jamie Lee s 6-0 205 RSFR Daniel Howell !LB 6-2 215 FR Tim Galloway !LB 6-2 230 SR MikeMizuha lLB 6-1 230 RSFR Johnnie Kirton RB 6-3 270 FR Durrell Moss FB 6-1 215 RSFR Ricardo DoValle PK 6-0 200 SR Dan Foafoa FB 5-11 250 RS FR Eric Roy 55 6-0 205 SR Brandon Ala DE 6-3 245 so Walt Winter DE 6-5 245 ·FR Chris Singleton RB 6-0 210 JR Sho Yoshinaga WR 5-9 175 !'R Todd Enders s 6-1 195 FR Brian Tawney ILB 6-2 230 JR Tahj Bomar OLB 6-2 210 so Ryan Campbell OLB 5-10 210 so Ben Warren ILB 6-0 205 so Mark Palaita FB 5-10 240 JR Brad Vanneman c 6-3 300 JR Brandon Leyritz c 6-3 310 JR Michael Russell ILB 6-2 240 JR joe Lbbendahn ILB 5-10 230 JR Patrick McKillop DE 6-2 230 FR )ens [ellen OG 6-5 290 JR Tui Alailefaleula OG 6-4 330 SR Manase Hopoi DT 6-4 290 SR Trenton fuiasosopo ILB 6-2 230 FR Juan Garcia OG 6-3 310 so jordan Reffett OG 6-6 290 RS FR jasper Henry DT 6-2 260 FR Tusi Sa'au OG 6-2 320 )R Clay Walker OG 6-4 300 so Khalif Barnes or 6-5 310 SR Robin Meadow or 6-6 300 JR Tyler Ashby OG 6-4 310 FR jovon O'Connor or 6-5 310 FR Casey Bulyca OL 6-7 285 FR Stanley Daniels OG 6-4 305 so Wilson Afoa NT 6-3 290 RSFR Chad Macklin or 6-8 295 RSFR Nathan Flowers or 6-3 330 FR Ryan Bush c 6-2 285 FR Erick Lobos NT 6-3 300 FR MikeNahl OG 6-2 300 FR Ryan Brooks or 6-6 205 SR Matthew Smith WR 6-0 170 so Andy Heater DT 6-3 275 )R jon Lyon TE 6-6 265 SR Joe Toledo TE 6-6 285 JR Lukas Michener WR 6-1 175 SR Caesar Rayford DT 6-6 225 FR Dash Crutchley TE 6-6 255 so Michael Gottlieb TE 6-5 240 FR Hans Rasmussen P/PK 6-2 185 so jason Berm TE 6-5 265 so joel Nelson DT 6-3 255 RSFR Robert Lewis TE 6-5 225 RSFR Ben Bandel TE 6-7 255 so Donny Mateaki NT 6-5 285 so Chris Rohrbach WR 6-1 180 RSFR WillMurphy DT 6-2 240 JR Jordan White-Frisbee DT 6-6 330 FR Mike Mapuolesega DT 6-3 265 )R Dan Milstein NT 6-5 290 so Jared Bronson TE 6-5 235 so 
Washington is not good, but a trip to Notre Dame Stadium . often brings out the best in bad teams. Even if the Huskies come to play, it shouldn't mat­ter. The Washington defense is terrible, especially against the run. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 41, Washington 16 
NotrP Dame's run defense was ranknd sixth heading into the Michigan State game. The Irish gave up 165 yards to the Spartans, <md the entirn defense feels them is room for improve­ment. But this defense ­led by an experienced line­backing core -has pride in stopping the run.  
Kenny James ran for 75 rn1d 133 yards in the team's first two games. The lluskies line has gotten a good push against its oppo­nents, though neither Fresno State nor UCLA have high-rated defenses. All the same, James has carri1~d the load fairly well so far.  
In addition to the lineback­ers' consistent play, the Irish defensive line has shown flashes of domina­tion. Trevor Laws and Derek Landri an~ making plays on the inside, and the ends are relentless. WMhington will go to the air, becausP the Irish twill win thts ba:tt.le.  


Heather Van Hoegarden 
5;ports Editor 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 24, 2004 
Sizing up the Irish and the Huskies 

AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained 
passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 
WASHINGTON'S DEFENSE 



~ 


WASHINGTON'S OFFENSE 
vs 
NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
24 

NOTRE DAME 
RUNNING BACKS 
Starter Hyan Grant is not 100 percent. so he may see limited carries again. But Walker and fullback Hashon Powers-Neal have proven they can help carry the load. 
Until Quinn proves he can pick apart opposing secondaries, the running game will remain the focal point of Notre Damn's offense and tlw decid­ing factor in whether or not the Irish win. 
The offensive linn has had two solid games in a row, and they will line up this week against a strug­gling Washington defensive front that has struggled. 
WASHINGTON 
RUSHING DEFENSE 
Defensive lineman Mike Mapuolesega will miss three-to-four weeks at least arter partially tearing his posterior cruciatn liga­ment. 
But even with a healthy Mapualnsega, the lluskiflS have strug­
. gled to stop the run. UCLA's Maurice Drew drummed the Husky defense for 322 yards and five touchdowns last week. Fresno State totaled 137 yards on 35 carries. 
To win th1~ game, Washington has fo stop the Irish running game. Looking at the average yards per carry of (;rant and Walker, that should be dillicult. 

0 
total points scored total points allowed 

Notre Dame yards penalized Washington yards penalized 
531 0 
381 






Friday, September 24, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Unlikely sources help improve Irish offense 
ly one factor for the improved By JUSTIN SCHUVER running game. Ryan Grant's AssociareSponsEdiror improving health has been 
another. 

Slowly but surely, the Notre Injured for the entire BYU Dame offense is beginning to game and not quite 100 per­show signs of life. cent against Michigan, Grant 
In the BYU game, the Irish burst back onto the Irish amassed 285 yards total scene with a vengeance offense in a losing effort. In a against Michigan State win over Michigan, the team Satur.day, collecting 66 yards collected :~ 1 3 total yards. In and a six-yard touchdown on the win Saturday over 11 carries. Michigan State, the Irish Grant still doesn't feel he's picked up 388 yards. back to 100 percent. 
According to offensive coor-"I feel comfortable," Grant dinator Bill Diedrick, one rea-said. ''I've been working on a son for the improved offense lot of different things this has been the rediscovery of a year, and I feel comfortable consistent running game. where I'm at with my ability. 
"I think when you're able to "My leg right now is hinder-run the football it opens up so ing me from doing certain many more things," he said. things but I'm anxious to be in 
"As long as the  a  position where I  
running game  can  be full go and  
goes I think it  when  that  time  
really  allows  "On campus, there's  comes I'll take full  
you to do what you want to do. You take the  probably not one person who can tell  advantage of it." Walker feels that having a second  
first game for example, when  you who I am."  option on the team helps him in his  
you're not ning the  run-ball  Matt Shelton  own game. "Coach  has  
and you have to  Irish wide receiver  always told  us the  
drop  back  55  running game is  
or  60  times,  one  of the  most  
that's not good,  important aspects  

and it's not good for anybody." on the offensive side," he said. 
To say that there has been a "Me and Ryan are very close rebirth of the running game is ... we both sort of bring our an understatemflnt. Against aspects to the game and help BYU. the Irish rushed for a our teammates. net gain of just 11 yards. "Ryan's a real good power Against Michigan and runner, and I try to do a little Michigan State, Notre Dame . bit more of the shiftiness type collected a combined total of of running. We just try to help 308 yards. • each other out and keep each 
Tho coming-out party of other motivated." freshman Darius Walker The running game has been against Michigan -.31 car-one improvement in Notre ries, 115 yards-was certain-Dame's offense, but the dis­covery of a viable passing game has also proved fruitful -especially in the play of wide receivers Jeff Samardzija and Matt Shelton. 
Coming into the season, .nei­ther was listed as a starter, but both receivers have played crucial roles so far. 
Shelton scored a touchdown in both the Michigan and Michigan State games, parlay­ing his speed into a 46-yard touchdown reception against the Wolverines and a 35-yard touchdown catch against the Spartans. 
Samardzija led the team with four receptions against the Spartans, including sever­al key catches on third-down situations as the Irish ran out the clock. 
"Obviously when you have guys stepping up like that and making plays for us, it gives the defenses more to worry about," Irish quarterback Brady Quinn said. 
For the 6-foot, 175-pound Shelton, the sudden burst of offensive production has been as much of a shock to him as anyone. 
"On campus, there's proba­bly not one person who can tell you who I am," Shelton said. "I blend in with the other students.· I'm a regular guy, but that's fine by me. 
"I actually think that might help me because defenses might not look at me as your typical receiver. Hopefully that continues." 
For Shelton and the rest of the Irish offense, their secret is starting to come out. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's defense sur­rendered 22 rushing yards to BYU. The number increased to 56 against Michigan then more · than doubled last weekend at Michigan State to 165 yards. 
But Washington coach Keith Gilbertson would not call that a weakness. 
"If [their defense] gives up 165 yards, I'm going to give them a game ball," Gilbertson said. "Heck, the UCLA kid had that at the quarter. We look at 165 yards and think that would be a pretty good day of rush defense. I don't think that's a problem." 
UCLA's Maurice Drew gained 322 yards and scored five touchdowns -47, 62, 58, 15 and 37 yards -against the Huskies defense last week. Washington has rushed for an average of 194.5 yards in its first two games, but those totals were meaningless because the defense could not stop the opponent's run. 
"Obviously you feel like we rushed for a significant num­ber, but [UCLA] rushed for twice that," Gilbertson said. "If you're not stopping the run, you're not winning football games." 
Washington has not stopped the run yet, and the Huskies are 0-2. Gilbertson's team has lost to unranked Fresno State, 

Washington's biggest weakness: run defense 
35-16, and unranked UCLA, 37-31 in two early season home games. 
Linebackers Joe Lobendahn [31 tackles] and Evan Benjamin [21] and cornerback Derrick Johnson [18] lead the team in tackles, but the Huskies now face a Notre Dame team whose rushing totals have begun to climb. 
"I think there's lots of con­cerns,'' Gilbertson said. "Our safeties and corners have to make better tackles ... Look at their offense, how it improves all the time. They certainly have found a couple of tail­backs. That tailback !Darius Walker] is going to be a great one." 
On the other side of the ball, quarterback Casey Paus com­mands an offense that has put up decent yardage and point totals thus far. Paus is 31-for­67 for 383 yards and two touchdowns. 
But Paus and the offense struggled with turnovers against Fresno State. The Huskies were intercepted four times -Paus had three -and fumbled once. The Bulldogs scored two of their fourth quarter touchdowns on an 18­yard fumble return and a 7 5­yard interception return. 
"''m concerned about every­thing we do," Gilbertson said. "The 21 points for Fresno State lin the fourth quarter]. we gave them all three of the [touchdowns]. They didn't have to work for one. We got 24 points in the first quarter last week, but UCLA got 20. That can't happen." 
Paus' number one target is Charles FrederiCk (6-feet, 185 pounds). who has caught 13 passes for 214 yards. Sophomore running back Kenny James [5-foot-10, 215 pounds] has gotten off to an impressive start, carrying the ball 17 times for 75 yards against Fresno State and 27 times for 133 yards against UCLA. 
But Gilbertson said even the running game is not a given heading into Notre Dame Stadium. 
"They're a tremendous defensive football team," the coach said. "They run, they tackle, they pressure the pass­er. Their line has terrific ath­letes on the edge. I have a lot of respect for them." 
Notre Dame averages 25.3 points per game. Washington averages almost just as many at 23.5. But the Irish defense -though it bended in its first three games -did not break. 
And Gilbertson is well aware. 
"Nobody's getting in there. Nobody's getting in the end­zone," Gilbertson said. "They're knocking the hell out of you, that's what they're doing." 
Contact Pat Leonard pleonard@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Bt·tter ln~redient~. Bcttt-r Pizza. 
Welcome New and Returning Notre Dame-St:~ Mary's St:udents*Faculty*Staff Notre Dame Papa John's St. Mary's Papa John's 1823 South Bend Avenue North Village Mall 271-1177 271-7272 
PAPA PREDICTS: ND 28 • WASHINGTON 10 
Papa John's Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Official Delivery Pizza of NCAA Athletks. 
r------..
1 IRISH SPECIAL 1 
Large 1-topplng,I Bread!.tlck' &. Coke 4-to-go I 
I $14.!18 I 
~
I CCNI'pon ...,_;•..;J • ·.~,)rr •• to d•Y•· I VUe f •1uo•. : · . •:,;;~ll"tf !lor~:::>·., • :,...u,.,, t_...., 
I ~:~·~~-: :~--<:.~:::-.-~·;::·;>··~::r~~:·;~;.~--:--:-;;!~:;J-·~~-:~iy_ I.. ";;;;.. ~ -~····;.;;;.;·· ·.;;.. .. 


r-----.. 
r -CHEESE R!-.. r -LATENRE­
1 FAMILY SPECIAL 1 

I large Cheese and your I 1 SPECIAL
Lu·qe Work!. and 

I choice of bread!.ticks or · I
I 1 L•rg• 2-topplng I I Ex-Larg... 1-'topplng for 
cheese!.ticks 
the price of a Large only

I S1B.B!I I I S12.B!I I 
I S11.!1!1~ 
~

1...-...;:_ ......,_._:~-' ...,........ l::J.t-., I I C0t11por;m ..,..,rwd. I.JLP(res 10 darya. I l.rd•'t"'-' ~--t..-ph--e• ·so~,... · 
r·:· ,,., ·••··· ·, ..-;.-;• ••r••'-'t-·'l.tlf••tlu<J ''"I•• Offf·r ~---> r., .. !!u~ed tl~· ,, p.:.:~~-!1-ti;,~, p_,. ()fL. '.II'"·"'' f...-.-.. II•• ·~rd th.-.._ •• ·-orttdp•llrh,l ro.-p.­
I 
,..,~ . ~ -· .... ···•I. ''-lt;i,•. -...: h•JJfloiU•J'"' ---••ft<t I 

I ::~: ..~~~rt-~~-~:-~·~·--.::;.::':~:i:-':~.:u:;;·:~~;;·~:~·:~-~
~; • v..-•,1 -·1~-• '• .lt.,: ~UIMIO, '"' tii\.C!"tUfH­

lhnnoo•f ,;_.,,,h. ,_. •··· • n••Y Limned ill< ... !Ch-u-.:r• tr..$Y 1~~~!~~~~~~~~::~,~~~:;;-.:·~l:~~f;~~:;:'.~u::·::~~~: :::;::~;
c:hMriJI"' ,.:·P'Y d~llvcr~· -,... 0-:,. ••• :,,_,. ~~·-,· .. '· _,,,• ......... A1'tf,;" •bt-r '"'."'" Cu:l'··•n..-,, -tpoo~t•••-fur •II ..pJtflc.l~~!~ !••""~ Or,.:,,..,_.. ;,........-.o~hh-: .... •II •p•_...,, t~!!.• l4Jt.~-~
.. ..
~-----~-----­
SCHOOL HOURS ~-----­
SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS 

•-----DW------• P---C=a~oi:'4-io~-o--• Monday -Thursday Monday-Thursday 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
I Buy .my Large of Ex-Large Pizza at regular I l ...c;,ca-Cola 4-to-Go i!. 4 20-oz bottlesl 1menu pdce and get FREE your choice of any 1 If or the price of 3 including 4 FREE 1 Friday -Saturday Friday -Saturday of our 3 DVD~. Title" change every two Mu!.ic Match download!. • 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. I months. Through December 2004. I I I Sunday Sunday 
Noon to 1:00 a.m. Noon to 12:00 a.m. 
~-----------·~-~--------· 
If your group is having a meeting or planning a get-together, call for information on our large Order Discount. 

DELIVERY DELIVERY NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S
We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes 271-1177 271-PAPA

Try our Chicken Barbeque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough Try our· Spinach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 


.,SJ}.~~ALLal . , Chanta6lerwoofsltC(f;Mnl 
est 2001 

. . P.i\RTY F(>RlW() D~YS STIU\I(;H __ 
THECHADSHAR()N ­
~1£.\tl{)RIAL f1]\D
ST. ADALilERT CATHOLIC SCHOOL 
b_Vb.NT.:> XJJb.DULb. 
fJ2.1DAY 6ATUR.DAY 
R.Bti\L THrY 
(LIVE BAND} 
.l!; GIANJ,L)OL(~~EBALL
FISt-IER. TcUR\JEY 
11~1\ 1'S C..1l : 
<)() NOTRE DAME 
Mockt\f{~ 
ANL) 1v1LKJIj~v'\C)R.E....... 

F:REE FOOl), INFLATABLES ANL) LIVE EVEN·rs _ 
-· -. ALL WEEKEN[J! 






