
Istvan, Bell win 2004 presidential election 
Candidates react to results of Student Senate vote 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
The Student Senate broke the election deadlock Sunday after­noon, electing Adam Istvan the next student body president by a15-13 vote. 
While senators were constitu­tionally bound to vote for the candidate that the majority of their dorm voted for, they were not informed of their dorm's vote until Sunday's meeting. 
Judicial Council President Elliot Poindexter declined to release dorm vote totals to The Observer. 
Poindexter announced the Senate's vote to Istvan's vice president Karla Bell and to 

Student senators debate constitutional procedure, equal representation
candidate Charlie Ebersol and his running mate James Leito ac<;ording to how their dorm the candidate who received a dent Emily Chin would breakfollowing the Senate's meeting. 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES voted, and one senator even plurality of the votes in their the tie.
Istvan did not attend the 
News Editor left the emergency meeting dorms and, in the event that But Poindexter said there
announcement, as he was 
early when he realized the the candidates tied, then the was a clear winner in each
returning from a planned trip Many of the 28 senators who senators' presence was merely dorm's senator would choose dorm, leading to a 15-13 deci­to Michigan to visit his fiancee. 
cast votes to elect Adam Istvan a formality. which candidate the dorm sion in favor of Istvan. Yet
"I am very excited, very 
student body president Sunday Citing constitutional proce­would vote for. The constitu­while Poindexter releasedhappy. I think we're going to do criticized the system that dure, Judicial Board president tion also states that had there information about how each 
required them resolve the Elliot Poindexter said all sena­been a tie in the Senate vote 
see REACTION/page 4 election by casting their votes tors were required to vote for that student body vice presi-see PROCEDURE/page 6 


Monologue demonstre)tors asked to shut down table in LaFortune 
Queer Film Festival ends without protests 

By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents promoting Saturday's performance of "The Vagina Monologues" were told to leave the LaFortune Student Center on Friday. 
The group had reserved a table across from the Huddle on the ftrst floor of LaFortune for Friday afternoon in order to promote "The Monologues," but the event turned into a demonstration that offended guests of the student center, said Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities. 
"They said they were going to be promoting the . . . event this weekend and it was really much more of a demonstra­tion," he said. "They reserved [the table] under one purpose and did something different." 
Coughlin said that his office received several complaints, both by phone and in person, from individuals shopping at the Huddle who said they were upset with what they consid­ered aggressive behavior on the part of the group. Witnesses in LaFortune at the time of the incident character­ized the group's actions as "intimidating." 
Some members, including Notre Dame junior Carole Kennelly, came dressed in biki­nis wrapped in police-style tape with the words "rape free zone." 
"There were a couple of peo­ple who weren't exactly thrilled with us being there," she said. 
Kennelly said that one woman in particular approached her and asked if she had ever been raped. She 
see MOVE/page 4 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame's first Queer Film Festival concluded Saturday after drawing large crowds but none of the protests that some had antici­pated on the campus of a Catholic university. 
"It was very successful," said Liam Dacey, a senior Film, Television and Theater major who organized the event. "It's been the best weekend I've had at Notre Dame." 

The four-day festival opened Wednesday evening to a sold out crowd in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. A showing of the film "Jim in Bold" was followed by a question-and­answer session with director Glenn Holsten. The remainder of the festival featured addi­tional films and sessions with directors, producers and screenwriters, though these events did not sell out, Dacey said. 
Notre Dame students, facul­ty and alumni attended the festival, which featured a screenwriting workshop with alumnus Don Roos, a director and \friter and two panel dis­cussions titled "Gay Hollywood: Still in the Closet" and "Film and the Construction of Sexual Identity," in addition to the films. 
The two most popular events, Dacey said, turned out to be on Thursday and Saturday nights. 
On Thur~day, director John Cameron Mitchell came to campus to showcase his film "Hedwig and the Angry Inch." The film and its director drew a busload of fans from Chicago and some of the attendees dressed up in costumes fea­tured in the movie. Saturday's event was also significant as it featured a screening of the film "The Opposite of Sex" Roos. 
Dacey said that the event marked one of few times that Roos had returned to campus since he was a student here several decades ago and that 
his  visit  left  him  more  
impressed  with his  alma  
mater.  

"After this weekend his whole viewpoint on Notre Dame changed," Dacey said. 
Students who attended the festival also said they were pleased with the event. 
Junior Ryan Metheny said he 
see FILM/ page 4 



page 2 Tht Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 16, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Tunnel 

VISIOn 
I know what's down there. 

I've now seen the inside of Notre Dame's worst-and-best-kept secret: the tunnels. Worst-kept: you'd have to be oblivious not to notice the selective snow-melting that 
streaks across South Quad and snakes past Stonehenge. Best­kept: they've been sealed off for years, leaving stu­dents with only speculation about what lies 

beneath-until Claire Heininger now. Let's start at the 
Assistant
middle ofit all: the tunnel more than News Editor 400 feet below the Golden Dome. Here we fmd the ghosts of alcohol poli­cies past, from a pyramid stacked high with the kegs that satiated the student sections of the 1970's to the lingering stash of hard alcohol forced to depart the dorms only two years ago. 
Head down the branch towards the Stadium, and you'll uncover the foot­ball team's A-list recruits, right next to Leprechaun Mike's coordination. And if you look hard enough, you might glimpse the charred remnants of a green jersey or two. 
Take a right over to North Quad, and you've hit the tunnel jackpot: leather couches, music, soft lighting, and thou­sands of those utterly seductive Lion King valentines from Knott Hall. It's the anti-dorm lounge, the ultimate 24-hour space, the pit where parietals come to perish -let the digging begin. 
Straight past the den of sin lies LaFortune underground, where Starbucks is bottomless and quarter dogs cost a nickel. The feast just keeps getting better when you round the cor­ner into Grab n' Go gourmet, with a selection that puts Willy Wonka to shame. 
The gluttony comes to a sobering halt, however, when you reach the final stop on our tunnel tour: Big Brother. It's the above-ground e-mail censoring we've all been warned about times a hundred, with bugged microphone links to every salt shaker, every show­erhead, and of course, every post­ResLife hearing, sorrows-drowning commiserating session. 
Got a dirty little secret? No you don't. Big Brother knows. Notre Dame knows. And the tunnels let them keep it that way. 
Leaving the headquarters -feeling pretty violated, I might add-you'll pass the four people who remember in­hall SYRs and the three people who still care about student government. You'll fmd half the cabs in the city of South Bend, and maybe even that freshman hookup you left in one. You'll stumble upon motivation, positive gen­der relations, sunny skies, and all those phrases we toss around that up here, don't really exist. If you're lucky, you might even fmd a computer cluster sta­pler. 
Given the uproar surrounding that idea lately, maybe it's better that the tunnels stayed shut. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error, the information included in election results published in a Feb. 13 graphic incorrectly listed Adam Is~ receiving 48 percent ofthe vote and Charlie Ebersol receiving 45 percent of the vote. The correct totals were included in the accompanying article, with Istvan receiving 48.9 percent and Ebersol receiving 43.6 pcrcem. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: /N HONOR OF PRESIDENTS' DAY, WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE PRESIDENT AND WHY? 






Andrew Kawalski  John Middleton  Laura MacGregor  Natasha Sarkisian  Noah Babin  Wes O'Neill  
Freshman  Senior  Sophomore  Sophomore  Freshman  Freshman  
Keenan  off-campus  Cavanaugh  off-campus  Stanford  Morrissey  
"George  ··raft because  ··ceorge W  ..Father  ··colin  "Paul Martin,  
Washington  he was a big fat  Bush because  Hesburgh,  Campbell,  current Prime  
because he had  man that got  he's from Texas.  President  president ofthe  Minister of  
wooden teeth. ,  stuck in a tub. "  Gotta love  Emeritus ofND,  NHL, because  Canada,  
southern  because he has  hockey rules!"  because in  

accents." so many degrees., 
Sleepless In Shakespeare 
WELLESLEY, Mass. -A college drama group with a soft spot for William Shakespeare began a marathon session Sunday evening to read all the leg­endary playwright's works in 24 hours. Unabridged. 
The Wellesley College Shakespeare Society is hop­ing their efforts don't turn out to be "The Comedy of Errors" and instead land them in the Guinness Book of World Records as the first to read the works in such a short amount of time. 
"It's a huge overnighter. We are going to be crazy 
TODAY 
0:: 


the thousands of dollars it generates -to the runner­up. 
Mongo's owner, 14-year­old Whitney Gray, sued offi­cials -accusing the state Agriculture Department of failing to follow its own procedures for publishing the rules for exhibitors· at the fair. 
In his decision Friday, Sangamon County Circuit Judge Patrick Kelley agreed that the state failed to follow those procedures and ruled that the disquali­fication should be reversed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 
"The Amazing Christopher" performs to during the halftime show at the Notre Dame-Seton Hall men's basketball on Saturday. The act danced to songs by the Village People and a variety of other artists, and posed for pictures with the Notre Dame cheerleaders when they finished. 
OFFBEAT 
with iambic pentameter," said Alison Buchbinder president of the society at the all-women's college outside Boston. 
Mongo regains title 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. Mongo the steer may now be Mongo the steak, but it isn't too late to give the dethroned state fair cham­pion his title back, a judge has ruled. 
Officials ruled at last year's Illinois State Fair that Mongo's owners had given him banned medicine to treat a sore hoof. They stripped him of his ribbon and gave the title -and 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI 
:::r: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( (.,) 

...I 0 HIGH 26 LOW 19 

HIGH LOW 

32 16 

HIGH LOW 
Canada we don't have presidents., 
IN BRIEF 
Attend the Faculty Debate on Affirmative Action from 7 to 8 p.m. tonight in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. Professors representing several different viewpoints will present their opinions on a recent issue of controversy on campus. 
Come and hear from ND fac­ulty students who recently traveled to Nigeria at the Catholic Church in Africa presentation tonight from 9:15 to 10:30 p.m. in the lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center. They will relate their experi­ences with the people and church of Africa and provide time for questions. 
Sharpen your interviewing skills at an interviewing workshop from 5 to 5:45 p.m. in 114 Flanner Hall. The workshop is sponsored by the Career Center. 
Come to the Saint Mary's Post-Graduate Service Fair from 3 to 7 p.m. in the Noble Family Dining Room on Tuesday. Students of all class levels from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are encour­aged to attend and speak with experienced professionals about volunteer and service opportunities. 
Juniors, pick up your Junior Parents Weekend tickets from 7 to 10 p.m. Tuesday in the Sorin Room of Lafortune. Tickets will also be available for pick-up at the same loca­tion beginning at 1 p.m. Friday.. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH 45 HIGH 43 LOW 34 LOW 24 
Atlanta 44 I 33 Boston 27 113 Chicago 29 I 19 Denver 46 I 31 Houston 60 I 43 Los Angeles 73 I 53 Minneapolis 25 112 New York 32 I 21 Philadelphia 33 I 20 Phoenix 76 I 46 Seattle 52 I 44 St. Louis 37 125 Tampa 68 I 48 Washington 34 I 22 
I ! l I 

Monday, February 16, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 

CORRECTION 
In a Feb. 13 article "Controversy swirls around Monologues" Pangborn Hall rector Heather Rakoczy did not say that her dorm decid­ed to discontinue the collec­tion in support of the Vagina Monologues and to match the collection with dorm funds because of a decision rendered by the Office of Student Affairs. Rakoczy 
the hall after res id en ts expressed concern about using hall funds to match the 
By KATE GALES amount the collection raised. 
News Writer The money raised in Pangborn's collection was 
Getting into the role reversal instead donated to the group 
spirit, Mr. Cool Water male beau­anonymously. 
ty pageant emcee Cheryl Turski declared, "I think I'm ready for a 
walk-om" 
Keenan resident John Hart prevailed, winning the title of "Mr. Cool Water" out of a group

Mendoza sponsors of men from 13 dorms, as well as an ofT-campus resident. The event was sponsored by Sports Illustrated on Campus and Cool
annual Ethics Week Water Cologne and hosted by 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
In the wake of corporate scandals involving formerly respected firms like Enron, Tyco and Martha Stewart Omnimedia, the Mendoza College of Business is calling "time out." 
The theme of this year's ethics week, which begins today, is ''Time Out for Ethics," said accounting pro­fessor Ken Milani, who is organizing the week's activi­ties. From today through Thursday, the College will host speakers to discuss vari­ous points of ethical behavior in modern business, both in the U.S. and beyond. 
Today at 12:30, the college will host a panel discussion entitled "Enron: A Multi-Dimensional 
Examination of an ..Enron proved that sity and its 
sophomore and the Cavanaugh

Unethical business school. 
hall president, :·because original­
ifyou d:on •t have

Enterprise." Bill "Father 
ly it was something I had to do

Schwartz, dean of an ethical Sorin 's vision 
. . . but it turned into a front-row

the business understanding, was to train not 
seat at the most hilarious display 

school at Indiana only the head,
you, ll find your.self 
of attractive men I have seen in

University-South but the heart," 
my life."

Bend, will moder­on the outside Williams said. 
The standing-room-only crowd 

ate a panel of looking in.,, "We want to 
at Legends attended for a variety

speakers includ­teach not only 
of reasons. 

ing Matt Barrett, competence, but 
"I came to support Collin
Ken Milani

from the Notre compassion, 
O'Keefe," said Walsh junior

Dame Law School, accounting professor generosity and 
as well as Tom Frecka and Jim Seida, both from the Mendoza College of Business. 
Milani said the downfall of Enron, the Houston-based former giu.nt in energy trad­ing, was a wake-up call for the entire business field. 
"Enron proved that if you don~t have an ethical under­pinning, you'll find yourself on the outside looking in," Milani said. "It was a Fortune 20 company and basically disappeared overnight." 
Tuesday's event will be a presentation on "Ethical Dimensions of Corporate Governance" by Larry Rieger, a partner at Crowe Chizek and Company. Crowe Chizek, based in South Bend, is the eighth-largest accounting firm in the U.S. 
On Wednesday, John Gschwind will discuss "Ethical Implications of Operating a Multi-National Corporation. Gschwind is general counsel of General Electric Supply, and is no stranger to international business, as GE Supply's par­ent company General Electric is a $134 billion company with operations in over 100 countries worldwide. 
The week will wrap up with Thursday's presentation by Steve Watts, president and CEO of Sobieski Bank, a South Bend-based financial 
Cool Water, SI sponsor pageantsaid Student Affairs was not involved in this decision­making process and that the decision was handled within 
Mr. Keenan, John Hart, wins Mr. Cool Water title 
Legends. A diverse assortment of meninstitution. The bank was hit 

competed in casual wear,

by a scandal in 2002, when it evening wear and short answer 
was revealed that Thomas 
competitions before the field wasGruber, a loan officer at the narrowed down to Hart, runner­bank, distributed nearly $10 up Judah Wilson of Keough, and million in unauthorized loans 

second-runner up Marquesto his cronies. In August 

Bolden of Siegfried. Each winner 

2002, Gruber pleaded guilty 
and his dorm received $100, $50 to federal bank fraud charges and $25, respectively. 

in connection with the 
The other finalists were Drewscheme. 
Updike of Zahm Hall and JonWhile the college is focus­Piposar of Alumni. Semi-rmalists 

ing on ethics this week, 
were Michael Riess of Morrissey, Milani said the work goes on Collin O'Keefe of Sorin, Kevinyear-round. 

Phipps of St. Edward's and John 

"This [week] is one more 
Lyons of Knott Hall. 

thing that says ethics is 
Also participating were Andre

important to the college of 
Valdivia of Carroll Hall, Christian business at Notre Dame," he Brown of O'Neill, Dave Welch of

said. "It's one more brick in Stanford, Russell Morton of
the wall." 
Fisher and Peter Boldin, repre­Father Oliver Williams, who senting off-campus students. 

runs the MCOB's Center for The judges were representa­Ethics and Religious Values in tives from the women's resi­
Business, agreed by saying 
dence halls. 

ethics perme­
"It was a really pleasant sur­ates the univer­

prise," said Valerie Ralph, a 
Laura Fraczek. "The pageantintegrity." 

was run really well. There was a

He noted that 
really good turnout." 

undergraduate business stu­
The contestants were present­

dents are required to take 
ed in the first round, with a vari­

two courses in ethics: one 
ety of dance moves and runway

about general ethical con­
styles. Updike channeled Johncepts, and one covering ethi­Travolta with a cigarette andcal implications within their "Stayin' Alive," while Lyons par-

respective fields of study. In addition, MBA students have 
a similar requirement. 
Williams said the problem of business ethics is one that should be addressed at all 


SMC celebrates heart month
levels of society. "You have to 
look at ethics not only on the individual level, but the orga­nizational level and the sys­
By MICHELLE EGGERS 
temic level," he said. "You 
News Writer 
cannot underestimate the problem." 
In recognition of American "[Without accountability,] a Heart Month, Saint Mary's
small number of people can 
College Health and Wellness do a lot of harm to a lot of Services is sponsoring "Heart people," Williams continued. 
Truth for Women" activities this "You have to have accounta­week to educate women about
bility structures, so that if 
heart disease. 
you do get a bad apple once 
One out of three Americanin a while, the system will 
women dies of heart disease,catch up with him." 
making it the number one killer He said Ethics Week is vital of women nationwide. 
to raising the idea of trust in "This seemed like somethingcontemporary business. 
new to do that interested the"Trust is essential for capi­Saint Mary's community," Health 
talism to work," Williams 
and Wellness staff member Cathi 
said. "People don't presup­
DeCleene said. "Since heart dis­pose as much trust anymore, ease is the number one killer of and that's the major problem women, you can't start becom­of our time." 
ing aware about it too soon." The activities kick off today \\ith a "Heart Healthy Breakfast Contact Matt Brarnanti at 
and Conversation." Certified die­
mbramant@nd.edu 
titian Anna Uhran-Waserski and Health and Wellness staff will appear at a heart-healthy break­fast with a discussion about pre­venting heart disease and recog­nizing risk factors. 
Every day this week, a "Daily Heart Walk'' will be held in the Angela Athletic facility between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Students, faculty and staff are challenged to walk at least 30 minutes at least four out of five days. Those who meet these requirements will receive a free "My heart beats for Saint Mary's" T-shirt and are entered into Friday's "red" raffie. 
The week's events conclude on Friday with a "Heart Smart Lunch," where nutrition infor­mation will be posted next to each food station in Noble Family Dining Hall. Decleene said Uhran-Waserski worked with the dining to create a heart healthy menu. 
At 12:30 p.m., a "Wear Red 
-


odied the movie "Zoolander" and 
Riess simply removed his shirt. 
Eight contestants moved on to the final round, with crowd response selecting the final semi-finalist: Alumni's Piposar. The evening-wear phase allowed each contestant to show his sophisticated side, with Riess modeling a shirtless tuxedo and Wilson distributing flowers and chocolates. 
The final five contests were each asked a question and allowed a set amount of time to respond. Piposar was asked which cartoon superhero best suited his personality . 
"Clark Kent, because when he's not Superman, he dresses really well as a reporter," Piposar said. At the crowd's laughter, he elaborated, "I'm a metrosexual, yes. Superpowers mean nothing when you look good." 
Bolton described his dream date with a Sports Illustrated swimsuit model, explaining that "she doesn't have to wear a swimsuit, just not a lot of clothes ... we'd go back to her place and play some Monopoly." 
Hart then explained his dream vacation to the Australian Outback, and Wilson answered a question regarding a hypotheti­cal pet monkey. 
'Tm a big fan of Frank Sinatra, so I would name it Frank," Wilson said. "I don't know if monkeys can sing, but I'd try to teach him to do this," he said, breaking into Sinatra's classic hit "The Way You Look Tonight." 
"It would be a really cool mon­key," he concluded. 
Hart said he was pleasantly surprised to be named Notre Dame's Mr. Cool Water, having entered on a whim. 
"I thought I'd have a lot of fun with it, I'd go out there and be ridiculous,'' he said. "[Winning] was kind of surprise." 
The event also featured three raffle winners, gift bags for attendees and free blue martinis for audience members of legal age. Notre Dame was the first school to host the Mr. Cool Water event, with Sports Illustrated on Campus also traveling to the University of Colorado and the University of VIrginia for similar events. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Fashion Show" will take place. Red outfits donated from local businesses such as Marshall Fields. Casual Corner, Kohl's and Inspire Me will be modeled by students. During the show, the "red" raffie will occur. 
In addition to the week's activ­ities, all month "Heartfelt Thanks" are available. For one dollar, Health and Wellness staff provides stationary with a heart fact, an envelope and postage that can be personalized to send a message of appreciation. Funds collected will be donated to "WomenHeart: The National Coalition for Women with Heart Disease." 
"Response has been good so far," DeCleene said. "A l.ot of people have sent someone a message of appreciation." 
Contact Michelle Eggers at egge2272@saintmacys.edu 


Monday, February 16, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
a great job," Bell said. 
Istvan later said he was happy the popular vote was fol­lowed. 
"At this point, I was just glad that what the will of the stu­dents was is what happened. I was excited on Thursday when 
-we got a large victory in the popular vote and I'm glad that we got the victory from the stu­dents," Istvan said. Ebersol said that the results were not unexpected, as Istvan had captured 1.723 votes as compared to his 1,538 in Thursday's runoff election. "I didn't think we were going to win, the numbers just didn't work out in the dorms. There is no way the numbers could have worked out," Ebersol said. Istvan received 97 5 more votes in the runoff election than he did in the first election, which he attributed to the mer­its of his ticket, among other factors. "The endorsements [of the other tickets] ... helped us build our own support in addition to the 'anyone but Charlie' [mind­

set among some students]. But [Ebersol has] never been any­thing but completely pleasant and [Leito] is a spectacular stu­dent leader and I would expect to see him in student govern­ment in the future," Istvan said. 
Ebersol said he could not imagine changing the way he campaigned. 
"I don't think we could have run any different a campaign. I think that we did everything that could have been thought of in running a presidential elec­tion and I think at this point we have to just move forward," Ebersol said. · 
Istvan said he planned to incorporate the some of the ideas of the other candidates, saying that student government is "all about great ideas." 
"Ryan [Craft] and Steve [Lynch] had the staplers in the computer clusters, I gotta go with it. I haven't spoken with them yet, but if [Ebersol] says he can get a student on the Board of Trustees, that is some­thing no one can afford to over­look. Any help in that area he can give me would be greatly appreciated," Istvan said. 
Ebersol said his campus involvement next year would likely take the form of work with the Kroc Institute. Leito said he was open to speaking with Istvan and Bell about working in student government next year. 
Istvan, whose previous expe­rience with student government is limited to serving as a dorm dance commissioner, said he would work in the next weeks to overcome this inexperience. 
"I have to ask the current administration a million ques­tions. I want to surround myself with an experienced staff. We are not in office by ourselves," Istvan said. 
Istvan said he would also ben­efit from the efforts to stream­line student government that took place and that he would keep the main idea of the changes in place. 
"The general idea of the changes ... to streamline stu­dent government, to get our own house in order, is a positive step," Istvan said. "It's going to make my job easier, especially being a less experienced presi­dent. It's going to make our job much easier having a new structure in place." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

Three mules cloned successfully 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Three young mules who are the first mem­bers of the horse family to be cloned are all healthy, normal and energetically enjoying life, say researchers who put them on display here Sunday. 
Idaho Gem, born May 4, 2003, was the first successful cloning of an equine. He was followed by siblings Utah Pioneer on June 9 and Idaho Star on July 27. The clonings were a project of the Northwest Equine Reproduction Laboratory at the University of Idaho in Moscow, Idaho. 

All three were born to surro­gate mares from embryos that were cloned using eggs from horses and cells taken from the 45-day-old fetus of a mule. The cloned mules are the true siblings of Taz, a famous rae­

A Conh)n1porary \Vo1ncn\ Boutique Spech.tlizing in r>esigner Clothing and <.;ifl:s 

312 W. Cleveland Ave. Granger, IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfa."X Ave. 
South Bend, IN. 46617 (574) 232-1822 

ing mule. Researchers bred Taz's parents, a jack donkey and a horse mare, and allowed the resulting fetus to grow for 45 days. This provided the DNA needed for the clones. 
Gordon Woods, director of the University of Idaho labora­tory, said the animals undergo intensive medical tests every three months and all three appear to be normal and healthy. 
"I think Notre Dame espe­cially needs to see how peo­
Film 

ple who aren't part of the homogenous Notre Damecontinued from page 1 
group live their lives because enjoyed attending the film it's very different," he said. screening on Thursday night and thought that the festival was a step in the right direc­Contact Andrew Thagard at tion for the University. athagard@nd.eo~ 


Move 
continued from page 1 
also called the group's actions inappropriate. 
"I was wearing a bikini and I had the "rape free zone" tape wrapped around me," she said. "She thought that was lewd and inappropriate." 
Shortly after this encounter, Kennelly said, representatives from Student Activities approached the table and told the group to close it. The group then relocated to a booth not far from the original table where they continued to hand out literature. 
"That really made them mad and they came down an hour later and told us [that] we needed to leave," Kennelly said. 
Coughlin said that Friday's dismissal resulted from the group's decision to deviate from the agreement they made in reserving the table through Student Activities, not the students' choice of cloth­ing. He said, however, that there is an expectation that visitors will take care in how they dress while in the build­ing. 
"We would just ask any guest of LaFortune to dress in a manner appropriate," he said. 
Controversy continued to surround the production of "The Monologues" on Saturday. Members of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life and area churches con­verged outside of Stephen Center before the perform­ance to protest against it, waving signs and distributing miraculous medals. 
WNDU contributed to this story. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 



Win greatprizes!!I 
Ati(]itions Mar. I, 2., 3 S:S0-10:30 P.M. C1•owley Hall ofMtisic 
"\Vatch foi• sig;ItDpS ill La~rn• a11d botlt dining halls or email Jitftt.rJnatJ.@IJ.d.cdti 
Sponsored by the Class of2005 

Monday, February 16, 2004 CoMPILED FROtvt THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rare snowstorm hits Middle East 
AMMAN, Jordan -A rare storm dumped more than two feet of snow on parts of the Middle East, breaking power lines in Lebanon, collapsing a wall at a holy site in Israel and delaying talks between Israelis and Palestinians. At least one person was killed. 
In the capital of this desert kingdom, snow­men lined the streets of Amman on Sunday, and children sledded on plastic tubs and bowls. Parts of Jordan received as much as 2 1/2 feet of snow, and more was reported in outlying Lebanese and Syrian villages. 
The wintery blanket stranded motorists and closed schools and businesses Sunday, the first day of the work week for much of the region. 
Iran to sell nuke fuel worldwide 
TEHRAN. Iran -Iran has offered to sell nuclear reactor fuel on the international market as a way to demonstrate that it has the technology, a senior foreign ministry offi­cial said Sunday ... 
Iran has the technology to enrich uranium for the fuel, but hasn't done so, the official said, in remarks signaling Iran soon may resume uranium enrichment, which it sus­pended last fall. 
Once it produces nuclear fuel, Iran would market it under the supervision of the United Nations nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the official added, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The United States seeks to restrict coun­tries from acquiring uranium enrichment technology if they have not already done so. 
NATIO~AL NEWS 
Cruise ship virus strikes 300 
GALVESTON, Texas -A Carnival Cruise Lines ship returned from a five-day cruise to Mexico on Saturday with more than 300 peo­ple sick with a gastrointestinal illness. 
Carnival officials said preliminary tests show the outbreak might have been caused by a norovirus. The virus is spread through contaminated food, contact with infected people or poor hygiene. It can be prevented by regular hand-washing. 
"They did try to handle it very well, from a cleaning perspective and disinfecting and sanitizing things," passenger Christal Davis said after leaving the ship. 
Bush attends Daytona 500 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -President Bush throttled up his re-election campaign Sunday by donning a racing jacket and opening the Daytona 500, NASCAR's most prestigious event in a sport that draws a prized voter profile. 
"Gentlemen, start your engines!" Bush said, squinting up from pit road to the grand­stands, where some 180,000 fans roared. They were promptly drowned out by the scream of stock car engines roaring to life. 
Bush seemed to relish a chance to see what he called "one of America's great sport­ing spectacles." 
STATE NEWS 
Drug makers recruit students 
INDIANAPOLIS -A 19-year-old woman who committed suicide this month while par­ticipating in an Eli Lilly and Co. drug trial was among the hundreds of college students recruited to become human research sub­jects. 
Although it is uncertain how many college students offer themselves for the tests, they are exposed on their campuses to notices for the thousands of ongoing research projects via e-mails, Web sites, fliers and word of mouth. 
Traci Johnson, a former student at Indiana Bible College in Indianapolis, was one of 25 local healthy volunteers taking higher-than­normal doses of duloxetine, a compound developed by Lilly to treat incontinence and depression. 



Advisers: Dean close to quitting 
Campaign chairman says nominee 'likely to be John Kerry;' Dean stays defiant 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Howard Dean is preparing 
to abandon his race for the 
Democratic presidential 
nomination if he loses 
Wisconsin's primary, sever­
al advisers said Sunday, 
despite the candidate's 
assertions to the contrary. 
Steve Grossman, national chairman of Dean's cam­paign, said the former Vermont governor will seek to convert his grass-roots network into a movement that helps expand the party and elect the Democratic nominee -"and, obvious­ly, that looks likely to be John Kerry." 
The se'ntiments were echoed by other high-rank­ing campaign officials. though they differed on how much -if any ­direct help Dean would be willing to give Kerry. Polls show the Massachusetts senator, who has won 14 of 16 contests to date, holding a wide lead in Wisconsin, site of Tuesday's contest. 
The comments came as Dean struck a defiant tone hours before debating his rivals in Milwaukee. "We're going to keep going. no matter what, because I think there are a lot of peo­ple all over this country who want to rebuild the party and rebuild America in a different way," Dean said on "Fox News Sunday." 
Dean had told supporters via e-mail that a defeat Tuesday would end his bid for the nomination, but he has backed away from that statement in recent days. 
Several advisers, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said Dean has privately acknowledged that his prospects for the presidency will effectively end if he suffers another major defeat Tuesday. They leave open the remote pos­

sibility that he will waver 
again, but said it's highly 
unlikely given his com­
ments in recent meetings. 
And, for the first time, there is growing consensus among advisers that it would be foolhardy for Dean to continue fighting for the nomination beyond Wisconsin. The circle of die-hards has shrunk, and most confidants are telling Dean it's time to begin making plans to convert his Internet-fueled network into a long-term political movement. 
"I have no doubt he'll support the nominee in any way he can, no matter who the nominee is and obvi­ously that nominee looks to be John Kerry," Grossman said in a telephone inter­view from Vermont. "He may say that Tuesday night. He may wait until Wednesday or Thursday to say that." 
Grossman said Dean feels just as strongly that he is obligated to press for reforms supported by vot­ers who made him last year's front-runner. "In what form that movement takes, I can't spell that out to you and I don't think Howard could right now, either," said Grossman, for­mer chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
"I believe that work will effectively be in concert with ... and fairly support­ive of John Kerry, should he become the nominee, and it appears he will," Grossman said. 
Other top advisers said they had doubts whether Dean would ever work directly on Kerry's behalf this year. They are dis­cussing ways to use Dean's network to help elect Democrats to Congress who would support Kerry's agenda as president, sever­al officials said. Scores of campaigns aides were making plans to leave their jobs after Tuesday. 
Campaign manager Roy Neel did not dispute the assertions of Grossman and other advisers, but said it was premature to write Dean's campaign obituary. 
"Any and all options are on the table," Neel said. "The results Tuesday night will help dictate what he does but he is still passion­ately committed to continu­ing the message. What form he does it in, any option for that is on the table." 
Advisers say Dean is torn between his pragmatic conclusion that the race is about over and his emo­tional attachment to the fight itself and his support­ers. His staff is looking at several options -such as suspending, not technically ending, the campaign ­that would give Dean a voice in the process even after he concedes. 

"This is a delicate bal­ancing act that has to be struck for Howard Dean," Grossman said. "His sup­porters, they will not want him to give up and will want to carry out the 
. cause. His name is on the ballot in many states whether he campaigns or is less engaged. The fact is Howard Dean will do everything possible to help the nominee. He will do nothing to undercut the nominee's success." 
The advisers sought to square their perceptions with Dean's public remarks. 
"When Howard Dean says he's not going to quit, what he means is the battle to restore democracy and citizen participation is long-term and he's not going to quit on that bat­tle," Grossman said. 
• 
IRAQ 

Leaders promise not to interfere 
Associated Press 

KUWAIT CITY -Iraq's neighbors pledged Sunday not to meddle in Iraqi affairs but urged U.S.-led coali­tion forces to fulfill their duty in pro­viding security there. 
Foreign ministers from Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Kuwait, Syria plus politically influen­tial Egypt wrapped up a two-day meeting at a luxury hotel in the Kuwaiti capital Sunday about the repercussions of developments in Iraq on their region. 
'rhe group has met four times since 
U.S. forces overthrew Saddam Hussein in April, but this weekend's talks were the first to include an Iraqi representative. Bahrain also attended as a representative of the Arab League. 
The nations affirmed "their com­mitment to the principal of noninter­ference in· domestic affairs" and urged others to do the same. 
The group's final communique vowed to support Iraqis as they assume control of their country from U.S.-led forces July 1 and respect the wishes of the Iraqi people. They urged the United Nations to "carry out its pivotal responsibilities" in has­tening the transfer of power and car­rying out the country's elections. 
The group also expressed the importance of a unified Iraq. 
Arab nations had expressed con­cern about a proposal by the U.S.-led coalition to reorganize Iraq into a federal system before transferring power, fearing it may empower eth­nic groups and lead to the country's partition and regional instability. 
But Iraq's Foreign Minister, Hoshyar Zebari, assured the minis­ters that would not happen and asked them to keep out of Iraqi affairs. 
He told The Associated Press they should "leave it for the Iraqis them­selves to decide their own political future, and not dictate." 
The issue of securing borders with neighboring countries did not figure in the final communique. That is most pressing for Iraqis who fear for­eign fighters will cross the border and stir up trouble. 
However, the ministers condemned acts of terror in Iraq, saying those who carry them out must be identi­fied and punished. They called on the U.S.-led coalition to "assume [its] responsibilities ... according to inter­national agreements." They did not elaborate. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 16, 2004 
hundred people. I get one al other senators that a com­he would leave, but that after vote and I have 1,600 people mon concern arose over it became apparent that
-Procedure 
Gunshot
-so my people are one-six­whether it was right to vote issues regarding the voting teenth as important as strictly following dorm totals, procedure would not be
continued from page 1 

Carroll's people. It just seems even if a majority of the stu­resolved, and that his pres­senator voted, he did not strange because we're all dent population was not in ence was merely a formality. 

linked to 
release actual dorm-by-dorm supposed to have an equal favor the chosen candidate. he decided to leave. voting figures based on voice, and Carroll students in Zenker was one of two sena­"It was nothing personal," Thursday's election, a prac­this election were 16 times as tors, the other being Natasha Maus said. "It was just the 

series of
tice the Judicial Board has important as [off-campus] Mikah from Lyons, who were principle as to how the votes followed in the past. students." not present at the actual were to be counted -it just Poindexter said that he and Brin Anderson, senator meeting because of personal didn't feel right with the way director of student activities from Howard -the second reasons, Chin said. the votes were to be count­

shootings
Brian Coughlin knew the smallest women's dorm on Zenker, who also sits on the ed." exact breakdowns on campus -said she was not Council of Representatives, Poindexter likened the cur­Thursday. But the Judicial opposed to the current sys­said he believes that election rent student. government 
Associated Press 

Board president didn't tell tem where each hall had one procedures would be structure to the U.S. govern­COLUMBUS, Ohio-The day each senator how they were vote regardless of size. addressed at Wednesday's ment's Electoral College, but 
after the chief investigator
required to vote until the Anderson said that not neces­Senate meeting, even though added that the main differ­said authorities were closingSunday meeting. sarily everyone in those larg­Senate voted to transfer its ence was that had a stale­in on a serial highway shoot­In a 20-minute debate er dorms voted to warrant power to amend the Student mate been reached in a er, a man stood in plain viewabout the constitutional proportional representation. Union Constitution to the national election, the House 
on an overpass and fired a 
process before the election, Anderson added that sena­Council. of Representatives -the handgun at cars below. He
Knott senator Brain Agganis tors raised concerns regard­While Chin said senators body based on proportional 
then walked to his car and
said that senators questioned ing the meeting's purpose. would have been reprimand­representation -would ren­slipped into traffic. 
their role in the process and "It was difficult when we ed for misconduct had they der the decision. 
Ballistics testing has con­
discussed their opinions went in because we knew decided not to vote based on Poindexter said he was 
firmed that the Saturday
regarding the election proce­[Poindexter knew] how the their dorm's decision, they confident in the current sys­
morning shooting was the
dure. Agganis said he was votes were going to fall and I were given the option to tem and offered his hope that 
24th in a series in the
disappointed in the system think a lot of senators felt leave after Poindexter dis­this year's election will influ­and believed that this elec­trapped," Anderson said. tributed the envelopes ence a greater amount of stu­
Columbus area, investigators tion was proo( there are However, senators entered informing the senators of the dents to vote in subsequent 
said Sunday. No one was flaws in the procedure and Sunday's meeting unaware of vote they were required to elections. Less than half of 
· injured in that shooting. structure. the vote they would have to cast. the undergraduate popula­
The bullet recovered· from Several senators expressed cast. Siegfried senator Mike tion voted in this election, 
the battery of a sport utility concern regarding represen­Chin said she thought that Maus opted to leave because with a total of 3,524 ballots 
vehicle struck on Interstate 70 tation through the Senate's Poindexter would have he did not believe the process being cast. 
matches eight others recov­vote. informed her prior to the was representative of dorm Poindexter said he and 
ered during the investigation,Amy Chambers, the off­meeting if it was a possibility population. Coughlin met Thursday to including the one that killed a campus senator, said that she would have to make the "It was merely a fact that review election guidelines. 
woman in November, accord­questions about the dispro­deciding vote. we didn't have a say in our Coughlin said he believes 
ing to a release. The others
portionate off-campus repre­"It would be a huge burden vote and we had to vote how this is the first time that a have been linked by factorssentation on Senate had not to take on that responsibili­our dorm did, which isn't candidate has not received 
including location and cir­
been an issue prior to the ty," Chin said. "I think I necessarily a bad thing." the needed 50 percent plus 
cumstances.

election, but became critical would have been informed if Maus said. "But without the one vote to be named to the 
Experts said the shooter is
when the em~rgency meeting I had to make that decision proper representation top student government posi­becoming bolder after evadingwas called. prior. I wasn't very con­regardless of size, it was tion and that the decision 
capture for three months,
"It's pretty ridiculous," cerned about making that basically unnecessary to have was left to the Senate. 
when authorities first estab­
Chambers said. "I was kind decision." the meeting." 
lished a pattern in the shoot­
of fired up about this. Carroll Keenan senator Dan Zenker Maus said he was uncertain Contact Meghanne Downes at ings.
gets one vote and they have a said after talking with sever-prior to the meeting whether mdownesl@nd.edu 
Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series February 18, 2004 4:00 p.m. Law School Courtroom ''The Place of Radical Protestantism in Early Modern Christianity'' Presenter Brad Gregory Associate Professor Department ofHistory Commentator John Copeland Nagle Professor Law School  


Monday, February 16, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow
}ones 10,627.85 -66.22
4.. Same: ·..· . . Composiee Volume: 
t;'261 I59 I,305,829,248 


FTSE. IOO(London) 4,412.00 +34.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -19.44  -1.30  2.96  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  +3.32  +0.10  26.59  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +0.52  +0.03  30.14  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.78  -0.19  24.06  
CORVIS CORP (CORY)  -3.16  -0.95  2.11  
.Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.34  -0.17  49.22  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.25  -0.1 0  40.48  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.86  -0.57  30.09  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.11  -0.0 I  8.97  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.72  34.10  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -3.40  41 0.80  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  +1.20  94.40  
fxchan e Rates  
YEN  105.4  
EURO  0.7863  
POUND  0.5308  
CANADIAN$  1.317  

IN BRIEF 
U.S. trade deficit hits riew high 
WASHINGTON -America's trade deficit ballooned to an all-time high in 2003, reflect­ing the hearty U.S. appetite for foreign-made cars, clothing and TVs. 
The total deficit was $489.4 billion, 17.1 percent larger than the previous record, set in 2002, the Commerce Department reported Friday. The deficit with China alone was close to $124 billion, also a record. 
The value of foreign goods and services sold to the United States swelled to a record $1.5 trillion for the year. an 8.3 percent increase, as the economy gained momentum in the sec­ond half of the year. 
Feds to indict Enron ex-CEO 
HOUSTON -Federal prosecutors are preparing criminal charges against former Enron Corp. chief executive Jeffrey Skilling for an indictment expected to be handed up this month, perhaps as early as next week, sources close to the case told The Associated Press Friday. 
The two sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the government focused on Skilling after securing a guilty plea to two counts of conspiracy from former Enron finance chief Andrew Fastow last month. But they said the process was delicate and public revelation of the new case could be delayed. 
The Houston Chronicle first reported in its online edition early Friday that prosecutors were finalizing possible charges against Skilling. 
Lawyer grilled in Parmalat probe 
ROME -A longtime lawyer fo-r Parmalat's jailed founder Calista Tanzi is being investigat­ed for possible money laundering. as investi­gators in the fraud probe of the dairy giant keep digging into the company's intricate finances. 
Lawyer Michele Ributti denies he laundered money for Tanzi, his attorney said Friday. 
Prosecutors questioned Ributti in his office Thursday night in downtown Milan, searching the office and seizing some documents, said his attorney, Vittorio D'Aiello. They are look­ing at the transfer of money -reportedly more than $1 million -from Parmalat to Ributti's accounts in 2001 and 2002. 
SOFTWARE 



Critics slam Microsoft culture 
Security expert decries 'monoculture,' says worldwide computer security at risk 
Associated Press 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. ­Dan Geer lost his job, but gained his audience. The very idea that got the com­puter security expert fired has sparked serious debate in information technology. 
The idea. borrowed from biology, is that Microsoft Corp. has nurtured a soft­ware "monoculture" that threatens global computer security. 
Geer and others believe Microsoft's software is so dangerously pervasive that a virus capable of exploiting even a single flaw in its operating systems could wreak havoc. 
Just this past week, Microsoft warned cus­tomers about security prob­lems that independent experts called among the most serious yet disclosed. Network administrators could only -Gope users would download the latest patch. 

After he argued in a a virus that can exploit that operating systems and soft­"Once you start down the paper published last fall flaw. Genetic diversity ware makes the global com­road with that analogy, you that the monoculture ampli­increases the chances that puting ecosystem vulnera­get stuck in it," said Scott fies online threats, Geer was at least some of the species ble to a cascading failure. Charney, chief security fired by security firm will survive every attack. Geer's paper did little strategist for Redmond, @stake Inc., which has had "When in doubt, I think more than make the point Wash.-based Microsoft. Microsoft as a major client. of, 'how does nature with particular fervor -Charney says monocul­
Geer insists there's been a work?'" said Geer. a talka­which only intensified when ture theory doesn't suggest silver lining to his dismissal. tive man with mutton chop Geer was fired. any reasonable solutions; Once it got discussed on sideburns and a doctorate "The hoopla around him more use of the Linux open­Slashdot.org and other in biostatistics from losing his job gave the story source operating system, a online forums. the debate Harvard University. some extra frisson." said rival to Microsoft Windows, about Microsoft's ubiquity "Which leads you, when Internet security expert might create a "duocul­gained in prominence. you think about shared risk, Bruce Schneier, a co-author ture," but that would hardly 
"No matter where I look I to think about monoculture, of Geer's. "He got fired deter sophisticated hackers. seem to be stumbling over which leads you to think because @stake wanted to True diversity, Charney the phrase 'monoculture' or about epidemic. Because be nice to their masters. But said, would require thou­some analog of it," Geer, 53, the idea of an epidemic is it's like the Christian Church sands of different operating said in a recent interview in not radically different from boycotting a movie -systems, which would make his Cambridge home. what we're talking about everybody wants to see it integrating computer sys­
In biology, species with lit­with the Internet." now." tems and networks virtually tle genetic variation -or Geer isn't the first to Microsoft, which denies impossible. "monocultures" -are the argue that the logic of living pressuring @stake to fire Without a Microsoft most vulnerable to cata­viruses also applies to the Geer, says the comparison monoculture, he said, most strophic epidemics. Species computer variety, and that between computers and liv­of the recent progress in that share a single fatal the dominance and tight ing organisms works only so information technology flaw could be wiped out by integration of Microsoft well. could not have happened. 

CORPORATE SCANDAL 

Tyco trial continues, tests jurors 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -As the trial of two former executives of Tyco International entered its fifth month, key testimony in the Manhattan courtroom played like Economics 101. 
Defendant Mark Swartz, Tyco's former chief financial officer and first defense witness, opined on such topics as pretax income and bonus plans. Two jurors leaned for­ward and took notes. But most made no attempt to conceal long faces and yawns during last week's testimony. 
No wonder: The jury has. seen five prosecutors call nearly four dozen witnesses and offer 700 exhibits ­an approach that legal observers consider risky. 
"They have a huge amount of proof," said Paul Summit, a former federal prosecutor in Boston. "But it's a delicate balance. You have to wonder how much of the initial proof the jurors are going to 
remember months and  months  
later."  
Ronald  Fischetti.  a  veteran  

Manhattan defense attorney, said prosecutors may have miscalculated by "throwing everything up in the air. hoping something would stick." 
Swartz, 43. and former Tyco CEO Dennis Kozlowski, 57. are charged with grand larceny and enterprise corruption, accused of stealing about $600 million from the elec­tronic and medical supply conglom­erate. Each faces up to 30 years in prison if convicted. 
At times. the white collar case has lived up to its high:.profile billing, with enough sensational allegations of greed, excess and sex to steal headlines from Martha Stewart. 
Jurors have watched a videotaped tour of an $18 million, company­owned apartment on Fifth Avenue highlighting now-infamous decorat­ing flourishes: a $6,000 shower cur­tain, $15,000 umbrella stand and $2,200 wastebasket. 

Two former Tyco employees -an events planner and a secretary ­admitted having affairs with Kozlowski. and described getting perks such as rent-free apartments and severance packages in the high six figures. 
Another secretary alleged that the ex-CEO raided corporate coffers to lavish his wife with a $5 million dia­mond ring and a $2.1 million bir.th­day bash on the Mediterranean island of Sardinia. 
The evidence is designed to con­vince jurors that the defendants were "absolutely hedonist," said a former federal prosecutor in Manhattan. William Cunningham III. 

Elections reveal student apathy 
What a farce. Council chairman Elliot Poindexter refused to release the 
That sums up the entire 2004 student body presidential dorm-by-dorm breakdown to The Observer-as has been election campaign that ended Sunday night, when the done with every other election in at least the last three years. Student Senate elected Adam Istvan and Karla Bell president including the 2004 election primary-without giving a con­
and vice president. From personal attacks directed toward crete reason. That isn't exactly the best method for develop-one candidate to an electoral system that was ing a closer relationship with students. placed in a lose-lose situation, this election OJhe Want to find out other places where this ended in a way fitting for a campus thick with userver election fell short? Look at about the abuse student apathy toward its elected leaders. Charlie Ebersol endured during his cam­
Every candidate's platform this year focused paign, which far exceeded the amount of on combating student apathy toward student reasonable criticism a candidate encounters

Editorial
. . . . 
SAiNT MARrs ~DITORI Alln~lie.se Woolford 
. . . . 
AD DESI~ MANAGER: Tom H~ilht · · SYS'tEMS Al:»41NtsTAATOIC Ted Bangert WEB ADMINIST~TOlb ToddNieto ·.. · CoNTROLUlU Pa~ Gar¢1~ ...... 
··· ··.· · . CoNTACT Us •···· ···••··· ·· 
government. Now Istvan will face one of the toughest challenges of any student body presi­dent in simultaneously trying to fix the disen­chantment with campus government demonstrated in this election and the flawed election procedures that helped pro­pel him into power. 
Even those who believed in student government have to shake their heads at the election itself. Under the Student Union Constitution, when election results fail to yield a majority winner, representatives in the Student Senate pick the winner by casting their votes according to which candi­date won a plurality in their dorm. Additionally, had there been a tie in the Senate vote, the student body vice president -Emily Chin, who was not elected to the position -would have made the tie-breaking decision. . 
That meeting took three days to happen, even though dorm results were instantly available after the election. Whether the constitution was followed is anybody's guess. The voting was closed to the public, and student government officials only revealed how each senator voted. Student body presi­dent Jeremy Lao, vice president Emily Chin and Judicial while running. Look at the 1 ,000-vote gain 
Istvan received in the run-off election, which 
leads one to wonder if people were voting for Istvan or against the unpopular Ebersol. Has student apathy reached such a point that students will pass up the most qualified yet least popular candidate -Ebersol -in favor of a candidate whose only experience with student gov­ernment comes as a dorm commissioner-Istvan -because they believe student government doesn't accomplish anything anyway? 
This attitude only fosters a cyclical relationship between students and their elected leaders. When a fundamentally flawed procedure is used to settle the election instead of actual vote totals, students have a reason to feel apathetic. In turn, they have a hard time taking candidates seriously because they don't believe it will make difference. And in this instance, students' votes led to the election of a president who is inexperienced in dealing with the inner workings of ­student government functions-and thus at a disadvantage when it comes to combating some of the problems that cause student apathy in the first place. ­
.··•···•·.News · 
Claire Heining~r .·· 
. . .... 
Anneliese Woolford 
Matt Bramanti Viewpoint .· .. Eileen Duliy ·..•. 
G.-apbics 
Mike Harkiris 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Run-off process inherently flawed 
While today's closed Senate meet­ing chose the winner that coincided most with the wishes of the Student Body in Thursday's run-off. Adam Istvan, I would like to remark that I have never seen a more unfair, non­sensical and poorly designed process. 
As the off-campus senator, I repre­sent 1,600 people. Let's say every member of my constituency voted and they all voted for one candidate. And let's say every member of Dillon Hall, that has over 300 residents, also all voted for that same candi­date. That's 1,900 votes, which is more than the SO plus one percent needed to secure the presidency in a run-off, even if every other voter chose the other candidate. Let's hypothetically say that happened. 
For fun, if that vote was taken to Senate, the outcome would be grossly different than what students wanted. While that first candidate with over 1,900 votes would have over SO per­cent of student's support, he would only procure a shocking 7 percent in a Senate meeting like today's. The fact that a process like this could turn someone's majority into a mere 7 percent is pretty disgusting to me. 
In Friday's Observer, Charlie Ebersol said, "I think it's important that each dorm has equal representa­tion and equal voices." While the article suggested that Charlie shares my sentiments that the system is 

inherently flawed, this comment does 
not. By saying that "it's necessary that each dorm has an equal voice," Charlie is advocating that students do not have an equal voice. If every dorm is to have an equal voice, then Carroll's some 100 members are more than three times important and influ­ential in today's election than Dillon's 300 mem­bers (and 16 times more important than my off­campus stu­dents). The fact that stu­dents are made unequal in choos­ing their own presi­dent sickens me. 
Candidates run on plat­
forms -promises that will bene­
fit and hurt individual students, not 
dorms. The promises are things that impact the students. And the stu­dents, not the dorms, have a right to pick who they want leading them, whose policies they like bet­ter and want to go 
into effect. Today. a pres­ident who got 
fewer votes than his opponent 
could have been cho­sen, and 
while I did not overtly favor the candidate 
who won, 
I would 
have been quite upset if I had, and 
the Senate could not have chosen him because of our constitution. 
Amy Chambers 
semor Off-campus senator Feb. 15 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should the student government constitution be amended so that, in the future, the Senate will not decide an election in which a candidate does not achieve a majority? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'A young man who does not have what it takes to perform military service is not likely to have what it takes to make a living. , 
John F. Kennedy 
U.S. president 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reacting to the Queer Film Festival 
Notre Dame students have duty to respect faith 
I am not a graduate of Notre Dame, but I am a Catholic -a convert-and am sensitive to how our Church appears to the "separated brethren." A top-notch university which bears the name of the Mother of God should be especially con­scious of its duty to present a bold witness to the world of what the Church means. 
I am writing with regard to the gay/lesbian film festival, which I would not be shocked to see on a campus such as Indiana University-Bloomington, but at a school named after Our Lady? Representing a Church founded by Christ who was not ashamed to admit the existence of objective evil, and was not tolerant in the face of such evil? 
I think you have a duty before God to clearly represent the faith on which your school was founded. Anything else is dishonesty and capitulation. Your school is not the correct forum for the gay/lesbian lobby to find its voice. 
Laurel DeStefano Carmel, Ind. Feb. 15 

Condemnation ignores Christ's teachings on salvation, grace 
I find it remarkable and humorous peace, compassion and equality. that a man who is the president of a Maybe you should take a look at what group called "Christ or Chaos" does not Christ says before you try to defend his use Christ's teachings to back up his message, specifically, "Let those without condemnation of gay and lesbian stu­sin throw the first stone" (John 8:7) and dents and the film festival here at Notre most importantly, "Love thy neighbor as Dame. thyself' (Matthew 22:39). 
Mr. Drolesky, your use of the Live your life in accordance with Immaculate Conception, Mary and God's plan for you, and allow others to teachings from Genesis and Exodus do the same. And please do me a favor completely ignore the Christ whose and keep your hateful, bigoted, incoher­message offers salvation and grace. ent rhetoric to yourself. 
Never did Jesus condemn homosexu­ality, because in a world full of hatred Michael McReynolds and bigotry, whom you choose to love is sentor a non-issue. Instead, it is how you love Stanford Hall them, and trying to live your life with Feb. 13 
Let controversy bring a greater understanding of .Catholicism 
I wo,uld like to respond to the Feb. 13 editorial "Festival a step in the right direction." 
The discussion of the administration's policies towards homosexuality has long been discussed at Notre Dame. Under the guise of "academic enlightenment," students, alumni and friends of the University have pushed for greater acceptance of non-Catholic values at Notre Dame. 
I would challenge students at Notre Dame to pursue an understanding of Catholicism while at Notre Dame. Very few people understand why the Church stands by its antiquated teachings of a celibate, male-only priesthood, anti­birth control teachings, no sex before marriage, social teachings, or homosex­uality. Is it simply because the Church is an old institution with old and dated ways? 
The author of the editorial would like­ly answer "yes." The editorial stated Notre Dame's policies are still "far from perfect" but that Notre Dame is starting to see the light. I suggest that this is incorrect and that perhaps much can still be learned from Catholic teachings. Let the Queer Film Festival inspire debate and understanding of Catholic teachings. Do not let it be a vehicle to bring Notre Dame to the standards and thinking of the rest of the world. 
Upon graduation (if not already), most Notre Dame students will find that many Catholic teachings, such as its position on homosexuality, are not pop­ular and are considered laughable by many. Because of this, I think true "aca­demic enlightenment" will be found in understanding why the Church has and holds its unpopular teachings in the face of a world with very strong and popular opposing beliefs. There are very few places to learn about Catholicism on a high intellectual plane. Notre Dame is one of those places. Do not waste your time reaffirming soci­ety's common sense. 
Mario Suarez class of 2001 Feb. 13 


Whither Lieutenant Bush? 
• 

In the contest between George W. Bush and AI Gore four years ago, hindsight reveals, the press patently neglected its duty to the public. By glossing too mercifully over the rolling litany of Bush's less-than-presi­dential lapses and tics, the press left voters under-informed. America ­or, at least, the Supreme Court-plumped in the end for W. The country, as a result, got stuck with a cowboy blueblood whose biography brims with episodes of mendacity and 
Roque Strew

recklessness, for which he was scarcely held respon­sible. Precious little has changed. Curiously warm Big 
Straight. No

Business relations, the fraud of "No Child Left 
Chaser

Behind," his mammoth tax-plan swindle, the pander­ing shams called "Clean Skies" and "Healthy Forests," his Top Gun photo-op theatrics, and, of course, WMD and the Iraq war-Bush's taste for illusion, and elite dis­taste for accountability, has not only been preserved intact, but bolstered by the license of White House fiat. 
What should we expect from a "war president" who dodged the draft? It's an intriguing irony, and worth our scrutiny. To get a clearer grasp of Bush's character, we should turn to a revealing chapter of our presi­dent's life -a chapter more or less passed over by the mainstream media in 2000: his "service" in the Air National Guard. National security, of course, wasn't issue number one back then. One thing's certain: he got a free pass from the media last time (which Clinton never got), but he's not getting off so easily this year. 
Of the countless measures of electability, a candidate's military history has survived to become a perennial issue. The campaigns of decorated vets John Kerry and Wesley Clark drew special attention to this matter, reviving the storm swirling around Bush's non-stint. Both Democrats hold military credentials infinitely more impressive than Bush's. For this reason, both Kerry and Clark have been forced to confront the contro; versy head on. 
Kerry was drawn in, undoubtedly, by his crack campaign staff, who saw the advantage of pitting Kerry's sterling record against Bush's hazier one. Clark was drawn in by the bothersome Michael Moore's antics, who framed the prospect of a forensic scuffle between Bush and Clark one-dimensionally: "The General versus The Deserter." Soon Clark drew wide criticism for refusing to reject Moore's slander. Draft dodger, sure, but ''deserter?" Not technically, under Article 85 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 
Rewind back to 1973. The ordeal of Vietnam was finally ending, as the anti-war movement and the sheer military triumph of the North Vietnamese had taken its toll. Nixon ordered a ceasefire in January, announcing a peace deal later: in the month. By the end of March, the last American troops had left Vietnam. 
At the beginning of October 1973, Bush was relieved of his commit­ment to the National Guard eight months early so he could attend Harvard Business School. This despite his annual performance review, dated May 2, 1973, indicating he did not report for duty to his home base for an entire year. In his defense, Bush says he worked on a campaign in Alabama, d,ging service at the Air National Guard base there. Bush wants us to believe that he "did the duty necessary" to merit the honor­able discharge he received. 
The reality isn't so cut-and-dry. Bush's commander in Alabama, William Turnipseed, reportedly said, ''Had he reported in, I would have had some recall, and I do not. I had been in Texas, done my flight train­ing there. Ifwe had had a first lieutenant from Texas, I would have remembered." 
Bush's discharge papers agree, showing no record of service after May of 1972. Disappearing, without family connections, would mean jail time or a court-martial or an order to active duty. Bush, as usual, got off scot­free. 
There's no question Bush is feeling the pressure: he agreed to a tele­vised cross-examination, to set things straight. During this recent "Meet the Press" interview, a surprisingly declawed Tim Russert broached the issue of Bush's National Guard service. Bush lied, saying he released all relevant records in 2000, when the Boston Globe, on May 3, 2000, reports otherwise. And he claimed again he served in Alabama, despite his commander's recollection. The White House also, on Feb. 10, released more discrepancy-heavy documents, which trimmed his time missing down to six months, leaving questions about his early discharge -in light of his poor attendance, suspension from flying and failure to meet the minimum-traning requirement-wholly unresolved. 
Understandably, the Bush administration is chagrined at the swelling criticism of Bush's military record. "These kinds of attacks have no place in politics and everyone should condemn them," White House spokesman Scott McClellan said. But Bush Sr. had no qualms about branding Clinton a draft-dodger. 
What does this all mean? Foremost, it severely and irrevocably dam­ages his credibility as commander in chief-it's a character issue. And the problem isn't that he dodged the draft by joining the National Guard, 
. it's that he shirked his modest obligations to his country, thanks to old­boy connections. On. top of that, he assiduously denies it all. If the media presses the issue, and the voters learn the facts, the AWOL President and his stable of strategists can only pray it doesn't become a decisive cam­paign issue. 
Roque Strew is a junior political science major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at wstrew@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

~ 
I 
l t 
j 
l 
I Monday, February 16, 2004 
page 10 






Exhibit at Snite brings America to life 
• By MEEGHAN CONROY 

t ) 
Scene Writer 
The sum of a man's life is ultimately the stories that he leaves behind for others to hear. In the case of painters, their stories are seen and not heard. An artist tells his or her story and offers a brief window into who they were by drawing the viewer into their art. He or she is commonly judged by the vivid way they are able to create a world and share that world with others. 
One individual who strove to preserve man's daily life and surroundings was William Merrit Chase. Chase expressed the identity of Americans through his impressionist paintings. Critics hailed Chase's ability to allow his audience to connect and identify with the work. For the viewer, a park scene became the park down the street, children playing in the fields became their own children and a harbor became their latest vacation spot. The audience is drawn into his work through their own experiences. 
William Merrit Chase was born in Nineveh, Indiana in 1849. He grew up in Indianapolis, where he trained with Barton Hays as a teenager. Hays quickly recognized Chase's talent, and sent him to New York to study. From New York, Chase continued to Munich in 1872 to study at the Royal Academy. After six years of intensive study, Chase returned to New York where he resided and worked for the rest of his life. 
Chase was a true New York cosmopoli­tan. Downtown, his elaborate studio served as an office, gallery and a center for other artists and socialites. Chase was well known in the social scene. However, he was also a devoted father and husband of eight children. Chase often included his fam­ily in his paintings, as may be seen in 'Shinnecock Hills, Long Island'. 
At the Snite, four of Chase's oil paintings are on display. The first three, "Shinnecock Hills, 
Long Island" (1895), "Summer Time (Pulling for Shore)'' (1886), and "Wash Day (Washing Day-A Backyard Reminiscence)" (1886). offer glimpses into the daily activities of nineteenth-century Americans. His use of varied brush stroke and soft color creates dramatic light and perspec­tives, bringing the subjects to life. The audience can-familiarize with the 'normal' scenes and activities, often overlooked in their own lives. 
The last painting in the collection is a still life, "Peonies" (1903}. This piece exhibits one of Chase's greatest challenges: flowers. Although more than one hundred of Chase's works were still lives, very few were flowers because of the technical difficulties they posed. This piece demonstrates his exceptional talent with calculat­ed brush strokes and colors that evoke the beauty of nature and its transience. 
The Lily Endowment Collection, a private phi­lanthropy agency in Indianapolis, made this exhibit possible. The agency strives to support the community, education, and religion of its hometown and state. Thanks to the agency, Chase's work may be preserved as part of Indiana's heritage. The public is welcome to see the collection at the Snite through May 16. 
Contact Meeghan Conroy at mconroyl@nd.edu 



DARTing into BEER 101 
$20 seminar offered at Legends is meant to educate the average drinker 




By MAl 
Scene Edit 
Most: the sec Library steel s1 Sunday' stood th Owczar: Poland. 
The" sponsor Dame, l the surr to hear and wm 
Thee: of inflw Some of most st1 II and r as Cop~ known Biochen was aw ering vi of vitam 
Owcz influen< born in later tt horrors strike c Owczar. and bar 
After· pursue way th1 the Uni Academ 
After 1931, I 
nation~ 
to restc the waJ talent, , plasteJ restora1 sculptu includir 
Ultim• steel a1 tions ol tures w doned t tryside potent I the waJ steel. a society, a mode most lol 
Owcz< difficult him ar have b1 tries a Wars a VI Paris, l He has work. 
Owcz; Gale ria Artist-i Lake Sc to be i1 art org, 
The" be on d of the 25th. 
Photo courtesy of Amy Baker Owczarski is seen here with one of his many busts that are now on the second floor of the Hesburgh Ubrary. 
Contact msmith· 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Writer 
Along with the terrific success Legends has had in its first year of operation comes a unique seminar that discusses the 'lighter' aspects of the college student's beverage of choice. 
·:.B e e r 1 0 1 , " b e ing held at Legends this Tuesda}' from 8 to 10 p.m., is a PowerPoint presentation demonstrating how beer is brewed and fermented, what ingredients make up the contrasting styles of beer, and a sam­pling of seven to eight different kinds of beer so students can taste the differences for them­selves. The seminar also rewards students with two free pints of their choice. This event is lim­ited to students 21 or older. 
"We're just trying to get people exposed to beer," says Jeff Crotty, the general manager of Legends. "We're trying to educate your palate just like your brain. 
"I first discovered these differences working at a microbrewery. If you don't try something, you don't know it's there!" 
"Beer 101" will be led by Jim Herton, the facilities organizer for Notre Dame Food Services, and students can hope to enjoy the demonstrations he makes between the stan­dard domestic beer and international imports. "Beer 101" is also the first of a three-part series in alcohol education at Legends, with the management hoping to have "Wine 101" and "Alcohol Etiquette", the latter of which is aimed at how to interact with others at busi­ness-like processions with alcohol present. 
The event costs $20 per person. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan 
at bholliha@nd.edu 


)4 Monday, February 16, 2004 page 11 

Sandler and Barrymore get back together for Valentine's day 
Romantic movie is top draw for weekend 




By !\1ARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
Most students have walked through the second floor of the Hesburgh Library and seen Marian Owczarski's steel sculptures on display. Before Sunday's exhibit opening, few under­stood the meaning of the sculptures for Owczarski and for Owczarski's native Poland. 
The "Pride of Poland" celebration, sponsored by the Polish Club of Notre Dame, gave students and members of the surrounding community the chance to hear the artist speak about his life and work. 
The exhibit features several portraits of influential Polish figures in history. Some of the subjects are well known to most students, such as Pope John Paul II and Nikolaj Kopernik, better known as Copernicus. Others are less well known here, but still significant.· Biochemist Casimir Funk, for example, was awarded a Nobel prize for discov­ering vitamins and raising awareness of vitamin-deficiency diseases. 
Owczarski's life has had a great influence on his work. The artist was born in Lukow in 1932. Seven years later the country was sunk into the horrors of World War II. A Nazi air strike claimed the lives of his family. Owczarski himself was badly wounded and barely survived the war. 
After' the war, Owczarski began to pursue his artistic career, working his way through several schools including the University of Art in Lodz and the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw. 
After earning his final degree in 1931, Owczarski became part of a nationwide restoration effort, working to restore churches damaged during the war. Owczarski, a man of diverse talent, worked with wood, glass, stone, plaster, marble and metals in his restoration work. He has also created sculptures using different materials. including wood and stone. 
Ultimately, however, his sculptures in steel are one of the best representa­tions of his art. His first metal sculp­tures were made from pieces of aban­doned tanks found in the Polish coun­tryside, making them particularly potent for Poles who had lived through the war. The artist now uses stainless steel, a product essential to madern society, to create art that will speak to a modern world, describing it as "the most logical medium of the age." 
Owczarski's skill in working with a difficult material has rightfully gained him artistic renown. His sculptures have been exhibited in eleven coun­tries and over 50 cities. including Warsaw, Budapest, Prague, Frankfurt, Paris, London, Moscow and New York. He has won numerous awards for his work. 
Owczarski is currently director of the Galeria at Saint Mary's College and Artist-in-Residence of The Orchard Lake Schools in Michigan. He continues to be involved with Polish-American art organizations in the area. 
The "Pride of Poland" exhibition will be on display in the second floor lobby of the Hesburgh Library until April 25th. 
Photo courtesy of Amy Baker Thomas Aquinas Is featured here as a full statue hold­Ing his famous text, the "Summa Theologlca." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore's romance ·~so First Dates" proved an irresistible draw for the Valentine's weekend date crowd, taking in $41 million to debut as the top movie, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
If the estimates hold, it would be the second-biggest February opening ever, behind the $58 million debut of "Hannibal" in 2001 and just ahead of last year's "Daredevil" at $40.3 mil­lion. 
The previous weekend's top film, "Barbershop 2: Back in Business," slipped to second place with $15.6 million, bringing its 10-day total to $44.1 million. 
The overall box office was down, with the top 12 movies grossing $107.8 million, off 13 percent from the same weekend last year. 
"50 First Dates" was a reunion for Sandler and Barrymore, who starred in "The Wedding Singer," which opened over Valentine's weekend in 1998. 
Sandler's main audience is males in their teens and 20s, who turned out in force, but women made up 57 per­cent of the crowds on the strength of Barrymore and the movie's romantic theme, distributor Sony reported. 
And the Valentine's weekend sealed the deal with audiences. 
"Talk about great timing. For a lot of couples, this was their Valentine entertainment," said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box­office tracker Exhibitor Relations. 
Sandler plays a womanizer smitten by Barrymore, an accident victim who forgets the previous day's mem­ories each morning, forcing Sandler to dream up new ways for the two to meet and fall in love. 
Playing in 3,591 theaters, "50 First Dates" averaged a strong $11,417 a cinema. 
With many people off work Monday for President's Day, "50 First Dates" should come out of the long weekend about halfway to the $100 million level. The movie is positioned to become the first released in 2004 to top that mark. 
Though many critics trashed "50 First Dates," the movie earned its share of positive press, with some reviewers taken in by the story's sweetness and Sandler and Barrymore's chemistry. 
Almost half of the audience was 25 or older, a more mature crowd than normally turns out to see Sandler. 
"I think people were excited to see Adam and Drew paired up again," said Rory Bruer, Sony head of distri­bution. "And I think one thing I would say about Adam, he's just such a likable guy. He's just so accessible to all audiences. People can relate to him." 
In narrow release, the murder thriller "Highwaymen," starring Jim Caviezel, debuted weakly with $203,000 in 111 theaters for an aver­age of $1,829. 
Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at North American theaters. according to Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc. Final figures will be released Tuesday. 
1. "50 First Dates," $41 million. 
2. 
"Barbershop 2: Back in Business," $15.6 million. 

3. "Miracle," $14 million. 


4. 
"The Butterfly Effect," $5.7 mil­lion. 


5. "You Got Served," $5.1 million. 
6. 
"Along Came Polly," $5.08 mil­lion. 

7. "Catch That Kid," $4.35 million. 

8. 
"The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King," $4.15 million. 

9. 
"Cold Mountain," $3.7 million. 

10. 
"Mystic River," $3.55 million. 





-----~~~~-~ 
r· 

page 12 Monday, February 16, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
'-~ 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 



Irish sweep 3 weekend matches in Virginia 
,__ 
bles point with No. 39 sopho­Emily Hellburg ahd Nida and Statsny secured the point SINGLES
Notre Dame collects more Lauren Connelly and Waseem 8-3. for the Irish. No. 1: Alicia Salas (ND) d. Szilvia Szegedi 2-6, 6-4, 6-2. 
wins over Virginia Salas beating the Rams' Gaga The Irish nearly swept the No. 6 Statsny found success 
No. 2: Christian Thompson (ND} d. Nida 

and Cristina Arribas 8-1. The singles portion of the meet, in singles as well, with a 6-0, Waseem 6-2, 7-5. Commonwealth, duo is 10-2 this season and logging only one loss against 6-0 triumph over Meredith No. 3: Catrina Thompson (ND) d. Allison Ashley 6-3, 6-1. 
has recorded victories in eight the Eagles. At the No. 5 posi­Holmes. At No. 2, Lauren 
No. 4: Lauren Connelly (ND) d. Morgan

Boston College and of their last nine matches. tion, Sarah Jane Connelly Connelly extended her spring 
Landes 6-3. 6-2. Junior Sarah Jane Connelly handed Nash a loss 6-4, 6-2. season winning streak, defeat­No. 5: Sarah Jane Connelly (ND) d.Virginia Tech and sophomore Kristina No. 3 Catrina Thompson also ing Elissa Kinard 7-5, 6-2. Allison Nash 6-4. 6-2. 
No. 6: Amy Molden (BC) d. Kristina

Statsny won by default at the contributed a win against No. 3 Catrina Thompson 
Stastny (ND) 3-6, 6-4, 1-0 (10-6).

No. 3 position, as the Rams Ashley 6-3, 6-1. upended Lam in singles 6-3,
By ANNE LOUGHERY 

only have five players on their Extending the win for the 6-2, while Christian Thompson DOUBLES
News Writer 

roster. Irish, Christian Thompson tri­won against Lowdermilk 6-2, No. 1: Thompson/Thompson (ND) d. Emily Hellburg/Waseem 8-3. 
In singles, No. 4 Lauren umphed over Waseem at No. 2 6-4 at No.2.
.. ~ No. 2: Lauren Connelly/Salas (ND) d . 
The No. 26 women's tennis Connelly extended her win­and No. 1 Alicia Salas won The Irish will aim to find 
AshleyJSzegedi 8-1. 

team improved its record to 5-ning streak for this season over Szilvia Szegedicourt, 2-6, similar success when they host No. 3: Sarah Jane Connelly/Stastny (ND) 1 this weekend, with wins with a 6-0, 6-0 win over fresh­6-4, 6-2. No. 20 Brigham Young Friday. d. Landes/Nash 8-3. over Virginia Commonwealth, man Camille· Ripert. Sarah Sunday's match against No. 
NOTRE DAME 4, VIRGINIA NOTRE DAME 5,Boston College and Virginia Jane Connelly also registered 69 Virginia Tech resulted in COMMONWEALTH 3 VIRGINIA TECH 2
Tech. a win by default at the No. 6 Notre Dame's second Big East 
at RICHMOND, VA atBLACKSBURG,VA

This weekend's success position. win of the season. A 5-2 Irish began with a close 4-3 victory Next, the Irish handed win came after Notre Dame SINGLES 
SINGLES Friday over No. 14 Virginia Boston College its secono loss swept the doubles matches No.1: Olga Borisova (VCU) d. Alicia Salas No. 1: Anat Elazari (VT) d. Alicia Salas 
(ND) 7-6 (7-3), 6-2. 
Commonwealth in which the of the season 6-1 Saturday and garnered four wins in sin­(ND) 2-6, 6-2, 1-0 (11-9). 
No. 2: Silvia Urickova (VCU) d. Christian No. 2: Christian Thompson (ND) d.
Irish ended the Rams' 40-afternoon. Lauren Connelly gles. 
Thompson (ND) 7-6 (7 -3), 6-4. 
Ginger Lowdennilk (VT) 6-2. 6-4. 

match home winning streak. contributed the clinching win Freshmen Catrina and No. 3: Catrina Thompson (ND) d. Cristina No. 3: Catrina Thompson (ND) d. Felice Notre Dame claimed the ini­for the Irish in singles with a Christian Thompson posted Gago (VCU) 7-6 (7 -4), 6-0. Lam (VT) 6-3, 6-2. 
6-3, 6-2 defeat of the Eagles' their second doubles win of No. 4: Lauren Connelly (ND) d. Camille No. 4: Lauren Connelly (ND) d. Elissa
tial 3-0 advantage in the meet 

Ripert (VCU) 6-0, 6-0. 
Kinard (VT) 7-5, 6-2. 

before the Rams' Olga Morgan Landes. the weekend with an 8-2 upset 
No. 5: Cristina Arribas (VCU) d. Sarah No. 5: Ashley James (VT) d. Sarah Jane
Borisova defeated No. 14 sen­Notre Dame swept the dou­over No. 37 Elissa Kinard and Jane Connelly (ND) 6-4, 6-2. 
Connelly (ND) 6-3, 3-6, 1-0 (10-8). ior Alicia Salas 7-6 (7-3), 6-2 bles matches with Salas and Felice Lam at the No. 1 posi­No. 6: Kristina Stastny (ND) won by No. 6: Kristina Stastny (ND) d. Meredith default.
and Silvia Urickova beat No. Lauren Connelly delivering the tion. At the No. 2 position, Holmes (VT) 6-0, 6-0. 88 freshman Christian first win of the meet 8-1 over Salas and Connelly added a 
DOUBLES .DOUBLES

Allison Ashley and Szilvia win to their nearly flawless
Thompson 7-6 (7-3), 6-4. No. 1: Borisova/Urickova (VCU) d. No. 1: Thompson!fhompson (ND) d. No. 
In her third consecutive Szegedi at No. 2. To clinch the overall record of 12-2 this Thompson/Thompson (ND) 8-6. 37 Kinard!Lilm (VT) 8-2. No. 2: Lauren Connelly/Salas (ND) d.
clinching win of the season, doubles point for the Irish, season, edging out Anat No. 2: Lauren Connelly/Salas (NO) d. 
Arribas/Gago (ND) 8-1. 
Elazari/Lowdermilk (VT) 8-4.

freshman Catrina Thompson Sarah Jane Connelly and Elazari and Ginger 
No. 3: Sarah Jane ConnellyJStastny (ND) No. 3: Sarah Jane Connelly/Stastny (ND)
defeated Virginia Statsny were victorious over Lowdermilk 8-4. won by default. 
d. James/Carolina Rodriguez (VT} 8-0. 

Commonwealth's Cristina Landes and Allison Nash 8-3. With a shutout against Gaga 7-6 (7-4), 6-0 at the No. At the No. 1 position, fresh­Tech's Ashley James and NOTRE DAME 6, 3 position. men Catrina and Christian Carolina Rodriguez, No. 3 BOSTON COLLEGE 1 Contact Anne Loughery at 
The Irish claimed the dou-Thompson triumphed against doubles Sarah Jane Connelly atBLACKSBURG,VA alougher@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 



Belles drop 8th consecutive road loss to Alma 
Guard Bridget Boyce, who Both teams only committed 10 and their league record falls to SAINT MARY'S (6-17, 1-11) By STEVE COYER 
Creachbaum 10-16 5-6 26, B. Boyce 5­
received a nomination for MIAA turnovers, but Alma had 18 1-11. Since Olivet lost this week­
Sports Writer 12 2-2 14. K. Boyce 4-10 0-0 9, Bush 2-6 
player of the week, also con­assists to 12 for the Belles. end to Calvin, the Belles are still 
0-2 4. Miller 0-3 0-0 0, Lipke 1-1 0-0 3,
tributed 14 points on 5-of-12 Free throw shooting helped only one game back from mov­Broderick 0-0 2-2 2. Malone 0-0 1-2 1. In a tough 77-65 loss on the shooting. Alma seal the victory, as the ing out of last. Mangan 1-1 0-0 2, Mullen 2-11 0·1 4. road, the Belles fell behind early The difference in the game for team shot 18-for-22 from the The Belles now only have two 
1st 2nd Total

and failed to recover against Alma proved to be the strong line with Hall going 12-for-13. games left for the year and will 
ALMA 41 36 77

Alma College. inside game of forward Karen The Belles shot 10-for-15 at the return home to play against SAINT MARY'S 32 33 65 
The Belles {6-17) trailed by Hall. In a previous game against line. Kalamazoo Wednesday. The last 3-point goals: Saint Mary's 5-20 (B.
nine points at halftime and the Belles, Hall had 24 points Four different players scored regular season game for the 
Boyce 2-7. K. Boyce 1-4, Creachbaum 1­
never closed the gap as Alma and 10 rebounds. In Saturday's in double figures for Alma. Belles is a critical matchup on 
3, Lipke 1-1, Miller 0-2, Mullen 0-3).
(12-10) held strong the entire game, Hall was just as dominant Guard Katey Peacock had 14 the road against Olivet. Alma 5-16 (Van Damme 2-5, game. with 28 points and 13 rebounds points and forward Michelle Borcherding 2-4. Dettling 1-2, Lounds 0­
ALMA 77,

For the Belles, this marks on 8-for-12 shooting. Dettling had 13. 3, Peacock 0-1, Bartelli 0-1). Fouled out: 
SAINT MARY'S 65 

Lounds (Alma). Rebounds: Alma 33-10
their eighth consecutive loss in The Belles only had two play­Against Alma, the scoring for 
at the CAPPERT GYMNASIUM (Hall 13), Saint Mary's (Creachbaum 7). an away game and their fifth ers score in double figures, and the Belles was not spread in the Assists: Saint Mary's 12 (K. Boyce 3),loss in six games. the bench combined to score least. Creachbaum, Boyce and ALMA (12-10, 5-7) Alma 18 (Lounds 5}. Total fouls: Saint 
Hall 8-12 12-13 28. Peacock 5-10 4-4 .Mary's 19, Alma 19. 
Junior forward Emily just 12 points. The team also Katie Boyce combined to score 
14, Dettling 6-7 0-0 13, Borcherding 4-8 

Creachbaum led the way for the shot 5-ior-20 from 3-point range 49 out of 65 total points. 
0-3 10, VanDamme 2-5 0-0 6, Lounds 2­
Belles with 26 points and seven and was outrebounded by Alma With the loss, the Belles 9 0-0 4, Bartelli 0-2 2-2 2, Dennisuk 0-1 Contact Steve Coyer at rebounds on 10-of-16 shooting. 33-26. remain in last place in the MIAA 0-0 0, Neimi 0-2 0-0 0. scoyer@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 10 min from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent 574-299-4997 
FOOSBALL-Looking 4 high level players. Play at a tournament level but will teach also. Want top action or would like to learn call D 257 4441 Freshmen check out www. nd2007.com 

Brilliant engineer seeks sainthood and passionate girl to inspire per­sonalliterature. Must enjoy eating, holding hands, and climbing trees. Must not smoke tobacco or drink diet cola. Email ryamtich@nd.edu 

PERSONAL 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Gancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & Aorida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices Book Now!B00-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Piglet rocks the psalm. she might be small (and physcially inadequate) but she's not microscopic 
FoR RENT 
NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND FOR 5-6 SJUDENTS 2773097 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 BEDROOM HOUSE .2 BEDROOM DUPLEX AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR .... WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Condo for sale by 2 ND 1995 grads. Bright 1­bedroom condo on 24th floor in secure building steps from lake & public transportation. 10-15 minute walk to grocery & Wrigley Field. May 2004 closing. 773-929­3178 or nasserweiss@hotmail.com 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038. 
B&B for JPW/grad/lootball for up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email domercondo@ yahoo.com 


WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286· 9359 
Looking for full or part-time work? Reach Your Potential in outside sales with Media Direct, a growing cable TV sales, marketing and audit company Salary plus commission. Bonuses, health benefits and paid training. Hard working, enthusiastic people wanted. Sales experience is a plus not a require· men!. Phone 1-800-376-7961 


Monday, February 16, 2004 C0!\1PILED FRO:\'\. THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERViCES page 13 




around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Notre Dame at Syracuse 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma State at Oklahoma 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Sharks at Flyers 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NASCAR 

three years ago, barreling the day that the time, this is a reminder of
Associated Press 

past Tony Stewart with 20 Intimidator won his first losing him all over again." 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. laps left with a maneuver -and only -Daytona At least the next genera­-Dale Earnhardt Jr. that would have made 500 on his 20th try. tion is in good hands. nearly traded paint with Daddy proud. It's still one of the sport's In a daring move that the car ahead of him, Junior showed the impa­most cherished scenes: the must have been borrowed snatching the lead at the tience of youth, needing black No. 3 car rolling from the Intimidator, Daytona 500 with a brash, only five tries to win the down pit road while the Earnhardt Jr. dipped to fearless move. race that bedeviled his rival crews lined up to the inside without any 
Just like his old man. father for 19 years. congratulate Earnhardt drafting help and came 
Earnhardt later drove "He was over in the pas­before he pulled into within a foot of Stewart's off the track in front of the senger side with me," the Victory Lane. car at nearly 190 mph main grandstand, spinning 29-year-old Earnhardt Three years later, he coming through the trio­in the grass to celebrate said during a jubilant cele­was killed on a last-lap val. his first Daytona 500 vic­bration in Victory Lane. crash in the 500, depriv­Then Junior went right tory. ''I'm sure he was having a ing the sport of a seven­on by. 
Just like his old man. blast." time champion and its "I can't believe I passed 
Earnhardt won The race was attended most popular driver. him by myself," Earnhardt NASCAR's biggest event by President Bush, "In a way, it feels like said. "I don't know what Sunday on the same track launched the Nextel Cup I'm closer to my dad," was going on. It was like a that took his father's life era and came six years to Junior said. "At the same magic trick." 
IN BRIEF 

O'Neal\. Bryant show off in crowd treating Bryant poorly, though He calmly made the free throw, the booing was very brief and and that was it.
front or home crowd 
LOS ANGELES -In an All-Star seemed a bit lighthearted. game that was all about dunks, Tim The glamour and glitz quotient was Yankees, Rangers agree on Duncan's made free throw -a rarity high, the arena filled with movie trade, await approval on this evening -with 2.1 seconds stars, beautiful people and celebri­NEW YORK-Alex Rodriguez is left provided an anticlimactic ending tie~ of every ilk. The players gave one step from putting on the pin­to the NBA's showcase event. them a show, complete with a new stripes. 
In a game featuring 44 dunks and twist of wearing mismatched sneak­The New York Yankees and Texas 16 botched free throws-half of the ers, but the climax was not the type Rangers finalized the terms of their 32 that were attempted -the West of Hollywood ending everyone would shocking trade Sunday, and the play­defeated the East 136-132 Sunday have preferred. ers' association approved the deal night. Bryant had a steal and what should for the American League MVP. 
Shaquille O'Neal was the game's have been a 3-pointer with 1:20 left, All that remains is for baseball MVP with 24 points in 24 minutes -but the officials only counted it as a commissioner Bud Selig to give his 18 of them on dunks. Kobe Bryant­2-pointer-tying the game 131-131. OK, which the teams expect Monday. the other hometown player -added McGrady's alley-oop pass to The Yankees planned a Tuesday 20 points on 9-for-12 shooting. ' Jermaine O'Neal went out of bounds, news conference in New York to 
"Can you dig it?" O'Neal screamed and Ray Allen's two free throws with introduce the newest prize in their to the crowd afterward. 14.4 seconds left put the West ahead collection of multimillionaire All­
They dug it, all right, just not at the by three. Stars. end. And they briefly weren't digging The East got the ball to sharp­Texas will pay $6 7 million of the Bryant, either, when he casually put shooting first-time All-Star Michael $179 million left on Rodriguez's in a layup early in the fourth quarter Redd for a 3-point attempt, but the record $252 million, 10-year con­
despite being alone ahead of the Milwaukee Bucks shooting guard tract, and will get All-Star second field. came up short and Duncan was baseman Alfonso Soriano and a play­
It was a rare instance of the local fouled after grabbing the rebound. er to be named. 
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 16, 2004 Monday, February 16, 2004 page 15

The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

10 consecutive goals
Irish top Team Canada 17-9 
Fischer's 3 goals, 2 assists help Irish to preaseason victory 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team opened the 2004 season with an impres­sive 17-9 preseason win over Team Canada at the Loftus Center Saturday afternoon. 
The Irish got goals from 10 dif­ferent play­ers lead by L a u r e n Fischer and . 

M e g h a n Fischer Murphy with three each. Fischer paced the Irish with five points (three goals, two assists) in the game while fel­low senior Meredith Simon had two goals and two assists on the afternoon. Senior Kassen Delano and junior Jackie Bowers joined Murphy with three points in the game. Delano had two goals and an assist, while Bowers had a goal and two assists. Kristen Gaudreau added two goals for the Irish while Crysti Foote, Abby Owen, Andrea Kinnik and Brittany Fox had single goals for the Irish. Jen Johnson and Whitney Card led Team Canada with three goals each. The Irish led 12-4 at the end of the first half, and the teams each scored five times in the second half for the final score of 1 7-9. In goal for 
lift Irish over Boston 

Special to The Observer 
After trailing 7-2 in the sec­ond period, the 11th-ranked Notre Dame men's lacrosse team rattled off 10 goals in a row to take command of the game en route to a 14-11 exhi­bition victory over the Boston Cannons of Major League Lacrosse Saturday afternoon in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Senior Matt Howell's four goals led a quartet of Irish players who found the net multiple times. 
Howell, who was ninth in the nation in points per game 
(2.11) last season, started Notre Dame's comeback with a goal from sophomore attack Pat Walsh with 8:07 remaining in the first half. It began a 
17:41 stretch in which the Irish would outscore the Cannons 10-0 to take a 12-7 advantage. Irish senior goalie Stewart Crosland was a key part of that run, registering six of his 14 saves in that span. 
Boston struck back with four consecutive goals late in the third and early in the final stanza. With its lead cut to 12­11, Notre Dame got a pair of late insurance tallies after being held scoreless for 18:42. Senior attack Dan Berger took a pass from sophomore mid­fielder Matt Ryan and foundthe Irish, junior Carol Dixon Saturday, when they travel to 

the back of the net with 7:03

played the first 50 minutes, Princeton, N.J., to participate left in the game before Walsh
giving up eight goals while in the Princeton Invitational concluded the scoring with a
making five saves. Freshman in the final tuneup before the 
goal on an assist from senior

Katie Linhares played the regular season begins. 
midfielder Steve Clagett at the

final 10 minutes, giving up Notre Dame opens the regu­1:59 mark. The scores were
one goal while making three lar season Feb. 27 when they 
the second of the game forsaves. travel to the University of 

both Berger and Walsh.

The Irish will next play California. 
Notre Dame's defense stepped up its play over the final 8:28, allowing just a pair of Boston shots -neither of 


For Gay; Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning 
The O'Brien-S1nith
Students at Notre Dame 
Visiting Scholars Progratn 
Lynn E. Turner 
Former ChiefAccountant,
Tuesday, February 17th 
.Statriti(s and &thange Commifsif)n . 

.. ' . 
. .. .. . . ". .
(and everythird Tuesday of the month) 
Lessons L~arned--..·.
7:30-9:30 p.m. 
Changes Needed
316 Coleman-Morse 
Monday, February16, 2004 3p.m.toi-:15 p.m. ·· 
Jordan Audirotiuin
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Mendo~ College ofBusihess · · 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
University .of Notre Dame · · 
lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
Sponsored hy; Department ofAcc:oumancy·
friends, and supporters to an 
Mendoza College·<>f Business
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Free and open to the public For information: {574)631-7324 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME .. < ' Mendoza College ofBusiness
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
CoNW:t7'1'Et: ON 
GAY .MD LliaaiAR 
STUDI!OIT NIU!'M 
them on net. Among the Irish defensive leaders were sopho­

offee CIJJr;/ Conversation 
more defender D.J. Driscoll. 
senior defender Mickey Blum, 
senior defender Brennan 
Creaney, freshman defender 
Joey Rallo and junior midfield­
er Chris Richez. 
Sixteen seconds after Howell 

began the Irish rally, sopho­
more midfielder Brian 
Hubschmann became the first 
Notre Dame player other than 
Howell to score, netting an 
unassisted goal to cut the lead 
to 7-4. 
With 5:09 to go in the first 

half, Ryan added an unassisted 
tally of his own. Richez then 
scored with 3:38 remaining 
before junior midfielder Brian 
Giordano tied the game at 7-7 
by taking a pass from fresh­
man attacker Brian Boyle and 
scoring with 2:06 left before.....,, 
halftime. 
Berger gave Notre Dame the 

lead for good by taking a 
Hubschmann pass and scoring 
with 1:24 left in the opening 
half, giving the Irish their sev­
enth goal in the second period. The third quarter saw the Irish assault continue, as sophomore midfielder Matt Karweck scored 53 seconds _into the period. Giordano took 
advantage of a man-up situa­
tion to tally his second score of 
the game off a pass from sen­
ior Owen Mulford with 11:27 
to go in the third. 
Junior midfielder Craig 

Bishko, who finished 10-11 in 
faceoffs, won the ensuing 
draw, collected a ground ball 
and found Howell, who scored.~ 
his fourth goal of the contest 
seven seconds later. 
The Cannons connected on 

their first five shots on goal to 
take a 5-0 advantage with 7:00 
remaining in the opening peri­
od before Howell got the Irish 
on the scoreboard at the 1:06 
mark off an assist from 
Hubschmann. 


Monday, February 16, 2004 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 


Bayliss said. "However, a lot of  Starting Saturday, the Irish  
By KATE GALES  guys did a great job of stepping  face six big matches in an 11­ 
Sports Writer  out and taking control of their  day period.  
[singles] matches."  "We'll keep practices very  
True to their mascot's name,  The loss of the doubles point  efficient," Bayliss said. "We'll  
unranked Wisconsin badgered  seemed  to  add  a  sense  of  work on things we need to work  
No. 50 Notre Dame early in the  urgency to the singles matches.  on, and get everyone in and out  
match this weekend, but s.till  Bayliss altered the lineup, mov­ so they're ready to go."  
fell to the Irish by a score of 5­ ~ing  Scott and Stephen Bass to  The  Irish  next  travel  to  
2.  No. 1 and 3 and Haddock and  Northwestern Saturday and  
The Badgers won  the initial  D'Amico to No. 2 and 4, respec­ return home to face Southern  
point  of  the  match, taking  tively.  Methodist Sunday.  
advantage of Irish coach Bobby Bayliss' revamped doubles line­up. Although all three teams  The changes worked well for three of the four players. Scott lost a tough match to Alexander  NOTRE DAME 5, WISCONSIN 2 at the ECK PAVILLION  
looked dominant at the begin­ning, only senior tri-captains  Kasarov at No. 1 with a score of 6-7 (1-7), 6-4, 1-0 (10-5).  SINGLES No. 1: Alexander Kasarov (W) d. No. 68  
Luis  Haddock and Matthew  However,  Haddock  easily  Matthew Scott (ND) 6-7 (1-7), 6-4. 1-0 (10­ 
Scott managed to leave the courts with a win. The duo defeated Wisconsin's Alex Conti  defeated No. 2 David Hippe 6-3, 6-1, Bass won over Alex Conti 6-4, 6-3 at No. 3, and Brent  ·  5). No. 2: Luis Haddock (ND) d. David Hippee (W) 6-3,6-1. No. 3: Stephen Bass (ND) d. Alex Conti (W)  
and Scott Green 8-1 at No.2.  D'Amico clinched the match at  6-3, 6-2.  
However, the No. 8 team of David Hippee and Alexander Kasarov beat junior tri-captain  No. 4 with a score over Scott Green. Barry King, a  of 6-4, 6-4 freshman,  No. 4: Brent D'Amico (ND) d. Scott Green C\'\16-4, 6-4. No. 5: Barry King (ND) d. Ward Bortz (\'\1 3­6, 6-3. 6-1.  
Brent D'Amico and freshman  struggled in the first set against  No. 6: Eric Langenkamp (NO) d. Lachezar  
Ryan Keckley 9-8 (7-4). and  Ward Bortz at No. 5. In a true  Kasarov (W) 6-0, 6-2.  
Ward Bortz and Lachezar Kasarov defeated Paul Hidaka  show of determination, he went on to win 3-6, 6-3, 6-1, and Eric  DOUBLES No. 1: No. 8 Hippee/A. Kasarov (W) d.  
and  Eric  Langenkamp in  a  Langenkamp easily took No. 6  D'Amico/Ryan Keckley (NO) 9-8 (7 -4).  
hard-fought match 9-8 (7 -4). Bayliss attributed the losses to his team's failure to execute  Lachezar Kasarox 6-0, 6-2. "The thing I'm proud of is that we really showed that we could  No. 2: Haddock/Scott (ND) d. Conti/Green (W) 8-1. No. 3: Bortz/L. Kasarov (W) d. Paul Hidaka/Langenkamp (ND) 9-8 (7 -4).  
fundamentals.  take charge of singles right  
MEGAN DAVISSON!The Observer "It's disappointing to start off  away," Bayliss said. "We had to  
Irish trl-captaln Brent D'Amico serves the ball In a match down 1-0 with all the work  break [Wisconsin's] momentum,  Contact Kate Gales at  
against Wisconsin this weekend. The Irish won S-2. we've done in the past week,"  which we did right away."  kgales@nd.edu  

MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish badger Wisconsin into submission in 5-2 win 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 

' 
1 
{
Irish runners perform well in Windsor Challenge 1 l 
' 
I' 
jl
.,, 
I. 
By MIKE GILLOON 
News Writer

II':,.
• I• 
'~~ Both the Notre Dame men's and women's track and field
~;. 
~I teams finished third Saturday at the Windsor Team
~; 
Challenge, even though many

y 
members of the teams stayed! home this weekend to rest upI for the Big East ,j 'I~) Championships. I Mostly sprinters made the I trip north to take advantage of 
the short, fast track at the University of Windsor. 
The Irish women sprinters dominated their events as they claimed the top five spots in both the 60-meter and the 300-meter dashes. Senior Kristen Dodd emerged victori­ous in the 300 meters with a time of 39.13 seconds. 
Junior Tiffany Gunn finished just behind Dodd in second place in 39.48, while senior Ayesha Boyd, junior Tricia Floyd and freshman Okechi Ogboukiri rounded out the top five with times of 39.69, 40.80 and 40. 98, respectively. The next closest competitor was a whole second behind Ogboukiri. 
The 60 meters was the same story with a few different names, as Boyd was the win­ner in 7 .69. Floyd just barely missed the conference qualify­ing mark of 7.78 by finishing second in a time of 7. 79. Junior Tanya Cheatham, Dodd and junior Latasha Steele com­pleted the group with times of 7.81, 7.85 and 7.92, respec­tively. 
On the men's side, Ryan Postel torched the competition in the 300-meter sprint. The sophomore from Lexington, Ky., won in a time of 34.54 and barely missed breaking the meet record of 34.37 seconds. minutes, 29.99 seconds, which tor with a time of 8:42.01. 1,000 meters while Schmidt Junior Trevor McClain-Duer qualifies him for the Big East The younger members of the ran the 600 meters in 1:37.46. took third Champion­Irish teams also performed Sophomore Elizabeth Webster place in 
ships next well, as several Irish freshman was third in the 1,000 meters 

35.07 as week in and sophomores recorded in a time of 3:01.48. freshman Syracuse, their fastest times of the The University of Windsor J o r d a n N.Y. Junior indoor season. Ambrose men and women both placed Powell fin­Terry Lennon Wooden, who plays football in first in the meet. The ished in a finished sec­the fall, qualified for the Big University of Western Ontario time of 35.63 ond, with a East Championships with a and Notre Dame placed second to place fifth. time of time of 7.02 in the 6'0-meter and third, respectively, for 
Three Irish 2:30.61, and dash. both men and women, as the runners fin-Postel Dodd Tom Weiler Freshmen Katie DeRusso and Irish did not field a complete ished in the finished third Brianne Schmidt both placed squad. top spots in the 1000-meter in 2:32.03. second in their events. run. Sophomore Vincent In the 3,000-meter race, jun­DeRusso finished with a sea­Contact Mike Gilloon at Ambrico won in a time of 2 ior Ryan Johnson was the vic-son-best time of 3:00.52 in the mgilloon@nd.edu 
experience eleyanl dim'nj milhseasonalflair. 
Visiting your son or daughter is made extra special when it inc:ludes dining 

Rn.rrNUi#ru JUn,_,_j,J 
631-2020 
'llfiiiVA.~C'O-

Undergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for membership on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site 
http://www.nd.edu/"'Scglsn/ 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Friday, April 5, 2004, and can be submitted at the Office ofStudent Affairs. 
THE !ITA NO!HG 
CO .. W>nar ON GAy AIID LDaiAII 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
ITUDII:NT NIEII:DS 


Monday, February 16, 2004 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 
Joyce 
continued from page 20 

(12) Teresa Borton (11) and Megan Duffy (11) all scored in double figures. 
Notre Dame (15-8, 8-3) outrebounded Providence (4­18, 0-11) 46-28 and shot 
54.1 percent from the field for the game. 
"I thought we played well offensively. TJ.. J.t was really our emphasis tonight," McGraw said. "We really wanted to score and get out and run in transition." 
Notre Dame passed the ball well in the paint and created many easy scoring opportu­nities. Batteast, Borton and LaVere combined to shoot 16-of-25. 
Playing in their first game in a week, the Irish looked sloppy for some of the first half. After jumping out to a 10-3 lead over the under­sized Friars, Notre Dame held just a 16-15 advantage with 7:13 remaining. 
But Joyce gave Notre Dame a cushion by hitting all five of her shots in the final seven minutes of the half. By the time intermission came, Providence saw a one-point deficit turn into a nearly insurmountable 14-point dis­crepancy. 
··1 really think that 3-point­er that she hit at the end of the half really demoralized Providence," McGraw said. " ... We really fell apart there [for a while in the first half). I thought we lost our intensi­ty at both ends of the floor. Then [Joyce] came in and gave us a little spark and we just fed off of that." 
The Irish played better in the second half, shooting over 64 percent from the 
field, as they led by as many as 32 at one point. McGraw used her entire bench as every player except Anne Weese logged at least 10 minutes. 
"Overall I thought just about everybody played well," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame is now just a half-game behind West Virginia in the Big East standings. The Mountaineers are 9-3, while the Irish are 8-3. West Virginia beat Notre Dame earlier this season, giving the Mountaineers the tiebreaker. Connecticut is 10­1 and in first place in the conference. 
Notre Dame travels to New York Tuesday to play St. John's. 
NOTRE DAME 81, PROVIDENCE 51 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (15-8, 8-3) 
Batteast 6-11 2-2 14, Borton 4-4 3-4 11, Severe 0-11-1 1, Duffy 4-5 0-0 11, Hernandez 3-5 0-0 6, Powers 0-1 0-0 0, Joyce 5-9 0-0 14, Gray 0-1 0-0 0, Flecky 2-6 0-0 4, Erwin 3-7 2-4 8, LaVere 6-10 0-2 12, Weese 0-1 0-0 0. 
PROVIDENCE (4-18, 0-11) 
Nwafili 4-12 1-2 9, Freeburg 6-10 5-8 18, Baugh 1-6 2-3 4, Furstenburg 3-9 0-0 6, Quinn 3-8 0-0 6, Fabor 0-2 0-0 0, Snyder 0-6 0-0 0, Gilmore 3-5 2-4 8, 
Keefe 0-0 0-0 0.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  38  43  81  
PROVIDENCE  24  27  51  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 7-14 (Joyce 4-8, Duffy 3-3, Batteast 0-1, Flecky 0­1, Powers 0-1), Providence 1-12 (Freeburg 1-2, Baugh 0-1, Furstenburg 0-1, Snyder 0-3, Quinn 0-5). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 46­15 (Batteast 10). Providence 28-11 (Freeburg 6). Assists: Notre Dame 27 (Duffy 6). Providence 11 (Baugh 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 16, Providence 16. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Bulldogs 
continued from page 20 

straight penalty kills in their last 
eight games. 

With the home sweep, Notre Dame also took a step closer toward securing home-ice advantage in the playoffs for the first time since joining the CCHA. The top six finishers in the con­ference receive home-ice advan­tage in the first round of the playoffs. 
"Any time you can get four points at this point in the season, it's huge," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. 
Friday, the Irish got the first goal of the game just 2:53 into the first period, as defenseman Tom Galvin took a shot from the blue line, and it was deflected past Mike Brown by forward Matt Amado. Ferris State would come back to tie the game less than two minutes later, with Derek Nesbitt beating Irish goalie David Brown with a hard slap shot on a 3-on-2. Each team scored a goal on its first shot of the game. 
The Irish came back to take a lead, this time with Aaron Gill picking up a tally with less than a minute left in the first period. · Notre Dame outshot the Bulldogs 16-5, but Mike Brown stifled Irish chances again and again. 
Ferris State would come back to score the only goal of the sec­ond period, taking a 2-2 tie into the intermission, but Notre Dame would come back to score two quick goals in the third. After Jindra's tally, the Irish whipped a perfect pass to forward Josh Sciba as he came out of the penalty box. 
Sciba broke in alone on Mike Brown and beat him one-on-one with a quick wrist shot to put the game away for the Irish. 
"We got a bounce tonight," Poulin said. "But it was impor-
Ir--------------------------•
I 

tant to take advantage of it. Sciba's goal might have been even bigger, and that was proba­bly the best penalty we've ever taken since we got two goals out of it." 
Saturday, Notre Dame got off to an even quicker start, with defensemen Galvin and Neil Komadoski scoring the first two goals. Komadoski and Galvin worked the point positions to perfection all night long, with each senior picking up three points on the night as Galvin had two assists and one goal and Komadoski notched two goals and one assist. 
The second period had no scoring, but it still featured a key moment in the game. Mike Brown was hit by a shot in the neck at 2:22 and was forced to leave the game. Tom Mueller came into replace Brown, who had played every single minute of the season for Ferris State up until this season. 
"I was not very happy with our second period," Poulin said. "There was a kid who came in and hadn't played a minute, and we seemed to get away from the little things we take pride in. 
"At the second intermission, I told these guys that I was not going to let an opportunity slip away here." 
The Irish answered the call, peppering Mueller with 13 shots in the third, connecting on two of them. Komadoski scored his sec­ond goal of the game with a low shot from the blue line while the Irish were on the power play. 
The senior defenseman picked up his third goal of the season, a career high. Michael Bartlett scored an insurance goal at 
14:55 of the period, beating Mueller with a quick low wrister to the glove side after skating left-to-right in front of the net. 
"We got back to our game in the third period," Poulin said. "We're not there yet as a team, but this was still a very good effort, especially going into a break week." 
The Irish are off next weekend before facing Michigan in a two­game series at the Joyce Center Feb. 27 and 28. 

NOTRE DAME 4, FERRIS STATE 2 at the JOYCE CENTER Friday .":':-• 

1st  2nd 3rd Total  
NOTRE DAME  2  0  2  4  
FERRIS STATE  1  0  1  2  

SCORING SUMMARY First Period ND-Matt Amado (Tom Galvin, Brad Wanchulak). 2:53. FSU-Derek Nesbitt (Jeff Legue, Skip Renault), 4:13. ND -Aaron Gill (Wanchulak, Rob Globke), 19:28. 
Second Period 
FSU-Trevor Large (Zac Pearson, Mike 
Kinnie), 17:08. 
Third Period 
ND-T.J. Jindra (Jason Paige), 2:03. 
ND-Josh Sciba (Brett Lebda, David 
Brown), 2:52. 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 44, Ferris State 29. Power plays: Notre Dame O-of­3,Ferris State 0-of-5. Goalies: David Brown 27 saves out of 29 shots (ND), Mike Brown 40 saves out of 44 shots (FSU). 
NOTRE DAME 4, FERRIS STATE 1 at the JOYCE CENTER Saturday 
1st 2nd 3rd Total NOTRE DAME 2 0 2 4 FERRIS STATE 1 0 0 1 

SCORING SUMMARY First Period ND-Galvin (Neil Komadoski, Matt Williams-Kovacs), 2:57. ND-Komadoski (Galvin, Gill), 8:18. FSU-Kinnie (Pearson, Jim Jensen), 12:31. 
Second Period No scoring. 
Third Period ~.,;_ , ND-Komadoski (Galvin. Mike Walsh), 1:45. ND -Michael Bartlett (Cory McLean. Sciba). 14:55. 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 30, Ferris State 30. Power plays: Notre Dame 2-of­4,Ferris State 0-of-4. Goalies: Brown 29 saves out of 30 shots (ND). Brown 11 saves out of 13 shots (FSU), Tom Mueller 15 saves out of 17 shots (FSU). 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
I 

I 'CJS PlJB
I 417 N. Michigan Street 
I 
I 

I I WEDNESDAY I s I UPPER CLASS NITE
I 

MUST BE 21 WITH A VALID ID
I I 

I ALL D R I N K S-:::........L.-,---=-P-=I:.....:T~C=-=H:..=..:E=-R::::....=.....:S 
I '' HALF PRICE II 
I I 

lOPM CLOSE
I 
Karaoke
I 

Pool Golf -Video -Shuffle Board -Darts
I I JPW FRI & SAT 
I Kitchen open 11 am 10 pm 
I Buckets and Drink Pint Specials 11am Close Live Entertainment 10pm
I I 

I OPEN SUNDAYS lpm 
Buckets and Shooter Specials Food lpm ­
I 

W E D & FRI L E N T S P E C I A L S 
I I STARTING ASH WED 
popcorn shrimp n' fries -fried clam strips n'
I 

fish n' chips -fish sand n' fries
I 
9pm 

I I I 
fries 1 I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

We J)o ~ondays Like Ho 1Piace Else! 
MJSIIAWAI<A 4810 Grape Rd. 574-271-1330 


"Offer vaitd o.ve.ry l'lonclay 11 a.m +o doao.. 
~--------------------------~ 
-
~­

----1 
Monday, February 16, 2004 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
-----------------~-----------------------------------~ 

1 \. l 
Francis 
continued from page 20 

~--to cater to the personnel on the court. 
Without Francis, the Irish created spacing on offense and became more active on defense. 
Notre Dame out-rebounded (37-32}, out-assisted (16-15) and outscored its opponent, a Seton Hall team that sits fourth in the Big East and has wins over Pittsburgh, Rutgers and Syracuse -all teams which have defeated the Irish. 
Thomas led all scorers with 26 points on 9-of-19 shooting, including 19 in the second half. He also finished with seven rebounds and four 
-assists. "Thomas made a lot of good shots," Brey said. "I've always 

<. thought he is a second half player, and he came out in the second half. His conditioning is what really paid off. In the second half, the other players got tired but Thomas didn't." 
The Irish had four players in double figures, including Thomas, Torrian Jones (13), Chris Quinn (1 0) and Tom Timmermans (10). 
Both teams began the game with poor shooting. The Pirates made 35.5 percent of their first-half field goals. with the Irish shooting just 37.1 percent. 


Seton Hall point guard Andre Barrett led all scorers at halftime with 11 points. The Irish. however, got five or more points from five different players in the half. Sophomore forward Rick Cornett, who is receiving more playing time due to Francis' injury, had six first-half points during a scor­ing drought for both teams. 
Jones, Thomas and Quinn accounted for 14 of the 16 total Irish assists. due in large part to the success of a drive­and-kick method the guards employed Saturday. The team turned the ball over just nine times while managing to spread out the offense and execute the motion offense Brey has installed. 
"On the offensive end with­out Torin, we play more five out on the perimeter," Quinn said. "[That] leaves open driv­ing lanes. [We] did a good job of getting into the lane, and Seton Hall was really collaps­ing on us. We just found the open guy." 
Notre Dame expe.nded its lead in the early second half to seven points after Jones con­verted a basket off a pass from Quinn. but Seton Hall would score eight of the next 10 points. Pirates' forward Kelly Whitney, who had 18 points, gave the Irish problems down low, scoring 12 points in the second half. Barrett -who finished with a team-high 20 points -reached the foul line and made key plays to keep his team in the game. 
Thomas, however, had the upper hand on the day, scor­ing nine points in an 11-6 Irish run and making key shots toward the game's fin­ish. 
The Irish shot 43.9 percent from the field and just 29.4 percent from the 3-point arc, but the team took care of the ball and used baseline drives and pick-and-rolls off of Timmermans and Cornette to get 23 free throw attempts and establish solid ball con­trol. 
The effort the team gave Saturday gives the Irish hope for a test at Syracuse tonight. 
"We have a tremendous amount of momentum right now [going into Syracuse]." Thomas said. "With Torin going out, everybody's turned their back on us. If we contin­ue to play like this, we'll give the [NCAA tournament] selec­tion committee a great run for their money." 
Note: 
Thomas missed a foul shot and erased hope of being a perfect 7-for-7 from the chari­ty stripe late in the game Saturday. 
With the miss. Thomas came one point shy of tying his own career record of most points in back-to-hack games. Thomas scored 31 points ver­sus Connecticut and 26 points against Seton Hall, amounting to 57 points in two games. Thomas scored 58 points in two consecutive games at West Virginia (26) and Miami 
(32) as a freshman. 
NOTRE DAME 71, SETON HALL 68 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (12-9, 6-5) 
Cornette 2-8 0-0 6, Timmermans 4-8 2­2 10, Thomas 9-19 6-7 26, Quinn 3-8 4­6 10, Jones 4-10 4-6 13, Cornett 3-4 0­2 6, Falls 0-0 0-0 0. 
SETON HALL (16-6, 6-4) 
Whitney 8-13 2-3 18, Toney-El 3-4 0-0 8, AJlen 3-8 2-2 8, Svveet 2-5 1-2 5, Barrett 6-13 6-6 20, Morris 4-10 0-0 9, Copeland 0-1 0-0 0, Messy 0-0 0-0 0, Davis 0-1 0-0 0, Billmeier 0-3 0-0 0. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  32  39  71  
SETON HALL  28  40  68  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 5-17 (Cornette 2-5, Thomas 2-6, Jones 1-3, Quinn 0-3), Seton Hall 5-13 (Toney-Ell 2-2, Barrett 2-4, Morris 1-5). Fouled out: Barrett. Rebounds: Notre Dame 37 (Cornette, Timmermans 8), Seton Hall 32 (Svveet 6). Assists: Notre Dame 16 (Jones 6), Seton Hall 15 (Barrett 5). Total fouls: Notre Dame 15, Seton Hall 22. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Jones 
continued from page 20 
and the sellout Joyce Center crowd roared their approval. 
"I made a play on the ball, and he got a step on me going down the court. I knew that either I had to block it or coach [Mike] Brey was going to chew me out:' Jones modestly said after the game. "I knew I had to block it to make up for my mis­take." 
His teammates were more praising. "I wish I could have a block like that," Jordan Cornette grinned. "That's a hell of a play," Tom Timmermans added. 
Jones went on to score five of Notre Dame's final six points and swatted J.R. Morris' 3­pointer with four seconds left to secure Notre Dame's 71-68 win over Seton Hall. And when ESPN wanted to put Chris Thomas on-camera after the game, that gave Irish coach Mike Brey and Jones a chance to walk off the court with arms around each other's shoulders. 
Sure, Thomas led Notre Dame in scoring for the second straight game with 26 points. But Jones' stat line -13 points, five rebounds, six assists and two blocks in 39 minutes ­underlined the important role he plays in trying to help the Irish claw their way toward the NCAA Tournament. 
With Torin Francis missing Saturday's game with back problems, Notre Dame had no consistent low-post presence to exploit against the shorter Pirates. But Jones and the rest of the Irish turned that weak­ness into a backbreaking threat. 
Because the middle of the floor wide open, Jones was able to penetrate a sieve-like Seton Hall defense easily. If he didn't flip a layup from an impossible angle that dropped into the bas­ket, he fired a pass to the perimeter for his teammates to drain a 3-pointer. 


"I think Torrian Jones has shown the greatest improve­ment over knowing when to drive and when to pass. and knowing when not to force a shot," Brey said. "And that's a fine line, because he can make difficult shots." 
Sure, Jones had his weak moments, like in the early min­utes when he missed easy lay­ups and open jumpers. But he adapted over the course of Saturday's game -a process that somehow mimics Jones' progression this year. 
Few. had ever questioned Jones' vocal leadership, but he had only played in a supporting role. And over the summer, 
faced with the prospect of play­
ing significant minutes for the 
first time in his college career, 
the senior co-captain spent end­
less hours working on his game. 
He tried to showcase it all, too, as the season began -by firing long-range jumpers and doing things that were very un­Torrian Jones like. But a con­versation with. Brey helped Jones realize he had to return to his strengths -pia ying 
• aggressive defense and attack­ing the basket with slashing drives. 
He has. And it's no surprise that Notre Dame is on a roll. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Return date tmknown for Francis 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Until Saturday, sophomore forward Torin Francis had never missed a game in his Notre Dame career. Now, the Irish don't know when he is going to play again. 
An MRI last week revealed that Francis is sidelined indefi­nitely with a bulging disc in his lower back. He had only played an average of eight minutes in games against Pittsburgh and Connecticut before leaving because of back spasms. 
''I'm planning on playing the rest of the season with him not coming back," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "If he were to recover in the next two to three weeks, that would be icing on the cake. But I think right now, what you see out there is what you get." 

Francis, who had started all 54 games of his Notre Dame career, is the team's third­leading scorer and leading rebounder by averaging 14.8 he said sitting out is the best points and 8.8 rebounds a hope for a speedy recovery. game. He will not travel to "You get into a thing where tonight's game against its what's best for the team Syracuse. and what's best for the kid," 
"Hopefully, it won't be any Brey said. "What's best for the longer that two weeks." the kid is that he can't play. and sophomore Francis said. "But I he has a future beyond Notre can't tell." Dame that we have to protect 
Brey said the Irish had not a little bit. And he understands decided whether to have that, and we'll have to move Francis undergo surgery to on without him." correct his back problem. But For a frustrated Francis, this is the most serious injury of his career. But the Irish, which have won two straight games against top-25 RPI foes, have managed to have success in Francis' absence. 

"It's tough, but we got two wins," Francis said. "We're playing well, and that makes it better." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


Monday, February 16, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
DOGBER T CONSULTS 

TO SURVIVE I YOU MUST CREATE DISRUPTIVE INNOVATIONS THAT 
REDEFINE THE MARKET. 
fiVES 
Unfortunately, Randy picked a bad batch of candy hearts to give to his girlfriend Jessica this past Valentine's day..... 

SCOTT ADAMS 
DOES THAT MEAN THE YOU ONLY GET PAID IF SAME THING AS YOU SAY IT IN A "SELL THINGS THAT FUNNY VJAY? PEOPLE WANT· ? 
I LIKE TO THINK I'M DISRUP­THERE'S ONE 
TIVELY INNO­BIG DIFFER­VATIVE. 
~~ ENCE. 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
TULGI 
(IJ
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
ifoJ-j
tREMMOY t
XJ I J 


Now arrange the circled letters to 
1-r~HJN t] I 

form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
lms: A 

"r xr xJ" rI xI I xJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

saturday's I Jumbles: CYNIC LINER BEFOUL PLURAL Answer: Often done by medical students before a big exam-THEY "BONE" UP 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=+-:+:~~ ~-=+=+::~ 
~=+::-1 
-:+~=+:::+:-::+.:::-+:-~ -=+,+.~~ 
Note: Answers with TURN make 90° turns in the grid -LOW TURNOUTS, SATURN'S RINGS, etc. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
65 Bush's of Evil 66 Be of use 67 Swear 68 Nothing more than 69 Crown sparkler 70 Zany Martha 71 Waterfront walk­way 
DOWN 1 Paper clip alter­native 2 Medieval 
weapon 3 Meeting plan 4 Nutmeg spice 5 "You can't judge 
_ by its cover" 
6 Wall-to-wall installation 7 Charades player 8 November event 9 Military action? 10 Fad 
11 Skirt stitching 
12 Atlas page 
13 Hosp. areas 
21 Supple 
22 Highly ornate 
26" Ha'i" 
27 "Oh, woe!" 
28 Charades, e.g. 
30 Wedding recep­
tion centerpiece 
32 Impressed, and how! 
35 Slowly, to a con­ductor 
37 Medical break­through 

WILLSHORTZ 

38 It's played with  so Soviet leader  59 Popular PBS  
a deck of 32  _Kosygin  science series  
cards  
39 Arizona Indian  51 Provide with new cable  60 Interstate exit  
40 Aid in crime 41 Delphic  52 Arafat of the P.L.O.  61 Rank below Lt. Col.  
42 Thing from the past  54 TexasA&M  62"_ Maria"  
47 Sign up  athlete  63 Like crunchy  
48 Actor Poitier  56 Grenoble's river  carrots  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.corn/crosswords {$34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.corn/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ______________ State ______ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Donna Reed, Bridget Fonda, Cris Collinsworth, Mimi Rogers 
Happy Birthday: You have a lot to offer those who really don't want to think for themselves. You have a wisdom that has been earned by your incessant thirst for knowledge and experience. You are a leader and a nurturer. Others look up to you for your strength and courage to follow things through to completion. Your numbers: 3, 9, 13, 27, 31,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is the day for love. You and your partner can enjoy one another. The chores that were hanging over your head are over and a romantic time for two should be on your agenda. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may feel somewhat let down today. Don't let someone you love play havoc with your heart. Be patient, not stubborn. Problems with female friends may be disconcerting. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you get the chance to travel, go for it. You will have a great time no matter what you decide to do, unless of course you choose to sit at home alone. ***­CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need time alone with the one you love. Don't hesitate to tell others how you feel and what you want. Peace, quiet and of course a little bit of passion should be your plan. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It is best to spend a quiet day with your mate. Chances are good that you neglected their needs during the past couple of months and it's time to make up for lost time. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel and social activity will be a lot more fun than you had imagined. Love is in the air and you will attract potential mates. ****. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can bring harmony back into your life. Spend time pampering yourself and get involved in projects that will enhance your appearance.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need a day to rest. However, if you neglected someone who loves you, difficulties may exhaust you even more. Don't bother trying to complete unfinished projects. ** SAGIITARnJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will enjoy the comforts of your own home today. Don't hesitate to tell friends that you want the day to lazy around. 'Ibis is the time to rejuvenate. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have put yourself through an emotional wringer. It's time to mellow out and reevaluate your motives. Avoid going to crowded places. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be concerned with a friend who doesn't look well. Be sure to check in on them and offer your help in any way possible. Your kindness will be appreciated. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your high ene:-gy can be put to good use. Take things you don't need to charity groups for the needy. You can influence friends to join you in your humanitarian endeavors. **** 
Birthday Baby: You were born with a built-in common sense that will help you make the right choices throughout your life. You know how to take control right from day one and you are a master at getting everyone to do things for you. Your detennination will lead you where you want to go. 
.....,

Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Unwanted e-mail 
5 Top spot 
9 Stupid jerk 
14 Attire for Caesar 
15 Get-out-of-jail 
money 
16 Toward the back 
17 Writer Waugh 
18 "Coffee, Tea _?"{1960's best seller) 
19 Light bulb hold­ers 20 "Vanilla Sky'' actress 23 Young 'un 24 "I Like " 
25 Carryall 
29 Dead-on 
31 How often Santa checks his list 
33 Pie mode 34 "I found it!" 36 Tic-tac-toe win 37 One who's 

close-mouthed 38 Maiden voyage 
preceder 43 City near Osaka 44 Live 45 "_the ram­
parts ... " 46 Human's cousin 47 Old-time oath 
49 1960's tripper Timothy 53 Best Picture of 1997 55 3 on a sundial 57 Grassy area 58 Ballpark mainte­nance groups 61 Pulitzer winner Jefferson 64 Unaccompanied 
,. ·1;~,-' 1~-:(

· i · I · J J . i I . II ' , I I.
r -. ' J . ~ ' ! ' . 

MEN'S BASKETBALL

!j 
.\\ 
' l I i No treasure for pirates 

I 
l 
!
i. 
' 
I 
. 
. 
'
i. 

No Francis, no problem in 71-68 Irish win 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

The game plan was different and so were the results. 
Despite the absence of sopho­more forward Torin Francis, Notre Dame (12-9, 6-5 Big East) got its s e c o n d See Also 
straight con­

"Return date
ference victo­ry in a 71-68 unknown for win over 
Francis"
Seton Hall (16-6, 6-4) at page 18 the Joyce Center Saturday afternoon. 
"Everybody's really picking it up," junior guard Chris Thomas said. "You can't replace a dou­ble-double in Torin, but we're picking up the intensity and playing with a tremendous amount of confidence." 
The team announced Friday game that Francis -who aver­ages 14.8 points and a team­

high 8.8 rebounds per game­is out indefinitely due to a bulging disk in his lower back. 
Notre Dame lacked a consis­tent low-post threat, but Irish coach Mike Brey and the Irish changed the offensive scheme 
see FRANCIS/page 18 
CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer Rick Cornett slams In a dunk during the 71-68 Irish victory at the Joyce Center Saturday afternoon. 

ByJOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
After 19 minutes and 58 seconds of frowning, scowl­

I 
) \ ing and looking completely frustrated, Irish coach Muffet McGraw finally smiled. All it took was a buzzer­beating 3-pointer. Jeneka Joyce drained four 3-pointers -the last one as 
the first half buzzer sounded -and scored all of her career-high 14 points in the first 20 minutes to spark Notre Dame over Providence 81-51 Saturday night at the Joyce Center. 
Joyce swished the last-sec­ond 3-pointer from about 22 feet, spun herself around with her hands in the air

:t 
i after it went in and raced to the locker room. The team followed, including an out­wardly excited McGraw. 
Jones leads Irish resurge11ce 
Trailing by six points with just over two minutes left in the game, Seton Hall was barely clinging to its hopes for a victo­ry when John Allen drove hard toward the basket and tossed up what seemed to be an uncontested layup that would have cut the Irish lead to four. 
It didn't stay uncon­tested for very long. 
Torrian Jones, Notre Dame's resident S.W.A.T. team operative, soared high into the air and reached his arm up even higher. Just as quickly as Allen released the ball, it moved away from Jones' hand even faster. 
Saying he rejected Allen's shot would be an understatement. The ball landed well out of bounds and started bouncing up the tunnel from where Notre Dame enters the Joyce Center court. Jones finally landed, waved his arms in front of him as if to say, "No way, not today," 

Andrew Soukup 
Sports Writer 
see JONES/page 18 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Joyce's career night leads Irish over Friars 
"Jeneka was the difference, espeCially in the first half," McGraw said. "She had the knockout punch at the end of the half to hit that 3-pointer. That was really great to see her come in and have a great 
game."  
Joyce said she  was just  
doing her job.  
"Whenever  I  have  an  

opportunity to play and get in, I take my shots when they're open," Joyce said. "That's my job. I'm just filling my role." 
The Irish had five players score in double figures for the first time since February of 2003. Forward Jacqueline Batteast recorded her eighth double-double of the season, scoring 14 points and grab­bing 10 rebounds, while Joyce (14), Courtney LaVere 
(12) Teresa Borton (11) and 
see JOYCE/page 17 

HOCKEY 
Irish move to sixth in conference 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish showed no love for Ferris State on Valentine's Day weekend, collecting a 4-2 win Friday and a 4-1 victory Saturday. 
An offense that has been rather quiet all year finally start­ed clicking as the Irish scored a combined eight goals in their two wins. 
Notre Dame collected three goals from its defensemen on Saturday, and even goalie David Brown helped out on the offense with an assist Friday night. 
"We really worked on getting the puck to the net this week in practice," Poulin said. 
The Irish got the puck to the net quickly in both games this weekend, scoring the first goal in each with less than three min­utes elapsed in the first period. 
Also, in a season in which the luck of the Irish simply hasn't been there, Notre Dame got a few bounces to go their way. Friday the Irish scored a short­handed goal in what was per­haps one of the strangest plays of the entire season. 
With the score tied 2-2 in the third period, and the Bulldogs on a power play, Notre Dame was forced to take a faceoff in its defensive zone. Irish forward Jason Smith won the draw and made a short pass to forward 
T.J. Jindra, who skated the puck into the neutral zone. 
Jindra then flipped the puck along the center-ice boards, and Ferris State goaltender Mike Brown headed toward the boards to stop it. 
The puck glanced off a metal scansion and deflected toward the vacated net. Brown tried to get back to stop it, but the puck hit off the wall at a perfect angle and slid down the ice into the empty net. 
"We finally got a bounce to go our way," Jindra said after the game. "Anytime you get a goal on the penalty kill it's a big goal. I just dumped the puck down and got a lucky bounce." 
Notre Dame's special teams came through in a big way this weekend, with Notre Dame's power play scoring two goals on Saturday, and the team killing all nine Ferris State power plays in the two games, in addition to Jindra's shortie. 
When shorthanded, The Irish have been especially solid lately and stretched their streak to 33 
see BULLDOGS/page 17 

en 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MENS LACROSSE 
NO TRACK 
SMC BASKETBAll

WOMENS LACROSSE
MEN'S TENNIS 
t: u LLI 

Notre Dame beats 
Irish beat Wisconsin
Kristen Duff and Ryan 
Notre Dame 14 
Alma 77

Notre Dame 17 
z Virginia Common-
Pytel lead the Irish run­

5-2 in home victory
Boston College 11 
Saint Mary's 65

Team Canada 9 
wealth, Boston College 
ners at Windsor Team
::5 

and Virginia Tech over 
Challenge in Canada. 
The Belles drop their

Irish set 10 straight 
Lauren Fischer's three 
== the weekend and 
goals and rally to win. 
eighth consecutive road

goals and two assists 
improve to 5-1. 
loss, and fall to 1-11 in

lead Notre Dame over 
the MIAA.
Team Canada. 
a.= 
page 12

page 12 
page 16

page 15 
page 16 

page 15
en 




