
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
PSA descends on Office of the President 
Counselor to the President remained outside the office
Students speak 'With 
Father Peter Jarret on doors. administrators about Malloy's behalf. Chandra Johnson, assistant About 30 members of the to the president, said she
Taco Bell contract Progressive Student Alliance noticed Barnett having a con­arrived at Malloy's office to versation with Jarret and deliver several copies of a let­decided to brief the students 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
ter asking the administration about Malloy's standard prac­
New• FJiror 
to issue a public statement tice. against renewing its current "I know he's not going to 
II u 11 ge r-striking stud~~ n ts marketing relationship with come out because historically who approaclwd the office of the restaurant, on the grounds he doesn't do that," Johnson U n ivn rsi ty PresidiHl t Father of alleged unfair wages and told the group. "That's not his Edward Malloy Wednesday labor standards held by Taco style." al't1•rnoon scPking comment Boll's tomato providers. After Johnson said later that about Notre Damn's r.ontraet speaking initially with admin­although the students could with Taco Bell wore told that it istrative assistant Susan not speak with the President is not Malloy's "style" to issue Barnett. who informed them directly, their concerns were a spontarwous statement. but that Malloy was unavailable, w1•ro invill~d to speak with several of the students see INCIDENT/page 8 

ROTC holds Pass and Review 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior StatTWritcr 
Members of Notre Dame's lWTC units gathered in the Loftus Sports Center Wednesday afternoon for the annual Presidnntial Pass in Heview. Tlw ovent centors on a ceremonial parade, in which r.ad1~ts and midshipmen pres­ent themselves to University l'n~sident Father Edward Malloy. 
N1~arly 400 members of the Army battalion, the Navy bat­talion and the Air Force wing stood at att1~ntion in rank and file, as a color guard marched up to the reviewing platform. 
As the Great Lakes Navy Band struck up the first notes of "The Star-Spangled Banner," the color guard dipped the flags of the four armed services in salute to the American flag. 
Malloy then conferred sever­al awards-consisting of off1­eers' sabers -on the top eadnts from each unit. 
Following the awards pres­entation, Malloy addressed the cadets. The university pn~sident -a native of the Washington. D.C. area ­
see ROTC/page 4 

Father Edward Malloy, right, addresses ROTC students, top, during the Pass and Review.
•
PHOTOS BY MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
'Best class ever' adjusts, excels at Notre Dame 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
The current freshman class earned the title of the "best class ever" after it statistically surpassed all previous classes with an average SAT score of 1359 and an average ACT of 
31.1. Nearly two semesters later -and with a new "best class ever" on its heels -the Class of 2007 has lived up to the expectations of many but still faced some challenges in adjusting to Notre Dame, according to members of First Year of Studies and freshmen. In addition to academic achievements, the class of 2007 also entered Notre Dame accomplished in a lot of activi­ties. Their achievements also included non-academic endeavors: 84 percent were volunteers, 71 percent played a varsity sport, 36 percent were captains of their teams, 41 percent had artistic inter­ests, 10 percent held editor positions and nine percent were either student body or senior class presidents. With these statistics, many predicted great success for this class, and, in large part, they have not been disappointed. Academically the class has preformed exceptionally well, according to Kevin Rooney, of Studies. 
The average freshman GPA increased from 3.28 to 3.33 over last year. Additionally, 65 freshmen received a 4.0 GPA -another substantial increase over freshmen from previous years. During the past few years the number of freshmen receiving 4.0 GPAs has ranged from 38 to 56. While the Class of 2007 has 
assistant dean in the First Year see 2007/page 6 

Pollard 
•


receives Hesburgh a-ward 
By KATIE LAIRD News Writer 
C. William Pollard, the chairman emeritus of ServiceMaster Company, received the Theodore M. llesburgh Award for Ethics in Business Wednesday at the Jordan 


Auditorium. 
The award was given as part of the Cahill Lecture Series, which recognizes commitment to ethical behavior and integrity. 
"1 cannot think of two men I admire more than C. William Pollard and Father Hesburgh," said Joseph Maciariello, a Horton Professor of Management at Claremont Graduate University, who was the guest speaker at the series. 
Maciariello encouraged students and other audi­ence members to create companies that are "not only economically sound, but morally just." He praised the work of Pollard, who set up four objectives to define ServiceMaster and its practices and stressed the importance of recogniz­ing the dignity of every worker. 
see AWARD/page II 

~-------~--~-­
'·",' 
Thursday, April 15, 2004
t page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Interesting roo1nmates 
The end of the semester is rapidly approaching and I know y'all are thinking this is going to be a sappy reflection back on the year. However, to the dedicated readers of 
the inside col-Cheryl Barker 
umn, I have decided to share my experiences Viewpoint as the roommate Copy Editor of two scene­shop gnomes and a music major. 
I believe that I shall start with my very own music major. I myself am not a music major -never have been, never will be. With this in mind, I find it hard to understand why any one in their right mind would ever want to be a music major. I've learned that if you walk up to any music major and say "music theory," you get hit or pierced with killer eyes, or the music major faints at the thought. 

Like all typical musiciany people -a word invented by us to describe the normal mental state of a musi­cian -my roommate walks around in her own little world. She is always spouting words like "f' and "g." And she is very good at composing music; the other day she wrote a little ditty about the wonders of gummy worms. My music major fills our room with music. The room just would not be the same without her. 
Also here at Saint Mary's, buried in the middle of Moreau between lit­tle theater and O'Laughlin, lies a lit­tle room. This room would be the envy of every normal male in the world. There are enough screws, hammers, nail guns and other manly toys to keep several men busy for the rest of their life. There are even some welding thingy-majiggers thrown in for good measure. But the amusing part of this is that the men who use these toys are actually tal­ented, kick butt women who are the backbone of every production here at Saint Mary's. 
These girls can do things most men will only ever be able to dream about doing. They spend every after­noon climbing ladders, adjusting sound equipment, sawing lumber, building fake floors, 'playing' with nail guns and doing anything else set designers and production man­agers come up with. In the weeks before a production, they bury themselves in the shop until the wee hours of the morning, yelling at doors that don't close right, lights that don't shine right and sets that don't look right. The night of the production, these women become lit­tle black gnomes that scurry back and forth moving heavy sets. The best part of the entire thing is when all the scene shop women gather in our room for an evening of retelling the disasters of the production (and there are always several) and eating leftover cake and cookies. 

I encourage everyone to come wit­ness the wonders of the music majors and scene shop gnomes, as they show off their talents in many upcoming productions. Here is a shout out to all of the sects of Moreau-you guys are awesome. Keep up the good work. 
Contact Cheryl Barker at bark0916@saintmarys. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Wednesday's article titled "Sollmann hopes he can return," the name of umpire Bruce Doane was misspelled. Additionally, the photo for the article 'Tough breaks cause Irish to crumble" was from Notre Dame's 2-1 loss to Sr. John's. The Observer regrets the errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE ANNUAL PASS AND REVIEW? 

Barbara Sloan Joe Sinnott John Sikorski Nick Matich Phil Moss Stephen Harvey 
Freshman Junior Freshman Sophomore Freshman Freshman Pasquerilla West Siegfried Stanford Keenan Stanford Alumni 
"I think it "I thought it "{It] makes me "It's pretty "It was 'uber' "I think we 







sharp. , should march on South Quad.'' 
IN BRIEF 

An information session on Burma's Forgotten War will take place today at 10 a.m. in LaFortune. The event is part of Asian American Heritage Week and is sponsored by the Free Burma Coalition. 
James Wetherbee, an astro­naut and Notre Dame graduate, will discuss high reliability organizations and the role of leadership and responsibility in creating and maintaining the conditions necessary to sustain a culture of high reliability. The lecture takes place this after­noon at 1:45 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Class of 2004 will host a dinner for seniors tonight at 6 
p.m. at K's. 

A march for Sexual Assault Awareness Week will take place tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh Library reflecting pool. The event is sponsored by CARE. 
The Not So Royal Shakes­peare Company will present "King Lear" tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
James Keener will deliver a lecture titled "Diffusion" tonight 8 p.m. in Hayes-Healy room 127. 
A recitation of the rosary will take place tonight in the Coleman Morse chapel at 9:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame alumnus Danielle Rose will deliver a concert tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 75 HIGH 58 LOW 40 LOW 42 
should've been was one of jealous that I sweet., 
outside because those 'punt, didn't do ROTC the snappy pass and kick' when they white Navy competitions, wanted me to. , 
uniforms would but it wound be have been being cool 
,,

blinding.,, anyway. 
Flasher attacked by schoolgirls sentenced 

PHILADELPHIA -A man who was tackled and beaten by a group of Roman Catholic schoolgirls after he flashed them outside their high school was sentenced Wednesday to 10 months to two years in prison. 
Rudy Susando, 25, also was sentenced to 5 years probation after his release, Assistant District Attorney Noel Ann DeSantis said. Susando, a native of Indonesia, also might face deportation after his sen­tence is served, DeSantis said. 
Susando was arrested Oct. 
TODAY D::: 

1.1.1 :I: 
~ 
1.1.1 

3: 
-I
cr: 
(.) 
0 


Messiah College near Harrisburg in 1970, put down his pointer Thesday at age 104. Crist, though, has no plans to rest on his lau­rels. 
Instead, he'll keep up with his research and academic papers. 
"When you have a mis­sion, you go after it," said Crist, who worked on the Manhattan Project. 
Two years ago, at age 102, Crist was named America's oldest worker by the nonprofit training group Experience Works. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
30 when more than a dozen girls from St. Maria Goretti High School for Girls, with the help of a bystander, chased him and wrestled him to the ground and held him for police. When he resisted, the girls kicked him repeatedly. He was taken to a hospital and treated for minor injuries to his mouth. 
World's oldest worker quits at104 
GRANTHAM, Pa. -A man billed as the world's oldest worker is calling it quits. 
Ray Crist, a retired scien­tist who started teaching at 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 



..... HIGH 61 HIGH 67 HIGH 75 HIGH 75 
LOW 38 LOW 58 LOW 55 LOW 50 
Atlanta 71 I 50 Boston 50 I 37 Chicago 70 I 51 Denver 70 I 40 Houston 78 I 58 Los Angeles 69 I 54 Minneapolis 74 I 58 New York 55 I 42 Philadelphia 60 I 40 Phoenix 90 I 63 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 73 I 56 Tampa 73 I 55 Washington 61 1 43 
~ 

~ 
Thursday, April 15, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 


Senators appoint, elect new officers to posts 
Chairperson position for Oversight 
Committee remains 
vacant 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
Senators approved student body president Adam Istvan's nominations for Senate stand­ing committee chairmen and elected members to various committees during their Wednesday meeting. 
The Senate unanimously approved Istvan's nominations for chairman of the Standing Committees on Gender Helations, Diversity, Academic Affairs, University Affairs and Hesidence Life. 
Elizabeth Shappell, a fresh­man from Badin, was appoint­ed to lead the Gender Helations Committee·. Fisher junior Hussell Morton will chair the Diversity Committee. Alumni sophomore Vijay Hamanan will serve the Academic Affairs Committee. Katie Boyle, a junior from Cavanaugh Ilall, will lead the University Affairs Committee. Sarah Bates, a Pasqucrilla West junior, will chair the Hesidenee Life Committee. 
"We're really going to go far 
with this group of people," Bongiovanni and Siegfried Istvan said. senator James Leito to serve 
Istvan chose not to desig­on the Campus Life Council. nate an outside nomination O'Neill senator Alex French for the Oversight Committee. was elected as the alternate 
"We left Oversight out so the member. Senate could elect their own "Thank you very much [for chairman because that com­electing me to] CLC," mittee was really in tune to Bongiovanni said. "''ll work the Senate working within really hard." 
itself," he said.  Bongiovanni,  
Senators  Sujal Pandya,  sena­ 
also elected representa­ "We're really going  tor for Fisher, Josh Pasquesi, senator  
tives within Senate  from the to  to go far with this group ofpeople. "  for Morrissey and Dihan Fernando, the off-campus sen­ 
serve  as  ator,  were  elected  
liaisons for the  Adam Istvan  to  the  Council  of  
J  u  d i  c  i  a I  student body president  Representatives.  

Council and Faculty Senate and represen­tatives for the Financial Management Board, Campus Life Council, Council of Hepresentatives and the Advisory Committee on Academic and Student Life. 
Liz Kozlow, a freshman from Pasquerilla West, was unani­mously elected the Judicial Council Liaison and Chris Harris, a freshman from Carroll, and Jeff Mullin, a sophomore from Stanford, were unanimously elected to serve on the Financial Management Board. All three ran unopposed. 
The Senate e I ec ted Cavanaugh senator Jordan Zahm Hall senator 
Mike McGinley, was 

elected as the alter­nate. 
Pasquerilla East senator Casey Stanton was elected to serve on the Advisory Committee on Academic and Student Life. 
Welsh Family senator Steph Pelligra will serve as the liai­son to the Faculty Senate. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Senators will resume the debate on the reorganization of programming wiihin stu­dent government during their next meeting. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

The Keough Institute for Irish Studies is pleased to announce that Angela Bourke will be the Naughton Fellow for 2004-2005. A Senior Lecturer in Modern Irish in University College Dublin, Angela has published widely on oral culture and literature, including two books Caoineadh na dTrf Muire ( 1983), a study of the Crucifixion in oral religious poetry, and The Burning of Bridget Cleary: A True Story ( 1999), a critically acclaimed cultural history of how a young Tipperary woman came to be burned to death by her relatives in 1895. Her next book Maeve Brennan: Homesick at The New Yorker will be published in London by Jonathan Cape in June 2004 and by Counterpoint, New York in October. A highly regarded teacher, she has previously been a visiting pro­fessor at Harvard University and the University of Minnesota; she was appointed a member of Royal Irish Academy in spring 2004. 
6012 IRST 304:0 I T H 2:00-3: I 5 Angela Bourke Minors only thru 2nd period 
Women in Irish Oral Tradition Oral storytelling, traditional singing and other verbal arts can offer ways of thinking and knowing that are independent of the linear modes of writing and print. Moreover, like other kinds of art, oral tradition offers individuals and communities ways of constructing and maintaining identity, often against considerable external pressure. This course will explore oral verbal art in Irish and English, through tran­scribed texts, sound recordings and film, paying particular attention to depictions of and performances by women, and offering gendered readings of the material studied. We will examine and discuss a number of genres of oral verbal art, including the International Folktale, Legends of the Supernatural, and Lament Poetry, and will also pay attention to the use of this material by twentieth-century writers. Translations of Irish-language texts will be available, so no prior knowledge of Irish is required. 
Thursday, April 15, 2004
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
ILS offers volunteer, internship positions 
By MERYL GUYER 
News Writer 
Students interested in law 
school or preparing for a career 
in the public sector may be able 
to take advantage of internships 
for college credit during the 
school year. Opportunities for 
students to volunteer and intern 
at Indiana Legal Services (ILS) 
in downtown South Bend are 
increasing as a result of cuts in 
areas previously manned by 
Americorps volunteers. 
Providing the educational cer­tificate and housing expenses for the volunteers proved too costly for ILS, especially during a difficult economic period where nonprofit organizations, have recently suffered. Instead, ILS will look to supplement its force with volunteers and interns from the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and IUSB, accord­ing to Heather Dicks, the volun­teer coordinator for ILS. 
ILS is a nonprofit law firm that provides legal counsel for low-income citizens involved in civil cases. These cases may range from eviction to domestic violence to divorce, to access to health care and government benefits. 
According to Dicks, the role of interns and volunteers is vital to the organization because they handle the majority of first con­tacts with clients. The volunteer spends time gathering informa­tion over the phone according to checklists appropriate to each type of case to ensure that ILS can serve the client accord­ing to federal guidelines, she said. 
ILS is partially funded by the government, as well as through 

:ERASM_u_s-Efoo_K_s: 
I I 
1. Used Books bought and sold :. 2.5 Categories of Books :• 2.5,000 Hardback and 1 Paperback books in stock :. Out-of-Print search service 
1• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

private donations, and is there­fore committed to serving indi­viduals who fall within 125 per­cent of the federal poverty line. 
After the interview, the intern writes a report for an attorney from the firm to review. The attorneys are not able to take every case they see because of their limited staff, but ILS han­dles roughly 2,000 cases a year. Interns and volunteers, there­fore, serve as the first connec­tion between the client and the attorney. 
"It's a detail-oriented position that requires good writing, lis­tening, and interviewing skills, as well as empathy for people in some very distressing situa­tions," Dicks said. 
David Stevens, a Notre Dame senior who has worked with ILS since Jan. 2003, will continue to work at the office when he begins his at Notre Dame's Law School next year. 
Stevens cited his experience with ILS through an internship in the political science depart­ment as one motivation for going to law school. Beyond the influence ILS has had on his plans for law school, Stevens recommends it as an internship for students from all majors. 
"It's worthwhile because you can see that the organization does make an impact on peo­ple's lives and there are people out there who need the services they provide," he said. 
Public information sessions for individuals interested in vol­unteering or interning with ILS are scheduled for April 20 at 
2:00 p.m. and April 23 at 10:00 a.m. 
Contact Meryl Guyer at mguyer@nd.edu 
~n Daily 9-dm-~pm Sun.N<M1n-8pm 
1813 South Bend Ave. 
lcJCatcd iu tht Mine pl~ce ns Bc1w~n the Bam'J! 
574.993.0310 
A comedy by George Bernard Shaw 
Directed by Ann Marie Stewart Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April 21 7:30 p.m. Thursday, April 22 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 25 2:30 p.m. 
Reserved Sea.ts $10 • Senior Citizens $9 All Students $7, 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. 
MasterCard/Visa oJ·ders, call 574-631-8128. 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 

recalled serving as an altar boy during military funerals at nearby Arlington National Cemetery. Malloy said the experiences impacted his thinking about the American military. 
"There was a profound sense of both peace and appreciation," he said. 
He praised the cadets for their dedication to military service. 
"The profession that you're preparing to enter is about very fundamental things," he said. "It's about life and death; it's about devotion to family, to country and to humanity." 
Malloy said the students, who will be commissioned as officers upon graduation, will face difficult and dangerous situations, much as their predecessors have. 
"Many who stood before you ... are now in the front lines," he said. 
He said that the role of the military has expanded in recent history beyond its tra­ditional role of fighting wars. The modern American soldier helps rebuild communities after natural disasters, con­ducts international peace­keeping operations, prevents ethnic conflicts and fights ter­rorism, Malloy said. 
Malloy then turned his remarks to the senior class of cadets and midshipmen. 
"We hope that [your] time here among us has helped you grow in every possible way," he said. "We're confident that we can be proud of you ­that you will be worthy people of integrity in the military profession." 
After Malloy's remarks, Capt. Jim Shelton gave the order: "Pass in review." 
The units then marched with well-rehearsed precision past the reviewing platform. As they passed, company commanders turned to salute Malloy and their officers. 
Several cadets, like Army junior John Dickson, said that the ceremony was an oppor­tunity to reflect on Notre Dame's support of the mili­tary. 
"It's a great chance to cele­brate the end of the year," Dickson said. "Marching before the school is a great honor." 
Shelton, the Navy unit's commanding officer, agreed, saying the event honors both the cadets and Notre Dame. 
"It's an opportunity for them to show off what they've learned," he said. "It's a neat ceremony and a chance to say 'thank you' to the University." 
The event was well attend­ed, despite construction proj­ects which made it difficult to access Loftus directly. More than 200 students, faculty members and area residents turned out for the ceremony in the cavernous facility, which serves as a practice field for Irish athletics. 
Among the students in attendance was senior Ed Stocks, who gave a very sim­ple reason for his presence. 
''I'm here to support my friends," he said. 
At the same time, Stocks said he has wrestled with the juxtaposition between mili­tary training and Catholic doctrine. 
"Sometimes it's hard for me to understand," Stocks said. "Regardless, it's a very posi­tive thing to support one's country and to be of service." 
Senior Andrzej Syski said Notre Dame adds a unique element to the military educa­tion cadets receive in their ROTC courses. 
"It's important that our mili­tary leaders have a good edu­cation in morality and faith," Syski said. 
Although the event was not marked by the protests that have occurred in years past, controversy still touched the Pass in Review. 
Last fall, the Student Senate gathered more than 1,000 sig­natures on a petition to move the event to South Quad, where it had been until 2001. Despite the petition and a request from ROTC officials for an outdoor location, uni­versity administrators direct­ed that the ceremony be held on Loftus' artificial turf. 
University spokesman Matt Storin said concerns about inclement weather were the impetus for the move. 
"The primary reason that the request for an outdoor ceremony was turned down was weather," he said. "It can be very raw this time of year." 
Some cadets and non-ROTC students privately suggested that administrators deliber­ately put the ceremony in an out-of-the-way location, hop­ing to avoid criticism of the military's role in a Catholic university. 
Storin dismissed those con­cerns, noting that several key University administrators were in attendance, including Bill Kirk, associate vice presi­dent for residence life, and Father Richard Warner, direc­tor of campus ministry. Storin said Notre Dame administra­tors believe in the ROTC pro­gram. 
"By no means is there a loss of faith in ROTC," he said. But senior Army cadet Sean Williams suggested-otherwise. 
"It was decent attendance, considering the fact that that it was all the way in construc­tion-filled Loftus," Williams said. "The weather sure was good for having it outside." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 





Clover RidgeApartments 

18011rish wav Tel: 514.212.1441 South Bend, IN 46637 Fax: 574.272.1461 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 15, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fallujah shaken by more fighting 
FALLU.JAII.· Iraq-U.S. warplanes strafed gunmen in Fallujah on Wednesday, and more than 100 guerrillas with rocket­propelled grenades pounded a lone Marine armored vehicle lost in the streets -a sign of heavy battles ahead if Marines resume a full assault on this besieged city. 
With a trucn crumbling and President Bush calling for a kny U.N. role to keep the coun­try's political transition moving amid the vio­lence. a top U.N. envoy proposed an Iraqi carntaker government in a formula that abandons a U.S.-favored plan. 
Meanwhile, Iraqi militants executed one of four Italian hostages, Italy confirmed. The captors issued demands including the with­drawal of U.S. forces from Iraq and threat­mwd to kill the three others, according to the Arab TV network Al-Jazeera, which said it receivnd a videotape of the murder. 
Cheney tells Taiwan to be wary 
SIIANGIIAI. China -Vice President Dick Cheney on Wednesday suggested a link between Chinese efforts to restrict self-gov­ernment in Hong Kong and China's tense dealings with Taiwan. lie also defended U.S. arms sales to Taiwan. 
"I didn't come to alter Chinese policy. I did come with the mission of making clear what our views were. I think we achieved that," Cheney told reporters after meetings with Chinese leaders in Beijing. 
The vice president was ending the China leg of his weeklong Asia tour with a foreign policy speech Thursday at Shanghai's Fudan University. lie next goes to South Korea. 
In his Beijing meetings, Cheney suggested to Chinese leaders that people in Taiwan might view current activity in Hong Kong. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Years needed to correct CIA flaws 
WASHINGTON -The CIA intelligence­gathering flaws exposed by the Sept. 11 attacks will take live years to correct, agency Director George Tenet said Wednesday. The chairman of the commission investigating the 2001 hijackings called the time frame frightening. 
The panel released statements harshly criticizing the CIA for failing to fully appreci­ate the threat posed by al-Qaida before Sept. 11 and questioning the progress of what commissioners say are the FBI's badly need­ed reorganization efforts. 
Tenet, appearing before the commission for the second time in three weeks, said that in the 1990s the CIA lost 25 percent of its personnel. was not hiring new analysts and faced disarray in its training of clandestine officers who work overseas to penetrate ter­ror cells and recruit secret informants. 

Driver steals car, hits pedestrians 
FUQUAY-VARINA, N.C.-Police said a man In a white T-shirt and boxer shorts mowed down five pedestrians with a stolen van in separate hit-and-run incidents Wednesday, leaving a dying man pinned under the vehi­cle and another victim critically injured. 
Police said the driver was arrested in cen­tral North Carolina after crashing another stolen vehicle. Abdullah El-Amin Shareef, 25, was charged with murder and taken to a state mental hospital. 
INDIANA NEWS 
Meth cook hurt in explosion 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Reed Skelton was kicking it back on a Saturday night in his hotel room, sipping beer and watching porn when the methamphetamine he was brewing exploded in the bathroom. 
The flash fire blew out his room window and severely injured him. In the chaos that followed, 156 guests were evacuated from the Baymont Inn and the hotel's water sprin­klers went off, contributing to about $120,000 in damage, said police Sgt. Mike Lauderdale. 


B11:sh endorses West Bank plans 
Sharon decides to retain settlements, will not allow Palestinian refugees in Israel 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -In a historic policy break, President Bush on Wednesday endorsed Israel's plans to retain ·West Bank settlements in any peace accord with the Palestinians. Bush also ruled out the return of Palestinian refugees to 
Israel. 

An elated Israeli Prime 
Minister Ariel Sharon said 
his plan to pull back from 
parts of the West Bank and 
Gaza, hailed by Bush, 
would create "a new and 
better reality for the state 
of Israel." 

But Palestinian Prime 
Minister Ahmed Qureia ­
with whom the Bush 
administration deals while 
boycotting leader Yasser 
Arafat-strongly criti­
cized Bush's move. 

"He is the first president 
who has legitimized the 
settlements in Palestinian 
territories," Qureia said of AP 
Bush. "We as Palestinians Ahmed Qureia, prime minister of Palestine, speaks to reporters on Wednesday
reject that. We cannot 

regarding his rejection of U.S. statements about a West Bank peace agreement.
accept that. We reject it 
and we refuse it." Arafat illegal. In his break from long-released separately. 
had earlier called the idea Sharon, in gaining Bush's standing U.S. policy, Bush But Bush, in a news con­
"the complete end of the backing of his unilateral said it was unrealistic to ference with Sharon at his 
peace process." plan to withdraw all expect Israel to disband all side, gave a key concession 
Palestinian leaders had Jewish settlers and mili-large Je~ish settlements in the Israeli leader had 
previously said they had tary installations from the West Bank -or to sought, saying there were 
been assured by the Bush Gaza and from some areas return to the borders it "new realities" on the West 
administration they would of the West Bank, offered held before capturing the Bank since Israel captured 
be consulted before any several concessions in a territory in the 1967 the land along with Gaza 
endorsement of Sharon's letter to Bush. The Israeli Mideast war-in any final and east Jerusalem in the 
plan. No Palestinians were leader said he would limit peace deal. 1967 war. 
present during the the growth of Jewish set-Behind the scenes, Past U.S. presidents have 
announcement by Sharon tlements and remove all administration officials operated on the assump­
and Bush -in what was unauthorized outposts on tried to cast the day's tion there could be some 
sure to be seen by the the West Bank. And events as Bush gaining changes in Israel's bar­
Arab world as a strong Sharon said a security concessions from Sharon. ders. But Bush went much 
favoring of Sharon and a fence Israel is building to A senior U.S. official, further. 
slight to the Palestinians. deter Palestinian attacks speaking on condition of He committed himself to 
Previous U.S. administra­was "temporary rather anonymity, said the Israel's retention of parts 
tions have described than permanent." Palestinians' statements of the West Bank in a letter 
Jewish settlements as Bush called Sharon's were viewed as simply to Sharon in which he said 
obstacles to peace. One of plan historic and urged reflecting anxiety that that approach was neces­
Bush's . predecessors, Palestinians to match would be eased once they sary for Israel's security­
Jimmy Carter, went even Israel's "boldness and read Bush's and Sharon's an approach long taken by 
further and called them courage." statements on the issue, the former general. 


Student faked own kidnapping 
medicine she claimed her abductor Friends said the two had been Associated Press used to restrain her. Seiler confessed fighting, and Seiler's roommate, after she was confronted with the Heather Thue, told officers that 
MADISON, Wis. -A college stu­tape, according to authorities. Fisher did not pay as much attention dent accused of faking her own kid­"I set up everything. I'm just so to Seiler as she wanted. Seiler's napping last month was charged messed up. I'm sorry," they quoted mother told police her daughter had Wednesday with lying to police in her as saying. But she later recanted not been herselnately and was what they suggested was a desperate the statement, insisting she had been "extremely needy" of Fisher. attempt to get her boyfriend's atten­abducted. Three days before she disap­tion. Hundreds of people from Madison peared, her laptop was used to log 
Audrey Seiler, a 20-year-old sopho­and Seiler's hometown searched for onto Fisher's e-mail account and more at the University of Wisconsin, her after she disappeared, and her read exchanges "with romantic over­was charged with two misdemeanor claim about an armed man touched tones" between him and another counts of obstructing officers. Each off a major manhunt that authorities woman, according to the complaint. charge carries up to nine months in said cost the police about $96,000. A message left at Seiler's home in jail and a $10,000 line.· Her first court appearance was Rockford, Minn., was not immediate­
Seiler disappeared from her off­scheduled for Thursday, but her ly returned. There was no answer at campus apartment March 27 without attorn~y was expected to appear in the campus telephone number for her coat or purse. She was discov­her place. Fisher, Seiler's boyfriend. ered curled in a fetal position in a Lawyer Randy Hopper would not Hopper said Seiler was home with marsh four days later, and told police say Wednesday whether she would her parents and receiving "medical that a man had abducted her at contest the charges. He called Seiler care and the care and support that knife point. a "model student, a model citizen." she needs from her family." 
But police concluded Seiler made The criminal complaint depicts Seiler had also reported an unex­up the story after obtaining a store Seiler as a young woman upset by a plained attack in February, saying videotape that showed her buying fading relationship with her she was struck from behind and left the knife, duct tape, rope and cold boyfrie~d. Ryan Fisher. unconscious. 

page 6 Thursday, April 15, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
son, the freshman class will be ousness." overwhelmed. however, said the transition evaluated by the degree in "[I have students] who want "I don't think the work load from high school to college has
2007 

which they immerse themselves  to do  more than one degree,  has been any harder, I just  been slightly more difficult than  
continued from page 1  into their majors, as opposed to merely  they also ask what it takes to  think it has been harder to fig­ure out how to manage my time  they anticipated. "Academically it is harder  
preformed well academically, Rooney said that on an individual level these stu­dents do not differ significantly from the average Notre Dame  completing require­ments, he said. First Year Studies advisor Kenneth Deboer acknowl­ "I don't think high school prepared me for the academics atND."  graduate with high honors," he said. "I know students go to parties, get wild  and be organized because there is less structure and a lot more independence," freshman Julie Pearce said. F8llow freshman Jamie  then high school because you have to take responsibility on your own to keep up with your classes. There are fewer grades," freshman Lauren  
class.  edged  the  higher  on  weekends,  Denning said his adjustment to  Hoffman said.  
"Every year there is a new group, I haven't noticed a great difference," he said. "As peo­ grades of the class of 2007, but he added this is a  Meghan Ryder freshman  but I think they work extremely hard and want  Notre Dame has been relatively smooth. "I don't think that the aca­ Freshman Meghan Ryder agreed. "I don't think high school pre­ 
ple, the freshmen are the same  nationwide trend.  their education  demic workload is as challeng­ pared me for the academics at  
as  other  ND  students."  While Deboer has  to mean some­ ing as I had predicted upon  ND,  I  was  really surprised  
Rooney said that he believes  not observed a dramatic differ­ thing."  entering Notre Dame," he said.  when I came here," she said.  
the true test of success will  ence in the freshman class  And what do students think?  "I did not put forth much effort  "My GPA is still pretty good but  
occur when the freshmen are  from the previous year, he said  While some of the members  in the majority of my classes,  not as high as high school."  
entering their junior and senior  that over the past few years  of the "best class ever" have  yet I still managed to do rela­ 
years. Since statistics cannot measure the success of a per- Notre Dame has seen its stu­dent portray "a heighened seri­ dominated the classroom, oth­ers said that they felt a little  tively well in all of them first semester." Some freshmen,  Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu  

Saint MatsColleg~
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
Tne Ntttkln'$ Premier Catnalic Women s CO/loge 
Semester Around the World Program 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 6:00p.m. Mon., April19 in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's OR 6:00p.m., Wed., April 21 in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Japan, China, Tibet, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, all of India and Nepal; optional travel through Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR4473 • FAX (574) 284-4866 e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 

With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Rev Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Bishop of Peoria: 
Saturday, April17, 2004 •1:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a nzore explicit way" 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 
> 1 ~t~iit~~~~:I?~~i# 
\\·~:>::~::~~i;gwtdt~:::;...,{ 
··.;, 
. . "" 

<
< 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, April 15, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 377.95 -3.33
}ones ' 
•. Same: ~: Composite Volume: 749 119 ...,. 1,548,003,584 


~ 6,551.17 -32.46 s&PSOO 1,128.17 -1.27 
I FTSE IOO(London) 4,485.40 -30.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.08 -0.30 27.37 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -0.27 -0.01 3.75 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.24 +0.06 25.5 I CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.52 -0.36 23.26 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.49 +0.06 12.37 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.41 +0.21 51.69 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.97 +0.42 43.82 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.84 +0.62 34.35 3-MONTH BILL +1.30 +0.12 9.34 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.26 36.42 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) •7.20 400.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.875 I03.875 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 108.7 EURO 0.836 POUND 0.5585 
IN BRIEF 
Starbucks keeps high standards 
SEATTLE -The coffee urns at Starbucks Corp. aren't likely to run dry anytime soon, but the company is worried that its brisk growth could create a big problem: finding enough high-quality beans to satisfy increas­ing demand for its lattcs and macchiatos. 
The Seattle-based coffee retailer is rapidly expanding, opening more than three stores a day and planning to more than triple the number it operates to around 25,000 world­wide. 
"Clearly we're concerned, at our company growth rate, that there's going to be enough high quality, Starbucks-quality coffee avail­able," said Willard "Dub" Hay, the company's senior vice president for coffee. 
It's not that Starbucks is using up all the world's coffee; the company said it only buys around 2 percent of the coffee produced. But Starbucks is a major buyer of high-quality coffee, and there is much less of that to go around. 
Scandalous Levitra ad aired 
NEW YOHK -She asks in a sultry voice if you want to know a secret. And when she spills the beans, she is quite explicit. The lat­est ad for an erectile dysfunction treatment is taking the battle for dominance in the $2 billion market up a notch with its frank description of the medicine's purpose. 
The Levitra ad, slated to begin airing Thursday, features an attractive brunette saying the drug improves erection quality and how that experience increases her part­ncr's desire to "do this more often." 
"For him Lcvitra works -just look at that smile," she purrs. 
Erectile dysfunction advertising has changed considerably since a somber Bob Dole explained the medical condition in a 1999 ad paid for by Pfizer Inc., maker of market leader Viagra. 
Lnvitra's initial ads, which began last fall, were criticized by some for being too racy and aggressive. But it was the ad for Cialis, the third entrant into the market, that was the first product to actually mention erectile dysfunction in a national television campaign earlier this year. 
CONSUMER SPENDING 

Consumer costs increasing fast 
Gasoline, air travel and clothing prices force costs rose 0.5 percent in March 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Rising prices for gasoline, air trav­el and clothing propelled consumer costs 0.5 percent higher in March, raising the possibility that the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates this summer. 
Wednesday's reading on the Consumer Price Index, the government's most closely watched inflation measure, revived concerns about the prospects of an inflation flare-up now that thfl economy is rebounding, economists said. 
The report by the Labor Department "confirms my worst fear: Inflation is ris­ing," said Stephen Cecchetti, economics pro­fessor at Brandeis University. "Details confirm that the inflation increase isn't in some isolated place, or the consequence of some special factor." 
The 0.5 percent increase compares with February's 
0.3 percent increase and 

matched January's figure. Especially jolting was the record deficit, the thought." Greenspan and his col­
0.4 percent increase in core Commerce Department For the first three months leagues, however, have put consumer prices, excluding reported. The improvement of this year, consumer consumers, investors and energy and food costs. The came as U.S. exports of prices increased at an businesses on notice that increase was 0.2 percent in goods and services grew annual rate of 5.1 percent, rates cannot stay at such both January and February. strongly and outpaced the compared with a 1.9 per­levels indefinitely. But they 
The latest snapshot of the rise in imports. cent increase for all of have not said when the Fed inflation climate showed With the economy 2003. might start pushing rates consumer prices moving up rebounding, some compa­When the economy was up. more quickly than expect­nies are beginning to have struggling over the past Zandi and other econo­ed. It "solidifies the path a greater ability to raise three years to get back to mists believe a rate toward a Fed tightening product prices, economists full throttle, many compa­increase of one-quarter of a move this summer," said said. Rising energy costs in nies found it difficult to percentage point could Mark Zandi, chief econo­some cases arc being raise prices. That created a come in August, ahead of mist at Economy.com. passed along to consumers climate where inflation the presidential election in 
On Wall Street, stocks in the form of higher prices, hasn't been a threat to the November. That might slipped. The Dow Jones analysts added. economy. upset voters and could irk industrial average lost 3.33 "It's been a long time The long period of tame President Bush, economists points to close at coming, but it appears that inflation is why Federal said. 10,377.95. pricing power has begun to Reserve policy-makers Others do not foresee the 
In other economic news. return," said Joel Naroff, have been able to leave Fed raising rates until the U.S. trade gap nar­president of Naroff short-term interest rates at 2005. Most analysts agree rowed to $42.1 billion in Economic Advisors. "The a 45-year low of 1 percent that the Fed probably will February, a 3.2 percent day the Fed raises rates is since last June. hold rates steady at its next decline from January's coming sooner than many Fed Chairman Alan meeting in May. 

IDENTITY THEFT 

Banks to help identity theft victims 
Services Roundtable, the to reduce the time and expense that 
Associated Press 

Washington, D.C., organization consumers must invest to try to undo 
NEW YORK -More help is on the behind the center. "We're going to try the damage, estimated to cost con­way for victims of identity theft, one to help them." sumers some $5 billion a year, and of the nation's fastest growing There's no question that ID theft is businesses and financial institutions crimes. a growing threat to American con­nearly $50 billion, according to the 
Two big banks -Citigroup and sumers. FTC study. Washington Mutual -have started A study last year for the Federal Ronni Burns, director of business free programs to assist customers Trade Commission found that nearly practices for Citi Cards, a division of whose names or accounts are com­10 million people a year are falling New York-based Citigroup, said Citi promised by thieves. And in June, a victim to identity thieves. In the most credit and debit card holders who national organization representing egregious cases, the thieves open fall victim to identity thieves will be some of the largest banks, broker­new accounts using stolen Social referred to a specialist who will serve ages and finance companies will Security or other identifying num­"like a case worker" in dealing with launch an Identity Theft Assistance bers. or they buy cars or even homes. their problems. Center to help victims clear their In other cases, they tap into unsus­"We find that the first thing they names. pecting consumers' accounts and need is a lot of reassurance," Burns 
"ID theft has reached epidemic lev­empty them. said. "The person calling in doesn't els in the United States, and our cus­The FTC maintains a registry and know how it happened, exactly tomers are having real problems," provides guidance for victims at its what's happened, but they feel their said Steve Bartlett, president and Web site www.consumer.gov/idtheft. privacy has been invaded and they're chief executive of the Financial Still, the government can do little frightened." 
Thursday, April 15, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 

Incident 
continued from page 1 
acknow!edged. 
"What they wanted was a comment or statement from Father Malloy. and only Father Malloy can speak for Father Malloy," she said. "But between myself and Father Jarret I wanted them to have someone to talk to." 
On Malloy's request, Jarret met with representatives from the group to discuss the let­ter's conditions for stopping the 3-day, 44-person hunger strike -a public confirmation that the University will not enter into further contracts with Taco Bell and its promise to make Fair Trade coffee available in both dining halls by the fall semester. In total, 100 students will participate in fasts of varying length. 
Jarret said Malloy is aware the group plans to continue fasting until the University takes a public stance. but also cautioned the students about the possibility of a delayed statement or no statement at all. 
"I was just trying to be truthful," he said, adding that while the administration is interested in the students' information and concerns, it must await a response from Taco Bell before making any judgment. 
"Out of fairness and pru­dence we at least need Taco Bell's side of the situation before we make a statement," he said. 
Taco Bell's side of the situa­tion should be forthcoming, said vice president and gener­al counsel Carol Kaesebier, who has held meetings with PSA members since the fall 2003 semester and sent a let­ter to the corporation on March 5. 
Kaesebier said students pro­vided her with written materi­als indicating their correspon­dence with both Taco Bell and the Coalition of Immokalee Workers -the group involved in the tomato-pickers dispute -and that the general coun­sel's letter came as a result. 
When she sent the letter. Kaesebier said she explained to the students that the University would "be happy to indicate that we're reviewing the situation but wouldn't say we won't do business with [Taco Bell]." she said. "That suggests that Taco Bell is wrong, and we didn't have all of the information." 
On the students' request. Kaesebier also placed a call Wednesday to the letter's intended recipient, but was unable to reach Taco Bell. Kaesebier said she anticipated a response today about when the University should expect an answer, but stressed there has been no indication by either Notre Dame or Taco Bell of intent to renew the contract, which is up at the end of this semester. 
Jarret also pointed out the contract is essentially "dor­mant," as all requirements have been fulfilled. 
While Kaesebier said she was not surprised by the time it had taken representatives to respond because Taco Bell is a "big business," students involved in the hunger strike said they hoped the University would renounce ties with the corporation based on its past defenses, such as the letter Taco Bell provided to student protesters on April 2. 
"I think if it's important to 

[the University]. then they said. should hear Taco Bell's point Gonzalez said she and the of view. but we already know PSA have been delivering simi­
how Taco Bell's going to respond," said Melody Gonzalez. one of the students who met with Jarret. 
Fellow PSA member Brigitte Gynther agreed, calling the wait­ing period a "delay tactic" and saying that she expected Notre Dame to 
"Out offairness and prudence we at least need Taco Bell's side ofthe situation before we make a statement. " 
Father Peter Jarret counselor to the president 

lar letters and e­mails to Malloy for the past two weeks. Kate Kennedy, also on the hunger strike, said Malloy had acknowledged her inquiries. 
"He's respond-ed-so he's defi­nitely been aware of the situation," she said. 
Though the PSA never made an 
take a more active role in official appointment with the soliciting a response. president, Gynther said the "The least the University can decision to approach Malloy's do is pressure Taco Bell," she office came after exhausting 
other options. Despite students' initial 
"We've tried non-confronta­reluctance to meet with him tional methods, scheduled instead of Malloy, Jarret meetings with lawyers," she offered a positive assessment 
said. "He's had an ample amount of time." 
Gonzalez said that PSA mem­bers had realis­tic expectations of Malloy's appearance Wednesday, but 

"The least the University can do is pressure Taco Bell." 
Brigitte Gynther PSA member 
of his conver­sation. 
"Hopefully it's a very good relationship in terms of we're trying to listen to their con­cerns and take them serious­ly," he said. 
emphasized the importance of making their presence felt. 
"We didn't really expect him to come out right then and there, but we wanted him to know we're there," she said. "We just wanted him to see us." 
"But there's a difference between listening to them and using prudence in our actions ... [and] it may take a little patience from both sides." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 



TalkTracker. 
• PREPAID WIRELESS SERVICE 
•llnlimited N;~~:~~ ~Week~ • Includes N,atii::>f1l···ide LfH"h.1 '-istarv. 
Plus get a NOf~A 3SSS color phone for just $25 
-f.:. U.S.Cellulm: 
t-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Lnlim~ed Nights and Weekends ~XOmotion Is a limrted time offer only available on TalkTracl<er Tracl<erPacl< PIErls. Promotional phone offer requires activation of a new TalkTracl<er service. Llmrted time offer. Restrictions may al=l)ly.For TalkTracker coverage and restrictiOns, see the coverage map and brochure available nU.S. Cellular stores and authorized agents. 02004 U.S. CelkJiar Corporation 


NO 
Contracts Monthly Bills 

Credit Checks 

',, • f ~ r 4 
Thursday, Aptil 15, '2004 rj,;·r Jhserver + NEWS page 9 

California to revam.p workers' com.p 
Schwarzenegger, legislators make deal 
A..ociatcd Press 
SACIV\MENTO -California's workPrs' compensation system, Llw most oxponsive in the nation. would get a broad over­haul in a deal reached Wodnosday between logislators and Gov. Arnold Schwarzerwgger. 
Many details were to be worked out in a legislative com­milton Wednesday night, but offlcials said Schwarzenogger succeeded in pushing through two key elements: The bill will not regulate insurance rates. and will allow insurers and employers to select pools of doctors injured workers must use. 
Schwarzenegger made work­ers' comp a centerpiece of his campaign for governor. and final approval of the bill would represent a fresh political victo­ry for the Republican governor. If passed by the committee, the bill will face votes in the Legislature on 1-'riday. 
For months, Schwarzenegger has prodded lawmakers to overhaul a system with the nation's highest bills to employ­ers and some of its lowest bene­fits to injured workers. While working to reach a deal with lawmakers, he has simultane­ously threatened them with a proposed initiative that would ask voters to change the work­ers' comp system. 
Though the legislation appeared to have momentum Wednesday, the governor's staff still held out the threat that Schwaq:enegger would spurn the bill and take his reform plan directly to voters if lawmakers did not meet his bottom line. 
The Notre Dame Department of Music Presents__ _ 
Notre Dame Associate Professor of Music 
Carolyn Plummer,. violin Scott Holshouser, piano 
Works by Handel. Elqar and John Ireland 
Sunday. April 18, 2004 
2:00 p.m. Annenberq Auditorium 
Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
$10 General Admission. $8 ND/SMC Faculty & Staff $6 Senior Citizens. $3 Students Call the LaFortune Box Office tor tickets 
(574) 631-8128 --Visa & MasterCard accepted 
lhu recitdl made ponible throuqh a qrant from the Henkeh lecture Series. Institute for Scholarship In the liberAl Arts, Colleqe of Arts and letters. University of Notre D011me. 
(~~-·\ (~' 





l~i­
Don't miss itl 
Meet the author 
George Weigel 
Letters to a Young Catholic 
We1gel is Pope John Paul's biographer and a best-selling author. 
Friday, April16 
4:00pm 

HAMMES 



NOTRE·DAME BOOKSIDRE 
IN THE E:CIC CENTER 

··:>~,:-:_:~>: .:··. :..,.,_ ...;:· .. :::-... More than just textbo~ks: ·.,·.:.:.<: .. · . ·.·.=·. ~ .. '/ ........ ·~ ... ... .. . .~ . . 
Contractor's wife prays for his return 
Associated Press 
MACON. Miss. -Kellie Hamill said Wednesday her family is struggling with the silence that has followed tho capture of her civilian hus­band in Iraq, maintaining their courage through prayer and the support of others. 
"It's hard, it's really hard," she said. "You want him home. You want to hear from him. You want to hear him." 
Thomas Hamill, 43, a fuel tanker driver for Halliburton band April 7, two days before his abduction. "Wn want to lot everyone know that we're praying for all tho hostages.'.' 

As word that bodies had been discovered circulated through this town of about 2,200, officials and neigh­bors prepared l"or more vigils and prayers for Hamill, Noxubee County's firefighter of the year in 2003. 
"We are praying. We are praying all day long," Kellio 
Hamill said. "I 
know tho Lord 

Co. subsidiary  "We want to let  is  watching  
Kellogg, Brown & Root, was abducted  everyone know that we're praying  over my hus­band and will keep him safe  
Friday  when  for all the  and  he  will  
gunmen attacked his  hostages."  bring him home to mo."  
convoy of fuel  She  said  it  
trucks.  Kellle Hamill  had  been  
Now, Hamill's  wife of captured  extremely diffi­ 
family  must  civilian contractor  cult to explain  

deal with reports that four bodies have been found in Iraq, possibly the remains of private contractors who are missing. 
Kellie Hamill said she had not seen her husband's pic­ture since the weekend, when the Arabic news net­work Al-Jazeera aired tapes of the former dairy farmer. In the segment, Hamill's cap­tors threatened to kill him unless U.S. troops ended their assault on the city of Fallujah. 
A deadline imposed by his abductors came and went Sunday with no word of his fate. 
"It's nerve-racking, not knowing what's going on," said Hamill's mother, Phyllis. 
Wendy Hall, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said Wednesday the company has no new information regard­ing the missing workers and whether the four bodies that were reported found Tuesday have been identified as some of those workers. 
"I would just like to thank everybody for their prayers," Kellie Hamill said, adding she last spoke to her hus­to her 13-year­
old son, Thomas, and 11-year-old daughter, Tori, what was happening to their father. 
"They don't understand. They do know everything. I did not keep anything from my children -we agreed on this," she said. 
Hamill fought hard to keep the dairy business that had been in his family for throe decades. working long hours to pay off bank loans. friends said. 
But he needed to find a way to raise his children. lie sold his cows and milking equipment,. and last September the plainspoken family man signed on to drive a fuel truck for a year in Iraq for $80,000, tax free. 
"He wont over because of his debt," Kellie Hamill said. "He thought he could work over there a couple of years and get out of debt." 
His wife expressed sympa­thy for the families of other KBH employees who been reported missing. U.S. offi­cials reported that seven Halliburton employees had been reported missing in Iraq. 

page 10 Thursday, Aprill5, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 
Prayer during the Easter Season 
God of life, ground of our faith, with jesus you have raised us up in the waters of baptism and given us life that endures. 
Day by day refine our faith, and remove every trace of unbelief, that we may confess jesus as our Lord and God, and share more fully in his risen life. 
Amen. 


considerations... 
Easter 


The Art of Waiting 
by Keara Coughlin Intern, Campus Ministry 

Waiting: something we all face at times, but some are better at it than the rest of us. Each of us faces the challenges of waiting differently: some -with anticipation, some­\'Vith frustration, some -with nervous anxiety. There are even some of us who approach it with binerness or anger. And then there are those of us who somehow rry to avoid periods of waiting by convincing ourselves that we 'don't really care what happens anyv,ray' and therefore can just ignore the issue all together. · 
Over the past eight months, a group of 28 people have demonstrated to me rhe art of waiting. Until meeting these people, I don't think I had ever really grasped what it means to take on this task and how doing so with intentionality means recognizing the purpose and the call of waiting. Wirh anticipation and eagerness, these men and "' women displayed a true effort to use this time as an opportunity to grow, srrengrhen, and -with joy and hope -prepare for what was to come. 
For these past 8 months, I have been allowed the blessed opportunity ro walk with 17 candidates and 11 catechumens as they took the next steps along their faith journeys by preparing to enter into the Catholic Church through the RCIA process: uniting with us in the Sacraments of Baptism, Confirmation, and Holy Eucharist. They had been waiting for Easter with an anticipation that many of us "cradle-Catholics" don't ever have for this or any holy celebration. For Amy, Justin, Jenna, Heather, Dave, Brandon, Kari, Richie, Melinda, Carolyn, and Xiao Juan (and the rest of the nearly 150,000 new Catholics around the world), Easter meant "new life" in a way more powerful and more perfect than any chocolate bunny or colored egg ever could. Their new life is a life in and with Christ-the Risen Christ who calls all of us to a life of faith and a life of love. 
It is truly amazing to me that for 22 years (alright-I should probably only be held accountable for the last 14 or so), I have been presented with an opportunity each and every springtime to better understand and enter into the art of waiting; yet it is only now that my eyes are finally open enough to gain greater insight into what the Church has been doing for nearly 1800 years. With the season of Lent, the Church has set apart a special time during which we -the Body of Christ -are invited to enter into a period of intentional waiting and preparation for the greatest and largest celebration of the Paschal Mystery of the year. 'With prayer and almsgiving, we rededicate ourselves and our lives to Christ -making His mission our own. And as Easter approaches, as I have begun to understand, we enter into a 'paschal fast' -a time in which we are roo excited to be thinking about and preparing big meals and snacks. 
In their faith journeys, the candidate and c;atechumens -like many of us -faced questions, frustrations and the struggle of not being able to fully grasp all that they had heard and read. But each one knew that what they were doing -taking the steps to claim the Catholic faith as their own -was right and it was right at rhis very rime and place in their lives. They were being called and they were responding. Their witness has been a gift and a blessing to me -giving me strength for my own journey in a way I could never have imagined. Inspired by each of them, I am overjoyed to renew my own baptismal vow this Easter season and reclaim my faith as my own. 
friday U4~_.:...:;16:,__..___ 
Mass for Peace s:lS p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
saturday 0.1.1.2. 
Holy Cross Ordinations 1:3opm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rebuilding Together 
(Christmas in April) 
""U ~·'!a~a-· u ... -· ··)
::; 11 ;;... u4, r<:> 
RCIA-Morning of Reflection 
10:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Ordination to the Priesthood Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rejoice! Mass 
10:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Chapel 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, mass schedules and special campus events at 
campusministry.nd .edu 
tuesday o4.2o____ 
Confirmation Session #14 roo p.m. • 8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Halaqa: 
A Qur'an Discussion and Conversation Circle 
6:45 p.m. · 8:oo p.m. Meditation Room 102 Coleman-Morse 
Refer to www.nd.edu/-nduma/ for topics and readings 
l, 
ICampus Bible Study 7:00 p.m. • 8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
; 
It-vednesday 04.2-r 
'
!Interfaith Christian Night!Prayer!"Senior Night" j 1o:oo p.m. 1Coleman-Morse Lounge, 
I
ITheology on Tap ·Stump the Priests" 10 p.m. legends 
mass [or peace 

Every Friday until there is Peace 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:15 p.m. • Fridays 
mass schedule 
Second Sunday of Easter 

basilica of the sacred heart around campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:00 p.m. 
s:oo p.m. 1o:oo a.m. Spanish Mass law School Mass MBA Mass Rev. James Foster, c.s.c. Rev. James Foster, c.s.c. St. Edward's Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB 
11:45 p.m. Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Lou Del Fra, c.s.c. 


1st: Acts 5:12-16 2nd: Revelations 1:9-ua, 12-13, 17-19 Gospel: John2o:19-31 
f I • 'r> l ., 
' l 

Thursday, April 15, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Hun1an Rights Watch director to speak 
Special to The Observer 
As death counts continue to rise in the Middle East, the exec­utive director of I Iuman Rights Watch will address the question "The War in Iraq: Justified as llumanitarian Intervention?" on April 20 at the University of Notre Dame. 
The lecture by Kenneth Hoth will begin at 4:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the llesburgh Center for International Studies. lie will give a second talk at 
12:30 p.m. April 21, also in the auditorium, titled "Counterterrorism: Are Human Hights an Obstacle or Part of the Solution'!" 
The events, which arc open to the public, comprise the 1Oth annual Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Lectures in Ethics and Public Policy. They are sponsored by Notre Dame's Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Human Rights Watch is the largest U.S.-based international human rights organization. It reports on and seeks to curb abuses in some 70 countries. Hoth, director since 1993, has conducted investigations around the world. devoting special attention to issues of justice and accountability for gross abuses of human rights, standards gov­erning military conduct, the human rights policies of the United States and the United Nations, and the responsibilities of multinational businesses. 


Smith Barney invites you to their 

Notre Dame Financial Symposium 
Planning for the years ahead. 

Revised tax laws, market uncertainty, a changing economy. Where does your financial plan stand? Join us at our Notre Dame Financial 

Award 
continued from page I 
The first objective of the company is "to honor God in all we do." 
"It's one thing to note the four objectives ... it's another thing to understand [them]." Maciariello said. "I believe the four objectives of ServiceMaster have been the cause and effect of a deep understanding of work and relationship." 
Pollard, author of "Soul of Firm", wrote that "when the purpose of the firm is linked to the growth and develop­ment of a person in God's image, it unleashes powerful forces in the mind and the spirit of the worker." 
Maciariello explained that the name ServiceMaster can be reworded as "Master of Servants." This idea has transformed thousands of people, Maciariello said. 
·"Because we bear God's image, we possess inherent dignity," Maciariello said. "Our institutions often deny [this]." 
Pollard served as CEO and Chairman for more than 20 years. He worked to help pursue the other objectives of ServiceMaster, which, include the development of people, the pursuit of excellence and 

growth of profits. 
Maciariello said that Pollard's Judea­Christian values and approach to work ethics have given him sup­port. 
"Pollard and ServiceMaster has been a source of encouragement for me ... If a CEO wants to implement these values, there are many examples 
"Because we bear God's image, we possess inherent dignity. Our institutions often deny this." 
Joesph Marclarlello professor at Claremont Graduate University 
• 
and a director of UnumProvident Corporation and a director of Herman Miller Incorporated. 
Since 1947, ServiceMaster has provided various services to residences such as lawn 
care, house cleaning and landscaping maintenance and employs 40,000 workers. The company provides out­sourcing servic­es to more than 
10.5 million customers in the U.S. and 41 countries across the globe and was recognized as the number one service firm 

to follow that prove this," Maciariello said. 
Pollard received the award from Hesburgh, and gave a brief speech thanking Hesburgh for his advice that 
he gave to  him  a  15 years  
ago.  
Pollard,  a  graduate  of  
Whe.'l.ton  College  and  

Northwestern University School of Law, is co-chair 
in the Fortune 500, making over $3.5 million in rev­enues. ~ 
The Cahill lecture series was established in 1959 in memory of Frank Cahill, an alumnus and benefactor who was committed to business ethics. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
seminar to hear from 15 professionals on financial topics that could be important to you and your family. You can attend up to 4 breakout sessions before the keynote speaker begins at 11:30 a.m. 
Keynote Speaker Dr. Kevin Elko 

Corporate and NFL• Performance Consultant & Author of "Nerves of Steel" 
DATE: Saturday, April 17, 2004 TIME: 8:00a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
LOCATION: University of Notre Dame McKenna Hall (across from the Morris Inn) Parking at Hesburgh Center visitors lot ' on NO Avenue across from cemetery 
RSVP: (574) 631-6691 
Reserve your space. Cost: $20 per person. Refreshments and light lunch included. We welcome your friends and colleagues. Seating is limited. 
Your Breakout Session twice): 

8:30 am.-9:05 a.m. & 10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. Mark Howard, Regional Loan Specialist, 
Ralph Allen, Regional Vice President, CitiMortgage: Strategies for Debt Pioneer Investments: Stock Market. 
Management/Borrowing Money 

Investing/Current Market Overview Lyndon Keyes, Director Interactive Robert Malvenda, Director Marketing, Smith Barney NY: Financial Smith Barney Municipal Retail Sales: Record Keeping Via Computer Bond Investing Strategies/Current Market Bill Ventura, Regional Advisor, Lincoln 
Overview Financial: Strategies for Paying Long Term Joseph Russo, Director of Financial Aid Health Care Costs University of Notre Dame: Funding 8:30 a.m.-9:05am. & 9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. College Education/Strategies and Tools 
Bob Walsh, Public Affairs Specialist

for You 
Social Security Administration: Everything

Tracey A. Anderson, JD, LLM, CPA 
You Wanted to Know about Social Security South Bend IN: Tax Planning/IRS Code 

10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m.

Changes You Should Know Jeff Ochs, Insurance Consultant, 
Jim Casey, Regional Trust Specialist, Citigroup Private Trust: Wills, Estates and

Insurance Designers: Understanding Life Trust Planning Strategies Insurance for EstatefTax Purposes 
8:30 am.9:05 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 am. Jason Heine, Regional Vice President, 9:15 am.-9:50 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. 

Bob Hartig, Regional Vice President Nationwide Financial: 407(k) Issues for PlanAmerican Funds Distributors: Why Is 
Sponsors-How ERISA Affects YouInternational Investing Important to You 

Bill Taratsas, Regional Vice President 9:15 a.m.-10:35 a.m. (one presentation only) lNG Golden Select Annuities: Protecting Larry Sherman, Regional Director, The Your Investments with Variable Annuities Geneva Company: Selling Your Business: 
This Week in the Departrnent o£Music••• 
Eleanore Strong, organ 
Tuesday, April 1 3, 2004 8 pm, Sacred Heart Basilica 
Brandon Hollihan, tenor 
Kathy Keasey, piano Thursday, April 1 5, 2004 5 pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
Stephen Lancaster, baritone 
Kui Min, piano Friday, April 16, 2004 7 pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
Allrecitals FREE andopen to the public/ 
For rnore ln£orrnation call the Department ofMusic at 631-6201. 
ClUb'"""""" •
toll>bo<atW. • Roe"'""""•" •AUoootioo 
,. d... t•
,_oon ·/Jna .··Jon Coundl 
Students, Faculty, and Staff: The Club Coordination Council is accepting nominations for out­
standing club and individual achievement awards for the 2003-2004 academic year. Nominations are being accepted for Outstanding Club, Club Officer, Advisor, and Event/Program. To nominate, simply go to www.nd.edu/-ccc/docs and download the nomination form. After filling it out, email it to ccc@nd.edu by 5 PM Monday, April 
19th with "Club Awards Nomination" as the subject. Winners will be 
selected in each category not only at the division level (Academic, Athletic, Cultural, Performing Arts, Social Service, and Special Interest) but also overall. Ifyou have had a good experience with a club, a specific club-sponsored event, or continuing program, you are encouraged to take part in the nomination process whether you are a member of a club or not. Thank you, 
Club Coordination Council 
THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT: 
SMrrn.RwffiY 
ctt1grouP't 

Mutu.l funds •nd vanable annuity Investments are subject to market risk, including possible lou of principle. Variable 
•nnutt~e~ 1r1 long-term investments Intended for retirement planning. Taxes may be due upon wtthdrawals from the contract. Withdrawal• may be oub)e<t to a 10'4 federal pena~y tax if made before age 59~ and are >ubject to quali· fled rettrtmtn1 plan provtsions. Coptes of the prospectus, YJhich contains more complete information mcluding fees and oxporo.,. will be available at the >em~nar. Plea>e read the prospe<tu> carefully before investing. There are addi· ttonal rtsks associated wtth International investtng. International investing may not be for everyone. Smith Barney doe not provldolegal or tox advice Plea>e coroult your attorney and/or tax advi>or for such guidance. 
02004 C~igroup Global Markot> Inc. Member SIPC. Smith Barney i> adivision and service mark of Otigroup Global Markot> Inc and IU affohat., and "u>ed and rog,.tored throughout the world. OTIGROUP and the Umbrella Device aro trademark• and '""'"' marlu of Citicorp or iU affiliates and are u>ed and regi>tered throughout the world. THIS IS WHO WE ARE THIS IS HOW WE EARN rr i> a service mark of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Geneva, atigroup Global Marko!> Inc. and C~1group Private Trust are all affiliated compani., under the common control of Citigroup Inc. 

THE 0BSERVIR 
IEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 15, 2004 
page 12 



What alumni miss about Notre Dame 
Work hard, play hard, pray hard. Hong Kong, says "I miss that faith in law school instead of medical This is a fitting mantra for students in community as I'm looking for a new school. our community. The years here are Church in this exotic wilderness of While one may find a profession intense, and we can find ourselves Hong Kong -it's a lot trickier to find that sounds interesting, the actual nearing graduation far too quickly. people who profess Christ here." work duty may be much different Wise counsel from Another alum, Derek Betcher '99, is than expected. The alums noted that alumni can put Andrew interested in religion more than ever several "dream jobs" aren't glam­our experiences DeBerry now that he and his wife are building orous at all. Others said they still here in better per­a family. He, like other grads, wishes don't know what they want to do in spective. What do he'd spent more time exploring his the first place. Some have blazed
ND Changing

alums miss most faith at Notre Dame because "it is their own trails to find their answers,
Times

about this place? such a fertile place for that kind of which has taken them in and out of What advice can learning." the corporate, public and non-profit they pass on to Service sectors. All alums encouraged stu­students? I asked alumni who gradu­The faith cultivated here often fos­dents to do the hard work needed to ated one, five and 10 years ago these ters an ethic of lifelong service. Tara find a job they can be passionate questions. Their full answers are at Holcomb '99 and Kathy Motyka '99 about. www.nd.edu/-adeberry/alumni.html. both eventually chose teaching pro­Alumni connection These are a few of the insights they fessions after service experiences like The Notre Dame family and its glob­want to Jlass on. the Summer Service Project and the al reach can support alumni no mat­Friendships Holy Cross Associates. Michael ter what their professional path. Local 
We are surrounded here by the most Sweikar '03, a law student, also rec­alumni clubs are a great way to devel­
.( "'~ +''·\ 

passionate, caring and talented group ognizes that few schools have so many op new friendships and find commu­
::··"" :::':\ 

of peers that we may ever meet. The domestic and international service nity, whether one's interest is in ath­community spirit is unparalleled. It opportunities like Notre Dame. The letics, service, faith or academics. gives people the constant energy to ethic formed from his experiences will Frank McGehee '94, the President of work, pray, laugh and party. Many guide him in his professional career: the San Jose Alumni Club, wants stu­friends are together in one small "Focus on putting God first and dents to be proud of Notre Dame: place, and people bump into friends always making time to help people "Take care of your fellow Darners and on campus no matter where they go. and any activity you do will be that work toward the better good of socie­
Several alumni noted that leaving much better." This attitude is the hall­ty." this environment is a change that mark of the Notre Dame graduate. The alumni tell us over and over many don't anticipate. Alumni miss Career about how special this place is. As we the open doors in the hallway. They The alums suggested studying what make our way towards graduation, miss their roommates. They miss ran­one enjoyed while also taking the job the senior class in particular begins to dom college humor, occasional search seriously. Some recommend understand their appreciation. At debates and late-night conversations doing graduate school before getting Notre Dame, we party too much, work with people their own age. They tell married. Ricky Sadowski '03 encour­too late and pray harder than we students to firmly hold on to their ages pre-med students in particular to knew we could. And in the end, all we friends. These friendships may be the think seriously before committing to can say is thank you. most important things we'll take from medical school: "I've seen many peo­college to keep for life. ple waste a year of their lives and Andrew DeBerry is a fifth-year sen­Faith money before dropping out. If you ior and has found much passion writ­
Grads from all years advised against need time to decide, take it, every­ing columns. He is glad to put his : :: 
: :: :· taking the faith community for grant­thing will still be there when you get columnist pen into retirement now ed. Tony Hagale '03, a software engi­back." and encourages underclassmen to .. '.:...:.'. m neer, said the thing he missed most Steph Burum '03 demonstrated this consider writing next year. He can be 
:: =~ .; . .;. 

·: '• :· was dorm mass, "hands down." Other thought-out search process. By volun­conta-cted at adeberry@nd. edu. 
::: :. :: 

alums describe the difficulty of keep­teering in South Bend hospitals dur­The views expressed in this column 
ing the faith alive beyond campus. ing college, she realized that she are those of the author and not neces­David Woo '03, an English teacher in should pursue health administration sarily those of The Observer. 



i \it'~~;~ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
>•. ,.•••,•• i)}.\ 
OBSERVER POLL 
.,,·,,,.:
'"'"" 

·:,:,.: '7X 
:· : 
Should the ROTC Presidential Pass in 
::
·. !~!/ 

"The purpose oflife is a life ofpurpose. "
Review be held inside or outside? 
) ) ~"' 

Robert Byrne
<< .••.,••••• 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
author 
www.ndsmcobserver.com


·-----­
THE 0BSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 15, 2004 page 13 
People, not places, define experiences 
t\n angry and sex crazed Italian man looked me straight in the eye last week and said to me, "I hope in your whole life that you never find happiness." He rnpeated it again, I guess in case the first time it didn't sink in. 
Dolores Dlaz 

Apparently, it was my fault that he wasn't getting 
The Warm

any from my friend that night. I had Gun checked up on her when the pushy guy disappeared behind her as she made her way from the room. but that is beside the point. I surprised myself. I didn't say something equally as wretched to this man but instead did something else -I cried. In fact, I sobbed just the second my feet had carried me a few steps away. 
Now, maybe I was just drunk. Let's face it. that seems like something many of us would normally just laugh at. llell, I laugh when I tell the story now; it's funny. Even though I wasn't wear­ing anything of the sort. I always imag­ine myself in these pink pumps doing an exaggerated girl run through the streets of Venice with a bottle of booze in my hand. 
Someone once said, "Ask a man if he is happy and he ceases to be so." I asked myself that night. It wasn't the first time -I would be more than ashamed if a truly revelatory moment of self-evaluation came from something so stupid, but it was at a time that I didn't particularly feel like thinking about anything of the sort. I just want­ed to be left alone with my frivolous good time in Italy without being con­fronted with soap opera style insults from random men. Apparently, that was too much to ask. 
In any case, I decided to chronicle the week I spent in Italy to find when I was most happy­provided the voodoo curse that had just been placed on me didn't come to pass. 
Venice was the first on the journey. I was happiest in Venice, before that night turned bad. when my girl friends and I had bought the worst tast­ing bottle of lemon liquor and proceeded to down it unin· tcrrupted in the shadiest of hostels. We joked and laughed and the night was full of possibility. We were the happiest people in all of Venice. 
In Florence, it was a laugh attack walking down the street at night, ciga­rette in hand. 
In Rome it was probably the Vatican 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Nuclear power is (part of) the answer 

We all take our electrically powered lifestyle for granted. We walk into a room and flip the switch and expect there to be light. When there's an out­age, we feel wronged. Electricity is a God-given right, but power plants are Satan incarnate. 
Michael Subialka's April 14 letter against nuclear energy generation is just another shortsighted attack on an integral part of an intelligent. diverse energy policy. 
The letter is replete with uninformed statements and flawed arguments. While it is true that fission products from commercial reactors are highly toxic, they remain sequestered and under control, unlike the waste products from a coal plant, also radioactive, which we all breathe daily. "Acceptable" waste disposal methods do in fact exist and are used by the French, who generate over 70 percent of their electricity using nuclear reactors, in comparison to our 19 percent. 
Continuing, Subialka states that, "90 percent of all cancers arc preventable," and that we should "limit our exposure to radioactive sources," but fails to pro­vide evidence that nuclear power gener­ation actually results in any radiation dose for citizens. The truth is that a two-hour airline flight results in a radi­ation dose 110 times greater than a whole year of living within 50 miles of a nuclear power plant, and both are negli­gible doses. 
or course. what anti-nuclear argu­ment would be complete without men­tioning Chernobyl? Chernobyl was a haphazardly constructed power station at best. It did not have the impregnable concrete containment building that is required around all reactors in this country. This, combined with the actual construction of the reactor, precludes this type of accident from ever occur­ring in the United States. The letter also mentioned Three Mile Island, but that accident resulted in no injuries, and new reactor designs and operational practices have eliminated the chance of a repetition. 
Finally, we must consider the alterna­tives. Fossil fuels are cheap and plenti· ful for the time being, but conventional wisdom says that they are changing our climate. If this is correct and if we keep it up, we're talking melted ice caps, flooded farmland and hundreds of mil­lions of people starving. That sounds worse to me than any worst-case nuclear scenario. 
Solar and wind are clean, but they supply paltry amounts of intermittent power. Hydroelectric dams are clean and powerful, but geography limits pos­sible locations. 
So, what is the answer? As with almost anything, moderation and diver­sification are key. No one source is the magic bullet, but rather our country must rely on a balanced energy policy, including nuclear, to sustain our increasing demand. 
Jordan Ryan 
semor 
Alumni Hall 
~pril14 

Mass; it gave me a chance to soak it all in. It was also hanging out on the Spanish steps with young Romans at night. 
And in Capri, it was napping side by side with my friends on the deck of the ferry with the warm sun streaming down on 
us. It may seem odd that in each city my 
happiest memories didn't necessarily involve a partic­ular monument 
or iconic image. Ironically the first three did 
involve some sort of poten­tially addic­tive substance -particularly the booze and 
cigarettes. 
However that is just a coinci­dence ... I hope. 

Note to self: con­sume more of these. Nevertheless, when people go on travels, it seems too easy to go through the motions of the "Let's Go" 
guide and miss out on the joy of their companions. In the end, it wasn't the gondolas of Venice or the art of Florence, the Sistine Chapel, or looking out over Rome from St. Peters that did it. I saw all those things and I appreci­
ated them all. To say that the classic 
works of art were not as awesome and 
amazing as traditionally held would be 
absurd. 

However pure joy and simple happi­ness was what many of the iconic expe­riences of Italy simply aimed to cap­ture. In the end, it was when my senses were fully engaged, experiencing and appreciating the human spirit in the people that I was with that made my trip. 
Luckily, the Italian had no connec­tions with the occult; I had a great time in Italy. Even though I had a bad night that second day in Venice, I ensured the happiness of the rest of the trip by looking out for the friends that l value most. Too often excessive worry about rhetoric and appropriateness comes into play when one wishes to check on a friend they are legitimately con· cerned about. 
It is always better to run the risk of running down the streets of Venice in pink heels sobbing than to risk a friend. Despite the way you may feel at that specific moment, at least the next day you'll have something to laugh about and a story to tell. More impor­tantly, you'll have the people you care about most next to you to enjoy it with. 
Dolores Diaz is a junior English major and journalism and theology minor. She enjoys thinking. Contact her at ddiaz@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

---~ 

THE 0BSER\'ER 
CENE
page 14 
Thursday, April 15, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

'Atlanta's Finest' releases personal album 
By SHAWNTINA FERGUSON 
Scene Music Critic 
Blending to perfection a mix of hip-hop, rap and rhythm and blues, Usher's high­ly-anticipated fifth album has exceeded the expectations of fans and welcomed new listeners with a mosaic-style that his contemporaries are unable to match. In "Confessions," R&B megastar Usher proves that an autobiographical music compilation is seemingly more gripping than other conventional styles. Selling more than 1.1 million copies in its open­ing week, Usher has sent a melodious message across the world: ATL's Finest is back and better than ever! 
The tracks are brilliantly crafted to narrate a story so personal to Usher. The track, "Confessions Part II" penned by Jermaine Dupri, Bryan Cox and Usher, is an upbeat ballad which documents rumored personal moments of infidelity, disappointment and pain. Usher sings, "Now this is going to be the hardest thing I think I ever had to do I Got me talking to myself asking how am I going to tell you I Bout that chick from part one that I was creepin with, creepin with I Say she's three months pregnant and she's keeping it." This heart-wrenching mid-tempo groove is followed by arguably the most captivating ballad on the album, "Burn." 



Accompanied by a light piano and a soft drum, this track is telling of a relation­ship in which one partner is still in love but wishes to call it quits. The opening words to this track, in which Usher whis­pers in a sweet yet compelling tone, "See it's burning me to hold on to this I I know this is something I gotta do I But that don't mean I want to I What 
I'm trying to say is that I love you ... I just feel like this is coming to an end I And it's better for me to let go now I Than hold on and hurt you I I gotta let it burn" set the mood for a cleverly com­posed yet emo-

Ben Kweller is 'On his way' with release 
garage band sound, Kweller's "On My Way" sounds very similar to the vintage sound of bands like Kings of Leon and The Thrills. Kweller's Web site describes the unique process used in recording explaining, "The motto put forward from the beginning of the ses­sion was 'performance first."' With that in mind, Kweller and his bandmates recorded with all instruments together in one room and minimal separation between amplifiers and drums. The band played mostly without head­phones to ensure that each member could hear and react to the whole sound being produced in the room, instead of focusing on what each indi­vidual had in his headphones. These underused yet effective techniques ulti­mately gave the vocal and instrumental delivery a more impromptu feel. The sound of "On My Way" is definitely unique and is reminiscent of "Sha Sha," yet very different and 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS Scene Music Critic 
It is doubtful that a great deal of stu­dents has heard of Ben Kweller, or much less would know any of his songs, but this lack of attention is undeserved. The former lead singer of the band Radish just released his sec­ond solo album, "On My Way.'' After the moderately successful "Sha Sha," Kweller fans have been waiting a long for time for "On My Way" and they will generally not be disappointed by this second album. "On My Way" is a bit more developed and mature than "Sha Sha" and maintains the flare that makes a Kweller album a Kweller album: funky rhythms, at times just plain strange lyrics and generally some decent melodies. 
Following the recent rise of the 60s 

separate. The recording emphasizes the themes of the songs, making the album very cohesive as an entire work. 
Kweller loves music and is simply a true musi­cian at heart. Growing up in Texas, he originally tionally powerful track from which the audience is sure to relate. Throughout the song Usher cries aloud the fiery phrase, "let it burn" referencing the con­flict he feels between lov­ing his current beau and not wishing to remain in the relationship. Both "Confessions Part II'' and "Burn" share the same authors. 

While his previous plat­inum album, "8701," sim­ply hinted at intimate moments, tracks like "Do It to Me" both written and produced by Dupri and Cox and "Can You Handle It" written by Robin Thicke, produced by Thicke and Pro J, under­scores the very active, sensually sexy side of Usher. The former is a pulsating track that playfully describes bedroom activity. Ushers croons, "I want to feel you I Touch my body, baby I I guarantee you won't regret it I Let me set it out like you never had it." The latter begs the title question throughout the track and is meant for an adult audience. 
By now, most are familiar with the club-banging hit "Yeah." Usher, Lil John and Ludacris team up to create what has claimed the rights to the no. 1 spot on Billboards Hot 100 for several weeks. However, taken together "Confessions" has far more to offer than the occasional 
played the p i a n o . Kweller has been a musi­cian from the beginning. 
"Someone taught me how to play 'Heart and Soul,"' Kweller says, "and I saw the chord pattern and thought 'Ok, what if I play the first key, skip the sec­ond one, go straight to the third then back to the second key and then the fourth one, like 1-3-2-4 instead of 1-2-3-4.' I did it and it sounded completely differ­ent than 'Heart and Soul!' After that, I started writing words modeled after the girls and love in Beatles songs my parents would blast through their stereo. I was seven years old and hard­ly knew what a girl was but figured this is what you sing about when you write songs!" 
This attitude seems to remain with Kweller even today in his song writing, which is downright ridiculous at times. From "I want to kill this man but he turned around and ran. I I'll kill him with the Karate that I learned in Japan" in "On My Way" to "We are just party mix. The grown-up Usher finally accepts the challenge that accompanies soulful ballads. It is this masterful combi­nation of soft balladry blended skillfully with mid and fast tempo hip-hop tracks that has rocketed Usher to a world stage. His commitment to his craft evidenced in his matured vocal abilities, and dedica­tion to performance will provide Atlanta's Finest with the longevity needed to sur­vive in an ever-changing world of rhythm and blues. 
Contact Shawntina Ferguson at sfergus2@nd.edu 

a sexual making me an alcoholic rela­tion" in "Hospital Bed," Kweller's lyrics are surprising and original to say the least. 
Overall, if you like Kweller you will love this album. If you aren't quite immersed in that world of music, then "On My Way" deserves a listen, but there may only be two or three songs that merit listening to again. Original, witty and unique, "On My Way" takes the listener into the world of Kweller and if you are familiar with the geogra­phy, then don't miss out on this album. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 
CENEThursday, April IS, 2004 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
The Vines' latest release combines many styles 
By MICHAEL TENNANT 
Scene Music Critic 
Corning off its hit debut, "Highly Evolved," The Vines look to rock the music world again two years later with their long-awaited sophomore release "Winning Days." 
llailing from Australia, The Vines bring together a mix of energetic garage-style rock and a very laid-back psychedelic brand of music, creating a sonwtimes confusing yet nonetheless solid second album. As the album bounces back and forth between in­your-face guitar rock and moody melodies, listeners find themselves in an angry crowd of teenage protesters one minute and in a black lit room filled with large and overly comfy couches the 


MF Doom, Madlib break boundaries 
only 45 minutes. No hooks, choruses, or booty-grinding singles here. But since the album switches things up so fre­quently, nothing ever gets stale, and if anything, it just keeps you wanting more. Even the weed-induced skits 11ow well between songs, and are short enough to not get on your nerves like the skits on other rap albums. 
Of course, there is no way this 22-track setup would work without Madlib's mas­terful production. For one thing, Madlib intersperses retro movie and television samples throughout the album, which further enhance the villain motif. These samples arc well placed, so that they do not disrupt the album's Oow, and instead give the album more personality. Regarding the hip-hop beats themselves, Madlib makes sure there is never a dull moment, as his samples range from an accordion loop in "Accordion," to Streetfighter II sound bites in 
the instrumcn­tal track, "Do Not Fire!," to even some clas­sical strings in "Strange Ways." 
This is not to say that MF Doorn docs not do his part to better the album as well, for his quirky lyrics are a good complement to Madlib's uncon­ventional pro­duction style. He has plenty of clever lines, such as "Got more lyrics than the church's got ooh­lords" or "It's like they know what's 'bout to happen I Just keep your eye out like 'aye aye captain."' And he has a good ear for playing with words, like when he starts out rapping "I wrote this rhyme off of two or three heinies" and then switches from beers to girls in the next few lines: "And boy was they fine, G! I One Black, one Spanish, one Chinese." There are times when MF Doom's lyrics are sim­ply too random and obscure to follow, but he never has any mental lapses that make you doubt his ability and this is evident throughout the album. 

The most amusing flows on "Madvillainy" are when both MF Doorn and Madlib rap under the guises of other aliases they have used over the years. For instance, in "Fancy Clown," MF Doom raps as his alter ego, Viktor Vaughn, and disses MF Doom (hirnselO for hooking up with his girl. It is not everyday you hear a rapper create a self­diss track. In a similar vein, Madlib raps against his nasal-voiced alias Quasimoto on "America's Most Blunted." To say that schizophrenic raps arc a rare breed in hip-hop is an understatement. 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
"Madvillainy," the long-awaited collab­oration between rapper MF Doom and rapper/producer Madlib. is one of the most anticipated underground rap relnascs to come out in the past couple years. The album loosely follows the thmnn of villains and anti-heroes, as MF (Metal Face) Doom's name pays homage to Marvel Comics mask-wearing supervillain, Dr. Doom. Between this novel concept. MF Doorn's unpredictable flow and Madlib's innovative production. "Madvillainy" is one of the most original underground rap albums to come out in years. 
One of the most unusual aspects of "Madvillainy" is that it is a 22-track affair that takes place over the course of 

.. ' 
.... 
Although you will find the tracks on "Madvillainy" too short to be included on your latest rap mix, you will also find that it does not matter. Unlike most rap albums that contain lengthy skits and filler tracks, "Mad villainy" is one of those rare rap albums that can be listened to . -­from start to finish without any skips. It may take a few listens to get used to, and you may not be able to bump to it like a 50 Cent record. but it is still a quality album that shows the vast possibilities of hip-hop. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
Madvillainv 
next. 
Although this apparent lack of cohe­sion at points could be a problem, most of the songs are individually strong enough to carry the album. The opening track and first single "Ride" is reminis­cent of their last hit "Get Free" off of "llighly Evolved," and draws you in immediately with one of the catchiest guitar riffs since Nirvana taught us what Teen Spirit smelled like. The sim­ple chorus proves that sometimes less really is more. 
The energy from "Hide" is carried through similarly rocking tracks "Animal Machine" and "She's Got Something To Say To Me" before peak­ing with "F.T.W." Each of these tracks feature tight riffs and a garage-style that is just unique enough to get every­one to listen. Unfortunately, the energy is interrupted by numerous 
acoustic­based tracks that feature lead singer and song­writer Craig Nicholls' poet­ic and often spacey lyrics. 
Songs like "Sun Child" and an appar­ent sequel from their first album, "Autumn Shade II" show a more melodic side to the band while giving Nicholls a chance to drift off to a nature­filled world where he can "forget about the engine of the rain," and ponder the "colors of her dream." Although these tracks hold their own, they sit the listen­er down in a recliner and light a few candles, making it near impossi­ble to get back up once they kick on the distor­tion again. 

What helps these songs along is the great guitar playing of Nicholls and Ryan Griffiths, who both lay down solos that seem to wrap around each airy tune like a blanket. Inside the group's collective Australian heart might be a jam band that occasionally peeks its head out to breath. 
The final song, and perhaps the best on "Winning Days," "F.T.W." kicks over the recliner and smashes the black light in a frenzy of fuzzy screaming vocals and eclectic guitars. Although some­what pessimistic as it announces Nicholls' and the rest of the band's dis­gust with the world, the song is filled with enough energy to rival the entire rest of the album. At the very least, it is enough to bring the glossy-eyed wan­derer back to reality after a trip into the world of daydreams. 
On the whole, the album is solid, but lacks cohesion in certain parts. The lyrics are also difficult to truly identify with, and even the seemingly simplistic "Hide" carries a poetic edge that leaves you pondering all your reasoning and motives. But maybe the listener just has to put himself in Nicholls' shoes "to see the colors through !his) loaded mind." 
Contact Michael Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 

Thursday, April 15, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Avalanche prevail over Stars in double overtime 
Associated Press Robert Esche has brought a "It helps mentally that we 
calming influence to the talent­know it can happen, that we can 

DALLAS -Rookie Marek ed Philadelphia Flyers and come back and win the series," Svatos and the Colorado helped push Brodeur and the said Devils forward Patrik Elias, Avalanche are headed home on defending champion New Jersey a member of the 2000 team. the verge of advancing to the Devils to the brink of a first­"But it doesn't happen that second round of the playoffs. round playoff elimination. often." 
Svatos, playing in his fourth Esche made 35 saves in steal­The way Esche is playing this postseason game after playing ing Game 4, leading the Flyers series, coming back will be just four in the regular season, to a win and a 3-1 lead in the tough. scored from the center of the best-of-seven series. Esche was outstanding in the left faceoff circle 5:18 into dou­"For whatever reason, I am first two periods. He stopped ble overtime, giving Colorado a calm with him in the net," two shots by Brian Gionta from 3-2 victory over the Dallas Stars Flyers captain Keith Primeau close range in the first period and a 3-1 lead in their first­said. "There is no nervousness and good chances in close by round series. when shots are put up, even Sergei Brylin and Jeff Friesen. 
Game 5 is Saturday in Denver, when goals are scored. I don't "It's not like they were out­where the Avalanche cruised to worry about how he's going to playing us," Brodeur said. "The the first two wins by scores of 3-gather himself. He moves on the only reason why they won this 1 and 5-2. Svatos had assists in next play or next shot. It's a set­game was because of Esche both victories. The only time he tling feeling for the players." today. We were all over them. hasn't contributed a point was The low-key Esche has given We played well." in Colorado's 4-3 overtime loss up eight goals in the series on Tampa Bay 3, New York 0 in Game 3. 123 shots. The playoff shutout Nikolai Khabibulin and the 
While the young forward had was the first of his career. Tampa Bay Lightning have the key goal this time, the "I felt very focused in all four made themselves very comfort­Avalanche received a stellar games," Esche said. "I haven't able in a building that was so effort from goaltender David had a problem getting up for the unfriendly to visitors all season Aebischer. games. I've had a real good con­long. 
Having blown a two-goal lead fidence level." Khabibulin made 33 saves for in Game 3 to give the Stars new Defenseman Kim J ohnsson his second straight shutout at life, Aebischer again squan­gave Esche an early lead with a Nassau Coliseum and league power play into a 1-0 lead for Todd White and Chris Phillips dered a two-goal lead -but he goal that atoned for a game­scoring leader Martin St. Louis the Lightning. added third-period goals for was hardly to blame. The Stars' winning own goal two nights had a short-handed goal and an New York defenseman Kenny Ottawa. first goal came on a two-man earlier. assist in a victory over the New Jonsson curled back into his Senators goalie Patrick Lalime advantage, and the tying shot Alexei Zhamnov and Primeau York Islanders. zone but lost the puck when stopped 24 shots, while Belfour was redirected away from added third-period goals for the Ruslan Fedotenko and Fredrik pestered by St. Louis, who got made 32 saves. Aebischer by a defenseman's Flyers, who can end the Devils' Modin added goals, and Brad clear in the slot and sent a shot Already without center Joe skate. hopes of winning a fourth cham­Richards had two assists for the between the pads of Rick Nieuwendyk, the Maple Leafs 
Aebischer made 41 saves, pionship since 1995 with a vic­Lightning, who lead the best-of­DiPietro 10:30 in. lost captain Mats Sundin early including 27 after the second tory on Saturday in seven series 3-1, with each Khabibulin also weathered an in the third period. Sundin period. Philadelphia. game ending up 3-0. They can early second-period flurry when slammed into the boards after 
Milan Heyduk scored "We wanted to come up here advance to the second round for Mark Parrish was stopped in the being tripped by Ottawa Colorado's first goal on a power and steal one," Flyers veteran the second straight year and slot, and Alexei Yashin had his defenseman Wade Redden on a play, and Joe Sakic followed Mark Recchi said. "We did it second time ever with a home rising drive batted away by the partial breakaway. No penalty soon after with a short-handed and now we go home and see victory on Friday. goalie's glove. was called. goal. Dallas answered quickly what happens Saturday. We Should the Islanders win, Ottawa 4, Toronto 1 Maple Leafs forward Gary with Sergie Zubov scoring dur­know the Devils. They are the Game 6 will be back on Long Marian Hossa and the Ottawa Roberts scored his third goal of ing a 5-on-3 advantage, then defending Stanley Cup champi­Island on Saturday night. Senators ·had reason to cele­the series on a power play 16:53 Pierre Thrgeon tied it with 8:46 ons. They won't go down with­Khabibulin got his third brate after finally getting some in. Toronto struggled the rest of left in regulation. out a fight." shutout of the series. He's been pucks past Toronto's Ed Belfour. the way and squandered the 
The Stars outshot the Game 6 would be played in unbeatable at Nassau Coliseum, Daniel Alfredsson scored late home-ice advantage it regained Avalanche 43-21 for the game. New Jersey on Sunday, if neces­where the Islanders won 25 in the first period to end Monday with Belfour's second Colorado's shots plunged from sary. A deciding game would be home games -tops in the Ottawa's two-game scoreless straight 2-0 shutout win. eight to four to three, three and in Philadelphia on Tuesday, Eastern Conference. streak, and Hossa got the go­Alfredsson finally solved two. again, if necessary. But the Islanders, who won ahead goal in the second, help­Belfour late in the opening peri­
Svatos, who had assists in the The Devils should know a 3-three of four regular-season ing the Senators to a win over od, backhanding a shot along first two games, skated into the to-1 deficit against the Flyers games from the top-seeded the Toronto Maple Leafs. the ice and under the goalie's zone with puck, got around isn't insurmountable. · Lightning, not only couldn't win The Senators tied the first­pads to tie it at 1. Zubov and shot past defense­When the Devils won the at home, they couldn't score. round playoff series at 2-all. Ottawa hadn't scored since man Chris Therien and goal­Stanley Cup in 2000, they over­New York hasn't scored since Game 5 will be played Friday in Marian Hossa got his second tender Marty Thrco. came the same deficit in the Jason Blake sealed the Game 2 Toronto. goal1:39 into the third period of 
Dallas lost for only the second Eastern Conference finals victory with an empty-net goal Ottawa ended Belfour's the Senators' series opening 4-2 time in 21 home games. The against the Flyers. The Devils in the final minute. shutout streak at 157:45 when win. Stars will have to win Saturday won Games 5 and 7 in St. Louis was held without a Alfredsson scored with 35.6 sec­Hossa. who was stopped by to get another chance to play at Philadelphia, which is what they point in the first two games of onds remaining in the first peri­Belfour in the first on a break­home in Game 6, which would would have to do this time to the series, when the teams split od, tying the game. away, got another chance in the be Sunday. extend their playoff run. victories at Tampa Bay. But the Hossa thrust his arms sky­second when he broke in on a 2­Philadelphia 3, New Jersey 0 In coming back in 2000, flashy forward had two goals ward after he scored his third on-1 with Radek Bonk. Hossa 
Move over Martin Brodeur. Brodeur gave up only three Monday and took the steam out goal of the series to give the stopped suddenly and fired a There's a new unflappable goal­goals in the final three games of the crowd again Wednesday Senators' the lead 13:15 into the wrist shot past Belfour, drawing tender in the NHL. and New Jersey scored eight. when he turned an Islanders second. a thunderous cheer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Gatekeeper at Bendix Woods  DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8  NEED SUMMER HOUSING?  Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail. now  Have you seen my keys?  
WANTED  County Park, Sats. & Suns., 1 May­31 Oct. Approx. 14 hrs/wk, call 574-654-3155.  BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED- House on E Washington St 6 bdrms available 2 full baths Call Liz 574-298-0807  or fall $1200/mo 288-9673 VERY NICE 3bdrm home near  They have a dark blue Carabeaner attached and four keys. Call4-4874  
ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR  Corbys(East Bank  
-..o­ Wanted-Old paintings, especially  THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL  Stay at Homestead Bed and  area). Washer&Dryer -Alarm- Mooney is an ASE.  
Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-9359  FoR SALE  YEAR....WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  Breakfast for football games. 574-277-9834  Basement-H20 sottner-large yard-off street parking. Call Joe  Welcome to the Big Show.  
SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT  Crimmins:cell 514-0643  He must be butta. cuz he's on a  
Catholic family offering fulltime sum- Why pay a landlords mortgage?  KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR  LARGE 3 BEDROOM house for  home#273-0002.  roll.  
mer childcare opportunity to care for  Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the  CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOW! NGS  rent. Very close to ND, 2 baths, 2  
4 school age children, ages 5 to 11,  other pay your mortgage. Close to  car garage, WID, just redone two  HOUSE, Only 3 Blocks from NO,  So maybe the Cubs won't win the  
Scottsdale Mall area,  NO and downtown.  Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4  years ago.  3BR, A/C, Garage, Basement,  World Series.  
7:30AM to 5:00PM,  Call Kim at 574-245-5040.  bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer  $1,050/mo available 5/1.  Fenced Yard, Pets OK.  
wages negotiable, non-smoker pre­ or fall.  Call 312-375-8220  !l!!lQQ QQLmQ Qall 2!l;J-Q[;!Q1  We still got Wood.  
!erred, own transportation a plus,  AT&T Phone Cards. Cheap,  235-3655.  
contact Maureen@  Convenient! Only 6cents/min. Call 283-0901  2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near  Furnished Studio Apartment for rent graduation weekend walking dis- PERSONAL  Wrestle time?  
(574) 231-8126.  campus. Only a few left for next  lance to NO $150 a night  Why am I commissioner?  
school year. Call Justine,  call574-339-0582  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Notre Dame faculty seeking sitter for 2-yr-old. Ideally Mon/Wed/Fri 8­ FoR RENT  234-9923.  Furnished ~tudio apartment for rent  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  Why does she think she's gelling married? No one knows.  
4. 2 mi south of campus.  New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, 3  summer and or school year $419 a  or assistance. please call Sr. Mary  
Own car,  Spanish-speaking a plus.  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  full baths, 2-car garage, frpl. sky- month includes all utilities cable tv  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  I still can't believe you bargained for  
Through end of summer.  CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM  lights. $1640/mo. Call574-232­ high speed internet  more information, see our bi-weekly  kids at 28.  
Contact snerenberg@sbcglobal. net.  mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  4527 or 269-683-5038  call574-339-0582  ad in THE OBSERVER.  Wonderful.  

Thursday, April 15, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Brown notches 200th victory in Yankee win 

Associated Press Brown beat the Devil Rays for the third time this season.
NEW YORK -Well on the 

defeating them at the Tokyo
way to his 200th career victo­

Dome. Tropicana Field and
ry, tough guy Kevin Brown got Yankee Stadium. In all threea bit misty. 

outings, he gave up one run in
Blame it on the weather. 

seven innings.
rather than emotion. 

Brown (3-0) is 200-131 in aWorking on a dreary, drizzly 
career that started in 1986
afternoon, Brown reached the 

with Texas. The 39-year-old
milestone a game after fellow 

righty also played forYankees ace Mike Mussina 
Baltimore, Florida, San Diegoand once again led New York and Los Angeles before an of.f­
over the Tampa Bay Devil season trade that sent Jeff

Rays 5-1 Wednesday. 

Weaver to the Dodgers.
"The mound was definitely "A lot of pitchers have come

slick. It was tough keeping and gone and not won 200

your spikes," Brown said. 

games or gotten close," saidStill, the setting made it spe­Mussina, 35. "I know what it
cial as Brown became the means to him and what it

101st pitcher in major league meant to me."·

history to win No. 200. Brown and Mussina ar·e the first Detroit 5, Toronto 3 teammates to accomplish the Carlos Pena hit a two-run feat in the same season. double in a four-run first 
"It's great to be here and get inning. and the Detroit Tigers it here," Brown said. "It was a . held on to beat the Toronto wonderful atmosphere, a Blue Jays. great backdrop for it to hap­The Tigers have won six of pen." their first eight games, one 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
I SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS WEEK 
schedule of Events 

Tuesdav: Mass celebrated by Fr. Paul Kollman to commemorate those people affected by sexual assault at 8pm in the Dillon Hall Chapel. 
WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY: Look for our information table from 11 am to 3pm in Lafortune near the elevator. Free Take Back the Night t-shirts will be available as well as teal ribbons to show your commitment to end sexual violence. 
Wednesday: Panel Discussion with members of Notre Dame's Sexual Assault Advisory Committee focusing on why rape occurs and the policies surrounding sexual . assault on Notre Dame's campus at 7:30pm in Walsh Hall's South Lounge. Refreshments will be served. 
Thursda.Y: TAKE BACK THE NIGHT MARCH in conjunction with SMC and HCC 
beginning at the Library Reflecting Pool at 6:30pm, concluding at Dalloway's on SMC's campus. There will refreshments at Dalloway's during the speak-out, and transportation will be provided back to Notre Dame at the end. 
If you would like more information about any of these events, please contact care@nd.edu 

Fall 2004 Course on the Irish Gothic 
6490 IRST 477:01 T H 3:30-4:45 Joseph McMinn 

Joseph McMinn, Professor of Anglo-Irish Studies at the University of Ulster, will be a Visiting Professor in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies in Fall 2004. An authority on Irish Literature in English, McMinn's interests range from Jonathan Swift to John Banville. His many publications include Jonathan Swift: A Literary Life (1991 ), Jonathan's Travels: Swift and Ireland (1994), John Banville: A Critical Study (1991) and The Supreme Fictions of John Banville (1999). 
A popular teacher, McMinn will offer a course in Fall2004 on Gothic fiction in Britain and Ireland from the mid­eighteenth to late nineteenth century. The emphasis will be on the distinctive features and forms of the Gothi novel -"the tale of terror" -its early association with female authors and readers, and its later role in the emergence of Romanticism. Authors and texts to be studied include Austen's Northanger Abbey (1818), Shelley's Frankenstein (1818), Maturin's Melmoth the Wanderer (1820), Le Fanu's The House by the Church­yard (1863), and Stoker's Dracula (1897). While the course is essentially about a very distinctive and popular form of the novel, it will also have an interdisciplinary dimension, touching upon related and later versions of Gothic in art, architecture and cinema. 
KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 
season after beginning 0-9 
and finishing with an AL­
record 119 losses. 
Detroit, off to its best start 

since 1985, has scored at 
least five runs in each of its 
opening eight games for the 
first time, eclipsing the six in 
a row at the start of the 1961 
season. 
Vernon Wells singled off 

Esteban Yan and scored on an 
error as Toronto closed with­
in two runs in the eighth. 
Jamie Walker relieved and 
gave up a single and a wild 
pitch before getting out of the 
inning by striking out Kevin 
Cash and getting Orlando 
lludson to ground out. 
Danny Patterson pitched the 

ninth for his first save. 
Toronto threatened in the 
ninth, getting a singles from 
pinch-hitter Greg Myers and 
Frank Catalanotto before 
Wells grounded into a game­
ending double play. 
Nate Hobertson (1-0) gave 

up two runs and three hits 
over five innings in his first 
start of the season, the lOth 
of his career. He struck out 
seven and walked three. The 
26-year-old left-pander 
pitched 10-plus scoreless 
innings before Heed Johnson's 
two-run homer in the fifth. 
Oakland 9, Texas 4 
Jermaine Dye is healthy 

again, and he's already mak­
ing up for last year's lost sea­
son. 
Dye homered twice to drive in four runs. and extended his season-opening hitting streak to eight games, to help power the Oakland Athletics past the Texas Hangers. 
''I'm just back to normal," Dye said. ''I'm not having to worry about anything, any injuries or anything like. It takes a lot off your mind to just go out there and do what you're capable of doing." 
With five homers, one more than he had all last season. Dye has the AL lead. He's hit­ting .344, and his 12 HBis also top the league. 
Dye was limited to 65 games last season after extended stays on the dis­abled Jist for torn cartilage in his right knee and then a sep­arated right shoulder. His .172 average was the lowest in the majors for a player with 200 at-bats, and a fran­chise worst. 
Now he's looking more like his old self. Maybe even bet­ter. 
"It's incredible," rookie shortstop Bobby Crosby said. "We know how hard he worked in the offseason. You can tell he's a confident guy." 
Crosby, who replaced for­mer AL MVP Miguel Tejada as the starter, hit his first homer in the fifth, a three-run shot that gave Oakland a 9-1 lead and chased ItA. Dickey (1-1). 
Dye's homers came in con­secutive innings and staked the A's to a 6-0 lead. It was his ninth career multihomer game, the first since hitting 
...
two against Texas in September 2002. 
Unlike 2002 AL Cy Young winner Barry Zito a night earlier. Mark Redman didn't need all of his big lead. Redman (1-0) gave up eight hits against the major league's best hitting team. but scattered them throughout si.\ innings. 
. . t 
'I 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 15, 2004 
NBA 
James ends rookie season with win over Knicks 
gories," James said. "I look at the given that the Knicks used their averages of 20.9 points, 5.9 defeated Washington 94-78.
Associated Press team, and we doubled plus one starters throughout the fourth rebounds and 5.5 assists. The result of the Hornets­NEW YORK-Fittingly, LeBron our wins from last year. And we quarter, but were outplayed by a "He is not the future. He is the Wizards game was known by the James finished his rookie season got better from Day 1 until now." lottery-bound team that had lost present," Knicks guard Penny time the fourth quarter got on a positive note. Some might dispute that final 12 of its previous 15 games. Hardaway said. underway, but it was clear much The most hyped player to enter statement, as Cleveland's late­After James scored the last of James now moves on to his first earlier that New Orleans was on the NBA straight out of high season swoon kept the Cavs out his 17 points and the fmal buzzer summer vacation as an NBA vet­its way to a victory. school scored his fmal two points of the playoffs in the under­sounded, he exchanged hugs with eran, while the Knicks will head "I thought that we didn't have of 2003-04 on a crowd-pleasing whelming Eastern Conference. players from both teams. into a first-round playoff series the same intensity we had the dunk with 30 seconds remaining But there was no denying the "I don't want to say it's good to against the New Jersey Nets past couple of games, and I think in a 100-90 victory Wednesday improvement they made, going be done," James said. "I think I beginning Saturday afternoon. a lot of it was us as much as it night over the New York Knicks. from 17 to 35 victories while really need to rest, but if there New York had a chance to was them," Knicks coach Lenny "I think overall I had a very playing in front of sellout crowds was any opportunity for us to move up to sixth place in the con­Wilkens said. "We can do a much successful season, but not all around the NBA. keep going I would love to play." ference, but needed a victory and better job than that. We'll start because of my statistical cate-Their finale was a quality win, James finished the season with a loss bJL New Orleans, which the focus on that tomorrow." 

To club 3 ..... I ~ean, to write the comic fOr the Observer next year? lfso, send i11 5 strips to Edito:r in 
ChiefMatt Lozar's mailbox in the Observer office by Wednesday, April 21st, at 4 p.m. 

Thursday, April 15, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
This past Et~stcr VIgil~ 11 IHCJnbcrs l.~lour 1Votrt! Lhuuc t.·onurulnity H'crcJidly initiated into the Cotholic C"hurch. At this liturgy. the l I rccch·cd the .S'ocranu·nts (~f llaptisnr~ c·oJ~/Innation. and Eucharist. Plcos'c join ns in congratulothlg tlu."tn a11d 

wclcoJuing thcrn into O'urfaith l·Ieather Berrv ~' Justin. Brandon 
Ba.~:Hn Hdl.l, Junior Dillon H.1U. Senwr
conununit)~ 

fr:tY~rt.· C<:mghfin. godt~ar't''Ht Da~·(.· ioc'8<'1: ;gotfrnr<'m 













,,.....­
• ~ J 


around the dial 
NHL 
Montreal at Boston, 6 p.m., ESPN2 Nashville at Detroit, 6:30 p.m., ESPN Calgary at Vancouver, 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
Kansas City at Chicago White Sox, 
1:05 p.m., FOX CHICAGO 
Pittsburgh at Chicago Cubs, 
1:20 p.m., WGN Atlanta at New York, 6 p.m., TBS 
TENNIS Family Circle Cup, 1 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF MCI Heritage: First Round Coverage, 
3 p.m., USA Network 
SUPERCROSS THQ World Grand Prix, 1 p.m., ESPN2 

--~~~~~-------------~~~-~~~~~-----------------. 


Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. -Ben Gordon always expected to be in the NBA next season. The national title he helped Connecticut win made his decision even easier. 
"I knew I wanted this to be my last year," Gordon said Wednesday at a news conference to announce he's leaving the Huskies early. "I wanted to win the championship and had all these goals set." 
It's hard to imagine a college career ending on a higher note. 

Gordon averaged a team-leading 18.5 points for the Huskies, who beat Georgia Tech 82-73 last week for the title. He is projected as a top 10 pick in the draft. 
The junior guard aver­aged 21.2 points during six NCAA tournament games. He also scored 81 points to help the Huskies win their record-tying sixth Big East title, breaking Allen Iverson's scoring record in a tournament. 
"When Mek got injured, I got to take all this pres­sure on myself and that's when I started having fun," Gordon said, refer­ring to All-America center Emeka Okafor. "I didn't look back since then." 
Okafor is also expected to skip his senior season. He will graduate early in May, and he plans to hold a news conference later this week to announce his decision. 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said Gordon is making the right move. 
"He's mentally ready and he's going to be one heck of an asset to the team that's fortunate enough to draft him," Calhoun said. 
Gordon ended his career with 1,795 points and 437 assists. His 246 3-pointers are a school record. He is second in 3-point percent­age behind Ray Allen. 
Gordon's mother Yvonne Gordon was at the news conference. He promised her he would return and finish his degree in busi­ness administration. 
"''ve very supportive of what Ben has decided to do," she said. "because he will continue to do his edu­cation." 
IN BRIEF 
Roddick makes quick work of Kendrick 
HOUSTON -Top-seeded Andy Roddick was happy he needed only 58 minutes to defeat Robert Kendrick in a second-round match Wednesday night at the U.S. Men's Clay Court championships. 
"I don't want to play any long matches," Roddick said after a 6-2, 6-3 victory moved him into the quar­terfinals. 
Roddick broke Kendrick in the third game of the opening set on Kendrick's double fault at game point, and the two-time tournament champion dominated the match throughout. 
By midway in the second set, both players were getting playful. Roddick hit a return into the stands and jok­ingly suggested someone check the mark. On an overhead winner by Roddick that bounced into the crowd, Kendrick feigned leaping into the stands in an effort to make a return. 
"I felt pretty good out there," 

Roddick said. "I was fortunate to get off to a pretty good start and I feel I'm hitting the ball pretty well right now. I'm doing what I want with it so that's good." 
Roddick broke Kendrick in the third and ninth games of the second set. Kendrick fell behind love-40 in the final game. He fought off the first match point by serving an ace, but Roddick won his lOth straight match on Kendrick's forehand error into the net at the second match point. 
Roddick, going for his third title of the year, has a 30-5 match record this season. He led the United States' Davis Cup team to a 4-1 victory over Sweden last week, and now he's ready for a day off Thursday. 
Rochus defeats Costa at Valencia Open 
VALENCIA, Spain -Fourth-seed­ed Albert Costa was upset by Christophe Rochus of Belgium 6-4, 6­3 at the Valencia Open on Wednesday. 
Rochus, who was the runner-up here last year, faces six-seeded Alberto Martin of Spain in the quar­terfinals. Martin defeated Fernando Vicente 6-3, 5-7, 6-4. 
'Tm pretty pleased with the victory today. I knew I had the game to beat him, because I already beat him before," Rochus said. "I played a very solid match, I didn't miss many balls. He wasn't playing his best ten­nis obviously, but I am very pleased with this victory." 
In another match, Spanish veteran and former world No. 2 Albert Corretja was upset by countryman Marc Lopez 6-4, 6-4. 
Also Wednesday, Albert Montanes came back to defeat second-seeded Feliciano Lopez 4-6, 6-2, 6-4, while seventh-seeded. David Ferrer advanced to the second round with a 6-4, 6-3 win over Giovanni Lapentti. 
On Thursday, top-seeded Juan Carlos Ferrero faces Jan Vacek, while Ivan Ljubicic plays Fernando Verdasco. 
Thursday, April 15, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 HURLEY BUILDING T: 631-5882 F: 631-5771 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Anne Hayes Student Returnees 
Thur. AprillS, 2004 229 Hayes-Healy 5:00-6:00 pm 
Application Deadline: May t, 2004 for Spring 2005 Nov. 15, 2004 for Fall '05 and Spring 2006 
Applications Available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ for Sp'05 
Be There or 


Come hear Dr. James P. l<eener fuse math, biology and chemistry as he discusses diffusion 
TONIGHT!!! 
Thursday, April15 from 8-9PM Room 127 of Hayes-Healy 

1tcome early for some free Pizza Pil't 
+All majors, ages and genders invited. Lucky You! 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish try to build on winning streak 

By PAT LEONARD 
Associate Sports Editor 
The tide has begun to turn for the Irish. Now all the team has to do is ride this wave into the postseason. 
After a disappointing three­game early-season losing streak, that included defeats to North Carolina, Loyola and Hofstra, No. 14 Notre Dame (5-4, 2-1 GWLL) has won three straight contests and two straight conference games. 
The Irish travel to Indianapolis today to take on Butler, seeking a fourth straight victory in its quest to overtake Ohio State for first place in the Great Western Lacrosse League. 
The Buckeyes defeated the Irish 9-8 at Moose Krause Stadium on March 31, and Ohio State sits atop the confer­ence with a 2-0 record. 
Notre Dame is on a roll of late, winning games against Dartmouth and Air Force by a combined score of 22-5. After a victory over the Falcons, the No. 18 Irish overcame a 9-6 deficit to defeat No. 17 Denver. another Colorado team, on Sunday by a score of 14-12. 
That victory moved the Irish past the Pioneers in the polls, with Notre Dame at No. 14 and Denver dropping to No. 16. Pat Walsh tied a career-high with four goals and seven total points against the Pioneers. 
Last year, Walsh also plagued the Butler Bulldogs, notching two goals and four assists as a freshman in a 9-2 Irish victory. Attackman Dan Berger scored a hat trick, as well, as Notre Dame scored the first eight goals of the game and out shot Butler 38­24. 
Notre Dame leads the all­time series with Butler, 10-1, and the Bulldogs lost four of last season's starters to gradu­ation 
Butler also will have to deal with goalie Stewart Crosland, who over the last three games is 3-0 with a 5.12 goals­against average and a .727 save percentage. 
The Bulldogs, coached by Craig Kahoun in his sixth sea­son, have a 5-5 record with losses to Maryland and Fairfield, the two teams remaining on Notre Dame's schedule after today's game. Butler lost to Ohio State, as well. by a score of 12-5 -a much wider margin than the Irish defeat. Butler is currently 0-2 in league play. 
The Bulldogs finished last season with an overall record of 5-8 and a 1-4 conference record. 
Notre Dame and Butler square off at 4 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonacd@nd.edu 




THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
, presents 
"America's God: From Jonathan Edwards to 
Abraham Lincoln" 
Saturday, April 17, 2004 9:00a.m. 
McKenna Hall Centerfor Contiltuing Education 

page 22 Thursday, April 15, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish disappointed with Invite finish 
By ANNE BRUSKY 
Sports Writer 

In all honesty, the Irish had hoped to do better. 
After finishing the Boilermaker Invitational in 15th place, the Irish left the 18-team event disappointed with their performance. 
"We were hoping to finish a little better in the field even though there were some pretty good teams there," sophomore Scott Gustafson said. "It's kind of make-or-break time in these last few weeks. If we don't show up for the next tournament, our season will be done." 
The Irish compiled a final score of 44-over par 908 (303­302-303), 53 strokes behind tournament champion and host Purdue. The par-72 Kampen Course will host the NCAA Central Regional next month, should Notre Dame advance that far. 
"We're definitely not playing near where we should be," freshman Cole Isban said. "We're a young team, but we're really very talented. If we could just find that, we'd be very com­petitive. I mean, talent never really goes away, we've just lost it for right now." 
Gustafson showed once again why he is the Irish leader, as he remained consistent throughout the weekend and turned in sev­eral solid rounds. 
He ended the tournament tied for 27th place at 5-over par 221 (73-76-72). 
Isban and sophomore Tommy Balderston both struggled to make putts as they finished 60th and 69th, respectively. 
Sophomore Eric Deutsch, in the No. 5 position, opened with rounds of 7 8 and 7 4 before struggling to finish with an 80 during his final round, leaving him tied with Balderston at 16­over 232. 
Fellow classmate Mark Baldwin struggled in the final round, as his 20-over 236 (78­76-82) landed him in 83rd place after shooting an 82 on the last day. 
Although Baldwin, Deutsch and the other players who rotate through the four and five spots have occasionally sparked some good rounds, the team is looking for more consistency in these positions. 
As they head into the Big East Championship, to be held on Notre Dame's own Warren Golf Course in two weeks, the team is hoping to "bring everything together." 
"As bad as we've been playing, we can make up for it in the next tournament and get a ticket into the NCAAs," Isban said. 
The Irish have already beaten defending champion Virginia Tech once this season, and the team believes the potential is there to improve on last year's second-place finish. 
"We wish we would've had a little better momentum going into it, but we have a couple weeks to prepare," Gustafson said. "Hopefully we'll do better at this next one." 
Boilermaker Invitational 
Team Summary 
FINAL TEAM RESULTS (54-hole totals): 1. Purdue 855 (285-277-293); 2. Colorado 857 (288-284-285); 3. Kentucky 867 (291-280-296); 4. TCU 872 (293-285-294); 5. Indiana 878 (297­288-293); 6. Northwestern 882 (292­288-302); 7. Illinois 883 (289-290-304); 8. Oklahoma State 884 (295-292-297); 9. Kent State 885 (286-300-299); 10. Oklahoma 887 (301-287-299); 11. Louisville 888 (294-287-307); 12. Kansas State 889 (300-289-300); 13. Miami (Ohio) 896 (297-299-300); 14. Michigan 901 (301-297 -303); 15. NOTRE DAME 908 (303-302-303); 16. Michigan State 915 (307-298-310); 17. Iowa 919 (309-304-306); 18. Wisconsin 928 (301-315-312). 
Individual Summary 
Irish golfers: 27. (tie) Scott Gustafson 221 (72-76-73); 60. (tie) Cole Isban 229 (75-76-78); 69. (tie) Tommy Balderston 232 (82-78-72) and Eric Deutsch 232 (78-74-80); 83. Mark Baldwin 236 (78­76-82). 
Top nine golfers: 1. Kane Webber (Colorado) 206 (71-69-66); 2. Jeff Overton (Indiana) 209 (72-67-70); 3. (tie) John Holmes (Kentucky) 212 (72­70-70), Shiv Kapur (Purdue) 212 (71-69­
72) and Tom Johnson (Northwestern) 212 (69-69-74); 6. (tie) Peter Richardson (Purdue) 213 (71-69-73) and J.J. Killeen (TCU) 213 (70-71-72); 8. (tie) Alex Noren (Oklahoma State) 214 (69-73-72) and Blake Moore (Colorado) 214 (70-71­73). 
Contact Anne Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
TOLSTOY,DOSTOEVSKY,AKHMATOVA, TCHAIKOVSKY, STRAVINSKY, PROKOFIEV, CHAGALL, PAVLOV, BARYSHNIKOV..• 
N.A.S.A. PAYLOAD SPECIALIST, 
U.S. ARMS CONTROL LIAISON, WORLD BANK INVESTMENT ADVISER... 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2004 NO PREREQUISITE 
http:/ fwww.nd.edu/ --grl 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Barnett says he knew of problems 
Associated Press 

BROOMFIELD, Colo. Suspended University of Colorado football coach Gary Barnett acknowledges there was misbehavior at a 2001 party at the center of a rape scandal. He also says everyone at the off-campus gathering is to blame. 
Barnett, questioned for nearly five hours Tuesday by a panel investigating recruiting prac­tices at Colorado, said there were 10 people at the party, including four football players. The four later lost their scholar­ships and were charged with contributing to the delinquency of a minor for providing alco­hol. 
'There is no question in my mind that inappropriate behav­ior occurred," Barnett said. "There is no question that the behavior of the 10 young people involved was the result of their own poor decisions and under the influence of alcohol." 
1\vo women have alleged they were raped at the party by players or recruits; a third said she was assaulted in a dorm room shortly afterward. They are suing in federal court, seek­ing unspecified damages for what they say was the school's failure to rein in athletes and provide equal protection to women. 
At least eight women since 1997 have accused Colorado football athletes of rape though no charges have been filed. Separate probes are under way by the state attorney general and university. 
Barnett's testimony was the most dramatic yet before the Board of Regents' panel investi­gating whether Colorado uses sex and alcohol to entice recruits. The panel voted to ask for more time to complete its work. meaning a report would­n't come out until the end of May. 
Dressed in a suit and tie and occasionally raising his voice, Barnett said he feels responsi­ble for his players' performance on the field as well as their behavior in the community. But he said there is only so much he can do. 
"I have 48 that I have held accountable over the last five years. I can't live their lives for them," he said. 
Barnett was put on paid leave for comments he made about two of the alleged rape cases, including that of Katie Hnida, a former kicker who said she was raped by a teammate in 2000. He called her an "awful" player as he answered questions about why she left Colorado to later enroll at the University of New Mexico. 
Barnett waded into the con­troversy again Tuesday, telling the panel he spoke with Hnida's friends, former teammates and a rape counselor who spent time with the young woman, and that none heard her talk about harassment or assault. 
"I couldn't find anybody to substantiate one single claim and I was looking to substanti­ate it," Barnett said. 


,, r ,; ' 1 I 
i (. l l I 
:l, '•J' '~ 
,.. ~--" .,.. 1
1:. . • '· ( ~"" ·····,).:',' .•·:\ 

--------------~ Thursday, April 15, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish hope to extinguish the Flames 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
For the first time this sea­son. Notre Dame (32-12) will face an opponent in a single­game match at Ivy Field when they face the Illinois-Chicago Flames (19-18) today at 5 p.m. 
The Irish were scheduled to play a one-game match against Loyola March 25, but that game was cancelled due to inclement weather. 
"I love one-game series because you have to bring your best." Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "You have to attack early and get that early momentum because there's no second game to come back in. You can't hold anything back out there." 
Notre Dame is coming off a 2-0 victory on the road against No. 18 Nebraska and looks to continue its winning ways over its next three games, all of which are at home. 
"We have to build momen­tum while we're at home," Gumpf said. 
Despitn picking up the win, the Irish struggled at the plate against the Cornhuskers, col­lecting just four hits and scor­ing both runs with the help of Nebraska errors. 
The Irish hope to wake up their bats at home against an Illinois-Chicago team that has allowed opponents to bat .293. By contrast, Notre Dame's pitchers have held Irish oppo­nents to a .196 average. 
The Flames have managed to overcome their pitching woes lately, and have put together an eight-game winning streak coming into today's game. In their last conference double­header against Butler Monday, the Flames swept their oppo­nent by a combined score of 25-8. 
"[Illinois-Chicago] can really hit, and that's why they've won so much," Gumpf' said. "They have good timely hits and also have a lot of power. Our pitch­ers have to be able to shut them down." 
Illinois-Chicago's Cameron Astiazaran leads the Horizon League with a .421 batting average, with teammate Amanda Rivera not far behind with a .345 average. Rivera also leads the team with 10 home runs. 
Four different pitchers have seen the mound for the Flames, with no single pitcher making fewer than 10 appear­ances this season in the team's 

MATIHEW SMEDBERGfThe Observer 
Sara Schoonaert takes a cut against Purdue last week. 
37 games. Brittany Mcintyre, Alison Aguilar, Alycia Creese and Chelsey Barclay have com­bined for a team ERA of 2.97. 
Notre Dame remains at home Sunday to face Providence in a Big East dou­bleheader at Ivy Field, after which th.e Irish will go on a seven-game road trip. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
UIIYIIIITT DLUI 
PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME
OJ MOYII 0111 
WHERE MEMBERSHIP PAYS FOR ITSELF WITH EVERY MEAL OR DRINK! • 
Daily Lunch Light Lunch Soup &1/2 Sandwich Soup or Salad 
Special Entree Soup &Half Sandwich Entree 
Coffee or Tea Coffee or TeaCoffee or Tea 
$6.95 $4.95 $3.95 
CHEAP AND CLOSE....YOUR UNIVERSITY CLUB.....MEMBERSHIP INFORMATION 1·4685 
VS. NORTHWESTERN APRIL 15 @ 4:00PM 
GOLD GAME
liSIJ • 
Sponsored by AEROPOSTAU 


NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Rivalry renewed with Wildcats 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Everyone loves a good rival­ry -especially the women's tennis team. 
The Irish will renew their intense rivalry with No. 11 Northwestern (15-4) this afternoon when they host the Wildcats at 3:45 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
"There was a lot of energy today at practice because we're really excited to play Northwestern," sophomore Lauren Connelly said. "We all know how much we want to beat them. They're recalled that Northwestern brought an especially talent­ed team to the courts last year. 

"They killed us last year," Louderback said. "They're a very, very good team." 
Northwestern seems to be off to a strong start again this year, adding a pair of impres­sive wins against Minnesota and No. 32 Iowa last week­end. Northwestern is current­ly tied for second-place in the Big Ten with Indiana. 
Louderback anticipates the Irish will encounter chal­lenges at every position, espe­cially at No. 1 singles. No. 11 senior Alicia Salas will face 
obviously a No. 3
"There was a lot of 
talented Christelle
energy today at
team." Grier, who is Coach Jay practice because expected to 
Louderback we're really excited to contend for 
attributes the NCAA indi­
play Northwestern." 
the rivalry vidual title. to the prox­Salas has a imity of the Lauren Connelly career 1-3 two schools Irish sophomore record against 
and their competitive natures. In addition, a num­ber of the players challenged each other in the junior leagues. 
''I'm hoping it will be a tight match," Louderback said. "The tighter the match, the better of a chance we have to win. 

"They know we'll be excited to play and their coach is going to let them know it's going to be a good match. I think our kids are very capa­ble of playing at that level." 
Last year, the Wildcats claimed a 7-0 win against the Irish, sweeping both the sin­gles and doubles portions of the meet. The victory put the Wildcats at 16-8 all-time against the Irish. Louderback Grier. 
"(Salas! has been doing really well this year. She's just lost a lot of" close matches," Louderback said. "This is a great opportu­nity for her to get a win." 
Also stepping on the courts will be No. 55 singles player Jessica Hush and the No. 2 doubles team of Grier and Rush. While the Wildcats bring intimidating rankings to the meet, the Irish bring their own advantages. 
"We're much more comfort­able playing at home, too," Connelly said. "It's also nice staying at home because trav­eling is really tiring. and the fans are amazing." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


Sc:>r-r13~L.L. /Jr..~~ VS. ILLINOISCHICAGO ~ APRIL 15 @ 5:00PM 



N·otre Dame Athletics 

#14 Men's Lacrosse Softball 
~ vs. Fairfield ~ vs. Providence ~ at Moose Krause Stadium at 12:00 PM,~ at Ivy Field DOUBLE HEADER!! 
.,. Pre-game tailgate with Macro's Pizza (while supplies last> 11:00 AM JL _._ AND .,. 
~ ND Lax N algene water bottles for first 150 fans 
~ 1:00PM FreeAdmissioal Sponsored by IDarco~ Pizzo 
FreeAdmission.' 
... 
Thursday, April 15, 2004 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 

Awards 
continued from page 28 
can do it." 
Wednesday night was also a chance for Irish seniors Torrian Jones and Tom Timmermans to say goodbye and thank everyone who helped them in their four 
. years with the Irish. Both talked about how they will take more away from their time at Notre Dame than just what happened on the basket­ball court. 
... "When I look back on my four ~ears," Timmermans said, "I would not have any thoughts about going any­where else than the University of Notre Dame. This place is so wonderful." For Jones, a special moment for him came on Senior Night. After showering and leaving the locker room, he greeted fans in the hallway -fans he didn't know personally -and received some words to 
remember from his high school coach. 
"My coach told me, 'What just happened is what a col­lege career ·is all about is knowing that something so small as basketball can affect people's lives and put a smile on their faces,"' Jones said. "That's what your college career is all about." 
In a year that ended with Brey's team not advancing to the NCAA tournament for the first time in his four years at Notre Dame, it would seem this year could have been the most disappointing for him. 
But Wednesday night, he expressed his pride in his team. 
"I don't know if I've ever felt better about a group giving us everything we asked on a daily basis," Brey said. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley awarded its Rockne-Student Athlete Award to sophomore guard Chris Quinn. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Win 
continued from page 28 

up 1-0. Matt Bransfield fol­lowed with an RBI fielder's choice and Edwards advanced to second on an Oakland error. Sanchez had a two-run base hit before Cooper ended the scor­ing with another RBI fielder's choice. Three of the four runs were unearned for the Irish. 
Notre Dame let Oakland back in the game in the top of third when, with two outs and a run already plated, Irish left fielder Andres dropped a fly ball that would have ended the inning. The Golden Grizzlies took advantage with the next batter getting hit by a pitch followed by two straight singles that tied the game at 4-4. 
But the Irish answered in the bottom of the inning thanks to another costly Oakland error. Bransfield doubled to lead off the inning, and Cody Rizzo then reached on a Chad Winkler error at third base. Winkler had three errors in the game. With runners on second and third, Sanchez walked, Cooper then singled in a run and Rizzo scored on a wild pitch to put the Irish ahead 7-4. After Sisko struck out, Lopez had an RBI ground out to end Notre Dame's scoring for the inning. 
After not scoring in the fourth inning, Notre Dame plat­ed two runs in the fifth, four runs in the sixth, three more in the seventh and another run in the eighth. 
"I thought it was important to get back to playing good base­ball," Mainieri said. "Hustling, running the bases and backing bases and doing all the things we've always taken such pride in at Notre Dame -the way we play the game and the way carry ourselves. I just felt like we had gotten away from that." 
The Irish have the rest of the week off before starting a three-game series at Georgetown. The Hoyas are 19-20 and 5-8 in the Big East. Notre Dame is 8-2 in confer­ence play and tied for first place with Rutgers. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles hold· first in MIAA 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will continue league play today against Kalamazoo after returning from a challenging weekend at the Midwest Invitational. 
The Belles placed 10th in the tournament that consist­ed of the top 12 teams in the Midwest. While fellow league opponent Albion finished fourth overall, Kalamazoo lost all three matches at the Invitational. 
In its first match, Saint Mary's (14-6) was defeated 6-3 by DePauw but then recovered with a 5-4 victory over Kalamazoo. Carleton College recorded a 5-2 victo­ry against the Belles in their third match. 
After a critical win last 
week in her match against Albion, Jeannie Knish strug­gled in the Invitational and lost all three matches bring­ing her singles record on the year to 6-12. 
Kristen Palombo continued her hot streak at No. 2 sin­gles with three wins over the weekend. Palombo has .won nine of her last ten matches and is 10-7 in singles play this season. 
Jeannie Knish and Kate Bowler had difficulty in the No. 1 doubles spot and lost all three of their matches. On the other hand, the No. 2 doubles team of Kris Spriggle and Kaitlin Cutler continued to dominate and won all their matches in the Invitational improving them to 15-2. 
But despite Saint Mary's success this season, they 
almost didn't make the Midwest Invitational. 
"At first we were not invit­ed," Spriggle said. "Calvin College got the invite. But they turned down the invite which let us in." 
While Albion placed better than any other MIAA team in the Midwest Invitational, the Belles remain the only team with a 4-0 record in the league. Kalamazoo (10-11) has a 4·1 record in the league and is tied for second place with Albion. 
Last season Saint Mary's only lost two games in the 
MIAA  one  of  which  was  
against Kalamazo o.  
Saint  Mary's  will  face  

Kalamazoo in a home match today at 3 p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 


Certified mover 
Certified shaker 
Certified no more mac & cheese Certified acceleration Certified rush 
Certified freedorn Certified bring it on Certified Pre~Owned BMW 
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. 

Get warranty protection"' up to 6 years or 100.,000 miles. Get flexible leasing and financing options. Get pure BMW. :\ *· 
staroh up-to~date, extensive inwmtmy at bmwusa.com 
•Pfor~clion P!an prow:les ctNerage fm up «> 2 'yl>t.m c.r 51J,OOO mi~s {wrodlevl!f comes first) trcm the oat~ of !he e~plra~iM o~ the 4 y"l!ar/50.000 mile BMW NBw \lllhil'.ltl Umilli\0 W.m~mly. s~ parli<:ipati~"'JQ SMvV p.ag;enW-'r car eenta.· (Of details.~ mml'! ~fom\iltion. call 1.aotMl ..'lt-4BMW. or lli~it tl!TIIIIUM.ctm~ C::!004 BMW of North America, U.C. !h6 BMW n~me and logrs are ~~>gmi~md !.t<l<:lmnar~<s. 
Thursday, April I5, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
HUBBARD'S YELLOWSTONE ADVENTURES 

...... 
"trust n1e when I say that at the end ofyour stay, all ofyour Montana dreams will have come true" 
Hubbard's Yellowsto11e Lodge -()rvis c11dorscd Fly Fishi11g Lodge Six Quarter Circle Guest Ranch. -Horseback Riding Montana Cowboy College -I~earn to be a Co,vboy Yellowston.e Outfitters & Gttide A.cademy-Fly Fish.ing Scl1ool Yellowstone Outfitters -Elk: at1(l [)eer Hunti11g 
.All ad.ventu.res are fatn..il)r nJan.aged. a11d take place on our 25 Sl1uare .n1ile 
-
ranch v1ith. first class acco111111odations and gourmet chefs. 
For information on any of the above adventures, please contact Nancy at: nancy@hubbardslodge.com 406.848.7755 
page 26 Thursday, April 15, 2004 
The Obsen;er + SPORTS 

Seniors 
continued from page 28 
Kristen Gaudreau and Mia Novic. Bridget Higgins has been sidelined for much of this year with a torn ACL. 
With so many upperclassmen filling the roster, Simon knows that she, as a senior, has an obli­gation to set an example for her younger teammates even on bad days. 
"Even if I'm tired or sometimes you have those days you don't feel like practicing, but you [have] to, you can never slack off," she said. 
Now in their fourth and final year, the seniors realize their collegiate careers have not always been a relaxing pleasure cruise, especially after enduring a stormy junior year. Following a very successful 2002 campaign in which the Irish finished 13-5 and reached the NCAA quarter­finals, the team faltered in 2003. 
A disappointing 8-7 record and failure to qualify for the NCAA tournament threatened to leave the then-rising seniors dis­enfranchised entering their fmal season. But their response to that season was coach Tracy Coyne's first indication that, in her seniors, she had a special group of born leaders. 
"At the start of the year, they all came in to see me and they individually gave me their rea­sons why they were going to be different as seniors and why the program was going to go back to where it had been in 2002," Coyne said. 
Kinnik vowed not to sit idle and watch her team disintegrate into disappointment. Having tasted success earlier in her career, she was not about to let one year of disappointment get in her way. 
"Our team is very good this year getting through adversity," she said. "By the underclassmen seeing that we keep pushing through it, we don't stop, that keeps them going too." 
Dealing with hardship has helped the Irish battle through the times when they are not at their best. The season opener against the California, a 12-11 overtime win, sticks out as par­ticularly significant, especially to Kinnik. 
"That was a game we should have won very easily," she said. "[We told ourselves] that you just need to move on. You need to get over the fact that it didn't go' exactly how you wanted it to go." 
And move on they did, winning nine more games and landing in the second spot in the polls with a 10-0 record, both firsts in Notre Dame history. For Simon, the success is a direct result of the team's unity of purpose and the way teammates have gelled. 
"It's fun to be a leader for these people, people who just want to be led, who want what I want," she said. "That's what wins the championships. Everyone wants the same thing and we're all happy going after it." 
And it is Coyne's dearest hope that if there is one thing the underclassmen take away from this year's senior class, it will be their exemplary leadership. 
"I think the seniors of this class look back on [the first recruiting class] as the type of behavior they wanted to emu­late," she said. "I hope that these younger players look to this class and say This is how I want to do it' and have it become part of a tradition of the program." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
Offense 
continued from page 28 
Last year's leading receiver Rhema McKnight agreed that everyone is finally becoming comfortable with the offense after two seasons. 
"Things are a lot easier," McKnight said. "I don't have to worry so much about where I'm going to be, because I know where I'm going to be. I'm just out there being an athlete and trying to make big plays." 
The offense will have to improve if the Irish want to build on last year's 5-7 cam­paign. They averaged 336.3 yards per game, and scored 23 touchdowns -13 on the ground and 10 via the air. 
But the Irish aren't looking back, as they see bright things for their offense in the fall if they keep working this spring. 
"I think the difference from this spring to last spring is that we're a lot more experienced," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "I think from an overall standpoint, we're so much farther ahead than we have been from the spring pre­vious. I think our execution is getting closer. But as a coach, you are always looking for the little things that make the differ­ence between you guys being a consistent play after play type team, and we still have a ways to go before we're there." 

Even if Notre Dame hasn't completed everything perfectly just yet, they all agree on one thing -they are farther than they were last year at this time. 
"It's so much different, because a year ago at this time, you were looking for 11 guys you could put out there and term as your starters," Diedrick said. "What you're looking for this year is consistent play, guys that are going to jump and be the starter, and you're also look­ing for· what roles guys are going to play." 
Grant also recognized the dif­ference. 
"We're doing more as an offense, and we're getting the backs involved more," Grant said. "We're doing more in the passing game, we're more ver­satile. Every year I think you're going to see that more and more as more guys become more comfortable with [the offense]." 

McKnight, who had 47 recep­tions for 600 yards and three touchdowns last season, said even he felt better now than last spring. 
"As time goes on, you get more comfortable and more knowledgeable about what you're doing out there on the field," he said. "I feel real confi­dent about what we're doing right now. We will impn:rve on what we did last year. Everybody's feeling real confi­dent." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Note: The circled square has two answers,  Sharing this birthday: Roy Clark, Emma Thompson, Leonardo da Vinci,  
ACROSS  37 Cause for  67 Sighed (for)  Claudia Cardinale, Peter Billingsley  
t Mandlikova of tennis 5 Narrow 9 Cold response?  swearing 42 Band 43 "The Brady Bunch" girl  68 Hand-over­mouth reaction 69.Dry  Happy Birthday: This is your year to move into fast forward. Don't let any linle trivial mauers slow you down or lead you astray. The more you focus. the more you'll accomplish. You will not have much time to take it easy or spend time with loved ones, so you need to be prepared to use your time to the fullest. Your numbers: I, 6, 14, 22, 34, 45  
14 Any of the  44 Milk source  DOWN  
Beatles, once 15 Rolling rock 16 Language akin to Tahitian 17 Kind of system 19 Ones quick with a line? 20 Washington V.LP.'s 22 Secretary, e.g.  45 Danger signal on the prairie 48 "Caught ya!" 51 Paper towel hawker, in old TV ads 53 Mitchum com­petitor 55 Ragamuffin 57 Prior to the 20th  1 One with a pad, maybe 2 Trims 3 At least 4 Party desirables 5 Declined 6 Mennonite dec­oration 7 Former Wall Street insider  ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Problems will continue if you don't sit down and have a heart-to-heart talk with the one you love. You have probably neglected your family in order to gel ahead professionally. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You arc likely to become mesmeriLcd by someone pushing their philosophies on others. You must come up with your own beliefs. If you follow someone else, you'll lose respect for yourself. ••• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's time to do a lillie home ftxing. Get the whole family to pitch in and prepare your house and property for the warmer seasons or perhaps 10 put it up for sale. You can make a profit •••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your business partner may not be telling you the whole truth regarding new clients or investments. You'll have to check out all the angles yourself. Don't sign any papers based on trust. ••  
23 Sci. facilities Amendment, Boesky 24 Antiknock fluid what 20-Across a Fountain order 26 Obsolescent would do on 9 Org. for an suffix 37-Across, or 08/GYNwhen they would27 Mr. Bumble's 10 One who's leftdo itposition in holding the bag"Oliver Twist" 61 Of an old empire 11 Old country,30 Verb with thou 63 Like Congress maybe 33 Cronus or 64 Limelight milieu 12 Meteor materials Oceanus 65 Turkish chiefs 13 Pen sound 35 Salad option 66 In any case 18" Autumn" (Woody Herman ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE hit) "="7'T7T=r.::-1 21 N.L. Central team: Abbr. -=+-:-+-:+::-+:~ 25 Biblical king 27 A.C. letters 28 Stalk outgrowth 29 Put on ~:=+:-1 31 VCR maker -:;+~;;:+:-fl!l!l =+-:+.=+:-,..j 32 Lord's Prayer  37 Harbor problem ' 38 When, for an i eager beaver 39 Cheese type -40 Dusk-_-dawn 41 Chemical suffix 46 "Fire" preceder . , 47 It gets tn hot water 48 Achieve success  49 One trying to run from home 50 Cling 52 Adult 53 A continent: Abbr. 54 37·Acrossoaths, e.g. [or]37-Across parades follow them  55 Trace 56 Oppositionist 58 Capital occu­pied by ti',e Germans in 1~1 59 Figureheads? 60 Lock se)l-1rer 62 "The Simpsons" neighbor  LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes regarding co-workers may be disturbing. You must keep your personal feelings to yourself if you want to protect your own position. Do your job and mind your own business. • • • • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do things with children, Help them with their physical needs. Get into fitness programs or hobbies you've been longing 10 pursue. You're highly creative today, *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be getting tired of the nagging and criticism you've been pulling up with. It's time to take a look at yourself and decide if they're justified, If so, get busy rectifying the problems, ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your forceful manner will be enticing to potential love interests. Do not hesitate to get your point across or let others know what your wants and desires are. You're in the driver's seat, so take action. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should try to tie up loose ends at work early and start preparing for your weekend activities. Don't let someone put a damper on your good mood with continuous nagging. •• •• • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Emotionally, you are facing a very unsure period. The more you discover the more confused you get. You need some time to think. Get away by yourself if possible. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): There are deals to be made and profits to enjoy, Find out all you can about a recent investment you got wind of. You can enjoy the comforts of home if you concentrate on your family's needs. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make changes regarding your friendships, Those who have been too demanding should be put in their place. Rid yourself of the bad company you've been keeping. ***  
"A'to:+~==+:..t  pronoun 33 Primitive per­ For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  Birthday Baby: You will make your parents proud with your ability to pick up information so quickly. You are not lazy, and you always want to help everyone  
cussion instru­ment  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  out. You are friendly and generous, and this will result in opportunities to do t hings with others throughout life.  
..;.;.L.;;;..L;;.;..L.,;::.J  34 Roles in "Frankenstein" movies 36 Even one  Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year), Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes,com/learning/xwords.  Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.  

\ " ~
' 
'I \r._ t I I I 

I ·. .. _,'
~ 

Thursday, April 15, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 



CROSSWORD EUGENIA LAST
WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
DILBERT 
HAVE YOU MADE YOUR MOTHER PROUD BY BECOMING A MANAGER? 

FIVES 
With the stigma of American casualties in Iraq building, FOX News attempts to draw attention to a different outbreak of violence and unrest. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU COULD CALL THE SHOW "COOKING WITH TOO MUCH SALT: 
HOW DID 'I'OU GET THIS WAY? 
\ 
I 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Well John, as you can see behind me. the action has really picked up here at Walsh in what I'm told is only the first of the "Shock and Awe" 1!nrnnn11nn 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


Cl2004 Tribune Media Servk:ea, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
KIHCT 
I I I
tSPATOL 
~ 
WHE:N GRANDMA
J r
1 
RAN OUT OF 
www jumble com 
JARS, SHE: WAS--­
I CILAME j

I (I [J A= rI I I JIN A ..rI x x x x J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: CHALK QUASH PHYSIC IMBUED Answer: What the movie star did when she dived Into 
-. 
the pool -MADE A"SPLASH" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name ____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE 0BSER\l£R 

PORTS
Thursday, April 15, 2004 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 
Offense making strides after struggles last year 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
After a disappointing season on offense, the Irish are confident this fall will foster bigger and better things. 
The Irish return eight starters, including four on the offensive line that will protect second-year quarterback Brady Quinn. With one year of college football and nine starts under his belt, Quinn looks to lead an offense that hopes to improve on its 20.2 points per game average in 2003 -the second year running Tyrone Willingham's pro-style offense. 
"We're working on a lot of dif­ferent things right now and try­ing to come together as an oiTense," Quinn said. "We under­stand one another, after playing together for one year. 
"I feel like we've come together a lot more. I think that's one of the most important things." 
At practice. Quinn has been able to put together promising drives. Last week, Quinn led the offense in a seven-on-seven drill. He drove the team down the field, scoring on a 25-yard touch­down pass to Jerome Collins. 
Quinn also took his offense 73 yards with three completions to Billy Palmer (16 yards) Maurice Stovall (42 yards) and Carlyle Holiday (15 yards). The final toss was good for a touchdown. 

Quinn will be joined in the backfield by rising senior Ryan Grant. Grant, who was a 1 ,000 ­yard rusher in 2002, saw his yards diminish last year with the addition of running back Julius Jones. Grant ran for just 510 yards in 2003, but he feels that this year everyone is more famil­iar with the oiTense, and that will be beneficial. 
"Knowing the oiTense makes it easier so that when I get out 
BASEBALL 
Irish come up big at home 
Offense leads No.4 Notre Dame past Oakland in blozvout win 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Maybe the Irish should hold more players-only meetings before games. 
Just a few days after splitting back-to-hack doubleheaders against Boston College and St. John's, the Irish had a players only meeting before they went out and crushed Oakland 17-5 Wednesday night at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"I know it's not a Big East con­ference game, and I know Oakland came in with not such a great record, but I was really happy with the way we played," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said. 
Matt Edwards went 3-for-4 and five Notre Dame hitters col­lected two RBis as the Irish offense exploded for 17 runs and 14 hits. 
Notre Dame starting pitcher Jess Stewart (4-0) went five innings, allowing four runs ­one earned -and five hits while striking out two and walk­ing none to pick up the win. Dan Kapala, Rico Bertucci and Chris Niese! relieved Stewart and combined to go four innings, yielding zero runs. 
Mainieri cleared his bench, playing 18 position players and getting four pitchers into the game. 
"You want your kids go out and play hard and get better," Mainieri said. "And I think we got better tonight." 
Errors cost Oakland, especial­ly early in the ballgame as the Irish scored five unearned runs in the first five innings. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the bottom of the , first when Steve Andres singled, ,1 Matt Macri walked and Edwards ­singled in a run to put the Irish < 
see WIN/page 24 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Seniors lead team to No. 2 ranking 
are eight veteran seniors, the cogs that drive the Irish machine. Headlined by cap­tains Andrea Kinnik and Meredith Simon, the team pos­sesses a rich vein of experi­enced talent. Defense/midfield Kassen Delano joins Simon as a four-year starter while Lauren Fischer and Kinnik have started since their sopho­more seasons. Joining those four with regular playing time this year are Abby Owen, 
see SENIORS/page 26 


By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Like a well-oiled machine, the No. 2 Irish have dispatched each of their first 10 opponents with precision and efficiency. Using a combination of distrib­uted offense and stalwart defense, the Irish are in the inidst of a 14-game winning streak and their most success­ful season since the program's inception in 1997. 
At the core of this success there I'm not thinking about what I'm doing," Grant said. "I think a lot of guys have an idea of what the offense is based around, and that helps so much. When you are going out there, you know what you're doing and now you just play the game." 

Grant has also seen early suc­cess this spring. Last week, he broke a 31-yard touchdown run to end a drive. 
see OFFENSE/page 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas named MVPat banquet 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Chris Thomas hobbling up the podium steps at Wednesday night's men's bas­ketball banquet -one at a time -exemplified the resiliency that became a com­mon theme for the Irish last season. 
Thomas had arthroscopic surgery on his left knee Friday, and the knee is still immobilized by a brace. But that didn't keep him from accepting the Notre Dame National Monogram Club MVP Award and providing encour­aging words for next season in front of approximately 500 people at the Joyce Center. 
''I'm tired of hearing how good we are as people. I want to hear about how we can be on the court," Thomas said. "Next year is a perfect oppor­tunity for us ... I can just pic­ture hanging a banner over here [that says) 100 years and hanging a banner over here -Final Four." 
Thomas will be kept off the court for the next four months as his knee heals. That chal­lenging task is something Irish coach Mike Brey is letting someone else handle. 
"That's Skip Meyer's job," Brey said referring to the team's trainer. "That's going to be hard for [Thomas]. but he knows it's the only way he 
see AWARDS/page 24 
NHL
NBA
Nil SOFTBALL 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S GOLF 

MEtfS LACROSSE 
-en 
w 
Avalanche 3,

Notre Dame at
1--
Col Notre Dame vs. 
Notre Dame vs. 
Cavs 100d 
The Irish had a disap-
Stars 2 
Knicks 9 

Butler
Northwestern
z UIC 
pointing finish at last 
Colorado goes up 3-1

The Irish travel to face
a: :3 
weekend's Boilermaker 
in the series with the

the Bulldogs in a confer-
Today, 3:45 p.m. 

LeBron James ended
= Today, 5 p.m. 
Invitational. 
double overtime win. 

ence game. 
his rookie season with a
This match will renew
The Irish hope to con­
< 
the rivalry between the 
win.
tinue their winning 

= 
two.

~!a. ways.
!:i 

page 18 
page 16
page 23 
page 21
page 23 
page 22

en 






