
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Trage.dy strikes Ebersol family 
Map Accident Site 

Hospital Crash Sik> Dick and Charlie Ebersol are 
COl.OMOO 

in stable condition at a 
i·DENVER 
• hospital in 
•' GRANO jUNCTION 

Grand Junction, while 
MONTROSE 

the co-pilot is at a hospital in Denver. 
Photos courtesy of the Associated Press and the Observer Archives 
Right, officials from Montrose Airport and the National Transportation Safety Board search wreckage Monday. Top left, Teddy Ebersol, Susan Saint James and Dick Ebersol attend a movie screening. Middle left, Notre Dame senior Charlie Ebersol poses for a student government photo. 
Plane crash leaves ND senior Charlie, father Dick injured; youngest brother dead 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Notre Dame senior Charlie Ebmsol survived a plane crash that injured his father, NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol, and killed his youngest brother Teddy Ebersol and two crewmen in Montrose, Colo. Sunday. 
The family said in a release Monday night that Dick and Charlie Ebersol were in stable condition at St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Junction, Colo. and are expected to make a full recovery, according to Kim Williams, director of public relations at the hospital. 
The private jet, carrying six people, crashed during takeoff from Montrose Regional Airport at approximately 10 a.m. Mountain Standard Time, according to a press release from the Montrose Fire Protection District (MFPD). The airport is located 185 miles southwest of Denver and serves the Telluride Ski Area. 
The pilot and a flight attendant of the CL-601 Challenger plane were killed on impact, the Montrose County Coroner's Office said in a press release. 
A body matching the descrip­tion of Teddy Ebersol, 14, was recovered underneath the wreckage at 5 p.m. MST Monday, following an extensive seareh of the wooded crash site, 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Group discusses updates
. 
Members will send card, prayers to Ebersol family 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
The Council of Represen­tatives discussed business from last week and coordinat­ed various events being planned for the week Monday. 
At last week's meeting stu­dent body president Adam Istvan presented a resolution to representatives that pro­posed changes that the Council felt needed to be made to the new constitution. Before members approved the resolution, Student Union Board manager Jimmy Flaherty had expressed con­cern with one provision that suggested Financial Manage­ment Board meetings take place on an as-necessary basis, and members chose not to remove it. 
COR discussed the issue fur­ther Monday, and representa­tives agreed the current con­stitutional requirement for FMB to meet on a bi-weekly basis is necessary and no con­stitutional changes should be made. 
Still, hall president's co­chair Claire Fadel, who attends FMB meetings, said although last week's meeting was very effective, many in the past have failed to be pro­ductive due .to poor atten­dance. 
"If we are going to meet on a bi-weekly basis, then the representatives here are going to have to push the members of your respective groups to come to our meetings. We cannot vote if we do not have enough members present," she said. 
Representatives agreed to do so. 
In other COR news: 
+ Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni asked represen­tatives to sign a card for sen­ior Charlie Ebersol and his family, who were involved in a plane crash over the holiday weekend. 
"We bought a card to show support for Charlie. Let's all keep them in our prayers," she said. 
Contact Mary Kate M~one at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Montrose Coroner Mark Young told the Montrose Daily Press. 
The younger Ebersol was ejected from the plane and died instantly, Young said. 
"He didn't lay there and suf­fer," Young said. "The pilot and flight attendant were both eject­ed from their seats. The only one not ejected was Mr. Ebersol, and his son, Charles, pulled him out." 
see CRASH/page 4 
University expresses sorrow after crash 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
A testament to the bonds of the Notre Dame community, the University was shaken by the tragedy that struck members of its own Sunday, and is extend­ing its support to the Ebersol family in its time of grief. 
The charter plane carrying Notre Dame senior Charlie Ebersol. 21, his father, chair­man of NBC Sports Dick 

Ebersol, 57, and Charlie's brother Teddy Ebersol, 14, cra­shed on takeoff a n d eruptPd in flames at Mon­t r o s e 
Regional Airport Sunday. 
The Ebersol name is well known on campus and in the wider Notre Dame communitv. and the family's influenc'e reaches from the wording of the new Student Union consti­tution to the details of the new NBC television contracts. 
·In a statement released Monday, University President Father Edward Malloy offered his condolences to the Ebersol family on the loss of their youngest son Teddy. 
"The Ebersols have been longtime friends of the 
see EBERSOL/page 4 

Students feel pain of USC losing streak 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 

After watching the football team lose to USC on Saturday, Notre Dame students returned from Thanksgiving break sad­dened by the season-ending loss. 
"That was an absolute embar­rassment," sophomore Mac Murray said of the football 41-10 loss to No. 1 USC. 
Murray, who is from Chicago, traveled to Los Angeles with his family to watch the Irish play the Trojans. 
"We shouldn't have even been on the same field with that team," Murray said. 
Junior Steve Sweeney, who traveled to USC from northern California with his dad, shared 
see LOSS/page 3 

CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer A football fan expresses dis­appointment after Notre Dame's 41-10 loss to USC. 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
'Saved by the Bell' bliss 

In rocnnt weoks, my f'rionds and I have dovotnd a good chunk or time to watching every episode from every season of"Savnd by the Boll." Pathntk'? Perhaps a bit. But. watching tho show now, 
whnn I am mature Kate Antonacci 
nnough to recog­
nize that I will 
never actually News 
bnconw Kelly Production Kapowski and Editor datn th1~ evnr­dnsirabln Zac:k Morris, it is intnresting to see how our culture has changnd in just 10 short years. 

Tho show had a roal innocence and sweetnnss to it. All of tho episodes had n~assuring morals and tlw characters always made the right decisions-no drugs, no racism, no sex and no seri­ous problems. 
Our gnnnration seems utterly out of eontrol in comparison. And while I am glad that my wardrobe does not con­sist of fluorescent spandex and tacky pattnrnod dresses, at timos, I wish life mirrorod "Savnd by the Bell" just a lit­tin. Tho perfnction of the charaetnrs, their mlationships and their morals, no matter how "made-for-TV" they may have bnen, wnre enviable. 
For onn, Knlly and Zack's "going steady" was the epitome of pure, high school love. Zack solieitod parental permission before~ asking Kelly out and nuuh~ deals with her boss to get hnr out of work early for a dance. A kiss on tho cheek was always followed by an "ooooooo" from the audience. Now, such courting and dating is a virtual has-bonn. while random hook­ups and casual, mnaningless relation­ships dominate hi!{h school and eol­lngo lifo. When and how did that b(H~onw tlw norm'? 
.Jnssio took eam~ine pills, Scronch mado fako IDs to get everyone into an I H-and-up danco dub, and Zack srlllck out of detention. Today, poople deal with police citations, (~ourt hear­ings and Hnsl.ifn trials all the time without blinking an eye. Though at tho corn the problems seem the same, everything today is in excess and taken much more casually. 
When did the innocence disappear? Did it ewr n~ally exist'? 1\verything in "Saved by the Bell" was sugarcoated. The real lire angst of teens was undnrplayed and problems wern unrealistkally resolved in 30 minutes 11at. But., I can't hnlp but think that the show set a moral standard -it nncouraged hand-holding and court­ing and sticking up for your friends. As outdated as tlw show may seem, it manages to touch your heart, and we all end up trying to find our inner Baysidn charaeter. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser/Jer. Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for rhe highesr srandards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. lf we have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4 541 so we can correcr our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE FOOTBALL GAME? 




Kat Moravek 
junior Caven 
"/ don't think "IJ.J. Fitzpatrick "Expected. " it's appropriate is awesome. 
for the newspaper to print." 
0:: 
LLI :::t: 
!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
<C 
(,) 





Gabriel Samudio  Roger Knight  Chris Dougher  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  
Keenan  Siegfried  Zahm  
"Go Irish!"  "/ didn't watch  "It was  
it."  football-rifle."  


RICHARD FRIEDMAN!The Observer 
Notre Dame students eat dinner in South Dining Hall Monday underneath a balcony of new Christmas decorations, which went up across campus over Thanksgiving break. 
OFFBEAT 
Smiling frowned upon in visa photographs 
PITTSBUHGII -Imagine being denied a passport for, of all things, your teeth. It could happen, but not because they're crooked. Under new rules for visa photographs that began this summer, the State Department doesn't want to see them at all, according to a story publishnd in Sunday's Pittsburgh-Post Gazetto. 
The new guidelines permit people to smile for passport and visa pietures but frown on toothy smiles, which appanmtly are elassilied as unusual or unnatural expres­sions. 
"The subject's expression should be neutral (non-smil­ing) with both eyes open, and mouth dosed. A smile with a dosed jaw is allowed but is not preferred," according to the guidelines 
Man shoots cell phones into Swedish prison 
STOCKIIOLM, Sweden ­Authorities in Sweden arrest­ed a man who shot mobile phones into the yard of a high-security prison with a bow and arrows, police said Saturday. 
The 25-year-old man is charged with planning to aid a prison P.scape and could get up to a year in jail, police said. 
The suspect, whose name was not released, taped two cell phones and a battery charger to three arrows, and fired them over the 12-f'oot wall into Mariefred prison outside Stockholm on rriday night, police spokeswoman Susanne Abrahamsson said. 
The man was not spotted by guards when he fired the arrows, but was arrested after police found his ear parked about 650 feet from the prison walls, with a bow hidden underneath it, she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 





0 
HIGH 40 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 30 LOW LOW LOW 
36 25 
37 
25 

33 23 
IN BRIEF 
The Cm1ter for Social Concerns will sponsor a summer service project meeting from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse lounge tonight. 
UNICEF will sell Christmas cards and other materials from 
9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. today in the lleshurgh Library concourse. Proceeds will benefit needy chil­dren throughout the world. 
TheoJ(,gy prol'nssor Bob Krieg will lead a seminar on "Catholic Theologians and Nazi Germany," Wednesday from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. in C-1 04 I Jesburgh Center: 
Sally Winn, vicn prnsident of Feminists liw Ute of Ameriea, will speak today on the topic "Hefuse to Choose: Reclaiming Feminism" from 7 to 9 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo llall. 
Pasquerilla East llall will spon­sor its Silent Night Silent Auction Wednesday from 7 to 9 
p.m. The event will inelude fr.ee food, karaoke and a free !Pod giveaway. 
University of' Iowa professor Mary Wilson will speak today from 4 to 5 p.m. in 23H Galvin .Life Science building about "Molecular mechanisms of' host­parasite interactions in leishma­niasis." 
Political seience professor Luc Heydams will discuss "Universal Jurisdiction over Gross Human Hights Violations: Back to Square Zero?" Wednesday from 
4:30 to 6 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser/Jer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an e/Jent to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 41 LOW 30 


Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 1 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
. ..
. 

~--------­
1 . 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
T-shirt apology choice 
discussed by m.em.bers 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
After much deliberation about issuing a second apology for Saint Mary's Pride Week T-shirt, the Board of Governance decid­ed Monday that a statement would be released to the student body. 
BOG said a second apology was not appropriate because the entire student body did not request a second more specific apology, and some students e­mailed the Student Activities Board stating they would be offended by what they deemed an unnecessary apology. 
The Board instead will issue a statement about its intentions. SAB coordinator Lauren Fabina said student government did not wish to ignOTe students who were not offended by the shirt. 
"We are in constant review of our activities to provide the best programs possible. We will keep in mind the opinions of all stu­dents and what offended them in the planning of future events," Fabina said. 
At the last BOG meeting, the Board considered issuing an apology if SAB opt13d not to. Student body president Sarah Catherine White and student body vice president Mary Pauline Moran said they consid­ered possible options and dis­cussed them with administra­tors. 
"We gave a lot of thought to how campus felt about these issues as a whole," White said. 
College reacts to tunnel closure 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 

For nearly a hundred years, Saint Mary's students and faculty have taken shelter from the South Bend snow and rain by walking through underground tunnels, which are now scheduled to close Dec. 18. 
In general, students and faculty said they were con­cerned about how the clos­ing, which will likely be indefinite, would affect cam­pus. 
Junior Elizabeth Voss, a LeMans resident, said she felt the closing would present a safety issue. 
She also said the closing would hamper students' abil­ity to move freely from build­ing to building at times when it may be unpleasant to go outside. 
"I think it will be a great inconvenience to walk around when we have all become accustomed to using the tunnels, especially at night and in the cold," she said. 
Kyra Waltz, a sophomore living in Holy Cross, agreed. 
Football 
continued from page 1 
Murray's sentiment. 

"We weren't prepared to play with the number one team in the country for four quarters," Sweeney said. 
Sweeney pointed out the growing gap in performance between the Notre Dame and USC teams. 

Together they decided it would be best not to issue the apology, and agreed SAB had valid rea­sons not to do so. They said it was best to continue the discus­sion process and keep holding identity forums to further unite all campus ideas. 
"Actions speak louder than words, and keeping the identity forums are the best way to han­dle this situation," public rela­tions commissioner Ashley Thornburg said. 
Board members said they hope students will continue peaceful discussion about the issues brought up by the Pride Week T­shirt. 
In other BOG news: 
+ Sunday from 11:45 a.m. to 
3:15 pm will be the last Service Sunday at the Christ Child Soci~ty. Students are encouraged to come and should contact Mary Beth Swyart for more informa­tion. 
+ Sophomore class president Claudia Toth said all students are welcome to attend the abroad student send off tonight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. The sopho­more class will also host the "Big Sister-Little Sister" kickoff event from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the west wing of the dining hall, which will include a gingerbread house contest. +The second in a series of iden­tity forums will be held Dec. 7 at 4 p.m. in the Regina North Lounge. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 





WHAT'S. AN ACTUARY? 
Information Session Presented by Allstate Insurance Company 


Tuesday, November 30, 2004 6:30p.m. 



Allstate.
Foster Room, Lafortune 
You're in good hands. 
Strong math, computer, analytical, and communication skills are valuable assets for students pursuing an Actuarial Career. All majors are welcome to attend this session to learn about the many opportunities available to those interested in an Actuarial Career. 
"I use [the tunnels] for when it's raining, or really cold and snowy and icy," Waltz said. ''I'm not very happy about it." 
Her roommate, sophomore Angela Ellison, said she would continue to live in Holy Cross next year despite the inconvenience of the tunnel closing. · 
'Til still live in Holy Cross, even though it's the farthest from everything," she said. 
Professor Mark Abram­Copenhaver uses the tunnels to travel from Moreau to Regina Hall between classes "all the time." 
"[I feel] a paroxysm of sad­ness the likes of which have rarely been encountered since Greek tragedy," he said. "It's cold, it's rainy, we have to put on coats. 
Besides pushing students and professors outdoors dur­ing class hours, inclement weather may affect business­es like the bookstore, the Crossings snack shop in Haggar and Dalloway's after hours. 
Voss said she worried about 
the campus businesses losing 
customers when the tunnels 
close. 

"It's amazing how the series with USC has changed in the last three years. Four years ago we beat them -they weren't that good. But they get a new coach and have beat us by 31 every year since," Sweeney said. 
Sweeney said he pointed to the administration and head coach Tyrone Willingham for the team's poor performance. 
"I feel that the current admin­istration is fine with having a mediocre coaching staff." Sweeney said. "Some people say that Ty's frrst recruiting class is only in their sophomore season, and that he needs time, but our recruiting classes have been worse now than under [former head coach Bob] Davie." 
Freshman Ned Hawley, who lives in Los Angeles, attended the game with family and friends. 
"Going into the game, I felt we had a shot," he said. "USC does­n't have the practice that we have in the rain, so the weather was on our side. We had a good turnout for the game, and in the first quarter the ND fans were 
"As Dalloway's Promotions Manager I a:m very concerned about the tunnels connecting the residence halls to Haggar being closed," she said. "With many residence hall doors being locked at 6 p.m., I am afraid that students won't be willing to make the effort to walk around to get to Dalloway's in the evenings." 
Waltz and Ellison both agreed not having easy underground access would keep them from visiting the campus eateries during such weather. 
"As for Haggar, I probably won't go there anymore if the weather is bad," Ellison said. "I usually only go there at night if the weather's too nasty to wall} outside to the dining hall." 
Many agreed the tunnels are an important part of the Saint Mary's campus and said they would be sad to see closed. 
"It is such a wonderful advantage of being at Saint Mary's," Voss said. "I will be very upset if they remain closed permanently." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
much louder." 
According to Hawley, momen­tum shifted once USC settled down and found their offense. 
"We lost o~r energy, a,nd from there it was all downhill," Hawley said. 
But students who were upset by the game said they enjoyed 
usc. 
"The SoCal fans were great. very intense. but an amicable rivalry. Outside of us getting pounded, it was a really fun time," said Murray. 
Hawley enjoyed himself, but noted the difference between ND and USC fans. 
"USC fans don't have the heart Notre Dame fans do ­when they're down, they don't cheer. Win or lose, USC football just isn't Notre Dame football." 
Sweeney said he has attended Notre Dame-USC games since he was little. 
"It's a great rivalry and most USC fans are respectful, at least the ones I've been around," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Professor edits book on hum.an m.igration 
Special to the Observer immigration analyze the devel­
opment of migrant networks 

Marc Rodriguez, assistant and institutions in the volume, professor of history at the sponsored by Princeton University of Notre Dame, is the University's Shelby Cullom Davis editor of a new book titled Center for Historical Studies. 
"Repositioning North American Migration History: Ne.w Walter Nugent, Andrew V. Directions in Modern 
Tackes Emeritus Professor of Continental Migration, History at Notre Dame, wrote Citizenship and Community." the first chapter, "Crossing 
Published by the University of Borders, Countering Rochester Press, the book com­Exceptionalism." A noted schol­
pares the way international ar of the American West, migra­migrants form communities and tion and demography, Gilded maintain relationships with Age and Progressive Era, and their native regions to similar comparative history, Nugent patterns among migrants from received the Western History within the North American con­Association's Caughey Award for tinent. Twelve contributing the best book on the American 
scholars of North American West in 2000. 
page 4 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
Ebersol 
continued from page 1 

University and we are deeply saddened by their loss." Malloy said. "We pray for a full recov­c ry for Dick and Charlie Ebersol. and ask God's grace on their family." 
Father Mark Poorman. vice presid1~nt for student affairs, offered similar words of prayerful thoughts and support. 
"As treasun)d members of the Notre Dame community, Charlie Ebersol and his family are in our thoughts and prayers at this very difficult time," Poorman said in a statement released Monday. "We all draw strength from our faith, and pray that God will provide heal­ing and hope for the Ebersols." 
Students, especially those closest to Charlie Ebersol. are still reeling from the shock. 
Clay Nuellc, an HA in Keough -where Charlie Ebersol lived for two years before moving off-campus -said the dorm is banding together for strength, but the lack of solid informa­tion has made it hard to cope. 
"I think, like with any kind of tragic incident, it's been diffi­cult, especially for the guys that know [Charlie Ebersol] really well." Nuelle said. "They're taking it as well as you can pos­sibly take it. but from talking with some guys earlier, not knowing the whole situation is part of the problem. It's just really dif1icult." 
As a vocal and sometimes controversial figure on campus, Charlie Ebersol faced tough criticism during both of his presidential campaigns and his term at Student Union Board ­criticism born from mispercep­tion, according to 2004 Notre Dame graduate Tai Homero, who worked as SUB program­ming director during Charlie Ebersol's run as manager. 
"Charlie is probably one of the strongest people I know and he has a very strong spirit that people confuse for arro­gance because they don't know him," Homero said. "But every­one who knows him will say that at foundation of everything he does is his family. Those family bonds are what make Charlie the person he is today." 
Homero said she wished the outpouring of support for Charlie Ebersol would have come because students came to know his true character, and not because he is experiencing a time of grief. 
Charlie Ebersol's closest friends and girlfriend have been keeping in constant con­tact with each other, so as to give the family privacy and space, added Homcro. 
During his decade of support for Notre Dame athletics, Dick Ebersol's presence has made as much impact on campus as his eldest son's. 
"[Dick Eb1~rsol's] not out here for every football game; but he docs come for one or two games each fall, and often has other family members with him as well. You get to know the family beyond business aspect," Notre Dame associate athletic director for media relations John Heisler said. "It's been a tough couple of days in our building, because that's what makes this hard, that it's peo­ple you know and not just names in a wire story." 
There will be a mass tonight at 10 p.m. in Keough for the Ebersol family. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Crash 
continued from page 1 

Young declined to discuss the condition of Teddy Ebersol's body out of respect for his fami­ly. 
News reports on the status of the Connecticut boarding school freshman were scattered Sunday as local authorities con­ducted a search of the area, which is covered by bmsh and cedar trees and contains a large drainage ditch. At a press con­ference at the airport Monday morning, broadcast nationally by CNN, Montrose County chief deputy coroner Matt Eilts said Teddy Ebersol was presumed dead and that the investigation had been suspended until rep­resentatives from the National Transportation Safety Board arrived on the scene. Another press conference was held at 6 
p.m. MST after the body was found. 
The Ebersols, who own a home nearby, stopped in Colorado to drop off Dick Ebersol's wife, actress Susan Saint James of 1980s television series "Kate and Allie." The family was returning to South Bend after a gathering at Saturday's Notre Dame football game against the University of Southern California, where son Willie Ebcrsol. 18, is a fresh­man. 
The plane skidded sideways after impact, ripping off the cockpit and one of the wings, eyewitness Chuck Distel told the Associated Press. Though it was snowing at the time of the crash, Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Allen Kenitzer told the Associated Press he did not know if the weather was a fac­tor. 
Charlie Ebersol, 21, helped pull his father out through the front of the plane, Distel said. 
Another eyewitness, Pro Tow 
emp~yMDoog~rciv~.mnw 
the scene after spotting the plane's tail end going airborne and bursting into flames. 
"I ran out and Charlie was standing on a dirt hill scream­ing, 'My 14-year-old brother's on the plane, please help him."' Percival said. "I went around the plane and that's when I saw the two [crewmem­bers) and Dick Ebersol." 
The NBC executive was unre­sponsive and appeared "very badly" injured, with his eyes rolled back in his head, Percival said. 
"I tried to reassure him that help was on the way," Percival said. 
Percival told the Associated Press that Dick Ebersol sat numbly rocking back and forth on the snow-covered ground. 
Aside from a few scrapes on the left side of his face, Charlie Ebersol did not have visible injuries, Percival said. 
"I think he was just more in shock than anything else," Percival said, adding the senior grabbed him and told him he had been sitting in the back row of the plane, while his brother had been sitting in the fourth row. 
Charlie Ebersol was able to 
climb into an ambulance, 
Distel told the Associated 
Press. while Dick Ebersol was 
loaded onto a stretcher. 

Charlie and Dick Ebersol 
were taken to Montrose 
Memorial Hospital and trans­
ferred to St. Mary's by Sunday 
afternoon, while a Flight For 
Life helicopter transported the 
plane's co-pilot to a Denver 
Trauma Center, where he was 
in critical condition Monday, according to the MFPD. 

The dead crewrnembers were pilot Luis Alberto Polanco Espaillst, 50, of the Dominican Hepublic, and flight attendant Warren T. Hichardson III, 36, of Coral Gables, Fla., according to a press release from the Montrose coroner's office. 
FAA and NTSB officials were investigating possible causes of the crash Monday. The plane's flight data recorder was found in the wreckage, burned on the exterior but protected by a layer of asbestos, according to the Montrose Daily Press. It will be f1own to the NTSB's Denver office to conduct a preliminary readout. the results of which should be available Tuesday, NTSB inspector Arnold Scott told the Montrose Daily Press. 
"At this point there are still a lot of questions unanswered," Montrose Airport manager Scott Brownlee said in the first news conference, broadcast by CNN. 
Brownlee added he did not Steve McLaughlin of MTJ Air Services, which de-ices private planes at the airport, told the Denver Post his company did not de-ice the Ebersols' plane before it took off. 
The Challenger plane was operated by Air Castle Corporation on behalf of Jet Alliance of Millville, N.J. Clifford Bussell, president of Jet Alliance, issued a statement Monday morning that offered condolences to those involved. 
Challenger aircraft have been involved in other recent acci­dents, including a crash that killed three crewrnembers on takeoff in Wichita, Kan. in October 2000, according to the Denver Post. 
Charlie Ebersol played a vocal role in Notre Dame student gov­ernment, twice running for stu­dent body president and losing by narrow margins in 2003 and 2004. Ebersol served as manag­er of the Student Union Board and a member of the Council of Hepresentatives during the rewriting of the student union constitution. 
A film, television and theatre major, Ebersol lived in Keough for two and half years before moving off-campus. 
Dick Ebersol, 57, became president of NBC Sports in 1989, and was a chief negotia­tor in agreements to televise Notre Dame horne football games on NBC. .Most recently. he, University President Father Edward Malloy and athletic director Kevin White collaborat­ed on a December 2003 con­tract extension that granted NBC rights to nationally broad­cast the Irish through 2010. 
Dick Ebersol also IPd NBC's successful negotiations to tele­vise the Olympics and NASCAB events, and in the early 1980's he served as executive producer of Saturday Night Live. 
The Associated Press, CNN. the Montrose Daily Press and the Denver Post contributed lo this report. 
know if the plane's wings had  2003-04 term. He was a key  
been de-iced before takeoff.  actor in the recent restructuring  Contact Claire Heininger at  
saying it was the pilot's choice.  of student government and the  cheining@nd.edu  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Alexander Blachly, Director 
George Frideric Handel's 




Messiah 
8:00 Thursday, December 2, 2004 Friday, December 3, 2004 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General admission $6; faculty I staff $5; seniors $4; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 
~==========================================~ 
,-------------­
-----
-----------~ 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 Colv\PlLED FR01\1 TilE OnSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Congo to send reinforcements 
KINSHASA, Congo -Congo intends to 
send 10,000 reinforcements toward its east­
ern border with Rwanda, a presidential 
spokesman said Monday, after credible 
reports that thousands of Hwandan troops 
crossed in to its territory, raising fears of 
reigniting a devastating five-year regional 
war. 
A Western diplomat told The Associated 
Press Monday that thousands of Hwandan 
troops moved into the remote forested hills 
of east Congo -an account supported by 
park rangers and local chiefs near the bor­
der of the two neighbors and wartime ene­
mies. 
Hwanda refused to confirm or deny the 
reported incursion, and the U.N. mission in 
Congo said U.N. helicopter patrols and other 
sorties had failed to turn up any immediate 
sign of Hwandan troops. 
.Victims compensated for torture 
SANTIAGO, Chile -Three decades after 
being imprisoned and tortured during the 
military dictatorship of Gen. Augusto 
Pinochet, Mireya Garcia is among 27,000 
Chileans who will finally get government 
compensation. 
"It's very special for us, who were kept 
anonymous for almost 31 years, that the 
state admits that we were tortured," Garcia 
told The Associated Press Monday. "Telling 
the nation that we were tortured is the first 
act of reparation. Little by little, this begins 
to be a healing process." 
While the payments are small -about 
$190 a month -they will double the pen­
sions of many former victims. In addition, 
victims and their relatives will receive free 
education, housing and health benefits. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
7 killed in helicopter crash 
BRUCEVILLE-EDDY, Texas-An Army hel­icopter carrying seven soldiers crashed and burned in the fog Monday after hitting a sup­port wire on a TV transmission tower whose warning lights had been knocked out in a storm last week. officials said. Everyone aboard was killed. 
The Ull-60 Black Hawk. bound for the Red River Army Depot in Texarkana, went down in a field about 30 miles northeast of Fort Hood. The fog was so thick when emergency crews arrived that they could not see more than halfway up the tower. authorities said. 
The helicopter was headed to check out equipment being readied for use in Iraq, said Lt. Col. Jonathan Withington, spokesman for the Fort Hood-based 4th Infantry Division. The names of the victims, all from Fort Hood, were not immediately released. 

Medical marijuana laws disputed 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court ques­tioned whether state medical marijuana laws might be abused by people who aren't really sick as it debated on Monday whether the federal government can prosecute patients who smoke pot on doctors' orders. 
Watching the argument was Angel Raich, an Oakland, Calif., mother of two who said she tried dozens of prescription medicip.es to ease the pain of a brain tumor and other ill­nesses before she turned to marijuana. She and another ill woman, Diane Monson, filed a lawsui~ to protect their access to the drug after federal agents confiscated marijuana plants from Monson's yard. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Favor for mom leads to death 
INDIANAPOLIS -A woman believes her brother was killed Thanksgiving night because of a favor he did for their mother­safeguarding $140 in cash for Christmas shopping. 
Christopher R. Creed, 23, died after being shot multiple times in what police believe was a robbery. 
Indianapolis police arrested 27 -year-old Alan Collins, a parolee, on Saturday and are holding him at Marion County Jail on prelim­inary charges of murder. 


Bush chooses secretary of commerce 
With Senate approval, Kellogg Co. CEO Carlos Gutierrez will join the cabinet 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush on Monday chose Carlos Gutierrez, a native of Cuba who rose from truck driver to chief executive officer of Kellogg Co., to be secretary of Commerce. 
If confirmed by the Senate, Gutierrez would succeed Commerce Secretary Donald Evans, a Texas confidant of Bush's, who announced his resig­nation shortly after the Nov. 2 election. The presi­dent called the 51-year-old Gutierrez, 51, a "great American success story" and a visionary executive, who understands the world of business from the "first rung on the ladder to the very top." 
"Carlos's family came to America from Cuba when he was a boy," Bush said in the Roosevelt Boom. "He learned English from a bellhop in a Miami hotel and later became an American citizen. When his family eventually settled in Mexico City, Carlos took his first job for Kellogg as a truck driver, delivering Frosted Flakes to local stores." 
Gutierrez, who was joined by his wife, son and two daughters, is the first new member of Bush's eco­nomics team for his second every level of manufactur­get into talking about indi­ence the joy and the pride term. Bush's chief econom­ing and he will use that vidual members of the of ownership, where every­ics adviser, Stephen knowledge to further Cabinet," White House one can contribute and Friedman, announced last strengthen the U.S. econo­press secretary Scott where everyone can bene­week that he is leaving. my," Engler said. McClellan said. fit. I have had the opportu­Other changes also are Looking ahead to his sec­Gutierrez, whose family nity to live that American anticipated, although ond term, Bush is already fled Cuba in 1960 when he dream, so I know that the Treasury Secretary John making changes to his cur­was 6, joined Kellogg in president's vision is noble, I Snow would like to stay. rent economics team. And, 1975. Known for having a know it's real and I know 
"The secretary views his private economists say it is strong work ethic and a it's tangible." service to the president as possible that could include seemingly endless stream Gutierrez, Kellogg's CEO an honor and a privilege," a change at the Treasury of ideas, he worked all over since April 1999, is credit­Rob Nichols, a Treasury post. In early February the world for the company ed with shaping a major Department spokesman, 2003, Snow, 65, a former before being promoted to corporate and marketing said of Snow. "Like all his chief at railroad giant CSX, president and chief operat­overhaul at Kellogg, nar­Cabinet colleagues, he replaced Paul O'Neill, who ing officer in June 1998. rowing the company's pri­serves at the pleasure of was fired by Bush as part "I believe passionately in mary focus to cereal and the president." of a shake-up of the presi­your leadership and direc­wholesome snacks and 
Former Michigan Gov. dent's economic team. tion you've set," Gutierrez reducing the company's John Engler, president of The White House said told Bush. "I believe in debt. Under Gutierrez, the National Association of Bush appreciates the job your call for a vibrant, Kellogg's net sales rose Manufacturers, hailed the Snow is doing but refused growing, entrepreneurial from $6.2 billion in 1999 to appointment. to say he would remain in society where everyone has $8.8 billion last year, a 43 
"Gutierrez understands his job. "''m not going to the opportunity to experi-percent increase. 


IRAQ 


Insurgent attacks kill American soldiers 
sion, with at least 130 American U.S. troops went to the police sta­

Associated Press 
dead. tion Monday morning and arrested 

BAGHDAD -Insurgents stepped Monday's suicide attack occurred two dozen people, police said. up attacks on Iraq's fledgling securi­in Baghdadi, a Euphrates River town American officials had no comment. ty forces, killing seven Iraqi police about 120 miles northwest of the U.S. and Iraqi troops recaptured and guardsmen Monday in a suicide capital, where a driver detonated Samarra from insurgents in bombing hours after storming a his vehicle near a police checkpoint, September, but the city remains police station north of the capital. police Lt. Mohammed al-Fehdawi tense. The military reported five new U.S. said. A hospital official, Hatim Two American soldiers from Task deaths. Ahmed, confirmed seven police and Force Baghdad were killed and 
Thirteen Marines were wounded Iraqi National Guard members were three wounded Monday in a road­Monday in a mortar south of killed and nine were wounded. side bomb explosion in northwest­Baghdad, the military said. No fur­Late Sunday, gunmen stormed a ern Baghdad, the U.S. command ther details were released. police station west of Samarra, 60 said. One American soldier died and 
Military offensives in Fallujah and miles north of Baghdad, looted the two were injured in a vehicle acci­elsewhere have made November the armory, commandeered several dent 30 miles northwest of the town second deadliest month for U.S. police cars and fled after encounter­of Kut in eastern Iraq, the military troops since the March 2003 inva-ing no resistance, Iraqi officials said. said. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
... 
page 6 Tuesday, November 30, 2004
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
LAos 

China forges free trade pact with Southeast Asian nations 
Associated Press 
VIENTIANE-!Using power China moved Monday to expand its inl'luence in a region long dominated by the Unitnd States, signing an aceord with Soutlwast Asian nations aimed at creating the world's largnst free trade an~a by 2010 -a sprawling 
market of nearly 2  billion  
people.  
China's  concerns  about  

securing vital sea lanes and fending its booming econo­my's ravenous appetite for oil and raw materials were seen as key motivations for the trade pact with the H)-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations at the group's annual summit in Laos. 
But some analysts believn tlw agreement shows how an increasingly bold China is forging new alliances that would reduce, and possibly eventually challenge, America's inl1uence in Asia. 
"China is using its huge market as a bait to lure ASEAN countries away from 
U.S. and Japan and build closnr relations." said Chao Chien-min, a China watcher and political science professor at Taiwan's National Chengchi University. 
"1 think what Bnijing has in mind is to forg1~ good econom­ic and trade relations now and then increaS!l exchanges in other areas. particularly in the military and security an~na." Chao said. 
The agreements signed Monday removed tariffs on goods and created a mecha­nism to resolve ASEAN-China trade disputes. The accord aims to end all tariffs by 2010. drawing ASEAN's com­biiwd economies -worth $1 trillion -closnr to China's $1.4 trillion economy. 
Ong Keng Yong, ASEAN's secretary-general. said trade with China would speed up with the free trade agree­ment. "So by the time this whole FTA (free trade agree-


NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect for winter. 
·Ask any yak. 

300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 

~ 


DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

ment) is done, as we want to 
by 2010, it should become 
quite substantial: $130 or 
$140 billion, perhaps," he 
told reporters. 
In comparison, the annual ASEAN-U.S. trade is $120 bil­lion and ASEAN-EU trade is $110 billion per year. he said. 
Ong said it would be a long lime before China surpassed the United States because the Americans arc bigger investors in the region. 
China's deal with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations was scaled as the 10-nation group agreed to another pact that would build an ASEAN community, much like the European Union, by 2020. 
The run-up to the ASEAN summit in the Laotian capital was clouded by concerns that Thailand's c1·ackdown last month on a protest that left 85 Muslims dead could inflame militants, and over Myanmar's failure to deliver on pledges to move toward democracy. 
Some member countries indicated they might call those two ASEAN colleagues to task -in a break with the group's tradition of keeping out of domestic affairs. But both issues were kBpt off the table during the summit's ASEAN-only agenda Monday, Thai government spokesman Jakrapob Penkair said. 
Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra had threatened to walk out if the crackdown 

Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm Sat.: 10:00 am -B:oo pm Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 
was raised at the summit of Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Philippines. Singapore, ASEAN members Brunei, Malaysia, Myanmar. Thailand and Vintnam. 


r-. 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 10 475.90 -46.33
}ones ' 
·lt.
·op: Same: ~: Composite Volume: 1,456 122 • 1,374,700,032 

AME.X 1,408.78 +1.64 NASDAQ 2,106.87 +4.90 NYSE. 7,032.23 -14.46 S&PSOO 1,178.57 -4.08 NIKKB(Tokyo) 1 0, 8 80.79 -97.10 FTSE. IOO(London) 4,749.80 +8.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +2.76 +0.18 6.6' MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.64 +0.17 26.7: INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.65 -0.15 23.0( SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +4.75 +0.25 5.5 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.51 -0.29 18.9· 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.78 +0.87 49.75 10-YEAR NOTE +2.12 +0.90 43.30 5-YEARNOTE +2.12 +0.77 37.14 3-MONTH BILL +0.23 +0.05 21.57 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.32 49.76 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.50 455.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.18 101.70 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.2700 EURO 0.7547 POUND 0.5295 CANADIAN$ 1.1881 
IN BRIEF Creditors banned from seizing jets 
CHICAGO -A federal bankruptcy court judge has blocked a group of creditors from repossessing up to 14 airplanes from United Airlines, saving the bankrupt carrier tens of millions of dollars. 
Judge Eugene Wedoff issued a temporary restraining order Friday barring the group, represented by the Chicago-based law firm Chapman and Cutler LLP, from seizing up to eight Boeing 767s and six 737s. 
The group of financiers. which controls about one-third of United's fleet, had threat­ened to seize the planes as early as Dec. 1 because of an impasse over their leases. 
United. the nation's No. 2 airline, is seeking to lower aircraft operating costs by renegotiat­ing its leases with creditors. However, it argued that the Chapman group was violating antitrust laws by renegotiating as a bloc instead of as individual leaseholders, forcing United to accept higher lease rates. 
"We believe the court rightly prevented this attempt to pressure United into accepting above-market rates for our aircraft leases," said Jean Medina, spokeswoman for the air­line. 
Ringback tones debut in US 
NEW YORK -Ring tones are so yesterday. If wireless companies have their way, the next multibillion-dollar surprise in the cellular busi­ness will be "Ringback" tones. 
Instead of the usual dialing noise that people hear when phoning someone, callers to Verizon Wireless subscribers may soon find themselves listening to a song until the phone is answered. 
The service, pioneered by SK Telecom of Korea, is debuting in the United States in California and is slated to be available national­ly by mid-2005. 
Verizon Wireless, a partnership between Verizon Communications Inc. and Vodafone Group PLC, is charging 99 cents per month plus an annual fee of $1.99 for each Ringback Tone chosen. Other U.S. carriers are said to be con­sidering a similar service. 
Verizon subscribers can assign specific tunes for different callers to hear. choosing among 2,200 songs from 13 music genres provided by Warner Music Group and Sony BMG Music Entertainment. 


Retailers experience modest start 
Spending faded after Friday's surge ofshoppers leaving businesses disappointed 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The holi­day shopping season began with a surge in spending, but consumers faded by the end of the long Thanksgiving weekend and many retailers were facing decent but hardly impres­sive sales. 
Big chains, including J.C. Penney and Sears, Roebuck, were pleased with their sales. But industry leader Wal-Mart said its sales in the seven days that ended Friday were disap­pointing and it lowered its sales forecasts for November. 
The holiday shopping season traditionally begins the day after Thanksgiving. 
"Friday overall was strong, but Saturday was weak and disappointing, so together it was only a mod­est two-day performance," said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist at International Council of Shopping Centers. "Still, I continue to believe that this is not a bellwether for how the season will end up." 
The first weekend of the season. while important. is not as critical as the last 10 days before Christmas. So, despite the lackluster start, Niemira still forecasts a sales gain of 3 percent to 4 percent for holiday period. 

Wally Brewster, Monday on the New York screen TVs and DVD play­are considered the best spokesman at Chicago­Stock Exchange. ers. benefiting stores like indicator of a retailer's per­based General Growth "Wal-Mart was a big loser Best Buy and Circuit City. formance. Properties, which operates because they didn't get the Marshal Cohen, senior Total retail sales were up 224 malls in 44 states, said same numbers of early bird industry analyst at NPD 10.8 percent on Friday sales and traffic were shoppers as they did a year Group Inc., a market compared with the day strong Friday but stabilized ago," said C. Britt Beemer, research company in Port after Thanksgiving last the rest of the weekend. As chairman of America's Washington, N.Y., suspects year. but dropped 6.5 per­a result, he expects sales Research Group, based in that many mall-based cent on Saturday compared for the weekend to increase Charleston, S.C. 'The retail­apparel retailers "took it on with a year ago. in the low single digits. in ers that won this weekend the chin." ShopperTrak said. As a line with modest expecta­were the ones that were Niemira, who serves as result, total sales for Friday tions. super aggressive in special an adviser for and Saturday combined 
Wal-Mart's Thanksgiving purchases and special pric­ShopperTrak, which tallies increased a modest 3.5 per­weekend sales suffered ing." sales results from 30,000 cent. ShopperTrak is because it didn't offer the Wal-Mart said Saturday it outlets, said a clearer pic­expected to release sales deep discounts it did in past now expects same-store ture of how the for the three-day weekend years. hoping to boost prof­sales in November to be up Thanksgiving weekend later Monday. its, analysts said. Penney only 0.7 percent, instead of fared will emerge Consumers were clearly and Sears did better by the projected 2 percent to 4 Thursday. That's when the hunting for good deals. "I wooing customers with two percent. nation's retailers report want a flat-screen TV to put days of big price breaks. Without any must-haves their same-store sales fig­in the family room," said 
Wal-Mart's shares fell in apparel and toys, the ures for November. Same­Gladys Wright, from Elkton, $1.43, or 2.6 percent, to main attractions were elec­store sales, or sales at Md., who was among the $53.89 in early trading tronics, particularly flat-stores open at least a year, crowds. 


Icahn to bid on Hollywood Video 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Another possi­ble suitor has emerged in the Hollywood Entertainment Corp. takeover fray: billionaire Carl Icahn. 
Icahn's firms have bought 5.1 mil­lion Hollywood shares in the last two weeks, representing an 8.4 percent stake in the No. 2 video rental chain. according to papers filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The move has fueled rumors that Icahn could be poised to enter a bid­ding war over the company. Three companies have already made bids for Hollywood -a Los Angeles buy­out firm and the No. 1 and No. 3 video rental chains, Blockbuster Inc. and Movie Gallery Inc. 

Analysts say Icahn also could be positioning himself to benefit from a bidding war without having to enter it. 
Ranked No. 21 on Forbes Magazine's list of wealthiest Americans, Icahn, 68, made the bulk of his fortune in the 1980s by buying large stakes of companies steeped in takeover wars and profiting hand­somely as the stock soared. 
"He could be trying to make a quick buck," said Arvind Bhatia, a home entertainment analyst with Southwest Securities Inc. "But the other possibility is that he wants to get more involved -and he might either side with one of the existing bids, or else come up with another bid, or partner with another financial party." 
No one answered calls to lcahn's New York office and home Saturday. A message left at Hollywood's offices was not immediately returned. 
In August, buyout firm Leonard Green & Partners offered to buy Hollywood's roughly 60 million shares for $10.25 each. 
This month, the bidding got more heated when Blockbuster offered to buy the chain for $11.50 a share, fol­lowed soon after by an undisclosed bid by Movie Gallery. 
With each new bid, Hollywood's stock has risen. 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

DEPARTMENT 0 F M U S c N D C N E M A 
Notre Dame Chorale ND Jazz Bands and Chamber Orchestra Sunday, December 5 at 7 p.m. Thursday, December 2, 2004 at 8 p.m. www.nd.edu/-ndbond/ Friday, December 3, 2004 at 8 p.m. Leighton Concert Hall Handel's Messiah Free and open to the public www. nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ chorale.html 

ND Collegium Musicum 
www.nd. edu/-music/ensembles/ corch.html 
Wednesday, December 8 at 8 p.m.
Leighton Concert Hall www.nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ collegium.html 

Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall The Notre Dame Glee Club Free and open to the public Christmas Concert 


ND Collegium Musicum 
Saturday, December 4, 2004 Wednesday, December 8 at 8 p.m.
at 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. 

www.nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ collegium.html 
http://gleeclub.nd.edu 
Reyes Organ and Choral HallLeighton Concert Hall 
Free and open to the public

Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students All proceeds benefit the Center for the Homeless. Organist Craig Cramer www.cfh.net Professor of Music, University of Notre Dame Thursday, January 20, 8:00PM

ND University Band 
Friday, January 21, 8:00 PMSunday, December 5 at 3 p.m. 
Saturday, January 22, 8:00 PMwww.nd.edu/-ndband/ 
Sunday, January 23, 4:00 PMLeighton Concert Hall 
Tuesday, January 25, 8:00PM

Free and open to the public A series of concerts to introduce the organ to the public. 
Concerts that are free and open to the public require tickets that may be obtained by calling or visiting the ticket office. 
D P A C PRESENTS 


Amen 

( 132 minutes) Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies Thursday, December 2 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
"The film's power comes from the urgency of its images." -Kerrie Mitchell, PREMIERE MAGAZINE 
"A handsome period production of fluidity and subtlety, intimate and large-scale." -Kevin Thomas, LOS ANGELES TIMES 

Napoleon Dynamite 
(86 minutes) Friday, December 3 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
"guaranteed to win over the geek inside most of us" -Chris Barsanti, FILMCRIT/C.COM 
"One of the most winning movie creations in years." -Stephen Hunter, WASHINGTON POST 
N DPRESE NTS 
A CHRISTMAS CONCERT AND A CONCERT TO GIVE FOR CHRISTMAS 




Empire Brass Christmas Concert 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Friday, December 1 0 at 8 p.m. 
http://performingarts.nd.edu/empire.shtml 
Start your holiday season at the DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center with a Christmas Concert by The Empire Brass in the Leighton Concert Hall. These fabulous musicians will play some familiar holiday favorites as well as some music from Christmases post. There will even be a sing-<1-long. The Empire Brass enjoys an international reputation as North America's finest brass quintet, renowned for its brilliant virtuosity and the unparalleled diversity of its repertoire. 
Tickets $44, $35 faculty/ staff, $15 all students 


The Chieftains 
Sunday, January 30 at 8 p.m. 

http://performingarts.nd.edu/chieftains.shtml Leighton Concert Hall 
The first word in Irish Music is the Chieftains. In 1989 the Republic of Ireland appointed them the official musical ambassadors for Ireland. They have exported Irish music to every corner of the world and finally they come to Notre Dame. Their appearance is far overdue. There are a lot of groups who play traditional Celtic music, but they all owe a great debt to the Chieftains who paved the way for them. There are few concert experi­ences as completely fulfilling as an evening spent in their company. 
Tickets $48, $38 faculty/staff, $15 all students 
LIVE AT THE MORRIS 

St. Petersburg State Ballet Theatre performing Romeo and Juliet at the Morris Performing Arts Center Thursday, January 13 at 8 p.m. 
A timeless love story danced by one of the lead­ing ballet companies in Russia. This Romeo was choreographed by Serge Vikulov to the beautiful score by Sergei Prokofiev. 
Tickets $15-$38 

Call the Morris Performing Arts Center Ticket Office at 235-9190 or buy on line at ww.MorrisCenter.org 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. sign up for updates at 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 

Call 574-631-2800 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Court sets aside tnarriage case 
Challenge to same-sex unions law turned aside, appeal declined 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON The Supreme Court on Monday rejected a challenge to the only state that allows gay mar­riages, declining to hear an appeal aimed at overturning the Massachusetts law that prompted a national debate on the legality and morality of same-sex unions. 
The decision ended the legal fight over a 4-3 Massachusetts high court ruling last November giving gay couples the right to marry. But both sides say the U.S. Supreme Court's unwillingness to inter­vene means there will be more fights in courts and legisla­tures around the country. 
President Bush has promised to make passage of an anti-gay marriage . constitutional amendment a priority in his second term. 
"Activist judges are seeking to redefine marriage for the rest of society, and the people's voice is not being heard in this process," said presidential spokesman Scott McClellan. "That's why the president is committed to moving forward with Congress on a constitu­tional amendment that would protect the sanctity of mar­riage." 
Lambda and other gay-rights groups were heartened that the Supreme Court let the rul­ing of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court stand. In the past year, at least 3,000 gay Massachusetts couples have wed. 
"The bottom line is nobody is being harmed by the Massachusetts state law treat­ing all couples equally," said David Buckel, Lambda's legal marriage project director. 
Lambda currently is suing in four states -California, New Jersey, New York and Washington -on behalf of same-sex couples seeking mar­riage. 
Liberty Counsel, the Florida­based conserva­
unions, which would give them many of the same legal rights as marriage, other polls have. found. 
Earlier this month.. anti-gay marriage ballot initiatives passed in all 11 states that had them. 
Massachusetts voters may have a chance next year to ' change the state 
tive group that filed the challenge to the Massach­ "The bottom line is nobody is be-ing  constitution to bar gay mar­riages but allow  
usetts law, argued the state Supreme Court ruling vio­lated the U.S.  harmed by the Massachusetts state law treating  same-sex cou­ples to form civil unions that make them eligi­ 
Constitution because state judges had made  all couples equally."  ble for the same benefits as mar­ried couples.  
a  decision more  Legal analysts  
properly decided  David Buckel  said  the  
by elected legisla­ legal marriage project  Supreme Court's  
tures. The high court  director for Lambda  decision to stay out of the battle  
rejected  the  wasn't surpris­ 

appeal without comment. ing, because the lawsuit made 
Liberty Counsel is continuing a rarely used claim that the fight elsewhere, lobbying activist Massachusetts judges more than two dozen states to had violated the U.S. pass state amendments ban­Constitution's guarantee of a ning gay marriages. republican form of govern­
"We will see legal battles ment. around marriage hashed out in Legal challenges elsewhere state courts, state legislatures in state and federal courts ­and in state referenda," said including whether other states Chai Feldblum, a civil rights must recognize Massachusetts' law professor at Georgetown gay marriages -are likely as University. the nation grapples with the 
Gay marriage is opposed by issue, said Charles Fried, a a majority of Americans, Harvard law professor who sat according to an AP-Ipsos poll. on the Massachusetts high The poll taken Nov. 19-21 court from 1995-99. found that 61 percent oppose C.J. Doyle, executive director gay marriage and 35 percent of the anti-gay marriage support it. Catholic Action League, called 
People are about evenly the Supreme Court decision divided on whether gays "one skirmish, one battle in a should be allowed to form civil much larger issue." 



Information session 
Summer Service Projects 

Tue.sday, November 30'h 
7:00-8:00PM in the 
COLEMAN MORSE STUDENT LOUNGE 
HND OUT HOW YOU CAN SPEND 8WEEKS IN ASOCIAl SERVICE AGENCY AND EARN 
• 
$2000 TUITION SCHOLARSHIP 

• 
3 S/U THEOLOGY CREDITS 

• 
EXPAND YOUR EDUCATION 

• 
MEET PEOPLE STRUGGLING WITH SOCIAL ISSUES AND INJUSTICES 

• 
MEET WONDERFUL ALUMNI/E. HOSTS WHO PROVIDE ROOM AND 


Ct!fTER 'OR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Violence in schools drops over 10 years 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Violent 

crime against -students in 
schools fell by 50 percent 
between 1992 and 2002, with 
young people more often tar­
geted for violence away from 
school. 
There were about 24 crimes 

of rape, sexual assault, rob­
bery and physical assault for 
every 1,000 students in 2002, 
down from 48 per 1,000 a 
decade earlier, according to a 
report Monday from the 
Education and Justice depart­
ments. 
The reduction mirrored the 

trend found outside classrooms 
-overall crime is at a 30-year 
low across the nation. 
The report found instances 

of school violence involving 
students have dropped steadily 
since a string of fatal shootings 
in the 1990s, notably the 1999 
killings of 13 people at 
Columbine High School in 
Colorado by two heavily armed 
students. 
"There has been a drop, and we attribute a lot of that to the fact that schools are focusing . on the issue more," said William Lassiter, school safety specialist at the Center for the Prevention of School Violence 
in Raleigh, N.C. 
Schools have taken a number 

of steps, from installing metal 
detectors and hiring more 
security personnel to imple­
menting programs aimed at 
curbing bullying, which can 
lead to more serious crimes. A 
recent analysis of more than 
200 studies show that school­
based violence. prevention pro­
grams reduce school violenc{) 
by up to 50 percent, said 
Dewey Cornell, director of the 
Virginia Youth Violence Project 
at the University of Virginia. · 
"Prevention programs have 

been quietly successful but 
tend to get overlooked. If you 
have one fight at school. it gets 
a lot of attention," Cornell 
said. 
Others say the scope of the 

problem is underreported by 
the federal study, which relies 
on limited surveys and self­
reporting instead of tracking 
actual reported crimes. In 
addition; the data used is 
already outdated, said 
Kenneth Trump, president of 
National School Safety and 
Security Services, a consulting 
firm. 
"To tell the American public 

that school crime is dramati­
cally declining based upon 
underreported, outdated and 
limited data is misleading and 
creates a false sense of securi­
ty," Trump said. 
The report found students 

are more apt to be victims of 
violence outside schools. 
In 2002, there were about 

659,000 violent crimes involv­
ing students at school and 
about 7 20,000 away from school property. For the most serious nonfatal violent crimes -rape, assault and robbery­the crime rates were lower in school than away from school every year from 1992 to 2002. 
The report also found that, between 1992 and 2000, stu­dents between 5 and 19 were 70 times more likely to be murdered away from school than on campus. There were 234 homicides at school during that time span, compared with more than 24,000 away from school. 
"There was initially great concern about school violence, but our report shows that kids are safer at school than they are away from school," said the report's co-author, Katrina Baum of the Bureau of Justice Statistics. 
Overall in 1992 there were more than 3.4 million crimes in school against students between 12 and 18, the report· estimated. That included more than 2. 2 million thefts -by far the most common serious crime in school -and over 1.1 million violent crimes. 
By 2002, the report found the total number had dropped to 1. 7 million crimes: just over 1 million thefts and about 659,000 violent crimes. 
Teachers are also targets of schoolhouse crime. The report found-that from 1998 through 2002 teachers were victims of an annual average of 233,900 crimes at school, more than 90,000 of them violent. That translates to an annual rate of 51 crimes per 1,000 teachers. 
The report shows that inner­city teachers are more than twice as likely to be victims of violent crimes than those in suburban or rural school dis­tricts, and that male teachers are more often attacked that female teachers. The report does not give year-to-year comparisons because the sam­ple sizes studied are too small, Baum said. 
Other findings in the report: 
+ 
In 2003, 22 percent of stu­dents in grades 9-12 reported using marijuana during the preceding 30 days. That com­par~s with 18 gercent in 1993 and 27 percent in 1999. 

+ 
About 45 percent of high school students in 2003 said they had at least one alcoholic drink in the 30 days before they were surveyed, about the same as in 1993 and down from a recent high of 52 per­cent in 1995. 

+ 
A third of students in grades 9-12 said that someone had offered, given or sold them an illegal drug on school property in 2003. That number has essentially remained the same over the past decade. 

+ 
About 21 percent of students in 2093 said that street gangs were active in their schools, most often in urban districts. 




Cal1259·1ooo for more details 


THE 0HSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

H.R. 4818: A lesson in 
1\0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Mart Lozar 

'bringing home the bacon'
MANAGING EOilUR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR joe Herder 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VmWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERfiSING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROU.ER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu . 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advenisemenrs based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe authors and nor neces;';lrily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinio!'s through letters is encouraged. Leners to tht· Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qz~rtiom regarding Observer policies should be dim·t.d to F.ditor in Chief Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
rite Oh~t~t.·r (USI'S ')l)!J l-4tJ(IO) it puhli)heJ Muu.l..t)' thruugh i=r1JJy t.'XCl'fH during exam lllld v~~.-~rion p.:riu.U. A suh"rip11011 to The Ohancr ~~ ~1()0 for bill' J'-'dcmk 1'''M;$'.i5furun..-.\l..'mc,tcr. Thr Ob\1-•tVI.'t L~ J mo:tnlk'r of tkc A.l.~u,io~rt..J Pre.s.. All rcpnldi.U:tion riKhh Jre rck:n~·tl. 
l'ho: ob,ervt.•r it publi~h,.J at: 1~0. I\oxQ Ol4 ::,muh Pining lhll U24 South Dinin~ Ho~ll 
Num· D.unt:, IN <l6'l')(,-077'J Nom~ Do~mt.., IN 465')Cl-017'J 
1\:rim!i..:.ti JIII~[Agl' p.lld .II N<1trc: IJ.lhiC ,uu.l .ulditiuno~.l m"ili1111 olfk.c~. 
I~>STMA\TI'R 
ScnJ ~Jtlfl.'~ l.'tlttnUOih IU. ThcOhM:tYI.'r 
l'hc ( )h~t'tvcr i'" Ull.'Jnhcr uf rhc AJ.~'"''i~tcJ Pre'•· AU rcproJu~;riou righr~ .m· '"""'"· 
I take my assertion of last week back that there is nothing left to rant about in the realm of politics. While it is true the behavior of grown men that act like children is an easy tar­get, by no means is it limited to the Tom Rippinger NBA. Specifically, our government 
Confessions ofa Campus
has sunk to 
Conservative
record lows in its 
quest to squander 
the hard earned tax dollars of the American people. By no means do I 
limit my ·criticism to the traditional Great Society Democrat pork-barrel spender, but the new breed of 
Republican pork-barrel spender as 
well. 
Contrary to promises made in 1994 after forty years of Democratic control in Congress, Republicans have gone back on the original promises that regained them the House and Senate. Discretionary spending over the past few years has gone through the roof. In 2003, inflation adjusted federal spending topped $20,000 per house­bold for the first time since WWII. 
Overall for 2003, the federal gov­ernment spent $20,300 per house­hold, taxed $16,780 per household, and ran a budget deficit of $3,520 per household. Spending outside of defense and Sept. 11-related expenses is increasing 5 percent annually. From 2001 through 2004, discre­tionary outlays are projected to have leaped 39 percent, from $649 billion to $900 billion. Excluding defense and Sept. 11-related costs, discretionary spending increased 16 percent from 2001 through 2003, according to research from The Heritage Foundation. 
Of course, it is reasonable to expect a tight budget with increased spend­ing for Iraq and Homeland Security. However, discretionary spending increases of 16 percent are utterly inexcusable. Looking further into the research done by Heritage's budget­ary expert Brian Riedl, I came across an extremely interesting list of what exactly your federal tax dollars are paying for. 

I hope all of you like baseball and rock 'n' roll, because almost a million dollars was earmarked in this past spending bill toward both of those Hall of Fames. One and a half million dollars will be used to transport natu­rally chilled water from Lake Ontario to Lake Onondaga. I also hope you all like grapes as much as I do, because $3 million is going to a Center for Grape Genetics in Geneva, New York. As well, $950,000 will go to the 
· Please Touch Museum in Philadelphia, $2,000,000 will be given for kitchen relocation in Fairbanks, Alaska, and $150,000 will fund therapeutic horse­back riding in California. Across many states, $6,285,000 will also go to "wood utilization research." The list goes on for municipal swim­ming pools, parks, etc. in red and blue states. Contrary to Democratic assertions, none of these problems have to do with lower taxes or defens.e spending. They have every­thing to do with the business as usual politics of Washington. It is a time tested rule of self-interest and com­mon sense that "those who bring home the bacon" to his/her respective district in the form of pet projects will ultimately have much better chances for reelection. Average Joes like to have scenic boardwalks, therapeutic horseback riding programs and beau­tifully renovated museums. Politicians from the local level upwards know this fact. Originally, the system of federal grants was set up to award federal money to the most competitive programs in the country. The intention was to give struggling but effective programs some supplement to get by. However, instead of working through the grant process, local projects have bypassed 
these traditional mechanisms by hir­
ing lobbying firms. 
In what has become a quite lucra­tive business, an ambitious lobbying firm can bypass the entire process by. directly lobbying for an earmark in the next spending bill. As stated in The Heritage Foundation WebMemo #613, "Predictably, an entire lobbying industry has emerged to secure pork projects for those willing to pay for their services. Organizations and local governments seeking federal money can choose between dozens of power­ful lobbying firms who can effectively trade campaign contributions for ear­marks." 
This of course, leads to increases in demands by more qualified recipients. It also leads to a deadly cycle of jeal­ousy as incentives deteriorate to uti­lize the appropriate channels. 

The policy prescriptions needed to , fix these problems are not of the mixed message nature proposed by Democrats, or the "please everyone" nature of Hepublican proposals. What is needed is national public outcry against frivolous government waste in Washington. Being a Hepublican, I feel there is something wrong when the Democrats can run on a platform of fiscal responsibility. As bitterly divided as the election was, the American people have given Hepublicans a genuine opportunity to accomplish the conservative vision of' limited-government. Hopefully the next few years will be different, and they will begin to put prudent conser­vative policy before pork barrel waste. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. lie supports President Bush and is the co-President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. lie can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Teresa Fralish Heather Van Kate Antonacci Hoegarden Tricia DeGroot Maggie Oldham 

Should Notre Dame have accepted the 
Viewpoint Kate Gales 

"The artist is nothing without the gift, but the gift 
Insight Bowl bid?
Katherine Rowley Scene 

is nothing without work." 
Graphics Ham a Graham Ebetsch Gottumukkala 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Emile Zola
Illustrator 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
author
Katie Knorr 


THE ()HSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U-WIRE 
NASA's nevv budget doesn't deserve recent harsh criticism_ 

The recent approval of NASA's 6 percent budget increase has taken a lot of flak in the political arena and the scientific commu­nity. but both groups, for one reason or another, fail to see the scope of President George Bush's vision for future space explo­ration. 
The I louse of Bepresentatives voted in favor of the budget increase 344 to 51. Jim Foreman but some complained TexasA&M 
that the Universitytwo-foot­The Battalion 
thick stack of budget documents it came with gave them almost no time to review it thoroughly. according to Florida Today. NASA has been repeated­ly given the congressional cold shoulder when it comes to lobby­ing for investments, but since Bush made his bold announce­ment that NASA would be getting all the help it needs, it seems that Congress is grudgingly and unwillingly supporting the meas­ure. More than likely, members of Congress would much rather sec that money go toward-their annual salary increase and retirement pension (congress­men don't use social security). 
To make matters worse, many members of the scientific com­munity are opposed to Bush's agenda to put men back on the moon and then on Mars. "A stark financial and resource refocusing is underway at NASA in which robotic efforts will be planned less for pure science and more for supporting future human but it doesn't always have to be spaceflight," said Space.com that way. Perhaps it has been writer Robert Britt. In layman's forgotten that the great achieve­terms, scientists are upset ments of a handful of individuals because their brilliant robots and can have the same if not greater ingenious machines of science effect. will be replaced in an unexpect­Skepticism is a resource that is ed twist of fate by astronauts inexhaustible, but regardless of bound for nearby planets rather what the politicians and scien­
than undiscov­ tists think or  
ered ones. Understandably,  "A starkfinancial and  say, the money being appro­ 
they would like to s'ee as much hard science per dollar spent as  resource refocusing is underway at NASA in which robotic efforts wlll  ·  priated to NASA should be considered a sound invest­ 
possible, but without any­thing tangible to show for their  be planned less for pure science and more for supporting future  ment. It will supplement the thousands of jobs that  
efforts, it's going to be hard to  human spaceflight."  NASA has cre­ated and, in  
demonstrate a  turn, it will  
need for a space program in the  Robert Britt  spend more money which  
future. People  Space.com writer  will bolster the  

just don't get excited about space dust like they used to. 
When Bush announced his plans for NASA he said, "Mankind is drawn to the heav­ens for the same reason we were once drawn into unknown lands and across the open sea. We choose to explore space because doing so improves our lives and lifts our national spirit." In the shadow of a war, a space shuttle accident and terrorist attacks, one would think seeing an American on the moon again would give the United States something to smile about. 
It is true that in the face of tragedy, people come together, economy. It 
will also seed the ingenuity and creativity of the NASA engineers with which the possibilities are endless. The space shuttles will once again be able to fly until they are decom­missioned by their long overdue replacements. and America will once again lead the world in exploration. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 29 issue of The Battalion, the daily publica­tion at Texas A&M University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


'Poke' this 
"Since there is nothing so well worth having as friends, never lose a chance to make them. "-Francesco Guicciardini 
As Internet community and networking sites continue to spring up and prosper in cyberspace. we are reminded that popularity is still a factor in determining one's self-confi­dence. 
Sites like Friendster and, more recently, The Facebook, have enabled students across the country to "network" together to make new acquaintances and reestablish commu­nication with old friends. This, of course, 
Staff Editorial 

is in addition to connecting to the current friends an individual has. 
All the while, the "friend" tally marks Ball State keep adding up. And perhaps this is University where these sites go wrong: their uses. Daily News 
The Facebook has received more atten­tion and certainly more users than Friendster and its fore­runners ever did. The site is currently active at well over 100 schools and the Facebook's features are being awaited at many more. With that in mind, the demand for students to be "connected," "associated," "poked" and "Facebooked" with each other has gone from a small Internet trend to universi­ty-aged jargon. 
But why? 

Sure, it may be great to be virtually connected to a group of people, let alone friends, but sites like Friendster and the Facebook begin to push quantity over quality. Without a doubt, this was not the sites' original intention, but it slowly has evolved into a major underlying theme of its use. 
Certainly the harsh stereotype does not describe all users. If one is truly "loved," though, they do not need an online service to tell them so; and the same goes for friendships. 
As many elders would tell us, were we to try to count on our hands the number of truly close, loyal and dedicated friendships we have, we may be very surprised at the amount of fingers we still have down. However, if we still have at least a few fingers up, we should consider ourselves quite lucky. 
Simply put, friends are invaluable. And by the way, if you were wondering: Aside from being quotable, Guicciardini was also a politician. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Nov. 29 issue of The Daily News, the daily publication at Ball State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Pray for the Ebersol family 
As many of you may have heard, one of your classmates and my roommate, Charlie Ebersol, and members of his family were involved in a tragic plane crash on Sunday morning after Thanksgiving. I can not begin to fathom what Charlie must be going through right now. The past 48 hours have been indescribably surreal. This horrific experience has reminded me about the unpr.edictability of all of our lives. I request. from the bottom of my heart, that you pray for him and his family as they attempt to recover and seek closure during this crisis. Whether you acknowledge it or not, Charlie has constantly made efforts to improve the quality of our Notre Dame undergraduate experience. From countless hours dedicated to student government and SUB-sponsored events, Charlie has created student unity and promoted school spirit. Having lived with him for the past four years, I can assure you that few students, if any, have demonstrated a s.im­ilar commitment to making Notre Dame a better place. His level of compassion, motivation and maturity is a rarity among people. Many individuals have not bothered to person­ally know Charlie; instead, they opt to base his character on rumors. unqualified opinions or assumptions. However, those who truly know him will agree that he is one of the most self­less and kindhearted people you will ever meet. I know for a fact. regardless of affiliation or impression, he would undoubtedly pray for a1iy of you in this unimaginable situa­tion. Please abandon any preconceived notions and ref1ect on the magnitude of his loss. Charlie, not only a roommate but one of my best friends, is like a brother to me. As part of the Notre Dame family. please keep the Ebersols in your thoughts and prayers. 
Austin Chen 
senwr 
off-campus Nov. 29 


A call for change 
We supposedly "returned to glory" in 2002 fans. . with our new coach and fancy new offense. We see a clear and undeniable trend emerg­Since that first opportunistic season, Notre ing over three seasons thus far. Our team has Dame has won 11 of its last 25 games. not been as well prepared as our opponent 
We were beat by BYU (20-17), too often. We'\!e not made crucial Pittsburgh (41-38) and Michigan adjustments that must be made State (22-16); run over by NCS during the season and games (28-6), Syracuse (38-12). FSU to produce greatness and (37 -0) and Michigan (38-0); improve athletes. When we 
· dominated by Purdue last play weak opponents or year (23-1 0) and this gain leads, we play to season (41-16); and not lose rather than to USC, our biggest rival, win. And when clutch effortlessly blew us decisions have to be away like never made in key situa­before the last three tions, there is no years, humiliating us confidence or even by 31 points each clear competence time (44-13, 45-14 displayed. Too and 41-10). On a often the team positive note, we're looks like a giant barely above .500 chicken with its after three seasons. I head cut off. which think that calls for an is why I have finally Irish jig. It's mediocre come to the conclu­enough to make one sion that the head sick, especially consid­must be replaced. ering all the talent" on Consider this my call our football team. for change. We can't reasonably With no disrespect expect to win every single intended because I love the game. Even great Knute . 
man, I say "Goodbye, Ty. Rockne lost. That's part of the Notre Dame, Hire Urban game and why we play each week. Meyer!" Go Irish! What's not part of the game, especially at Notre Dame, is a tragic series of inconsistent Dave Daley appearances with few (if any) signs of improve­junior ment, adjustment or driving leadership. That's Dillon Hall not acceptable or fair to the players and loyal Nov. 28 
THE ()BSER\ttR 



CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Depp shines as the author behind Peter Pan classic 
By CHRIS KEPNER 
Scene Critic 
"Finding Neverland" explores the life of Sir Janws Mattlww Barrie (Johnny D e p p ) a n d t lw e x p e r i e n c e s t h a t inspired him to write the classic story of Peter Pan. the boy who refused to grow up. 
DPpp's stardom has recently soared to new !wights on tlw incredible suc­cess of "Pirates of the Caribbean," a trend that promises to continue with his forthcoming roln as Willy Wonka in "CharliE' and the Charlie Factory" and anothPr stint as Captain Jack Sparrow in "Pirates of tlw Caribbean 2." 
But as <HIP of the~ finest craftsman in modern American einema. the depth of lkpp's acting exwnds well outside the IIollywood blockbuster. One's attention is called to anoth<H' of his nonfictional characters: the brilliant portrayal of eccentric author 
Never land," as J .M. Barrie passed away in 1937. The famous playwright's absence might actually work to Depp's advantage, however, as he is afforded the opportunity to interpret the charac­ter in his own way, adding subtle nuances and. really making the charac­ter his own. 
The resulting performance is another bright gold star on the ever-more­impressive list of cast credits for Depp. lie captured the !11m's prevailing theme of undying youth brilliantly, setting the tone for the rest of the cast -even the children. 
Barrie is. already a successful play­wright in turn-of-the-century London when the film opens. He is just coming off a f'lop, however. when lw meets a widower and her four sons at the park. Before he knows it, he's helping the boys to put on impromptu performanc­es in their backyard. As he becomes more and more a part of their family 
he distances him­
Hunter S. self further from 

Thompson in Finding N everland his already 
"Fear and 
unhappy wife. Loathing in Las While simply try­Vegas." Depp pre­ing to show these pared for that role kids how to growDirector: Marc Forster 
by spending four up without losing
Writers: Allan Knee and David Magee
months with their childhood 
Starring: Johnny Depp, Kate Winslet, 
Thompson. learn­innocence, Barrie 
Julie Christie and Dustin Hoffman
ing his manner­is inspired to isms and vocal write "Peter inflection. lie borrowed Thompson's Pan." This classic children's tale tells car and some of his clothes for the film, the story of a magical place called and even Jet the author shave his head. Neverland, where children can hold Now that's dedication. onto their innocence. 
Unfortunately this approach wasn't Kate Winslet shines as Sylvia available to Depp for "Finding Llewelyn Davies, the mother of the four 


'National Treasure' anything but buried gold 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene Cri ric 
"National Treasure" is as clichtid as any movie that concerns itself with uncovering ancient artifacts in the nanw of public good, all while fending o!T foreign bad guys and getting your own governnwnt to hate you. "Haidcrs of the Lost Ark" came out over 20 years ago, and studios arc still using th<~ same formula to make a cheap profit. 
But at least "National Trr~asure" isn't afraid to hide the fact that it's recycling tiH' sanw rnatc~rial again, just as long as its audi<mce understands this and enjoys the capers of the treasurn­huntPrs. 
Tlw cast for "National Treasure" is actually quite 
officials of a plan by Ian to steal the Declaration of Independence, which apparently contains another clue lead­ing to the treasure. Of course, no one takes them seriously -most notably Abigail Chase (Diane Kruger), protector of the National Archives. Ultimately, Gates has no choice but to steal the Declaration himself to ensure its safety, and ends up dragging Abigail alongside himself and Po.ole as they race against Jan towards the treasure's where­abouts. 
The decision to make a PG version of the film is very smart; there is plenty of action to keep adults interested. but it won't offend younger viewers. For example, instead of killing the security guards at the Archives, the bad guys rely on tascr guns to knock them out. The bad guys, obviously, arc blessed 
with the ability to 
solid. given the not hit Gates at


National Treasure
hackneyed plot­point blank range lint•: arclwologist 
with a semi auto­Benjamin matic pistol, but Jo'ranklin Gates what else ean we (Nicholas Cage) expeet from aDirector: Jon Turteltaub 
descends from a standardized
Writers: Cormac Wibberley
family bred to action film? 
Starring: Nicolas Cage, Diane Kruger,
believe that the All the actors in 
Sean Bean, Harvey Keitel and Jon Voight 
founding fathers this film turn in 
of the United States ld't clues to the burial of a price­less treasure all across the world. Teaming up with Hiley Poole (Justin 
Bartha) and Ian llowe (Sean Bean), he travels to the Arctic Circle to begin searching for clues regarding the trnasurc. 
After Herr Howe and his cronies turn on Poole and Gates. the pair escapes and heads to Washington, D.C. to warn 
decent perform­ances, but they still seem uninspired. Bartha was really difficult to watch at times because he is forced into the cliched role of the comic sidekick. working too hard to get laughs from the audience. You wonder, though. what he really could have done with a better part. 
Bean, too, has had more interesting roles in the past, and he deserves bet-boys. Dustin Iloffman also appears as Charles Frohman, the producer of Barrie's plays, but his screen time is unfortunately sparse. "Finding Neverland" is clearly Depp's film from start to finish. 

Freddie Highmore does an excellent job playing the character of Peter Llewelyn Davies, the inspiration for Peter Pan. Depp enjoyed working with 
Highmore so much that asked director Tim Burton to cast the young man as Charlie Bucket in next year's "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory." 
Powered by Depp's 'performance, "Finding Neverland" is as innocent and touching a tale as the original "Peter Pan" classic. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 

ter than the carbon copy villain he plays in this film. Cage, meanwhile, has played the unlikely action hero a bit too often, and he's running out of tricks. 
"National Treasure" won't come across as anything new to its audience, but it has some good moments, and the tour of American monuments is pretty interesting to watch unfold. 
'Tis the season. indBed, for taking a break from weekend shopping, catch­ing a matinee at the mall's cinema and giving your brain eells a couple of hours of rest. At least for that purpose, "National Treasure" will provide some temporary escape from reality. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
----------------~~~~------------------------~------~----------------­
NSIDER 
OTHE 

Tuesday, November 30, 2004 BSERVER Southern California 41, Notre Dame 10 


California creantin' 
Leinart throws for 400 yards and 5 touchdowns as USC destroys Irish 41-10 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 
LOS ANGELES -Different year. Different teams. Same 31-point result. 
Two years after allowing Southern California quarter­back Carson Palmer to throw for 425 yards and four touch­downs en route to winning the Heisman Trophy, Notre Dame let Matt Leinart make his own case for the nation's most prestigious award on Saturday. 
The Trojan quarterback tal­lied a career-high 400 yards and five touchdowns while leading No. 1 USC to an easy 41-10 victory in Los Angeles. It was the third straight season USC beat Notre Dame by 31 points. 
"They are No. 1 for a rea­son," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "They demonstrated tonight that if you take something away from them ... they will find some other way of getting past you." 
The Irish shut down USC's running attack for most of the game, holding the Trojans to just 91 yards on 28 attempts. But it was USC's passing game -led by Leinart and his arse­nal of receivers -that was simply too powerful for Notre Dame. 
Leinart threw two touch­down passes to 6-foot-5 fresh­man Dwayne Jarrett of 12 and 57 yards, a 69-yarder to Heggie Bush, a 35-yarder to Steve Smith and a 23-yarder to Jason Mitchell. 
"What we have to do is make the plays," Willingham said. "They made big plays tonight. We had opportunities in some cases and we didn't live up to yard touchdown drive, capped were in positions at times, but 16, the game was all but over. Irish running back Darius them. To me, that was the dif­off with a 12-yard pass to we j)lst didn't make the plays. "Matt played great tonight," Walker said. ference." Jarrett on a slant pattern. That's the bottom line. USC coach Pete Carroll said. Leinart's five touchdown 
Notre Dame began the game Southern California's defense "I thought we did some "He made some great throws passes ties ·for the most ever like a team poised for the held Notre Dame on its next things that probably confused and had some great protec­against Notre Dame. The Irish improbable upset. Behind 6-possession, them at times, tion. We had guys running yielded five scores to of-7 passing from quarterback and Leinart especially in down the field and he found Pittsburgh's Tyler Palko on Brady Quinn, the Irish went back to "We just didn ,t make the the first half. them. He just made another Nov. 13 in a 41-38 Panther vic­marched 92 yards in 13 plays work, this But they're a statement tonight. He's done it tory.
plays rpe needed on 

to take a 7-0 lead. On fourth­time finding pretty good ali.'" "I know coming into this
offense and then we

and-goal from the 1-yard line, Jarrett for a second half Meanwhile, Notre Dame's game, everybody really Quinn found tight end Billy 57 -yard score. didn't make the plays we team." offense struggled after its believed we could win, that we Palmer for the score. The freshman needed on defense.,, The Trojans promising first quarter. were going to win. I think you 
Southern California added a wideout str­dominated the Quinn finished the game 15-saw that in the first half," Irish field goal on the ensuing drive eaked through Irish in the of-29 for just 105 yards, one linebacker Mike Goolsby said. to cut the Notre Dame lead to a leaky Notre Darius Walker second half as touchdown and zero intercep­"Coming out in the second 7-3. The Irish outgained the Dame second­Irish running back Leinart con­tions. half, they were more success­Trojans 124 to 72 in the first ary and Lein­tinued build-The Irish rushing attack ful than us-bottom line. quarter. art tossed a ing a strong gained a more-than-respec­"All I can say is there's a 
Steadily, throughout the near-perfect strike for the go­resume for the Heisman talile 195 yards, but that was­reason [Leinart's] a Heisman game, USC made adjustments ahead score. Trophy. When the junior sig­n't enough to win. candidate and there's a reason and began taking control mid­"They have some great nal-caller found a streaking "We just didn't make the they're No.1." way through the second quar­receivers and some great Bush for a 69-yard touchdown plays we needed on defense ter. Down 10-3, Leinart led the speed," Irish defensive coordi­with 3:06 left in the third and then we didn't make the Contact Joe Hettler at Trojans on a seven-play, 80-nator Kent Baer said. "We quarter to put USC ahead 27-plays we needed on offense," jhettler@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Matt Leinart 

The USC quarterback was 24-for-34 with five touchdowns and 400 yards. 
stat of the game 
38 
number ofunanswered points scored by USC after the Irish took an early I0-3 lead. 

play of the game 
Reggie Bush's third-quarter touchdown 
The speedy backs srore made the margin 27-IO in favor ofUSC and all but eliminated any chance at the upset. 
quote of the game 

"It was kind oflike taking candy from a baby.,, 
Matt Leinart USC quarterback referring to Reggie Bush's third-quarter touchdown 
I ' , 
page 2 
report card 


C+ A-
er with a touchdown, and nobody ·D+had morn than two catches. Stovall 
8 8­8­
F 
8­c 
quarterbacks: <)uinn had one of his fpast productive games this season, throwing for only I05 yards. lie didn't turn tlw ball over, but also only had llllP touchdown. 
running backs: l>nspite the work of Hyan Crant ('J4 yards) and Darius Walker (64 yards), tlw Irish were still only able to muster one touchdown. You can't blamo the bar:ks li>r that. 
receivers: Palmer was the only reeeiv­
and lloliday each had some drops at key points in the game. 
offensive line: Tho offensive line did a good job op1ming holes. for thn backs but allowed thrnn sacks. 
defensive line: The linn only managed one sack. and didn't provide too 
much pmssurn on Leinart. They did shut. down tlw Trojans running 
ganw. making White a non-f'aetor. 
linebackers: Goolsby and lloyte ea1:h had 
livo tackles, and this unit did a good job ofstifling the USC rush. They woren't 
very successful at stopping short passos. 
defensive backs: This unit was probably the most disappointing. Parish and 1\llick w1·n~ nach burnod several times, and LPinart put on a passing clinic. 
special teams: Fitzpatrick wa.'> oul'>l<mding on punts and kickolls, keeping thn ball away from Bush all day. Tho mtum grune struggled yet again and Fitzpatrick's missed field goal wa'> costly. 
coaching: Tho Irish looked gmat in the first quartnr, then seemed to lose it for the next 45 minutes. Thn team was preparnd, but couldn't sustain momentum from a positive start. 
2.26 
overall: Tho Trojans are a good loam, but the Irish should havo kept this one doser. Losing by 31 points·to anybody is embarrassing. 
adding up the numbers 
number of third down conversions out of 15 chances by the Irish Saturday -Notre Dame 
4 
converted 3 of its first 4 first downs in the game 
20 number of games in USC's current winning streak 
minutes left in the third quarter when 
3 18 
the game's first penalty was accepted : 
73.5 
completion percantage for Matt Leinart (50-of-68) in his last two games against the Irish 
number of times the Irish have allowed an opposing 
2 
quarterback to throw lor live touchdowns in the team's history-both have come in the past two games 
1 74 
number of yards gained by USC in the ~econd quarter after getting only 72 in the hrst 
margin of victory in points for each of USC's 
31 

last three wins over Notre Dame 
1 
number of times a Notre Dame athletic director lost his seat in the press box to a 
Scholastic writer 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004

The Observer+ IRISHJNSIDER 
LOS ANGELES-Coming into a game as more than a 2-0-point underdog. 
Allowing five touchdown passes to an opposing quarterback for the sec­ond consecutive game, after it never happened before in Notre Dame history. 
l.osing by more than' 21 points to eight opponents in the past two years. 
This is what Notre Dame football has become. 
It's becoming Sports Writer the standard for the Irish under coach Tyrone Willingham. 
Since the 8-0 start in 2002, the Irish are 13-15. Bob Davie's worst 28-game stretch was 15-13 while Gerry Faust's was 14-14. You have to go back to the Joe Kuharich era to lind a darker period. 
The trilogy of 31-point losses to USC in the past three years is the biggest combined margin of defeat to a team that has beaten Notre Dame in three straight years. 
The previous mark was 89 points by Miami over Faust's teams from 1983-85. 
In those three years, Faust beat USC all three times. 
Prior to Willingham taking over, the Irish lost eight games by 21 points from Nov. 16, 1985 to Sept. 29, 2001. 
Take it one step further -the Irish have lost by 31 points or more five times in Willingham's 36 games as head coach in South Bend. Davie, Lou Holtz, Faust, Dan Devine and Ara Parseghian had four such losses combined in 38 seasons under the Golden Dome. 


Think back to Saturday night's game and what was more surprising -the Irish leading 7-3 over the No. 1 Trojans after the first quarter or the end 41-10 result? 
Matt Leinart essentially wrapped up the Heisman Trophy by disman­tling the Irish secondary. Heggie Bush blew past Brandon Boyte off the line, cut left to avoid Quentin Burrell and outran Dwight Ellick for a 69-yard touchdown. The Trojans eventually cruised to win their 20th straight overall and 21st consecutive at the Coliseum and moved to one game away from playing for their second straight national title. 
Those events weren't shocking­they were expected. 
The talent gap isn't to blame for these embarrassing losses. The wins over Michigan and Tennessee defeat that argument. 
The schedule isn't too difficult. Yes, the Irish have one of the tough­est slates in the country, but it's not unreasonable, and they had two weeks to prepare for USC. 
The coaches and the players are saying what they've said all the tilpe in these blowouts -it comes down to big plays on Saturday. 
"What I look at is our inability, overall in all the areas, not just one in particular area, to really make big plays and sustain drives," Willingham said. "That's where I think we fell short." 
But it's hard to believe only big plays are the reason USC is 31 points better than Notre Dame. 
More than one player has ques­tioned the attitude and focus of the 
team in weeks where the opponent 
wasn't a big name. 
Just watching the teams come out after halftime, the Irish showed few signs of life despite being down by only seven points and getting the ball. 
The Trojans came out fired up, and you could just sec thnm smelling blood. They went for and got thn kill. 
With an opportunity to knock off the best team in the country, the Irish seemed defnated bofore tho second half even started. 
Not only have the results taken a 180-degree turn since the Return to Glory, but so has the attitude to play four quarters of Notre Dame foot­ball. 
"The attitude, that 60-minute mentality, I think we played a great 15 minutes in the beginning, there were times we pieced 30 seconds of it together," Irish eenter Bob Morton said. "We just didn't have the men­tality in here to go the entire game." 
How can anyone say progress has been made in the past three sea­sons'? How can the University expect students, fans and alumni to contin­ue to support a team that looks more like a team that belongs in the Insight Bowl and watching on New Year's than playing on .Jan. 1'? How ean the coaching staff expect top recruits to commit wlum aftnr this loss an ESPN analyst is saying Notre Dame came to play? 
Something needs to change. 

If not, it's realistic to expect more games like Saturday's and more sea­sons like the past two. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Leinart makes his case for Heisman 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES -It took 117 years before Pittsburgh's Tyler Palko became the first quarterback to throw for five touchdowns against the Irish. 
It only took two weeks for USC's Matt Leinart to repeat the feat. 
Leinart passed for 400 yards and five touchdowns Saturday as he made his case for the Ileisman Trophy in No. 1 USC's 41-10 rout of Notre Dame. 
"lie played an excellent ball game," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said of the Trojan quarterback. "What he was so strong at was that he did not turn the ball over. IUSCI is No.1 for a reason." 
The Irish all but stopped the Trojan ground game, keeping running backs LenDale White and Heggie Bush cor­ralled for only 83 rushing yards. 
But Leinart was more than up to the task, shredding the Irish secondary as he completed 24-of-34 passes with no interceptions. llis 400 yards Saturday were also a career high. 
"I was very proud of the way we played," Leinart said. "We knew that !Notre Dame] had a very tough defense, Bspecially their front seven, and so we had some difficulty running the ball at times. 
"We just kept pounding and knew that things would start to open up eventual­ly." 
Leinart was aided by a bevy of talent­ed and speedy wide receivers -head­lined by true freshman Dwayne Jarrett, who had two touchdowns of 12 and 57 yards. Sophomore running back Heggie Bush. and wide receivers Steve Smith and Jason Mitchell also scored for the Trojans. 
Leinart's touchdown pass to Bush was perhaps the play that broke Notre Dame's resolve. The quick back lined up in the slot on third-and-two and caught a short pass from Leinart before out­running Irish defensive backs Quentin Leinart's performance Saturday Orange Bowl, the national champi­Burrell and Dwight Ellick to the end­evoked memories of USC quarterback onship game. zone. Carson Palmer's game against the Irish "We're going to relish this victory, but 
The touchdown made the score 27-10 just two years earlier. then we have to get ready to play in favor of USC, and all but eliminated Palmer threw for 425 yards and four against [UCLA]," Leinart said. "I would­any hope the Irish would pull off the touchdowns as the No. 6 Trojans defeat­n't really focus on [talking about the upset of the top-ranked 'rrojaris. ed No. 7 Notre Dame 44-13 in Los Heisman]. I just wanted to go out there 
"We ran that play earlier in the game Angeles on Nov. 30, 2002. Palmer's per­and do the same thing I've done for this and this time when they lined up we formance all but wrapped up his team all season -lead the offense, make knew that !Notre Darnel was in man-to­Ileisman Trophy award, and Leinart's plays, hit the open guys. man," Leinart said of Bush's touch­impressive showing could do the same "All that other stuff is more what down. "I could tell that they were in for him this season. other people say; I just want to go out man-to-man coverage when they But Leinart and his Trojans still have there and help this team to win games." motione(i out, and all I had to do was bigger fish to fry. With a victory this get !.Bush! the ball and he'd do the week against rival UCLA, USC will finish Contact Justin Schuver at rest. the season No. 1 and head to the jschuver@nd.edu 
Irish surprised by USC's fake punt 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 
With a comfortable 34-10 lead midway through the fourth quarter Saturday, Southern California coach Pete Carroll surprised Notre Dame by calling a fake punt with the Trojans facing a fourth-and-three at the Notre Dame 39-yard line. 
"We've been looking for a chance to do that for weeks," Carroll said. "Finally the right opportunity showed up and we were able to execute the play perfectly. We'd like to have run it earlier in the season, but the right situa­tion never came up." 
Irish defensive back Mike Richardson was called for defensive pass interference, which resulted in a 16-yard penalty. The Trojans scored on the next play when Leinart found receiver Jason Mitchell for a 23-yard touch­down. 
After the game, Notre Dame coach Tyrone 
Willingham said he did not fault USC for calling the fake punt. 
"That's their call," Willingham said. "It was a good play on their part. I thought we were in pretty good position. I have no problems with them doing that." 
Palmer grabs first career touchdown 
On Notre Dame's first drive of the game, the Irish faced a fourth-and-one at the 1-yard line. Who did the team throw to? 
Billy Palmer. 
The fifth-year senior tight end scored on a play-action fake to put the Irish ahead 7­0. 
It was Palmer's first career touchdown, third catch of the season and fifth reception of his career. 
"It was definitely a good experience," Palmer said. "Obviously I wish the out­come of the game would have been different, but it was def­initely a thrill. I'm happy the coaches had the confidence to call the play." 
Parish gets start, gets picked on 
Freddie Parish figured USC would throw his way all game Saturday, in the sopho­more's first-career start. He figured right. 
The Trojans threw nearly every pass on their first sev­eral drives to Parish;s side. 
"At the beginning I felt they were coming at me, but I had no problem with it," a visibly dejected Parish said after the game. "Bottom line, I should have stepped up. 
"They gave me the oppor­tunity that I had been asking for -it was time for me to put up or shut up, and I did­n't make enough plays." 
Parish, who hadn't played the cornerback position since junior year of high school, said the coaching staff helped him get ready for USC's out­standing passing attack throughout the week. 
"[IJ had to learn as much as possible, and I think [the coaches] prepared me well," he said. 

Fitzpatrick punts well 
D.J. Fitzpatrick wasn't sup­posed to let Trojan star returner Heggie Bush catch the ball on punts and kickoffs on Saturday. 
Mission accomplished. 
Fitzpatrick boomed eight punts for a 43.9 average, including a long of 59. More importantly, Bush did not return a kickoff or punt dur­ing the entire game. 
"The kickoffs we tried to kick them high and to the right and I don't think he had a return on kickoffs," Fitzpatrick said. "Punting the ball, we wanted to keep it away from him, put it on the sidelines and put enough hang time on it so he has to fair catch it. I think we did a pretty good job tonight." Gameday captains 
The captains were running back Ryan Grant, linebacker Mike Goolsby, defensive end Justin Tuck and wide receiv­er Carlyle Holiday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
•

scoring suinmary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 7 3 0 0 10 usc 3 14 10 14 41 
First quarter Notre Dame 7, USC 0 
Billy Palmer 1-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 6:24 remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 13 plays, 92 yards, 6:24 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, USC 3 
Ryan Killeen 39-yard FG with 1:26 remaining Drive: 13 plays, 46 yards, 4:58 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 10, USC 3 
. Fitzpatrick 28-yard FG with 11:51 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 73 yards, 4:35 elapsed 
Notre Dame 10, USC 10 
Dwayne Jarrett12-yard reception from Matt Leinart with 5:53 remaining (Killeen kick) Drive: 7 plays, 80 yards, 2:39 elapsed 
USC 17, Notre Dame 10 
Jarrett 57-yard reception from Leinart with 
2:06 remaining (Killeen kick) Drive: 4 plays, 73 yards, 1:55 elapsed 
Third quarter USC 20, Notre Dame 10 
Ryan Killeen 42-yard FG with 9:16 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 49 yards, 3:33 elapsed 
USC 27, Notre Dame 10 
Reggie Bush 69-yard reception from Leinart with 3:06 remaining (Killeen kick) Drive: 3 plays, 78 yards, 1:38 elapsed 
Fourth quarter USC 34, Notre Dame 10 
Steve Smith 35-yard reception from Leinart with 12:27 remaining (Killeen kick) Drive: 6 plays, 67 yards, 2:41 elapsed 
USC 41, Notre Dame 10 
Jason Mitchell 23-yard reception from Leinart with 6:57 remaining (Killeen kick) Drive: 7 plays, 79 yards, 3:43 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

<'"1'~
..-..

~ if: 
37-195 rushes-yards 28-83 15-30-0 comp-att-int 25-35-0 8-43.9 punts-yards 3-35.7 2-0 fumbles-lost 1-0 3-36 penalties-yards 2-10 
16 23
first downs 

passing  
Quinn  15-30-0  Leinart  24-34-0  
Holiday  0-1-0  Cassel  1-1-0  
rushing  
Grant  15-94  White  14-51  
Walker  11-64  Bush  8-25  
Quinn  8-30  Leinart  3-7  
Wilson  1-5  Reed  1-2  
Thomas  1-2  Dennis  1-(-1)  
receiving  
Walker  3-10  Jarrett  6-102  
Fasano  2-25  Smith  4-96  
Wilson  2-17  Holmes  4-44  
Shelton  2-13  Byrd  4-23  
Collins  2-9  Mitchell  2-38  
Stovall  1-17  Bush  1-69  
tackling  
Tuck  5  Tatupu  8  - 

Goolsby  5  Grootegoed  6  
Burrell  5  Cody  6  
Hoyle  5  Bing  5  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 30, 2004 



LOSING THE TROJAN WAR 
Notre Dame went to Los Angeles in hopes of pulling ofl' the biggest upset of the yPar. 
Instead, USC showed its No. 1 ranking is no fluke, dismantling the Irish secondary en route to an impressive 41-10 victory. It was the third year in a row Notre Dame lost to the Tn~jans by 31 points, and the second straight game the Irish have allowed an oppos­ing quarterback to throw f(>r live touchdowns. After scoring the initial touchdown of the game, the Irish simply could not get anything else done on oflense and couldn't stop I Ieisman candidate Matt Leinart and the rest of the Trojans. 

CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer Clockwise from top left, Jared Clark, lett, and Mark LeVoir, center, celebrate Billy Palmer's first career touchdown in the first quarter. Darius Walker tries to break a USC defender's tackle. Notre Dame defensive lineman Victor Abiamiri tackles USC running back Herschel Dennis late in the game. USC quarterback Matt Leinart is flushed from 
-the pocket and pursued by Notre Dame defensive tackle Derek L.andrl. USC defensive back Darnell Bing tries to strip the ball away from Irish running back Ryan Grant. 

THE ()BSERVIR 

CENE
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
page 13 
DVD REVIEWS 
Darker, scarier 'Potter' is the best of the series 
Animated antics, characters soar in beloved sequel 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Shrek (Mike Myers) thinks Puss In Boots (Antonio Banderas) is just an adorable little cat and decides to keep him In the animated film, "Shrek 2." 
the highest clarity. Typical hard points to animate, such as water and hair, are done with ease within "Shrek 2." The movie is beautiful, and could be seen for that reason alone. 
The sound is also very good, with all of the audio coming through clearly. However, the spired plot. "Shrek 2" continues in the vein of the first by consistently being. original and fresh for the viewer. The characters include everything from an assassin cat to a 100-foot Gingerbread Man named Mongo. All 'of the original characters return. so fans of the origi­nal will not be disappointed. 
Since the first movie established the main characters, and the roles that they play, it was the job of the sequel to place the characters into new situations that would shake up their roles. This is done very well as all the returning characters are given a chance to shine in humorous situations that keep "Shrek 2" fresh and distinct from the original. 
This keeps the movie from getting stale, and falling into the typically bad sequel realm. However, this movie keeps the same formula as the first; meaning if you didn't like that one, this one has little to offer. 
The picture quality on this DVD is excellent and is one of the finest trans­fers ever released on DVD. With the entire film generated completely by 
computers, the film is of By MOLLY GRIFFIN 

Assistant Scene Editor 
Adolescence isn't easy. particularly if you're Ilarry Potter. Not only does the young wizard experience the feelings of angst and embarrassment that all teenagers face, but he is also hunted by an escaped murderer. followed by a group of soul-sucking wraiths known as Dementors. finds a werewolf on the grounds of his school and has some experience with time travel. 
The third installment of the interna­tionally popular series. "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," finds the appropriately da_rker tone and gothic sensibility that was present in the books but missing in the earlier movies, thanks in part to an edgy new director. Alfonso Cuaron ("Y Tu Mama Tambicn"). This "Harry Potter" proves to be tlw bnst so far in the series. The actors continue to grow into the roles and display their experience and growth in this latest installment. "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of i\zkaban" also benefits from a solid screenplay that dares to stray slightly from J.K. Rawling's novel. 
The film opens with Harry (Daniel 
Harry Potter & the Prisoner of Azkaban Warner Bros. 
'l'(''''r'~'r'·.............·.... 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene: Cri[ic 
Most students are familiar with the typical fairytale. i\ princess is taken and locknd in a tower guarded by a fero­cious dragon. It is the duty of the honor­able, perfect rescuer, Prince Charming, to slay the dragon, rescue the princess and win her hnart. The original "Shrek" took a slightly different route, with the princess being rescued by an ogre, and his sidekick falling in love with the dragon. Those twists from the ordinary WPm a big reason for tlw original film's charm and success. both at the box orl1cn and with critics. 
WPll. "Shn~k 2" b(1gins with Prince Charming finally arriving at the tower to rescue the fair princess. Needless to say, lw is a little irked to find her missing, having already been rescued by some­one else. And then the scene is set for tlw rest of the movie. 
While a lot of sequels are content to star the original characters in an unin-Radcliffe) discovering that Sirius Black (Gary Oldman) escaped from Azkaban prison, and is coming after him. He and his friends Ron (Rupert Grint) and Hermione (Emma Watson) have to deal with finding Black, as well as the mys­terious werewolf that has been spotted around the Hogwarts school grounds. On top of juggling the usual school­work, the trio also finds themselves facing the menace of the Dementors, the soul-sucking Azkaban guards who prowl Hogwarts searching for Black. The plots intertwine at the end, and all is resolved with a little help from Hermione's newfound means of time travel. 

The third film suffers from what seems to be the curse of all the "Harry Potter" !ilms, which is being unneces­sarily long and slow moving. But the writers do a much better job with adjusting the plot for the big screen. They are less obsessively faithful to the original text and help translate a diffi­cult plot effectively to the screen. 
The DVD for "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," like the two films before. is definitely aimed at a younger audience. The first disc includes the movie, a cast list, trailers from all three of the movies, scene selections and subtitles. The second disc is all extras, including deleted scenes, commentary from various members of the cast and crew. a memory game, 360­degree tours of various sets from the movie and a few "making-of" fea­turettes. There is no audio ·commentary or full-length documentary 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) faces the threats of an escaped convict, a were­wolf and soul-sucking wraiths In "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban." 
because of the emphasis on attracting younger viewers. 
The sound for the DVD is Dolby 5.1. and it is effectively used for the subtle background noises, like the wind whip­ping through hallways and distant howling, which adds to the darker atmosphere that the film strives to cre­ate. The video quality is good, and the dark tones, like blues and blacks. turn out especially well. The previous two "Harry Potter" films came in cardboard fold-out cases, while this one is in a typical DVD hard case. This decision makes sense because it is more durable and streamlined. 
"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" is definitely not a perfect movie, but it is the best so far in the series. It finally captured the darker tone of the books and used it effectively to parallel Harry's transition into ado­lescence. Hopefully, the "Harry Potter" films will continue to improve with each successive film and find that intangible quality that makes the books so appealing. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

sound doesn't play evenly on all the speakers. There appears to be an emphasis on the front speakers. But that should only bother the harshest of DVD critics, not the average Notre Dame student. 
The special features mirror those found on the original's DVD, with com­mentaries. behind-the-scenes documen­taries and specials. The commentaries are a little nat, as they consist of people talking about the technical aspects of the film. None of the stars participated in the commentaries, although they did make appearances for some of the interviews. 
In response to the first film's inclusion of a karaoke snippet starring all of the characters from the movie, "Shrek 2" has "Far. Far Away Idol." A parody of a certain popular televis'ion show and starring the notorious Simon Cowell. this one is pretty humorous and gives the audience a chance to listen to the characters within the movie sing their favorite songs. 
"Shrek 2" is a great movie, filled with parodies and humor. No fairy tale is spared, nor any piece of pop culture. It would almost be impossible to watch and not enjoy it. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
--~­
-. ----;--.---. 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish end seasons with solid perform_ances in various fields 
Men's water polo finishes 13th at 
Championships 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame finished 13th in the Collegiate Water Polo Association national champi­onships, hosted two weeks ago at Holfs Aquatics. The Irish dropped their opener to top seed Michigan, 10-3. Down 4-0 at the half. Matt McNicholas tried to lead a comeback with a pair of goals. but the Irish were not able to match the speed of the Wolverines. Ryan Wyatt, one of two Wolverines on the first team all-tournament team, led all scor­ers with three goals. 
The Irish dropped a heart­breaker in their second round to Florida International, 6-5. The Irish were up 4-1 at the half. but FlU goalie Alex Martinez made 13 saves to spur the comeback. Captain Mike Grow rifled home two goals for the Irish. Grow con­timwd his hot scoring with three goals in the season finale for the Irish, as the team defeated Western Illinois 7-1. 
In the championship game, Cal Poly earned a record fourth national title, and third in the past four years, with a 7-5 victory over Arizona. Finishing below Cal Poly and Arizona in order were Michigan, Yale, Grand Valley State. Miami (Ohio), Villanova, Oregon, North Carolina, Florida International, Texas, Middlebury, Notre Dame, South Dakota and Western Illinois. 
Men's volleyball 
The Notre Dame's men's volley­ball club captured its own invita­tional two weeks ago, as the Irish stormed back to defeat Michigan State in the feature match of the day. The Irish A team, the Gold Squad, opened with successive sweeps of Northwestern, 25-23, 25-13. Grand Valley State, 27-25, 25-21, Cincinnati, 25-23, 25-21 and Miami (Ohio), 25-17. 25-16 to set up the showdown with the Spartans. 
Captain Mike Giampa, setter Brad Weldon and outside hitter Dan Zibton, one of the best of a promising group of freshmen. led the Irish throughout the tourna­mellt. But in a seesaw struggle with the MSU squad, it was the play of John Tibbie and Nolan Kane on the critical point of the match that swung momentum and victory to the Irish. After dropping the opening game 25­19, the Irish won 25-22 to force the deciding game to 15. With both teams giving everything on each point, the moment of truth came at 9-8, when MSU struck what all expected would be 11 winning kill. However, Tibbie raced to track down the ball and on the second hit, from 30 feet off the court, kept the ball in play. Kane then ran down that save to place an unplayable ball on the other side of the court. The Irish then rode the momentum to a 15­11 victory and a tournament championship. 

The Irish B team, the Blue Squad, placed third in the field, with victories over Miami (Ohio). 20-25, 25-23. 15-11; Indiana. 25­23, 25-22, Northwestern, 25-20, 18-25, 15-11, before falling to Michigan State, 25-18, 25-16. Kevin Overmann at setter and Hob Dombrowski at 3rd receiver led the squad to its strong show­ing in the nine-team field. 
Equestrian 

Notre Dame's equestrian club captured high point honors two weeks ago in a show at Purdue. The Irish edged the host Boilermakers 32-30 to claim first place in the field. Hayden Piscal capped a great individual per­formance by participating in a ride off for individual high point honors for the event. 
Top Irish performances includ­ed Piscal and Kristin LaSota tying for first in novice flat. with Catherine Linn second, and Piscal tying for first with Mary Dorgant in novice fences. Liz Bell and Molly Kopacz claimed first and fifth respectively in open nat, while the Irish nearly swept the field in intermediate flat as Caitlin Landuyt took first, Chelsea Brown second, Andrea Oliverio fourth and Ana Hichter fifth. Landuyt and Oliverio also tied for second in intermediate fences. Strong performances by Katie Baron and Kelsey Ostberg earned them a tie for third in open fences. In a down-to-the-wire contest where every point was pivotal, the Irish also scored in walk trot as Joanne Arfanis fin­ished second and Nicole Gonsalves sixth; and in advanced walk-trot-canter, as Heather LaDue and Katy Booth tied for sixth. Liz Bell, one of the Irish top performers, also earned a sixth-place ribbon in open fences. 
Squash 
Notre Dame's squash club con­tinued to cut il'> teeth in its form­ative stages as it competed in the ISBA League play two weeks ago. Youth and inexperience were costly as the Irish line-up featur­ing two freshman and two sopho­mores fell to Purdue 3-2, and Lakeshore, 5-0. Against the Boilers, James Zhang and Mike Gelinas garnered 3-0 wins at the top two spots, but it was not enough as the Irish dropped the next three. Team captain Sereeparp Anantavrasilp played a very close match at the third spot, before falling 3-1. Mike McConnell and Handall HainosPk picked up valuable playing expP­rience, but dropped matches at four and five respectively. 
The Irish were blanked by Lakeshore. but Zhang and McConnell both won games against veteran players. Lakeshore Club's lineup consisted of former collegiate players who have played the Chicago tourna­ments for several years. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles post 3-gatne -winning streak over holiday break 
on Sunday, and Saint Mary's final period as Saint Mary's Saint Mary's is back to action (ConwPII 4). Total fouls: Saint Mary's 14. ManchestPr 20. 
By KEN FOWLER used all of its players in its 60-extend its four-point halftime soon, as the Belles hit the road 
Sports Writrr 43 win. lead over Manchester College to Wednesday when they travel to SAINT MARY'S 60, KNOX 43
Lipke and Bridget Boyce a comfortable 12-point margin Albion for a 7:30p.m. tipoff. 
at Galesburg, Ill.·

Saint Mary's extended its paved the way for the Belles, with eight minutes left in the winning streak to three against scoring 15 points apiece. Emily game. SAINT MAHY'S (2-2, 0-0) Monmouth College Sunday with Creachbaum added 14 points Creachbaum began the sec­SAINT MARY'S 68, K. Boyce 0-5 2-2 2. Lipke 6-t:l 0-0 15. B. 
Boyce 6-17 1·1 15. Bush 3-3 0-1 6.

a 69-54 win. and seven rebounds. ond half with consecutive MANCHESTER 52 
Creachbaum 6-9 2-3 14. Kania 0-0 0-0 0.

The Belles opened up an A stingy Belles defense forced three-pointers, each after a at the ANGELA ATHLETIC 
Kessler 0·10. 4·4 4. S. Broderi<:k 1-2 0·0 2.
CENTER

insurmountable 13-point half­28 turnovers and held the Manchester bucket had cut the MalonP 0-0 0-0 0. B. Brodnriek 0-4 0-2 0. time cushion and comfortably Prairie Fire to just 45 total Belles lead. MiUrn 0-0 0-0 0, Mangan 1-6 0-0 0. Baum
SAINT MAllY'S (1-2, 0-0) 
0-2 0-0 2.

coasted to a 15-point victory shots. Kessler shot 9-for-9 from the 
B. Boyce 3-12 7-8 14. Creachbaum 8-12 3­
over the Fighting Scots. Lipke had four steals to tack free throw line in the second 4 21, Bush 2-6 0-0 4. K. Boyce 0-4 0-0 0. KNOX (0-1, 0-0)Bridget Boyce had a career­on to her 15 points, and half en route to a breakout 13-Lipke 4-5 1-1 12. Kania 0-0 0·0 0, Kessler Grana 2-4 3-6 7. Drummond 0-5 0-0 0. 
2-G 0-1 9-9. S. Broderick 0-0 0-0 0,
high 24 points. shooting 9-for-Creachbaum thieved the Prairie point, six rebound perform­Widaman 1-fl 0-0 0, Petereson 1·4 0-0 2. 
Malone 0-0 0-0 0, B. Broderir.k 0-0 0-0 0, 
Fondow 1-4 7-'J 9. Finley 0-2 0-0 0, Burke15 from the field and 4-for-5 Fire three times in the game. ance. Her skill at the line was Mullen 1-3 2-2 4. Mangan 0-0 0-0 0, Baum 3-7 0-2 8. Golz 0-0 0-0 0. Perkins 1-3 0·0
from three-point land. Maureen Bridget Boyce was impressed emblematic of Saint Mary's suc­0·0 0-0 0. 
2. Colgan 0-00-00.AIIison 6-101-1 13. Bush snagged 11 rebounds for by her teammates success on cess all night in converting 
MANCHESTER (2~1. 0-0)

the Belles, and Brigdet Lipke both defense and offense. opportunities into scores, as the 1st 2nd Total 
Ward 2-9 2-4 G. Sewell 8-10 4-5 20, Quinn SAINT MAHY'S 29 :H 60
netted 12 points. "We really played well togeth-. Belles went 24-for-27 (89 per­
1-3 0-0 2, Conwell 0-3 0-0 0, Kane 0-0 2-2 Knox 19 24 43
Saint Mary's shot 64 percent er; we were clicking well on the cent) from the stripe. 2, Krisiak 0-3 0-0 0, Clapp 2-10 1-5 5, from the floor in the opening floor," she said. "Hight from the For Saint Mary's, double­Estridge 3-5 0-0 8, Freed 3-7 0-0 6. Henn 3-point goals: Saint Mary's 5-17 (K. Byce
1-4 1-2 3.

half. including 3-of-4 from long get-go we were really good on teaming Manchester's Erica 0-1. Lipke 3-6. Boyce 2-8. Kessl1•r 0-1. B. Broderick 0-1). Knox 2·17 (Drummond 0­
distance. steals, fast breaks and lay-ups." Sewell in the second half 
1st 2nd Total 1. Widaman 0-3, Peterson 0-2. Fondow 0­

The win put the Belles over played a pivotal role in pre­SAINT MARY'S 27 41 68 
1, Finley 0-2. Burke 2-5. Perkins 0·1 . . 500 for the first time in more Saint Mary's 68, Manchester 52 venting a comeback. Sewell Manchester 23 29 52 Allison 0-2) Fouled out: None. Hebounds: than three years, as they are Alison Kessler and Emily scored 15 in the first half, but Saint Mary's 39 (Creachbaum 7). Knox 43 
3-point goals: SMC 4-7 (B. Boyce 1-2. 
(Grana 15). Assists: Saint Mary's 15 (Lipkl' 

now 3-2. Creachbaum stepped up and only five in the second. Creachbaum 2-2, Bush 0-1. Lipke 1-1, 
5). Knox 5 (Drummond 2, Peterson 2).

delivered big in the second half "We really wanted to double Kessler 0-1). Manchester 3-12 (Ward 0-1. 
Total fouls: Saint Mary's 19. Knox 14. Saint Mary's 60, Knox 43 to lead Saint Mary's to its first team her to start the game," Conwell 0-1, Krisiak 0-1, Clapp 1-5, 
Estridge 2-3 .. Freed 0-1) Fouled out: None.
The Belles faced Knox College win of the season last Tuesday. Belles coach Suzanne Bellina 
Hebounds: Saint Mary's 35 (Kessler 6).
in the opening game of the The pair combined for 12 of said. "We got it done in the sec­Manchester 29 (Sewell 11). Assists: Saint Contact Ken Fowler at Pizza Hut-Econofoods Classic the Belles first 13 points of the ond half." Mary's 14 (B. Boyce 5). Manr.hester 8 kfowler@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r·m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to cdir all classifieds for content wit hour issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
WANTED 
Female to share great Oakhill condo, start Jan. Grad pref 
625/m incl. utilities. 238·2368. 
Interested in a lucrative career in Pharmaceutical Sales? 
www.beapharmarep.com 
FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES­
NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS 
ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWWDOMUSKRAMERCOM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO 
MMMRentals.com 532·1408 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO NO. WID, ON·SITE PARKING. 
AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR COR­BYS/STJOE CHURCH. AVAIL.NOW CALL JOE GRIM­MINS:574-229-3659 OR 679·201 0. 
NEW 3-4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. SAFE,CLOSE TO CAMPUS,2-CAR GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY ROOM,LARGE DECK. 
$1,660/MO. CALL 1-574·232·4527, OR 1-269·683-5038 2 bdrm, 1 bth house for rent. 425 Napoleon. Walk to campus $575 p/mo. 273-4682. 

MISHAWAKA 

2-3 bedroom, 2.5 bath, 1,200 sq.ft + full basement + 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273-9000. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 
2005-2006 Academic year · Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms · 2 Baths, Washer/Dryer. Security System. 
Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@earthlink.net 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan· Cameron &Cabo. Organize a group-GO FREE! 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1· 800-678-6386 ADOPTION: Help us complete our 
family, baby wanted. Jeanie &Dan 
877 ·895-9790 Toll Free 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Hiring C§lmpus reps. Call for group discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1·800· 648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
No parietals! No Rector! Your own private bathroom facilities! La fay· ette Square Town homes 234-9923 
FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;lnternet connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd jobs@brainfuse.com 
College is all about... not sleep. 

Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

cnr W®m0lf mw Yr®® C?~~ Yr®®C2 cs~0Q 0QD1f 1fmBm~ ®f1 1fm~ G:J~ . 'aCVQ!J~M 0QW&9 
~ 

At your campus bookstore we work directly with your professors to ensure we only order the exact books they plan on oslng. Buy your books somewhere else and you may or may not get what you're really aft,r. And it efollett.com you can order your books online and pick them up in store, so there's no waiting or shipping to pay. So ifyou're looking for a deal, now you know where to look " · . 

<. .u:>.··'·-f. __ , ' .·/\k-~.;;.<,>, ·'.-.,>WFl-. '·~' 


Your1campus bookSeore:fias. ·tiJe . 
,~,\\--'-·:, ··... ,'• 

HAMMES 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574} 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 COMPJLED FROM T!IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
Men's Basketball Top 25 
AP Coaches 
team 
team 1 Wake Forest 
Wake Forest 1 2 Kansas 
Kansas 2 3 Syracuse 
Illinois 3 4 Georgia Tech 
Georgia Tech 4 5 Illinois 

Syracuse 5 I I 6 Oklahoma State 
Connecticut 6 I, I 7 Connecticut 
Oklahoma State 7 

I 
8 Kentucky 

Kentucky 8 I 9 North Carolina 
Michigan State 9 10 Duke 
Duke 10 11 Michigan State 
North Carolina 11 12 Maryland 
Maryland 12 13 Pittsburgh 
North Carolina State 13 14 Washington 
Pittsburgh 14 15 Mississippi State 
Texas 15 16 North Carolina Stale 
Washington 16 17 Louisville 
Louisville 17 18 Texas 
Florida 18 19 Florida 
NOTRE DAME 19 20 NOTRE DAME 
Arizona 20 21 Arizona 
Mississippi State 21 22 Alabama 
Alabama 22 23 Iowa 
Wisconsin 23 24 Virginia 
Cincinnati 24 25 Wisconsin 
VIrginia 25 
Women's BasketbaU Top 25 
AP 
Coaches 
toam 
team 1 LSU 
Tennessee 1 2 North Carolina 
LSU 2 3 NOTRE DAME 
Georgia 3 4 Tennessee 
Texas 4 5 Stanford 
Stanford 5 6 Georgia 
NOTRE DAME 6 7 Texas 
North Carolina 7 8 Connecticut 
Connecticut 8 9 Baylor 
Duke 9 10 Duke 
Ohio State 10 11 Ohio State 
Texas Tech 11 12 Texas Tech 
Baylor 12 13 Vanderbilt 
Purdue 13 14 Purdue 
Michigan State 14 15 Michigan State 
Vanderblll 15 16 Rutgers 
Kansas State 16 17 DePaul 
Minnesota 17 18 Minnesota 
Rutgers 18 19 Kansas Stale 
DePaul 19 20 Boston College 
I' Boston College 20 21 Louisiana Tech 
Louisiana Tech 21 22 Maryland 
Maryland 22 23 TCU 
Oklahoma 23 24 Villanova 
Arizona 24 25 UCLA 
Villanova 25 
Men's CCHA Hockey Conference 
team CCflA Overall 
Ohio Slate 7-2·1 9·4·1 Michigan 7-1·0 9-4·1 Nebraska-Omaha 5-4·1 7·4·1 Bowling Green 4-2·2 7·3·2 Northern Michigan 4-3·1 6·4-2 Lake Superior 4-5-1 4-7-1 NOTRE DAME 3-4·3 4·5·4 Alaska Fairbanks 4-4·0 5-5·0 Western Michigan '3-6·1 7·6·1 Miami Ohio 3-6·1 5-8·1 Michigan State 3·5·0 6-7·1 Ferris State 1·6·1 4·9·1 
around the dial 
MEN's CoLLEGE BASKETBALL Michigan at Georgia 7 p.m., ESPN Michigan State at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN Florida State at Minnesota 7:30p.m., ESPN2 Maryland at Wisconsin 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 
St. Louis at Green Bay 7:30p.m., ABC 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. ­Three years ago, Ted Leland thought he'd found the right offensive football mind for Stanford in coach Buddy Teevens. 
The results eventually told the athletic director otherwise, and Teevens .was fired after three 
straight losing seasons. 
"It was an extremely dif­ficult decision, but I simply felt that the program was in need of new direction and leadership," Leland said Monday. "It's a tough day that we find ourselves in, a tough place, I guess. I am comfortable with the process we've gone through. I am comfortable with the decision." 

Leland, a close friend of Teevens, met with the coach last week after the Cardinal finished 4-7 for the second consecutive year. Stanford lost 41-6 to archrival California in the Big Game on Nov. 20 for its fifth straight defeat, ending a season that began 4-2 with hopes of a bowl game. 
The 48-year-old Teevens, who had two years remain­ing on his contract, is the first Stanford football coach to be fired since Jack Elway was dismissed in 1988 after going 3-6-2. Teevens learned of his fate Sunday morning, then met with his players Monday afternoon. 
Respected for his class and loyalty, Teevens even showed up for the official announcement of his firing. 
"Unfortunately, it's a win­loss business and I didn't win enough ballgames," Teevens said. "The attitude I have is I do believe I improved the quality of the program. I appreciate the opportunity. When you look back, there are a lot of things that are could have, should have." 
Leland said a search for a successor would begin immediately, but he doesn't have a timeline for making a hire. His focus is an ofTensive-minded coach. 
Stanford has six recruits coming to campus this weekend and Leland want­ed a decision on Teevens' job status to be resolved before then. 
"The things that he's built here, they're going to stay." linebacker .Jon i\lston said. "He started thP boat rolling. Unfortunately. with the nature of this business, 10 wins in three years at Stanford is just sonwthing that people don't tend to accept. The outlook is very positive among the team." 
Fans and alumni seemed to lose faith in Teevens for good following the embar­rassing Big Game dr.feat. 
IN BRIEF 
Police susp,ect identity of 
Pistons' chair thrower 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -Police believe they know the identity of the man who threw a chair in a brawl between players and fans during the Indiana-Detroit game on Nov. 19. 
Police did not identify the man Monday, though they said he is a 35­year-old Pistons' season-ticket hold­er. He has not been interviewed and is not in custody. Police Lt. James Manning said police have fnet with the man's attorney. 
The lawyer, Kenneth Karasick, did not immediately respond to a tele­phone message seeking comment. 
The fight among spectators and players broke out near the end of the game after an on-court dispute over a foul. i\ fan hurled a drink at Indiana's Hon Artest, who then charged into the stands and began beating a man he thought had done it. 
Oakland County Prosecutor David Gorcyca has said the man who threw the chair, which hit several people including a police officer, could be charged with felony assault. Other participants could be charged with misdemeanor assault and battery.Hokies, Hurricanes prepare

for new league 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. -After years of battling for supremacy in the Big East, Miami and Virginia Tech will now do the same in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
In their first meeting as ACC rivals, the Hokies and Hurricanes will play Saturday with a conference title and Bowl Championship Series bid on the line. 
No. 10 Virginia Tech (9-2, 6-1) will claim the outright ACC title if it beats Miami for the second straight year; the Hokies eased past the Hurricanes 31-7 last year in Blacksburg, Va. 
If No. 9 Miami (8-2, 5-2) wins, it'll finish in a three-way tie atop the league with the Hokies and Florida State _ which would have at least a share of the ACC title for the 12th time in the last 13 years. Clemson, South Carolina 
players suspended for fight 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Six Clemson players and six South Carolina play­ers were suspended one game by their conferences Monday for brawling during a game between the in-state rivals Nov. 20. 
The Atlantic Coast ConfnrcncP and Southeastern Confernnce handnd down the punishment. 
"The actions of these suspPndPd student-athletes violate the l1~twr and spirit of the SEC and NCi\i\ rules and regulations of sportsman­like conduct," SEC commissioner Mike Slive said. "These suspensions are intended to send a clear and unequivocal message to all student­athletes in the Southeastern Conference that this conduct will not be tolerated now or in the future." 
Both schools declined bowl invita­tions last week as punishment for their teams. 

. 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

Bowl 
continued from page 24 
Dame's 26th postseason appearance, and its first in the Insight Bowl. The payout for the bowl is $750,000 for both teams. 
Willingham hopes the bowl game will give the Irish positive momentum for next season. 
"It ma,kes the winter a lot eas­ier," Willingham said of a possible 
which we didn't reach our expec­tations -but you like to go into the next season feeling good about where you are." 
Notre Dame has not won a bowl game since they defeated Texas A&M, 24-21 in the Cotton Bowl following the 1993 season. Willingham recognized this and said the seniors can use this game as an opportunity to leave their legacy. 
"Of course, the big thing there for us is to win a bowl game," he said. "That's something that Notre Dame hasn't done in about 11 years. So, it would be a great way for the seniors to leave something very positive 

"Of course, the big 
bowl win. "You great things on the finish on a higher thing there for us horizon for this note, as opposed football team. So,
is to win a bowl 
to finishing with this is an opportu­
game. Thafs
that losing taste nity to continue in your mouth. something that that because you Even though our can't get better sit­
Notre Dame 
season should ting in the dorm.
hasn't done in 
provide great You can only get motivation for us about I I years." better by practic­through the win­ing and performing ter -because it on the football field 
Tyrone Willingham 
was a season in and this is an
Irish coach 
with this program." 
Despite the fact that with a win over USC, the Irish could have possibly been participants in the Jan. 1 Gator Bowl due to Boston College and West Virginia's losses, Willingham sees the Insight Bowl as a good opportunity for players, 
"Number one. it's a chance to get a win," Willingham said. "It's also a great opportunity for our underclassmen to continue their preparation because what we hope and believe is there are 
opportunity to do 
that." 
The Irish will have to wait until this weekend's games in the Pac-10 Conference. California against Southern Mississippi and USC against UClA to see who they will face. 
"I think that this team. com­ing off of two losses, is hungry for a win," Irish quarterback Brady Quinn said. "But at the same time. there's a lot of things that we need to fix with­in ourselves, fix some things that we weren't executing to the best of our ability." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


MORRIS INN ROOM LOTTERY 
Final dav to sign up! 
Winners of the lottery are guaranteed a room at the Morris Inn the nights of Friday, February 18th and Saturday, February 19th. _Winning families are responsible for all payments to the Morris Inn. 
TO ENTER, SEND AN EMAIL TO: mears.1 @nd.edu BY 11/30/04 Questions? Contact the JPW Committee at jpw@nd.edu ·­
• .I 
page 18 Tuesday, November 30, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish struggle to score, still come away with win 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Mike Brey was disappointed after his team scored only 66 points against llarvard. lie said if the Irish were going to aver­age 65 points a game this sea­son, they would be in serious trouble. 
After three games, Notre Dame is averaging 64.3 points. 
But despite offensive prob­lems in the first half against Charleston Southern Friday, No. 19 Notre Dame held the Buccaneers to the second-low­

-est opponent point output in Joyce Center history and won, 54-38, to improve to 3-0. "''m just glad we held them to 38 points," guard Chris Thomas told the South Bend Tribune Friday. "We had to play good defense. I felt like we did that." The record low point total for an opposing team in the Joyce Center was a 35-point outing from Hice in a 50-35 defeat at the hands of Notre Dame on Jan. 23, 1984. On Friday, the Irish shot just 
26.9 percent from the field in the first half. But Notre Dame held its opponent to the same shooting percentage in the sec­ond half and limited Charleston Southern -with no free-throw attempts in the game -to 16 points in the final 20 minutes of play. 
The Buccaneers' Thomas Ilarrison tied the score at 29 with a 3-pointer at the 13:30 mark. But Irish forward Jordan Cornette scored on a put-back off a Thomas miss and ignited a 14-0 run from which Charleston Southern would never recover. 
Chris Quinn, who has led Notre Dame in scoring in all three games thus far, scored 14 of his team-high 17 points in the second half. Thomas added 15 points. The senior point guard also had four steals, six assists and no turnovers. 
The Irish did not shoot well from 3-point range (5-for-20) or from the field overall (18-for­48). But the guard play was the difference. Notre Dame got just 10 points and 11 rebounds from the frontcourt of Rick Cornett, Torin Francis and Dennis Latimore. Francis, who committed four turnovers to match his four points, sat the bench in the second half and played just 14 total minutes. 
"I wasn't active on the defen­sive end so coach took me out, put in a smaller lineup and they were effective," Francis told the South Bend Tribune. 
But Francis and Latimore had their day in Notre Dame's sec­ond win Nov. 23. Unlike Friday's game -when Quinn and Thomas were the only two Irish players in double figures -Tuesday's 73-45 win over Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne {IPFW) saw four players score in double figures. 
While Quinn led Notre Dame with 15 points, Francis scored 11 points and grabbed seven rebounds. Latimore had career highs of 12 points and 11 rebounds. 
Thomas had his best game of the season so far, scoring 10 points along with 11 assists and only one turnover. 
Notre Dame shot 50 percent from the field and 43.8 percent from 3-point range. 
NOTRE DAME 73, IPFW 45 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (2-0, 0-0) 
Cornette 1-4 1-2 4, Francis 4-9 3-5 11. Latimore 6-11 0-0 12, Thomas 3-8 4-4 10, Quinn 5-7,2-3 15, Israel 1-2 0-0 2, Cornett 1-3 4-6 6, Falls 3-4 0-0 9, Nickol 0-1 0-0 0. Kurz 1-1 0-0 2, Carter 1-2 0-0 2. 
IPFW (2-2, 0-0) Hawkins 2-4 0-0 4, Butler 2-6 0-0 4, Malone, B. 3-9 0-0 9, Carouthers 0-6 0-2 

0, Bauer 4·12 2-2 12. Mutzfeld 0-0 0-0 0, NOTRE DAME 54, Bourne 0·0 0-0 0. Malone. J. 1-3 0-2 3, 1st 2nd Total
CHARLESTON SOUTHERN 38 
Campbell. P. 4-7 0·0 9, Campbell, C. 2-4 0-NOTRE DAME 22 32 54
at the JOYCE CENTER 

1 4, Egeric 0·0 0·0 0 Charleston Southern 22 16 3K 1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 30 43 73 :{-point goals: Notm DamP 5·20 (Quinn 3·
NOTRE DAME (3-0, 0-0) 

IPFW 18 27 45 8, Thomas 1·6. Falls 1·3, CormHII' 0-3).
Cornette 1-5 0-0 2. Francis 1-1 2-2 4, 
Charleston Southern 4·14 (!Iarrison 3-6.

Latimore 2-8 2-2 6, Thomas 5-14 4-7 15, 
Williams 1-1, Hice 0-2, Lane 0-2,

Quinn 7-13 0-0 17, Israel 1-2 2-2 4,
3-point goals: Notre Dame 7-16 (Quinn 3­
Covington 0-1). Fouled out: Nonc.

Cornell 0-2 0-0 0, Falls 1-3 2-2 5, Nickol 0­
4. Falls 3-4, Cornette 1-4, Thomas 0-2, Rebounds: Notre Dame 32 (Latimore 7), 
0 0-0 0, Kurz 0-0 1-2 I, Carter 0-0 0-0 0.
Carter 0-1, Nickol 0-1), IPFW 7-21 (B. 
Charleston Southern 34 (Hict• 11 ). AssisL~: Malone 3-5, Bauer 2-7. P. Campbell 1-4, J. 

Notre Dame 9 (Thomas 6). Charleston Malone 1-2, Carouthers 0-2, Hawkins 0-1). CHARLESTON SOUTHERN (1-2, 0-0) Southern 7 (Hice 2). Total fouls: Notre Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame Cain 1-1 0-0 2, Hice 5-13 0-0 10, Ball2-12 Damr 11, Charlcs!on Southcrn 17. 

39 (Latimore 11), IPFW 26 (C. Campbell, 0-0 4, Moore 1-3 0-0 2, Harrison 3-9 0-0 9, Butler 5). Assists: Notre Dame 19 (Thomas Lane 0-4. 0-0 0, Williams 3-4 0-0 7, 
Contact Pat Leonard at

11), IPFW 11 (Bauer 5). Total fouls: Notre Covington 0-2 0-0 0, Stiglbauer 0-0 0-0 0, Dame 12, IPFW 16. Fails 0-0 0-0 0, Jegdic 2-4 0-0 4. pleonard@nd.edu 
MCNAIR SCHOLARS PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2004 -2005 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS. MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2004 
7:00-8:00 PM 

(Hors d'oeuvres will be served) 
IN ROOM 119 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
La'W& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
December 1, 2004 4:30p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Universal Jurisdiction Over Gross Human Rights Violations: Back to Square Zero? 
Presenter Luc Reydams 
Department ofPolitical Science 
Commentator Teresa Godwin Phelps 
The Law School 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish don't play well at USC, but survive 

LOS ANGELES-Muffet McGraw looked like a helpless leader Friday night, watching her team slowly fall apart to a less-talented, more-energetic USC squad. 
She paced. She shook her head. She yelled and scream­ed. But little McGraw did­could change Notre Dame's performance. 
Trailing by five points with seven minutes remaining, Notre Dame looked dead. 
In a game like this last sea­son on the road, the Irish would have surely lost. But Friday, Notre Dame picked itself up off the Los Angeles Sports Arena floor after blow­ing a nine-point halftime lead in less than four minutes to make the big plays and ulti­mately sneak away with a 60­56 victory. 
The team can take much from this hard-fought victory. 
WANTTD SEE YOUR DESIGN ON THE BACK OF THE 11CHEERING THOUSANDS"? 
THE SHIRT PROi.IECT JS IN THE PROCESS CF' SELECTING ITS 2005 STUDENT DESIGNER. GIVE US YOUR ORIGINAL DESIGNSt SKETCHES., AND IDEAS F'CR NEXT YEARtS SHIRT. 
IEIPIITIF TIE IIIII2105 

Joe Hettler 
Sports Writer 

The good news -the Irish faced stiff adversity, and came out on top in their first road game of the season. The bad 
news -Notre Dame looked 
nothing like the team that beat top-1 0 Duke and Ohio State just a few days ago. 
For much of the contest, it appeared like the Irish had taken out the blueprint from the 2003-04 season on 'How To Lose Road Games,' and then followed it to a T The Irish made uncharacteristic turnovers, couldn't hit key shots, didn't rebound, missed free throws, got into foul trou­ble and didn't play anywhere near their potentiaL 
Breona Gray summed up 
most of Notre Dame's night 
when she stole a pass with 
7:13 left in the game. Gray raced down the court for the basket, looking to cut the Trojan lead to one. Instead of making a seemingly easy layup, Gray lost control of the ball out of bounds -despite not being touched. 
Much like that play, Notre 
Dame shot themselves in the 
foot time and again Friday 
against a much weaker oppo­
nent. 
Yet, the Irish didn't quit or 
fold. They didn't panic when 
USC sprinted to a 20-7 run to 
begin the second half. Instead, 
Notre Dame found a way to 
win. 
"We weren't running our 
offense. Mentally I don't think 
we played a great game,". 
McGraw said. "But you have to 
accept that for the first road 
game. I think they're still a lit­
tle gun-shy on the road, so this 
gives them a lot of confi­
dence." 
The biggest surprise about 

this come-from-behind victory 
was that Notre Dame's fresh­
men led the charge. Specific­
ally, Melissa D'Amico. 
With Notre Dame's lead cut 

to 18-16 in. the first half, the center checked in and prompt­ly scored five straight points ­including a 3-point play­then blocked a shot that lead to a breakaway layup for Jacqueline Batteast. Just likP that, the Irish had a ninP-point edge at 25-16. 
D'Amico and the Irish played with resilience in their first road game of the season. They struggled for much of the game, but never quit. It takes a certain level of toughness to win on the road and the Irish showed that Friday evening. 
Courtney LaVere battled in the paint all game, before painfully hitting the court after spraining her ankle in the sec­ond half. With tears in her eyes, LaVere hobbled to the end of the bench, stuck watch­ing her team during the final minutes. 
Guard Megan Duffy got jacked in the neck with an elbow, which limited her speaking abilities for some of the second half. Despite that, she performed the best of any Notre Dame player. 
Simply put, Notre DamP 

wouldn't allow USC to win. The 
Irish made the big shot when it 
mattered the most. They creat­
ed the crucial turnover when 
USC started to regain momen­
tum. They secured the key 
rebound when the Trojans des­
perately needed another shot. 
"We really showed our poise 

at the end," McGraw said. 
That they did. The Irish 

found a way to pass their first 
road test of the season ­
albeit barely. But a 'W' is a 
'W'-no matter how ugly or 
painful it is to watch. 
The opinions expressed in 

this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily 
those of The Obseruer. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhet­

tler@nd. edu 
.....~~.--~·..,.....~ E:::c~~·.--.--•.--~ ~c::>~M._,c::;ir._,E/:~E!: 
-.:::> 43!' IJ:>CII .--a:m ~ ..-. t: c::> ..= ~ «:::> m -==-. .--. ~ ~ -C3R ~ ~ ..._. .c:a s;., ~ ~ ..S.. ._ i-t-=--..-:="' t: 11L...8 .-~ ~ ~ ...-<:> ~ ..--c::=-m i .-. IF=-«::::» .-t:~ s;:a .._. ~ ~ ~ ..B.. IE:S. .--=-.:z: • I • C3l. ....-. ~t: ..._. <=-• C3P ====-­
... , 


page 20 . The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Spikers sweep 
over weekend-
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

The score was the same· but the winners reversed as Notre Dame (3-6-4, 2-5-3 in CCIII\) split a two-game series with !\Iaska Fairbanks (6-4-0, 5-3-0) this weekend, winning 3-2 on Friday before falling to the Nanooks 3-2 on Saturday. 
"We played well all weekend," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We wanted more than two points." 
Notre Dame's win Friday was the second consecutive road win for the team, as David Brown made 35 saves on the night, with many of those saves coming on nine UAF power plays. The Nanooks were held scoreless on those power plays. 
"I would say it was David's most consistent game," Poulin said. "He was really solid. I always tell our guys to just let in one less than the other guy." 
The Irish picked up goals from Tim Wallace, Tony Gill and Jason Paige in the contest. Paige and Wallace's goals both came on the power play as the Irish went 2­for-5 in the game Friday. 
Notre Dame got on the score­board first, as Wallace deflected a Brock Sheahan shot past UJ\F goalie Wylie Hogers at 17:40 of the first period .. 
The Irish increased their lead in the second period as Gill, the younger brother of last year's captain 'Aaron Gill, scored the first collegiate goal of his· career at the 13:08 mark of the period. 
Noah Babin broke up a UJ\F rush at the Irish blue line and dumped it along the right wing boards to center where Josh Sciba fed the puck ahead to Wallace. Wallace carried the puck deep and fed it to Gill in tho low slot, who then fired a low wrist shot that beat Hognrs for the goal. 
The Nanooks got back in the game at 18:15 of the sec­ond, with defense­man Darcy Camp­bell beating Brown with a slapshot. But it took only 52 seconds for tlw Irish to respond with their second power play goal of the night. 

Mark Van Guild­er slapped a shot from the left wing that Paige was able to deflect past Rogers' five­hole for a 3-1 Notre Dame lead. 
"Our penalty killing was tremendous," Poulin said. "The special teams are different on the Olympic rink. It's a very dif­ferent game. That's one of the advantages they have up there." 
UJ\F scored a late goal at 18:07 of the third period as Corbin Schmidt beat Brown with a hard slapshot to the stick side, but the Irish were able to hold on. 
Notre Dame picked up the vic­tory despite being outshot 37-16. Brown was especially sharp in the second period. stopping 16 of 17 shots he fac!~d. 
Tho Irish were not as success­ful Saturday, falling bnhind 3-1 before rallying late but still los­ing to the Nanooks 3-2. 
Curtis Fraser, Jason Grinevitch and Hyan McLeod all scored goals for UJ\F against Notrn Dame goalie Morgan Ccy, who finished with 22 saves. 
Fraser scored on a rebound goal in the first period, picking up a power play tally for the 

By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
J\ftl'r this weekend's. suc­cess. coach Dt>bbie Brown has bnm1 counting lwr blessings. 
The Irish (20-S) gave her much to be thankful for last weekend, as they swept UC Irvine 3-0 on Friday and cdgr.d out Long Beach State on Saturday 3-2. Brown said she is proud of the team's compet­itive spirit and the team's abil­ity to shine under pressum. 
"J\ll around everyone played with a lot of confidence this weekend." Brown said. "J\t dil'l'!~r!Hlt times during the matches, different people would str.p up when we need­!~d them to." 
Brown added this weekend servml as a final prep for the competition the team expects to face in tiH~ NCJ\J\ tourna­ment this weekend. 
"It was good to play teams stronger than those in the Big East and still have success." Brown said. "It was just per­fect fi1r what we needed going into the NCJ\1\'s." 
UC Irvine (18-10) gave Notre Dame iL<; first test of the week­end. but thP Irish cruised to a victory, sweeping the J\nteators 30-23, 30-28, 30­27. 
Notre Dame dominated defensively, n~gistering 13 blocks for an average of 4.33 per game and 13 digs. Additionally. the Irish limited the Anteaters. who were vying for an NCJ\J\ bid, to a .146 attack percentage. 
.Junior Lauren Brewster led the Irish efl'ort, taking part in eight of the team's 13 blocks and just missed a triple-dou­ble. Further, she finished with 11 digs and 10 kills with .333 hitting. 
.Junior captain Meg Henican also played a crucial role in the team's success, collecting a team-high 13 digs. 
Long Beach native J\shley Tarutis helped the Irish to a .287 hitting percentage and matched her season high for assists with 41. The hometown crowd also saw Tarutis lead the Irish to a .409 attack per­cnntage in tho last game. 
Leading the Irish hitters was junior Lauren Kelbley, who totalnd 14 kills on .357 hitting. Frnshman J\drianna Stasiuk and senior Emily Loomis fol­lowed up her efforts with Stasiuk posting 11 kills and Loomis adding eight kills. 
"We played really steadily against UC Irvine," Brown said. "IC:ooperl had some unbelievable blocks and I think as a team. we have become a lot more confident." 
Capitalizing on a five-point run after trailing 14-11. the Irish quickly seized control of the first game. 
UC Irvine encountered much of the same in the second ganw. plagued by Notre Dame's ability to sustain runs and defensive efforts. The Irish held their opponents to 13 kills on a .049 hitting mark. 
!\!though UC Irvine looked as though it could make a comeback in toe third game. the Irish slammed shut their window of opportunity, thanks 

....... 
to the combined efforts of Cooper, Loomis. Kelbley and Tarutis. 
Loomis continued to impress on Saturday in the Long Beach State match. helping the Irish edge out the 4'Jers 30-28, 22­:~o. 25-30. 30-22, 16-14. In one of her best career per­formances, Loomis swung for a match-high G9 kills and had a season high .414 hitting per­centage. 
Defensively, Loomis contin­ued to dominate, taking part in a match-high three solo blocks and six total bocks. 
"Loomis was absolutely out­standing," Brown said. "She made some great swings and blocks. She was really the dif­ference maker." 
Teammate Kelblcy also proved to be an offensive standout, collecting three cru­cial fifth-game kills after the Irish faced match point. Kclbley became the 15th play­er in the history of the pro­gram to record 1,000 kills, totaling 1,006 career kills by the end of the match. 
Cooper also showcased her offensive capabilities, collect­ing 12 kills and recording a .462 attack percentage. 
Long Beach State freshman J\lexis Crimes, the Big West Hookie of the Year. proved to be a challenge for the Irish, as she ended up with nine blocks and 27 kills on .469 hitting. 
llenican led the Irish defense with 25 digs and brought her total digs to 513 for the year to break a school record from 1993. 
The first game demonstrat­ed just how tight the matchup was. with 17 tics and each team holding no more than a three-point margin. The Irish relied on Loomis, who had eight kills and .636 on hitting and Cooper, who had six kills on .667 hitting to lead the ofl'ense . 
But Notre Dame was able to pull it off in the fifth game, through a team effort. 
The Irish take the courts again this weekend in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment, facing Valparaiso, who defeated them earlier this sea­son. 
NOTRE DAME 3, UC IRVINE 0 at THE PYRAMID 
NOTRE DAME 30 30 30 
UC Irvine 23 28 27 
NOTRE DAME-Kills 49 (Kelbley 14), Assists 46 (Tarutis 41). Digs 51 (Henican 13), Blocks 13 (Brewster 5), Hitting percentage .287 (Kelbley .357), Aces 3 (Kelbley, Tarutis, Herndon 1) UC URVINE-Kills 45 (Wing 14). Assists 41 (Hain 35). Digs 47 (Wing 14), Blocks 3 (Wing, Cash, Norman 1), Hitting percentage 146 (Kurzbard .429). Aces 2 (Hain, Wing 1) 
NOTRE DAME 3, LONG BEACH STATE 2 at THE PYRAMID 
NOTHE IJAME 30 22 25 30 16 Long Beach State 28 30 :{0 22 14 
NOTHE DAME-Kills 81 (Loomi~ 29), Assists 72 (Tarutis 62), Digs 78 (Henican 25). Blocks 18 (Cooper 7), Hitting percentage .295 (Cooper .462), Aces 6 (Stasiuk 3) LONG BEACH STATE -Kills 82 (Crimes 27), AssL~ts 75 (Mazzarella 64), Digs 95 (Laudato 40), Blocks 16 (Miramontes 10), Hitting percentage .255 (Crimes .469). Aces 4 (Lawlor, Kronnbnrger. Miramontes, Laudato 1) 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish split series over weekend 
Nanooks at the 7:0 I mark. Grinevitch scon~d on a ]-on-1 odd-man rush in the second. slapping a hard shot that beat C!~Y high to the glove side at 2:05 of the second period. 
The Irish broke through on Bogcrs in the third, as Evan Hankin scored his fourth goal of the season. beating the UJ\F goalie with a wraparound goal on the power play at the 6:23 mark. 
The Nanooks answered right back just I :26 later as McLeod scored on a 2-on-1 rush. !\ late goal with 40 seconds remaining by Notre Damn's Josh Sciba gave the Irish hope, but tlwy fell short in their bid for a third straight road win. 
Notre Dame will face the CCIIJ\'s second-place team in Michigan this weekend. taking on the Wolverines in a home­and-home series. The Irish travld to J\nn Arbor, Mich. Friday, then return home to face Michigan at the Joyce Center Saturday night. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
John Roche 
21 years of style! Happy Birthday! Love, Mom and Dad 


----------------------~----------------------------------------------------~--~ 
o • I o o 

Tuesday, November 30, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
of-the-year candidate Chris­tine Sinclair cut the Notre 

EscapeAdvance 
Dame lead in half with a goal 12 minutes into the second 
continued from page 24

continued from page 24 
half. To get to that point. the But the Irish put the game 
got that." Irish had to deal with Mother with a goal from its own play­
Jacqueline Batteast scored Nature as well as the Pilots. er-of-the-year candidate. 
Notre Dame's first six points en Before the game, a plow had Thorlakson scored directly off 
route to the Irish opening up a to clear a layer or snow off the of a: corner kick just five min­
16-9 lead seven and a half min­field to make conditions utes later to halt Portland's 
utes into the game. The Irish playable. However, the ground momentum. The kick curved 
then scored two points in the had not yet frozen. and the as it headed towards the goal 
next 7:18 as the Trojans closed to finld quickly turned to mud. and snuck in under the cross­
within two at 18-16. "It just was really really bar for Thorlakson's team­

Searching for some offense, wet." Irish coach Randy leading 22nd goal of the sea­
McGraw inserted Melissa Waldrum said. "But it really son. 
D'Amico into the Irish lineup and didn't seem to change the "We picked it up right after 
the freshman sparked a 7-0 run quality of the game that [the Portland! goal and start­
by scoring five poinl<> and block­much. We really moved the ed playing well again," 
ing a shot that led to an easy ball well and kept it more on Gunnarsdottir said. ''They had 
Batteast layup. the ground than I thought a span of maybe 20 minutes 
· "I thought she was the differ­either team would be able to." when they had ]control] in the 
ence in the first half." McGraw Irish players were forced to game but after that we just 

said. "She came -in, she was· deal with the adverse weather picked it up. 
strong in the post. blocked a shot, conditions after South Bend The Notre Dame defense 
got a couple of rebounds and saw snow all day Wednesday. played its usual solid game 
scored. That's what we needed "Your first step is obviously despite yielding its first goal 
her to do." not going to be as fast as nor­of the NCAA tournament to 
With a 29-20 halftime lead, the mal. but we actually played Sinclair. The defense still lim­
Irish came out cold scoring seven pretty well." defender Gudrun ited the Pilots to only three 
points and making two field goals Gunnarsdottir said. "We're shots on goal and only two 
in the first nine minutes of the probably more used to playing corner kicks. 
second half. The Trojans used a Irish made all six of their free NOTRE DAME 60, USC 56 in conditions like that than Meanwhile, the Irish offense 
20-7 spurt to gain a 40-36lead. throws in the last 26 seconds to at Los Angeles, Calif. Portland. We dealt with it real was in high gear, led by the 
The Irish tied the game at 40 close out their sixth straight win 
NOTRE DAME (6-0, 0-0) 

well." play of Cinalli. The three goals only to see the Trojans open up to open the season. 
Batteast 7-20 4-4 18, LaVere 1-5 0-1. 2.

Despite the messy condi­were the most the Pilot 
their biggest lead of the game at The Irish return to the court Borton 1-3 0-Z 4. Duffy 2-6.8-8 12, Gray tions. Cinalli got Notre Dame defense has allowed all sea­
45-40. McGraw called a timeout tonight at Valparaiso. 1-5 2-2 4, Gaines 1-2 0-0 2, Allen 2-3 2-4 off to a quick start when she son. 
6, Powers 0-0 0-0 0. D'Amico 2-2 1-1 5.
and had a simple message for 
Erwin 4-5·1-2 9.

scored in the game's fourth "It says how well Amanda 
her team. Notes minute. Junior Annie Schefter has really done this year. Ten 
"[I told them to get back to] + Duffy was hit in the neck in usc (1-2, 0-0)took a pass from Thorlakson goals [on the season] for a 
running our offense, we were the second half and had trouble Woodward 4-12 0-0 8. Funn 6-9 1-5 13. and then lifted a high crossing freshman is incredible," 
going one-on-one too much. I talking for the rest of the game. Gipson 4-8 4-5 12, Hagiya 0-4 0-0 0, Gnekow 1-10 0-0 2, LeNoir 2-8 0-1 5.
thought we were putting too She went to the bench a couple of pass which Cinalli headed in Waldrum said. 
Cameron 0-0 0-0 0, Murphy 5-12 0-1 3,

to the left side of the net. She "My teammates make it 
much on Jackie -save us, [by] plays after getting hit, but Kaskowiak 0-2 0-0 0, Kerr 1-1 2-5 4. notched her serond goal with easy," Cinalli said. "The pass­
throw[ing] her the ball," McGraw returned later and finished the just over 15 minutes to play in es they gave me for the goals 
1st 2nd Total

said. "Then we got into the game. 
NOTRE DAME 29 31 60

the first half. This time were beautiful passes." 
offense we did the triple hand off + Forward Courtney LaVere 
usc 20 36 56

Thorlakson set her up right in Her two goals produced a 
where Megan [Duffy] got the injured her right ankle in the sec­front of the goal to give the win that has a two-fold signif­
layup. That's what we need to ond half after making a jump 3-point goals: Notre Dame 0-3 (Duffy 0­Irish a 2-0 halftime lead. icance for her coach. The vic­
do." shot with 4:49 remaining in the 3). USC 3-19 (Murphy 2-6. LeNoir 1-3, Jaskowiak 0-1. Gnekow 0-5, Hagiya 0-3, 
"The first half. [Portland] tory gives Waldrum 300 wins With 7:59 left in the game, the game. She did not return to the 
game. end." Waldrum said. "It was also marks the third time he 
rarely even got out of their as a collegiate head coach and 
Irish followed McGraw's mes­Rebounds: Notre Dame 36 (Batteast 5, 
sage, were patient with their + Irish freshman Tulyah Gaines LaVere 5, Borton 5), USC 42 (Gipson 9). huge to go into the locker has advanced to the Final 
offense and then clamped down saw her first action since the sea­Assists: Notre Dame 12 (Batteast 4). USC 6 (Gnekow 2. NeLoir 2). Total fouls: Notre
room up two goals." Four in his six-year coaching on defense. Using a 10-0 run, the son opener early in the first half 
Dame 20. USC 21.
I lowever. the Pilots respond­tenure with the Irish. 

Irish built a 50-45 lead in the of the game against the Trojans ed in the second half with a 
next four minutes. and played 14 minutes overall. much more aggressive offen­Contact Matt Mooney at 
USC never got closer than Gaines had missed the past four Contact Matt Lozar at sive attack. Portland's player-mmooney@nd.edu 
three the rest of the way, and the games due to a neck injury. mlozar@nd.edu 

IS YOUR NOMINATION IN? 
The nomination deadline for the Notre Dame Alumni Association's Twenty-fourth Annual Distinguished Student Award and Fifteenth Annual Distinguished Graduate Student Award is December 3, 2004. 
Both awards are based on service to Notre Dame, service to the community, and good academic standing. Past recipients have been achievers in various areas, including athletics, student government, academics, and community service. 
We strongly encourage you to consider the many outstanding students with whom you've had contact. Everyone is eligible to nominate--faculty, staff, administrators, and students. We hope you will give that very special student a chance to receive the recognition he or she deserves. Please submit your nominations to: DSA/DGSA, Notre Dame Alumni Association, 100 Eck Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 no later than Friday, December 3rd. Nomination forms may be found at http://alumni.nd.edu/groups/studentawards.html. 
Questions? Contact us at 574-631-6193. 


ijJ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

r page 22 
Loss 
continued from page 24 
whatever reason. because I 
think the team played well.'' 
Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
"There were a lot of positives 
and they played very hard." 
The Irish fell behind early. 
yielding arguably their softest 
goal of the year three minutes, 
31 seconds after the opening 
whistle. 
Corralling a booming punt from Buckeye goalkeeper Hay Burse. Big Ten Offensive Player of the Year Justin Cook fired from inside the box and beat Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer for an early 1-0 Ohio State lead. 
"They got a goal early and that obviously settled them," Clark said. "It was a disap­pointing goal from our point of view. [Burse) just got it, raced to the edge of his box and hit this enormous punt and [Cook] latched on to it. made a good run behind our two central ddenders and finished it very well." 
Although Notre Dame held a 
5-4 advantage in ·shots at the 
half and dictated the pace of 
the game, the Irish had trouble 
producing quality scoring 
opportunities in the game's 
first 45 minutes. 
"When looking at the video. we actually didn't do so badly in the first half," Clark said. "W1~ controlled the first half without making a lot of chances -we had about 70 percent of the possession." 
Faced with the prospect of early elimination. the Irish fought back in the second half. /\f'ter forward Tony Megna and midlielder Nate Norman nearly put Notre Dame on the score­board. defender Christopher lligh headed home a free kick ofT the foot of fellow defender Kevin Goldthwaite to provide the equalizer just over 13 min­utes into the second half. 
"It was a set piece," Clark said. "The boys had worked on it in the days before the game. lllighl made a good run and connected with the free kick. It was a good goal, well­taken." 
With the score knotted at 1­1, the Irish continued to play inspired soccer. consistently pressuring the Ohio State goal. 
The Buckeyes, on the other hand, only recorded one shot in the second half to Notre Dame's eight. One was enough. 
With just under 15 minutes to play, Ohio State's Hyan Kustos picked up a loose ball of'l' a Buckeye free kick and pounded it into the net, mark­ing only the second time this season Sawyer and the Irish have allowed more than a sin­gle goal. 
However. the go-ahead goal didn't come without its share 
Roccd¥ 
H(~S Ia urattl 
of controversy. 
"The whistle (to begin play] 
went after the kick was taken." 
Clark said. "Their player didn't 
know he had to wait until the 
whistle. 
"He took i~. and just after he 
took the free kick, the ref. who 
wasn't looking at the ball ­
which didn't make sense ­
blew his whistle. [The Irish 
defenders] hesitated because 
they didn't know why the whis­
tle had gone then and some­
how the ball ended up through 
a lot of players (and into the 
net]." 
Feeling slighted by a ques­tionable turn of events and playing for its tournament life, Notre Dame kept its compo­sure, yet ultimately was unable to lind the back of the net for a second time. 
"Even after the [Ohio State! 
goal. we kept our dignity," 
Clark said. "In a game where 
the outcome means so much 
and you seem to get a tough 
call, it's very easy for teams to 
dissolve. and I think they hung 
tight and continued to play 
tough and well within the rules 
of the game." 
Hegardless of the score, the 
belief that the Irish were the 
better squad only added insult 
to injury. · 
"It was a little bit like last year -without taking any­thing away from [Ohio State]. we felt that we were the better side," Clark said. "I think Ohio State has a good team -you don't win a share of the Big Ten without being a good team -but at the same time I think that we were the better side, and we showed that." 
While the wounds from Nov. 23's upset are still relatively· fresh and need time to heal, it would difficult to elassify a sea­son in which the Irish claimed their first Big East regular sea­son title in program history as anything other than a success. 
"I think if you give it another week's time, it will seem a pretty decent season," Clark said. "It's a tough pill to swal­low when you see everyone still playing and you say, 'we should still be playing.' When you get a loss like that. the only thing that will make it seem better is time." 
Although the 2004 campaign has come to an abrupt, unex­pected close, it won't be long until the Irish return to the pitch. 
"When we come back from after Christmas Break, we're going full at it again," Clark said. "We usually try to give them about six weeks off so we'll get them a little break·­maybe lifting and some easy running just to stop them from putting on too many pounds from the Christmas turkey. We'll do that and then it's time get ready for the 2005 season." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 


Fi¥~<9v~P~U\!TowVll! 
Siuce 1951 
Sp!'<'ializing in Italian Enlr<'<'S 
Ttws. -Thurs.: !>:OOP~I -II :OOP~I Fri. -Sat.: !>:OOPM -I:00:\~1 ;)'{7 1\orth St. Lollis 

Soli tII ltt>nd. II\ 
Pr·opri <'I ors
:i74-1T~-14(i4 
\\arT!'ll & Linda 

The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
football team is expecting to go 6-5, and suddenly finds them­
Running 
selves at 11-0. only to then lose 
in the BCS championship. Meanwhile, the women had a 
continued from page 24 

Men's coach Joe Piane was upset with the team's perform­ance, despite the fact it was bet­ter than anybody expected at" the start of the season. 
"I was very upset, we did not run up to our potential," Piane said. "To a man, each guy, to the seven that competed, each could have run a little better. Some could have run a lot better." 
Piane attributed part of the disappointing finish to certam runners simply not doing what they were supposed to do. 
"A couple guys didn't do what they were told to do, and that certainly did hurt them," Piane said. 
The culmination of their bril­liant season was slightly disap­pointing, but considering where they were at the beginning there is something to be proud of. 
"At the outset of the season, if you had said, 'Coach, you could be No. 11 in the country,' I would have said 'Thank you' and walked away a happy man," Piane said. "But after the way the season went. which went exceptionally well, that was disappointing." 
Piane compared the team's loss to a situation where the lot more success in the race as they finished fourth. 
"There were a whole lot of them that were far from 100 percent, they just ran and gave everything they had," Irish women's coach Tim Connelly said. "It was a great effort." 
Stephanie Madia led the Irish with a 23rd place finish overall, running a 20:58. Sunni Olding and Kerry Meagher were not too far behind Madia, finishing 32nd and 34th. with times of21:10. 
·All three were All-Americans. 
Molly Huddle, who was run­ning on a broken foot. finished in 40th place for the Irish. 
"We were really happy, I mean going in we had a couple kids injured. and we really didn't know what to expect," Connelly said. "Our kids competed really, really well." 
Connelly spoke at length about how proud he was of his team. a team that had a season full of injuries and problems that had to deal with on a weekly basis. 
"Its kind of funny because a year ago, we had a great season all the way through and then at the end we kind of fell apart at nationals," Connelly said. "This year the whole season was a struggle ... and at the end they were able to put it all together and really accomplish some­thing gmat." 
Connelly also discussed how the attitude of the team slowly changed because of the injuries over the course of the season. 
"At the start of the year, our goal was to be top three or four in the country. and to be quite honest going into nationals we had stopped worrying about that," Connelly said. "Our goal wasn't to where we going to place, it was just to have seven people coming out of that meet feeling like they ran as well as they could. That was the most important thing that we accom­plished the other day." 
Both the men and the women should be excited for 2005. 
"We're bringing back some great kids," Connolly said. "Our expectation is to every year be one of the better teams in the country, and whether that means top four or top-1 0, that's kind of our expectation." 
l'iane agreed. 
"We should be pretty strong next year. We retain six of our top seven, but the fellas that were eight. nine, 10 and 11 arc also all back." he said. "So that gives us I 0 of our top 11 back." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Student AppreciationDav 
TODAY! 

November 30th In Honor of Yout 
Please come in the store 
and foRe advontoge of a 
21> ·scount 
on select clothing and gifts items. 
HAMMES 

1 
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
l 
1 
I 
1
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

r--------------------------,ur-------------------------~
.5 
~ 
... SPECIAL PACKAGING, HUGE RETAIL DISTRIB­
SAY YES, NO MATTER
MEET WITH OUR 
:::l 
RHO TAGS, AND GRIND UTOR, WALGETCO, 
HOW UNREASONABLE 
~ 
'iii 
YOUR BONES TO MAKE
THEY ARE, BECAUSE 
e 
STORE BRAND FOOT
WE NEED THEM MORE
AND FIND OUT WHAT 
u 
.5 
POWDER .
THAN THEY NEED US.
THEY WANT NOW. 
IIi 
) 
E
..
.., 


)
E 
..:
0 
u t:: 
~ 
C1l 
g
.c 
lil 
@
:c 

f~~~D-------~~~~----~ 
~~~.____.~_.----~ ~----~~~~~----~ 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
PEANUTS 
II= YOU'RE A REAL I KNOW WHAT 1 SHOULD 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBlED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CEHKT 

rJ J
1 [ 
@2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved . 
FARCT 
j

I I r [] 

WHAT T!-11:: l-AN!/­
I NOYCOT± 
LOI<!/ 17117 VI/HEN T!-11:: FURNACE
I I r J 
FAILEI7. 
www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: r 
(Answers tomorrow) 

ENVOY RHYME HELMET WEEVILYesterday's I Jumbles: 
Answer: The clock maker stayed late because he 
-

enjoyed working-"OVER TIME" 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 37 Avoiding the 63 Hearing-related draft?

Fall (over) 64 Teetotalers' org. 38"_ Ha'i''
5 Stadium 65 Campbell of walkways 
39 Hardhearted "Party of Five" 40 Mrs. Dithers, in 66 Feel blindly

1 o At a distance "Biondie" 67 Cold-shoulder14 Wall Street 
41 Getting_

letters 
years 15 10 out of 10, DOWN
42 Have dog 

e.g. 
1 Shoelace 16 Western tie breath? 
problem43 Jerry or Jerry 2 Bronte heroine

17 Gambling actor? Lee 3 In _(actually)
19 Sawy about 44 Gambling singer? 4 Tea of film 
20 Most miniature 47 Take-home 5 Steakhouse 21 Waiting room offering48 "Queen for sound, maybe (old TV show) 6 Sidewalk stand 22 Aloof beverages 
23 Keep_ shoot!" 7 5-bown, e.g. (persist) 49 "Go ahead, 
51 Muscat, for one a Follow with a 25 Queue before Q camera
54 Tallinn native 28 Gambling 59 Anise-flavored 
9_-mo baseballer? 
liqueur 10 180° turn 

34 Pile up 60 Gambling 11 Henry Winkler senator? role, with "the" 
36 Hydrox 31 Taken wing 46 Fight it out 55 Quick pic alternative 62 Stink 12 Sask. neighbor 
32 Bone-chilling 50 Has memorized 56 Cast wearer's 13 Piece next to a problem
33 You'll get a rise

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUtZLE 51 "Tell me more"
knight out of it 57 Westernmost 
18 Barbershop 52 Like some Aleutian35 Asian city-state 
boo-boos awakenings 39 Humane grp. 58 It may be 
21 1 ,002, in old 53 Sea of 
proper

Rome 43 Popular (Black Sea arm) disinfectant 60 What "it" plays 
~1-:::-117:-1•-=+~~~ llr.+:':-+7:-t-:-lllllll'-1 23 Some of them 54 Eliel's architect are secret 45 Work of praise son 61 Capek play ...:t-7+.:::+.:::-1 24 "Iliad" locale 
-:-+=+:+i-l 25 Fat cat For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a ....,..;..,...=+::+-:,-i 26 Muscat native 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
27 Michael of crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

~~~!m~m~•· "Monty Python" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -:ti:+:+.±::-1 29 _ public past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -=+-=+-:+::+-:,-i 30 Maine college Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
town solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________~ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Garry Shandling, Cathy Moriarty, Andrew. McCarthy, Kim Delaney 
Happy Birthday: Prepare to take advantage of the creative opportunities just ahead of you. Don't let anyone discourage you from following through with your dreams. This is the year to discover who· you are and what your potential really is. Believe in yourself. Your numbers are 8, 15. 19. 28. 33, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Things are becoming hectic. but don't Jet that lead to a confrontation with someone you are at odds with. Don'tlet anyone lake advantage of your ability to get things done. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Family and friends will be on your mind. Call or e-mail someone that you don't get to see often. Your kind gesture will result in something good. **** GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): You can get a Jot accomplished and even add a little extra detail to your work today. You will be rewarded for your hard work and dedication. Focus on advancement. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Put negativity behind you and do your best to impress the people who really count. rising above those who are critical. Your professionalism will shine through. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money ventures are looking good. Prepare your books for year-end and don't leave anything to chance. Be secretive about your findings. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get involved in volunteer work and you will make a needy family happy. Give to receive this year by offering your time--you will realize something special about yourself. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Watch out before someone broadsides you with negativity. Don't lose sleep or neglect your work. Your own success will ward off anyone trying to hold you back. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything will turn out just fine if you follow your gut feelings. Love and romance are in a high cycle. A short trip or planned vacation will turn into the best time ever. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An investment made today will bring fabulous results this time next year. Check over your finances and see what you can do to ensure that your future is financially secure. *** 
. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): It won't take much to get you off track or angry. Try your best to control negative actions. Children may test your patience. Consider taking a break. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything is turning in your favor, but that doesn't mean you can slack off. Put on the pressure and you will turn a little progress into a milestone in your life. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll get the most from pampering yourself and doing something that you have wanted to try for a long time. It's time to revamp your life.***** 
Birthday Baby: You believe in love and romance. You are sensitive but strong and you instinctively know what other people need and want. You are thorough and stick to whatever you start. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Team accepts invitation to Dec. 28 Insight Bowl 

By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports E\litor 
After closing out the regular season with a 41-10 loss to USC 
Saturday,  Notre  Dame  
announced  Sunday  it  has  
accepted  an  invitation to the  

Insight Bowl Dec. 28, in 
Phoenix. 

"We're excited and I think our young men are excited," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said Sunday evening. "There are a lot of places in this country where you could spend the holi­days and Phoenix will be a delightful spot for our team and our fans. 
"Hopefully, we can go in th<~re with a positive mindset and a lot of energy, and get a win. I think it gives our football team another opportunity to play football and I think they will enjoy doing that. I believn the game gives us that feeling that we still have some business to take care of and we'd like to bo able to do that." 
The Irish finished the regular season 6-5 and will face a Pac­10 opponent, who will be announcnd I>ec. 5. The game will be held at Bank One Ballpark, capacity 42,915 and home of the Arizona Diamondbaeks of Major League Baseball. 
The bowl appearance is Notre 
see BOWL/page 17 

~---~~====================================================================~-= 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

-Finally, four 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Tlw Irish shouldn't have to 
deal with any morn snow 
whern tlwy're headed. 
Fourth-soodnd Notre Dame 
(23-1-l) will make the trip to 
Cary, N.C. for tho Final Four of 
tho Womnn 's College Cup fol­
lowing Friday's 3-1 NCAA 
quarterfinal win over firth­
S(Wded Portland (20-4-0) at 
Alumni Field. 
I>ospitP the cold and sloppy conditions, Irish freshman Amanda Cinalli lit up the scon~hoard with two goals and teammate Katie Thorlakson ·tacked on a goal and two assists to send Notrn Dame to its seventh national semilinal appearance in program histo­
ry. 
"It's indescribable, this feel­
ing," Cinalli said. "I don't think 
it's hit me yet, I don't think it 
will until I got Ito Caryl." 
see ADVANCE/page 21 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish runners finish atnong nation's best 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
As tlw Gratnful Dnad once sang. "What a long strange trip it's bPPll." 
No truer words could be spo­kPn about the men's cross mun­try team, who started th<' year unrankml. ran il<; way to No. 5 in tho nation. and then finislwd 11th in thn NCAA championships Monday. Nov. 22 in TPrrn IlautP. On thn other sidn, the Irish womnn finished fourth in thn nation. an impmssive finish. 
For the men. Kurt Benninger led all Irish runners with a time of :n minutes, 54 sm:onds, which was good for 42nd place. Tim Moore finished right behind Benningnr in 43rd place, with a 31:56.­
Kaleb Van Ort and Scan O'Donnell finished 96th and 97th, rnspnetiw~ly, with identical times of 32:32. 
Hyan Johnson, Vincent Ambrieo and AI Andrassy also ran for the Irish, finishing 181Jth, 224th. and 240th overall. 
see RUNNING/page 22 


MEN's SoccER 

Another first-round loss ends Irish season 
By MATT PUGLISI 

Sports Writer  
Welcome to Upsctville. Again.  
For the second consecutive  
tournament, the Irish bowed  
out in their first contest as No.  
5 seed Notre Dame (13-3-3)  
dropped a 2-1 heartbreaker to  
Ohio State in the second round  
of the NCAA Tournament at  
Alumni Field Nov. 23.  
In their previous match Nov.  
6 -also at home -the con­ 
ference-favorite No. 1 seed  
Irish were upset by Seton Hall  
(0-0, 8-7 in' penalty kicks) in  
the quarterfinals of the Big  
East Championships.  
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer The Irish joined No. 12 seed  
Kevin Goldthwaite traps a ballOld Dominion and No. 10 seed  
in his final game for the Irish.Penn State as the only seeded  
squads to fall in the second  
round of the NCAA "I think it was a  day  that we  
Tournament -16 teams weren't destined  to  win for  
received seeds at the beginning  
of the tournament.  see LOSS/page 22  

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Close USC gatne is Irish victory 

By MATT LOZAR Spons Writer 

LOS ANGELES -Last season it took five games. This season it only took one, but it wasn't pretty. Struggling in 
its first road See Also game of the season. Notre "Irish don't play 
Dame (6-0J well at USC, but was able to put 
survive"it together late in the second 
page 19 
half and eseape with a 60-5.6 win at Southern California (1-2) Friday night. 
"I thought they played a groat defensive game," Irish coach MuiTet McGraw said. "They arc terrific defensively. They are physical, strong inside, rebound like crazy. I thought that was the dill'erence in the gamn." 
USC outrnbounded the Irish 42-36, ineluding lR-7 on the ofl'ensivc boards. The Irish com­mitted 23 turnovers and the teams combined for 4R overall. 
"It was a little bit of a track meet especially in the begin­ning," McGraw said. "We want to run too, but maybn a little smarter.... I did expect a very physical game, and we cnrtainly 
see ESCAPE /page2l 
en 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
HOCKEY 
MEN'S BASKETBALl 

CLUB SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL

NCAA FOOTBALL 
lis u.l 
Notre Dame and 
(.) Notre Dame 3, UC 
Notre Dame 73, 

Teevens fired 
Water polo places 
Saint Mary's wins 
z Irvine 0 
Alaska Fairbanks 
IPFW 45 

from Stanford 
13th in nation 
three in a row 
Notre Dame 3 
split series 
Notre Dame 54, 
e: 
Long Beach State 
Charleston 

Stanford's head foot-
Irish club sports tally 
The Belles capped a 
. Southern 38
2 
After winning Friday, 

ball coach was fired 
solid performances in 
three-game winning 
The Irish won two on 
the Irish fell 3-2 to the 
The Irish improved to 

after going 4-7. 
all areas. 
streak with two road 
the road. 
Nanooks on Saturday. 
3-0. 
victories.
a. !:i 

en 
page 16
page 20 
page 20 
page 18 
page 14 
page 14 






