

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Events educate on breast caJncer 
Campuses up involvement for Awareness lvlonth 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 37 WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 13.2004 
ICA.MPJi.J:G:t'-1 2D1'J41 
Students request absentee ballots 
By KATE GALES News Writer 
With today's technology, campus awareness groups and the availability of national programs such as Rock the Vote, getting an absentee ballot has never been easier -and Notre Dame students are taking advantage of the opportunity. 
The 2004 election is the first opportuni­ty that many students will have to vote for a president. With so many students coming from out of state, absentee ballots have become an issue that many are dealing with during the voter registration process. 
"I am registered to vote," junior Kevin Walsh said. "1 went through the Rock the Vote Web site back home, which is in Ohio." 
Walsh pointed out it was especially important for swing state voters to east 
see BALLOTS/page 4 



Campaigns recruit campus votes 
College students could play decisive role in election 
By ELIZABETH CHEFFERS 
News Writer 
With the memory of the 2000 presiden­tial election still fresh in students' minds, campaign organizers have put more effort into recruiting absentee voters this election year according to professors on campus. 
The two largest groups of absentee vot­ers are traditionally members of the mili­tary and college students. 
These two groups "can easily decide an election, especially in a swing state alone," said political science professor John Roos. 
Fellow political science professor Michael Zuckert agreed. 
"Both campaigns do seem to be paying more attention to the issue because of the Florida decision in 2000," Zuckert said. 
Political activists nationwide have been trying to find a remedy for apathy among young voters. Since 197 2, when the Constitution was amended to lower the voting age from 21 to 18, voter turnout among 18 to 24-year olds has steadily decreased. 
The amount of people voting has dropped 18 percent in the past 25 years. 
The procedures and deadlines sur­rounding absentee ballot information vary widely from state to state. 
According to Roos, different states have 
see ABSENTEE/page 3 
Election Day at aglance 

~  From 1979 to 2004, voter turnout has dec1 eased by 18 percent  
~  Six states allow voter registration on Election Day  
~  Twenty-four states allow unrestricted absentee : ballot voting  
~  Nineteen states allow early in-person voting before Election Day ;  
MIKE HARKINS/ Observer  ra  hie  

NDSMCOBSE 


Nine arrests m.ade o~n gam.e d_ay 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
Police arrested nine people, including five Notre Dame stu­dents, and cited 25 for alcohol related offenses before and dur­ing Saturday's Stanford game. 
Notre Dame Security/Police assistant director Chuck Hurley said five of the arrest~: were made outside the stadium in the park­ing lots before and during the game. Two students were taken into custody -one for minor in possession, false identification and resisting law enforce and the other for public intoxication, resisting law enforcement, minor in possession and possession of false identification, Hurley said. 
Two of the adults were arrested for public intoxication and public indecency, urinating iln the park­ing lot, according to Hurley, and the third for public intoxication, disorderly conduct and resisting law enforcement. 
Another adult was taken into custody near LaFortune for public intoxication and public indecency, said Hurley. 
NDSP director Rex Rakow also said there were 25 eitations for minor in possession a.nd minor in consumption issued outside of the stadium, including nine students. Police also issued one trespass warning for unspecified reasons and one University citation for public intoxication. 
Hurley said police made three arrests inside the stadium as well. One student was arre1;ted for pub­lic intoxication and a second stu­dent for public intoxication, false identification and minor in pos­
see ARRESTS/page 4 


By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
With more and more young women being diagnosed with breast cancer, students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are becoming actively involved in educating others -and themselves -about breast cancer. 
According to the National Breast Cancer Awareness Month Web site (NBCAM), "2004 marks 20 years of progress for NBCAM, educat­ing women about breast can­cer detection, diagnosis and treatment." 
Saint Mary's hosted the annual Oktoberfest Oct. 7. 
This 2K walk and 5K run raised a record-high $2,400, nearly double the amount from last year. 
"One thing that kind of happened because of the event is that we now formed a partnership with a group called Young Survivors," Saint Mary's athletic director and head of Oktoberfest Lynn Kachmarik said. "This is a kind of off-shoot group. It's basically young survivors of breast cancer. I'm really excited about it." 
All the money raised from Oktoberfest now stays in South Bend or St. Joseph County, being put toward mammograms and cancer awareness education pro­
grams. 
"It's one thing when you raise millions of dollars to send nationally, but what you can donate to a local organization, like Young Survivors, it is more person­al," she said. "It just seems to be a natural partnership." 
Senior Nina Helman, who participated in the event, said she feels Sailnt Mary's is the perfect place for such an event. 
"As a women's college, breast cancer is one of the most important issues to support," said Helman. 
Kachmarik said for many students who participated in 
see CANCER/page 4 

Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Rape vvho? 
Hape seems to a word that many 
Notre Dame students throw around. ~· 
Haven't you heard the random student 
claimed to be "raped" by his or her lat­
est mid-term? 
Due to the fact that the University of 
Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's Jeannine Prlvat 
College has one of 
the lowest rates of 
reported rapes on Wire Editor 
campuses in the 
nation, many stu­
dents may be able to ignore rape more 
easily than students at other campus­
es. But, this does not release students 
from having an obligation to admit that 
rape does, in fact, happen in our Notre 
Dame family, and that some women 
begin college already having been 
raped. 
In fact, after having to talked to a 
few girlfriends, AHs and rectresses 
over the year, I have discovered an 
uncommon amount of women on the 
Notrn Dame campus that have been 
raped or sexually assaulted. Our cam­
pus is not immune to the fact that one 
in four women are raped or sexually 
assaulted each year. 
While this problem mainly affects 
women, a small percentage of men are 
also taken advantage of, creating an 
uncomfortable confusing situation for 
them to be in. This is not to be under­
stood as my saying that it is more difTI­
cult for men who arc assaulted, merely 
dill'ernnt and confusing in a way that 
women, who are the majority of vic­
tims, do not have to experience. Both 
men and women have to deal with the 
exp1~riences of rape and sexual assault. 
Now. none of thP. above may be sur­prising to tlw mader. Hap1~ is not some rww phenommwn. And though I havP. always been personally disappointed in the avenues available to women raped or assaulted on campus, I had never experienced anything like I did this past Saturday. Standing in the senior student section during the football game against Stanford, I was quickly jarred from the game with a shout that came from a row or two above me. 
''I'm going to-expletive-rape your children," a senior male shouted, aft1~r a slightly disappointing play by our quarterback. I have grown accus­tomed to the genderized slurs but nothing has ever sent chills down my spine so quickly, shaking me to my core. 
I found myself standing in the middle of the senior section with silent tears streaming down my face. 
Some may say I'm overreacting to a harmless comment. -Is it harmless? I have no idea what the man that shouted it meant, but he shouted with such vehemence, that I can't discount his insult. I personally know too many women that have been raped or sexu­ally <L<>saulted not to lind this comment highly oll'ensive. 
As my class approaches graduation, I would hope that the University has help1~d us to gain a certain level of sen­sitivity to others. Be sensitive; the sur­vivors of rape and sexual assault don't walk around proclaiming what has happened to them. You can't know who has or hasn't been assaulted; so please drop the word rape from your vocabulary, unless you're talking about the physical, mental and emotional assault of forcing intercourse upon someone. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jeannine Privat at jprivat@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Ob>ervcr regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for tho highest standards of journal­ISm at all wnes. We do, however, recognize that we wdl make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contan us at 631-4 541 so we can 
corrc:C£ our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU HAVE AN ABSENTEE BALLOT? WHY OR WHY NOT? 


Joe O'Brien  Meg Towle  Nell Kennedy  Oscar Garcia  Sam Momotluk  Tim Kneedy  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Dillon  Welsh Family  Zahm  Stanford  Stanford  Siegfried  
"No. I'm not  "Kansas, my  "Yes, because I  "No, because  "No because I'm  "Yes, because  
registered to  wonderful yet  care about my  I'm from Texas.  from  I'm going to  
vote. "  slacking state,  local  and my vote  Mishawaka so I  help Bush beat  
seems to have  propositions  doesn't matter. "  will go to my  down Kerry."  
rejected my  and elections."  designated  




application." 

McDonald's "Golden Arches" will be absent from U.K. ads 
LONDON, England ­McDonald's is dropping the iconic "Golden Arches" logo from its advertising in Britain for the first time, the compa­ny has announced. 
The famous symbol will be replaced with a gold question mark in a poster campaign due to begin this week. 
The new advertisements are part of attempts by McDonald's to ditch its unhealthy "junk food" image and promote alter­native products. 
Posters will include close-up photographs of fresh salad, fruit pieces and a bagel smothered in cream cheese. 
Below the gold question mark. the advertisements read: "McDonald's. But not as you know it." 
Whipped cream stunt may cost Fox $1 million 
LOS ANGELES, Califor­nia -The Federal Communications Commission is said to be preparing to levy a fine of $1 million or more against Fox Broadcasting Co. and its affiliates for running afoul of indecen­
cy regulations in April 2003 with an episode of the reality show "Married by America," sources said. 
The impending action, first reported in Monday's edition of Television Week, is expected to be announced by the com­mission as early as this week. Fox officials declined comment, and FCC representatives could not be reached for com­ment Monday because of the Columbus Day holi­day. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

precinct. :· 
IN BRIEF 

Former editor of Commonwealth Magazine Margaret O'Brien Steinfels will speak at 4 p.m. today in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall on "Faith and Political Responsibility: Voting for the Common Good." 
The department of classics is sponsoring a colloquium by Dr. Martin Bloomer entitled, "Memorabilia ct Memoranda: The Homan Culture of Memory" today at 4 p.m. in 303 Main Building. 
Ted Mandell of the depart­ment of film. television and the­atre will speak today at 4 p.m. on "Truth, Heality and Advocacy: 'Fahrenheit 9/11' and 'The Passion of the Christ.'" The Inc­lure will be held in the Law School courtroom. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will take on Michigan at the .IACC at 7 p.m. tonight. 
Novelist Maxine Hong Kingston will give the lecture "Writing Peace," tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. The subject is her novel, "The Fifth Book of Peace." A book signing and reception will follow. 
Linda Malkas. professor of medicine at Indiana University School of Medicine. Indianapolis, will give the lecture "Hevealing Cancer's Secrets," Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Concourse. Irish women's bas­ketball coach Muffet McGraw will be the event emcee. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::z::: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
...... 
c:( 
(.) 





0 
HIGH 60 55 HIGH HIGH
..J 
LOW 45 45 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
58 
43 

50 38 
Atlanta 65 I 52 Boston 68 I 52 Chicago 60 I 46 Denver 55 I 34 Houston 86 I 60 Los Angeles 82 I 60 Minneapolis 54 I 34 New York 68 I 56 Philadelphia 69 I 54 Phoenix 92 I 67 Seattle 68 I 50 St. Louis 67 I 49 Tampa 83 I 69 Washington 65 1 36 

Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



president," Roos said. "Everyone has a congressional race going on as well, and continued from page I these elections are often very close. Look at Indiana, it has different requirements two house races dead even. regarding who is eligible to Students should do research vote by absentee ballot and into what other offices are up 


Absentee 
when the ballot must be received. 
Presently six states allow Election Day registration, 24 allow unrestrict­ed absentee bal­lot voting and 19 allow early in­person voting. 
In this time of apparent young voter apathy, some students their votes will 
Hoos said. However, students must note that they are voting in more than just one race. 
"It's important to remember that ballots are not just for 
for election." Another popular myth that discour­
"It's important to 

ages voter partici­remember that pation is that absentee ballots
ballots are not just 

are not even
for the president." 

opened in already determined states. John Roos "They are required to look at
political science 

every ballot," Roos
professor 

said. 
may worry not count, 

Men and women 
all over the coun­try have voiced their fear of voter fraud in this election, with many questioning the reliability of computerized voting. While absentee ballots are recorded on paper and must be counted by hand, avoiding these accusations, there are other concerns. 
The infamous Florida in 2000 debacle brought to the surface one possible complica­tion. Certain states do not open their absentee ballots until the polls are closed, which means that the results from that particular state could be delayed while they are counted by hand. 
Even more than the compli­cations of absentee ballot vot­ing, however, the close deci­sion in Florida showed stu­dents just how powerful an absentee ballot can ~e. 
"Student ballots are notori­ous for their unreliability," Roos said. "They are often forwarded from home and have a greater chance of get­ting misplaced or delayed. Students have to be on top of the voting procedure to be effective." 
Contact Elizabeth Cheffers at 
echeffer@nd.edu 
Saint M<!zy's Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 

SEMES-TER ARO• ·UN• · 'D-THE·-:' w·_,·/o--·RL--: D-·
' .·· ,. . . '. . ' : . . ' . ' 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
6:00p.m. Mon., Oct. 11 in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND, QB. 6:00p.m., Wed., Oct. 13 in Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Beijing, Xian, Chengdo, Tibet, Bangkok, Saigon,Vietnam, Delhi, Agra(Taj Mahal), Fatehpur Sikri, Jaipur, Khajuraho, Varanasi (Ban ares), Calcutta, Darjeeling, Madras, Mahabalipuram, Bangalore, Mysore, Kodaikanal, Periyar (Wild Life Sanctuary), Munnar, Cochin, Bombay; optional travel through Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 
SE_MESTER AROl:ND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473 • FAX (574) 284-4866 
Grad school dlean 
•



WillS fellowship 
Special to the Observer 
Jeffrey Kantor, vice pres­ident for graduate studies and research and dean of the Graduate School at the University of Notre Dame, has been named a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). 
Kantor is the lOth AAAS fellow in the history of the University and the only engineer to be so honored. The others are: Subhash 
Basu,  Harvey  Bender,  
Frank  Collins,  Thomas  
Fehlner,  Richard  
Fessenden,  Robert  

Scheidt, Phillip Sloan, 
Anthony Trozzolo and Paul Weinstein. 
Founded in 1848, AAAS serves some ~:62 affiliated societies and academies of science and 10 million individuals. It is an inter­national non-profit organi­zation dedicated to advancing science around the world by serving as an educator, leader, advocate and professional associa­tion. Fellows are recog­nized for commendable efforts to adv.1nce science or its applications. 
Kantor also has been reappointed to the board 
of  the  Indiana  21st  
Century  Research  and  
Technology Fund.  

Fado i$"the 
··Mariz~Tr~--__ 
http://performingarts.nd.edu
she puts her personal, indelible leaves audiences $pellbouod and · 
Call 574·631·2800 to order tickets 
Tickets $37 Gener<l!Public,-­
~UNIVERSITY OF
$30 ND/SMC/HC Fac/~t(]ff,· 

'WNOTREDAME 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 2 
Ballots 
continued from page I 
absentee ballots. 

"Ohio has 20 electoral votes and right now, Ohio is split 49 to 49 [percent], I think," he said. 
Even students from non­swing states were ready to Jet their votes be counted. 
Sophomore David Lawrence, a Texas native, has already applied for his absentee ballot. 
"It's important to have an absentee ballot because even though I won't be 
home to vote, I "It's important to to help newly reg­
want my opinion vote so you don't istered voters and my voice to obtain their
get left out. " 
be heard," he absentee ballots. said. This can be done Other students John Robinson through the simply want to freshman Internet, although 
make sure they 
are included in 
the process. 

"It's important to vote so you don't get left out," said John Robinson, a freshman. 'Til go online to my state's Web site and fill out a request form, and my ballot will be mailed to me." 
While many students regis­tered to vote at home or on their own via the Internet, campus groups worked to get students involved in the elec­tion. 
"I registered to vote on the day I turned 18 at the post offi.ce," said Jill Martini, a freshman from Pennsylvania. "There was so much emphasis on either registering to vote if you haven't already, or getting an absentee ballot that it was kind of hard not to hear about it in the first month we were here. When I go home on fall break, I'm going to the court­house, I think, and pick up my ballot and vote right there." 
Bridget Keating is just one Rock the Vote representative. '[he Cavanaugh Hall resident said it is absolutely crucial that students obtain absentee bal­lots for the upcoming election. 
"Without them, the fact that they are registered to vote means nothing," she said. "They need to exercise their rights by being an important player in this monumental elec­
tion." 

Part of 
Keating's job was 
many deadlines 
are approaching 
or have already lapsed. Many students have already received their ballots. 
"I already have an absentee ballot," sophomore Tony Craffa said. "It was actually sent to me on Monday, and I plan on filling it out and mailing it back to Massachusetts." 
But for Keating, voting in this election comes down to one main issue. 
"We do not want to let, likely, the most important election of our lifetimes pass by without having a say," Keating said. "The issues are real. They affect our everyday lives as college students." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 

session of alcohol. The third individual was also taken into custody for public intoxi­cation. 
Rakow said that there were 11 ejections from the game for intoxication. 

Hurley said three students were also cited for minor in possession the west side of campus on Friday evening. 
At last week's Purdue game, police custodially arrested nine people prior to the game including one Notre 


Cancer 
continued from page I 
the event, it was about more than just exercise or joining together as a com­munity. 
"This was a very personal event," Kachmarik said. "Many women involved with this have a direct link to breast cancer." 
In addition to the money­raising event, Saint Mary's is also using other outlets to reach students. 
"The health and wellness department is doing draw­ings throughout the whole month of October. Basically, by putting your name in the drawing you are saying you will continue to do monthly breast exams," Kachmarik said. "Saint Mary's is doing a lot of smaller things on a Dame student for public intoxication and resisting arrest, said Lt. Greg Deitchly of the Indiana Excise Police. 
In addition, three people were arrested during the game, although both NDSP and South Bend Police would not release details on those arrests. 
Indiana Excise Police were unavailable for comment and could not provide names of arrested students. 
Teresa Fralish contributed to this report. 
Contact Amanda Micahaels at amichael@nd.edu 
more weekly basis." 
Many female dorms at Notre Dame have decided to take up the cause, by sup­plying pink breast cancer ribbons and hanging "Steps to Self-Breast Examination" in showers. 
"I think they are taken for granted, but I think it's a really effective way to reach all the girls on campus and make them aware. We all take showers and so they're unavoidable," sophomore Ashley Kelly said. "For many girls who won't go to the gynecologist, it's one of the only ways to be exposed to how to look for that sort of thing. It really is one of the only ways to become aware." 
National Mammography Day for 2004 is Oct. 15. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

City to 
•



examine festival 
Associated Press SOUTH BEND -Officials 
are considering whether to 
continue holding an annual 
downtown festival that has 
been marred by vandalism 
and fights for two years. 
The city scaled back this June's Summer in the City from three days to one and eliminated carnival rides in hopes of curbing violence blamed on loitering teens. But the change cut deeply into festival revenues, Parks Superintendent Phil St. Clair said Monday. 
The city lost about $82,000 on the one-day event in Howard Park down­town. which cost a total of about $113,000, St. Clair said. 
Some $16,000 was used to pay police overtime to pro­vide security at closing time. he told City Council mem­bers. Installing new water lines for vendors cost anoth­er $15,000. 
"We went to a one-day venue knowing it would kill us financially, but there were some things we had to get under control," St. Clair said. 
Downtown business own­ers have complained about the event and close their stores during the festival. 
Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series October 13, 2004 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom "Truth, Reality, and Advocacy: Farenheit 9/11 and The Passion of the Christ" Presenter Ted Mandell Department ofFilm, Television, and Theatre Commentator James Seckinger The Law School  






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Germany extradites militant 
ISTANBUL, Turkey -An Islamic militant suspected of devising a 1998 plot to crash an explosives-laden plane into a major Turkish landmark was extradited from Germany on Tuesday. 
Muhammed Metin Kaplan will face treason charges in Turkey for allegedly trying to destroy the mausoleum of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. the founder of the secular Turkish state. 
Turkish authorities allege Kaplan plotted in October 1998 to smash an explosives-laden executive jet into Ataturk's mausoleum, which covers an entire hilltop in Ankara. 
The attack, officials say, was to happen when thousands of officers, students and for­eign dignitaries were visiting the site for a ceremony marking the 75th anniversary of the founding of the secular republic. 
Saddam recovers from operation 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Saddam Hussein under­went an operation to repair a hernia about 10 days ago but has made a full recovery, Iraqi sources said Tuesday. 
The ousted dictator was taken to Baghdad's Ibn Sina hospital near the U.S.-controlled Green Zone for the procedure, which was per­formed by Iraqi doctors, according to sources close to the Human Rights Ministry. 
The operation lasted about an hour and Saddam was returned to his cell the same day, the sources said on condition of anonymity. 
Efforts to contact U.S. ollicials were unsuc­cessful because their offices were closed for the day. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Texan executed for murder 
IIUNTSVILLE. Texas -An inmate convict­ed of abducting and killing a gay man 11 years ago was executed Tuesday, after apolo­gizing to his victim's family and his own. 
Donald Aldrich, who had admitted the kid­napping but denied taking part in the mur­der, asked forgiveness from Nicholas West's family, although no relatives were present. 
Before he was killed by injection, he also apologized to his own family and friends, saying, ''I'm sorry for the pain and hurt I have caused you." 
West, a medical clerk from Tyler, was robbed at a park known as a gay meeting place, then taken to a remote area where he was stripped, ordered to his knees and shot at least nine times. 
Aldrich, 39, was the second man executed for West's death. Henry Earl Dunn, 28, was put to death in February 2003. Each man blamed the other, but authorities contended both took part in killing West. 
Lava seeps out of Mt. St. Helens 
SEATTLE -Magma that has been rising inside Mount St. Helens after weeks of earth­quakes and steam eruptions finally pushed its way to the surface Tuesday, forming a new lava dome just behind the existing one in the volcano's crater. 
The quakes subsided as the new lava emerged and cooled in the open air, suggesting molten rock from deep inside the Earth had found the path of least resistance by going around the old dome, said Jon Major, a hydrol­ogist with the U.S. Geological Survey's Cascades Volcano Observatory in Vancouver, Wash. 
LOCAL NEWS 
New dean studies skulls 
NEW ALBANY -David Glassman, the University of Southern Indiana's new dean of liberal arts, works in an academic office full of books and human skulls. 
He wears a suit and tie to work and rides home in his work clothes on a Harley­Davidson. He publishes research in scholarly journals and makes guest appearances on such television shows as "Forensic Files" and "America's Most Wanted." 
Glassman, who succeeded lain Crawford as dean, is a forensic anthropologist. 
Ten Commandments go to court 
U. 5. Supreme Court decides to address constitutionality of biblical displays 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court said Tuesday -it will consider whether the Ten Command­ments may be displayed on government property, end­ing a 25-year silence on a church-state issue that has prompted bitter legal fights around the country. 
Ten Commandments dis­plays are common in town squares and courthouses and on other government­owned land, including the Supreme Court. A wall carving of Moses holding the tablets is in the court­room where justices will hear arguments in the case. 
Courts around the coun­try have splintered over whether the exhibits violate the constitutional principle of separation of church and state. 
The disputes have led to emotional battles, such as one in Alabama by Chief Justice Roy Moore, who lost his job after defying a fed­eral order to remove a 5,300-pound monument from the state courthouse. The Supreme Court refused last week to help him get his job back. 
But the justices agreed to address the constitutionali­ty of displays in Kentucky and Texas. The case proba­bly will be argued in February with a decision Separation of Church and ed for a long time that a document. "Especially in a before July. State said the court should blockbuster religious liberty courthouse, people should 
Supporters of the monu­block all government dis­case would come along. not be made to feel like out­ments celebrated the news. plays of religious docu­"It's finally here," Staver siders in their own commu­
"The Lord answers ments. said. nity because they may not prayers," said former "It's clear that the Ten Officials in two Kentucky share the prevailing reli­Judge-Executive Jimmie Commandments is a reli­counties McCreary and gious view," he said. Greene of McCreary County, gious document. Its display Pulaski hung framed copies In the Texas case, a Ky., which was ordered to is appropriate in houses of of the Ten Commandments homeless man, Thomas Van remove a display in the worship but not at the seat in their courthouses and Orden, lost his lawsuit to hallway of the county court­of government," Lynn said. added other documents, have a 6-foot granite monu­house. Greene refused to do The last time the court such as the Magna Carta ment removed from the the task himself. dealt with the issue was and the Declaration of state Capitol grounds. The 
"I am a law-abiding citi­1980, when justices banned Independence, after the Fraternal Order of Eagles zen, but there is a higher the posting of Ten American Civil Liberties donated the exhibit to the power," Greene said. "I just Commandments in public Union challenged the dis­state in 196l, and it was could not remove that schools. That case also was play. The ACLU won and installed abou:t 7 5 feet from sacred document. Could from Kentucky. county officials are appeal­the Capitol in Austin. The you think of a better reason Mathew Staver of the ing the decision. group gave scores of simi­to go to jail than standing conservative law group David A. Friedman, gen­lar monuments to up in defense of the Ten Liberty Counsel, attorney eral counsel for the American towns during the Commandments?" for Kentucky counties in Kentucky ACLU, said peo­1950s and '60s, and those 
The Rev. Barry W. Lynn of the current case, said the ple of different faiths follow have been the subjects of Americans United for Supreme Court has expect-different versions of the multiple court fights. 



Israel prepares for intensified conflict 
Palestinian-Israeli conflict nears a In recent weeks, police have 
Associated Press 
critical juncture. the sacred hilltop increased patrols at the AI Aqsa and 

JERUSALEM -The camera scans with its two mosques, known to Jews Dome of the Rock mosques and the holy terrain, the domed mosques as the Temple Mount, will become the undercover agents are shadowing and people strolling along a tree-shad­ultimate flash point for disaster. well-known militants. ed plaza. It zooms in on a group of for­Israel's security chiefs are wrestling However, security officials say a eigners who turn out, after a few with two nightmare scenarios they say lone assailant not on anyone's watch mouse clicks, to be visiting U.S. securi­are increasingly realistic an attack on list someone, perhaps, like the ty chiefs on a guided tour of the hilltop the mosques by Jewish extremists try­Jewish nationalist who assassinated revered by both Muslims and Jews. ing to stop Israel's planned withdraw­Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in 
In an Israeli police station at the al from the Gaza Strip, and a collapse 1995 could easily slip through their Jaffa Gate into the Old City, in front of of parts of the structurally shaky net. One of their greatest fears is a TV screens picking up images from mosque compound onto thousands of shoulder-held missile fired from one 280 cameras scattered across the Muslim worshippers. of the alleys near the holy places. densely populated heart of Jerusalem, Muslims would almost certainly Lately, with hard-line1·s increasing­a 24-hour watch goes on for stirrings blame either catastrophe on the ly desperate to stop Prime Minister of apocalypse. Israeli government and transform its Ariel Sharon's withdrawal plan, the 
Police have stepped up surveillance conflict with the Arabs into a full­warnings have reached an unusually in recent weeks, amid fears that as the blown religious war. high pitch. 
..---------------------~----------­
page 6 
ROMANIA 

United States seeks help in Afghanistan 
NATO asked to take over military mission 
Associated Press 
POIANA BRASOV, Romania 
-The United States is press­
ing NATO to take over the 
U.S.-led military mission in 
Afghanistan, possibly as early 
as 2005, the U.S. ambassador 
to the alliance said Tuesday. 
NATO currently commands the International Security Assistance Force in Kabul, the Afghan capital, and it has set up five Provincial Reconstruction Teams in northern Afghanistan. Its troops do not conduct combat missions as U.S. forces do. 
Nicholas Burns, the U.S. ambassador to the alliance, told American reporters trav­eling with Defense Secretary Donald II. Rumsfeld on Tuesday that the aim of the United States is to combine the U.S. and NATO missions under an alliance command­er. 
"There will be a lot of dis­cussion about that tomorrow, but no decisions," Burns said, referring to Wednesday's NATO defense ministers meeting. 
"It's a very complicated issue, how you put these two very different military mis­sions together." Burns said. "But there will be a number of people who will support ­we will certainly support -a direction to the military lead­ers of the alliancP. to go and look at this question and decide how we can best do that-give us a sense of how you put these two missions togethPr." 
Burns said he expects the alliance's military leaders to present answers at a planned February meeting of defense ministers in Nice, France. 

He said integration of the 
forces could happen by 2005 
or 2006. 
The ambassador also said 
the United States is pressing 
NATO's newer members who 
once were part of the Soviet 
bloc, like Romania, to donate 
older Soviet-era military 
equipment that is urgently 
needed to equip Iraqi forces. 
In the shorter term, the 
United States is pushing its 
NATO allies to accelerate the 
deployment of extra peace­
keepers to Afghanistan. 
Ahead of two days of talks beginning Wednesday, U.S. officials said they were seek­ing commitments that the alliance would expand its peacekeeping operation into western Afghanistan. which would free up U.S. troops to ·hunt Taliban and al-Qaida remnants hiding out in the 
south and east 
"NATO is behind. We should 
have been in the west by now, 
and we're not," Burns told 
reporters earlier at NATO 
headquarters in Brussels, 
Belgium. "NATO ... needs to 
move faster, with a greater 
degree of commitment and 
political will." 
After much prodding, NATO allies reinforced their peace­keeping mission from 6,500 troops to over 9,000 for the Afghan elections held at the weekend. 
Despite that temporary deployment. the alliance is slipping behind with plans to expand its longer-term peace­keeping operation into the troubled western provinces from its bases in the Afghan capital, Kabul, and five north­ern cities. 
@{jot.ee, lhbJ J!c,t/lltad _j/ottn~Ytetl ('II !It{~ t:art/l_p1?·. 011r:~ al~tllttteJ~?fyearJ, 
tc:Y/;fiJ!f blrlhfk~. 

Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 

U.S. Marine Sgt. ne-w father of 5 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -As Marine Sgt. Joshua Horton lay in a hospital bed across the ocean recovering from wounds he suffered in Iraq, his wife was in a maternity ward in suburban Illinois, mak­ing him a father five times over. 
Horton knew his wife was expecting quintuplets, but decided it was his duty to go to Iraq last month with Marines he helped train -even if it meant leaving his wife and two chil­dren behind. 
"He was taking them into combat for the first time. He wanted to get them there safely and return," said Dean Fisher, the bishop of Horton's church in Oswego, a Chicago suburb. 
On Tuesday, a day after his wife Taunacy gave birth to three girls and two boys, !lorton was back in the United States, but not with his family. lie was transported from a hospital in Germany to the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. 

A Marine spokesman said Horton, 28, is expected to recover but was so heavily sedated that he probably was not yet aware he is a father again. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA WELCOMES 
octobev1.3, :2fX)Jf • yt--.30 p.m. 

O'Lauglttli.rrv~lto~ 
Internationally acclaimed author of The Fifth Book of Peace and Woman Warrior: Memoirs of Girlhood Among Ghosts. 
COV\ttt lt\et:~hV\eY spe&t~ c.tbou.t 
"~"Peace." 
Free and Open to the Public, Book §igning and ~eception to follow Sponsored by the 
(ENTER FoRWOMEN'S , INTER(ULl\JRAL lEADERSHIP 
• SAINT MA~Y's C.OLLEG£ ·NOTRE DAM£, INPIAN"' 
-tit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
S.'?.h\:.tl?,~ 
#9 MEN'S SOCCER VS. MICHIGAN 


Joyce Center Gate 1 0 sAINT(IJosEPH @ 7 PM AT ALUMNI FIELD ~ 
1\eg:lol.\al ~kJkal Center Breast Cancer Awareness ;....~"""'.)!8."'·,..·"'··,..\ 
GOLD GAME !(}, First 300 fans will receive a special edition volleyball shirt First 200 fans will receive a gold games shirt and special shrits for cancer survivors sponsored by 
sponsored by South Bend Orthopaedics ..:--:<. 

,.' _ St. Joseph Regional Medical Center 
llniJ)S~

J' Free genetic counseling and screening information prior to the match }'i First 500 fans v.1ll receive a Krispy Kreme doughnut ~ f Ice Cream sampling from Cold Stone ~Y~~~;;,;ry 
FREE admission with a valid Student 10 and check out www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10,077.18 -4.79
}ones 
··~··.. Same: Powfl: Composite Volum 1,558 130 • 1,320,088,960 
AMEX 1, 276.96 -7~77 NASDAQ 1,925.17 -3.59 NYSE 6,609.71 -33.46 S&PSOO 1'121.84 -2.55 NIKK£l(Tokyo) 11,235.46 +33.65 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,647.90 -37.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +6.53 +0.23 3.75 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.60 -0.33 20.28 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.11 -0.03 28.03 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.95 +0.18 19.16 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.41 -0.05 12.15 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.53 -0.26 48.80 10-YEAR NOTE -0.75 -0.3 I 41.02 5-YEARNOTE -0.42 -0.42 33.54 3-MONTH BILL -0.24 -0.04 16.53 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.16 52.18 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -6.80 416.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 0.00 94.20 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.5000 EURO 0.8116 POUND. 
0.5583 CANADIAN$ 1.2551 
IN BRIEF 
Medtronic ordered to pay $400M 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A federal jury awarded $400 million in punitive damages Tuesday to a doctor who accused a medical technology company of infringing on his patents for a surgical device to treat spinal injuries. 
The punitive damages against Medtronic Inc. are in addition to $110 million in com­pensatory damages the Fridley, Minn., com­pany was ordered last month to pay surgeon Gary Michelson. 
Medtronic called the award "unjustified and excessive" and said it will appeal. 
The jury said a company subsidiary, Medtronic Sofamor Danek Inc. of Memphis, breached agreements with Michelson to pro­duce and sell implants he invented to treat patients suffering from damaged or diseased spinal discs. 
The devices are small metal cages that are inserted between vertebrae. 
The total damages could be increased by $60 million since the verdict includes a per­centage of the income Medtronic received from selling the devices. 
Kroger resumes negotiations 
CINCINNATI -Representatives of Kroger Co. and the union representing 8,500 workers at 70 Kroger stores in three states resumed negotiations Tuesday at the request of an arbi­trator a day after the union revoked a contract extension with the company. 
Leaders of Local 1099 of the United Food & Commercial Workers had said Monday they would recommend members reject Kroger's latest contract offer in a union vote Wednesday and authorize the union to strike, if necessary. 
Cashiers, grocery baggers and clerks in meat. produce and delicatessen departments at 70 stores in the Cincinnati area, northern Kentucky and southeastern Indiana are cov­ered by the contract. 
The union's move to revoke the contract extension Monday night meant that its current contract would expire about 10 p.m. Friday, union spokesman John Marrone said. 
The union and Cincinnati-based Kroger ear­lier had agreed to indefinitely extend the cur­rent contract, which was set to expire this p!J.St Saturday, at the urging of the federal mediator. 


Russian oil fight nears resolution 
Justice Ministry files to sell part of giant Yukos in an attempt to end dispute 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -The year­long, politically charged legal campaign against oil giant Yukos appeared to move nearer to a resolu­tion Tuesday as the Justice Ministry filed to sell part of a key production sub­sidiary to pay a portion of a mounting bill for back taxes. 
Yukos, whose jailed ex­CEO Mikhail Khodorkovsky irritated the Kremlin by funding opposition political parties, has been hit with tax claims exceeding $7 billion for 2001-2001 and additional bills for 2002­2003 are expected. 
The Justice Ministry moved Tuesday to sell an unspecified part of Yukos' subsidiary Yuganskne­ftegaz to meet some of the tax bill. Yukos is struggling to pay off the bills despite a claimed shortage of ready cash, but Russian officials say the payments are going too slowly. No timetable was set for the sale. 
Yukos shares, which have plummeted by some 70 percent since Khodork­ovsky's arrest last October, fell another 4.5 percent Tuesday on Moscow's RTS exchange. 
Yukos produces about 2 percent of the world's oil and its troubles have company." Fund could try to sell ofT a the range of $15.7 billion raised fears of supply Yuganskneftegaz was piece of Yuganskneftegaz to $18.3 billion. interruptions that have evaluated by investment by the end of November, Also Tuesday, reports contributed to record-high bank Dresdner Kleinwort fund spokesman Vladimir said the Tax Ministry was world oil prices. However, Wasserstein for sale Zelentsov was quoted as planning an audit of Yukos' concerns about the compa­against Yukos' crippling saying by the news agency 2003 activity, an indication ny's future had appeared tax debts. Justice Ministry Interfax. that more bills are in the to ease in recent weeks official Alexander Buks­Buksman said a minority works. Analysts have spec­amid speculation that the man said Tuesday that, stake in Yuganskneftegaz ulated that Yukos' final government might hold ofT with a 60 percent discount would be insufficient to tax-arrears bill could selling Yuganskneftegaz, for risks to a potential cover Yukos' bill, though it exceed $1-0 billion a figure which pumps about 60 buyer factored in, the pro­was unclear from his close to the Yuganskne­percent of Yukos' crude duction unit was worth remarks how much of ftegaz valuation stated by oil. $10.4 billion. Yuganskneftegaz would Buksman. 
"This comes as a nega­Buksman said on state­eventually be sold. The campaign against tive surprise," said Zarko controlled Channel One TV Dow Jones NewsWires Yukos and the tax-evasion Stefanovski, oil and gas that the rate at which cited a person familiar and fraud charges faced analyst at Aton brokerage. Yukos was paying down with the situation as saying separately by Khodork­"This confirms that the the tax bill was "absolutely that the figure Buksman ovsky have raised serious authorities will sell assets unsatisfactory" and that it put forward "wasn't a rec­concerns among investors to cover the tax bill. The still owed taxes of $3.73 ommended price," and that about Russia's intention to question is who is going to billion for 2000-2001. the investment bank had observe shareholder rights be interested in buying the Russia's Federal Property valued Yuganskneftegaz in and uphold the rule of law. 




eBay's PayPal experiences outage 
financial impact, if any, the glitch cent increase from the same period a
Associated Press 
would cause the online auction giant. year earlier. 

SAN JOSE, Calif. -Despite furious Caris & Co. analyst David Garrity In July, eBay boosted its outlook for repair efforts, intermittent service out­said he was growing more concerned the rest of the year, citing in part the ages at the online payment service each day with PayPal's technical trou­strength of the company's Pay Pal divi­PayPal continued Thesday for the fifth bles. "It is certainly something that sion. Company officials said they consecutive day, affecting payments, needs to get resolved," he said expect 2004 sales to be as high as log-ins and account creations. Tuesday. "If the outages continue $3.185 billion, $35 million higher than 
The technical glitch plaguing the much longer, it will hurt them in the it previously predicted. eBay Inc.-owned company has affect­fourth quarter." The PayPal problem comes at the ed an untold number of users, making PayPal is a common method of pay­start of the season when many online it hard for some online sellers to com­ment for buyers on eBay and is gain­sellers are ramping up for the holiday plete deals, according to the eBay Web ing in popularity among customers of season. site. other online retailers as well as in Users began experiencing some 
Since some people are able to log in money transactions between individu­glitches on Friday following a software while others are not, eBay spokes­als in the off-line world. upgrade to the PayPal system, eBay woman Amanda Pires said the total The payment service has more than officials said. Ebay has posted numer­number of affected users remains 50 million user accounts worldwide. It ous apologies to users on its Web site unclear. processed almost 78 million transac­and reassured them that their account 
Meanwhile, financial analysts were tions worth $4.4 billion in payments data and personal inf9rmation have monitoring the problem to see what during the second quarter, a 53 per-not been compromised. 
page 8 Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




GERHARD BOWERING, S.J. 
Professor of Islamic Studies at Yale University and scholar of world religions 
Islam and Christianity Eight Lectures on the Inner Dynamics of Two Cultures of Belief  
Monday  October 25, 2004  Origins and Common Roots  
Wednesday  October 27, 2004  One God with Many Faces  
*Friday  October 29, 2004  Scripture and Tradition  
Monday  March I 4, 2005  Creation} TimeJ and Eternity  
Wednesday  March I 6, 2005  Finding God in Prayer and Devotion  
*Friday  March IS, 2005  Personal Ethics and Social Order  
Monday  March 2I, 2005  Clashes of Culture and Bonds of Beliif  
Wednesday  March 23, 2005  Pluralism and Fundamentalism in Tension  
Lectures are held in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies and begin at 5:00p.m., except the *Friday lectures which begin at 4:00 p.m.  


Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
page 16 Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


NHL 
leers set to :tniss start of the regular season 
League has been shut down since CBA expired on Sept. 17 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Tampa Bay Lightning were supposed to raise their Stanley Cup champi­onship banner this week to kick off the new season. 
Instead, the arena that rocked during the finals in June will be dark because of a labor dispute that shows no sign of ending soon. That will be the case, too. for Ottawa, Chicago, Colorado, Phoenix, Anaheim 
.__ and San Jose, also slated to host openers Wednesday night. The NHL has been shut down for nearly a month following the expiration of the collective bargaining agreement. The league and the players associa­tion are so far apart philosophi­cally that they haven't met or even spoken since Sept. 9 -a week before the decade-old deal ran out. "I don't think anybody is happy that we're in the situa­tion we're in," said Bill Daly, the NHL's chief legal officer. "I think everybody would much rather be playing hockey." Training camps didn't open on time and then the entire preseason schedule was wiped out. Now, real games are about to be officially lost. And with 
played, they really are being called off a month in advance. The league is leaving the can­cellation of games up to clubs that have been given permis­sion to release arena dates on a 30-day rolling basis. 
"It's not something that comes as a surprise," Saskin said. "We all knew there would not be an opening night on Oct. 13." 
So there is no hope of any games being played in October, and November's schedule is quickly being lost, too. Even the most optimistic observers say that there won't be any NHL hockey before January. 
It is then that the league and the players association will face a deadline: make a deal, or try again in the fall to save the 2005-06 season. 
"I don't think it's currently our intention to reach out," Daly said: "Until they're talking about partnership, until they're willing to acknowledge our issues and address them in a meaningful way, I'm not sure what point there is in talking." 
The last lockout that inter­rupted the 1994-95 season, lasted 103 days and was settled in time to have a truncated 48­game schedule. That deal held in place ever since, having been renewed twice. 
But the NHL says it can't sur­vive under those terms any­more and is in need of "cost certainty" to stay afloat. 
The  NHLPA  agrees  that  
changes  are  
needed,  but  

no talks "I don't think anybody is doesn't sub­planned, the scribe to the
happy that we're in the 
entire season theory that a
situation we're in." 
is in serious salary cap is jeopardy. the way to fix "The players things. It
Bill Daly 
are disap­instead has
NHL chief legal officer 
pointed but not surprised the 2004-05 season will not start on time," NHLPA senior director Ted Saskin said Tuesday. "The league's decision to lock out the players to try to force them to accept a salary cap system had been planned for many years." 
The Lightning were supposed to enjoy one of the biggest nights in the history of the 12­year-old team that unexpected­ly won the Stanley Cup last sea­son in a thrilling seven-game series over Calgary. 
Before a rematch Wednesday with the Philadelphia Flyers, the team the Lightning van­quished in the Eastern Conference finals. the champi­onship was supposed to be cel­ebrated again. 
That won't happen now. 

"Our fans lived through some great memories with our team last season and we intend on rekindling those memories just as soon as the work stoppage is over," Lightning president Ron Campbell said Tuesday. 
Instead of being something special Wednesday night, it will just be one of seven games wiped out. 
"It is definitely emblematic of some short-term pains for the Lightning and our fans, but we know the work stoppage will bring good times for our organ­ization over the long term," Campbell said. 
Although the NHL won't offi­cially cancel games until the day they are supposed to be 
proposed a 
luxury cap 

system, a plan the NHL says won't solve the problems. 
"The league's ongoing refusal to explore any compromise solutions makes it clear they have no interest in seeing any NHL games played unless they get a cap," Saskin said. 
Thus there is a standoff that doesn't seem to offer any sort of middle ground, leaving hock­ey fans, players, coaches, and support staff in limbo. 
So far, 202 players -over a quarter of those in the NHL ­have signed to play in European leagues while the dispute rages on. Most have conditions in their new con­tracts to allow them to return to the NHL if the lockout ends during the season. 
But this week they will miss their first NHL paychecks. 
"Hockey players ... this is what guys do for a living," Saskin said. 
"It's important for many of them to stay in shape and look for an opportunity to play hock­ey somewhere." 
Daly doesn't feel that will force the league back to the bargaining table. 
"It's not a real alternative to the National Hockey League both in terms of compensation and visibility," he said. "I think everybody would rather be playing in the National Hockey League for hundreds of thou­sands of dollars more than they're making overseas," 
'1-·urs~'[, .[>J~' •lj rJY\ coN·s·ur'r] L' A.I. r·o·H··ol 'l(i .JlL'\r(jlR1 .. ·\(t L'S
lt. \_ ...·. J .'.1 ~ ...v __, . ~ 1ll .J.'J 1\. .A' . .. . . ..J. ..... Jr..1 EL i .•r.J~... 
Make your monthly tuition 
~~ 
and room & board payments, get your hair cut and grab NOTRE: DAME 
FEDERAL CI~EDIT UNION


lunch-all at LaFortune 
021 LaFortune Student Center Student Center! 574/631-8222 ·• www.ndfcu.org 

THE AREA'S BEST KEPT SECRET SUNDAY TICKET AND ESPN GAMEPLAN ON FOUR 10' THEATRE SCREENS WITH SPEAKERS AT EVERY TABLE AND 140THER T.V.'S WATCH UP TO s·GAMES AT THE SAME TIME 

52885 US 31N. South Bend IN 46637 574-272-5478 CALL FOR CARRYOUT 

NIGHTLY SPECiALS 
SUNDAY-DOMESTIC BUCKETS 6BOTTLES FOR $12.00 
MONDAY~ $1.00 16oz. DOM. DRAFTS TUESDAY~ $1.50 WELL DRINKS WEDNESDAY-$1.50 COSMO'S AND 
$3.00 MARGARITA'S THURSDAY~ $1.50 DOM. BOTTLES & .35WINGS (MIN. lO) 

Located Just North Of Cleveland Road On US 31, Ne:\1 To Comfort Suites 

page IS

Wednesday, October 13, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS 

A V E C R U X 
SPES UNICA 
The PRIESTS & BROTHERS of 


The CoNGREGATION 
of HoLY CRoss 
invite you, the Notre Dame community, to join us in celebrating 
c:MASS 
for 




FOUNDER'S DAY 
and T H E F E A S T of 
ST. EDWARD 
the CONFESSOR 
PATRON SAINT OF REV. EDWARD SORIN, C.S.C., FOUNDER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 at 5:15P.M. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
MLB 


Cincinnati will not bring back Larkin 
Reds will replace their shortstop with several unproven youngsters 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Barry Larkin's stellar 19-year career with his hometown team ended Tuesday with a one-sided phone call. 
The Cincinnati Reds informed their captain they aren't interest­ed in keeping him around for another season. Instead, the Reds will replace the 40-year-old short­stop with two unproven young­sters. 
Larkin was at his home in Orlando, Fla., when general man­ager Dan O'Brien and manager Dave Miley -a former teammate -called with the decision. 
"It wasn't pleasant," Larkin told The Associated Press in a phone interview. "But it is what it is. It's definitely disappointing. I have decisions to make." 
Larkin's 19 seasons with one team was the longest current streak in the majors. He had hoped for a 20th and was willing to discuss returning in a utility role, but the Reds ruled it out. 
"You hate to say goodbye to the great players, but the process of the game is ultimately, all great careers do eventually end," O'Brien said. 
Larkin isn't sure whether his career is over. He hasn't decided whether to try to play one more season with another team, ending his career in a different uniform. 
"I have to see what opportuni­ties present themselves, if there's anything that makes sense," he said. 
Larkin grew up in Cincinnati and spent his entire career with the Reds, developing into one of the most prominent players in their illustrious history. He helped the team win a World Series in 1990 and won the NL's Most Valuable Player award in 1995, the last time the Reds made the playoffs. 
He also was a steadying influ­ence in the clubhouse during the 1990s, when former owner Marge Schott put the franchise in the national spotlight for her inflammatory comments. 
Injuries have limited him in recent years, and he decided to make the 2004 season his last. But a good season -he hit .289 and made the All-Star team ­prompted him to reconsider and ask for one more contract. 
Larkin was willing to discuss a role as a backup infielder with the Reds in which he would work to develop the young shortstops. He then hoped to move into the front office in some capacity. 

Bonds has successful 
knee surgery Tuesday 


Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds underwent arthroscopic surgery on his left knee Tuesday and is expected to be at full strength when the San Francisco Giants open spring training in February. 
The slugger underwent a 20­minute arthritis cleanup proce­dure performed by San Jose Sharks team physician Dr. Art Ting at the Fremont Surgery Center. 
Bonds, 40, told the team he first felt pain Oct. 4, the day after the season ended, and he didn't want the injury to affect his offseason training. 
Giants trainer Stan Conte said it would take three to six weeks for Bonds to rehabilitate the knee and he should be able to resume working out in November. 
"It's very typical of a postsea­son cleanup procedure done in football at times," Conte said. "His cartilage inside the knee was perfect. This was simple wear and tear that was an irri­tant to him. What really precipi­tated doing this now is he rl;-' not want this to interfere ' his workout program November." 
Bonds finished his 19th major league season with 703 career homers, pulling him within 11 of Babe Ruth for second place. He could pass Ruth's mark early next season and then turn his focus on Hank Aaron's record of 755. 
Bonds had 45 homers and 101 RBis this season and also walked a major league-record 232 times. He demonstrated his durability, playing in 147 games after playing only 130 last year, when he dealt with the death of his father. The Giants were in the playoff race until the final day of the season and finished one game behind Houston in the NL wild-card standings. 
"In a perfect world, would I love to see Barry get more days off? Probably early in the season would be a good idea," Conte said. "But that probably is not necessary. He played [147] games and did pretty well from a medical standpoint." 
Conte said Bonds' knee shows much Jess wear and tear than would be expected from a 40­year-old who has played 2,716 games in his career. He said he didn't know if the knee affected Bonds' play the final week of the season when he went 1-for-13. 
"You would have to ask him," Conte said. "He told me he was feeling it a little bit but it was not a big deal. The day after the season it started bothering him a bit. He didn't indicate to me it was an issue at all during the season." 
Bonds led the National League with a .362 average and .812 slugging percentage this season. He also set a major league record with a .609 on-base per­centage. 
Last month, the Giants decided to drop their right to void the final year of Bonds' contract, keeping him with the team through 2006. 
Under the $90 million, five­year deal agreed to in January 2002, San Francisco could have voided the 2006 season if Bonds failed to reach 400 plate appear­ances next season. 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
MLB 

Neither Clen1ens nor Osvvalt vvill start Gan1e 1 of NLCS 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -In Roger Clemens and Roy Oswalt, the Houston Astros have one of the best pitching tandems in all of base­ball. 
Only one problem going into the NL championship series: With no time to rest, those guys have been aced out of starting the first two games against the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Instead, Houston hopes Brandon Backe can shut down the likes of Albert Pujols, Scott Rolen and Jim Edmonds in the opener Wednesday night at Busch Stadium. Then, Pete Munro gets the ball for Game 2. 
Backe, a converted outfielder from the Tampa Bay system, and Munro, cut by Minnesota in June. began the season in the minors. Together, they combined for nine wins in the majors. 
"We don't feel handicapped in any way whatsoever." Astros manager Phil Garner said Tuesday. "This is what it took for us to get here. This is what we'll go with." 
Garner leaned on his two aces to get the Astros through the first round of the playoffs. Both pitched on three days' rest, with Oswalt winning the decisive Game 5 in Atlanta on Monday night. 
Clemens and Oswalt each went 2-0 against the Cardinals this year. Now, they're pushed back to pitching over the weekend in Houston -not that St. Louis manager Tony La Russa is relax­ing. 

"We're not going to fall into the trap tomorrow, because Clemens or Oswalt)s not pitch­ing, that we've got some big advantage," he said. "They'll have a legitimate starting pitch­er, a legitimate bullpen, a legiti­mate club behind them." 
Still, St. Louis slugger Larry Walker was a little curious, especially about Munro. With batting practice wiped out by rain, the Cardinals were talking, and were certain Munro was starting the opener. 
"I just know he's pitching the first game." Walker said. "I don't even know if I ever have faced him, really." 
Walker had, going 1-for-3 with a double. 
Coming off the first playoff series victory in their 43-season history, the wild-card Astros take on the team that led the majors with 105 victories. Backe will start on three days' rest for the first time in his career, opposed by Woody Williams, who grew up in Houston. 
''I've always been an Astro fan. It's a team I always rooted for my whole life," Williams said. "Now I have an opportunity to be the one that sends them home on a sour note. It's kind of bittersweet for me." 
For his family, too. "I have left tickets for one of my family member's brother 
before. He's sitting there cheer­ing for the Astros," he said. "So next time, I put him way up at the top. That was when I was pitching." 
Chances are the matchup between NL Central opponents will not generate the kind of heat the Red Sox-Yankees rival­ry produces in the ALCS. Even though Backe contends "we've had some words exchanged every now and then," these clubs keep it pretty civil. 
"Ever since I've been in the league, we really had terrific competitions," La Russa said. "I think we're two hot clubs, two confident clubs." 
The one squabble they had came early in April 2002, when the Astros arrived at Busch Stadium and saw a sign that proclaimed the Cardinals co­champions of the Central Division. 
Both teams went 93-69 the previous year, but Houston won the season series 9-8 and the Cardinals were the wild-card team in the playoffs. 
The Astros finished 10-8 against the Cardinals this sea­son, with Houston sweeping a three-game series at home in late September. Backe got one of those key wins, part of a 5-3 season when he didn't reach the rotation until August. 
Backe won Game 3 against the Braves, throwing six effective innings. Munro finished 4-7 and has not pitched since Oct. 1. 


NBA 



Yao returns to China for NBA exhibition game 
star. because of problems getting all sectors of Chinese society, in Shangha.i in September, and 
Associated Press 

"I know he wants to play the team's luggage. A regular basketball has become the China already is gearing up for 
SHANGHAI, China -Yao very, very well here and I want practice was scheduled for sport of choice among teenage the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 
Ming is back in his hometown to give his fans the opportunity Wednesday. boys and men in their 20s. The basketball tour, includ­
on business. And that's exactly to see him play," Van Gundy ''I'm here on business and I Shanghai has refurbished ing a second game between 
the point for the NBA, which is said Tuesday. "I want to play want to play well," said Yao, the 10,000-seat city gym that the teams in Beijing on 
eyeing all sorts of marketing him because he's in his home­who was select-was built in the Sunday, could feature Yao 
possibilities in a country of 1.3 town. But I don't want to over­ed for days of Mao going up against fellow
''I'm here on

billion. play him, given that it's only Shanghai's Zedong's 1966-76 Chinese Olympic team member
business and I 

Yao and the Houston Rockets the second exhibition game youth team at Cultural Liu Wei, who was invited to face the Sacramento Kings in and we have a long season age 14 and want to play well., Revolution, putting the Kings' training camp in an exhibition game Thursday, ahead of us." later played for in an NBA regula­July. and Rockets coach Jeff Van Yao played 17 minutes in the the Shanghai tion floor, giant TV Yao said he would not try to
.... 
Yao Ming

Gundy intends to limit his 7-Rockets' preseason game Sharks of the screens and addi­make Liu: look good, but foot-6 center to 22-28 minutes Sunday at home against Chinese profes­Rockets center tional dressing added: ''I'm more afraid of because of the grueling Shaquille O'Neal and the sional league. rooms and office accidentally passing the ball to months ahead. Miami Heat. If" '0ined Tracy Houston's space. him just out of habit." 
But Van Gundy still hopes to McGrady and the rest of the games against the Kings come The NBA visit is part of a Van Gundy said he expects showcase Yao during the first Rockets in a light workout 25 years after Wes Unseld and recent wave of Western sports Yao to mesh well with game between NBA teams in Tuesday at their hotel health the former Washington Bullets coming to China, where eco­McGrady, the two-time league China, where basketball has club. visited Shanghai to play the nomic growth is creating mil­scoring ehamp who was taken a higher profile since A practice at the Shanghai Chinese national team. While lions of new consumers. acquired from the Orlando Yao became an international city gym was called off soccer remains popular among Formula One racing debuted Magic in a seven-player deal. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
BABYSITTER WANTED: 22·month· 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Buying and selling ND football tix, Ladies! Looking for a professional old twins. 5-6 hours, 1-2 weekdays. Walking distance from ND especially Boston College 574-289-Full Body Waxing Dayspa? 
WANTED Occasional weekend evenings. Call FOR RENT MMMRentals.com 532-1408 8048 Kimberle Nicole uses only the best Kara at 574-621-1540. waxes that work for every type of hair. We specialize in Brazilian ND Football housing. Walk to Bikini, L1~gs, Brows and much PART-TIME WORK Great pay,flex game. 574-315-3215. TICKETS PERSONAL more. The Notre Dame MBA ladies 
sched.,sales/svc.all ages18+,cond. rate us ttle #1 Dayspa for their wax-apply, 273-4878 IMMEDIATE DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW ing! Brinn this ad and receive 1 0% OPENINGS WWW.WORK-LEASING FOR 2005-2006 BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX Spring break 2005 Challenge ... find off your visit. 574-257-3877
FoR SALE
FORSTUDENTS.COM SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-a better price! Lowest price spe-www.kimberle-nicole.com 
ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED 3911 cials! Free Mealsl November 6th DAMONS GRILL is now accepting HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips Spring B·eak Bahamas Celebrity applications for SERVERS AND BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT For Sale: ND football tix. Good and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes HOSTS. These positions do not 2003 Dell lnspiron Laptop Brand NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY prices. 232-0964. 1800-426-771 0 Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, open up very often. Apply in person new-price negotiable! Contact SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE Nassau, Jamaica From $459! 
to join our award winning team. Kathleen at ktallmad@nd.edu STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY-Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ Like Mother Teresa? Great gift for Panama City & Day1ona $159! 52885 US 933 N ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE 251-1570. Mom or Grandma. Simple. www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­2003 Delllnspiron Laptop Brand WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR Inspiring. Conversational. 800-678-6386 574-272-5478 1 mile north of N.D. new-price negotiable! Contact CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. Inexpensive. Check it out at (next to Comfort Suites) Kathleen at ktallmad@nd.edu 2436 OR (574)315-5032. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 www. motherteresasdoor. com Great season Braves. 
-~ 
THE OBSERVER 



C:ENE From Londont to the Leighton 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
,.. page 13 
The renowned Academy of Saint Martin in the Field plays music from Shostakovich to Tchaikovsky with skill and style 

Thn Acadnmy of St. Martin in the Fields is under the dirnction of violin­ist Kenneth Sillito, one of Great Britain's greatest musicians. !lis nunwrous honors include an appoint­mont with the English Chamber Orchestra, a fnllowship with thn Hoyal Academy of Music, and his evnntual founding of thn Academy Chamber Ensnmble. !lis recording include llandnl's "Operatic Overtures, English String Masterpieces", made up of works from Gustav Jlolst, Benjamin Britten, Edward Elgar, and others; and .J.S. Bach's Cantatas, featuring operat­
ic countertenor Jochen Kowalski. 
Featured star Christopher O'Hiley has also enjoyed a musical career that matches the brilliance of Sillito's. He boasts a keyboard repertoire that ranges from the English Renaissance to newer works written by today's leading composers. O'Riley is also renowned for the work he has done in arranging music. In 2003 he recorded the CD "True Love Waits," which is composed of original transcriptions of songs from the English group Hadiohead. He has also released tran­scriptions on works from Stravinsky, such as selections from the famous ballet "Petrouchka," and has also released CDs consisting of piano works by Maurice Ravel and several of Beethoven's Piano Sonatas. O'Riley's touring ventures have taken him to London, Paris, Vienna, Hong Kong and Melbourne, along with many other global cultural capitals. 
The program for the concert consists of a wide variety of works. It opens with Dmitri Shostakovich's "Chamber Symphony for Strings." O'Riley will then make his first appearance of the night in Mozart's "Concerto No. 12 in A Major for Piano and Orchestra." After intermission, ()'Hiley will again be featured in Franz Liszt's "Malediction for Piano and Strings," and the evening concludes with Pyotr Tchaikovsky's "Serenade for Strings in C Major." 
Tickets for the performance are $62 dollars for the general public, $50 dol­lars for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross faculty or staff and $25 dollars for all students. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 



The original queen of fado 
'Art of Amalia' tells the story of Amalia Rodrigues, the most famous 
STORY BY 
I 
f you're looking to learn a little more about fado, you might 
want to check out the 
Browning Cinema on Thursday, when the PAC will be presenting the prominent Portuguese documentary film "The Art of Amalia." 
Director Bruno de Almeida's 2000 lilm chronicles the life of leg­endary fado singer Amalia Rodrigues. 
Fado, largely considered to be the oldest form of urban folk music in the world, is a style that origi­nated in Portugal in the early 20th century. Difficult to put into words, !'ado can be described as consisting of the central themes of destiny, betrayal in love and despair. A single person, accompa­nied by one Portuguese guitar and one classical guitar, usually sings it. A large part of the performance 

Portuguese fado singer 
ELIZABETH 
is in the gestures and facial expressions of the singer. 
Because of her immense popu­larity and her tremendous ability to evoke emotion in the audience, Amalia Hodrigues is considered to be the undisputed diva of fado music. Born in 1920, she gained popularity as a teenager, and by 1940, she ruled the style. She expanded her career into acting on stage and screen, twice winning the Portuguese Best Actress. 
"The Art of Amalia" is comprised of a series oI' interviews w-ith Hodrigues and a few of her elose friends. In one interview, Hodrigues revealed, possibly, why the fado style was so appropriate for her; she admitted to never being truly happy in her life, despite her fame and fortune. Through the film, one gets a glimpse into the fado style and this extraordinary woman's talent, as 
LUDEMAN 
well as her life, which seemed to personify the music she performed so beautil'ully. 
She died in 1999, one week bel'ore this film was completed. Upon hor death, the prime minis­ter ol' Portugal called for three days of national mourning. Widely inl'luential in hnr home country, Hodriques remains largely unknown to U.S. audinnees. "The Art of Amalia" provides an oppor­tunity l'or us to experience somn­thing unique and outsidn our own range of knowledge. 
The film plays Oct. 14 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the PAC. Tickets go on sale Ocl. 11 and are $(, l'or the public, $5 for Notre Dame, St. Mary's or lloly Cross Stal'l' and $3 l'or all students. 
Contact Elizabeth Ludeman at eludeman@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 








IE\AIPOINT
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 page 11 
Stakes high in third presidential debate 
The presidential debate tonight could be deci­siw in dt~termining whether there will again be a orw-term President George W. Bush or-instead four morn y1~ars of this Bush presidency. 
Sure. other twents betwnnn now and Nov. 2­a disaster or triumph in Iraq. 
a u~rrorist strike in this coun- Jack Colwell  
try. an international incident.  
a boost or jolt to the nation's economy or somnthing signif- Guest Column  
icant that wn could not even  

gtwss-could prove to have more impact than 
tlw debate. 
But tlw potential impact of this third of three debat1~s looms large. Tho stakes are high in a race now so clost~. 
Tlw lirst d1~bate is what put Sen . .John Kerry back in the race. After the Hepublican National Convtmtion. Bush enjoyed a bounce in the polls. inr.luding in the battleground states with the d!)ctoral votes for victory. 
Kerry seenwd unable even to defend his role as a decorated hero in Vietnam. 
Bush was deemed likeable and decisive by the middle ground of voters who will decide the election in those key statns. Kerry was not com­ing across as likeable or dncisive. Even many voters who don't really want Bush for a second tnrm were concluding that Kerry perhaps was not the better choice. 
Kerry won the first debate. Almost everyone agn~ns. even all four of the panelists on one of llw Fox News programs that night. Kerry came across as thinkable. not unthinkable. as an alternative to Bush. The prnsident. strangely. abandoned the style that made him so likeable in his acceptance sp1)ech and instead was pee­vish. 
Thus. Kerry got the bounce in the polls after the debate. almost into a tic nationally and, most importantly, in the battlegrounds. 
The second debate was a tic. Yes. partisans on each side claim1~d victory, each citing some poll or focus group. After dispensing with the spin­ning. it can be concluded that it was a tic. 
A tie. however, is more of a plus for Kerry than for Bush. Expectations are higher for the !'resident of the United States than for the chal­lenger, especially one who had been portrayed rath1~r effectively by the Bush campaign as like­ly to !lip and certainly to !lop. The longer Kerry holds his own with Bush. the more he will be vit)wed as able to hold the office. 
Stakes are very high for the president in this dt~bate. If he is perceived as a loser, his chances of n~-election will diminish. Could hfl really lose two of the three debates and tie the other and still go on to win? Possibly. 
Probably not. however, unlnss one of those monumental future events comes along to save 
him. 

Stakes are just as high for Kerry. What if 
Kerry is perceived as the loser. maybe blunder­
ing into some reinforcement of a flip-flop 
image? Kerry's momentum would be lost. The 
president could be back to the lead he had 
before the first debate. 
A tie? Again, that would help Kerry, at least 
enough to send the race on toward Nov. 2 with 
the electorate as evenly split as in 2000. 
The worst mistake President Bush could make 
tonight would be to follow in the stumbling foot­
steps of AI Gore toward the debacle Gore expe­
rienced in losing the debate5 and finally the 
presidency to Bush four years ago. A different 
Gore appeared each time. In the first debate, 
there was the sighing and insufferable Gore. 
Then came the overly passive Gore of the sec­
ond debate. Third, too late, there was what 
might have been the real Gore. 
The president certainly can't go back to the scowling Bush of the first de bate. But he better not stray much from the assertive Bush of the second debate. After all, tha·; style at least brought a tic. If he becomes a third Bush, say, a bombastic Bush, he could suffer the same fate as Gore. 
The worst mistake Kerry could make would be to go back to tortured rhEtoric that plagued him earlier. Voters don't want to hear him mus­ing and sorting through alternatives. They want him to be clear about what a.lternatives he offers and why, simply stated. 
Kerry also must be careful not to get too cute with a quip or too harsh with an allegation in a way that could come across to the undecided voters as improper in reference to the President of the United States. 
For those wishing to evalu 'l.te the effect of the debate tonight, here is a reminder: 
If you, like most American:;, already have picked a choice, don't get ca-ried away with enthusiasm for red-meat lin1~s of your candi­date. Those lines may help to solidify the base, but they also could turn off the very voters who must be swayed for victory. 
Also, don't miss it. This debate could be deci­sive. 
Jack Colwell writes a polit;'cal column for the South Bend Tribune, is host for "Michiana Week" and "Politically Spemcing" on WNIT-TV and is an adjunct associate professor in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics & Democracy at Notre Dame. 
The views e:xpressed in thi ~ column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Gro~se tete~ ~eo de ~eNc>. 
~~ ~i. mo:U! ~4',~\(l_) 


A tale of two 

VISIOnS 
When people ask me how I manage to write a column in the 
midst of midterm madness, I find myself quoting my president: 
"It's hard work." In the first presidential debate, President 
George W. Bush used the phrase "hard work" 13 times in an 
appeal to the American ethos. Yet. the effects of this debate 
"strategery" were null as Massachusetts 
Sen. John Kerry ran away with the first Peter Quaranto 
presidential vaudevillian drama. Today, 
according to most polls, Election 2004 could A Call to Action 
not be closer. As we approach tonight's final 
presidential debate, I feel a personal obliga­
tion to use this, my last pre-Nov. 2 column to weigh in one final 
time on the most important election of our lives. 
On the surface, tonight's debate can most likely be summed up 
in four words: more of the same. President Bush will persist 
with his simpleton tactics, accentuating loaded words, such as 
"freedom" and "ownership" to touch the American soul. Kerry 
will continue to look lubberly and lumpish. while maintaining 
his disparagement of Bush for every problem in the United 
States. Both candidates will throw around accusations. rhetoric 
and values knowing that the average American will not check 
FactCheck.org post-debate. However, it is 'a grave oversight to 
allow such a surface-level discourse to dictate our voting con­
sciousness in 2004. 
To make a quick digression. do you ever wonder what the can­
didates say to each other when they shake hands at the center 
of the stage during the introductions of the debate? I find this 
part to be the most amusing of the whole spectacle as the two 
men shake hands and exchange derisive sneers. I picture Kerry, 
like Ivan Drago in Hocky IV, staring down at Dubya, uttering, "I 
will break you." And then Dubya, like John Wayne in the classic 
Western Rio Bravo. retorting, "Sorry. don't get it done. dude." 
On that note, you have to admit that it would be so cool if Bush 
wore a cowboy hat in the debates. 
Heturning to the gravity of the moment, Americans, in this age 
of the 30-second television spot, are increasingly voting on can­
didates' television performances. It has become more important 
that a candidate come across as trustworthy, consistent and 
strong than that they project an agenda that is right for the 
country. Policy has taken a backseat to image. As a result of this 
modern electoral hoopla, we fail to recognize that Election 2004 
has truly become home to a tale of two visions for the future of 
America in the 21st Century. 
Bush and Kerry, though both have changed their views (a.k.a. 
flip-flopped) on certain occasions, are both actually quite clear 
on where they want to take the country. For a long time, I have 
argued that the two parties in America were essentially the 
same, propagating trivial differences. In 2004, my beliefs about 
U.S. politics have been transformed as party differences have been elucidated in times of contingency. 
Recognizing these contrasting visions, the challenge is then to 
apply them to our particular historical moment. It is here"that 
serious deficiencies in the Bush vision become !;lear. While Bush 
claims he would not change anything about the U.S. war effort 
in Iraq, the situation in Baghdad, Fallujah and Najaf continues 
to deteriorate. While Bush speaks of an economy growing 
"stronger and stronger." his presidency was the first since 
Herbert Hoover to see a decline in payroll employment. While 
Bush claims no liability for enormous tax deficits, it is clear from 
research by the Congressional Budget Office that his tax cuts are 
primarily responsible. While Bush speaks of successes in educa­
tion, healthcare and employment, his words again and again 
neglect obvious reality. 
Applying the socio-economic realities to the Kerry agenda. it is not certain that Kerry's policy platforms will solve all the cur­rent problems; however, it is apparent that the Kerry-Edwards administration is willing to face these realities. while thinking hard about leading the United States in the right direction. Throughout the campaign, the Kerry camp has shown its will­ingness to face the realities on the ground in Iraq and on the ground in American cities. Kerry and Edwards are sincerely interested in asking the right questions about why al-Qaeda ranks have swelled, why anti-Americanism is at an all-time high, why over 30 million Americans live below the poverty line and why more than 45 million Americans go without health insurance. 
Charles Dickens' words of 1859 ring true in 2004: "It was the best of times; it was the worst of times." Today, we stand in the midst of a tale of two visions of shaping such times for the United States of America in the 21st Century. We cannot settle for the hollow, paltry debates to shape our understanding of this election or even our times; rather, we must strive to evaluate the divergent visions. For on Nov. 2, you and I will hold the power to determine which of those visiuns will guide the United States of America for the next four years and beyond. It is most definitely hard work. but as Bruce Springsteen so truthfully says, "The country we carry in our hearts is waiting." We can wait no longer. 
Peter Quaranta is a junior political science and international peace studies major. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

,----~--~-~~~~~~~--~~---~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
Happy belated Coming Out Day 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 So"'h Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The sun is coming up as I write this, and coming weeks, months and years, you will a lifestyle, it is a person; being gay is not a 
EDIWR IN CHIEF 

old questions have started bothering me be forced to face. Right now the issue is choice, it is a commitment to oneself. 
Matt Lozar 

again. Mornings often do this to me, and framed around the question of accepting Understand this, and you will understand MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER all I can think about is honor and duty, gays and lesbians. Tomorrow it will be everything that follows. Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan compassion and love, how silly my job is­someone else, but the underlying problem Now, in the interest of promoting accept­
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR how silly to believe that is universal. ance here at Notre Dame, of gays and les­Joe Herder writing can accomplish Lance Gallop People do not understand gays and les­bians in particular, but really of everyone, I anything-and how bians, where we come from and why we am going to ask a few things of you. 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger 

I'll try anyway. The Third Way make the choices that we do. They espe­Hespond to this article, discuss it and think 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

In case you missed cially do not understand gay social about it, and think about and discuss the 
SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
the bright purple invitation, Monday was activism, and they prance about words like whole issue in general with your friends, SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
National Coming Out Day. Did anyone "gay agenda," which do not mean very your classmates, your confessor and your SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
come out to you? If you're lucky, the much but which sound good when you are parents. Discussion is powerful, and it pro­PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley answer is yes, and you can revel in the fact rallying against someone. I hope that you vokes understanding, and understanding is GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins that you have a friend or a family member can see that there is no such thing as a gay the gatekeeper of acceptance. AuVEJUISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin (maybe even a daughter or a son) who agenda, or rather that there is, and it's Also. carry yourself with dignity and Au.DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson trusts you unerringly and wants to share precisely what you would expect if you compassion. You. and you alone, have the SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen with you a piece of her soul. And in case took a "human agenda" and made its hold­ability to change hearts, to wound people you are still unsure how to react, try this: er gay. The lack of understanding isn't the with casual cruelty, to break souls and to 
CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia be happy for her. If you want extra friend­whole of the problem, but it is a beginning. mend them and to remc,ke the world. ship points, throw her a party. The frrst thing that people forget is there Think before you act and speak, try 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

Or maybe you were the one who came is really no difference between someone acceptance on for size and let compassion 
(574) 631-7471 

FAX out (or, at least, who wanted to). If so, I who is gay and someone who is straight, guide your every move. That is one kind of 
(574) 631-6927 wish you the best and I thank you. I've cov­other than sexual orientation (and the fact greatness, and this will be the beginning, 
ADVERTISING ered this ground before, but I cannot say it that experience has often made the gay for you and for me. (574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
too many times: coming out is incredibly person very accepting of others). The moti­The sun is all the way up now, and my 
~ITOR IN CHIEF 

important for you, for your friends and for vations, thoughts, desire, needs and con­writing is done. You will determine what 
(574) 631-4542 

the entire Notre Dame community. cerns are human, and exactly like yours. this day becomes. Please do not forget. 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4 541 obsme@nd.edu There is a message behind all of this, of What would you think and feel if you ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR course, but the message is not about toler­woke up tomorrow morning and found out Lance Gallop is a senior computer sci­
(574) 631-4324 ance, as you may think. Tolerance is self­that you were gay (or straight as the case ence, philosophy, and theology major. 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

righteous, and an implicit judgment of infe­may be)? Would the person within you This article is the first in the "Calamus
(574) 631-5313 

riority stands at the root of the word. This change? Would you suddenly fmd it impos­Trio" (after a collection ofpoems by Walt 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 
631-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu message is about acceptance, which sible to accept yourself, would it become Whitman). The next column will take a VIEWPOINT DESK requires humility and a certain peace of evil for you to say to God "thank you for hard look at Catholic teachings and beliefs. 

(574) 
631-5303 viewpoint.] @nd.edu heart. everything that I am"? Would it be a crime and the third will deal with social issues. 


SPORTS DESK 

Acceptance is something at which people for you to want to know and be yourself as He welcomes all discussions and can be 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 

at Notre Dame are terrible. In fact, when you are? reached at lgallop@nd. edu. 
SCENE DESK 

you get right down to it, they are even ter­I hope you realize that the answer is no, The views expressed in this column are
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK rible at tolerance. But it is also an issue because this is the root of everything that I those ofthe author and not necessarily 
smc.1 @nd.edu whose time has come, and which, in the will ever say on this topic: being gay is not those ofThe Observer. 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Crosses stood for women as well as lJabies 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper Why is it that all the responses to the They represent a society where sex is bear a child, let it grow within your own published in print and online by the students of the vandalism of the white crosses symbolizing given and exchanged freely and unwanted body, created as a part of yourself and then University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's the abortion protest were written by guys? pregnancies are common. A single woman give it up? 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
Of all the reactions to this display that I with a child she can't support will be Regardless of any justification, this often 
not governed by policies of the administration ofeither 
have heard from students, not 
one blamed for her error, as people leaves emotional scars on the mother. Can 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
saw a message any deeper than wonder, "Why didn't she just get those who vandalized those crosses, or
advertisements based on content. 

"abortion is evil" in the exhib­an abortion? She's forcing condone that vandalism, justify disregard­
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as it. Yes, each cross represents others to help support her ing the position of these women? 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, unborn children aborted mistake." Charlie Ebersol mentions in his letter a Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. without being given a Those crosses represent 16-year-old girl who ge1s an abortion fol­
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views chance to live. If you are a mindset that needs to lowing abuse and rape. only to see those of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe pro-choice, you undoubt­change. Whether you white crosses years later and deduce the Observer. 
edly see this as a crime, arc pro-life or pro­protesters would have preferred she died 
Viewpoint space is available to all re-aders. The free 
and are upset with the choice, we should all in place of the child. I don't think the dis­
expression ofall opinions d1rough letters is encouraged. 
people who criticized the recognize the need for play limits itseU'to the rights of the child at
Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include 
exercise of free speech help and prayer for the all; the crosses stood for the women as
contact information. by using a cross to com­women who deal with much as for the babies. Perhaps one could Questions regarding Oburverpolicies should be memorate an innocent life such issues, be they vic-have been for her. representing a prayer directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lo:mr. cut ofl'. To those who van­tims or merely scared for the healing of her pain, the soul of the dalized these crosses, I young women. Even older child. and her ability to make peace with POST OFFICE INFORMATION would like to hear your justi­or more assured women her past and move on. I don't see how bla­
The Oh~t""-"r (USPS 599 2-4000) i• puhliJhcJ Mond.1y through Fridaj t.'X\:Cf't during 
fication for such an act. I per­seeking abortions because they tant disrespect for pain, suffering and 
cum :.nd ,-~nion periods. A JubS~.:nprion to The Obsmcr is S I 00 for one .le.ldtmic yc.u: $';'\ foront'U!:In.."Jttr. 
sonally am anti-abortion, but pro­don't want the pressure or death can be considered "free speech". If 
The Oho,cr~r IJ .l~Mmbcr ofthe AA~Klo1tl"d l'rcu. All rtprodu<.tion right~ Me 
t~t'I'Vcd, choice nonetheless; I do not think that responsibility of a child are a sign that you have something to say, let's hear it ­Th'" Oh~Nvt'r il puhli~hcd ar. P.O. AoxQ my religious beliefs should be forced upon something needs to be fixed in our society. and if you resent the beliefs of others being 
024 !<.nurh !>min~ H<tll 1124 )ourh Dining H.tll Nouc l>o~mt.·, IN 465Sf)-0779 Norte Damt·, IN 46556-UniJ other young women faced with such a diffi­These would-be-mothers need help in pushed upon you, that's your right as well 
1\·nud~t..;al po,ragr p.lid u Notre lJanw 

cult situation as an unexpected pregnancy. understanding and taking control of their -but vandalism of a call to prayer and
.lfld a..l!.litinn;~lmailingoff~ect. 

However, can we not look beyond merely own lives. respect gets you nowhere. 
l'OSTMASTE.R 

the pro-choice belief expressed by these How can anyone blindly promote the
knd ~dl't'v ~.:nrm::riont ro: 
fht"Oho.crv-a­

crosses? They also represent women bat­welfare of an unborn child without consid­Kirsten Hoelmer 
The Oh)l'tVCt is a Rlt.mbcr nf the A~J<.Kiolt<.'tii~CJ,, All n:producrkm ri,ghr~ an.· ll.'\\.'f\1~, 
tered, raped and pregnant at the age of 14, ering the welfare of the mother? Those Senior without the physical or emotional strength crosses symbolize two lives being altered. Pasquerilla East to handle a pregnancy. Guys, can you imagine what i.t's like to Ocr. 12 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Angela Saoud Justin Schuver OBSERVER POLL 
Megan O'Neil Kate Gales Jeannine Privat Ken Fowler 
What are you doing for Fall Break? 
Viewpoint Scene Eileen Duffy Maria Smith Graphics Illustrator Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at Desiree Zamora Graham Ebetsch 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"He who does not have the courage to speak up for his rights cannot earn the respect ofothers." 
Rene Torres author 

ELECTION 2004 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TIIE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Ad war focused on 14 states 
WASIIINGTON -Television advertising by President Bush and Sen. John Kerry and their political parties is focused on 14 states. n~llecting a shrunken battleground in the final month or the presidential campaign. 
HqHtbliean Bush's campaign has scaled back its ads in Democratic-leaning Washington in rncent weeks. Meanwhile, Kerry and tlw Democratic Party have pulled out. ol' Missouri, when~ Bush is leading in polls. and abandotwd plans to return to the air this week in North Carolina. historically a Hepublic:an staW. 
Both sicks an~ saturating airwaves in 14 other states, according to an Associated Press analysis of airtimP bought ovnr the past week by Bush and tlw Hepublican National Commit.t!~e and Kerry and the Democratic National Committee. 
Tlw most ads are running in Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and W1~st Virginia. However, 10 otlwr stat!~s -Colorado, Iowa, Maine, Michigan. Minnesota, Nevada, New llampshirc\ NPW Mexico, Oregon. Wisconsin also an~ seeing heavy advertising. 
BasPd on a nwiPw of thn country's 210 media markets. an independnnt analysis found that ttw top ~0 markets for political ads n~ach only 27 percent or ttw elnctorate. The analysis by Nnils!~ll Monitor-Plus and The 
· Univ1~rsity of Wisconsin Advnrtising Project was rdnased Tuesday. 
Crawford rallies behind Bush 
after paper endorses Kerry 
CHAWFOB I>. T1~xas -Signs at the bank, tlw cafe and the Bottlinger Grain bins all declare Crawford -the proud home of the president's ranch-as "Bush Country." 
So when the Lone Star Iconoclast, a tiny weekly that bills itself as Bush's hometown paper. endorsed Democrat John Kerry, there was lwll to pay. 
Local businesses pulled their ads and banned the papr.r from their stores. 
"We felt a little betrayed," said Larry N1dson. manager of the Crawford Country Style, a downtown shop that sells "Luvya Dubya" trinkets and other Bush memorabil­ia. 
Most folks in Crawford (pop. 705) whole­heartmlly support the re-election of the man whose "Western White House" made their speck on the map famous. Eighty-two per­CI~nt votnd for President Bush in 2000. 
Tlw paper's publisher. W. Lr.on Smith, said lw never expected such a hostile response. 
Clinton lends his voice to Kerry 
SANTA FE, N.M. -President Clinton can't put his r·ecovering heart into John Kerry's election d'f'ort out on the campaign trail, but he is using his voice to help in the final weeks of the race. 
Clinton regularly phones Kerry and his aides to otTer advice, and he plans to tape a phone message that will be sent into voters' honws. Campaign officials say it's likely he'll also record radio advertisements. but his slow recovery from heart surgery is making it questionable whether he'll be able to do any physical campaigning. 
Dmnocrats who have spoken to Clinton say lw is eager to get more involved. but his doc­tors and his wife are not sure he is strong enough to travel five weeks after he under­went quadruple bypass surgery. 
Candidates prep for last debate 
Bush taunts Kerry; Cheney, Edwards forge ahead on campaign trail 

Associated Press 

COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -President Bush taunted Democratic rival John Kerry and tested debate lines before friendly audiences in Colorado and Arizona on Tuesday while Kerry crammed in private for Wednesday night's final faceoff of the campaign. 
Three weeks before the election, the running mates were running hard, too. Vice President Dick Cheney defended anew the invasion of Iraq, but Sen. John Edwards said Bush and Cheney had made a mess of the war and were "out of touch with what's happening in the real world." 
Kerry prepared at a Santa Fe, N.M., hotel for his third televised confrontation with Bush, scheduled for 9 p.m. EDT in Tempe. Ariz.. but he did take time during the afternoon for a bike ride. Bush met with political advisers and his debate sparring partner, Sen. Judd Gregg,H-N.H. 
At a rally in Colorado Springs, Bush mocked Kerry's credibility and said the debates so far "have highlighted the clear differ­ences between the senator and me on issues ranging 
from jobs to taxes to health 
care to the war on terror." 
Again and again he 
repeated what has become a 
favorite refrain: Kerry "can 
run but he cannot hide" 
from his record. 
Bush won the Rocky Mountain state by more than 8 percentage points in 2000, but Colorado has shown signs it could tilt either way this year. 
While the president spoke in Colorado Springs, which went his way four years ago in the southern part of the state, Edwards campaigned in Commerce City, just northwest of Denver. 
The North Carolina Democrat contended that Bush was out of touch with important issues including health care and the econo­my, including jobs lost to other nations. 
'Til tell you what would be good for the economy, would be to outsource George Bush," he said. 
On the stump and in an interview with AP Hadio, Edwards criticized adminis­tration decisions regarding Iraq. He cited U.S. deaths that have topped 1 ,000, and he said the country had become a magnet for terror­ists. 
But Cheney, campaigning in Iowa, said that under 
Saddam Hussein the country 
probably would have served 
as a source of weapons for 
terrorists. 
"The situation we faced 
was Saddam Hussein and 
Iraq presented the most 
likely place where there 
could be a nexus between 
the terrorists on the one 
hand and weapons of mass 
destruction," Cheney said. 
The chief U.S. weapons inspector in Iraq said Oct. 6 that he had concluded that Saddam's Iraq had produced no weapons of mass destruction after 1991 and that Iraq's ability to develop such weapons had weak­ened over years of U.N. sanctions. However, Charles Duelfer, head of the Iraq Survey Group, said Saddam remained a threat and hoped to revive his weapons program if the United Nations lifted sanctions. 
Bush was introduced at a campaign rally by his daughter Jenna, who read from a prepared statement that delighted the presi­dent's audience in Colorado Springs. 
"He has brought to our family the same values he's brought to this country: strength, compassion and integrity," she said, as her father stood blinking at her side with a slight smile, his hands clasped before him. 
For Bush, Wednesday's debate is a chance to revive in public opinion polls as the clock ticks down to Election Day. His job-approval rating slumped to 47 percent in a USA Today-CNN-Gallup poll published Tuesday -one point above the lowest point in his presidency, reached in May. 
Bush's rally was invita­tion-only. About 100 demon­strators gathered outside, many carrying signs protest­ing the Iraq war. "Fear more years," read one sign. "Bush's war: how many lives per gallon?" said another. 
Later Tuesday. the presi­dent spoke at a fund-raiser near Phoenix, dubbing Kerry yet again as "the most liberal member of the United States Senate" and saying he could not run from his record. 
Some Democrats have expressed concern that Kerry was spending time preparing for the debates while Bush was out tearing him down. While it is true that Kerry has stayed out of the public eye before each of the debates, there have been several days during the past two weeks when Kerry's campaign schedule has been more ambitious than Bush's. 


SOUND BITE: GUNS 

Should the federal government require background checks for buyers at gun shows? 
"I believe the instant check system is the best way to 
"As a gun-owner and-iifelong hunter who believes in keep ·criminals from buying guns at gun shows and I the Second Amendment, I agree with John McCain support changing federal law to give gun show sponsors and responsible Republicans that we need to close the special access to the National Instant Check System to gun show loophole. The federal government should conduct checks on behalf of non-licensed vendors. My require rapid background checks for buyers at gun administration is continuing to improve the accuracy, shows so that we can protect the rights oflaw-abiding efficiency and reliability of the instant check system, Americans and keep guns out of the hands of crimi­and has improved the rate for an immediate decision nals and terrorists. " 
for a background check.from 71 percent to 91 percent." 
Kerry 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEfts WIRE SERVICES page 17 
AP 

New York Yankees Hideki Matsui hits a three-RBI double off Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schillin~' in the third inning of the ALCS. The Yankees built an 8-0 lead and held on to defeat the Red Sox 10-7. 
Yankees, Rivera survive 10-7 over Bc,ston 
NCAA Men's Soccer Top 25 . 
team 

1 Santa Barbara 
2 North Carolina 
3 New Mexico 
3 Indiana 
5 Virginia 
6 Southern Methodist 
9 South Carolina 
7 Creighton 
g 
Santa Clara 10 St. John's 11 James Madison 12 NOTRE DAME 13 South Florida 14 Boston .couege 15 Pennsylvania 16 Duke 16 Virginia Commonwealth 18 Stanford 19 California 20 Penn State 21 Maryland 22 Michigan 23 Hartwick 24 Alabama.. 24 Washington 
NCAA Men's Cross Country. 
team 

1 Wisconsin 
2 Stanlord 
3 Arkansas 
4 lana 
5 Michigan 
6 Colorado. 
7 Georgetown 
7 N.C;State 
9 NOTREOAME 
10 Butler 
11 Villanova 
12 CaiPoiy San luis 
13 Air Force 
14 BYU 
15 Arizona State 
16 Providence 
17 Minnesota 
18 Flortda State 
19 Indiana. 
20 . Oklahoma State 21 Colorado State 22 Miami (Ohio) 22 William and Mary 24 Ohio.State 25 Oregon 
NCAA Women's Cross, pouQtry 
team 

1  Stanford  
2  Providence  378  
3  Michigan  362  
4  Colorado  336  
5  NOTRE.DAME  33~  
6  Duke  321  
7  Arizona State  313·  
7  North Carolina  297 <  
9  Tennessee  277  
10  Missouri  .248<  
11  Villanova  243  
12  Wake Forest  232  
13  Southern Methodist  216  
14  Santa Barbara  209  
15  Georgia ..  
16 17  Colurnbi;i · BYU  
18  
19  
20  
21  
22  
23  
24  
24  

around the dial 
BASEBALL Boston at New York 7:19p.m., FOX Houston at St. Louis 7:19 p.m., FOX 
record 
10-0·1 
9·0·1 
9·0~0 
8·2·1 
9·2·0 
9·3-0 
.·lhl~l 9·2~0 
11-1•.0 
a~4•2 
n-o-t· 
9·2~1 
7·0;.2 7·3·0 6·2·1 


lt-1~0 
7·3·1 
6~1·4 8~f;2 
6•2•5 
7·3~1· .· 7~2·2 ... 6•2-3.< .• 6~4~0 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Mariano Rivera showed up just in time to save the New York Yankees. 
Shortly after jetting back from a funeral for relatives in Panama, baseball's greatest closer stopped the surging Boston Red Sox, who had cut an eight-run deficit to one. 
Rivera got Kevin Millar to pop out to strand the tying run at third base in the eighth inning, then finished out a thrilling 10·7 win for the Yankees in Tuesday night's opener of the AL championship series. 
Hideki Matsui tied an 
IN BRIEF 

Thrashers owner fined 
$250,000 by NHL 
NEW YORK -The NHL fined one of the owners of the Atlanta Thrashers $250,000 on Tuesday for saying the league would use replace­ment players next year if a new col­lective bargaining agreement isn't reached, The Associated Press has learned. 
Steve Belkin, a member of Atlanta Spirit, LLC -the group that bought the Thrashers earlier this year ­was given the hefty fine for com­ments he made over the weekend to the Boston Herald, said an official within the league speaking on the condition of anonymity. 
"I deeply regret the comments I made to the Boston Herald, which were my personal, uninformed views, and not those of the Atlanta Thrashers' ownership and manage­ment -nor those of the National Hockey League," Belkin said in a statement. 
Belkin, a Weston, Mass., business-ALCS record with five RBis, four off Curt Schilling, Mike Mussina was perfect through six innings before Mark Bellhorn doubled on a drive that hit the left­field wall on a hop with one out in the seventh and Bernie Williams drove in three runs, including a two-run double in the eighth that gave Rivera some breathing room. 
For much of the night it seemed like a Iaugher, with the Yankees ahead 6-0 by the third and 8-0 in the sixth. But after Bellhorn's hit on Mussina's 86th pitch, the stubbly faced pitcher's huge curveball quickly became hittable. 
man, said the NHL had a solution for next fall if a new collective bargain· ~n_g 1J$reement wasn't reached. Holcomb has uncertain 
future with Pacers 
INDIANAPOLIS -Randy Holcomb knows his future with the Indiana Pacers is uncertain. He also knows that making game-winning baskets won't hurt his chances to make the team. 
The free agent helped Indiana to an 85-84 victory over the Washington Wizards by tipping in a rebound as time expired Monday night in the preseason opener for both teams. 
"Those moments are precious and priceless," said the 6-9, 280-pound forward from San Diego State. "When things like that happen and people pat you on the back it feels really good." 
However, in 12 minutes against the Wizards, his only points came on the game-winner, so his roster spot is not secure. He also grabbed five 
Millar hit a two-run dou­ble with two outs and scored on a single by Trot Nixon. Tanyon Sturtze relieved and Jason Varitek hit a two-run homer on his third pitch, pulling the Red Sox to 8-5. 
David Ortiz made it 8-7 with a two-run triple in the eighth off Tom Gordon, who would have been the Yankees' closer had Rivera not been back and ready. Ortiz's drive to left-center bounced off the glove of Matsui near the top of the wall, and the crowd got up to welcome Rivera, per­haps the biggest factor in New York's six AL pen­nants and four World 
rebounds. 
The Pacers need to make at least three more cuts before the start of the regular season on Nov. 3 to get their roster down to the required 12 lllayers.
t·urcal turns himself into 
Cobb County jail 
MARIETTA, Ga. -Atlanta Braves shortstop Rafael Furcal turned him· self in to the Cobb County Jail on Tuesday to serve a 21-day sentence on a probation violation. 
Jail spokeswoman Nancy Bodiford said Furcal entered 1the jail two hours before a court deadline. 
A judge decided last week to allow Furcal to participate in the playoffs despite a probation violation on a drunken driving charge. Furcal's season ended Monday night when the Braves lost in Game 5 of their divisional series against the Houston Astros. 
The 26-year-old Furcal was arrest­ed Sept. 10 in Atlanta on a charge of driving under the influence. 
Series titles since 1996. 
He had returned to his native country Sunday after two relatives were electrocuted in the swim­ming pool of his home, and arrived back at the ball­park in the second inning after a private plane arranged by the Yankees took him to Teterboro Airport in New Jersey. 
Given a huge ovation by the sellout crowd of 56,135, he fell behind 2-1 to Millar, who popped the next pitch to shortstop Derek Jeter, behind second base. 
After this t1uiller, Pedro Martinez pitches for the Red Sox on Wednesday. 


page 18 Wednesday, October 13, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles take care of Thunder in 5 games 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

It took the Belles five games to get the victory against Tri-State University Tuesday. but a win the in the left column is better than a loss in the right. 
The Thunder had yet to earn a win in the MIAA, but gave the Belles a run for their money. But in the end the Belles triumphed over the last-place Thunder. 
Coming into the match, Saint Mary's was in desperate need of a win. Tri-State came out ready to play and captured the first two games of the match, 30-25 and 30-27. 
But the Belles kept their com­posure and did something they haven't done all season. They were able to win a match after losing the first game. 
In the third game, the Belles bounced back with some impres­sive play and prevailed by a score of 30-22. Still down 2-1 in the match, they fought back and pulled out an exciting victory, winning 30-28. In the final con­test, the Belles turned the tables and secured the win by beating the Thunder 15-10 in the tiebreaker. 
A number of players rose to the occasion for the Belles to help them avoid their third straight loss. Elise Rupright had a fine game on offense as she con­tributed 13 kills. Shelly Bender added another 11 kills and team­mate Michelle Turley continued her dominance with a team-high 18 kills. 
On defense, some spectacular play from Anne Cusack and Michelle Gary helped the Belles mount the comeback. Cusack led the team with 28 digs on defense, and Gary tallied up another 25, preventing the Tri-State offense from scoring. 
The win keeps the Belles in the thick of MIAA and gives them some much-needed motivation as they prepare to finish up their conference play. 
Saint Mary's is now 5-10 over­all and improves to 5-7 in the conference. With four more con­ference games left on their schedule, the Belles are still in striking distance of Hope and Albion who are both only a cou­ple games ahead of them in the division. 
Saint Mary's will now have some time to polish up its play this week to prepare for Sunday's game against Adrian. 
From here on out, every game will be like a playoff game for the Belles. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
N 0 VOLLEYBALL 

Irish ready to return home 
Notre Dame set to take on nonconference foe Illinois State at JACC 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
A little sun has started to shine on the Irish season, but clouds still lurk in the distance. 
After starting out its Big East schedule with three consecutive wins, including back-to-back road victories over Rutgers and Seton Hall, Notre Dame (8-5) returns to the friendly courts of the Joyce Center tonight at 7 
p.m. to take on Illinois State. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown portrayed a cautious excite­ment when asked how it feels to be on a three-game winning streak after starting off the year 5-5. 
"It feels great, we're com­petitors and everyone likes to win," she said. 
"But we're not coming away thinking we've got it made." 
The Irish will be chal­lenged by a Redbird team that is currently tied for sec­ond place in the Missouri Valley Conference with a league record of 5-2. 
They are coming off losses to conference foes Southwest Missouri State and Wichita defender-currently second State last weekend but on the team in blocks behind Brown believes they are a Emily Kabbes. hungry, dangergus team. Notre Dame seems to be 

"I expect a very competi­hitting its stride right now. tive match, '1 Brown said. Besides leading the Big "They lost a couple [match­East with a 3-0 record, cap­es] this weekend. But I tain Meg Henican set a think that just makes them school record in Sunday's more determined to get a win over Seton llall while win against us." Adrianna Stasiuk has been 
This is the riinth consecu­named Big East Rookie of 
tive  year  in  the Week.  
which  the  The freshman  
two  teams  "It's great to be  had a hitting per­ 
have played.  back here and not  centage of .302  
Notre Dame has not lost  have to be on the  and 3.43  recorded kills and  
to  Illinois  road."  3.29  digs  per  
State  on  the  game  against  
floor of the Joyce Center since 1993  Debbie Brown Irish coach  Seton Hall. Tonight mark the  will first  

while win­ning the last five overall matches against the Redbirds. 
Illinois State lost only one starter from the squad that fell to Notre Dame in three games last season. 
Senior Kelly Rikli heads that group. The 5-foot-1 0 setter leads the Redbirds in assists with an average of 12 per game. 
Laura Doornbos and Kari Staehlin are the main offen­sive threats as they are first and second on the team in kills with averages of 3.61 and 3.02 respectively. Staehlin is also a good 

home match for 
the Irish since a five-game loss to Valparaiso on Sept. 7. 
After two difficult games on the road against confer­ence opponents, Brown is ready to go back to her familiar seat on the Joyce Center bench and face a nonconference team the Irish have had recent suc­cess against. 
"It's great to be back here and not have to be on the road," she said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Cast your vote at the 
NO Student Media 

res1• 






Tuesday, Oct. 26, 11-6, LaFortune Main Lounge 
Vote for your favorite candidate and be part of Notre Dame history. (For ND students; bring ID). 
Sponsored by WSND, WVFI, NDTV and Scholastic 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ SPORTS 

MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Pair of 2-1 teams face off in Rabid Bats-Ramblers matchup tf[)night 

By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Playoff positioning will be on the line in the season finale when the Rabid Bats and the Ramblers clash tonight. 
Both teams are 2-1 and realize the importance of tonight's battle, with the winner being in prime position heading into the playoffs. 
The Ramblers of Siegfried expected to be in this position. 
The two-time defending champs' lone blemish is an unex­pected defeat in week two against Carroll. 
Siegfried rebounded on Sunday, however, soundly defeating St. Ed's 20-0. An explosive passing game keyed the win as the Ramblers racked up 192 passing yards. 
They will look to employ a bal­anced attack tonight using the arm of quarterback Brian Vithe and the running ability of tailback Matt Woperer. 
A strong defense has also con­tributed to the Ramblers' recent success. 
The team has only given up 17 points in three games this year. 
For the Rabid Bats, an option­oriented offense has been the cor­nerstone for the team. Quarterback Sean Wieland has seen limited passing action. He put the ball in the air only five times in the Bats' last game. 
Instead, the Bats have kept the ball on the ground, relying on their strong offensive line. 
The Bats should be well pre­pared and well rested for tonight's game since they didn't have a game on Sunday. 
The key to the game will likely be the Rabid Bats' ability to con­trol the ball and keep the potent Siegfried offense off the field. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

The College of Arts and Letters Invites Faculty and Staff Nominations for the Third Annual Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation 
The College of Arts and Letters announces the third annual Award of Appreciation, to be conferred on an outstanding faculty or staff member from outside the College. 
We are looking for a faculty or staff employee whose work elsewhere in the University contributes immeasurably to the College of Arts and Letters and enriches its life. 
A certificate and honorarium accompany this award. 
Please send a brief letter to the Committee describing the outstanding contributions your nominee has made to the life of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation Committee c/o Carmen Leichty 100 0'Shaughnessy Hall cleichty@nd.edu 
Deadline Friday, October 29, 2004 


UNIVERSITY OF 
N()TRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS ANO LETTERS 
A job in Indianapolis and money to pay off your student loan....Could life get any better? 
First, a job in Indianapolis. 
St. Paul Travelers has an outstanding opportunity as an Account Executive in our Indianapolis Underwriting office. Students who want to put their analytical and marketing skills to use should post through Career Services. 
More information is available at 
http://www.travelers.com/hr/careers/college/dp/udp/ 
Second, go to Career Services and register for the Indiana Careers. You may be able to receive. up to $37 5 a month for 2 years towards your student loan payments. 
So, a great job and money in your pocket and an easy car ride back to Notre Dame football games! Account Executive positions available throughout the country including Michigan and Illinois. E-mail resume to: college@stpaultravelers.com For more information about our oppor­
tunities, visit our Web site: www.stpaultravelers.com 
MEN'S GOLF 
Wind plays factor in golfers' performance 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Tuesday was a good day for the Irish contingent at the Eastern Illinois Invitational. All five Irish players, competing as individu­als, had strong days on the tour­nament's final day. 
In an event plagued with wind and bad weather, the Irish play­ers seemed to get better as the weather got worse, while other teams struggled to control their shots. 
"Weather separates average players from good players, and it takes a lot of guts and resolve [to play the way we played]." said assistant coach Chris Whitten. 
The wind played such a factor over the course of the event that the winning individual score did­n't even break par, coming in 3­strokes-over at 219. 
Leading the Irish delegation were senior co-captain K.C. Wiseman and sophomore Adam Hoyer, both of whom shot a three-round total of 223 and tied for third. Hoyer, a transfer from the University of Florida, was competing in his first event as a Notre Dame student, having just earned a roster spot in practice the week before the event. 
Sophomore Adam Gitl'ord was close behind them, breaking the top 10, finishing in ninth place. 
Senior Steve Colnitis and junior Federico Salazar both had strong final rounds to make up for somewhat disappointing Mondays. Salazar, who was in 50th at the start of the final round, shot a 74 and moved up substantially in the standings. Similarly, Colnitis, who also struggled in the first two rounds, shot a 77 to improve his position­ing. 
While Whitten is pleased with the way his pla.yers performed, he sees now as the time for the guys who competed in the Eastern Illinois Invitational, dubbed as a "JV event," as well as the rest of the team, to work on getting some good practice while the weather is still pleas­ant. 
"This is time to improve in their game, rather than just maintain where they are, and to put in some good practice time," he said. 
The Irish will have to practice hard in the next weeks. as the team heads off to Stanford University to compete in the Nelson Invitational against some very strong competition of Oct. 23-24. 
Despite the faet the players that competed this weekend did not represent the Irish, the team ros­ter has not been solidified and there is a possibility of guys working their way into it. 
"I wish we were in a position where sports were locked up, because the best teams in college golf don't have a lot of fluctuation in their lineups," Whitten said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

-
WORLD FAMOUS DUELING 
PIANO SHOW EtrERY IIIGHI 
BUY ONE SANDWI~:H OR WRAP &GETSECONDONEAT1/l PRICE WITH CURRENT S1rUDENT ID! 
100 N. CENTER ST. (In the "100 CENTER" Behind Hacienda & Funny Bone) 259 ·1522 www.rumrunnersusa.com OPEN: Wed-Sun Nights 

page 20 Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
against conference leader Hope in a 1-1 tie, it also struggled to squeak out a 1-0 win against last-place Tri-State. 

"When you play a less-skilled team. you have to make sure to fight mentally to play your brand of soccer instead of playing to your opponent's game," MacKenzie said. "You don't want to play down to the other team's level." 
Thankfully for the Belles, that was not the case in their last game against Tri-State. The Belles played strong soccer from start to finish, allowing them to rotate in every player. 
"Against Tri-State, we knew what we needed to do, found the back of the net early, and took it to them," MacKenzie said. 
While the last two games gave the team a chance to give neces­sary momentum and confidence to the Belles, it also provided valuable experience for the remainder of the year. 
"The last two games have helped team morale a lot as well," MacKenzie said. "They were more than just two wins." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at 
rduffy 1 @nd.edu 


FOOTBALL 

Quinn says he will start against Navy 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
SportS Editor 
After suffering a concussion in Saturday's win over Stanford, lrish quarterback Brady Quinn is ready to play against Navy. 
"l think Brady is fine," lrish coach Tyrone Willingham said at Tuesday's press conference. "What we have to do is always go through the normal steps any time a guy has an injury. This one requires that you look at him, but I think he's fine." 
When asked if he expected Quinn to play Saturday, Willingham responded, "Absolutely." 
Quinn practiced Tuesday. and answered questions afterwards. 
"I feel tine," Quinn said. ''I'm feeling good. I was out there practicing today, so everything's tine." 
lie said he wasn't sure which particular play he was injured on, whether it have been the quarterback sneak into the end zone or a previous play. 
"It's hard to tell," he said. Quinn described his injury by saying. "I got my bell rung." 
Third-down conversions 
Saturday against Stanford, the Irish converted 10-for-19 third downs, an unusually high percentage, especially this sea­son. Willingham said a lot of it was good execution on first and second downs. 
"Ideally, those downs play a huge part of it because if there's less ground to cover, it's easier to cover it," Willingham said. 
lie also said the majority of converting on third down comes down to execution. 
"But the second part of it is, and the major portion of it is, you have to execute on third down," he said. "That's whether it's third and short, or third and long, third and medium. You've got to execute. If you're execut­ing and putting things in the right place, it happens. We were fortunate Saturday, our guys, that was a pretty high percentage. You normally don't see that." 
Before Saturday's game, the Irish were 26-for-78 on third down conversions. Purdue leads the nation in that category, con­verting 22-for-70 third downs, good for 60 percent. 
Hoyte back home, but different situation 
The last time Irish linebacker Brandon Boyte played Navy in his home state of New Jersey, 
he  was  filling in for  a  sick  
Courtney Watson.  
Hoyte played  well  in  the  

absence of the middle line­backer, registering a team-high nine tackles, including two for a loss. 
"Anytime that you have a chance to go home, it's a big deal, it's important," Willingham said. "So not only was the opportunity to step in for Courtney, when we found that out, we reacted as coaches always do. We expect the next guy to step in and [say], 'Let's go play.' Of course, he was well­prepared and ready for that. Yet at the same time you're not ready for it because it does come as somewhat of a sur­prise. He handled it very well." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
-
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Earn your MPA in Environmental Science and Policy 
The Master of Public Administration Program 
in Environmental Science and Policy 
combines Columbia University's hands-on 
approach to teaching public policy and 
administration with pioneering thinking ;tbour the environment. This twelve-month program takes place at Columbia 
University's New York campuses. 
For more int()rmation, please call 212-S54-3142, e-mail: lar46@columbia.edu, or visit our Web site. 
Application deadline for early decision: November 1 
www.columbia.edu/cu/mpaenvironment 

The Last, But Not The Least: 
DEBAT'E: WA,T'CH Bush-Kerry 
Tonight, October 13, at 7:30p.m. Refreshments Provided DBRT 155 
With commentary by members of the Notre Dame Debate Team 
Sponsored by CSC Rock the Vote, The Carey Chair in Modern Communication, The Department of Film, Television, and Theatre, The Office of Undergraduate Studies, and The Notre Dame Debate Team 


Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

caught three passes for 45 of the depth at tight end. end. Fasano was named the said. "Sometimes your two-tight yards and made key plays on · Collins, a fifth-year senior, John Mackey National Tight End end alignments give you a
Football 

continued from page 24 
their shoulders." 
Saturday against Stanford, Collins stepped up as Fasano did not play due to an injury. He special teams as well, including two tackles. 
"In football you're always going to have injuries and that's unfortunate, and it's good to know that the offense isn't going to suffer too much," Fasano said was recruited by Notre Dame as a receiver, but switched to line­backer during his freshman year, before moving to tight end this spring. 
Collins isn't the only viable option the Irish have at tight 
Looking for an Opportunity to Make a Difference? 
CIA's Directorate of Intelligence will be interviewing candidates for Analyst Positions. 
Representatives from CIA's analytical arm, the Directorate of Intelligence, will be interviewing for analyst positions in Chicago during the week of November 15th. Analysts work on the forefront of protecting national security, quickly assessing how rapidly changing international developments will impact US interests at home and abroad. They use information from classified and unclassified sources from around the world to develop and provide the reliable intelligence that is essential for US policymakers to make informed decisions. The Dl is hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Analytic Methodologist • Economic, Political, Leadership and o Medical Analyst 

• 
Collection Analyst Military Analysts o Psychological/Psychiatric Analyst 

• 
Counterintelligence Threat Analyst • Science, Technology and o Crime and Countemarcotics Analyst 


o Counterterrorism Analyst Weapons Analyst 
Candidates must have at least a bachelor's degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Language skills, previous foreign area residence or travel, and relevant work experience are pluses. Candidates must successfully complete a medical examination, polygraph interview, and an extensive background investigation. All positions require US citizenship and relocation to the Washington, DC area. 
The CIA is America's premier intelligence agency, and we are committed to building and maintaining a work force as diverse as the nation we serve. 
For additional information, and to apply online, please visit www.cia.gov. Successful applicants who have submitted their resume by October I 5th will be contacted to attend an information session and arrange a local area interview. 
An equal opportunity employer and a drug-(Tee work force. 
Go here------]/ 
Here's the deal: one prke,. no haggling. 
This "'student discount" offers substantial sailings on new ford Motor Company vehicles based on set Pf'kes e~tablished by Ford's Employee Purchase Plan. 
There's no catch -lr'~ a unique offer, exclusive to ~ schools like yours. Save even more when you apply the current nationallncentives available on the vehicle you select. 
The best part? Yoo get what you expect. The :style and features you want. No-hassle de.ater experience. A payment that's easy on your wallet and lifestyle. 

It's how you 
get there! 

THE WORK OF ANATION. THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE. 
of the Week after the Purdue chance to force them to balance game, a contest in which he up the front. So, in doing that, if 
broke the tight end receiving you want to 
record at Notre Dame with 155 yards receiving on eight catches. He was forced to sit out Saturday's game due to an injury, but the junior should be back for this weekend's con­test against Navy. 
"I do [antici­pate him playing Saturday]," Willingham said. 
its pass-catching abilities and its run-blocking capabilities. 
"I think they've really grown," Willingham said of the tight end group. "I don't think they were at this level in the previous years. I think they've been growing, getting better and improving." 
Although the Irish still use 
"In football you're always going to have injuries and that's unfortunate, and it's good to know that the offense isn't going to suffer too much." 
Anthony Fasano Irish tight end 
"But I'm not sure about that. We'll find out as we start [prac­tice]." 
Freeman has also been solid for the Irish, catching five pass­es in six games for 50 yards. 
The real talents of this group are not found in the air, but rather in the balance between 
Rashon Powers-Neal and Josh Schmidt at fullback, their play­ing time has decreased in light of using the tight end as a run­blocker. Willingham explained why use of the fullback in col­lege football general has declined. 
"Because with the eight and nine-man fronts, you're trying to balance the front up," he 
maintain wide 1·eceivers and spread it out, you take out the full­back." 
Fasano said that without the fullback, the offense has the opportunity to be 
a. little more diverse. 
"l think [having tight ends as run­blockers] really helps out the offense in a way, 


"I think [the tight ends] 
Irish offense. have really grown. I The depth at tight end just
don't think they were 
gives Notre
at this level in the 
Dame more previous years. I options. "We felt like
think they've been 
we've got a little
growing, getting 
more depth at 
better and improving." the tight end position," offen­sive coordinator
Tyrone Willingham 
Bill Diedrick 
Irish coach 
said. 
the passing offense," Fasano said. "And also, if we can block just as good as the fullbacks, I think we're a bigger asset in the pass game. Having as many tight ends on the field and being as athletic as we are, just really helps the offense." 
But Powers-Neal and Schmidt 
are still an inte­
gral part of the 
"We're utiliz­
ing those guys a little bit more than we have with the fullback. But I think that position's really inter­changeable. I still think that you defiantly need to have both. I think a lot of it will depend on the situation and who we feel will give us the best advantage." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@:nd.edu 


I www.for~vehicles.com/collegegrad I 
-------... ----.....--....... 
:•

L-------------to get there .
: 
"'.. t .~ 
~,.. 



oint. Clic 


page 22 Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

from all positions have can continue to step up at the against Syracuse in the second goals-against average. The stepped up to right mo-overtime period. defense has recorded seven
Soccer 
make big plays to "That's the hallmark of ments." "[Justin] McGeeney was shutouts on the season. continued from page 24 keep the wins Tony Megna, doing the business earlier on After today's game. the Irish
a good team -that we
coming in. who was named and now Tony Megna has will continue their conference
have enough depth and
Although Michigan is not a "That's the this week's Big stepped up and is showing his schedule with a week-long conference game, the nation's hallmark of a ability that people step East Offensive worth," Clark said. "Ian road trip while the University No. 19 team should keep the good team -Player of the Etherington had a terrific is on fall break.
up and make things
No. 7 Irish on their toes. that we have Week, leads the game and Nate Norman and "This is a big game [and) it's
happen."
"It's a very important game," enough depth team with five our flank players [have also a busy time," Clark said. "It's Clark said. "It's a big regional and ability that goals. Fire-excelled]." always going to become busy game, and it could have a big people can step Bobby Clark power also Goalkeeper Chris Sawyer towards the end of the sea­bearing on who goes to the up and make comes from Ian and a stalwart Irish defense son."
Irish coach 
NCAA Tournament or not." things happen." Etherington, have allowed only six goals The Irish are coming togeth­Clark said. who scored the against this season. Sawyer Contact Kate Gales at er at the right time. Players "Hopefully ... different people winning goal on Sunday leads the Big East with a 0.49 kgales@nd.edu 

Chaos 
continued from page 24 
"They are all really good wide receivers who can adjust to my passes well and get open," Ruffer said. 
The Pyros had no such luck through the air. as the unorthodox Pyro oflcnse relied on a numbnr of trick plays to try to catch the Cavanaugh defense off-guard. Using a number of wide receiver passes and reverses. the Pyros looked for any holes in the Cavanaugh defense, but could not lind any. as the Pasquerilla East offense never made it inside the Cavanaugh red zone. 
Freshman Jenny Blase and jun­ior Lauren Manning both provided interceptions for the Chaos defense to ensure Pasquerilla East would not move the ball through the air. 
But the story of the game was the potent passing attack of Cavanaugh, as Ruffer connected with her three wideouts for big play aftnr big play. With all three wide receivers having receptions of over 25 yards, and Powaga pulling in an amazing 60-yard reception. the Chaos' passing game looked totally prepared going into the playoffs. 
The only time Pasquerilla East was able to stop the Cavanaugh passing attack was when Ruffer and the first-team offense sat out a series. and the Pyros were able to get an interception returned for a touchdown. That long intercep­tion return provided the only scor­ing for the Pyros. 
Pasquerilla West 6, Breen­Phllllps 6 
Breen-Phillips moved the ball up and down the field at will all game against Pasquerilla West. So one yard surely would not have kept the Babes from their fourth victory of the season, right? 
Well, not quite. 

In fact, with the score knotted at 6-6, the Babes failed to score the would-be winning touchd!jwn twice in the final 60 seconds of their regular-season finale against Pasquerilla West. After BP quar­terback Ally Brosnan ran eight yards to the Weasel one on first­and-goal, the Babes had three downs and 65 seconds to move the ball 36 inches for the victory. 
However, the PW defenders had other thoughts on their minds. Then. the Pasquerilla West defen­sive line to make its presence felt. 
When Brosnan saw the Weasels' tight coverage on the Babes' receivers, she tucked the ball in her arm and made a run for the goal. Unfortunately for her though, Julie Putnam was ready to make a play. 
As Brosnan ran toward the right pylon, Putnam chased her down from behind and stopped Breen­Phillips from taking the lead. 
When the defensive line pres­sured Brosnan into throwing an incomplete pass on fourth-and­goal, the Weasels took over on downs with 35 seconds remaining 
'• in which to march 77 yards for a winning score. Under pressure to lead such a long drive in so short a time, PW 
quarterback Heather Van 
Hoegarden had to try to make 
something happen. 
However, with 20 seconds left, 
the Babes intercepted her pass. 
After an incomplete pass on first 
down, Brosnan completed a pass 
to the Weasel one. 
The three-foot heartbreak this 
time, though, was not that BP 
failed to convert from the one. 
Instead. the final seconds ticked 
off the clock before the Babes 
could snap the ball again, and 
both teams walked off the field 
without a victory. 
For Brosnan. who finished the 
game 18-for-29 with 204 yards, 
the tie gives BP a good learning 
tool heading into the playoffs. 
"It was a good game to pre­pare," she said. "PW is very good, just like the teams we'll face in the playoffs." 
McGlinn 12, Farley 0 
With the playoffs out of reach, the McGlinn Shamrocks decided to spend time on not only their actual plays. but also on some potential celebrations. After a con­vincing 12-0 win over Farley, the Shamrocks made sure to put both to good use. 
The McGlinn offense, led by jun­ior quarterback Bridget Meacham. moved the ball down the field with relative ease all night. The offense accumulated 220 total yards on the evening, with 160 of those yards coming through the air. 
McGlinn had the Farley defense confused the entire game by throwing double reverses. quar­terback options and laterals at the Finest. 
Meacham was not the only offensive weapon on display for the McGlinn offense. as junior running back Raquel Ferrer and junior wide receiver "Downtown" Becky Brown stepped up in a big way. Ferrer accounted for 85 yards on offense, including a nifty 40-yard dash off a perfectly exe­cuted quarterback option. 
Brown used her height and leaping ability to pull down four passes for 150 yards. including two plays of 75 and 45 yards that each resulted in a touchdown. The Shamrock bench made certain to get in the mix as well by being loud and supportive throughout the game. 
The McGlinn defense also gar­nered some attention by pressur­ing the Farley quarterback-by­committee into two interceptions. As a unit, the Shamrock defense held Farley to 125 yards of total offense, quickly halting any drives that even approached the end zone. . 
Sophomore wide receiver Megan Spokes and Annie Parrett performed well nonetheless, accounting for nearly all of the Finest's yardage. 
"We had a lot of younger play­ers this year, so I think the follow­ing years will be good for Farley ... they are some of the most promising players I've seen," sen­ior quarterback and captain Angelina Zehrbach said. 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
I
Stop ln this week BEFORE FALL BREAK! 
You can pick up the applications you will need and take them home over FALL BREAK! Tum them in when classes resume and have your housing set up for 2005-2006! 
We also have floor plans available for the 2005 spring semester. 
www. turtlecreeknd.com info@turtlecreeknd.com 574-272-8124 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2005-6 
INFORMATION MEETING ABOUT STUDYING POLITICAL SCIENCE, ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY AND HISTORY IN PARIS 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27,2004 
5:00 PM 203 DBRT 

Contact Nathan Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu, Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu and Thomas Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DILBERT 

YOUR P/U 
RATIO IS SKY­
ROCKETING 
AGAIN. 
MY WHAT? 

PEANUTS 
i ~ l 
I 
~ 
0 10/13/04 
SCOTT ADAMS 
£

E ~----------------~0~----------------~ 

! ~ 
E 
~ 
s 
" E 
0 
u t 
Q) 
i :f! 

PRODUCTIVITY-TO-f1 USEFULNESS. IT MEANS ;_ YOU PRODUCE A LOT I ~ BUT EVERYTHING YOU ~ PRODUCE IS A MISTAKE ~ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION .• 
rJ r 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AJ1 Rights Reserved. 
DENEY 
j
rxx
tAGOVEY I
IJ I 
www.jumble.com
I MALFEE ± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprisE! answer. asI rI J I 

suggested by th•~ above cartoon. 
A: 
rnTHE r x I I J.. rI xI I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: SYNOD BASIN TRIPLE EXODUS Answer: What he did at the London c.asino -LOST "POUNDS" 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Mao's successor 1 Holiday visitor, 38 Alistair who maybe wrote "Ice Station Zebra"
6 Sporty car, for short 42 Put away 10 Plum Nascar 43 Ex-D.C. position baseballers 
14 Western 45 See 27-Down necktie? 
46 Derby place15 Crashing sort 
48 Nu 16 Hera's mother 
52 Rough tool 

17 Knew 53 Kitchen flooring,
20 Dish cooked in for short 
a pot 54 Scarecrow's 21 Trim, in a way 

composition 22 Key material 
57 Viking's deity 23 Ludwig Mies 
59 Bubble wrapvan der 

sounds 25 Gospel writer 
63 Gnu 27 New 
66 Feels punk 33 Prefix with 
67 Peace Nobelistarthritis 

Ducommun 34 Forum greeting 
68 2000 N.B.A. 35 Brought up M.V.P. 




EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Marion Jones, Kirk Cameron, Martie Maguire, Hugh Jackman 
Happy Birthday: This is not a year to waste your time waiting for other people. Make your choices and follow through. Too much idle time will leave you in a rut that is hard to get out of. Your numbers are 5, 13, 22, 23. 35. 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Someone may unnerve you regarding a project you are working on. Confidence will be the key to keeping any critic at arm's length, allowing you to finish what you start. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make a personal or physical change that you've been contemplating. Social activities or attending something that interests you will lead to new friendships. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stick to your game plan, but listen to the suggestions being made. You may have to be a little more convincing if you want to make changes at home. Personal problems will surface. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Discuss personal matters with someone you trust. A problem can be solved if you accept the changes that are necessary. Romance is evident. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money matters can be cleared up. Take on extra work or refinance your assets. Set up a new budget that is reasonable. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let the commotion ;~oing on around you lead to mistakes. Someone may try to convince you to do things differently, but do things your way. ** LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): An opportunity is evident, but you must look at all the possibilities before you move forward. Someone may lead you astray or tend to be greedy.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll stand out in the crowd even if you don't want to today. Your strength, courage and general desire to do what's right will leave a lasting impression on others. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You could be on the verge of something good, but don't take anything or anyone for granted today or all will be lost. Diplomacy and fair play will lead to success. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Open your eyes and your mind to new techniques and you will make gains in other areas of your life. A change that entails philosophy, direction and attitude will be (:nlightening. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make sure you've been doing everything you can to protect your assets, personal matters and your health. A lifestyle change may be in order. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may not see thin~;s the way others do today. Don't be so sure that you are right or wrong. It may be a combination of both.*** · 
Birthday Baby: You have a practical side, but when it comes to something you really desire, you will go overboard. You are givin,g, loyal and creative. You have an answer for everything. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 

69 Spymaster's worry 
70 Rx amts. 
71 Famous "hostess with the mostest" 
DOWN 1 Poop 2 Seasonal air 3 Veg out 4 Fertility goddess 5 Chinese 
dynasty name 6 Homes 7 Like a Hail Mary 
pass 8 Woodstock phenomenon 9 1950's political initials 1 o Poor Richard's Almanack item 11 "You gotta be 
kidding!" 
12 Wolf's look 
13 "Duck soup!" 
18 Classic soft 
drink 19 Triathlete's need 24 Baseball's Blue 
Moon 26 Iris's place 27 With 45-Across, 
noted Arctic explorer 28 Bar order, with "the" 29 _ Department 30 Novelist Carr 
WILLSHORTZ 


31 Wipe out  47 Barbecuer's buy  58 Socially  
32 Dry out,  49 Fancy marbles  challenged sort  
informally  50 Skips over  60 Reveals, in  
36 Prefix with god  51 50's car  verse  

61 Survey map
features
39 Bellicose god 54 Ponzi scheme, 62 Ward of the 

40 HOV lane users screen
e.g. 41 It's inert 55 Cream was one 64 Rainy 44 Berlin boulevard 56 Frank holder 65 Author Clancy 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip_____ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Deep and talented 
Tight ends have stepped up and developed into key parts of pro-style offense 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spores Editor 
Saturday it was Jerome Collins. The week before it was Anthony Fasano. 
Notre Dame's tight ends have been key to the offense, both as receivers and run block­ers. 
The Irish often run a 

See Also
single-back set with Darius Walker or Hyan "Quinn says he Grant and no fullback. 
will start 
This is because the tight 
against Navy"
ends are used as the lead blocker in most cases. page 20 They have been effnctive in the roln, of'ten going in motion prior to the snap to position them­selves ahead of the ball carrier. 
Somntimns it is Fasano or Collins, other times it is Marcus Frnnman, Billy Palmer, John Carlson or .Jarnd Clark. Eithnr way, it has minirniznd the need for a fullback. 
"That's why you haven't seen as much as our fullback play as you have lsnenl our two tight end looks and our multipln tight nnd looks bncause we felt ltlw tight end group] was a strength for us," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "So we feel very fortunate that that group has embraced the challenge and allownd us to put a lot of our offense on 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 


"' SMC SoccER 
Belles look for first road -win of season 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
If the Belles want to have any shot at winning the MIAA, their first task will be figuring out how to win on the road. 
Looking for its first road win, Saint Mary's travels to Kalamazoo today in hopes of improving on its 0-2-1 record away from home. 
"It's going to be a fight against Kalamazoo," Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "We need to come out with focus and determination, forget about any distractions and concen­trate on getting a win. It's just a mattnr of attitude." 
For the first time this year, Saint Mary's will play an away game in the middle of the week rather than on a Saturday. The team is confident it can make the transition smoothly. 
"We're good enough and tal­ented enough to handle the trip up to Kalamazoo," MacKenzie said. "llopefully, we can do what we need to do to bring home the win." 
After having trouble scoring goals for the majority of the first half of the season, the Belles have scored 16 in their last two games, a trend they hope to continue. 
"I feel good about the way we're finding the back of the net," MacKenzie said. "I also am happy with the number of people scoring, because it makes it difficult for opponents to focus on one particular play­er." 
Although Kalamazoo is a much better team than Tri­State or Adrian, the last two teams the Belles have faced, ~aint Mary's still hopes to flash some oll'ensive firepower. 
"We feel good about the way we've been moving the ball in the upper third of the field," MacKenzie said. 
The Belles can't even be sure what caliber of team they'll face -while Kalamazoo played well 
see BELLES/page 20 
MEN's SOCCER 
Irish face regional rival UM 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have come a long way since they last saw the Wolverines -ending up on the wrong side of a penalty­kick decision in the NCAA Tournament Sweet 16 last year. But in the middle of a tough Big East schedule, Notre Dame is ready to take on its regional rivals and get a little payback for last year's season-ending loss. 
"Whether or not it's Michigan . we obviously want to win every game we can," coach Bobby Clark said. "That in itself should be more than enough incentive to gnt our team ready." 
The Irish are coming off a pair of conference victories over Pittsburgh and Syracuse, extending their win streak to five -all via shutouts. 
see SOCCER/page 22 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Cavanaugh finishes undeafeated 
By NATHAN DYER, KEN 
FOWLER AND THOMAS 
STILES 
SportS Writers 
They started the season at the top, and the Chaos finished the regular season at the top. 
With Tuesday night's 18-6 victo­ry over Pasquerilla East, Cavanaugh ended the regular season with an undefeated 5-0-1 record. 
"This was a game we felt we had to win," Cavanaugh junior quarterback Lisa Ruffer said. "We came into the season first in the league and wanted to make sure that we would finish in first." 
Ruffer was the star of the game, leading the Chaos offense perfect­ly, completing pass after pass. With over 250 yards through the air, Ruffer shredded the soft Pyro defense. 
Cavanaugh junior wide receivers Nancy Powaga and Janice Flynn and senior Jenny Nokes all made significant contri­butions to the Chaos' air attack, as each was on the receiving end of a touchdown pass. 
see CHAOS/page 22 


en 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
MEN'S GOLF 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
ALCS 
NHL 
LLI

1-
Co) Zahm vs. 
Notre Dame vs. 
New York 10 
z Siegfried 
The Irish overcome 
Illinois State 
Boston 7 
Shut down since Sept. 
The Belles come from

Tomght, 8 p.m. 
windy conditions to 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
17, the league is sched­

a: :3 
behind to defeat defeat
A pair of 2-1 teams 
place three golfers in the 
uled to miss opening
Mariano Rivera and

C) c:s 
last place Tri-State in
face off in this battle for 
top 10 at the Eastern 
The Irish are on a 
night.
the Yankees survive a 

five games. 
a playoff berth. 

Illinois Invitational. 
three-game win streak. 
late rally by the Sox.

a. < tci 
page 19 
page 19 
page 18 
page 16
page 17
page 18

en 




