
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 14 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 10,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Off-campus parties prompt neighborhood outcry 

University listens to residents' concerns 
Officials from Notre Dame, At the meetings, held Sept.
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
Indiana State Excise Police, 2 and Tuesday, Rucker and 
News Editor 
St. Joseph County Police, Bill Kirk, associate vice pres­
South Bend Police and Notre ident for Student Affairs, 
Frustrated with the effects Dame Security/Police joined heard complaints of students of late-night student parties various city government rep­binge drinking, urinating spilling onto their property, resentatives in two meetings and defecating on neighbors' South Bend residents in this week to listen to the res­property, running down the neighborhoods heavy with idents' concerns, said Jackie streets naked and screaming student housing are voicing Rucker, director of communi­and shrieking until 4 or 5 their concerns to the city and ty relations for the the University. University. see COMPLAINT/page 6 


Game 
•
revives rivalry 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
The Irish will kick-off their home opener against Michigan this weekend in a game that brings together college football's two win­ningest 
programs S AI 
and brings ee so back a "Campus gears flood of 
up for footbaII"
memories for fans page3 imbrued in the storied rivalry. 
Two years ago, students rushed the field after coach Tyrone Willingham and standout cornerback Shane Walton led the Irish to a 25-23 victory over the visiting Wolverines. Last year, offensive behavior by Michigan fans in Ann Arbor -as well as a 38-0 pounding -left Notre Dame fans with a sour taste in their mouths. 
"I went to last year's Michigan game, and [their 
see FOOTBALL/ page 11 


Serving with honor 
ND grad, Iraq veteran to bear flag at game 

By JOE HETTLER News Writer 
Standing on the roof of the Sadoon Police Station in Baghdad, Iraq May 25, Danielle Green heard the first rocket• hit a nearby building. Instincts and train­ing told her to lunge for her M-16. She grabbed her weapon and tried to switch the gun from safety to fire to defend herself. 
But Green never got the chance. 
A second rocket zoomed and exploded into Green's left side. Her body went numb, except for the neck and head. As she tried to sit up, Green realized half her left arm was almost com­pletely mutilated. 
"There was ringing in my ears and I couldn't even hear the other seven rockets go off," Green said. 
Soon, members of her pla­toon arrived, performed first 
see GREENIpage 4 

Accident victims released 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
Though both Saint Mary's students involved in Wednesday's ear-on-bicycle accident escaped with no seri­ous injuries, it is uncertain whether the bicyclist, Theresa Klear, will be able to make her freshman debut as a Fighting Irish Band member. 
Klear, 18, was struck by sophomore Ashley Harrison's car as she biked across State Road 933 from the entrance to Saint Mary's. Harrison, 19, was driving southbound on 933 at the time and had a green light at the intersection Saint Joseph County Police spokeswoman Jaimee Thirion said. 
Harrison confirmed that she had a green light, but Klear, who is suffering some memory loss from the incident, asserted that the traffic signal indicated that she could still cross. 
"I remember that I saw the light flashing for me to go, and a group of runners was going in front of me, so I tried to get across behind them," Klear said. 
see ACCIDENTIpage 6 
Candlelight vigil honors 1,000 fallen soldiers 
ByKMRON VAN OOSTERHOUT News Writer 
Carrying candles that cast a soft haze over the photo­graphs of the fallen, members of the Notre Dame community held a vigil Thursday night to honor the 1 ,000 troops killed in Iraq. 
The attendees ranged in opinion and spanned genera­tions. 
"I think this is great that so many members of the South Bend community are here on campus," said Stephanie Gharakhanian, co-organizer of the event. 
"It shows that we are united in a cause like this." 
Though united in outward appearance, the crowd dif­fered in internal motives. 
Some sought neutrality. 
"We're not here to say that the war was right or wrong," said Gharakhanian. "We're here to remember those who've fought for us. No mat­ter who you are, 1 ,000 deaths is a tragedy." 
see VIGIL/page 6 



IUif !lllll:IIUrfli. 
Howard sophomore Erika Meyer holds a candle while looking at photos of the troops killed in the Iraq War. Members of the South Bend and Notre Dame communities took part In the vigil. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Nowhere else 
"Notre Dame knows how to do foot­ball." 
My boyfriend's mom asked about NO football weekends, and this is how he responded to her question. Even 
though he goes to  
Purdue and has  Michelle Otto  
only been to  one  
ND football gamehere, he could  Photographer  
sum  up  my  

descriptions with those words. 
I spent Labor Day weekend at Purdue with my boyfriend and his family. Not only did I spend the week­end getting to know his parents a bit more, but I was also reacquainted with the college football experience by going to their game. And what I encountered at Purdue made me realize that the Notre Dame football Saturday belongs in a world of its own -a world of purity that I cannot explain. 
When we showed up for the game on Sunday, Purdue's stadium area was overwhelmed with commercial vendors selling food, competing radio stations blaring music, and what overall seemed to me to be mass chaos. I stood there in a kind of con­fused astonishment thinking to myself, "Where's the dorm BBQ stands and the bag-pipers?" The place felt contaminated by an alien invasion as I visualized the simplicity of our campus surrounding a football game. 
As we look towards our first foot­ball weekend of the season, I look for­ward to much more than the game. I cannot wait for the hoards of alumni and fans that simply stand around South Quad chatting and playing foot­ball starting at 9 a.m. I cannot wait for burnt hot dogs and hamburgers from dorm concessions stands. I can­not wait for the "concert on the steps" and the subsequent "march out" that leads us all, like the Pied Piper, into the Stadium. This is only a sampling of the events that I can count on when a football weekend arrives. 
Each of these events is what makes the ND football experience different; they are traditions. While at Purdue, I waited for my boyfriend to tell us about their traditions; to say, "Well, we can go to this while we wait", or ''There's always this to do", as ways to entertain us tourists. Besides try­ing to track down the giant Boilermaker and catch a ride on it, though, I was not aware of many cus­toms comparative to what I see here. 
I don't mean to knock the Purdue football experience at all; I had a great time. But what I learned from it was that there is something unique about the place that the NO campus transforms into on home football weekends; it is something simple and special that causes people to say that we know how to "do" football. 
As for my boyfriend, he may appre­ciate the ND football experience, but he is still a Purdue fan. After all, I only gave half his quote earlier. The statement above was followed by the comment, " ... but they don't know how to play it" ... which earned him a slap in the stomach. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Michelle Otto at motto@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The ObS<:rver regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please conrac r us at 6 31-4 54 I so we can correct our error. 
Friday, September 10, 2004 

The Observer + PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 






Chris Khorey Yowceph Haddad Jon VanWyck 
freshman sophomore senior Siegfried St. Ed's off-campus 
"Our defense "/think the "Michigan just will keep it Chiefs are going doesn't halJe 

close, but the lousy offense will probably not score. We'll pass on third and one at least once." 

OFFBEAT 
Pitchfork robber gets away 
AIKEN. S.C. -A robber who used a rusty pitchfork to stick up a bank got away -and so far, finding him has been like looking for a needle in a haystack. 
The man, wearing sun­glasses and a mask, entered Security Federal Bank Tuesday morning and threatened employees with the 4-foot-long pitchfork. The man took an undis­closed amount of money. 
The robber dropped the farm tool as he ran from the bank through a wooded area to a golf course behind the bank, police 
TODAY 
a::: 

said. 
Bloodhounds tracked the robber to a fast food restaurant parking lot, where police say the man got into a white van driven by a woman. 
Painted tree pains city officials 
WILMINGTON, N.C. -A print shop owner is on the spot with city officials who say her dots are a don't. 
The officials don't approve of the polka dots she's painted on an oak tree outside her store. 
Elle Puritz said she was just trying to protect the tree, as well as spread 
to win the the horses that Super Bowl. " we do. We'll be 
some good cheer, when she repainted the plain white trunk red, then added dots. 
City officials say the splashy paint job violates sign ordinances. 
The trunk of the roadside tree had been painted white years ago to make it more visible to cars. When Puritz bought the property in January, she decided to spruce it up. 
She chose red paint close to the color of her building, and an arborist gave her sealant to put in the paint to stop it from oozing. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
fine." 

IN BRIEF 
The first Pep RaUy of the year will take place today from 6 to 7 
p.m. Doors open at 5:15p.m. for students through Gate 11 of the JACC; 5:30 p.m. for general pub­lic through Gate 10. The football team arrives at 6:30p.m. 
The Class of 2005 will be holding a fund-raiser to benefit the Red Cross this weekend. Kelly green bracelets imprinted with the phrase "God Country Notre Dame" will be sold at the class's concessions stand in front of Alumni Hall before the Michigan game to commemorate the Red Cross's efforts in disas­ter relief on 9/11/2001. Proceeds will go to the local Red Cross chapter, and national efTorts to aid in the wake of Hurricane Frances. 8::: 
Cappy Gagnon, Connie McNamara, Ted Mandell and Father Edward Malloy will be signing their books in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore this afternoon from 2 to 6 p.m. 
Pianist Jacqueline Schmidt, tenor Paul Appleby and cellist Noelle Thorn will perform clas­sical repertoire in the first Concert at Noon today in the Penote's Concert Hall in the new 
DeBartolo  Center  for  the  
Performing Arts. Ti ckets  are  
free.  

The Saturday Scholar Series kicks off Saturday from 11 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. James VanderKam and Father Richard O'Brien will present "The Dead Sea Scrolls and Christian Origins" in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

78 58 

HIGH LOW 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
IJJ 
::c 
!;( 
IJJ 
3: 
.... 
ct 
(.) 

.9 HIGH 75 
LOW 55 


HIGH LOW 

78 
54 

HIGH LOW 

Friday, September 10, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Scholar Series kicks off home game weekend 
By KEN WALSH News Writer 
Burgers. brats and books -this unlikely combination can be found before home football games for the third-year running, thanks to the return of the Saturday Scholars series. 
Before kick-off, professors from a spectrum of disciplines within the College of Arts and Letters will gather with students, staff, faculty and alumni to give lectures and facilitate discussions on a variety of topics. 
Mark Roche. dean of Arts and Letters, said that a main reason for creating the series is the concern that alumni coming back for football weekends see the beau­tiful campus and their old friends, but fail to recognize the intellectual conver­sation that is the heart of the University. 
"ln a certain sense it is a special out­reach to the alums. Students have plenty of opportunities to take courses with these people with the selections on cam­pus," Roche said. "The alums are here and we want to remind them what is attractive about Notre Dame." 
Although the lectures are open to everyone, current student interest seems questionable. 
"Everyone I've talked to thinks the one on "The DaVinci Code" sounds really interesting, but I've never gone in the past. I don't think the timing works out too well," said senior Melanie Vrable. 
Senior Kathleen Kincaid agreed, adding that the series seems to pose too much of a time conflict with pre-football game festivities. 
Sociology professor Maureen Hallinan, who will lecture on the differences between Catholic and public schooling system systems, disagreed. 
"The lectures are scheduled for foot­ball Saturdays precisely for the conven­ience of those people who come to the games," she said. 'They take place at a convenient time in the morning, before most game festivities begin." 
"It would all depend on how interest­ing the topic was," senior Laura Fanning said. 
She would be willing to forego pre­game activities if the lecture at hand seemed more than mildly interesting she said. 
The speakers will represent those at the forefront of their field, said Roche. 
"We have a good number of faculty members who are not only extraordi­nary scholars, but also work on topics that are interesting to our audience," Roche said. 
Scheduled topics include The Dead Sea Scrolls, an analysis of "The DaVmci Code," Joseph P. Kennedy's film career, the life and teachings of theologian and preacher Jonathan Edwards, the differ­ence between Catholic and Public schooling and marital conflict and its effect on children. 
All sessions begin three-and-a-half hours before game time and will consist of a 30 to 45 minute lecture, followed by a discussion group in which all in atten­dance are invited to participate. 
The series will ta.ke place in the audi­toriwn of the Hesburgh Center and is free of charge. 
Contact Ken Walsh at kwalsh7@nd.edu 

Campus gears up for football 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Football Saturdays at Notre Dame, deeply rooted in the University's tradition and rep­utation, don't just happen -it takes a lot to put the 'fight' in the Fighting Irish. 
Months of preparatiqn are involved in creating these renowned weekends, when fans flock to campus from all corners of the world. From the students in the dorms to the chefs at the dining hall to the bookstore staff, everyone in the community has a hand in making a home game the spectacle it is. 
Along with the enormous flow of spectators comes the need for enormous amounts of food. The dining hall staff arrives at 6:30 a.m. to take on the task of feeding an expect­ed 4,500 diners for brunch. They also prepare 2,000 lbs. of hamburger patties and 1,000 lbs. of brats to supply the student-run concession stands. 
The food service responsibil­ities continue postgame with the special candlelight dinner in South Dining Hall, which is prepared for a flood of up to 3,000 students and guests 
"Candlelight is special. We dim the lights and try to set the mood," said Tony William, SOH unit chef. "It is not your normal, everyday [dining hall experience]." 
Because a trip to Notre Dame wouldn't be complete without a piece of Kelly green paraphernalia, more than 100,000 tourists are expected to converge upon Hammes Bookstore. 
"There are so many people you can't see the floor," said event and commission rela­tions manager Hedge Harridge. 
Complete with 60 open reg­isters and a pianist playing traditional Notre Dame songs in the background, the book­store is ready for the onslaught. Extra merchandise has been packed into back­rooms and two rented trailers. 
The bookstore will also fea­ture special events. including a book signing by University President Father Edward Malloy and a performance by the Notre Dame cheerleaders. 
"Some folks have saved up money. This is their Disney World," said Harridge. "They want to bring home souvenirs; we want them to have an amazing experience." 
Amidst all the excitement, safety cannot be ignored. Notre Dame Security/Police began preparing for the home football games over the sum­mer by hiring 35 South Bend and 35 county police to patrol the stadiwn. 
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and subsequent legis­lation, the stadiwn and pack­ages entering it are thorough­ly searched. 
Beginning at 5:30 am, the NDSP will be working 12-hour shifts. and for the first time have taken on the task of parking the thousands of guests, when once an outside company was paid to do the job. 
"With 80,000 people you are going to have some prob­lems," NDSP director Rex Rakow said. "We have a good staff to anticipate problems and react to them." 
Each game, NDSP ejects approximately 60 people for alcohol-related issues, thrown objects and fighting. 
The Notre Dame usher team, the yellow-clad staple of home games, is composed of 857 members that hail from 15 different states. Many trav­el to campus for the weekend, and 550 of them are unpaid volunteers. 
While many ushers are vet­erans of the trade, 50 to 60 are hired each year. Head usher Cappy Gagnon said he selects new members based on their expressed love for the ideals of Notre Dame. 
"My team of ushers are Ambassadors for NO," said Gagnon. 
While their actions might not get their names down in the books with all the Notre Dame football greats, the ded­icated workers certainly have a hand in writing history. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 



"The Dead Sea Scrolls and Christian Origins" 
James VanderKam 
.Rev. John A O'B.rien .Professor of Theology 
"The Dead Sea Scrolls and Christian Origins," with James VandcrKam, Rev. John A. O'Brien Professor ofTheolOb'Y· The 900 scrolls discovered in caves near the shore of the Dead Sea offer a window into the conditions in lsrael before the birth of Christianity. This lecture will describe the Dead Sea Scrolls and provide a new context in which to understand ~he Old and New Testaments. 
VanderKam's research in the last decade has focused on the Dead Sea Scrolls, and he is a member of the editorial committee that is preparing the editions of the remaining unpublished scrolls. His prize-winning book, The Dead Sea Scrolls Today (Eerdman's Publishing Co.) has been translated into six languages. 

Saturday, September 11 
Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center 

for International Studies 
For more informatio11, visit the Saturday Scholar Series website at bttp:llsaturdayscbolar.od.edu 
-' ... ' I C. c, • • ) ~ I · -I -I I . 
Fall 2004 Schedule 
.Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame!s most engaging faculty speakers on some of cl1c most pressing issues of our times. 
~~~ 9/11-Michigan
~. 
James VanderKam, RetJ.}~1bn A. O'Hrim1 Pr•.1f.•ssor o.f1h<?olop;y kThe Dead Sea Scrolls and Chrisian Origins" 
9/25-Washin1!trton 
Rev. Richard &kBrien, .Cmw!e,v~(/Rrteu Projt~ssor (?f Ruman Catbolif Tbeology
\' ' ' ., P " ,. J.' 1 
' .I

v<Hel'le ;,ayerS, . mjessor q t;tlgJWJ Hoh~1t Coletn;lrL A.~·.mciate Pt'i.if~·ssor o,{Art History '71Je /Ja Vind Code: An Assessment'! 
10/2 -Purdue Donald Crafton. Professor ofFilm, Telwf.siou, aud TIJeatre ~111c Movie Mogul: }oscph 1). Kenm..>(ly's film Caree{ 
10/9-Stanford 
r:"'i'..F•'' ~ ={·'1 :-,.,],,n. , ... ,,..c•f<: (4 :Fr (lr'?;JS<H.>H P•·(;.fiJ)•'()~' i){ lff<:t()r~s
.....:\....':n' i\.c·s.-.~'\.:-\.: ..... 'l.·tff:·.~v.·.t.~·.l\.-.< h-l·ift\;J s 'J"""'""l· r ....:! .l. ~.. ...; 
'~Anoi'her Kind of Founding Father: Jonathan Edwards and the American Heritage': 
10/23-Boston College \hmreen Hallinan: William P6Ha2:d B. 'W~!Jite Pr()jessar ofSocioiogJ; Director oftbe Center .fi.w ResearciJ on Education~·~! Opp(.lrtunily 
"America's Largest Private School System: ALook Inside Cat:holi<" Schools" 
11/13 -Pittsburgh 
E. Mark Cumming:\ Notre Dame Chait in P.,J'Cbo!ogy "Children and Marital Cont1icf 
}1/2 hours hefore kickoff at the auditorium in the fksbu.rgh Center for lntern.ational Studies. for more information, visi; http://saturdayscnolar.nd.edu 

UN I\' E R SIT Y OF 


NOT.RE DA.M.E 
\ I I I ·• ~ -,. I I , I ... I
. . 
v. ::.. 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
v. 
~ 
::.. 
~ 
\D 
1('. 1('. \[) '·1'1 
z... 
~ 
Il-l 
~ 
~ 
< 
a 
~ ~ 
f-
I")
...., 
zI • 
:f)
''ljc:. ~ 
~ 
z 
~ ~ 
Q
~ 
;::, 
~< 
1-rl
-
:Jj 
n
'..,/ 
"-
·~ 0 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
\.) 



Friday, September 10, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
was out there in hit home and I
"I think she·s lucky
the heat of bat­actually might tle." to be alive. but she·s break down a In Germany, little bit, but I
handled it so well. 
Green was com­hope I don't."
rm certainly
forted by a famil­Green played iar face -Tim amazed and admire for Notre Dame's Woods, a Notre basketball team
how she·s handled 
Dame graduate from 1995-2000.
it.,
and the son of She saw limited David and Eileen playing time as Woods. The Muffet McGraw a freshman and Woods were sat out her
Irish basketball coach 
neighbors with sophomore sea-Irish head bas-son with a torn ketball coach Muffet McGraw. Achilles tendon. But her 
"(Tim's] a doctor and he was career took off in 1998, when in Germany. He looked at the she began playing on a regular chart and he must have basis. For the next three years, remembered me from playing Green would be a mainstay in basketball," Green said. "So the starting lineup. She fin­his mom and dad happened to ished her career with 1,106 be in Germany.... I saw them points, good enough to put her and it made me realize Notre 17th on Notre Dame's all-time Dame alumni and friends are scoring list. She averaged 9.5 all over the world." points and 4.5 rebounds per 
Almost three-and-a-half contest during her career and months after her injury, Green, was the top defender on each 
Irish team. 
In Green's final three sea­sons, she helped the Irish reach the NCAA Tournament. 
"She was a defensive stop­per," McGraw said. "She's been a big contributor to our pro­gram." 
But it wasn't Green's abilities on the court that impressed McGraw the most. 
"She's somebody that's always been really disci­plined," McGraw said. "She's always been a fighter. She's been through a lot in her life. a life of adversity. I think she's lucky to be alive, but she's handled it so well. I'm certain­ly amazed and admire how she's handled it." 
After graduating with a degree in psychology in 1999, Green became a physical edu­cation instructor for a Chicago elementary school. She also helped coach ninth and 10th grade basketball. 
But after two years as a teacher, Green needed a change. 
"I just wanted some adven­ture in my life, some excite­ment," she said. Green, who participated in ROTC during high school, enlisted in the armed forces in September 2002. 
"I talked to my dad about it and I prayed about it," Green said. "I didn't want to be 37, 38 saying, 'Man, when I was 25, 26 I had the chance [to enlist in the military].' So I just felt like I needed to seize the moment." 
A year after enlisting, Green received the news she hoped never would arrive -she was heading to Iraq. 
"It started hitting home that, 
'Hey, I'm about to leave home and I may not come back," she said. "It really gave me some jitters." 
Green admits she thought about getting pregnant or pre­tending to go "crazy." But her conscience prevailed, and she couldn't lie to herself or the Army. 
"For some reason I have a conscience, my conscience eats at me," Green said. "All these 
ideas that came 
to my mind, ethi­
cally it wasn't 
right. When you 
sign on the dotted 
line, you have 
signed an oath to 
serve protect and 
defend your ·country. 
"After a while 

those words 
started echoing in 
my mind and I 
just knew I had to 
do what I had to 
do." 
Green arrived in Iraq in January and began running HumVee missions with her unit's commander. She was the gunner -the person who sits with half her body out of and half her body in the vehicle. It is the most dangerous position of HumVee operations. But Green didn't mind being a gun­ner with the commander because she rarely went out for missions. 
That changed when Green was moved to a different HumVee unit. Once there, she began running missions all day, for eight to 12 hours. 
"If the vehicle is going to get hit the gunner's probably going to be the first one, but I 
':4 lot ofpeople running a routine 
mission. But she
look at me as a 
has no regrets.hero. but I can't She doesn't see 
even look at myself her efforts as 
extraordinary.
as a hero. I was 
"I can't reallyjust doing what I say I felt I made a had to do.·· difference," Green said. "A lot of people look at
Danlelle Green 
me as a hero, but Army officer I can't even look was thrilled to death that I was the gunner· with the command­er," she said. "He's in charge of entire company so I felt like I was big stuff since I was rid­ing with him. I really didn't feel .like I was in that much danger because the comman­der's team usually doesn't go on a whole lot of missions, so my first couple of months in Iraq was relativity peaceful." 
After being moved to second 
platoon, Green 
was injured while 
at myself as a 
hero. I was just doing what I had to do. If I had a choice about going over, I wouldn't have gone over there. But I didn't have a choice.'' 
Green now hopes to fully recover from her injuries, and become a counselor for the armed services or at the high school level. Regardless of what her future holds, Green knows what her goal will be. 
"I want to do something where I can talk to people and make them feel good about themselves and the directions and decisions they're going to make in life," she said. "I feel like that's my niche in life." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Green 
continued from page 1 

aid and rushed her to a hospi­tal across the river. She had her left hand and half her forearm amputated in the nearby Iraq hospital before recovering at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany. 
"I had a feeling I was going to get hurt when I went to Iraq," said Green, from an Army hospital in Washington 
D.C. "It's documented. But I knew I wouldn't die there. If I died, I would die here on American soil. Once I got out there all the fear and anxiety [that I had] left. I 
a former standout player on Notre Dame's women's basket­ball team, is upbeat and happy. She isn't sure when she'll leave the hospital foT good, but doctors expect no long-term health problems.· 
Back  on  American  soil,  
Green  will  be  part of this  
weekend's  flag  ceremony  

before the Michigan football game. 
''I'm pretty excited," Green said Tuesday. ''I'm just hon­ored that Notre Dame sees me as being worthy of doing something for the University. I consider myself a pretty calm person so right now I don't feel the emotions, but I'm sure when I'm down there on the field -I'm pretty shy too ­
it's just going to 

THE AREA'S NEWEST FINE DINING RESTAURANT! 
Dry-Aged Prime Steaks 
• 
Market Fres.h Seafood 
• 

Private Parties 
• 

Outdoor Dining
• 
ENJOY LIVE JAZZ & BLUES IN OUR MARTINI LOUNGE 

Friday, September 10, 2004 
page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. fights to restore control 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -American warplanes struck militant positions in two insurgent­controlled cities Thursday and U.S. and Iraqi troops quietly took control of a third in a sweeping crackdown following a spike in attacks against U.S. forces. 
More than 60 people were reported killed, most of them in Tal Afar, one of several cities which American officials acknowl­edged this week had fallen under insurgent control and become "no-go" zones. 
Nine people, including two children, were reported killed in an airstrike in Fallujah against a house which the U.S. command suspected of being used by allies of the Jordanian-born terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
Bin Laden deputy speaks in tape 
CAIRO, Egypt-Osama bin Laden's chief deputy claimed the United States was on the brink of defeat in Iraq and Afghanistan in a videotape broadcast Thursday that appeared to be a rallying call for al-Qaida ahead of the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"The defeat of America in Iraq and Afghanistan has become a matter of time, with God's help," Ayman al-Zawahri said on the tape, which was broadcast by the pan-Arab television station Al-Jazeera. "The Americans in both countries are between two fires, if they continue they bleed to death and if they withdraw they lose everything." 
A bearded Al-Zawahri, wearing eyeglass­es, a white turban and a black vest over a white shirt, spoke looking into the camera. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hurricane Ivan threatens Fla. 
KEY LARGO, Fla. -Tourists and resi­dents throughout the Florida Keys were sent packing Thursd~y to avoid the wrath of Hurricane Ivan, even as millions of dis­aster-stricken residents struggled to pick up the pieces from Hurricanes Frances and Charley. 
Forecasters said Ivan could reach the island chain as early as Sunday, making it the third hurricane to strike Florida in a month. The last time three hurricanes hit Florida in single season was 1964. 
Part of Montana capitol evacuated 
HELENA, Mont. -At least five Western and Midwestern governors received envelopes in the mail Thursday rigged to ignite when opened. In Montana, the enve­lope prompted the evacuation of part of the state Capitol. 
The envelopes, rigged with matches set to ignite when opened, were sent to the gov­ernors of Montana, Idaho, Nebraska, Washington and Utah. There were no reports of injuries. 
All the letters appeared to have come from a maximum-security prison in Nevada, where another letter also turned up at the office of the state corrections director. 
LOCAL NEWS 
City to hire more police officers 
BENTON HARBOR -The federal govern­ment has granted $1 million to hire an addi­tional eight police officers in the city, which saw two nights of rioting last year, accord­ing to the office of U.S. Rep. Fred Upton. 
Police Chief Sam Harris said the money will "give our department the boost that it needs, putting more officers on the streets to keep this community safe." 
Harris said his department was under­~taffed. when the riots broke out in June 2003 in Benton Harbor, a city of 11,000 res­idents about 32 miles north-northwest of South Bend, Ind. 
The grant, announced Wednesday, is from the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services. 
Nine dead from car bombing 

Muslim militants explode bomb outside the Australian Embassy in Indonesia 
Associated Press 

JAKARTA, Indonesia ­
Suspected Muslim militants 
detonated a car bomb 
Thursday outside the 
Australian Embassy in . 
Jakarta, killing nine people 
and wounding 173 in a 
bloody strike at a key U.S. 
ally in the war in Iraq. 
The blast -the first 
major attack attributed to 
Jemaah Islamiyah in more 
than a year -could influ­
ence elections in Australia, 
where the prime minister is 
running on a pro-American, 
anti-terror platform. 
The bombing also comes 
just ahead of Indonesia's 
presidential elections and 
two days before the 
anniversary of the Sept. 11 
attacks on the United 
States. The explosion left 
body parts and bloody 
corpses strewn across the 
busy thoroughfare and 
shattered windows in build­
ings 500 yards away. It gut­
ted the Greek Embassy on 
the 12th floor of an adjacent 
building, slightly wounding 
three diplomats. 

Police said Jemaah Islamiyah, a Southeast Asian terror group linked to al-Qaida, apparently was behind the blast and the bomb was likely the work of Azahari Husin, a reputed Jemaah Islamiyah member who has been on the run for Jakarta that killed 12 peo­said. "We condemn this out­Iraq _ a decision his oppo­three years. ple. rageous act. The president nents say has made -No one in the heavily for­Australia, a key supporter reaffirms our solidarity with Australia more vulnerable tified Australian Embassy of the U.S. war on terror­the governments of to terror attacks. was killed, although several ism, sent 2,000 troops for Indonesia and Australia in "This . is not a nation that Australians and Chinese last year's invasion of Iraq fighting the global war is going to be intimidated by were wounded. and still has more than 850 against terrorism." acts of terrorism," Howard 
The bombing came less military personnel in the Islamic extremists are said after Thursday's bomb­than a week after the country. The Iraq war is believed to have tried to ing. United States and Australia deeply unpopular in influence the outcome of Analysts were divided on upgraded long-standing Indonesia, the world's most elections elsewhere. They how the bombing would travel warnings to their citi­populous Muslim nation. blew up commuter trains in affect Australia's Oct. 9 zens in Indonesia, citing an White House press secre­Spain just before elections election. Howard is consid­increased risk of terror tary Scott McClellan con­in March, killing 191 peo­ered stronger on national attacks on Western targets. demned the bombing in a ple. Days later, voters elect­.security than Labor chal­
Jemaah Islamiyah has statement issued in ed a Socialist administration lenger Mark Latham -who been blamed for the 2002 Pennsylvania, where that made good on its cam­has pledged to bring the Bali bombings that killed President Bush was cam­paign pledge to withdraw troops home before 202 people, including 88 paigning. Spanish troops from Iraq. Christmas -and could Australians, and the Aug. 5, "This is yet another attack Australian Prime Minister benefit from the perception 2003, suicide bombing at against civilized people John Howard has faced crit­that Australia is under the J.W. Marriott hotel in everywhere," the statement icism over sending troops to attack. 





Killings in Sudan labeled genocide 
tent and widespread pattern of Such sanctions are opposed by
Associated Preu 

atrocities committed against non­China and Pakistan, Security Arab villagers," according to a Council members that import 
WASHINGTON -The Bush department report. It added that Sudanese oil. administration for the first time on about a third of the refugees who The Bush administration has not Thursday called attacks in Sudan's were interviewed heard racial epi­seriously considered sending troops Darfur region by government­thets while under attack. to Sudan. The African Union, a con­backed Arab militia against black Powell said that as a member of tinent-wide security group, has dis­Africans "genocide." the 1948 international genocide patched 12.5 monitors to Darfur 
The designation by Secretary of convention, Sudan is obliged to pre­who are protected by 300 African State Colin Powell came as a U.S. vent and punish acts of genocide. Union troops. proposal in the U.N. Security "To us, at this time, it appears U.N. envoy Jan Prank urged Council to impose santtions against that Sudan has failed to do so," he Sudan last week to allow more than Sudan encountered opposition. said. 3,000 troops into the region to stop Powell told Congress that Sudan's Powell's announcement came as violence and to prevent the _conflict government is to blame for the the United States was pressuring from escalating. killing of tens of thousands and the U.N. Security Council to impose In Ahuja, Nigeria, where Darfur uprooting of 1.2 million people. sanctions on Sudan's oil industry, ·peace talks are under way, 
In recent interviews with 1,136 among other measures, if the gov­Sudanese Deputy Foreign Minister refugees in neighboring Chad, the ernment does not take steps to Najeeb El-Khair Abdel Wahab criti­State Department ·found a "consis-improve security in Darfur. cized Powell's action. 
Friday, September 10, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Accident 
continued from page 1 

The accident was reported at 4:45 p.m. to Saint Mary's security, which responded immediately. Saint Joseph County Police and the Notre Dame Fire Department also responded. Harrison was taken to Memorial Hospital and Klear was taken to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center for treatment. 
Harrison reported no injuries, and said she was released around 7 p.m. Her car, however, was not so lucky, and is currently under repair for "a cracked wind­shield and dent." 
Klear experienced a major concussion and reportedly blacked out after impact. 
"My last memory is the car being two feet away from me," she said. "I couldn't even tell you what color it 
Vigil 
continued from page 1 
Others found injustice. 

"Well, the vigil is meant to celebrate the lives of those who have died for this war and to add our presence to the hope that there won't be any more deaths orr any side," said local resident Ellyn Stecker. "I opposed this war 
was." 
Her knee was also badly scraped and her body is cov­ered in abrasions, she said. After undergoing extensive testing at the hospital, Klear was released to the care of her parents. 
The security office is hold­ing her bike as evidence, so there is no word on its condi­tion. 
"I don't look to be using it for quite a while though," she added. 
Klear knew of no legal action in the works, but said she just wants everything to "turn out okay." 
For the freshman falto, her immediate focus is being able to march onto the field Saturday. 
"I'm just trying to get myself together so I don't miss this game," she said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at arnichael @nd.edu 
everyone had good news like us." 
Mroczek found out on Thursday that her nephew was not one of the seven marines killed in Fallujah earlier this week. After four days of worry­ing, her son heard on National Public Radio the names of the deceased, and his cousin, Austin Mroczek, was not includ­ed. 
"We felt joy but it was just 
devastating that 

from day one, and seven other fami­
"Wzth that. we
still do." lies weren't as Still others sup­extinguish the lucky as we were," ported the war. flames. But we do she continued. 
"I just want to "He's supposed to
not extinguish the 
honor the fallen," come home in two said Stephen memory. the weeks, let's hope Little, first-year tragedy." he does." graduate student. After expressing "If it weren't for , their thoughts, the
Michael Peterson
them, not only candle-bearers all 
vigil co-organizer 
Americans but fell silent and 
many people around the world wouldn't enjoy the freedom they have today." 
Mostly, however, participants felt it necessary to pay their respects and pray. 
"I guess I just feel terrible about everything that's hap­pened in this war," explained Dale Gibson, from the Notre Dame class of 1968. "I want to show respect to all the men and women who have given their 
f lives." "People don't realize, they think [the war]'s so far away," said Denise Mroczek, a Mishawaka resident. "I wish 
stood in a semi­circle before the Grotto, singing "America, the Beautiful" and "Notre Dame, Our Mother." 
Michael Peterson, co-organiz­er of the vigil, then offered a conclusion. · "With that, we extinguish the flames," he said. "But we do not extinguish the memory, the tragedy." 
Attendees of all different opinions then turned to each other, exchanged the sign of peace, and took their separate paths. 
Contact K. Aaron Van Oosterhout at kvanoost@nd.edu 
ATHLETIC rfRAINING &. SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dan1e freshn1an sntdents interested in the student athletic training program. The n1eeting will be held on Monday, September 13, at4:15p.m. in the Joyce CenterAthletic Training Room. 



Complaint 
continued from page 1 
a.m. 
"It's not just noise -we're concerned for their safety," Rucker said. "If they are so intoxicated that they're doing what they're doing, they could also be prey for harm." 
Incidents were concentrat­ed on East Washington Street, Peashway Street, Notre Dame Avenue and the area bordering the Turtle Creek apartment complex, she said, adding that many residents of retirement age or with young children feel forced to move out rather than tolerate the disruptions. 
District 4 City Council rep­resentative Ann Puzzello, who convened the meetings for her constituents, said all attendees -including the police -were so eager to list their complaints and tell their stories that time ran out before a definite plan of action could be put in place. 
'\No real heavy conclusions were reached," she said, except to schedule another meeting for the end of the month, when she anticipates a much higher turnout now that the situation has become public. 
Kirk said he hoped the next meeting would provide time to strategize more produc­tively and give students and landlords a chance to con­tribute to a solution. 
"I hope students will real­ize that they're in control here," he said. "They've got 
their freedom. The question "But it's another when is do they want to keep it. ... there's one on five, six nights I could see real ramifications of the week." for the students and the Six-year Washington Street city." resident Anna Bolger report­
The University can punish ed waking up to $567 worth off-campus of damage to students who her car, kegs break local, and trash
"[Students have] their 
state or feder­strewn in the al laws, Kirk freedom. The street and said, and often question is do they partiers 
uses a system singing the
want to keep it ... I
of progressive Notre Dame discipline could see real fight song at 3 
a.m., all within
when dealing ramifications for the 
with offenses the past year.
students and the
like noise vio­"We called lations. city.·· the police a 
"We start couple times, with some-but they
Bill Kirk 
thing that gets [came] and
associate vice president 
their atten­[left] right
for Student Affairs
tion, then the away and the 
sanction gets progressively worse," he said. "They should take responsibility for themselves before police have to do it, but I don't know if I'm optimistic about that." 
Both the frequency and intensity of parties have increased significantly in recent years, peaking in the fall and spring, officials and residents said. And while Turtle Creek has been a lin­g~ring concern -"it gets lost in the cracks" between county and city jurisdiction, Kirk said -the problems at houses have flared more recently. 
"We have no idea why," Rucker said. 
"It's one thing when there's a party on game· days or on Saturday," Puzzello added. 
party went 
on," she said. 
A few blocks down the street, senior Mike Rowaldi contested the complaints. 
"The police were out to get us right away," he said of the $250 noise violation he and his four housemates incurred on the first night they moved in. 
But he considered the pos­sibility of additional sanc­tions from the University worse than pressure from the police. 
"Once you're off campus, you're renting a home, and the fact that you're a student is irrelevant," he said. "It's between you and the police, you and the community, not you and the University." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


..-oin &he Pos-t 


Gawne Celebra-tion! 
Follovving Rudy on the North Quad, enjoy music and sample free food (vvhile it lasts!) from Legends of Notre Dame 
September 1 0 LaFortune Patio starting at 10:30 p.m. 
. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 
and 
Legends of Notre Dame 


Friday, September 10, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks . 

Dow 10 289 10 -24.26 
jones ' • 

~~.~~ 

~~;.,~$'• l,24~f89.~'"'''~+5.1.86'. 
1 869.65 +19.01 
·· ·;~i~~:f:~it::...;;#iJ~'·r6!s4;t:3;11~~r,~!'t~~~·J~~~~·· 
S&P 500 1' 118.38 +2.11 
NlfS!<EJO::okYot:::·~·(.t.••~•;.l..2(if9·6•1t1~'~~;;~;:••••o~op·i···,:········· 
FTSE. IOO(London) 4,538.00 -20.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.28 +0.45 20.17 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.21 +0.62 19.93 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.07 +0.02 27.28 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.71 +0.07 9.93 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) 0.00 0.00 2.71 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.69 +0.34 49.88 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.86 +0.36 41.99 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.55 +0.52 34.13 3-MONTH BILL -0.25 -0.04 16.08 
Commodities . 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.84 44.61 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.00 400.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.875 94.175 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
109.48 EURO 0.8173 POUND 
0.5584 CANADIAN$ 
1.2869 
IN BRIEF 
Health care costs continue to rise 
NEW YORK -Health care costs continued 
to surge this year as family premiums in 
employer-sponsored plans jumped 11.2 per­
cent, the fourth year of double-digit growth, 
according to a new study. 
The cumulative effect of rising health care 
costs is taking a to]j on workers: There are at 
least 5 million fewer jobs providing health 
insurance in 2004 than in 2001, according to 
the survey of 3,017 employers by the Kaiser 
Family Foundation and the Health Research 
and Educational Trust. 
This year, 63 percent of employers offered health benefits to workers, down from 68 per­cent in 2001. The change is primarily driven by a decrease in the number of small employ­ers, those with 3 to 199 workers, that offer coverage. 
Hurricane fears make prices surge 
NEW YORK -Oil prices surged Thursday on fears of hurricane damage and lower-than­expected crude oil and gasoline inventory data released by the government. 
"The market is obviously concerned about the storm," said Tom Kloza, director of Oil Price Information Service, adding that the crude stock statistics helped trigger the rally. 
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude futures rose $1.84 to settle at $44.61 a barrel. 
Ed Silliere, vice president of risk management at Energy Merchant LLC in New York, called the market movement "exaggerated," noting that the bullish data led traders to cover short positions -essentially bets that crude prices would fall -and that the storm led to nervous buying. 
Trailer company adds jobs 
BRAZIL, Ind.-Great Dane Trailers has near­ly finished the hiring for about 200 new jobs as it increases production at a western Indiana plant. 
Managers have hired people for all but about 50 production jobs from among the 200 new positions that the company announced for the factory in May, said Mike Steed, the plant's human resources manager. 
The hiring comes as business has improved for the maker of refrigerated, freight and plat­form trailers. 




Stocks mixed as oil prices rise 
Investors remain cautious as unemployment claims and wholesale inventories drop 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks 
were mixed Thursday as 
investor enthusiasm over a 
sharp drop in initial unem­
ployment claims was offset 
by rising oil prices and a 
disappointing wholesale 
inventories report. 
Technology shares benefit­
ed from a pair of outlook 
upgrades and strong earn­
ings from National 
Semiconductor Corp. 
Investors grew more cau­
tious through the session as 
ojl prices climbed, topping 
the $44 per barrel mark 
after weeks of declines. A 
barrel of light crude rose 
$1.84 to settle at $44.61 a 
barrel on the New York 
Mercantile Exchange. 
Wall Street was also dis­
appointed by the Commerce 
Department's report on 
wholesale inventories, 
which rose 1.3 percent in 
July, double what econo­
mists had expected. 
Whole~sale sales rose by 
only 0.5 percent -which 
means that business and 
consumer spending has 
trailed off and more prod­
ucts are sitting in ware­
houses. 
.. We're starting to see some real evidence of soft­
Trader Mark Plantery watches the boards of the S&P 500 Futures trading pit.
ness in consumer spend­
.Stocks were mixed despite Alan Greenspan's Improved assessment of the economy.
ing," said Russ Koesterich, 
U.S. equity strategist for were markedly higher. The about the economy's bottom line." State Street Corp. in tech-focused Nasdaq com-strength in his congression-Tech stocks, battered this Boston...1 don't think the posire index was up 19.01, al testimony Wednesday, summer after a series of economy is falling off a cliff. or 1 percent, at 1,869.65, Wall Street took a more disappointing earnings It's chugging along at a while the Standard & Poor~s cautious view, waiting to reports, were buoyed by a moderate pace, but will it 500 index gained 2.11, or see how the summer's eco-rare spate of good news. be enough to keep corpo­0.2 percent, to 1.118.38. nomic slowdown will affect Nokia Corp. jumped $1.06 rate profits where they The economic data will third-and fourth-quarter to $13.77 after the Finnish need to be? That's the likely weigh heavily on the earnings. maker of cellular phones question." Federal Reserve as it pre-"The takeaway we're get-raised its sales and profit 
Improvements in the pares to meet Sept. 21 to ting from the Fed is that the outlooks for the current nation's job picture could discuss another hike in the economy's growing, but it's quarter. The company cited help spur consumers. The nation's benchmark interest uneven," said Hans Olsen, stronger demand for multi­Labor Department reported rate, which currently · managing director and function mobile devices. 319,000 new unemploy­stands at 1.5 percent. The chief investment officer at Shares of Texas ment claims for the past improved jobs picture Bingham Legg Advisers. Instruments Inc. surged 10 week, down 44,000 from a increases the chances that ..Add to that the la.ck of percent on news it expected week ago. It was the largest the Fed will raise rates by a direction in the market, and third-quarter earnings to drop in first-time claims quarter percentage point, the next catalyst for the come in above the middle of since December 2001. even though raising rates in market won't be the Fed its previous estimate range. 
The Dow Jones industrial the midst of an election can meeting or interest rates. Investors shrugged off the average closed down 24.26, sometimes weigh on the It'll be company earnings, chip maker's warning that or 0. 2 percent, at presidential incumbent. and whether there's been sales could fall below its 10,289.10. While Fed Chairman Alan enough top-line movement past outlook due to low 
Broader stock indicators Greenspan was optimistic to have an impact on the demand. 

EDS set to cut thousands of jobs 
downturn in corporate technology places as we bring new business on." 
Associated Press 
spending and debt downgrades. Baum said it was impossible to tell 
DALLAS -Electronic Data The company has made most of the where cuts might be made. He said, Systems Corp. could cut 15,000 to 5,200 job cuts it announced last year, however, that the company was likely 20,000 jobs _ 10 percent of its work and has about 120,000 employees to grow faster outside the United force _ over about two years to help remaining, including 55,000 in the States than at home. reduce costs by about $3 billion, United States. Jordan has said the company is chief executive Michael H. Jordan Jordan commented about job cuts trying to improve productivity to said Thursday. only briefly in response to a question. reduce the cost it charges for its 
"The next two years, there are He gave few details. services, making its offers more com­going to be a lot of change in EDS," Jeff Baum, a spokesman for Plano, petitive with rivals such as IBM Corp Jordan said at an investor confer­Texas-based EDS, called Jordan's fig­EDS has recently lost about 7,000 ence in New York. "But that will, as I ures an estimate. employees with the sale of a software said, take 20 percent out of our cost "There isn't a hard and fast plan," division and the loss of a contract to structure -$3 billion out. That's the Baum said in an interview. "That's an run computer systems for the U.K. way you do it." · estimate, and it ultimately depends Inland Revenue agency. 
EDS runs computer systems for on how well we transform the busi­Baum said the layoffs Jordan men­other companies. It has struggled ness. It could end up being less than tioned are unrelated to the loss of with money-losing contracts, a that. We might add people in other contracts. 
page 8 Friday, September 10, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Friday, September 10, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
MEXICO. 
Officials create plan to clean up environment 
American, Mexican officials collaborate 
Associated Press 
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico ­With 5 million discarded tires lit­tering the background, the United States and Mexico announced an accord Thursday to clean up the mountains of rusty cars, smashed school buses and rotting rubber that are a blight on the border. 
Environmental officials from both countries said the first step of the massive clean-up would be to start burning the tires for fuel in cement factories. 
"The environmental chal­lenges that we face do not respect political boundaries," said Richard Green, a regional administrator for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. "We experience them together, and we must address them together." 
Mexico's secretary of environ­ment and natural resources, Alberto Cardenas-Jimenez, said Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua and officials of Ciudad Juarez, across the border from El Paso, Texas, have agreed to dispose-of 800,000 used tires in each of the next five years. 
Ciudad Juarez will pay the cement-maker 31 cents for every tire burned and in turn. Cementos de Chihuahua will use the tires as fuel, investing $2.5 million in equipment at the 
Samalayuca cement factory, 25 
miles south of Ciudad Juarez. 
Though the United States is 
not involved in funding the proj­
ect, it worked with Mexican 
authorities in coming up with 
the plan. The agreement will 
only make a dent in the estimat­
ed 5 million used tires at the 
city's collection center. Two mil­
lion more are scattered in dry 
gullies and clandestine dumping 
sites throughout the city, where 
residents simply throw out tires 
to avoid paying the $1 fee the 
city requires to get rid of them. 
"These tires have become breeding grounds for disease. carrying mosquitoes, and when they burn, they release haz­ardous waste to the air and soil making it a grave environmental and health problem for the peo­ple of Juarez," said Alma Leticia Figueroa, director of Ciudad Juarez's Ecology and Civil Protection Department. 
Figueroa said each month fire­fighters put out about 1 ,000 fires started by people often trying to getrid of both trash and tires. 
In addition, as part of the accord, tires from Tijuana and Mexicali, also popular dumping grounds, will be sent to nearby cement factories to be used as fuel. 
The tires will be burned in ovens that have been approved by Mexican environmental authorities, assuring no pollu­tants are released in the air, said Gonzalo Bravo,. a Mexican organizer of the environmental forum. 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -A group of 
prominent Israeli hard-liners 
urged soldiers Thursday to 
disobey orders to dismantle 
Jewish settlements, widening 
the bitter divisions over Prime 
Minister Ariel Sharon's plan to 
withdraw from the Gaza Strip 
and parts of the West Bank. 
In new fighting, eight 
Palestinians, including a 9­
year-old boy, were killed in a 
string of clashes in the West 
Bank and Gaza. 
Meanwhile, Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz ordered a closure of the West Bank and Gaza Strip during the upcom­ing Jewish holidays, prevent­ing thousands of Palestinian workers from entering Israel. 
A ministry spokeswoman said the order would go into_ effect Friday morning and last until early October. Military sources said humanitarian cases would still be permitted into the country. 
Since fighting erupted four years ago, Israel has restricted the entry of Palestinians to varying degrees, imposing strict closures during holidays and other times of high alert. In April 2002, a Palestinian suicide bomber blew up a Passover gathering, killing 29 people. 
The call to soldiers and other security forces to resist evacu­ating settlements appeared to signal a significant escalation in the debate over withdrawal. 
Sharon says exiting Gaza, where 8,000 Jewish settlers live among 1. 3 million Palestinians, will boost Israeli 
ISRAEL 


Hard-liners escalate Gaza rhetoric 
security. He hopes to complete 
the pullout next year. 
But hard-liners, including members of his own Likud Party, have grown increasingly vocal in their opposition to the withdrawal. 
The hard-liners accuse Sharon of caving in to Palestinian violence, and fear that the initial pullout will lead to further withdrawals from West Bank land. 
The petition published Thursday in the Besheva weekly contained some of the harshest language yet against Sharon's plan. 
[t called the pullout a "crime against humanity" and urged security 'forces to disobey orders to evacuate settle­ments. 
"We call public officials who are being asked to lay the groundwork for the ethnic cleansing of Jews from their homeland, and on all of the officers, troops and policemen, Officials at Israel's Shin Bet 
internal security service have 
expressed concerns in recent 
months that extremis.ts might 
oppose the withdrawal with 
force. 
Much of Thursday's fighting occurred in Gaza, which has experienced a surge in vio­lence since Sharon announced his withdrawal plan. 
Palestinian militants are eager to show that they are pushing Israel out of Gaza, while Israel wants to avoid any appearance of fleeing under fire. 
In northern Gaza, Israeli tanks blocked major roads Thursday as troops tried to prevent the firing of home­made rockets from there at Israeli settlements. 
On the outskirts of the sprawling Jebaliya refugee camp, one gunman was killed and three were wounded when an Israeli attack helicopter fired two missiles. Later Thursday. 
to listen to the ''We call public soldiers fired from voice of their a tank-mounted
officials who are
conscience and machine gun not take part in being asked to lay toward a group of acts that will the groundwork ... Palestinians in the sully them," it area, including said. gunmen, stone 
hard-liner petition
The petition throwers and was signed by Israeli newspaper bystanders, wit­

The Visa··credit Card 

With ot.Jr Visafl) CrAdit Card, you can make 
0
online payments and 
NOTRE DAME
view your balance FEDERAl CREDIT UNION You C(Jn bonk 011 u~
at any time. 
to be better 
5741631-8222 "www.ndfeu_org 
' lUI Ktoirtf4!91t ....... 
.. ._ ... -...... --• -"' -• -••. -.-•• '"'--... .., • -• ·~.-=---=---:'.-.......!"""!'""-......_..,...________. 
185 people, 
including for­
mer lawmakers, academics 
military officers and retired 
officials. The newspaper is ori­
ented toward a religious 
nationalist audience, including 
Israers 240,000 settlers in the 
West Bank and Gaza, a 
Besheva spokesman said. 
The Yesha Council, an umbrella group representing Jewish settlers, said it had no connection to the ad. Yesha spokesman Josh Hasten said the group continues to support only nonviolent and legal means of resistance. 
Among the names on the petition were Ben Zion Netanyahu, father of ex-Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and Yossi Ben Aharon, Netanyahu's bureau chief. 
Associates of the hardline Netanyahu, who is currently finance minister, said he was­n't connected to the petition. Speaking on condition of anonymity, they said Netanyahu would go along with the pullout plan, despite his strong reservations. 
Government officials declined to comment on the petition, saying only that they hope settlers will respect the law. 
nesses said. 
T h r e e 
Palestinians. including a 9­
year-old boy, were killed by 
large-caliber bullets, doctors 
said. The army said it was 
unaware of the incident. 
Palestinian medics said a 25­
year-old man was killed by 
machine-gun fire. 
The army said it fired at a 
vehicle traveling toward troops 
on an unauthorized road. 
Troops also entered the West Bank town of Jericho, exchanging fire with three Palestinians. One gunman was killed and two were wounded, the army said. 
Thousands of people, includ­ing gunmen, participated in a funeral procession in a refugee camp near Ramallah. 
During the procession, the dead man's 4-year-old son was repeatedly thrust onto the corpse being carried aloft on a stretcher. 
The child was clearly terri­fied, screaming amid the loud bursts of gunfire. 
After the funeral, an angry crowd surrounded an army jeep and threw stones at it. The jeep sped off, running over and killing a 17 -year-old Palestinian, witnesses said. The army confirmed the jeep hit someone. 

ELlA'S 
MediterraneanCuisine 

/lll11t-2pm & 4pm--9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take,..()ut •Catering 
--~~------~-~~~----------­
We otTer: Shish Kebab;J Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape·Leave Rolls, .Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli;-Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our addres5: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 S{)UthBend, IN 46637 · We are located in Roseland are~ near. Pendle Road on_3 I 
Friday, September 10, 2004 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
RUSSIA 
Officials claim Chechens were among school raiders 
..... 
attackers were Arabs, but and by U.S. asylum for Ilyas possible" chance of such an that inefficiency and corruption
Identification draws 
authorities have not publicly Akhmadov, who Maskhadov event in the United States. had undermined security and provided evidence of the asser­named his foreign minister "How the government and the that violence could spread in the 

stronger connection 
tion. Officials who spoke while he was Chechnya's presi­vario.us entities within the North Caucasus. 
to rebel groups Thursday made no mention of dent in the late 1990s. Russian government responded Each commission will be Arabs being among the mili­In comments published to the incident is not known at headed by a senior Interior tants. Thursday in the newspaper this time," Ridge said in an Ministry officer with the region­
Associated Press Russian officials repeatedly Vremya Novostei, Lavrov said: interview Thursday with al political leader as his deputy have cast the military campaign "Granting asylum to people Associated Press reporters and in many cases and a special task 
MOSCOW-Ten of the mili­in Chechnya as part of a war involved in terrorism -and editors. "Preliminary reports force of 70 men, Nurgaliyev tants who seized a school in against international terrorism Russia has documented evi­suggest there wasn't the kind of said. southern Russia have been iden­-a battle they say Western dence of this -not only causes coordination and leadership and He said the commissions will tified and six were from countries have hindered by us regret but also effectively direction and somebody being in coordinate police, security and Chechnya. security officials said gran_ting asylum to Chechen fig­undermines the unity of the charge." military forces in an effort to Thursday, drawing a strong con­ures and questioning Kremlin anti-terrorist coalition." North Ossetia's Deputy Health prevent terrorist attacks. nection to the Chechen insur­policy in Chechnya. "We are far from accusing the Minister Teim uraz Revazov said Russia has been beset by ter­gents who have been fighting To push the point that Russia leaders of major countries ... of Thursday the death of a victim ror in the past two weeks, suf­Russian forces for years. is a victim of international ter­deliberately pre-overnight brought fering three ,attacks that have 
None were Arabs, despite the ror -and not just of violence serving this dou­the toll among killed more than 400 people. government's contention that spawned by the Chechen con­ble standard," he ..Granting asylum to hostages to 329. The attacks -the downing of Arabs were involved in the flict, which critics say Kremlin said. "But the Security officials two airliners apparently by
people involved in 
hostage-taking last week in the policies have aggravated -inertia is still very have said 11 mem­explosions, a suicide bombing
terrorism ... not only 
North Ossetian Foreign Minister strong." bers of their ranks outside a Moscow subway sta­town of Beslan, Sergey Lavrov Giuliani said causes us regret but were killed, and tion and the school seizure ­which ended in "This will bring our met with Rudolph that when prosecutors have prompted officials to offer a
also effectively 
gunfire and explo­Giuliani, mayor Americans mourn said 30 attackers huge cash reward for informa­
people together undennines the unity 
sions that killed of New York City the victims of the died. tion leading to the killing or cap­
because we have
more than 350 peo­when al-Qaida Sept. 11 attacks ofthe anti-terrorist Putin told the ture of top Chechen rebel lead­ple. many of them been through suicide attackers on the third coalition.·· nation Saturday ers. children. something very struck the World anniversary the school attack Russia brushes off criticism 
According to the Trade Center in Saturday, they was meant to that its policies in Chechnya and 
similar. ..
officials, who spoke 2001. will also think Sergey l.avrov inflame the North the brutality of its troops there to The Associated "When our about victims of Russian foreign minister Caucasus, an eth­feed resentment that boosts sup­Press on condition Rudolph Gulllanl Western partners "this most current nic patchwork that port for the insurgents, focusing of anonymity, the former NYC mayor urge us to act of terrorism," includes North instead on claims the militants other four militants rethink our policy referring to the school seizure. Ossetia, Chechnya and several are trained by international ter­came from and tactics in "Even though these are things other mostly Muslim republics. rorist groups, including al­Ingushetia, which is sandwiched Chechnya, I would advise them · that you hope and pray don't He promised to create a new Qaida. between North Ossetia and not to interfere in Russian inter­happen and you realize that are system of security in the region Putin won support from Chechnya and was targeted in nal matters -which they do by very tragic, this will bring our along Russia's southern flank. German leader Gerhard brazen coordinated attacks granting asylum to terrorists people together, because we At the Kremlin Thursday, Schroeder for his portrayal of against police that killed 90 peo­who are directly to blame for have been through something Interior Minister Rashid Russia as a victim of interna­ple in June. The presence of the tragedy of the Chechen peo­very similar," Giuliani said. Nurgaliyev told Putin that direc­tional terrorism. Ingush raiders threatens to ple," Lavrov said after the meet­In Washington, Homeland tors have been appointed for In a joint declaration, the two inflame long-standing tensions ing. Security Secretary Tom Ridge anti-terrorist commissions in placed the recent attacks along­between Ingush and ethnic He did not name specific coun­said President Bush has asked republics across the region, side Sept. 11 and the Madrid Ossetians, who are the majority tries, but Russia was particular­his top advisers to determine including Chechnya. bombings and said the school in the republic. ly angered by Britain's granting how authorities would handle a Few details were given about raid marked "a new dimension 
President Vladimir Putin and of refugee status to Akhmed similar attack on an American how the commissions would of the threat posed to all Russian investigators have said Zakayev, an envoy for Chechen school to ensure adequate coor­work, but the announcement humankind by international ter­about 10 of the roughly 30 rebel leader Asian Maskhadov, dination in the "unlikely but showed the Kremlin's concern rorism." 
-___....__________________________ 
"Feeling at home 



FOR SALE 
while away" 2180 Miami Hwy
A NOTRE DAME FAN'S DREAM 
FlJLLV FURNISHED 2 BEDROOM/2 FULL BATH CONDO,MINIUM 
Bremen, IN 46506 wl'lll 2 CAR GARAGE. DECKt FIREPLACE & SWIMMING POOL 
574-220-6672 
AN EASY WALK FROM THE NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

• 30 min from Notre Dame·r·-·-·-·-·-·tti~-·hb.b·-·-·-·
THE FINEST ACOOMMODAnONS THIS CLOSE TO THE ACTION 
. 1 www-.sco s .com 
READY FOR Occt.JPANC\' • SLEEPS 10 PEOPLE AS-18 
• Indoor full-s1ze pool i..·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· BUILT-IN VACUUM, WHOLE HOUSE ELECTRONIC AIR ALTER 
• Free continental-plus breakfast 
lUNING AREA OVERLOOKS QUAINT PERENNIAL <1\RDEN W/PATIO 
• Park-like country setting for relaxation 
ANISHED BASEMENT with WASHER & DRYER. 2..PEft80N JAC'..UZZI & 48.,. TV 
• King & Queen Select Comfort Mattresses 
NEW .1\PPU.\NCE:S, UNt.NS. KfiCIIENW.\RE+ PAINTINGS A.~D SCUlPTUftES INC:l.UDf.D 
• Indoor smoke-free • Washer & dryer access
CLUB HOUSE AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES ASKIN'G $235,000..00 
• TV/DVD in every room • Putting Green SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY PLEAS£-C'.ALL (574)277-5631 FOR AN APPOINTMENT 
• Com uter fax, &mail service 

~-----.. 
J$1 Sports Sar in South Send 204-6 South Send Ave ~ Across frot\t Martins Plaza 272~1766 
Ntl Football Headquarters Online sports info 
"'C.reat Food. C.reat Fun Mon: Monday Night Football 6-Specials starting at $1.0 Tues: College Night ~ tiJ 6-Specials Wed: T~IVIA Night ~ &ring your teat\ts ~ Prizes Thurs: tiJ ~ First Thursday every t\tonth: Jazzy C.rass Fri: live £ntertaintltent Sat: Ntl gat\tes 

-

Friday, September 10, 2004 page 11
The Observer + NEWS 







INNSBRUCK 
2004-2005 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 312 DEBARTOLO 4:30PM Applications Available wwwlnd.edul--intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.l5@nd.edu Application Deadline: December 1, 2004 
Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is 

to know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report provides insight you can't get anywhere else. For only $45.95 receive 21 comprehensive issues, published weekly during the football season, monthly after the season. In addition, our annual Notre Dame Football Preview is included. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports fans. 
"'DHICN CUT & STYLE"' ADY.A.NC£0 COLOil..INC 8o.. COR.Il..EC:TION * Pll..OFHSION.A.l M.A.KE-UP" "'MEN'S STYLINC" AVED.A. SP>.. M.A.NICVfl...€5 & PEDICUR.H • BODY 8o.. F.A.CI.A.L W.A.XINC * 
Illusions-> 
A~· 
CONC2P'I' SALON 

OPEN MONTHRU SAT GIFT CERTIFICATES 
574-272-03I 2 
Designers Trained in London, Toronto, Los Angeles, Atlanta & chicago 
-.w.l
THE COfi...NEfl... OF Sl>..H RD. 23 &. lfi...ONWOOO BEHIND SUBW>..Y 
~ 


Football 
continued from page 1 
fans] were jerks," said Mark Bescher, a 2004 graduate back on campus for the big game. "Now it's our turn ­and we're going to win." 
The 2002 victory is also clearly remembered by older students. 
"I'm excited [for the game]." senior Mary Kate Castellani said. "It would be really great if they win, but if not, that's fine -it's just fun to go to games. [In 2002] I was in the first couple rows, and we were the first ones on the field. It was awesome." 
The mood on campus has lightened considerably since last Saturday, when a heart­breaking loss to Brigham Young University left the Irish in a hole for the critical early-season games. 
''I'm definitely very excit­ed," said sophomore Angelo Suozzi. "I just hope we come out with more intensity than against BYU." 
For his classmate Kristen Aland, the answer is simple. 
"We're gonna muck 'em up," she said, paraphrasing a popular shirt slogan. "Napoleon Dynamite was hunting wolverines in Alaska last summer, and we're going to be hunting them right here 
in South Bend on Saturday." The positive attitude was pervasive. 
"Despite our loss last week­end and low campus morale, I think we could pull off a great win against Michigan this weekend," said sopho­more Gina Tesi. "I mean. we're Notre Dame!" 
Junior Brian Barry, howev­er, was less excited. . 
"Honestly, on the record, 'Go Irish."' he said. "Really, I'm only going to the game because they're my peers and I want to go out and support them." 
The 0-1 start has him ques­tioning the football program's potential in 2004. 
"It's a big thing when there's a chance -but, well, maybe I'll be surprised," he said. 
The future was uncertain but hopeful for most students on campus. 
"I think that we've got a chance, but a lot has to go right for us," said Suozzi. ''I'm also psyched just to be in the stadium." 
Regardless of the outcome, the 2004 game is sure to be like most Notre Dame/Michigan match-ups ­one to remember, for better or for worse. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

GRENADA 

Hurricane ravages Caribbean 
Associated Press 
ST. GEORGE'S -Hurricane Ivan left Grenada a wasteland of flattened houses, twisted metal and splintered wood as it bore down on Jamaica with deadly winds and monstrous waves, forcing a half million people to flee their homes. The death toll in the Caribbean stood at 23 and was expected to rise. 
Ivan, a Category 4 hurricane with winds of 145 mph, was fore­cast to make a direct hit on Jamaica Fridav afternoon. The hurricane devaStated Grenada on Thesday, tossing sailboats against the shore. tearing apart buildings and setting off frenzies of looting. 
"The destruction is worse than I've ever seen," said Michael Steele, a 34-year-old resident 
·whose home was destroyed. "We're left with nothing." 
U.S. officials ordered people to evacuate from the Florida Keys after forecasters said the storm -the fourth major hurricane of the Atlantic season -could hit the island chain by Sunday. 
--------------..
NEW CLIENTS 
so<}~ OFF DESIGN CuT & STYLE! 
-Exclusively with our Designers. Creative Designers and selected Master Deszgners­
~nos sryan8oo 
•'Aivane~i Co{ortne ani Correction 
•'Dui8n Cut ani StjCe #fJtveia SJII Mardcuru ana'.Peitcuru 
•'.Projusiona{ 'Mafe-'Uy 
Offer valid thru October JI, 2004 
ILLUSIONS -AN IMAGE WE CAN CREATE FOR YOU! 
-----------------------------· 

THE OBSERVER 


Respect the team 
.P.o.~ Q<·~ Oamtt.JN 465~ 024 SOI#h !)inirit ftiill~ Nctiii .Dam~ IN 46~S6 EDIM IN ClmF .. Manlozai' 

M,\N¢JN:c Eorm~ ·· · · · &ustNl!SS M4NAGEa ·. Megb~n~: ·D<!wnes .Mike Flanagan 
·AssT. ~GlNG EOJtoa •. JQ~H~~. 

. NEWS £mro.R:. Claire Heininger · ·VlE'oJVPOJN1' £DllU.R: Salah \!~~las · 

AD DESIGN MAN~a; Kelly Ntdson. SYsTEMs AI>MrNISTitA'IDR: Mary Allen · CONTIIDUllR: Paul.t Garcia . 

o8siRVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcObserver.com . POLICIES 

POST'~!~ ~~o~a.;..~·~··· ~(ib....., . 
Th~·"•~~UA~w«~~~~~~~~i!IA~.v.; .
........d...... . 

Emotions are running high over Irish football -and not just because one of the school's biggest rivals invades Notre Dame Stadium this weekend. On the opposite end of the spectrum from the rabid loyalty inspired by Michigan weekend, dissatis­faction is growing as coach Tyrone Willingham's 5-10 record in the past 15 games marks Notre Dame's worst stretch in over 40 years. 
With the season just a week old, those emotions have turned from the usual excitement, anticipation and enthusiasm to criticism, bitterness and frustra­0 The 
slow start by the Irish, an early Michigan lead or a lopsided halftime score will only fuel the fire. 

But no matter the score on Saturday, these emotions should not translate into boos. A game -even a tough one -is not the time to yell or complain. It is a time to support the players representing this great University on the football field. 
The booing issue became apparent during the embarrassing 37-0 loss to Florida State last year, when Irish suffered their third loss by more than 30 points and their second consecutive home blowout loss. Students, fans and alumni showed their frustration by raining boos on the field and trickling out of the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 




To be a Domer 
game long before the players' traditional raising of the helmets to the student section. 
Everyone who pays for a seat in the Stadium has bought the right to boo. And if the players on the field aren't giving a full effort, they should be told loudly and clearly that they aren't doing justice to the Notre Dame name. 
But, just like the team's struggles, the fans' FSU display 
should be considered an extreme exception. These aren't pro­fessional athletes being paid millions of dollars to do their job. These are 18 to 22-year old com­
al petitors who
tion. That combination of negative sentiment oserver are still college students first and could easily turn into a negative reaction toward • athletes second. the players against Michigan Saturday. And a Booing them should never become a habit.

Editon 
One of the most common questions that people ask me, a new sophomore transfer stu­dent, is, "Why' d you transfer?" The genuinely curious who ask expect a simple answer to this simple question. They probably expect me to respond, ''I've always wanted to come here," or, "I didn't like my last school." Yet, while all these brief answers are true to some degree, they do not adequately do the University of Notre Dame and its student body justice. Thus. in order to fully and ulti­mately answer this question in a way that accomplishes this task, I would like to tell you this story. 
Two days ago I was sick. I had a fever, headache and stufi.Y nose that kept me not just from attending class, but stay­ing awake for more than one hour at a time. I climbed into bed for what I expected to be a long day of a solitary struggle against my health. After all, when I had been this sick at Boston College last year, no one seemed to notice my absence, let alone visit. In fact, I felt like a nuisance for being slower and in my roommates' way all day. I honestly expected nothing, especially since this is only my third week at Notre Dame and I hardly know anyone here. 
It was not long before a won­derful friend ofmine, whom I met a mere few weeks ago, knocked on the door. "Are you still sick'? You were pretty con­gested yesterday." Dumbfounded, I mumbled a response about my less than stellar condition. "Well, can I get you something? Let me go get you some soup! Give me your ID!" Still surprised, I hand­ed it to her. ''I'll be back!" she declared. And that was that. 

Less than an hour later, she returned with another new friend of mine with two large cups of chicken noodle soup and two biscuits. "The dining hall lady was something else," one told me. "She wanted a note from the rectress, but I told her 'My friend can't walk to the rectress!' so then they went and got us some cups." I thanked her proftisely, still not believing the sacred treasures that they just handed to me. "Are you kidding? It was no trouble. Now eat and get some rest, and we'll be back to check on you later." 
To most students at this uni­versity, this is a typical story. Yet, as a former student at another institution, I insist to you that it is a story typical only of this community. 
"Nowhere else but Notre Dame" is a statement not just true of the packed football games or challenging academic coursework. This declaration accurately speaks to the amaz­ingly thoughtful, compassionate and selfless people that make up this community. Thus, fellow students of Notre Dame, it is my pleasure to articulate to you why I transferred: you and your spirit. I cannot tell you how lucky I felt that day-and feel every day-to be a member of this family. 
Amanda Golbahai 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
Sepr. 8 
Yes, the pressure to succeed at Notre Dame 
and match the storied history of years past is as high as anywhere in the country. Clearly results shouldn't take a back seat to settling for effort. 
But if the effort is there. deriding college football players on every down for not being perfect -or even for not performing to expectations -shouldn't be the mindset Saturday after­noon. 
We are ND. 
So are they. 
Show them respect. 


Winning or democracy? 
I rushed to fmish a paper before 5:00 on Wednesday so I could attend the College Democrats vs. College Republicans debate. As [ stood outside Stonehenge, I heard well-versed people deliver representations of their candidates.' plat­forms. I heard arguments abouflraq, Al-Qaeda and the economy. And I heard Democrats around me scoffmg when a Republican took stage, Republican5 laughing under their breath at the arguments of the Democrats and people proudly clapping when they heard· something with which they agreed. 
I left after 15 minutes, and not because the pizza ran out. Rather, I couldn't take the debate any more. 
Dialogue is about compromise, not winning. Wednesday's debate. like any debate. was about the rah-rah spirit that produces alliances mirroring those we have for sports teams. When we watch Notre Dame play football against Michigan this weekend, for example, we're not at all inter­ested in the reasons why Michigan fans like Michigan. No. we just hate Michigan. Why? Because they are Michigan. It doesn't matter why they're Michigan fans; they're just utterly, inexplicably, undoubtedly wrong. 
That makes sense when it comes to sports; they're all in fun. But treating politics like sports is as preposterous as asking Michigan fans why they are Michigan fans. When we lose interest in the reasons people are voting for Bush or Kerry, when we start to hate the Bush supporters and the Kerry supporters, we kill democracy. Should we come from polarized ends, or should we come from the middle, acknowledging that we don't have all of the information and recognizing that our purported opponents could have something valuable to say'? Should we attack the candi­dates or discuss the logic behind their ideas? 
Over 200 years ago in Philadelphia, a group of middle­aged men struggled bitterly, com......omising on various issues, and they came up with our Constitution. Dialogue is at the core of democracy. Mudslinging isn't revolutionary, and it doesn't inspire change. We deserve better than to tum politics into sport. 
Catherine McGeeney 
)UOIOf 
off-campus Sept 8 

News Sports . OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY Amaitda.Michaels Justin Schuver Oaire Heininger Matt Puglisi ~Antonacci . · Dan Tapetillo 

"Democracy consists ofchoosing your 
··Viewpoint 
.. ··••·Scene . 

dictators, after they've told you what it is 
Maureen ..·· M9lly Griffin ... Do you gamble in the dorms? 

you want to hear." 
Reynolds· ··illustrator Alyssa Brauweiler. ·.· Gra.ha.m•Ebetsch 
*Poll appears courtesy of 
Alan Coren
Graphics www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 143 responses. 
author
Graham Ebetsch 



How much for your life? 
Joe, a poor driver, is about to lose his license. Should his 

state let him keep it, and continue dangerous driving, ifhe 
can buy additional license "points" from a good driver 
without infractions? Should Joe's money give him rights to 
put others at risk? 
Consider a similar case: market­

based programs allowing violations of Kristin 
Shrader­

air-toxics regulations, provided mercu­
Frechette

ry emitters buy "pollution rights" from 
distant and cleaner companies having 
emissions credits. 
Science Watch

On one hand, President Bush and states like Indiana support "pollution trading." They say it gives toxics-pol­luters flexibility, lets them decide when to control their emissions, is cheaper than taxies-reductions, allows "mar­ket-neutral" decisions and offers polluters carrots rather than sticks. 
On the other hand, physicians say even trace mercury, a developmental and neurotoxin, harms children most. Their health is not a tradable commodity. The Centers for Disease Control argue one in 12 women already has mer­cury blood levels damaging to unborn children, and 322,000 U.S. newborns annually face health problems from fetal mercury exposure. 
Who is right? 

Market solutions are defensible, as Adam Smith recog­nized, ifparticipants have full information and pay full­compensation costs for their transactions. But U.S. facili­ties emitting 48 tons of mercury annually do not compen­sate their victims. And creating toxic "hot spots," tradable mercury-pollution "rights" further exacerbates unequal protection -especially in South Bend. 
Industry-reported Toxic Release Inventories (TRis) place South Bend in the national top three locales for hazardous chemical releases. In a "clean-air-non-attainment" county, its average cancer risks are 100 times above Clean Air Act mandates. TRI risks to children are 10 times those of adults, but are underestimates. They include only dangers from South Bend-released toxins, not from upwind pol­luters like Gary and East Chicago. 
TRI data show South Bend air-toxics releases of hun­dreds of thousands of pounds annually. The largest vol­ume emissions are: styrene, toluene, methyl isobutyl ketone, xylene, n-hexane, chlorine, ethylene and glycol ethers. All are carcinogens or developmental, reproduc­tive, neuro-, immuno-, cardiovascular, liver, gastrointesti­nal, kidney or respiratory toxicants. AM General, alone, annually releases 537,303 pounds oftoxins here. 
Yet South Bend polluters receive city-tax abatements. Honeywell, Federal Mogul and Steel Warehouse, for example, have total-city-tax breaks of$6,100,000, $530,692 and $587,465. Employing 668, 565 and 457 people, respectively, these three companies get $7.2 mil­lion in total property-tax abatements-or $3,600 per worker. 
Lower-employment polluters get bigger breaks. Koontz­Wagner (Ameritech Drive), Nimet, Lock Tube Joint (LTJ) (Walnut Street), Interplastic and Kokoku, for example, have multiyear-city-tax breaks totaling$ 850,000, $186,000, $240,000, $122,510 and $45,000. Employing 32, 60, 39, 30 and 38 people, respectively, these five com­panies receive $1.5 million in total-city-tax abatements­or $7,500 per worker. 
Why? Tax abatements/subsidies can stimulate employ­ment and economic development. They can bring employ­ers to an area. Requesting tax breaks, South Bend polluters promised jobs in return. 
But 2002 South Bend tax data show pol­luters often break their job promises. Honeywell, for example, promised 28 new jobs, produced zero, then elim­inated 199 positions. Yet the city neither reduced nor revoked its 10-year $6.1-million abate­ment. Nimet promised nine new jobs, produced none, then cut 13 positions. Its six­year, $186,000 abatement was neither reduced nor revoked. LTJ promised five new jobs, produced none and eliminated six posi­tions, yet kept its 10-year­$240,000 abatement. Interplastic promised 23 new jobs, produced none, cut 18 positions, yet kept its 10-year, $122,510 abatement. Kokoku created no new jobs, lost two positions, yet kept its five-year-$45,000 abatement. 

Economists, like Sam Nunn, say abatements are cost effective ifevery average annual abatement of $487 produces at least one $25,000 after-tax­wages job. Many South Bend abatements do · ·.. not. 
To compensate for polluter property-tax abatements. South Bend residential tax rates are the state's highest­double those, for example, of Evansville. Local families pay for industry's free ride, for disproportionate shares of national air-pollution-related health costs, $14 billion annually, according to the CDC. Children pay, through poorer health and cities' typically taking abatement monies from public-school funding. 
Maybe the South Bend economy needs city-tax abate­ments? Yet government (2000-census) economic-health and nonagricultural-employment statistics rank it 124 of 331 American metropolitan regions. Its employment-and­economic-health indicators surpass those in 63 percent of 
U.S. cities. 

While tax breaks make sense, they seem less sensible in already highly polluted areas like South Bend. Who wants jobs that give their children cancer? No one, says University of California statistician Bill Freudenburg. Studying 50 states over 10 years, he showed that locales, ranked highest for alleged "healthy business climate" (hefty polluter-property-tax abatements and weak pollu­tion-control regulations), had the lowest average-income and new-job growth. Those ranked lowest. for alleged 
"business climate," had the highest average-income and new-job growth. With the nation's highest-per-capita pol­luter-tax-abatement subsidies, Louisiana created America's "cancer alley." As Louisiana State's Paul Templet shows, when industry tax breaks increase, per-capita income decreases, while health-and-welfare gaps, between rich and poor, increase. Can we learn from Louisiana? 
Are governments using economics, or subsidized crony capitalism (mas­querading as free-market incentives), to evaluate tax breaks? Network (the 

National Catholic Social Justice Lobby) and U.S. Catholic Bishops recommend 
rejecting President Bush's "Clear Skies" Plan. It forbids much toxic-pollution enforce­ment; relaxes public-health stan­
dards, triples allowable mercury emissions after delaying regulations eight years and allows violations of health protections by buying "pollution rights." It also fails the economics test: Bush 
hired Abt Associates to compare Bush's and Kerry's air-pollution plans. Abt showed Bush's plan has $108 annual net benefits and prevents 14,000 annual air­pollution deaths. Abt said the Jeffords-Kerry plan has $142 billion annual net benefits and prevents 22,000 annual air-pollution deaths. You decide. 
Professor Kristin Shrader-Frechette teaches in the department ofbiological sciences and the department of philosophy at Notre Dame. She can be reached at 1-2647 or through www.nd.edu/-kshrader. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
God, country, Notre Dame 

It is hard to imagine, for us seniors, that this S.<tturday will mark the somber three-year anniversary of the day that shook our world. Not being from a traditional Notre Dame background, as a two-week old freshman, I didn't quite know my place at this great University. Was I, too, part of the storied "Fighting Irish" of Notre Dame -or just a spectator? 
However, soon after the 8,000-strong Mass out on South Quad only hours after the tragic events, I realized I was indeed part of a great legion of people. 
The resolve and reflection experienced from that day forward with the entire campus woke me up to the true meaning of the phrase that bounds all of us here together: "GOD, COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME" is no slogan; it signifies our solemn duty, our faith­ful commitment and our common creed. 
As we, the Class of 2005, march on to do great works and to fight the good fight, let us not forget that day that wrapped us up in a shield of unity. Let us not forget those who lost their lives or those who still mourn for lives lost. Nonetheless, during these try­ing times, let us stand firm in our loyalty to God, Country and Notre Dame; in doing so, we are all players on the field, standing strong together in solidarity and strength. Together, we cannot be beaten, broken or deterred from doing what is right for our faith, for America and for the University of Our Lady. 
Darrell Scott senior class president off-campus Sept. 9 



Muslims, Christians called to prayer 
In response to the on-going debate surrounding Professor Tariq Ramadan, it seems important to to clarity some aspects of Islam that have been misunderstood by fearful individuals with view­points similar to Kathleen Sappey. In her previous editorial, Sappey suggested that had Ramadan been allowed to teach at our University, "we should all get our prayer rugs out" in expectation of his attempts to convert us. Well, this year, I showed up to Dillon Hall and discovered that the RA who lived in my room last year had left a car­pet that, except for one stain, was in great condi­tion. I put a rug to cover the spot and it ended up being placed exactly where I place my ladder to climb out of my bed. Consequently, every morn­ing the first thing my feet hit is this rug. Due to its similarity to an Islamic prayer rug, this contact upon my waking every morning has encouraged me to submit myself to prayer as my first matter of business every day. For those unaware, "islam" is the arabic word for submission. 
Although I am not familiar with Ramadan's views, if he truly is a moderate muslim. as sug­gested by University in their hiring of him, then his faith bears no threat to our own. Moderate Muslims emphasize righteous living and submis­sion to God. "Dhimmis," or members of Abrahamic faiths that deny Muhammad as a prophet -e.g. Jews and Christians -are not 
encouraged to convert to Islam by moderate mus­
lims. From the very beginning of Islam's history, 
muslims have encouraged unity amongst those 
who claim the God of Abraham as their God. We should not fear an encouragement to pray to our God. If we truly believe the faith we profess every time we say the creed, then what have we to fear by communicating with those who also encour­age submission to the Lord our God? I suggest an openness when confronting religions other than our own. As Christians, we believe a special reve­lation concerning the nature of God's supernatu­ral existence has been shown to us. Members of other faiths have similar beliefs of special revela­tion into the nature of the Divine. God's radiant glory is far beyond anything our eyes can per­ceive. This is made clear multiple times in the Old Testament. If this is true, let us -whether Christian or Muslim -respectfully admit our humility and submit ourselves to prayer every morning, asking for deeper understanding of our Creator. 
Spencer McSorley sent or Dillon Hall Sept. 9 
O
THE 

BSERVER 


~­
page 14 Friday, September 10, 2004 Friday, Septembt 
I 
i I 
I •\ Dillon Hall's pep rally finds humor in everything from 


By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Nothing at Notre Dame is sacred when it comes to the Dillon Hall pep rally. No alumnus, no dorm, 
not even Touchdown Jesus. The dorm traditional­ly puts on its annual pep rally each year before the first home football game, and it is an event that allows the campus to laugh at the daily life at Notre Dame, as well as to make fun of our adver­saries, this year being Michigan. 
If you have been on campus for the past week, you have probably heard about the Dillon Hall pep rally, whether from "Teen Wolf' running into your class playing music or a mob of Dillon boys run­ning through your dorm. The men of the hall spend a great amount of effort promoting their event, and it helps to create a sense of unity among the members. 
The Dillon Hall pep rally opened as most Notre Dame pep rallies do, with cheerleaders, the Porn ~guad and spea~ers, but that is where the similar­tties end. Followmg the speeches from the football players, the rally becomes ~o.re of a comedy show with a humorous video diary documenting the behavior of Michigan fans. Naturally, it was an unflattering portrait that included people listing their favorite nasty nicknames for Notre Dame 
and its players, beating up leprechauns and revealing their secret jealousy for the FightingIrish. 
The plot of the rally revolves around, the fact that Touchdown Jesus, the beloved mural 011 the side of the Hesburgh Library, turns up missing. This occurrence delights Michigan head coach Lloyd Carr, as he blames Michigan's poor record in South Bend on the ever-watchful eye of the mural. Father Monk Malloy, dressed as a monkey, must 
. assemble a dream team of Notre Dame graduates in order to find Touchdown Jesus. He eventually gets Regis Philbin, Rudy Ruttiger and Joe Montana as the core of his team, and appearances from Gold medal winner Maria] Zugunis and the dis­graced Paul Hornung. The quest to find Touchdown Jesus takes the group around the Notre Dame campus, mocking the game "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?" 
Few gr~ups on campus eraerge unscathed from 
thh~n an attempt to b~ost spmt~. The rally us~~lly ,1,,the rally~ Fli}Dside; engineers' ,.a;nd Latin 
Expressions have their moments. Dorms like Knott, Siegfried, Zahm, BP and Lyons all have jokes made at their expense. Even slightly less obvious targets like the NDSP, the dining hall workers and the grounds crew can't escape being made fun of. · 
A game show called "Where in the World is Jesus of Nazareth?" proves to be the turning point 



as. a loose plot that ties the .sktts together, but the mam .Purpose of the rally IS to get the campus laughmg and re~dy for the g_ame on Saturday. 
Members of Dillon Hall wnte, set-up and usual­ly assume the ro~es of we~l-known campus figures as they per~orm m th~ sktts. . . 
The rall~ s format IS essentially that of a radw show, but It only adheres to that loosely. It opened 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


•er 10, 2004 page 15 


s Sacred 
Michigan to Touchdown Jesus 
for finding Jesus. After Father Paul Doyle, Dillon's rector, must exit his post as the show's host in order to do his traditional stage dive, the show takes on a "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?" feel thanks to Regis taking over as host. Notre Dame's finest must face Michigan's "finest," including Chris Webber, Jim Abbott and a dumb new foot­ball recruit. Rudy wins the game by default, and Jesus is revealed to be boycotting Taco Bell, refer­encing the ongoing student campaign doing that led a boycott in support of better wages for migrant workers. Only after a Jackson Five med­ley, a dance routine and a change of heart by Michigan's coach are things finally resolved. 
True to Notre Dame football tradition, three­fourths of the way through the game, Officer Joe McCarthy of the NDSP made his standard announcement. This time, though, the message wasn't about drinking and driving, but instead told fans to stay fired up because Michigan would­n't be able to take the heat. 
Along with the skits, there was a spirited appearance by Craekhead, the Dillon Hall alum­nus famous for breaking plates on his head to music during the pep rally. .. ·, The Dillon Hall pep rally gives the campus a chance to have a laugh at its own expense, as well as that of their football rivals, before the football season moves into high gear and people start to get serious about the games. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


:~ 
t 


CLAIRE Observer ·ess up as questionably attired "Zahm boys" having ~ rally makes jokes about many aspects of student tlorms on the Notre Dame campus are no exception. 


CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Above, hosts acting as newscasters keep the action of the pep rally moving with jokes. Below, two Dillon Hall members assume the roles of Michigan football coach Lloyd Carr and his new recruit. The rally boosts school spirit for the upcoming football season. 
--~----------------------------------~--~ 
Friday, September 10, 2004 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 


Benson, Mets halt Marlins' winning streak at nine games 
short career, striking out 14 in
Associated Press 
the Pittsburgh Pirates' 3-1 vic­
MIAMI -Kris Benson looked tory Thursday in the first game like a money pitcher Thursday, of a doubleheader. helping the New York Mets put "It's the best game of my an end to three streaks. career," said Perez, who start­
Rejuvenated after skipping ed against Houston only one turn in the rotation, because the Pirates were Benson gained some leverage rained out Wednesday against in ongoing contract talks by Milwaukee. "When I found out pitching a shutout into the sev­[he would oppose Houston]. I enth inning, and struggling said, 'That's fine."' New York cooled off the Florida The Astros had scored at Marlins, 4-0. least five runs in each game of 
The Mets snapped an 11-a winning streak that matched game losing streak while stop­the franchise high and was the ping the Marlins' franchise longest in the NL since Atlanta record-tying nine-game win­won 15 in a row in 2000. ning streak. New York also Houston, which averaged nine ended a run of 10 consecutive runs during its streak, began losses to Florida. the day with a slim lead in the 
"Kris gave us exactly what we NL wild-card race. needed -a bunch of zeros on Perez (1 0-8) allowed three the board," Mets manager Art hits, an unearned run and Howe said. walked one over eight innings 
Benson (11-11) had been idle in joining Bob Veale as only the since Aug. 29 while nursing a pitchers in the Pirates' 118­sore shoulder. He can become a season history to strike out 200 free agent after this season and in a season. After his career­has been talking with the Mets high 14 Thursday, Perez has about a multiyear deal. 212. Veale struck out 200 or 
"As far as negotiations are more four times, last doing so concerned, it has been pretty in 1969. quiet," he said. "I think they've Houston 9, Pittsburgh 2 been waiting to see that my Because Josh Fogg didn't arm's not going to fall off when resemble Oliver Perez, the I go out and pitch, which is Houston Astros again look a smart. team that's going to be hard to 

At the same time, I knew stop in September. nothing would happen ... so Jeff Bagwell, Brad Ausmus hopefully things will pick up and Lance Berkman drove in and are tied with the Giants for gery two months ago. He allowed six hits and two and we'll be able to get things two runs each and the Astros the NL wild-card lead, despite Helms hit a grand slam and runs with no walks in six done in a hurry." shook off Perez's dominance in trailing by seven games only Brady Clark had four hits innings. 
Benson limited Florida to five the opener, beating Pittsburgh three weeks ago. against his former team, lead­He was 0-1 with a 2.81 ERA hits and a walk in six-plus 9-2 Thursday night for their "We needed the second game ing the Brewers over the and five no-decisions since his innings. He improved to 3-3 13th victory in 14 games and a in a big way," Craig Biggio said. Cincinnati Reds 7-2. last win. since joining New York, with an doubleheader split. Fogg (9-10) didn't offer near­"My timing was off." said Davis also had 11 wins for ERA of6.43. In the first game, Perez ly the challenge Perez did, giv­Helms, who didn't play in Texas in 2001. 
"One start off did wonders," ended Houston's 12-game win­ing Houston a gift run with a Milwaukee's last four games. "It was frustrating, but I did­he said. "I came into today with ning streak with the most domi­balk while allowing eight runs "That's why I work so hard n't feel any pressure," Davis a lot of confidence knowing nating start of his short career, and eight hits in 6 2-3 innings. before the game with [hitting said. "I thought I was pitching that I had some rest, and my striking 14 in a 3-1 victory­"The win's important to us coach] Butch [Wynegar). We're well, and the team was playing arm felt great." the Astros' only loss since Aug. because we're in the pennant wearing him out. All the hard well behind me. We just Pittsburgh 3, Houston 1 26. race," manager Phil Garner work is paying off, especially in weren't scoring any runs." 
A pitcher needs to be nearly The Astros averaged nine­said. "The second thing is we my situation. I'm pulling the Wily Mo Pena homered for flawless to have a chance of plus runs during their fran­want to keep driving, and to ball with authority now and not the Reds, who have lost four beating the Houston Astros chise-record tying winning keep driving you want to keep getting sawed off on inside straight and nine of 10. these days. Oliver Perez was streak and quickly returned to winning. You don't want any pitches." The score was 2-all when Bill that and more. form by scoring nine in the sec­letdowns." Doug Davis (11-1 0) tied his Hall drew a leadoff walk from 
Perez ended the Astros' 12-ond game. Milwaukee 7, Cincinnati 2 career high for wins with his Gabe White (1-2) in the fifth. game winning streak with the The Astros won their 16th in Wes Helms' swing is starting first victory in seven starts Hall stole second and scored on most dominating start of his 18 games and 21st in 25 games to come around after knee sur-since July 30. Clark's double to left. 

The Observer accepts classifiedsevery business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club Buy/Sell NO footballtix. LaSalle are hiring for the following NO FOOTBALL HOUSING Home & away games, 
NOTICES postions: FoR SALE Beautiful Historic Home TICKETS including Mich.St.& Tenn. 
Cocktail Server (Must be over 21)  One mile from campus  57 4-289-8048.  
I I  Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apartment. 1909 Lincolnway West  Main Dining Room Server (Must be 21) Flexible Hours available. Please pick up  Condo. 1434 Marigold Way #114. Large 1 bedroom w/garage, perfect condition, most appliances stay,  3 double bedrooms available $80 per person/per night $150 per couple/per night  A businessman needs season tickets for clients. 277-1659  PERSONAL  
$450/month. 246-4634  applications at 115 West Colfax  Open House Sun. 9/12,2-4pm.  CALL 574-532-4628  
Avenue, any time after 2:00PM  Near entrance of North Shore  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  
91 HondaAccordEX  Condos on right.  2 bedroom apartment for rent.  PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator.  
40 Sedan/1 03500M  Love kids? Mom needs help picking  $73,000. Call Reed 276-4131.  $525/month.  273-3911  Hiring campus reps.  
New Muffler & Battery  up children at area Catholic schools  Students welcome!  Call for group discounts.  
$2400/0BO 3861352  and taking them to activities  1613 McKinley-GREAT 3bdrm  1909 Lincolnway  For Sale: ND football tix.  Info/Reservations  
between 3:00 • 6:00 p.m. Mon-Fri.  home with fenced yard & garage  West.  Good prices. 232·0964.  1-800-648-4849  
Football & Grad 4 rooms  Great kids -daughters ages 11 and  near NO.  246-4634  www.ststravel.com.  
3 mile from ND Best Area  14.  Freshly painted,some new carpet,  Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$  
(574) 287-4545  Schools and home close to ND and  move right in. ALL appliances  1 bedrom apartment 20 minutes to  251-1570.  Enroll in Kaplan MCAT course in  
SMC. Call Karen  including W/D. $80,900.  campus, located on  September & Save $100.  
Stonehill at 272-5013.  Open House 9-12-04 from 2-4pm.  St. Joseph River.  ND ttball tix bought & sold  1-800-KAP-TEST for details!  
WANTED  Home Gallery Realtors,  Available for University games  a.m. 232·2378  

 Looking for a playful, kind & respon- Michelle Becker  Call 5742955672  p.m. 288-2726  Welcome to our Big House  
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for  sible person for occasional  574-235-3544.  
south side elementary school  babysitting of my  2 Bedrooms for Rent, queen or 2  WANTED: GA home football tix.  To Federico:  
located near Erskine Golf Course  2 children (7&3yrs).  HOUSE FOR SALE  singles, Immediately next to the  Call276·8507.  "This is it...a 51-yard field goal to  
on Miami Street.  Call Jill at 288·7118.  915 E. Washington  University,  After 5 p.m. call 784-8638.  win it.  Here's the kick .... .its good!  
$30 per soccer game.  Close to campus; 3 bdrm 1.5 bath &  Available home football game  He converts from 51 yards out and  
Call574-291-4200.  Kaplan needs PT student advisors.  lots of closets/storage,  weekends, 1 or 2 nights,  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Notre Dame is going to steal this  
Flexible times. $7/hr.  2 car garage. 289-5922.  $80/night/person.  NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY  one, 29-27!"  
Need 4 GAs to Purdue  By Turtle Creek Apts.  Call 272-Q928  ND FOOTBALL GAME.  
(313)886-4189  Call 272-4135 for info.  CALL67 4-6593.  Go 'Stros. Fish, Giants and Padres  
FoR RENT  Apartments available at College  
Nanny needed 1·2 days a week  Looking for JV Soccer coach for  Park for the 2005·2006 school year,  Need BC GA tix. Will be used not  Time to neuter the Wolverines  
12:00-8:oopm.  college prep school in La Porte  Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath  1,200 square feet, two bedrooms,  resold. 269-684-6102.  
Must have own transportation.  area. Contact:  apartment. 1909 Lincolnway West  two full baths, patios, $975.00  Does Tony Pena still think the  
Call for interview  Chris Balawender at 219-326-7450  $450/month.  Hurry call Patti at  Need WA tix. Will trade PU or BC.  Royals can win the division?  
651-3633.  or cbalawender@laluiere.org  246-4634  235-7234  57 4-634·3082.  Wouldn't surprise me...  

Friday, September 10, 2004 page 17 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
U.S. OPEN 

Federer edges Agassi in five sets 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Andre Agassi sat alone, starting blankly at an Arthur Ashe Stadium door­way, the silence punctured by the rustling leaves on nearby trees. 
Soon, he'd walk through that exit, his U.S. Open done with a 6-3, 2-6, 7-5, 3-6, 6-3 loss Thursday to top-ranked Roger Federer in a quarterfinal sus­pended by rain early in the fourth set the night before and 
DID YOU COMPETE IN POLICY DEBATE IN HIGH SCHOOL? NOTRE DAME IS STARTING A POLICY DEBATE TEAM THIS YEAR! 
Students with experience are highly encouraged to J·oin the team! We will be travelling to a variety oftournaments like Kentucky, Wake Forest and Berkeley. The schedule is flexible and the team will make accommodations based on the needs ofthe students. 
This year's topic is 

RESOLVED: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
SHOULD ESTABLISH AN ENERGY POLICY REQUIRING A 
SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION IN THE TOTAL 

NON-GOVERNMENTAL CONSUMPTION OF FOSSIL FUELS IN THE 
UNITED STATES. 


It is an exciting year for Notre Dame debate, join us! You can contact Kiley Kane at kkane2@nd.edu for more information. 
wrapped up in the worst of swirling winds. 
In those idle moments on a lobby bench, there was plenty for the 34-year-old Agassi to contemplate. The immediate past: How did that match slip away? 
And the future: How much longer do I want to put in the work it takes to compete? 
"My game plan is to play until I can't do it," Agassi said. "I certainly want to be able to assess my level of play, and at 
some point my level of play will 
dictate my decisions. But as of 
right now, I'm trying to win 
tournaments, and I believe that 
with that focus, I can still do 
that." 
The eight-time major cham­
pion certainly gave Federer all 
he could handle, stretching a 
man 11 years his junior to the 
limit. It wasn't gorgeous tennis, 
but it couldn't possibly be with 
gusts approaching 40 mph. 
Picked up by the chair umpire's microphone, the wind provided a thunderous bassline to a soundtrack that included the ruffiing of shirts and empty cups clattering in the stands. Towels flew off changeover chairs, and a let was called when a silver hot dog wrapper slid by Federer's feet during a rally. 
With a point here and there making the difference, Federer was superb, breaking Agassi in the next-to-last game and dis­playing the win-the-big-ones instinct he's developed. 
The Wimbledon and Australian Open champion has won 10 straight tournament finals; he's 15-0 against top 10 players since November. 

Federer's first U.S. Open semifinal will be against anoth­er player never this far at Flushing Meadows: No. 5 Tim Henman, who beat No. 22 Dominik Hrbaty 6-1, 7-5, 5-7, 6-2. 
On the other side of the draw, 2001 Open champion Lleyton Hewitt overwhelmed Tommy Haas 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 to set up a semifinal against defending champ Andy Roddick or No. 28 Joachim Johansson, who played at night. 

page 18 Friday, September 10, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
\ 





' Yankees win both games of doubleheader, extend lead
( I 
...  Associated Press  
NEW YORK -The rain  
stayed away -and so did the  
fans -but the runs came early  
Thursday for the New York  
Yankees.  
The Yankees scored five  
times in the first two innings,  
Mike Mussina pitched eight  
sharp innings for his first win  
in more than 10 weeks and  
New York beat the Tampa Bay  
Devil Rays 10-5 in the first  
\  game of a doubleheader.  
Alex Rodriguez, Gary  
Sheffield and Hideki Matsui  
each drove in two runs for the  
Yankees, who have won four in  
a row and entered the day two  
games ahead of Boston in the  
AL East. The Red Sox played at  
Seattle late Thursday night ..  
\.  With the threat of heavy rain  
in the forecast and a mid-after­ 
noon start time, only a few  
hundred fans were in the  
stands when the doubleheader  
started. A nearly empty Yankee  
Stadium more resembled a  
Montreal Expos home game  
with the fans' individual cheers  
and shouts clearly audible ­as  
well as each crack of the bat.  
The teams played two games  
because Wednesday's double­ 
'  header was rained out.  
The first game Wednesday  
was supposed to be a makeup  
of Monday's doubleheader that  
was changed to a single night  
game when the Devil Rays were  
unable to get to New York in  
time for Game 1 due to  
Hurricane Frances.  
Mussina (10-9) allowed one  
run, four hits, struck out six  
and walked none to win for the  
first time since June 27.  
He had lost five straight deci­ 
sions, the longest slump of his  
career.  
New York 10, Tampa Bay 5  
The New York Yankees  
turned a long day into a pro­ 
ductive one -at the plate and  
in the AL East standings.  
Gary Sheffield and Tony Clark  
each drove in two runs during  
a seven-run second inning, and  
New York completed a double­ 
header sweep of the sinking  
Tampa Bay Devil Rays with a  
victory Thursday night.  
..­ "Doubleheaders are so tough  
to win," manager Joe Torre  
said. "I don't care what time of  
year it is, everything has to  
'  I  break right. I think we realized that we're at the time of year  
now that we have to win every  
game."  
The Yankees won all four  
games in the rain-shortened  
series and have won five in a  
row overall.  
They extended their AL East  
lead over Boston by at least a  
half-game, the first time  

they've increased the margin since Aug. 23. 
The Red Sox, trailing by three games, played at Seattle late Thursday night. 
"You can't worry about Boston unless you're playing Boston," Derek Jeter said. "The bottom line is they can't catch us if we're winning." 
Mike Mussina threw eight sharp innings in a 9-1 victory in the opener, which started with just a few hundred fans in the stands. Yankee Stadium filled up a bit more for the nightcap, with the paid atten­dance announced as 41,230. 
The teams played two games because WednesdaY's double­header was rained out. 
The first game Wednesday was supposed to be a makeup of Monday's doubleheader that was changed to a single night game when the Devil Rays were unable to get to New York in time for Game 1 due to Hurricane Frances. · 
It was still uncertain when or if the unplayed game would be made up. 
Chicago 7, Texas 3 
After Mark Buehrle snagged the liner headed back at his face in the first inning, it was just another routine outing for the Chicago White Sox left-han­der against Texas. 
He beat the Rangers again. 
Buehrle (14-8) threw a three­hitter for his second complete game of the season, leading the White Sox to a 7-3 win over slumping Texas on Thursday night. 
"I had everything working ... my curveball, my breaking pitches. My cutter was proba­bly the best it's been all year," he said. "I had movement on my pitches, was hitting my spots and getting ahead in the count." 
Two of the hits allowed by Buehrle were homers, and his streak of 18 straight innings against Texas without giving up an earned run ended. 
But he improved to 6-0 with a 
2.56 ERA in nine career appearances (six starts) against the Rangers. On his tremen­dous catch, Buehrle didn't even see the ball go into his glove. 
"I couldn't tell you where it was going," he said. 
Rangers leadoff hitter Eric Young hit a liner right back at Buehrle, who put his head down and his glove up. 
"That's a good reaction not to get hit in the face," Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen said. ..He covers his position better than a lot of people. That's why he didn't get killed." 
Paul Konerko and Joe Crede homered for the White Sox, who have won six of Seven. 

Texas lost for the ninth time in 11 games. dropping six games behind AL West-leading Oakland. 
Kansas City 26, Detroit 5 
Joe Randa wore himself out. 
He had six hits and tied a major league record by scoring six times Thursday, helping the Kansas City Royals break a club mark for runs in a rout of the Detroit Tigers in the first game of a doubleheader. 
Randa had five singles and a double, but he wasn't in the starting lineup for the second game. 
"He's awfully tired from run­ning the bases," Royals manag­er Tony Pena cracked. 
Randa also had two RBis in a game in which the Royals matched an American League record by putting 13 straight runners on base in an 11-run third inning. 
It was the most runs allowed by the Tigers in a nine-inning game -Detroit allowed 24 runs twice. Randa also became the first AL player to have six hit and six runs in the same nine-inning game. 
"I'm just glad we can get right ·out there for the second game," said Rondell White, who homered for Detroit. "After a game like that, you want to be back on the field as fast as you can." 
The Royals had 26 hits against five Tigers pitchers. Angel Berroa had a three-run homer and career-high five RBis, and Alberto Castillo knocked in a career-best four runs. 
Zack Greinke (8-9) got the win, allowing three runs in five innings as the Royals improved to 11-7 against the Tigers this season. 
"They've got a real good team. but we play our best baseball against them," Pena said. · 
Jason Johnson (8-13) dropped to 0-5 in his last seven starts, allowing 11 runs-nine earned -in 2 1/3 innings. 
Kevin Seitzer was the last Kansas City player with six hits in a game, on Aug. 2, 1987. and Shawn Green was the last major leaguer to score six times, on May 23, 2002. 
The previous Royals' record for runs scored in a game was 23, against Minnesota on April 6, 1974. 
The major league record for a nine-inning game is 29 runs by the Boston Red Sox against St. Louis on June 8, 1950. 
The Royals added five more runs in the sixth, including their first homer of the game, a three-run shot by Berroa. 

M' Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina delivers a pitch against the Devil Rays Thursday. New York won both games of a double-header. 

·r ..H.·:··A··...-:::: ::::_: .. · E S.· T A· R·A N T
..: -1····-~· ·R.· U
-. ; 

NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED WAIT STAFF 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 



232-4445 
1---------------•lrrPP
Hdmission with notre Dame Student 1.0.* ---------------f 
( 


; -~ 
Friday, September 10, 2004 
page 19

The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
West coast baseball teams all in contention 
All five California teams in race to reach playoffs 
' 
'' 
Associated Press 
Come October, bouncing beach balls, the wave, design­er shades and SPF30 sunblock could be standard fare at ball­parks. 
From the Golden Gate down to Disneyland, from Chavez Ravine to San Diego Bay, there's a buzz along the California coast. 
Because for the first time, all five of the state's major league teams are in playoff contention deep into the sea­son. 
"Baseball is alive and well on the West Coast," Anaheim Angels manager Mike Sciascia said. 

The Los Angeles Dodgers have been atop the NL West most of the season, with San Francisco and San Diego never far behind. 
Oakland has set the pace in the AL West, with Anaheim keeping up the pressure. The wild card possibilities increase the suspense. 
"It's huge, it's exciting," said the Padres' Dave Hansen, for­merly of the Dodgers. "It's definitely good for the state." 

CaU and Text Plan 
• 1000 Anytime Minutes 
• 
Unlimited Call Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FRE~ for 2 months 


Ask about Nights & Weekends starting at 7 p.m. 


-f< US.Cellular 
limited time offer. 

1·888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
AlrtJme and text messag1ng oHer valid on two-year consumer serv1ce agreements of $39.95 or n1gner. 50% access diSCOUnt va110 for tne first 6 montns of a 2 year contract Unlimited Gall Me Mmutes are only avarlable m tne local call1ng area and are deducted !rom packaged mmutes 3000 N1gnts ana Weekends are ava1lable m tne local callmg area for 54.95 per month *Teld messag1ng 250 package •s $5 95 thereafter, SO. tO per outgo1ng message beyond 250 Must call to cancel. OHers may vou change your callmg plan All serVIce agreements subject to an early term1nat1on fee. Customer IS responSible for all sales taxes. Otner restnct1ons may apply See store for deta1ls. Limited time oHer. Roammg charges, fees, surcnarges and taxes may ,ndud1ng a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of S.55 Customer 1s resil]ns1ble for all sales taxes. ©2004 U.S Cellular Corporation 
/rrio 
(for the first 6 months, $39.95 thereafter) 

California dreamin', for sure. 
Unlike past years, none of the state's teams have been reduced to playing spoiler in September. 
"What's exciting is that there's some really good base­ball being played out here, and the fan support has been outstanding," said Scioscia, a longtime Dodgers catcher. 
The Padres' Rich Aurilia, who formerly played for San 
C''Jmer" 
PI'! one 
Francisco, noted that either 
the Giants, Dodgers or Padres 
usually were comp.eting for 
playoff berths at this time of 
year-but not all at the same 
time. 
"And Oakland and Anaheim. 

the past few years, have real­
ly picked it up. So it's weird to 
see five teams in the race, all 
either leading or within three 
or fpur games," Aurilia said. 
"It's a good time to be a base­
ball fan in California." 
. Spinning turnstiles back 

that up. 
The Dodgers, Giants and 

Angels are on track to top 3 
million in attendance, as 
should the Padres, who 
already. have drawn record 
crowds to new Petco Park. 
The A's expect to draw 

when they made the playoffs 
last season but lost in the first 
round for the third consecu­
tive year. 
Even in laid-back Southern 

California, where it's fashion­
able to arrive in the third 
inning and be back in the fast 
lane by the seventh, it seems 
more fans have been in their 
seats from the first pitch to 
the last. 
"I think the reason we've 

been doing so well is because 
the fans have been showing 
up and supporting us," 
Dodgers pitcher Jos,f3 Lima 
said. 
The Athletics' Eric Byrnes, a 

Giants fan when he was grow­
ing up in the Bay Area, sees 
the same thing. 
"This does have a lot of fans 

excited," he said. 
The schedule should make 

the regular season's final days 
that much more exciting ­
most of the remaining games 
match California teams 
against each other. 
The A's, featuring a fine starting staff headed by Mark Mulder and Tim Hudson, face the Vladimir Guerrero-led Angels in six of the last 10 games, with the final three closing out the regular season in Oakland. 
The Dodgers and MVP can­didate Adrian Beltre meet the Barry Bonds-powered Giants six of their last 10, including a three-game series on the final weekend. 
The upstart Padres, with Mark Loretta helping lead their surge, play the Giants six times in the final two weeks and have seven games left against the division-lead­ing Dodgers. 
"There's a lot of great base­ball left to be played in California this season," Scioscia said. 
Maybe too many intense games are coming up, Lima joked. 
"Right now it's getting a lit­tle out of hand," he said. "These next few weeks proba­bly will be huge for every­body." 
Not everyone is thrilled about the jam at the top. San Francisco assistant general manager Ned Colletti believes even three's a crowd. 
"At the end of the day, don't think, 'It's great that there arc five teams in California in the race.· l wish two of them weren't in thP race, actually," he said, allud­ing to the Giants' NL \\.pst c o u n t e r p a r t s i n So u t IH' r n California. 
-~ -~-----------~ 







OUNDTHE 
-ATION 
page 20 
.-'-. 
I 
I I' I I' I \ I I I' 


•,>' 
I 
~ 
) 
i 
I 
~ ' 
> 
f 
> 
! ) > 
around the dial 
MLB 
NY Yankees at Baltimore 6:05 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 
U.S Open Coverage 10 a.m., CBS 
NCAA FOOTBALL Florida State at Miami (FL) 7 p.m., ABC Oregon State at Boise State 9 p.m., ESPN 
Coi\1PILED FROtvt THE OBSERVE Its vVIRE SERVtCES Friday, September 10, 2004 
NFL 


Associated Press 

FOXBORO, Mass.-As usual, Tom Brady was uncannily accurate as the New England Patriots moved within three wins of setting the NFL record for consecutive victories. 
Still, New England's 27­24 win over Indianapolis on Thursday night would­n't have happened if its defense hadn't awakened in the second half after being shredded for 255 yards by Peyton Manning and Edgerrin James before intermission. 
Brady threw for 335 yards and three touch­downs -one each to 
Deion Branch, David Patten and Daniel Graham. Corey Dillon, obtained from Cincinnati to revive the Super Bowl champions' running game, carried 16 times for 86 yards. 
But the Patriots' defense bailed them out after a horrible first half, although the 446 yards they allowed were more than they gave up in any game last year. 
Three times they stopped the Colts after turnovers, the second time after Branch fumbled a punt and Asante Samuel was called for pass interference to put the ball at the 1. But Eugene Wilson knocked the ball loose from James 
IN BRIEF 
Kahne wins Busch pole 
RICHMOND, Va. -Impressive rookie Kasey Kahne started what he hopes will be an uplifting weekend Thursday night, winning his first pole of the season in 22 tries in NASCAR's Busch Series. 
Kahne, 24, a five-time runner-up in the Nextel Cup series this season, turned a lap at 127.678 mph on the three-quarter-mile Richmond International Raceway, edging Kyle Busch for the top position. 
Kahne is hoping it's only the start at Richmond, where Friday night's Emerson 250 is just a warmup for Saturday night's Chevy Rock & Roll 400. 
Kahne will start that Nextel Cup race ninth in the points, trying to stay in the top 10 and keep his spot in the sport's 10-race playoff. 
"Getting the pole is definitely a big deal to me," he said. 
"If it will help our Cup race on Saturday -it wouldn't hurt it. I think it will help a little bit with what and rookie Vince Wilfork recovered with 3 minutes. 43 seconds left, avoiding what looked like a sure touchdown. 
Then Willie McGinest sacked Manning with the Colts at the Patriots 18, forcing Mike Vanderjagt to try a 48-yard field goal instead of a chip shot. Vanderjagt, who had made 42 in a row, kicked it wide right with 24 seconds left. 
"It seems all of our games with them come down to a late play, but our defense made just 
enough plays  to win,"  
Patriots  coach  Bill  
Belichick said.  

This game was a repeat 
of last season's AFC cham­pionship, a toughly played 24-14 New England win that spurred the NFL to tighten up on holding and bumping by defensive backs. 
But the first flag on a defensive back didn't come until four minutes into the third quarter, when the Colts' David Thornton was called for holding one play before Brady hit Patten for a 25-yard TD to give New England a 20-17 lead. 
The win was the 16th straight for New England, including the last 12 regu­lar-season games plus two playoff games and the Super Bowl last season. 
the track does. I'll know that." 
Busch, meantime. has his own points goal -closing a 95-point deficit to Busch leader Martin Truex Jr. in the series' last nine races. 
Busch got off to a good start with a lap at 127.179 mph. 
"We didn't quite get it the way we needed to to have a pole-winning run," Busch said. 
"That's all right. Kasey Kahne, he ran an awesome lap. I didn't think we were going to be able to beat him anyway." 
Truex will start seventh, only three rows behind. 
"It's nice to outqualify your main competition, but I just kind of go about it every week the same way," Busch said. "We've got to do our job." 
Busch won here in the spring and will drive the same car Friday night in the Emerson 250. 
This is the third of four races here this weekend. The first two were Thursday night. 
Warner eager to make 
Giants debut against Eagles 
PHILADELPHIA -Kurt Warner traded in his clipboard and baseball 
cap for  a helmet,  a  football and a  
new uniform.  
Frustrated  and  humbled  by  

injuries and inactivity, the two-time NFL MVP will start his first game since last year's opener when the New York Giants visit the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday. 
Warner hasn't won a game since beating the Eagles in the 2001 NFC championship game to send the St. Louis Rams to the Super Bowl. The stakes are much lower this time, but Warner wants to impress his new teammates. 
"It's just exciting to be back on the field," said. Warner. who has lost his last eight starts, including a loss to the New England Patriots in the 2001 Super Bowl. 
''I'm very confident I can play at the level I've played in the past," he said. 
page 21
Friday, September 10, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I I 
~ lI 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive .(the building attached tothe pool-by the turtles) 574-272-8124 www.turtlereeknd.com in{o@jurtlecreeknd.co1n 
NOWPRE-LEASING FOR 2005-2006! 
.

' 2 Bedroom and 
4 Bedroom Town Homes 

'CU 
...c: u
-a ~ ~ 
~ 
0 u 
~ 
·-;.;...
&: ---c ~ 
~

I 
I J
-

Udlity
5 

n :.1£.11
... 
l)i_ning 

•
=

= Kitchen
! 
! 

g·gl
Living ·aoonl I 
Entry
I 

1/2 Batl1 
I:UUU..II 

Do\. 
Closet 

0 
2 Bedroom Garden 
~­
J 
..~ .

Patio or Balcony 

Stop by the leasing center to pick up your forms or send us an email and we will be happy to email them to you. Apartments are assigned on a first come first serve basis., so apply today to get the best location! Please call., stop by or email with any questions! 
J 
' 
' . 
) I 
H page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 10, 2004 
!! 
\It SMC SOCCER
1\ 1\ 
li 
,· \ 
\ ) . I 
i 
\ \ Saint Mary's travels
\ 
\ 
) 
\ ~ ·" to Adrian for opener
~ 
By RYAN DUFFY 
\ 
\ 
Sports Writer 
I 
After months of training and practice, the only person who may be more excited than the Belles to start the season is their 
coach, Caryn Mackenzie. "This is our first conference 
II 
.,\~ 
game, and we're all frred up to go
\ 
out there and show what we can 
"· do," Mackenzie said. "We feel we're prepared to play; I think I'm as excited a.S the players are to start the season and see where this team's talent takes us." 
Saint Mary's hopes to show its strengths the team travels to Adrian Saturday at 12 p.m. for their first contest against a MIAA 
···.conference team. The Belles should be favored against an Adrian team that went 1-18 last year, including two losses to Saint Mary's. Adrian only returns two seniors, while the Belles feature a strong mix of upperclassmen. 
"We're a very heavy senior team with seven seniors, and I think those players will play a big 
\ 

r· 
role in providing leadership," said Mackenzie. 
One of those players is captain Jen Concannon, who scored two goals in the Belles' 3-2 overtime win against the University of St. Francis (Ind.) on Tuesday and will look to lead the offense this Saturday. Although Mackenzie recognizes Concannon as a domi­
-;; 
"I nant force on the field, she is quick to stress how skilled the entire team is. 
"Across the board, this is one of the most talented teams in Saint Mary's history. From the seniors all the way down to the freshmen, 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles set to battle 
i) 
:! 
conferenc·e rivals 

I' 
I 
~ 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
L 
Sports Writer 
).1 
) . 
i . 
I. 

.. The Belles will play two games against conference opponents today in the Saint Mary's Triangular. 
Calvin faces off'against Saint 
--'Mary's beginning at 4 p.m. Then four hours later Tri-State gets its chance to play the Belles to end an intense day of volleyball action. 
Calvin currently resides in third place in the MIAA with an overall record of 5-1 and a conference mark of 1-0. Meanwhile, Tri-State is in the same position as the Belles, still searching for its win as they come into tonight's match 0-6 and 0-2 in conference play. Only Saint Mary's has a worse record, having already dropped three games to con­ference teams. 
Last year during the Triangular, the Belles found much success as they went on to defeat both Kalamazoo and Tri-State University. However, this season they are coming into the contest still winless and facing a tough opponent in Calvin. 

it's a good mixture of upperclass­men and underclassmen." 
Perhaps the only thing more impressive than the team's talent is the amount of unity it has dis­played. 
"The best thing I could say about this team is that they've had so many coaching changes, and to see the cohesion among the team, on the field and amongst themselves, is just phe­nomenal," Mackenzie said. "It definitely speaks volumes about the kind of people they are." 
It has been that type of unity that has also allowed the Belles to welcome a new coach so easily. After coaching at Adams High School in South Bend for the past 10 years, Mackenzie made the jump to the college level for the first time to lead Saint Mary's this year. 
"As my first experience with a college team, it's just been phe­nomenal," Mackenzie said. "They've embraced the changes I've made, and they've all been very excited about it. ·1 think I'll learn as much from them as they'll learn from me." 
With such a talented team, the Belles have set the bar high for this year, looking to capture the MIAA title. Although Saint Mary's is cautiously optimistic about Saturday's game, they know their task won't be easy. Mackenzie feels her team's talent and unity give them a great chance. 
"We've got a lot of potential, and I'm going to really enjoy see­ing what we can put together as a team this year," she said. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy@nd.edu 
"Our main focus is to just go into the game and fun," Rupright said. 
During the 2003 regular sea­son, the Knights defeated the Belles in a nailbiter. In five tough games, Calvin barely slipped by Saint Mary's, win­ning 15-13. In their two matches versus Tri-State, Saint Mary's went undefeated, sweeping them in both match­es. 
If the girls come out ready to play tonight, they will have a very good shot at capturing their first victory of the year, especially having performed exceptionally well against the Thunder in recent games. Once again, team communication and getting off to a fast start will be very important. 
"Since the season started, we have had more games then practices," said Rupright. "We haven't had time to fix the problems that we need to." 
Following Friday's games, the Belles will get a break, not having to play again until Tuesday against Bethel. 
• 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

Friday, September 10, 2004 page 23
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Cal-Poly 
continued from page 28 
against Fresno State and then 
play matches Saturday against 
Sacramento State and tourna­
ment-host Cal-Poly. 
After playing a pair of match­es against No. 2 Nebraska last weekend, this might be a rela­tive break in the schedule. None of this weekend's opponents are in the American Volleyball Coaches Association Top 25. 
But Brown isn't taking any­thing for granted. 
"It's going to be tough for us this weekend," she said. "We've got to make the most of it." 
The Irish have to face defend­ing national champions Southern California next week and would love to build up some momentum going into their showdown with the Trojans. 
"Obviously we're not peaking right now," Brown said. "But we're working hard to develop this team." 
There is little history between the Irish and their tournament opponents. Neither Fresno State nor Sacramento State have ever played Notre Dame. Cal-Poly has faced the Irish only once, a 3-0 Notre Dame victory in 2002. 
Sacramento State· might be considered the best threat to knock off Notre Dame as it has five starters back from a 23-12 team that won the Big Sky tour­nament in 2003. The Hornets then advanced to the NCAA Tournament_ where Stanford ousted them by a score of 3-0. 
Fresno State also made some noise in 2003 by going 21-7 and finishing second in the Mountain West Conference. The Bulldogs return four starters including honorable mention All-American outside hitter Kristen Fenton who finished twentieth nationally in kills per game last year with an average of 5.21. 

Cal-Poly, coached by former Irish assistant Steve Schlick, is the only team in the invitational that had a losing record in 2003 as the Mustangs went 13-16 and finished eighth in the Big West. Middle blocker Nicole Bertotti returns to help bolster a squad that finished ninth nationally with a 3.14 blocking average. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish set • to open season in Toledo 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is set to kick of 
its 2004-05 campaign. 
Coach John Jasinski, who signed a contract extension in the offseason to continue coaching the Irish, will lead a strong Notre Dame team into the Inverness Intercollegiate Tournament in Toledo, Ohio this weekend. The field will feature 13 teams, including Michigan State and host Toledo. 
The event will be held at the prestigious Inverness Club, which has previously played host to four U.S. Open champi­onships. The Irish, who were last season's Big East champi­ons, begin the season ranked 92nd in the Golfweek/Sagarin Index. The Irish hope to improve from that initial rank­ing this season. 
With the lineup they have, strong improvement is a defi­nite goal. The Irish return all eight monogram winners from last year's team, including all five golfers who competed in the NCAA Regionals. 
Three freshmen, Mike King, Eddie Pe ckels and Greg Rodgers, will also join the 
team. Rodgers and Peckels 
both were ranked in the top-50 
as high school golfers. 

Despite their skills, the freshmen may struggle to see competition this season. Juniors Tommy Balderston and Eric Deutsch and sophomore Cole Isban all garnered All-Big East selections last season. 
Senior Steve Colnitis and junior Scott Gustafson, who was an all-Big East selection two seasons ago, captain the team. 
The Irish did a lot of .work over the summer, and that work should pay dividends this season. Isban came within two strokes of qualifying for match play at the 2004 U.S. Amateur Championship. Deutsch and Gustafson finished 1-2 in both the Minnesota State Amateur Championship and the Twin Cities Amateur Championship. The Irish hope to begin build­ing on those successes this weekend. 
The tournament will begin with a shotgun start at 8:30 
a.m. Friday, with two rounds being played that day. Play will resume Saturday at 2 p.m. for the third and final round. 
Contact Eric Rette; at eretter@nd.edu · 
THE BIG GAME-IS TO 
ORRO 
••• 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
,~ 

page 24 Friday, September 10, 2004
T-he Observer+ SPORTS 
Meet 
continued from page 28 

2003 NCAA championship meet. 
Also, Connelly has decided to give less-experienced runners a chance to com­pete so the Irish will not have their top eight runners in the race. 
Two key runners who will be absent from the race include seni_or Lauren King and junior Molly Huddle. 
King has captured All­American honors three years in row while Huddle finished seventh at the United States Olympic Trials. 
Instead, sophomores Katie DeRusso, Jennifer Richard and Brianne Schmidt along with freshmen Kathleen Coverick and Alyson Parker will have a chance to gain valuable experience. 
"We've got some kids that, with time, are going to· con­tribute," Connelly said. 
After a disappointing eighth-place finish in last season's Great Lake Regional -the qualifying tournament for the NCAA championship meet -the men's cross country team will take another shot at the 

',, NCAA championship this 
I 
season. 

With the loss of senior Todd Mobley, the Irish will rely on upcoming juniors and sophomores to carry 
~ _' ~ the load. 
!li 
~. \', 
Like the women's team, the men will not·be sending their top runners to the Crusader Invitational. 
~~ 1.' 
Veterans from last season 
,, /' 

like seniors Eric Morrison and Sean O'Donnell will miss the invitational along with juniors Kaleb VanOrt and Tim Moore. 
However, the seven Irish runners competing today the team in preparation for have fared well previously the more critical races.
)'; ' 
I; 
at the Crusader. "The big focus is on the 
i) Among them are junior Big East, regionals and
w 
\ ' Austin Weaver who finished nationals," Connelly said. \• fifth in the· Invitational last "That's the main focus." ./ year and A.J. Andrassy who The women will race placed eighth. today at 5 p.m. and the men With neither the men's or start at 5:45 p.m.
'\., 
women's team sending their best runners, the Valparaiso Contact Steve Coyer at 
Invitational serves to build scoyer@nd.edu
I 
' 
~­
~ 
~~i 
' 
I I 
' 
) 
~ 
) )l 
' ).1 
?BtaoJ 
,,r 
Italian Bakery & Restaurant ', ~ 
• The authentic fine Italian dining 
~ 
• Downtown South Bend 
-¥' 
• 
Across from the Marriott 

• 
Chef:Adele De Rosa Ciao


i 
123 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 4660 I
l:). ~ l 
Phone: 574-289-CIAO • Fax: 574-232-0043 
I t
('
)' I (r· I t' 
I )I 
I '' ,, l i
I ,, 
I 
I
'f 
,f 
!l:
;; ~; 
'I)'
,, )' 
I I·
I . I ! 
I.. 
II . 
II • lu ''I 
,, j 
;_.) 
I I 
I f 
-~--------~-----------· 



ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish travel to Mich. for meet 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will be back in action this weekend, traveling to compete in Ann Arbor, Mich., in the prestigious Lady Northern Invitational. 
This will be the second straight weekend in which the Irish have competed, as the team comes off of a third-place finish at. the Notre Dame Invitational. 
At the Invitational, they set the best mark ever by a Notre Dame women's team in compe­tition at Warren Golf Course, beating the previous mark by 24 strokes. 
Notre Dame will join the entire Big Ten Conference in the field of 12 and the group will be led by two top 25 teams, No. 5 Ohio State and No. 19 Michigan State. This weekend will be the first time Notre Dame has competed in the Invitational. 
"It's a pretty prestigious event to be invited to," coach Debby King said. 
With that prestige, as well as the strength of the field· in mind, King has set modest goals for the weekend. 
"We're shooting for sixth or better," King said. "At the same time, you always believe in the back of your mind that you can win; you don't go into a tourna­ment without thinking that. 
We're aiming to break 305 each round and let the chips fall." 
The tournament will run all day Saturday and Sunday. It will be conducted in the "six­count-four" format, meaning six golfers will compete for each team, with the top four scores counting for the final team score. 
Senior Karen Lotta, who broke the Warren Golf Course single-round record on her way to a second-place finish last weekend, will lead the team this weekend, along with junior co-captain Katie Brophy. sopho­more Noriko Nakazaki, junior Lauren Gebauer and sopho­more Stacy Brown. 
In what says great things about the depth of the Irish team, four of the remaining five golfers are competing for the final spot. Senior Casey Rotella and junior co-captain Suzie Hayes were both fighting for the last spot, along with fresh­men Jane· Lee and Alejandra Diaz-Calderon. 
King will choose one of them to join the team in Ann Arbor shortly before the team leaves. Because of the depth of talent on the team, King's job gets dif­ficult before these tournaments. 
"It's going to be tough to get the top five or six of our ten players each weekend," she said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

WelcotMe Jack NP & St. Mary& Studettts! 
Visit the restaurant voted Best Breakfast and Best Lunch by the readers of the South Bend Tribune in either of our two locations: 
•Downtown South Bend across from the Hall of Fame 288-PE.E.P 
•Mishawaka off Main St. next to Super Target 
271-PE.E.P 
6:30am -2:00pm Mon-Fri 7:00am -2:00pm Sat &Sun 
·-------------~------------------~--------~ 
I I I I 
I Juy otte et1tree get asecot1d half off I
(valid anytime but not with any other offer)
I I I Observer coupon • expires o9/23/2oo4 I 
·-----------------------------------------~ 
.. .. ...............................
~.-~ ­

---• 
Friday, September I 0, 2004 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Devils 
continued from page 28 
Unfortunately, it is on the road for us." 
Last season when the two teams faced each other, Arizona State took an early lead in the first half. The Irish needed a late rally in the first half and a goal in the second half to secure the win. Waldrum is hoping his team can continue its dominance on the field and not allow Arizona State to take an early advan­tage like last year. After the Irish face the Sun Devils, they travel to Lubbock, Texas to play Texas Tech. At Texas Tech, the Irish must adapt to playing on a much smaller field than Alumni Field. Most fields are 15 by 115 yards, but Texas Tech 
plays on a 68 "When we have second consec­by 100 yard confidence, we are one utive week she 
surface. has earned this
ofthe best teams. ,,
Waldrum is accolade, a first 
looking at this for an Irish trip as · an Randy Waldrum player. opportunity for 
Irish coach Waldrum 
the loss of injured senior Mary Boland, whose expected return is unknown. 
Waldrum said Notre Dame will continue to rely on its tal­ent and confidence to come out on top. 
"When we have confidence, we are one of the best teams," Waldrum said. "And everybody in the country looks at us that way." 
Already, the team has shown glimpses of its talent, with two players earning player-of-the­week honors. 
In impressive victories against No. 4 Santa Clara and No. 13 Stanford, junior forward Katie Thorlakson showcased her offensive capabilities, com­pleting the first hat trick of her career against Santa Clara. Thorlakson received the Big East offensive player of the week honor for her stellar per­
formances. 
This is the 


his team to 
improve. 
"I scheduled this trip because it is important to get the team in environments they are not used to in order to prepare them for the playoffs," Waldrum said. "But it is going to make us a better team at the end of the season." 
The team's confidence has shown in several of its lopsided victories against the nation's top programs. Notre Dame's 5­2 win against No. 4 Santa Clara exemplifies both the talent and determination that the Irish possess. These qualities, in conjunction with a can-do atti­tude, make for a solid squad capable of competing with any team. 
"We respect everybody we play, but we went into the games confident," Waldrum said. "There is no reason to fear anybody." 
Although the team remains self-assured, this weekend the Irish will face solid opponents in Arizona State and Texas Tech. 
Leading the Irish into the weekend will be J en Buczkowski, Kim Lorenzen and Annie Schefter. The three are expected try and make up for 
praised Thorlakson for her team-oriented attitude. 
"She is a very competitive player who wants to score goals for the team," Waldrum said. "But she really wants the team to be successful and that is what makes her special." 
In addition to Thorlakson's honor, fifth-year defender Melissa Trancredi also earned the Big East Defensive Player of the Week honor this week. Trancredi received this honor after the Irish allowed only two goals and 11 shots against two highly-ranked opponents. 
Despite the success the team has found early this season, the Irish are aware of the chal­lenges each opponent brings. After an early exit in last year's NCAA tournament, the team has been inspired to avenge the loss. 
"There is still the disappoint­ment of our second round loss last year lingering in the minds of several players," Waldrum said. "But I think that is what has been carrying us into the games confidently." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
Led by Gray, Saint Mary's finishes in fourth place overall 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

The two latest editions to the Belles played pivotal roles have paid immediate dividends. 
Last Friday, Saint Mary's competed in the 6K Heidelberg Invitational, fin­
ishing fourth, in  a  field of  
five teams.  
The  Belles  were  led  by  

freshman Megan Gray and transfer student Meghan Murphy; finishing first and second respectively for the team. 
"I was excited [with how we did]. but there is still a lot of hard work that needs to be done," Gray said. 
Joining a team full of returning veterans might have been an awkward and intimidating experience for Gray and Murphy, but it was just the opposite. 
Both newcomers say their teammates have been very welcoming. . 
"All the girls have been really helpful," Gray said. "We push each other in the workouts, but it is more about the team and not the individual." 
To begin the season, coach Dave Barstis had the objec-
When it'sthe presti­gious luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far 
East, strategically cho­
sen to match your 
career goal. 
Apply by November 5, 2004 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you no\v (or \Vill vou have bv the 
~ ~ 
end of 1\1ay 2005 ) an ND degree? No east-Asia 
.
experience.? 
For more informatiQn contact Nancy O'Connor at63l-5432 
. ~ ~
. . . . . . 

, ... :: ....·; .. ~···~···••••.:-····"-· ...... 
_.... 
,. 
tive of being team-oriented rather than individual-ori­ented on his list of season goals. Barstis' wish is to have the top seven performers running within 45 seconds to one minute to each other. 
He believes this team-ori­
ented approach will help to 
both establish motivation 
throughout the race and to 
unify each member of the 
squad. 

In the first meet of the sea­son, the top seven runners finished within two minutes of each other. Gray, who fin­ished first for the team and 13th overall, came in with a time of 24 minutes, 59 sec­onds. 
Murphy finished second on the team and 19th overall in 25:37. 
Also placing for the Belles were veterans Erin Nolan and Katie White, who fin­ished third and fourth for the team. 
The team finished fourth with a score of 77 points. Sienna Heights University won the invitational with a score of 12 points, followed by Ohio Northern and Shawnee State. 
Today, the Belles will be competing in the Aquinas College Invitational. Last season, the team finished sixth out of 13 teams. 
White was the Belles' top finisher at the Aquinas Invitational last year. 
Despite the team's past success at this invitational, the Belles are simply approaching the meet as if it were a workout. 
Each race is an opportunity to work out the mechanics of competing as one unit in preparation for the rest of the season. 
"Nov. 13 is where we want to run well," Gray said. "We are just getting started." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 



Tourney 
continued from page 28 
ness is a frequently-employed strategy, Clark is more con­cerned with the Irish than the team standing on the opposite sideline. 
"My big thing is that I focus on us," Clark said. ''I'm a great believer in this -it's always going to be what we do." 
The Irish kicked off the 2004 campaign with victories against Oregon State and Boston 
1\\ 
University at the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic last Friday and Sunday, respectively. 

After overcoming a quick 1-0 deficit for a 2-1 triumph over the Beavers, the Irish shutout the Terriers, 2-0, en route to Notre Dame's best start (2-0-0) in Clark's four years at the helm of men's soccer. 
The Irish haven't started a season 3-0 since 1998 and 4-0 since 1987. 
Oregon State didn't wait long to christen the scoreboard, find­ing the back of the net on a header 4:09 into the match. 
"From our point of view, it was a very bad goal to lose, people not focusing on their jobs," Clark said. "It took us about 20 min­utes before we calmed down. I thought we were pretty ragged, and we struggled for that open­ing period." 
However, the Irish eventually gained control of the game, and defender Jack Stewart delivered the equalizer at the 36:11 mark, uncorking a rocket past OSU goalkeeper Jason Mariner to knot the game at 1-1. 
The Irish struck again right 

) ' 
\ } 


,• i' 

~--------­
page 26 Friday, September 10, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 


-Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
-Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, & samdwiches 
-Featuring gourmet pizzas 
-Music is live on Fridays & Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time 
-Wine, microbrews, specialty drinks &martinis, along with traditional coffee house drink menu items 
-Art Gallery 
Aperfect meeting place tlwlllbeut.tlte weekend. 
Ope.n Friday and Saturday D.lring N.D.IIome Football Weekends. 
Everyone WelcOme 
'Live Music 12-4p.m. on Friday, Grilled Burgers,Brats, anclOther Specialties .Cold Beverages 
·-· . . . . 

60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 

631-2000 
www.themorrisinn.com 
after halftime as forward Justin McGeeney headed home a cross from forward Nate Norman to stake the Irish to a 2-1 advan­tage and ultimately provide the game winner. 
Playing without the first-game jitters that plagued in the Irish in the first half of last Friday's contest, Notre Dame broke a scoreless tie 33 minutes into the first half Sunday against Boston University and never looked back. 
Once again, it was the All­American candidate Stewart who led the Irish charge, scoring his second goal in as many games. 
Norman followed suit 15 min­utes into the second half, lining a shot into the net from the top of the box for a 2-0 lead. 
Standout goalkeeper Chris Sawyer recorded his first clean sheet of the season, stopping three shots in the shutout. 
Sawyer, Stewart and McGeeney took home All­Tournament Team honors, though the Irish were edged by consensus No. 1 Indiana, 6-4, in total goals scored for the tourna­ment title after both teams went undefeated (2-0) and aggregate goals were used as a tiebreaker. 
"It was a solid performance," Clark said. "I thought we grew from the first performance to the second, which was positive." 
Following this weekend's action, the Irish travel to Bloomington Wednesday for a much-anticipated bout with in­state rival and soccer heavy­weight Indiana. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

!• _,. 
' ' 
-•~·---''-----------~­
. .
. . ' -. 
• • • • J I .. l • -• I • I • • • " : • •
I • • • 
Friday, September 10, 2004 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
M"f FRIENDS SEEM TO T~INK 
T14AT I BORROW TOO MUCH, C~UCK .. W~AT DO VOlJ T~INK? 
\' A GOOD LAT~ER IS 
f4ALF T~E S~AVE '' 
ARE YOU 
AWAKE, 
C~UCK? 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each squ.:tre, to form four ordinary words. 
TRIDY 
± 
02004 Tribune Media SIIIVtces, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TYJET 
± 
rri
www.jurrble.com
tBEMFUL I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IIJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: 
A"( I I I I )"( I I I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: SLANT NAVAL LIKELY STYMIE Answer: What Mom made when the first grader came home from class-"SMALL" TALK -
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  33 Nice amount of  57 Integrated with  
1 Much-seen  mooIa  59 Amtrak station  
figure on a  36 Eur. kingdom  west of Grand  
security cam  37 Hardly the  Forks  
10 "Look out  screaming type  60 Drawing room?  
below!," e.g.  38 Let go  61 First name in  
15 Going  39 Off one's feed  sewing  
16 Mann who sang  40 Fuel type,  62 [See above]  
"Save Me," 1999  informally  
17 Ninnies  41 They have  .  DOWN  
18 Quintain rhyme scheme  plans, for short 42 Longtime  1 Goes up and down  
19 Make a face  Delaware senator William  2 Sometime soon  
20 Pound sound  43 Place name in  3 Zero  
21 Old-fashioned news  90's TV 45 Kid's taunt  4 Beggar's bearing  
announcer 22 Got down  49 Feature of an exit strategy?  5 Baseball hero called "Gibraltar in cleats"  
24 "No kidding!" 26 A or B in blood typing, e.g.  50 ''The African Queen" co-star, informally 51 Farm male  6 Wear and tear 7 Not home 8 Transmit  
29 Kin of hagfish  53 Bang up  9 Calling a  
30 Kick, in a way 31 Usual  56 _Corning, fiberglass maker  Jaguar XK a jalopy, say 10 Certain battery  33 Attorneys' productions  40 "No legacy is so rich as "· Shak.  48 Nymph in Muslim paradise  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  11 Fall guys? 12 Kind of address  34 Some people cry when these are said  42 Three-toed critters  52 Paw 54 Energize  
13 Not stand for oppression 14 Demonstratively sad  35 _-humanite 38 Major export of Albania and  44 Was beaten by 45 Certain W.M.D. 46 "That hurts!"  55 You can hang your hat on it 58 "Saving Private Ryan" craft:  
South Africa  47 Broker  Abbr.  
quality  

25 Flinched, maybe For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
26 Prefix with syllabic Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
song past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

28 Pretty good 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 32 Preschoolers? solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michelle Williams, Adam Sandler, Hugh Grant, Henry Thomas 
Happy Birthday: This is a good year to start a new business or change your image. If you let yourself move in whatever direction you feel yourself compelled to go, you will be successful. Don't deny yourself what you deserve. Your numbers are 5, 9, 16, 20, 38, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): If you aren't prepared to stand up and fight for what you want, you will lose. Don't back down because someone is pressuring 
you. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Plan something special with your best friend. You owe yourself a little leisure time to catch up. Be forthcoming about your feelings today. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is a new day and a time to make changes that will lead you in the direction you have always seen yourself going. Stop making excuses and start to follow your own path.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be feeling sensitive and insecure today, so throw yourself into something that will take your mind off your worries. A creative hobby will set your mind at ease.*'~<* LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Financial and legal matters can be put to rest or into play today. Deals can be made and closed. You are in the driver's seat. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Organization will be the key and, if you are ready for whatever challenge comes your way, you will impress onlookers. Partnerships are on the horizon. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone may create a problem for you. Don't let this person know they have the edge. Play it cool and stay in control. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Publishing deals, writing, interacting and getting your word out is what today is all about. Your imagination will help you present your thoughts in a colorful manner. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be forced to deal with some serious matters today. Be prepared to take control and make decisions. Underhandedness is apparent. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will dazzle everyone today. Partnerships may be uneasy at first, but once you get past the initial stages, you will form a lasting union. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your inventive mind to move in a direction that suits you better. Work can be enjoyable if you follow a direction that challenges you. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This can tum into a spectacular day if you travel about, pamper yourself and do something with someone y::m really enjoy. Pack this day full of pleasure. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You tune into what's going on around you with ease. You have a sense of what will and what won't work. You are hard-working, caring and very loyal to your beliefs, friends and family. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The 
Observer in your home .. ~ ___ . _... _. _. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 forone semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
~----• ••• ~ ..._, "-' ....... "-'-' 4. ... '.' ..._, ' ..... -.. '" ..... ,. .............. ,. .. . 

,·' 

THE OBSERVER 

p
Friday, September 10, 2004 

MEN's SoccER 

Home sweet home 
Irish welcome three teams to Mike Berticelli Tournament 
i 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 

Notre Dame (2-0-0) hopes to build on a runner-up finish at last weekend's adidas/IU Credit Union Classic when it wel­comes Evansville (1-0-1), Cal State Fullerton (0-2-0) and No. 1 Indiana (2-0-0) 
to Alumni Field to take part in the Mike
I' 
I 
\. Berticelli Memorial Tournament this week­end. 
\ 
\< The No. 11 Irish square off against Evansville Friday at 7:30 p.m. before chal­lenging Cal State Fullerton Sunday at 1:30 p.m. 

The Purple Aces enter Friday's contest on the heels of a tournament victory at the Big Toe Invitational in Madison, Wis., last weekend. 
"[Evansville] beat Wisconsin 2-l in Madison ... that's a pretty good result," coach Bobby Clark said. "They're going to be a handful, we know that, and we've just got to find a way to beat them." 
Cal State Fullerton, on the other hand, struggled in its season opening tourna­ment, dropping a pair of 2-1 matches to California-Riverside and Oakland. 
\.) While catering to an opponent's weak-
see TOURNEY/page 26 

' 
page 28 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Desert waits for the Irish 
Notre Dame travels to face Arizona State in 100-degree heat 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
Some like it hot. 

Coach Randy Waldrum hopes the Irish will adopt this atti­tude as the team faces Arizona State University at 7 p.m. tonight in Tempe, Ariz. The weather is expected to be near the 100 degree mark at kickoff; Waldrum believes this will be great training for the rest of the season for games in warmer climates. 
"Hopefully the trip to Brazil [last summer to play soccer] will help us out with the weather," Waldrum said. "But we are also going to have to focus on playing a team with great speed up front. 
see DEVILS/page 25 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Season opens at rival Valparaiso 
Irish men and women begin year at familiar invitational tourney 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 


After months of training this summer, the Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams will ' . 
open the season on familiar I ground. f Both teams will competer today at the Valparaiso 
University Crusader Invita­~ I tional where the Irish turned in impressive per­
l~ formances last year.
~ 
The women's team won
~},
) . the 2003 Crusader II 
'I Invitational with the men's !/' team coming in second over­~-all.
~­
., 
Ranked fourth in a presea­son poll, the Irish women have a positive outlook and high expectations with the majority of their team returning. 
A 1Oth-place finish in the NCAA championship last year only adds to the team's high expectations coming into 2004. 
"We return most our team of our team from last year that finished 10th in the 
NCAA's,"  women's  coach  
Tim Connelly said.  
"The expectations  are  to  

be a minimum top-1 0 team if not better." 
At the Crusader Invitational, the Irish women should face a tough challenge from Wisconsin. 
The Badgers are one of several teams at the tourna­ment who qualified for the 
see MEET/page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame heading west 
Team travels to 

California for Cal­ 
Poly Invitational  
By MIKE GILLOON  
Sports Writer  
Despite being defeated  
three times in their first four  
matches, including the first  
loss to Valparaiso in 24 years,  
Irish coach Debbie Brown  
knows there is a lot of volley­ 
ball still to be played.  
"We were really down after  
the Valparaiso match," she  
said. "But we still have to  
hold our heads up. There's a  
lot of promise on this team."  
The Irish will get a chance  
to raise their spirits this  
weekend as they travel to San  
Luis Obispo, Calif., to partici­ 
pate in the Cal-Poly Best  
Western Royal Oak  
Invitational. Notre Dame will  
open play this afternoon  CLEMENT SUHENDRAfThe Observer  
Irish outside hitter Meg Henican tries to tip the ball past a Nebraska  
see CAL-POLY/page 23  block during Notre Dame's 3-2 loss to the Huskers Saturday.  

.,~-.. 
h ~~ 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
MEN'S GOLF
WOMEN'S GOLF SMC SOCCER

SMC VOLLEYBALL NFL 
!~.... 
!{ 
I(' !J 
·•I,. 
Notre Dame plays in 

The Belles travel to 
The Patriots defeated fourth at the Heidelberg 
The Belles placed 
The Irish open their 
The Belles hope to get 
the 15-team Inverness 

face MIAA rival Adrian 
the Colts 27-24 after Invitational. 
their first win of the sea-
season on the road at 
Tournament in Toledo, 

this Saturday at noon. 
Mike Vanderjagt missed
the Lady Northern 
son at the Saint Mary's 
': ~. 
Ohio, this weekend. 

a potential tying field
Invitational. 

Triangular. 
,,~· . 
goal.

,... 
•J 
page 23 page 20page 25 page 24 page 22 page 22 

',· 
•.f. 
' 
1:-: 
~ _£ --------------­
~-------------------------------------------------------·~ 


r -,_J t 
. J '~ 
·.·.·... '~..•······· 
. . ' '·.;~r
':·. . .. 
~­

..
I ­

.. .... · ... 
Friday, September 10, 2004 
,_~ 

, .,-t rJ''. 
. : . 
rt •.. ' 

. .
·.•· ~':.I.\).···.. . ·I· ·\
. . l ... L .. If .... · J·\ 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Photo Illustration by MIKE HARKINS and TIM SULLIVAN 
page 2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 10, 2004 
BYU loss was still just one game 
Between the bashing of Tyrone Willingham and his coaching staff and criticizing every aspect of the Irish team -from the non-existent run­ning game to the vul­nerable defensive backfield to the dis­appoint­ing per­formance from the offensive line-one 
important Sports Writer aspect of Notre Dame's 20-17 loss to Brigham Young went unde­tected by most. It was only one game. Maybe it's luck the NCAA doesn't take playing perform­ance into account when determining rankings or records. Whatever the rea­son, the Irish are what they are -an 0-1 football team. And while it may not be the simple, it's also not exactly clear how good or bad this team is going be in 2004 ­even after last Saturday's horrible performance. Maybe Notre Dame was looking ahead to Michigan. All offseason the coaching staff pounded into the play­ers' brains the number 38, signifying the blowout loss at 

The Big House in 2003. It's not unreasonable to believe the team, no matter what they told themselves and each other, subconsciously had the Wolverines in mind heading into Provo. 
Maybe this year's BYU team is a lot closer to the 2001 squad (12-2), than the 2003 group (4-8). The Cougars defense will likely end the season ranked in the top 20 for the second about this team just yet. Save those for later in the year ­even later this weekend -if the Irish continue to struggle. 

Hemember, sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn is still just a youngster as far as college football players go. Offensive lines take some time to mesh together and become a cohesive unit. And young defensive backs can't just become good, they must 
learn 
through 

straight Regardless oftheir poor experience. 
year, and But most 
performance, it's unfair 
their kick­people aren't ing game to make outlandish buying those 
did a judgements about this excuses any­
tremendous more. Maybe

team just yet. Save
job keeping that's justi­
Notre those for later in the fied. Dame's year -even later this Willingham's 
unproven first eight 
weekend -ifthe Irish 
offense games were 
starting continue to struggle. victories. 
inside the 20-yard line nearly every drive. It's hard to get any type of ball move­ment when beginning at your own 7 -yard line. 
Or maybe everyone who watched Saturday's game is right by saying Notre Dame is just that bad. 
So bad, that the loss left fans wondering if this team made any improvement in any area since the Syracuse debacle in December. 
Regardless of their poor performance, it's unfair to make outlandish judgments 

Since then, the Irish are an embarrassing 7-11. 
But in Willingham's third year at Notre Dame -when he faces his greatest, and most important, challenge of making the Irish win, and win now -it's unfair to dis­miss him and the team after just one game, no matter how poorly they looked. 
Give them enough time to improve and correct their mistakes. 
Give them another game to prove they're better. Give them Saturday to right 
the ship. 
Notre Dame doesn't have to 
beat Michigan this weekend. 
But they must compete with 
the Wolverines through four 
quarters to give Irish fans 
hope. After the BYU loss, few 
believe this team can win 
seven or eight games in 
2004. 
That's because Notre Dame 
fans have the least patience 
of any sports fans in the 
country. You must win and 
win now. After eagerly antici­
pating a much-improved 
2004, the Irish looked like 
the 2003 team in almost 
every aspect of their opening 
game. 
Hearing the coaches talk all offseason about the great improvements the offense and defense were making from 2003, it's hard to fath­om Notre Dame could be as bad as they were last week­end. Were the coaches just blowing smoke'? Did they simply misjudge this team's ability to execute during an actual game? Or are they right about this team's poten­tial, but it didn't show in week one? 
The answers to those ques­tions may not be clear now. About 5:30 p.m. Saturday, they will be. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu 
game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"Our backs are against the wall, and this game means everything to 
,, 
us. 


Derek Curry Irish linebacker 

'We wzderstand, I think, that we're both part oftwoofthe great, the greatest traditions in coUegefootball. " 
n/ think there's still hope for us as the underdog." 

Kyle Budinscak Irish defensive lineman 
"{Michigan wide receivers] are definitely a big play threat." 


Friday, September 10, 2004 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 


e wait's over 
Irish have been ready for a rematch with Michigan since last year's 38-0 loss 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Michigan's bfwn on their 
minds for months. 
It showed in their perform­
ance for the rest of the 2003 
season, the off-season work­
outs and the rescheduling of 
the Brigham Young game. 
After losing that "tune-up," 
Saturday is even more impor­
tant. 
Last weekend's 20-1 7 loss at 
BYU quelled all of the presea­
son optimism in just three and 
a half hours and inflamed talks 
about this program being at its 
lowest point in more than 40 
years. 
Sitting at 0-1 with a more tal­
ented opponent than last week 
and one of their biggest rivals 
staring t-hem in the face, the 
Irish are already facing a gut 
check in week two. 
"This is always our biggest 
game of the year, especially 
early on," Kyle Budinscak said. 
"After last year, with the 
embarrassment we had, and 
this past Saturday with us 
coming out and not coming 
away with a victory, our backs 
are against the wall. 
"This game means every­
thing, and we are going to 
come out there like nobody's 
business, I can promise you 
that." 
Embarrassment of 38-0 
Last year's game at Michigan 
presented an opportunity to 
show the Return to Glory was­
n't a fluke. 
The Irish were a week off a 
comeback win over 
Washington State and had the 
chance to let a national televi­
sion audience see the blowout 
losses to USC and North 
Carolina State ending the 2002 
season. 
Even a close loss would have shown Willingham's team could play with the best and that the eight-game winning streak wasn't the aberration. 
It turned out to be the worst loss since 1985 and worst shutout since 1956. 
"Indescribable. It was an embarrassment. A letdown you can't even explain." Budinscak said. "There are people you don't want to talk to. It's hard to talk to people even close to you after a game like that. 
"Something I don't want to experience again. and we came pretty close again Saturday [against BYU]." 
Chris Perry ran for 133 yards on 31 carries and scored four total touchdowns. John Navarre picked apart the Irish secondary going 14-of-21 for 199 yards and one touehdown. Steve Brcaston averaged over 21 yards per punt return, set­ting up numerous scoring opportunities. 
"I think it was embarrass­ing," Ryan Grant said. "Anytime you don't perform on that type of stage, that's embarrassing. 
After the game, the press conference with Willingham was intense and much shorter than usual, even for a loss. 
He started out by saying, "There is nothing positive we can take from this game." 
When asked if his team was embarrassed today, Willingham promptly said, "Next question," and looked away. 

It was over in less than five 

minutes. 
The disappointing perform­

ance also set the stage for 
three more losses by 25 or 
more points and the third los­
ing season in five years in 
South Bend. 
"It did [have an effect], 

because it really just shot a lot 
of our hopes down for the rest 
of the season," tight end 
Anthony Fasano said. "It was 
early in the season, but it was 
a big loss for us, especially to 
lose the way we did." 
Starting quarterback Carlyle Holiday never found any rhythm, especially with the Wolverines shutting down the running game , yielding just 75 yards on 25 carries. Brady Quinn replaced him in the fourth quarter and wasn't able to avoid the plagues affecting the rest of the team. Quinn went 3-of-1 0 and threw one interception. 
It even got so bad that the crowd started chanting, "Houston's better," in reference to Michigan defeating the Cougars 50-3 the previous week. 
"It was horrible," linebacker Brandon Boyte said. "You lose 38-0, it's not supposed to be positive. We'll see this Saturday how much we've learned." 
Confidence after last week? 
That feeling of embarrass­ment lasted with the Irish not only through the rest of the season, but also through the off-season. 
During conditioning drills, the team would do 38 push­ups, 38 sit-ups, 38 wind sprints or a 38-second run. Willingham wanted his team to remember how bad it felt to walk off that field. 
"It's something to keep our minds [on] when we're work­ing all summer," Derek Curry said. "When you're working for a goal, it's easy to let things slip by when you don't have something to focus on." 
For most of the off-season, Michigan was going to be the first game for an Irish team 
frothing for revenge. 
But then the BYU game was 
moved. 
And then the unthinkable 
transpired -the Irish lost to 
BYU. 
Suddenly, before the game 
that had been circled on their 
schedules for the past year, the 
Irish unexpectedly lost, leaving 
the only support coming from 
inside the locker room. 
"That's always a concern 
when you're in a situation 
where you're starting a season 
without being successful in the 
first ballgame," Willingham 
said. "As long as they don't try 
to do more than they are capa­
ble of doing and try to do too 
much ... but just be confident 
and do the things and play 
within yourself, will be my key 
and good things will start to 
happen. 
So where's the confidence 
coming from? 
It's coming from the team believing all the work put in during the off-season will pay off. 
"I feel as for as the off-sea­son, I feel we put in the time and effort," Hoyte said. "I think it's just getting the job done." 
It's coming from the Irish believing they are better than what they showed last week in Provo. 
"I don't take anything away from what BYU did. They are a good team and played their butts off the whole night," Grant said. "But looking at the film, I really don't think it was them beating us. We were beating ourselves on the little things. That's something we need to work on. 
"We didn't step up and didn't 
I'
per1orm... 
It's coming from knowing that just two years ago, the Irish beat the Wolverines. 
"I think a lot of guys that were a part of the team that beat Michigan two years ago," Holiday said. "Those guys have to take it upon themselves and let the younger guys believe they can win and beat top-cal­iber teams, experience victo­ries instead of losing confi­dence and settling for losses all the time." 
Saturday's importance 
Not being in a conference, Notre Dame doesn't have the luxury of overcoming early season non-conference losses by performing well in the con­ference and earning a major bowl bid. 
That's why dropping to 0-2 is deadly as an independent. 
"From my standpoint, I don't want to be 0-2. I don't want to lose this game," Grant said. "I didn't want to lose last week's game. That's over, and I can't have it back. But I don't want to lose this game. I know I'm going to do everything for this team to not lose this game." 
Very few people are expect­ing anything from this team against such a big-time oppo­nent as Michigan. Willingham likened the Irish to the role of the underdog in Tuesday's press conference. 
That's a role this team cur­rently must play, but the Irish feel the talent level isn't that of an underdog, which leads to them believing a win Saturday is a realistic possibility. 
"We are going to surprise a lot people next week. Next week is going to be a great test." defensive end Justin Tuck said. "If we play our foot­ball game, we can play with anybody in the country, and we didn't do that last weekend. We are going to try and redeem ourselves against Michigan." 
With a lot of fans, students and alumni already writing off this season -and possibly Willingham's Notre Dame career -Saturday is the per­fect opportunity to start getting that support back. 
"I know me personally, I would love to beat [Michigan]," Holiday said. "I've been looking forward to the game for awhile. 
"I think anytime you have the opportunity to defeat a team like this, especially at home, and get everyone back support­ing you, it's a big thing." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

by the numbers 
points scored against Notre Dame last season at Michigan. Also, number of repe­
38

titions the Irish did to remember the loss. 
0 
number of points Notre Dame scored last sea­son against Michigan 
number of passes Brady Quinn threw last week against Brigham Young 
47 

4 
ranking in the country for the Notre Dame rushing defense 
ranking in the country for the Michigan rushing defense 
5 

2 
interceptions last week by Michigan's All-Big Ten performer Markus Curry 
the last time Michigan won in South 
199 4 

Bend, defeating the Irish 26-24 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer 
Irish tight end Jared Clark tries to run past Michigan's Jacob Stewart In last 1 Michigan's rank in both victories and winning year's 38-0 Notre Dame defeat in Ann Arbor. percentage all-time 
...
-~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 1 0, 2004 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Tyrone Willingham third season at Notre Dame career record: 79-47-1 at Notre Dame: 15-11 
against
Tyrone Willingham 

Michigan: 1-1
head coach 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  HI.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jared Clark  TE  6-4  250  SR  
2  Freddie Parrish  DB  6-1  202  so  
3  Darius Walker  RB  5-11  200  FR  
4  ~an Grant  RB  6-1  218  SR  
5  ema McKnight  WR  6-1  215  JR  
6  Carlos Campbell  CB  5-11  195  SR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  WR/QB  6-3  215  SR  
8  Marty Mooney  QB  6-2  210  JR  
8  Quentin Burrell  FS  6-0  195  SR  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  5-11  203  so  
9  Pat Dillingham  QB  6-2  205  SR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  224  so  
11  Marcus Wilson  RB  5-11  202  SR  
12  Josh Schmidt  FB  6-1  232  SR  
13  David Wolke  QB  6-4  205  FR  
15  Preston Jackson  CB  5·9  180  SR  
16  Rashon Powers-Neal  FB  6-2  243  SR  
16  Stan Revelle  QB  5-11  195  SR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  190  SR  
17  ].].Warren  QB  6-1  184  so  
18  Darren Bra~  QB  6-2  185  FR  
18  Chinedum  dukwe  DB  6-2  223  so  
19  D.]. Fitzpatrick  K/P  6-1  200  SR  
20  Isaiah Gardner  DB  5·11  195  so  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-5  227  JR  
22  Ambrose Wooden  CB  5-11  186  so  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-1  202  so  
24  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-10  185  SR  
25  Nate Schiccatano  FB  6-2  242  JR  
26  Wade lams  DB  5-8  170  FR  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  6-0  212  so  
27  Lionel Bolen  DB  6-0  210  SR  
27  John Lyons  RB  6-1  192  so  
28  Tregg Duerson  DB  5-10  170  FR  
28  Cole Laux  FB  5-10  240  SR  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  5-11  190  JR  
31  Jake Carney  FS  6-0  192  JR  
31  A.J. Cedeno  DB  6-0  191  so  
32  Jeff jenkins  RB  6-0  216  JR  
33  Justin Hoskins  RB  6-0  195  FR  
34  Terrail Lambert  DB  5-10  190  FR  
37  Junior Jabbie  DB  5-11  190  FR  
37  Matt Mitchell  CB  5-9  190  JR  
38  LeP Ferrine  DB  6-0  180  FR  
39  Brandon Hoyle  I.B  5-11  231  SR  
40  Maurice Crum, Jr.  I.B  6-1  215  FR  
41  Mike Goolsby  l.B  6-4  242  SR  
42  Anthony Vemaf,lia  LB  6-4  220  FR  
43  Anthony Salva< or  LB  6-2  232  Jl{  
44  justin Tuck  DE  6-5  261  SR  
45  Carl Gioia  K/1'  5-10  185  so  
45  Rich Whitney  DB  6-3  205  JR  
46 47  Core~ Mrt: Mite ell omas  LB LB  6-1 6-3  243 230  SR so  
41!  Jerome Collins  TE  6-4  258  SR  
49  Derek Curry  LB  6-3  235  SR  
50  Dan Santucci  OL  6-4  292  JR  
51  Jamie Ryan  OL  6-5  310  JR  
52  Joe Brockington  LB  6-1  225  so  
53  Dan Hickey  OL  6-3  224  JR  
53  Joseph Boland  LB  6-3  224  JR  
54  David Fitzgerald  OL  6-4  285  JR  
55  Zachary Giles  c  6-3  281  SR  
56  Nick Borseti  LB  6-4  238  so  
58  Abdel Banda  LB  6-2  215  FR  
59  James Bent  OL  6·1  271  JR  
59  Dan Chervanick  DT/NG  6-2  265  JR  
60  Casey Cullen  LB  6-2  212  so  
61  J.]. Jansen  LS  6-3  215  FR  
62  Scott Ra ridon  OT  6-6  310  JR  
64  Casey Dunn  OL  6-4  256  SR  
65  Tim Gritzman  DE  6-3  210  FR  
66  Derek Landri  NG  6-2  278  JR  
67  John Kadous  OL  6-7  310  FR  
68  Ryan Harris  OL  6-5  289  50  
69  Darin Mitchell  OG  6-3  290  SR  
70  Chauncey Incamato  OL  6-6  280  FR  
71  James Bonelli  OL  6-4  290  JR  
72  Jeff ThoVoson  OL  6-4  285  SR  
73  Mark I.e  oir  OT  6-7  310  SR  
74  Dan Stevenson  OG  6-5  293  SR  
75  Chris Frome  DE  6-5  271  JR  
76  Bob Morton  OG/C  6-4  300  JR  
77  Greg Pauly  DT  6-6  295  SR  
78  John Sullivan  c  6-3  295  so  
79  Brian Mattes  OL  6-5  292  JR  
80  Chris Vaughn  WR  6-4  205  FR  
81  Brandon Harris  WR  6-1  190  JR  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-0  175  SR  
83  Jeff Samardzija  WR  6-5  215  so  
84  Mike O'Hara  WR  5-9  175  JR  
84  Rob Woods  WR  6-2  205  JR  
85  Billy Palmer  TE  6-3  256  SR  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  6-2  248  JR  
88  Anthony Fasano  TE  6-4  256  JR  
89  John Carlson  TE  6-5  248  so  
90  Brian Beidatsch  DL  6-2  295  SR  
91  Craig Cardillo  K  6-0  169  JR  
92  Kyle Budinscak  DE  6-4  275  SR  
93  Brandon Nicolas  DL  6-5  275  FR  
94  Justin Brown  DL/LB  6-4  225  FR  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DE  6-5  269  50  
96  Bobby Renkes  K/P  6-0  190  50  
97  Travis Leitko  DE  6-6  275  JR  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  6-0  285  so  
99  Ronald Talley  DL  6-4  245  FR  

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 
2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4  at BYU-L  
Sept. 11  MICHIGAN  
Sept. 18  at Michigan State  

Sept. 25 Oct. 2 Oct. 9 Oct.l6 Oct. 23 Nov. 6 Nov. 13 Nov. 27 
LLI 
:E 
<C 
c 
LLI 
0:: 
.... 
0 
z 
z 
<C 
C!J
-
::c 
(.)
-
:?! 
en
-
cn 
~ 
<C 
z 
cs: 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Willingham is feeling the pressure to succeed after a season-opening loss in Provo, Utah to Brigham Young. He must turn the season around if he is to avoid losing his job. Willingham has 10 games to work with, starting with Michigan.  Quinn's numbers (26-of­47, 265 yards, 1 TD) were good against Brigham Young, but they didn't reflect how he struggled on third-and-long situa­tions. He is making better decisions in his second season as the starting quarterback, but he must throw the ball deep.  Grant will play unless he reaggravates his ham­string in practice this week. Thomas fumbled twice in his collegiate debut against BYU. Wilson got the most car­ries, but only picked up 26 yards on nine car­ries, as the offensive line didn't open up holes.  Last week, Quinn was forced to the air, throwing 4 7 passes, and complet­ing 26. He couldn't throw deep, however, and only converted 3-of-16 third­down plays. The tight ends showed they will be important to the passing game.  
Carr has been on the Michigan sidelines for­ever, coaching as an assistant for 25 years, the last 10 at the helm. He is a proven winner. Under Carr, the Wolverines have gone to eight consecutive bowl games.  Gutierrez was named the starter, but sat out last weekend due to a sore arm. Freshman Henne stepped in, throwing for 142 yards and two touch­downs. Henne will proba­bly start again. He is the second true freshman to start in his first game at Michigan.  The Wolverines gave up just 33 yards rushing last weekend. Their defense is anchored by Reid, who is a Butkus Award candi­date. Last season, the Wolverines were 22nd in the country in rushing defense, giving up 116.6 yards per game.  Jackson is the anchor of a solid secondary. He is joined by safety Shazor, who returned an inter­ception 88 yards for a touchdown last week­end. Jackson was an All­American in 2002 at cornerback, and is third in Michigan history with 29 pass breakups.  
Carr has been a coach on  Quinn has more exp~~j­ Michigan should win  Michigan's secondary  
three national champi­O~§lllP teams, WiUI).i,Q.g one. Willingham is just  ence than Gutierrez ·M\d .. 'if#.". Henne combined, a:~rari­ty for the sophomQre•. .ii  the battle in the trench­e$'~'It'l'he .Irish line•~.has n6't!!'§et'Proveiftnhfu~  has proven itself. Last year, they g~,V~k'cVP 180.54 yards pef game,  
, trytilgto keep hiSjob. Carr ;has the experience and is  Although the Michi~ai\~1 quarterbacks are taftmt.: ';'  ;:~w~,~~~~~~.~~fe~~~#,~~··.••~·.  1ath in tu·e NCAA•.;-"' Notre Dame's.... passing·····  
a proven ·winner, as he is ·  ed, Quinn's experience"·*  s@ ~~~~Bug used to the  game is ·still shaky, with~  
the tlfth--winningest aetive  will help him to make'.  positi()l1 c.hanges. and  the offensive line strug­ 
DiVision 1-'A coacb.:He has  good decisions and lead  the MiChigan lineback­ gling and Quinn riot  
th'elfuowledge and experi­ a struggling Irish  ers are experienced and  he'i'n g ab I e fo· Tni-'o'w  
ence needed to win.  offense~ ·~  talented.  deep.  

WASHINGTON PURDUE STANFORD at NAVY .BOSTON COLLEGE at Tennessee PITTSBURGH at USC 
NOTRE DAME ..'··
. i..
':'AJ 
.-.
OFFENSE ..... 
TAILBACK 4·Grant 

26-Thomas FULLBACK 16·Powers·Neal QUARTERBACK

12-Schmllft 10.Qulnn 
~·-~~­
lNSIOE 
LINEBACKER 
36·McCIIntock 59-Sarantos 

TIGHT END 
85-Palmer 
1-Ctark 
WIDE RECIEVER . 
5·McKJiiglll 

FREE SAFET'r'
23-Anastasio 21-MIIndy 31-Englemon 

.OUTSIDE 
LINEBACKER 58-Manntq•2-Crable 
-~ ·'lf!ic·· 
. :· .•. . 3-Jaclcson
l!iX·~j·· ..CO
...RNERBACK 
•.::!_ 1 ,2~Hall 

··•···.·•·· '.Jt"i!".* . 


Everything is going against the Irish, but that's 
Harry Oliver had a better chance of making a when funny things happen in sports. The stats 
51-yard field goal against Michigan in 1980 show Michigan wasn't impressive last week, 
then the Irish do of beating the Wolverines this 
Irish 

except for forcing seven turnovers. A fresh­season. But Oliver did make that kick, and man Michigan quarterback, Hyan Grant Notre Dame could beat Michigan. However, the Irish need to play flawless and that seems
returning to the lineup and the typical breaks
experts unlikely after seeing the BYU game.
going Notre Dame's way lead to the upset. 
FINAL SCORE: Michigan 24
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 17 
Joe Hettler 
Notre Dame 10
Michigan 13 

AME 
Matt Lozar 
Editor in Chief 



Friday, September 10, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 5 
MICHIGAN 

OFFENSE 

TAILBACK 5-Underwood . 2G-Rembert ~~Ji,S:,~ 40-0iuiQbo 
~ 

WIOE RECEIV B-Atllll 
17-Tabb 
Notre Dame stopped BYU's running game in its tracks last weekend, giving up just 22 yards on the ground, for an average of 0.6 yards per carry. The defensive line is solid, and the line­backers are experienced. The longest run they allowed was 11 yards.  Edwards is a deep threat who scored 14 touchdowns last season in 15 games. The 6­foot-3 senior caught six passes for 91 yards last weekend. Henne proved he can get the ball to his talented group of receviers Saturday.  Fitzpatrick kicked one field goal for 21 yards and was improved in the punting game, kicking for an average of 42,8 yards against BYU. However, one punt was partially blocked and the punt return game was shaky, as McKnight made ques­tionable decisions.  Willingham needs a win, as does his team. They are playing at home and motivated from last year's 38-0 loss at Michigan. The pressure is on this team to win a game, and they will have 80,000 fans behind them to help.  
Michigan's rushing game was solid, picking up 132 yards on the ground. Underwood led the way with 61 yards on 22 carries. The offen­sive line lost Pape to the NFL, but returned Bass, a second team All­American.  The Irish secondary is young, inexperienced and vulnerable. They gave up 265 yards to BYU last weekend, including a touchdown pass of 42 yards and ~ completion of 50. They were hurt by the big play.  Finley is a strong-legged punter who booted six punts for a 45.2 average last week. Breaston is a talented kick returner. However, the Wolverines were only ranked 112th in net punting last sea­son. Rivas was solid last year, hitting 75 percent of his field goals.  Michigan is a solid team, but is playing with a true freshman quarterback at Notre Dame Stadium, one of the toughest places to play. Two years ago, they were upset in a game that no one thought the Irish could win. But Michigan knows that and is ready to prevent an upset.  
The Wolverines have, a solid rushing attack_:.iiut the strength of the Irish defense is th~ linebaek~. ers. Behind Goolsby.:and Boyte, the Irish will con-1 tain the rushing attack.· of thf~ Wolverines behind• Undet wond·. The defm1~ sive line will also help stop thf' l"Un.  Michigan ha~ arguably th,~..J~~~t reeeiver$.Jltlb.e country .in Av,j_nt and Edwards. Botb·'~reexpe­ri e.q,~ed and·· athl(}tic. -~­Th.c liish .se.co.ndaiyis ;; young ~nd unproven. They __ ·_~'ill ~tr1lg-gle against the Wolv~rine'S and their talent.  
 The Irish will i?:~J'::~··:te edge here beea.uS~"'of two things -hom~field advantage and·the fact that their roach's job is: in jeopardy. They.:will come out ready to play:, because they have been ,··-1freparing''f6f this game sin~~ the day they lost 38;:o·ta·sryear.  

:z 
0 
-1
::c 
IT1 
c 
l> 3: 
IT1 
-
(') 
%
-
G') 
l> 
2 

Michigan Wolverines 
WIDE RECflVER 
t..ffwaNs · 
CORNERBACK 
24-EIIIck 

79-Sienavldl 6-Campbell 
72-Ritey 
LEFT TACKLE 

lEfl' GUARD 75-Ban 
QUARTERBACK S7-Kraus 
7-Henne 

1Q-Aicflard NOSE 
GUARD 
6H.alldrt 
118--Laws 

CEN~ER ~f. <­
INSIDE STRONG 

WOLVERINES RUSHING WOLVERINES PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
54-Blhl 
li5-Henig~ 1 
DEFENSIVE TAVI<LE ' 
77-!'lllr 
A 

90·8eidll&ch~ 
0 

urr~
44-Tuct (_! 15-Frome 
CORNERBACK 15-Jacboll 
3D-Richardson 

LINEBACKER SAFETY
·. 41-Geollby 27-Bolen 46-Mays 2•Parish
I 
FREE SAFETYOUTSIDE 
8-Burrell
LINEBACKER 
9--Zbikowski
49·Curry
47-Thomas 


MICHIGAN 2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 MIAMI (OH) -W Sept. 11 at Notre Dame Sept. 18 SAN DIEGO STATE Sept. 25 IOWA 
_,;M,;,:;:.,·.. 
Oct. 2=· ~--:-at Indiana 
:=-. :.: ( 
~ ~~ 
Oct.r9 ..._.....:. ··~ ;;;-MINNESOTA
:;;~'5,{ '~ 'if'"'· ic4.' .· ·· · 
Oct. 16 , -· ·af IHinois Oct. 23 at Purdue Oct. 30 MICHIGAN STATE Nov. 13 NORTHWESTERN Nov. 20 at Ohio State 
INTANGIBLES 
Michigan 
Wolvennes 

Lloyd Carr 1Oth season at Michigan career record: 87-26 at Michigan: 87-26 

against Notre Lloyd Carr Dame: 3-2 head coach 
Roster 

No. 1 2 3 4 5 5 6 
7 
7 
8 
8 
9 
10 10 12 12 13 13 14 15 15 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 22 
22 
23 24 
25 
26 26 27 
28 
28 29 
30 
31 31 32 33 33 34 
34 
35 36 37 38 38 39 40 41 42 43 .W 45 45 
46 
49 5() 52 53 
54 
55 
56 
57 58 59 61 62 
63 
64 
65 
66 67 68 69 70 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 
80 
80 81 82 
84 
85 86 88 89 
90 
91 92 93 93 94 94 95 96 97 97 99 
Name Braylon Edwards Sahwn Crable Marlin Jackson Darnell Hood Charles Stewart David Underwood Prescott Burgess Spencer Brinton Chad Henne Jason Avant MattWilde Anton Campbell Troy Nienberg Clayton Richard Matt Gutierrez Landon Smith Jeff Kastl Grant Mason Morgan Trent Steve Breaston Chip Cartwright Adrian Arrington James Bloom5burgh Carl Tabb Jermaine Gonzales Willis Barringer MikeHart Ryan Munday Jamar Adams Kyle Plummer Max Martin Jerome Jackson Ernest Shazor Alijah Bradley MikeCarl Pierre Rembert Dan Moore Jacob Stewart Leon Hall Markus Curry Branden! Englemon Craig Moore Kevin Dudley Keston Cheathem Scott Hamel 
Jason Gingell Joe Leoni Brian Thompson Scott McClintock Chris Graham 
B.J. Opong-Owusu Garrett Rivas Adam Finley Obi Oluigbo Tim Bracken Lawrence Reid Roger Allison jason Eldridge Brad Cischke David Harris Jaml's Presley John Thompson jeremy Van Alstyne Ross Mann David Hull Mark Bihl jeremy Read LaMarr Woodley Adam Kraus Roy Manning joey Sarantos Turner Booth Jon Saigh Derek Bell Grant DeBenedictis Leo Henige, Jr. Paul Sarantos Matt Lentz Patrick Sharrow David Schoonover Jeremy Ciulla Rueben Riley Alex Mitchell Brett Gallimore David Bass Mike Kolodziej 
Jake Long Gabe Watson Adam STenavich Alan Branch Chris Matsos Doug Dutch Mike Mandich Kevin Murphy Mike Massey Jim Fisher Tim Massaquoi Tyler Ecker Tim jamison Rondell Biggs William Pa-ul Alex Ofili Chris Rogers Pat Massey Matt Studenski Marques Walton Larry Harrison Will Johnson Max Pollock Pierre Woods Pos. WR OLB CB CB 
s 
RB ILB QBQB WR QB 
s 
PK QB QB WR QB CB WR WR ILB WR PK WR WR 
s 
RB 
s 
s 
CB RB RB 
s 
HB 
s 
R 
ILB 
s 
CB 
CB 
s 
PK 
FB 
s 
RB 
K 
ILB I'B ILB ILB 
s 
PK 
r 
FB HB ILB FB RB WR lLB ILB ILB DE LS DT OL ILB 
OLB/DE OL OLB ILB OL/LS OL OL OL OL DT OL OL OL OL OL OL OL OL OL OL DT OL DT WR WR TE TE TE TE TE TE OLB DE DT DT OLB DE/DT TE DT DT DT OLB OLB 


Ht. 6-3 6-5 6-1 5-11 6-1 
6-0 
6-3 6-5 6-2 6-1 6-2 5-11 6-2 6-4 6-4 5-8 6-3 
6-0 
6-0 
6-1 6-1 6-3 5-10 6-2 6-2 
6-0 
5-9 6-1 6-2 .5-10 6-1 5-11 6-4 5-6 
6-0 
6-0 
6-0 
6-0 5-11 5-11 5-11 5-10 6-1 6-1 5-10 5-9 5-11 6-2 6-2 5-11 5-11 
5-9 
6-4 
6-0 
5-9 
6-1 6-1 5-8 6-4 6-2 6-2 
6-0 
6-4 6-1 6-1 6-4 6-1 6-2 6-6 6-2 6-3 6-2 6-5 6-4 6-5 6-4 6-3 6-6 6-4 6-3 6-4 6-3 6-5 6-4 6-5 6-7 6-7 6-4 6-5 6-6 
6-0 
5-10 6-3 6-5 6-3 6-5 6-4 6-6 6-3 6-2 6-3 6-4 6-1 6-8 6-3 
6-0 
6-3 6-4 6-1 6-5 
Wt. 208 233 196 191 192 216 232 219 217 203 202 192 167 232 
228 
166 224 190 178 174 
229 
176 195 205 194 197 194 200 201 162 201 198 
229 
169 199 209 225 206 191 182 195 178 236 171 200 180 
220 
232 243 204 195 216 208 234 211 222 228 179 202 233 243 214 261 235 265 302 230 263 301 246 225 264 275 285 290 326 267 300 303 288 297 
311 
340 304 323 324 335 333 318 
345 
208 191 252 256 222 250 247 249 228 264 261 290 249 276 219 301 
299 
282 217 245 

YR SR 
so 
SR JR Fr SR 
so 
SR FR JR JR 
so 
SR 
so 
JR 

so 
JR SR FR JR JR FR JR SR JR JR FR 
so 
FR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR JR JR JR 
so 
JR 

so 
SR 
so 
JR SR FR JR FR jR jR SR FR JR 
so 
FR jR SR SR FR jR JR JR 
so 
I'R JR SR 

so 
JR SR 

so 
so 
SR SR jR FR SR FR SR JR SR 

so 
SR FR JR FR FR SR JR 

so 
JR SR FR SR FR SR JR FR SR SR JR FR JR 
so 
SR FR SR SR FR JR FR 
so 
SR 


After struggling at BYU, the Irish 

The reigning Big Ten champs 
There's little doubt that the Irish
face a tougher team in Michigan. 
have not won at Notre Dame are better than they showed
The Wolverine receivers will 
Stadium since 1994. That against BYU. If Notre Dame's
present a big problem for the 
changes on Saturday. The Irish defense can rattle QB Chad 
unproven Irish secondary. They 
looked no better against BYU Henne, they should be able to
\\'ill win the game in the air but 
than they did against Syracuse shut down the sub-par running
it will be close \\-ith a true fresh­
last season. No improvement game -David Undenvood is no 
man under center. 
equals no chance. Chris Perry. 
Heather Pat Leonard Justin Schuver 
FINAL SCORE: Michigan 48, FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20, 
Van Hoegarden FINAL SCORE: Michigan 24, Associate Associate
Notre Dame 10

Sports Editor Notre Dame 17 Sports Editor Sports Editor Michigan 19 
T .... 
! 
page 6 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 10, 2004 
Sizing up the Irish and the Wolverines 

AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
total points scored total points allowed 
Notre Dame yards penalized Michigan yards penalized 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE MICHIGAN'S OFFENSE vs vs MICHIGAN'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

40.81 


263 
37 
2 

17 


55 

NOTRE DAME 
SECONDARY 
Last week, the sec­ondary gave up two big plays of 50 and 42 yards that proved costly. 
Quentin Burrell (above) and Tom Zbikowski, who saw most of the action against BYU, cannot get beat deep. Preston Jackson is listed as the starter at corner, with Dwight Ellick. Jackson scored a touchdown off an interception last week. 
This unit will deter­mine if the Irish can stick with the Wolverines. The best receivers in the country await the Irish, and the 
secondary  must  
respond for  an  Irish  
win.  

MICHIGAN 
RECEIVERS 

Braylon Edwards (above) is a deep threat who had 14 touch­downs in 13 games last season. The 6-foot-3 senior is an All­American candidate after being named hon­orable mention in 2003. 
He is joined by junior Jason Avant, who earned All-Big Ten honors last season. The 6-foot-1 receiver caught 4 7 passes last season for 772 yards. 
Michigan's receivers will give the Irish sec­ondary quite the test, especially after the unit gave up 263 yards against Brigham Young last week. The Irish must prevent big plays. 

1111•111•rlrltJI!!ISIIJr••••rtJIIII•II•••llllr111111116•••• 
FREECOlliE11/DSIIACIS 
INTE8TAIIIIIIKTPB0,/1/ID81 Till PllllA/1 11/e/1/AJ/A 1811IF
FIRliDSTIDEIITS 
KJIAPP, P81/8STAIDWDLR
WHILESI/PPl/ESLAST 
-
Friday, September 1 0, 2004 page 7 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Irish cannot surrender big plays this week 
matter against No. 7 "It's kind of [al hard
By PAT LEONARD Michigan. [offense] to attack," senior 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Wolverines boast 6-linebacker Derek Curry said. foot-3 All-American senior "One thing we have to do is Notre Dame held Brigham Brayton Edwards and jun­be aggressive. With a young Young to 22 rushing yards iors Jason Avant and Steve quarterbaek, if you put pres­last Saturday and lost. Breaston at wide receiver. sure on him, it really brings The Irish made the Edwards (161 career recep­out their true character on Cougars punt on l 0 of 16 tions) is one catch away how they will respond." possessions, Derek Curry from passing former The aggressiveness of the recovered a forced fumble Michigan great Anthony Notre Dame defensive line and Preston Jackson Carter in receptions after was there often against BYU. returned an interception 38 catching six passes for 91 "Those four and the rota­yards for a touehdown. yards and two touchdowns tion have the ability to really And the Irish lost. against Miami of Ohio last take control of the "We played pretty well, but Saturday. game," senior Iine backer 
we gave up big plays," "They have the best Mike Goolsby said. "I defensive end Kyle receiving corps in the coun-thought they played awe­Budinscak try," defen­sqme and that's going to be said. "A cou­sive coordi­the strength of our defense ple of times on 'fls a defense. we nator Kent [this season] -our front those big 
have to eliminate big Baer said, seven." 
plays, we did­"So it's But the BYU defensive line
plays. Otherwise. we
n't get to the important to got to quarterback Brady quarterback played solid [against keep the ball Quinn, and the Irish offense and we obvi­in front of could not recover. Notre
BYUJ.'' 
ously didn't you." Dame pressured BYU quar­make plays on Even if the terbacks John Beck and Matt
Kyle Budinscak
the ball." Irish contain Berry last Saturday, but the BYU receiv­Irish defensive senior run­Cougars still made big plays. 
lineman
er Todd ning back This week, the Irish know Watkins D a v i d where they need to improve. caught a 50-Underwood "Definitely, the first thing yard pass in the first quarter as they did with the BYU we have to do is stop the to set up a touchdown. backs, the defense has to be run," Curry said. "Anytime Austin Collie beat Notre wary of the Wolverines' big you go into a game like this Dame safety Quentin Burrell play capabilities. with their really good to the spot for a 42 -yard "I don't know if we can receivers, you have to stop touchdown catch in the third catch them." Baer said in a the run so quarter, and Watkins caught joking manner about the only option they have is another 38-yard pass in Edwards, Avant and to pass ... but the back end double coverage to run out Breaston. has to make big plays." the clock and end the game. Michigan is expected to The back end will have its 
"As a defense, we have to start freshman Chad Henne hands full Saturday. eliminate big plays," at quarterback, Henne Budinscak said. "Otherwise, threw for 142 yards and two we played solid." touchdowns in his college Contact Pat Leonard at 
The 'otherwise' will not debut. pleonard@nd.edu 


Wolverines hungry for win at Notre Dame 
candidate Brayton Edwards. Edwards caught By JUSTIN SCHUVER six passes for 91 yards and scored two touch­Associate Spores Editor downs in Michigan's opening game against 
Miami of Ohio. 
Despite Notre Dame's 20-17 loss to unherald­After watching what 6-foot-3 Brigham Young ed Brigham Young Saturday night, Michigan wide receiver Todd Watkins was able to do to coach Lloyd Carr is not underestimating the his team's secondary, Irish coach Tyrone 
Irish. Willingham recognizes the threat that Edwards, 
"At times, somebody loses a game, and every­who is also 6-foot-3, and the other Michigan body wants to think the house is burning receivers present to the Notre Dame defense. down," Carr said at a Monday teleconference. "The Michigan receivers may be as good as "Well, we're in an era in college football when any group in the country," he said at a press you play on the road, it's very, very difTicult to conference Tuesday. "Of course, I watched a win. We know we're going into a great venue to couple of catches Edwards had against Miami play, and yet their fans, they are like it is for of Ohio and they were circus-type catches that somebody when they come in [to Michigan just average guys don't make. Stadium!; they make it tough." "You have to be very special to make those 
Carr knows the danger of the Irish when they plays. So they are a very talented group." play Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. Two For all the offensive firepower that Michigan 
years ago, he was on the sideline to watch the might have this year, it might be its defense that Notre Dame student body rush the field after a is the unheralded part of the Wolverines. 25-23 upset of his Wolverines. Linebackers Lawrence Reid and Pierre Woods 
Last season, Carr's squad got its revenge in a were named to the Butkus Award watch list this big way, defeating the Irish 38-0 -Notre year, while defensive backs Marlin Jackson and Dame's worst shutout loss in 47 years -in Ernest Shazor were named to the Thorpe watch front of a packed Michigan Stadium. Running list. Shazor scored a touchdown ofl' an intercep­
back Chris Perry gained 1 77 total yards and tion return against Miami of Ohio. scored four touchdowns in that performance All told, Michigan lost six of its defensive and quarterback John Navarre passed for 251 starters in 2003 to graduation -mostly on the yards. defensive line. Heid, Woods, Jackson and Both Perry and Navarre graduatf~d last year, Shazor all return from the team that shut out 
however, in their place are senior David the Irish last season. Underwood, who rushed for 66 yards on 21 Facing a Michigan team that is without a carries and collected two touchdowns against doubt far more talented than the Cougar squad 
Miami of Ohio in Michigan's home opener las the Irish faeed Saturday, Willingham accepts his week and true freshman Chad Henne, who was team's underdog role at home Saturday. 14-for-24 for 142 yards and two touchdowns in "I can see that from your perspective that 
that game. would be almost an insurmountable task," he Waiting in the wings is Matt Gutierrez, who said. "But if' I am correct, therP are always con­was penciled in at the beginning of the season stant reminders of an underdog overcoming 
as Michigan's starter, but a sore arm kept him what some may sec as not being possibln. 
out of the game against Miami of Ohio. If "I would probably say that as of recently, Gutierrez -who never lost a game during his within the last month or so, there was a basket­prep career at De La Salle (Calif.) High School ball team [USA Basketball in the Olympicsl that -is healthy by Saturday's game, it could be a we thought was fairly talented -we'll say 
toss-up for who starts against the Irish. that." 
However, Carr implied this was not likely. 
Returning from last year's team is a bevy of talented receivers, including Biletnikon· Award Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 10, 2004 
February 26, 2005 
Carnival Triumph to the Eastern Caribbean 
I 
, 

Join your favorite Notre Dame Football

Gb.ili1l au~~ 

Players, Coaches and 
~~~ 
Personalities on this 
~~~~ 
once in a lifetime 
I ) 
I 
~~·~ 
I ) 
event! Sail from
I ( 
11Jm}--~ tiDIT~
!~ . 
beautiful Miami to
I \ 
I . I I 
~ ~ 
San Juan, St. Thomas 
~ }! 

and St. Martin 

Starts at 


ATHLETIC A P P E A R A N C E 
(un ~s.s o Ifor all guests. 
~~~ tlCarnival.
odd1trono The Most Popular Cruise Line in the World!. 
The University of Notre Dame is not in anyway affiliated with this program or its sponsors. 
i,, 
). 
: I ( 
• I 
\ 
Welcome New and Returning Notre Datne -St. Mary's Students•Faculty*Staff Notre Dame Papa john1s St. Mary's Papa John's 
1823 South Bend Avenue North Village Malt' 
271-1177 271-7272 
&DOD LUCK COACH YY VftlUII&HAM AIID 
I 
l i . 

II

THE EIIIIRE ND COACHING STAFF and PLAYERS!! &D IR 
Papa John's Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Not.re Dame Athletics and the Official DeHvery Pizza of NCAA Athletics. 
r----.-.. r PilaT' iiiES..AY .. ~ THIIITHii.SaiiY ~ r iii..CHsPii:.Ai
1 IRISH SPECIAL 1 
I Any Specialty pizza &: I I Small 1-toi ing & 2 20-oz
large 1-topping, Large Thin .crust Cheese II Breadsticks &: Coke 4-to-.yo I 1 1 I Ptzza I cokes 8.11!1 
1 $14.88 1 Si.fi:Bsa I S!I.IIB I I open til 4:00 p.m.
I add a Cinnapie $2.99...1
,. 
...... uililn
I CoupcHt Requir?-f1. r-~ptr'~'\. '0 4'fay~ :._. _ • -·-·--1 I w..-··.--:r~d £!<~~.-'"' )0 ~"-. . . I I c--...,,..,,_,~ .,.t>'·~ .5!1 .,. ~I I c-pon .,,..,,... E•P',... Jo d ..,._
I 
I 
Of'fer gotJd f:~z ; !'.;t!i•>d tlrn~· ~~,.~a·-···---·'f~--:: ·:, ',-H,er .qJ-,p.-1 fC:' ,J l11P1!<f'd •.r.Jl~ ..-t ~4rtJc•,.at.i~ ~"'l'i'l . .-tfe·· -~.-r.. ~ "·~~,.. ·:,·.;•• f} rl1•1'" oJt !i.cut.icfJ="..ttioy ~ :,h'l Offer gof1d fur 4 tlmih"'!! Uo-•.,. 61 p.:tr!:i( IJ".lting ,..,.,;..., ftJhn'sre~\.,•.t~•H· •!·.!-r A..Jdh~-;-~-~: · -, :··--. · -:: I -!\,.'•••c •·-~~:-o~•~ll!lnt'\ or.~. hJ.:F·,:vn..._: ~-·~·~;~r~r •••rrcJ.• 110--J'S rp,;;.~-=-~r_· .. , ·_·;•iy _~~~11-itk•~lll t(J"pp::--.q•. ,,..,t.,...,, I I J')~lfl"$ rE>._.t,.t¥.;J<1h ()-0}-.,._ At.i·:;t~nrlf t•rppn•;"" e:>r!~('l 
Not_ ...;si!d wU!l ,.,,.,.,-·'-'"<E"r :(•H~-o~, .. ,·.r ,;, _;•.. :-,:. !".!<_It_ _,of..::! ....-.-1~·1 df\)' (rt!'\e-r ~t.Oiu;~··r·· or OiUi1Ur1h. Net ..-~J wi~i'· ,~,; .!·:~ ~n-u-f)'f•:;-. vr r:f•S-(11·-,unt"!' Not v.t1i(f with .any oth~r ctJUf..ti"l"" (>r' ,;;_s,c(H..lr\l'": l iJll-tl••d <h•l \.',..., ."' 1'.-I <f\,. ·~ ~ • -.,_o· ·~~;roy, l iooHR••f (i~·-1-\.E-P:.i .d!P'~·.;J. <.I'U11rges fn.2)' <1\p;:•j. f.~..,tJh;."•.rl. c~·!.,_,.. "! yi •H·oir, (ft.-:, 9P~ ~f!...-y -'>f'~lf\1'. Um.tt~d dPtiv~f")' ,arl"-4. r h . ..,,.-~~--~ ~nilo)' •pp:;r 
t, -o '· • Ill<'\ '.('1 l •• ·S.•(IT)','' , ,-'• '" .'I") :-~ ' '·~ .:. • CtJ\t1~'!''t. rt;p:-;n~ILJI~ fc..-.t; ..~.j:..l,.:._tbh> :.-.~..x.'"" CU\tO"l~ J'('o~f'l!~it.Uc iO'f'" ar. a;.cf~i~ .ab~~ t4Jtfo:\­
1.. _____ .. -.;u=r~s=l~~ ;;.:·~~ :,;,~ ';;.;.. .I .. ____ _
.. --..
~ ~-­
p

r------.. r -PiRii p..-.. ----­
rl -CHEESER!-... LATE NITE
1 FAMILY SPECIAL 1 
I 2 large t topping. 2 I large Cheese and your I SPECIAL
large Works and
I 1 large 2-topping I I Breadstlcks, & Coke 4 to I I choice of bre~dsticks or 1 I Ex-Large 1-topping for Go for only chee·H~sticks 
the price of a large only

1 StB.BB 1 
I S24.!1!1 I I $12.!18 I I SI1.BB..._ 
I <--,...,_h'rd bplres J,O clay..~ I I c-,_ ii-c,_F;,.ftl. f.J<pln• lO cfa)it. ~I I Ccup<><z ""'~'J'"""· h.pfNs 30 d<oy•. flifillltI I coupo.. ~-£,.,.....,. Jo ...,.,, _ -·· ~il!"t"' gaod .N._ "rn"f'd tfn..... par1.kf~tinq P,.JHI Off.,-qr:..od fc•r-;>< •nnl'ter! Cr· w ,•• p_.rr•df."'.aUI'k:j P.:::, .... Otflt;$' c,vod fp..-a J.+~h-..-<1 u",.., dt p.arttdp•tJn9 Po~~p4 Off•r gout! t.f.., <11 1'1-t'ni!~ ~~.at p.artk.~;;.:::ng ''.;p..t '\ 
~_.t. f'@U.iu'rant\ nnly Adriihnr...a.l tnPt~~' ol';Jfti"A ~hn"' r"'@-¢=:-..arAnl'-onty ~u:;~n~odl r~~:~-»·'~!~ ~'lf:tn I h,t.n·o;: r~q_~~.Ji"~h 9nly J\dditinn.-.1 toppl~ e-ltt., •. I fohn·.; rp..,t,~tut,w,t• o~ly AclttMional t~f1"'-r'U.f'-~.!!!.rA "11)t vMf;cl w~th .an~ uther ( r.upc'J.n":. of· dn.counu. 4'-Jw(:~ ...,.,&.ttl ~th •nv nlr,t, , ...t;,._,,.-. ..-,( dfu_.-.;·nl !"-it'Jt v•~<f WftT\ 6ny n\hf"r <4'l1.•fHJfh ('tr dh-coonH. NM v•h~:t wvttb "," c~ ct)Up(N1'5 m di;.c.ou:'ft.,.
I 1 I 1 1
t hT\~te-rf ctfolivf""'f"y ~".,"'· charg#-:1. m~tv "P"f)t)' t~ma~n rifaiiv!"''!J t'ln:~.~., !f,...,rlll-*'"!1-fl't~t" •'i't···•· I ~nlH~" fWi;.;,ot<r)' "'"""· 'h"rgc·' n-.ily t~ppfy. r.tm•te-rJ M:•.,·t·: r .u,.... chll\lt~~s rTMY •PJ.O:Y
.. _____ .. .. ______ .. ._ _____ .. .. ____ _
(.u•.(Oftlof'f flf'"ipotn1t~ h"U' .-11 applk::~ tl'PX'l"'~ Ctnt~.r""'!-r Ff-'.,.J"P' ,,!,,. •-· ~1· "'l-"f;lif' ..ttlt.· t-'to:;t""·-t ulturne-• rc-spon-..Jbl-c-i"or _;: "up•ic:.thl~ 14-ll.r~ cu~i'(J'I"'rw:-c ;-~~ •&--t,f~ f,... aft ..l;.pf>c..sf.a:h:. ta~ (: )) 
') 
,, SCHOOL HOURS SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS
( 
Monday-Thursday Monday-Thursday
DVD Coca--Cola 4-to-Go
-----------~·----------~ 11:00 a.m. to 1 :00 a.m. 11 :00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
Buy any Large of Ex-Large Pizza dt regular II*Coca-Co1a 4-to-Go is 4 20-oz bottlesl 
Friday -Saturday Friday -Saturday
menu price and get FREE your choice of any llfor .the price of 3 including 4 FREE 1
,. 
our 3 DVDs. Titles change every two Music Match downloads 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. months. Through December 2004. I I I Sunday Sunday 
Noon to 1 :00 a.m. Noon to 12:00 a.m. 
--~--------~~----------~
If your group is having a meeting or planning a get-together, call for information on our large Order Discount. 
DELIVERY DELIVERY 
NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S
We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes 
271-1177 271·PAPATry our Chicken Barbeque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough 




