
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary''s 


ND awaits election as race comes down to the wire 
Students cast votes from abroad programs 
ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
OXFORD -The campaign to increase the representative Notre Dame turnout in the upcoming presidential election has not been confined to South Bend, as stu­dent<; and administrators abroad say that international study pro­grams are making great efforts to encourage students to vote and to provide information on overseas registration and ballot requests. 
Laura Holt, associate director of undergraduate studies in London, said that she and other administrators have been espe­cially active in sending e-mails reminding students to request absentee ballots. 
"Voting is important, and so even in off-years I encourage London Programme students to 
see ABROAD/page 4 

SMC alumna runs for fifth straight term 
Northup leading in Kentucky 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
While the presidential candi­dates travel around the coun­try straining for every last vote, Saint Mary's alumna Anne Northup looks poised to win her fifth consecutive term as con­gressional representa­tive to Kentucky's 3rd district. 
A recent poll conduct­

Northup

ed by the Louisville Courier-Journal showed Northup led with 57 percent of the vote, 17 points ahead of her Democratic chal­lenger, Tony Miller. According to the latest spending reports Northup also topped her oppo­nent in fundraising by over a million dollars. 
If she wins on Tuesday, the Republican congresswoman will once again be represent­ing a district in which regis­tered Democrats out-number Republicans two to one. 
Campaign Manager Patrick Neely said it is affirming to be ahead in the pre-election poles but the Republican camp will continue to campaign aggres­sively in the final days. 
"All the polls in the world can't say who is going to win. We are working very hard," Neely said. 
Few of Northup's election drives have been as ·Smooth at this year's, however. In her first bid in 1996 Northup faced a fierce battle with Democratic incumbent Mike Ward. Her eventual win, by 1,399 votes, made her the first Kentucky woman elected to serve in Congress since 1926. 
In 2002 Northup was once again threatened by a strong democratic candidate, Jack Conway. The race drew national attention and President Bush traveled to Louisville to energize her cam­paign and ensure Republican control of the House. 
Northup's successes have earned her the reputation of a tough competitor and the respect of even her opponents. One such former opponent, Chris Gorman, publicly endorsed the congresswoman in this year's reelection bid. 
The Louisville Courier­Journal also endorsed her for the first time. 
"I think she has run five very strong campaigns," Neely said. According to Neely, Northup 
see NORTHUP/page 8 

Professors predict legal battles, conflicts 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
Four years after one of the most contested presidential elections in U.S. history, the 2004 race remains dead even -prompting Republicans and Democrats alike to prepare for the worst. 
"I think the odds are pretty high that you will see legal challenges to all sort of things," said political science professor David Campbell, who specializes in political participation. 
Though Campbell believed Tuesday's election would be run more carefully than the 2000 contest, he said the closeness of the race still makes it prone to legal dis­putes. 
"Both the Democrats and 
see CHALLENGE/page 6 

Political poll yields surprises 

Results contrast with Notre Dame stereotypes 
Notre Dame Political Perception Poll 

Wrona Track  48.916  
17.3...  
Think politics are relevant to  

students" lives~ .:+,:. Notr• D:tme 60.1., •••Colleze Stude.nts Nationwide: 19CJ& 
•Margin ol Error: S.86'Wio. hmpie or 271 Notre Dame nudenu 
Are you definitely voting In Tuesday"t Election? 

Source: Philip Wells and Nicola Bunick 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
As part of a class project, two Notre Dame students recently conducted a campus­wide poll about students' polit­ical opinions on the presiden­tial candidates and various issues affecting the 2004 elec­tion -with some surprising results. 
Juniors Philip Wells and Nicola Bunick forrqed and con­ducted the poll under the direction of political science professors Joshua Kaplan and David Campbell. The survey, which sought students' opin­ions on topics ranging from the presidential candidates to homosexual civil unions, is an independent research project that Wells and Bunick will receive credit for through the political science department. 
The online survey was con­ducted from Oct. 11 -13. 
Welfs and Bunick, both politi­cal science majors, included 10 dorms in their poll. They asked the inhabitants of every third room on each floor to go online and participate in the survey. 
"We tried very hard to make the survey representative of the Notre Dame population," Bunick said. "The dorms already consist of a random sampling of students, so it was relatively easy to obtain statis-
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 

tically accurate data." 
Wells said the sample of 273 students reflected the student body in terms of male to female ratio and religious beliefs. 
Campbell is on a leave of absence, leaving Kaplan to oversee the project. Bunick and Wells were supplied with a national survey conducted by Harvard undergraduates, from which many questions were lifted for the Notre Dame sur­vey. 
"The Harvard survey provid­ed a valuable model to work off of and had unbiased ques­tions that sought the answers 
see POLL/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, November 1, 2004 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Creative costu111ing 
"llallownnn is the one time a year that a girl can dress as slutty as shf1 wa_nts and no other girl is allowed to say anything about it." 
This revelation strikes Cady (Lindsay Lohan) in the movie Maddie Hanna 
"Mean Cirls" as she arrives at a llalloween party Wire Editor and realizes that her full-length witch "s dress and intensely gory mak11up differ significantly from the revealing Playboy bunny costumes spotted on almost every girl in the room. 
Seary is out; sexy is in. My ques­tion: where is the line between appropriately sexy and flat-out slut­ty'! 
l"rn not sure where I stand on the "dress slutty or else you will be branded as a social misfit and llalloween loser" rule. This is possi­bly because I never really celebrated llalloween mueh in high sehool, meaning I jumped from junior high trick-or-treating to college partying. 
When I was little, I was the ehubby kid in a zebra suit two or three years in a row. Now, J"m expected to be the naughty nurse, the bad cop, the French maid. 
I must admit, part of this appeals to me. After all. as a freshman in col­loge, moved out and moved on, I love the fneling of having my parents hun­
~ dreds of miles away and being able to brnathe without them hovering over my shoulder. And for a girl, what is morn rebellious and liberating than dressing provocatively and not earing what anyone thinks'? Whieh leads me to my second ques­tion: is this aetually liberating, or is it simply eonforming to the collegiate Halloween standard? Once in high school, I decided it would be funny to wear a ehild-sized giraf'f'e costume and drive around, just bneause I eol!.ld. My friends and I went into Dairy Queen and Blockbuster, harassed the employees and made small talk with random customers. It was hilarious. Mostly, I got the stare of blank confusion, whieh wasn"t really a surprise considering I live in generic, uneventful suburbia where gira!Tes aren"t exactly running rampant. But despite the faet that some kid caught my cseapade on video and that I ended up summoning my inner girafl'e for two future sehool projects, I was not ostraeized. I was not forev­er dismissed as the "girafl'e girl." In fact, most people thought of the giraiTn as I did: hilarious. This year, l went as an angel for my first college Halloween. White outfit, white boots, and of course, the requi­site white halo. Easy enough to pull ofT. not overly revealing, but cute enough to be socially "acceptable." However, when I walked into Siegf'rif1d, the rector laughed and said, "Hey, you"re the fifth angel to come in here tonight!" Arter that, I startnd to wish I had worn something a little more creative. And I can"t help but wonder where my zebra suit is. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Maddie IIanna at mhanna 1@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest srandards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: SINCE THERE WAS NO FOOTBALL GAME, WHAT DID YOU DO THIS WEEKEND? 

Ashley Congjuico 
sophomore Badin 
"J usually dance the weekend away. " 



Broderick Henry Camille Gabriel 
sophomore freshman Stanford Pangborn 
"!.dressed up as "Screamed my Ty Willingham head offwhile and got fired by going through a Donald Trump. " haunted house. 
It was a near death experience." 




Eugene Nam  Julian Lagoy  Mel Bautista  
sophomore Stanford  freshman Siegfried  freshman PW  
"J hiked up to Michigan and went to the  "! ate rice all day. Not South Dining Hall rice,  "! played DDR and brushed up on my moves. "  

Niles Haunted House with Filipino American Student Organization. " 

real rice." 

IN BRIEF 

The f11m "Norma Rae" will be shown today from 4 to 5:30 
p.m. 
at C-100 Hesbergh Center Auditorium. 

The Leighton Music Festival presents "A Charles lves Retrospective" tonight at 7:30 

p.m. 
in Saint Mary"s O"Laughlin Auditorium. 


A Dia de Los Muertos pro­gram will be at the Snite Museum of' Art Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
The lecture"Business Ethic for a Publicly Traded Company" will be given by Alan Graf. executive viee presi­dent and chief financial officer of FedEx Corp at the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza Business of College Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame men"s soc­cer team will take on Michigan State Tuesday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Senior Class is sponsor­ing an Election Night event on Tuesday from 6:30 to 8:30p.m. at Smokey Bones in Mishawaka. All senior ROTC students, and all seniors that bring a letter written to a sol­dier overseas to the event with them, will be able to enjoy free wings and soft drinks at this event. All others will be asked to make a donation of' $2. 
The Notre Dame women"s basketball team will have an exhibition game taking on Premier Sports on Wednesday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


50 46 36 37 
Scottish town to pardon witches 
LONDON, England-A Scottish township marked Halloween by officially par­doning 81 people -and their cats -executed cen­turies ago for being witches. 
"There"ll be no witches" hats, dress-ups or that sort of thing -it will be a fairly solemn occasion," Adele Conn, spokeswoman for the baronial court that granted the pardons, said in a tele­phone interview Friday. 
Sunday"s ceremony in Prestonpans publicly declared pardons for 81 peo­ple executed in the 16th and 17th centuriflS. 
TODAY 


More than 3,500 Scots, mainly women and children, and their cats were killed in witch hunts at a time of polit­ical intrigue and religious excess. Many were con­demned on flimsy evidence, such as owning a black cat or brewing homemade reme­dies. 
Canine couture costumes fetch hundreds 
HARTSDALE, New York ­A high-end clothing company for dogs has added a line of elaborate costumes to its handmade fashions. For $200 to $240, the Hartsdale, New York-Couture company can turn Hover into Higoletto, Max into Merlin the Magician and Oeo into Cleopatra. 
"Dogs like to feel glam­orous," says Eva Hallstrom, 41, who started the business with her sister Eleonor Hallstrom, 45, after being laid off from a publishing company la.'lt year. "You give them a nice haircut, a bath, you put on a beautiful outfit, and they are just so happy." 
The costumes are made from silk, velvet, leather and brocade. They feature col­lars, buekles, detailed embroidery, fringes, semi­precious stones and pearls. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
..... 
~ 
(.) 






0 

HIGH 54 45 HIGH 55
...I 

LOW 40 38 LOW 39 
52 
44 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 82 I 65 Boston 58 I 43 Chicago 52 I 41 Denver 35 I 19 Houston 79 I 60 Los Angeles 78 I 54 Minneapolis 50 1 34 New York 62 I 48 Philadelphia 64 I 48 Phoenix 70 I 47 Seattle 48 I 46 St. Louis 54 I 40 Tampa 86 I 72 Washington 57 I 41 
.-~-~-~~.---~-----o--:-----c--;------------------------­
Monday, November 1, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Car catches on fire near NDcarnpus 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
A car burst into flames near the entrance to the D6 parking lot Sunday, destroying the vehicle but leaving its two passengers unscathed. 
Tawasha McKnight, 26, of Elkhart was driving north on Route 31 when she observed smoke com­ing from the back of her vehicle, St. Joseph County Police Cpl. Larry Kubsch said. After smoke began to seep into the vehicle, McKnight pulled the car over to the side of the road just before Dorr Road, the entrance to the Notre Dame cam­pus, he said. McKnight and her sole passenger climbed safely out of the car shortly before it caught fire and exploded, Kubsch said. 
Firefighters from the Clay Township Fire Department and the Notre Dame Fire Department responded to the scene to extin­guish the fire, and St. Joseph County Police and Notre Dame Security/Police arrived to direct traffic, which was disrupted from 
1:23 p.m., the time of the explosion, until about 2 p.m., Kubsch said. 
The accident left a charred patch of grass but did no damage to the road. 
Contact Claire Heininger at chein­ing@nd,edu. 

Islatnic lecture focuses on history, tneaning 
Mohammed, Koran main subjects of Yale professor's final talk at Notre Dame 
By PETER LEAHY 
News Writer 

In the last of a three part lecture series last week, Yale professor Gerhard Bowering spoke of the importance of the Koran to the Islamic faith. In a lecture entitled "Scripture and Tradition in Islam and Christianity," Bowering spoke of the life of Mohammed and his impact both on Islam and the Koran itself. 
Bowering gave background information into Mohammed's life. Born an orphan, Mohammed spent the majority of his adulthood in the busi­ness of commerce. Throughout his life he remained a highly religious individual. 
"Mohammed was awake and aware of religious currents of his time," Bowering said. 
However, Bowering explained that founding Islam was no easy task even for a man with such great faith. As with Jesus, Mohammed faced strong opposition to the cre­ation of a new faith in the form of the oligarchy that con­trolled the city of Mecca at the time. 
When Mohammed received his prophetic call, he was hesi­tant to act upon it. Through the support of his wife and a few followers, Mohammed embraced the feeling that he was called to be a prophet and began his teachings. 
Yet it was not until the end of his life that Mohammed was able to convert the people of Mecca to Islam. He moved to Medina and established a community there, Bowering said. 
In Medina, Mohammed found his ideas more welcome. The society formed included the followers who had sup­ported him when he first received his call to prophecy. Within Medina, Mohammed expressed his faith. He focused on the role of God in life and his own role within the faith. 
"[Mohammed] said God stands at the beginning and end of each human life," Bowering said. "Mohammed believed himself to be the 'seal of the prophets."' 
In the last ten years of his life, Medina conquered Mecca and Mohammed became the leader of both cities. In this way Mohammed was able to bring the outlying tribes to Islam, Bowering said. 
Bowering emphasized that Mohammed, while accredited with founding Islam, did not interpret the words he received from God. Rather he repeated them as he received them and thus Muslims see the Koran as God's word alone. 
"Mohammed faithfully trans­mits the message," said Bowering. "For Muslims, Mohammed contributes noth-ing to the Koran. He is the messenger, the mouthpiece." 

Atthe time of Mohammed's death in 632, the Koran was not yet formed. 
"[The Koran] was put together in book form 20 years after his death," Bowering said. 
Since its original composi­tion, the Koran has been updated. Originally, the Koran was composed without the Arabic marks indicating short consonants or vowels, Bowering said. In the 7th and again in the 1Oth centuries, there were efforts to "improve the way of recording in writ­ing" the Koran. 
"Today we have mainly two versions of the Koran," Bowering said. 
Many differences exist between the Koran and the 
Hebrew Bible -one being the Koran is much shorter. 
"[The Koran] is a rather short portion of scripture if we compare it to the Hebrew Bible," Bowering said. 
The Koran is also considered by some to be disorganized. 
"The Koran is disjointed. You jump from one topic to another as you go through the suras." 
There are 114 suras or chapters in the Koran. 
Nevertheless, the Koran remains the central teaching of the Islamic faith. It is as important to Muslims as Jesus is to Christians, Bowering said. 
"The Koran is the word become book as Jesus is the word become Christ." 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu. 


---------------------------~--------------------------~~------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 1, 2004 
Kathleen Opel, assistant director nator for the International Study abroad student Benjamin Marx, either one !candidate]." of international study programs Programs and manager of the said that their states were A number of students also said

Abroad 

and manager of the programs in programs in Toledo, Hio de already a lock for one of the can­that despite having requested continued from page 1 Home, Tokyo, Shanghai, Beijing Janeiro (a Spring program} and didates, so therefore their vote absentee ballots, they either have and Nagoya, said that she has not Santiago, said that four of the would not make a difference. not received them at all or make arrangements before received any information from nine students studying in Chile "I came to the conclusion that received them at their home they Inave the U.S. to register and her students regarding their requested a ballot and planned to as far as the presidential election address after they left. States request absentee ballots," llolt intentions to vote. vote. She said that two students goes, my vote doesn't count," he have different requirements said. "No students have contacted said they were not voting, and said. "Being from New York, I about receiving ballots, with 
I lolt said she sent an e-mail to me for further information, nor she said she has not heard back am pretty sure that John Kerry some requiring the ballot to be incoming pro!,rrarn partieipanl<; in have any told me that they were from the other three students. will get all ... of my state's elec­received by an election official on April, as well as August and planning to request ballots or Trevor Turner, a junior in the toral votes." Election Day, while others only September, with election vote," Opnl said. Dublin program, said that Marx also described himself as requiring that a ballot be post­reminders and links to Web sites Aside from administrators' although he has not personally someone who was only well marked by Election Day. providing information on voter ellorlo;;, faculty members teaching requested a ballot, he believes informed about the presidential Hin Westcott, a junior in the registration and ballot requests. in foreign countries have also that the majority of students in candidates and therefore chose London Programme, said that she 
Administrators for programs in encouraged student awareness Dublin have. not to vote in state or local issues. and other students who request­China and Mexico also said that about voting from abroad. "I am not sure how many peo­"Nobody likes an ill-informed ed absentee ballots have not they sent similar e-mail National Public Radio recently ple have requested ballots here, voter," he said. received them. remindnrs to students, and .Julia interviewed Notre Dame gradu­but it feels like the vast majority Other students, like Margaret "I know plenty of people who I>outhwaitn, assistant provost for ate and president of John Cabot according to how· people talk Tucker, a student studying abroad applied for ballots and never international studies, said that University in Rome -the location about it," Turner said. in Santiago, said they chose not to received them," she said. "The the Office of lntnrnational Studins of the Notre Dame Rome pro­Turner also said that voting vote because of their dislike of ones who did [receive ballots) all sent information on the topic to gram -James Creagan about his was a topic of pre-orientation both major party and third-party seem to be from California oddly students prior to their depar­ellorts to encourage student vot­meetings and student conversa­candidates. enough." tures. ing, which included holding a tion. "I feel a real lack of a valuable Students like Dana Lee, a 
"The Office of International voter: registration drive. A number of students inter­choice in this election. I cannot in Beijing program student, said Studies staff has always done Douthwaite said that the drive viewed said that they requested a good conscience vote for either that they and other peers have some effort to help students was well-attended, although she ballot and were exeited to vote in major party candidate," she said. had to take advantage of the U.S. remain abrnast of their duties as said she was unsure how many of the upcoming elections. 'There was no way I was voting Embassy's emergency-voting pro­
U.S. citizens," Douthwaitn said. the attendees were actually Notre ''I've voted absentee before for a Libertarian." cedures because they have not "But we~ did also make more of an Dame students. while at NO, but I was especially Although Tucker described her­yet received their requested bal­ell'ort this year to encourage stu­"Hundreds of expats and stu­interested in voting in this elec­self as being "more liberal," she lots. dents to get absentee ballol<; and dents attended," she said. tion because it's a presidential said that her father is a physician, "What a mess the absentee bal­to vote." National organizations such as election, and Ohio is such a key and Kerry-Edwards health-care lot process seems to be," she said. 
I>outhwaite said that such Democrats Abroad and state," Lisa Galli, a student from policy, as well as Edwards' con­At the same time, Lee said that nlli>rts were done at her ollice's Hepublicans Abroad have also Columbus, Ohio studying in nections with medical malprac­she felt proud being able to vote initiative and not bneausn of stu­been stepping up efforts to regis­Santiago, said. tice lawsuits, ruled out that ticket. in a country that does not permit dent requests or concern. ter students, expatriates and Hyan Lichtenwaller, a student Despite her decision to abstain its own citizens to do so. 
She notnd that students in some membtirs of the armed forces, but studying abroad in Australia, said from voting, Tucker said she "Once I passed the security programs senmed to show a none of the students or adminis­he thinks voting will help combat believes that this does not mean checkpoint and walked into the heightening interest and involve­trators interviewed mentioned the perception of political apathy. she is apathetic or uninformed. compound, I was on free soil and mnnt in thn lection than others. voluntenring for or being contact­"I feel that even voting as an "A lot of people have been giv­I was able, that day, to exercise a 
"The studnnts in the ed by one of these groups. absentee is an opportunity, how­ing me a hard time about not vot­right that the 1.3 billion people Washington, D.C. program As far as the number of stu­ever small or naive, for me to ing, but I feel like I've really con­here in China do not have," Lee appear very excited and engaged dents voting from abroad, the personally stand up against that sidered the issues," Tucker said. said. "No matter how disorgan­in nleetoral polities. The students resull'> have been mixed. apathy," he said. "I watched the debates, I read the ized the system is, if you really in othnr programs am less vocal All six of the students at Oxford Other students, however, said American News almost daily, and want to vote abroad, you ean." in thnir interest," Douthwaitn either voted early or requested an they did not plan on voting in the I watch CNN World, just to keep · said. absentee ballot and plan to vote. upcoming election. in touch with what"s going on ... l Contact Joe Trombello at 
Administrators such as Anne I I ayes, program coordi-Some, like Australia study-just realized that I don't like jtrombel@nd.edu 
DIID The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business liD II and The Institute for Ethical Business WorldwideDIID Proudly Present Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series (Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) "Business Ethics for a Publicly Traded Company" Alan Graf CFO Federal Express Corporation Tuesday, November 2, 2004 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business  







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 1, 2004 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVHtS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Car bomb kills 9 U.S. Marines 
NEAR FALLUJAH, Iraq-A car bomb killed eight U.S. Marines outside Falltijah on Saturday, the deadliest attack against the U.S. military in nearly six months. Marines pound­ed guerrilla positions on the outskirts of Fallujah, where American forces are gearing up for a major assault on the insurgent stronghold. 
The Marines later reported a ninth combat death Saturday but did not say whether it was in the car bombing or another action. Efforts to contact the Marines for clarification were unsuccessful. 
In Baghdad, another car bomb exploded outside an Arabic television network's offices, killing seven people and injuring 19 in the biggest attack against a news organization since the occupation began last year 
Bin Laden addresses U.S. voters 
·CAIRO, Egypt-Osama bin Laden's new videotape clearly targets American voters days before an extraordinarily tight presiden­tial election, but also courts another con­stituency: young Arabs who are frustrated and disenchanted but not committed to radi­cal Islam. · 
Al-Qaida's leader already has extremists on his side, who made it clear in their remarks posted Saturday on Islamic Web sites that they were elated to see him looking healthy and in control of the cause. 
But analysts say he is trying to broaden his base and that his words were chosen for more secular young Muslims as well as Americans. 
In the tape, parts of which were aired Friday by the Arabic TV network Al-Jazeera, bin Laden dropped the usual religious rheto­ric and historical references in favor of plain language. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Board approves facial transplant 
CLEVELAND -The Cleveland Clinic says it is the first institution to receive review board approval of human facial transplant for someone severely disfigured by burns or disease. 
SeveraL independent medical teams around the world also are pursuing the procedure. The Cleveland Clinic said its approval on Oct. 15 followed 10 months of debate on medical, ethical and psychologi­cal issues. 
It has no current patients or donors for the procedure. 
"We are at this point ready to begin screening patients," said Dr. Maria Siemionow, the hospital's director of plastic surgery research and training in micro­scopic surgery, who advocated the proce­dure. 

Meeting sets plans for flu pandemic 
WASHINGTON -The World Health Organization has called an unprecedented summit meeting of flu vaccine makers and nations to ramp up plans for dealing with the growing threat of a flu pandemic. 
Sixteen vaccine companies and health officials from the United States and other large countries already have agreed to attend the summit in Geneva, Switzerland, on Nov. 11, said Klaus Stohr, influenza chief of the United Nations' health agency. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Woman copes through activism 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Tammy Miser lost her younger brother in a Huntington factory explo­sion just more than a year ago. 
She has turned her grief into activism for the families of workers killed on job sites across the country, creating the United Support and Memorial for Workplace Fatalities. 
Her 33-year old brother Shawn Boone died from severe burns over 90 percent of his body when a series of explosions rocked the Hayes Lemmerz International factory in Huntington on Oct. 29, 2003. 
AFGHANISTAN 


Militants release hostage video 
Militants threaten to kill the 3 hostages unless U.N. and British troops leave 
Associated Press 

KABUL-Militants released ·  
a video Sunday showing  
three frightened foreign U.N.  
hostages pleading for their  
release and threatened to kill  
them unless United Nations'  
and British troops leave  
Afghanistan and Muslim  
prisoners are freed from U.S.  
jails.  
In the tape, the hostages ­ 
Annetta Flanigan of  
Northern Ireland, Filipino  
diplomat Angelito Nayan and  
Shqipe Habibi of Kosovo - 
are shown sitting hunched  
together against the bare  
wall of a room in an undis­ 
closed location. The three  
answered questions from  
someone who is speaking to  
them in broken English from  
off camera.  
Both women are crying,  
but the trio look healthy and  
unharmed.  
The Iraq-style abduction  
could put a brake on the  
country's post-Taliban recov­ 
ery and overshadow the  
crowning of U.S. favorite  
Hamid Karzai as its first  
democratically elected presi­ 
dent. The three, who helped  
organize the Oct. 9 election,  
were snatched from a U.N.  
vehicle on a busy Kabul  
street last Thursday.  
In the video, obtained by Afghan forces and NATO troops have mounted extra patrols since the unidentified armed  
Associated Press Television men on Thursday kidnapped the Filipino diplomat and UN workers.  
News in Pakistan, the ques­tioner repeatedly asks the captives why they have come to Afghanistan, then asks why America and NATO have sent troops to Afghanistan and Iraq. "We have nothing to do with America," Nayan says calmly. "We are here for the Afghan people." He adds later: "We all want to go home to our families. We are United Nations workers. We want to go home to our kids and to our parents." Habibi explains that she is from Kosovo -the mainly Muslim autonomous region ofSerbia ­but her abductor seems unsure where that is. "It is a Muslim country," · she says. "I thought I could help a Muslim country, and I just want to go home and see  my brother." All three hostages appear frightened. Their interviewer at several points seems to try to reassure them, saying to Flanigan: "Don't cry. Why you cry?" But he repeatedly ­some­times sharply -asks them what they are doing in Afghanistan, and does not seem to understand their answers. Toward the end of the 15 minute video, obtained by APTN in neighboring Pakistan, the interviewer appears to ask Flanigan to cry for the camera, to which she replies: "I have cried and cried and I can't cry any­more." Finally after 15 minutes, Nayan asks: "Are we going to be released?" and the tape  ends. Karzai, the country's inter­im leader, released a state­ment saying he spoke with British Prime Minister Blair on Saturday and that they "strongly condemned the hostage situation." "This war is against the Mghan nation and we know who will win," Karzai said, without indicating how the governments would respond to the crisis. A Taliban splinter group called Jaish-al Muslimeen, or Army of Muslims, claimed responsibility for the abduc­tion. Ishaq Manzoor,. a spokesman for the little­known group, told The Associated Press on Sunday that the hostages would be executed in three days if their demands were not met.  "The Afghan government and their foreign masters would be responsible if we got rid of the hostages," he said by phone from an unknown location. However, the group's leader, Akbar Agha, insisted in a separate phone call that it had set no deadline. U.N. spokesman Manoel de Almeida e Silva said the world body was "relieved" the hostages were unharmed and appealed for their inune­diate release. He refused to discuss whether contact had been made with the kidnappers or how the United Nations would respond to their demands, though said there were no plans to halt pro­grams or pull staff out of the country.  


Marines face final assault charges 
Associated Press conclusive under difficult circum­September, when a military panel 
stances, the case has fallen apart. convicted Marine Sgt. Gary Pittman 
CAMP PENDLETON -Working in Tissue samples that Ingwersen's of dereliction of duty and abuse of a makeshift lab in a bombed-out team collected as evidence decom­prisoners -but acquitted him of building, an Army pathologist posed when they were left outside in assaulting Hatab. He was sentenced dipped her gloved hands into a 126-degree heat; Ingwersen said to 60 days hard labor and demoted decomposing co'rpse -and changed organs turned to "goo." The rib to private. the lives of nine U.S. Marines. cage and larynx vanished, then On Monday, prosecutors have 
Running her fingers along a frag­resurfaced a year later at military their final chance to salvage the ile, U-shaped bone in the throat of a labs on two continents. She conced­case when court-martial proceed­dead Iraqi prisoner, Col. Kathleen ed she doesn't know what became of ings begin at this base north of San Ingwersen felt a break. She con­the broken hyoid bone that strongly Diego for the last defendant. cluded the man had been strangled indicated strangulation. · Maj. Clarke Paulus, 35, faces up to -that Nagem Sadoon I-latab was Nine Marines faced courts-martial 4 1/2 years in military prison if he is the first victim of homicide in pris­in Hatab's death but most of the convicted on charges of aggravated ons the U.S. military set up in Iraq. cases were dismissed, in part assault, dereliction of duty and mal­
However, since the autopsy that because of the forensic breakdown. treatment. pathologists considered surprisingly The sole conviction came in 

...... :--.------:--:-:--:---:----:-.
-~­

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 1, 2004 
~Merrill Lyncb 
ml.com/careers/americas 
SHARE OUR PASSION MERRILL LYNCH PRESENTATION 
NOTRE DAME juniors and sophomores are invited to attend: Wednesday, November 10, 2004 6:00-8:00 pm Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 210 
Whether you look at us in terms of people, culture, products or our virtually limitless possibilities, Merrill Lynch defines "exceptional" in every sense of the word. It's a source of pride for all of us who work here. And a source of exceptional careers for those eager to share in our passion for doing great things. 
Attend our presentation. And let's explore the possibilities together. 
Summer opportunities: Investment Banking . 
EXCEPTIONAL WITHOUT EXCEPTION 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 
Poll 
continued from page 1 
we were looking for." Wells said. 
Based on the results of the poll. George W. Bush drew 48.7 percent of those surveyed. while .John Kerry drew 43.9 percent. other candidates 
4.4 percent and unsure voters 

composed 3 per­"/ think a lot of the average Notre cent. people would think Dame student." But, according Over 56 percent of
Bush would win by 
to Wells. Bush's students agreed margin of victory a huge margin, but with this statement, is well within the the numbers prove reflecting a greater margin of error presence of liberal 
that's just not the
for the survey, attitudes on cam­
case here."

indicating that pus. NotrB Dame stu-B unick and Wells dents are split also discovered that
Philip Wells 

almost evenly voter apathy does
student pollster
between the two 
candidates. 
Wells was sur­
prised by the close race between 
Kerry and Bush on campus. 
"I think ;i. lot of people would think Bush would win by a huge margin. but the numbers prove that's just not the case here," he said. 
Other unexpected results from the poll involved questions regarding homosexual marriage and abortion. Both issues yield­ed responses that seem to imply that the student body is not as conservative as many perceive it to be, Wells said. 
Despite the fact that Notre Dame was recently ranked first in the Princeton Heview's "Alternative Lifestyles are Not an Alternative" category, Bunick and Wells' poll seems to indicate otherwise. Nearly 70 percent of respondents agreed that the government should recognize civil unions for homosexual cou­ples. 
In addition. students respond­ing to questions about abortion rellected a greater prevalence of a liberal attitude on campus. Among women, while 55 per­cent considered themselves pro­life. 35 percent described them­selves as pro-choice. Among men, 66.9 percent called them­selves pro-life, compared to 23 percent that considered them­selves pro-choice. 

The survey further defied pre­conceptions about the student body based on respondents' answers to the statement "I am more liberal than 
not appear to be a 
serious problem on 

Notre Dame's cam­pus. Whether it is due to the closely contested presidential race, or the prevalence of politi­cally involved students. there is a significant amount of political interest on campus. Over 60 percent of the Notre Dame pop­ulation thinks politics is very rel­evant to their lives, compared to the national average of 19 per­cent for college students. Also, 79 percent of respondents said they will "definitely vote" in Tuesday's election. 
Wells and Bunick will each receive three credits for their work. Since they are the only students in the class, they do not meet formally with Kaplan. 
"We discuss our progress with professor Kaplan on a weekly basis and consult professor Campbell via e-mail," Wells said. 
Following the survey, Wells and Bunick will analyze the results and present their find­ings in a formal report. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Challenge 
continued from page 1 
the Hepublicans have established absolutely enor­mous legal teams," he said. 
However, political science professor Donald Kommers said it seemed unlikely that any legal challenge would reach the level of 2000, when the Supreme Court finally determined the victor. 
"If there is such a dispute, those terms are usually resolved under state law," said Kommers, who special­izes in constitutional law. "I frankly do pot think that there are going be similar type of disputes to 2000." 
Campbell said concerns about voter registration requirements, raised by both Democrats and Hepublicans, increased sharply in recent weeks, but on different top­ics. 
"Generally what you find from the Democrats is a will­ingness to err on the side of inclusion. Democrats gener­ally have less concern for fraud," he said. 
In contrast, the Hepublicans tend to care about opposite problems, according to Campbell. 
"The Hepublicans generally take the other view -they're a little more concerned about fraud," Campbell said. 
But ultimately, Campbell said increased scrutiny for fraud, registration and the election overall would help 

ensure the integrity of the process. "I think it's actually healthy for the system," he said. 
Kommers also identified registration as a key issue for both campaigns, and one that could spark post-election challenges. 
"If some of the swing states are extremely close, recounts will probably be ordered," he 
said. 
In the cam­paigns closing days, both Bush and Kerry have campaigned heavily in a handful of swing states. But unlike most states who award all electoral col­lege votes to a single candi­date, closely 
Colorado has a measure on the ballot about whether to switch from the current win­ner-takes-all system to split­ting its votes according to the popular vote. A majority in favor of the switch would affect the awarding of Colorado's nine electoral votes immediately. 
"A conflict is more likely to arise in the Colorado case than in Florida," said Kommers. 
If the Colorado vote is close, it could potentially cre­ate a tie in the national Electoral College vote, Kommers explained. In that 
"/ think the odds lower courts, but the justices did
are pretty high 
not intend the

that you will see Bush v. Gore 
legal challenges to op1n1on to be applied in future
all sorts ofthings. " 
cases. 

"In Bush v. Gore David Campbell tl1e Supreme professor Court bent over 
contested 
backwards to not 
set a precedent," 
Campbell said. 

"!This year), I guess there 
have been 30 cases that are 
actually drawing on Bush v. 
Gore." 
But despite the debacle of 

2000, Campbell said ulti­mately the losing candidate, AI Gore, admitted defeat when the time came -and -the same would likely happen again should legal challenges 
arise after Tuesday. 
"Gore had his eye on the 

integrity of the process," 
Campbell said. "At some 
point, one side or the other 
will say it's time to concede." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
event, the Constitution stipu­lates that the House of Hepresentatives must vote for a winner. 
Campbell· also said the manner in which the 2000 race was decided -particu­larly the U.S. Supreme Court's Bush v. Gore decision that ended the Florida recount -eould impact events this year. Often, the Court's decisions establish a legal precedent for 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Monday, November 1, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 

Dow 10 004.54 +2.51
}ones ' 
-Same;
1,713 164 

AMEX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&PSOO 
Composite Volume; I ,628,610,048 
I ,307.60 -7.24 I ,975.74 +5.75 6,670.50 +4.63 I, I 27.44 +2.04 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,766.88 -86.>24 FTSE IOO(London) 4,642.80 +12.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE US~U) -10.54 INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.23 MICROSOFr CP (MSFT) -0.50 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.16 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.90 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.10 10-YEAR NOTE -0.17 5-YEAR NOTE -0.63 3-MONTH BILL -0.53 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-0.37 3.14 +0.27 22.27 -0.14 28.01 +0.40 18.95 +0.04 4.47 
-0.05 48.39 -0.07 40.80 -0.21 33.33 -0.10 18.67 
-1.54 50.92 +0.50 426.1 0 +0.60 94.75 
Excha Rates 

YEN 106.3100 EURO 0.7849 POUND 0.5464 CANADIAN$ 1.2230 
IN BRIEF 

Many accused of online identity theft 
NEWARK. N.J. -Federal authorities on Thursday indicted 19 people in the United States and abroad on charges related to a Web site investigators claimed was one of the largest online centers for trafficking in stolen identity information and credit cards. 
More than 20 others have also been charged in the probe. 
The site, www.shadowcrew.com, had about 4,000 members who dealt with at least 1. 7 million stolen credit card numbers and caused more than $4 million in losses, the Justice Department said. 
Federal agents gained control of the site during a yearlong undercover investigation by the Secret Service and other agencies, Assistant U.S. Attorney ScottS. Christie said. 
"I allowed the agents to more closely moni­tor the criminal conduct that was going on, and also to arrange for undercover purchas­es of illegal merchandise from various tar­gets," Christie said. 
China increases interest rates 
SHANGHAI, China -China announced Thursday that it will hike interest rates for one-year loans by 0.27 percentage points to 
5.58 percent, the first increase in more than nine years. 
The adjustment, which takes effect Friday, comes as China's government struggles to curb investment growth that continues to keep economic growth at an annual rate of more than 9 percent and inflation at seven­year highs. 
A statement posted on the People's Bank of China Web site announced the one-year lending rate will be increased from 5.31 per­cent. the first loan rate hike since July 1995·. 
In addition, the one-year deposit rate will be raised to 2.25 percent from 1.98 percent, the first increase in the interest rate paid on savings since July 1993, the bank said. 
Haising interest rates will likely weaken pressure for China to re-value its currency, the yuan, to slow growth further. The United States has been pushing for China to raise the value of the yuan, saying the current rate is artificially low and gives Chinese imports an unfair advantage. 



Cuba rushes to sign food bills 
The American presidential election could affect U.S. -Cuban relations 
Associated Press 
HAVANA -Just days before an American presi­dential election whose out­come could alter U.S.­Cuba relations, communist officials were designing deals to buy $150 million more in corn, wheat, cattle and other American farm products at a trade fair opening Monday. 
Agribusiness giant Archer Daniels Midland of Illinois, Tyson foods of Arkansas, Splash Tropical Drinks of Florida, Marsh Supermarkets of Indiana and White Hose Foods of New Jersey were among 125 U.S. companies partic­ipating in the weeklong International Fair of Havana. 
"This is happening at a crucial moment, during elections in the United States," Pedro Alvarez, chairman of the Cuban food import company Alimport said Saturday after inspecting stands at the exposition center where the Americans will display food samples. 
"Many companies and their people will come after the elections," so they don't miss the chance to vote Tuesday, Alvarez said. 
Alvarez declined to talk about the U.S. presidential candidates or express a preference. 
Democratic contender John Kerry has said he would maintain more than four decades of trade sanctions against Cuba if elected president. But many on the island believe any change to reverse the 
U.S. government's increas­ingly tough policies on Cuba would be more likely with Kerry in the White House. 
President Bush has steadily tightened restric­tions on Cuba over the past four years, making it virtually impossible for most Americans to travel here legally, and tighten­ing loopholes through which U.S. dollars have fil-


AP 
Pedro Alvarez, chairman of Cuba's food import agency walks around the International Fair of Havana where Communist officials requested to buy American farm products. 
tered into the country despite sanctions. 
While the four-decade old trade embargo hurts Cuba, "it also has a serious impact on Americans, too," Alvarez said. 
Under an exception to the U.S. sanctions, American food may be sold directly to Cuba on a cash basis. 
Since Cuba began taking advantage of the exception in 2001, it has contracted to buy more than $900 million in American farm goods, including shipping and hefty bank fees to send payments through third nations. 
The Cuban government's announcement last week that it was eliminating U.S. dollars from general circu­lation on the island will have no impact on the sales, said Alvarez. 
He said the move to replace American money with a local currency called the convertible Cuban peso, and discour­age importation of more dollars will not affect the island's ability to pay for American food and other imports with other types of foreign exchange, such as the euro. 
Those payments are made through banks in third countries such as France _ because the embargo prohibits pay­ments directly to the United States _ they are often more easily made in other euros or other for­eign currencies anyhow, Alvarez said. 
The more than 200 Americans expected later in the week from 26 states, Puerto Rico and Washington are among more than 1,000 business people from 45 countries that have signed up to par­ticipate in the fair. The state with the largest par­ticipation is Florida, with 27 companies represented. 
Other countries-showing a wide range of products at the trade fair include China, Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela. 
Along with the United States, other countries showing food products are France, Spain, Germany, Canada, Great Britain, Vietnam, New Zealand, Venezuela, and Mexico. 

Regulators need more data on drug 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The Food and 
Drug Administration told Merck & 
Co. that it requires further safety 
and effectiveness data before it 
will approve its successor drug to 
now-defunct pain reliever Vioxx, 
the company said Friday. 

Most analysts and doctors had 
not expected the FDA to give 
Arcoxia a green light now because 
Merck pulled Vioxx from the mar­
ket last month after a study 
showed it doubled patients risk of 
heart attacks and strokes. The two 
products are in the same class of ·drugs known as cox-2 inhibitors.· "I think it is a positive that the 
drug wasn't killed," Bert Hazlett, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. 
Merck shares rose 43 cents or 
1.36 percent to $32 a share in morning trading on the' New York Stock Exchange. 
Merck said the FDA gave it an "approvable" letter on Arcoxia with the condition that the compa­ny provide further safety and effi­cacy information. It was unclear what the company would need to do to achieve final approval. 
Last week.. Merck released posi­tive study results for Arcoxia that found there was no statistical dif­ference in cardiovascular prob­lems between it and diclofenac, an older pain reliever. However, the average length of time a patient was in the trial was nine months and Vioxx's dangers didn't mani­fest themselves until 18 months. 
Merck is scheduled to finish a 23,500-patient study that was focused on cardiovascular safety in early 2006. 
Arcoxia is already sold in 4 7 countries throughout the world. 
"We continue to believe that Arcoxia has the potential to become a valuable treatment option for many Americans with arthritis and pain," chairman, president and chief executive Raymond V. Gilmartin said in a news release. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 1, 2004 

Abroad students try to re-adjust 
For many, returning to college· in U.S. proves difficult 
Associated Press 
MIDDLEBURY, Vt. -For somn Middlebury College stu­dents, the hardest part about studying abroad wasn't adjust­ing to life in a foreign country. 
It was coming home. 
Brian Fink says the feeling hits him in the library -the palpable stress of his fellow students reminds him how much he misses the more con­tmnplative pace at the French univnrsity where he studied last year. 
Gale Berninghausen wonders if she'll ever uncork the bottle of Spanish wine she's saving for an oceasion that reminds her of the lingnring, talkative dinners she recalls from Madrid. 
And Mary Hiebert feels it at unexpected moments. Once, she was out for cofl'ee with her parents soon after returning from Ireland when she burst into tears. 
"I had this vague sort of sad­ness," Hiebert recalled. "I did­n't know what it was, or how to talk about it. I think it was a sensn of loss." 
Many of the 160,000 American university-levnl stu­dents who study abroad each year set oil' well prepared with languagn and cultural training. Experts say they're ol'ten less prnparnd for the jolt of coming home. What may strike friends as annoying disdain for the life thny"ve returned to may actu­

. ally rnllect real depression. 
"Heverse culture shoek ean be morn diflicult than the das­sie culture shoek." said Craig Storti, author of "The Art of Coming Home," a guidn for rnturning expatriates. "Peopln actually resist fitting back into 




FREE STICKER! 
their home countries, because ing a course for study abroad it symbolizes going back to who students with a post-trip com­I was." They're so different, ponent. and they don't want to endan­At Middlebury -where more ger this nnw self, to compro­than half of the roughly 2,350 mise this richer person they've students spend time studying in become." another country -Fink, 
Returning Americans of all Berninghausen and Hiebert ages often lind the pace of life were part of a group of stu­harried, and their friends and dents who gathered over lunch families gratingly provincial. recently to talk about their 
For students who  experiences  
have become accustomed to  "Reverse culture  returning from a transformative  
the  more  inde­ shock can be more  year or semester  
pendent learning style typical of many foreign uni­ difficult than the classic culture  abroad. They discussed their frustration  
versities,  their  shock."  dealing with oth­ 
few  remaining  ers who couldn"t  
semesters back at American col­leges can feel  Craig Storti author  understand how they've changed, or whose world­ 

awkward and over-structured. Many arc moving from a big, glamorous city back to a small town like Middlebury. 
And these days especially, encountering anti-Americanism may well have shaken their political views. 
A growing number of schools are expanding efforts to help returning students. Many, like Stonehill College in Easton, Mass., have dinners and dis­cussions for former ex-pats; some, including Wartburg College in Waverly, Iowa, offer "re-entry" courses. 
But administrators admit they arnn"t always sure how best to help. 
"I think the field as a whole is struggling with this, to really pinpoint what it is students are feeling," said Cori Filson, direc­tor of intmnational prograllJS at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., which is develop-
SOJOURNERS 
1-800-714-7474 • www.sojo.net 

To get this bumper sticker, go to the website 
of Sojourners magazine, www.sojo.net/free 
Stickers are free for everyone who signs up for Sojourners' free weekly e-zine, SojoMail. 
views they feel 
are limited. They also acknowledged that their attitudes may have irritated friends and family. 
Berninghausen admits that covering her dorm room with memorabilia from her Spanish trip alienated at least one friend. She's tried to bite her tongue and not tell too many travel stories. 
"They're very excited about [their travels] and want an audience," Filson said. But friends who have stayed home are kind of like, "Let's move on," because they haven"t shared that experience." 
David Macey, who oversees Middlebury's off-campus study programs, says many difficul­ties are academic. Abroad, stu­dents commonly find a more independent curriculum and study style. When they return, a regime of assignments and quizzes can feel insulting. 
Experts discuss space exploration 
Associated Press 
LONDON -About 100 inter­national experts meeting at the United Nations scientific organi­zation Friday discussed creat­ing a legal and ethical frame­work to guide the future explo­ration of space. 
The Paris symposium -gath­ering scientists, legal experts and space agency executives ­focused on such topics as the status of the astronaut, criminal conduct and other behavior on board spacecraft, and liability or insurance coverage, officials said. 
"As much as everybody wants the space frontier to expand, the rules to govern this new era have yet to be set," said Adigun Age Abiodun, chairman of the 
U.N. Committee for Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, a Vienna, Austria-based agency working on a legal framework for space exploration. 


Northup 
continued from page 1 
had to be a hard-hitting 
campaigner. 
"It's a competitive district 
and she has had a couple of 
high caliber opponents," Neely 
said. 
The second of 11 children, Northup came from a long line of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates. Her father, James Meagher was a scholar­ship basketball player for the ·Irish and her mother attended 
Saint Mary's. 
Northup graduated from Saint Mary's in 1970 with degrees in Economics and Business. She worked as a math teacher and at Ford Motor Company before run­ning for the state legislature in 1987. Northup served as the 32nd District's representa­tive for nine years. 
In a state economically dependent on tobacco farm­ing, Northup took a risky political step to set herself apart from fellow state repre­sentatives by calling attention to the health risks of eiga­rettes and by attaeking teen smoking. 
Economic issues eontinue to
$2

0FF-:-a.;~~­
: uR·:;::um Soft Cloth
0

: • Polish-n-Seafer


',: B E sT 

Wax Applied
• 2-Step Underbody 
. ~
1 _____.._ Protectant 
52694 State Road 933 1 South Bend, Indiana 46637 1 . 2 mi North of NO I
iWASH ·:::,.. I 
~flOOd,., ,.., Sol.th 8erKI kx86on only I 
.. _ '!IIIII.-...,_ ·-----------... ------------_ ......... 
The role of astronauts -rec­ognized as "envoys of mankind" in the 1967 Outer Space Treaty -is changing, noted Julien Tort, a program specialist for UNESCO in charge of organiz­ing the event. 
The geopolitical situation in space also has changed since the Cold War. and space increasingly is being used for commercial purposes, organiz­ers said. 
A rocket-plane made the first successful private suborbital space flight earlier this month, and the Virgin Galactic compa­ny announced it would offer public flights to space by 2008. Space agencies also are begin­ning to focus on the future exploration of Mars. 
"We have no adequate rules to cover space tourism," Abiodun said, or for "the future of space colonization, and we have to prepare the law for that." 
be some of the most pressing for Northup as a congress­woman. Her opponent has argued that the 3rd District has lost 13,900 jobs on her watch and that the region has the fewest manufacturing jobs in over a decade. 
Neely admitted that the sta­tistics arc correct, but said the tax cut package, which she championed in 2002, has already helped to create thou­sands of nnw jobs. 
Notre Dame frnshman Marian Eldridge lives in Kentucky's 3rd District and described Northup as "extremely" popular. 
"She has brought a lot of money to the district." Eldridge said, "and she has a lot of sway in Congress. A lot of people don't want to vote her out office because of the sway that shn has." 
Freshman Susan Dee attend­ed the same high school as Northup and ha~ met hnr snv­eral times. Dne expects her to be re-nleeted on Tuesday. 
"I watched one of the debatns on TV and she was by far the best candidate." said Dee. "She seems just really together." 
Contact Megan O"Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
-~-----------------~---­





ELECTION 2004 
Monday, November 1, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Presidential race ad SP-ending
triples from 2000 election 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -The most expensive presidential advertising campaign in history closes Tuesday after more than eight months with President Bush, Sen. John Kerry, their political parties and allied groups having spent more than $600 million. 
That's triple the amount spent on TV and radio commercials in 2000. 
Still, for all the money, the race remains a sta­tistical tie, even though Democrats have a spending advantage. 
Since March, Kerry and the Democratic Party have poured about $250 million into TV and radio ads compared with about $240 million for Bush and the Republican National Committee. 
Democrats have even more of an edge when spending by outside groups is included. Liberal organizations bought about $70 million worth of airtime, outpacing the $40 million or so spent by conservative organizations. 
"The story this whole year has been the sheer volume of ads," said Evan Tracey, president of TNS Media Intelligence/Campaign Media Analysis Group. "This is an election that I think changes politics." 
Despite the unprecedented spending, only about one-third of the country was inundated with commercials. 
Ads ran on national cable networks, but most aired on local TV and radio stations in the 17 most competitive states. Campaign commercials are now focused on 10 states where polls show the raee extraordinarily tight. 
Republican and Democratic strategists alike say the biggest reason for the record spending was the 2002 campaign finance reform law, which barred political parties from collecting corporate and union money. So, the parties hus­tled to raise hordes of money from wealthy indi­viduals, but those donors were beholden to con­tribution limits. 

Early voting componnds problem of 
'ghost' votes getting through 
RALEIGH, N.C. -In what would be her last conscious act, 90-year-old Trixie Porter gripped a pen in her weak, trembling hand, checked the candidates of her choice and scrawled a squig­gled signature on her absentee ballot. 
Within an hour, the petite woman who had been suffering from heart problems lay back in her hospital bed, closed her eyes and never woke up. Her ballot arrived at her local elections board two days later, Oct. 5 -the day she died. 
"We commented that day that it probably won't count," said daughter Cheryl McConnell. "But she went to her grave not knowing any dif­ferent. It counted with her." 
An untold number of ballots like Porter's will indeed be counted because of the haphazard and cumbersome process of enforcing laws in many states to weed out the absentee votes of those who die by Election Day. 
With millions of voters taking advantage of new, in-pPrson early voting in at least 30 states this year, it's even more certain that such "ghost" votes will be counted because, in most cases, those ballots are impossible to retrieve. Besides, it could be days or weeks after the elec­tion before local officials get word someone has died. 
Death has no political allegiance. But the thou­sands of lawyers from both parties who will be descending on battleground states Tuesday look­ing for masons to pick up a few votes could find the phenomenon of dead voters more than just an Election Day curiosity. 

Focus narrows on undecided states 
In last hours, candidates work to secure swing states' crucial votes 


. 
AP 

Left, President Bush greets a baby in the crowd at the Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati on Sunday. Sen. 
John Kerry responds to the crowd at a rally at the Curtis Hixon Park in Tampa, Fla. 
Associated Press 
. MIAMI -In the closing hours of their bitter cam­paign, President Bush and challenger Sen. John Kerry charged through the critical battlegrounds of Florida and Ohio on Sunday, going from hushed church servic-· es to raucous campaign ral­lies in search of last-minute support with promises to keep America safe. 
Kerry said he would undertake an unprecedent­ed "flurry of activity" to pro­tect national security that would include quick Cabinet appointments. ''I'm going to make America safer and I have some very strong and real steps to take quite immediately to make that happen," Kerry said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Bush emphasized a simi­lar theme. "If you believe America should fight the war on terror with all her might and lead with unwa­vering confidence," the president said, "I ask you, come stand by me." 
"If you are a Democrat who believes your party has turned too far left in this year, I ask you, come stand with me," Bush said. 
Strategists on both sides said Tuesday's election like­ly will hinge on which party is successful in getting their voters to the polls after two vastly different and costly campaigns to increase turnout. In the pivotal state of Wisconsin, Republicans questioned more than 37,000 addresses of regis­trants in heavily Democratic Milwaukee. 

A rash of polls suggested the race for the popular vote was essentially tied after the costliest political advertising campaign in his­tory -more than $600 mil­lion spent by Bush, Kerry, their political parties and allied groups. 
The election's outcome also was uncertain in the battleground states, the eight or so states where Bush and Kerry are vying for a winning margin of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the presiden­cy. The campaign's final weekend was clouded by war and terrorism -a videotape by Osama bin Laden and the deaths of eight U.S. Marines in Iraq. 
Bush made a pitch for Hispanic voters in Miami, promising Cuban-American voters that he would push for freedom in communist Cuba. "We will not rest ­we will not rest, we will keep the pressure on until the Cuban people enjoy the same freedoms in Havana they receive here in America," Bush said. The 
INDIANA GOVERNOR'S RACE: NEW POLL SHOWS SLIGHT LEAD FOR DANIELS 
INDIANAPOLIS -A new Gividen while 7 percent remained Oesterle. "We have to make sure statewide poll showed Republican undecided. our get-out-the-vote activities are Mitch Daniels with a slight lead in The six-point difference between stellar." the governor's race, but Daniels and Kernan was greater Bernie Toon, campaign manager Democratic Gov. Joe Kernan's than the poll's margin of error of for Kernan, also said voter turnout c~ampaign hoped to close that gap plus or minus 3.1 percentage was vital. "That's really what we're by Election Day. points. about for the next 72 hours," Toon 
The Indianapolis Star/WTHR poll Both candidates' campaign man­said Saturday. released Saturday found 48 per­agers said the race remained close Still, he said, "We are very confi­cent of respondents favored and voter turnout would be the dent that going into Election Day Daniels and 42 percent supported key to the outcome. we bac;ieally have a tied ballgame." Kernan. The telephone poll of "There's still plenty of time for The survey conducted Tuesday 1,002 likely voters also found 3 these numbers to move," said through Friday by Iowa-based percent backed Libertarian Kenn Daniels campaign manager Bill polling firm Selzer & Co. found that crowd responded with cries of "Viva Bush.:' 
The president began the. day at The Church of the Epiphany, a Homan Catholic church where the pastor, Monsignor Jude O'Doherty, all but endorsed Bush. "Mr. President, I want you to know that I admire your faith and your courage to profess it," the priest said in a long tribute to Bush. "Your belief in prayer and dependence on God has to be an example for all of us." 
Kerry, who is Catholic, worshiped in Dayton, Ohio, first at a Catholic mass and then -for the fifth consec­utive Sunday -at a pre­dominantly black church. 
Quoting the Bible arid criticizing Bush without naming him, Kerry said, "There is a standard by which we have to live. Coming to church on Sundays and talking about faith and professing faith isn't the whole deal." 
Bush campaigned from one end of Florida to the other, with rallies in Miami, Tampa and Gainesville before flying to Ohio for an evening rally in Cincinnati. Kerry dashed north from Ohio to New Hampshire and then was appearing in Tampa at a rally. 
Both sides said Sunday was eerily quiet on the cam­paign trail. Senior advisers 

49 percent said the state is going in the wrong direction, while 38 percent said the state is on the right track. 
Oesterle said the numbers indi­cated that voters were· embracing Daniels' message that Indiana needs a change in political leader­ship. 
"People think the state needs a change, and that's what's coming through," he said. 
Respondents gave Kernan a 48 percent approval rating in the 
. 
in both camps dropped off and raced home to take their children trick-or-treat­ing on Halloween. Vice President Dick Cheney and · his wife, Lynne, are being accompanied by their three grandchildren. Elizabeth, 7, wore a costume as the Grim Reaper at a rally in Hamulus, Mich., and was introduced by Mrs. Cheney as "John Kerry's health plan." 
Kerry's running mate, Sen. John Edwards, raced through Florida, Penn­sylvania and Ohio, where he was knocking on doors in a Columbus neighborhood. He also was to do telephone interviews with Hawaii newspapers; Cheney was heading for a rally in tradi­tionally Democratic Hawaii. 
With little new to say after months of speeches and millions in commercials, both candidates hoped to energize their supporters to get to the polls. The two sides have get-out-thP-vote operations which are groundbreaking in their size and expense. 
Four years ago, Democratic naminee AI Gore had 90,000 people with specifically assigned jobs working to get out the vote on Election Day. This year, Kerry has 4 7,000 in Ohio alone -250,000 nationally. 

same survey while 32 percent said they disapproved of his perform­ance as governor and 10 percent were unsure. 
Toon said the state's economy is beginning to recover from recent tough times, and voters know that. 
He also said -and Oesterle acknowledged -that Daniels, a former White House budget direc­tor, benefited from the state's strong support for President Bush, who is expected to carry the state Tuesday. 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, November 1, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Think outside the vote 

POLICIES 

The Observer is the indt·pendcm, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration of either instirution. Tht· Observer reserves the right ro refuse advert iscmmts based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhc Editor in Chict; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commt·marics, lcuers and columns present the views of the authors and nor nect-ssarily those ofThe ( >bscrvcr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. Tht· free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leuers ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact int(mnarion. 
Questions rrwrrding Obs,.,.ver policits should be dirmed to l:'ditor in C'hiefMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'hr ( li~M:tvn (USPS ')•J'J 2-'\00U) ~ j>Uhlnhctf Munday 1hroutt;l1 (•ridn'y rxttpl during ~·uru .md VJl:ltlnll pcril~tk A~uhscripuuttltl'lh~ ()h~rvl'T 1.~ $100!Ur one academic yt.at: $S~ lor onr ..rmc~lllt. ' "llrr <llru:rvcr il .1 mcllliJCr nfrhc 1\w~c.i.&tcJ Prt·:>!l All rcpn>duc1ion ri~hh itl't' r~·w·rvcd 
The Oh"'tv~:r h puhH,hal <1t: PO. Rmtl) 0.'4 Smuh I limn): 14~11 02"'~1111hl'liningl-!JII Nntrr (l,unc, IN -i(,"i"i{)-1)1711 Num; l>.um·.IN 4M';6-0179 
l'~:riuo.lh:JI pr~l.ti(' p.ml .&1 Nutrc l>.unc ~•ul.ulditiun.llm.tilm~ ulti,n 
Pfl~IMA.\II·It 
St-ncl~ttldrt'•uUr(ltlllll\IO' 
'I111:0I~tva 
l11C' ()h~tv« j, .IIIIC'tul\t'~ nf 1hr ~KJ.ua.l l'tC"'.,. All repmduction right., ;ue re.c-rV«I 
TODAY'S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
1~0. !lox Q, Nu1r< Dame, IN 46556 OZ4 SuUih Dining Hall, No1re Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghannc Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Henler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Vu;wJ•OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith (N Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPIIIC.S EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS AIIMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631··7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(57>!) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EoiTOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(S74) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6.31-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Given this most covet.ed column tim­ing, one day before what has been hearkened in frenzied tones by many as the most important election of our lives, I will not inundate you with hyperbolic arguments in support of the candidate for 
Michael whom I will vote. This Poffenberger somewhat reactionary decision on my part Say Why Not comes not only from an eagerness to be past the tense and divided atmosphere of election season, but also from the conviction that too much emphasis has been placed on voting as the crucial form of civic engagement. Our electoral passion should, in fact, extend past tomorrow. Surely, the degree to which Amerieans have been investing them­selves in the future of their soeiety dur­ing the past six months is incredible. Thousands have been canvassing door to door in their home towns and states and creating grassroots networks to get out the vote. Television ratings from the debates were at an all-time high. Newspapers, radio stations and dinner tables across America have been buzzing with dialogue about important issues. At no other point in recent American history have so many people been investing themselves in the future or their country. But any citizen that sits back on Nov. :~ and considers their civic duty accom­plished by simply having cast a vote is wasting an unparalleled opportunity to carry on this momentum to create a more flourishing democracy. Indeed, the success of a democratic society relies most fundamentally on the constant participation of its members. The "power of the people" is meant to be exercised to determine our commu­nal well-being at all times; it is expressed not just by electing politi­

cians but also by holding them account­able, not just by learning about the issues but also by acting on them direct­ly. Realizing our power demands recog­nizing that these issues affect our lives. 
In many ways, elections actually rep­resent the worst of democracy. Acknowledging that one vote will most likely never make a literal difference is often disempowering. The semantics and sound bytes of stump speech­es and debates repre­sent culture wars and battles for swing voters more than honest dia­logue about the common good. The vote can even be seen as a mere symbolic represen­tation of the values that already exist in America, making the year-round work at the level of indi­vidual hearts and minds a much more important and effective form of social change. 
The problems brought up in the dialogue surrounding this election do not miraculously disappear after a victor is declared tomorrow, regardless of which candi­date wins. Two days from now, all of us will still have a vested interest in under­standing why two-thirds of America has grown poorer over the last four years. 
Two days from now, our soldiers will still be in Iraq and many of' our children will still lack health care. In other words, two days from now, needless suffering will continue its disillusioning existence, awaiting our impetus to act. 
Each of the 1 ,460 days between Presidential elections represents an opportunity to respond to this impetus by giving of ourselves to the community around us and by engaging any of the countless ways our values can affect the public square. Each new day is an occa­sion to challenge the status quo and to 
be builders of a hnalthier world. This act of building can take many forms. It can be writ­
ing letters to the editor or to our elected offieials. It can be raising aware­ness in our community for important issues. It 
can be supporting or participating in a social or politieal 
movement or cam­paign. It can bn join­ing a rally or prayer vigil for structural change. At the very least, it can be edu­

cating ourselves about these issues and discussing them with the pnople around us. Let eaeh of us take up this mission and not lose the partieipatory spirit of this election season. For President John F. Kennedy's 
proclamation made during his 1961 inaugural address certainly holds as true today as ever: "Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." And that means always. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major, and a member ofCommon Sense. Contact him at mpoffenb@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
News Sports Angela Saoud Justin Schuver QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Kelly Meehan Eric Hetter Jen Howling Kaitlin Seryak Viewpoint Scene .Justin Spack Christie Boisen "Neuer look down on anybody unless you 
"Many an opportunity is lost because a man is Graphics Illustrator helping him up. " 
out looking for four-leaf clovers." 
Mike Harkins Meg Dwyer 
Anonymous political activist Jesse Jackson 
----~ ~ 
TljE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, November 1, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
God is not a Republican. Or a Democrat. 
"It is the responsibility of every political conserva­tive, every evangelical Christian, every pro-life Catholic, every traditional Jew, every Reagan Democrat, and everyone in between to get serious about re-electing President Bush,' said Jerry Falwell to the New York Times, July 16, 2004 
"I think George Bush is going to win in a walk. I really believe I'm hearing from the Lord it's going to be like a blowout election in 2004. The Lord has just blessed him ... It doesn't make any difference what he does, good or bad ..."said Pat Robertson to the AP/Fox News, January 2, 2004 
These leaders of the Religious Right mistakenly claim that God has taken a side in this election and that Christians should only vote for George W. Bush. 
We believe that claims of divine appointment for the president, uncritical affirmation of his policies, and assertions that all Christians must vote for his re-election constitute bad theology and dangerous religion. 
We believe that sincere Christians and other peo­ple of faith can choose to vote for President Bush or Senator Kerry -for reasons deeply rooted in their faith. 
We believe all candidates should be examined by measuring their policies against the complete range of Christian ethics and values. 
We will measure the candidates by whether they enhance human life, human dignity, and human rights; whether they strengthen family life and pro­tect children; whether they promote racial reconcili­ation and support gender equality; whether they serve peace and social justice; and whether they advance the common good rather than only individ­ual, national, and special interests. 
We also admonish both parties and candidates to avoid the exploitation of religion or our congrega­tions for partisan political purposes. 
By signing this statement, we call Christians and other people of faith to a more thoughtful involve­ment in this election, rather than claiming God's endorsement of any candidate. 
This is the meaning of responsible Christian citi­zenship. 
We are not single-issue voters. 

We believe that poverty -caring for the poor and vulnerable-is a religious issue. Do the candidates' budget and tax policies reward the rich or show compassion for poor families? Do their foreign poli­cies include fair trade and debt cancellation for the poorest countries? (Matthew 25:35-40, Isaiah 10:1­2) 
We believe that the environment -caring for God's earth-is a religious issue. Do the candidates' policies protect the creation or serve corporate interests that damage it? (Genesis 2:15, Psalm 24:1) 
We believe that war -and our call to be peace­makers-is a religious issue. Do the candidates' policies pursue "wars of choice" or respect interna­tional law and cooperation in responding to real global threats? (Matthew 5:9) 
We believe that truth-telling is a religious issue. Do the candidates tell the truth in justifying war and in other foreign and domestic policies? (Matthew 5:33­37, John 8:32) 
We believe that human rights -respecting the image of God in every person-is a religious issue. How do the candidates propose to change the atti­tudes and policies that led to the abuse and torture oflraqi prisoners? (Genesis 1:27) 
We believe that our response to terrorism is a reli­gious issue. Do the candidates adopt the dangerous language of righteous empire in the war on terror­ism and confuse the roles of God, church, and nation? Do the candidates see evil only in our ene­mies but never in our own policies? (Matthew 6:33, 7:15, Proverbs 8:12-13) 
We believe that a consistent ethic of human life is a religious issue. Do the candidates' positions on abor­tion, capital punishment, euthanasia, weapons of mass destruction, HIV/AIDS-and other pandemics ...:.. and genocide around the world obey the biblical injunction to choose life? (Deuteronomy 30:19) 
This petition was initiated by Jim Wallis (editor of 
Catholics still get a choice 

I am writing to respond to the column written by Professor Charles Rice on Nov. 28 about voting and faith. This column was a glaring example of the hypocrisy with which many Catholics conduct themselves, particularly where politics is concerned. For example, the author stated that abortion and euthanasia are inherently evil and therefore any practicing Catholic must vote against any­one who condones these prac­tices. However, according to this author, there is a little more wig­gle-room when it comes to the death penalty and the war in Iraq. 
In this column, the pope was referenced several times. If you want to quote the pope, do so by all means. But do so accurately. The Vatican opposes both the war in Iraq and the death penal­ty. The Vatican also said very recently that people should not use a presidential candidates' stance on the abortion issue as an acid test when voting. The Vatican really cannot get much closer to saying "Vote Kerry" without naming names. 
There appears to exist a divi­sion between the religious right in this country and the actual religion they profess to repre­sent. Why else would people who use the Bible and Vatican to sub­stantiate every point they make, then conveniently forget that the Vatican whole heartedly con­demns the war in Iraq and the death penalty? Why would such people encourage us to vote for Bush when he is currently the record holder for most execu­tions as governor of Texas? Maybe the whole "Thou shalt not kill" thing is more of a guideline where groups that are predomi­nantly black, such as death row, are concerned. 
Where it not so important, I would almost find it humorous that such people, church leaders included, seem to understand the pope when he is criticizing the classically Democratic-supported issues, such as pro-choice and stem cell research, but apparent­ly have bouts of tinnitus when more Republican-supported top­ics are being reviled. 
But it is important. We now live in a world where we are under the constant threat of ter­rorism from fundamentalists. A situation that in the last four years has only been exacerbated by having our own set of zealots imposing their ideological agen­das while representing this coun­try. With our very well-being at stake, I am nothing short of baf­fled when it becomes clear that people seem to focus only on abortion when deciding whom to vote for. God gave us brains capable of multi-tasking, let's use them. There is more that one issue at hand, and abortion, while important, is not para­mount. 
Aside from impeding our abili­ty to choose someone who best represents American interests, focusing on one issue en masse has another detrimental conse­quence. It sets up a political atmosphere in which those who profess to be "Pro-Life" are given a free pass to do whatever they want without ever being fact­checked, questioned or where necessary, punished. Pro-life politicians automatically have an inbuilt base of supporters who feel they are "trustworthy" or "a man's man." Ask such people what they think of Bill Clinton or John Edwards and without being able to put their fmger on it, they will invariably tell you that they just can't trust them. 
Therefore it seems that as well as the ability to multi-task, we are also squandering the gift of common sense. Courtesy of one­issue fanatics, we now have in office someone who led America to war on faulty premises, alien­ating the allies earned after 9/11, someone who endangered the lives of others while drink driv~ ing -and married someone who ended the life of a poor unfortu­nate while driving -someQne who offered no-bid contracts to his right hand man's company and then ignored the theft of money for those contracts and who, at the end of the day, has not even appeased his one-issue fanatics by reversing Roe v. Wade. Lucky for him, words speak louder than actions to these people. Merely saying you are anti-abortion will earn you their categorical support. Besides, if abortion were suc­cessfully outlawed, what issue would be our litmus test for the presidential elections? 
Elizabeth Halpin graduate student Oct. 28 

Sojourners magazine), Tony Campolo (professor of sociology at Eastern University), Joan Chittister, OSB (Benedictine Sisters of Erie), and Brian McLaren (author and senior pastor at Cedar Ridge Community Church). The petition has now been signed by best­selling author Philip Yancey, dozens of religious leaders and college presidents, and more than 70,000 faithful citizens. 
A version of this ad appeared in The New York Times during the week of the Republican National Convention and in the hometown papers of Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson. 
We, the undersigned members of the Notre Dame campus community, wholeheartedly endorse this message and we paid to publish the ad on page 8 of today's paper offering the free "God is not a Republican. Or a Democrat." sticker. 
Progressive Student Alliance; Notre Dame Progressive Faculty and Staff Alliance, Notre Dame Peace Coalition, Ed Cohen, Judith Fox, Christopher Fox, William O'Rourke, John Monczunski, Gail Bederman, Clark Power, Ann Power, Francisco Aragon, Laura Bayard, Catherine Perry, Kimbra Smith, John Welle, E. Jane Doering, Barbara Booker, John Duffy, Ava Preacher, Sonia Gernes, Rachel Tomas Morgan, Joanne Mack, Mary Beckman, Teresa Phelps, Barbara Fick, Alven Neiman, Anne Montgomery, Laura Fuderer, Margaret Doody, Barbara Szweda, Jill Godmilow, Ann Walshe, Peter Walshe, Valerie Sayers, Chris Jara, Gressa McDowell, Darcia Narvaez, Heather Marconi, Stephen Fredman, Barbara Black-Fredman, Bob Jones, Lisa Koop, Caroline Murray of Pasquerilla East Hall, John Welke, Ivy Wilson, Nicole La Voi, Stuart Greene, Janet Kourany 
Editor's Note: This letter was originally submitted to The Observer as an advertisement. However, because The Observer does not allow advertisements that contain editorial or ideological content, The Observer rejected the advertisement and offered the authors the opportunity to resubmit the text to the Viewpoint section. 
Evaluate your vote 
This election year, it is clear that there are many issues that people will consider as they choose a candidate. I have consid­ered the situation in Iraq, the economy, national security and several others. What astounds me is that while there are many, many issues that should be considered, the people on this cam­pus seem to prioritize only one: abortion. To support his claim that abortion is the most important issue in this election, Professor Charles Rice quotes the Evangelium Vitae: abortion, euthanasia and embryonic stem-cell research "involve the intentional killing of an innocent human being." He goes on to quote Archbishop John Myers: "Policies on welfare, national security, the war in Iraq, Social Security or taxes ... do :riot pro­vide a proportionate reason to vote for a pro-abortion candi­date." Rice throughout his letter uses quotations from others to fuel his rhetoric that boils down to ifyou are Catholic, you have to vote for Bush. Well, I would like to use a quotation myself. Cardinal Rena to Martino, the president of the Council for Justice and Peace, was quoted as saying "Human rights are inherent to every human being. They are not a concession." That's right, he said every human being, not just unborn fetus­es or people with a terminal disease. I fmd it hard to believe that anyone could denounce a candidate for being pro-choice (which I might add makes little difference, as the laws are cur­rently in place) and then support a candidate who not only holds the record for most executions in U.S. history but also, has caused the death of thousands of innocent Iraqis. 
President George W Bush has now been in office for almost four years and, although he does not support abortion, has failed to reverse Roe vs. Wade. As he has been quite busy with the war in Iraq, how can one blame him? Ofcourse, the 9/11 episode (i.e. national security), the recession, health care and tax cuts have also filled up his agenda. Clearly, although Bush is anti-abortion, he has made other issues his priority. We should all do the same. If our national security is compro­mised, thousands are at risk for dying. If the war in Iraq is not concluded quickly, thousands -including American soldiers -are at risk of dying. If the health care and Social Security issues are not resolved, thousands are at risk of dying. So when you go to the polls next Tuesday, try to evaluate all the issues and then, and only then, choose the candidate that you feel will best protect the human rights of all human peings, not just the unborn. 
Jessica Hornick graduate srudent Oct.29 

~----~ ~---~ 
Tl-IE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Monday, November 1, 2004 
Watch and learn from 11The O.C.'' 
I will admit it. I love "The O.C." 

I know it's trashy. I know that I really should be doing something to further my education for that hour, likn rnading nxistnntial philosophy or attending a lecture on rnodorn pontry, Molly Griffin but sonwhow. I fool lih "Tho O.C." has given nw a dif­Assistant fnrnnt kind of ndu­Scene Editor cation. Thn show rolls up morn of thn action, intrigu<>, back-stabbing and dnception than you would find in any soap opera, romancn novfll and ShakPspnarnan drama combined. So, in ordnr to justify the hour that have spent each week watching Seth, Summer. Marissa. Hyan and compa­ny, I would like to list the things that I have lnarned from watching "The 
o.c." 
1. Fighting solves evnrything, espe­cially cat fighting. 
Julie and llailie get in a eatfight at Julin's bachlorette party, Caleb and Sandy fight at a faney restaurant in Las Vegas and that's just in one 11pisode. "The O.C." is rife with examples of how violence is the answer to a myriad of usual prob­lems, which, luckily, most of us don't have to face. 
2. Midlife erises can have a lot of manifestations, ineluding sleeping with your daughter's ex-boyfriend 
Julie has an affair with Luke, Marissa's ex-boyfriend. Needless to say, it doesn't end well. 
3. lligh school kids have a lot of problems, not limited to alcoholism, pregnancy, stalkers, affairs, aban­donment and accidentally hiring strippers. 
My high school experience wasn't quite like that of the students on "The O.C.," but maybe I just hung out with the wrong crowd. 
4. Nerds can get the girl. 
Seth gives hope to nerds every­where by actually dating hot-girl Summer, but lets them all down when they break up at the end of the season. 
5. Paris Hilton will hit on anything, ineluding high school students. 
In "The L.A." Paris hits on Seth, but are any of us really surprised by anything that Hilton does anymore? 
6. Be careful who you marry, because they might not be as rich as you think they arc. 
Julie marries Caleb, quite possibly more for money than for love. Only we, the audience, can only anticipate what her reaction will be when she finds out that he's bankrupt next season. 
7. Family polities can get compli­cated, especially when your foster son's girlfriend's mother is marrying your father and her ex-husband is dating your sister. 
The population of Orange County is disproportionally represented by the seeming need of Kirsten's friends and family to intermarry. 
8. While we won't know until the new season starts, it may just be possible to sail from California to Tahiti. 
Seth, following his break-up with Summer and Ryan deciding to leave, renews his attempt to sail his cata­maran to Tahiti. Isn't that what we'd all like to do when things aren't going our way? 

9. You don't have to choose between Christmas or Chanakka because you can have Christmukka. 
The Cohens manage their family with creative solutions at all times, even at the holidays. 
10. When you start hanging out with a guy, make sure that he isn't a crazy, obsessive stalker who will try to kill you and himself when you try to cool things off. 
In "The Rivals" and "The Truth," Marissa's "friend" Oliver slowly takes 

over her life, leaving it up to Ryan to come and save her. While to those of us watching it was quite obvious that he was deranged, Marissa is not exactly a Rhodes scholar. 
Maybe these aren't things that you would learn in the elassroom, but at the very least, watching "The O.C." will, regardless of how hectic your life is, make you feel normal. Plus, it is quite possibly the best excuse to take a study break that has come along for a long, long time. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
"The Grudge" tops Halloween weekend 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -llallowecn spirit possessed movie-goers as Sarah Michelle Gellar's fright l'liek "The Grudgo" remained the top draw for tho soeond straight weekend with $22.4 million. The film biography "Hay," whieh has drawn Aeademy 
Awards buzz for Jamie Foxx as Ray Charles in the title role, debuted in second place with $20.1 million, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
The horror tale "Saw," about a serial killer who puts victims through grisly morality trials, opened at No. 3 with $17.4 million. The cast includes Cary Elwes and Danny Glover. 


In narrower release, Nicole Kidman's "Birth" had a so-so debut, coming in at No. 11 with $1.7 million in 550 cinemas to average $3,091 a theater. Kidman plays a widow about to remarry when she encounters a 10-year-old boy claiming to be the reincarnation of her dead husband. 
By comparison, "Ray" debuted in 2,006 theaters with a healthy $10,020 average, while "Saw" aver­aged $7,516 in 2,315 cinemas. 
"The Grudge," starring Gellar as an American student tormented by a hateful spirit lurking in a Tokyo house, lifted its H)-day domestic gross to $71.3 million. A remake of a Japanese horror hit, "The Grudge" cost just $10 million to produce. 
Scary movies tend to plummet in their second weekend because hard­core horror fans catch them in the first few days. Halloween weekend helped shore up "The Grudge," whose receipts fell just 43 percent, a relatively strong hold from its $39.1 million debut. 
"The Grudge" and "Saw" drew mostly younger viewers looking for Halloween scares. The audience for "Ray" was older, with three-fourths of viewers age 30 and over. 
Films that play to older crowds tend to stick around longer at the­aters, and distributor Universal Studios is counting on the movie's Oscar prospects to extend its appeal through awards season. 
Interest in Charles has surged since his death last June and Foxx has received enormous acclaim for 
his uncanny re-creation of the blind singer's mannerisms and spirit. 
"This is the most talked about per­formance of the year," said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box­office tracker Exhibitor Helations. "His performance even transeends the movie itself." 
Director Taylor llackford, who had Charles' full support on "Ray,"· strug­gled for 15 years to get the movie made. Financed independently, the finished film was shopped around futilely among Hollywood studios until it found a home at Universal. 
"Nobody wanted this movie, so as a result we arc celebrating like you can't even believe," said Nikki Hocco, head of' distribution for Universal. "We expect a long life for this movie." 
Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at North American theaters, according to Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc. Final figures will be released Monday. 
Top 10 weekend movies: 
1. 
"The Grudge," $22.4 million 

2. 
"Hay," $20.1 million 

3. 
"Saw," $17.4 million 

4. 
"Shark Tale," $8 million 

5. 
"Shall We Dance?" $6.3 million 

6. 
"Friday Night Lights," $4.1 mil­


lion 7. "Ladder 49," $3.3 million 
8. 
"Team America: World Police," $3.1 million 

9. 
"Surviving Christmas," $2.6 mil­lion 


10. "Taxi," $2.15 million 
---~--~--­
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, November 1, 2004 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
"I Heart Huckabees" not for everyone 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Ediror 
A movie about existential detectives, however good it may be, does not tend to attract a wide audience. 
"I Heart Iluckabees," a comedy about the ups, downs, ins and outs of life and how it's all connected, has a limited enough appeal that it hasn't opened widely in theaters around the country. It was only eng,aged for a two-week showing at Showplace 16 in South Bend. 
The movie is not one for people who like run-of-the-mill chick flicks or action movies. The storyline is like nothing else in the video store and the script is equally bizarre. 
The !ilm eaters more to people who are fans of philoso-comic films like "The Big Lebowski" or "The Royal Tenenbaums" which are slightly out of sync with reality. If you are one of those people who is tired of going to the the­ater and seeing something where every plot development can be predicted an hour ahead of time, this is one of the few films in theaters that you might actually want to see. "I Heart Huckabees" is nothing if not unconven­tional. 
Like its offbeat compadres, "I Heart Huckabees" is a film composed more of striking moments than a coherent plot. It woiild be hard to describe in 20 or even 50 words what "The Big Lebowski" is about, but the style and the quotes are unmistakable. 
Explaining the plot of "I Heart Huckabees" is almost as difficult, but certain scenes in the movie click in a way that is unique but effective. 
Unfortunately, the best moments of "I Heart Huckabees" are not quite as good as those from "The Big Lebowski." The · film is more philosophical and more ethereal, and while it would be easier to define what the film is trying to say, it isn't really quite as entertaining. You might laugh at the key moments, but you're less likely to start quoting them to your friends. 
The film opens when Albert Markovski (Jason Schwartzman), a well-meaning but out-of-touch environ­mentalist, calls in existential detectives Bernard and Vivian Gaffe (Dustin Hoffman and Lily Tomlin) to explain the meaning of a strange coincidence in his life. The Jaffes, who operate under a belief that everything in the universe is both connected and meaningful, set out to explain as many things about Markovski as they can. 
Dustin Hoffman and Lily Tomlin play existential detectives satisfactorily, but are not especially distinctive. They do provide a cheerful contrast to Caterine Vauban (Isabelle Huppert), their dark counterpart. 
The best performances in the movie are given by Mark Wahlberg as fire­fighter Tommy Corn and Naomi Watts as Dawn Campbell, the face of the Huckabees corporations. Wahlberg has occasionally been too creepy for his own good, but in this role his angry streak turns out perfectly. Watts, the star of "Mulholland Drive," plays as a glam-girl gone philosophical who yields some of the best scenes of the film. 


Jude Law also fits well into the role of seemingly soulless businessman Brad Stand. 
"I Heart Huckabees" is probably not a film everyone will enjoy, but if you want something that introduces some new thoughts without hitting you over the head, it may do the trick. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
MUSIC EVENT 
The Unicorns bring quirky music to Campus 
By MATTHEW SOLARSKI Scene Ediror 
Notre Dame's preeminent Internet radio station, WVFI. is proud to present one-of-a-kind opportunity to Notre Dame students who love live music. The Unicorns, quirky Canadians, criti­cal darlings and fan favorites, bring their unique brand of nuanced, dance­able pop music to the LaFortune Ballroom tonight. The free show begins at 7:00 p.m. with opening act Besnard Lakes. 
The Unicorns catapulted into the indie spotlight with their stellar 2003 release, "Who Will Cut Our Hair When We're Gone?" This little record seem­ingly came from nowhere and took the underground by storm, topping many critics' year-end lists and winning over droves of new fans. Following a sum­mer tour with the red-hot Arcade Fire, the Unicorns were hand-selected to open for Ben Kweller on his autumn tour and will tonight grace Notre Dame with their idiosyncratic flair. 
The band's press release says it best: 
"Get yourself ready and put your hands together for the 'blow-up' sensa­tion of the rest of your lives: The Unicorns ... have arrived to save you, to let you save them, and consequently make-up the face of modern music. Having blos­somed in Montreal, 
Quebec,  The  
Unicorns  have  
packed  their  

things and are heading to all the roads in all the world for an unforeseeable amount of time, 

backing up their reputation as being Canada's most promising new band, and planet Earth's next big thing. 
The Unicorns have a gift for blending a morbid sense of humour with irre­sistible pop melodies caked with beau­tiful vocals employing thoughtful, near­sacred lyrics. 
Upon seeing this band live, it's impos­sible to deny that there are supernatu­ral forces at play. You'll never know what you are in for -a performance 
(i.e. a puppet show, a homeless person hired to impersonate the band, bizarre costumes, a bloody fight between band members) or simply sweet boys deliver­ing the sweet goods. But regardless of what shape their live performance takes on, it never fails to be deeply moving and highly entertaining. You will leave a believer. 


The Unicorns seem poised on the brink of a huge commercial break­through, so this may well be the last chance to see this superb live act in such a fun and intimate setting. The show will likely fill up fast, so come early for the best view. Next time around they just might be co-headlin­ing a world tour with John Mayer. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 1, 2004 MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish beat Utah on the road, fall to BYU 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Writer 
Arter posting a. victory over Utah, the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving program challenged No. 22 Brigham Young down to the very wire before faltering. Swimming only hours after their 123-118 victo­ry against Utah (0-1), the Irish (2-1 l led early against the Cougars ( 1-0) but lost the deei­sive 400-yard fn~estyle relay that allowed BYU to eek out a 153-144 victory. 
Seeking the program's first­ever win against a nationally­ranked opponent, the Irish went to work quickly against BYU, leading by 25 points early. Notre Dame finished 1-2-3 in two of' the lirst three individual events and the Irish took the lead on the basis of' their strong distan1:e freestyling. 
Freshman Jay Vanden Berg, junior Patrick Davis and sopho­more Chris Zeches posted times of 16 minutes, 15.63 seconds, 
16:28.93 and 16:30.66, respec­tively, in the 1,650-yard freestyle and all finished more than 20 seconds quicker than any BYU swimmer. 
"[thought that the way we competed was just great for the whole weekend," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "The distance freestyle events, which are the first individual events, are one of the areas in which we are a strong team. We rely on our dis­tance swimmers and they've had three good meets in a row now. We do talk about being aggressive and intense from the very beginning." 
Vanden Berg performed well throughout the weekend, notch­ing two victories against Utah in the 1,000-yard freestyle 
(9:37.44) and the 500-yard freestyle (4:41.41) and also fin­ishing first in the 1,650-yard freestyle against BYU the follow­ing day. 

"Obviously, he swam really the diving and breaststroke well," Welsh said. "We knew events, the Cougars closed the that about him, that he was a margin on the Irish and spoiled very good distance freestyler. He Notre Dame's bid to achieve has a great work ethic, he trains their first victory against a very hard and he swam great nationally-ranked foe. over the week-"I think that to end." some extent, the
"We want to learn
With the score fact that [the tied 140-140, the how to win these Cougars] are an final relay of the experienced top-
meets and we're
BYU meet proved 25 team and to be crucial and getting closer. " they're raeing at the race was close home was to their throughout. advantage," Welsh
Tim ,Welsh 
Senior Frank said. "From our
Irish coach 
Krakowski and sophomores Tim Kegelman, Ted Brown and Louis Cavadini ended with a time of 
3:06.37 in the 400-yard freestyle, only 1.13 seconds behind BYU's winning time and faster than all but one dual meet from last season. 
In order to win the meet, BYU had to win the last three events, which they managed to do. Using strong performances in 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles can't quite get it done 

Team finishes in sixth place at conference championship, sixth in final standings 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles weren't quite able to pull ofT the victory that they needed on Saturday in order to linish in the top four of the MIAA standings, where the Belles had hoped to end the season. 
A sixth-place finish in the conference championship left Saint Mary's in the sixth place position that they were in prior to the raee. 
The overall rank that the Belles aehieved is as high as the team has finished since first running in the champi­onship in 1998, matching their standings for the 2003 season. 
!lope College dominated both the MIAA eonferenee as well as the conference eham­pionship raei1 this year, finish­ing the day on Saturday 36 points ahead of the second plaee contenders. 

Calvin and Albion took sec­is in at the end of the season. ond and third place, respec­"We have definitely seen a tively. Kalamazoo College fin­lot of growth on the team this ished fourth, followed by year ... There is still a long Alma. way to go, but I would like to 
F i n i s h i n g b e h in d S a in t think that we're laying the Mary's were Adrian College foundation now to improve and Tri-State University fin­the team in the future," ishing in the seventh and Zander said. eighth spots. Zander also commented on 
Freshman Megan Gray the position that the team will 
topped the Saint Mary's finishers with a time of "We have definitely 
25:38, and an 
seen a lot ofgrowth
overall finish of 25th place. Erin on the team this Nolan, Sara 
year.
Otto, Risa Zander, Becky 
Risa Zander
Feauto, Katie 
White and Belles runner Elizabeth Commers also 

be in next year with a strong group of under­classmen ready to fill the gap that will be left by the graduat­ing seniors. Gray and sophomore transfer Meghan Murphy have both been stand­out runners for 
finished in the top seven for the Belles this season. the Belles. These ladies will With a year of experience go on to run in the NCAA under their belts, the two Division-lll Regional at Alma ought to be even more effec­College on November 13. tive for the team next year. 
Although Saint Mary's did Sophomores Nolan, White and not end the season as high as Otto, along with Junior the runners had hoped, the Feauto, have all been consis­team is still confident that the tent top finishers for Saint outcome of the year is a stride Mary's, and will be returning in right direction. for the 2005 season. 
Zander, a senior and eo-cap­tain on the team, is confident Contact Anna Fricano at of the position that her team africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
extent, we want to 

learn how to win those meets and we're getting closer. 
It doesn't. happen in one giant step. It happens little by little and we know we're getting clos­er so that's what we're working on." 
The Irish also used a strong start to build a 4 7-6 advantage in their victory against Utah, a lead that the Utes could not overcome and suffered their first home defeat in dual-meet action since January 31. 2003. Brown led a strong outing for the Irish in the 200 freestyle, with senior captain Matt Bertke and sophomore Brian Freeman taking second and third plaee. Sophomore Scott Coyle and freshman Steven Crowe paced the Irish divers and both achieved third plaee finishes in the Utah meet. 
Notre Dame will take to the water next weekend as the team heads to Iowa to face the Ilawkeyes. an opponent the Irish have never beaten. 
"We have a very, very chal­lenging early schedule this sea­son and we're just going one step at a time," Welsh said. "We­picked up some good notes this weekend and we'll try to apply that to the Iowa meet on Friday." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Purdue's dream season turns into a nightmare 
Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. -Three short weeks ago, Purdue and Kyle Orton were on the verge of one of those magical sea­sons. 
The Boilermakers had climbed to No. 5 in the coun­try, their best start in almost 60 years, and fans were think­ing Orange Bowl, not the Rose Bowl. Orton was on the fast track to the Ileisman Trophy, piling up touchdowns and yardage with dizzying ease. 
Now Orton's starting job is in jeopardy and the Boilermakers are in shambles, on the wrong end of a three­game losing streak and won­dering how things got so bad, so fast. 
"We're disappointed. We're trying to get a win, we're try­ing to play well," Orton said after being benched in Purdue's latest loss, a 13-10 upset at Northwestern on Saturday afternoon that dropped the Boilermakers out of the top 25. 
"We just have to get a win and try to get back on track." But what derailed the Boilermakers (5-3, 2-3 Big 
Ten) in the first place? 
Purdue looked almost invin­cible as it raced out to a 5-0 start. Orton threw 18 touch­down passes in those first five games, and the high-octane offense churned out more than 500 yards and 45 points a game. The young defense looked as nasty as its prede­cessor, which sent seven play­ers to the NFL. 
But something happened in that fifth game. The Nittany Lions damped down tight on Purdue's receivers, clutching and grabbing and getting as close to pass interference as they could without drawing a flag. Purdue still won 20-13, but other teams now had a blueprint for how to attack the Boilermakers. 
Wisconsin did it to perfec­tion two weeks ago, smother­ing the receivers and harass­ing Orton all afternoon. When. he fumbled late in the fourth quarter, the Badgers scooped it up and returned it for the game-winning touchdown. Michigan was equally tough, allowing top receiver Taylor Stubblefield only one catch and limiting Orton to 213 yards passing. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

I  Buying and selling ND football tix,  SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI·  Happio six monthio, sweet pea!  
I I. I I I  WANTED  FoR RENT  TICKETS  especially Boston College 574-289­8048  ROSSI TOURSI The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan- What a goober.  
I  Cancun & Cabo.  Yeah, Strawnilla.  
I I  DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  
I I  LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES  Book by Oct 31=FREE MEALS & FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group- Tarkki flops more than a fish out of water  
CHILD CARE WANTED 23-month­old twins in our home. 1 or 2 week- ES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7  273-3911  PERSONAL  GO FREE' 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi. com  Way to go Peerless. Score two  
days (5-6 hours each day). Must  BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT  For Sale: NO football tix. Good  touchdowns the day I bench you.  
provide own transportation  NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY  prices. 232-0964.  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity  Jerk  
SYSTEMS. MAINTENANCE  Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes  
Call Kara at 574-621-1540  STAFF ON CALL, WASHER. DRY- Wanted: NO football tix. Top $$$  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  Meals, Parties! Cancun:Acapulco,  The Dirty Birds are back.  
ERS  VISIT OUR WEBSITE  251-1570  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator.  Nassau, Jamaica From $459!  
Student seeking odd jobs  WWWDOMUSKRAMER COM OR  Hiring campus reps. Call for group  Panama City & Daytona  The Boston Red Sox won a World  
painting,raking,cleaning,etc. Call  CONTACT KRAMER (574)234­ NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m.  discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­ $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com  Series, and Armageddon didn't  
412·977 ·3092  2436 OR. (574)315-5032.  232-2378 p.m. 288-2726  648-4849 www ststravel.com.  1-800-678-6386  come. I'm disappointed.  

Monday, November 1, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

F A l l A R T S F E S T SHAKESPEARE IN PERFORMANCE 
M U S c 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
November 4 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $6, $5 ND/SMC/HC, $3 students 
King's Singers 
November 7 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $44, $35 ND/SMC/HC, $15 students 

M U S c 
ND Schola Musicorum 
Wednesday, October 27 at 9:30p.m. 
Abend-Musique XXIII 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hal! 
The Schola Musicorum was formed in 1993 to study and perform Gregorian Chant. Wednesday's concert will feature chant by composer Guillaume Du Fay. For more on the ND Schola Musicorum, visit www. nd. ed u/-Em usic/ensembles/ schola. html 
Glee Club Concert 
Friday, October 29 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $3 all seats 
F l M 
Nosferatu (90 minutes) Thursday, October 28 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. www.nosferatumovie.com/ 
F.W. Murnau's silent film classic shown with live musical accompaniment. 
Before Sunset (80 minutes) Friday, October 29 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. http://wip. warnerbros.com/beforesunset/ Romantic story set in Vienna and Paris. 
All The President's Films 
Saturday, October 30 starting at 11 a.m. The films to be screened include Primary, The Best Man, The War Room, Journeys with George, Primary Colors and Wag the Dog. Please visit http://performingarts.nd.edu for more information about the films and show times. 
T H E A T R E 
Fortinbras By Lee Blessing November 3,4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 Tickets: $12, $10 ND/SMC/HC, $8 
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
November 3 and 6 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets $18, $16 ND/SMC/HC, $12 students Performed by Actors From The London Stage 
MacHomer by Rick Miller November 5 and 6 Tickets: $37, $30 ND/SMC/HC, $15 students 
T H E A T R E 


Victoria 
www.dulci-langfelder.org/English/engframe.html November 11 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Decio Theatre Matinee price is $15 Evening Performance $30-, $25 faculty/staff, 
$15 all students 
A humorous, warm and loving play about aging based on an original idea and texts by Charles Fariala, staged and performed by Dulcinea Langfe!der. 

Dulcinea langfelder recaptures the comic tradition of Chaplin, with an original and a very contempo­rary twist, through clever use of technology and multiple disciplines. The heroine, Victoria, has lost her memory; she's lost her pussycat, she's lost control over her life. A shadow of her former self; Victoria adapts and adopts comic and dramatic situations as her imagination dictates. Her wheel­chair is also her rocking chair, her prison, her Iango partner and her flying chariot. 
F l M 
Tickets for these films will go on sale on Monday, November 1. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingarts.nd.edu. 
Amleto (1915) Thursday, November 4, 8 p.~. 
Titus (1999) Friday, November 5 at 6:30p.m. 
Forbidden Planet (1956) Friday, November 5 at 1 0 p.m. 
Richard Ill (1955) Saturday, November 6 at 11 :30 a.m. 
Ran (1985} Saturday, November 6 at 3 p.m. 
Romeo and Juliet (1996) Saturday, November 6 at 6:30 p.m. 
Hamlet (2000) Saturday, November 6 at l 0 p.m. 
D A N C E 

NDPresents: Momix at the Morris :www.momix.com 
November 13 Performed at the Morris Performing Arts Center Tickets range from $12 to $30 Order tickets on line at www.MorrisCenter.org or call 574.235.9190 
Momix may change your definition of dance. Known internationally for work of exceptional inventiveness and physical beautiful, Momix is a company of dancer-illusionists. Under the direction of Moses Pendleton, the company has conjured a world of surreal images for more than 20 years. For Notre Dame Momix will perform their critically acclaimed Opus Cactus. Choreographed by Moses Pendleton, Opus Cactus, is a celebration of the deserts of the American Southwest. Drawing from other art forms-gymnastics, acrobatics, body surfing, pole vaulting, ballet and puppetry-and aided by designers whose imaginations are as large as the desert sky, Pendleton has sculpted nineteen desert scenes to make you forget the cooling temperatures of Michiana November. Prepare to be delighted. 


Discounted tickets are underwritten by the DeBartolo Center for the Performirrg Arts. There are a limited number of student &;counts available. sign up for updates at 
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574-631-2800 






OUND THE NATION 
Page 16 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Monday, November 1, 2004 
Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc (56)  8-0  1,616  
2  Oklahoma (8)  8-0  1,556  
3  Auburn (1)  9-0  1,507  
4  California  6-1  1,362  
5  Wisconsin  8·0  1,359  
6  Texas  7-1  1,230  
7  Utah  8-0  1,212  
8  Georgia  7-1  1,162  
9  Tennessee  7-1  1,132  
10  Michigan  8·1  1,062  
11  Miami  6-1  1,035  
12  Virginia  6-1  815  
13  Florida State  6-2  803  
14  Louisville  5·1  793  
15  West Virginia  7·1  754  
16  Boise Stale  8-0  685  
17  LSU  6.-2  557  
"18  Virginia Tech  6-2  515  
19  Oklahoma State  6-2  469  
20  Iowa  6-2  416  
21  Southern Miss  5·1  209  
22  Texas A&M  6-2  206  
23  Arizona State  6-2  189  
24  Boston College  5-2  111  
25  UTEP  6-2  69  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 
1 usc (52) 8·0 1,516 2 Oklahoma (8) 8·0 1,459 3 Auburn (1) 9·0 1,409 4 Wisconsin 8·0 1,262 5 Georgia 7·1 1,221 6 California 6·1 1,200 7 Texas 7·1 1,150 8 Utah 8·0 1,087 9 Michigan 8·1 1,025 10 Miami 6·1 979 11 Tennessee 7·1 931 12 West Virginia 7·1 784 13 Virginia 6·1 743 13 Florida State 6·2 743 15 Boise State 8·0 724 16 Louisville 5·1 681 17 LSU 6·2 576 18 Virginia Tech 6·2 503 19 Oklahoma State 6·2 352 20 Iowa '6·2 341 21 Southern Miss 5·1 239 22 Texas A&M 6·2 151 23 Arizona State 6·2 144 24 Northern Illinois 7·2 110 25 Boston College 5·2 102 
Women's Soccer Division I NSCAA Rankings 
team record 
1 North Carolina 15·0·1 2 NOTRE DAME 16·0·1 3 Penn State 14+1 4 Virginia 13-2·1 5 Santa Clara 11-4·2 6 Portland 15·3·0 7 Kansas 15·3·0 8 Princeton 12·1·0 
g 
UCLA 11-5·0 10 Auburn 13-2·2 11 Tennessee 12·3·2 12 Washington 12-3·1 13 Texas A&M 13·5·0 14 Ohio State 11·3·3 15 Duke 12·5·0 16 Florida State 12·4·1 17 Stanford 10·4-2 18 Florida 12·3·3 19 Maryland 7·4·3 20 Illinois 11-4·2 21 Texas 11-5·1 22 Boston College 12·5·0 23 San Diego 10·7·1 24 Connecticut 15·5·0 25 West Virginia 14·4·0 

around the dial 
NFL Dolphins at Jets 9 p.m., ABC 
POKER World Series of Poker 6 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -So much for a perfect week in New England sports, the Patriots' chances for a per­fect season and the longest winning streaks in NFL his­tory. 
Ben Hoethlisberger, a rookie quarterback who seemingly doesn't know how to lose, drove the Steelers to four scores fol· lowing uncharacteristic New England turnovers and Pittsburgh ended the Patriots' two long winning streaks with a remarkably easy 34-20 victory Sunday. 
The Patriots had won 21 straight counting the play­offs and a league-record 18 in a row in the regular sea­son, but were all but out of this one after Roethlis­berger -still unbeaten as an NFL starter -threw two touchdown passes to Plaxico Burress in the first quarter. 

Maybe all this winning was too much to ask of Boston-area teams. With running back Corey Dillon (knee) sitting out and Pro Bowl cornerback Ty Law (foot) sidelined for all but a few plays, the Patriots' winning streaks ended only four days after the Boston Red Sox won their first World Series in 86 years. 
With Tom Brady throw-
IN BRIEF 
Agassi lyses Stockholm 
Open fina 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Andre Agassi lost the Stockholm Open final in a third-set tiebreaker to Sweden's Thomas Johansson, who won 3-6, 6­3, 7-6 (4) Sunday to capture this tournament for the second time. 
Johansson, a former Australian Open champion, rallied from a set down before a packed Hoyal Tennis Hall crowd that included Agassi's wife, Steffi Graf. 
"I was pretty discouraged with the level of tennis he was playing [in the second setl," Agassi said. "I wasn't getting any chances. I hung in there and I managed to make it a competi­tive set. But, again, I was just playing to hang on." 
Johansson led all the way in the tiebreaker, going up 6-3 after two mini breaks. Agassi saved the first match point with a passing shot. .Johansson, backed by clapping, foot­stomping fans, then smacked an ace to close the match. He had lost all six ing two interceptions and losing a fumble, New England's run ended with its first loss since a 20-17 defeat to Washington on Sept. 28, 2003. But Roethlisberger upped his personal winning streak to 

18. He won his final 13 at Miami of Ohio last season following an opening-game loss, and now is only ·the second rookie quarterback since the 1970 merger to win his first NFL five starts. 
Mike Kruczek won six straight for the injured Terry Bradshaw for the 1976 Steelers, never once throwing a touchdown pass; Roethlisberger already has nine in what is fast becoming the best sea­son by an NFL rookie QR since Dan Marino threw 20 touchdown passes and only six interceptions in 11 games for the 1983 Dolphins. 
Next up for Pittsburgh ­or, as they're calling it now, Roethlis-burgh is unbeaten Philadelphia, 7-0 for the first time. The Steelers' 6-1 start is their best since their '78 team was 7-0, and they lead the Havens (4-3) by two games in the AFC North. 
It may be of little conso­lation, but New England's 6-1 record also equals the best start in franchise his· tory. 

previous matches to Agassi. 
"This was probably my best match ever," said Johansson, who was unseeded in the $822,000 event. Butler student dies in crash 
on 1-70 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -One person was killed and seven others were injured Sunday when a van carrying members of Butler University's crew team overturned on Interstate 70, school and highway patrol officials said. 
Kristopher Thomas Stewart, 21, of Fort Wayne, Ind., was killed in the crash, a spokesman for Butler said in a release. 
"We offer condolences to the family of Kristopher Stewart," Butler presi­dent Bobby Fong said. "And we keep the other students and their family members involved in the accident in our hearts and prayers." 
The State Highway Patrol said the van was traveling west on I-70 early Sunday morning when the driver swerved to miss a deer and lost con­
trol. The van went into the median, overturned, and came to rest in the eastbound lanes. Grace Park wins CJ Nine 
Bridges Classic 
JE.JU, South Kor«~a-Grace Park won the CJ Nine Bridges Classic on Sunday, shooting a 7 -under-par 65 for a five-stroke victory and giving her game a big boost al'tcr a collapse in the final round two weeks ago. 
"I can't describe my happiness with words," the South Korean star said. 
Park finished at H)-under 200. Top­ranked Annika Sorenstam and Carin Koch, both of Sweden, shot 67s and tied for second at 11 under. Sorenstam entered the day three strokes oil' the lead and closed her round with an eagle. 
Defending champion Ahn Shi-hyun 
(69) was at 10 under, tied l'or fourth with Lorena Ochoa (67) and Jeong Jang (68). 
Park won $202,500 and was pre­sented with a traditional South Korean dress when she accepted her prize. 
Monday, November 1, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

have priorities. let them guide you as you build your career. define what's important to you and see what's important to others. 
')Wc.com/mypriorities 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 1, 2004 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Tired Irish drop 
•
consecutive meets 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
A number of individual per­formancos highlight('(! a disap­pointing wonknnd for the Irish, as the No. 23 ranked women dropped both nwPts in a trian­gular evnnt against Purdue and Arizona State. 
.lossica Stophens had throe top-throe linishes and Meghan Perry-Eaton led the divors with two top-two finishes. Additionally, Ellen Barton and Ann Barton both plaend in the top two twice in tlw meet, as the Irish fell to Arizona State 18fl-ll I and Purdun 169-130. 
"I think that for the most part, thern were the individu­als who swam pretty well, but for the most part the tnarn just looked protty tin•d," eo-captain Kolli Barton said. "Coming out of tho meet we were tired mentally as well." 
Af'tor spending the week of fall broak in intense 
"For the most part,
training, injuries against to key swimmers the team looked Pittsburgh after also played a role pretty tired." more intense in the team's training. defeat. "The next 
Kelli Barton
"It ·also didn't meet is parent's help that we had Irish co-captain weekend, so I gling Irish squad. 
"I think the backstroke events look pretty strong this year," Barton said. "Our IM events look very strong, also our butterflies will be pretty strong this year as well. Helay wise too, I think the 400 med­ley [will do well after plaeingl third at this meet." 
That relay team, consisting of Caroline Johnson, Natalie Burke, Stephens and Katie Eekholt, eame in at 3:52.47, even without Carroll, who usu­ally swims in the event. The 400-yard free relay of Johnson, Hebecca Grove, Georgia Healey and Ellen Johnson came in fourth at 3:32.01. 
Grove also took first in the 1 00-yard backstroke, notching a time of 56.60. 
In addition to her relay wins, Johnson posted a third-place finish in the 100-yard back­stroke with a time of 58.44. 
The Irish 
return to the 
pools Nov. 12 
a lot of injuries corning into the meet," Barton said, eiting the absenco of Christel Bouvron, Katie Carroll and Kristen Peterson as major factors. 
In the 400-yard individual medley, the Irish took first and second with Stephens touching at 4 minutes, 25.76 seconds and Ellnn Barton coming in at 4:26.31. 
''I'm rnally excited for the !M events," Kelli Barton said. '.'Our top [swimmer in that event! was out of the meet and we still went 1-2 in the 400 !M. It was quite an achievement, especially at the end of the meet that was very depress­ing." 
There were other bright spots for an otherwise strug­think that we're 
going to train pretty hard through it," Barton said. "Tomorrow we're start­ing a new phase of our train­ing... they usually start out pretty intense so definitely we'll be swimming straight through the Pitt meet." 
However, the Irish expect improvements between now and when the Panthers dive in. 
"The little things [we improve on] will make it just that m11ch more exciting," Barton said. "I think we'll see swimmers that are just as good as lthey were] at this meet and there will be some that will bl1 a lot better. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Organ Donation Awareness 
~®W9 ~@N?®]])!E@~ ~Uil@] ~~~®W OO~uw®Uil~ ~~~® ~llifll 
Learn how YOU can make adifference. 
Donate Life 
Sponsored by· Farley and Cavanaugh Hall 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles sho-w heart in final rna tch 
Team must regroup from losses and prepare for MIAA tournament 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

In a season fuii of hope and promise, Saint Mary's finished its final four games in the same way they began -with heart. The Benedictine Tournament presented the Beiies with a big challenge as they faced some very strong competition. 
They only managed one victo­ry in the two-day affair, but played hard all along the way. 
On Friday, the Belles opened up against Monmouth College. Saint Mary's ended the match losing in three-straight, but kept it dose. The Fighting Scots jumped out to an early lead by b11ating the Belles 30-27 in the first game. The second game's outcome was similar as the Belles fell by the same seore. In the final game, Saint Mary's didn't let up and played hard even after dropping the first third game of the tournament, 
the Belles faced Benedictine 
University. The Eagles had 
their hands full with the Belles' attack in the first two games. 
Benedictine barely won the first game by a score of 32-30. Saint Mary''s evened -the series by claiming game two in a wild finish, winning 31-19. But the team completely fell apart in the third game, losing 30-8 and also dropped the fourth set, 30­25. 
The last challenge would be the most dillicult for the Belles as they faced Millikin College who eame into the tournament with a record of 24c8. Millikin won the first set, but the Belles fought hard and tied the match at one game a piece with a 30­26 victory. 
Saint Mary's lost a heart­breaking third game by the seore of 30-28. Down two games to one, the Belles put it 
all on the line in their last regu­
lar season game of the year 
only to come up short, 30-25. 
The final four games made 
the Belles 6-18 overall this year. 
But after beginning the season 

1-8, the Belles gradually ·improved. 
Michelle Turley who has been 
consistently one of Saint Mary's 
best players, leading the team 
in kills and finishing second in 
digs, was named to the All­
Tournament team. 
Now the Belles must prepare 
for the MIM Tournament. They 
play their first game Thursday 
against second-ranked Calvin 
College. 
"We feel that every MIAA 
team we have played against 
this year is beatable," Turley 
said. "In a tournament scenario 
any team ean win." 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 




Monday November I, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish hope to finish.season strong 
Team to face familiar rivals at Edwin Watts/Palmetto Intercollegiatte 

offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 2nd 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their . 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
course in Kiawah Island. 
The Irish will take a young but experienced lineup to South Carolina this week. Junior co-captains Katie Brophy and Suzie Hayes will lead the team this weekend. Brophy already has numerous top-five finishes this fall, including a victory at the Jeannine McHaney Invitational, and should be able to contend for another crown. 
Joining them will be sopho­mores Noriko Nakazaki and Stacy Brown, and freshman Jane Lee. All three have played well for the Irish and have become staples in the lineup. 
Despite of the individualistic nature of the sport of golf, the team has become a very cohe­sive group over the course of the fall, and this has been a key aspect of their success all season. 
"There's really good chem­istry, and we all believe we can win," King said. 
King is happy with her line­up and very pleased about how the team has worked all sea­son. Even though the Irish did not compete this past week, King opted not to. tinker with the practice schedule they had been following all season, choo'sing not to focus practice on trying to adapt to the course they would be playing. 
"What we've been doing has been working, so we'll keep doing it," she said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles struggle in their season opener 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
For their first race of the sea­son, the Belles were faced with a difficult challenge on Saturday, competing against the defending MIAA champions, Hope College, as well as the surprise standout school of the 2003 season, Olivet. Hope defeated Saint Mary's by a score of 166-55, and Olivet knocked off the Belles with a fmal score of 158-61. 
Junior Sarah Nowak was the performer of the meet for Saint Mary's, finishing first in the 200-yard breaststroke and sec­ond in the 200-yard individual medley. Junior Kelly Nelis was also very effective ·for the Belles, fmishing fourth out of 10 in both the 1 00-yard freestyle and 200-yard freestyle. 
Sophomore transfer Nicole Korte, who comes to Saint Mary's from Holy Cross College, is off to a good start with the Belles. She finished fourth in the 50-yard freestyle and fifth in the 100. 
The challenge for Saint Mary's on Saturday came not only from the difficulty of its opponents, but the condition that the team was in going into the race. 
Belles coach Gregg Petcoff was quite pleased with his swimmers. The team did a lot 
MEN'S GOLF 
Strong field awaits tean1 at the Prestige 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
As they compete in their last event of the fall, the Irish will hope to end what has been an up and down season on a posi­tive note. After a strong per­formance at the Nelson Invitational at Stanford last week, the team will again head out west to play in the Prestige at the PGA West in La Quinta, Calif. The course was designed by Greg Norman and has hosted numerous PGA tour events. 
The Irish will face a strong field of 16 teams from across the country. Their toughest competi­tion will come from Texas Christian· and UCLA, ranked lOth and 16th in the nation, 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,
Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2005/6 and 2006/7 school years. 
Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 
574-532-!895 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
of endurance and anaerobic workouts this week, and the overall condition of the team was a very fatigued one. 
"The best thing about it was that despite the fatigue they got up there and raced ... that was one of the high points," Petcoff said. 
He was happy with the times that his swimmers were able to put on the boards after having such a strenuous week of work­outs. 
The Belles are excited to see how this season will play out, with so many new prospects on the roster. 
"It's going to be interesting to see how the freshmen step into the roles," Petcoff said. 
For the freshmen, this was their first real collegiate meet, racing in individual events. Petcoff was pleased with the way that they stepped into the roles that they needed to. Because of the vast amount of underclassmen, many of the upperclassmen will be forced to step into the "go to" positions. The combination a few experi­enced upperclassmen, as well as plenty of fresh faces on the team, should provide Saint Mary's with a strong foundation to build on throughout the 2004-05 season. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintniarys.edu 
respectively. 
Notre Dame will send a young lineup that is quickly becoming their core players. Juniors Eric Deutsch and Scott Gustafson will lead the team this weekend. Gustafson, who has struggled with injuries all season, will try andre-find his competitive peak, and Deutsch will hope to build on his career-low 213 last week. 
Sophomore Cole lsban will join them this weekend. Isban has been the most consistent mem­ber of the team this year, per­forming well in every fall event. 
Mike King and Greg Rodgers, two freshmen, will round out the lineup. Both had strong perform­ances at the Nelson Invitational. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
The Irish will look to contin­ue their streak of success and end their fall season on the positive note Mo11.day. The team. who has already won two tournaments this fall. is traveling to. South Carolina to compete in the Edwin Watts/Palmetto Intercollegiate. 
The Irish won this event last year, and Notre Dame coach Debby King is confident about her team's chances for repeat­ing. 
"We're defending champions, 



Wednesday, November 3, 2004 5:30 p.m. -7:00 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Free of Charge/Must have valid Notre Dame I.D. 
BRING YOUR OWN RACQUET TENNIS SHOES REQUIRED NO RUNNING SHOES ALLOWED 

Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. Open to all N.D. students, faculty/staff, and their families. 
so why not do it again," she said. 
In their quest to repeat, the team will face some strong competition from the field of 18 teams, namely from Michigan and Southern Methodist, both of whom are ranked in the top 25 according to the latest Golfstat.com polls. However, the Irish have had success against both squads, owning a 2-1 record against Michigan and a 1-0 record against SMU. 
The tournament will consist of 27 holes on both Monday and Tuesday, and will take place at the Oak Point Golf 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 1, 2004 
HocKEY 

Irish tie, lose to No. 15 Wildcats during the weekend 
Sophomore Noah Babin scores first career goal during 1-1 tie Friday night against Northern Michigan 
Irish forward Michael Bartlett, center, dives for the puck in a game against Northern Michigan on Friday night. 
"The Spirit ofDemocracy" 
Jeffrey Stout 
Professor of Religion at Princeton University and author of the award-winning book, 
Democracy and Tradition 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School, Henkels Interdisciplinary Visiting Speaker Program, Department ofTheology, and Department ofPolitical Science 
Both teams had their chances
By JUSTIN SCHUVER in overtime, with the Wildcats 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
nearly putting the game away 
just 30 seconds in, but Andrew 

Ghosts and jack o'lanterns Contois' shot hit the crossbar weren't the only thing scary and bounced harmlessly away. around tlw end of October this Notre Dame ended the game year Notre Friday outshoot­Damn's schedule ing the Wildcats was positiw~Iy ter­"/ think we can be 30-27, the first 
rifying as well. a tough, tenacious time this season 
The Irish 
team when where the Irish 

wrapped up a weren't out shot string of seven everyone is work­by an opponent. 
games in a row ing hard and on The Irish found 
against rankPd t h ·e m s e I v e s
the same page."

opponents behind early in Saturday night, Saturday's game. losing to No. 15 Dave Poulin with Matt Siddall North11rn Michigan scoring at the
Irish head coach 

by the score of 4-16:57 mark of 1. Friday, the Irish the first period. tied the Wildcats 1-1 with Zach Tarkir's power play goal Noah Babin's first career goal nine minutes into the second the lone Irish tally. period made the score 2-0 in 
Morgan Cey continued his favor of the Wildcats. fine play this season Friday Paige cut the deficit to one 
night, making 26 saves to help 
the Irish earn its first point in 
CCI lA play this season. 
"That was a real good hockey game," Irish coach Dave Poulin said Friday. "We got a couple big saves from Morgan, they got a couple big saves from their guy and it was a real good b.~ttle between two gritty teams. 
.Jason Paige scored the only goal for the Irish Saturday, and David Brown remained winless on the ynar -allowing four goals on 31 shots and falling to 0-3 on the young season. 
Northern Miehigan freshman forward Mike Santorelli had a prolific wnekend against the Irish, scoring three of the team's five goals-including the only goal for the Wildcats Monday. 
The Wildcats' goalies also played up to the challenge. Frnshman Bill Zaniboni made 29 saves on Friday and senior Tuomas Tarkki also stopped 29 Irish shots in Saturday's game. 
With the tie and loss, Notre Dame finds itself in last place in the CCI lA with one point and a 0-3-1 record. Despite the slow start, Poulin believes his young team can turn it around as they head into the less-bru­tal portion of their schedule. 
"I still really like my hoekey team," Poulin said after Saturday's loss. "I think we can be a tough, tenacious team when everybody is working hard and on the same page. We know that we're going to have to work to score goals, but hopefully we can learn to win dose games as the season goes on. 
"We got beat by a pretty good hockey game tonight." 
Friday, the Irish got on the scoreboard first, with Babin connecting a little more than 16 minutes into the first peri­od. 
Zaniboni made two fantastic saves on Chris Trick and Tim Wallace, and the puck trickled out harmlessly to the right boards. The Northern Michigan goalie appeared to lose focus for a seeond, and Babin's weak shot from the boards somehow squeezed through Zaniboni's pad and the right post. 
The Wildcats scored the equalizer about six minutes into the second period, when Santorelli deflected a Dirk Southern centering pass into the net behind Cey. 
goal when he picked up a loose puck in the slot and whipped it by Tarkki for a Notre Dame power play goal just three min­utes later. But Santorelli scored two insurance goals, one at the end of the second period and one in the third, to put the game away. 
"The goal that really killed us was the third goal, after mak­ing the game 2-1. It was a set face-off play and our guy got beat to the puck and then they were off to the races," Poulin said. 
The Irish face Bowling Green in a home-and-home series this weekend, with the game Friday scheduled for 7:35 p.m..at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame plays Thursday at Bowling Green. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
I Observer 

Monday, November I, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
was a little frustrated because I the few chances they saw to pre­but I think 'at the same time as as just a continuation of the wasn't putting the numbers up,'' serve the team's lOth shutout of much as we can keep playing [as team's approach from the regular 
Four 
continued from page 24 
way through the first half put St. John's in a deep hole. Only two teams have scored two goals against the Irish all season. 
Another even faster three-goal flurry by the Irish in the SP.cond half put the game out of reach. It took only 1 minute, 21 seconds for Notre Dame to double its lead and run out the clock. Kim Lorenzen added a goal in the 69th minute to provide the final margin of vic­tory. 
Thorlakson did much of the damage, lighting up the score­board with four goals and two assists for a total of 10 points on the afternoon. 
"I had a couple weeks where I she said. "But our team's playing really good and I've been able to put the ball away." 
Following a two-week scoring drought, Thorlakson has been on a tear over the last three games, totaling seven goals and five assists. 
"Good players that score goals all the time can get down on themselves if they're not scoring," coach Randy Waldrum said. "It's great to see her get back on track. We're gonna need that to win in the playoffs." 
Notre Dame's offense racked up a combined 27 shots on goal while the Irish defense stifled St. John's attack, allowing only two shots on goal. The Notre Dame goalkeeping duo of Erika Bohn and Nikki Westfall easily handled 

SMC SoccER 
Belles drop home match to Knights 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
In the course of Saturday after­noon, the Belles watched thl:lir chance at going undefeated at home get blown away. 
With gusts of over 60 miles per hour dominating every aspect of the game, Saint Mary's was unable to extend its record at home to 8-0 with a 2-1 loss to Calvin. 
"It was ridiculously windy, and that changes the flow of the game immediately," junior Carrie Orr said. "It was a hard game to play in, and it didn't help that Calvin is a good team." 
Calvin came out against the Belles with a physical style that was compounded by the weather conditions. 
Though the Belles are not typi­cally a team that puts the ball in the air "over the top" of the defense, the reliability of that aspect of passing was completely removed for both teams due to the wind. 
"We had to focus on playing the ball on the ground instead of put­ting it over the top," Orr said. 
Calvin scored twice in the first half to give the Knights a 2-0 lead at the half. The Belles responded in the second half, when Carolyn Logan buried a centering pass in the back of the net to cut the lead in half. But Saint Mary's could get no closer, and Calvin held on for a 2-1 win. 
The problem of converting chances on offense has plagued the Belles all season. . 
"We played good defensively, and had our chances on offense, but we just couldn't find the baek of the net," Orr said. 
Calvin became the only team to beat the Belles twice this season, after Saint Mary's suffered a 3-1 defeat in the first meeting between the teams Oct. 2. Nevertheless, the Belles' record of 7-1 at home remains impressive. 
The game also marked the last time on their home field for seven seniors on the Belles. 
"The seniors are great leaders who have molded the attitude of this team and set a good example for all the underclassmen," Orr said. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy@nd.edu 
We W>o Mondays Like No J>lace Else! 

Enjoy a double order of chicken. s±eak or combo faji±as (enoush for ±wo) for jus± ~11!* 
c 




GRILL &BAR 
MISIIAWAK.A 4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 
"Offer vahd every Monday 11 am ±o dose 

the season. Sophomores Lizzie Reed and Christie Shaner also tal­lied !1 goal apiece for the Irish. 
"Today is' the day we [finally] put most of our chances away," senior Candace Chapman said. 
"I couldn't have asked for bet­ter," Waldrum said. "Seeing 27 shots and seven goals, I'm pretty pleased with that. I thought it was a really good effort today." 
The blowout allowed Waldrum to rest many of his starters and get a number of his bench players some significant post-season min­utes. Several of the starters left the game with over 30 minutes left to play. 
"It's kept us healthier, kept us fresh," Waldrum said. "You want to fmally settle in as you get into the postseason with your team, many] players [as possible], it's only going to help us at the end." 

While Waldrum is looking out for his team's well-being down the playoff road, he constantly stress­es to his players the need to stay in the present. Last year, the Irish lost three of their last five games, including once in the Big East Championship semi-finals and then again in the second-round NCAA. 
"I hope that the group that played last year, as good as it was, gained some maturity and got a little better of understanding that you have to approach each game like it's your last game. So far this year we've done a good job of that and we'll know more as the sea­son progresses." 
Chapman sees this philosophy season. 
"I think this year we have a lot of faith in ourselves," she said. "We just have to look at it like we've been looking at the season and take one game at a time." 
Now in the "win-or-go-home" stage of the post-season, Thorlakson feels that the added pressure requires much more focus. 
"You have to be more intense because up until now the games haven't really mattered," she said. "They've mattered for positioning but once you get to the NCAAs it's single round knockout so [you have to play] every game like your last." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Irish have a special player in Thorlakson 
A storm was brewing Halloween afternoon on Alumni Field, and it sure wasn't a red one. 
On Sunday, Irish forward Katie Thorlakson shredded the St. John's defense notching four goals and two assists in a 7-0 Irish rout. The Red Storm was over­whelmed by a gale-force, white-jersey­wearing maelstrom who helped Notre Dame roll into the Big East Tournament semi-finals. 
Statistically, the game was the capstone of a three-game offensive rampage in which Thorlakson has totaled an eye-popping seven goals and five assists. But more impor­tantly, her performance may have signaled the beginning of a very special post-season run for the Irish. 
Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum knew at the start of the season that in Thorlakson he had one of the elite play­ers in the nation. Her play this season has not only backed that up, but elevated her to superstar status. One of the reasons both she and her Irish teammates have an undefeated record this sea­son stems from her ability to make everyone around her better while still excelling herself. 
Seemingly out of habit, Thorlakson exhibits the uncanny knack to know when to pass and when to take her own shot. Teams who play off her trying to respect her playmaking ability are sub­ject to her deceptively-quick feet and pinpoint accuracy. 
If opposing defenses over­commit to stopping her, she is more than willing to dump the ball off and create scor­ing chances for her team­mates as demonstrated by her team-high 17 assists. 
Her skills as a creator also help the team when she goes 

Matt Mooney 
Sports Writer 


through a scoring drought. Like any player, she has stretches when the ball just doesn't bounce her way and won't find the back of the net. 
Recently, Thorlakson went through a four-game drought without either a goal or an assist. Yet she still helped her team find ways to win and the Irish remained unbeaten even through her slump. 
Despite all her individual accomplishments, Thorlakson has displayed an unwavering dedication to her team. During interviews, she quiet­ly deflects attention from her own performance to that of the team as a whole. There is almost a tone of embarrass­ment in her voice when dis­cussing her individual play despite the fact that she will contend for the National Player of the Ye.ar award. 
The British Columbia native is talented enough to have a spot waiting for her on the Canadian Under-19 National Team. However, Thorlakson declined the position so as not to miss a crucial stretch of the NCAA Tournament. 
The thing that solidifies her status as a soccer star is her elevated level of play when the games mean the most. In the five games Notre Dame has played this season against ranked opponents, Thorlakson has totaled four goals and four assists, includ­ing a hat trick early in the season against No.4 Santa Clara. She took charge of Thursday's rivalry game against Michigan, avenging two losses last season with two goals and two assists in a 4-0 shutout. Her performance against St. John's was noth­ing short of outstanding. 
This excellence is what she expects of herself and that is part of the reason why she has been so successful this year. It is also the reason why the rest of the collegiate soc­cer world should grab their umbrellas. The storm that St. John's witnessed first-hand doesn't look like it's letting up any time soon. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd. edu. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 1, 2004 

Close 
continued from page 24 
easy meet by any means, and we were happy by any kind of a win." 
It was quite the aceorn­plishment for the Irish. The tnam knew that the field was going to be very tough, and that showPd in the dose lin­ish. 
"We knew our major com­petition would eome from (;<wrgetown. and possibly Provid<Hlee. and boy certain­ly that played out." 
Tim Moore finished sixth overall in tlw raee, finishing 
. 
in 23 minutes, 53 seconds, He ran a real good solid race and was the first Irish run­and passed three guys in [the ner to cross the 11nish line. last] 300 meters which 
Kurt Benninger, Kaleb Van secured the victory," Piane Ort and Sean said. O'Donnell joined The women's Moore in the top team didn't do 10, finishing in too shabby,
"We know every 
seventh, eighth either. and ninth, point counts." Coming off respnctively. two straight Big 
The story of East victories,
Joe Plane
the meet, how­the women's
Irish men's ~oach
ever, came from Vinny Ambrico who finished in 17th place, but showed a strong stretch late in the race. 
"The success of the meet came from Vinny Ambrico. 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer Irish runner Molly Huddle keeps up with the leading pack dur­Ing the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 1. 
Dra01a 
continued from page 24 
Notrn Dame produced the game's first seoring chances. 
After midfieldcr Ian Etlwrington nearly put the Irish in front on a run into the left side of the box with 17 minutes remaining during the first half. defender .Jack Stewart dentt~d thn crossbar on a blast ofT a loose eornnr a minutn later. 
Fellow defendnr and senior elassmate Kevin Goldthwaite imitated Stewart 12 minutes into the second half. firing yet anotlwr Irish shot ofT the crossbar. 
Aftnr several Notre Dame opportunities failnd to bear goal-scoring fruit, the lluskies nearly buoyed tlwir upset bid with I I minutes left in the eon test. 
Attnrnpting to ddend a free kid. Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawynr was eaught out of posi­tion, forcing the Irish defense to dear the ball ofT the goal linn to prnserve the tie. 
"It was tho wind that eaused that !opportunity!," Clark said. "It was a difficult ball into the box -any balls on a day like [Saturday! cause trouble." 
After falling short on several occasions, the Irish finally cashed in at the 84:54 mark on Lapira's third g.oal of the season -all three tallies have been game-winners. 
Driving down the left side of the l'ield, midfielder Nate Norman slieed a cross into the box that Lapira lunged for and redirncted into the side netting just inside the right post to stake Notrn Dame to a late 1-0 advantage. 
"It was a fabulous goal," Clark said. "Joe just got in front of his defender and glanced it into the corner ­very difficult for the goalkeep­er." 
Al'tor needing almost 85 min­utes to net their first goal, the Irish didn't wait long to light up the scoreboard a second time. 
Three minutes, 41 seconds al'ter Lapira found the back of the net, freshman striker .John Mo.usinho posted the first goal of his collegiate career. slam­ming home a cross from strik­
cross-eou n try 
team ran well 
but just didn't 
have enough to beat the champion Lady Friars. 
"Going in I knew that Providence was really good and they ran really well, I mean they were going to be hard to beat," Irish women's coach Tim Connelly said. 
"I thought that we had some kids run really well, land] we had some kids that struggled, so I don't think that as a whole we had our best race of the season." 
Molly Huddle finished fifth overall in the field, with a time of 20:16. 
She was followed by Stephanie Madia, who fin­ished 10th, and Sonni Olding, who finished 12th. 
"I guess that second place is nothing to be ashamed of, but we obviously were going in there hoping for more," Connelly said. 
Connelly only had praise for Providence, the only team at the meet who ran better than the Irish. 
"They aren't ranked num­ber two in the country for nothing, they are a good team," Connelly said. 
The Irish now gear up for the regional qualifier for the NCAA championships on November 13. 
Regardless of what hap­pens the rest of this season, the story of the weekend was the men's team winning its first Big East title since 2001, with a combination of solid consistency and a touch of Ambrico 's last-second heroics. 
"We were anticipated the win, that was our goal when we went to the meet," Piane said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
er Justin McGeeney to seal the contest. 
"It was just a great combina­tion between two strikers," Clark said. "Justin got onto a very good ball from Hyan Miller, saw 'Big Moose' in the middle and IMousinhol just hammered it in. It's nice to see that goal get in because it certainly made it very easy to run out the elock after that." 
The Irish finish regular sea­son play Tuesday night when regional rival Michigan State visits Alumni Field. 
While the Irish have already locked up the No. 1 seed in the Big East Championships tour­nament scheduled to begin Nov. 6, Notre Dame is still hungry for victories to both secure a higher NCAA tourna­ment seed and protect its home turf. 
"We're looking for seedings -it'd be great to get a victory against Miehigan State," Clark said. "[A winl would give us a perfeet regular season home record -that would be very nice." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at · mpuglisi@nd.edu 

CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer Notre Dame's Lauren Kelbley tries to slap the ball past an Illinois State blocker during a game Oct. 13 at the Joyce Center. 
Sweeps 
continued from page 24 
errors, the lowest mark of the year. 
Tarutis tallied 31 assists while Burrell tacked on 10 to help Notre Dame to their sec­ond-highest hitting percentage of the season, only topped by the .356 mark against St. John's last week. 
The first game against Georgetown showed the Irish offense at their statistical best as the Iteam had 19 kills for a .425 attack percentage. Notre Dame continued its strong hit­ting the entire game as they hit .324 and .271 in the fol­lowing two games. 
Outside hitter Lauren Kelbley led the team in kills with 12, middle blocker Emily Loomis had 11 while middle blocker Carolyn Cooper had a career high eight. Cooper was first on the team with an attack percentage of .429. 
Sunday's 30-27, 30-24, 30­22 win over Villanova was highlighted this time by the defense as the Irish held the Wildcats to a .007 attack per­centage, the lowest mark by an Irish opponent all year. 
Meg Ilenican 's play was elose to spectacular as the captain recorded 26 digs at her libnro position, the sec­ond-highest three-game mark in Irish volleyball history. 
Ilenican finished out the 
match on a high note with twelve digs in the linal frame, after recording ten in the 11rst game and four in the second. Middle blocker Lauren Brewster, the reigning Big East player of the week, added eight to help give the Irish an average of 20 digs per game, the best average since Notre Dame recorded 26.7 per game against Sacramento State on September 11. 
Villanova struggled to nega­tive attack percentages in the final two games as the Irish duo of Kelbley and Brewster helped Notre Dame record 
13.5 blocks. Brewster, who led the nation in blocking last sea­son and currently ranks sec­ond in the Big East, had five blocks in the match, as did Kelbley. 
The offense was sluggish against a stout Villanova defense as the Irish only hit .115 for the match. However, freshman setter Ashley Tarutis continued to shine as she paced the Irish with twenty six assists. 
Notre Dame is now tied for first plaee in the Big East with Pittsburgh. The Irish will take to the Joyce Center court next Friday at 7 p.m. for a match against Connecticut. This will be the first of live consecutive home matches leading up to the Big East championships November 21-22 at Pittsburgh. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
PP ng

54586 Ironwood Road South Bend, IN 271-6058 
M-F 9-9; Sat. 9-6; Sun I 0-5 
WE CARRY GREAT CLIPS, AMERICAN CREW AND MATRIX HAIRCARE PRODUCT~ 
HAtRc'UT-&Di:OWoAv-1-"A.RcUT& BLOWDRv 
~. $ 3 9 9 ~ffe~r~.a~::n.~~~~~~~~pon 1 $ 3 9 9 ~ret;r;.a~~~~~.,~~~;.pon 1 
per customer. Good at 1 per customer. Good .arI • partic::•piltlng locat:.ions. W part:lcipat1ng locations. J1 
OFFER EXPIRES 11/30/04 I OFFER EXPIRES 11/30/04 
Monday, November 1, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

DILBERT 
u
E 
.5
0 
q 
<Ji 
u.
0 
:;)
.. 
® 
.<> E 
., 
"' 
-;;
.. 
~
.. 
~ 
:: 
u
0 
.5
..0 
.. 
E
.. 
E ~ 
<(
0 
::
0 
0 
t 
a! 
Q) 
~
.c 
0
..
=a 
0 
;r
~ 
0 I
~ 
I 

PEANUTS 
I JUST DON1T KNOW ~OW 
W~AT CAN VOU SAY TO TO WRITE A LOVE LETTER 
A 61RL T~AT SHOWS YOU 




SCOTT ADAMS 
HOW ABOUT A NANO­TECHNOLOGY STEM CELL FOR FIGHTING TERRORISTS? 


CHARLES SCHULZ 
f..IOW ABOUT,'' ENCLOSED 

WILLSHORTZ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Throng 61 Ready for picking
1 Go to sea 36 Document of legal 62 Like sea air
5 Feet above sea 
representation
level: Abbr. 63 Flagmaker 40 Liqueur flavoring Betsy
9 Boston's airport 41 Armadas 64 1930's boxer

14 Stubborn 
Max
animal 42 Nary a soul 

15 Ear part 43 Injection units, for short DOWN
16 Ex-Mrs. Trump 44 Relaxed 1 Refines, as 
17 Fitzgerald who metal
sang "I'm 48 Tree swinger Making Believe" 2 How some cafe 
49 Joanne of 
is served 

18 University V.I.P. "Sylvia," 1965 3 "Fighting" Big 
19 Car parker 50 1959 hit song Ten team 
about "a man

20 Decreed 
4 Starring role 23 foil 
named Charlie" 

5 Fabled New 24 Before, in verse World city 
51 Children's game 

56 Easy gallops 25 Fleming of 007 
6 "Camelot" 57 Bad place to 
composerfame 

drop a heavy 26 Bad mark box 
7 Israel's Abba 

8 Open the windows in 29 Lacking muscle 59 Florida city 9 Jazz up33 Writer Welty 60 Advantage 10 Running track ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Festive party 12 Again 13 _ King Cole 21 Shy 22 ''This bener be good!" 27 Honkers 28 Rigorous exams 29 On the downslide 30 Sea eagle 31 Lemon or lime drink 32 C minor, for one 
28 Discontinued 58 Landed (on) 


36 Criticize, as a 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles . one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BLYUL 
rJ rJ
1 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CYDEA 
t 
1 J r 
Saturday's I Jumbles: PARCH 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

Now arrange the circled letters to ., form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

AUDIT INFIRM GASKET 
Answer: What the cops used to catch the fence-HIS "GAIT" 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kieran Culkin, Lacey Chabert. Jenna Elfman, Marty Stuart 
Happy Birthday: Don't be too quick to turn a blind eye or forget what you've been through. The time to learn from your past experience is now. If you have learned your lessons well, you will not have to worry about losing again. Your numbers are 5, 12, 16, 22, 31,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A lot will be up in the air today, making it important to be precise and detailed in all you do. Do not let personal problems interfere with what needs to be done. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Put your efforts into a job well done and you will avoid feeling anxious about matters that you have no control over. Your suggestions will help you make improvements.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Not everything will be out in the open, but if you rely on your own steam and knowledge, you will do what's right and best 
. for you. Make personal or physical changes today. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your efforts into partnerships, group endeavors or travel. Someone you know through work may cause you grief. Keep your professional and personal life separate. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may have to rely on friends, relatives or neighbors to help you out of a sticky situation today. Don't trust someone you know through work. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Business trips or gathering information that can help you get ahead will result in financial gains. You may discover a new hobby through one of the people you meet today. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Protect your health and your finances. Someone may try to convince you to spend too much on sorpething that you don't really need. Offer suggestions, not cash: *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be emotional about personal matters. Don't leave yourself in a vulnerable position. Secrets must not be revealed at this time. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The way you interact with peers, colleagues or clients will make a difference to the outcome of a deal you are involved with. Don't take sides; diplomacy will count. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Nothing will be too much trouble for you, ·' 
however, if you do put yourself out on a limb, the backlash may be severe. Physical or mental changes will turn out well. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may feel uneasy about your personal life. Don't start a discussion that could end up fueling a fire. Play it safe and say as little as possible. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Travel will bring about new friendships or business connections. You should be able to present and promote whatever you are working on. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are in control and you instinctively know what must be done to get what you want. You are intelligent, intuitive and very in tune with the universe. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com 
stone 
46 Skunk feature
movie 53 Skin
47 It immediately
37 Plastic Band follows 54 One slow on 38 Victory Passiontide 
the uptake 39 Fragrant flowers 48 Examine, as ore 
55 Cuning remark 
43 Overseer of co. 49 Bonom of the books barrel 56 The "L" of L.A. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.comlleaming/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name_~------------------------------------­
Address ____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, November I, 2004 
page 24 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Photo finish 

Men win the Big East by one point; women come in second 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Winning a football game in ovnrtime after being up 10 in the fourth quarter, that's a close call. Winning the Big East cross-country champi­onships by one point, perhaps that's just the luck of the Irish. 
The Notre Dame men's cross eountry team f"inished l"irst in Friday's Big East Championships, taking home tho ti tie for tlw fourth time In the school's history and tho first time sinco 2001. 
Tlw women's team missed making it an Irish sweep, fin­ishing in second place and 25 points bd1ind Providence. 
The Irish men finished just one point ahead of Georgotown, who was ranked No. 7 going into the race. 
"We've lost by one before, so we know every point counts," Irish men's coach Joe Piane said. "It wasn't an 
see CLOSE/page 22 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Sweeping away their opponents 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
One has to wonder if the Irish have been cleaning up the Joyce Center after home matches this season. Sweeping seems to come pret­ty naturally to them lately. 
Notre Dame defeated Georgetown and Villanova in consecu live conference road matches this weekend for its second and third straight three-game victory. The two wins improved Notre Dame's conference record to 6-0 for the sixth straight season and give the Irish five sweeps in six conference matches so far this year. 
Irish setters Ashley Tarutis and Kelly Burrell fueled the Irish offensive attack during Friday's 30-24, 30-23, 30-22 win over the Hoyas. As a team the Irish hit .339 thanks to 53 kills and only 12 attack 
see SWEEPS/page 22 

• 
·­
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Offense stays on a roll 
Thorlakson collects four goals as team slams St. John's 7-0 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame began its quest for a Big East 'Tournament Championship on a crisp Halloween afternoon, and Katie Thorlakson showed St. John's just how frighten­
ing the Irish See Also 
can be. A Notre "Irish have a Dame of'f'en­
special player in 
sive explosion 
Thorlakson"
in each half buried the vis­page 21 iting Red Storm by a 7-0 score as the Irish (19-0-1) domi­nated St. Johns (6-8-1) in every faeet of the game. Three unan­swered Notre Dame goals in under a five-minute stretch mid-
see FOUR/page 21 


NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
The Irish hope to con­tinue recent string of success at the Edwin Watts/Palmetto Intercollegiate. 
page 19 

MEN's SoccER 
Irish pull away late against Connecticut 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Joe Lapira has a flair for the dramatic. 
For the second time in the last three games, the fresh­man striker provided the 
game-win­ning goal in the contest's final 10 minutes as the No. 5 Irish (13-2­2, 8-1-1 in Big East) conquered 


both Conn-Lapira ecticut (8-7­2, 4-4-1) and fierce elements in a 2-0 victory on a cold, windy Saturday night at Alumni Field. 
"I thought it was a great result from our point of view," coach Bobby Clark said. "On a 
cold night, 
MEN'S GOLF 
The team is set to hit the links at the Prestige at PGA WEST to close out the regular season. 
page 19 
to grind out a 
SMC SWIMMING 

The swimmers suffer a pair of losses at the Hope College dual meet Saturday. 
page 19 
result like that was very good. I thought we played well enough to win, but we can definitely play better than that." 
The victory leaves the Irish with a program-record eight conference wins this season, eclipsing their previous high of seven in 2001. 
The new conference win mark marks the second time in as many contests the 2004 Irish have written their names into the record books -the Irish clinched their first regu­lar season Big East title since joining the conference in 1995 with a 1-0 victory over Rutgers on Oct. 23. 
In a game that was slow to develop -Irish midfielder Greg Dalby unleashed the first · shot nearly 20 minutes into the contest and Connecticut didn't record a shot until just past the 30-minute mark ­
see DRAMA/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's loses a series of heartbreakers during the weekend at the Benedictine Invit­ational. 
page 18 






