THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 90 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13.2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Runoff election results in stalemate 

E~rzergency rneeting of Student Senate will declare winner Sunday 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Am>ciarr News Ediwr 
The H:30 p.m. announcement of the student body president election rnsulls thrnw the elnetion into tur­moil rather than bringing the clo­sure candidates and students expected. 
.ludieial Couneil president Elliot Poindexter informed the tickets of Charlin Ebnrsol-James Leito and /\dam Istvan-Karla Bell that neither rncnived the 50 percent plus one vote needed to win the runoff elec­tion. 1\s a result, an emergency menting of thn Student Senate will be called Sunday to determine the winning tieket. 
Of a total of :1,524 votes, Istvan­Bell received 1,723 votes, or 48.9 percent, and Ebersol-Leito received 1,53H votes, or 43.6 percent. The rmnaining 7.5 percent accounted for 263 abstentions. 
Istvan credited his increase in votes-74H votes in Monday's elec­tion to 1,723 votes in Thursday's runoff-to increased awareness of his platform and to the endorse­nwnts of both the Mark Healy-Mike 
see RESULTS/page 8 
ND STUDENT BoDY ELECTION RESULTS 
~5Z4 'DitJd Vote• f..ut, 7" Ab1taining 8111!AKJ)(t'WN BY CLAM! 
Clllrlll 

Ill•• 
Ebenol latvan 
l'rltllltmm 
53.6% 43.1% 
Sophomore~ 
5L8% 39.8% 
Junlon 
35.6% 54.0% 
Henion 
26.9% 64.6% 
Tm'AL 

IItvin 

Graphic by MIKE HARKINS and photos by ANDY KENNA/The ObseNer 
Charlie Ebersol and Adam Istvan, top, review the vote totals. Bottom, Judicial Council president Elliot Poindexter announces the election results to the candidates. 
Students compare standoff to 2000 presidential election 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
In a storyline that sounds all too familiar, last night's run-off election ended in a stalemate. 
Neither candidate won a majority of the popular vote, so the candidate who won the most dorms will beconw thn next president. 
With the possibility of a can­didate winning despite a receiving fewer popular votes, students reacted to thn idea of living through another Elnction 2000. 
"I wouldn't like a president without the popular vote, just like I didn't like it in the national election," said senior Anthony Lopeman. "I don't like the dorm-vote system they'ro going to, but I also don't think we can keep having eleetions. Whoever has the most votes should win." 
Many students agreed with this thought, despite the fact that the Student Union Constitution does not provide 
see REACTION/page 4 

Election c~mpaign marred by personal attacks 
Karla Bell said they received Hallahan, said that the threats and the tires on his vehicle many people at this campus or 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES only positive comments he received this year intensi­have been deflated multiple have done anything offensive 
Nrws Editor throughout their campaign, fied since the 2003 election. times. Ebersol said he did not enough to warrant the threat." 
their opposition, Charlie The threats include postings report these threats or acts of Ebersol said that while no 
Though elections always Ebersol and James Leito, did on the NDToday.com message vandalism to authorities. one has directly confronted involve some personal attacks, not report a similar experi­boards, voicemails left on "It becomes such a ridicu­him, this year's threats have this year's election has been ence. Ebersol's apartment phone lous situation that you don't been more personal in nature. marked by espeeially vicious Ebersol, who also ran for the and e-mails to his personal know how to react to it," he Though he said he received attacks against one candidate. top student government posi­account. Ebersol added that said. "The toughest thing is 
While Adam Istvan and tion last year, losing to Pat his Hummer has been keyed that I don't feel I know that see THREATS/page 9 

Controversy swirls around Monologues 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG Nrws Writer 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's prodw~tion of The Vagina Monologues will take place Saturday nvening under intense debate from students, laeulty and alumni -and now the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bnnd. 
Bishop John D'l\rcy issued a pastoral statement this week nxpressing his disappointment that the University would allow th1~ Monologues to be pf~rformed. Upon review of thn text<>, D'Arcy said they were "offensive to women" and "antithetical to ( :atholir teaching on the beautiful gil\ of human sexuality, and also to the tnaehinf.,'S of the church on the human body relative to its purpose and to its status as a temple of thn Holy Spirit." 
The Monologues, a collection of dramatically varying pieces by Eve Ensler, has become an inter­national movement in its five years of existence. Ensler wrote the play, originally conceived as a one-woman production, from her own experiences, taking it on national tour beginning in 1998. As an outgrowth of the play, her organization, V-Day, held its first Feb. 14 observance that same year. Its goals were to increase awareness of violence against women, sexual assault and the denigration of the value of women's sexuality. 
Support for the Notre Dame performance has come from var­ious groups. including four aca­demic departments: English, Gender Studies, Core and Film, Television and Theatre. Notre 
see 0 EBATE/ page 4 

Memorial Mass held for Sharon 
By CLAIRE HEININGER Assistant News Editor 
The refrain of the opening hymn was fitting: "We remem­ber, we celebrate, we believe." 
1\ standing room only crowd of about 120 students and fac­ulty gathered in the Fishor llall chapel Thursday night to remember and celebrate the life of Chad Sharon, the fresh­man who disappnared on Dec. 12, 2002. Thursday's memorial Mass marked a year since his body was found floating in the St. Joseph Hiver, two months after his disappearance. 
Father Robert Moss, Sharon's former rector, reflected on thn time of uncertainty when the missing student's whereabouts were still unknown. 
"We were pressured, we were harried, we were wor­
see SHARON/page 8 


Friday, February 13, 2004 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Child's play 

Happy Valentine's Day, kids. I'm sorry to say it, but Cupid is bringing bad news this year: Barbara Millicent Roberts is once again single. That's right, Ken and Barbie are breaking up. The world's favorite plastic couple are calling it quits, after a 43-year relation­ship. They seemed so happy. Unfortunately, the puppet masters at Mattei have con­spired to ruin the all-American romance just before Valentine's Day. 
What is the world coming to? I mean, it's no big loss for me as a dude, but the Barbie-Ken affair rep­resents a big chunk of American cul­ture, and now it's gone. 
I shudder to think what else the toy industry will bring us. They've been pretty busy dishing out crap for the last decade or so, and I don't think it's going to stop. 
For example, the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. Any '80s kid will tell you those hacks are just cheap, bla­tant ripoffs of Voltron. 
Or how about TransFormers? When I was a little kid, the Robots in Disguise weren't made of cheap plas­tic. They were forged from military­grade steel. I had a StarScreem that must have weighed six pounds. 
Toy guns have slipped quite a bit, too. I didn't grow up with neon-col­ored squirt guns. I was strapped with the kind of toy gun you could easily use to rob liquor stores. 
And then there are the terrible fads. 

Like Tama,gotchi? Remember those? They were these insufferable little electronic pets on keychains. Whenever they were hungry, or tired, or thirsty, or bored, they beeped. And beeped. And beeped. 
And the Furby was just downright creepy, even though it looked like Gizmo from "Gremlins." Those things randomly wake up and speak to you. Not just programmed lines, either. They can manage the rudiments of human speech. The government even banned Furbys from the tour of CIA headquarters, for fear they could record sensitive information. Toys should never be a risk to national security. 
Maybe I'm getting on in years, but I miss the good old days. 
Kids actually used to play with cars. Hot Wheels, Matchbox cars and Micro Machines were the stuff race-car dreams were made of. 
The old-school metal Slinky was endless fun, and it still is. There's just simple delight in watching a big spring walk down the stairs. And even though they inevitably got tan­gled, stretched or otherwise ruined, it was no big deal. They were like three bucks. 
But if you ask a kid today if he has a Lite Brite or some Play-Doh, odds are he'll pistol whip you. Good thing those cheap plastic guns don't even hurt. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at mbra­mant@nd. edu. 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU FEAR MOST ABOUT FRIDAY THE 13TH? 



Dave Rooney  Molly Welton  Cole Barker  
Junior  Junior  Junior  
off-campus  LeMans  O'Neill  
..  
"Pre-marital  "Lions, tigers  "Being hacked  
relations in a  and bears,  to death with  
cabin."  oh my!"  an ax."  




Julie Taylor  Betsy Brown  Dave Millar  
Junior Holy Cross Hall  Junior Holy Cross Hall  Junior O'Neill  
"Bad wigs. "  "Being attacked by a man-eating black cat."  "That I will wake up and still be in South Bend."  

Barbie and Ken break up 
NEW YORK -Just like J .Lo and Ben, the romance is over for Barbie and Ken. After 43 years as one of the world's prettiest pairs, the perfect plastic couple is breaking up. The cou­ple's "business manager," Russell Arons, vice presi­dent of marketing at Mattei, said that Barbie and Ken "feel it's time to spend some quality time -apart." 
"Like other celebrity couples, their Hollywood romance has come to an end," said Arons, who quickly added that the 


IN BRIEF 
Come watch the Actors From the London Stage perform William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Student tickets cost $12 and are avail­able for purchase in LaFortune. 
Attend a reading, discussion and signing with Kevin Coyne, author of "Domers" and "Marching Home: To War and Back with the Men of One American Town." Events begin at 7 p.m. tonight in the Hammes Notre Dame bookstore. 
Dance into Valentine's Day at the romantic La Soiree: A Valentine's Dance tonight from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Bring a date and dress to impress. 
Enjoy Irish sing-a-longs and camraderie with the traditional Irish and Scottish tunes of The Kwills tonight at Legends. Doors are at 9:45 p.m. 
Watch the revolutionary 1994 film "Go Fish" as part of the ND Queer Film Festival. Winner of the Best Feature Film at the Berlin Film Festival and nomi­nated for the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival, it tells the story of a young lesbian in Chicago who has trouble find­ing love. The film begins at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Showcase your skills at a cam­pus-wide snow sculpting extravagenza. sponsored by the Hall Presidents Council. The competition begins at 4 p.m. on South Quad. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

30 16 

HIGH LOW 

duo "will remain friends." 
Truth be told, the announcement was prompted by the fact that Mattei is releasing the Cali (as in California) Girl Barbie, arriving in stores now. Ken will still be in the picture -only now he's "just a friend," Mattei claims. 
Bedbugs bite back 
IOWA CITY, Iowa Bedbugs have bitten in 35 states, including Iowa, and continue to spread across the country, pest control experts say. 
Bedbugs are tiny blood­sucking insects that smell like soda pop syrup and are shaped like apple seeds. They live in bed­ding or furniture, or hide behind baseboards and wallpaper. 
They don't carry dis­eases, but they bite while you sleep, turning brown­ish-red after feeding on your .blood. 
Infestations are on the rise across the country in metropolitan cities with high travel populations, according to Orkin Exterminating Co. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

..... 
c( (,) 0 

HIGH 33

.... 
LOW 21 


22 18 

HIGH LOW 

20 6 

Friday, February 13, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Man arrested on 
trespassing charge 
Trespasser asked priest for money near Main Building 
By ANDREW THAGARD A<mciac~ N~ws Edicor 
Notre Dame Security/Police arrested a man for trespassing on campus Thursday afternoon. 
The suspect, a 58-year old­male, was apprehended at 
approximately :uo p.m. in front of the Main Building after soliciting money from a Iloly Cross priest, said Chuck Hurley, NDSP assistant director. The sus­pect was trans­ported to St. Joseph County Jail and remained in cus­tody Thursday evening. 
The individual, who NDSP offi­
"The officer observed that a priest was approached by this individual and [he] saw an exchange then occur which he thought to be suspicious," Hurley said. 
Ilurley declined to identify the priest or elaborate on the nature of their encounter but suggested that it mirrored past incidents where members of the Notre Dame community were asked to donate money to a needy individual. 
"It's the same situation [as 
"It's the same situation [as when] someone approaches a student with a hard luck story and asks for $20 or $30." 
Chuck Hurley NDSP assistant director 

cials say was previously issued a trespassing warning and told not to return to campus, allegedly confronted a priest and asked for money. An officer patrolling the area noticed the encounter and approached to investigate. Hurley said. 
when] someone approaches a stu­
dent with a hard luck story and asks for $20 or $30," he said. "It's a prob­lem that occurs ... periodically." 
If a student is approached by someone in need, Hurley said, he should notify NDSP so the department can assess the situ­ation and direct the individual to the appropriate organizations. 
More often than not, Hurley said, the individual's story does­n't check out and money given with the intent of helping ends up funding a drug addiction. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Lecture discusses 'just vvar' theory 
By KATIE MOUNTS 
News Wricer 

Linking recent events in Iraq to Catholic responsibility, author Peter Ternes articulat­ed his opinions on just war theory when he spoke at Notre Dame Thursday night. 
Ternes, President of the Antioch New England Graduate School and author of the recently published "The Just War: An American Reflection on the Morality of War in Our Time," presented a one-h-our lecture entitled "Just War Thinking in a New Age" to approximately 50 stu­dents and faculty in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The just war theory, Ternes said, revolves around the idea · that while "war is always wrong, [it is] sometimes nec­essary." He argued that choices are not always between right and wrong, but that war may end up being the lesser of two wrongs. 
"As precious as peace is, peace is not enough," he said. "Justice and decency are higher values." The highest justification for war, he said, is not defense of self, but defense of an innocent third party. 
Ternes explained the ambi­guity found in the principles of Catholic just war theory, a concept first proposed by St. Augustine. These principles include the propositions that war must be waged by a legit­imate authority, be taken as a last resort and be harmful only in proportion to the good it brings, he said. 

Ternes' book adds three original ideas to the first prin­ciples. He also proposed that war may be considered just if• and only if it is about the future instead of the past, it is waged with the understand­ing that all human life is equally precious and it pro­motes the idea that the legiti­macy of government comes from the consent of the gov­erned. 
Ternes related his belief that a war is partly justified by its after-effects to the recent controversy in Iraq. 
"Our obligation in Iraq is just beginning," he said. 
The Program of Liberal Studies, The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and The Review of Politics cosponsored the lecture. 
Contact Katie Mounts at kmounts@nd.edu 

are some  
challenges involved  
What's  in long-distance  
next for our relationship  dating?  What's involved in  
after graduation?  making healthy decisions about a  
relationship?  

"What's the Future of this Relationship?" 
=-Workshop 
Please join us for an afternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating couples who are discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment. 
Sunday, Feb 29, 2:00 -5:00 p.m. 
in room 330 of the Coleman-Morse Center 
-Pre-registration is required by Friday, Feb 27, at noon. -Applications are available in 114 Coleman-Morse Center or 319 Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk (there is no cost for this program) 
C-M 
Campus Ministry
Questions: call John or Sylvia Dillon at 1-7163 
actions to a lack of interest. Sophomore Lindsay untested rule is affecting the ference in the end if it came "I didn't vote pretty much Brownschidle explained the campus, many down to a situa­
Reaction 
out of sheer laziness," he reasons for her abstention, are speaking out tion like this." said. "I didn't feel citing the lack against it and Freshman Sara
continued from page 1 "I think {the low 
like going on the of strong candi­calling for Woolf agreed.
voter turnout] is 
Web site, and I "!fee/like"you dates. reform before "I feel like you for a plurality vote in such a guess it seems "I didn't feel the next election. sad. At least the need to have a
need to have a 

case. However, with less than like student gov­like there was a "Having a majority of the
people that 
50 percent of the campus ernment doesn't majority of the good choice president with­student popular
abstained voiced 
population voting, the situa­personally affect student popular between the two out the most vote to be stu­tion is also being blamed on me. I realize of them. so I votes would be their opinions. " dent body presi­
vote to be student 

student apathy. what they do is abstained. I upsetting, dent," said
body president." 

"I think [the low voter important, but would probably because it'd be Woolf. "Even if
Maddy Saunders 
turnout] is sad," said sopho­it's not a part of make a choice cheating the he's not who 
sophomore
more Maddy Saunders. "At my day to day now, just to end other guy out," wanted, I would
Sara Woolf 

least the people that life." it. I would find junior Ann want the presi­
freshman 

abst~ined voiced their opin­Also playing an something to Mulligan said. "I dent to have the ions. important role in pull me one way think changing the rules popular vote." 
Siegfried junior Rob the election's outcome were or another," said would really encourage peo­Murphy was one of the non­the 7 percent of students who Brownschidle. ple to vote, because their Contact Amanda Michaels at voters and attributed his voted but chose to abstain. Now that this previously vote would really make a dif-amichael@nd.edu 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
Dame is prohibited from interfer­ing in the production by its com­mitment to academic freedom, said Rose Lindgren, a staff and cast member. 
Support has also come from such sources as Pangborn Hall, whose hall government proposed a reso­lution to donate funds from the hall tax to V-Day. 
"We had to drop that idea after speaking to Student Affairs," Pangborn rector Heather Rakoczy said. Instead, she said the dorm collected spare change from resi­dents and donated the proceeds to the group. 
Performances of The Vagina Monologues have also sparked protest and criticism since the beginning. Critics accuse Ensler, who is a lesbian, of furthering an anti-marriage, pro-lesbian agenda, and describe the play as "obscene" and "pornographic." When the Notre Dame chapter of V-Day organized its first performance in February of 2002, alumni and stu­dents polarized into those who sup­ported the production and those who wanted the administration to ban it. 
Saint Mary's students organized their own V-Day chapter and pro­duction in 2000; however, presi­dent Marilou Eldred forbade its performance again the following year on the grounds that no other theatrical production was done every year. Students responded by holding unofficial readings of the Monologues and organizing other V-Day events. 
Most recently, Loyola University banned its students' production of the Monologues. citing concerns about the play's language. Students there have pledged to continue with unofficial readings. 
The Saint Mary's chapter also continues to have unofficial read­ings, as well as inviting their stu­dents to attend the performance at Notre Dame. V-Day organizers at Saint Mary's declined to com­ment on the activities of the group on their campus. 
Lindsey Horvath, director of Notre Dame's production of the Monologues, said she has been contacted by many V-Day organiz­ers from colleges around the nation, especially those with a Christian or Catholic orientation. She has given them advice on how to prevent a production from being shutdown. 
The activities of Notre Dame's chapter of V-Day are not limited to the production of The Vagina Monologues. They are organizing the "1 percent campaign," a drive to get Congress to allocate 1 per­cent of the current U.S. defense budget to active defense of women. This includes combating female genital mutilation, establishing shelters and preventing domestic violence. Additionally, they are sponsoring "Vis for Vote," provid­ing Indiana voting registration information to all interested, as well as women's issues track records of all the 2004 presidential candidates. 
On Wednesday evening, the V­day organization sponsored an "open mike night" at Reekers. Students were offered the chance to deliver poetry, stories and per­sonal accounts of rape or domestic violence. 
V-Day also sponsored the "Clothesline Project," which brought victims of sexual assault or domestic violence together and invited them to design t-shirts about women's issues. These shirts will be hung at Stepan Center for the Monologues performance and have been displayed for several days in the main lobby of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
"We are, symbolically, trying to air out our society's dirty laundry," Horvath said. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.I @nd.edu 

2046 South Bend Ave 
272-1766 
Open for lunch, dinner and late night fun There is always action at Bookmaker's 
Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens 
Mon lues 
Wed 
Thurs Fri, Feb 13 Sat, Feb 14 Sun 

Specials all day long Every Thes. is ND Night, DJ, and specials starting at $1.00 all day long Karaoke 9-12 and all day specials, starting at $2.50 Lunch and daily specials Live music with Blues Inc. Live music with Jazzy Grass Sports all day and all you can eat Buffet $5.95 


The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, February 27, 2004 
Cleveland and Ironwood Road>!180II Cleveland Road! South Bend. Indiana 46637 I (574)272-8110 
Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 Bedroom Apartments still available 

• 
Security patrolled nightly 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 13, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TriE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Most-wanted terrorist suspect dies 
WASIIINGTON -One of Saudi Arabia's 
most-wanted terrorism suspects has died 
from injuries in a November shootout with 
security forces, a U.S. official said 
Thursday. 
Arner Mohsin Moreef AI Zaidan al-Shihri 
rnadn it to a safehouse where he was treat­
nd by a nurse, but he later died, said the 
official, who spoke on condition of anonymi­
ty. 
The Saudi Interior Ministry said in 
November that the live-hour shootout in a 
residential neighborhood of the Saudi capi­
tal, Hiyadh, left one suspected militant dead 
and eight policemen wounded. Witnesses 
said several other militants escaped. 
The Saudi government has never declared 
ai-Shihri to be dead. 
. Mexico accuses U.S., Britain of spying 
MEXICO CITY -Mexico has asked the 
United States and Britain to explain recent 
accusations they spied on U.N. delegations in 
the run-up to the war in Iraq. 
Mexico's request came a day after Chile 
claimed its U.N. mission telephones were 
tapped as the Security Council considered a 
resolution backed by Washington, Britain and 
Spain authorizing war against Saddam 
I lussein. 
A Chilean government spokesman refused to 
say who was suspncted of tapping the tele­
phones, but said government officials 
"1~xpressed our concern to the respective insti­
tutions." 
On Saturday, a London newspaper reported 
that British intelligence acted on a U.S. request 
for help in eavesdropping on U.N. delegates' 
home and oflicc telephones before the war. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Clark to endorse front-runner Kerry 
WASHINGTON -Wesley Clark will nndorse presidential contender John Kerry, a high-profile boost for the front-runner as he looks to wrap up the party's nomination, according to Democratic officials. 
With next week's Wisconsin primary loom­ing, Clark plans to join Kerry at a campaign stop in Madison. Wis., Friday to make a for­mal endorsement, said officials, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Clark spokesman Matt Bennett would not confirm the endorsement, and would only say, "General Clark is looking forward to going to Wisconsin to be with Senator 
K1~rry." 
Soldier arrested for aiding ai-Qaida 
FOHT LEWIS, Wash. -A National Guardsman was arrested Thursday and charged by the Army with trying to pro­vide information to the al-Qaida terrorist network, the military said. 
Army Lt. Col. Stephen Barger confirmed that Spc. Hyan Anderson was charged with aiding the enemy by wrongfully attempting to communicate and give intel­ligence to al-Qaida. Anderson, 26, is being held at Fort Lewis, an Army base near Tacoma. 
Barger declined to give any details on the arrest, including what information allegedly was given to al-Qaida or how it was provided. 
LOCAL NEWS 
House to vote on Indiana time zone 
INDIANAPOLIS -A leading lawmaker expects the House to vote next week on a resolution asking the federal government to move most of Indiana to the Central time zone and have it observe daylight-saving time. 
Hep. Chet Dobis, D-Merrillville, said Thursday that he senses more legislative momentum now behind making a time switch than there has been in his 34 years in the General Assembly. He also said he believed the resolution would pass. 
Gay weddings performed in Calif. 
San Francisco city officials allow 15 same-sex marriages in protest ofstate law 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -In an 
open challenge to California 
law, city authorities per­
formed at least 15 same-sex 
weddings Thursday and 
issued about a dozen more 
marriage licenses to gay 
and lesbian couples. 
By midafternoon, jubilant gay couples were lining up under City Hall's ornate gold dome and exchanging vows in two-minute ceremonies that followed one after another. 
"Today a barrier to true justice has been removed," said Gavin Newsom, newly elected mayor of the city considered the capital of gay America. 
No state legally sanctions gay marriage, and it remains unclear what prac­tical value the marriage licenses will have. The wed­dings violate a ballot meas­ure California voters approved in 2000 that defines marriage as a union between a man and a woman. 

The move by San Francisco's mayor came as lawmakers in Massa­chusetts continued to debate a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage in that state, where the nation's first legally recognized same-sex weddings are set to take had been together. to do this," said Randy couples. But city officials place this Spring under a "I understand there are Thomasson, executive struck first. ruling from the Massa­wrinkles that need to be director. "This is nothing Lyon and Martin said after chusetts high court. worked out, but as far as more than a publicity stunt their brief ceremony that 
The assembly-line nup­I'm concerned, we will be that disrespects our state they were going home to tials began with longtime married," said Molly McKay law and system of govern­rest and did not plan any­lesbian activists Phyllis as she and her partner of ment itself." thing to celebrate. The cou­Lyon, 79, and Del Martin, eight years, Davina San Francisco officials ple seemed proud of what 83, who were hurriedly Kotulski, stood at the clerk's insisted the licenses are they had done. issued a married license counter. legally binding and would "Why shouldn't we be and were wedded just During one of the wed­immediately confer new able to marry?" Lyon asked. before noon by City dings, performed before TV benefits in everything from The mayor was not pres­Assessor Mabel Teng in a cameras, the vows were health coverage to funeral ent at the morning ceremo­closed-door civil ceremony rewritten so that "husband arrangements. ny but later presented at City Hall. The two have and wife" became "spouse California Attorney Martin and Lyon with a been a couple for 51 years. for life." General Bill Lockyer had no signed copy of the state con­
About 30 couples crowded A conservative group comment. stitution with sections relat­outside the San Francisco called the Campaign for The gay marriages were ed to equal rights highlight­County Clerk's office await­California Families called timed by city officials to out­ed. ing licenses, many arm in the marriages a sham. maneuver the conservative The two official witnesses arm. One of the women, "These unlawful certifi­group. The group had were Kate Kendell, director wearing a white wedding cates are not worth the planned to go to court on of the National Center for dress and veil, encouraged paper they are printed on. Friday to stop the mayor's Lesbian Rights and former couples to shout out their The renegade mayor of San announced plans to issue city official Hoberta names and how long they Francisco has no authority marriage licenses to gay Achtenberg. 

Human embryo successfully cloned 
The Bush administration favors such here Thursday said they have already
Associated Press 

action and referred reporters to a been the target of street demonstra­
SEA'ITLE -In a clash of politics and statement by the president calling for tions and egg-throwing incidents in science, the frrst successful cloning of a "a comprehensive and effective ban." Seoul even though their work is direct­human embryo -and the extraction of "Human life is a creation, not a com­ed at treating diseases and not at mak­stem cells from it -has ignited new modity, and should not be used as ing cloned babies. calls for a ban on all forms of human research material for reckless experi­Woo Suk Hwang, lead author of the cloning in the United States. ments," Bush said last month. study, admitted at a news conference 
The cloning announcement by South Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who that the technique developed in his lab Korean scientists on Thursday prompt­voted against a bill passed last year by "cannot be separated from reproduc­ed members of Congress and church the House that called for a ban on tive cloning" and called on every coun­leaders to ask for immediate legisla­human cloning, said there needs to be try to prevent the use of the technology tion. legislation that would prevent cloning in that way. 
"Cloning human beings is wrong. It is of babies, but permit "lifesaving stem He said the work was controlled and unethical to tinker with human life," cell research to proceed under strict regulated by the Korea Stem Cell said Rep. Joe Pitts, R-Pa. A ban must be ethical guidelines." Research Center "to prevent the remote passed, he said, "before this unethical Two South Korean scientist who possibility of any uncontrolled accidents science comes to our shores." announced the landmark achievement such as human reproductive cloning." 
Friday, February 13, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Racial issues forum celebrates black history 
Rights Movement a national a clash Americans viewed as "Resistance is the base," he the professors when the floor By TRICIA DE GROOT success, he said. "good versus evil, evil versus said. "How to resist has was opened up for questions. News Writer "These struggles are still acceptable." Pierce further always been the question." 
very much alive today, but we related this event to his theme The evening concluded with Contact Tricia de Groot at Three Notre Dame history cannot allow that reality to of resistance. an opportunity to speak with pdegroot@nd.edu 
professors specializing in deemphasize the achievements racial issues kicked off a cele­of this movement," Guglielmo bration of Black History Month said. "We can all make a dif­
Valentine's Day is Coming! 
when they spoke at a forum in ference if we organize, mobi­Welsh Family Hall on lize and are determined." 
To find the perfect gift for your snookums, come to 
Thursday night. Following Guglielmo's pres­Welsh multicultural commis­entation, Osborn spoke to the sioners Arienne Thompson group about African history in 
Irish Gardens
and Shawtina Ferguson facili­Sierra Leone, Africa. She tated the event and invited emphasized the ties that this 
Flowers *Balloons *Potpourri* Betta Fish* Chocolate
their past and current profes-country shares with the United sors Emily States and how 
Preorders accepted until Thursday, Feb..~2
Osborn, Tom important it has Guglielmo and "If these folks can been to African 
Walk-in orders after Feb. ~2 are limited to roses Richard Pierce to history.
do it, why can't I 
and pre-made bouquets. Preorder Today!
attend the event She said Sierra
take an active role 
and share their Leone served as own reflections and try and bring an example of 
Irish Gardens

on black history cultural and race
about a more just 
located on the Lower Level ofLafortune
with students. relations far
society?,

Guglielmo ahead of their 
574-631-4004 flowersh.op.nd.t'Sdu MC./11t·sa accepted
began with an time and account of a life­Tom Guglielmo expressed her altering book hope that,
professor

about the Civil through this Rights Movement example, people that his sister gave him as a would see Africa in a more 
Deadline Sunday!Christmas present in 1989. He positive light. said the book, "Parting the While negative perception of Waters" by Taylor Branch, current events often "erases influenced his decision to this complex, very rich past," 
Volunteer to be a Counselor at become a history major. Osborn said, her goal is "to Contrasting Branch's unusual show the ties the United States focus on ordinary people with shares with Africa." the usual focus on more The last professor to speak, prominent figures such as Richard Pierce, told his audi­Martin Luther King Jr., ence that "people believe 

*•
Guglielmo praised their will­African American history is a ingness to jump to action. history of trauma." However, "If these folks can do it, why Pierce said he views African 
Cam **can't I take an active role and American history as a history try and bring about a more of resistance. just society?" asked "If resistance is the lens Guglielmo. through which I see African 
Guglielmo said he appreciat­American history," Pierce ed the achievements of these asked, "then what is the "everyday folks determined resistance to follow?" that they could make a differ-. Pierce also described the 
esemence." The ordinary people boxing match involving Floyd were what made the Civil Patterson and Sonny Liston as 
The Colonial 
Pancake House 
Camp Kesem is a week-long summer camp designed
Family Restaurant 
for children who have/had a parent with cancer and
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 6:30-2:30 PM 
is organized by fellow Notre Dame and SMC students.
• 
Gourmet coffee 



• Daily lunch specials 
• 
Batters made from 


• 
Come see our ND room scratch 

• OPEN FOR OVER 35 YEARS 
Applications are due
• 
Famous apple pancake 


• 
Call us for all occasions ­& jumbo omelettes 


ask for Dave 
February 15th, 2004! 
THANK YOU FOR
r--------------..

IEnjoy one complimentary YOUR BUSINESS 
Applications available at:
:Entree when a second 
1Entree of equal or greater 

www.campkesem-nd.org
1 508 N. Dixie Way 
1Value is purchased Exp 2005 1 
SB, IN 46637 (574) 272-7 433 

email: info@campkesem-nd.org
·--------------· 

itedTime! 
MISHAWAKA  SOUTH BEND  
514 W. McKinley  117 North Main  
Corner McKinley & Grape  1 blk. south of Colfax  
574.252.5820  574.288.9450  
4615 Miami Road  
Miami & Ireland  
574.299.2860  

'Airtime offer valid on two-year consumer serv1ce agreements of $39 95 and h1gher Promotional phone subject to change Phone pricing includes a$30 marl-In rebate Customer is responsible for all sales taxes Reduced access fee valid for f1rst 3months of 24i11onth Serv1ce Agreement Free Incoming M1nutes available 1n local calling area on~ N1ght and weekend 
minutes are valid M-F9 pm to 559 am and all day Saturday and Sunday N1ght and weekend m1nutes are available 1n local 
calling area on~ Option of 3000 Ntghts and Weel:end Mtnutes. wtth a 7 pm start ttme. ts ONLY good on the pmmottonal 
rate plan of $39.95 for 1000 minutes. Roam1ng charges. fees. surcharges and taxes may apply. Activation fee $30 All serv­
~PREMIER

~US. Cellulm: r? ICe agreements subject to an early term1nat1on fee. Other restnct1ons may app~ See store for details llm1ted t1me offer 
LOCATIONS'

AUTHORIZED AGENT OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 28, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, February 13, 2004 
page 7 
Study shows increase in tire ratings 
WASHINGTON -Tires are better at resist­ing wear than they were in 2000, when Firestone recalled millions of tires that were prone to lose their tread and blow out, according to federal data released Thursday. 
But tire ratings for traction performance and heat resistance have seen little change since 2000, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said. 
Six percent of tires rated between a 500 and a 600 on resisting wear this year, mean­ing they can last four to six times longer than a basic tire, and at least 25 tires had a rating of 700 or higher. In 2000, there were hardly any tires with a 600 and no tires with a 700. 
NHTSA has been rating tires since 1980, but made its Web site easier to search this year in response to a call from Congress to make tire information readily available to consumers. There are ratings for more than 2,200 tires, including some that have been discontinued but may still be on store shelves. 
Dow 10 694.07 -43.63
}ones ' 
4 

Up: Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1,419 206 • 1,454,616,448 
AMEX 1,248.35 +2.15 NASDAQ 2,073.61 -16.05 NYSE 6,716.19 -34.86 S&PSOO 1,152.11 +12.22 NIKK£/(Tokyo) 10,424.30 -34.96 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,377.70 -18.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE SONUS NE1WORKS (SONS) -19.44 -1.30 30.10 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +3.32 +0.10 24.24 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.52 +0.03 31.23 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.78 -0.19 3.0 I COMCAST A SPCL (CMCSK) -3.16 -0.95 5.74 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.86 +0.42 49.39 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.92 +0.37 40.58 
5-YEARNOTE +2.40 +0.72 30.66 
3-MONTH BILL -1.32 -0.12 8.98 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.02 33.98 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.50 414.20 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.25 93.20 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 105.4 
EURO 0.7805 
POUND 0.5284 
IN BRIEF 
Drug at center of scandal approved 
WASIIINGTON -Erbitux, the drug at the center of the Martha Stewart stock scandal. won government approval Thursday as a treatment for colorectal cancer patients who have run out of other options. Erbitux is one of a new class of cancer medicines designed to specifically target and disrupt certain mole­cules that spur tumor growth. But it has got­ten more attention on Wall Street than in hos­pitals, because of the Stewart case. 
Manufacturer ImClone Systems initially sought FDA approval in 2001. But the agency in December of that year said the company's studies were so poorly done that scientists couldn't even evaluate whether Erbitux actu­ally helped patients. 
That rejection sent ImClone's stock plum­meting. Chief executive Sam Waksal is in prison after pleading guilty to securities fraud for dumping his stock just before the news became public. Now his friend, domestic diva Stewart, is on trial, accused of lying and secu­rities fraud after dumping her own holdings. She denies wrongdoing. 

Greenspan advocates tax cut 
Fed chair recommends trimming entitlement programs to make cut permanent 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Thursday that Congress should make President Bush's tax cuts permanent and cover the $1 trillion price by trimming future benefits in Social Security and other entitle­ment programs. 
Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee that Congress, "as a first order of business," should restore budget rules that cap discre­tionary government spend­ing and require increases in entitlement benefits or cuts in taxes to be offset by other program cuts or other tax increases. 
Greenspan was asked how he would come up with the decade-long cost of $1 tril­lion to pay for extending the 2001 and 2003 individual tax cuts. "I would argue strenuously that it should be taken out on the expendi­ture side," he answered. 
Greenspan, chairman of a commission that recom­mended solutions to a Social Security funding crisis in 1983, said he has felt for long time that the promised program benefits greatly outweighed the govern­ment's ability to pay for them. 
He recommended two items for study in terms of trimming benefits: Linking the retirement age to the population's longer life spans and tying annual cost of living benefits in Social Security to a less-generous inflation index than the Consumer Price Index. 
Committee members questioned whether such proposals could pass Congress, especially because they would cut benefits for the 77 million Americans in the baby boom.generation who are nearing retirement age. 
But Greenspan said it was precisely as a result of that looming wave of retirement that lawmakers need to update Social Security, Medicare and other entitle­ment programs. 


"We have constructed a good deal of the benefit structure over the last quar­ter century without a real firm look at whether or not the real resources were there to meet those bene­fits," Greenspan said. "And I suggest that what we have to do, as difficult as it's going to be, is to relook at some of these commitments." 
Greenspan said it would be far better to do that now than to discover later that the government does not have the resources to meet baby boomers' needs. 
"My real concern is that when the time comes to start to pay these benefits, we're going to find that we are in very serious fiscal dif­ficulty," Greenspan said. "I do think it's important for the people who are retiring to have a sense of security that what is being promised to them as they retire will indeed be there." 
The budget rules that Greenspan favors reinstat­ing expired in late 2002. He wants those "pay as you go" rules to apply to both spend­ing and taxes so the deficit does not worsen; Bush is recommending they cover only spending. 
If Bush got his way, he would not have to come up with the estimated $1 tril­lion needed to make the tax cuts permanent. 
Greenspan came out in support of the administra­tion on the idea of perma­nent tax cuts, even in the face of deficits estimated to reach a record $521 billion this year. 
At a critical point three years ago, the Fed chairman also endorsed the presi­dent's first tax cut, at a price of $1.35 trillion, as a good way to handle surpluses that were then projected to total $5.6 trillion over the next decade. 
Also during the hearing, Greenspan was questioned about a recent tell-all book written about former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, whom Bush fired in December 2002. 
In the book, O'Neill said he and Greenspan had a secret agreement that Greenspan would publicly call for a mechanism to be included in the 2001 tax cut that would tie the cuts in future years to continued budget surpluses. 

Microsoft source code leaked 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. said late Thursday that parts of its Windows source code -the tightly guarded blueprint of its dominant computer operating system -had been leaked over the Internet. 
Microsoft spokesman Tom Pilla said in an interview with The Associated Press that some incomplete portions of the Windows 2000 and Windows NT 4.0 source code had been "illegal­ly made available on the Internet." 
Access to the source code could allow hackers to exploit the operating system and attack machines running some versions of Windows. Several versions of the operating system, including the ones containing leaked code, are used on hundreds of mil­lions of computers worldwide. 

Such .access could also provide a competitive edge to Microsoft rivals, who would gain a much better understanding of the inner workings of Microsoft's technology. 
The company was made aware of the leak Thursday and was investi­gating, Pilla said. He did not know how much of the code had been leaked, when the leak occurred or how many people might have gained access to it. The company could not immediately pinpoint the source of the leak, and has contacted law enforcement authorities, he said. 
Pilla said there· was no indication the leak was a result of a breach of Microsoft's corporate network. There was no known immediate affect on Microsoft customers, he said. 
Microsoft has previously shared some of its source code with some companies, U.S. government agen­cies, foreign governments and uni­versities under tight restrictions that prevent such organizations from making it publicly available. But the company has argued that the blue­print to its operating system is pro­prietary, and shouldn't be made pub­lic. 
Still, because some people outside Microsoft have had access to the . code, analysts said it wasn't too sur­prising for such a leak to occur. 
Friday, February 13, 2004

ents, Steve and Jane, of

Istvan mentioned that this and small states. Here, we're all 
Pelican Lake, Wis.

arrangement hurts him, because Notre Dame students ... we're not 
Sharon
Results 
Addressed to "all our

a lot of his support came from that much different when it 
dear friends at Notre

students who live off campus. comes to what students want 
continued from page 1
continlJed from page 1 
Dame," the brief and

"I think it is set up unfairly. My done." 
heartfelt letter expressed

support came mostly from juniors Ebersol did not share the same 
ried," Moss said in his the family's everyday
Healy ticket and the Ryan Craft­and seniors, most of whom live opinion. 
Steve Lynch ticket. off campus, and they only get one "It's necessary that each dorm 
homily. "People like cer­struggles with the loss of 
"Those guys have been an senator," he said. "Their vote is has an equal voice," he said. "I 
tainty. Finding Chad put their son and their efforts 
an end to two months of to fulfill his wishes. 
amazing help since Monday," he miniscule now. I won [the senior think it's important that each 
total uncertainty, of won­The Sharons also wrote
said. "I think that just given more vote] by more than a 2 to 1 mar­dorm has equal representation 
time to get my message out gin. It's unfortunate that the and equal voices." 
dering what could've that they promised to 
helped because I think I was ... Constitution is set up in such a Ebersol added his own specula­
happened, where he return to campus again 
made to look like an inexperi­way that off campus students tion about how the election will 
could be." soon. After finishing the 
enced ticket, which I'm not. Also, count less. However, I would turn out. 
He said that the discov­letter, Poorman told lis­
higher voter turnout definitely never try to go against the "Based on the last election ... I 
ery of Sharon's body teners that a tree would 
had a lot to do with it." Constitution." think the two of us can get a 
brought resolution of this be planted in the spring 
Ebersol also commented on the While Ebersol-Leito won the pretty good idea of where the 
uncertainty, but also to honor Chad Sharon's 
increased voter turnout, which is freshman class 551 to 443 votes votes stand." he said. "I fell 
prompted questions memory, and that his 
unusual for a runoff election. and the sophomore class 493 to about 70 votes [in the runoff]. 
about the injustice of los­diploma would be award­
''I'm very familiar with the last 379 votes, Istvan-Bell won the and [Istvan] gained almost exact­
ing such a young life. ed posthumously at grad­
five elections through my junior class 490 to 323 votes and ly 1,000, but he gained a lot of 
"We ask why we had to uation ceremonies in May 
research, and this is the first the senior class 409 to 170 votes. off campus votes. If you look at 
lose somebody so young, of 2006. 
time there's been an increase [in However, the Student Senate is the last election, you have a pret­
somebody so talented, Moss reminded those in 
voting from the primary to the set up with only one off campus ty good idea of who wins what 
somebody so happy, attendance to rejoice in 
runoff] in the last five years," he senator and one senator from dorms." 
somebody so thrilled Sharon's life, although 
said. "It's a very clear indication each dorm. "I would willingly bet that if 
about being at ND," Moss his time at the University 
said. "We don't know the had been cut short. 
of what students either wanted A further issue now complicat­you looked at the last election 
or did not want." ing the election is that each you would be able to figure out 
reasons. We can see and "He was only with us 
Poindexter informed the candi­dorm. regardless of size, will who is going to win this election," 
not understand. But we for four short months, 
dates Thursday of the procedure receive only one vote in the he said. 
can trust that Chad is one but he certainly left his 
that will be followed. The Student Senate meeting Sunday. In Monday's election, Ebersol­
with the Lord, and we mark," Moss said. "God 
Union Constitution states that if "I think it's unfortunate for the Leito won 22 of 27 dorms. Istvan­
are one with Chad." was ready to welcome 
no ticket wins the required kids that live in the big dorms," Bell won 3, Healy-Healy and 
At the close of the Chad in his own 
amount of votes. "the Student said Istvan. "It's not like the fed­Craft-Lynch each won one dorm. 
Mass, Father Mark embrace." 
Senate shall convene a closed eral system in the United States 
Poorman, vice president 
meeting and select the winner by where you have drastically dif­Contact Maureen Reynolds at 
for student affairs, read a Contact Claire Heininger 
a majority vote." ferent views coming from the big mreynold@nd.edu 
letter from Sharon's par-at cheining@nd.edu 

Friday, February 13, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Men compete for pageant title 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
Missnd the Mr. ND Pageant? 
Thern will be another chance to get your fill of Notre Dame's finest at 2 p.m. on Saturday, when male Notre Dame students compete for the title of "Mr. Cool Water" here on campus. 
Legends and the magazine Sports Illustrated on Campus have designed a Cool Water cologne promotional event. 
"[The ideal generated from Sports Illustrated on Campus," said Jonathan .lorissen. program coordinator at Legends. "Cool Water is a sponsor of Sports Illustrated on Campus. and the represen­tatives here at Notre Dame heard about the pageant." 
The campus representatives submitted a proposal to be one of three schools hosting the event. The pageant is in affiliation with Cool Water's search for the new face of their cologne. Any male attending the event is eligible for the modeling contract, and the winning model will also win a date with a Sports Illustrated swimsuit model. 
According to Jorissen. each men's dorm was eligible for one entrant in the pageant, as well as one Mr. Off-Campus. The judges will be represen­tatives from the women's resi­dence halls, with Cheryl Turski serving as emcee. 
In addition to the title, the top three winners will receive cash prizes of $100, $50 and $25, respectively. 
The event will take place after the men's basketball game against Seton Hall on 
Saturday. scheduled for 12 noon at the JACC. 
"We're anticipating a good turnout," Jorissen said. "The guys are invited to bring sup­port groups ... part of the competition is the crowd response, so they are encour­aged to bring as many people as possible. 
Th-e event has not been heavily advertised, although all students on the Legends e­mail list received information on the competition. 
Posters in residence halls have also publicized the event. 
The timing of the event ­after the men's basketball game -should also bring people to Legends, Jorissen said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Threats 
continued from page I 
death threats previously, he does not consider these recent threats to be as seri­ous in nature. 
"The thing that gets me the most is that people don't want to confront me." Ebersol said. "I am right now reacting to an invisible group that is either unwilling or doesn't want to confront me and ask me questions to find out what about me they don't like. r can't defend myself." 
Ebersol added that this election's issues were lost as students tended to focus more on the individuals themselves. 
Reacting to Thursday's runoff election results. sever­al students said they voted for Istvan and Bell because of their personal dislike for Ebersol. 
"I'm a CBS fan myself," freshman Dan Nickele said, referencing Ebersol's father Dick Ebersol, who is Chairman of NBC Sports. 
"''ve heard he's just a jerk, not that I know him person­ally," Nickele said. 
Ebersol's running mate, Leito, said he was not the subject of personal attacks. and that he docs not believe his own campaign experi­ence -both the negative and the positive -was unlike previous campaigns. 
Istvan and Bell reported an overall positive experience. 
"fl have received) nothing but positive feedback," Istvan said. "If that disgust­ing stuff is happening to fEbersol]. I feel awful and that is not what this [elec­tion I is supposed to be about." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes1@nd.edu 


UPPER DECK 
• 
Notre Dame Graduation Tent Parties at Coveleski Stadium-Friday and Saturday Nights 

• 
Great for JPW and Graduation Parties 


235-9985 
Lynn E. Turner 
Lessons Learned­Changes Needed 
Monday, February 16, 2004 3 p.m. co 4:15p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: Department of Accountancy Mendoza College of Business 
Free and open to the public For information: (574) 631-7324 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ' Mendoza College ofBusiness 
THE 0BSER\'ER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 13, 2004 
Festival a step in right direction 

Five years ago, Notre Dame students were participating to Church teachings. By allowing the Queer Film Festival, in hunger strikes to protest the University's policy toward Notre Dame shows a commitment to both academic free­homosexuals. dom and a more accepting social attitude. If the University 
This week, department-sponsored students are running truly opposed the event, it undoubtedly could have refused and attending the first Queer Film Festival on campus. to permit it on campus. Permitting events like the Queer It's a big change -and a huge step in the Film Festival shows the University's willing­right direction. ness to explore social and gender issues in 
O
Jhe
Granted, the University's policy toward userver the pursuit of academic enlightenment. They homosexual individuals -both students and also show that the University's attitude is faculty -is still far from perfect. The same becoming more open in regard to alternative issues that prompted protests and controver­lifestyles, marking the first step toward actu­
Editorial sy throughout the 1990s are still unresolved. al, tangible progress. Gay groups are still denied club status and the University's Now that Notre Dame is more openly displaying this atti­non-discrimination clause still does not include homosexu­tude, it should quicken its pace in implementing changes. als. Catholicism is the most identifying characteristic of the 
But considering Notre Dame's outspoken, hard-core University, but that same religious commitment should be Catholic identity, its reluctance to fully and openly sanction used to justify full inclusion. A main tenet of the Catholic homosexual causes or groups is somewhat understand­faith is that all people are equal and love should be univer­able. The backlash from various Catholic organizations sal; the University should act on that tenet and include and alumni would most likely be overwhelming, and the sexual orientation in its non-discrimination clause. It University's cautious moves are most likely an effort to should be commended for its recent allowances and exhi­avoid such a vehement reaction. bition of a more tolerant mindset, but the administration 
There is a difference between preserving Notre Dame's should build upon that mindset and turn to action by tak­Catholic identity and encouraging academic debate by ing the major steps needed to secure full equality for all allowing presentations that exhibit perspectives contrary people on this campus. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Film Festival taints Notre Dame 
. ,. ·: ,•: ..: 
: ·=· =· :·
=~= 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
ri.~~ ·•••.······
>< . 

.••.••£:. 
·: : ':. •' 
"I am the Immaculate Conception." 

Thus spoke the Mother of God to Saint Bernadette Soubirous in 1858, just four years after Blessed Pope Pius IX solemnly proclaimed the doctrine of Our Lady's Immaculate Conception. 
Our Lady was preserved from all stain of sin from the first moment of her conception so that she would be the singular vessel of devotion in which the Word would become Flesh by the power of the Holy Ghost to dwell amongst us and to redeem us on the Wood of the Holy Cross. 
Our Lady saw the horror of what our sins did to her Divine Son in His Sacred Humanity as he hung on the Cross on Calvary on Good Friday. Her Immaculate Heart was pierced with the sword of sorrow that had been prophesied by the aged Simeon in the Temple at the Presentation. 
Cooperating with the graces won for us on Calvary and relying upon our sinless Blessed Mother's maternal interces­sion, we are called to be free from all stain of sin in this life. It is thus an evil thing to persist in sin unrepentantly, worse yet to celebrate it publicly as something noble and virtuous. It is an act of utter blasphemy to connect the Holy Name of Mary with one of the four sins that cry out to Heaven for vengeance, as is being done this very week on the campus of the University of Notre Dame du Lac in Notre Dame, Indiana. 
To make reparation for the "film festival" celebrating per­verse evil on Our Lady's campus, Christ or Chaos, Inc., is calling upon all Catholics of good will to pray an extra set of Sorrowful Mysteries of Our Lady's Most Holy Rosary each and every day that this celebration of perversity is taking place on her campus. 
Thomas Droleskey President Christ or Chaos, Inc. Alumni Class of 197 4 

Editor's Note: This letter was originally submitted to The Observer as an advertisement. However. because The Observer does not allow advertisements of an ideological nature, The Observer's Editorial Board rejected the adver­tisement and offered the author a chance to resubmit the text to the Viewpoint section. 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Do you think Notre Dame should host the "Queer Film Festival" 

"Pretty much all the honest truth-telling 
and "The Vagina Monologues?" 

there is in the world is done by children." 
A. It should host both 55% 
B. Just Monologues 3% 
C. Just Film Festival 4% 

Oliver Wendell Holmes
D. It should not host either 38% 

American poet, essayist, novelist 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 602 responses. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 13, 2004 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A letter from the Sharons 
We just wanted to write and let you all know how much we really appreciate all that you have done for us and for Chad. There are no words that can express how thankful we are to have caring people like all of you at the University and the surrounding community. We could not imagine how we would have handled a tragedy like we've been through without all of your love and caring. You have done all that you could do for us and then a lot more. 
We just want to let you know that we are doing okay. Every day seems to bring about some sort of challenge to deal with. But we will deal with each and every one, as we know Chad would want us to. We still wonder every day what really happened that day that Chad was taken from us. But we know someday we can ask him. We have to just trust that God is tak­ing good care of him. 
I promise we will be back to see all of you again. Until then remember, as we do, that Chad is watching all of us, and one thing we all can do for him is make him proud of all of us. We sure were proud of him. Now it'!! our turn to show him. Take care and God bless everyone. 
Steve and Jane Sharon parents of Chad Sharon Feb. II 

Dispelling myths about Bush's economy 
IJespite what you hear from Democratic 
presidential hopefuls and Republican pundits, 
the Bush administration can take little respon­
sibility for the state of the American economy 
since January 2001. 
Complex macroeconomic trends, business 
cycles and even the 
meaning of the words 
Bill Rlnner

"gross domestic prod­
uct" often elude the 
understanding of aver­
A Voice

age Americans, and 
ofReason

those with a party 
stance to push can pick 
and choose their statis­
tics to shove down our throats to either dispar­
age Bush or glorify him. Consequently, anum­
ber of myths have evolved regarding Bush's 
connection to economic developments that 
must be addressed. 
Myth number one: "Bush has lost millions of jobs since he took office." This claim not only ignores economic developments at work even before Bush took office, but also assumes that Bush is directly responsible for every business's personnel decision made immediately after his inauguration. The stock market bubble and ensuing tech crash, followed by the shock of Sept. 11, took a devastating toll on American business that had already experienced a reces­sion inherited before Bush even took office. 
The recession and bubble-burst took a dou­
ble toll on employers; cutting or freezing hiring 
during periods of negative growth is a common 
practice, but an entire sector faced downsizing 
as over-investment in tech stocks reduced to 
rubble, causing the substantial rise of unem­
ployment that is currently declining. 
Myth number two: "Bush has allowed the outsourcing of countless jobs to foreign coun­tries." Corollary to myth number one, this myth is not so much a falsehood as it is a mis­understanding of the nature and motivation for outsourcing jobs. Until recently, hardly any politicians seemed to pay much attention to outsourcing factory and tech jobs, but as the practice increased over the last few years, elected officials now perceive it as a potential hot issue, and pending legislation is piling up. The Senate passed a bill in late January ban­ning the outsourcing of government technical jobs to India that Bush will likely sign into law, but the president also has intimated that he approves of outsourcing as a necessary prac­tice. 
Is Bush in the pockets of his corporate cronies, or does he simply possess a better understanding of the global economy than those who decry outsourcing entirely? Bush, who possesses a llarvard MBA, undoubtedly understands that for any business to grow, it must rmd ways to cut costs in the short run, including jobs. One consideration that oppo­nents of outsourcing overlook is that business­es require ways to trim costs to grow and ulti­mately provide more jobs both at home and abroad. Taking a hard-line stance against out­sourcing could discourage certain businesses 
from creating any jobs at all. 
Also overlooked is the existing business atmosphere that causes outsourcing itself. Compared to Third World countries, we pay higher wages, maintain tighter environmental regulations and provide a friendly environment for unionization, so businesses jump on the opportunity to move factories to a friendlier locale. Wedging businesses between strict restrictions and broad based laws that prevent outsourcing could lead to yet another reces­sion, so legislators must find a way to balance the two conflicting forces at work. 
Myth number three: "Bush has created the highest deficit in United States history." Bush's record of high spending since he took office is indisputable, but this claim is not true when analyzing the deficit as a percentage of GOP, a measure that takes the current level of growth and the current size of the economy into account. During the early to mid '80s and the early '90s, the deficit as a percentage of GOP was higher than the most recent fiscal year. Both periods of high deficits preceded periods of sustained growth, and critics of yesteryear echoed those of today who claim that the deficit will run the economy into the ground. History proved the critics wrong, and ifthe country's growth continues, the deficit will like­ly decrease to more manageable levels. 
Republicans once claimed to be the party of deficit hawks, but as their commander-in-chief spends .like an old-schoolliberal, the opposition party must naturally fill the void and champion a platform of balancing the budget or at least curbing federal spending. As the election draws near, the Democratic candidate must present a sound fiscal policy that addresses purportedly excessive spending by the incum­bent. 
Will the candidate propose to limit military spending while the country is at war? Will he overturn Bush's massive Medicare expansion? Will he take the unpopular stance of raising taxes? More to the point, after Bush has spent the last two years spending like a Democrat, will the Democrats respond by reversing their usual platform of funding a wide variety of social programs? 
Even if Bush does not serve a second term, he has stuck a hefty thorn in Democrats' side, where they must either embrace conservative spending principles or risk increasing the deficit to even higher levels. Perhaps there is method in the madness of Bush's spending after all. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying at the London School ofEconomics. For Valentine's Day. he decided to write a col­umn that had as liUle to do with love as possi­ble. His column appears every other Friday. and he can be contacted at wrinner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Settling the far-left conspiracy agatnst marrtage 
Today, Friday the Thirteenth, is unlucky for the American principle of equality, as the Massachusetts state legislature marches on with zeal to "defend" the institution of marriage from its state supreme court. 
Gary Caruso 

This political non issue, how­ever, nicely fits 
Capitol

the president's 
Comments

political agenda. It will be tragic and pathetic if Americans allow such acrimony to con­trol the political landscape this year. 
When President Clinton, a man for whom I worked, signed the Defense of Marriage Act conceived by congres­sional Republicans, he caved on a tough political issue. Deep down inside, all of us knew it was a political stunt. Yet Clinton wanted to avoid the political baggage he suffered early in his term on the military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy. He refused to stand up for prin­ciple and surrendered the issue to its opponents. 
Democrats are now skirting the issue again in an effort to neutralize it in the election. Today's atmosphere is remi­niscent of the politically-charged fervor that steamrolled our rush to war against Iraq. Regardless of the out­come of this year's political efforts, that embraces the notorious Bouvier sisters, Selma and Patty, as role models for the far-left's alternative solution. What better example than the sisters who are regular characters on the weekly television comedy "The Simpsons?" After all, our solution is based on a television series which places its characters in a church set­ting more than any program on televi­sion. 
Supporters of the alternative, like their conservative counterparts, have also chosen to ignore the fact that no religion will be forced to marry same­sex partners. Rather, this far-left approach attempts to appeal to the secular qualities that Selma and Patty's casual cigarette usage, two divorces, 14-year stature as Emmy winners and celebrity icons has brought into American homes. Focus groups found their television roles as public servants at the motor vehicles office blurs with viewers who place patriotism above any insignificant civil liberty. 
The far-left proposal is simple and neat to administer. It bestows the iden­tical rights afforded to a married cou­ple upon anyone who chooses to live together ... legalities absent any reli­gious connection or recognition. Patty and Selma, as sisters, currently share survivorship rights, but cannot share 
health insurance, pensions or a 
many who avoid the issue 
host of other rights that a know its irrelevance and married couple enjoys. The how fundamentally so-called "Selma and 
wrong it is in this nation dedicated to equality and free­dom. The issue is as outrageous as suggesting that one way streets threaten our system of com­merce. 
Last October, President Bush proclaimed a week as "Defense of Marriage Week" and began his steady schedule to wink and nod at his self-righteous, intolerant religious base. Bush set the stage to energize the fundraising efforts of right-wing religious leaders like Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, who see themselves as political beacons of conservative light in the mucky sea of liberalism. 
They preach that their specific method of worship and strict belief of being born again on earth is the only path toward salvation. They are the types who cannot fathom the notion that God may have actually used the evolutionary process to create our world. These closed-minded types do not generally care for Catholicism but politically welcome Catholics to join their anti-abortion efforts. They defi­nitely ignore our "wrong" Catholic ver­sion Bible, our belief in a Vtrgin Mother and our "worship" of people we deem as saints. In short, they are only toler­ant when others think and act as they 
-do. 
Tomorrow, as President Bush winks and nods again to the NASCAR folks at the Daytona 500 race, he may feel smug at a social wedge issue for his campaign this year. But we liberals are secretly formulating our counter punch Patty Benchmark" is 
based on a person's dwelling arrange­ment similar to 
common law mar­
riage precedents. 
Whether a per­
son resides with 
a mother or sis­
ter, with a 
boyfriend or 
girlfriend, or a 
complete 
stranger of 
either sex, that 
person could 
share health insurance porta­
bility and other legal rights. That person's life would be legally equal to a 
married couple or common law couples without diminishing tra­
ditional institutions or vio­
lating the sanctity of marriage 

This alternative, based on the imaginary lives of these two professed "sisters," dramatically standardizes and simplifies a better quality of life for Americans through any number of combinations of living arrangements devoid of any religious infringements. The nation can turn from this distrac­tion to more important election year issues such as war and peace, life and death, or the decline of American pres­tige throughout the world. 
Overall, Americans are big winners leaving the fundraising efforts of Falwell and Robertson as big losers. 
Now that's what anyone would call a . far-left conspiracy. 
Gary Caruso served as a public and legislative affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday. lie can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 13, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Norah Jones avoids sophomore slump 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Dizzee Rascal is like no other 
Photo courtesy of mtv.com 

British rapper Dizzee Rascal's music is often just plain weird, but its uniqueness can be respected and enjoyed. 
disjointed, spacey beeps and bleeps of a Playstation 2 with heavy, droning thumps of a bass in the background. Many listeners will be immediately turned off by this, since it is not par­ticularly catchy and is often just plain weird. If you are looking for the next 'In Da Club," you will not find it here. Nonetheless, if given an open mind and some time, the uniqueness of Dizzee's sound can be readily respect­ed and enjoyed. 
However, to truly appreciate Dizzee, you must decipher his lyrics. His British accent is so thick that even simple words like "girl" can sound cryptic, and his cultural slang will go over your head unless you are well versed in British street lingo. But if you have the patience, or perhaps online written lyrics, you will find that Dizzee's rhymes are worth your time. 
Dizzee gives you the lowdown on the streets of East London, but it goes 
beyond just 
talking about 
many girls he can get like your average gangsta rap­per. He dis­cusses the trials and tribulations of his life but is not afraid to show con­flicting emotions and weaknesses. On "Brand New Day," he laments the difficulties of his life, saying, "Looks like I'm losing sight I Coz I'm looking at the future, it ain't right," but then says in the cho­rus, "But it's a brand new day I New opportuni­ties, what can I say?" 

Similarly, on "Do It" he says, "Sometimes I wake up wishing I can sleep forever I I spend my whole life trying to pull myself together," and then says in the chorus, "Sleep tight, everything will be alright." Other notable tracks are "I Luv U," which discusses underage sex, "Jezebel," a sad tale of a prostitute, and "Round We Go," where Dizzee talks about his girl problems. 
Boy in da Corner is certainly not for everyone, but Dizzee's talent is unde­niable. In fact, most hip-hop fans will likely want to skip Boy in da Corner because it lacks catchy beats and is difficult to understand. If you are By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Since its release. Come Away Wlth Me, Norah Jones' hugely successful debut album, has sold more than 17 million copies worldwide, won the "Big Three" at the Grammys in 2003 (Best New Artist, Album of the Year, and Record of the Year), and remains in the top 25 after 101 weeks on the Billboard charts. Despite the incred­ibly high expectations for this young artist's sophomore follow-up, Jones has bravely 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
London MC Dizzee Rascal may only be 18 years old, but his debut, Boy in da Comer, showcases a unique style that most veteran musicians do not achieve five albums deep into their careers. His music combines aspects of both hip-hop and electronica, but it is almost impossible to classify him under one or the other. And despite comparisons to 2Pac and 50 Cent, the truth of the matter is that even when you take away his British accent and slang, Dizzee simply sounds like nobody else, past or present. 
Virtually all of the production is done by Dizzee himself, and to say his beats are different from the norm is an understatement. Aside from the old school hip-hop beat of "Fix Up, Look Sharp," most of the production sounds like strange combinations of how tough he is, how nice
Bov in da Corner 

his rims are and how 
Dizzee Rascal 
courtesy of vh1.com Norah Jones' latest release combines the sultry jazz sound from Come Away With Me with a country/bluegrass twang. 

released Feels Like Home. Already ranked number one on the Amazon.com sales chart, Jones' second release is sure to be both a financial and popular success. 
On this album, Jones. who moved to Manhattan in 1999, has returned to her Texas roots, which would perhaps explain her choice for the title. Feels Like Home combines the sultry jazz sound made famous on Come Away With Me with a more country/bluegrass twang. Despite this slight stylistic change, Feels Like Home feels like a continuation of her previous album, which would be considered a good 
thing by most lis­
teners. 
Six of the 13 
tracks on Feels 
Like Home were 
written or co­
written by Jones 
herself. She has 
also included cov­
ers of Townes 
Van Zandt's "Be 
Here to Love Me" 
and Tom Waits 
and Kathleen 
Brennan's "The 
Long Way 
Home," and 
revised Duke 
Ellington's instru­
mental, 
"Melancholia," · by adding her 
own lyrics and 
renaming it 

Band, Jones' back-up group. Also, the tracks included on Come Away Wlth Me were generally very slow, mellow and soothing. Feels Like Home, on the other hand, features several songs that are upbeat, but still manage to possess the dreamy lounge quality of Come Away Wlth Me. 
The first single from Feels Like Home, "Sunrise," was released to radio stations in early January and is sure to gain increas­ing airplay. This song feels the most like those released on Come Away Wlth Me and is appropriately located at the beginning of Feels Like Home, easing the transition from one style to the next while subtly setting the stage for the rest of the album. 
"Creepin' In," the most country-flavored inclusion on the album. features Dolly Parton providing backup vocals. and feels more like an old country ditty than what is played on today's country radio stations. 
Although Feels Like Home most likely will not live up to everyone's expectations, it is simply because those expectations are too high. The album is a solid release with many great songs and is not likely to disap­point fans. but it cannot quite live up to the standard set by Come Away With Me. While Come Away Wlth Me offered a haven in a music world filled with pop stars and boy bands, the need for an album like Feels Like Home is no longer quite as urgent since Jones has paved the way for many other talented and unique artists to aehieve popularity. Despite this lack of urgency, Feels Like /lome remains a welcomed release and will probably achieve quiet success in the typieal Norah Jones fashion. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at etumbrin@nd.edu 
"Don't Miss You At All." While most of the songs on 
Come Away With Me 
focused on Jones' voice surrounded by soft and spare instrumenta­tion, Feels Like Home offers the more tangible presence of The Handsome 
Feels like Home 

looking for some hardcore rap to blare in your stereo while y-ou party, this is not for you. But if you have an open mind and want a fresh style to put into your CD player, than Dizzee is your man. Who knows? He may very well be the future of hip-hop and electronica. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
---------------------~~---­

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, February 13, 2004 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Sarah McLachlan continues to glow 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Criric 
Thnre arn not many artists who can eross the generation gap like Sarah McLaehlan. It would be dinieult to find a person who did not have at least a singing-along knowledge of one of her songs. Sarah McLachlan's angelic: voiee crooning lyrical poetry to a melodic piano is something everyone can appreciate, at the very least. While Afterglow is reminiscent of the old familiar hits from the Surfacing album, a whole new side of McLachlan's talent is exposed throughout her new album. 

Afterglow is the first album McLachlan has released in seven years, when her three-time Grammy winning album Surfacing made her a world-wide name. In that seven years, much happened in McLaehlan's life ­her mother died, and her daughter, India, was born five months following that death. Thus, the tracks on the album are a mix of love songs, songs of despair and songs of hope. McLachlan summarizes the album by explaining, "'When you look up 'after­glow' in the dictionary, it is defined as 'the glow or light that remains once the sun is gone.' You're used to this bright, shiny, beautiful glow but the moment the sun disappears, all of a sudden you have to readjust every­thing. It's a very transitional moment. A lot of these songs are about transi­tion ... the turning over of the rock, what's underneath, the murky, shad­owy uncertainty where everything looks very different." 
McLachlan ends up looking different to her fans on this album, in which there is a more ja.zz-likP rhythm to many of her songs with a greater mix of instrumentation throughout the album. One of the strongest songs on Afterglow is the current single, 
"Fallen." Not a happy or hopeful 
Afterglow
song, the lyrics still speak to 
Sarah Mclachlan 
everyone on some level as all 
Arista Records
people, at 
s o m e 
point, try hard and still mess u p McLachlan 


-
s a d I y s i n g s , "Though I've tried I've fallen I I have sunk so low I I messed up I Better I should know." "Fallen" also conveys the moderately depressing, but most likely true concept that "We believe that we can change ourselves I The past can be undone I but we carry on our back the burdens time always reveals." "Fallen" is not recommended as an addition to the party mixp,d CD, and if someone were feeling depressed, "Fallp,n" would probably just make that feeling worse; all that said, however, it is a still a terrifically beautiful song. 
The other major strong, ,...-and more hopeful -point of the album is found in "Push," a love song that doesn't fall prey to the cliches. Love and life aren't easy, and that is essentially what McLachlan conveys through "Push:" "Even when I have to push just to see how far you'll go I You won't stoop down to battle but you never turn to go." As a beautiful song about uncondi­tional love, "Push" reminds Sarah McLachlan fans why they have listened to Surfacing for the last seven years, waiting for the next McLachlan song to appear and speak to their lives. 
Afterglow comes eloser to ll~aving one crying versus glowing, but in the end it remains a spectacularly well­done album and a must-have for every fan who grew up on Surfacing. It is not her best work, but it is better than just about anyone else's in this genre. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Pale, rock's lighter side 
By BRIAN FOY 
Scene Music Critic 
Sometimes you have to wonder how a state like Washington can turn out great music. When people think of the great state of Washington, it may be easy to think of the rainy weather rather than the music. It has been more than a decade since the days when Nirvana, Pearl Jam and Soundgarden ruled the airwaves and spread the grunge movement across the country, but the state can still produce music capable of starting the next trend in music. The case and point to this claim is the indie band The Pale, which hails from Bellingham, Wash. 
The Pale's third album, Gravity Gets Things Done, is an ironic piece of pop/rock goodness. It is ironic, because, if The Pale were on a major label, these songs would be all over TRL and radio stations across the country; people would probably even end up hating the band because they would be played everywhere. However, The Pale is on the inde­pendent label SideCho records, so instead they are a great band most people have never had the opportuni­ty to hear before. 
T h e i r newest 
d i s c • 
Gravity G e t s Things D o n e , contains catchy songs in the spirit of their pop/rock fore fa­t h e r s Weezer and The C a r s . However, the disc is a bit more progres­sive than today's pop hits because of the depth and attention to detail that The Pale pay to their sound. The Pale are led by Gabe Archer and his cousin Cameron Nicklaus, who have honed their craft enough over the years to create a layered effect with their guitars, but have also managed to create incredibly catchy melodies and choruses for their songs. The cousins later added Greg Swinehart and Lance Fisher to round out the full and eclectic sound that makes The Pale much more than the run-of­the-mill pop/rock band. 


Gravity Gets Things Done excels for a plethora of reasons, but the most obvious might be the lyrics and melodies of Archer. The honesty of his lyrics, like those in the title track "I am the one I who can solve all your problems I a savior with only you to save" allows the listener to connect on a much deeper level than most bands. Additionally, Archer mixes in catchy rhymes that flow off the tongue, such as: "All the while I with your big dumb smile I and not a hint of worry on your face" from "Big Dumb Smile." Whether its heartfelt lyrics are catchy ones that rhyme, it is clear that Archer's lyrics get things done. 
The greatest accomplishment of Gravity Gets Things Done is its listen­ability. The album is rare in this day and age, because you can listen to it all the way through without having to skip around the songs that aren't up to par with the rest. The disc is multi-dimensional in that it is perfect to relax to, or you can be like Frank Ricard in Old School and have some dinner and pop it in like the Sisqo CD. Either way, Gravity Gels Things Done is sure to be music to your ears. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 

NHL 

Tampa Bay, Lecavalier defeat Montreal Canadiens 5-3 
Associated Press 
Not even a dismal start could slow the Tampa Bay Lightning. 
Vincent Lecavalier scored the go-ahead goal with 5:04 left, and the Lightning overcame a two-goal deficit to beat the Montreal Canadiens 5-3 Thursday night. 
Tampa Bay scored four goals on 23 shots during the third period in winning for just the second time when trailing after two (2-13-2). 
"We came in sound asleep ... we weren't ready to play," Lightning coach John Tortorella said. "The team stayed together. We just kept coming." 
Lecavalier, who also had two assists, was positioned in the low slot when he redirected Darryl Sydor's shot past Jose Theodore. 
"Obviously, it feels good com­ing back," Lecavalier said. "It proves we've got a lot of char­acter. Everybody stepped up to the plate." 
Martin St. Louis and Brad Richards each scored two goals for the Lightning. St. Louis got Tampa Bay even at 2 with bad­angle goals in the second and third periods. 
The Lightning are 8-1-1 in their past 10 games. 
Saku Koivu had a goal and two assists for the Canadiens. Andrei Markov and Jan Bulis scored the other Montreal goals. 
"It's always OK if you get some points," Koivu said. "But when you blow the lead, it's pretty frustrating." 
After wasting a two-goal lead, the Canadiens went up 3­2 on Bulis' goal at 7:45 of the third. The Lightning tied it when Richards scored at 13:37. 
Richards scored his second of 
the game into an empty net 
with 15.4 seconds to go. 
"We did what we had to do," said Tampa Bay's Ruslan Fedotenko, who had three third-period assists. "We start­ed shooting the puck. We just tried to dominate and keep putting the puck in the net. It paid off." 
Montreal is 22-3-0 when leading after 40 minutes. 
"We just lost our compo­sure," coach Claude Julien said. "We seemed like a team that was panicking for whatev­er reason. It ended up costing us. It's as simple as that." 
The Canadiens took a 2-0 
lead in the first period on goals 
by Koivu and Markov. 

Koivu scored on a backhan­der after Tampa Bay defense­man Pavel Kubina blocked his pass during a two-on-one at 
4:28. Koivu then assisted on Markov's power-play goal from the top of the right circle with 
3:06 left. 
St. Louis made it 2-1 with a power-play goal at 6:22 of the second. The right wing's shot from along the goal line went in off Theodore. 
Just 36 seconds after Richards hit the post, St. Louis tied it at 2 at 4:44 of the third when his shot from near the boards just in front the goal linedeflected off Koivu. 
Capitals 3, Hurricanes 3 
Pavel Brendl scored late in the third period Thursday night to lift the Carolina Hurricanes into a 3-3 tie with the Washington Capitals. 
Marty Murray and Sean Hill each scored for the Hurricanes, who are 0-5-2 in their last seven home games. Kevin Weekes had 18 saves for Carolina. which outshot Washington 41-21. 
Jeff Halpern had a goal and an assist for the Capitals, who had won the previous four meetings this season. Anson Carter and Mike Grier each scored for the Capitals, while Olaf Kolzig had 38 saves. 
Carolina's four previous loss­es to Washington this season cam.' by a combined score of 18-6, but this game was com­petitive and physical through­out. 
The game featured 17 penal­ties in the second period alone -including game misconduct penalties to Washington's Darcy Verot and Carolina's Bruno St. Jacques -and sev­eral tussles on the ice. 
Carter put the Capitals ahead 3-2 with a power-play goal. Standing in front of the crease, Halpern flipped the puck back to Carter on the left goal line while battling for position. 
Carter beat Weekes, who had come out when the puck was in front of net, at 8:03 of the third. 
Brendl answered with his 
fourth goal of the season, grab­
bing a rebound off a shot from 
Eric Staal and putting it in 
from the left side at 14:57. 
Carolina dominated the sec­
ond period and took a 2-1 lead 
on Hill's straightaway shot on 
the power play. The Hurricanes 
swarmed around the net, out­
shooting the Capitals 16-3 in 
the period, and would have led 

Reuters 
Saku Kolvu of the Montreal Canadlens Is embraced by his teammates after scoring a goal In the first period of their game against the Tampa Bay Lightning. The Canadlens went on to lose, 5-3. 
by more if not for Kolzig's solid just didn't have the energy to Ed Belfour made 18 saves in play. rally against the Toronto Maple his first start in almost two 
The netminder turned away Leafs. weeks. Belfour, who missed close shots by Jeff O'Neill, Gary Roberts and Darcy three games with a back injury, Justin Williams and Niclas Tucker scored power-play was rarely tested, but he did Wallin in the period to keep goals, and the Maple Leafs stop Todd Marchant on a par­Washington in it. beat the Blue Jackets 4-1 on tial breakaway after Marchant 
The Capitals tied it when a Thursday night. skated between two defense­shot by Peter Bondra bounced Columbus beat the Los men in the first period. off the skate of Halpern, rico­Angeles Kings in overtime the "They played the night cheted off Weekes and went in previous night. before. Maybe being tired was the net. Halpern was credited "It was just a case of us play­the case today," Belfour said. with the power-play goal at ing last night," Columbus Marchant scored the lone 
16:59 of the period. coach Gerard Gallant said. "We goal for the Blue Jackets, who 
looked tired. We worked hard have the worst road record in Maple Leafs 4, Blue Jackets and competed, but our top the NHL (3-17 -4-2). Columbus' 1 scorers just didn't get the scor­Rick Nash, the NHL's leading 
The Columbus Blue Jackets ing chances they usually get." goal scorer, admitted his team 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office; 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 0 min from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent 
574-299-4997 
FOOSBALL-Looking 4 high level players. Play at a tournament level but will teach also. Want top action or would like to learn call D 2574441 Freshmen check out www.nd2007.com 

WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
ATIN: BUSINESS OR COMPUTER MAJORS. Inventory analyst. $7.50/hr. Flex hrs. Strong background with computers & able to manage projects. Call Mark at 252-5300. 
FoR RENT 
B&B for JPW/grad/footbalf for up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to NO, email domercondo@ yahoo.com 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
Rental House, 2004-05@ 911 Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd firs, new windows,AC,wash!dry & alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is NDAium. 
Contact Lisa@ theemurphs@hot­mail.corn/619-804-3359 

DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS AS BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR....WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Condo for sale by 2 ND 1995 grads. Bright 1­bedroom condo on 24th floor in secure building steps from lake & public transportation. 1 0-15 minute walk to grocery & Wrigley Field. 
May 2004 closing. n3-929-3178 or nasserweiss@ hotmail.com 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683· 5038. 
NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND GREAT AREA FOR 5-6 STU­DENTS 2773097 
TICKETS 

Need one GA ticket for the Seton Hall game on Saturday. Please call Troy at 1-7983 or 361-9054. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Yay Joe's my Valentine 
... or his eco-terrorist cousin. 
Hancock 
Who says that? My progeny. :-) 

---~------~~­
Friday, February 13, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
-
-
·-­
UNO •SMC•HCC 
t=liPside:Wh() A__.e We? We provide low cost or FREE activities for students who choose not to drink whether it be for a night or a lifestyle, 
Wh() Can J()in? Any student enrolled in the University 
of Notre Dame. St. Mary's College. or Holy Cross College 
3

may participate in this organization. ~ 
·­

t-i()W can I uet rn()r-e IDV()IVed? Come to an informationol meeting at 7pm on Sunday in the Notre Dame Room of Lafortune or emai I 
dpo.rks@nd,edu~ 
Free Pizza and Drinks will be 
~4lcllllllll 

NFL 
Quarterback Henson tries to impress NFL scouts 
Associated Press 
-
HOUSTON -Drew Henson tried to show NFL scouts Thursday he can hit a receiv­er better than he could hit a curveball. 
Representatives from 20 teams gathered at the Houston Texans' practice bubble to w.atch the former Michigan quarter­back throw about 
75 passes. "! threw as good as I can make 
"I felt good," could have hoped initially is said Henson, a $238,000.
today.''
third base However, prospect for the Casserly New York Yankees Drew Henson and Condon until his release NFL hopeful quarterback believe 
last week. "I threw as good as I could have hoped today." 
Said Miami Dolphins general manager Rick Spielman: "He had an extremely good workout. He showed very good arm strength and he was very accurate with all of his throws." 
Henson last played football in the 2001 Citrus Bowl. The Texans, who have a young quarterback in David Carr, took Henson in the sixth Makovicka, themselves hop­ing to impress teams. 
"After this, Drew, myself and [agent] Tom Condon will sit down, find out who's inter­ested," Casserly said. "We'll start talking about contract, which will involve Tom Condon, and we'll talk trade, which would be myself." 
U n d e r 
rookie con­
tract rules, 
the most he 
Henson and a team could use some cre­

ativity to earn him a larger package. 
Henson hit .234 with 14 home runs, 40 doubles and 7 8 RBis for Triple-A Columbus last season. He struck out 122 times and made 22 errors. 
In a six-year minor league 
career that began on a Yankees rookie league team in 1998 and spanned 501 games, Henson hit .248 with 67 homers, 274 RBis and 556 strikeouts. During that span, the Yankees traded him to Cincinnati and reacquired him from the Reds. 
Henson was 1-for-9 and scored three runs for New York. He was a September callup by the Yankees in 2002 and 2003. 
Henson left Michigan before his senior season. As a junior, he completed 146 of 237 passes for 2,146 yards. He had 18 touchdowns and four interceptions. 
New York Jets offensive assistant Dick Curl acknowl­edged some teams watched the workout mainly to scout a future opponent. He was aware that two AFC East rivals -Miami and Buffalo ­could have Henson next sea­son. 
"In this profession, you have to do your homework because you never know what's going to happen," Curl said. 

round of last year's draft and are trying to trade his rights. 
A deal can't happen until March 4 under NFL rules. And if there's no trade before the April 24 draft. he goes back into the hopper, where he's been projected as a late first-round pick. 
Henson's workout came near Reliant Stadium, where the quarterback he once backed up at Michigan ­Tom Brady -was the Super Bowl MVP two weeks ago. 
Head coaches Mike Sherman of Green Bay and Mike Mularkey of Buffalo were in attendance. So was Houston-area resident Roger Clemens, one of Henson's for­mer Yankees teammates. 
Henson never developed into the star the Yankees pro­jected when they lured him from football with a $17 mil­lion, six-year deal in 2001. 
The Texans scheduled this audition -a day before his 24th birthday -after Henson agreed to forgo $12 million remaining on his baseball deal. 
The Bills were the most conspicuous presence, send­ing Mularkey, general man­ager Tom Donahoe and new quarterbacks coach Sam Wyche. 
"You don't make any final decisions on these, you can only eliminate guys," Wyche said. "I don't think anyone eliminated him today." 
Texans general manager Charley Casserly won't say what the Texans want, although a first-round pick isn't considered out of the question. Besides the Bills, the Packers, Kansas City, Miami and the New York Giants are considered promi­nent suitors. 
Most teams sent scouts or assistant coaches. Giants GM Ernie Accorsi watched the workout. 
Henson threw everything from little squareouts to 60­yard fly patterns. Henson threw to four receivers, including free agents Sylvester Morris and Joel 
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 

Preseritatiotl ancflrttori"ilation.Session·­Moridt1yr.'•••·~ebtva1Jy••1.6,•••2004 6:00"7tDP prm. · __ · Sorirt Room, LaFotfuheStu:d.ent Center 

All students interested in lean1ing 1nore about · th~ actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 
Allstate® 
l'du're in good hands. 


SUMM.ER_LANGUAGE GRANTS 
Grants are design~ to cover only ~ portion of program costs. 
..·.·...·,~--:~e:::::~;·:~=~a.:=:~t:::::: 
STUDY PROGRAMS. 
For details and application forms, go to: 
htt1J:IIwww.nd.edu/~sumlang/ or 
Pick. u... ~ppUcatldns fr()m the OffiCe of lntem~ltiona.l Stuiti~s ~ (154 Hurley Building ~ Ph 1·5203) 
application•_deadlil1f1: 3/5/04 
Sponsored by the Office ofthe Assistant Provost fo~ International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters 
--~ 
Friday, February 13, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish to tneet No.14 Virginia Cotntnonwealth this weekend 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Spons Writer 
A competitive No. 14 Virginia Commonwealth will be the first of three stops this weekend for the women's tennis team. 
The Irish are set to meet Virginia Commonwealth on Friday and will move on to play Boston College Saturday and Virginia Tech Sunday. 
"This weekend is going to be really important for us. They're all big matches for different reasons," said coach Jay Louderback. "We're playing some Big East teams and someone ranked ahead of us. The girls are also really excited to play a team ranked ahead of them." 
The Virginia Commonwealth Rams (6-0) arc returning from a 4-3 win against Old Dominion Sunday. This weekend's match will b~ the first time the Irish have met the Hams, who went undefeated until the NCAA tournament last year. 
"They'll definitely be our toughest com­petition this weekend," sophomore Lauren Connelly said. "We all look at it as an oppor­tunity to get our confidence going as we begin the season." 
From. Virginia Commonwealth, the Irish will travel three hours to compete against Boston College (2-0) in Blacksburg, Va. Last year's match between the two resulted in an Irish 6-1 victory. The Boston College Eagles are also fresh off a win against Columbia 6-1 last weekend. 
Despite their history of victories against the Eagles, Connelly anticipates a competi­tive match. 
"We just go out and play hard every match," Connelly said. 
No. 69 Virginia Tech (6-0) will be looking for their seventh win of the season after defeating Radford 7-0 last weekend. Also at stake for the Hokies this weekend will be the retribution of last year's 6-1 loss to the Irish last year. To secure success this week­end, it will be essential for the Irish to win the doubles point. 
"It's a lot more important than it used to be to get the doubles point." Louderback said. Everyone is getting so good that it's becoming hard to win four singles match­es." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

Notre Dame's Alicia Salas prepares to return the ball In a match against Wisconsin on Feb. 1 at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
g~~wm,octn PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME WHERE MEMBERSHIP PAYS FOR ITSELF WITH EVERY MEAL OR DRINK! 
Daily Lunch  Light Lunch  Soup &1/2 Sandwich  
Soup or Salad Entree Coffee or Tea  Special Entree Coffee or Tea  Soup &Half Sandwich Coffee or Tea  
$6.95  $4.95  $3.95  

CHEAP AND CLOSE....YOUR UNIVERSITY CLUB.....MEMBERSHIP INFORMATION 14685 
Sure, Ican sav the bodv narts, ... but can Iknow her painil 
Please join us for prayer in solidarity with women who have been victims of violence. Saturday, February 14 
7:00p.m. Rosary outside Stepan Center. Procession to Coleman..Morse chapel. 
7:45p.m. Prayer Service at Coleman--Morse. 
Sponsored by: 
2003-04 
BEST OF NOTRE DAME THEATRE 
Actors From The London Stage Romeo and Juliet 
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, February 11 ......7:30 p.m. Friday, February 13............ 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 12 ............7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 14 .... 7:30 p.m. 
Pl•ying ,, w..hington H•ll • "'''""d s .... $16 • 
Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631·8128. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 

C ""'fPUS ~ .~I.INIST·'R"v ()::::/!
h.lY . : .. ·· .•. !V...•. . .·· ·. ·. l , _ _:f . 
Praving unlillhe violence STOPS. 
A Contemporary \Nomen\ Boutique Specializing in Designer Clothing and Gifts 
312 W. Cleveland Ave. Granger, IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 

528 E. Colfa.x Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 


,­
1 
I 
I I 
OUND THE NATION
I Page 18 CoMPiLED FROM 'THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Friday, February 13, 2004 



MLB 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Seton Hall at NOTRE DAME, noon Sat, ESPN Indiana at Purdue 4:30 p.m. Sat, WHME Duke at NC State State 6:30 p.m. Sun., FSN 
NHL Kings at Devils 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

NBA Rookie Challenge 9 p.m., TNT NBA All-Star Game 8:30 p.m.Sun, TNT 
....... 

e f •• .-e • y ••• t t t • • • ~ • • o 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Barry Bonds' personal trainer, a track coach and top execu­tives of a San Francisco­area nutritional supple­ments lab were charged Thursday with running an illegal drug distribution operation. 
The 42-count federal indictment returned by a grand jury in San Francisco and obtained by The Associated Press alleges the scheme provid­ed anabolic steroids, human growth hormone, EPO and other drugs to major league baseball and NFL players, as well as track and field stars. 

None of the athletes was charged and none was named in the court docu­ments. 
A news conference was scheduled for later Thursday at Justice Department headquarters to announce the indict­ments. Attorney General John Ashcroft was expect­ed to be joined by Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Mark McClellan, Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Mark Everson and California law enforcement officials. 
The indictment names as defendants Victor Conte Jr., the president and chief executive officer of the Bay Area Lab Cooperative, or BALCO, and its vice presi­dent, James J. Valente. Also indicted were Bonds' personal trainer, Greg F. Anderson, and Remi Korchemny, coach of world champion sprinter Kelli White of the United States and European sprint champion Dwain Chambers of Britain. White and Chambers have flunked drug tests, as have other athletes coached by Korchemny. 
The charges include con­spiracy to distribute steroids, possession of human growth hormone, misbranding drugs with intent to defraud and money laundering. 
According to the indict­ment, the four were involved in the scheme between December 2001 and Sept. 3, 2003, in which steroids were dis­tributed to athletes on six different occasions. 
One steroid, called "The Cream," included a sub­stance that masked an athlete's use of the drug during testing. Another, called "The Clear," was sold to the athletes as a substance that would pro­vide steroidlike effects without causing a positive drug test. 
IN BRIEF 
Two MLB veterans win 
arbitration 

Baseball players evened their record in salary arbitration when Anaheim shortstop David Eckstein and Pittsburgh shortstop Jack Wilson won their cases Thursday. 
Eckstein received a raise from $425,000 to $2.15 million, and Wilson got an increase from $335,000 to $1.85 million. 
Anaheim had proposed Eckstein be paid $1.6 million, but arbitrators Roger Kaplan, Stephen Goldberg and Jack Clarke ruled for the player, a day after hearing the case in Phoenix. Eckstein hit .252 last sea­son with three homers, 31 RBis and 16 steals. 
Pittsburgh had submitted a $1.4 million salary for Wilson, but that was rejected by arbitrators Dan Brent, Elisabeth Neumeier and I.B. Helburn. Wilson, who hit .256 last year with nine homers and 62 RBis, was the first Pittsburgh player to go to a hearing since third baseman Jeff 
f • t o t • I f • f I t I " f I • • r • • f • o • • • • 
King lost in 1993. 
Players and owners have split the four cases decided thus far, with Montreal first baseman Nick Johnson and Cincinnati pitcher Chris Reitsma losing last week. Eight players remain scheduled for hearings through Feb. 20. 
Outfielder Jay Gibbons and Baltimore split the difference, agree­ing to a $2.6 million one-year con­tract. Gibbons, who hit .277 with 23 homers and a career-best 100 RBis last year, had asked for $2.8 million and had been offered $2.4 million. Clijsters advances to Gaz de 
France quarterfinals 
Top-seeded Kim Clijsters needed just 39 minutes to beat Maria Sanchez Lorenzo 6-1, 6-0 Thursday and reach the Gaz de France quar­terfinals. 
In her first match since losing the Australian Open final, Clijsters showed little sign of the left ankle injury that hampered her in Melbourne. 
"I felt nothing," said Clijsters, who had tape on her ankle. "I played really well." 
Her next match comes against sev­enth-seeded Silvia Farina Elia, who beat Tina Pisnik. 
Two seeded players lost. Dinara Safina beat No. 3 Patty Schnyder 4-6, 6-2, 6-1, and Elena Bovina defeated No.4 Jelena Dokic, 4-6, 7-6 (5), 6-0. 
Dokic was two points from victory at 5-5 in the tiebreaker. 
"I should have won it right there," Dokic said. "It was just one of those days." 
In the quarterfinals, Safina plays No. 5 Francesca Schiavone, who eliminated Karolina Sprem 7-6 (4). 6-3. Bovina meets two-time major champion Mary Pierce, who beat No. 8 Magui Serna 6-2, 6-4. 
French teen Tatiana Golovin moved into a quarterfinal against second­seeded Elena Dementieva when Daniela Hantuchova withdrew from the tournament, citing an upper res­piratory infection. 
Friday, February 13, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish ready to face Wisconsin 
By KATE GALES Sports Writcr 
The Irish remain at home this weekend, as they face the University of Wisconsin Badgers in a contest Sunday at noon. 
The unranked 2-1 Badgers boast the nation's No. 8 doubles team of senior David Hippee and junior Alex Kasarov. 
However, the No. 49 Irish enjoyed a week-long rest after a commanding victory over No. 53 Purdue last weekend. Wisconsin is scheduled to play at Western Michigan on Saturday, facing Notre Dame on the last leg of its road trip. 
!lead coach Bobby Bayliss has been working particularly hard with the doubles side of the game. 
"We worked on doubles a lot [this week), and they're still a work in progress," he said. "We may change up the combina­tions to give more punch and balance." 
Despite a talented team over­all for the Irish, the doubles teams have seen some difficulty this year. 
"We feel that we can do better than we've done so far, so·we're working on line tuning the dou­bles," Bayliss said. 
The team is not intimidated by the llippee/Kasarov duo. 
"They're good," Bayliss said. 'They beat the No. 1 team in the country earlier this year, which helps their ranking a lot, but I don't think they're out of reach." 

Luckily, senior tri-captain Luis Haddock will return to the line­up after missing last weekend's match to play in the Davis Cup for his native Puerto Rico. 
"I Ie practiced with us yester­day, and it's great to have him back," Bayliss said of his No. 1 singles player. "He had a little bit of a hard time with the bounce yesterday after playing on different courts ... but was fme by the end." 
Haddock lost a close match to Mark Merklein of the Bahamas in a tiebreaker third set in the Davis Cup. 
His freshman doubles partner, Ryan Keckley, is of questionable status for Sunday after sustain­ing an ankle injury against Duke two weeks ago. 
"It's not impossible that he could play some doubles, but I would guess he is a little doubt­ful at this point," said Bayliss. "I would think that he is going to be ready at least for doubles the following weekend." 
The Irish face a tough stretch of five matches in nine days, starting with a visit to Northwestern on Feb. 21. 
"Really, what we want is to be ready for that stretch of match­es," Bayliss said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish to travel to Ontario for meet this weekend 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Most members of the Notre Dame track and field team will get to spend this Valentine's Day weekend at home, but the rest will make the short bus ride across the border to Windsor, Ontario to compete in the Windsor Team Challenge. 
Mostly sprinters will be making the trip, as the track at the University of Windsor is a 200-meter "flat" track. 
"The track is very fast, and hopefully it will be beneficial to our runners," Piane said. 
Piane hopes to see more than a few team members improve their times and quali­fy for the Big East Championships if they haven't already. The Big East meet will take place next weekend, Feb. 21 and 22, in Syracuse, N.Y. 
Piane also reflected on last week's Meyo Invitational. The event was one of the largest in the country, as Notre Dame played host to athletes repre­senting 63 different schools. The Meyo was very productive for the Irish; numerous Notre Dame competitors qualified for the conference meet. 
"The Meyo Invitational com­pared pretty favorably with both the Big East Meet and Nationals," Piane said. "There is stronger competition at the Meyo than at the Big East, and the atmosphere, especially during the mile run, was very intense last weekend." 
Junior Trevor McClain-Duer agreed with his coach. 
"The Meyo was a great meet, as it enabled us to run against some different compe­tition," he said. "We've been facing a lot of the same teams the whole year, and running against some new competition will help us as the year goes on." 
McClain-Duer will make the trip up to Windsor along with almost all of the sprinters. The junior from Olmstead Falls, Ohio, has already quali­fied for the conference meet in with times of 48.00 in the 400 meters and 1:03.29 in the 500 meters. 
The Irish men won their first Big East Conference title last year, while the women finished second to the University of Miami. According to McClain-Duer, the men are up to the chal­lenge of winning again, 
"We want to repeat," he said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

r--------------------------------------------­
page 20 Friday, February 13, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 

Win grealpri~es!// 
A•l<llti~ns Mar~ l; 2, 3 
8:30-10:30 P.M. 

{JJ.liowley Bttll ofMusic 
wateb ror signnps in LaFWI and both di'Jii.tg halls oJ• email 
·-·· n•~man@nd.edu 

SAINT MAR.fs CoLLEGE INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 

A NEW OPTIQNFOR · ._NOTRE D-ESWtlil~~ · 
FaU-20Q~ ~ ~pril\g 2t)Q5 •< •-··-_· 
Jnfq~~tionMeeting· __ ·Wednesday, F'eb:tl),~ +B, 2Q()4 · .. 7:00p.m..· 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles hoping to finish season on strong note 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 

The Belles entered the 2003-04 season with high expectations, and, despite a 6-16 overall record, the team has still accom­plished many of its goals. 
Saint Mary's faced its share of disappointments this year, but in the process the Belles have matured to become a closer knit group. Since the Belles will lose only one senior, the outlook for next year seems encouraging. 
However, the Belles' focus has always been on winning games this present season. In this points. 
"We have really stressed going all out when players are in the game because we have depth," Bellina said. "We also want play­ers coming off the bench and providing a spark either with a hustle play or great defense." 
Key contributors off the bench have been freshman Bridget Lipke and sophomores Bridget Boyce and Anne Hogan. 
Although the bench has taken pressure off the starters this year, the Belles have still had problems maintaining their stamina. 
The Belles lost 67-51 on Wednesday after giving up a half­
time lead in a 
collapse that 

struggle, they · Bellina thinks
"We have a group that is 
have come was caused
going to continue and
together to by fatigue. form a unified battle and work hard for "The effort team. was there in
the remainder ofthe
"This team the second
season."
has really half," Bellina gotten close said. "I think throughout Suzanne Bellina we just ran 
the season," out of gas." 
Belles head coach 
head coach Suzanne Bellina said. "We started out with a pretty young team with just one senior, but the players have matured a lot as the season has pro­gressed." 
The Belles have had to over­come difficulties all season, including a demoralizing seven­game losing streak. In addition, the Belles have faced tough com­petition in their conference, the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association. 
"The top of the conference seems to be more even than in the past," Bellina said. "I think the league, as a whole, has raised their level of play." 
Junior forward Emily Creachbaum, who emerged last year as a leader for the Belles, has led the teams in points and rebounds so far this season. 
A big positive this year has been the energy and depth of the bench. In a victory last Monday against Olivet College, the Belles bench combined to score 32 
T h i s 
Saturday the 
Belles will play Alma College on the road. The last time the two teams met, Alma held off a second half comeback to defeat the Belles 70­67. 
Alma forward Karen Hall dom­inated that game and her team shot 60 percent from three point range. Bellina wants to prevent a repeat of this performance. 
"We have to be ready to defend their post and Karen Hall as well as their outside shooting," Bellina said. 
With only three regular season games left, the Belles want to fm­ish the year on a positive note. 
"We are looking at each game one at a time with the thought that all the games are winnable," Bellina said. "We have a group that is going to continue to battle and work hard for the remainder of the season." 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

experience ele!lanl dirliil!J wilhseasoz1afjl~.ir. 
Visiting your son or daughter is made extra special when it includes dining at Sorin's, conveniently located at The Morris Inn on the beoutiful campus ofNotre Dame. The staff of 
by serving only the fmest food• each soason has to offer . 

R~UYP;JI'Unu RrcommnukJ 
631-2020 
ll'llfllt.wri'nmd.a:vm 



Friday, February 13, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 




·First 1,000 fans will receive Pot Holder from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union · The Amazing Christopher returns to the Joyce Center for a brand new halftime performance. · Students don't forget to wear your 
Leprechaun Legion T-shirts. 

r-----------~--~--------~
Men's Lacr-osse vs. Team Canada (exhiljjt.ion) 12:oo PM @J Loftus Sports Center· 
~---------------------~----------~ 
offee and Conversatfon 
For Gay, lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 17th 
(and everythird Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 

316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
COWIIIITTKit ON 
ClAY AND a..a.aiAN 
STUP«NT N•~M 

•Senior Player Trading Card Night, sponsored by Chevy
4J






I 
I
1 
.•.•. 
I ->~<'ire;i v';"up:io":'da:-­
1promotional e-mails visit 
I 
: 1 
I 
I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
You've got to protect your home ice." 
The next Irish win will be a milestone one, as Notre Dame currently has a 
record of 299-CCIII\ playoffs. 
"/ still think you're 
245-42 (.546) at This ·season, the the Joyce going to see a Irish have had 37 Center in the lot ofmovement of their 7 3 goals team's history. (50.7 percent)
in the standings 
"That's pretty scored by three 
fun for me, over the last players -Rob because I've four weeks of Globke, Aaron Gill been here for and Mike Walsh. If
the season. " 
some of those the team is to as a player and make any late-sea­some as a Dave Poulin son run. Poulin coach, as well," hockey coach said that more 
Poulin said. "Obviously, there were other coaches like Lefty Smith who had a hand in getting those wins, and it'll bP a real honor to hit that milest1ne." 
To get that win, the Irish will face a Ferris Stat~ team which currently sits in ninth place in the CCliA with 19 points, two points beh~nd the eighth-place Irish. That's a far cry from last season, when the Bulldogs won the CCIII\ title. 
"I think that really shows 
just how competitive our con­ference is," Poulin said. Contact Justin Schuver at "They're still a very good jschuver@nd.edu 


La Soiree 
AValentine's Dance 
Dress To Impress!!! 
Friday, February 13 10 p.m. -2 a.m. La Fortune Ballroom 
r········~~-~-·M·······~······---~·-··········---···········-···--···········-··-··············-········· ... 
I The Notre Dame Medieval Institute presents 
j 

Sunday, February 15, 2004 
8:00 pm, Basi.lica of the Sacred Heart FREE and open to the public
• 

~lerft.rrming a concert of c~ant nnb l'ttdU nmsic 
team. You really need to have all cylinders clicking in this league, and right now Miami and Michigan [the first and second place teams] are doing that, but after them, this league is wide open. 
"I still think you're going to see a lot of movement yet in the standings over the last four weeks of the season." 
This weekend's series is big for both teams, who are fight­ing to finish in at least sixth place to guarantee home ice in the first round of the 
players will have 
to contribute on 

the offensive side of the ice. "' 
"There's no question that we neeJ more scoring from mon people," he said. "I thinl.;. we've got good players who are going to score at this level but we need their goals now. 
"We really need to take some of the pressure off our three big guys." 
The Irish face Ferris State at the Joyce Center Friday at 
7:35 p.m. and Saturday at 7:35p.m. 
.• 
Friday, February 13·, 2004

Pirates 
continued from page 24 
could put my finger on it and bottle it because I would come back to it," Brey said. "We stayed positive. We can't get down. We have to keep plugging; there's a lot of bas­ketball to be played." 
The Irish had just lost to No. 4 Pittsburgh after taking a 15-2 lead very early in the contest. Two nights later against Connecticut, the Irish stayed close to the Huskies the entire game and finally made a run late. 
The Irish continued to fol­low the game plan of slowing down Connecticut's prolific transition game and shorten­ing the contest. 
"In the Pittsburgh game, I think we ran out of energy and firepower. That's not acceptable by any means," 
-Friars 
continued from page 24 
Mentally, we're drained; we didn't have the energy to win the game. Seton Hall played well, but we weren't at our best." 
The Irish hope to get back to their winning ways, however, as they host the Friars, who are winless in the Big East. Meanwhile, Notre Dame is undefeated at home this sea­son, going 10-0. 
The Irish are led by junior Jacqueline Batteast (14. 7 points, 8.2 rebounds per game) and sophomore point guard Megan Duffy (11.0 points, 4.5 assists per game). But the Irish offense has struggled of late, unable to put a lot of points on Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette said. "[Against Connecticut] we didn't pace ourselves. but we played our style of basketball, our tempo. We worked for a good shot when we needed one instead of taking a bad one." 
Despite taking 21 shots, guard Chris Thomas had good shot selection because the Irish needed his individ­ual offensive creativity on a night without forward Torin Francis and an injured Chris Quinn. 
The 31 points show Thomas didn't let his performance over the past four games shoot down his confidence, which his teammates never questioned. 
''I'm so happy for him. He was going through a little bit of a slump. A lot of guys started doubting him, but we never doubted him," Notre Dame guard Torrian Jones said. "We went to him every single time down the stretch, 
the board. 
"I think what we need to do is score some points and feel good about the offense," McGraw said. "I think we've not really had an overpower­ing output on the offensive end, and I think that's what we need to do." 
According to McGraw, the key to their offensive produc­tion in addition to Batteast is Duffy, Le'Tania Severe, Teresa Borton and Courtney LaVere. Whel). two of those four play well in addition to Batteast, the Irish have been tough to stop. 
"The games that we look the best in are the games when more people have con­tributed," McGraw said. "I think our transition game has been a problem; we haven't been able to score in transi­tion. We just don't get easy baskets. We're just working 
Quality Diamonds.. 

Incorporated 1965 

Jewelers/ Gemologists Gofdsmiths I Platinumsmith.s 
Key Bank Buildin_gJ Suite #101 
South Bend, Indiana 46601 
287... 1427 

and he delivered. He made big shots and I saw him do it every day in practice, so I knew he could do it in the game." 
Besides Thomas breaking out offensively, the Irish played solid on both ends of the floor for 40 minutes. At times, the offense became stagnant, and the Huskies might have gotten an easy shot. The Irish only shot 39 percent and had five fewer rebounds than the Huskies. 
But they figured out a way to win, and that's what they need to remember for the next three weeks. 
"I think we learned some things about ourselves on both ends of the floor that hopefully we can carry over on Saturday and see if we can get number six," Brey said. 
Saturday's tip-off is sched­uled for 12 p.m. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

too hard for everything we've got. 
But amidst their offensive woes, Notre Dame's defense has been outstanding, fre­quently holding opponents under 50 points. They have given up only 50.5 points per game in Big East play. 
"We've been very consistent defensively, and I've been pleased with that," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame hopes that this week's break has done the Irish well, as they are ready to get back on the court to face another Big East opponent. 
"I definitely think we're going to be fresher mentally and physically. I think a few days off just makes a world of difference," McGraw said. 
Contact Heather van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Observer File Photo 

Junior Megan Clolll, a centerfielder who batted .356 with four home runs last season, takes the plate last year. 
Softball 
continued from page 24 
Wisen and Steffany Stenglein and sophomore Heather Booth pitched 362 of 373 innings for the Irish last year. 
Booth was the Big East rookie of the year in 2003, collecting a 21-10 record with a 1.93 ERA while holding the number one starting spot all season. The Irish hope for a similar rookie impact from freshman Kenya Fuemmeler, who broke the career prep strikeout record while in high school in Missouri. 
The infield will feature junior Liz Hartmann at third base, sophomore Sara Schoonaert at shortstop, freshman Stephanie Brown at second base and sophomore Meagan Ruthrauff at first. Hartmann will move to the infield after spending her first two seasons as the left-field starter. 
The outfield should be a strength for the Irish, especially offensively. Junior Megan Ciolli, who hit .356 with four home runs and 24 RBis last season, leads the Irish outfield at her usual centerfield position. She is one of 40 players named to the USA Softball Player of the Year watch list. 
Senior Nicole deFau will play left field, while sophomore Kellie Middleton will start in left. The two players combined for four home runs and 14 RBI last season. 
The bench is solid, with fresh­men Carissa Jaquish and Gessica Hufnagle backing up Lenn at the catching position. Junior Nicole Wicks, who trans­ferred from Washington, will provide infield backup and Fuemmeler can play the out­field in addition to relief pitcher. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


invites sfUdentnorninationsJor Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Take advan.tbg¢of'fheopportunity to ndminate your best professor itt the College o' Science for a Kaneb Teaching Award. 
Deadlittefornnmhiation·is Tuesday., March 2 Return to : · Sr. l<afhleE!t1 Canhon C.P~ .. Associate Dean 
.> ' .,··· : ·. ·'.,.<., .... , ., . '·· .·· .:..... 
bean·~ Dffitei Coll¢ge of Scient~ 174 H~Jrl¢y Hall 
The College ofScience 
Friday, February 13, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
YOU MADE THE COVER. OF "MORONS ON PARADE.· 

FIVES 
I HOPE THEY DIDN'T MISQUOTE ME SO I '0 LOOK LIKE A MORON. WRITERS DO THAT SOMETIMES. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
PHEW!! ALL THE QUOTES AR.E ACCURATE. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
IGSEE ~ 
rJ r 
C2004 Tribune Medl~ Servicea, Inc. 
~~r,ftrJ 
rJ r J
t 
www MUHLIE Jurrtlla.com j

J I r I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


WHAT TH£: POLE VAUL-TER HAD BEFORE THE COMPETITION. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: " ( 

I I I J" rI l I I J 
(nswers tomorroW) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: INLET GASSY RADIUS SHOULD Answer: She threw away reading the cookbook because it was-HARD TO "DIGEST" 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE ACROSS 30 Stumpers? 54 Gee 1 Sports column? 33 Flags 56 Like bats 5 Standard devia-34 Hal Foster 58 Biblical book 
comic character 
Sharing this birthday: Peter Gabriel, Stockard Channing, Georges Simenon, 
lion symbol 59 Available 
Oliver Reed, Kim Novak
35 One associated10 War fare? 

60 Small animal
with honesty Happy Birthday: Thoughts will be followed by actions this year if you put
14 Like many a shelter 
your mind to it and do what you do best. You will gain popularity if you voice
36 No one special

hurricane 61 Short time out? your opinion and take a position of leadership amongst your peers. The time 38 Castilian hero has come to step up to the podium and let others know what's on your mind.
15 Allege in 62 They follow cuts 
Your numbers: 9, 12, 17, 21, 38, 40 

defense 39 Expert on the 63 Diet. offering
16 Coat or skirt rules ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can help older friends or family members with updating their personal papers or by doing the odd jobs that they are no
preceder 40 Good relations 
longer capable of doing. ****

DOWN
17 Disappointing 41 Manages, with TAURUS (April 20·May 20): Don't blow situations out of proportion. You election results "out" 1 First name in will have a tendency to put on weight or be overindulgent in food and/or drink. animation Refrain from taking on too much. •••
42 N.Y. minutes?

19 Seasoned GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Travel and communications will be less than 43 Fountain in New 2"This_ pleasing today. You will find it difficult to understand other people's point of
20 Help 
Youth" (Kenneth view.***
Orleans

21 Equal Lonergan play) CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be upset if you recently loaned a 44 Word for word: friend money. Do not feel obligated to donate large sums of money. Your 22 Channeled Abbr. 3 Just learning tendency to overspend will cause worry later. ** • about LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Home-improvement projects will cost a lot more than
23 Resolute advice 46 1985 sequel to 
you planned. You may exaggerate a situation that, in turn, will anger your
to the hesitant a classic 1939 4 Discovery of lover.***** film VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get together with friends or relatives that you
Galileo27 Stuff for surfac­

don't get to see very often. You can make travel plans successfully. Valuable
ing 5 Comparatively 
48 Donny or Marie 

infonnation will be made available to you. **
quick

28 He's found in Osmond, e.g. LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Joint accounts and get-rich-quick schemes must be 6 Long series of avoided. You may be a tad extravagant. Problems with ears, nose and throat are
the Prado 51 Unit of nautical 
probable. ***** 
displacement

29 Community con-woes 30 Kitchen gizmo 44 Immerses 52 Numerical SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your aggressive action could work against you test 52 Tall topper 7 Lee, e.g.: Abbr. prefix if you won't listen to your lover's plea. Don't react too hastily to hearsay. 3 stars 31 Really big 45 Draper's unit SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be slightly accident-prone today. 
8 wheel 
53 Overflow If you try to push your opinions and attitudes on others, you may isolate those 
32 Rights shouldn't 47 Cad

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Plugs you love most.*** 
be taken from it 54 Modicum 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do not lend or borrow money or
48 Slight indica­10 Burn 

possessions today. Friends may get on your nerves. Try to help children with ­
33 Frosty tion? 55 Insurance let­
projects that have been giving them difficulty. ***
11 Gripping read 36 No performers ters 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Problems with family members may try your 
49 "What_!"

12 Brutally destroy are found here patience today. Steer clear of overindulgent people and avoid consuming too
("Hilarious!") 56 Green-light indi­
much yourself. Sudden changes regarding your position may evolve. ***** 
13 Season opener? 37 Red sky, maybe cator 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have a lemper tantrum if your principles are threatened. Avoid confrontations at group meetings. It's best to 
50 Like some 

41 Colorize, e.g. habits 57 Person 
quietly help those unable to help themselves. ••
the border 
Birthday Baby: You have a special way of getting others to do things for you.
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
Your imaginative ways will enable you to make everything you do look like
23 Fine accompa­credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
fun. You will be a joy to your family and an inspiration to your peers. You are
niment? 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday clever, creative and caring. 24 Promise, e.g. crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00025 AIa Poe past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
26 Fractures 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 28 Exile of 1302 ny1imes.com/leaming/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
·"'

and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 13, 2004 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish face another Big East test 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 
If anybody thinks the Irish could have a letdown after their first big win of the sea­son, just check the RPI stand­ings. 
Seeing Seton Hall ranked No. 11 shows Saturday's game is almost as big as Monday's. 
After defeating Connecticut, which is around No. 8 in the RPI, the Irish (11-9, 5-5 in the Big East) jumped about 20 spots and now sit at No. 62. A win over the Pirates (16-5, 6­
3) could help Notre Dame's RPI. 
It's also important for the Irish to carry over the attitude from Monday's big win. The Irish never got down on them­selves after losing six of eight and, for whatever reason, stayed upbeat during that dif­ficult 48-hour stretch. 
Irish coach Mike Brey now has to figure out how to keep that positive outlook for the last seven games of the regu­lar season. 
"Our body language was the best it's ever been. I wish I 
see PIRATES /page 22 


HOCKEY 
Irish face Ferris State 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Hopefully, a trip back home will spark the Irish to a solid finish this season. 
The Irish (13-11-4, 9-10-3 in the CCHA) hope to put last weekend's road sweep at the hands of Miami behind them as they return home to face the Ferris State Bulldogs (14­13-3, 9-12-1) in a two-game series this weekend at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame fell 5-2 last Friday and 2-0 on Saturday, falling below .500 in the CCHA for just the second time this season. The Irish hope a return to the Joyce Center will help spark the team back to finishing the season out strong. 
"I think this is a home-dom­inated league. I really do," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "Everybody's got a good home record, and there's only two teams, to the best of my knowledge, who have a win-
see HOCKEY/page 21 

SOFTBALL 
Irish start season against tough teams 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
While South Bend still looks like a winter wonderland, the Irish begin their season on the road at the UNLV Classic, where they will face five
-teams including two ranked in the preseason top ten. The Irish face Hawaii Friday at noon and then match against No. 2 California at 
2:30 p.m. Saturday, Notre Dame faces No. 9 Nebraska at 4 p.m. and UNLV at 6:30 p.m. The Classic concludes on Sunday as the Irish face Portland State at 10 a.m. 
Notre Dame hopes to contin­ue its impressive string under coach Deanna Gumpf, who is entering her third season at the Irish helm. During her first two years, the Irish won back-to-hack Big East champi­
... onships . 
Last year, the Irish went 38­17 and claimed their fifth con­secutive NCAA regional appearance. Their season came to an end at the hands of Michigan, who defeated the Irish by a score of 5-3 on May 17,2003. 
This season, the expecta­tions are just as high for the Irish, who were selected first overall the 2004 Big East Preseason Softball Coaches Poll. Notre Dame led with 95 points, followed by Villanova with 83 and Boston College with 7 4 points. 
If the Irish are to match the hype, they will have to do so with a much-changed team from last season. Conference player of the year Andrea Loman and three other starters graduated over the summer, leaving Notre Dame with an entirely new infield for the first time in four years. 
Catcher Mallorie Lenn, who achieved second-team all-Big East honors last season, returns behind the plate and will catch mostly the same pitching staff. Juniors Carrie 
see SOFTBALL/page 22 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rest helped Irish prepare 
By HEATHER 

VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

No rest for the weary -that is, until this week. 
Notre Dame (14-8, 7-3 Big East) takes on Providence (4­17, 0-10 Big East) at home Saturday after taking Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday off from practice. The Irish hope that the break will help them to rebound after a tough road loss at Seton Hall Sunday afternoon. 
"I think the rest probably did us really good, mentally and physically," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think we really needed a break." 
McGraw's Irish hope to get back on track in the Big East with only six games to go before the Big East Tournament Mar. 6. 
Notre Dame struggled to score Sunday, as they fell 51­45. 
"I think that the biggest prob­lem in the Seton Hall game was a lack of energy," McGraw said. "It wasn't a lack of effort. 
see FRIARS/page 22 

en 
SMC HOOPS MEN'S TENNIS 
TRACK &FIELD 
WOMEN'S TENNIS MLB 
NHL 

1-u LLI 
z

a: ::5 
The Irish remain at
The Belles hope to fin-

The Irish travel to 
The Irish meet No. 14 
The Lightning come = ish their season on a 
Barry Bonds' trainer 
= 
home to face Wisconsin. 
Ontario for the Windsor 
Virginia Common-
back from a two-goal-c:c good note. 
was charged Thursday 
Team Challenge this 
wealth this weekend. 
deficit to defeat thewith running an illegal 

weekend. 

steroid operation. 
Canadiens, 5-3.

a. !i page 20 page 19 
page 19 
page 17 page 18 page 14

en 




