
.---------------­
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Trustees to determine Malloy's future 

Board expected to name Executive Vice President at next week's meeting 
year as president, believing it However, Malloy said he decision will be announced in
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 

was the ideal time for a would remain as president upcoming weeks, he said he 
News Writer 

review to determine what past 2005 if that were the was uncertain whether the Notre Dame needed and in Board's request. Board would deliver its deci­
University President Father 

what direction it should be "At the Trustees meeting sion at the April 29-30 trustee Edward Malloy said he has 
headed. they'll say, 'Monk, we've meeting.
nntrusted his future at Notre 

"I have no idea myself how decided that it's time to begin Malloy does, however, expectDame to the 

it'll go," Malloy said. "I'm the search process,"' Malloy the Board to name a new Board of happy with whatever the out­said. "Or they could say, 'We'd Executive Vice President at 
Trustees, 

come is because I asked them like you to stay for some addi­the next meeting. The third which is cur­to do it. ... I'm not seeking to tional period of time."' highest-ranking position at the 
rently rnv­

say on, because I think that If the Board decides to begin University has been vacant for 
inwing his 

should be the decision of the the presidential search nearly a year, after Father 
tnnure at the 

Board -but I will do whatev­process following next week's Tim Scully resigned prior to 
University's er the Board wants in terms of meeting, Malloy said the the Board's Spring 2003 meet­

highnst posi­

what the future has in store." trustees could announce his ing.
tion. 

Malloy The Board of Trustees elect­successor in November. The Though previous Executive According 
ed Malloy as president in chosen candidate would then Vice Presidents have been 
to Malloy, he asknd the Board November 1986, and he has take over the helm of the priests from the Congregation

to evaluate the University's 

served in that role since June University the following .June. of the Holy Cross, University
pnrforrnance after his 17th 1, 19R7. While Malloy believes the spokesman Matt Storin said 

ND grad Roemer serves on 9/11 panel 
first requires the painful
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
pr_ocess of looking back. And as News Editor • 
Hoerner has emphasized since the panel's creation -which Forgive Tim Hoerner for dis­came about largely due to leg­liking the blame game. islation he, along with Senators 
As onfl of 10 commissioners Joe Lieberman and John on the National Commission on McCain, authored and helped Terrorist Acts Upon the United push through Congress -a States, he has seen recent deep and comprehensive exam­bursts of partisan politics steal ination of the attacks is not the limelight and personal only what the families of agendas dominate the national September 11 vietims deserve. press. But amid the September It's what they demand. 11 commission's uglier "!Family members! could say, moments, Hoerner-who holds 'I'm tired, I've lost a husband an M.A. and Ph.D. from Notre or a wife,"' he said. "But when Dame and represented South they have every excuse to walk Bend for 12 years in tho U.S. away from the system, they've llouse of Heprosontatives ~ demanded a change. They've has not lost sight of its true fought tenaciously, aggressively purpose. and sometimes successfully to 

"Thew's benn a lot of linger­make this system accountable pointing and pin-the-tail-on­in tho future." tho-donkey," the 4 7 -year old Prying that accountability said. "But the goal of the panel from the top levels of the needs to be tough, penetrating, American government has bipartisan questions to target been a grueling process, the threat and to move for­Hoemer said. From forcing ward." 
Moving forward, however, see ROEMER/page 6 there are no prerequisites for the position. 

"They look for an aptitude for business and administra­tion in choosing someone for that job," Storin said. 
The Executive Vice President oversees approximately 3,000 employees and is responsible for oversoeing Notrn Dame's financial affairs, WNDU, the endowmnnt and thn campus plan, among other responsibil­ities, Storin said. 
Since Scully's resignation, Malloy has taken over the responsibilities of the Executive Vice Presidnnt posi­tion. 
see MALLOY/page 6 


Frosh to readnevv 
I 
I 
• 1

book 
By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writer 
In a change of pace from last year's The Heart of Islam, the University Committee for the First Year of Studies has selected Thomas Patterson's The Vanishing Voter as the cen­tral reading for next fall's First Year Convocation. 
Similar to last fall's inau­gural program, tho convoca­tion will allow students to explore a pertinent topie through a set of readings culminating in a panel dis­cussion of tho issue. Though this year's theme has yet to be specilied, its focus will be on the role of citizenship in democracy and the state of votnr partieipation in tlw country. 
"Last year, the Middle East 
see FYC/page 8 


Shirt 2004 design unveiled today 
the atmosphere in the stadi­it creates unity. By ANNA GELHAUS um." Crossin said thoro is a big News Writer Kate Crossin, 2004 president emphasis on this year's unveil­
of The Shirt Committee, said ing as it is the 15th ·anniversary 
Will the tide of the "Sea of the shirt is aimed with students of the project. Brennan Green" rise again? That ques­in mind. Harvath, the original president tion will be answered this after­"I really wanted to focus of' The Shirt, will be present noon as The Shirt 2004 is more on the students. We say and wearing the original 1990 unveiled. we are selling more than a design. Various hall presidents 
Designer Brittany Becker said shirt," she said. We wanted a and Courtney Schuster, the she cannot comment on the color the students liked, a 2002 Shirt president, will be color or design of this year's design the students liked. From modeling the other Shirts from Shirt, but she said, "It has a lit­my talks with coach !Tyrone] the past. tle more of a vintage feel than Willingham, we decided we Chuck Lennon, executive before. The main facet [of the wanted to bring the football director for the Alumni design! is the role students play populace together." in the Notre Dame tradition and Beeker added that she hopes see SHIRT/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Funny friends 

Seeing as I'm not a very funny person myself. I love to be around people who are. And one thing that concerned me about matriculating at Notre Dame was that there might not be a lot of. well, amusing people. It's not something Kate Gales you can ask for on the application. It 
Sports

probably doesn't 
Production 

come through on college essays too often. And you certainly can't make a type of comedian SAT's. Affirmative action for funny people? I don't see the admissions office making a statement on that anytime soon. 
Luckily, the Dillon Pep Rally at the beginning of the school year partially assuaged my fears. I knew there were humorous people out there, I would just have to fmd them. I was also moderate­ly familiar with the Keenan Revue, as my best friend's older brother lives in Keenan. and we would amuse ourselves by watching the 2002 Keenan Revue. 
However, I didn't know many people participating in these activities. Failed attempts at jokes in my chemistry lab also disheartened me. Where were these elusive jokesters? I kept looking, and fortunately found Kirsten, who lives across the hall from me and is renowned, at least among our group of friends, for her rather unique sense of humor. At least her roommate always laughs at her jokes. Still more fortu­nately, we made the acquaintance of several outlandishly funny guys, who \Nill remain nameless for obvious rea­sons. 
So the not-very-funny Kate was able to keep laughing through the innate hilarity of these people. But I remained saddened that more events did not showcase the funniness of my fellow students 
And then came Bookstore Basketball. 

I ended up writing the article pre­viewing the tournament and began flip­ping through a book of names. I honest­ly could not stop laughing. Participants -you are great. You are funny. You are my collective heroes. Who comes up with this stuff? You do. 
As I head out to cover the Sweet 16, I'm a little disappointed that my favorite teams have all been eliminated. I love the names -I already wrote an article featuring some of my favorites. Oh, and the"---? Fine by me" will probably never get old for me. 
In other notes, Bubba's Sparks. the single funniest team I saw in all of the bookstore games I watched (note -I watched a lot of games) was a heart­breaking loss. Even if they hadn't bro­ken out the Frisbee to play, they would have been my hands-down favorite team for their costumes (or provisions) alone. 
I also looked forward to seeing our formidable opponents. Team Thiz, take on my friends' team Curb Your Enthusiasm. Team Thiz played my team, and managed to let us score a probably unprecedented number of pity points. despite my friend l)rng pleading with me "Kate, don't take that shot!" Scheduling problems forced both teams into an early exit from the tournament -both undefeated. 
Thanks for being so funny. You make up for me, and I appreciate that-a lot. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Friday, April 23, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU EXCITED ABOUT THE BLUE-GOLD GAME? 
• 





Meghan Lawess Morgan Dill Patrick Downey Ashley Bentezlln-Mack Russell Smith
Junior Freshman Junior Freshman Cavanaugh Pasquerilla Keenan Junior, Fisher East Pasquerilla West
"With Bookstore "lt,s a win-win "Go Blue!" "Go yellow ... I
almost over, I situation. ,. 

mean gold ...

think basketball 
I'm awesome. ,,will finally be more important than football. ,, 
"Ofcourse! It's the only time I get to see my two favorite-colored uniforms in one game. 

OFFBEAT 
Man passes off murder suspect's ID as own 

LAFAYETTE, Ind. -A man made a mistake by using a fake driver's license with the name of a person wanted for attempt­ed murder. 
Theodord Partida Ceja, 36, spent several hours in jail after he gave a state trooper who stopped him for speeding south of Lafayette an Indiana dri­ver's license with the name Jose Fabela. A check of the license found that Fabela, 39, was wanted in Texas for attempted murder. police said. 
Investigators suspected Ceja might not be the wanted man and had offi­cials in Hidalgo County, Texas, where Fabela is wanted, fax them a photo­graph of Fabela. 
"Right away, when we saw the photo, we knew it wasn't our guy," Trooper Troy Fischer said. 
Ceja later gave investiga­tors an Indiana state iden­tification card and Mexican credentials in his own name. 
Man designs underwear for dogs 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa­Dogs may no longer be the butt of their owners' jokes, thanks to Frank Morosky. Morosky, owner of Flat-D Innovations, has developed a product to reduce the odor of flatulence in dogs. 
Just two years ago, Morosky, who runs the business with his partner, Brian Conant in Hawaii, developed a similar prod­uct for people. He said he could only laugh when people first asked if he could make it work for dogs. 
"For a year. we said. 'No, that's stupid. Nobody would buy that for a dog,"' Morosky said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
-I c( 
0 





0 

HIGH 61 51 HIGH 56
..J 
LOW 51 40 LOW 43 
HIGH LOW 
59 
48 
HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 

Pangborn Hall is sponsoring a Top Gun themed five-on-five beach volleyball tournament today. Participants may sign up in the South Dining Hall, and the tournament will take place on the McGlinn volleyball courts. 
AnTostal continues today with a performance by Jason Lavasser from 5:30-6 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall and a carnival with food and entertainment from 2 to 6 p.m. 
The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir is performing its Spring Concert tonight at Mount Carmel Missionary Baptist Church fro!B 7 to 9 p.m. Transportation will be provided from Main Circle at 6:15p.m. 
Performances of Shaw's "Arms and the Man" run today and tomorrow at 7:30p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Student tickets are $7 and may be pur­chased at the door or at the LaFortune Box Office. 
FASO and the AAA will spon­sor an island formal tonight from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Tickets are $3 per person or $5 per couple. 
SUB will show the critically­acclaimed drama "Mystic River" tonight at 10:30 p.m. and tomorrow evening at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. Tickets may be pur­chased for $3. 
Students can hone their dance skills with Swing Night tonight at Legends from 10 to midnight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 56 HIGH LOW 39 LOW 
. 59 
48 

Atlanta 84 I 61 Boston 50 I 43 Chicago 52 I 43 Denver 42 I 31 Houston 84 I 68 Los Angeles 72 I 54 Minneapolis 61 I 36 New York 66 I 48 Philadelphia 86 I 58 Phoenix 64 I 47 Seattle 58 I 40 St. Louis 64 I 47 Tampa 85 I 65 Washington 75 I 51 
Friday, April 23, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC, ND students plan neighborhood cleanup 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
Though the farm at Saint Mary's no longer exists, the love for the land and the environment is still present. 
Many years ago, a farm was run by members of the Saint Mary's community, and the prod­ucts from it were used not only to feed the college, but the commu­nity as well. But with changing times come changes to the land. 
Members of the Saint Mary's Student Environmental Action Coalition and Notre Dame's Students for Environmental Action will combine efforts this weekend to plant trees in the South Bend community to cele­brate the end of Earth Awareness Week. 
Notre Dame senior Virginia Kelly is co-president of SEA. Kelly said with Earth Day being yester­day, and Arbor Day in the near future, now is a great time to hold this event. She said the groups plan to plant trees and perform a neighborhood cleanup offer. 
"SEA purchased five trees from the city of South Bend," Kelly said. "Trees are really expensive [up to[ $200 each. We'll be collab­orating with the Near Northwest Neighborhood Inc. We'll be plant­ing these trees and also helping the NNN with a neighborhood deanup." 
Saint Mary's SEAC will also be joining the tree planting effort. Earlier in the week, the group held a vegetarian dinner, spon­sored a film viewing and led a series of nature walks through Saint Mary's nature trail. 
"We wanted to make this a week of celebration," said SEAC members. "Often times looking at earth issues can become a nega­tive thing, but we wanted to make it something positive." 
Besides holding events to pro­mote dialogue among students interested in environmental issues, SEA and SEAC said they also wanted to promote the envi­ronment as a whole. 
"I think a lot of people are aware of a lot of environmental issues, but there are plenty of oth­ers that students are not aware of," Kelly said. "I think that a lot of the local South Bend issues are largely unknown to the student[s] since there isn't very much inter­action between the community and students." 
Members of Saint Mary's SEAC agree with Kelly. They feel that in order to grow big, people must start small. 
"Hecycling is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to earth issues, but at least it's a start," said SEAC members. "We believe you have to start in your own backyard, that being the South Bend community. We want to raise awareness because we have a lot of room to grow." 
And now, the future of earth issues is looking bright at Saint Mary's, according to group mem­bers. 
"We have a strong history of earth awareness at Saint Mary's," said SEAC members. "We have over 130 different plant and tree species on our nature trails alone. We're working hard to retain the nature area we have currently, and there is even a project in the works by COLT to set up an earth studies major and minor. And we're hoping that history will move into the future." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
WRC award ceremony held 
Women's Resource Center honors four Notre Dame women 
four honored women and read helped begin the European
By SHEILA FLYNN various excerpts from their film series and has been inte-
Senior StaffWriter nominations, gral in establish­submitted by col­ing close ties The Women's Resource leagues and stu­with the French
'lis we do what we
Center held its fifth annual dents. Johnson Consulate in
do with our lives.
awards ceremony Thursday presented the Chicago. night, honoring four Notre honored women those who come Pieronek, also Dame women for their dedica­with their a double Domer,
after us watch 
tion and improvements to the awards to the is the director of
what we do. and
University community. applause of the the Women's The Distinguished Notre audience in they listen to what Engineering Dame Woman Awards were South Dining Program. She
we say, and they
presented this year to Hall's Oak Room, has developed
examine the nature
Kathleen Brannock, Howard including -this various tutoring hall rector; Ruthann Joh­year's judges, ofour personal and internship ansen, professional specialist who were the relationships. " initiatives and for arts and letters core; recipients of the promotes schol­Catherine Perry, associate awards last year. arships available
Chandra Johnson 
professor of French; and Brannock is to women study­Catherine Pieronek, director currently the assistant to the ing engineering. of women's programs for the rector of Howard president The excerpts College of Engineering. llall and also of the nomina­
"When you put them togeth­works in the tions read by er, how lucky we are to have General Counsel Office. A Foley and Johnson lauded them in our midst," said assis­double Domer, she earned each woman's efforts to better tant to the president Chandra both her undergraduate and the Notre Dame community, Johnson, the guest speaker at Jaw degrees at Notre Dame. her dedication to students and the awards ceremony. Stress­Johansen, an associate pro­her ability to inspire and ing the importance of the fessor of American Studies, is motivate others within the "intra-generational reality of the associate director of the community to strive for excel­passing on the wisdom," College of Arts and Letters lence both at the University, in Johnson said the award recip­Core Course and a faculty fel­the professional realm, and in ients and the female commu­low of the Kroc life, in general. nity, in general, play an inte­Institute for In­The Women's gral role in the teaching and ternational "They are different Resource Center. improvement of future gener­Peace Studies. located on the
people -they are
ations. She is a scholar third floor of "As we do what we do with of the literature better people -LaFortune, exists our lives, those who come of Flannery because ofyou. " as an informa­after us watch what we do, O'Connor and tion clearing and they listen to what we has recently house and refer­
Chandra Johnson 
say, and they examine the published a ral center dedi­nature of our personal rela­book about the assistant to the cated to increas­tionships," Johnson said. experience of president ing awareness 
"They are different people brain trauma. about issues aff­-they are better people -Perry is a pro-ecting women on because of you." fessor in the department of campus and around the 
Senior Meredith Foley, pres­Romance Languages and world. ident of the Women's Literatures and is a member Resource Center, described of the Nanovic Institute's Contact Sheila Flynn at the accomplishments of the Steering Committee. She sflynn2@nd.edu 
fERAsM-u-s-i:Yoo_K_s: 
I 

RAND OPENII\IG 
I 
1• Used Books bought and sold 
KING$

:. 25 Categories of Books
Kevin Bacon at Notre Dame? Well, sort of. 
:• 25,000 Hardback and DOLLAR PLU$ 
Notre Dame's Paperback books in stock
1 
:. Out-of-Print search service 
6 Degrees ofKevin Bacon • 

1 Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
Open Dnily 9om-8pm Sun.Noon-8prn 

1027 E. Wayne 
1813 South Bend Ave.South Bend, IN 46617 l..A'astcll in the ~l:llnc piRl"~ 11)$ Betwc<-u tht Btm"'! 
(219) 232-8444 574.993.031() 574.234.!!730 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
Knute Rockne 

Was in Thjy is in tericQ' Snorts' Golden Age with Dwight West 
Who as in~ with John Rothman 
Who was~n Picture Perfect with Kevin Bacon 


Come see Mystic River 
Thursday April 22 10 pm 
A comedy by George Bernard Shaw 
Friday April23 8 & 10:30 pm Saturday April 24 8 & 10:30 pm 
Directed by Ann Marie Stewart
101 Debartolo $3 dollars· 

Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April21 7:30p.m. Price ofa movie off campus: $7 Price of a home theater: $10,000 
Thursday, April 22 7:30 p.m.
Price of seeing a SUB movie:$3 
Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m.
Winning a 27" TV/VCRIDVD combo for going to see a movie: priceless 
Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 25 2:30 p.m.
Don't miss your last chance to enter the TV giveaway! 
Reserved Seats $10 • Senior Citizens $9 

All Students $7, 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance 
at the LaFortune Student Center Box Oflloe. 
MasterCard/Visa or·ders, oall 574-631-8128. 



Friday, April 23, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
ByJANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
After spending several exhuasting days in Alabama on a field trip with 31 high school students, University employee Stephanie Bridges was looking forward to com­ing home two weekends ago. What awaited her was not quite the relaxation she expected. 
Her husband presented her with a winning lottery ticket worth $3.7 million. 
Kevin Bridges had won the Hoosier Lotto several days earlier, but waited until his wife returned home to break the news. 
"The past days have been pretty hectic; [I've] not [been] able to sleep well," said Bridges, a South Bend native, and a graduate of Clay High School and Oral Roberts University. She has been an advisor for the University's Educational Talent Search program for 11 years. 
"Right now we're happy, but it is really overwhelming. We're just trying to get back to the regular routine," she said. 
During the whirlwind that has been the past two weeks, they have changed their home phone number and held a press conference in Indianapolis. The state sug­gests that lotto winners hold a press conference to preclude the media onslaught, avoiding a "long, drawn out process," she explained. 
Stephanie Bridges said that she and her husband have not had the chance to make many 





Husband of ND 
Lecture discusses theology 
SMC talk discusses importance of women in theology formation

employee wins lotto 
theology," Hinsdale said. 

Hinsdale began her lecture by encouraging the audience to join together in the singing of "Everyday God" to celebrate Earth Day, and the realization that God is pres­ent in our everyday physical and emotional life. 
Hinsdale pointed out it was only 50 years ago that only men were involved in all aspects of theology. Women were rarely professors, yet alone theology professors. said Hinsdale. 
Hinsdale said many factors concrete decisions. They have been meeting with financial planners to determine the best way to manage their money, and they also plan on spending some time away to discuss the details of their future. 
The couple does not plan on changing its lifestyle in a.ny drastic way. Bridges said that she will continue working at her current position, and that her husband will return to school full-time. Kevin Bridges is a purchaser for Mohawk Flush Doors. Inc. of South Bend. 
Kevin Bridges played the lottery frequently, and like many Americans, he and his wife often imagined what it would be like to win. But when it actually comes true, your plans become "totally different" Stephanie Bridges said. 
"When you get it, the responsibility sets in. and you want to be more reasonable," Stephanie Bridges said. 
Stephanie and Kevin Bridges, who are very close to both of their families, said their families will support them in any way they can. Though, they are trying to be "extremely conscious" about how they spend their money. T)leir first priority is "secur­ing the future" for their three children, a 16-year old son and two-year old twin daugh­ters. 
Despite the stressful past weeks, Stephanie Bridges said her family is very pleased. . 
"It's a good thing," she said. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnl@nd.edu 

In her own life, Hinsdale's interest in women shaping theology was a result of her realization that well-mean­ing religious practices often seemed exclusive. especially towards women. This caused her to further her education through obtaining her B.A. in theology and German from Marygrove College. 
M.A. in religious education from the Catholic University of America, a Licentiate in sacred theology from Regis College and a Ph.D. from the University of St. Michael's By KELLY MEEHAN 

News Writer 

Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality presented its 20th annual Madeleva Lecture Thursday night with guest lecturer Mary Ann Hinsdale, who spoke of the role women have played in modern theology. 
Hinsdale has been a Sister of the Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary in Monroe, Mich. since 1965. She has also taught theology for over 25 years and is cur­rently an associate professor of theology at Boston College. 
The Madeleva Lectures in Spirituality are named for Sister Madeleva Wolff, past president of Saint Mary's, and are intended to honor Wolff and her initiative of creating the Graduate School of Scared Theology in 1944 -the only institute of its time to admit women into a Ph.D. program in theology. 
The lecture, "Women Shaping Theology," began with an introduction by President Marilou Eldred and Sister Kathleen Dolphin. director of the Center for Spirituality. Hinsdale spoke of the influence that women have played in the formation of theology. 
"I encourage all women to give a voice to the who and what that have shaped us in 
have led ro women shap­

ing theology. "/ encourage all One of the women to give a 
most notable is 

voice to the who 
the influence 

of women's and what that Catholic educa­have shaped us 
tional institu­

in theology. " 
tions. She com­mented that these institu­Mary Ann Hinsdale tions frequent­guest lecturer ly graduate strong women, College. 
The future of women in theology lies in the hands of laywomen, she said. An over­whelming 78 per­cent of today's women theologians are single or mar­ried laywomen. Hinsdale pointed out that this will greatly impact the future of women in 
with a long legacy of gradu­ates becoming theologians. 
Involvement fn volunteer organizations, such as the Peace Corps, often results in people "getting bitten by the theology bug" said Hinsdale. The increased interest in theology through volunteer work is often due to increased prayer and com­munity living while volun­teering. 
theology, for it will be less about the careers of theolo­
gians and  more  about "the  
word  [of God]  becoming  
flesh."  

Hinsdale concluded her speech by encourage those in attendance -particularly women to consider becoming theologians. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


This Week in the Department ofMusic••• ND Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Wednesday, April 21,2004 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Russ Gavin, euphonium ND Collegium Musicum Thursday, April 22, 2004 Daniel Stowe, director 5 pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 8 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel Katie Hunt & Mark Thomas, organ Timothy Duhr, organ Thursday, April 22,2004 Saturday, April 24, 2004 8:15pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart ND University Band & Brass Ensemble Sunday, April 25, 2004 3 pm, Rotunda, Notre Dame Main Building All events FREE and open to the public! For more information call the Department ofMusic at 631-6201.  
John M .. Marshall's ln\~orpor-.ah~d 1965 Jewelers / Gemologists Gofclsmiths I Platinumsmiths Kt;Y Bank Buildin~, Suite .#101 South Bend~ Indiana 46601 287--1427  

!""-----------------------------------­
-------~--~-~ 

ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 23, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TtiE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arafat expels fugitive militants 
.JimUSALEM -Yasscr Arafat expelled 20 wanted militants from his compound Thursday in an apparent bid to forestall an Israeli raid, a further sign the Palestinian leader fears he might become a target him­self. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, mean­while, backed away from a promise to honor an upcoming vote by his Likud party on a proposal to withdraw from the Gaza Strip, senior government oflicials said. A new poll showed shrinking support for the plan. 
Violnnce persisted Thursday. with Israeli soldinrs killing a 9-year-old Palestinian girl and a l (1-year-old boy in clashes in the Gaza town of Bcit Lahiya. A 4-year-old Palestinian girl dind of tear gas inhalation. doctors said. Thrnc Palestinian gunmen in the West Bank town of Tulkarmn were also killed. 
North Korean fuel trains explode 
SEOUL, South Korea-Two fuel trains col­lidlld at a North Korean railroad station ncar thn Chirwsn border Thursday, igniting a deaf­nning explosion that rained debris for more than I0 rnilt~s around, South Korean media said. As many as 3,000 people might have lwen killed or injurnd. according to the rtlports. 
Tho secretive communist government in Pyongyang declared an emergency in the area while cutting ofT international telephone lines to prevent details of the crash from l1~aking out, South Korea's Yonhap news ag1~ncy reported. The North's official KCNA news agency still had not mentioned the dis­aster by Friday morning, more than 20 hours aftllr the blast. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
White supremacist faces trial 
CIIICAGO-.Jurors began deliberating Thursday in the case of a 32-year-old white supremacist accused of trying to solicit the murder of a federal judge who had ruled against him. 
Matthew Hale, who has been jailed since his arrest 15 months ago, sat at the defense table in an orange prison jumpsuit as U.S. District .Judge .lamesT. Moody instructed the jury 
In a note sent out shortly after they started deliberating, jurors asked for a letter that attorneys said was inadvertently left out of the evidence. Jurors also requested tran­script<; of all testimony from a former follow­er. 
Airport security still lacking 
WASIIINGTON -Airport security remains lax despite billions of dollars and thousands of federal employees added since the Sept. 11 attacks, lawmakers were told Thursday. 
A pair of government investigations sub­mitted to the !louse aviation subcommittee found dangerous objects still get past securi­ty checkpoints. And they said neither govern­ment nor privately employed screeners per­formed their jobs well. 
The findings are "pretty scary," said Rep. John Mica. H-Fla., the panel's chairman. He plans to hold an emergency meeting with llomeland Security Secretary Tom Hidge and other key agency oflicials in the next 10 days to discuss ways to tighten airport security. 
STATE NEWS 
Police officers acted in self-defense 
LaPOHTE -1\vo police oflicers acted in self­defense when they fired on and killed a suici­dal man who pointed a sawed-off rifle at them, prosecutors say. Authorities have not disclosed the names of the two deputies involved in the March 26 shooting of Keith Stratton, 40. But during a news conference Wednesday, LaPorte County Prosecutor Hobnrt Beckman said the oflic1,rs acted properly in the shooting. 
"They acted within the protocol of all law t~nforcement to discharge their weapons in the manner and at the time they did," he said. 
IRAQ 


Iraqis must hand over weapons 
Marines order insurgents to stop violence or face possible American attack 
Associated Press 
FALLUJAH U.S. 
Marines warned guerrillas 
in this violence-wracked 
city Thursday that they 
have only days to hand 
over their heavy weapons 
or face a possible 
American attack. So far 
the insurgents have turned 
in mainly dud rockets, 
rusty mortar shells and 
grenades labeled "inert." 
Lt. Gen. James Conway said the battle could be "costly" if Marines launch a new assault to uproot insurgents from Fallujah, saying foreign fighters in the city have been rein­forcing their positions and have no interest in surren­dering. 
The stark warning came two days after city leaders called on insurgents to hand over their heavy weapons in return for a 
U.S. pledge to hold back on plans to storm Fallujah and allow the return of families that fled the city. 

Now Marines have halted the return of families because of the failure to disarm and the desire to have fewer civilians in the city if fighting resumes. More than a third of Fallujah's 200,000 people fled to Baghdad and else­where during the fighting that began April 5. U.S.-led occupation admin­non-Iraqi employees are earlier estimates. 
Early Thursday, Marines istration and severely outside the country, either A spokesman for British launched a major assault wounded his translator sent out of Iraq or unable forces responsible for the on the village of Karma, 10 Thursday, a U.S. spokes­to return because of the southern Iraqi city of miles northeast of man said. The shooting violence. Basra lowered the report­Fallujah, in a second took place near northern The upswing in violence ed death toll to 50 from a attempt to put down guer­Baghdad's Sunni Muslim has made April the bloodi­series of suicide bombings rillas there. neighborhood of Aza­est month for the that targeted police sta­
"The enemy is taking miyah, where gunmen American-led military tions there Wednesday. casualties; we are not," have been active. since the invasion of Iraq. It was still too early to Maj. Gen. James N. Mattis The violence across Iraq At least 100 soldiers and say who was behind the said. has interrupted some five American civilian con­Basra attacks, Capt. 
A battle in the village last infrastructure repairs and tractors have been killed. Hisham Halawi said. "We week killed 100 insur­forced giant firms Siemens Dozens of foreigners have can't discount al-Qaida, we gents, according to Marine AG, Bechtel and General been abducted in a wave of can't discount former commanders. The two Electric to suspend some kidnappings, with about 15 regime loyalists," he said. days of fighting in palm reconstruction projects, still captive. Basra is overwhelmingly groves and over canals threatening to undermine New figures for the Iraqi Shiite, and the last major was so intense that wound­the critical U.S. goal of casualty toll from this suicide attack also target­ed Marines were sent out rebuilding Iraq. month's fighting emerged ed Shiites: a series of sui­to fight. Even a U.S. government Thursday, with the health cide bombers who struck 
In Baghdad, masked aid agency that oversees minister saying 576 Iraqi holy shrines in Karbala gunmen shot and killed a aome reconstruction proj­insurgents and civilians and Baghdad on March 2. South Mrican security con­ects has been affected. died in fighting since April At least 181 people were tractor working for the Some ten percent of its 1 -sharply lower than killed. 


Bush promises to restore wetlands 
"Instead of just limiting our losses, thousands of species of wildlife," Bush 
Associated Press 

we will expand the wetlands of said. 
WELLS, Maine ~ Taking advantage America," Bush said after highlighting "Good conservation and good stew­of Earth Day, President Bush tried to efforts to help wetlands at the Wells ardship will happen when people say, improve his environmental image and National Estuarine Research Reserve. 'We're just not going to rely on the fend off attacks from Democrat John The 1,600 acres of salt marshes, government to be the solution to the Kerry with a promise to restore or beaches, forests and freshwater wet­problem,"' he said. protect as much as three million acres lands are located a few miles from the Ed Hopkins, a spokesman for the of wetlands in the next five years. Bush~ family's compound at Sierra Club, said that "this initiative 
Bush said after touring a Maine Kennebunkport. pales in comparison with the damage nature reserve with his mother that "For many years our nation has the Bush administration is doing to the nation's wetlands arc for the first been working to prevent the net loss of wetlands" by not requiring more time holding steady in the battle to wetlands and there is a reason why. strenuous protections under the Clean stop their annual net loss. America's wetlands are the habitat for Water Act. 
Friday, April 23, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
never got the· answers they 

of great people and a president, I hope to leave the were looking for. This panel, he 
"tremendous amount of sup­University in good shape."
Roe01er 
Malloy
added, must be different. 

port." "Fulfilling the Promise," continued from page 1 Americans are watching, and 
In his remaining time at the which Malloy said builds off
continued from page 1 
watching closely. Many are 

University, Malloy hopes to previous strategic plans, intelligence agencies such as interested because of the politi­
"I think the Board looked at work on the completion of focuses on the reaffirmation the FBI and CIA to disclose cal blame game. Many are in 
several models about how the next strategic plan -of great teaching. graduate records to grilling National awe of just how much intelli­
this job should be fashioned," "Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling research and scholarship, Security Advisor Condoleezza gence has come to light, he 
Storin added, "but with the the Promise" -and to pre­promotion of Catholic intel­Rice about who knew what and said, and many -especially 
possibility of some tweaking pare the community for its lectual life and international­when, the commission has tried those who have lost their loved 
here and there, the job will implementation, joking that ization and diversity. to thoroughly expose the gov­ones -have a bittersweet per­
remain as is." this was "enough to keep Storin said he expects the ernment's internal workings -sonal stake. 
When he does step down as anyone busy." Board to approve "Notre and internal failures and gaps Roemer, who credits his 
president, Malloy said he will "That's what we're about Dame 2010: Fulfilling the -more publicly than ever South Bend upbringing and 
look back on his tenure as an right now," Malloy said. "In Promise" at next week's before, he said. And perhaps Notre Dame experience with 
exciting point in Notre my remaining days as presi­meeting. more openly, he added, than his "sense to use your con­
Dame's history, adding that dent, that's what I hope to be ever again. science, deepest beliefs and 
he is proud to be part of an able to do. And when I pass Contact Meghanne Downes at "This will be the most rich, hopefully your analytical and 
era distinguished by the work on the mantle to the next mdownesl@nd.edu penetrating and in•depth look academic skills to ... be con­at our government that the structive rather than destruc­American people may ever tive in the political process," get," he said. "It's a truly phe­said he has always cared about 
fees. "We will be getting a more nomenal, maybe once in a life­the audience of victims' fami­
The Rector Fund allows sufficient amount than in the

Shirt 

time, once in history look at lies the most. 
dorms to provide students, past," she said. how government functions .... "Maybe a part of their heal­
continued from page 1 who have financial concerns, Performances by the band Only in America could this take ing process is their involvement 
with extra money to cover The Undertones, Irish dancers. place." in figuring out what's going on 
Association, will kick off the events like football tickets that the Notre Dame cheerleaders, However, not all Americans and what cost them dearly," he 
event at 4:45 p.m. outside the they might otherwise be the marching band and clowns have agreed with the trans­said. 
Hammes Bookstore with "a unable to participate in. will entertain those in atten­parency of the commission. Roemer recalled a meeting in 
mini pep rally" said Crossin. "They [rectors] can allocate dance Marco's Pizza and Critics have blasted panel his office shortly before the 
The official unveiling and how [the fund] they see fit," Coca-Cola will be providing members for being too public commission's work began. A 
press conference will begin said Crossin. "It's really a food and drinks. too prematurely with their widow of a September 11 vic­
inside at 5 p.m. with various great resource for the dorms." There will be an opportunity opinions, and some have even tim took off her husband's wed­
members of the Notre Dame Becker says she's "a little to win one of two $500 shop­called for a voluntary gag order ding ring -which had been 
community, including athletic nervous, but excited" about ping sprees at the bookstore to preserve the panel's integri­recovered from Ground Zero 
director Kevin White, Lennon, the unveiling. and a set of football tickets for ty. Roemer points to one with part of his finger still in it 
Harvath and Sister Jean Lenz. "I hope everyone wears it, the 2004 season. answer for the critics' com­-and put it in Roemer's hand. 
Lenz encouraged students to likes it and raises money for Other events this week have plaints -the past. The former Congressman still 
buy The Shirt in 1990 to cover the cause," she said. "Because also commemorated The "Many previous commissions remembers her telling him, 
the medical expenses of Notre that's what it is really about." Shirt's 15th anniversary. Five with prominent members, dis­"We hope you won't lose sight 
Dame graduate student, Zheng The Shirt will be available hundred white shirts promot­tinctive reports -nothing has of the symbolism of this ring." 
de Wang, a victim of a hit-and­for a student discount of $11 ing the unveiling were given to changed as a result of those Through the pressure and the 
run on Notre Dame Avenue. today, Saturday and Sunday. dorms and passed out at commissions' hard work and partisanship, it is clear that he 
The proceeds from the shirt There is a limit of one shirt DeBartolo Hall. valiant efforts," he said. hasn't. 
are evenly split between a per student with valid student "I wanted to see walking bill­Recalling the Warren "Those kind of poignant and 
fund to help with student med­ID. boards," said Crossin. "We Commission, which investigat­profound moments," he said, 
ical expenses and The Shirt Crossin said there will be wanted to make the 15th ed the Kennedy assassination "stick with you." 
Charity Fund. Thirty-five per­roughly 9,000 shirts in the first anniversary big." chiefly behind closed doors, 
cent of the charity fund goes to shipment, which will come in Roemer said that the "conspir­Contact Claire Heininger at 
the Rector Fund, and the rest four sizes: small, medium, Contact Anna Gelhaus at acy theorists still poking today" cheining@nd.edu 
supplements Student Activities large and extra large. agelhaus@nd.edu 



sprin9 carnival 
featuring~ fr·ee subviay i'i <lwl·r~ ,~rrt r.::~=lrtt itfi:c ri:At:t:=:!;; dog tags bouncy boxing free photo key chains bungee run On the fieldhouse Mall 2-6pm . . 
(Lafortune Ballroom 1f ratn (lnflatables on North Quad 1-Spm) 
Ja n Le asseur Concert 
opener Lawrence Santiago of Station One 
Spm on Fieldhouse Mall 
(IPOD giveaway) 
THE 0BSERVETt 





USINESS
Friday, April 23, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 10 461.20 +143.93
}ones<tf&,  ' Same:  ~ Composite Volume:  
2,494  I35  •  1,825,789,440  
AMEX  1,24t(~9  :.::: :''"'*11~15 :  
NASDAQ NYSE  2,032.91 6,633-JO ,,,.  +1.87 +86.$3 ,,  
s&PSOO  1,139.93  +15.84  

NIKKEJ(Tokyo) lli980;.10 0.00 FTSE IOO(london) 4,571.90 +31.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.96 +0.50 25.95 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.49 +0.78 23.15 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.93 +0.2455 26.52 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) -2.47 -0.50 19.73 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +4.32 +0.15 3.62 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.78 -0.41 51.90 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.18 -0.52 43.71 5-YEARNOTE -1.68 -0.59 34.47 3-MONTH BILL -3.10 -0.30 9.37 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.98 36.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.50 393.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.325 I 06.525 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.5 EURO 0~398 POUND 0.563 CANADIAN$ 1.356 
IN BRIEF 
Gasoline futures hit record high 
NEW YORK -Gasoline futures hit a new 
record trading high of $1.1930 a gallon 
Thursday in New York as stories ranging 
from threats to crude supply to a refinery 
outage fueled traders' fears of insufficient 
inventories during the peak U.S. summer 
driving season. 
"It looks to me that we will be testing $1.20 eventually." said Phil Flynn, an analyst who trades with Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago. "We're going into the weekend tomorrow, and with concerns about terror­ism, I'd have to say that the bull market's still on." 
Tyco subsidiary to pay $1OM fine 
IIAHTFOHD, Conn. -A Tyco International subsidiary will pay $10 million in fines and admit covering up the illegal release of wastewater into a sewer system. The Associated Press has learned. 
Tyco Electronics Printed Circuit Group has been the subject of a long federal investiga­tion. Three former employees have pleaded guilty to covering up the release of waste­water containing high levels of lead and cop­per into sewers near its now-closed plant in Manchester, in violation of the federal Clean Water Act. 
The plea agreement will be completed in federal court next week, said two sources close to the case. They spoke on condition of anonymity. 
California may escape blackouts 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. -It looks like California residents might escape a summer of rolling blackouts, and enjoy a period of calm after the energy crisis that plunged millions of people into the dark and sent the state's largest utility into bankruptcy. 
But Handy Howse, owner of the Paradise Cafe in Santa Barbara. said he can only cut back on labor costs and personnel when rates are so high. "It's one of the few things you can do." 
WALL STREET 

Stocks surge on earnings news 
Market enthusiasm abounds as investors ignore signs of impending rate hike 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street roared back to life Thursday as investors refocused on earnings news, shaking off concerns about rising inter­est rates that have dogged the market for almost two weeks. Upbeat reports from Caterpillar Inc. and United Parcel Service Inc. offered 
fresh  evidence that  the  
economy is growing.  
The surge in stocks ­ the  

Dow Jones industrial aver­age added more than 140 points and the Nasdaq com­posite index was up nearly 2 percent-was accompa­nied by a spike in volume as investors returned to the market in large numbers following two days of con­gressional testimony from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. 
Nervousness about when the Fed will raise rates has overshadowed good results throughout the current reporting period. Analysts say those worries may be overblown. however, as most doubt that lifting rates from their current 45-year lows would significantly dent future corporate prof­its. 
"I don't think we're at the point where interest rates are going to curtail the mar­ket's advance, but the mar­ket has to go through a digestive phase," said Steven Goldman, chief strategist at Weeden & Co. in Greenwich, Conn. "In general, the market has really held up quite well." 
The Dow closed up 143.93, or 1.4 percent, at 10,461.20. 
The· broader gauges were also markedly higher. The Nasdaq gained 37.28 or 1.9 percent, to 2,032.91. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 15.84, or 1.4 percent, to 1.139.93. 
Greenspan's message to Congress -that the eco­nomic recovery is stable and the expansion will likely continue -sounded positive but carried a painful impli­cation for the market, where many investors inter-preted it as confirmation that rates will likely rise before the year Is out. · 


For those who understood months ago that a rate hike was inevitable, the recent choppiness could have been a buying opportunity, said John P. Waterman, chief investment officer at Rittenhouse Asset Management. His firm repo­sitioned itself months ago, lightening up on rate-sensi­tive financial stocks and cyclical names in favor of more defensive areas, such as health care. 
Waterman is optimistic about the market's momen­tum this year. But uncer­tainty over the pace of eco­nomic growth, the presiden­tial election, fluctuations in the dollar and violence in Iraq could make for uneven trading in the months ahead. 

"Days like today help to get people's attention," Waterman said. "People are more inclined to think if they're not in the market, they should get in." 
Skittish investors had only to look to the day's earnings for positive signals. Solid results from business-to­business shipper UPS and industrial equipment spe­cialist Caterpillar, and a jump in advertising revenue at media conglomerate Viacom Inc. all bode well for the economy. 
Reports from dozens of companies, including more than 70 listed on the S&P 500 and five Dow compo­nents, made Thursday one 
l
j 
l 
j 
i 
1 
of the busiest days of the earnings season. 
Among tbe best gainers on the Dow, Caterpillar soared $3.39, or 4.2 per­cent, to $84.10, after more than tripling its earnings and surpassing analysts' estimates. The world's largest manufacturer of construction equipment also raised its outlook for the year. 
American International Group Inc., just added to the Dow this month, rose 50 cents to $73.70 after beating expectations, despite con­cerns that rising rates might hurt the financial sector. AIG's profits jumped 36 per­cent over the year-ago peri­od on strong performance at its life insurance and retire­ment services operations. 
CURRENCY EXCHANGE 


Data slows down dollar's advance 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Benign U.S. eco­nomic data took the steam out of the dollar's recent advance Thursday, pushing it lower against the euro. 
In a mixed session for the cur­rency. the dollar initially strength­ened against the euro, the Swiss franc and the yen early in the day -before slipping back a bit fol­lowing the release of a smaller­than-expected decline in weekly jobless claims. 
Alex Beuzelin, currency analyst at Ruesch International in Washington, said that while the dollar is clearly drawing support from the likelihood of the Federal Reserve raising interest rates soon, the road to that point isn't neces­sarily a straight one. 

Thursday's data "hit home the point that monetary policy officials can remain 'patient,'" as to when they start the tightening cycle, Beuzelin said, repeating the key word for Fed-watchers. "There was nothing [in the numbers) to bring forward that timeline." 
The latest weekly jobless claims fell by 9,000 but economists were expecting a fall of 20,000. The euro, which had fallen to a five­month low of $1.1781, rebounded on the claims report, while the dol­lar came off its five-month high against the Swiss franc of 1. 3190 francs. 
In late New York trading, the euro was quoted at $1.1899, up from $1.1848 late Wednesday. The dollar was quoted at 109.49 yen, up from 109.35 yen late Wednesday. 
The dollar was quoted at 1.3089 Swiss francs, down from 1.3123, and 1.3558 Canadian dollars, down from 1.3589. The British pound fell to $1.7712 from $1.7743. 
Friday, April 23, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
FYC 
continued from page 1 
was certainly in everyone's mind, and everything we did was good background for the things happening today," said Eileen Kolman, dean of the First Year of Studies. "This fall. the November elections will be a top concern, and we hope to be part of the buzz on campus over them." 
Incoming freshmen will be required to read Patterson's book over the summer. along with an interview with Robert Putnam regarding the theories in his book, Bowling Alone: America's Declining Social Capital. Due to concerns voiced by current freshmen, this work­load is decreased from last year's, when students were asked to read four articles and three Web sites in addition to the Heart of Islam, which is 300 pages. 
"In retrospect, [last year's requirements] were too heavy for the first exposure to college reading. It just wasn't a com­pelling enough read," Kolman said. "We also asked students to read too much. This year, we chose something that was a little more accessible." 
In another change to original protocol, Patterson's book will be sent to each freshman student, free of charge. Last year, first­year students had to find and purchase the $23 book on their own accord, which led to com­plaints about cost and conven­ience. 
The format of the panel dis­cussion will also change slightly to address issues brought to the Committee, which is made up of both student and faculty mem­bers. 
"Having three panels of three speakers was too much, so there will be a change made to that," Kolman said. "There also was not enough opportunity for stu­dent interaction, so we'll proba­bly have a shorter formal section with less planted questions." 
The convocation is also being held earlier in September so the subject matter will be fresher in the students' minds, and more class time will be devoted to working with the book and topic, specifically in First Year Composition courses where it has already been worked into the syllabus. 
Despite all the changes made, Kolman said she still considers the original program a success. 
"As a first endeavor, it had a definite impact on a number of students," she said. "It was a success, and very educational." 
Some current freshman ques­tioned the feasibility of the con­vocation in any format, as many chose not to read the book or articles, and students showed poor attendance at the panel dis­cussion. 
"A whole book is a lot to read in our last summer of total apa­thy," said Fisher freshman Dan Martin. "It's our last chance not to do work." 
Kolman said the more involv­ing and functional subject mat­ter will draw more students to the convocation, as voter regis­tration is applicable to almost all freshmen. 
"This year is more practical than the last," she said. "And I believe this is the beginning of great tradition." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Jackson defense plans new strategy 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Michael Jackson's secret indictment on child molestation charges sets the stage for a unique defense challenge on grounds that extraordinary security measures may have intimi­dated witnesses and grand jurors. 
Authorities blocked side­walks, hid witnesses and delivered grand jurors to secret locations in buses with blacked-out windows to keep the proceedings secret. In one case, a photographer outside the building where grand jurors were meeting was ordered to delete photos from his digital camera because they revealed too much of the people entering the building. 
Jackson attorney Mark Geragos, unable to comment directly because of a gag order. suggested grounds for a challenge as he protested the secrecy before a Santa Barbara judge last week. 
"If you believe what is reported, we've got people covered up, wrapped in blan­kets, put into vans driven around like they're Osama bin Laden's lieutenants and put into a training facility, then admonished in the pro­cedure and then spirited out into the afternoon sun," Geragos told Superior Court Judge Clifford Anderson. 
"That has had an enor­mously chilling effect on the defense in terms of all of the witnesses," said Geragos, who was seeking approval to interview witnesses. He won that approval but little else. 

An indictment was returned Wednesday. Authorities would not con­firm that had happened even after major news organiza­tions reported it. The docu­ment remained sealed and its details unknown. 
Sources told The Associated Press on Thursday that 25 witnesses testified. 
The indictment was to remain under wraps until April 
were probably made to believe they were evaluating someone particularly danger­ous." 
Loyola University law pro­fessor Laurie Levenson said a challenge because of secrecy would be "novel" but she said unusual motions seem to go hand-in-hand with high­profile cases. 
"It's not a standard motion. And Geragos is going to be pushing the envelope here"" she said. "But I've never before heard of a hide-and­
seek grand 
jury." 

30 when Jackson "We've had
'Tve never seen
is scheduled to be grand jury
anything go offthe
in court in Santa hearings for a Maria for a pretri­charts like this. " United States al hearing. He president in could be the Monica
Laurie Levenson
arraigned on the Lewinsky

law professor
indictment that case," she 
day. 

The defense has said Jackson will plead inno­cent as he did to previous charges lodged by the district attorney. The defense could then launch an effort to quash the indictment. 
Criminal defense attorney Steve Cron said Geragos' plan of attack is unusual but could draw the attention of an appeals court, if not the trial judge. 
Cron said that District Attorney Tom Sneddon would likely argue that the secrecy was designed to protect grand jurors and witnesses from the media. 
"It may have been taken a bit too far," said Cron. ''They said, "hearings 
in the Rodney King cases. but I've never seen anything go off the charts like this. And even with such secrecy you have a leaked indictment." 
Attorney Theodore Boutrous, who represents media companies challenging secrecy in Lhe case, said authorities' tactics infringed on the press First Amendment rights to report on the case for the public. 
"It forces reporters into back-alley reporting and that is not good for the public," said Boutrous. "It closes a window on the public's abili­ty to serve as a check on the system." 


Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


China, Libya illlprove U.S. relations 
Meanwhile, relations with other countries, United Nations sour 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Across the world. it seems that U.S. diplo­maey is breaking down. 
America's tics with Europe and the United Nations arc frayed. The Arab world is furi­ous over U.S. support for Israel on West Bank settle­ments. Pleas for help in stabi­lizing Iraq have found few tak­ers. Troops from Spain, llonduras and the Dominiean Hepublic leaving. And eoalition leaders still standing with President Bush face rising political dissent at home. 
On the other hand, relations are clearly improving with China and Libya. The U.S. overtures to these old totali­tarian foes might have startled administration foreign policy hawks just a few years ago, but the Sept. 11 terror attacks and wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have produced some seis­mic shifts in global dynamics. 
Libya is Bush's poster child of a rogue regime that saw the 
IVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 


APRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 
PEN GRADUATION SUNDAY ROM 5:30PM SERVATIONS ESSENTIAL: 631·4683 
Plan on visiting Italy? Learn to speak Italian this summer! 

Rome, Venice, Florence, Naples, Bologna, 
Sicily, Milan, Pisa, etc., etc. ROIT 101, 3 credits ROIT 102, 3 credits Complete two semesters of foreign language requirements in six weeks 
light. The administration is poised to lift some sanctions to reward Libyan leader Moamrilar Gadhafi for aban­doning weapons of mass destruction and accepting responsibility for the 1988 Pan Am 103 bombing. 
And forging closer ties with China is a courtship of conven­ienee. The United States is looking to Beijing to help defuse the North Korean nuclear standoff and to open more of China's markets to 
U.S. companies. It has also helped on the global war on terror. 
Given the turmoil in Iraq and the rest of the Middle East, the last thing the Bush administra­tion needs is confrontation with Beijing or a flare up in North Korea. The administra­tion also is under political attacks for not doing enough to narrow America's soaring trade deficit with China. 
"This really is an amazing relationship. It's gone from almost nothing to one of the 
most significant bilateral rela­tionships anyplace in the world today," Vice President Dick Cheney said on a recent trip to China. 
China, now America's third­largest trading partner. agreed during high-level talks in Washington last week to a series of agreements to open more markets to U.S. goods and to crack down on piraey of copyrighted CDs, movies and computer software. Commerce Secretary Don Evans called it "a landmark day." 
Meanwhile, China's leaders apparently went along with a direct appeal by Cheney to exert more pressure on North Korean leader Kim Jong II to dismantle his nuclear pro­gram. 
Visiting Beijing last week just days after Cheney, Kim told Chinese officials he is committed to continuing six­nation talks and ending the nuclear dispute through dia­logue, China's official Xinhua News Agency reported. 


Witnesses testify in Nichols trial 
Associated Press 

McALESTER, Okla. -Jurors . in the state murder trial of Oklahoma City bombing con­spirator Terry Nichols heard the recorded "Boom!" of the explosion Thursday and the panicked screams of people caught in it. 
One juror shielded her face as prosecutors played the audiotape that captured the sound of the 4,000-pound homemade bomb that destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168 people. 
Prosecutors have charged Nichols with 161 counts of first-degree murder for his role in the bombing, and are seeking the death penalty. 
Cynthia Lou Klaver. an attor­ney for the Oklahoma Water 
Resources "It looked like a said McVeigh Board, said the told him Nichols
war zone. There
tape was turned was deeply on at 9 a.m. on were people on the involved and April 19, 1995, curb sitting there helped gather for an adminis­bomb compo­
bleeding."
trative hearing nents. Fortier 
at the agency's said he was not office across the Cynthia Lou Klaver directly street from the witness involved. 
federal building. 

Klaver is heard on the tape about two minutes later: 
"Basically there are four ele­ments I have to receive infor­mation regarding ... " -and she is cut off by a deafening roar lasting several seconds. followed by the sound of falling debris and the screams of people trying to evacuate. 
"Everybody get out of here! Now!" someone yells. Another person screams: "What's going on? What's going on?" 
Once Klaver made her way outside, she was stunned by what she saw. 
"It looked like a war zone," she testified. "There were peo­ple on the curb sitting there bleeding." 
Prosecutors showed photo­graphs of the aftermath of the bombing in which Klaver is seen searching for co-workers. 
The sky was black with smoke and bits of paper fell like confetti. she said. 




Get Stuffed! 
ITALIAN KITCHEN 
Starting at $9.99 

Unmistakably Italian \ Unbelievably Good Hours: Sunday ·Thursday II a.m.• I 0 p.m. • Friday •Saturday II a.m.· II P·n:'· 
5110 Edison Lakes Parl<way, Mishawal<a • 574-271-1692 
Re$ervatiOn$ Accepted 
Under cross-

examination. Fortier said he received stolen weapons allegedly sold to finance the bombing. shared money from their sale with McVeigh, handled blasting caps and other explosives and had the same anti-government literature that McVeigh gave Nichols. 
Fortier accompanied McVeigh on a trip where they cased the federal building four months before the bombing. Defense attorney Brian Hermanson asked Fortier if his activities were enough to make authorities suspicious. 
"Yes. I would agree to that," Fortier said. 
But when questioned by prosecutor Sandra Elliott. Fortier said he didn't acquire any of the bomb's components or help make the bomb and tried to talk McVeigh out of the bombing. 
"I asked him about the peo­ple," Fortier said. 
"Tin metal things were falling out of the air." Klaver said. "It smelled really bad ­fertilizer, acrid." 
The bomb was made of ammonium nitrate fertilizer and racing fuel, according to authorities. 
In other testimony Thursday, defense attorneys questioned Michael Fortier for a third straight day, drawing parallels between Nichols' and Fortier's relationships with executed bomber Timothy McVeigh and their involvement in the bomb plot. 
Nichols already is serving a life sentence on federal convic­tions for the deaths of eight federal law enforcement offi­cers in the bombing. 
Fortier, serving 12 years in prison for not telling authori­
ties about the 
bomb plot, has 

page 10 Friday, April 23, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

Moussaoui case allowed to proceed 
Harsh penalty lifted that would have weakened government's case 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A federal appeals court on Thursday allowed the government's case against terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui to proceed and threw out a penalty that would have eliminated the heart of the government's only Sept. 11 case. 
The three-judge panel backed Moussaoui on the key issue, granting him access to three al­Qaida prisoners who have made statements that potentially could exonerate him. 
The judges of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., ordered the trial judge to work out a compromise that would give Moussaoui access to written accounts of the witness statements. 
Moussaoui's constitutional right to a fair trial demanded such access, even trumping the gov­ernment's need to protect nation­al security by denying an accused terrorist access to his former al­Qaida colleagues, the court said. 
However, the judges said the trial judge -Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria, Va. -went too far in punishing the government for dis­obeying her orders to allow Moussaoui and his lawyers to question the captives by a remote video hookup. 
The appeals court threw out Brinkema's two-pronged penalty, which consisted of banning any government evidence related to the Sept. 11 attacks and barring the death penalty -a punish­ment the government vowed to seek ifMoussaoui is convicted. 
"No punitive sanction is war­ranted here because the govern­ment has rightfully exercised its prerogative to protect national security interests by refusing to produce the witnesses," the court said. 
Moussaoui, who was arrested a month before the attacks while arousing suspicions at a flight school. is the only U.S. defendant charged as a conspirator with the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers. He has admitted belonging to Osama bin Laden's terrorist network but denied he was part of the plot, indicating instead that he was to have participated in a subsequent ai-Qaida operation. 
The FBI in Minneapolis had sought to search Moussaoui's computer after the French citi­zen's arrest for immigration viola­tions but was turned down by bureau headquarters. Members of a commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks have questioned whether the plot would have been discovered if the Minneapolis request had been granted. 
On. the key issue of access to witnesses, the appeals court said that from at least one witness, "a jury might reasonably infer ... that Moussaoui was not involved in Sept. 11. We therefore con­clude that Moussaoui has made a plausible showing" that the wit­ness would be favorable to him. 
Chief Judge William W. Wilkins wrote the opinion. Judges Karen 
J. Williams and Roger L. Gregory concurred with portions but dis­sented from other parts. 
The appeals court rejected Brinkema's view that it was not possible to craft a compromise to give Moussaoui access to the wit­nesses -saying that written statements from the prisoners could substitute for direct ques­tioning. 
Gregory said in his dissent that the instructions for drafting the witness statements for the jury put Brinkema "in a thoroughly untenable position." 
The court instructed Brinkema to work with the government, Moussaoui and his court-appoint­ed attorneys to draft the language of the statements that will be pre­sented to the jury. The judges said the statements should use the exact language from the witness interrogations "to the greatest extent possible." 




Holocaust papers 
•


gtven to museum 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum has acquired the diaries and papers of James McDonald, who raised early concerns about Nazi persecution of Jews and resigned his diplo­matic post to protest the world's failure to intervene. 
McDonald, who became the first U.S. ambassador to Israel, was appointed in 1933 to be the League of Nations' high commissioner for refugees who came from Germany and other coun­tries. He met Adolf Hitler and others then to discuss the plight of Jews in Germany. 
But frustrated by failure to address the mistreatment of Jews, he quit in 1935. 
"In many parts of the coun­try there is a systematic attempt at the 
friend of Hitler whom McDonald had known when he and Hanfstaengel were students at Harvard. 
Hanfstaengel said then, according to McDonald's account, that a storm trooper had been assigned to each Jew in Germany and that "in a single night it could be fin­
ished."  
"He  did  not  explain,"  
McDonald  wrote,  "but  I  
assume  he  meant nothing  

more than wholesale arrests and imprisonments." 
McDonald also reflected on his 1933 meeting with Hitler in his diary, .and wrote that the Nazi leader had looked at him half-suspiciously. 
Hitler said he was fighting on behalf of the world. 
"We are not primarily attacking the Jews," Hitler told him, "rather the 
Socialists and 

starvation of the Jewish popula­tion," he wrote  "In many parts of the country there is  Communists. The United States has shut  
in his letter of  a systematic  out such people.  
resignation. Two years before, he had  attempt at the starvation ofthe  We did not do so. Therefore, we cannot be  
heard  from  Jewish  blamed  if  we  
George Messersmith,  population."  now take meas­ures against  
then U.S. consul  them."  
general  in  James McDonald  M c D o n a I d  
Berlin, about a  first U.S. ambassador  described  his  
conversation  to Israel  impression  of  

with Hermann Goering, Hitler's top deputy. According to McDonald's diary, Goering told Messersmith he regret­ted that so few of the regime's opponents had been killed. 
"Now whenever an individ­ual is hurt, there is an inter­national sensation," McDonald recorded Messersmith as quoting Goering. "Had we let the blood run for a few days dur­ing the revolution, that would have been finished and the world would soon have for­gotten it." 
McDonald himself had heard something similar not long before from Ernst "Putzi" Hanfstaengel, a close but he has in addition, I think, much more reserve and control and intelligence than most fanatics." 
Hitler:  "The  
man  does  
have...  the eyes of a  fanatic,  

A month later, McDonald reported to President Franklin Roosevelt, who told him of a plan to appeal to the German people over Hitler's head. But this was never done. 
McDonald became U.S. ambassador to Israel in 1948. He died in 1964. 
Over 10,000 pages of his writings were given to the museum by his daughters, Barbara Ann McDonald Stewart and Janet McDonald Barrett. 

InTOMItorlhe SplilgGame;» 
Joiri the Crowd at 

live Entertainment Fridav &Saturdav Great Food &Alwavs Actioned Packed 
272-1766 2046 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
page 11

Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Second top editor steps down at USA Today 
Resignations follow in the wake of a scandal involving plagiarism by one of the paper's star reporters 
Associated Press 
MCLEAN. Va.-A second top editor stepped down from USA Today on Thursday as the fallout from a fraud scandal involving a former star reporter spread. A third told staffers he would be departing soon. 
llal Ritter. the newspaper's managing editor of news, sub­mitted his resignation to publish­er Craig Moon on Thursday. He had been in his current role since 1995 and had worked at the paper since it was founded in 1982. 
Hitter's departure came on the same day the newspaper revealed the scathing conclu­sions of an investigation by three veteran journalists into the work of former star reporter Jack Kelley. 
The panel determined that edi­tors should have looked into con­cerns about Kelley's work long ago and that poor editorial over­sight and a "virus" of fear helped Kelley continue his improprieties for years. The newspaper's top editor. Karen Jurgensen, retired abruptly in the wake of the scan­dal on Tuesday. 
Also, Brian Gallagher. the newspaper's executive editor. told his colleagues at a meeting Thursday that he would stay in his current role long enough to make a transition to the next edi­tor. but would not remain in that job for the long term. 
In a note that Moon distributed to the paper's staff. Hitter said his departure will "make it easier for my colleagues in News to continue the job of making the newspaper even greater." 
The panel's review found that Kelley committed many acts of fraudulent reporting for more than a decade, including fabri­cating parts of at least 20 stories and stealing at least 100 pas­sages from other news organiza­tions. 
The scandal has deeply embar­rassed USA Today. the nation's largest-selling newspaper, and paralleled a debacle last year at The New York Times involving former reporter Jayson Blair. 
The panel's findings, which were delivered to Moon last week, were detailed in a full page of articles in USA Today's Thursday editions, and a good portion of the report was posted on its Web site. 
The panel said USA Today's policies as well as routine editing procedures "should have raised dark shadows of doubt about Kelley's work, had his editors been vigilant and diligent. They were not." 
Prior to Ritter's resignation, Moon said in an interview that he anticipated making other per­sonnel changes, but had declined to be more specific. He also said he expected to keep Kelley's wife, Jacki, in her current position as the newspaper's top advertising executive. 
As for addressing the panel's concerns about a fearful culture in the newsroom, Moon said: "I think new leadership fixes that." 
Unlike Blair, who was a young reporter trying to make a name for himself, Kelley was a well­established star at USA Today. His work was held up to others as an example, he was given plum foreign assignments and asked to speak to various groups on behalf of the newspaper. He also co-authored two books with USA Today's founder, AI Neuharth. 
Kelley. who is 43, resigned in January after admitting to trying to deceive a team of editors examining the veracity of his work. A subsequent review by the outside experts found that Kelley had engaged in extensive fakery and plagiarism dating back as early as 1991. 
Until now Kelley had stood by his work, admitting only to attempting to deceive the initial investigation. But in a statement issued to the paper through his lawyers, Kelley acknowledged making "a number of serious mistakes that violate the values that are most important to me as a person and as a journalist," he said. 
"I recognize that I cannot make amends for the harm I have caused to my family, friends and colleagues. Nor can I make it up to readers who depend upon good journalism to understand a chaotic and confusing world. I can only offer my sincere apology to those I have let down," Kelley said. 
A lawyer for Kelley, Lisa J. 

Banks, declined to make any fur­"silence" the editorial staff, dis­ther comment. courage give-and-take among 
The outside panel of experts -reporters and editors and "sepa­John Seigenthaler, Bill Kovach rate responsibility from account­and Bill Hilliard -sharply criti­ability." cized USA Today's management Lines of communications run­in their 28-page report. Among ning both vertically and horizon­their conclusions were that the tally among the newspaper's newspaper failed to act on early divisions were "palpably defec­warnings of problems with tive," the review found, adding Kelley's work. that "communications deficien­
The editors spent more than 10 cies promote turf problems 
weeks interviewing  among  depart­ 
current and for­mer USA Today staffers in their  "I recognize that I cannot make  ments." They also found that Kelley was  
investigation,  amends for the  able to "routinely  
which was also aided by several reporters at the  ..  harm I have caused to my  abuse" rules gov­erning anonymous sources, exploiting  
paper. They also found that an earlier  family, friends and colleagues. ,,  the confidence his editors had in him. Kelley also billed  
investigation into Kelley's work. con­ Jack Kelley  the paper for thou­sands of dollars in  
ducted by USA Today editors last year, failed to turn  former USA Today reporter  cash that was pur­portedly paid to translators or driv­ 
up most of Kelley's  ers who said they  

misdeeds because the investiga­never received the money. tors "set out to prove that he had Accountants for the newspaper been guilty of nothing." plan to investigate. 
The panel also found that a Seigenthaler, the head of the fearful atmosphere in the news­panel, is a former editor and room inhibited staffers from publisher of The Tennessean in complaining about Kelley. Some Nashville and the founding edito­were scolded when they rial director of USA Today. expressed concerns about Kelley, Kovach is chairman of the who was considered a "Golden Committee of Concerned Boy" with close ties to the Journalists and former chief of paper's top managers. the Washington bureau for The 
The report found that the New York Times. Hilliard is a for­newspaper's structure and top­mer editor of The Oregonian in down management tended to Portland. 


NOTRE DAME  Better Ingredients. Better Pizza.  STMARY'S  
HOLY CROSS  
271-1177  
271-PAPA  

Good luckCoach Willingham, staff & players as you kick off the season with the Blue/Gold game 


GO IRISH!!! 
I 

·--------------· ·--------------· ·--------------· ·--------------· 
I with any Pizza 
One Small Two :Perfect Pizza Pak 

Two Extra Large : Purchase: 1Toppings &Side : Three Large Chickenstrips $3.99 1
Two Toppings :

Item : One Topping Breadsticks $2.99 : Cheesesticks $3.99 1

$17.22 :

I $8.22 : $19.22 
Cinnapie $3.99 :
I I 11
c · d
1 oupon requrre .

ICoupon required.~ I Coupon required. rWM 
•. \:

:Expires 30 days JIAa :Expires 30 days ~ :Expires 30 days WiifAJim::1 Coupon required.Wft~
Expires 30 days ~:1 


·--------------· ·--------------· ·--------------· ·--------------· 
FAST + HOT + QUALITY+ GO ND! 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, April 23, 2004 
The best of both worlds 
The Notre Dame name has not always been synonymous ed Notre Dame into an outstanding academic institution that with football. It has not always been synonymous with academ­also frequently succeeded on the gridiron -and neither came ics. Now-in an era when it is finally synonymous with both first or second. -the University's two pillars of pride have been set at odds. Today, Notre Dame is ranked in the top 20 institutions by the 
When Father Edward Sorin founded the University in 1842, U.S. News and World Report. The University has developed into he had visions of it being one of the greatest Catholic institu­one of the most academically elite in the country, as it was tions in America. Yet it remained relatively unknown until the called one of the "New Ivies" by the Wall Street Journal. The 1920s, when with the help ofKnute Rockne and allure of Notre Dame has also made it the No. 8 the Irish football team, this vision began to take O{fhe "Dream School," according to The Princeton 
userver
form. Review. Rockne put Notre Dame on the map, taking his However, with these higher academic stan­teams from New York to Los Angeles to face the dards -but not necessarily because of them ­

Editorial
best football competition in the country. During the football program has declined from its domi­Rockne's time, the University was not just intro-nation in earlier years. winning one national title duced to the nation, but began to draw a following of fans that in the past 30 years. Alumni have complained, students have loved the combination of Catholicism, athletics and academics been disappointed and Notre Dame followers across the coun­that Notre Dame stood for. try have grown increasingly frustrated. 
Football also kept the University from shutting down during But this frustration is exactly what people should expect from World War II. At that time, the Naval Academy bailed Notre Notre Dame and its fans. The Notre Dame "family" is a unique Dame out of fmancial struggles in return for one thing -an body, always expecting the best of everything-which means annual football game between the two schools that continues great football and great academics. as a tradition today. Though many call for the University to choose between them, 
As Notre Dame continued its growth throughout the 20th such a choice would undermine the University's unique identi­century, Father Theodore Hesburgh, President Emeritus, was ty. the principal figure in building the University into a place Notre Dame is no longer just a football school. It is a great known for more than its football team. Hesburgh's vision mold-academic institution with a storied football history. 


Bidding farewell to the senior class 
Some say that life is all about advan­tages. Many agree that a college degree adds ten times more earning power over those without such an educational bene­fit. Most would concur that our ultimate advantage might be knowing the 
Gary Caruso 

meaning of life. 
In a few weeks the Notre Dame Class of 2004 will Capitol mark its four-year Comments educational anniversary with commencement exercises. While the graduating seniors are celebrating the receipt of their hard-earned degrees, I hope they will take a moment to pay tribute to a fellow Domer who is cur­rently quite disadvantaged. 
Notre Dame Professor Emeritus Gil Loescher is the sole survivor of the Baghdad blast of the United Nations headquarters. In late May, Loescher, who gave 25 years of his life teaching at Notre Dame. will mark his nine-month anniversary as a double amputee. His is a remarkable story of survival featured in this spring's Notre Dame Alumni Magazine. 
The U.S. Army has billed Professor Loescher for medical treatment amount­ing $190,000, which is almost three times what his annual salary was before he retired from Notre Dame. It is esti­mated that within the next five years when he must fit new prosthetic limbs and make handicapped accessible modi­fications to his home in Great Britain, his expenses will top $800,000. His trav­el insurance will not cover terrorist­related expenses, but I am hopeful that Notre Dame will sponsor a special col­lection for him. 
As the world's foremost authority on refugees, displaced persons and forced migration due to famine and war, Loescher has asked the Notre Dame administration for another full profes­sorship teaching position at the NO London program along with preliminary use of the faculty flats at Trafalgar Square. It will be interesting to see how the University bureaucracy addresses his request either through a fast track approach or typical red tape. 
The point of the "Legs for Loescher to put him on his feet" campaign is that each of us, regardless of whether or not we asked, gained a further sense of community for having attended Notre Dame. While some of us are more con­servative and fundamental with the teachings of scripture than others, each of us can instantaneously recognize the worthiest of causes. Jesus would not heal just one eye of the blind man. He made him whole. Notre Dame should do the same for its ifwe have ever owned a pet dog. 
God has shown us through the eyes of a canine what heaven's love must be. Those animals are vessels of pure unconditional love. Last November I lost Miss Beavis, a 13-year-old black Chow who looked like a small black bear. She was neglected and confined twice at the humane society's shelter before I entered her life. Her love and loyalty taught rite much about myself. and her example strengthened my faith. 
This year the world is not a pleasant place into which students may graduate. War rages abroad. our government 
scares the hell out of us about terror 
at home, the economy is sluggish, 
and it all reminds me of my 


once said in her courtroom, "Try to be nice to each other. That's what the world is all about." 
It can also be partly explained by physic John Edward, star of "Crossing Over," who announces, "Communicate, appreciate and validate those around you, and along the way enjoy life's jour­ney." 
I personally like to think that we exist here on earth only as long as our souls need to help others and grow. Anyone who has lost a loved one is forever changed with a new perspective from within. It strikes me that if we open our­selves to our surroundings, we gain so many subtle insights into life, especially 
Internet-soaked society portrays. If you can keep a watchful eye on those like Professor Gil Loescher. if you can make time for others less fortunate than you, the meaning of life will be yours on the day of your graduation-which is a thirty-year advantage over me. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame class of 1973, served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY

OBSERVER POLL 
How many games will the Notre Dame football team win this fall? 

"No man is an island, entire ofitself; every 
a. 5 or less 16% 
man is a piece ofthe continent." 
b. 6 to 8 47% c. 9 to 10 24% d. 11 or more 13% 
John Donne 

*Poll appears courtesy of 

English poet

www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 459 responses. 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, April 23, 2004 page 13 

Those few lovable members of PSA can rest assured that word of their coura­geous hunger strike has spread overseas and has inspired someone 3,000 miles away to follow their lead. Yes. I. William .Joseph Ulysses Hinner, have decided Bill Rinner to go on my own hunger strike ... for Crystal Pepsi. A Voice 
We all remember ofReason that tasty treat which only lives on as a hallmark reminder of our youthful days of innocence. The ad wizards had struck gold: take IJlc. name imd.gci;leral llavor of Pepsi and mix it with the decaf­feinated goodness of7-Up! Sadly, con­sumer demand struck a heavy blow against one of the few true loves of my youth, and its production was discontin­ued. Only when the heartless executives in charge find it in their hearts to provide this sad, lonely soul the simple request of one tasty sip of Crystal Pepsi shall my hunger strike end. 
Call it the plight of an upper-middle class white male; in fact, one of my friends informs me that this hunger strike might be construed as insincere and offensive. After all, should not legiti­mate hunger strikes be reserved for mas­sive social injustices matching the likes of the American civil rights movement or Gandhi's nonviolent protests against the repressive British Empire? No longer, as my dear friends in PSA have already proved with a noble display of solidarity with a few tomato pickers who are paid the market value of their labors. But, at the risk of being deemed short-sighted about injustices in our world. I shall add a few more points to fuel my hunger. 
First. I hate the Yankees. Yes, I know they're good, they've made wise manage­ment and scouting decisions, and no salary cap exists in Major League Baseball. All the while, my beloved Colorado Rockies exist as baseball's small market bottom-feeders with only one wild card berth as the pinnacle of their ten year existence. Thus. I shall not have another bite of food until the dastardly Yankees willfully send Alex Rodriguez to Colorado to play for free. Steinbrenner can foot the bill, and the Rockies will be one step closer to playoff success. 
Next, I demand a two-fold concession from the federal government. We need a fair living wage, so every American worker can comfortably provide for his or her family, depending on its size. As a footnote to this demand, I shall also hunger strike in solidarity with any worker who feels outrage at this American Living Wage Act because his coworker, married with two small chil­dren, earns twice the salary for the same production output. If John Kerry can speak on all sides of an issue, then so can my one-man hunger strike. 
Though I am bracing for a long wait before I can taste the sweet juices of a T­hone steak once more, I must add more demands. Too many individuals and groups have suffered from the poor poli­cy decisions of our government. In fact, several American corporations are so opressed by the American tax structure that they would rather send jobs over­seas than employ hard-working, God­fearing, 'flag-waving patriots. That's right, I shall hunger strike for increased corporate tax breaks so more jobs will stay in America, and I hope to dine at the celebration feast of the Ralph Nader ~uzzle Act. 
Now that I'm· riled up about interna­tional issues, my list must grow longer. After several conversations with my friends from the European Union, many are amazed by tales of America's amaz­ingly prompt medical coverage that results from our free market system. When I say that two month waiting lines do notexist for major surgical proce­dures, and we're still perfecting the sys­tem, they cannot contain their envy for our country's efficiency and compassion. So stand back, Europe, I'll starve before your socialist, post-modern dystopia allows more to suffer! Only when medical privatization sweeps across the continent shall my stomach be filled! 
One more, just one more request shall inspire me to persevere through this hunger strike: all nations must come together and create a massive fund devoted entirely to providing economics classes for anti-globalization protestors, the Earth Liberation Front, Greenpeace and the Notre Dame Progressive Student Alliance. Even academic intellectuals who oppose globalization, from Joseph Stiglitz to Richard Sennett, can be placed in charge of educating these masses with sound principles of supply and demand and comparative advantage. If they per­sist in their protests, then I will rest assured knowing my ideological oppo­nents have a better semblance of reason. 
As I mentally prepare myself for the upcoming weeks and months of hunger, I ask that someone please contact the proper authorities at CNN, the New York Times, Le Monde and Notre Dame's social action e-mail list to spread the word of my noble self-sacrifice. While I am far more likely to headline next_year's Darwin Awards, I take comfort in know­ing that my campaign for a sip from the elusive cup of Crystal Pepsi shall inspire more to pursue quixotic self-delusion. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying at the London School of Economics. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at wrinner@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Taco Bell strike is a leverage tactic 
I am writing to dispel some myths which have been following the nationwide boycott against Taco Bell, with particular attention to Bucky Schafer's Viewpoint article from April 21. 
First, I would like to apologize for any misinformation that Schafer or others may have received concern­ing the boycott. I would hope that such misinformation is not being disseminated by Notre Dame stu­dents, such as the student quoted by Schafer: "if Taco Bell just raised the price of each taco just two cents the extra money would more than raise the pickers' salary to above a living wage." The actual argument is: If Taco Bell would pay one penny more per one pound of tomatoes it bought, and institute a clause that it be passed directly to the farm­worker who picks the tomatoes, it could almost double his or her wages. Right now pickers are paid 40 to 45 cents per 32 pound bucket they pick. If Taco Bell defrayed this cost to the consumer it would result in an increase of no more than of a penny in the price of one chalupa. This is vastly different from the misconstrued example of Schafer's article, which would mean that each taco contains two pounds of tomatoes -we all know Taco Bell's not that generous, even to its clients. To learn more about the boycott, please go to: www.ciw­online.org. 
The Taco Bell Boycott is founded in the ideal that the consumer ulti­mately has the power to demand justice in the production of our food. We are not out to close down Taco Bell, as Schafer's article claims. Rather, our boycott is a leverage tactic, used to give voice to the consumers and farmworkcrs of our country. It is a call for corpo­rations like Taco Bell -part of the largest restaurant conglomerate ­to wake up. I encourage all to reconsider the potential of the word "boycott." Addressing the Montgomery bus boycotts, Martin Luther King Jr. said, "Our concern would not be to put the bus compa­ny out of business, but to put jus­tice in business." Our concern is not to put Taco Bell out of business, but to put justice in business. 
Dana Stovall junior Breen-Phillips Hall April22 

Volunteering in the midst of war 
I am a resident of South Bend, Ind., and Notre Dame alumna currently working with Christian Peacemaker Teams (CPT) in Baghdad, Iraq. These are frightening days for the Iraqi people as well as for the Coalition soldiers. 
A young friend of ours just came back from a harrowing trip to Fallujah. Jo Wilding, 29, sat on the couch in our Baghdad apartment, and, over the occasional roar of heli­copters, told what she saw in the streets of that besieged city. She saw a hospital bombed by the U.S. Marines. She sat in a make-shift clinic (in a converted garage) and watched as an old man and two children were brought in with bullet wounds they received from . snipers in the American­controlled part of the city. The children died. She tried to rescue a woman going into premature labor, until American sol­diers fired, shattered the windshield of the ambulance and continued fir­ing until the vehicle was disabled. 
As of this writing, the hospitals report more than 600 deaths, two­thirds of which are women and chil­dren. One hundred forty-six are chil­dren under the age of 12. Forty-six of those children were under the age of five. One thousand, two hundred people have been injured. A newspa­per article I read quoted that "700 insurgents have been killed." How many of the 700 were women and children? 
Terrorism and violence are fright­ening. But what is most frightening to me here in Iraq is that the good young men and women of the armed services -who come here out of a noble desire to serve their country­end up instead ordered to use tactics 
that both escalate the violence and compromise their own human­ity. 
This excessive and indis­criminate violence is cre­ating a culture of hatred 
and revenge, and put­ting the entire country in much greater dan­ger. I see it before my 
eyes -overwhelming force only makes mat­ters worse. Please. please, urge our gov­
ernment leaders to exercise restraint in Iraq. Last week, a CPA official and former Marine told me that a soldier has to become 

somewhat dehumanized so that he or she can actually kill another human being. Why do we accept this damage to the hearts. minds, and souls of our young men and women in the armed services? We are all responsible to respond to violence in ways that encourage transformation and dialogue, not dehumanization and escalation. Please, work for a new way, before it is too late. 
Sheila Provencher Christian Peacemaker Teams Baghdad, Iraq April22 

page 14 
Spring picnic delights 
<;:OLUMN BY MAUREEN MALLOY What better way to compliment a lazy day on the quad than to bring out a spread of great picnic food? Skip the dining hall, lay out a blanket, and share some of these homemade favorites with your friends. The BLT wraps are quick and simple to make, and are easily transported outside. French Fried Potato Salad is a great spin on the original, and for dessert, lemon bars are a delicious way to end the meal. 
French Fried Potato Salad 
3 cups of crisp, hot French fries, roughly chopped-preferably homemade, but fast food take out fries or frozen baked in your oven will do 
3 hard boiled eggs, chopped 
1 cup finely chopped celery 
1/2 cup chopped chilled bread and butter (sweet) pickle chips 1/2 cup minced fresh chives 1/2 cup fat free mayonnaise 1 tbsp Dijon mustard 1 tsp. garlic powder _ tsp cayenne pepper 
Set French fries aside; keep warm. In a large bowl, combine all remaining ingredients until well blended. Add French fries to mixture in bowl; blend in with spatula, using folding ,motion, being careful not to break fries: Serve'immediately. Serves four. 
Recipe courtesy of Flo Dwek; Copyright © 2003 Television Food Network, G.P., All Rights Reserved 
Lemon Bars 
1 cup (2 sticks) butter 
1 cup sugar 
2 cups flour 
1 1/4 cup oatmeal (not instant) 
Juice of 3 lemons 
Zest of 2 lemons, chopped fine 
Zest of 1 orange, chopped fme 
1 (14-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 
Cream butter and sugar, then add the flour and oatmeal to make the dough (it will be a little crum­bly). Set aside. Stir juice and zest into milk. Set aside. Butter (or spray) a 9xl3 inch pan. Press two-thirds to three-quarters of the dough into the pan. Spread lemon/milk mixture evenly over the top of the dough. Sprinkle the remaining dough (kind of like streusel) over the top. Bake at 350 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes until golden. When cool, slice into l-inch squares. 
Recipe courtesy of Ellen Straine; Copyright © 2003 Television Food Network, G.P., All Rights Reserved 
BLTWrap 
A good variation is to substitute taco meat and grilled onions for the bacon 1 pound thick sliced bacon, cut into 1 inch pieces 4 (12 inch) flour tortillas 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese _head iceburg lettuce, shredded 1 tomato, diced 
Place bacon in a large, deep skillet. Cook over medium-high heat until evenly brown. Drain, and set aside. 
Place 1 tortilla on a microwave-safe plate. Sprinkle tortilla with 1/4 cup cheese. Cook in mkrowave for 1 to 2 minutes, or until cheese is melted. Immediately top with 1/4 of the bacon, let­tuce, and tomato. Fold sides of tortilla over, then roll up. Repeat with remaining ingredients. Cut each wrap in half before serving. Makes four wraps. 
Recipe courtesy of Karen; Copyright © 2004; www.allrecipes.com., All Rights Reserved 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloy@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
Friday, April 23, 2004 

Bleach to head] 
Faith-based student group hop just as talent By PATRICK VASSEL 
Scene Writer 

It isn't much of a secret that Christian rock music generally has a bad rap. For many college students it's just "not cool enough." If there's any college campus that can make aJ Christianity cool, it's Notre Dame, and B the group behind that work is Iron c Sharpens Iron, the students responsi­ble for this year's third annual Faith b Rocks Concert. f 
The Web site for the event states b that the purpose is "to show college $ students that it's OK to be public about I your faith and that Christianity, and a Christian music as well, are not dull or boring, but exciting and full of passion and joy." 
Iron Sharpens Iron is a faith-based group of students designed to allow people to come together in Christ and share their experiences and deepen their spirituality and commitment to their faith. It is a Christian based group that welcomes and reaches out 
•• 11 .to all Catholic and ,non-Catholic• faithSi.tt<l The inaugural event was held in the s Coleman-Morse Center in 2002 due to h bad weather. The concert was moved c to South Quad in front of Dillon Hall in 2003 and is scheduled to be set up h there again this year. While the venue SJ changed, the idea hasn't. a This year's headlining band is c Bleach, a young rock band touring hot Q off ·its new album release, 
Smooth sailing for 
Fisher's Regatta is a fun tradition unlike an 

By MEEG CONROY 
Scene Writer 
Saturday will mark the 18th year of Fisher Hall's Signature event, the Fisher Regatta. What began as one New Jersey student's suggestion, has flour­ished to become one of the most well­known campus-wide events. Nearly 3,000 students participated last year. This year, co-commissioners Russell Morton and Joe Caruso plan on making it the biggest Notre Dame has ever seen. 
From 1 to 5 p.m. Saturday, all stu­dents, faculty and staff are invited to enjoy the Fisher Regatta. The grill will be fired up at twelve while crews get organized for the race. As in past Regattas, the race will be held on St. Mary's Lake. The course follows a line of buoys approximately 1 ,000 feet long. Crews of two or more are welcome to participate, as long as their boat is homemade and man-powered. 
The rules are pretty basic. Morton said the boats can't have a motor or 

sails, be longer than 20 feet or have less than two people in the boat. 
While male and female crews are alternated for races, music and food will be available for all those at the event, including Subway, Pizza and the traditional hamburgers and hotdogs. At the end of the races, the traveling tro­phies will be presented to the male and female crew winners. In addition to the trophy, gift certificates and T-shirts will also be given. 
Last year Badin and Carroll won the women's and men's divisions respec­tively. Badin had an impressive run in their new wooden canoe, and Carroll continued their winning streak from the previous three years. 
"Carroll's always been strong. They have a great design as well as rowers," said Caruso. 
The win last year was especially impressive, considering that Carroll's boat was sabotaged the night before. Caruso and Morton admit that some of the Fisher guys sunk the Carroll boat. However, others returned to help Carroll fish it out of the lake. The boat was dried out over night, an 'sea-worthy' the next day. 
Other Regatta shenanigans Morrissey's attempt to steal boat last year. 
"We caught some of them t take it away, but we went stopped them," Morton said. 
However, everything is meant good spirits.. 
The general atmosphere Regatta is fun and entertainin of the crews create costumes o for their boat. Dorm crews Knott and Howard reflect the spirit through orange and yell paint, respectively. Other ere on traditions from previous r Sorin will be sure to show u "Natty-Light" boat. 
Yet, one can never know wha expect from the Fisher Regatt the biggest surprises from last the sinking of the Navy boat. 
"About 90 to 95 percent of make it across. That's why we believe that of all boats, th would sink," Caruso said. 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, April 23, 2004 
page 15 
ine Faith Rocks Concert 

s to show students that Christian rock bands can be ~d as other mainstream rock bands 
1stronomy." ly and are two guys Whnn asked about the band's live show who have a lot of 1 their Web site Milam Byers, lead gui-respect in the Notre rist, deserib1~d it as, "Energetic and fun Dame community," rk 'n roll, tightly wrapped in a beautiful Lee DeLeon, president 
ekage." and founder of Faith l'he group has been playing and touring Hocks, said. "They're 11 eountry to promote several albums going to share a little d has developed a devoted following. bit about their faith, each is considered by many to be on the but also challenge the tting edge ol' Christian music,. audience." 
1\xtensivn sponsorship from sources According to th on and oiT campus, including help DeLeon, challenging om Saint Mary's, helped expand the and breaking down tdget for the event from an original stereotypes is what 00 to $30,000 this year. Iron Sharpens the event is all about. on is only spending about half of that "A lot of people feel wunt for this year's event. like it's taboo to be The incrnased budget has allowed open about your faith ganizers to bring in as exciting a group or that Christian 
Bleach, as well as to continue tradi-music is cheesy or 111s that have been implemented the lame," DeLeon said. st two years.1As has happened before, "We want to allow od will be served, and free T-shirts will people to come out . given out to those in attendance. and show their faith Opening U(} for Bleach are For the Love to everyone while lis­d Once and For All. Featuring three timing to some really 
uds is quite a feat for any event, and great bands that if; sh~uld.only,add .todhn,.e"rjtoment. ,,·,migh,t be bet:_l.,_e,.r than~ . rrounding Bleach and allow students to lot ofseculifF band§~ ~ar a broader range ol' musieal talents in that they listen to." · ~. tristian roek. DeLeon and other~ Beyond the conc1~rts, Iron Sharpens Iron are hoping the event 
s also arranged for some very special allows people to have Pakers. Sehl'lduled to speak at the event a good time, enjoy e senior football captain Derek "DC" some great food and some of the best live try to put faith in more exciting and ener­"We're just trying to have fun and 
rry and freshman quarterback Hrady music available, Christian or otherwise. getic settings than the Basilica traditional­praise God with our music," DeLeon said. 1inn. There are obviously plenty of Christians ly provides. Sunday's concert begins at 4 "Brady and D.C. go to lSI pretty regular-here on campus, but very few events that p.m. on South Quad. Contact Patrick Vassel at pvassel@nd.edu 
, Photo courtesy of www.talthrocks.com Bleach Is one of the three Christian rock bands that will be showcased Sunday on South Quad. Bleach is an energetic band that has just released a new album titled "Astronomy." 
8 years 

other dorm event 
Shakespeare works to be performed for charity 
By PATRICK VASSEL 
Scene Writer 
For those students who missed King Lear, this week­end there's a group of students who will allow you to see not only King Lear, but also the entire "Compleat Works of Shakespeare (abridged)." 
Juniors Steve Hoeplinger and Paul Sifuentes and sen­ior David Buckley are producing the play, which they describe as "Short, funny, and for charity." 
Hoeplinger and Sifuentes spent last semester studying abroad in London, where they saw a production of "Compleat Works" and discussed performing the show at Notre Oame. After returning to campus this semes­ter, they revived the idea and brought on Buckley to round out the trio. 
"We really wanted to do it," Hoeplinger said, "but also wanted to give back." 
Though the show is free of charge, the performers are accepting donations for San Juan de Dios, an orphanage in Bolivia . 
"We were just doing this for fun, the money isn't important. We're suggesting a donation to help out a place that's doing some great work and can really use the money," Hoeplinger agreed. 
Sifuentes has worked at the orphanage for the past two summers and said, "I really want to give back to that community." 
Sifuentes said publicity has been limited because of the cost of advertising and the performers did not want to detract from the Department of Film Television and Theater's production of "Arms and the Man." 
"We have a lot of friends in that show, and we're hop­ing that people can come to both, but we didn't want to undermine them at all," Buckley said. 
Buckley has had extensive theater experience at Notre Dame. Sifuentes and Hoeplinger jokingly refer to him as their "ringer." 
-
"Dave was our first choice and we're thrilled to have him on stage. He's a great actor and guaranteed to make people laugh," said Sifuentes. 
The opportunity to see all of Shakespeare's works in such a humorous setting and to help a great cause doesn't come along every weekend, and it should be a great way to spend one of the last weekends of the year. ­
"This isn't an average play in which the actors are in a different world from the audience. It's fast-paced and interactive and should be a lot of fun for everyone in the crowd," Buckley said. 
The "Compleat Works of Shakespnare (abridged)" will be performed today and Saturday in room 102 DeBartolo. 
Contact Patrick Vassel at pvassel@nd.edu 
proved 
indude <'isher's 
ring to JUt and 
to be in 
of the 
g. Many 
!
·themes uch as r dorm w body vs carry ~gattas. 
with a 
to fully . One of nar was 
II boats ,couldn't ' Navy's 
Since freshman year, when Morton and Caruso served as "apprentices" for the Hegatta, they knew they wanted to "be apart of the best event Fisher .has to offer." 
"It's something the entire campus will appreciate," Morton said. 
The traditions of the regatta also include a myriad of events during the week of the event, known as Fred and Sally Week, in honor of' the dorm's patrons. The festivities began Monday with the Hoommate Game and Section Wars. On Tuesday Fisher moved its Spring Hling, where live music, food, and games are available, inside due to inclement weather. On Wednesday the Hed Mock Awards, a series of in-house awards, were given to Fisher residents. Thursday, or Traditions Night, usually has a special guest speaker for the dorm. Tonight there are a series of dif­ferent festivities. 
After the regatta, Fisher will hold its annual dance with Pangborn. 
Contact Meeg Conroy at mconroy1@nd.edu 

page 16 Friday, April 23, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Diamondbacks prevail in 15th inning against Brewers 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE Danny Bautista established two career highs and made sure the effort wasn't wasted. 
He homered twice and sin­gled home the go-ahead run in the 15th. inning, sending the Arizona Diamondbacks over the Milwaukee Brewers 11-9. 
Bautista set career highs with five hits and five RBis. He extended his hitting streak to 14 games as Arizona stopped its losing streak at four. 
Two years after shoulder sur­gery, Bautista leads Arizona with a .397 batting average. 
''I've got a lot of confidence back," he said. "We know we're a very good team." 
The Brewers rallied for three runs in the ninth, tying it at 9 on a two-run homer by pinch­hitter Brooks Kieschnick off Matt Mantei. The teams wound up playing five hours, 22 min­utes. the longest game in the majors this season. 
Arizona used eight pitchers, who limited the Brewers to eight hits while striking out 21. 
Steve Sparks (1-1) pitched two scoreless innings for the win, snapping his personal 12­game losing skid dating to Aug. 16, 2002 while with Detroit. 
Matt Kata hit a leadoff single in the 15th and was sacrificed to second by Brent Mayne. 
Bautista singled with two outs. 
"A guy like that picks up the offense and he did a great job today," Mantei said. "He's actu­ally done that for the last 14 games. 
"You go out there and blow a three-run lead and you kind of feel pretty bad at first, but we're most relieved with the win and we can have a nice flight home," he added. 
Rookie Chad Tracy followed Bautista's hit with his own RBI single off Adrian Hernandez (0­2). Tracy had four hits in his first-ever start. 
Lyle Overbay also had four hits, including three doubles. His three-base error at first base allowed two runs to score in the seventh, giving Arizona a 7-5 lead. 
"I just look at it, if I get that ground ball, Kieschnick's home run is the game-winner," Overbay said. 

Kieschnick connected for the fourth pinch-hit homer of his career. It was the first pinch­hit of any kind ti.is season by Milwaukee after an 0-for-20 start. 
Bautista hit a solo homer in the second and capped a four­run burst in the sixth with a two-run shot to tie the game at 5. 
Arizona starter Brandon Webb departed after pitching five innings and allowing only one earned run on five hits. 
Milwaukee starter Wes Obermueller pitched 5 1-3 innings, giving up five earned runs on eight hits. 
"I got out of my rhythm and I started rushing," Obermueller said. "I was kind of in awe. My ball raised up on every pitch and they hit it pretty hard." 
Arizona manager Bob Brenly used his entire bench and bullpen in the win. 
"It took everybody on the roster to get it done today," Brenly said. "Ifwe would had to play until midnight, we'd have played until midnight. 
Cleveland 5, Kansas City 4 
CLEVELAND -Omar Vizquel reached into his locker and pulled out two bottles of expen­
sive  red  wine,  gifts  from  
Indians'  teammate  John  
McDonald.  

A few_ moments earlier, Vizquel led a champagne toast in Cleveland's clubhouse in honor of his 2,000th career hit. 
The wines were a fine vin­tage. So was the single. 
Vizquel's milestone hit helped set up Cleveland's three-run rally in the eighth inning, giv­ing the Indians a win over the Kansas City Royals. 
"What made it so special was that we came from behind," said VizqueL who started his career with Seattle. "That's something we've struggled with all year." 
Vizquel then proudly showed off his Napa Valley wines from McDonald. 
"Good wine," Vizquel said, "and a good win." 
The win could have been a potentially costly one for the Indians. 
However, the club got good news Thursday night when an MRI taken earlier in the day showed that ace C.C. Sabathia had only irritated a biceps muscle during pregame warmups and wasn't seriously injured. 
Sabathia was pulled from what would have been his 1OOth career start about 15 minutes before he was sched­uled to make his first pitch. Jeff D'Amico filled in for the left-bander, who was immedi­ately taken for tests. 
Trainer Lonnie Soloff said the MRI revealed that Sabathia had irritated the biceps muscle while throwing. Sabathia will be re-examined on Friday in Detroit. 
Soloff said the team was opti­mistic Sabathia will be pitching again soon. 
"We're very encouraged by it," Soloff said. 
The Indians are off next Monday and Thursday, which will give Sabathia more time to heal. 
Pitching coach Carl Willis said Sabathia threw about 20 warmup pitches in the center­field bullpen when he felt some soreness while tossing a changeup. 
"Hopefully it was a freaky, fluky thing," Willis said. 
Indians general manager Mark Shapiro was reluctant to speculate on Sabathia's status before the results were back, but he most certainly feels bet­ter now. 
"Bottom line, we won a game where the odds were stacked against us," Shapiro said. "A good MRI reading will make it about the best day we've had in a while." 
Before the eighth, it appeared the Indians were headed for a third straight loss. 
But after Ronnie Belliard walked, Vizquel became the 230th player to reach 2,000 hits when he singled off Jason Grimsley (1-1). J'hree batters later, Victor Martinez hit a game-winning RBI double off 
D.J. Carrasco and Cleveland got its first come-from-behind win this season. 
"I knew he wanted to do that at home, and for our squad," Indians manager Eric Wedge said. 
NY Mets 3, Montreal 2 

NEW YORK -Mike Piazza's 
move to first base paid off for 
the New York Mets. 

With a day game after a night game, Thursday almost 

AP 
Diamondbacks second baseman Roberto Alomar grabs his hand after being hit by a pitch In the Diamondbacks 15 Inning win. 
certainly would have been a And Piazza is swinging the day off for Piazza last season. bat well even though he has 
Instead, the All-Star catcher not homered in two weeks. He doubled twice, drove in one remains one home run away run and set up two others. from Carlton Fisk's record of leading the Mets over the still-351 for a catcher. Piazza went slumping Montreal Expos. 11-for-32 (.344) on the homes-
For Piazza, who was not tand and raised his season's always enthusiastic about the average to .328. first base eX:perfmeilCit\\i"as a-·· -Afhirf\ifontreal tieUIT-in'llie productive day. seventh, the Mets rallied in the 
"This is a game last year that bottom half. Piazza doesn't play," New York Kaz Matsui walked and raced manager Art Howe said. "It's to third when Karim Garcia good to have him in there." singled off Chad Bentz (0-1). 
Piazza's hitting was enough Fikac got Spencer to fly out. to help the Mets offset an but Piazza came up with run­Expos rally in the ninth inning. ners on the corners and one 
His third-inning double led to out. New York's first run, and "We didn't do what we were Piazza made it 2-1 in the sev-supposed to do," said Montreal enth before pinch-runner manager Frank Robinson, who Vance Wilson scored the win-didn't want Jeremy Fikac to ning run on a two-out double give Piazza anything to hit. by Mike Cameron. Instead, the reliever put a 2-0 
"It's a good situation person-pitch over the plate and Piazza ally to stay in the lineup when connected for an RBI double I'm swinging the bat well, no and 2-llead. matter where I play," Piazza "You have to hope they're said. "It's important if I'm smart enough to execute in swinging the bat well for me to certain situations," Robinson be in the lineup." said. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8  Stay at Homestead Bed and  NEW LISTING 1 bed, 1 bath Oakhill  
BEDROOM HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM  Breakfast for football games. 574­ condo safe area within walking dis- 
NOTICES  WANTED  FoR SALE  HOUSE...2 BEDROOM  277-9834  lance  

 DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ (really) to campus, security  
Room in luxury apartment building  Wanted-Old paintings, especially  Why pay a landlords mortgage?  ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR  Furnished studio apartment for rent  patrolled, immediate availability  
on the UWS for rent! Elevators in  Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­ Duplex 4 sale.  THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL  summer and or school year $419 a  $750 to rent or  
- each tower. Two large laundry roos on the Lobby level. Two bicycle  9359  Live in one, let the other pay your mortgage.  YEAR. ...WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  month includes all utilities cable tv high speed internet call 57 4-339­ ~85K to buy  
rooms in which to store your bike all year round. Full size  childcare opportunity to care for 4 school age children, ages 5 to 11 ,  Close to ND and downtown. Call Kim at  SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR  0582  PERSONAL  
health club on the Lobby level with  Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to  574-245-5040.  CELL315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS  Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail.now  
a large swiming pool, steam room,  5:00PM, wages negotiable, non- or fall  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
and sauna. 24 hour garage beneath  smoker preferred, own transporta- Moving to College Park?  Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4  $1200/mo 288-9673  not go it alone. If you or someone  
building. Dry cleaners, two grocery  tion a plus, contact Maureen @  Furniture for sale:  bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer  you love needs confidential support  
stores, bank and restaurant within  (574) 231-8126.  3 beds, 2 desks,  or fall. 235-3655.  VERY NICE 3bdrm home near  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
- seconds of the front door. Continuous shuttle bus transport to  M or F roommate in D.C. (specifical­ dining table, couch and more. Call Aahren or Rob:  New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3  Corbys(East Bank area). Washer&Dryer -Alarm- Louise Gude, CSC, at 1'7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly  
subway system and buses.  ly Arlington, VA) starting June or  271-1637  full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­ Basement-H20 softner-large yard- ad in THE OBSERVER.  
24-hour doorman and security desk.  July for 1 yr lease. Pis contact  lights. $1640/mo. Call574-232­ off street parking.  
Fabulous location  Nicole at 574.621.8515 or  4527 or 269-683-5038  Call Joe Crimmins:cell#514-0643  ATTENTION MARKETING  
(63rd St. and 11th Ave)  nwykoff@nd.edu. Preferably fun  FoR RENT  home#273-0002.  MAJORS Combine your interest in  
Greatviewl  & willing to go outl  Faculty/Staff Rental Homes 600 feet  Marketing/Sales and your  
If interested contact  to Campus 604 E. Angela 3 BR 2  3 Bdrm. house near ND.  Catholic Faith. Earn money during  
Nycpolo15 @yahoo.com  Part-Time Sales and stock person  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  Bath 2,000  Alarm, cable and internet.  the summer and continue to receive  
needed at the Futon Factory for  WALK TO CAMPUS  sq. ft. $1 ,950 month 542 E. Angela  Large yard.  checks throughout the next school  
LOFT for sale $125 for fall. Will hold  2004 Summer.5632 Grape Rd. 273·  MMMRENTALS.COM  4 BR 1-1/2 Bath, 1,700 sq ft. $1,850  $1000/mo.  year. Not an MLM. Visit us and  
and deliver on campus in August.  2660. Flexible hours, great work  mmmrentals@ aol.com  month.  Available 5/1/04.  apply at  
RESERVE NOW! Call 243-0853.  environment!  272-1525  www.rentclicks.com or 272-4796.  Call514-9999.  www.connectingcatholics.com  

Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL DRAFT 
Mannings want to be passed up by Chargers in draft 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Eli Manning is trying to pull a John Elway on the San Diego Chargers. 
The Mississippi quarterback has let the Chargers know he doesn't want them to choose him with the first pick Saturday in tlw NFI. Draft. 
lie spent Thursday at an NFL luncheon with his famous rela­tives. father Archie and older brother Peyton, skirting around questions about the Chargers and what he would do if they draft him. anyway. 
"I plan to be playing football next season." Eli said. ''I've talkPd to New York. I've talked to Oakland. I've talked to a lot of teams. and I like a lot of teams." 
Manning's maneuver is simi­lar to the one Elwuy pulled in liJIB. when he made it known that he didn't want to play for the Baltimore Colts. who owned the No. 1 pick. 
Still, the Colts took Elway. The Stanford quarterback respond­ed by playing minor league baseball for the New Yankees and threatened to stick with that sport if the Colts remained stubborn. 
Eventually, Baltimore traded Elway to Denver. where he went on to become a llall of Farner. 
"This is a bold move on the part of our family," Archie said. "But I am not bold enough to try to manipulate this draft. I would not do that." 
Chargers general manager 
A.J. Smith said he would do what's best for the franchise. 
Archie said the decision to tell the Chargers to pass on Eli was made by his youngest son and agent Tom Condon with input from the family and others. 
Archie Manning wouldn't give specific reasons why San Diego was asked to back off. 
"I don't want the Chargers to be exposed in a negative way," he said. 
The Mannings were surprised and disappointed that Smith went public Wednesday with Eli's request. 
"This was not the way we planned things. We didn't want this to happen," Eli said. 
Last week, the Chargers asked Condon to open negotia­tions with Eli in anticipation of possibly drafting him. Since then, Archie said he has spoken to NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue and has met with 
Chargers  president  Dean  
Spanos  and  coach  Marty  
Schottenheimer.  

"This is nothing personal against anyone," Archie said. 
He was an outstanding player stuck on a dismal team, the New Orleans Saints, for most of his career. Peyton was taken by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall pick in 1998. At the time, the Colts also were a struggling franchise. 
"There's no rose garden out there for a quarterback starting in this league," said Archie, 

acknowledging that Eli proba­bly will end up with a struggling team no matter who drafts him. 
Condon has not returned phone calls from The Associated Press. 
The New York Giants, who have the fourth pick. are one of three teams who talked to the Chargers about trading for the No. 1 selection. In recent days, there was speculation Condon was trying to swing a trade between the Giants and 

MLB 
Bonds' fast start has many in awe 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -llall of Farner Orlando Cepoda told everyone almost a decade ago that he'd never seen someone swing a bat as well as Barry Bonds. 
"And people looked at me funny," Cepeda recalled. 
Nobody's arguing now, not with Bonds batting .500 ­yep, .500! -and connecting for nine home runs among his first II) hits. lie even homered in seven straight games, one shy of the major league record. 
"What he's doing is pretty special," first baseman J .T. Snow said. 
Bonds, a six-time NL MVP, got a much-needed day off Thursday when the Giants concluded a four-game series against the San Diego Padres. lie is expected to play all three weekend games in Los Angeles against the Dodgers. 
"lie is really tired." manag­er Felipr. Alou said. "You can see it in the outfield. lie's been busy." 
That's for sure. 
Bonds' homer streak ended Wednesday, just short of tying the mark shared by Dale Long ( IIJ56). Don Mattingly (1987) and Ken Griffey Jr. (1993). With the game out of reach ­the Giants lost 11-0 -Bonds asked to be taken out in the eighth inning. 
Bonds. who turns 40 in July, has (J67 honwrs, behind only Hank Aaron (755) and Babe Huth (714). If he stays healthy 
and keeps up his pace, Bonds could reach 700 this season. 
He set the single-season home run record of 73 in 2001. This season. he's per­formed fantastically at the plate while dealing with ques­tions about his personal train­er's drug distribution case and whether Bonds has used steroids. 
"llis weapon is his mind," said Cepeda, who hit 3 79 homers in 17 major league seasons. "He's brilliant. He amazes me the way he plays the game of baseball. In all his years. I've seen him look bad at the plate two times. Guys look bad at the plate five times a day. 
"lie has the best sight. It's incredible. People should come to the ballpark just to say, 'I saw Barry Bonds.' I played with Hank Aaron, Willie Mays and Frank Robinson. There's nobody bet­ter than Barry Bonds, and he's nearly 40 years old." 
Hich Donnelly, now a third­base coach for the Brewers, was a coach for Bonds from 1986-92 when the slugger first came up with the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Donnelly points out that Bonds has made his mark as more than merely a great hit­ter. 
"The two greatest baserun­ners I've ever seen are Larry Walker and Barry Bonds," Donnelly said. '"t's not always about stolen bases.... Nobody makes a play down the left­field line like Barry Bonds. 
He's still the best at it." . 
How does he keep his body going at this late stage in his career? 
"Talent," Giants trainer Stan Conte said. "Talent sums up skill, genetics and psycho­logical all in one." 
His teammates can appreci­ate what Bonds is doing, even if the defending NL West champion Giants are having a rough April in the win col­umn. 
That seems to be wearing on Bonds, who fell six outs short of winning the World Series in 2002. 
"I only take comfort in wins," Bonds said. 
In his last two games, Bonds saw 29 pitches and only five strikes. 
He swung once -connect­ing for his ninth homer of the season, a two-run shot off Brian Lawrence on Tuesday. Only 36 percent of the pitches Bonds saw last season were strikes, the lowest frequency in the majors. 
He walked 148 times in 130 games. 
"They have to get him in another league," shortstop Neifi Perez said. "He's not for this league. They need to make another big league for him. It's unbelievable." 
Cepeda agrees. 
"To me, he's one in a mil­lion," Cepeda said. "You won't see anything like that again. The things he's doing are unreal. He thrills me every day. I'm praying I can be like him in my next life." 

Chargers. 
Archie said he has not expressed a desire to have Eli play for the Giants, despite what Smith said he was told by Condon. , 
The Chargers have missed the playoffs for the last eight sea­sons and are 43-85 since mak­ing their last postseason appearance in 1995. Since then, finding a quarterback has been a constant struggle. 
The Chargers drafted Ryan 
Leaf No. 2 overall in 1998 after Peyton. Leaf turned out to be a bust. 
In 2001, San Diego could have picked Michael Vick No. 1, but traded down and went with running back LaDanian Tomlinson in the first round and quarterback Drew Brees in the second. 
But Brees hasn't been the solution, making Manning a possible fit for the Chargers. 
Or so they thought. 


8·BAU Doost!s TOORHAWHf 
Friday, April 23 
9:00pm 
ND Express 
lllNIW LtVU (Jf W!ORTVW 


S~ ups ~n AIJI"il 19 in Nb rxprt.Ss. {Limit 16 Teams • 2 to 11 tcam) 
~~ " lli'ii\JI.M _l£lt.~ C"iti 


NO hpress Billiards Hall also provides s!Vlle day proto developnent ifld Uf'S snipping serv~m. 
/:~.;-~ 
:,__~ ~t::LOPMENT
----#· 

.. 
-
page 18 Friday, April 23, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NHL 
Danton finds himself behind bars after off ice troubles 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -NHL tough guy Mike Danton relishes his role as the mouthy player who gets under his opponents' skin. racking up 141 minutes in penalties this season with the St. Louis Blues. 
But now he is behind bars, accused of trying to get some­one to kill his agent, a man with a sinister reputation as a hockey-world Svengali. 
The arrest last week has raised disturbing questions about both Danton and his agent, David Frost. 
Frost insists Danton never wanted him dead and is in dire need of counseling. Danton's estranged father blames Frost for his son's emotional problems. 
The FBI brought the charges last Friday in East St. Louis, Ill., accusing Danton, 23, of trying to hire a hit man for $10,000 to kill someone at his suburban St. Louis apart­ment. 
The intended victim was not identified in court papers, but news reports citing unidenti­fied law enforcement sources have said Frost was the tar­get. 
Danton and a woman authorities say helped him were indicted by a federal grand jury Thursday of con­spiring to arrange a murder for hire. 
Danton wanted Frost dead because he feared Frost would ruin his career by telling the Blues front office about Danton's supposed "promiscuity and use of alco­hol." according to the FBI. 
Also arrested in the alleged plot was Katie Wolfrneyer, a 19-year-old who worked at a mall where the Blues have a practice rink. 
Authorities said Danton went to her for help in finding a killer, and she put him in touch with another man, unaware he was working for the FBI. 
Danton allegedly told the informant that he wanted the killing to take place at his horne April 15 -while Danton was in California ­and he wanted it to look like a burglary gone bad. 
Wolfrneyer was arrested hours later as she showed up with the informant at Danton's place, where Frost was said to be inside. 
Authorities caught up with Danton the next day in San Jose, Calif., where the Blues had been eliminated from the playoffs. 
A federal prosecutor said Danton was being brought back to Illinois. His lawyer did not return calls for com­ment. 
During a court appearance Monday, Wolfrneyer's attorney Donald Groshong called her "the real victim" and a "young girl smitten with a hockey player who lied to her." He did not elaborate. 

-
Danton's involvement with 
Frost dates back a dozen years. Danton's father, Stephen Jefferson, introduced the boy to Frost. 
By the time Danton was 15, Frost was serving as the Ontario native's agent. In 1999, Jefferson called the agent "the best thing to ever happen to my kid." 
But Jefferson claims it was­n't long before Frost took over sure his players did their the boy's life. schoolwork. 

Some in Canada's hockey "I didn't come into this busi­circles have cast Frost as a ness to make friends," the monster, a manipulator of Toronto Sun quoted him as young players, a cult leader saying in 1999. "I've heard whose disciples are often too the brainwash stuff, that I afraid to speak out against brainwash players. You know him. John Gardner, head of how crazy that· is? If I was the Greater that smart, I would Toronto Hockey brainwash 20 of League, told the them and we
"I didn't come

Toronto Star this would go win the week that Frost into this business Stanley Cup." "practiced mind to make friends." "I know I'm a control." rebel and an 
Frost used to intimidating per­
David Frost

be a coach but son," he said. But was suspended Danton's Agent he added: "I don't by two junior care who I rub the hockey leagues wrong way. I'm not in Ontario in the rnid-1990s, about to change. Not for any­in one case because of his body." team's unruly play. In 1997, While playing in Canada, he pleaded guilty to a charge Danton was known to team­that he assaulted one of his mates as a quiet sort. who did players. not go out much, the Toronto 
Others have said he was a Star said. positive influence when he "He never (went) out to the coached, dutifully making bars, never saw him with any­
one outside hockey," Ryan from his family. O'Keefe, a former Danton After Danton's arrest, his teammate with the Barrie father accused Frost of ruin­Colts, told that newspaper. ing Danton's life and driving a 
"I've known himself since I wedge between father and was a kid and basically his son. Frost countered by call­whole life revolves around ing Jefferson a "village idiot." 
hockey."  Traded  to  the  
His biggest  Blues  last  year,  
liability has been his mouth: He  "[know I'm a rebel and an  Danton this season had seven goals. 12 points and 141  
groused about playing time as a  intimidating person. "  penalty minutes -all career highs in 68 games.  
New  Jersey  His work ethic was  
Devils rookie  David Frost  considered strong,  
in 2002 and was suspend­ Danton's Agent  his skill level moder­ate.  
ed for failing  The 5-foot-9, 190­ 

to report to the minors. pound Danton played the role 
He sat out most of the previ­of the "agitator." ous season, after a disagree­"I don't know a tougher guy ment with the Devils manage­than him. I don't know a guy ment over the severity of an that goes in the corner and abdomtrral injury. gets killed and that will drop 
Between those seasons, his gloves with a guy who's 40 Danton legally changed his pounds heavier in a flash," name from Mike Jefferson, Blues forward Doug Weight apparently to distance himself said. "He's tough as nails.' 

Friday April 23rd lOpm to lam 
South Dining Hall Hospitality Room (Next to Reekers) 
Free!!!! 
The Notre Dame Russian and German Clubs present a night ofcultural experiences, food, dancing, and music. 

OUND THE NATION 
page 19 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVUts wuu SERVtCES Thursday, April 22, 2004 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
team 

1 Johns Hopkins (1} 1~1 2 Navy (2) 
Maryland {1) i't ··•·•·•·•·•·•····• ••••.....••..•

3 tt~f·· ··:•···· :.:: > :..: 
4 Syracu5u H ····· Mr 
5 North Carolina (F3 ]5$ > }:: 6 Princeton 5-2 150 7 Georgetown a~2 n:r·· 8 Ohio Slate 3·2 130 9 Army 8'>2 118 
10 Brown 7;.1 107 11 Cornell 
H 8'1 12 Towson S..3 76 13 Duke 4-5 75 14 NOTRE DAME 5-4 69 15 Rutgers 6·3 64 

16 Denver 6c-3 44 
11 Delaware 8·3 35 18 Virginia 
3-6 3~ •.. 

19 Loyola . 3~4 16 
. . ...

20 Villanova ~2 14 > 
IWLCA Women's Lacrosse > Top20 
te.am recotd } point$> 
1 Princeton (15) 11-0 .•.•... ~QQ > 2 NOTRE DAME ·1tl~f 272 
3 Loyola 4 Maryland 
·~t~ ··•·••· ~::

5 Georgetown 9-2 239 6 Duke 8<4 235 1 VIrginia 10·3 < 214 a James Madison 3+3 J96········ 9 John$ Hopllln~ 1U·t·· · : )i:: 118···•·•···•· 1o Vanderbilt 1·3 .··.· ?J63 11 Northwntern 
12 Dartmouth 9-1 •••·•••·· 4~8 )
6-2 ....•.130 

13 Syracuse .7~$ /.. . ·.·.•>:> 111·····. 14 Yale 15 North Carolina 
·~~·· ···:~!·•
16 William & Mary · 
7:.S :·:... 1~1 >>·· 17 Towson 942 18 Penn Slate H 19 George Mason 3-5 20 Stanford 
~:;~~)Colteg~~ 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Maurice Clarett's bid to enter this weekend's NFL draft was turned down by the Supreme Court on Thursday, delaying for now his attempt to bypass the league's eligibility rule. 
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg rejected his first request, saying she saw no reason to overturn a lower court's stay preventing the former Ohio State running back from being taken in the draft. 
She cited the NFL's will­ingness to "promptly" hold a supplemental draft if the 20-year-old Clarett, out of high school two years. pre­vails in his lawsuit chal­lenging the NFL's require­ment that players wait three years after high school before turning pro. 
Clarett filed a second emergency appeal with Justice John Paul Stevens, who quickly turned it down. 
"Today's decision con­firms the judgment of the court of appeals and allows us to turn our focus from the courtroom to the draft room," Jeff Pash. the NFL's in-house attorney, said in a statement. 
Clarett's attorney, Alan Milstein, wouldn't com­ment on the rulings. Messages left for Clarett and his mother weren't returned. 
Milstein had argued in a filing with Ginsburg that the player would "suffer substantial irreparable injury" if he was not allowed in the draft. 
The NFL had said that allowing Clarett to be drafted could be unfair to the team that picked him and to a player who loses out on a spot because Clarett was chosen. 
Ginsburg's decision also keeps out wide receiver Mike Williams of Southern California, who entered the draft after the original decision allowing in Clarett. 
"The NFL may have been successful in keeping them out of Saturday's draft, but there's always the possibil­ity of the supplemental draft," said Williams' agent. Mike Azzarelli. 
Clarett has not played since the 2002 season at Ohio State, showed up out of shape at the NFL scout­ing combine, and had what most scouts considered a 
mediocre  workout  in  
Columbus  earlier  this  
month.  

Neither justice ruled on the merits of Clarett's claim that the NFL's rule was arbitrary and anticom­petitive, robbing young players of an opportunity to enter the multimillion­dollar marketplace. 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
1 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 
20 
21 22 23 24 25 
' 
~~:';;: (6)
Miami long Beach State Mls$15slppl NOTRE OAME 
lSU 
South Carolina Wichita StaiB Aubum East Carolina South8rn Mlsslnlppl Texas A&M 
Tenii8SSU8 
Nebraska VIrginia Arizona Slate Florida North Carolina Tulane 
Oral Roberts UC Irvine Arkansas Oklahoma 

... · .•... ::.: .. :. .••. ::::::::::::! 
···~:;······························;~~··:·:·:··:········.:·.
2il 856 26·~ . · < 821 .··•·· ····· ···· 31·6 770 
30•5 .743> 28-16 731. 26+111 586 >> 
23-7 551 
2fi.12 ··6:i4 
31+6 523 
29·8 4S8 
31-11 . 379 
29-9 34f 
26~9 327 
3N 303 · 
2fi.12 279 
28·1t 266 
27·10 .. 2$6. 
26-12 · · · 183 
3H ··182 31·10 162 · 2!H3 ··15$i · 
·25-1~ .. 148 

IN BRIEF 
Senators fire coach Martin 
On/\WA -Another playofT loss to Toronto cost Jacques Martin his job as Ottawa Senators coach. 
Martin was fired Thursday after coaching Ottawa for 8 1/2. seasons, making him the NIIL's longest-serv­ing coach at the time. 
'To be able to last that long and build, I think. a good relationship with a lot of the players, I've been a very fortunate individual," Martin said at a news conference. 
The Game 7 loss in the first round Tuesday marked the fourth time in five seasons the Senators have been ousted by the Maple Leafs. 
"No doubt the disappointment is not to be given the opportunity to fin­ish what was started," Martin said. "But I understand. I appreciate what I had here for almost nine years." 
"In order to take the next step, towards winning a Stanley Cup, we must select a new face, a new voice with a fresh approach and with new ideas," general manager John Muckier said at an earlier news con­ference. 
Randolph wins NBA Most 
Improved Player Award 
POHTLAND, Ore. -Portland Trail Blazers forward Zach Handolph was disappointed when he didn't make the All-Star team. Winning the NBA's Most Improved Player award Thursday took some of that sting away. 
Randolph, who became a starter this season and averaged double fig­ures in points and rebounds, easily beat Cleveland Cavaliers forward Carlos Boozer in voting by sports writers and broadcasters with 59 first-place votes and 379 points. 
"I wanted to be on the All-Star team but it feels good to win this award," Randolph said with a big smile." It feels good." 
Handolph averaged 20.1 points, 
10.5 rebounds and 2.0 assists for the revamped Blazers, who went 41-41 to finish 1Oth in the Western 
Conference, two spots out of the playoffs. 
Sifford chosen for golf Hall 
of Fame 
Charlie Sifford, who cracked the PGA Tour's Caucasian-only clause in 1961 and was the first black member to win on tour, is the first black cho­sen for the World Golf llall of Fame. 
Sifford will be inducted Nov. 15, along with 1992 U.S. Open champion Tom Kite, Japanese star !sao Aoki and Canadian amateur Marlene Stewart Streit. 
Sifford was a true pioneer. along with Teddy Hhodes, Pete Brown. Lee Elder, Bill Spiller and other blacks ­who kept playing with hopes of get­ting a chance on the PGA Tour. 
Tiger Woods paid tribute to them when he won the '97 Masters for his first major. and he spoke in October about the absence of blacks in golf's llall of Fame. 
"They never had a chance to play," Woods said. 
around the dial 
NHL PLAYOFFS 

Montreal at Tampa Bay, 4:00p.m., ESPN2 
NBA PLAYOFFS Indiana at Boston, 7:00p.m., ESPN LA Lakers at Houston, 9:30p.m., ESPN 
Friday, April 23, 2004 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC GOLF 
Belles set out to itnpress NCAA selection comtnittee 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sporrs Writer 
Call it tunnel vision. 
The Belles head into Saturday's invitational at Tri­State University with one pri­mary objective: to impress the NCAA selection committee and win a spot in the NCAA tour­nament May 11-14. 
"It doesn't matter who's [at Tri-State]. as long as we put up some good numbers," Stefanie Simmerman said. "Everyone will need to step it up and play better." 

Coach Mark Hamilton· described this meet as the last opportunity the Belles have to prove themselves worthy of an NCAA tournament bid. Winning the invitational and overcoming rivals Albion and Manchester would be a notable feat, according to Hamilton. 
"We've had some good rival­ries in the past, but we know what to expect because we played most of them last week. Everyone knows what they have to do," Hamilton 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish put out flames in Chicago, avenge loss 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame (35-13) got its revenge and then some Thursday night shutting out the University of Illinois­Chicago 8-0. 
Carissa Jaquish had her best game of the season, going for 3-for-4 at the plate while driv­ing in four RBI all on one hit -a grand-slam home run in the seventh inning. 
The win made up for Notre Dame's earlier loss this season to Illinois-Chicago (24-20), and should help the team as it moves into a weekend that features two doubleheaders against Big East opponents on the road -Villanova on Saturday and Rutgers on Sunday. 
Steffany Stenglein picked up the victory, allowing just three hits over six innings while striking out eight. Carrie Wisen pitched the seventh to complete the victory for the Irish. 
Notre Dame took advantage of a Flames throwing error in the third to take an early three-run lead. 
Nicole deFau walked to lead off the inning, and then stole second. Her stolen base was made irrelevant, however, Megan Ciolli walked as well to put runners at first and sec­ond with nobody out. Meghan Ruthrauff made it safe to first on a fielder's choice. while Ciolli was thrown out at sec­ond. 
Ruthrauff advanced to sec­ond on a wild pitch, but deFau was forced to hold up at third on the play. Mallorie Lenn hit a groundball toward Illinois­Chicago's Alycia Creese. and she picked the ball up and threw toward home. 
Creese's throw sailed wide and both deFau and Ruthrauff 
1;~-~~·~:·~~-·i·~~~-;~-~~-~~··;·~··~~~ 

-
iCOMEDY or TV WRITING-Readi frrustin Howard's new book,[ 
~"MY LIFE WITH REGIS AN£) 
',JOEY." The book reveals help-1 
~ul structuring of comedy fo~ 
1both stand-up and writing. l 
bhow-Biz stories about Jay Leno, Damon! Wayans. George Carlin, Lenny Bruce, Bolli ;Hope, Carol Burnette, Regis Philbin, and; klthers, also provide helpful hints. ~ 
: :
:...................................................................: 

were able to score on the error and Lenn advanced to second on the play. After a groundout by Liz Hartmann advanced Lenn to third, Nicole Wicks singled to score the third run of the game as Lenn came home. 
The Irish blew the game wide open in the seventh with Hartmann picking up an RBI double to score a run before Jaquish's grand-slam sealed the win for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame goes on the road to face Villanova Saturday in a key conference doubleheader. 
The Wildcats currently lead the Big East with 18 points, while the Irish are tied for second with 16. However, those standings are mislead­ing, because Villanova (25-16, 9-3 in the Big East) has played 12 Big East games compared to Notre Dame's (8-0 in the Big East) eight. 
The Irish will finish their Big East weekend with a trip to New Jersey Sunday to face Rutgers (22-23, 5-7). 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
said. "This is our last chance to sway the selection commit­tee." 
Saint Mary's had an impres­sive performance at last week's Hope College Invitational, claiming first place with a collective score of 
343. Junior Julia Adams fired the tournament's best score at 82 and was named medalist. 
Hamilton says he expects similar 'standout performances this weekend, especially from Liz Hanlon and Nicole Bellino. Both seem ready to shine this weekend after solid perform­ances during practice. 

''I'm expecting [Hanlon] to post her lowest score ever and [Bellino] should play very well, too. Everything seems to be clicking for them right now," Hamilton said. 
Practices this past week have continued to focus on the short aspect of the Belles' games, in addition to bunker shots. The team has had a few "disasters in the sand" Hamilton said, and hopes that bunker shots will be anything but problematic during the invitational. 
Simmerman anticipates good scores posted across the board, as Tri-State's course is one of the Belles' favorite places to compete. 
"We love playing there just because we've been there so many times. I can go through and tell you where every tree and sand trap is. We know that course like the back of our hands," Simmerman said. "Hopefully we'll be able to make things happen." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

Calvert has been offering mutual funds that invest in socially and environmentally responsible companies for years. For more complete information on Calvert funds including a prospectus, call: 
Mark Unwin Vice President-Investments Smith Barney, Citigroup 211 W. Washington Suite 2200 South Bend IN 46601 Phone: 574.251.9108 Phone: 800.322.2425 Fax: 574.234.2484 E-mail: mark.unwin@smithbamey.com 
prospectus carefully before you invest. 

Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish look to prepare for Big East 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writer 
It's crunch time. 
With the Big East Championships only one week away, the Irish are hoping to work out the kinks as they compete in this weekend's Big Ten Preview Invitational and Drake Helays. 
The group headed for the Big Ten Preview, held at Purdue, is the larger of the two as only a handful of team­mates arc going to Drake. 
"At Purdue we want to get sonw more people qualified for the Big Easts," Irish assistant coach Tim Connelly said. "There arc also some kids who need a tunc-up race but there are also a lot who will not be raeing this weekend." 
With finals also looming on the horizon, the team must balance books while trying to succeed on the track. 
"Each kid has managed to get their schoolwork done all year," he said. "I think this week they're also going to lind a way to do that." 
Among those headed to Des Moines, Iowa for the 94th annual Drake Helays will be Napoleon Suarez and Mark Barber who will compete in the 400-metcr hurdles. Two weeks ago at the Missouri Invite, they finished first and second respectively in the 400­meter hurdles. Both runners have already qualified for the Big East and would like to build on the success they have had this year. 
The other Irish competitors at Drake will be Katie Duman in the javelin, Kerry Meagher 


CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Two Irish sprinters compete In the 60-meter dash Jan. 30. The Irish hope to gain experience at the Drake Relays this weekend. 
in the 1,500-meters and the men's 6,400 meter relay team. 
The competition at Purdue will be similar to last week's Indy Relays in that it will be made up of mostly teams from the Midwest. The meet is designed to be a tune-up for next week's Big Ten Championships yet only three teams -Illinois, Indiana and Purdue -will be representing the conference. The other squads in the field include Ball State, Indiana State, DePaul, Loyola-Chicago and Mar­quette. 
Notre Dame pole vaulter Dave Viken has already quali­fied for the Big East meet but wants to use this weekend as a warm up for the conference championships. 
"This is a critical point in the season for our team," Viken said. "I want to do the best I can at Purdue so I am in a good position to help out down the stretch." 
Viken is among a solid group of Irish vaulters who will be going to the meet including Stephanie Best, Laura Huarte, Jill Van Weelden and Dee Dee Bryant. The other men's pole vaulter, Justin Oppel, will not participate this weekend as he is resting a sore back before next week's meet. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles earn a 
spot in tourney 
Belles make MIAA tournament with win over Kalamazoo 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's made a state­ment Thursday, sweeping Kalamazoo in a doublehead­er and secured a spot in the MIAA tournament. After winning the first game 5-3, they exploded 13-1 in the second game. 
The Belles are currently third in the MlAA confer­ence with a 9-5 record and must now await the out­come of the Albion and Hope doubleheader Sat­urday to determine the third and fourth seeds. 
The Belles scored five runs in the first game led by a Jean Downes single. Downes was followed by a hit from Angie Ellison who later scored off an infield grounder. 
Kalamazoo came back strong at the top of the sec­ond, tying the score at one. After the Belles failed to score, the Hornets took the lead 2-1 in the top of the third. 
However, it was not long before Saint Mary's came roaring back in the fifth inning to score three runs by Marnie Walsh, Audrey Gajor and Amy Parker. 
The final run scored by Saint Mary's came from Kate Sajewich scoring on a Gajor single in the sixth. In the seventh, Kalamazoo scored one run to make the 
Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to t1nd quality houses close to can1pus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 
In town for the game? Why 
.-.---~~~~~~~~~.. 
not stay with family? Gramma's House B&B. Now taking reservations for the 2004 football season and 2005 Graduation. 
• 

2 miles north ofthe Notre Dame Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for partiesof6. Phone574-272-3999 
final score 5-3. 
The second game ended after just five innings as the Belles slaughtered the Hornets 13-1. Libby Wilhelmy pitched through the first four innings for the Belles, giving up only two hits and no runs. Bridget Grall replaced Wilhcmly in the fifth and helped Saint Mary's secure a playoff birth. 
The Belles came out 
strong once again and 
scored three runs in the 
first inning. 
Ellison and Laura Jleline each drove in a run and a Kalamazoo error gave Saint Mary's a 3-0 advantage. 
In the second inning, Saint Mary's scored three addi­tional runs as a result of three Kalamazoo errors. 
In the bottom of the fifth, Saint Mary's scored seven more runs and secured its second victory of the dou­bleheader. Singles by Gajor and Meghan Marenkovic began the onslaught. This was followed by Walsh's HBI single and a hit by Ellison, bringing home three more runs. 

Sullivan added another run on her single and Heline's double made the score 11-0. The Belles scored their final two runs off an error and a Gajor double for the 13-1 victory. 
Saint Mary's has done its job by securing a place in the upcoming MIM tourna­ment. Now they just have to wait to see who the oppo­nent will be. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
-

-
Friday, April 23, 2004 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Rockne honored at Ellis Island 
grants.
Late Irish football 

Each award included the coach honored at presentation of a copy of the original ship's passenger ceremony manifest documenting the recipient's, or the recipient's 
Observer Staff Report 

ancestor's, arrival at Ellis Island.
Late Notre Dame football Chinese-American architectcoach Knute Rockne was one 

I.M. Pei became the first
of six Americans honored at recipient of the new Peopling

a ceremony Wednesday at 

of American Award, which isthe Statue of Liberty. 
given to a United StatesThe Ellis Island Family 
immigrant who doesn't traceHeritage Award was present­his roots to Ellis Island. 
ed to members of Rockne's Along with Rockne's familyfamily, including John, his 

at Wednesday's ceremony,
only living offspring. 

were Notre Dame represen­
This award celebrates Ellis tatives John Heisler, associ­Island as the door to America ate director of athletics, andfor the 17 million immigrants 

Matthew Storin, associate
who set foot on U.S. soil vice president for news and

there. At the age of five, Rockne came to the United 

information. States through Ellis Island On March 31, the 73rd with his mother and sisters. anniversary of Rockne's fatal 
Other recipients of this plane crash, the Kansas year's Ellis Island Family Turnpike Authority dedicated Heritage Award included film a memorial very close to the 
director Martin Scorese, location where Rockne died. National Football League Rockne was the Notre commissioner Paul Dame football coach from Tagliabue, former U.S. 1918-30. He won three con­Treasury Secretary Robert sensus national titles (1924, Rubin and Nobel Prize win­1929 and 1930). His .881 ner Harold Varmus. winning percentage (105-12­
Besides · Rockne, those 5) is the highest winning per­recipients are the grandchil­centage in college football dren of Ellis Island immi-history. 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish hope to regain their form 
Irish have had trouble with in forward and regain our form
By MATT MOONEY 

the past week. They played a that had got us to a high level." 
Sports Writer 

very competitive game with But the Irish will be chal­Georgetown but lost 9-7, only lenged if they hope to stay at As Notre Dame prepares to to fall apart in their very next that high level. Notre Dame has resume play this weekend fol­game to Northwestern. The a backloaded schedule in which lowing consecutive losses, the Irish could only manage three three of their last four oppo­Irish (10-2) are looking back in goals up until the final minute nents have top 15 rankings. order to move forward. of the game to finish 9-5. After hosting No. 9 Johns "We're playing with nothing "We just weren't there that Hopkins this weekend, No. 10 to lose, like we did at the begin­day. We just didn't show up to Vanderbilt and No. 13 Syracuse ning of our season up until play, they did and we didn't," arrive in South Bend each of Northwestern," captain Simon said. the next two Saturdays for sea­Meredith Simon said. One of the elements Coyne son ending showdowns. Simon 
Notre Dame will have two felt was missing from the understands that her team can chances this weekend to Northwestern game was the use the lessons from the losses resume its old style of play, team cohesion that had typified to help their performance in tonight with a 7 p.m. game at the Irish style of play, a bal­those games as they move Moose Kraus Stadium against anced offense and a swarming toward the NCAA tournament. No. 9 Johns Hopkins and then a team defense. "Now that we've second game in Piscataway, "We got where had our hole in the 
N.J. for a Sunday afternoon we were because road, I think we'll
"They didn't 
game against Rutgers. we were so unified be able to handle 
Though the two recent losses as a team and they achieve what anything now," she have come at the hands of were very they achieved said. ranked opponents (No. 5 unselfish," Coyne Above all, Coyne
by a fluke." 

Georgetown and No. 11 said. "It wasn't like wants her team to Northwestern). Irish coach someone was hog­have the confi­Tracy Coyne feels the Irish ging the ball or Tracy Coyne dence of knowing need only look within them­anyone was com­Irish coach they are now a selves to find the winning for­plaining. It was force to be reck­mula. more the opposite, oned with in the 
"I want the focus to be on our they would try to take on every­world of college lacrosse. 
vn play, our own preparation, thing themselves instead of "I think we need to embrace what we feel we need to exe­sharing the burden." our success more instead of cute in order to win," she said. Coyne however, did see signs trying to fight it and being "I don't want to focus on any­of the team that started 10-0 afraid and thinking there [are] thing about our opponent during Wednesday's practice. these lofty expectations. They because when we are at our "Obviously you just don't imme­didn't achieve what they best, I don't care who it is on diately put a disappointing loss achieved by a fluke," she said. the field we should be able to like [that] behind you," Coyne win." said. "[But] by the end of prac­Contact Matt Mooney at 
But winning is something the tice we were all ready to move mmooney@nd.edu 
~mem6ering tlie Past ... (j{unningfor tlie Puture 

5{CRJJ,n or2 mile walk... 
-
Sunday, J1pril25, 2004 $10 CJ(ace day sign-ups 6egin at 2:00pm (j@ce 6egins at 3:00pm 6y 1(!ougli andWe/Sii Pam 
-
In foving memory ofc.Brionne Cfary, Conor 9vlurpliy, ancf9vlirancfa 'lJiomas 
Sponsored6y We/Sii Pami{y Jfa(( 
Friday, April 23, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
BASEBALL 
Big East teams face an important weekend of season 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Senior Staff Writer 
With the top five teams in the Big I~ast standings all scheduled to play over the next tlm~n days. this weekend could be the most important for No.4 Notre Dame (31-5, I 1-2 in the Big l·:ast) and the rest of tlw Big East in jockey­ing for position down the stn~tch run of cf•nference play. 
"I think this weekend could · he a turning point in the league if things happen the way that you hope they could happen," Irish coach Paul Mainicri said. "I think that Hutgcrs has as tough of a challenge as we have, going to (Boston College and St. John's!. This is what separates teams-going into tough ven­ues. 
The Irish travel to Seton llall for a Big East double­lw ad n r today, and then onward to Pittsburgh for a Sunday doubleheader. The l'anthr.rs currently stand in third place in the Big East with a conference record of 7­3. 
Meanwhile, Hutgers, who is tied with Notre Dame at 11-2 atop the Big East, must travel to Boston College today and then to St. John's Sunday for a pair of conference double­headers. St. John's and Boston College are fourth and fifth, respectively, in the Big East. 
For the Irish, Seton Hall may pose more of a threat than its 10-24-1 record would indi­cate. The Pirates have gone 4­1-1 at home this season. including winning two of three from Rutgers. 
"With Seton Hall, you have to forget about their record," Mainieri said. "I've gone to Seton llall too many times to count on anything as being easy. Those games are going to be two tough games." 
The Pirates have hit .266 as a team this season, and are led at the plate by senior catcher Chris Fulda with a .322 average and 18 RBis. Two other Pirate hitters ­first baseman Tim Pahuta (.313) and infielder Anthony Seratelli (.306) -are batting over .300 this season. Pahuta also leads the team in runs scored (25). doubles (10) and home runs (five). 
On the hill, Pirate pitchers have an EHA of 5.30 and an opponents' batting average of 
.277. 

Pittsburgh, meanwhile, has proven to be one of the most powerful Big East teams this year. The Panthers lead the Big East in hitting with a .323 team batting average, which is two points ahead of second­place Notre Dame. The Panthers are also fourth in the Big East in pitching, with a staff ERA of 4.16. 
"Pittsburgh is as good as Rutgers and ourselves," Mainieri said. "They are right there in the top of the heap. 
I'm sure Pittsburgh is trying to win this thing." 
Pittsburgh boasts four of the top 10 hitters in the Big East. Outfielder Ben Copeland leads the league with a .393 aver­age, scoring 39 runs and driv­ing in 20. The other Panther hitters in the top 10 are Jim Negrych (.382), P.J. Hiser (.374) and Peter Parise (.361). 
The Irish. however, have been just as dominant at the plate this season, with 10 Irish hitters surpassing the .300 mark Shortstop Greg Lopez leads the Irish regulars with a .369 average. 
On the mound, Mainieri plans to use a similar starting rotation as he did in Notre Dame's three-game sweep of Georgetown last weekend. Left-hander Tom Thornton will take the hill in the seven­inning opener of the double­header today, while righty Chris Niese! will start the nine-inning nightcap. 
Against Pittsburgh Sunday, right-hander Jeff Samardzija will start the seven-inning opener, and junior righty Grant Johnson will work the second game against the Panthers. 
The freshman Samardzija, who is a scholarship football player for the Irish. will have to meet up with the baseball team on the road Saturday night after participating in the football team's intra-squad Blue-Gold game Saturday afternoon. Samardzija has been splitting time between spring football practices and baseball the past four weeks, but he will be able to concen­trate on pitching after the Blue-Gold game Saturday, which marks the conclusion of spring practices. 


With a full slate of Big East games ahead and tough games for other top teams in the con­ference, Mainieri says he is ready for an exciting Big East weekend. 
"We've got four big games ahead of us this weekend, and I'm excited about it," he said. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 



Friday, April 23, 2004

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Big East 

continued from page 28 
showing was not enough to overcome Syracuse and the Irish took second place over­all. 
At the 2002 Big East Challenge. No. 10 Notre Dame won the varsity four races but Syracuse once again dominated the regat­ta. The Orangewomen took first. leaving the Irish sec­ond again. The Notre Dame boats had an equally frus­trating experience at the 2003 Big East Challenge. The No. 24 Irish won the second varsity eight and the varsity four earned a silver medal but the Irish lost to Syracuse by a mere two points in the overall compe­tition. 
Notre Dame boats have fared well this season, despite a challenging sched­ule consisting of races against several of the nation's best teams, includ­ing California. Washington. Tennessee. Washington State, Southern California and Michigan State. 
A win this weekend could put the Irish in a good posi­tion for ·a much-coveted NCAA bid. 
"We have lost by less than 10 points the past three years to Syracuse," Katie O'Hara said. "I think our team has grown to the point where no one will let that happen again·." 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 
ROWING 
Seniors look for first Big East title Saturday 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Senior StaffWriter 
The 10 seniors that will lead the Notre Dame boats this weekend are eager to avenge Syracuse's Big East win last year. 
Over the past four years, these women have witnessed 
· the Irish rowing program gar­ner a series of honors. They hope to add a Big East team title to the list. Though the pro­gram consists of over 60 row­ers, it is led by a close group of seniors: captain Natalie Ladine, captain Katie Welsh, Alice Bartek, Danielle Protasewich, Jacqueline Hazen, Kacy McCaffrey, Kathy Long, Sarah Keefer, Katie O'Hara and Megan Sanders. Although most of the rowers were celebrated high school athletes, only Long had high school rowing experience before joining the team her freshman year. 
"I knew absolutely nothing about rowing," Hazen said. "In the novice program everybody begins knowing nothing and learns together. It's amazing to move from learning to row on our little lakes to competing with the top teams in the coun­try." 
When the current seniors joined the team in the fall of 2000, the program was only entering its fourth year of var­sity status. Since then, they have witnessed the rowing pro­gram develop into one of the nation's most respected teams. They helped the Irish steadily climb up the polls and garner unprecedented honors. 
In May 2001, the No. 18 Irish finished second overall at the Big East Challenge. Notre Dame won two silver and two bronze medals as the novice eight and the second varsity eight placed second. The first varsity eight and varsity four boats took third place. 
In April of 2002, the No. 9 Irish achieved their highest ranking to date in the U.S. Rowing/Collegiate Rowing Coaches Association poll, breaking into the nation's top 10 for the first time. During the 2002 season, the varsity eight boat also earned its first NCAA Championship bid. The boat, which included Ladine, fin­ished 16th in the champi­onships behind rowing power­houses such as Washington State, Michigan State and Cornell. In July 2002, Ashlee Warren became the first Notre 
Dame  rower  to  earn  All­ 
American honors.  
.  At  the  2003  Big  East  

Challenge, the No. 24 Irish won the second varsity eight, the varsity four and earned a silver medal in the first varsity eight, but lost to Syracuse by a mere two points in the overall com­petition. Though the Irish did not earn a NCAA bid last year, they are determined to qualify this season. 

"This is the year for us to win Big East," Sanders said. "For the past three years, the team has inched closer and closer to Syracuse and now is the time for us to finally take the elusive crown." 
Coach Martin Stone acknowl­edges the seniors have played an instrumental role in this season's success and is confi­dent that the Irish will perform well this weekend. 
"I expect them to continue to focus on making the boats they are in to go as fast as possible," Stone said. "They have done a great job so far and I ·expect the trend to continue." 
The rowers consistently credit the team's strength and dedication to the close rela­tionships they have forged with each other and the greater Notre Dame community. 
"One of my favorite memo­ries was from Spring Break 2002 in Tennessee," Bartek said. "We were training down in Knoxville, and the Notre Dame women's basketball team had their first round of the NCAA's down there. We all got tickets to their first game and cheered them on to victory. The next day, when we raced against Tennessee, Muffet McGraw and company came down to the boathouse to support us. It was one of the coolest things see the basketball team stand­ing by the dock, singing the fight song for us as we launched. I felt part of some­thing bigger that day, and will never forget that overwhelm­ing feeling of pride to belong to the University of Notre Dame." 
When reflecting back on the last four years. the team is quick to praise each member's individual talents and contribu­tions. 
"It is no cofhcidence that out of the 100 freshmen who went out for the team, the 10 of us remain," Ladine said. "We are all very different, but have one thing in common; we are each a little crazy in our own way. But, you'd have to be a little crazy to wake up when we do on a snowy morning, put on spandex, and go for a row." 
As graduation approaches, the rowers acknowledge the noteworthy achievements the team has made in their time at Notre Dame, but also express great hope for the young pro­gram's future. 
"The program has great potential, and a significant amount of work ahead of it at the same time," Welsh said. "Graduation will lead to the loss of 10 seniors, four in the varsity eight. This creates much opportunity for the underclassmen and incoming recruits to step up and fill these positions." 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 

-
-
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissionsis accepting applications for three Admissions Counselor positions! 
As prut of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to tnakc an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment an.d evaluation ofapplications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. 
**One position will be an understood one-year assignment with the possibility of permanent employment should a staff opening occur in 2005. ( 114) 
**One position will include the additional responsibility for recruitment efforts for African American students. (115) 
**One position will likely include the responsibility for recruitment efforts for inte.-national students. (116) 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, 
diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday 
mornings. · 
Preferred start date is July I, 2004. 
Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference .infom1ation by Tuesday, April 27, 2004 to: 
Admissions Counselor .lob Numbers: 4007-114,4007-115,4007-116 Department of Human Resources 
'University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Sweet 16 
continued from page 28 
point on a foul shot. 
State Theatre 21, Bend It Like Bryant 10 
Although it was a Thursday night, State Theatre was jump­ing, as well as shooting sweetly, over Bend it Like Bryant. 
The game was close at the half, but State Theatre, led by Ben Nickol and Chris Murphy, pulled away for a healthy margin of vic­tory at the end. 
"We just need to keep shooting well and not have to go down low," Nickol said. 
"We need to keep up [this level of play) for the next two days," Murphy added. 
Jack's Shorts 21, The Redick Wannabes 14 
In a come-from-behind victory, Jack's Shorts waited until the game's last minutes to blow the Hedick Wannabes away. 
Jack's Shorts was behind at halftime, and the teams swapped leads early in the second half until Jack's Shorts made it 16-14. 
"We changed up our offense a bit, which shut them down in the second half," said Jack Short's Dan Parziale. 
lie attributed the victory to a technical called on The Redick Wannabes at the end of the game. 
"That really turned the tide," Parziale said. 
No. 2 Ubrary Lounge 21, No. 15 Thor and the Thunderbolts 10 
What at first appeared to be a close game was anything but as Library Lounge overwhelmed Thor and the Thunderbolts. 
Library Lounge was ahead early 3-2 -a lead they never relinquished. Once the Library Lounge started making shots, they afforded Thor and the Thunderbolts little opportunity for scoring. Library Lounge cap­tain Justin Funk praised team­mates Greg Durm and Jim Kilroy, who were both adept at capitaliz­ing on scoring opportunities dur­ing the game. 
"We came out making wide open shol<; at first and then later on in the game, our shots started to drop," Funk said. "We got to halftime in a hurry after [Durm] and [Kilroy] opened up the offense for us." 
Funk said the Library Lounge "had the game in hand" at half­time, when the team led 11-2. From that point on, the team turned on its jets and played a much more offensive-minded game. 
No. 8 Clerlcuzlo 21, No. 9 Team 
Truth 16 

There's no denying the truth­that is unless it's in reference to Team Truth. 
No. 8 Clericuzio overcame a dogged No. 9 Team Truth. Marcus Boldin jumpstarted the Clericuzio effort, shooting 4-for-4 at the free throw line. 
At halftime, Clericuzio lead 11­6, but Team Truth quickly surged back to narrow the lead to 13-12. It was at this point that Boldin stepped in to contribute the cru­cial free throw points. 
Clericuzio's Irvin Jones was also essential to the team's suc­cess, according to captain Adam Senior. 
"Every time we needed a bas­ket, we looked to [Jones]." Senior said. 
No. 1 KPMG 21, No. 16 Wet Hot American Bailers 13 
KPMG proved why they were deserving of the No. 1 seed defeating Wet Hot American Bailers in one of the most fiercely contested games of the tourna­ment. 
Sporadic fouls interrupted this fast-paced game, controlled for the most part by KPMG. KPMG took an early lead 9-5. The Wet llot American Bailers, however still held their ground. 
"They were just a bigger and stronger team," Wet Hot American Bailers captain Seth Ufeil said. "We couldn't even foul them," 
Teammate Mike Peters said he was confident a rematch would result in a different outcome, however. 
"We could still play them any­time, anywhere though," Peters said. "Dinner? Literally. Anytime." 
KPMG's Jeff Samardzija cited teammate Carlyle Holiday as the key to the game and Samardzija added that he was overall satis­fied with the team's efforts. 
"We're a fast, athletic tt;lam and they played right into our hands," Samardzija said. 
No. 7 USB/SMG 21, No. 10 Derelict 19 
The match between USB/SMG and Derelict was not a matter of basketball skills. 
It was all about looking good, according to USB/SMG captain Chris Murphy. 
"We were the prettiest on the court, and we just decided that we were more beautiful than the other team and deserved to win," Murphy said. 
Derelict took an early lead 3-1 in a game that was characterized by perimeter passing and short­range shots. Although USB/SMG eventually went on to win 21-19, both teams remained within two points of each other the entire game. 
Because the two teams were so evenly matched in height and skills, the game was one of the longest lasting ones of the night. Derelict held on to its lead 8-6 before USB/SMG rallied. Murphy said what fueled the rally was a more patient offense. 
"When we got to 11-1 7, we tried to be more patient and work the ball. I think that's what kept us in the lead," Murphy said. 
No. 4 Jordan Toyota 21, No. 13 More Cowbell14 
More Cowbell captain Matt Parsons could think of no better way to describe the game. 
"It was just like John Starks in the '94 [NBAJ Finals. We came up short," Parsons said. 
Jordan Toyota defeated More Cowbell 21-14 Thursday night, using quick passes and increased intensity to their advantage. More Cowbell took the lead early in the game 6-5, but Jordan Toyota quickly gained control of the pace 
. of the game to wear out their opponents. 
Jordan Toyota's Rhema McKnight alluded to a foul that More Cowbell committed midway through the game as the source of their comeback and ultimate win. 
"Our team didn't appreciate it, so we stepped up the game.," McKnight said. "We're a pretty fast team, so we used it to our advantage." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu and Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


Don't Dump it! Donate it! 
Help save alite. 
Your used clothing, furniture and yes, even automobiles can give someone else a new start. 
Drop your donation off at The Salvation Army Thrift Store located at 2009 South Bend Ave. or call 288-2539. 
Register to win a $100 Best Buy Gift Card 
Draft 
continued from page 28 
the first three rounds being held Saturday and the final four rounds taking place Sunday. 
Analysts are estimating that anywhere between four and seven Notre Dame play­
ers could be selected this year. 
N o t r e Dame had seven play­ers drafted in the 2003 draft, but only one was picked on the first day. Unlike last year, when center 
"I don't think I'll be that nervous until the day comes. Then, I'll do something to try not to think about it. " 
Vontez Duff Former Irish cornerback 
Jeff Faine 
became the first Irish player selected in the first round since 1999, most draft ana­lysts aren't expecting the Irish to have any players drafted in the first round. 
Instead, running back Julius Jones could be the 
first Notre Dame player to hear his name called. Analysts have project­ed Jones, whose broth­er Thomas is a running back for the Chicago Bears, to be chosen in either the late second round or early third round. 
After Jones, though, it's anybody's guess who will be..._ picked next. 
NFL teams could pick Duff, who has impressed scouts 
drafted. 
Among the other Irish sen­iors hoping to hear their names called on draft day are cornerback Jason Beckstrom, defensive tackle Cedric Hilliard, receiver Omar Jenkins, offensive tackle Jim Molinaro and 

"I don't have a prefernce [where I go}." 
Vontez Duff Former Irish cornerback 
[where I go)." Duff said. 
The Irish don't care when who calls their name this weekend. Just as long as it gets called. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
4 MONTH SPECIAL 


with his defensive ability and his return game, or linebacker Courtney Watson. 
Then there are the players who hope injuries don't hurt their draft status. Take safe­ty Glenn Earl, for example, who had surgery and missed the last six games of the 2003 season with an injury but impressed scouts with his pre-draft workouts. Or 
there is defensive tackle Darrell Campbell, whose draft stock dra­matically climbed after the season before a workout injury left him simply hoping to be 
kicker Nicholas Setta. 
Players who aren't chosen in the NFL Draft still could sign free agent contracts with teams. 
"I don't have a preference 






-
page 26 
Men 
continued from page 28 
gry for a win. 
"Our whole season has been building up to this point and everything we've done so far has been in preparation for this," Gustafson said. "Everyone on the team understands the impor­tance of this event. We've been very focused these past two weeks at practice." 
With no tournaments for the past two weeks, the Irish have had time to rest, become mental­ly prepared and refine their games. 
"Having these two weeks off gave us a chance to practice and start playing better," lsban said. 
Gustafson agreed. "We're rested up and ready to go," he said. 
Eric Deutsch played well in the qualifying rounds to earn the No. 5 spot on team. He will join Gustafson, Isban, and sopho-

NO ATHLETICS ... BE THERE! 
Friday, April 23 at 7:oo PM #6 Women's Lacrosse vs. Johns Hopkins 
•
Pirst200fons receive a long sleeve schedule T-shirtsponsoredbyPapaJohns 

•
Pre-game tailgating partysponsoredbyPapa Johns _._ 

•
Free admission for everyone! ~ 


I 

Women's Soccervs. Mexico National Team atAlumni Field@ 7pm I 
mores Tommy Balderston and Mark Baldwin to round out the line-up. 
Although the four and five spots have been inconsistent this season, Baldwin and Deutsch have been improving and have demonstrated glimpses of their tremendous potential in the past few tournaments. 
"Now we just need a collective effort to get all of us to play well," Isban said. 
The Irish will also have the home course to their advantage. 
For the first time this year, the Irish will be able to depend on support from friends and family during the last stretch of the sea­son. 
The teams will tee off at 8 a.m. Saturday to begin the first 36 holes, before the final round concludes on Sunday. 
"We're ready to play," Isban said. "We're ready to get a win at home." 
Contact Anne Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
Friday, April23, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 
WoiDen 
continued from page 28 

King, the Irish have been using the week leading into the tournament to maximize their home course advantage. 
"We've made our own Lady Irish yardage books, which are different than the ones sold in the golf shop," King said. "They're specific to our players, and they tell them details pertaining to how far they hit the ball, as well as the breaks of the greens." 
"We've been working a lot on course management, try­ing to get ahead of the other team since we've played the course thousands of times," Irish golfer Karen Lotta said. 
However, the team will not get a sneak preview of the exact layout of the course, including cup placement, until the official practice round today. 
"We don't have any control over course setup," King said. "The Big East takes care of all that." 
Despite leveling of the play­ing field, the Big East cannot control the weather, and the cold South Bend climate should serve as another advantage for the Irish espe­cially against top-seeded Miami. 
"I think [our advantage] comes from a combination of home court advantage and the weather," King said. "Miami is just not used to playing in the cold." 
Members of the team also saw the weather as a posi­tive. 
"We know the weather here," Lotta said. "Miami is a very southern school, and it's very hot down there." 
The team has improved over the course of the spring, making noticeable strides on 
Saturday, April 24th & Sunday 25th Men's &Women's Golf Big East ~ Championships@Warren GolfCourse ~'(MEN'S GOLF GOLD GAME SUNDAY l-3PM 
.
I

•s.e•
•First1oofans receive a Gold Ganze T-shirt sponsored byAeropostale 

a weekly basis. Brophy attributes this to their prac­tices, as well as to an improved mental side of the game that comes as a result. 
"We've worked real hard this year, and we're confident now," she said. 
Regardless of their morale and improvement since the beginning of the spring, Notre Dame's hopes of a first-ever NCAA tournament selection rests as much on other teams' performances as its own this weekend. Since the Big East tourna­ment winner will not receive an automatic bid, the Irish will need an at-large selec­tion to advance to the NCAA Regionals. 
"A lot of [this] will have to do with things out of our con­trol, how other people across the country do compared to us," King said. 
King mentioned Nebraska, Kansas, Texas Tech, Purdue and Michigan as teams who could open the door for the Irish with weak performanc­es or potentially shut them out with strong ones. 
Knowing they need a good performance as well as a lit­tle help, the team's fate will rest in the hands of five Irish golfers this weekend. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


-
' I 
'--------------­

Friday, April 23, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
Answer: 

(I I J(I I I J"D's" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: CHASM AVAIL SLEEPY GATHER 
-

Answer: What the coach did to the end who missed the catch -GAVE HIM A"PASS" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 36 Singer of the 65 Chemistry test 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roy Orbiscn, Valerie Bertinelli, Jan
aria "Largo al topic

1 Java man? 
Hooks, Shirley Temple Black
factotum" 66 Undoes a9 Base 

39 Consumes with breakup Happy Birthday: You have a big heart and a giving nature. You must be 15 Farm youngster careful not to let others take advantage of you this year. You should be
gusto 67 Introverts 

concentrating on getting your own objectives off the ground before you help
16 Spain's _ 
41 Ankara title 68 Locale identifier others get ahead. It's time to be a little bit selfish in order to get the results that Real you've been searching for. Your numbers: 5, 17, 23, 36, 40, 41
42 Reporting

17 Tiny Tim sang in 
46 Attendance DOWN ARIES (March 2l·Aprill9): Don't let your partner get the better of you. Stay
it 
calm and work on your own projects. If you appear to be a know-it-all, you'll
counter 1 "Yeah, right!"

18 Solicit aggres-meet with relentless opposition. 3 stars sively 48 TV puppet 2 Property TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll have problems with clients and peers. 
...

Your mate will want you to give a few straight answers. Your lack of attention 
52 Saarinen of 3 Strait of Dover
19 Motor add-on has made them insecure. Reassurance will be required.**"*
Finland sight 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will spend more than necessary if you take
20 Scuttlebutt 
4 Workplaces with trips. Don't pay for friends or peers. Be careful what you say and to whom if
53 Note

21 Selling points openings: Abbr. you don't want to be thought of as a gossip. "* 55 Lake CANCER (June 21-July 22): Loss is likely if you jump the gun when it
22 Suffix with neur-5 Got out of
Wobegon's comes to investments. Be cautious where you place items of importance. Do 24 Standard locale: Abbr. Dodge not sign legal documents or any papers pertaining to your residence. ••••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your childlike quality may get you into big trouble
6 Mesh

26_about 56 Trig functions today if you neglect your responsibilities. Problems with your boss could lead (circa) 7 Tendency to unemployment. *** 
59 George W. 

toward chaos VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be dropping friends for no apparent reason.
28 Perdue rival Bush's birth­
People who try to persuade you to do things their way will annoy you. Past
8 Vanity case?
place: Abbr. 

parmers are likely to reappear. ••• 9 Jacuzzis LIBRA (Sept-23-0ct. 22): You can expect to feel confused about your 
30 Upright features 
61 "You Bet Your

33 Lively songs personal prospects. You probably aren't getting straight answers to your
Life" airer 10 "Yow!"

with humorous, questions. Stick to your work and avoid emotional confrontations. *** improvised 62 Runs a test on 11 Put back in the SCORPIO (Oct-23-Nov. 21): Social events should be the highlight of your lyrics oven day. Don't tum down an invitation or a challenge that could enhance your
63 News anchors 34 Booty 44 Sister of 57 One with good chances of meeting someone special. ***** 
1.2 Fishing aids

35 "Mazel _!" often face this Orestes looks? SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your magnetic, outgoing personality will 13 "Darling, that capture hearts. Romance will unfold if you take trips or see friends. Use your
36 Horoscope rev­45 Eraser
elation 58 They broke up ingenuity to manipulate situations so that you can get what you want. ••
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE dress looks 
47 Generic in 1991: Abbr. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone you live with will be impossible
divine!" 

37 "Vo!ell, perhaps to get along with. Don't try to deal with important issues or make changes that ­-:::+=-r.:+:-~ 14 Flyspeck 49 51 past 60 Favored care· will upset your world. Ask a close friend for advice. •••• -rl-F.+-:+.:+:::-1 23 Pioneer of TV 50 Existing at birth taker AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Overexertion and negligence will be your
38 Fort worst enemies. Personal problems may be hanging over your head but don't
comedy 
62 Feel fluish

51 Protect, as with confront the situation just yet. *** 25 Some family 40 Make waves plastic PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Oon't get depressed, get busy. You can
64 Tape player

heads accomplish a lot if you're willing to put in a little extra time. Your efforts won'l
43Energy 54 In a timely way port 
go unnoticed; however, someone you work with may get jealous. *** 
-:-:+-:+....taoi 27 Tell the host yes or no 
Birthday Baby: You know just how to get others to do things for you. You're
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
easily liked and should acquire a great deal of popularity throughout your life.
29 Some feds 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ­
You have the makings of leader and the stamina to make your dreams come true.
31 The "She" in 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundaySpike Lee's crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com"She's Gotta 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Have It" 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 32 Bagnell Dam Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young river solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
DILBERT 
THE REAL ESTATE AGENT 
IF YOU DON'T BUY THE HOUSE I SHOWED YOU , SOMEONE ELSE WILL. 
FIVES 
The "Fine by me" shirt craze sweeps the nation... 1 



AND EVERY TIME IT APPRECIATES ANOTHER 
MILLION DOLLARS YOU WILL CRY OUT, "WHY WAS I SO STUPID?! WHY?! WHY?! • 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
SCOTT ADAMS 
AND I'LL BE ALL, "LOSER I L0-0­0-SERI"  ARE YOU REALLY NOT ALLOWED TO SHOW ME MORE THAN  
ONE HOUSE?  

rr.,,,...•.,,·~;~E§?'/'·· ...,,\ / r: 36-24-36? ••· \
r\'\Only jf SheIS/} ')
--.::;.·l. 5'3.. ,,, /
··-f· {(' 
\ ! li 
Isir Mix-a-Lot I 
...........................,.,,,,·,·····~· ..·................. J 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ____________ State _____ Zip________ ­
JUMBLE 
I I 11)
C!:004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rlghta Reaerved 
FEZOR ± 


www.jumble.com 
tGURMOEI

IJ I I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHY THE STUDENT GOT D'S AND F'S. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


MEN'S AND NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Home at last 
This weekend both teams fight for the Big East title 
By ANNE BRUSKY By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer Sports Writer 
If there was ever an incentive to For the Notre Dame women's play well, now is that time. golf team, there's no place like After struggling all season to home. 
compete with the best teams in The Irish haven't lost in South the nation, the Irish are poised to Bend for the better part of two make a run at the Big East years, winning the last two tour­Championship, held on Notre naments held at the Warren Golf 
Dame's own Warren Golf Course. Course, including last year's Big"We definitely feel like we East championship. Notre Dame
-· 
should go out there and win," 
will again host the women's BigIrish golfer Cole lsban said. East Championships and the "We've been playing pretty poorly team feels very good about their this spring, but we're talented prospects of continuing the enough and we have an advan­streak. tage because it's our home "We feel very confident, and course." we have home course advan­Two-time defending champion tage," Katie Brophy said. Virginia Tech is the favorite once The tournament is a 54-hole again this season and Georgetown event, beginning on Saturdaylooks to be a threat as well. with teams playing two rounds The Irish, however, are confi­and then continuing on Sundaydent and excited to get out on the with the final 18 holes. Five course. golfers will compete for each "If we just play our game on team, with the lowest four indi­
this course, we will be fine," Irish vidual scores counting towards golfer Scott Gustafson said. "We the team total. Besides the Irish, have every reason to believe that the top three other Big East 
we will do pretty well." teams will be competing this The winning team gets an auto­weekend, including Miami, who . matic bid to the NCAAs, and after 
is ranked ahead of the Irish in 
.... 
coming in second behind VIrginia the Golfweek/Sagarin Index. Tech last year, the Irish are hun-Photo Courtesy of Dan Carey According to coach Debby Scott Gustafson hopes to lead the Irish to a Big East see MEN/page 26 championship this weekend at Warren Golf Course. see WOMEN/page 26 
fOOTBALL 
Irish hop~ for best on draft day 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 
The waiting will end this weekend. 
But that doesn't mean the handful of Notre Dame seniors who are expecting to be selected in 
.---.,--------, the 2004 NFL Draft are any less nervous. 
Take cor-_.~--~
1
nerback Vontez Duff, ~~~~~~ for example. Scouts have 
told him that t_-----"~-__.J he could be picked as early as the third round, but he's going to do his best to stay away from the television until his 
phone rings. 
"l don't think I'll be that nervous until the day comes," Duff said, who plans to spend most of the weekend at his house. "Then, I'll do some­thing to try not to think about it." 
The draft's seven rounds are divided across two days, with 
see DRAFT/page 25 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, April 23, 2004 
page 28 
ROWING 

Big East title at stake for Irish 
-
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Senior Staff Writer 
The No. 17 Irish will head to Massachusetts this weekend, competing first in Saturday's regatta against Boston University and Northeastern in -B.oston. They will then See Also travel to 
"Seniors look
Worcester to compete in for first Big East 
Sunday's Big 
title Saturday"
East Rowing 
page 24
Challenge. 
At the fourth annual Big East compe­tition, Notre Dame will battle Syracuse, Boston College, Connecticut, Georgetown, Miami, Rutgers, Villanova and West Virginia on Worcester's Lake Quinsigamond. The Irish are determined to dethrone the reigning champions, the Orange women of Syracuse. 

"We're getting pumped up to face the competition, especial­ly Syracuse," Alice Bartek said. "We're working on fine tuning our rowing, and improving just a little bit on every stroke. The margin of difference between teams at the top is not a lot, so even a little bit of improve­ment goes a long way." 
The Irish have a history of falling second to Syracuse. In the 2001 Big East Chall('lnge, the No. 18 Irish won two silver and two bronze medals as the novice eight and the second varsity eight placed second. The first varsity eight and var­sity four boats took third place. However, the impressive 
see BIG EAST/page 24 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIII 
Field narrows to 8 teams 
By KATE GALES AND ANN 
LOUGHERY 
Sports Writers 

Despite a late scoring drought, Chock Full O'Nuts was chock full of what it took to win its game Thursday night against the Platinum FUBU All-Stars, pulling out a 22-20 victory. 
"If we didn't shoot 20 percent from the line, we would have won a lot sooner," Chock Full's Josh O'Farrell said. "We should have won by 10, but they were a good team. We're not trying to take anything away from them." 
As play dragged on for nearly an hour and a half, one specta­tor said, "This is a marathon game." 
Aggressive rebounding may have been key for Chock Full, who managed put-backs as well as drives. 
William Bingle was an inside force for Chock Full, as O'Farrell dominated play with his ball-handling skills. FUBU's crisp passing kept Chock Full's zone defense moving. 

The game was tied at 19 as O'Farrell put Chock Full within one point of victory. The game was tied by FUBU, and the teams missed a combined total of four foul shots in the last minute. 
O'Farrell scored the winning 
see SWEET 16/page 25 
BASEBALL 

NO SOFTBALL 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

FOOTBALL 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
SMC SOFTBALL
en ..... 
Notre Dame at 

Notre Dame 8, 
Notre Dame vs. 

Drake Relays 
Saint Mary's 5­

1-u 
z Seton Hall 

Illinois-Chicago 0 
Johns Hopkins 

The late Irish coach 
Today, 9 a.m. 
13 
Today, 12 p.m. 
Today, 7 p.m. 

Knute Rockne was hon-
Kalamazoo 3-1 
a: =:5 

The Irish got revenge 
ored at an Ellis Island 
With the Big East 
After losing two
The Irish hope for a 

after losing to the 
ceremony Wednesday. 
Championsips lurking 
With the sweep, the 

-ca: 
straight, the No. 6 Irish 

Flames at home earlier
Big East sweep in this 

ahead, the Irish hope to 
Belles earn a spot in the 
take on the No. 9 Blue 

this season. 
doubleheader. 

perform well this week-
MIAA tournament.
A.tc 
page 23 

page 23 
Jays. page 22

en 
page 22 
end. page 21 
page 21 


' ...... . 
. . . 
. ' 

. ... . . ' 
... . '.. . ..
•• '0

. . . ' . ' 
. ....... .
• • • 0 ••
o o o I 0

... ..'• .. ·..;........:.....'.:...:. ·.'··. :.-.:::.::·.:.·.'. .. ... '. .·.·.·.· ...... ,'•. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 
' I I o 0 I 0 

~~-page 2 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April23, 2004 
==========================================================================~ 
Only winning can unite the Irish 
Let's take a moment to review what happened after a season where the Irish lost four games by more than 25 points, lost more games than it won for the third time in five years and ex peri­enced a 
high-
Andrew 

water 
Soukup

mark by 
kicking a game-5_enior Staff winning Writer field goal to beat Navy. 
First, a group of alumni sent a letter to the University's Board of Trustees strongly criticizing the management of the football program. This was later followed by a response from Notre Dame's Monogram Club, which essentially said that every­body should stay quiet and keep problems in the proverbial Notre Dame family. 
Then, Paul Hornung infa­mously said that Notre Dame needs to change its admissions standards to admit "the black athlete" the Irish need to win, for­getting that the Irish have more blacks than whites on their roster. His comments were followed by Dave Duerson, president of the Monogram Club, ignoring his own advice about keep­ing things in the family by saying Hornung should be fired from his radio posi­tion during Notre Dame football games. 
Ah, the joys of an off-sea­son when Notre Dame is struggling. We haven't had one of these this juicy since Notre Dame 
hired a In the end, arguments Willingham guy named about organizational started his George Irish
hierarchy, admissions 
O'Leary. coaching
standards, schedule 
Yet career 8-0. amidst all strength and coaching Take the the criti-group of
strategies boil down to
cism, letter-writ­
exactly one thing.
ducking of ing alumni. responsi-Can Willingham and the Tim Kelley, bility and one of the
Irish win on Saturdays?
ridiculous claims lies two common threads. 
People want Notre Dame to win a national champi­onship. And Notre Dame hasn't won a national championship for a long time. 
The Irish are in the midst of one of their longest national-championship droughts in school history. And for a program that defines itself by the num­hers seven (Heisman Trophy winners) and 11 (national titles), that's unacceptable. 
But there's more. The Irish haven't won a bowl game in a decade. They've had three losing seasons in five years. They endured an embarrassing lawsuit in the Joe Moore trial, got hit with NCAA sanctions and became a punchline by hir­ing O'Leary. 
Which brings us back to the most recent criticism of the football program ­criticism noticeably absent 
after 
Tyrone 
principle 
letter writ­ers, said the letter grew out of a frustration that the administration is no longer as committed to managing championship-caliber foot­ball as they have been in the past. 
Then in swoop Notre Dame administrators, who say that football is and always has been the highest priority of the athletic department and that Willingham's Irish are mov­ing in the right direction. 
And in the middle, the patriarch of the Notre Dame football family who also doubles as the head coach, stoicly coaches his team while openly admit­ting his team's flaws and equally touting his team's 

success. 

Perhaps it's because that, in the end, arguments about organizational bier­archy, admissions stan­dards, schedule strength and coaching strategies boil down to exactly one thing. 
Can Willingham and the Irish win on Saturdays? 
After the 5-7 debacle a year ago, Willingham now understands what it feels like to be on the hot seat. He is in the middle of a piv­otal year for Irish coaches -no head coach has lasted longer than five years if he failed to win a national title in his third. 
When Willingham first came to Notre Dame, he vowed to chase away an Eeyore cloud that hung over disgruntled Irish fans. He did -for a year -only to have it reappear along with another divided Irish community. 
Willingham is the man charged with winning. And only by winning will the divisions disappear. 
The views of this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 
Blue-Gold Game edule of 
Events 
9:30a.m. 
Brunch 

10:00 a.m. -1:30 p.m. 
Fan Fest 

10:30 -11:30 a.m. 
Autograph Session 

10:45 a.m. 
Blessing of 
Guslielmino 
Athletics Center 

Noon-12:45 p.m. 
Alumni Flag Football Game 

1:30 p.m. 
*Blue-Gold Game Kickoff 
*Tickets free to students 



Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The frustrations persist 
There isn't an easy answer for the football team's decade-long struggles 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Struggling Irish 
Srnior Stafl'Writer 
National Championship
Mikn Cof'f'ny runs a Web site 
-Droughts
Notre Damn fans of all sports 
visit to post on the site's mes­
sage boards. 
S~aSQDS ~ 
lin rncnntly had to take down 
16 1950-1965 
a post that heavily criticized 
Irish basketball coach Mike 
IS 1989-present Brny that CofTey said had gottnn 
12 1931-1942
out of hand. But when the web­
mastnr of NI>Nation.com con­
10 1978-1987 
frontnd thn postnr, thn ofTender 
admittl'd that his frustration 
about tlw football tnam's strug­
Consecutive Bowl Game
glns motivatnd his blistering 
losses since 1970
comnHHJtS. "Thny want to b11lievn that 
Losses Years
good things arn around the cor­
rwr. Tlwy want to bnlinve that 
6 1995-present going into a big gamn thny have 
2 1984-1989 
a chancn to win." Coffey" said. 
"Tlw problmn is as thn nvidence 
3 times mounts, the fans arn getting psychologically beaten down 
MIKE HARK INS/Observer Graphic 
bncausn it donsn't snnm likn 
tlwy hav11 any hopn. dnmanding acadnrnic and ath­
"Tiwy havn nothing that thny letic environment in South can look at. and nothing to latch Bend. on to." "Hecruiting is tho lif'eblood of 
Sincn No. 2 Notre Dam~ beat what you're doing," lleislnr No. I !."lorida Statn in 1993, the said. "What you want to do is Irish football program has been put your program in a position in a stnady statn of dndine. The where you mako your institu­Irish havnn't won a bowl game tion an attraetive place for a sirll'n 1994 and havn sufferPd young man lo come and play thwugh thrnn losing snasons in football, or any other sport." liw ynars for tlw first time in To that end, thn Irish are school history. schndulnd to complete the 
Worsn, tlwre havn bnen ofT­Guglinlmino Family Athletics tlw-finld prohlnms that prompt­Center in 2005, a massive nd additional criticism. Notre building that will house a new Damn lost an agn discrimina­weight room, locker rooms, tion suit to Jon Moorn in I 997, meeting rooms and offices for got hit with NCAA sanctions for the football team. thn first time in program histo­And director of admissions ry in I<J99 and endurml a scan­Dan Saracino said a month ago dal-riddnn coaching snarch in that the Irish don't rely purely 2001. on hard numbers when decid­
It's not hard to sympathize ing if any recruit is academical­with alumni likn Tim Kelley, ly eligible for Notre Dame. The who grnw so fnd up with how main criterion the University thn football program was man­examines for admission, he agnd that hn hnlpnd author a said, is to make sure that a lnt.tnr to the Board of Trustees prospnct can graduate from sigrwd by morn than 400 alum­Notre Dame. ni critidzing how tlw football "I don't really know, but I am program was managed. frustrated that we seem to be 
"What frustratns me the most having less suecnss in reenriting is an appanmt lack of acknowl­Itop players I corn pared to the «>dgenwnt that football is an past," Saracino said, while 11111 otiona I n n g i n n and the aeknowledging that not every thrnad that hinds gmwrations of top prospect is eligible to come Notr11 Damn alumni." Kelley to Notre Damn. "It could be that said. "That's tlw underlying our current coaches just don't problem that I snn." understand Notre Dame and its The response 'positives' well enough to con­
That's an idoa assoeiato ath­vince these young men that letic dirnetor John lloislnr dis­Notre Dame is the place for plltl's. thnm." 
"I think ovnrybody under­"The problem," recruiting stands omotionally and cultur­analyst Tom Lemming said, ally what football has rnoant," "now is that Notre Dame isn't tlw 27 --y11ar Notro Damn cashing in on the brnaks it ere­Pmploy«w said. "Thnrn's cor­ales for nH:ruits." tainly no lack of commitment in But IIHisler disputes the tnrms of tlw hiPrarchy and pri­notion that Notre Dame's ·2004 ority. Can you go out and rnan­recruiting dass -rated low by datP you'rp going to win 11 many recruiting experts-is an garrws in a ynar? That's hard." indicator or football struggles. 
Instead. llnislnr said athletic "It remains to bn smm what this director K11vin Whitn maintains last year will turn out to be," a rlosn r11lationship with Irish said lleislnr, who then praised !wad coach Tyrone Willingham the 2003 freshman class that to nnsurn tlw football tnam has saw six freshnwn earn signifi­thl' I'I'SOUri'PS it IJPPdS to bn cant playing time. sw~~~~~ssful. Criticism persists 
And tlH~ root of that sueeess, But that isn't enough to con­lw said, !ins in tlw school's abil­vince some alumni who believe ity to attract top-quality rneruits Notre Dame isn't doing evnry­who an~ ahl11 to eornpntn in the thing it can to 1msure its foot-ball program is suecessful. 

"Tho words are there," Kelley said. "But if you looked at it and you said championship football is inerndibly important to Notre Dame, if you really believed that, then there would be some things that are different." 
Kelley points to coaching search processes that he said limited the athletic director's ability to select a candidate independent of a search eom­rnittoe's oversight. And while he praises the construction of the Guglielmino center, he wonders why it wasn't built before. 
"If we were tmly devoted," he said, "then those things would have been done a long time ago." 
Heisler said, however, that the stops being taken to ensure sueeess in the football program are an indication that the pro­gram is on the verge of return­ing to the nation's elite. But he adds the proeess is a long one that can't suiTor "knee-jerk" reactions when a team has a losing season. 
"You can't just fliek a switch and guarantee that you'll win games by doing that," Heisler said. "It's not that simple. It's a building process. 
"We changed eoachns two ynars ago. You didn't do that because you won 11 games for the last 10 years. There's a rna­son that happened." Focus on the field 
What nveryonn agrees is that no matter what goes on behind the scones, all that matters is that Willingham and the Irish win on Saturday. ".Just boeause you do all these support things doesn't guarantee you'll beat Michigan or anything else," Heisler said. 

But many alumni both want and expect the Irish to compete for a national championship annually. 
"This is an area where people tend to view in extremes," Coffey said. "I think we always have the goal of the national championship. I think it's good to set standards high. Whether they are set too high is a func­tion of the capabilities of the team." 
Heisler echoes that corn rnnn t by saying Lou Jloltz oftnn joked that you don't want to be sue­eessful too narly. When lloltz won his only national title in his third year, fans 1~xpeeted the Irish to win them on a regular basis. 
"That was tough," lleislnr said. "We understand the mind­set of people, it's what have you done for us lately. That's the way our fans are going to bo, and that's the way our alumni are going to bn. We obviously lost some games last year, and I don't know that there's any­thing people ean do to change those poople's impressions until you go back on the field." 
Dave Duerson, a member of the University's Board of Trustees and a former Irish football player, remains opti­rnistie. llis son, Tregg, reenivnd a scholarship to play for thn Irish in the fall. 
"Every program has its ups and downs, but that is not indicative of the direction thn program is heading," he said, latnr adding, "It's time to rnovn on ]from thn critidsm). Nobody is more upsnt about last yoar's finish than those student-ath­letes and the coaching staff." 
Alumni likn Cofl'ny and Kellny an~ cautiously optimistic that the football program is ready to turn tho eornnr. Bnsidns a lnttnr from tho Monogram Club, Kelley said he still has yet to receive a rnsponse to tlw lnttnr s1mt to thn Board of Trustnes. That doesn't rnattnr, lw said, as long as progrnss is madn. 
"Thn tl!in~ l .. would.likl;}o SPP chango, Colley s<ud, ts thn administration look less uncom­/'ortablo wlrc~n talking about athletics in g11rwral and football 
in particular. 1\vory time tlwy say somnthing about football, it's always qualifind." 
In tho nnd, lleisllw said thn fact that ovnryone wants to givn an opinion about thn state of tho football tnam is an indiea­tion of a sharnd passion for Notrn Dame football. 
Evnn if that opinion, likn many CofTny sens on his Web sitn, is a frustrat1~d one. 
"You havn to find the middfn ground from an 11111otional standpoint," lleislPr said. "If you win your first gamn in a givnn snason, peopl11 want to make thnir resnrvations for a national championship. If you losn your f'irst ganw, pnopln want to jump ofT a building. 
"Somnwlwre in tlw middiP is rPality." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.cdu 

page 4 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Friday, April 23, 2004 


I· 
EMPHASIS ON THE NACDA CUP TAKES AWAY FROM THE FOOTBALL PROGRAM 
Before Kevin White agreed to serve as Notre Dame's athletic director, he asked University President Father Edward Malloy for his primary job responsibilities. 
Malloy told White that he wanted him to bring the football program back to national prominence while raising the profile of Notre Dame's non-revenue sports. 
"This is a case where we're trying to say that we want to have it all," associate athletic director John Heisler said. "We don't want to say we're going to try to be competitive in this sport or that sport." 
But others worry that this effort on Olympic sports to raise Notre Dame's athletic profile may take away from the attention given to the football program. 
"We've done some good things there," said alumnus Tim Kelley, who 
helped write a letter to the Board of Trustees criticizing the management of the football program in January. "But l think the state of affairs is that [White] has to skew his efforts toward the football pro­gram." 
Other .alumni, however, disagree. "That administration has the proper understanding of how important foot­ball is," NDNation.com web­master Mike Coffey said. "Maybe they're 
Director's Cup Rankings NACDA Cup Football Rankin~ Retm:d 1993-94 II 11-1 1994-95 20 6-5-1 ,_ 1995-96 II 9-3 1996-97 14 8-3 1997-98 31 7-6 1998-99 25 9-3 ..... -~~­-~­~­-1999-00 21 5-7  
2000-01* II 9-3 ·~-­2001·02 13 5-6 -··~­···-··-~-------~ -----~h-.---···· ... 2002-03 13 10-3 . --­2003-04 5-7 *Kevin White hired in 2000  

not quite sure how MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic to attain the success. 
"But I think it is possible to maintain the excellence in football and the other sports." 
Heisler points out that White maintains an almost daily contact with Irish coach Tyrone Willingham to see what can be done. And unlike most athletic direc­tors, White watches football practice almost every day -going so far as to drive independently from the rest of a Notre Dame delegation to a Chicago dinner so he could watch more practice. 
Since White was hired, Notre Dame has typically finished between 11th and 13th in the annual NACDA Director's Cup standings. And next year, he said, all sports programs will have the full NCAA compliment of scholarships. 
Those who think that those other sports have been emphasized over the football program, Heisler said, are mistaken. 
"I think everybody understands emotionally and culturally what football has meant," Heisler said. "There's certainly no lack of commitment and priori­ty." 
-Andrew Soukup 
WEEK IN, WEEK OUT, THE SCHEDULE IS ONE OF THE NATION'S TOUGHEST 
When the final NCAA statistics revealed that Notre Dame had the toughest schedule in the nation, few were surprised. 
Irish opponents finished with a 86-43 record, good for a .667 winning percentage. And this fall, the schedule looks to be of similar strength, as the Irish face the likes of Michigan, defending national champion USC and Tennessee. 
"I think it's been as much as anything a long­term philosophy around here on [scheduling]," associate athletic director for media relations John Heisler said. "And that's part of what you're selling from a recruiting standpoint -that you're going to come and play in big games. One of the little catchphrases we're using on our pro­grams is that every game is a big game, and that's something you're trying to get your players to understand." 
But administrators have indicated a willingness to make Notre Dame's schedule 
slightly easier -"One ofthe little even though they'll catchphrases we're have to wait awhile 
using on our
to do so. Already, the Irish have writ­programs is that ten agreements (but every game is a big not binding con­
game, and that's 
tracts) to play five 

teams in 2014, something you're 
Heisler said. The trying to get your Irish are also explor­
players to
ing the option of 

understand."
playing seven games at home. This fall, the Irish John Heisler opener is against 
associate athletic 
Michigan, who was 
director

10-3 last season. However, Notre Dame is trying to move a game earlier in the season so it wouldn't have to open against a team that has already played one game. 
"We tried to figure out if we could tweak the thing and throw a game in earlier," Heisler said. "We're still making some phone calls this week; it may end up being too late." 
In the fall, Notre Dame will play eight teams that went to a bowl last season. Of these eight games, five will be played at Notre Dame Stadium and televised by NBC Sports. 
This contract with NBC was renewed Dec. 18 to extend the deal through 2010. It helps the Irish remain independent, as they do not need the income that would come from being a member of a conference. This means Notre Dame can sched­ule games of its liking far into the future. 
"We expect to play a lot of the same teams down the road," Heisler said. For Notre Dame, this means its schedule will continue to rank among the top in the country. 
-Heather Van Hoegarden 
5-7 season. 
Academics aren't keeping the Irish from winning. Neither is recruiting, especiaJly since the Irish have 40 alumni in the NFL -the most of any school. Instead, the Irish are victims of an insanely tough schedule in a more equal college foot­ball environment against which any team in the nation would be bound to lose at least once. 

Those who say football doesn't matter to admin­istrators are crazy. Beginning with the Bob Davie firing, Kevin White has devoted an incredible amount of resources to make sure Willingham has what he needs. The rest is up to the coaches and the players. 
ACADEMIC STANDARDS PREVENT THE IRISH FROM RECRUIT TOP PLAYERS 
Are Notre Dame's strict admissions standards deter­ring players from coming to South Bend? 
Critics like Paul Hornung think so, and SAT scores of , football players have risen 6.3 percent since 1993 while the scores of regular students have risen just four-tenths of a percent more. 
Still, some disagree that academics has anything to do with this year's struggling recruiting class or the recent plight of the team. "Everything Hornung
"Notre Dame has 
said about academics been able to go after [affecting admissions) is wrong," recruiting ana­
great players, but 
lyst Tom Lemming said.
they're not getting 
"It was apropos... when 
them." they tried to run [Lou] 
Holtz out in the early 90s. 
But the problem now is
Tom Lemming 
Notre Dame isn't cashing
recruiting analyst 
in on the breaks it creates 
for recruits." 

Skeptics believed Holtz had made concessions to get players into Notre Dame to help win a national championship and win big games like the. 1993 d!'lf~;J~t pf Florida State -t~e bench mark for the team's success in the previous decade. 
But Lemming insists that, if anything, Notre Dame has lowered its standards rather than raising them recently. 
"They've lowered standards," he said. "They just haven't been able to get the kids anyway. Great players 
have gone to other schools. Notre Dame has been able to go after great players, but they're not getting them." 
This year, coaches secured players with high qualifications on the field and in the classroom. The most notable signing was 100 running back prospect Darius Walker, who said coaches were con­cerned with his aca­demic performance and that the academic emphasis at Notre Dame was a major attraction. 

1993· %I 963 

•After the re-<l!ntering ofthe SAT in 19%, scores of regular students incre.,._'<l by 64 points. To rompensate, 61 points were add.d to the 1993 scores to compare current and pasr scores on the same><-.k 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
Rising sophomore defensive end Victor Abiamiri admits academics were a major reason for his commit­ment, as well. 
"Academics were an amazing part [of my decision to come here]," Abiatniri said. "I know once I graduate from here the opportunities are endless. [And) I think Notre Dame has the best balance of both in the coun­try. You won't find a university with Division I football and academics as highly regarded as Notre Dame." 

Heather Van 
Sports Editor 

-Pat Leonard 
Notre Dame football far from the dominati program that it used to But the fact is, the pa in college football increased immensely ~ the Irish played the tou~ est schedule in the natl last year. 
The list of "problem could go on -the Iri played with a true fre• man under center, they still learning a n 
'•­

en 
en­
=:i
c::c 
z
c::c 


Andrew Soukup 

Senior Staff Writer 
Say what you want about Notre Dame's last decade (and there's plenty you can say). But we haven't seen a true Tyrone Willingham Irish team. In his first year, everything that could go right did go right as the Irish won their first eight games en route to a 10-3 season. Last year, everything that could go wrong did go wrong in a 

Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

I is  offense, it's hard  to get  
~g  players to  play for Notre  
:w.  Damn that are smart and  
ity  good at football.  
as  So don't worry-at least  
nd  not ynt. The current Irish  
(h- team is talented. The Class  
011  of 2007, with the likes of  
Brady Quinn and Vietor  
Is"  Abiamiri, has the potential  
ISh  to lw great. And if these  
;h­ players Jivn up to expecta­ 
Lrn  tions, Notre Dame will win  
~w  und11r Tyrone Willingham.  

If Notre Dame wins, smart, talented athletes will come. And if Notre Dame gets the talent, they will continue to win. 
Athletes come to Notre Dame to win, and no one wants the program to be successful more than the guys in tho blue and gold. Now is the time for the Irish to win. They have the tools and the coaching. 
They just need to believe. 

Pat Leonard 
Associate Sports Editor 

Watching the Irish take down No. 6 Michigan in 2002 wa<; thrilling. Watching them lose by a combined score of 82-14 to USC and Florida State in 2003 was not. 
The Irish had a medioere season at best this past fall as players still try to grasp the offensive, and a mid­snason quartorbaek switch and one of the most difficult sehodules in tl1o country put the Irish backs against the wall. Still, these faetors do not even begin to describe or explain what has happnncd to the Notre Dame football program. 
The recruiting class this winter barely made the top 30 nationally. And the teams beating the Irish out-USC, Michigan, Tennessee -am all on the sdwdule next smt­son. 
There's nothing wrong 
with playing the best and most competitive teams, but next season Tyrone Willingham will have his wo.rk cut out f(Jr him. 
This spring, injuries have kept many starters out of aetion, but tlw practices have bonn no less intnnse. 
Next season will be as important as any in deter­mining tho dirm~tion Uw Irish could be hoadod in, if' any at all. 

THE IRISH AREN'T SIGNING THE TALENT THEY NEED TO WIN TITLES 
A winning rm:ord is an aceurate measure of a college fiJOtball team's talent and the goal of any competitive pro­J.,>Tam, hut teams can't attain that goal unless they recruit the right players that fit thnir oflimsive and defimsive sys­tnms. 
l~speeially for top national prospects, like tight nnd/dnlimsivn nnd Hyan Baknr of Indianapolis, Ind., the mntact betwenn high school stars and college coaches nur go back as far as sophomore year. Baker signed a let­tnr-of~inllmt to the sehool that chased him early, Purdue, nvnn though he initially committed to Notre Dame. 
"This isn't sonwthing that you just devote a little bit of time to in the summer and get going in the fall," said .John llnisler, assod­atn athletie director for mndia rPlations. "This has bneome a 3h5-day endeavo~ That's how competi­tive it is." 
The competitive nature of rneruiting took its toll on the Irish this off-season. Tyrorw Willingham raked in a consensus top-five recruiting dass after going 10-3 in his first season, but tlw coadr secured just thren top 100 prospecL<; this year. 
Irish Insider's Mike Frank believes Notre l>ame has bncome a hard sell, and after losing seasons, it 
ND Recruits in the Draft  
Recruiting Lemming's Players from Class Ranking Class Drafted~  
1992 I 4 1993 3 5 (I) 1994 9 I 1995 I 7 (I) 1996 8 I 1997 10 6 1998 3 6 1999 3 7 (I) 2000 8 ­2001 13 ­2002 10 ­2003 4 ­2004 24 ­ 
Number in parentheses is amount of Ist round picks  

hee0 meS an eV ll n MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
harder onn. And direc­tor of admissions Dan Saracino even suggested problems rncruiting players may go beyond academics. 
"It's my guess that [eoaches are[ worried more about winning football games than they are about hitting the rncruiting trail," Frank said. "They think if they win games, that will do more than a phone call." 
Frank also bl'lieves that the job transition in the fall bntwnen prnvious director of personnel development Rex I logan and present director Jimmy Gonzales slowed this year's rncruiting process. 
Hm:ruiting analyst Torn Lemming believes Notre Dame maches do not offer scholarships to top prospects early enough to comp•~tn with other schools. 
"They're not winning on the field, so they need to be morn aggrnssive and offer superstars earlier, no-brainers that should be offemd now, early," he said. 
Frank said the Irish are already offering scholarships to eurrnnt juniors. But the team's performance on the field next sna.<;on eould again be tl1e indicator of a good or bad rm:ruiting cla<;s next year. 
"You're going to need a competitive program Ito recruit top players]." Frank said. "I think going 5-7 [in 2003] hurt them more than anything." 
-Pat Leonard 
' 
.. 

,.. 
SCHOLARSHIP LIMITS INCREASE PARITY IN COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

In 1992, the NCAA established that colleges could only have 85 football players on scholarship. Since then, the game of college football has seen more parity and balance between teams. 
"The scholarship limits have just enabled a lot more teams to have a chance to compete at that highest level," Notre Dame associate athletic direc­tor John Heisler said. 
At one time, the scholarship limit was 120. Then it was cut down to 110, then 95, until 1992, 
"You do see a little when it was cut to 85, where it sits today.
bit ofan arms race 
By having a limit on 
out there, and even 
the number of scholar­from a facility ship players, a player who would otherwise be
standpoint you have 
a scholarship third­
to make sure you fit 
string player at a foot­
into that." ball powerhouse now goes to a school where he can get a scholarship
John Heisler and play.

associate athletic 
An example of an Irish 
director opponent that was never known as a football pow­erhouse is North 
Carolina State. However, the Wolfpack defeated the Irish 28-6 in the 2002 Gator Bowl. North Carolina State went from being known just as a basketball school to winning a school-record 11 games in 2002. Like Notre Dame, that university is now investing in newer facilities to attract recruits. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame has found that they are behind in the "race" to build new facilities. The university is in the 
"You're seeing 

process of constructing 
people who are

the Guglielmino Family Athletics Center, a going to make that $21.25 million, 95,840 
commitment to posi­
square-foot facility that 
tion their

will house football lock­er rooms, offices and program to be meeting rooms and is 
whatever they have 
schedule to be complet­
to be to be

ed in the fall of 2005. 
Heisler also believes successful. " the construction of' new facilities such as the one 
John Heisler 

at Notre Dame is anoth­
associate athletic er reason for the parity 
directorin college football. 

"I don't know whether it's any one thing beyond [NCAA regulations)." Heisler said. "But, you do see a little hit of an arms race out there, and even from a facility standpoint you have to make sure you fit into that. You're seeing people who are going to make that commitment to position their program to be whatever they have to be success­ful." 
-Heather Van Hoegarden 
PLAYERS NEED TIME TO ADJUST TO A NEW COACHING SCHEME 
Personnel changes, like Notre Dame's addition of sec­ondary coach Steven Wilks to the stall' this spring, can have an immediate effect at a specific position. The impact of a head coaching change three years ago, however, brought Tyrone Willingham and an entire new system into the Irish program. 
Bob Davie had not won a bowl game in fivn snasons, and after his firing and the resume controversy of George O'Leary, Willingham brought a breath of frnsh air to a beleaguered Irish oll(mse. 
He also brought the pro-style ommse. 
The team had to adjust, but the recruiting of pocket passer Brady Quinn not only indicatnd Willingham wantnd to make the balanced offense work. It also proved he was willing to make it a project. 
But after a 5-7 season, critics am not questioning adjust­ments within the team so mudr as the procnss of the coaching search itself. 
"The coaching seareh process is one that frustratns me," said Tim Kelley, who co-authored the alumni letter to thn Board of Trustees early this year. "At one deal lthn Universityl formed some committee. They had some peo­
ple who had nnver been  
in athletics. There are  
''The same people who  too many agenda<;."  
make the mistakes associated with  Whiln Kelley said the letter wa'in't intended to criticize Willingham, he  
football do such a good  also thinks the decision  
job ...  for the other sports."  process when hiring a new eoaeh should be the solnly responsibility of a  
trustworthy  athletic  
Mike Coffey  director and not left in  
NDNatlon.com webmaster  the hands of a search  
eommittm1.  
"If  you  are  really  

devoted to championship football, you make sure you have a great AD and you give him the rnsponsibility to get the best coaches available," Kelley said. "And over a 1 0-year period, that hasn't happened." 
Mike Coffey, webmaster for NDNation.eom, said he couldn't understand why football decisions have slid dovvnhill while Olympic sports team have semned to work out. 
"The same people who make the mistakes associated with football do such a good job when they're doing things for the other sports," Coffey said. "If you take out lilotball and look at soccer and ba<;ketball. [Kevin Whitt~[ brought in some great people. In those searches, he was allowed to do what he wanted to do, he found the eoach he wanted." 
Willingham was labeled the savior after his first season, going 10-3 and earning a bowl berth. The coach, however, ealmly stated that the team still needed to make progress over the ofT-season and develop within the system. 
"I understand you're going to live in the moment and everybody is focused on being 5-7," said .John Heisler, associate athletic director for media relations. "Who knows what would have happened if it was flipped around, 5-7 the first year and 10-3 the next? 
"When Lou Holtz wa<; here, we used to kid around that maybe you don't want to be too successful too early." -Pat Leonard 
Friday, April 23, 2004 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
PLAYERS TO WATCH 

VICTOR ABIAMIRI 
DEFENSIVE END 
Abiamiri was named honorable mention freshman All-Amt•rican by Rivals.com as a true freshman last year, when he played in 12 games, starting four of them. Abiamiri record­ed 22 tackles, including 16 solos. He was the first freshman to start on the defensive line since Anthony Weaver. Look for Abiamiri to be a force on the defensive side of the ball. He has improved his technique, and already has the talent. Abiamiri is a player that loves football, and loves to work hard, according to defensive coordinator Kent Baer. After one year in the program, Abiamiri knows the system and will become an impact player as early as this fall. 
TOM ZBIKOWSKI 
SAFETY 

Zbikowski was a star in high school 'Yho had a hard time adjusting to the college game, despite winning the Gatorade Player of the Year in Illinois. After being named a first-team USA Today All-American, Zbikowski redshirted .last year as a fresh­man. A former boxer who sat out the entire 2003 season, the Irish hope Zbikowski can hit on the field next season as hard as he does in the ring. 
Look for Zbikowski to be a strong presence in the secondary this season, as coaches have been impressed with his play during the spring. 


JEFF SAMARDZIJA JOHN SULLIVAN TRAVIS THOMAS 
WIDE RECEIVER 

Samardzija is a two­sport star who excels on the field as a pitcher for the Irish baseball team as well. He has had a successful spring in football practices as well. As a true freshman last season, he made seven catches for 53 yards, but this year he should have an increased role. 
Already this spring, the 6-foot-5 Samardzija has made some acrobat­ic touchdown catches in practice. He will add depth to the exp.eri.­enced receiving corps that includes Maurice Stovall and Rhema 

CENTER 
Sullivan could be one of the best Irish players that no one has heard of. As a freshman last season, he redshirted after a stellar high school career. Sullivan had hoped to see time on the field, but the year of experience could pay dividends this fall. 
There's no doubt Sullivan has the talent to play at the Division J level. In high school, he was a second-team USA Today All-American and was named Gatorade Player of the Year in Connecticut. ESPN ranked him asthe 61st 


RUNNING BACK 
This spring, Thomas has shown why he was such a highly-touted back coming out of high school. Coordinator Bill Diedrick often alter­nates between two run­
. ning backs, and look for Thomas to join starter Ryan Grant in the back­field. As a freshman, Thomas redshirted, allowing him to get used to the offense and adjust to the Division I game. 
In spring practice, Thomas has already broken a few runs for touchdowns, and he looks to make an impact this fall for the Irish. 



Friday, April 23, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
THE STARTERS 
RUNNING BACK QUARTERBACK FULLBACK 
RYAN GRANT BRADY QUINN 
RAsHoN PoWERS-NEAL ,.. 
SENIOR SOPHOMORE 
SENIOR 
Grant ran for over 1,000 After a respectable fresh­
Powers-Neal shifted from 
yards two seasons ago, but man campaign in which 
running back to fullback a 
playnd second fiddle to Quinn started the final nine 
year ago, and it appears
Julius Jones last year. Now, games of the season, the 
he'll stay at that position
Grant appears to be the Irish quarterback has 
while splitting time with 
team's top returning back. another year of experience 
Josh Schmidt. But the ris­
And he's also one of the learning the complicated 
ing senior struggled last 
team's hardest workers. Irish offense. 
year catching the ball. 
z 
WIDE RECEIVER 
,-1~ MAURICE STOVALL
RHEMA McKNIGHT 
" I . 

" .. ~.n:,,_ 
JUNIOR
JUNIOR 

.. 
~·~ 
The player who appeared
The top receiver, McKnight 
on the cover of Sports
had a breakout 2003 season 
Illustrated as a freshman 
where he caught 43 passes, 

:~ .~ was nowhere to be found
including three for touch­
as a sophomore. Stovall
downs. Despite the Irish 

; ~-,.21·~1 
will be the first to say he
offensive woes, he estab­
struggled, but even he did­
I.._._J_
lished himself as Notre 

...,;·*~. n't expect to go five games
t~~· -' 
Dame's go-to receiver. 

•. . .;·.•A without a reception. 
Although injures kept him LeVoir has played three
Started 11 games for
One of only a handful of 
Notre Dame on a unit he 

out of three games, different positions, but
freshmen in the nation to 
start on the offensive line, 
always said spent last 

Stevenson switched to the coaches seem to have 
year being baptized by 

guard in the middle of the finally found a home for
Harris' future is extreme­

season. him at tackle.
ly bright. 
fire. 


DEFENSIVE END DEFENSIVE TACKLE DEFENSIVE END 
VICTOR ABIAMIRI JUSTIN TUCK

With Campbell when injury and Hilliard's strikes. But ris­
SENIOR 
departure. the ing juniors 
Although TuckAn explosive 

Irish are rich on Landri (No. 66) 
sat out the

player who talent but lean and Leitko made spring recover­earned honor­on experience. spot contribu­
ing from knee

able mention All­
Pauly (No. 77). tions for the 
surgery, he'll

American honors 
if he stays Irish in 2003, definitely be a
for freshmen, he 
healthy has and they'll be 
major force forstarted the final 

been the first pushed by rising the Irish defense
four games of 
player the sophomore 
in the fall. 

the 2003 season. 
coaches turn to Laws. 



-· 

OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
INSIDE LINEBACKER
INSIDE LINEBACKER 

DEREK CURRY
MIKE GooLSBY

BRANDON HOYTE 
SENIOR 
SENIOR
SENIOR 

Curry started all 12 games
How good is lloyte? Before 
An injury in the 2003 Gator 

for the Irish in 2003 -the
Goolsby went down with an 
Bowl and another injury in 

second straight year he
injury, coaches figured he'd 
Bookstore Basketball kept 

was a significant starter.
compete with him and grad­
Goolsby on the sidelines for 

Few can question Curry's
uate Courtney Watson for 
the entire 2003 season. But 

experience. and he's
playing time. This will be 
he's an intense, Dick 

recorded more than 100
lloyte's third year playing a 
Butkus-type linebacker who 

tackles in his career.
L-__...,.___......._._____.._ improved his discipline. 
'--~--"""-._,_.__......_..._ prominent defensive role. 





CORNERBACK
FREE SAFETY
STRONG SAFETY
CORNERBACK 
QUENTIN BURRELL
DWIGHT ELLICK 

Although Ellick seems entrenched
In trying to replace Garron Bible 
at one eorner, the Irish have a lot
and Glenn Earl at safety, the Irish 
SENIOR
SENIOR 

of eompetition but little experience
don't have a significant amount of 
Coaches often
The only definite 

at the other eorner. .Jackson is the
experience. After sitting out his 
called Burrell the 
starter at corner­

most experienced candidate, but
entire freshman year, Tom 
team's center­
back, 1\llick is 

he's struggled at times. Hichardson
Zbikowski has impressed Irish 
fielder for the
one of the team's 

has also impressed Irish coaches
coaches to the point where he is 
way he roamed
speediest mem­

after sitting out most of' his first
considered one of the top candi­
the field to knock
bers. But he is 

year. Then there is Wooden, an
dates to compete for starting time. 
down passes. He
still searching for 

athletic player who also hasn't
But don't forget about Freddie 
had four inter­
his first intercep­

played a lot. Ndukwe and Gardner
Parrish, who played free safety for 
ceptions in 2003. 
tion. 

are also new to the position. 
just three games. 
·­

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 23, 2004 
.... 
-
·­
. 

WHERE ARE YOU GOING TO BE... 
When THE SHIRT is unveiled~ When THE SHIRT only costs $11*~ When an April Friday feels like aFootball Friday~ 
April23. 5:00pm. Bookstore.· 
*one $11 shirt per student with valid student ID. Expires 4/24/04. . 
I ' 

,. .. . . . 
.... •' .•. . . . . . 
.. ·.:·.:·.:·.: .. ·· ... ,. ... ,.. .:· .. ·· .. ·· .:· ...-,... ' . . . . 
-· ...... ,..-' ,. ,-.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . ... ' '.. . . . . . .. ' .. 



