
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Campus reviews healthy habits 
Fast-food lifestyle weighing on campus 
By TRICIA de GROOT 
News Writer 
The movie "Super Size Me" hit the box offices this summer, giving Americans a dramatic new perspective on the conse­quences of a fast-food diet ­and giving the many college students who rely on it thou­sands of caloric reasons to think twice. 
As a living example of what just one month of McDonald's can do to one's physical and mental health, filmmaker Morgan Spurlock let the dan­gers of the. fast food world attack his body and unfold onscreen. But at Notre Dame, in a community stacked with overachieving, busy students, many don't have time to worry about nutrition. Even those 
see NUTRITION/page 6 

Some ND students obsess over exercise 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
In trying to avoid the frighten­ing "obese American" image, some Notre Dame students are eating far too little and exercis­ing their bodies into oblivion. 
American's new obsession with nutrition might just be scar­ing Notre Dame students into the opposite problem of eating disor­ders and overzealous exercise. 
For every value meal ordered at Notre Dame's Burger King, there is another order placed for the 300-calorie salad. For every idle dorm TV watcher, there is a fervent runner straining to lose those extra pounds. 
According to the National Eating Disorders Association, as many as 10 million women and one million men are struggling with an eating disorder. 
see DISORDERS/page 6 


ICA..MP..A.JGr'J 20fJ41 
College Democrats and Republicans Rock the Vote 
By CAITY SCHNEEMAN 
News Writer 
Donkeys and elephants went head-to-head Wednesday evening at Stonehenge as Rock the Vote staged a formal hour-long debate between Notre Dame's College Democrats and Republicans. 
Associate Director of Undergraduate Studies in Political Science Joshua Kaplan played the role of moderator as he asked the six debaters pre-prepared ques­tions about their party platforms and the plans of each party's presi­dential candidate. 
Same-sex marriage was one of the first issues discussed. Republican John Thibodeau came out with a strong opinion. "Marriage in our society has been set apart for years as an important and unique union between a man and a woman that produces chil­dren with a sole purpose of the development of society for tomor­row," he said. 
Democrat Kamaria Porter replied that decisions concerning marriage should be left up to each state. 
"The only way to address the 
see DEBATE/page 9 

SENATE 
• 

N arne of SUB will remain same 
ByAMANDA MICHAELS 
Associate News Editor 
Six months after the Student Senate voted to change the Student Union 
Board's  name  to  the  
Campus  Programming  
Council,  the  Senate  

reversed its decision and re-dubbed them SUB. 
The amendment, which passed with only one vote of dissention, specified that all mentions of the CPC in the newly-minted Student Union Constitution be changed 
see SENATE/page 9 



Two injured in crash on SMC' s The Avenue 
Observer staff report 
Two students, one on a bicy­cle and one driving a car, col­lided Wednesday evening at the corner of Indiana 933 and The Avenue, in front of the entrance to Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's Security responded to the accident at 
4:45 p.m., according to Saint Mary's marketing and public relations director Nick Farmer. 
A representative of the St. Joseph County Police Department confirmed its presence on the scene as well. 
The Notre Dame Fire Department reportedly trans­ported one student to Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center and the other to Memorial Hospital. 
The driver of the car wits treated and released by Wednesday night, but as of 10 p.m., the bicyclist was still undergoing tests. Farmer reported, however, that none of the sustained injuries appeared to be serious. 
Farmer declined to provide any information about the students involved in the acci­dent. 

Thursday, September 9, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We are family 

Three years ago it dawned on me in one sudden and unforgettable day, the worst day of my life, the actual meaning of"Notre Dame family." 
Everywhere you go on campus, there 
are complaints  
from disillusioned  Christie Boisen  
students. You hear  
about Reslife, The  
Observer, South  Scene Writer  
Bend nightlife, the  
football team and  
student govern­ 

ment. Sadly, we find it much too easy to criticize when the storybook Notre Dame magic doesn't measure up to expectations and even easier to forget that we get to be a part of a widespread, legendary family. 
Freshman year on this day, I realized this-because when you are at your lowest is when the very best in others can surface. My dad died that morning. 
I can't even try to describe that day or the following weeks, but the clearest thoughts I had then-and now-were that people 1had barely known two weeks held me up. I was completely unprepared to face the loss alone. Luckily, I was not alone. 
It was not exactly the cards from my dorm or the e-mails from my professors that convinced me that Notre Dame is, in fact, the greatest University in the nation. It was not exactly the fact that random alumni at the Grotto will offer candles to girls who are sitting on benches and cry­ing. It was everything. 
That's the thing about families. The best ones can be frustrating and over­bearing, but members are always cared for and the ties are never broken. The same family that kicks you off campus for breaking parietals will reach out its hand again to help you even after graduation. 
Families are constantly growing and changing-so is Notre Dame. Every year, a new class joins, and four short years later will leave behind only memo­ries of study days at LaFortune and nights at Turtle Creek. But even though you eventually leave campus, you are always part of the legacy. Change and loss doesn't weaken a family; it strength­ens the bonds when you need each other more. 
I wrote my mom an e-mail after I came back to campus after the funeral. She later told me that she saved it and still reads it occasionally, because when I wrote that I felt like I was "surrounded by best friends," she knew there was no rea­son to worry about me. 
At the risk of excessively rhapsodizing about our school, I should clarify that I can find fault with it as easily as anyone. I've noticed the segregated lunch tables and the gender relations that are at best strained and at worst nonexistent. But the fact is, no family is perfect. 
That's the thing about families. You love them anyway, whether you remem­ber to tell them or not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Christie Boisen at Christie.B.Bolsen.l@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

!n the Aug. 27 edition ofThe Observer, the editors inadvertently and incorrectly spelled Professor Kristin Schrader-Frechette's name, changed para­graphing of her column and edited one of her sen­tences to read: "Finally, TRI data underestimate local pollution, especially carcinogens, because they do not provide information about residents or rota! toxic-chemical exposures, in addrion to doses from selected industries." The sentence should have read: "Finally;TRI data underestimate local pollution, especially carcinogens, because they do not provide information about residents' total toxic-chemical exposures, in addition ro doses from selected local industries." The Observer regrets this error. 
Due roan editing error, an article in the Sept. 8 edi­tion ofThe Observer omined the rime of the can­dlelight vigil honoring the l,OOOrh death in the Iraq war. The vigil will start at 9 p.m. tonight at the Flagpole. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How LONG DO YOU THINK THE NICE WEATHER WILL LAST? 
L&.l 






Eric Buergler Katie Easterly Chrissy Hedges Matt Frey Laura Bradley Brendan Myers 
junior junior junior junior freshman junior Zahm BP Walsh O'Neill Lyons Dillon 
"This is nice "Another month "Come one, it's "Until "Hopefully 'its long as the 
,

weather?" before the South Bend, tomorrow. through the football team's perma-cloud forever, duh. " weekend." winning 
sets in." 

Boxing reality show hopes to be a big hit 
NEW YORK -After pre­liminaries stuffed with enough lawsuits and trash­talk to make Don King proud, the first of TV's bat­tling boxing series threw some real punches on Tuesday. 
Fox's "The Next Great Champ" takes 12 amateur boxers and has them com­pete for a contract with Oscar De La Hoya's promo­tional company and a title fight within the World Boxing Organization. 
The first episode actually produced a compelling fight, with a "top-ranked" contender, David Pareja of Chicago, beating R.C. Reyes 
TODAY 
a:: 


ERIC SALES/The Observer 
Teenwolf, of Dillon Hall, leans out of a window over South Quad to promote the Dillon Hall pep rally. The festivities get under way tonight at 7 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 
separate incidents. 

Luna, described by fish­ermen as a friendly 5-year­old whale, has made fre­quent contact with people and boats in waters off Vancouver Island, about 125 miles north of the U.S. border, since he began fre­quenting the waters more than two years ago. 
Now Canadian officials and an Indian group that believes the animal is the reincarnation of its late chief are working on a plan to protect both Luna and humans. Officials hope. to eventually reunite him with his pod of U.S. relatives. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
::z:: 
E 
3: 
..... 


of Miami by unanimous decision and sending Reyes home. 
"The Next Great Champ" had several familiar ele­ments of a reality series: a smoke-filled backroom, instead of a boardroom, where challengers are ranked; dormitory living like "The Real World" or "America's Next Top Model"; a significant other brought along for compan­ionship like "The Amazing Race." 
Killer whale gets pushy 
GOLD RIVER, British Columbia -A "playful" killer wllale who likes to frolic alongside fishermen has damaged three boats in 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


~ 



streak." 
IN BRIEF 

The documentary "Super Size Me," which follows one man's arteries-clogging quest to live on only McDonald's for a month, will be shown at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. tonight in the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Debartolo ticket office. 
Attend the Saint Mary's TWilight Tailgate starting at 3 
p.m. today. The event includes a picnic dinner, inflatable moonwalks and a performance by the band "Blessid Union of Souls." 
Double Comer Emil Bolongaita. now a consultant with World Bank, will lecture Thursday at 8 p.m. on "The Enemy Within: Challenging Corruption in Post-Conflict Countries." The lecture will be held in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium and is sponsored by the Kroc Institute's Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series. 
Pianist Jacquline Smith, tenor Paul Appleby and cellist Nicole Thorn will perform clas­sical music tomorrow from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the Penote 
Performer's  Hall  in  the  
Debartolo  Center  for  the  
Performing Arts.  
Cappy  Gagnon,  Connie  

McNamara, Ted Mandell and Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy will be signing their books in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Friday Afternoon from 2 to 6 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 73 HIGH 74 LOW 51 LOW 53 
c:( (.) 0 


HIGH 76 HIGH 70 HIGH 82 HIGH 79
..J LOW 60 LOW 52 LOW 57 LOW 60 
Atlanta 82 I 62 Boston 78 I 67 Chicago 76 I 54 Denver 88 I 55 Houston 88 I 68 Los Angeles 88 I 67 Minneapolis 76 I 60 New York 80 I 70 Philadelphia 84 I 68 Phoenix 105 I 82 Seattle 66 I 50 St. Louis 79 I 58 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 7 4 I 65 
~---------------------------------------------~~---­
Thursday, September 9, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 

GSU discusses plan 
Voter turn out and parking resolutions among key issues 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Writer 
During the first Graduate Student Union meeting of the 2004-2005 academic year, debate focused on both involve­ment with the First Year Studies students and their voter education efforts and concerns over graduate stu­dent parking. 
The office of the GSU approached the First Year Studies office with the sugges­tion they organize panels on voter issues with Notre Dame professors and graduate stu­dents. 
"We're trying to be involved with FYS in their voter educa­tion effort," said President John Young. "We plan to invite current candidates for political office to campus this semester." 
Suggestions for the imple­mentation of the voter panels program include keeping the focus on voter interest and try­ing to avoid political debates. Young also proposed that the events should be open to the public. 
Graduate parking concerns were another top issue on the agenda. Due to the recent con­struction throughout campus, parking spaces for 300 gradu­ate students were replaced by faculty parking. 
In order to alleviate the diffi­culty some students have expressed concerning parking problems, a survey was dis­cussed to assess graduate stu­dent satisfaction with the cur­rent parking arrangements. Possible solutions to the prob­lems were also debated. 
Quality of Life committee chair Brandy Ellison said the University feels faculty and staff come first for parking, "[but] graduate students are, in a way, staff. We do research, and we do work." 
Ellison said graduate stu­dents should be given consider­ation in distributign of all stu­dent parking spaces. 
In other GSU news: 
+ 
Modifications of the GSU budget were looked at, with a spending cap of $3,000 per year set on all funds not need­ing council approval to distrib­ute. 

+ 
The Travel Grant program has been modified for the com­ing year. In past years, gradu­ate students have been able to file for expenses accumulated while on trips of an academic nature. Due to a larger number of applications this year, the fund has been expanded to $50,000 and the total lifetime request of each applicant has been reduced to $1,000. In addition, each applicant is lim­ited to one application per year, for a maximum amount of $250 dollars per application. 


Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 
T-wilight Tailgate unites campus 
"I chose them because they Some might rememberSMC plans food, are a big-name band who are Blessid Union from the late trying to get revived again, and 1990s with their hit top-40
fun and big band at 

they really give a great show," songs, "I Believe," "Let Me be annual picnic Fabina said. the One," "Light in Your Eyes" A limited number of tickets and "Hey Leonardo [She Likes remain for the event and are Me for Me]." The band is cur­
By MEGHAN CASSIDY 

available with a student ID at rently on a campus tour and NewsWrirer the Haggar front will be releasing a desk or new CD of origi­The annual Saint Mary's O'Laughlin ticket "We hope everyone nal music soon Twilight Tailgate will take place office. About half after the tour
gets out to enjoy it,
today on the Library Green, of the available ends.
take a study break
kicking off at 3 p.m. tickets were given Senior Donna This year, the annual night of out at last week's and hang out Lubbers, a picnicking and partying promis­Saint Mary's activ­before it gets cold. " Tradition Events es to be a memorable one, due ities night. co-chair for SAB to the popularity of its headlin­"I think it's a described their 
Donna Lubbers 
ing act, Blessid Union of Souls. great event to opening act, 2 The free event for Saint have here on cam­Tradition Events Skinny Dorks as Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy pus and to enjoy co-chair great musicians 
Cross students opens with a with friends," jun­
picnic on the Saint Mary's ior Ellen Riley 

alumnae green. The picnic will said. ''I'm excited to see this 
feature classic cookout foods, a disc jockey, and inflatable attrac­tions. 
The concert will be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 7 
p.m. Opening for Blessid Union, is the two-man 

band live." Fabina said that
"/ think it's a great 

many students event to have here seem to be looking forward to the con­
on campus and to 

cert, and the buzz
enjoy with friends. , 

around campus about the featured Ellen Riley act is growing. Junior Sarah
junior 

Staley commented favorably on SAB's 
group 2 Skinny Dorks. Saint choice for this year's band. 

Mary's Student Activities Board "Blessid Union of Souls is a President Lauren Fabina, band that had some fun hit booked the two groups in songs when we were younger, February at a national confer­and it will be exciting to see ence for campus activities. them here," she said. 
who play guitar 

and do some acoustic songs and fun cover music. They have been opening for Blessid Union of Souls else­where on their fall campus tour across the Midwest this year. 
The SAB members are look­ing forward to having a good turnout so acts with this popu­larity can continue to come per­form for events such as the Twilight Tailgate. 
"We hope everyone gets out to enjoy it, take a study break and hang out before it gets cold," Lubbers said. 
Contact Meghan Cassidy at cass0593@saintmarys.edu 


Seeking talented {accounting, and economics majors to join 
.( 
""" 


Col~por-ate A~-rtati on 
Date: i'oJ1onday, Septemb-el·1 3, :2004 Lo-cation: M o ni~ Inn, Alumni Room Time: 6-8 p.m. 
C01rt:o~~o::t your· c:o~~~s c:o~~riiE!<I!f"· cetrterto :;, !>P'IY. 

nn n .huronc onsuttlnggrou !J-..C orn 1 -eee-:2.:22-e"TOo 
B-OSTOI'-J CHARLOTTE CH tC-""00 
HOU:S.TOI'-J 
LOS. Ai'JGELES 
1'-JE\IV 'r'OR: X: :S. Ai'J "FR: Ai'.tC ISC 0 "l..fl.loA.S HI 1'-..IG T 0 1'-J DC 

Huron Consuf.\lng Group LLC Is :o~~n ,,dependetrt ~"VIde-r· o1' 11n:oi!I1Cial :o~~hd a.f-er:orllon:o~~l co11suttlng ser\.olc eg:. t-Uron's eX!JEf"loBlC e-d :o~~nd crll!<lentl:;,;'e-d !J-rO~:!!!Ion:o~~ls ernp~oyifletr·ex pert~eln :o~~cc oU1ltl119. -nn:o~~11C e. 11!4on,Prl'lcs ~ld o p-er.;rl:1o119= to :;, nlde -...<&nlety o1' 00121 11na11e l:o~~lty sou&.,d :o~~nd dl:!rlr~e-d org:o~~nt?:orllons. Including "Fortune 
500 corn~111~. Tr'"le<IUl"'rt-gl:::"ed :o1111d l:o~~rge 1::-U:!!!IIl~e-s. le-:oi~dl11g 
page 4 Thursday, September 9, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

THE AREA'S NEWEST FINE DINING RESTAURANT! 
Dry-Aged Prime Steaks 
• 


Market Fresh Seafood 
• 


Private Parties 
• 


Outdoor Dining
• 

ENJOY LIVE JAZZ & BLUES IN OUR MARTINI LOUNGE 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 9, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hurricane Ivan strikes Grenada 
ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada -The most pow­erful hurricane to hit Grenada in a decade killed at least 12 people, damaged 90 per­cent its homes and destroyed a prison, leav­ing criminals on the loose, officials said Wednesday. American medical students were taking precautions against looters. 
Hurricane Ivan was set to inflict direct hits on Jamaica, Cuba and, possibly, the southern United States, the U.S. Hurricane Center in Miami said. 
Before it slammed into Grenada Tuesday evening, Ivan gave Barbados and St. Vincent a pummeling, damaging hundreds of homes and cutting utilities. Thousands 'of people there remained without electricity and water on Wednesday. 

Russia offers $10 million reward 
MOSCOW -A wounded Russia threatened Wednesday to strike against terrorists "in any region of the world," offered a $10 million reward for information leading to the killing or capture of Chechnya's top rebel leaders, and criticized the United States for its willing­ness to hold talks with Chechen separatists. 
The announcements marked a show of resolve aimed at Russia's stunned citizens, as well as Western countries President Vladimir Putin accuses of hindering its fight against terror, in the wake of three attacks that killed more than 400 people in the past two weeks. 

In a nationally televised meeting, Prosecutor-General Vladimir Ustinov also briefed rutin on the investigation into the taking of more than 1,200 hostages in a school last week in the southern town of Beslan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


9/11 memorial Web site launched 
NEW YORK -A World Trade Center fami­ly group announced a new Web site Wednesday that will serve as a support net­work for Sept. 11 victims' families and an archival resource for the public. 
Monica !ken, the founder of September's Mission, said the Living Memorial Web site will "fill a critical void now by providing both a public and private place to keep the memo­ry of loved ones alive by documenting their lives, sharing pictures, stories and other memories." 
Victims' families and the public can regis­ter on the site, www.911living memorial.org. 

Ruling overrides Catholic policies 
LOS ANGELES -Ajudge ruled Wednesday that the nation's largest Roman Catholic archdiocese cannot withhold potential evi­dence or proof of clergy sex abuse by claim­ing that communications between priests and bishops are confidential. 

A prosecutor hailed the decision in the long-running legal battle as a "major legal victory," while the Los Angeles Archdiocese expressed dismay, saying it feared the ruling would erode constitutional religious free­doms. 
In balancing privacy rights against prose­cutors' need to search for potential evidence, Nuss wrote that the grand jury's subpoenas don't "have as a principal or primary effect the inhibition of religion." 
LOCAL NEWS 


Workers struck by drunk driver 
GARY, Ind. -A motorist whose car hit a truck carrying two construction workers on Interstate 80/94 had four times the legal limit of alcohol in his system at the time of the crash, Indiana State Police said. 
The workers were using a pickup truck to remove construction barrels from the center lane of westbound I-80/94 when the car swerved into the lane and struck the truck about 4 a.m. Wednesday. 
The driver of the car was 29-year-old Edward Remm of Hobart, Ind. 


North Korea plans arms race 
Angry with South Korean uranium experiments, calls U.S. "worthless" partner 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea ­North Korea accused the United States of applying a double standard on the Korean Peninsula and warned Wednesday of a nuclear arms race in Northeast Asia following the revelation that South Korean scientists enriched a tiny amount of uranium in 2000. 
The controversy over the South Korean experiment threatened to further dis­rupt troubled efforts to per­suade North Korea to dis­mantle its suspected nuclear weapons programs. 
North Korea's envoy to the United Nations, Han Sung Ryol, told South Korea's national news agency Yonhap that the communist state found the United States "worthless" as a dialogue partner because it was .applying "double standards" to the two Koreas. 
Han called South Korea's uranium enrichment exper­iment "a dangerous move that would a.ccelerate a nuclear arms race in Northeast Asia," Yonhap said. 

"We see South Korea's uranium enrichment exper­iment in the context of an arms race in Northeast enrichment experiment to shouldn't have occurred. Weapons (NPT) in April Asia," Han was quoted as the U.N. nuclear watchdog But he praised South Korea 1975 before producing any saying. "Because of the agency. for working with the fissile material required to South Korean experiment, South Korea admitted last International Atomic make a bomb. A senior it has become difficult to week that its scientists pro­Energy Agency to make Bush administration official control the acceleration of a duced 0.2 grams of sure the program has said Wednesday that those nuclear arms race." enriched uranium during ended.. secret experiments involved 
Han's comments were the experiment at its main "We have confidence that plutonium. North Korea's first reaction government-affiliated the agency will pursue all The IAEA has asked "plu­to the South Korean admis­nuclear research institute. these matters," Boucher tonium-related" questions sion this week that its sci­"We should have reported said Wednesday. during the course of routine entists produced a small that uranium was used dur­Asked whether South investigations over the amount of enriched urani­ing this experiment," a sen­Korea had experimented years, but the plutonium um in an experiment in ior official at the South with plutonium, Boucher issue was not mentioned in 2000. Korean Foreign Ministry withheld comment, noting the recent IAEA report on 
The reaction signaled said on condition of the United States is aware the uranium enrichment that North Korea could use anonymity. He spoke to of what Seoul has reported case, the South Korean the South Korean experi­reporters at a briefing. to the IAEA about its past Foreign Ministry official ment as leverage in any South Korea has denied activities. said. further talks on U.S.-led the experiment reflected an In the early 1970s, South "Regarding plutonium, efforts to persuade North interest in developing Korea was developing a there is nothing that could Korea to give up its nuclear nuclear weapons. nuclear weapons program, be interpreted as a violation development. State Department but abandoned it under of NPT like the current ura­
Earlier Wednesday, South spokesman Richard U.S. pressure and signed nium enrichment case," the Korea said it should have Boucher has criticized the the Treaty on the Non­official said. He declined to reported the uranium secret experiment, saying it Proliferation of Nuclear comment in detail. 

NASA Space capsule crashes in Utah 
Wednesday afternoon on a salvage hours that could take two to four 
Associated Press 

mission. months to determine a reason for 
DUGWAY PROVING GROUND, Scientists were hopeful they could the failure of the six-year, $260 mil­Utah -The Genesis space capsule, salvage the broken disks that held lion mission. which had orbited the sun for three billions of charged atoms collected The mishap raised questions years gathering potential clues to from the solar wind, and perhaps about the durability of another the origin of the solar system, still unravel clues about the origin NASA sample-return capsule called crasHed to Earth and cracked open and evolution of our solar system. Stardust, due to land here in 2006. Wednesday, exposing its collection "This is actually not the worst­But that capsule was built to be of solar atoms to contamination. case scenario," said Andrew more rugged and will land on its 
Flight engineers suspect a set of Dantzler, director of NASA's solar own with a parachute. tiny explosives failed to trigger the system division, noting the capsule A helicopter was supposed to grab capsule's parachutes, and the cap­embedded itself in soft desert soil the Genesis capsule almost a mile sule slammed into the Utah desert and avoided hitting anything harder above the Utah desert and lower it at 193 mph. that would have made it a "total gently to the salt flats. But before 
A recovery team that includes loss." the retrieval team learned of the Genesis project ·members was dis­NASA planned to appoint a parachute failure, the speeding cap­patched to the crash site "mishap review board"within 72 sule had slammed into the ground. 
page 6 Thursday, September 9, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
Nutritio·n 
continued from page 1 
who are wary of fast food may not have enough healthy on­the-run options, said Valerie Staples, an eating disorder spe­cialist at the University Counseling Center. 
"I have had a number of stu­dents express concern about the lack of availability of healthy snacks· and that there seems l to as though fast food serves as a vice. 

"Students know it's not really good for them. in that it's not really healthy, but they indulge anyways, especially with the lack of extra time and conven­iences to make or eat 'real' food," sophomore Elisa Cano said. 
The University has taken steps to acknowledge the nationwide and campus prob­lem of fast food consumption and overeating. Nutritionist 
bel too much avail­"We try to come up Jocelyn ability of unhealthy Antonelli
with the healthiest 
choices," Staples resides on the said. "For example, options because second floor of the Krispy Kremes at fast food is a part South Dining finals time is not the Hall to help
oftoday's world. " 
healthiest choice for students for­late-night studying. mulate healthi­Many students also Mandy Clark er eating habits comment about the nutritionist and make bet­
fact that food is used 
as a way to draw 
students to hall meetings and 
events." 
In addition, 98 percent of 
those students who live on 
campus are on the Flex 14 
meal plan, meaning they are 
not relying on the dining halls 
to provide them with all of their 
meals, but are instead eating at 
some of the fast-food chains on 
campus. 
"I think that students prefer fast food to what is offered in the dining hall perhaps because it is such a cultural norm," sophomore Steve Misner said, 
Statistics from last week show that Subway averaged between 800 and 900 on-cam­pus transactions a day, Burger King, 700 transactions and Sbarrro, roughly 600 transac­tions. In addition, approxi­mately 50 percent of those stores' revenue comes from flex point usage. 
While it is apparent that stu­dents on campus are con­sumers of fast food, several said that does not necessarily mean they aren't nutrition con­scious. 
"I think they pay attention," sophomore Tom Dobleman said. "They eat a lot less fast food now than they used to with all the crazy-low carb stuff, but if we are going to go to a fast-food place, then we are going to get the best for our buck and supersize." 
Misner agreed that Notre Dame students who purchase fast food know what they are getting themselves into. 
"I think that the fact that you have so many kids who were athletes causes you to find more nutrition conscious stu­dents." he said. 
However. some students feel 


'Ibnight! DJ & Specials ALL DAY 272-1766 

ter food choic­
es. This service is introduced in the freshman Contemporary Topics require­ment. 
Food Services also offers a nutritional accounting system accessible from their website for students who want to make healthy meal choices while eat­ing at the dining hall. Students can look at the nutritional con­
tent of the daily menus and can 
search for foods by a certain 
nutrient, such as carbohydrate,· 
count. 

There is also a separate nutritionist, Mandy Clark, who specifically assists varsity ath­letes. 
"The athlete will come to me generally or with a specific concern," Clark said. "We usu­ally talk in terms of perform­ance, and I inform them of how to get around the fast food environment. We try to come up with the healthiest options because fast food is a part of today's world." 
Clark said slie advises ath­letes and other students to eat at Subway because of the avail­ability of leaner meets, the choice of whole wheat over white bread and the inclusion of vegetables. 
Swimmer Grace Galagan said · her team meets with Clark once a week. 
"As athletes. we are pretty aware of what we eat," Galagan said. "We think it's an important part of the whole program." 
Contact Tricia de Groot at tdegroot@nd.edu 

Disorders 
continued from page 1 
Seventeen. percent of the 785 students who sought counsel­ing last year at Notre Dame reported an eating concern. 
"It's definitely an issue that we have growing concerns about here on campus," .said Sister Susan Dunn. rectress of Lyons Hall. "Prior to students coming back to campus. all hall staff members have a presentation on body image, stress. self-esteem. and the relationship between those and eating disorders." 
Valerie Staples, eating disor­der specialist at the University Counseling Center. echoed the sentiment that eating disorders are about more than food and weight -they often stem from the inability to express certain emotions. 
"Some of my patients, rather than saying they felt angry or sad, would simply say, 'I felt fat.' Counting calories or run­ning can be another way of communicating those emo­tions," she said. 
The need for control also fac­

tors into eating problems and 
obsessive exercising 
"It's not the amotint of time someone exercises. it's the role that exercising plays in their life," Staples said. "If they aren't able to exercise, they become angry, anxious, or guilty. They think I've got to burn off those calories or lose that weight. That's the mindset that is problematic." 
Another issue lies in the number of former high school athletes. 75 percent of the stu­dent body participated in var­sity high school athletics. and the absence of daily workouts might force such students to try to lose weight in unhealthy ways. 
Recognizing the various issues that are associated with eating disorders, the University offers a multi-disciplinary treatment -counseling (indi­vidual or group therapy). nutritional (meeting with a dietician) and medical (through the health center). 
"There is no good or bad food," Staples said. "It's okay to have a Milky Way some­times." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy@nd.edu 

OpportJJnities are a'o'ailable in thE' follovtmg areas: 
Computer Science Mechanical Engin@ering Systems Engineering Computer Engineering Math A@ronautical Engineering Electrical Engineering Physics Optics 
Ched:. ovt ~r 1,\...-bSttoe at r>llyjt>DJ,(OM{CiilfYIPU.S fl)f 1\H'ther i!iiOtrniltiOfl. ir~Cioomg our Campus ~-ecrulting events. 
'5~art '/011 pb ~ar<tt b)' c.lic~¥'19 Rnd ~ Job>. 

The power of applied intelligence. 
Or.e ot lht!-most admfrl!d dell!'t'tse arvJ ilt!fO.Spiu:e !.)•stefl)S supplie~"~ !htaugl\ world-daH pet¢le <md 1e<hoology. Our ftx.u~ IS ~.-ebpi~ gl'tll!lt taii!'I'H. 
0 l(llt F'~1h«i"-Cron'l•:J'fp. #l t))t{S rt'~ 11>-,'!t.et:.'! ·~ ;)(o ¢olo/# •:Gtx:r'Wffl ~r•l .lffl•~~Ut"'f ..:mro ":ff(l~i -1•1:1 "'~l::r.mts <~ "'-~t ~·~tt r:t ."WiO:W'!$ IJJ 0t~r&oip ,Yfd ~.riN tl~''lJ'lo;( m1 ~ i'(i.J~ 

Raytheon 
Customer Success Is Our Mission 
' 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, September 9, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Jones ' 
>~ 

1,337 

AMEX 
NASDAQ 

NYSE. 
S&PSOO 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.85 -0.17 19.72 
TELLABS INC (TLAB) +4.93 +0.45 9.57 
CISCO SYmMS (CSCO) -0.37 -0.10 27.26 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.36 +0.26 19.31 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +6.69 +0.17 2.71 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.16 -0.58 49.54 
I0-YEAR NOTE -1.95 -0.83 41.63 
5-YEAR NOTE -2.8 I -0.97 33.61 
3-MONTH BILL +0.94 +0.15 16.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.54 42.77 
GOLD ($ffroy oz.) +2.00 401.40 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.30 96.05 
E.xcha e Rates 

YEN 109.35 
EURO 0.8203 
POUND 0.5597 
CANADIAN$ 1.2903 
IN BRIEF 
Quattrone to serve time in jail 
NEW YORK -Former star investment banker Frank Quattrone, who made tens of millions of dollars riding the Internet stock boom, was sentenced to 1 1/2 years in prison Wednesday for obstructing government probes of hot new tech stock offerings. 
U.S. District Judge Richard Owen ordered Quattrone to surrender in 50 days, and grant­ed a defense request to recommend that Quattrone be sent to a prison camp in California, where he lives. He also was fined $90,000 and sentenced to two years probation. 

Honda to make new SUV in Ohio 
MARYSVILLE, Ohio -Honda of America Manufacturing Inc. announced Tuesday that it will begin making a new Acura sport utility vehicle in 2006 in Ohio. 
The automaker said the new vehicle will be . smaller and cost less than the company's MDX SUV. Honda has not decided whether the it will be made at its Marysville auto plant or the one in East Liberty. 
Honda spokesman Ed Miller said production of the vehicle is not expected to result in more jobs at Honda. But he said it will help provide job security as market demand changes. 
AIM Advisors settle allegations 
DENVER -Invesco Funds Group and its sis­ter company agreed Tuesday to pay $376.5 million and surrender another $75 million in fees to settle allegations of improper trading, a deal that will send nearly all the money to investors harmed by the practice. 
Denver based Invesco will pay $325 million to resolve litigation alleging it permitted exces­sive market-timing in its funds, Attorney General Ken Salazar said. Its sister company, AIM Advisors Inc. of Houston, agreed to pay $50 million. 
The money will go to investors in what Salazar called one of the largest settlements yet in the market-timing scandal that has swept the $7 trillion mutual funds industry over the past year. 
Stocks lower after testimony 
Greenspan. claims economy has regained traction after summer slowdown 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Investors adopted a wait-and-see attitude on the economy, despite Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's improved assessment, and bid stocks modestly lower Wednesday as Wall Street waits for better economic and earn­ings news. 
While Greenspan said the economy has "regained some traction" after the summer's slowdown, investors looked past his congressional testimony, focusing instead on uncer­tainty about the health of the economy, third-quarter earnings pre-announce­ments and fiscal policy. 
Greenspan gave no strong indications whether the Fed would raise inter­est rates at its meeting Sept. 21. While many ana­lysts believe a quarter per­centage point increase is likely, others wonder if election year politics will cause the Fed to skip a rate hike until November. The benchmark rate stands at 1.5 percent. 

"Between the economy the way it is and the elec­tion coming up, I don't think the Fed will raise rates this month," said David Legeay, senior vice president at McDonald hers, with an eye toward tive news of the kind that $43.45 after its chief bot­Financial Group. "It's still how the Fed will interpret impacted the market over tler, Coca-Cola Enterprises a show-me recovery. and a the data when it looks at the summer. But more Inc., issued warnings over lot of businesses are wait­interest rates. importantly, we've been its third-quarter earnings ing to see how the econo­Since third-quarter earn­increasingly conservative and reduced its full-year my fares and what the Fed ings will likely be reduced on earnings growth esti­outlook due to lower will do before they make due to the summer's high mates, and those numbers demand for the company's any big investments." oil prices, the market has will have to start going up soft drinks. Coca-Cola 
The Dow Jones industrial mostly discounted the if we're going to rally." Enterprises fell $1.11 to average fell 29.43, or 0.3 upcoming earnings season Despite his cautiously $19.48. percent, to 10,313.36. -even though double optimistic assessment, Shares in Wal-Mart 
Broader stock indicators digit profit growth is still Greenspan echoed Wall Stores Inc. were down 21 were also lower. The likely -with hopes of a Street's concerns over oil cents at $53.08 after the Standard & Poor's 500 resurgence in profits in the prices, which have fallen retailer's chief executive index was down 5.03, or fourth quarter to go along from record highs in told an investing confer­
0.4 percent, at 1,116.27, with the elections and, recent weeks but stub­ence that Christmas sales while the Nasdaq compos­hopefully, more strength in bornly remain above $40 would likely meet expecta­ite index dropped 7.92, or the economy. per barrel. A barrel of tions. 
0.4 percent, to 1,850.64. "Clearly, everyone wants light crude for October Fast food chain 
With terror fears fading to know what the catalyst delivery was quoted at McDonald's Corp. said its after the close of the politi­is going to be to send this $42.77, down 54 cents, on sales from stores open at cal conventions and oil market higher," said Brian the New York Mercantile least a year rose 3.9 per­prices on the decline, Belski, market strategist at Exchange. cent in August, citing investors are firmly Piper Jaffray. "One, we Dow component Coca­improved services and focused on economic num-now have a lack of Qega-Cola Co. dropped $2.20 to more menu options. 

Delta plans to cut up to 7,000 jobs 
costs, including management cuts. A Grinstein said "bankruptcy is a real
Associated Press 

reduction in wages will announced possibility." ATLANTA -Delta Air Lines will by the end of the month, and "We're working hard and fast to 
. cut up to 7,000 jobs, reduce wages employees will be expected to pay avoid it," Grinstein said. and pull back at its Dallas-Fort larger contributions for health Delta Air Lines Inc., the nation's Worth airport hub as part of a insurance. third-largest carrier, has been sweeping restructuring plan that In addition, Grinstein said Delta warning investors for months that it could still leave it vulnerable to will no longer use the Dallas-Fort may have to file bankruptcy if it did­bankruptcy. Worth airport as one of its four hubs n't get deep wage cuts from its The job cuts representing about as of 2005. Instead, Delta will pilots. Management said on July 30 10 percent of its overall work force expand its hubs in Cincinnati, it needed a minimum of $1 billion in will corne over the next 18 months, Atlanta and Salt Lake City with concessions from pilots to survive. Delta chief executive Gerald redeployed aircraft from Dallas-Fort Pilots had previously offered up to Grinstein said Wednesday during a Worth. $705 million, then accused the com­meeting with 300 of the company's About 2,000 of the jobs will be cut pany of acting in bad faith when it middle managers. More job cuts are from Dallas-Fort Worth and signifi­asked for much more. likely in the future, he added. cant cuts are expected at the air­Grinstein said talks with the pilots There will be a 15 percent reduc­line's Atlanta headquarters. are continuing, "but time is running tion in administrative overhead Despite all of these measures, out" to reach an agreement. 


Thursday, September 9, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
' ' ' ;,. I '~'I ! •, 


------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
Thursday, September 9, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan new name would erase any .Bongiovanni expressed con­past problems SUB may have
Senate 
cern at this statement, and had and give Jimmy's group a continued from page I questioned why Flaherty fresh face." hadn't made the switch to Flaherty countered that the to SUB. CPC when he took over the success of the Michigan State 
The resolution listed budg­managerial position in April. ticket lottery h'as already etary savings and nominal ''I'm distressed that we begun to improve SUB's "tar­recognition as support for the made a decision, and five nished" name. change. months later there are still Alumni senator Vijay 
Addressing the Senate, SUB efforts to change it," she Ramanan was one of the final manager Jimmy Flaherty said. voices in the debate. said that implementing the Student Body President "If you sit in mud, you get change from SUB to CPC Adam Istvan explained that back up; if we made a mis­would require approximately both he and Student Affairs take, then we fix it," he said. $7,600 in funds, advised "We have just as much of a and the board Flaherty to con­duty to correct the problem was allocated "Ifyou sit in mud, tinue using the today as we did to approve it 
only $2,000 for you get back up; if name 'SUB', as then." 
the task. an amendment 
we made a
"The money was in the 
In other Senate news: 
would go to mistake, then we works from the 
+A proposed amendment to 
replacing items fix it." start of the new 
the Senate's absentee policy
that say SUB, term in April. 
was sent back to the over­and rebranding "We thought 
sight committee for discus­
Vijay Ramanan
the name CPC," of the amend­
sion and rewriting after its
he said. "The Alumni senator ment as an 
clarity and specificity were 
name change appeal, so as 
called into question.
would also cost long it was 
The changes would. have 
us a shift of focus, as we pending, SUB could continue limited each senator to three 
would have to worry about using that name," Istvan unexcused absences, and 
advertising the CPC and mak­said. 
required a hearing in front of ing the marketing transition." Siegfried senator James 
the Student Union Ethics 
The funds once set aside Leito, involved in the original 
Committee after four unex­
for the change will now be push to adopt the CPC, spoke 
cused absences. The current routed back to the Financial out against the resolution. 
policy allows for five 
Management Board for a new "We wanted a name that absences before such a hear­allocation decision. was more applicable to what ing, and makes no distinctionFlaherty also said the the group did, something that 
between the excused andboard's new website design involved programming or 
unexcused.

and programming efforts activities," he said. have been marked by the "Reputation was also a con­Contact Amanda Michaels at SUB, not CPC, logo. cern -it was hoped that a amichael@nd.edu 
the debaters described their can­didate's strengths, trying to woo
Debate 

the crowd with ideas of strong ethics and convictions.
continued from page I, 

Rock the Vote Coordinator unrest of the issue over same-sex Philip Wells said the purpose of unions, is to leave the decisions this debate was to encourage over marriage up to the states," political dialogue on campus so Porter said. as to create a more informed stu­
·Homeland security funding was dent body. That is why they tried also on the list of to choose issues 
questions. directly relevant to
"One ofthe best 
College Democrat college students. Peter James ways for students "One of the best Kralovec said the ways for students
to express their 
United States gov­to express their
opinion is voting. " 
ernment is unpre­opinion is voting, pared and .needs and to take part in to re-invest. Philip Wells events like Rock "We need to the Vote, and really
Rock the Vote
stand up for secu­hear the message, rity when special so they can make interests get in the way," he said. an informed decision," Wells Republican Co-President Tom said. "I think that's the biggest Rippinger disagreed. and most effective action they "Make no doubt about it, this can take before November." president's number one priority Rock the Vote's next big event is is and has been homeland securi­Sept. 22, at 7 p.m. in Washington ty since 9/11, and with his contin­Hall. The debate will be between ued efforts, our nation will be David Corn of the liberal "Nation" much safer." and Rich Lowry of the conserva­
Other debate questions includ­tive "National Review." ed the topics of the Iraq War, the current job market and the increasing cost of college tuition. Contact Caity Schneeman at 
Before the evening was over, cscheema@nd.edu 
Four Congressional Gold Medals awarded 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Congress on Wednesday bestowed gold medals to four South Carolinians whose fight to win school busing for black students in the 1950s paved the way for the desegregation of the nation's schools. 
The Rev. Joseph A. DeLaine, Harry and Eliza Briggs, and Levi Pearson were posthumously honored With the Congressional Gold Medal in a ceremony in the Capitol rotunda. 
Accepting the medals for their relatives were Nathaniel Briggs, son of Harry and Eliza; Joseph Armstrong DeLaine Jr.; and 
~ Viola and Ferdinand Pearson, ~ the widow and son of Levi Pearson. 
It was in 1949 when the elder DeLaine, a school principal as well as a minister, recruited black parents in Summerton, 
\ 

Automation Alley Technolog~' Center 
Fundirg and resowces to speed new technolog} to rnatket 
ElrhiM'tntW-, :tHMIIII hw'huu-, C:ONpiiHlU Yillth..h-~tdal Mhlliolotyl.u: ll1e .~rromtf~n PJiey Ted1mlow Cen'Br ·rs 1he LU'mme reronr.:e 'br <"t::celer<'lfng )'OLI' 

cor-,:;ept to m<1il:et 

C....riYillt .......... apfiG'tutll'llt:t­'Nt:J'II help yar 'rdenfrfj <m:l <'~PI~:.' fa· •iml 1:.-e-*Eieo:l irr~Jng fa· de·Jelo1:.nent <'I HI I:."Ob\'l>'ng. .-rs •ll'ell .-rs post-deo.~elcprnent trndng fa· o::mrtl91r.:·~·rz<~fun Ft.m(rng ·rs .,....,·•~)le tll'OL{Ih ou· S'bong I;J<'IIila-sh·,)s 
•.rirth tl1e ~J<'Ifurl<'ll P!rbrnofr.~e Center <11d b~ l'lh:h'{l<'ll Ecomrn·K: De-Jeloprnent 
O:.pcnrflm <111(1 r'Eil<'liionsh'ps•.ro>'rfl <'11{.191 
·n.~esta-s. 'Jelltn-e V!lp·lt'lrrst: <'~HI b<11ka'S. 

S.C., to sign a petition to the school board to provide a bus for their children. While white students in the area had school buses, black students had to walk up to 10 miles a day to attend their segregated school. 
Harry Briggs, a gas station attendant, and his wife, Eliza, a hotel maid, were among the parents who signed the petition. Levi Pearson, a black farmer, filed a lawsuit against the Clarendon County, S.C., school district on behalf of his three children. 
Pearson's suit was dismissed on a technicality; the Briggs pushed ahead with their own. Briggs v. Elliott, argued by Thurgood Marshall, became the first of five cases that was rolled into the landmark 1954 case, Brown v. the Board of Education, in which the Supreme Court declared school segregation unconstitutional. 
It's a 
D•wlap ~ tldll"'*'tY1dN AItil­Our •»a1d-d<tss I<'P'KI commrr.:·r::·frz<tfun 
Great Day
process <11d e:oo:Bns'r.~e 11e~k of 
for

profess'o1~ •Jdun-Ba· Sel'h::e ll'O'iKia-s del'r191· t1e tocls, e:oq)9rflse <'IHI €1:oq)el..lei"K:e fa· deo.~elqf11{) lle'»' 'BdmoiC{Iy :sdufo1s 
Ice Cream! 
<tnd ge1fng t11em to 1mril:et (~r'dd)l We are located just west of Movies 14 on
For t1e ~reuB i'an oo1cept b m<1il:e1; •..iat LIS <'lt·~,..~arb:m<'lial~ley9::hcarta:ron 
Edison Rd next to the Bonefish Grill (in St. or ~I 800..e7.51 00. 
Andrew's Plaza). 11am-10pm Sunday-Thursday and 11am to 11pm Friday & Saturday By the way, we sell a variety of cakes including Notre Dame cakes! 
~ 
IIIII II 


Now Hiring! 
574-257-7884 

-~ 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 9, 2004 

THE OBSERVER 
P,Q.llox Q, Notre Dame, IN 4Ci~56 024 South Dining Hall. Nom: Dame,IN 46$56, 

Et>ltolt lN ClUJ!F 

Man Lozar MANAGING EDITOR BOSlNl!SS MANAGllll Megbanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
l\SSI'. MAN!.GlliG EDll'Oll Joe Hettler 

NEWS Emroru Claire Heininger VlllWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Sl'OlllS EPITOR• Headter Van Hoegatden SCENE EDIIDIU Maria Smith IN Focus Eorroru Megban Marrin SMm· MARY's EDrroR: 

ADvElmSJNC MANAc£ru Carrie Fra.nklin AD OllS!ON MANAG£a; Kelly Nelson SYsTEMS AoMiNJ'sruroJtt Mary Allen 


CoNTROW!R1 Paula ~fat·~.. :i~.,;,;;;.;.::·::::.::·.:.-:,::1.;;.;, 
OFAU MAIIAGER &GEIIE!Illl.IMI'O (574) 631-7411


FAX . (574) 63t-692.7 AllVEIITISING (574) 631-6900 obgad@od.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631·4542 
MANAGING EDITOA (574) 631-4541 obsrne@nd.edu 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 63!-43.14 BUSINESS 0FACE ($74) 631-5313 
NEWS DesK . (574) t$31~5323 obme\W:l®nd;edu Vt£WPGINT DESK . 

(574) 631'-5303 vie\\>p<llrid@nd;edu SPGRTS DUK ..·..........:::(;;;:::::::··.....·... . 
(574)631-45~ (fe;ts.l@nd:~:~ ) 
(574) 631-4540 ~l@nd.Cdk)

SAINT MARY'$ DESII .......,. ....•.•,.•.,...............·.·.. 
·. 'p~~~du. ....,.. :j!\jfi:\':1\ii:: 
(57~) if3J+$767 photo@nd:edti ,.,, SY'St£MS I W!a ADMDIISTI!ArtlliS 

(574J63I;ss39 't ·/I:.' :: .•.·,:.:-.,.,.::·I 
........•......,.,··:::.::;;'''()l~~R~~~~J:i!:·····::·::::,:·::.••······-,.. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com · .·. 

POLICIES . Th~ Observer l5 ~he indepenc:knr; &ilyit~a~ ·· 
published in print and online by the studenrs()[the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary~ O,Ueg". Ediwrilllcom<m~ including ad~u•. is 
not governed. by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer resavcs the right to refuse adv.;rtimuenu based on cont<:nt. 
The news l$ reported as =rarelylind objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department <;<litors. O,mmentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors.-and not n=rilrtho5e ofThe Obsetver. 
Viewpoint SJ.l'ICC i$ aw.ilahk ro all readets: Th.e ~ expression 
ofall opinions through letters iilen~o\,141g<;<l, 
con~t infotm;.~n-

Qjlmions 
re-ganling 0bJ'mJ~policittshou_/Jb4 
n.. Ob"Mi (USPS:~~ <,;oa~) il pllhlol><d M<iii.br.ti,@jlb. ~#Y ""#•d"'fnj . cr.uun.nd.a.::atiittqJc~.A:~iQn·tuTh~~~:i~$·~~f<i:t~~~ ,....mr.,m..;_~·· :• .·· ·..::::••: ...•.•..• ,_ ;:..-.,·:... o; 
Th< "~""''"' ,...,...,. ,nJ;."'-';.""1'1<;;0. ,w.q.;.i~>.i•o.;. ~~-.•.•.· 
~-......· 
The: O*'~J.TYt'f::~ pub-!~ ~.r~ ot4 S.urh Dimos Hill r-~o ... o .... 1r<~~ 
r.ti<>dit&l~op>ld"No...ll""' ap;d.;ddil\ioil.J MaiBA. off~. 


PO!ITMA!i'1$R 
~d '~~!dial ~(~IJNO~ 
Th<OI.om<t 
n..~.~. ...........,m............tPm..All~·""'·iP~ ... 
,.,.,.,j, 

Twisting fate with 'medicine' 
At Reichsfuhrer Heinrich Himmler's suggestion. Dr. Karl Gebhardt. a Nazi physician at the SS hospital at Hohenlychen. specialized in heteroplas­tic transplantation experiments. If an SS soldier had lost an arm or a leg. a replace-Charles Rice ment limb would be amputated from a live 
Right or 
prisoner at the 

Wrong
Ravensbrueck concen­tration camp. The pris­oner would be killed in the process and his limb would be rushed to Dr. Gebhardt who would make the futile attempt to attach it to the SS amputee (Leo Alexander, M.D. New England J. Of Med., July 14, 1949). Dr. Gebhardt was convicted at Nuremberg and hanged in 1948. 
Dr. Gebhardt's problem is that he was born before his time. The theory of his experiments, the killing of human beings to use their parts for the benefit of others. is precisely the principle that underlies embryonic stem cell research (ESCR). Gebhardt would have been mystified by the technology but other­wise he would have felt at home in lis­tening to Ron Reagan. son of the late President. at the Democratic National Convention. 
First. the background: Your life began at fertilization when your father's sperm joined your mother's ovum. At the one-cell stage you were a zygote. After that you were an embryo until about seven weeks when you were called a fetus. To obtain embryonic stem cells. a woman's ovum is cloned or fertilized in vitro to create a human embryo. Five-to-seven days after fertil­ization, stem cells are present. They are removed, which kills the embryo. The stem cells are then grown and manipu­lated to create specific types of human tissue. The hope is that such cells can be used to repair or replace damaged cells. 
Ron Reagan urged the procurement of stem cells by cloning: "[A] doctor_. ­takes ... skin cells from your arm. The nucleus of one of your cells .'s placed into a donor egg whose ~wn nucleus has been removed ... [S)t\nulation will encourage your cell's nudeus to begin 
EDITORIAL CARTOOI" 

dividing, [generating) embryonic stem cells containing only your DNA. thereby eliminating ... tissue rejection. These stem cells are then driven to become the ... cells that are defective in Parkinson's patients. And finally. those cells -with your DNA -arc injected into your brain where they will replace the faulty cells whose failure ... led to the Parkinson's disease ... [Y]ou're cured.... [T)hese embryonic stem cells. ... could ... be induced to recreate virtu­ally any tissue in your body. How'd you like to have your own personal biologi­cal repair kit standing by at the hospi­tal?" 
Ron Reagan said that "no fetal tissue is involved ... No fetuses are created, none destroyed." The process. how_­ever, does kill a human being. 
an embryo who therefore never has the chance to become a fetus. an infant. a law student. etc. You create a DNA-copy of yourself by cloning and then kill that living human being at the embryonic stage so as to use his or her stem cells. You can imagine Gebhardt nodding in approvaL 
President Reagan's other son. Michael Reagan. said his father "opposed the creation of human embryos for the sole pur­pose of using their stem cells as possible medical 
cures." President Reagan's close advisor, Judge William Clark, in a New York Times op-ed on the day after the Reagan funeral. quoted the late President's condemnations of the inten­tional killing of unborn life even at the earligst sta~ , 
"Neither embryonic stem-cell research (ESCR) nor human doning is prohibited by federal law Both can be legally done with priV!'.tte funding. President Bush, on Aug. ·~I:J. 2001, banned federal fund­ing of F"-'~R except for research on cell lines that had been derived by that date. lie sought to avoid "taxpayer funding that would ... encourage fur­ther destruction of human embryos." The federal budget in 2003 included $24.8 million for ESCH in accord with the Bush criteria. 
ESCH has not been shown to benefit patients with Parkinson's. Alzlwimer's or any other disease. But adult stem cells. taken from bone marrow. the pla­centa and the umbilical cord. are suc­cessfully used to treat some cancers. leukemia. heart attack, stroke. Parkinson's, sickle-cell anemia and other diseases. Research on adult stem cells presents no moral problem. It attracts private funding because of il-; 
success. Proponents of ESCH have 
to seek federal funding 

who create new human life sole­ly to destroy it for the use of others . Both techniques are diabolic. But the Nazi doctors were comparative ama­teurs. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. /lis column appears every other Thursday. lie can be con­tacted at plawecki.J @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Angela Saoud Pat Leonard NicoleZook Mike Gilloon Kelly Meehan Steve Coyer 
"The legacy ofDemocrats and Republicans
Viewpoint Scene Do you gamble in your dorm? Lauren Galgano Kenyatta' Storin 
approaches: Libertarianism by bankruptcy. " Graphics ·(· mustrator 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at
Mike Harkins Katie Knorr 
Nick Nuessle 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
author 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 9, 2004 
page 11 
Fun times and football season 
Unless you've been under a rock, you should know 
that Saturday marks the beginning of what many COJ!­
sider their favorite time of year: Irish home football 
season. Saturday also happens t() mark the one week 
anniversary since the tragic tailgating events at North · Carolina State University occurred. 
College football fans throughout the Molly Acker 
country were shocked and saddened 
by the violent shootings of Brett 
Nobody Likes a

Ilarmann and Kevin McCann, both 
Dumb Blonde

23. llarmann and McCann were at a North Carolina tailgating party and had been involved in what was reported as minor alter­cation with a reckless driver prior to their murders. 
To think that an event as fun as tailgating could lead 
to fatalities should make us all realize that responsible 
and logical behavior is a must. God gave us all common 
sense. Make sure to bring yours not only to the game, 
but to the pre and post game activities as well. 
That said, I'll stop being so grim, because the first 
home football game should be cause for celebration ­
assuming we actually put some points up against the 
Wolverines this year. We all have what should be a 
wonderful season ahead of us that is sure to be filled 
with great times and not worrying about the final 
score. 
Despite all the fun, football season is never without 
its hitches. There are certain situations that most stu­
dents will inevitably encounter this season: 
Over-served fans: We've all seen them. The specta­tors who have had a few too many cold-ones in the parking lot and make fools of themselves. Do your best to ignore them, even as they repeatedly knock you off your bench while trying to keep up with the band's ren­dition of the Irish Jig. 
The friend who wears out their welcome: She arrives on Tuesday afternoon and is still there after Sunday night Mass. What 11re you supposed to do with her? 
Extra football tickets: Remember all those people that you promised Boston College tickets to this summer? Well, they don't know that it was just the alcohol talking, and they expect you to come through. 
Your parents: They arrive much too early on gameday, bring you more food than you have room to store, and bother you with questions about your grades or whether you are dating anyone. Just humor them; they really are excited to see you. 
The student section: Someone is bound to get stuck next to "that guy" who spends the entire game yelling that "even Bob Davie was better than this guy!" Chalk it up to part of the football experience and understand that he is only annoying because he cares too much. 
Former Alumna or Alumnus: They knock on your door, want to take a look at their old dorm rooms, and 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
For the Gipper 
In the mid-1940's, my father, Edward T. Chute, then a student at Notre Dame, witnessed the undefeated and untied dominance of the Frank Leahy-led Irish. 
In the '70s, my brothers, Edward Jr., Paul and Dennis, attended Notre Dame and celebrated as Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine carried the Irish to two more national championships. 
In 1986, I graduated from Notre Dame following what was considered to be the aberration of Gerry Faust's tenure, and, thankfully, this was followed by the resur­rection of excellence under Lou Holtz in the late 1980's. 
Unfortunately, since 1993, the last credible edition of Notre Dame football, we have all suffered through 10 forgettable and embarrassing autumns. The reason for this decade of despair is not a mystery. For the past nine years, Notre Dame has had the first or second highest number of graduates on NFL rosters and had the most graduates in the NFL (40) for the start ofthe 2003 season. That's more than USC, Michigan, Florida State, BYU or Syracuse, each of whom waxed the Irish within the past year. 
It has not been a void of talent or overly rigorous admissions requirements that have held the Irish back. It has been a failure of coaching and athletic direction. Those entrusted to 1ead the University of Notre Dame and its crown jewel of a foot­ball tradition have gerrymandered the following coaches to lead Notre Dame foot­ball since 1981: Gerry Faust, Lou Holtz, Bob Davie, George O'Leary and Tyrone Willingham. 
To translate the performances of these coaches via the perspective of typical semester Notre Dame courseload would have resulted in the following grades: F, A-, F, F (incomplete), F. Of course, with such a report card, any student would have appropriately failed out of Notre Dame. Why then, has the Board of Trustees and administration accepted such woeful marks from its athletic director and football coaches? 
Whereas the honest petitions of thousands of alumni may be discarded by Patrick McCartan and the disconnected CEO's who litter the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, I suspect that a unified call for change from the Notre Dame student body would be impossible to ignore. 
On behalf of all alumni, parents, and the Notre Dame "faithful" who suffer with the Irish week in and week out but have little voice, I ask that you, the Notre Dame students, speak as one on behalf of all of the Notre Dame family. Your voice can change Notre Dame's history at this most critical moment. Do so not just for the sake of saving Notre Dame's wounded legacy, but for the sake of your classmates who wear the gold helmets and yearn to "play like champions" but for want of coaching that is the equal of their dreams. 
Remember that, unlike your peers at Harvard or Duke, you have a national forum available to get your message out, the National Broadcasting Company. This Saturday, let the University and America know that the Notre Dame students will not stand for ignominy and failure. 
George Gipp once said to Knute Rockne "some day, when the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go out and win just one for the Gipper." In 2004, it is the athletic director and poor coaching that are beating the boys. So tell them, for the record, to go out and get a new coach and athletic director. 
Somewhere. the Gipper-and all the rest of us ­ will finally have a reason to  
smile.  
Dr. John P. Chute  
Class of 1986  
Sept. 8  

have a propensity for interrupting your much-needed 
post-game nap. Be understanding, invite them in and 
allow them to reminisce about the good ole days. The shirt: Some of you girls will agree. They aren't too cute and maybe not the most flattering, but wear it. Who really cares what you look like at a football game, anyway? Rain: Mother Nature is either a USC fan, or she doesn't look at the football schedule. You'll get drenched at least once. The push-ups: Be pre­pared to suffer some injuries, especially with the ample push-up opportuni­ties that are produced by our juggernaut offense. Despite these potential football weekend pit-falls, relish the moment. Take it all in stride, so as not to repeat history. Be smart and practice caution. Most impor­tantly, have a great time with your family, friends and fellow fans. Go Irish! 
Molly Acker is a junior at Saint Mary's and a double 
major in humanistic studies and communications. She 
can be contacted at acke6758@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The abortion party 
I remember I was in the JACC work­ing out one night, and I heard lots of noise in the area where hockey games are held. I went to check it out, and saw that it was club night. Lots of booths, lots of people milling around. So I headed back toward the weight room. But someone tapped me on the shoulder, and when I turned around, there was a little guy in glasses asking if I wanted to join the best party on campus. 
Knowing what campus parties were like, I figured the best party on campus could not be very good, so I declined. Then he explained that he meant the Democratic Party. I answered, "You mean the abortion party?" He sneered and walked away. 
When I read the article by Katie Boyle, about what John Kerry will do for America, I concluded that she is either very ignorant, very gullible or very dishonest. There is nothing at all in his record to indicate that Kerry will do any of the things she flatly claims that he will do. Notice that she herself did not even bother to argue that he will do them, or explain exactly how he will do them. Kerry just stated that he will, and I guess that is supposed to be good enough for us. 
What bothers me, though, is what she left out. One could argue that maybe Kerry will help the environment, if it is politically advantageous, or that he might come up with some new way to improve public schools, if the teachers unions will go along with it. What is an absolute certainty, however, is that John Kerry will veto any legislation restricting abortion in any way, and will appoint only judges who consider abortion on demand an absolute right. 
According to his own voting record, John Kerry believes that minors should be able to get abortions without their parents' consent and without being advised about other options or the risks of abortion. He believes that women should be able to have abortions at any point in their pregnancies, by any method they want. And he believes tax­payers should pay for this horror. 
It has been a major point of the Bush campaign that John Kerry is a flip-flop­per. Indeed, he has changed positions so many times on so many issues just during this presidential run. But one thing he has never wavered about is his commitment to abortion on demand. The same is true of his running mate, the girl from the shampoo commer­cials. When he was suing caring and dedicated doctors out of business for the defects in the babies they delivered -even though science has since estab­lished that these defects are never the result of botched deliveries -one of his courtroom tactics was to pretend he was the unborn child. With great the­atrical effect Edwards would describe the anguish of the child at the hands of a cruel and incompetent doctor. Think he hears or channels the voice of the unborn when it comes to abortion? When pigs fly. 
When rumors swirled about Kerry picking John McCain, a Republican, as his running mate, there was a lot of discussion and commentary about how that would work, a Democrat running with a Republican. Time and time again, I heard from both sides, from people in office and regular commenta­tors, that McCain would just have to state his support of abortion. He could stay in favor of the war, and of tax cuts, and a whole host of other Republican positions. But he would have to cross over on abortion. 
It is sad enough, and obvious enough, that abortion is the one required posi­tion for Democrats today. It is even sad­der when people like Katie Boyle try to hide that fact. She might as well describe what the head of the Ku Klux Klan would do for America as presi­dent, without mentioning all the ugly things he would do to blacks. 
Darin DeLucco Class of 200 I Sept. 7 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 9, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Avril Lavigne bares soul in latest release 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Music Critic 
Admitting to your friends that you dig Avril Lavigne might earn you a few eye rolls and jeers. but the truth is that, like many angst-ridden teens these days, Avril has been misjudged by her peers. 
With the success of her debut album "Let Go," Lavigne earned the reputa­tion as pop punk's little princess. When most female pop stars were sell­ing themselves through breast enlargements and choreography, this boisterous tomboy blew up on the music scene with skateboard in hand and tie and guitar around her neck. Despite selling millions of records. topping radio charts across the coun­try and being nornm:!ted for two Grarnrnys, Lavigne did not gain 
Avril Lavigne 
Take Me 
Away 
Arista 

respect as an artist with musical cred­ibility, despite her efforts to extricate herself from the mass-marked pop queen scene. 
In an interview, Lavigne dismissed the notion that she is trying to create punk music: "I have been labeled like I'm this angry girl -I'm like this rebel, I'm like, punk, and I am so not any of them." Those who have listened to "Let Go" have seen that. like ogres and onions, this girl has got layers. Songs like "Mobile" and "Anything but Ordinary" show an amazing amount of songwriting talent for such a young girl. It was not a raucous diatribe against the world; it was simply the musings of a 17 year-old girl who doesn't quite fit in. 
On her second album, "Under My Skin," Lavigne trades in her skate­board for tutus, revealing a more mature and feminine side while still marching to the beat of her own drum. "Under My Skin" is an incredi­ble development in Lavigne's song­writing and musical capabilities that undoubtedly reflect the tremendous experience she has gained from the past two years. The record opens with a pounding reflection of static anguish in "Take Me Away." Jadedness seeps through songs like "My Happy Ending" and "He Wasn't," revealing the 19­year old's rough experiences with heartbreak. 

More than just an exposition on relationships, "Under my Skin" is the self-examination of a troubled girl. She slows down the album with the detached "How Does it Feel" and· the beautifully written "Nobody's Horne." in which Lavigne comes to terms with loneliness and confusion. In further contrast to her blonde counterparts. Lavigne confronts reservations about sex in "Don't Tell Me." The album ends on a somber note with the deeply moving "Slipped Away," a song Lavigne wrote and dedicated to the memory of her grandfather. 
This is a compelling CD affecting its listener on a more personal level. Lavigne attributes much of her suc­cess on this album to her friend and mentor Chantal Kreviazuk. With the help of Kreviazuk, Lavigne has dug far beyond the superficiality of "Complicated" and "Skater Boi," and invited her audience to discover who she is and what she is about. Avril Lavigne has bared her soul on this CD and "Under My Skin" shows more artistic progression in two years than many people achieve in their entire career . 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 

Engine Down still flying strong 
By MATTHEW L. SOLARSKI 
Scene Music Critic 
The four strapping lads from North Carolina who comprise Engine Down have been honing their skills on the indie rock .scene for some time. They have toured extensively, opened for a number of high-profile acts and have quickly matured into one of the most consistent and inspiring live shows around. further enhanced by their own lighting setup. To date Engine Down has graced listeners with three excellent albums, an EP, several seven-inch records, and now this, their fourth full-length -arguably their best yet. 
The band kicks things off with the explosive opener "Rogue, " an ode to the power of resilience. Bass and drums leap into action immediately, establishing the rhythmic momentum 
Engine Down 
Engine Down 
Lookout 


carrying through more or less the duration of the album's 12 tracks. Enter lead and rhythm guitar, clang­ing and shrieking in call and response fashion before quickly falling in step with the pile-driving rhythm. Cue the excellent, emotive lead vocals of guitarist Keeley Davis, soon joined in vocal harmony by gui­tarist Jonathan Fuller. "I never thought I'd learn I to accept the burns I and walk away," muses Keeley. By the song's climax, the lyric has evolved into the imperative: "Learn to accept the burns." 
Falling somewhere in the vast gray between deadpan hardcore and drown-in-your-own-tears emo, Engine Down produces an enticing brand of brooding, progressive indie rock music. Along with "Rogue," other superb tracks include "Cover," "101," "Well Read" and the mini-epic, piano-centered closer, "Etcetera." 


To its credit, Engine Down func­tions exceptionally well as a group. The interplay between rhythm and melody, as well as among guitars, indicate an accomplished group of musicians -and best friends -who have been clearly playing together for a long time. The arrangements are tight and the four players sel­dom venture out alone musically, lending the album a constant sense of fullness. 
Lyrically, Engine Down staggers slightly. The words flow well enough and complement the melodies rather nicely, but ultimately ring hollow in some instances. Many songs seem marred by a preponderance of unspecified pronouns. Who are the we's, you's, and even I's addressed in these verses? One never finds out. Through these 12 tracks, not a sin­gle proper noun appears. While such vagaries can aid in universalizing a song's content, here they often suc­ceed only in creating an atmosphere of quasi-philosophical detachment. Passive voice also rears its dastardly, disfigured face into several of these songs, undermining the driving rhythm and guitar tension. Apart from the excellent music, the listener is sometimes left with little to hold on to after hearing these songs. 
In addition, while startlingly con­sistent and flowing together searn­lessly, "Engine Down" does suffer somewhat from a lack of variety. The majority of the tracks follow the same pattern of building to a harmo­n"ized chorus, and all of the songs (sans a one-off .interlude entitled 

Photo courtesy of enginedown.com 

Engine Down's fourth album Is arguably their best yet. 
"Too Much of a Good Thing") tightly straddle the four-minute line. Indeed only one dares to cross this line. Perhaps Engine Down could have exchanged a few of its crisp endings for more drawn-out and emotionally resonant instrumental breakdowns. 
All things considered, however, "Engine Down" is a superb record from a band that will continue to improve and refine their already dis­tinct sound. For those who want the intensity of hardcore without bludg­eoning their eardrums, and the senti­mentality of emo without the whiny sciolism, Engine Down serves up the perfect platter. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
-~~ 

THE 0BSERV'ER 
CENE
Thursday, September 9, 2004 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Scott discovers beauty in being human 
By CRODERICK HENRY Scene Music Critic 
With her debut CD. "Who is Jill Scott?: Words and Sounds, Vol. 1," Jill Scott took a chance by releasing an album that was a far cry from main­stream R&B. Instead of relying heavily on 70s soul samples and lyrics lending themselves to street credibility, Scott's music was seeped in jazz melodies, lyrical poetry and a tremendous amount of her indelible spirit. The album was so distinct in sound that it was nominated for three Grammys and helped bring to life a new genre of music known as "Neo Soul." With songs like "Gettin' in the Way" and "A Long Walk," listeners quickly learned that Scott was a self-proclaimed "ghetto queen" who was more than willing to fight over her man in addition to cele­brating her love for food, family and self. 
Four years later, Scott has returned with her second album, "Beautifully Human: Words and Sounds, Vol. 2." This time /!-round the "ghetto queen" has matured quite a bit. In the time between making this album and her first, the songstress has performed in the Broadway musical "Rent". refused to write new music and even married the type of man she often sang about. Such experiences have shaped this CD. 
"Beautifully Human" is a forward­looking album that resonates with all the feelings associated with the R&B poetess' newfound love. Lush melodies surrounded by poignant lyrics connect with anyone who has been in a signifi­cant relationship and help bring the album to life. Through pure artistry, Jilly from Philly reveals how sweet it is to be human. 


On the first single off the album, "Golden," Scott shares some newfound knowledge with listeners. She sings of setting herself free and living life exactly as she chooses: "''m taking my freedom I pulling it off the shelf I put­ting it on my chain I wearing it around my neck I I'm taking my freedom put­ting it in my car I wherever I choose to go I it will take me far." With the soar­ing refrain of ''I'm living my life like it's golden" repeated throughout the song, one gets the sense Scott is deter­mined to celebrate not only who she is but also who she can become. 
Scott's personal maturation is accompanied by vocal development as well. She is more willing to explore her far-reaching range than in the past. On "Rasool," an admonitory song about the life of crime. Scott wails with the passion and emotion often associat­ed with the queen of soul, Aretha Franklin. On "The Fact Is (I Need You)" and "Spring Summer Feeling," the diva oohs and coos with the best of them. Her voice is light and soft, leaving one either yearning to live what she sings so proudly about, or enjoying the fact that he or she has. 
Scott also has not lost her propensity to take chances. On "My Petition," which initially sounds like the tale of a lost love, she drops lines from the national anthem and ends up lament­ing over her loss of faith in the United States. "Bedda at Home" finds Scott willingly admitting that she is fascinat-

Photo courtesy of MTV.com Jill Scott continues to push the bound­aries of R&B. 
ed by another man, but comes to the conclusion that she has "something better at home." 
With "Beautifully Human" Jill Scott continues to push the bounds of cur­rent day R&B. She refuses to let the past define her music, and instead explores the universal human experi­ence. The singer effectively melds spo­ken word with pure soul and transcen­dent music. Her songs are the stories of love gained and lost, of lives lived and perished. of songs heard and unheard. Altogether, it is a human story that reveals the beauty resting in this woman's soul. 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenryl@nd.edu 
Taking Back Sunday does not disappoint 
By MICHELE JEFFERS Scene Music Critic 
When a band achieves critical and commercial success on its debut album, it often has to deal with the additional pressure to live up to the expectations of fans and unremitting critics. 
With the bar raised on its sophomore release, "Where You Want to Be," Taking Back Sunday has effectively cleared the hurdle that sends so many bands crashing into obscurity. This album not only attests to the band's tal­ent. but also to its resilience. In 2003, John Nolan (guitar and back vocals) and Shaun Cooper (bass) decided to quit Taking Back Sunday, forming the band Straylight Run in 2003. The loss of Nolali ..1nd Cooper was devastating, and it was unclear whether or not Taking Back Sunday would be able to continue. ·However, fortune quickly stepped in and the band persevered with the acquisition of Fred Mascherino (guitar/vocals) and Matt Rubano (bass). 
In wake of this proverbial game of musical chairs, many fans wondered how the lineup change would affect the band's music. The emotional intensity of the first album, "Tell All Your Friends," provided its listeners with a cathartic release through its mercurial rhythms and brutally candid lyrics. Picking up where it left off, "Where You Want to Be" retains Taking Back Sunday's trademark mordant melodra­ma, while pushing forward and refin­ing its music as a new group. 
Produced by Lou Giordano, "Where You Want to Be" is the confluence of its five members' creativities and emo­tions. In an interview, bassist Mark Rubano said, "It would be next to impossible to play anyone half of the album and still get a sense of the entire thing." 



The 11 high-energy tracks showcase a variety of tempos and moods, as well as the boys' penchant for wailing repe­tition. While "This Photograph is Proof' appeared on the "Spiderman 2" sound­track earlier this summer, the band chose "A Decade Under the Influence" as its first single to underscore the band's triumph over obstacles. Heavy­hitting songs like "The Union" and "Bonus Most Pt. II" are juxtaposed with Taking Back Sunday's softer side on tracks like the acoustic "New American Classic." 
Lazzara and Mascherino complement each other well, driving up the intensity of the album, while also practicing a skillful level of restraint at points. " ... Slowdance on the Inside" rounds out the album beautifully with its driving momentum and affection of disillusion­ment that just begs the hearer to hit repeat. 
Having already sold nearly 500,000 copies, "Where You Want to Be" is a successful follow-up album for Taking Back Sunday. It is not as emotionally aggressive as "Tell All Your Friends," but fans will not be disappointed. "Where You Want To Be" is cohesive and more refined, and it points towards a promising future for the lads of Taking Back Sunday. Their CD is avail­able on Victory Records, and the band can also be seen on tour this fall with Fall Out Boy and Matchbook Romance. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 
page 14 Thursday, September 9, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 
Colts, Patriots open regular season 
Manning seeks to reverse results of 2004 AFC championship 
Associated Press 

FOXBORO, Mass. -Peyton Manning doesn't want revenge. lie just wants to win in Foxboro. 
!lis four-interception flop there in last season's AFC championship game fits a pat­tern: an 0-5 record with seven touchdown passes and 15 interceptions at the home of the New England Patriots. 
He'll lead the Indianapolis Colts back into Gillette Stadium on Thursday night in the NFL's season opener. Had he played better there eight months ago, his team and not the Patriots might be Super Bowl champions. 
"They just played well in the times we have played them," Manning said. "They had a bunch of games (last season) where it was down to the last possession and they were able to win those games and that is probably one of their biggest strengths." 
He knows it's not a good idea to try to make up for the Colts' 24-14 loss in the AFC title game. 
"It was very frustrating and disappointing to lose that game when you get close like that," Manning said. "But I think that has cost a lot of teams in the past, that they haven't been able to put the previous sea­son behind Bobby Hamilton ·at end. But the Colts have scored more than 400 points in four of the last five years, and Manning was the NFL's co-MVP last season. 
"That doesn't frighten us at all," New England defensive end Richard Seymour said. "I just think it's a challenge, and they're going against one of the best defenses in the league." 
The Colts were 12-4 last season but Manning is 2-8 in his career against the Patriots. New England quar­terback Tom Brady is 4-0 against the Colts. 
"Most of the games have been pretty close," said Brady, who didn't throw an interception in the eight regu­lar-season home games last year. "You don't want to get down on a team like this by a bunch of points because they can run out the clock on offense." 
Last Nov. 30, the Patriots stopped the Colts on three consecutive plays from the 1­yard line in the closing sec­onds and won 38-34 in Indianapolis. Their defense seems just as strong now. 
But the Colts have won their last five season openers, four on the road, while the Patriots lost last year's opener 31-0 at Buffalo a few days after they released safety 
MLB 
First-place Cardinals prevail, 4-2 
Associated Press Rick Ankiel's return to the major leagues after more than three years away couldn't have gone much better. The left-hand e r, whose once-promising career was derailed by wild pitches and elbow surgery, allowed one hit in a scoreless inning of relief in the St. Louis Cardinals' 4-2 win over the San Diego Padres on Tuesday night. Ankiel received a rousing reception in the dugout al'ter the sixth inning, getting high­fives and slaps on the back from his teammates. "It's just such a relief to get out there and finally get back in the mix again," Ankiel said. "The welcome was great, and I'm happy to be back." Pinch-hitter Hoger Cedeno had a go-ahead, two-run dou­ble in the sixth and the Cardinals won for the 1Oth time in 11 games. Jeff Suppan (15-6) won his sixth straight start and improved to 9-0 on the road. Manager Tony La Hussa called Ankiel's appearance "a very special inning." "We've been waiting to see him, we saw him, he thrilled us all and he was very good," La Russa said. "He was at the top of the highlight list for us, and there were a lot of them." Ankiel started the bottom of the sixth by allowing a single to Xavier Nady, then retired the side. It was Ankiel's first big league appearance since May 10,2001. Ankiel is best known for throwing nine wild pitches and walking 11 in four innings in the 2000 playoffs. He was demoted to the minors in May 2001, and missed the entire 2002 season with a sprained elbow. He had recon­structive elbow surgery last year. 


as usual, by Manning, run­ning back Edgerrin James and wide receiver Marvin Harrison. Indianapolis faces a Patriots offense with a major new contributor, Corey Dillon. 
He was obtained in a trade with Cincinnati to boost a running game that ranked 27th in the NFL last season. 
"He will give them confi­dence that they can pound the ball and (put) things away a little bit more when they have the lead," Colts coach Tony· Dungy said. 
Add him to an offense that includes Brady, receivers Troy Brown, David Patten, Deion Branch and David Givens and wide receivers Daniel Graham, Christian Fauria and rookie Benjamin Watson, and the Patriots should be tough to stop _ particularly because the Colts have made changes at linebacker and have been banged up in the secondary. 
"It doesn't matter who we play (against). We just want to go out and show how good we are," Colts safety Mike Doss said. "Y9u can't think if you go up there and win we're going to walk into their locker room and take their rings." 
Had they won there last Jan. 18, they might have their own Super Bowl rings. 
"They will be gunning for us. I guarantee they'll give us their best shot," Vinatieri said. "They've been dis­cussing and trying to get to this week since that game was over." 

them." The Patriots have won 11  "It was very frustrating and  Lawyer Milloy, who joined the Bills in time for  
straight at home, in the regular season and playoffs,  disappointing to lose that game when you get close like that. "  that game. "I thought the team was pre­pared, but,  
and  allowed  obviously, they  
just 68 points there in the last regular  Peyton Manning Colts' quarterback  were much more prepared than we were  
season  - an  for that game,"  
NFL  record  kicker  Adam  

for an eight-gam~ home Vinatieri said. "They were a schedule. lot more fired up, so this 
Nine of their defensive game we're definitely going to starters are back. Keith have to bring a lot of intensi­Traylor replaces Ted ty." Washington at nose tackle, New England must deal and Ty Warren takes over for with a balanced offense led, 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Love kids? Mom needs help pick- Condo. 1434 Marigold Way #114.  2 Bedrooms for Rent, queen or 2  WANTED: GA home football tix.  Spring break 2005 Challenge .. find  
ing up children at area Catholic  Large 1 bedroom w/garage,perfect  singles, Immediately next to the  Call276-8507. After 5 p.m. call784­ a better price!  
NOTICES  schools and taking them to activities  condition, most appliances stay.  University, Available home football  8638.  Lowest price specials!  
between 3:00-6:00p.m. Mon-Fri.  Open House Sun. 9/12,2-4pm. Near  game weekends, 1 or 2 nights,  Free Meals!  
Great kids daughters ages 11 and  entrance of North Shore Condo  $80/nighVperson, Call 272-0928  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  November 6th deadline!  
Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart·  14. Schools and home close to ND  s on right. $73,000. Call Reed 276­ NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND  Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash!  
ment. 1909 Lincolnway West  and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill at  4131.  BED & BREAKFAST Football  FOOTBALL GAME.  www.sunsplashtours.com  
$450/month. 246-4634  272-5013.  weekends for ND parents. Two  CALL 674-6593.  1800-426-7710  
1613 McKinley-GREAT 3bdrm  nights minimum. 10 min. from cam­ 
91 HondaAccordEX  Love kids? Mom needs help pick- home with fenced yard & garage  pus. 272-5640.  Need BC GA tix. Will be used not  Madness.  
4DSedan/1 03500M  ing up children at area Catholic  near ND. Freshly painted,some new  resold.  
NewMuffler&Battery $2400/0BO  schools and taking them to activities  carpet, move right in. ALL appli­ 269-684-6102.  Gilloon, you're killing me.  
3861352  between 3:00-6:00p.m. Mon-Fri.  ances including W/D. $80,900.  TICKETS  
Great kids daughters ages 11 and  
 Need BC GA tix. Will be used not  Dillon Pep Rally, tonight, 7 p.m.,  
14. Schools and home close to ND  Open House 9·12·04 from 2-4pm.  A businessman needs season tick- resold.  South Quad.  
WANTED  and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013.  Home Gallery Realtors, Michelle Becker 574-235-3544.  ets for clients. 277-1659  269-684-6102.  Gilloon is from Omaha.  
Need WA tix. Will trade PU or BC.  
SOCCER REFEREES • needed for  Nanny needed 1-2 days a week  HOUSE FOR SALE 915 E.  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  57 4-634-3082.  Ph illy.  
south side elementary school local·  12:00·8:00pm. Must have own  Washington Close to campus; 3  PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­ 
ed near Erskine Golf Course on  transportation. Call for interview  bdrm 1.5 bath & lots of closets/stor­ 3911  Buy/Sell ND football tix. Home &  Haven't met him.  
Miami Street. $30 per soccer game.  651-3633.  age, 2 car garage. 289-5922.  away games,including Mich.SI.&  
Call574·291-4200.  For Sale: ND football tix. Good  Tenn.  He's bald and he walks around with  
Looking for a playful, kind & respon­ prices.  57 4-289-8048.  a beard all the time.  
Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886­4189  sible person for occasional babysit-ling of my 2 children (7&3yrs).Call  FoR RENT  232-0964.  Jack's calling and Joe is flipping.  
Jill at 288-7118.  For Sale: ND football tix. Good  PERSONAL  
 
LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club  Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart- prices.  Carmelo Anthony walks every time  
LaSalle are hiring for the following  Kaplan needs PT student advisors ..  ment. 1909 Lincolnway West  232-0964.  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  he touches the ball.  
postions: Cocktail Server (Must be  Flexible times. $7/hr. By Turtle  $450/month. 246-4634  Americas  
over 21) Main Dining Room Server  Creek Apts. Call 272-4135 for info.  Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$  #1 Student Tour Operator.  Gilloon touches the ball.  
(Must be 21) Flexible Hours avail­ 2 bedroom apartment for rent.  251-1570.  Hiring campus reps.  
able. Please pick up applications at  $525/month. Students welcome!  Call for group discounts.  He agrees.  
115 West Colfax Avenue, any time after 2:00PM  FoR SALE  1909 Lincolnway West. 246-4634  ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232·2378 p.m. 288-2726  Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com.  Ahhhhhhhhhhh.  


----~-----~-­
Thursday, September 9, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Twenty-fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Campus Ministry 
Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800 ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
s=a,_,t,__,u'--'-r-=dc=a'+y_,o~9.'-'-1_,_1 __,sunday 09.12 rcont) 
Mass 30 Minutes after Game Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Mass 45 Minutes after Game Stepan Center 
sunday o9. 12 
Mass 8:00am, 10:00am & 11:45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Info Session #2 1 :00-2:00pm Coleman Morse Room 330 
Catholicism 101: A "How To" of the Catholic Mass for Protestant Students 2:00-4:00pm Coleman-Morse Chapel 
Eucharistic Ministers Workshop 3:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


special events 

mass schedule 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday 
Vigil Mass 
30 minutes after game Msgr. Kevin Ko~telnik 
Stepan Center 
Vigil Mass 
45 minutes after game 
Rev. Robert A. Dowd, esc 

Sunday's Scripture Reacijf&S 
Lector Workshop 8:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
monday o9. 13 
Sign-up starts for Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #82 114 Coleman Morse 
tuesday o9. 14 
Muslim Student Assoc. Welcome Social 6:00-8:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Our Lady of Sorrows Candle Light Procession 11 :OOpm Starting at the Log Chapel 
wednesday o9.15 
/Four:7/ 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Sunday 
8:00a.m. Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, esc 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, esc 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, esc 

1st: Exodus 32:7-11, 13-14 
considerations... 
Many Faces, New and Old • 
by Father Kevin Russeau, CSC Director of Old College tt Associate Director of Vocations 
Some of the joys and challenges of moving i.nto, or back to, college are the faces that we run into. It is joyful, of course, to see old faces that we recognize-these faces know our names, are quick to say hello, and are interested in catching up with us and finding out what happened during the summer months. A challenge, for many, is running into so many new faces and wondering who everyone is and when/if we'll get to know them. 
Just this past month, the Congregation of Holy Cross celebrated old faces. Two of our brothers, who have been with us for six years of formation in the seminary, professed their final vows and were ordained deacons! Also this past month, Moreau Seminary and Old College celebrate new faces who begin their journeys in the seminary and try to answer God's call as best they know how. It is exciting to have so many new faces to get to know and exciting to watch them grow. 
There will be ot]ler faces in the future-faces who have and those which have not yet thought about a vocation to become a priest or brother in Holy Cross. Whether this is new or familiar to you, let me invite you to our annual celebration of Corby Night! This is a chance to pray, have pizza, and socialize with priests and brothers of Holy Cross. On Tuesday September 21'1 a short night prayer begins at 8:45pm in the chapel of Corby Hall. There will faces in this chapel that you know and some that you won't. Some of these faces belong to friends, section mates, m; the kid sitting across the room in class. Walk over with your rector, walk over with a friend, or come on your own-you're most welcome and we look forward to getting to know your face! 
candidates 

Paul Ybarra Kevin Grove William Heckler Michael Lewis 

Jerry Olinger Benjamin Rossi Robert Sullivan Seth Ufheil 
old college 

Brian Boyd Brian Ching Robert Hadley Corey Mehlos 
Around Campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m.  5:00 p.m.  7:00 p.m.  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  MBA Mass  
St. Edward's  Law School Commons  Mendoza COB  
Hall Chapel  Faculty Lounge  
2nd:  1  Timothy 1:12-17  Gospel:  Luke  15:1-32  

page 16 Thursday, September 9, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Eagles extend Reid's contract through 2010 
Signs contract for four years, 
$4.2 million 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA-Andy Heid sold hot dogs to supplement his income as an assistant coach at San Francisco State 20 years ago. 
Hcid can afford to buy out that hot dog vendor now. The coach received a four-year 
contract extension from  the  
Philadelphia  Eagles  on  
Wednesday that will  
take him through  


important decisions was unpopu­lar at the time, but turned out to be a brilliant move. He selected quarterback Donovan McNabb with the second overall pick of the '99 draft -Eagles fans wanted recently retired running back Ricky Williams. 
McNabb quickly developed into one of the best quarterbacks in the league. 
"It's exciting to know he will be here," McNabb said. 
The Eagles finished 5-11 in Heid's first season. But they quickly turned it around, going 11-5 and winning a playoff game in 2000. They began a streak of three consecutive NFC East titles 
in 2001.  
"Nobody could  be  more  
deserving,"  Lurie  
said.  "It  was  

the 2010 season. tough even get­
"Andy [Reid] has 
Heid, entering his ting him to attend 
been a terrific
sixth season in this news confer­Philadelphia. has leader.,, ence. It's just not led the Eagles to his thing in terms three consecutive of talking about
Jeffrey Lurie
NFC championship himself. This 
Eagles Owner
games. but no man has led this 
Super Bowls. He is in the third year of a $15 million, six-year contract signed in June 2001. 
Heid's extension reportedly is worth more than $4.2 million per season. 
'Tm very humbled," said Reid. who was given the title of execu­tive vice president of football operations in 2001. ''I'm a firm believer that it's not one person. but I'm fortunate to have great coaches and surrounding staff. Everybody has a part of this." 
Heid's .638 winning percentage in the regular season (51-29) and his five playoff victories are the best in team history. He's just the third coach in franchise history to last more than five seasons, joining Greasy Neale (1941-50) and Dick Vermeil (1976-82). 
"You must have leadership from the top," Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said. "Andy has been a terrific leader. He under­stands the salary cap, under­stands making very difficult and unpopular decisions for the bet­terment of the franchise." 
Reid, 46, joined the Eagles in 1999 as a little-known assistant who worked under Mike Holmgren for seven seasons in Green Bay. He took over a team coming off a 3-13 season that was considered a laughingstock in the NFL. 
One of Heid's first and most 
franchise in a 

spectacular way over the last several years and will be doing so for the next sev­eral years." 
Reid earned the NFL Coach of the Year award in 2002 after leading the Eagles to a 12-4 record, despite losing McNabb for the regular season after the 10th game and backup quarter­back Koy Detmer the following week. 
But the Eagles lost the NFC title game 27-10 to Tampa Bay in the final football game at Veterans Stadium. 
Reid again led the Eagles to a 12-4 record last season, despite numerous injuries, including ones that forced three Pro Bowl members of the secondary to miss a total of 21 games. But the Eagles again couldn't take advantage of playing the NFC title game at home, losing 14-3 to the Carolina Panthers. 
Reid and team president Joe Banner said there was no urgency to sign an extension. 
A former offensive lineman at Brigham Young, Heid began his coaching career at his alma mater in 1982. He coached the offensive line and was offensive coordinator at San Francisco State from 1983-85 and worked at Northern Arizona. Texas-El Paso and Missouri before joining the Packers in 1992. 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dan1e freshman students interested in· the sUident athletic training program. The tneeting will be held on Monday, September 13, at 4:15p.m. in the .Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 

THE BIG GAME IS ONLY 
2 DAYS A"W"AY.. 
WE &BE RJD 
Don't look like a 
Michigan fan in blue & yellow. 

Be a proud member of the 
Irish Sea of Green... Wear ~~The S h i r t '' 2 0 0 4 ! 

.=-··:·.·. 
...-----------------­
Thursday, September 9, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Bill's McGahee relegated to backup role behind Henry 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, -Travis Henry will be the Buffalo Bills starter on opening day, leaving Willis McGahee to settle for playing backup. 
McGahee said Wednesday he can live with the role, but he doesn't have to like it. 
"That's their decision, it ain't mine," McGahee said after practice. "That's all I can say about that. I'm not worried about it. My time will come. Only one person can start and unfortunately he's the one that's 

NO 

starting." 
And it's not enough that McGahee will get playing time in third-down situations. 
"What, third down?" McGahee said. "Nothing's good enough for now. But you know, you always strive to be better, and that's what I'm going to do." 
It came as no surprise when coach Mike Mularkey announced he's sticking with Henry, the incumbent, heading into the team's opener against Jacksonville on Sunday. 
"Travis is the starting running back," Mularkey said. "If he needs a blow, Willis is there in the wings and, hopefully, there's not a dropoff in level of play." 
That's nothing different from what the rookie coach has been saying sin.ce the team's first minicamp last March. 
And the decision settles for now, at least, a potentially con­tentious issue after both Henry and McGahee expressed reser­vations about playing a second­ary role. 
Henry, coming off his second straight 1,300-yard rushing season, has previously said he expects one of the two to be traded after this year. 
McGahee is the Bills' first­round pick in the 2003 draft. He missed all of last year re~:;over­ing from a severe left knee injury. Last month, The Associated Press cited a source close to the player in reporting McGahee asked to be traded if he wouldn't be the starter on opening day. 
The Bills have denied that report. And the team has main­tained it has no intention of trading either player this year. 
"I don't want to be no back­

{THArS WHAT YOUR 'FIRST CAR IS FOR) 
Dependable service. Simple plans. That's what we're for., 

/mo 
Camera
(for the first 6 months, 
Phone 
$39.95 thereafter) 
Call and Text Plan • 1 000 Anytime Minutes 
• 
Unlimited Call Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FREE for 2 months 


Ask about Nights & Weekends starting at 7 p.m. 
~US. Cellular 
Limited time offer. 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Airtime and text messaging offer volid on two-year consumer service agreements of $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months of a 2 year contract Unlimtted Gall Me Minutes are only available in the local calling area and are not deducted from packaged minutes. 3000 Nights and Weekends are available in the local calling area for $4.95 per month. 'Text messaging 250 package is $5.95 thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing message beyond 250. Must call to cancel. Offers may expire n you change your calling plan. All service agreements subject to an early tennination fee. Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Umtted time offer. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges and taxes may apply, 1nclud1ng aFederal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. Customer is responsible for all sales taxes. ©2004 U.S. Cellular Corporation · 
up," McGahee said Wednesday. "But you know, they're paying me. They're paying me a good salary. So to be a backup, I'll be a backup." 
McGahee is coming off a promising preseason in which he led the team with 167 yards rushing and three touchdowns. He also started the final two preseason games, filling in after Henry bruised his ribs. 
It was McGahee's first action since he was hurt in his final college game at Miami, the Hurricanes' loss to Ohio State in the 2003 national champi­onship. 
Mularkey said he's seen the player improve with each game. Mularkey also noted McGahee has been tentative at times, something expected from some­one who's been out for such a long period. 
Henry said he's healthy to start and never doubted he'd lose his job. He added it's time to put any hurt feelings aside to concentrate on the season. 
"This is what it's about, it's about team. It ain't about us," Henry said. "''m just worried about Jacksonville. Anything else, I can't control. I can't con­trol who's going to be happy, who isn't going to be happy. I control what I do Sunday." 
The Bills listed two players as out: starting safety Lawyer Milloy, who could miss the first two games after breaking his right forearm last month; and rookie QB J.P. Losman, expect­ed to miss the first half of the season with a broken left leg. 
HOCKEY 
Canada defeats Slovakia 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -Jarome Iginla had two goals and an assist to lead Canada into the World Cup of Hockey semifinals with a 5-0 victory over Slovakia on Wednesday night. 
Vincent Lecavalier, Ryan Smyth and Joe Sakic also scored for Canada, which will play the Czech Republic in Toronto on Saturday night in one semifinal. 
The United States plays Finland on Friday night in St. Paul, Minn., in the other semifi­nal. 
Canada has dominated the tournament, going 4-0 while outscoring its opponents 15-3. "This was our first real test in a do-or-die game and I think we responded real well," goal· tender Martin Brodeur said. 
Brodeur, arguably the best goaltender in the world, was barely tested, finishing with 23 saves for his first shutout of the tournament. 
Slovakia couldn't contain Canada's top line of Iginla, Sakic and captain Mario Lemieux, who were on the ice for three goals. 
"They're very easy guys to play with," Iginla said. 
Lecavalier scored the first of four second-period goals on a power play at 2:28. 
page 18 Thursday, September 9, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Miami acquires RB in trade with St. Louis 
Dolphins put hopes on Gordon to replace retired star Williams 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. -The Miami Dolphins may have found a replacement for retired running back Ricky Williams. 
The Dolphins acquired Lamar Gordon from the St. Louis Rams on Wednesday in exchange for a third-round draft pick in 2005. 
The 6-foot-1, 228-pound Gordon passed a physical and was expected to practice with the team Thursday. He was not made available for interviews. 
"He is a big back with excel­lent speed, very good vision and some big-play capability. He also has good hands coming out 
of the back­field," Dolphins general manager H i c k Spielman said. 
Gordon was the third-string. back in St. Louis behind Marshall Faulk and first-round pick Steven 
ed this week to have Travis Minor, Sammy Morris and Leonard Henry share snaps in Sunday's season opener against Tennessee. The trio combined for 59 carries for 152 yards (2.6 yards per carry) during the pre­season behind an oft-maligned offensive line. 
Wannstedt said he didn't expect Gordon to do much in the opener. 
"The only thing that gives us a maybe chance is that he's coming from a very similar sys­tem that we run," Wannstedt said. "We'll have to find out and make a quick decision. But I'm not counting on it. ... This is the team we're going to line up with." 
Gordon missed most of the preseason after having surgery to remove bone chips from his left ankle. The Rams featured him in the preseason finale, and 

"The only thing that gives us a maybe chance is that he's coming from a very similar system that we run. We'll have to find out and make a quick decision. " 
Dave Wannstedt Dolphins Head Coach 
Jackson. But he certainly will move up the depth chart in Miami, where the Dolphins have struggled to replace Williams since he abruptly retired a week before training camp. 
"He's a real good runner, and whenever he got in the game he was always successful," said Dolphins right tackle John St. Clair, who played with Gordon in St. Louis. "He's got size on him, but at the same time he's quick and can hit the holes hard. I have nothing but good to say about him. He's a good addition. He's a hard worker and he never complains." 
Coach Dave Wannstedt decid­he gained 77 yards on 22 car­ries and scored a touchdown. 
"It always makes you nerv­ous when you have a talent like that that you move on," Rams coach Mike Martz said. "Nonetheless, I'm excited for him, too." 
The Dolphins liked Gordon 

coming out of North Dakota State in 2002, but were unwill­ing to invest a high draft choice after trading with New Orleans for Williams earlier that year. The Rams drafted Gordon in the third round. 
He ran 136 times for 526 yards and two touchdowns the past two seasons, getting QJ.ost of his playing time when Faulk was injured. 
"He's not a guy who's going to run away from a hit," said Dolphins defensive tackle Jeff Zgonina, who also played with Gordon in St. Louis. 
"He wouldn't run out of bounds. He would run into you. He's a tough back." 
r.------------------------~ 
LUNKER'S 
HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION OF 
NORTH FACE 
JACKETS, COATS, HATS, CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER'S AND RECEIVE 10/o OFF NoRTH fACE ITEMS. 
LUNKER's 
APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 
269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
~------------------------~ 
DID YOU COMPETE IN POLICY DEBATE IN HIGH SCHOOL? NOTRE DAME IS STARTING A POLICY DEBATE TEAM THIS YEAR! 
Students with experience are highly encouraged to join the team! We will be travelling to a variety oftournaments like Kentucky, Wake Forest and Berkeley. The schedule is flexible and the team will make accomodations based on the needs ofthe students. 
This year's topic is 
RESOLVED: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
SHOULD ESTABLISH AN ENERGY POLICY REQUIRING A 
SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION IN THE TOTAL 
NON-GOVERNMENTAL CONSUMPTION OF FOSSIL FUELS IN 
THE UNITED STATES. 
It is an exciting year for Notre Dame debate, join us! You can contact Kiley Kane at kkane2@nd.edu for more information. 
•........................•............•......•...................... 
.Ioin •he Pos-t 

•••••.......•••.••••••••.•.•..•.•.....•.....•..................•.... 

Following Rudy on the North Quad, enjoy music and sample free food (while it lasts!) from Legends of Notre Dame 
September 10 LaFortune Patio starting at 10:30 p.m. 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office and Legends of Notre Dame 

Thursday, September 9, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Associated Press 
DENVER-Mike Shanahan built his reputation on offense. 
As offensive coordinator in San Francisco and now head coach in Denvur, Shanahan's offensive schemes earned him monikers such as genius and mastermind. 
Well, now the professor has gone back to the lab. 
Taking cues from successful Super Bowl teams in New England and Baltimore, Shanahan has retooled the Broncos with a defense first, offense second mentality. 
"You have to make the judg­ment: What's the best thing for your football team?" Shanahan said. "If you take a look at over the past 15 years and you take a look at all the Super Bowl champs, there's one thing that's common, and that's how many points a team gives up in a year. If you don't have a defense that ranks in the top five in points given up, you don't win Super Bowls. That's just the bottom line." 
J 

The trigger for change came during last year's playoffs. 
touchdowns by halftime and fin­ishing the game with a perfect passer rating. The Broncos were so befuddled that three players stood around as Marvin Harrison caught a pass. casually got up without being touched and ran for a touchdown. 
"We talked among ourselves 
and we can't 
have another one 
The Broncos finished the reg­ "It's difficult to match  like that," defen­sive coordinator  
ular season with the league's fourth-best  Champ Bailey with any other guy. There  Larry Coyer said. "And we think we have the kind of  
defense,  but  are only two or three  people that won't  
weren't any­where near as talented as the numbers indi­ other guys in this league that have that kind ofskill. "  let that happen again." They might be right.  
cated.  That  Denver's first  
became evident against Indianapolis in the first round of  Larry Coyer Broncos defensive coordinator  offseason priority was to fmd a cor­nerback who could take the  
the playoffs.  opposition's best  
Colts quarter- receiver  out of  
back  Peyton  the game. Champ  

Manning picked apart Denver Bailey was that player, but he from the start, throwing for came with a steep price. more than 300 yards and four To get Bailey, one of the 

MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND
efjy PREMIER 51.4 W. McKinley 117 Nor1h Main Caner Md:.inley & Grape 1 blk. sotiih of Cclfox
* LOCATIONS* 

574.252.5820 574.288.9450 
.46 15 Micrni Rood 
Miami & loolond
1<us.Cellulm: 
AUTIIGIIIZ(D ACIIIIT 574.299.2860 

league's best cover cornerbacks, the Broncos had to give up Clinton Portis. 
The shifty third-year running back was one of Denver's best players, rushing for more than 1,500 yards his first two sea­sons. But Portis wanted to rework his contract, so the Broncos shipped him to Washington in a blockbuster deal. 
The Broncos' hope is to plug 

another running back in Portis' place -they've had suc­cess there before ­and that Bailey, a four-time Pro Bowler, can be a dif­ference -maker in the secondary. 
"It's difficult to match Champ Bailey with any other guy," Coyer said. "There are only two or three other guys in this league that have that kind of skill." 
But Denver's 

"If you don't have a the presea­son, is out for
defense that ranks in 
the year with

the top five in points a torn groin. 
given up, you don't Rookie Tatum Bell has
win Super Bowls. 
shown signs

That's just the bottom 
of becoming

line." Denver's next star running back, but he's
Mike Shanahan 
still trying to 

Denver head coach 
catch up after 

transformation didn't stop with Bailey. 
The Broncos added five-time Pro Bowl safety John Lynch, who signed after 11 seasons as the leader of Tampa Bay's defense. Denver also picked up veteran linemen Luther Elliss, Marco Coleman and Raylee Johnson to play next to Trevor Pryce, one of the league's most difficult play­ers to block, and used their first­round draft pick on Miami line­backer D.J. Williams. 
"I think we have the talent to win the Super Bowl this year ­with defense," cornerback Lenny Walls said. 
Of course, they'll need at least some offense to do that. And for the first time in the 10 years since Shanahan took over as coach, there are more questions on offense than defense. 
Quarterback Jak.e Plummer had a solid first season when he was healthy and the offensive line still remains one of the league's best. The questions come at the skill positions. 
Quentin Griffin will start the season as Portis' replacement, but durability could be a factor for the 5-foot-8, 195-pounder who relies on quickness to avoid big hits. Mike Anderson, who lost weight and had a great start to 
holding out 
and breaking 

his finger early in training camp. 
At receiver, steady Rod Smith has become mostly a possession receiver and will need help to keep defenses from keying on him. Ashley Lelie, a first-round pick two years ago, was sup­posed to be the player to stretch defenses, but he hasn't shown the consistency the Broncos would like and could lose his starting spot to impressive rook­ie Darius Watts. 
Tight end could be the biggest hole to fill. 
Shannon Sharpe retired and Denver signed veterans Byron Chamberlain and Jed Weaver in hopes of filling Sharpe's spot, but they didn't make the final cut, leaving Dwayne Carswell, Jeb Putzi~r. Patrick Hape and long­snapper Mike Leach. 



OUND THE NATION 
Page 20 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVUts Wllli SERVICES Thursday, September 9, 2004 
team 
New York 
80$1011 
Baltimore 
Tampa Bay 
Toronto 
Minnesota 
Chicago 
Cleveland 
Detroit 
KansnCity 
team record Oakland 81-5& Anaheim 79·59· Tel&S 75-63 seattle 51·87 
team 
AUanta 
Aorlda Philadelphia 
New York Montreal 
team st. LOUIS 
Hanston Chicago ClncJnnatl Pittsburgh 

l't'lflwaukeu N:alt;~::::,;i~J~~~~·i~~~~~~~~~·ij!JJ)iJ!ii~~i!l~;ji;:········ 
team record Lot Angstes 80-5& San FnltlGlsco ,71-64 San Diego 74-65 Colorado 60·78 Arlxnna 42-97 


around the dial 
NFL 

Indianapolis at New England 9:00 p.m., ABC 
GoLF 

Bell Canadian Open 3 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Missouri vs Troy 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press has had a long distin­was traded to the Bulls in Piatkowski joins Chicago guished career, but can August as part of a deal after one season in
HOUSTON -Hoping to 
still contribute on a nightly that sent Jamal Crawford Houston. He averaged 4.1
find the rugged low post 
basis," and Jerome Williams to points in 14.3 minutes, but
presence they've been 
An eight-time All-Star the Knicks. will be counted on for hissorely lacking, the Houston and four-time defensive Mutombo, 38, will be the 3-point shooting with theRockets acquired veteran 
player of the year, primary backup for All­Bulls. The 6-6 guard hascenter Dikembe Mutombo Mutombo has averaged Star center Yao Ming and shot 44 percent from. the in a trade with the Chicago 11.7 points, 11.7 rebounds give the Rockets their first field over his 10-yearBulls on Wednesday. 
and 3.22 blocked shots in true defensive stopper career, including 40 per­The Rockets sent reserve 13 seasons with New York, since Olajuwon was on the cent from behind the arc.
guards Adrian Griffin, Eric 
New Jersey, Philadelphia, team in the mid-90s. Griffin missed 59 games
Piatkowski and Mike Wilks to the Bulls. Atlanta and Denver. He is Nagging injuries and last season with a sore 
"With the addition of fourth in NBA history with advancing age have slowed right knee, playing in only Dikembe, we have bol­2,996 blocks, trailing only Mutombo in recent years, 19 games for Houston. stered our interior defense Hakeem Olajuwon, however, and he averaged Wilks played in only 26 and rebounding," Rockets Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and only 6.7 rebounds and 5.6 games with the Rockets general manager Carroll Mark Eaton. points with the Knicks last last season, averaging 1.9 Dawson said. "Dikembe The 7-foot-2 Mutombo season. points a game. 
IN BRIEF 

Davenport makes quick a break point while extending her Lageschulte, who lives in Florida. work of Asagoe winning streak to 22 matches. had been seeking local ownership of 
NEW YORK-Lindsay Davenport is Next door, only about a dozen spec­the team. two victories from a second U.S. tators were on hand while No. 5 Tim "There's been a lot of talk the past Open title and the No. 1 ranking. Henman and No. 22 Dominik Hrbaty few weeks and a lot of interest, but 
After waiting out a day of rain. warmed up for their quarterfinal. we were just never able to find a Davenport beat Shinobu Asagoe of The biggest showdown of the day, local owner unfortunately. Arena between two-time champion Andre
Japan 6-1, 6-1 in just 46 minutes football is leaving Indianapolis," he Wednesday to reach the Open's semi­Agassi and No. 1 Roger Federer, said. finals in a match that began with began with only about a third of the 
Lageschulte estimated the team's about 100 people in the stands at 23,239 seats filled by fans with losses in his two years of ownership 9,645-capacity Louis Armstrong parkas, hats and umbrellas. 
at "several million" dollars. 
Stadium. 

"It's a great sport. and I love it, butThey were supposed to start at 11 Indiana Firebirds arena it just didn't work out," he said. 
a.m. in Arthur Ashe Stadium, but football team folds 
Firebirds General Manager Johnsteady showers delayed the begin­INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Firebirds Kolner said the league told him it is
ning until 7:29 p.m. That forced owner Dave Lageschulte said 
extending the deadline for a potentialorganizers to shift the schedule, with Wednesday that the Arena Football buyer to Sept. 20. However, sincefour quarterfinals -two men's and League team has been shut down Lageschulte is ceasing operation oftwo women's -in action simultane­after four years in the city. 
Lags Football, LLC, which ran the
ously around the National Tennis Lageschulte purchased the 
Center. Firebirds in 2002 from Glenn Mazula, team, only the rights to the team are Davenport won the first four games who had owned the team since its for sale. of the match, then went ahead 3-0 in inception in 1990 in Albany, N.Y. "The team has ceased operations the second set. She finished with a Mazula moved the team to and the staff is no longer employed," 16-3 edge in winners and never faced Indianapolis in 2001. Kolner said. 
Thursday, September 9, 2004 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 
production as any other player. but there was a lot of different "You are never going to be factors . as to why we
Pro-style 
able to win games if you can't didn't get the ball down the­
run the ball," he said. "The run field more," he said.
continued from page 24 
game is imperative to the "Individually, I didn't make starts on the ground. offense in the sense that if you plays. I think at times I tried to 
"I think the biggest overall can't run the ball ... that makes force things when we needed a disappointment coming from it easier on a defense and [then big spark or big play." there [was] ... we did not run they] send any blitzes they Diedrick thought Quinn threw the football effectively," want. No matter what protec­of many of the passes he did Diedrick said. "And anytime a tion we run, it's not the right because of defensive pressure. team can make you one-dimen­one." "When you look at the possi­sional. you're going to strug­The lack of a running game bilities of what was developing gle." affected the passing game. The downfield, that's one thing," 
Despite being in the third line struggled to pick up blitz Diedrick said. "But then you year of learning the offense and packages, as well. Quinn com­come back and look at the playing together last season, pleted 26-of-47 passes, but pressure [Quinn] is avoiding ... the offensive line could not many of the completions were you don't have as good a shot. I open holes against the Cougar check-off throws that did not think sometimes when you got defense. get the Irish to the necessary a guy screaming in your face 
Running back Ryan Grant did spot to move the chains. you might miss something ... not play Saturday due to a Quinn said he had many and I think there were a num­hamstring injury, but Grant receivers open downfield. ber of those times. He had the was .as upset about the lack of "We found open receivers, opportunity to go downfield, 
but because someone got beat or we missed an assignment up front, it didn't allow us to exe­cute or get to that part of the play." 
In 2002, head coach Tyrone Willingham brought an offense from his previous job at Stanford to revamp a Notre Dame attack that had amassed 
289.7 yards the previous sea­son. 
On Saturday in Provo, Notre Dame gained 276 yards, and everyone -players and coaches -is searching for answers. 
Grant believes the line and the running backs have to step up. 
"Absolutely everybody on this team knows the offense," Grant said. "It's not a matter of termi­nology, we ha.Ye to execute and get the job done. We need as a backfield to run harder, recog­
Running back Marcus Wilson cuts right on a running play nize things faster and as a line against BYU. The Irish gained 11 total rushing yards Saturday. get more push. It's just a will to 

IBM ThinkPad R51-BTS2004 IBM ThinkPad 141-BTS2004
IBM+ND 
FACULJY. STAFF. STUDENT RATES 
1.5GH• Pentium® M wltn lntegrotec:1802.11blg 1.5GHz PentiumA M with Integrated 802.t1afbiQ Wlndows XP Pro Wireless N.etworklng Wlnd()~$·XP Prp · Wire~-.s& Ne1;wcuicing 
14.1 inch screen 56Kbs Modem 14.1 inch $Q."QQn 56KbsModem 40GB Hare:! Drive ~themet NIC 30GB HOrc:I_DrivB Ethernet NIC 256MB DDA SDRAM 3-ye&f werrenty 512MB ODR SDAAM_. 3·year·warranty CO-RW/DVD Combo Drive CD·RW/DVD Combo Driv" 
$1.649.00 $1.934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories (Discounted Prices Rollocledj 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash Drive $55.00 73P3S99 $39.95 01 Nl575 $314.00 73P~~~ $49.95 D8K02t4. 
Tho featured models include: 3Year Parts & Labor Warranty (Battery: 1 Year), 24 HourToll-FreeTechnical Support, Rapid 
Restore Rescue and Recovery Software, Norton AntiVirus 2004 (OEM Edition), Internet Scroll Bar, 
Spill-Resistant Keyboard, Touchpad and Trackpoint, Hard Drive Shock Absorber. 

get the job done. Things we've done in the fall and spring, [we need to] do it during the game." 
The team consistently says that the way the offense played against BYU does not show the true mettle of their off-season progress. 
"Just watching the [other teams'] games before our game, the offenses ... are able to execute," wide receiver Carlyle Holiday said. "We have playmakers on this team and [we] have talent. When we aren't executing and putting up the points we expect to, that hurts. Sometimes there's no reason or no excuse. Despite players' claiming they 
Lotta 
continued from page 24 
Lotta has had a successful golf career at Notre Dame. She has six top-five finishes and nine top­10 fmishes in NCAA events, and she has been named to the All­Big East team the past two years. 
The most experienced member of this year's team, Lotta cur­rently ranks fourth all-time at Notre Dame for lowest scoring average and is tied for eighth all time in rounds counting towards the team score. If Saturday and Sunday were any indication, she can improve her standing in both categories by the end of the year. 
But despite her personal achievements, Lotta remains committed to team success. In her estimation, her play serves as a means to a team-oriented end. 
"My goals are more along with team goals," Lotta said. "I just hope the team does well, that'd be a good way to end [my career]. We have a better chance to go to regionals, even to go to the NCAA [finals] this year." 
With all the core players from last year's squad, which was the best in school history and the first to ever qualify for the NCAA Regionals, Lotta and her team­mates have a chance to accom-all understand the pro-style offense, the question remains whether the personnel has not fully grasped the offensive sys­tem. With Michigan two days away, and an offense that has shown no improvement, answers will come sooner than later. 


"I think the question ... is with the kids inside," Diedrick said. "Do they have that con­cern [of not understanding the offense]? Do they have that question mark? If they do, we're in trouble." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
plish those goals and more. 
Many golfers, including Lotta, have the goal of not only qualify­ing for the NCAA Regionals but also for the NCAA finals in Sunriver, Ore. 
With Lotta competing for a spot on the golf course every week, the team's chances are much improved. She was a three sport star in high school, becom­ing an all-conference player in both softball and tennis at Marymount High School in Los Angeles. 
Golf was the last sport the Lotta picked up at the age of 15, and it is now the game she loves. 
"The more competition, the more fun, because it puts pres­sure on us, and when we play better, it's more satisfaction," she said. "We're definitely a better team [than we were last year], and it's more fun for us to go into a competitive field and play bet­ter than win in an easier field." 
Despite her competitive atti­tude, Lotta is by no means the somber member of the team. In fact, Lotta may be the glue that holds this team together, the rea­son that the team has such a strong chemistry. She is a respected member of team entrusted with the mighty goal of keeping golf fun. 
"She's the team clown," says King. "She keeps things light­hearted, and we really rely on her for that." 
Moreover, Lotta sees it as her personal mission to keep the mood cheerful both in the locker room and on the links. 
''I'm more of the jokester of the team," she said. "I just try to make people laugh and keep the good spirit of team together." 
With Karen Lotta on the team, they might just laugh all the way to the NCAA Finals. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Thursday, September 9, 2004

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
said, reflecting upon the posi­tion change. "I was just kind of
Stewart 
thrown into the position since continued from page 24 my sophomore year." 
Along with Goldthwaite and the leading scorer of the 2-0 Sawyer, the three captains are Irish. drilling a goal in both already leaving their marks on 
games this past weekend. this year's soccer team. 
"This is very unusual for me," "We all bring different atti­said the central defender, who tudes to the team," Stewart had scored two career goals said. ''I'm more of a soft-spo­before the start of the 2004 ken, laid-back, let's go have fun season. "It's kind of that I was type. I'm the one in the middle at the right place at the right of the huddle making jokes, and time." I've been doing that since I was 
Although he is expected to be a freshman." a candidate for an Ali­Being a 'team leader has Ameriean award and the forced him to subtly shift that IIerman Trophy for collegiate role. soecer's most valuable player, "I can still be the same guy, Stewart but I kind of have remains to have a positive
"Everyone knows 
unfazed by impact on the
Notre Dame as a
the attention younger kids and he and the football school. Why show them this is program are how it's done," he
not try to make it a
receiving. said. "We can 
soccer school?"
"I'm sup­have tons of fun posed to per­but you have to form at my Jack Stewart stay focused, work 100, 110 per­hard at whatever
Irish defender 
cent every comes their way." single game," Stewart vividly he said. "I couldn't do it without remembers the impact that "It's been a great experi­to the University before Clark al championship. [goalkeeper] Chris [Sawyer] older Irish teammates had on ence," he said. "Whatever hap­was named head coach, he "I can go without the other behind me and the guys next to him. pens this season, the senior knew the program was on the two if I can win a national me -the guys I go in the "[The older players] made me class that I've been here with rise. championship," he said. ''I'm trenches with every single day. believe we were going to put . .. we've been through hard Four years later, the defend­pretty sure that's Kevin and It's a tribute not to myself but Notre Dame on the map as a times, we've been through ing Big East champion Irish Chris's focus as well ... I'm to the entire Notre Dame soccer soccer school," he said. tough times, we've been enter the season with an all­going to do it for myself, my family." "Everyone knows Notre Dame through good times, and Coach time best preseason ranking of teammates, the program, but 
After the weekend's tourna­as a football school -why not Clark has been through thick ninth. most of all for Coach Clark." ment, assistant coach Brian try to make it a soccer school? and thin with us." However, there is still unfin­With the No Goal Patrol step­Wiese attributed the goals to It seemed like a fun challenge, Stewart attributes his success ished business for the young ping into the occasional offen­Stewart stepping into a leader's and the guys here ... they were to the hard work of his coaches, 2004 season. sive role, the Irish may have a role in that family. just excellent role models." but especially to Clark. "This season I expect to be a shot at making history -and 
"Jack's a free spirit and it Stewart and Goldthwaite -"Coach Clark has probably national champion," he said Stewart doesn't need a perma­shows on the field, I think," he who are not only teammates, formed me into l:he man I'm frankly. "I expect to win the Big nent marker to keep that goal said. "Both were huge goals, but roommates -and Sawyer going to become," he said. East [tournament and season in sight. and both goals were in the run are Clark's first class to finish "He'll settle you down and keep titles] ... I call it the treble actu­of play. meaning they weren't under his tutelage; his you level-headed." ally, when you win the league, Contact Kate Gales at on set pieces." "babies," as Stewart said. Although Stewart committed the tournament and the nation-kgales@nd.edu 


.-----------~~~ ~----­
Thursday, September 9, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 


''WI-!0 60ETH 
A BOOK OF
WHERE DO '<OU

'' BORROWERS ARE 
A BORROWING 
6ET T~AT STUFF 
QUOTATIONS ..

NEARL'< ALWA'<S 
60ET~ A 
MARCIE"? '

ILL· 5PENDE~5'' 
SORROWING'' 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Did you have a nice day? I baked cookies 
I got a·'t gold star 
b

J~~~'
1' :·:'
-~ I 
q . ., 
\"/HA-T MOM tv1AOE: Wl-l£N TH£: FIRST GRADER CAME l-OME: FROM C.LASS. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

GAVEL UNSOLD SUBDUE 
Answer: Drinking beer while playing picnic baseball can· lead to this -BASES "LOADED" 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 34 Slanting 61 Said "one club," 1 Testing centers 37 Last name in 
e.g. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jonathan Taylor Thomas, Pink, Patsy Cline, Peter Sellers
sharpshooting 62 Sung syllable
5 Connections 8 Large marine 38 "Simon says act 63 Congressional Happy Birthday: Changes are coming your way and, because of the hard work herbivore like a bird" mtg. you've put in, you should see good results this year. You have paid your dues 14 Yellow spread 42 Playwright who 
and you can now start to breathe easy. The amount of help you have offered others in the past will be acknowledged and favors will be granted. Your numbers are
coined the term DOWN

15 Short flight 4, 12, 18, 27, 36,45
"lothario" 16 State admitted 1 Lumbering 
during the Civil 43 Patch up problem ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't let things get to you even if you don't see War 
44 Orlando an easy out right now. Less will be better today, so keep your thoughts to
2 Enticement • 
Predators' grp. yourself. ** 
17 Eyesight impair-3 Appeared tri­
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't stop to question or to procrastinate. 
er 47 Pay off the 
umphant Accomplishment is the key today and it will impress everyone you meet **** 
mortgage on

19 Ready to be GE:MINI (May 21-June 20): Think back to your earliest aspirations and if you
4 Stock options? 
hung up, say 48 Milk source haven't maintained a similar course, do a little backtracking today. It's never
5 Breakfast chain, 
too late to make a change. *** 

20 "Simon says 49 Kind of lily for short 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may not like change, but today you must
pretend you're 
51 "Give me a 6 Like Bedouins be accepting. Good things will come if you are accommodating. *** 
on a trampoline" 
round of LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Not everything will be apparent at first. Don't jump
7 Florida coloniz­
22 "Give it !" applause" to conclusions, but bide your time and watch to see what others do. Money can 
ers, with "the" 
be made.***

23 Calamitous 55 Curmudgeon's 
8 Disparaging VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Love is all around, so don't miss out on having24 Mischief-maker greeting 
some fun. Getting involved in something that interests you will bring you in
9 Architect 
21 Club 57 Ballet featuring contact with someone who will influence your future. **** 
Saarinen
the evil magician LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You are being tom in too many directions, so stand
28 Seine feeder 
Von Rothbart 10 Acknowledge up for yourself before you reach your boiling point. Do what's best for you;!9 High-rise mem-11 Friday, for one and stop worrying. ** 
58 Respectful

ber SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The doors are opening and, if you get involved
12 Work with feet
59 Get into a stew? in something that draws you, all sorts of good things will develop. Travel for
30 "Simon says imi-35 School zone 41 Pacifistic 50 World book? 
13 Mouthful business or knowledge. *****
tate a soldier'' 60 Strong server warning 
44 French border SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): There is money to be made if you are
18 Studio shout 52 High-handed
36 Result of a region resourceful in your pursuits. You will instinctively know what will pay top
remark?
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 21 Eins + zwei 
house cleaning, dollar and how to go about getting your percentage. *** 
45 Some breakfast
25 Stalker deter-maybe CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Partnerships will play a major role in
cereals 53 Captain's aide 
rent something you are trying to do today. Don't be too picky --go after whoever
39 1947 film noir 46 Hens, e.g. 54 Figures can benefit you the most. *** starring Dennis 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Opportunities to get involved in a project that 28 Name on a is right up your alley will develop today. Interviews, meetings and
O'Keefe 48 Trifled (with) 55 Mailing ctr. 

wafer presentations should all be on your agenda. ***
40 Fast-food work-49 Aaron Brown's 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Be a little selfish today and do something that
29 Sorts er's equipment employer 56 Alley_ 
will make you feel good. Take a day off from your regular routine to do 30 Have a long something creative or with your lover. ***** face For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Birthday Baby: You are kind, just and sensitive toward others. You are bright, articulate and very practical, with a depth of character and plenty of love to
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
32 Direction oppo­give.
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
site sud Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 34 ''The Mod Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Squad" do solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 9, 2004 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

No pro-style progress 
Notre Dame's offense struggles as Willingham, Diedrick begin third season 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
The pro-style offense pro­claims balance. Against Brigham Young Saturday, the balance of offensive coordina­tor Bill Diedrick:s game plan never showed itself. 
The Irish rushed for just 11 yards on 21 carries and threw for 265 yards in a 20-17 loss. The term "pro-style" incorpo­rates concepts from NFL West Coast offenses -throwing high percentage passes and running the ball. 
"It's an offense pretty much like the pros run as far as try­ing to throw the ball and run it !the same amount]." running backs coach Buzz Preston said. "We've still got to find more consistency doing that. Once we become consistent. it's going to be a pleasure to watch." 
To achieve consistency, coaches know the offense 
see PRO-STYLE/page 21 


ND MEN'S SOCCER 
Stevvart plays like a captain 
Senior named Big East Defensive Player of the Week 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
For Jack Stewart, it's simple to keep his mind on his goals ­they're written underneath his jersey in permanent marker. 
Along with fellow defender Kevin Goldthwaite, the co-cap­tain of the men's soccer 'team takes time to scrawl the letters 
NGP  - "No Goal Patrol"  - 
across  his chest before each  
game.  

Stewart received Big East Defensive Player of the Week honors for shutting down the opposition's offense and scor­ing a few goals of his own, as well. The senior is currently 
see STEWART/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Lotta breaks course record 
Belles drop fourth 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Sometimes. the best thing an athlete can do is to take some time off. For Karen Lotta, this strategy seems to have worked. 
After a long season last year that began in September and ended in May, Lotta took almost a month away from competitive golf to rest. The break gave Lotta the chance to recapture the passion for competition that had drawn her into sports in the first place. 
"It definitely got me excited to play again," she said. "It got me ready to come back ... I was ready for [golfl to start, ready to compete again." 
Lotta was more than ready at the Notre Dame Women's Invitational this past Saturday. She finished the tournament tied for second place after shooting a 54-hole total of 221. In the weekend's final round on Sunday, she shot a 4-under-par 68, setting the Warren Golf Course record as well as a per­sonal best. 
"I felt like it was my day," Lotta said. "It was one of those days where everything goes right for you." 

During her round, the record book was the furthest thing from Lotta's mind. 
"I had no clue about [the course record]. I had no idea I was even close to it," she said. 
Ironically, Lotta's round couldn't count towards the team score. After no~ making the scoring lineup for the Irish, which consisted of the top five 
consecutive match 
qualifiers, Lotta was entered as an individual. 
"After qualifying, it lets you know how one day to the next makes a lot of difference in golf," head coach Debby King said. 
Beyond this past tournament, 
see LOTTA/page 21 

Karen Lotta shot a 4-under-par 68 during the Notre Dame 
evening. Given the opportuni­
Women's Invitational and set the Warren Golf Course record. 
ties, Kalamazoo capitalized and 
took early leads. 
Once again, junior Michelle Turley led the way for Saint Mary's. In four games, she reg­istered 15 kills and 44 total attacks. On defense, she had 15 digs and teammate Amanda David collected 10 on the night. Junior Shelly Bender also did her part with nine kills and 29 attacks, while David added 20 attacks of her own against Kalamazoo. 
However, the team's overall communication is still lacking. Earlier this week, captain Michelle Gary mentioned com­munication was a crucial area for the Belles to improve upon in order to have a successful season. 
Along with this, slow starts have plagued Saint Mary's. ln every game this year they have fallen behind after the first con­test. 
From here, the Belles must prepare themselves for the Saint 
see BELLES/page 22 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

Kalamazoo defeated Saint Mary's in four games Wednesday night to hand the Belles their fourth straight loss to begin a winless season. 
Falling behind two games to zero, the Belles found a way to win the third but still came up short in the end. 
Following Wednesday's game, the Belles are 0-4 this season and 0-3 in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's only lost the first game 34-32, but after losing 30­22 in the second game, their fate was all but sealed. As in previous games, the Belles began the match slowly and were unable to overcome the deficit. 
The Hornets outscored them in total attacks over the four games and had almost 20 more kills than the Belles on the 
U) NFL 
NFL 

WORLD CUP OF HOCKEY 
NFL 
NFL
w
1-
(.) 
Dolphins acguire 

Broncos makinft 
Canada 5 
Reid signs contract 
Patriots vs. Colts

z defense a priori y 
running bacl< 

Slovakia 0 
extensiOn 
The AFC powers open 

Denver looks to newly 
Miami traded a 2005 

Jarome Iginla scored two 
The Philadelphia Eagles 
the NFL regular season in
a: :3 

acquired cornerback Champ 
third-round pick to St. 

goals and an assist to lead 
extended the contract of 
a rematch of last year's

= 
Bailey and safety John 
Louis for Lamar Gordon, . 

Canada into the World Cup 
head coach Andy Reid 
AFC championship game. 
c cc 

Lynchse to improve a defense 
hoping to replace departed 

of Hockey semifinals. 
through 2010. The contract 
that struggled last season. 
star back Ricky Williams. 

will pay $4.2 million a year. 
D. ti 

page 19 
page 17 ­
page 14
page 18 

page 16
U) 






