
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 107 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17,2004 

Page nam.ed 2004 com.mencem.ent speaker 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News EJitor 
Univ1~rsity officials annouru:nd Tuesday that .I usliee Alan C. Page, a Minnesota Supreme Count .lust.il:e and graduate of the class of 11J(J7 will serve as the prinriple spnaknr during the University's 159th Commencement ceremony May 16. 
University President Father Edward Malloy said in a state­ment that Page was chosen because his ideals rennet the mission of the University. 
"We speak in our mission statement of Notre Dame creat­ing an environment that 'fos­ters the development in its stu­dents of those disciplined habits of mind, body and spir­it,"' Malloy said. "Few of our graduates belt.er epitomize these ideals than Alan Page." 
During tho ceremony, Page will be presented with an hon­orary doctor of humane letters degree, his second honorary degree from the University. Page received an honorary doc­tor of laws degree in 1993. 
Furthermore, the Notre 

Dame Alumni Association 
bestowed the Rev. Edward F. 
Sorin, C.S.C., Award on Page 
for distinguished service to the 
University in 1992 and was a 
member of the Notre Dame 'Law School Advisory Council from 1993 to 1999. "It is testimony to the tremendous respect we have 
see SPEAKER/page 8 

Irish leader Adams addresses campus 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
Senior Stall' Writer 
Sinn h~in lnadnr G1wry Adams lauded tlw roln of Irish America in the Northern Ireland peaee pnu:11ss but stressed the need for morn arenllmttml progross when lw addrnssnd a packnd and nnthu­siastie audienee in Washington llall Tw~sday night. 
"That's what it's about -it's accPlPrating the process of dmnge," Adams said. 
After an introduction by Christopher Fox, t.he dirm~tor of Notrn I>a me's Keough Institute for Irish Studies, Adams briclly out­linnd tho politieal situation in the North and tlw role of Sinn Fein, the political party seeking the rmmilkation of !roland. Under his lnadnrship, the party has entemd fruitful pnaee negotiations with the British and has achieved inernasnd clnetoral success. But Adams insistnd the electoral ele­ment is not the most important aspnet of Sinn Fein's role in the North. 
"It's about what changes we bring about," he said. "Because othnr parties have bmm in power but havnn 't done a lot." 
In tlw last two decades, Adams and Sinn Fein certainly have done a lot. Adams was instrumental in rwgotialing the 1994 cease-lire and 1 998 Good Friday Agmement -but it was the involvement of the United Statns and the interna­tional community, Adams said, which really jumpstartnd success­ful talks with the British. 
"Lot thorn be no doubt that the role of Irish America was central," he said. 
Under the Bill Clinton adminis­tration, Adams was ).,'ranted a visa. to visit the United States and meet with politicians for the first time, bringing international attention both to the Northern Ireland situ­ation and tu his position as a legit­imate political fi~:,rure. 
"I was depicted as a terrorist, and people like me were depicted as nothing short of the devil incar­nate," Adams said of previous cov­erage in the United Kingdom, adding that, before his U.S. visit, his voice eould not be broadcast by British media. 
"When the media here [in the United States! came to learn of this, they were so bewildered ­so shocked -that in a short time that was changed," Adams said. 
And other changes started too, 
see ADAMS/page 6 

Panel discusses· Haitian crisis 
By MERYL GUYER 
Nt·ws Writer 
Met by an audienee of Notre DanHJ faculty, staff and studonts, residnnt Haiti exports gathnr1~d in llnhartolo llall Tuesday to highlight 1dnrnents of the country's currnnl political and social plight. 
Hocenl disparities and confusion among news rnports prompted the assflrn­bly headed by .lean Marc Brissau, a llaitian citizen and administrator of thfl Lymphatic .Filariasis Program in Loogann, Karen Hichrnan. assistant professor of anthropology and three roprnsenlativns from the Nolrn Dame llaiti Program: Sarah l'elerek, Michnle Snxton and director Fr. Tom Streit. 
Membnrs of the paned 
see HAITI/page 8 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Trustees 
•


revie-w strategic plan 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Associate News Editor 

The student affairs stratngk plan, a portion of the University's overall strategie plan outlining Notrn Dame's goals filr the nnxt 20 years, was mel with posilivn feedback by Trustees at See Also t h e i r 
"University to
Fobruary meeting, establish campus 
according to 

Gender Center" 
Ann Firth, 

page3
exeeutive assistant to tho vieo president for student allairs. 
Firth said that the Board pro­vidl~d fnedbaek on numerous por­tions of the strategic plan but said they were espedally interested in the residential Iii(~ seetion. 
"Hesidenlial life is a key area beeausn it's so central to student life at Notre Dame," she said. "That's one lseetionl that generat­ed a lot of I(Jedbaek." 
The student all'airs plan ealls for modifications and growth in six areas, induding campus fitcili­ties, residential life, student devel­opment and faith lbrmation, stu­dent services, diversity and teeh­nology and oullinos ways of' improving conditions in all of these areas. The plan proposed renovations of the University Health Center, an expansion of the LaFortune student centnr and a closer collaboration with thn 
sec PLAN/page 6 

OIT installs connection successfully over break 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Senior Staff Writer 

The Office of Information Technologies successfully activat­ed a new Internet connection over break, greatly increasing the bandwidth to all campus buildings except dorms. 
The connection had been acti­vated twice b1~fore but was plagued by hardware failures each time. Before the final activa­tion, which took place March 7, orr asked its Internet Service Provider to re-engineer the con­nection with hardware from Ciseo Systems and no problems were encountered during the third implement..'llion. 
"It has boon working flawlessly,'' chief teehnology ol'ficer Dewitt Latimer said. 
The new connection, whieh is a din1et link to Chicago, allows up to 100 Mbit of bandwidth for Internet traflic and 100 Mbit of bandwidth for Internet II. Tho previous eonnection was limitnd to 24 Mbit of bandwidth f(Jr Internet traflic and 20 Mbit fhr lntnrnnt II. Latimer said that since the upgrade, the campus has bonn consuming about twiee as much bandwidth as was allownd on th1~ previous eomwdion, with a maxi­mum usage of 4H Mbit of lntnrnel Traflic and 40 Mbit of Internet II. 
OIT continues to routn traffk from dorms on HnsNet through a 45 Mbit eonnnetion with Gramtnl, a South Bend lnternnt servien provider. Oncn a redundant direct link to Chicago is installed, llw HesNet traflie will also be routnd out to the nnw eonnnction, which will likely oeeur this summer. Latimer said this will not saturate 
see OIT/pagc 6 
Wednesday, March 17, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Dovvn vvith 

Martha 
Martha Stewart is going to jail, and I couldn't be happier. The fact is, I can't stand the woman. 
Now, it's not for the reasons you might suspect. I'm not jealous of her homemaking skills. I don't have deep-seated inse­curities because I can't make marsh­mallows from scratch or hand­craft a saddle over my lunch hour. I'm not threatened by the prospect of a powerful woman in business. I don't even mind that she's known as a mean-spirited person with a nasty temper. 
Nope, it's a lot simpler than all that. I don't like Martha Stewart because she's a scumbag. 
She lied to federal agents, tried to cover it up and got caught. Now she's getting her just deserts. 
Some people have argued that she's being singled out because she's a celebrity. I've heard people complain that former Enron boss Ken Lay has yet to face justice, even though his apparent crimes were much more serious. However, that argument ignores the fact that the Enron case is incredibly complex. Some of the top financial minds in the country assem­bled an intricate maze of transactions designed to inflate company profits and artificially improve Enron's bal­ance sheet. 
Martha's case was a lot more sim­ple. She got an inside tip. She used it to dump her shares on an unsuspect­ing public. Then, when she was called on the carpet, she lied through her herbal tea-stained teeth. This wasn't a tough case to figure out. Barney Fife could've cracked it by the second com­mercial break. 
It's safe to say that Martha's not going to hold up too well in the care of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. By most legal experts' best guesses, the domestic diva's next redecorating job will he in a federal prison farm in Danbury, Conn. 
This is a woman who's used to whip­ping up roast duck a !'orange for fun. Now it looks like she'll be churning out license plates for a while. People like her just aren't built for prison. The homemaking maven built a $2 billion media empire from scratch, and soon she will share a cell with two or three fellow convicted felons. 
Now today, of course, is St. Patrick's Day. I propose we all take this oppor­tunity to be anti-Marthas. This is the feast day when we celebrate the man who cast the snakes out of Ireland. So cast the doilies out of your life. Forget trying to cook a seven-course meal. Leave that towel on the floor. 
I, for one, will leave my tackily deco­rated room, then head to North Dining Hall to wolf down a bowl of Frosted Flakes. By the time you read this, I'll he at the Linebacker Lounge, shooting pool and drinking large quantities of green beer. 
As Martha would say: It's a good thing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at braman­ti.l@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
In Tuesday's paper, an outdated advertisement for Legends was run. The corrected advertisement­containing the correct events and times-appears in today's paper. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR Sr. PATRICK'S DAY? 





Anna Nussbaum Jenny Stelloh Joseph Boyle Laura Maclean Tony Jannazo VInce Lyzlnskl 
Sophomore Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Junior Sophomore Farley Lyons Keenan Farley Fisher Keenan 
"No comment." "Celebrating in "Writing a "Guinness "Pretending to "Watching 
the true Irish philosophy tastes like tar.
,..

fashion." paper ... yay. l'mjust saying. " 
Woman gives birth to two sets of twins 
HOUSTON -A Houston woman gave birth Monday to two sets of identical twins -something the cou­ple said their doctor told them is only likely to hap­pen in about 1 in 11 million pregnancies.. 
Sheryl McGowen gave birth by Caesarean section at the Woman's Hospital of Texas Monday to Jacob, Jacoby, Jason and Justin. The twins weighed from 2 pounds, 5 ounces to 3 pounds, 4 ounces. 
McGowen, 35, had been taking fertility drugs. Two eggs were implanted in her 
TODAY 

alleged witness tampering 
during his trial. 

Newsome has been work­ing as the top county administrator from his cell under a state law that says that even convicted felons can't be removed until their appeals are exhausted. Newsome plans to appeal. 
Newsome was among a group of Knott County resi­dents charged in a crack­down on election fraud that netted 12 convictions, all stemming from an FBI investigation into the 1998 primary election. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
and both split, according to the Houston Chronicle's Tuesday editions. 
Politician to hold post from jail 
PIKEVILLE, Ky. -A politician who was convict­ed of buying votes was sen­tenced Tuesday to more than two years in federal prison, but he will continue to hold his post from his cell. 
Knott County Judge­Executive Donnie Newsome has been in jail since he was convicted in October, when a federal judge said he was a danger to the community based on 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

G ( .... 

c( (,) 



.9 HIGH 34 HIGH 31 HIGH 40 HIGH 47 LOW 32 LOW 29 LOW 27 LOW 34 
be Irish." Leprechaun V: Leprechaun in the Hood." 
IN BRIEF 

The film "La Ciudad," with the theme "Life in the Metropolis" will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The event is sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies' and Looking Out/Looking In Film Series. 
The Schoia Musicorum: Ahend-Musique XXII will hold a concert tonight at 9:30 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
"Colloidal Constructs in the Absence and Presence of DNA," a lecture by Valeria Tohver Milam of the University of Pennsylvania, will be held Thursday at 3:30 
p.m. in Debartolo 138. The lec­ture is sponsored by the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. 
Juan Rivera of -the Business School and Gil Cardenas of the Institute for Latino Studies will speak about NAFTA and the Economics of Migration tomor­row at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture is the last in a series sponsored by the Program in Catholic Social Tradition. 
The Glee Club will perform Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. For ticket infor­mation, contact the LaFortune Box Office. 
A Homecoming Concert per­formed by the Saint Mary's Women's Choir will be held Thursday at 8 p.m. in Moreau's Little Theatre. The repertoire includes a variety of pieces recently performed on the Choir's East Coast Tour. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 46 HIGH 40 LOW 24 LOW 32 
Atlanta 61 I 42 Boston 35 I 26 Chicago 39 I 29 Denver 66 I 32 Houston 75 I 60 Los Angeles 79 I 58 Minneapolis 38 I 24 New York 37 I 27 Philadelphia 42 I 30 Phoenix 90 I 64 Seattle 55 I 44 St. Louis 49 I 40 Tampa 72 I 52 Washington 46 I 32 
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 




University to establish campus Gender Center 
Initiative grew from Norton presidency, continued by Pangborn senator Redfield 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 
In an attempt to address pressing issues of gender, rela­tionships and Christian faith at Notre Dame, a new Gender Helations Center will be estab­lished on campus in the fall. 
Funded by the Office of Student Affairs, the GHC will be a resource center where students, faculty and adminis­trators can access information about topics associated with gender. A library will provide literature on topics ranging from physical issues like sexu­ally transmitted diseases, reli­gious issues like the Church's view on homosexuality and mental issues like the emo­tional effects of society's dic­tated gender roles. 
The Center also hopes to coordinate and support stu­dent clubs and organizations involved with gender issues and provide training for staff members who can impart knowledge to the students with whom they work. 
According to GHC director Heather Rakoczy and Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman, the Center's main focus is to pro­vide a place and a means for students to discuss the issues of gender and Christianity more freely. The center has no political affiliation and is meant to be a forum for both wide array of issues concern­men and women. ing gender relations." 
"It is absolutely a resource The GHC is the result of a for women and men," Rakoczy student-led initiative that was said. "I hope it gives us some formally started three years clues about how to build rela­ago by former student body tionships ... and true faith­president Brooke Norton. based friendships." During the 2001-02 school 
However, establishing a cen­year, Norton investigated gen­ter of this kind at a Catholic der studies and the role they university is a more challeng­played at Notre Dame as a ing task than creating one at a way to commemorate the 30­secular university, said year anniversary of female Hakocz~ because of the need students at the University. 
to connect the  She proposed  
two seemingly  the concept of a  
contradictory  "Center  for  
notions of sexu­ Women  and  
ality and Catholicism. "At the very heart of Catholic moral  "I hope it gives us some clues about how to build relationships ... and true faith­ Men," which later became the basis for Pangborn sena­tor Kaity  
teaching is the notion that  basedfriendships."  Redfield's work on the subcom­ 
each one of us is prized in our  Heather Rakoczy  mittee for gen­der relations.  
uniqueness  as  Pangborn rector  After conduct- 
a  creature  of  ing research on  
God," Poorman  the  top-20  
said.  "In  this  nationally  
sense,  our  ranked universi- 

Catholic identity provides us ties and colleges and discover­with a framework for all ing that all but Notre Dame human interactions, including had some form of gender stud­relationships between men ies center since the 1970s, and women. Redfield and the sub-commit­
"Obviously, there are many tee submitted a proposal to cultural messages which do the Campus Life Council to set not promote human dignity up a similar center at Notre and mutual respect. It is my Dame. A second proposal for hope the Center will be a place the Center outlines in detail where students can explore a the programs of other univer­sities unanimously favored by the CLC. Poorman recently released a letter to current student body president Jeremy Lao that formally stated his acceptance of the recommen­dation to create the GRC. 
The need for a body such as the GRC becomes apparent in light of the fact that gender is the one aspect of social identi­ty that Notre Dame does not explicitly address, according to Rakoczy. Oppression due to the class system is dealt with through the Center for Social Concerns, oppression due to race is handled by the Multicultural Students Programs and Services and homosexual oppression is brought to light by the Standing Committee. Gender relations, however, has no rep­resentational status in any governmental body, which Rakoczy said leads to an imbalance of social identity. 
"[The GRCJ is an umbrella network that will help connect faculty, students and adminis­trators," Rakoczy said. "Gender will be our primary lens, but we will be looking to network with the CSC, MSPS, the Standing Club and any other clubs and academic departments." 
Rakoczy was asked by Poorman to head the new Center in addition to maintain­ing her position as the rector of Pangborn because of her extensive experience with studying gender roles and combining them with Christian theology. 
"By virtue of the fact that I live with students, it brings some credibility to my under­standing of what students need," Hakoczy said. 
While Hakoczy may be the director of the GHC by title, it is her hope that the Center's agenda will emerge naturally with the help of committed student volunteers who can bring knowledge of the Center to their clubs, dorms and friends. 
Both Rakoczy and Poorman agree students will benefit most from the Center by using it as a resource to bring diverse areas of their life into one clear focus. 
"The creation of the Center will benefit students in many ways, as it encourages dia­logue, provides information about campus programs and services, coordinates student clubs and organizations con­cerned with gender issues and provides training for those who work with students," Poorman said. "All of these things will contribute to a healthier campus climate for women and men at Notre Dame." 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Applications for GHI due March26 
Applications are available for eight-week summer Global Health Initiative Heath and Medical Service Learning Internships in rural Georgia, where students will receive great health and medical clini­cal experience. 
Accepted students will re­ceive a $2000 scholarship, free travel, free room and board, but most ofall, an experience ofa lifetime. Appli"Cations are due Friday, March 26 
HCA Info Sessions 

Come learn more about how you can serve with Holy Cross Associates. 
When: Monday March 22, 

March25 

Lerner Speaks on Spiritual Politics and Social Healing 
Rabbi Michael Lerner, founder/editor ofTikkun magazine and leading Ameri­can inJellectual, will speak on "The Politics of Meaning," a concept that he used for the title of his 1995 groundbreak­ing book. 
Rabbi Lerner is author ofa number of books, including Jews and Blacks: A Dia­logue on Race, Religion and Culture , Healing Israel/Pal­estine: A Path to Peace and Reconciliation , and The Politics of Meaning: Restor­ing Hope and Possibility in an Age ofCynicism. According to former U.S. senator Paul Wellstone, "Lerner's ideas ought to inform our contem­porary political discussion." 
When :Thursday, March 25 at 5:00pm 
Where : 101 DeBartolo Hall 

Engineering, Architecture Careers as Vocations 
Ganey Award and Grants 
The Center for Social Concerns is now acccepting nomi­nations for the Ganey Award, a monetary award of $5,000. Nominees should be regular faculty' who have completed one or more research projects that address a need ofa South Bend area community based organization. To learn more, go to the esc website. 
Nominations should be submitted by 5 p.m., Monday, March 22, 2004. 
Ganey Mini-Grant Applications Due March 22 
The Center for Social Concerns is now accepting applica­tions for two mini-grants of$5,000 each. Awarded in two phases, the mini-grants support joint faculry-srudent-com­muniry research partnerships that address a social challenge articulated by a community organization. The purposes of the mini-grants are to foster faculty-student-community partnerships that result in measurable, positive impact in the South Bend area; reflect the investment offaculty expertise in the local community; and offer students com­munity-based learning opportunities that promote civic responsibility. ToJearn more, go to the CSC website. 
:rheptop~salshohJd.be submitted by 5 p.m., Monday, March22, 2004. · 
4:30pm-5:30pm. All students are welcome to Kevin Hayes '83 -Architect, 
Rock the Vote Night at Legends
come to this panel presenta­President and CEO, Hayes
Where: esc 

tion by Notre Dame gradu­Design Group, Pittsburgh, PA 

on March 18 
ates who will reflect on how
Volunteer Mike Schafer "75 '77 '80
they have integrated faith and 
-Electrical Engineer, Profes­On March 18, Legends will Free food will be served,
social concerns into their pro­
Opportunities sional Specialist, Notre Dame, be host to the "ND Rock bands will be playing, and 
fessions. Pizza will be served. 
IN the Yore" kick-off event, voters will be registering. 
Tutors are needed to work Presenters: 

sponsored by a number
with Washington High School When: Sunday, March 21, When: Thursday, March 18 
John Goebelbecker '83 ofgroups including the 
students Monday rhrough 4:00-5:30 p.m. 9:00-12:00 pm 
-Consulting Mechanical College Democrats, College 
• >

Thursday from 3-4 p.m. in 
Engineer, Triodyne, Inc., Where: Center for Social Republicans, Center for Social Where: Legends
the school's library. Contact 
Concerns, Political Science 
Chicago, IL Concerns, Coffeehouse 
Ann Power at apower@nd.edu 
Honor Society, and more. 

---------------------------------------------, 
page 4 Wednesday, March 1 7, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
esc seminars have students serving for break 
By TRICIA de GROOT 
News Writer 
Instead of spending spring break on a cruise or taking a road trip, some Notre Dame students decided to emerge themselves in six service work seminars. Over the week-long course, 139 students journeyed to Appalachia, 14 to Washington D.C., 12 took part in the Migrant Experiences Seminar, four in the L'Arche Community Seminar, 14 in the Children and Poverty Seminar and approximately 12 in the Holy Cross Missions at Coachella Seminar. 
The seminars, many of which grew from student interest and initiative, have been offered at Notre Dame fot over 20 years. What makes them unique is that while many institutions offer alternative breaks, Notre Dame is one of the few that gives students one academic credit for their time. Participation in these experien­tial learning opportunities requires that students pass an application process and enroll in classes prior to, during and following their trips to enable full emergence in their respec­tive communities. 
Carl Loesch, director of four of the seminars, expressed his admiration for those students who are willing to take on serv­ice work "to learn the lessons of those taught on the margins of society and to learn from the people most directly involved with these issues," given their everyday course load and extracurricular activities. 
The largest of this year's sem­inars was in Appalachia, attracting over 100 students. The seminar involves two to three orientation classes beforehand to prepare students for the immersion work. Then they meet with people during the trip to learn more about pertaining issues. The students are required to take follow up classes and write respective papers after arriving back on campus. 
Sophomore Kelly Kennedy, after learning about the semi­nar from the website, went with a group that stayed at Camp Andrew Jackson in Kentucky and worked on home repairs in the area. 
"We began doing a little dem­olition work by ripping off sid­ing and a front and side porch and continued during the week by putting up new siding, a new roof and building a new front porch," Kennedy said. "My dad would have been so proud -by the end of the week, I was using power tools like a champion ­'Junkyard Wars' style." 
Kennedy also commented on the friendships she made with Notre Dame students along with students from other schools. 
Sophomores Michelle McCarthy and Margaret Smetana participated in the Washington D.C. seminar over fall break. Given their favorable experience, both decided to return in the spring leading the seminar with a theme that "would focus on the upcoming 2004 election and faithful citi-


Happy 21st Birthday 

Am! 
"Pick" your drinks wise I y! 
Love, your abroad roomies 

Greencroft Senior Center Benefit 
Saturday, March 20, 2004, 8:00 p.m. 
Goshen College Music Center Tickets are $35. On sale at Goshen College Welcome Center, 1700 S. Main, Goshen, (574) 535-7566. 

zenship,"McCarthy said. 
"Our seminar was very much education-based, so we spent the week meeting with a num­ber of organizations and politi­cians with whom we discussed the idea of faithful citizenship," Smetana said. ­
Their trip also included run­ning into presidential candidate John Kerry and watching U.S. Senators vote on budge issues from inside the &enate Chamber. 
Junior Melody Gonzalez par­ticipated for a second year in the Migrant Experience Seminar with a group of stu­dents who traveled to Immokalee, Fla. 
"There is no other way I would have wanted to spend my spring break," she said. "The experiences we went through and the people we met surpass any spring break on a beach. I knew the experience would be just as empowering as last year and I would come back with a lot of energy to continue fight­ing for justice." 
Junior Shantha Ready chose the Holy Cross Mission in Coachella. 
"We visited everywhere from an immigrant health clinic, to a middle school anti-drugs dance party, to a Mexican taqueria, to a trailer park home," Ready said. "Generally, the seminar was much more focused on spiritual development and learning than actually serving." 

Freshman Ashley Braun, who also went to Coachella, said that while service was a part of the seminar, the focus centered mostly on the trip as an immer­sion experience into the unique culture and economy of the Valley. 
"It's the sixth poorest area in the nation and is a major sup­plier of domestic produce, yet much of its poverty is invisible even to the affiuent neighboring communities like Palm Springs," Braun said. 
Senior Tim Ducey, along with Teresa Hansen, led this break's Children and Poverty Seminar. 
"Although eradicating poverty is an ominous task ... we come away from our trip wiser and stronger, ready to embrace the challenges before us, each of us in our own way, whether that be through education, law, medicine, business, non-profit work or perhaps simply just being there through advocacy programs," Ducey said. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 


www.cloverridgeapartments.com 
Tel: 514.212.1441 Fax: 514.212.1461
South Bend, IN 46631 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 CoMPILED FRO.\-\ THE ()BSFRVER's wmE SF.RVlCFS page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Haiti forms new unity Cabinet 
POHT-AU-PHINCE, Haiti -Haiti's new prime minister formed a unity government Tuesday, filling 13 Cabinet positions but excluding members of ousted President .Jean-Bertrand Aristide's Lavalas Family party. 
Aides to interim Prime Minister Gerard Latortun circulated a list of names for the new 1:{-member Cabinet after Latortue met with interim President Boniface Alexandre at the National Palace. 
Alexandre was to formally announce the Cabinet later. But Leslie Voltaire, a former Aristide Cabinet member, said no Lavalas Party members had been chosen. 
Aristide spent his seeond day in neighbor­ing .Jamaica, where he returned Monday after two weeks exile in the Central African Hnpublic 
lie was given temporary asylum in .Jamaica to meet with his daughters. 
Israeli gunships rocket building 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -An Israeli heli­copter fired missiles at a Gaza City building Tuesday, killing two Palestinians and wounding 14, including a 2-year-old girl. Tho attack was the start of a new Israeli offensive sparked by a suicide bombing at an Israeli seaport. 
The missile strike came just hours after Israel's Seeurity Cabinet approved a new campaign of stepped-up raids into Gaza cities and towns and killings of Palestinian militants, including leaders of the violent llamas and Islamic Jihad groups, an Israeli sceurity ol'fkial said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Snow hits Midwest, Northeast 
NEWAHK, N.J. -A late-winter snowstorm blew out of the Midwest and into the Northeast on Tuesday. making driving treacherous and closing schools just four days before the start of spring. 
Up to 10 inches of snow was forecast overnight in parts of Ohio, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, and New Jersey was expecting 9 inches. A foot of snow was possible in upstate New York and Massachusetts. 
Wet roads were blamed for numerous high­way crashes. including separate accidents that killed two people in Pennsylvania. 
Sept. II panel names witness list 
WASHINGTON -The federal panel reviewing the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks dis­closed its witness list Tuesday for its two­day hearing on counterterrorism next week, with scheduled testimony from top officials from the Bush and Clinton admin­istrations. 
But the list omits one invited official: national security adviser Condoleezza· Hice. She has repeatedly declined on the advice of the White llouse, citing separation of power concerns involving its staff testifying before a legislative body. 
Commission officials, who haven't ruled out a possible subpoena, are still hoping she'll reconsider. 
"We would certainly welcome her to appear if the White llousc changes its think­ing," commission spokesman AI Felzenberg said. 
STATE NEWS 
Woman jailed for obscene gesture 
EVANSVILLE -A woman made an obscene gesture toward an SUV Monday ­one carrying the county sheriff and chief deputy -and ended up in jail, police said. 
Mary Ann Sweeney, 33, of Evansville was stopped behind a bus. 
She pulled to the left to get around the bus at the same moment a Ford Explorer started to pass. The SUV braked to let her in, police said. 
Sweeney then "flipped off" the Explorer's driver, Vanderburgh County Chief Deputy Eric Williams, he said. 
SPAIN 

Police name bombing suspects 
One Moroccan immigrant arrested in connection with Madrid train bomb attacks 
Associated Press 
MADHID -Police report­
edly now suspect at least 
six Moroccans took part in 
the Madrid train bombings, 
and the United States is 
assisting a growing inter­
national investigation that 
is increasingly focused on 
Islamic militants possibly 
linked to al-Qaida. 
A 45-ycar-old woman died of her lllJUries Tuesday, raising the death toll from Thursday's bomb­ings to 201. Of the more than 1,600 wounded, eight arc in critical condition. 
Cardinal Antonio Houco 
Varela led a Mass at . 
Madrid's cathedral 
Tuesday night remember­
ing the victims of the 
bloodiest terrorist attack in 
Spain's history. 

"The tragic attacks of March 11 have sunk us all into deep pain," intoned Varela, a huge black rib­bon hanging from a wall above the altar. "To kill your own kind, to kill a brother, is to attack God himself." 
The main suspect in cus­tody in the attacks, Moroccan immigrant Jamal Zougam, has already been identified by said. A U.S. official, speaking Zougam said he had met Spanish Judge Baltasar With signs that the on condition of anonymity, with Mohamed Fizazi, the Garzon as a follower of bombings were carried out said "it's increasingly likely spiritual leader of Salafia !mad Yarkas, the alleged by Islamic extremists who Islamic extremists were Jihadia, a clandestine leader of Spain's al-Qaida operate and have confed­involved in these attacks. Moroccan extremist group. cell who is jailed on suspi­erates in several countries, In terms of assigning Salafia Jihadia is sus­cion he helped plan the FBI agents are helping resp?,nsibility, it isn't pected of involvement in Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on Spanish police in using fin­clear. _ the Casablanca attack. the United States. gerprints and names to "It's not clear who these which killed 33 people and 
The daily newspaper El seek a full picture of groups were," the official 12 bombers and has been Pais reported Tuesday that Zougam and four other said, referring to whether linked to Osama bin police believe they have suspects in custody, a sen­they had links to al-Qaida Laden's al-Qaida terror identified five other ior U.S. law enforcement and other extremist groups network. Moroccans who directly official said in Washington. or even to the Basque sep­Brisard told The participated in the attacks Spanish police have also aratist group ETA. Associated Press the and arc at large. Spain's arrested two more A suspected link between tapped call is cited in a Interior Ministry refused Moroccans and two the Madrid bombings and lengthy report written for comment. Indians, but their possible suicide bomb attacks in Garzon's inquiry of the 
Two people who were role in the attacks has not Casablanca, Morocco, last Sept. 11 attacks. Brisard, traveling on one of the been specified. European year grew stronger who is helping investigate attacked trains have said countries were searching Tuesday when French pri­the Sept. 11 attacks for that Zougam was aboard their databases for any vate investigator Jean­lawyers representing some just before the bombs information pertinent to Charles Brisard described victims' families, has a began exploding, El Pais the attack. a phone tap in which copy of the report. 

Police say Ohio shooter mentally ill 
to have suicidal or homicidal ten­employees, could not be reached 
Associated Press 
dencies." Tuesday and neither one was at 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -The man Mr,Coy's sister Amy Walton plead­work. wanted by police in a deadly string ed Tuesday for him to give himself Chief Deputy Steve Martin would of highway sniper attacks has a his­up. not say what evidence led investiga­tory of mental illness and is "Charlie, we all love you very, tors to McCoy, but newspaper and believed to have a semiautomatic very much and we're all concerned television reports said Tuesday that pistol and ammunition, authorities for your well-being," she said, read­McCoy's family gave authorities at said Tuesday. ing a statement in front of the home lea:st one of his guns. 
Charles A. McCoy Jr., 28, lived where McCoy lives with his mother. The Columbus Dispatch, citing with his mother within miles of "Mom and I need you to call us. We unidentified sources, said a relative where the gunman's bullets killed a will arrange for you to come home. contacted police and said McCoy passenger, shattered windshields, We love you, we miss you." could be a suspect. It said McCoy's dented school buses and drilled into Authorities identified McCoy as a father, Charles Sr. -later gave homes and a school. suspect Monday and released his police a 9 mm Beretta handgun, 
"McCoy has had mental health picture, vehicle description and and on Monday it was ballistically issues in the past and is currently license plate. matched to some of the bullet frag­not on medication," the Franklin Walton did not take questions ments recovered in the shootings. County Sheriffs Office said in a bul­after reading the statement and The bulletin said McCoy was still letin released to police departments walked back into the house. believed to have a semiautomatic across the country. "He is believed McCoy's parents, both state pistol and ammunition. 

Wednesday, March 17, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Plan 
continued from page 1 
Center for Social Concerns, among numerous other propos­als. 
"All of the six areas ... have been a good framework for thinking about student life into the future," Firth said. 
The plan also calls for the cre­ation of at least four new resi­dence facilities within the next decade. The construction of these buildings is intended both to alle­viate overcrowding of dorms and to provide space to increase the on-campus capacity. In 2001, 76 percent of undergraduate stu­dents resided on-campus. The plan hopes to increase this rate to between 81 to 83 percent by encouraging fewer upperclass­men to move off-campus. 
However, the plan does not stipulate exactly how the resi­dence facilities will be construct­ed, and Firth said that numerous focus groups and surveys have been conducted to give current students a voice in what the future residence halls will look like. The plan notes that "the construction of new residence facilities might also make possi­ble other housing options, includ­ing coeducational housing and the creation of smaller, 'themed' · residential communities within a larger facility." Apartment-style housing for upperclassmen is also being explored 
Firth said that Office of Student Affairs sent out about 1,000 sur­veys in February to undergradu­ates asking for their input, and notes that focus group discus­sions have also been held. Firth said that focus groups would con­tinue to take place in the future. 
"We are still very much in the process of gathering informa­tion," she .said. "It's been a very productive process." 
Firth said that results of the surveys are not currently avail­able, as the office is also in the process of creating a similar sur­vey for graduate students to be administered before the end of the academic year. 
OIT 
continued from page 1 
the new connection, instead uti­lizing an average of 70-80 Mbit on the 100 Mbit connection. 
"[This is] good and efficiently utilized, and it still gives us some headroom for spikes," Latimer said. 
Once all campus Internet traf­fic is traveling through one con­nection, an application called a Packeteer will be used on the connection. The Packeteer cur­rently runs only on the ResNet connection and limits the amount bandwidth of peer-to­peer file sharing, which is often used for sharing illegal copy­righted material, and also redi­rects infected machines to a spe­cial Web site. 
Latimer said he did not expect this to be a problem. 
"Sharing illegal copyrighted material is sharing illegal copy­righted material whether it's on campus or in the dorms," Latimer said. 
Latimer said that after the con­nection had been re-engineered, the original hardware vendor, who OIT declined to name, iden­tified the problem in their sys­tem. 
"The other vendor did discover their bugaboo, a dollar late," Latimer said. "But it was a man­ufacturing error in their chip." 
Latimer said that while OIT has not received any compli­
of justice." "One person can make a differ­
"The committee [on Residential 
Adams said· that policing is "still ence," Adams said. "There is such
Life] has said that they will make 
AdaiDs 
not to the point where republicans a thing as the power of one." 
those results public ... it's just 
and nationalists can be part of it," The lecture ended with a ques­
been a busy time for the collec­
continued from page 1 
there is not yet a bill of rights and tion-and-answer session, and,
tion of the information," she said. 
he said. People in the North began there is still a "huge presence" of before Adams left, Fox presented
"We hope that we will capture ... 
to have more confidence that British soldiers in Northern him with a Notre Dame varsity
the student experience of resi­
peace could happen, and talks Ireland. jacket. And at the beginning of his
dence life at Notre Dame. We're 
eventually began with British "There are still people within lecture, Adams had addressed
asking current students to think 
leaders. While Adams said the the British establishment who Notre Dame itself, saying that the 
about the future with us." 
peace process ultimately would think they still have an empire," University changed attitudes
Keri Oxley, a senior and stu­
have occurred, with or without Adams said. "And we are that toward the Irish at a time in histo­
dent representative on the com­
U.S. involvement, "We wouldn't empire." ry when they were "vilified as
mittee, said that she and other 
have got a peace process when we However, he said, he believes being lazy, incompetent, drunk,
members have been satisfied 
got it." the goals of peace, equality and always squabbling, always fight­
with student participation in the 
Despite such impressive gains, reunification will be achieved. ing."
surveys and focus groups. 
however, Adams said a lot of work "If there's a political will to sort "l think ... what happened here
"We are pleased with the per­
still needs to be done. He said the matters out, matters will be sorted was to actually turn that carica­
centage of students that respond­
cease-fire, discussions and agree­out," Adams said. ture back," Adams said, adding
ed to the survey request," she 
ments were positive steps, but He encouraged the audience, that the University is "now univer­
said. "This is proof of the student 
"the hard bit has been implement­especially young people, to sally known as a top-level aca­
body's commitment to residential 
ing it." research the situation for them­
life on our campus." 
Peace is not simply the absence selves and to contact their repre­Contact Sheila Flynn at
Oxley said that the committee, 
of war, he said; it is "the presence sentatives. sflynn2@nd.edu
which consists of students, facul­
ty, administrators, alumni and rectors, meets weekly to explore issues relating to the future of residential life. She added that the committee plans to create a report that compiles the results of 


the student surveys, feedback from focus groups and discus­
The North Central Association ofColleges and 
sions in committee to Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs. 
Schools is evaluating the University ofNotre 
Oxley also said that she is pleased with the open-minded­
Dame for continuing accreditation. 
ness of committee members with respect to residential housing options and encourages students to voice their input to committee members. 
There will be an open meeting forstudentswith 
"I have been amazed at the committee's openness to innova­
selected members ofthe NCAaccreditation team 
tive ideas as we consider the future of residential life," she 
on:
said. "We appreciate all input and take it into consideration as we develop our recommenda­
Tuesday, March 23, 
tions for the 10-year plan." Firth said the construction of 
from 5:00-5:45 p.m.
any new residence areas would not occur soon. She estimates the process could begin to occur any­
atMckennaAuditorium. 
where from four to eight years in the future. The Board of Trustees 
AU students -undergraduate and graduate -are
will formally vote on the approval of the entire University strategic plan at its May meeting. 
invited to attend. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
The NCAaccreditation team wants to hearyour 
ments about the new connection, 
ideas about how Notre Dame can continue to 
they have also not received any complaints. 
"That's our source or indica­
improve as a university. 
tion of success is when we don't 
get complaints," Latimer said. "We seldom get kudos." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 



============Notre Dame vs. Purdue ============= 
~ 


-Free pizza for ND shJ..dent.s ("""hile supplies las~) -Chance for a ND studen~ t:o ~n pizza £or a year. 
-SI.u.denl.tiekei:N are $4 at (:;at.e 10 t:JO:f'the ,.Tuyce Center Crom 9 am 1.0 5 prn 
..._Q:;.dinia;;.;iL::.w..mnG~EENim~'ii ..._ 



THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10,184.67 +81.78 
}ones 
,;~} Some: •. Compostre Volume:
,;m 164 1,474,921,472 

AME.X .1,22?\l:$ +u~w~ 
NASDAQ 1,943.09 +3.89 
NYSE 6,489,?1• •.• +4!1~.$9/ 
S&P500 1,110.70 +6.21 
NIKKE.l(Tokyo) .11,242.29 0~.00 
FTSE IOO(LDndon) 4,428.90 +16.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +0.34  +0.04  11.70  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +0.22  +0.06  27.16  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.08  +0.02  25.18  
CISCO SYffiMS (CSCO)  + 1.49  +0.34  23.12  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.96  +0.04  4.20  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.36  -0.64  46.47  
10-YEAR NOTE  -2.12  -0.80  36.88  
5-YEAR NOTE  -3.40  -0.93  26.43  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.64  +0.06  9.38  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.02  36.68  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  +3.00  402.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.20  97.65  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  108.9  
EURO  0.8151  
POUND  0.5518  
CANADIAN$  1.334  

IN BRIEF 
Fed holds rates at 45-year low 
W/\SliJNGTON -Federal Heserve policy­makers, worried about companies' inability to create new jobs, held interest rates at a 45-year low on Tuesday and signaled anew that they will be slow to order any future increase that could cramp the economy's recovery. 
Private economists viewed the Fed policy statement as more somber than its com­ments after a similar meeting in late January, reflecting the fact that the central bank has seen two disappointing monthly employment reports since then. 
Stocks fall with Fed statement 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street looked past an undcrwhclming statement by the Federal Hcservc on Tuesday and rebounded smartly as bargain hunters picked up stocks battered by a week of heavy losses. 
The market focused on economics and earnings, particularly a bright outlook from manufacturing giant 3M Co., which upped its quarterly and full-year estimates. The Commerce Department also reported that the construction sector remained healthy. 
Stocks bounced around for much of the day as investors 11rst awaited the Fed's deci­sion on interest rates and accompanying statement, and then fell in disappointment as the central bank confirmed the market's assessment that job creation is lagging. 
Dollar falls to new low against yen 
NEW YOHK -The dollar hit a three-week low against the yen Tuesday, but was little changr,d against the euro after Federal He1wrvn policymakers signaled no shift in the outlook for interest rates. 
The Federal Open Market Committee not only left its key interest rate at a 46-year low of 1 percent, as expected, but also reiterated its stance that inl1ationary pressures are low enough that it "can be patient in removing its policy accommodation." 
CONSTRUCTION 

Housing starts continue slide 
Officials blame rough weather for recent slide in new residential construction 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The number of housing proj­ects commenced by builders declined for the second straight month in February as bad weather in some parts of the coun­try forced construction delays. 
The Commerce Dep­artment reported Tuesday that the number of resi­dential buildings under way fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 
1.86 million units in February, representing a 4 percent decrease from the previous month. 
Although economists were forecasting a rise in residential construction in February, the level of housing projects in January turned out to be higher -a rate of 1.93 million units started ­than first thought, accord­ing to revised figures. That made for a smaller decline in activity than reported a month ago. 
Even with the declines, both January and February's levels of activi­ty were still considered healthy, economists said. 

In fact, the number of residential projects under way in February still marked a sizable 13.1 percent increase from the be a good year for home. Home builders feel good Hayburn, the association's same month a year ago. sales. about market conditions, president and a home 
On Wall Street, the Dow The average rate on although they are slightly builder from Jackson, Jones industrials gained benchmark 30-year mort­less bullish about sales for Miss. 
81.78 points to close at gages last week dropped March as well as sales Tuesday's report showed 10,184.67. to 5.41 percent, the lowest over the next six months, that residential construc­
The Federal Reserve level in eight months. The according to a monthly tion rose in the Northeast decided Tuesday to hold a decline moved rates on survey by the National and the Midwest in key short-term interest 30-year mortgage closer Association of Home February, but fell in the 
rate at a 45-year low of 1 to a record low of 5.21 Builders. South and the West. percent, where it has been percent reached in the "The tremendous pace "It was unusually wet since June. Fed policy­middle of June. of home sales in last and cold in the South and makers said they would "The housing market is year's final months has the West," said David be patient in ordering any getting a second wind apparently given way to a Seiders, chief economist possible rate increases. from lower mortgage more sustainable level of at the National 
Home sales reached rates and will remain activity in early 2004. This Association of Home record high levels in 2003, strong throughout 2004," climate of stability is a Builders. "So we were powered by low mortgage predicted Robert McGee, positive sign heading into prepared to sec some ero­rates. Economists believe chief economist at U.S. the spring home buying sion in starts in those two 2004 also will turn out to Trust. season," said Bobby regions." 

ENERGY 

High gas prices fail to hurt demand 
Kloza, director of Oil Price recent economic difficulties," said 
Associated Press 

Information Service, a Lakewood, AAA spokesman Geoff Sundstrom. 
WASHINGTON -Despite near N.J., publisher of industry data. "For most people, their usc of record-high gasoline prices, U.S. The most recent statistics from gasoline is inelastic," Sundstrom motorists continue to increase con­the Department of Energy show said. "That is, in the course of a sumption and, with supplies tight, that gasoline demand has been typical day, they need to drive back that is helping to keep fuel costs roughly 3. 7 percent higher than last and forth to work, get their kids propped· up. year over the past four weeks. from school and go to the super­
The Energy Department reported Average daily gasoline consump­market." Monday that nationwide retail gaso­tion for the month ended March 5 At most, Sundstrom added, there line prices averaged $1.72 per gal­was about 8.9 million barrels, up might be "an incremental response lon last week. Meanwhile, the price from 8.5 million barrels a year ear­to higher gas prices." of oil surged to $37.44 per barrel lier. In the future, Sundstrom believes on futures markets, the highest Analysts attribute this increase to Americans may shift to more fuel level in more than a year, in part improving economic conditions, ris­efficient vehicles again as they did because of the rising cost of motor ing population and consumers' in the 1970s when the country fuel. preference for gas-guzzling SUVs. faced gasoline shortages. Only this 
"Gasoline demand has been pretty "Year after year, we have increas­time, the response could be purely spectacular of late," said Tom ing demand, even throughout the price driven, he said. 

Speaker 
continued from page 1 
for [Page] that we would invite him to accept a second honorary degree and, this time, speak to our graduating class," said Malloy in his statement. "We're delighted that he has accepted and will honor us with his presence." 
Page became the first black jus­tice to sit on the Minnesota Supreme Court in 1993. His earlier law career includes time as the state's assistant attorney general and with the law firm of Lindquist & Vennum. 
While attending Notre Dame, Page played defensive end on the football team, and as a senior he helped lead the Irish to a national title in 1966. He graduated in 1967 with a bachelor's degree in pre­law and was drafted by the NFL's Minnesota Vikings. 
Page earned his law degree from the University of Minnesota Law School in 1978 while continuing his NFL career. 
Page, along with his wife, Diane, also established the Page Education Foundation in 1988. The foundation provides college scholarships for minority students to attend Notre Dame and other colleges and universities in Minnesota. 
"There are Notre Dame students who are attending the University on the Page Educational Grants that they have received," said Dennis Brown, associate director of news and information. "For 10 or 12 years. [the scholarships were] exclusively for Minnesota students to attend Minnesota col­leges and universities.... This is a fairly new component to the foun­dation, and [Page] is very proud of that. We're certainly delighted to have that." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
small plots of land and while these people to get those most continue to live in resources [food, water, poverty, they are independ­healthcare, and education] ent workers on their own so that they can care about property. Richman described politics," Sexton said. the social class system as a The Haiti Program is part "peasant society [which is] of the Center for Tropical in a way separate from the Disease Research and small ruling class who tend Training with a basis in bio­to be mulattoes, who tend to logical sciences. The pro­be the descendents of gram sends biology students French planters ... and who and administrators to work basically control the import with Brissau and other export trade." Haitians at the Hopital 
He argued that one way to Sainte Croix in Leogane in preserve grassroots devel­an effort to defeat the mos­
opment  in  quito­ 
the country  borne par­ 
is  to  pro­ asitic dis­ 
m o t e growth through the peasant  "It doesn't really matter to me who is president in Haiti, it matters most for  ease lym­phatic filariasis. LF is  
system rather than create a wage labor force,  these people to get those resources [food, water, healthcare and education] so that they  closely associated w i t h poverty, but in  
w h o s e labor would  can care about politics. "  1997 W o r  the I d  
benefit  Health  
companies  Michele Sexton  Council  
that are not  professor  deemed it  

Haiti 
continued from page 1 
shared their personal expe­riences in Haiti along with points of view on the exile of former president Jean­Bertrand Aristide. Although reality the resources were never made available. Aristide's election to office in 1990 was won with over 67 percent of the popular vote in a 12-party field. Since that date and since his re-election in 2000. the results have been contested and popular support of the president has been difficult 
some speak­ers said they regret 
the way in "/saw too much evidence 
which he with my own eyes that he w a s 
had veered toward what
removed 
is admittedly a tradition
from office. all agreed in Haiti and that is: that the first 
violence to control the 
democrati­
masses."
cally elected 
leader left campaign Fr. Tom Streit promises 
professor
unfulfilled and abused his power. "Instead of sticking with what he preached in the beginning which was peace and nonviolence. I saw too much evidence with my own eyes that he had veered toward what is admittedly a tradition in Haiti and that is: violence to control the mass­es," Streit said. "Any presi­dent in this country would be impeached for those offenses .. . He was the best hope for the country ... And had he made some other choices he could have been the Nelson Mandela of our hemisphere.". 
Brissau agreed that Aristide became absorbed in his desire for power, attest­ing that Aristide won sup­port through his speech and citing that his image was represented in public posters that portrayed water and other assets, when in 
Haiti and th·e 
to quantify. 
Professor Richman began the panel with a brief his­tory of political events in Haiti begin­ning with Columbus' landing on the island 
0 f 
Hispaiiiol a, now shared between Dominican 

Republic, and ending with the exile of Aristide on Feb. 28, 2004. Richman pointed to the fact that the former slave state declared itself a free nation in 1804, making it the second free nation state in the western hemi­sphere after the United States. The history also highlighted moments of United States involvement in Haiti, such as the American­led effort to restore Aristide to power in 1994 after his fall from office due to a mili­tary coup in 1991. 
Richman also provided information on the socioeco­nomic background of the country in addition to statis­tics on recent democratic elections. From his stand­point, Haiti is characterized by a peasant system, in which farmers work several 

The Foundation for the: I>efen.ru! ofDerJWcraeies presenl.s: 
"'Defending DcmocracyJ Defeating Terrorismn 
The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking 
qualified undergraduates to participate in the FDD Undergraduate 
Fellowship to learn how democracies defend themsetves against 
terrorism. 

The year-long feUowship begins with a two-week course of study (July 31-August 14) at the Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies rn Tel Aviv, IsraeL An additional seminar takes place in Washington. 
D.C. over winter break_ 

The course of study in Tel Aviv features lectures from experts on terrorism from Israel. Jordan. India. Turkey and the United States. It also features visits to military bases. border zones and other security instaJiations to learn the practical side of deterring terroris-t attacks_ The winter seminar features lectures and field trips that highlight America's leadership role in the war on terrorism. 
All expenses are paid by ~F'.~!?:. ~--~~~~:sted students can apply al~ _'INWW.d_ef_e_nd_d_~.~q,~:£Y:Q!:9 
FDD is a non~profit. non-partisan research institution that promotes informed debate aboot policies and positions that most effectively abolish international terrorism. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE-Apri.l15th 
based in Haiti. Several members of the panel men­tioned U.S. business inter­ests in Haiti as a driving factor of American interven­tion in the past and present. 
Michele Sexton addressed the issues of human rights in Haiti, which have been further neglected following the po.litical upheaval. According to Sexton, politi­cal issues may not be at the heart of the crisis in Haiti. 
''It doesn't really matter to me who is president in Haiti, it matters most for 
one of few 
current 
diseases that can actually be elimi­nated. 
Despite ongoing political unrest in Haiti, representa­tives of the LF program in Leogane have continued their work. with the grounds of the hospital even serving as refuge for the Haitian Minister of Health during the height of violence, according to Streit and Peterek. 
Contact Meryl Guyer at mguyer@nd.edu 

THIS 
SUMMER . LEARN 
WHAIIT TAKES 10 BECOME A LEADER 
Platoon l.coocrs ClaS4S (Pl..Q 1s a dr.manding test tbl:ll lcb> yotL pmvc you ha·.x: whal it L<ikts 10 00 a tf'd<tdr:r ot Mruint-s. Best (Jf all, it drwf:ll't mk'T!cre ..1llr t'<Irniu~ your Ci>llP.~ d.~wec. 
P'LC is t~ Marini': Corps' prir:riNy .o1'fk'(_T c.:mmui~oniug progr..un. All tr~ining takt:i?, place duriog aue u:r t"") Sl.rmn'lf'!r.l wlille you're. <l'ltl tJI11i~uatc. 
MkrWJIJJ)]e1rul$!· trnining and earning y'-lur r.k"gr~X, sotire tlJlW~u:d 3$f~~d lieutx~rJBDL 

lv \'OUtRE LOOKTNG FOR A VNlQUii: l.11A.L.U;;NC£. 
Sh~ CAPtAIN Jmm \Vn.uAMs TOllA.Y, 
WEDNFSDAY. MARCil 17 
IN l....li: MANs LoBBY 1\T ST. MARY's Colll!:Gt: !•'MUM, 11:00 A.'f TO .:1::()0 ?M~ 
1-877·299-9897 
OSO!AF@9M.CU.l:'S\\U:.M II. 
M A R! N l 0 t t ICf R. P R 0 G RAMS l\1 arindJHi,.t'r.nJrn 
Undergrad, grad students react to tuition hike 
By KATIE LAIRD 
News Writer 
In addition to the 6.9 percent increase in undergraduate tuition, tho Notre Dame Board of Trustees deeided to raise graduate school tuition 7 percent for next school ynar, making costs total $28,970 f(Jr Graduate School and $29,740 for Law School and Masters in Business Administration. 
Parents and gradulltc students received the news in a letter last week from University President Fr. Edward Malloy. 
Both graduate and undergradu­ate students hold strong opinions on the increase. 
Topher Goggin is a second-year law student who understands the escalation in tuition, but said it could affect some people tremen­dously. 
"A lot of students get frustrated because it's a big chunk of money ... but at the same time, you have to look at endowments and how· they are work," he said. "It's just something we have to deal with." 
Goggin explained that a large proportion of graduate students pay for graduate school them­selves. "It adds to the debt load when they get out," he said. 
In addition to many younger stu­dents in Notre Dame's graduate programs, adults who are enrolled in Jaw school will have to face "hefty fmancial shock" causing a large "pinch in pocketbooks," Goggin said. 
Goggin further suggested that students get an idea of pending cost increases based on past per­centages. The University doesn't want to be in a position to be unaf­fordable, he said. "Trustees have goals they are trying to meet. I'd be more concerned if they were dipping into financial aid," Goggin said. 
Jen Mulreany, a sophomore English major, thinks that the tuition increases are unfair and unneeded. "I find it hard to believe that with so many people lined up to donate buildings and with the little financial aid available, that they need more money ... I think they have enough," she said. 
Garrett Hohimer is a first-year law student who also faces the tuition increase: "A lot of us are on grants or fellowships ... most peo­ple are fmancing through loans," Hohimer explained. 
"I won't really see [effects] immediately and I suppose that's fortunate," he said. Hohimer is optimistic that a law school degree from Notre Dame will provide him a good paying job to help pay ofr the debt that he will face upon graduation. 
I Iohimer hopes that the increase in tuition will go toward improving resources, whether for the law school or for the University at large, such as more computer labs, more wireless connections and a possible expansion of the law library or other University resource centers. 
In the letter, Malloy wrote that with the past economic instability, the University has had to "cut costs while diligently protecting the priorities of our academic mis­sion and the quality of student life." 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
Need an apartment :f'or the SUM:M:ER? 
Brown speaks on gays,
Turt:le Creek Apartment:s 
Can help! 

detnands hUlllan rights 
Students who face problems like 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
these arc often told to repress Saint Mary's Editor 
their identity because it is ditl'crent
May 2004-August 2004 (SUMMER ONLY) 
from the norm, Brown said.
Human Rights Watch deputy Although Brown encourages thoprogram director Widney Brown
August 2004-May 2005 (SCHOOL YEAR ONLY) 
freedom of expression, she said itlectured in Saint Mary's Stapleton is often something LGBT peopleLounge Tuesday night on the topic 
June 2004-May 2005 (FULL YEAR) 
are told to suppress. 
"Equality for All? Sexual After fielding questions from theOrientation and Human Rights." 
audience, Brown turned her
July 2004-June 2005 (FULL YEAR) 
Speaking to a crowded audience, attention to gay marriage and the
Brown focused her discussion on August 2004-July 2005 (FULL YEAR) 
recent advancements made in thatthe basic goals of Human Rights area. Despite the backlash thatWatch. 
has occurred, Brown said a step"At Human Rights Watch, we forward is a step in the right direc­believe that all people are born tion.
free and equal in dignity and "The right to marriage L'i some­rights and that people should not thing that all people need andbe excluded from activities, like,
We only have three ...yes you read that correct, ONLY TH.REE 
should have," she said. "There aremarriage for example, based upon 
2 bedroom apartments .:etuain.ing f"or any ot'the lease terms listed 
currently 347 laws in my hometheir sexual orientation," Brown
above!! 
state of New York that allow mar­said. "And although this sounds ried people benefits that unmar­like a simple, blanket statement, ried people do not have. When
Call us for details: 574-272-8124 
you'd be surprised how often this you're telling gay and lesbian peo­
'\V'\VW.TI.JRTLECREEKND.CO.M: 
belief is violated." 
ple they can't get married, you're Brown, who worked at Human denying them those bcncfiL'> evenRights Watch since the late 1990s, if they should be entitled to them."
shared research she had complet­Brown's lecture was the first in
ed looking into the attitudes 
a three-day lecture series in honortowards lesbian, gay, bisexual and 
Georgetown University 
of Women's History Month. Junior transgendered (LGBD people. 
Sara Tallman will lecture today at"We interviewed LGBT students 4:30 p.m. in Welsh Parlor, Haggar in rural areas, and in bigger cities College Center. She will speak on
2004 Summer School 
like New York and San Francisco, "The Legal and Heligious Debateand essentially we found the same Over Sam~ Sex Marriage." On
things happening," she said. 
Thursday, Carolina Monsivais will"When kids tell me school is fine, have a poetry reading at 7 p.m. inand I ask them what fme is, and the west wing of the Noble Familythey say it's fme because they usu­Dining Hall.
ally can just skip gym class, or 
they have an English teacher who 
lets them hide in her room, every­Contact Angela Saoud at 
thing is not fine." saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Choosing a Major?You too can unlock the secrets of the ages in PLSf 
Take advantage of a unique opportunity to study at 
Ever wonder why PLS students bring Plato, Dante, and Virginia Woolf to 
Georgetown University next summer at special summer tuition 
lunch instead of leaving them in the classroom? The answer is
rates. Choose from more than 300 undergraduate and graduate 
because PLS is demanding, fulfilling, and because we 
have fun. Pre-Session: May 24-June 18 
day and evening credit courses during three sessions. 
Interested in reading great authors from Homer to
First Session: June 7-July 9 
Ellison in small groups with professors who have a Second Session: July 12·August 13 
special commitment to undergraduate education? 
For Information about programs tor high school students, please v1s1t 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
http//summerschool georgetown.edu or call. 202-687-5719/5832. 
recently selected as an Call 202-687-5942 for a 2004 Summer School Catalogue or v1sit our website on­
"Outstanding Example of the Best in 
campus housing IS available. Inquire about our partial tuition scholarships 
American Higher Education" 
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE PROGRAM 

~) Georgetown University 
RECEPTION THURSDAY 18 MARCH
SchooIfor Sum mer &Continuing Education 
COLEMAN-MORSE LOUNGE 6-7:30
website: http://summerschool.georgetown.edu ,,,.~, ' email: summer@georgetown.edu 
We are accepting applications for the entering sopho­more class until A_pril 6. Applications are now avail­
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunty Institution 
able in 215 O'Shaughnessy and on the web at . www.nd.edu/~pls 


Wednesday, March 17, 2004 

page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
A SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY FOR PRAYER for faculty, staff and students 
DURING THE THREE REMAINING FRIDAYS OF LENT 
Reflections o n 
FORGIVENESS 
The Format 

A 2 5 minute-presentation on the Sunday Scripture by distinguished Notre Dame teachers, followed by 20 minutes of private prayer based on points for reflection on the Scripture. Optional attendance at the Stations of the Cross at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Scripture 
March 19 

An invitation to trust in God's love for you as the first step The Prodigal (Luke 1 5, 1-3, 11-32) Professor John Cavadini 
March 26 An invitation to be freed from the past to live a new life 
The Woman Caught in Adultery (John 8, 1-11) Father Bill Simmons, C.S.C. 
April 2 

An invitation to understand the depth of God's love and the call to discipleship The Passion According to Luke (luke 22,14-23, 56) Professor Robin Darling Young 
The Time and Place 
The Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
6:15 pm to 7:15 pm 
Cap off your Lenten preparation with this special prayer experience CM 
Campus Ministry 


----------------------·---------------------~ ~---~----~----­
Students meet Indiana governor during break 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior Staff Writer 
While many of their class­mates jetted off' to tropical climes, three Dillon students stayed in the Indiana cold. But don't feel sorry for them ­they were guests at Gov. Joe Kernan's residence in Indianapolis. 
The students -juniors Darrell Scott and Brian Toussaint, and senior Dan Boston -were invited to stay in the governor's guesthouse over spring break after Boston met Indiana first lady Maggie Kernan on a flight from Miami in February. 
"We just started chatting on the plane," Boston said. "She told me she was married to Joe Kernan, and I said 'that name sounds familiar."' 
When the first lady -who, like her husband, hails from South Bend -learned that Boston was a Notre Dame stu­dent, she said he was welcome to visit the Kernans at their official residence. Gov. Kernan is a 1968 Notre Dame alum­nus and played baseball for the Irish. Boston and Mrs. Kernan exchanged contact information, and soon after the flight. Boston emailed her to schedule a visit. 
Toussaint said the students received celebrity treatment during their brief stay with the Kernans. 
'They had a kitchen stocked for us. which was nice," Toussaint said. "It was pretty decked out." 
After a tour of the gover­nor's mansion, the students accompanied Gov. Kernan and 

Photo courtesy ot Dan Boston Notre Dame students Dan Boston and Darrell Scott, left, and Brian Toussaint spent part of their spring break with Indiana first couple Joe and Maggie Kernan. 
his wife to Conseco Fieldhouse to watch the Indiana Pacers take on the Toronto Raptors. Toussaint said traveling by motorcade has its benefits. 
"Having the state patrol drive was pretty sweet," Toussaint laughed. "They don't have much regard for the traffic laws." 
Boston said it was remark­able that the Kernans were so accessible. 
"He actually took time out of his busy schedule to take us to a basketball game," he said. 
After the game, the students returned to the mansion, where they continued to speak with the Kernans on subjects ranging from Irish baseball to global politics. 
"We got a quality, solid hour [with the Kernans]," Toussaint said. "They couldn't have been nicer and they couldn't have shown more care." 
The students were also treated to a guided tour of Indianapolis, as well as a look at the governor's private office in the Statehouse. 
"We actually got to go past the guards," Toussaint said. "We really got a behind-the­scenes look at his office." 
Boston said Mrs. Kernan went so far as to write him a glowing letter of recommenda­tion to recruiters at Hewlett­Packard. Boston also praised the governor's personable nature. 
"He's well-known as a nice, considerate person," Boston said. "He really listened to everything we said." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti.l @nd.edu 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Group sponsors health fair to be held next vveek 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 

Graduate Student Union leaders encouraged participation in the upcoming Health and Wellness Fair at Tuesday's meeting. Formerly Health-E Day, the event will be held on March 27 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Stepan Center. It is intended to promote good nutritional and physi­cal habits among graduate students and their families. in addition to pro­viding a forum for entertainment and socialization. 
A tentative schedule of events for the fair includes an Aikido demon­stration, an Indiana University-South Bend dental clinic presentation on dental hygiene. a talk on eating dis­orders and diet fads, a seminar on stress management and relaxation training and a presentation by Eurogym. There is also a run around the Saint Mary's and St. Joseph's lakes at noon. Event funding has not been finalized, however, and changes to the program are possible. 
Entertainment for children of the graduate students will also be pro­vided, and will include activities ranging from sack races to crafts. 
Publicity and procedures commit­tee chair Alison Dekoschak empha­sized the evolution of this year's Health and Wellness Fair from last year's Health-E Day. 
"[The Fair] is different from last year's, so those who went last year can't really use it to compare," Dekoschak said. "We've tried to make a lot of improvements, and I think we've come up with something different and new." 
A committee composed of GSU president Martiqua Post, vice presi­dents Belinda Byrne and Meg Garnett, health care committee chair 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The student's #1 choice in OFF-CAMPUS housing! www. turtlecreeknd. com 574-272-8124 
ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) is currently 
registering children for the 20o4-05 School Year and the 2004 
Summer Day Camp. ECDC at Saint Mal)''S College enrolls children 
ages 3 through 5 during the school year and 3 through 9 during rhe 
summers. ECDC at Notre Dame enrolls children ages 2 through 
kinderga1ten during the school year and 25 through 9 during the 
sutmner. For more infonnarion and ECDC Parent Tours, please call 
one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
574-284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) 

574-631-3344 JlNAEYG A<ood;lod-PmmoUoo ·~•oo• (ECDC-ND)
T:n Early Childhood Education 
John Young and publicity and proce­dures committee chair Alison Dekoschak have been planning the fair since February. 
In other GSU news: 
+ The group unanimously approved constitutional changes to the struc­ture of the GSU committees for the second week in a row, confirming them as official. The changes will divide the quality of life committee into two separate orientation and quality of life committees, and divide responsibilities among the two social committee chairs into fall and sum­mer/spring semesters. The stipend for the quality of life committee was also raised to $700 from the previ­ous $500. 
+The last day to submit applications to run for GSU president and vice president is Monday, and there is at least one person running already Post said. Electronic elections will be held March 29. 
+ 
A $300 subsidy on next year's health insurance was approved for those graduate students on the MegaUfe plan who receive a stipend from the University, said Young. The subsidy will increase to by $50 incre­ments for two years after that. 

+ 
Quality of life committee chair Crystal Blount encouraged graduate students to attend an open meeting regarding the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools critique of Notre Dame's assessment process. The meeting will be held Tuesday at 5 p.m. in McKenna I!all. and will provide students with a venue to give the NCACS feedback on their opinion of the quality of teaching and learning at the University. 


Contact Amanda Michael at amichael@nd.edu 

--------~-~---~ ~----------------------------------------~-----, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
March Madness not the same 
It's not the end of the world. Our lives pion, can muster is a lousy two seed. win was against a weak California 
will move on. It's only a game. There's Meanwhile, everyone's perennial team. For what it's worth, not that 
always next year. favorite, Duke, who has an equal num­those top-secret rating systems are 
Sure, we can tell ourselves all the Dr. ber of wins as Connecticut, still gar­worth much, Notre Dame boasts a Phil-inspired self-help cliches to ease nered a No. 1 seed despite losing the higher RPI, allegedly the most influen­the pain, but no ACC Championship game to a tial of all the rankings, than Air Force. words can com­Maryland team that until last weekend The Irish also boast a considerably pletely take away Joe Licandro was in danger of missing the NCAA higher RPI than late-season charger the stinging empti-Tournament altogether. Pittsburgh, the Washington, but that's a whole differ­ness. March just runner-up in the Big East Tournament ent story. isn't the same this The Licandro by one point, drops to a ridiculous No. Richmond v. Notre Dame: Richmond year. Not with our Non-Factor 3 seed and gets shipped out to play in reached the magic number of 20 wins, beloved Fighting Milwaukee, where they will likely meet but they finished fourth in the six-team Irish missing out on hometown favorite Wisconsin in the Western Division of the Atlantic 10 the euphoric Madness that is sweeping second round. behind George Washington, a team across 65 other college campuses right Along these same lines, the NCAA that did not even qualify for the NCAA now. sent Syracuse, Providence, Boston Tournament. Richmond did beat 
Since this is a sports commentary, College and Seton Hall miles away Kansas on the road during the regular what's a few more unimaginative from their regional fan base. Equally season, but the Jayhawks might be the cliches between me and you? Cut me as dumbfounding, none of these most overrated team in the tourna­some slack here; I'm still recovering teams earned a seed above 
ment considering they did not from spring break, and I really can't five. Meanwhile, Wake defeat one top-25 team all think of any more creative ways to get Forest and N.C. State, season. (If you're looking my point across. Besides, cliches never despite stumbling down for a first round upset, hurt anybody. They're just the sign of a the stretch, earned 
University of Illinois­boring writer. But that's our little No. 4 seeds and get Chicago over Kansas secret. So don't tell nobody! (Don't tell to play their first might be a safe nobody about the double negative round games in bet.) Richmond either.) Raleigh and has an RPI only 
Maybe, this bitter pill would be a lit­Orlando respec­one higher than tle easier to swallow if Notre Dame had tively. What Notre Dame, a losing record or played in a lesser­gives? but their 
' known conference like the Forget the schedule was
I Southwestern Athletic Conference ACC though. in a different
I 
I. (SWAC), wliere typically only the con­What's with stratosphere
' 
ference tournament champion earns a Conference than the bid. But Notre Dame, with a record of USA earning 
Spiders', 17-12, does not fall under either of six bids, the 
which puts these categories. Thus, we're left with Atlantic 10 
the Irish another cliche to describe our fate. earning 
over the top. Life's not fair. Yeah, no kidding. No four, and 
Comparing matter how much those self-pro­the 
these teams, claimed "bracketologists" want to Mountain 
though, is an defend the NCAA Tournament West earn­
exercise in Selection Committee and their precious ing three? 
speculation. mathematical formulas, there was With their Truthfully, nothing fair about Notre Dame missing recent suc­the Irish have the Big Dance this year. Call me biased cess in the only them-if you want, but the facts of this case tournament, selves to are indisputable. the mid-major blame for their 
First and foremost, the Irish do not conferences predicament. compete in the little, mid-sized or certainly With one or slightly above average East. They com­deserve more at­two more wins, pete in the Big East -emphasis on the large bids, but they never would word "Big" -and Notre Dame still fin­not at the expense have been on the ished with a winning 9-7 record even of more worthy bubble in the first though they were the only team to play teams with winning place. But this still Connecticut, Pittsburgh and defending records in the power does not negate the national champion Syracuse twice conferences like Notre fact that Notre Dame got each. For that matter, Notre Dame Dame. 
robbed, jobbed, hosed and played the most difficult schedule of I'm not saying UAB, a bunch of other potty words any team left out of the field and far Richmond, UTEP, DePaul, Air not fit to print. more difficult than many of the at­Force and BYU should not be in the You can sugarcoat it and try to put a large teams who earned bids. tournament. But if they are going to be positive spin on it all you want. but the 
Once again, though, for unknown included, so should Notre Dame. NIT is like taking your friend Katie to reasons, the NCAA Selection There's not enough space to present a the prom. Sure, you'll still have a good Committee has slighted the premier comparison between Notre Dame and time, but you'd have a better time with conference in the country not just by each of these aforementioned teams to Elena, that hot girl you had a crush on rejecting Notre Dame, but also giving explain why the Irish are a more for four years of high school but never Big East teams the lousiest draws in appropriate selection, so let's just could find the courage to ask out. the tournament. Yeah, yeah, all the break down two. sports know-it-ails like to say the ACC Air Force v. Notre Dame: At 22-6, Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­is the toughest conference. But in the Air Force has an impressive overall ence major. His column appears every past four years, Big East teams have record, and to their credit, they were other Wednesday. He can be contacted claimed just as many titles as the over­the regular season champions of the atjlicandr@nd. edu. hyped ACC-two each. Yet all that Mountain West Conference. But the The views expressed in this column Connecticut, the Big East regular sea­Falcons best wins came against Utah are those ofthe author and not neces­son and tournament conference cham-and their only notable non-conference sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

Do you think Notre Dame should recognize the Gay-Straight Alliance as an official organization? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Question with boldness even the existence ofa God; because, ifthere be one, he must more approve ofthe homage ofreason, than that ofblind-folded fear." 
Thomas Jefferson Former U.S. President 

....
-------------------------------------------------------------~--~--~----­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 page 13 
The 28th amendment: an economic opportunity 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Socialist victory not a step in the right direction 
When I heard of the Socialists' victory in Spain, I was almost as disgusted as when I read yesterday morn­ing's Peter Quaranto op-ed. Let's just look at this from the facts. There are only two plau­sible scenarios -either ETA did it, or AI Qaeda, or some splinter group thereof, was responsible. Either way, the motives of the Spanish social­ists, and those who voted for them, are warped beyond comprehension. 
1. 
If it was ETA, then Aznar's government was right to blame them first. Furthermore, if Basques were responsible for the bombing, how can it be said that Spain's participation in the Iraq occu­pation brought terrorism to the kingdom, and thus the Popular Party needed to be punished? 

2. 
If it was the lslamists, the logic is even more inane. AI Qaeda attacks Spain because Spanish troops helped to occu­py (not invade) Iraq? Why, how could this be, if there is supposedly no connection between the war in Iraq and the war on terror? 


The results of this election were most definitely altered by the bombings. The Popular Party was cruising along, five points ahead of the Socialists. They ended up losing by six percent. That's an 11-point swing in less than a week, and doesn't happen if there's no attack; this is incontrovertible. 
Either way, it is a victory for terrorists. The far Left in Europe is shamelessly, and traitorously, exploiting this sit­uation. Not a day after his party won, the Socialists' leader had announced that he would pull Spanish support for the occupation, called the war a "disaster," and publicly pro­claimed that the ties between Spain and the United States should be weakened. 
Unbelievable. Here was an opportunity for liberalism to prove that it was committed to defeating this century's great­est evil, and its response was nothing more than appease­ment. 
Dan Ornelals 
senior 
Dillon Hall Mar. 16 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~A1~~AL.~') OI~ER A'l)"t>\CTioN fRoe,LEM 
b 

While my girlfriend and I were dining in a restaurant over spring break, we happened to eavesdrop on a slightly disturbing conversation between two couples of senior citizens who were discussing homo­sexuality. "What is 
Joey Falco 

the difference between a gay and a lesbian? Do they 
Forty Ounces 

go out together?" 
ofFalco

asked one confused old man. "I'm not sure, but the good thing is, eventually they'll all be wiped out of the gene pool because they can't reproduce," replied another. "We should really just send them all to an island somewhere," suggested one of their wives. "What about Australia?" recommended the other thoughtful woman. 
With opinions like these circulating amongst many conservative elder statesmen around the country, it is no wonder that our President and his Congress are cracking down hard on the recent fad of gay marriage, much to the dismay of liberals everywhere. So in an ideal example of the "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em" philosophy, I have decided not to sit around fighting a losing battle against a moralistically conservative President who might very well pursue a career in televangelism when he leaves office. Instead, I now set my liberal roots aside and stand in strong support of the proposed Constitutional amendment that would place an official ban on gay marriages, and here's why. 
It doesn't take the keen insight of a Big East basketball official to realize that the speculated 28th amendment on gay marriages would bear a striking similarity to another hallmark of the American legislative process, the 1920 prohibition of alcohol. Both originated 

during his already heated contest against Democratic candidate John Kerry. 
For these reasons, and many others into which I lack ample space to prop­erly delve, I hope to carry forth anoth­er legendary aspect of the alcohol pro­hibition era into the potential gay mar­riage prohibition days of tomorrow. I'm talking, of course, about bootlegging. 
That's right, you heard it here first. I plan on becoming the AI Capone of the twenty-first century. Now while you're repeatedly smashing your face into a concrete wall for not thinking of this ingenious idea first, I will begin to 
am an O'Neill Hall Mobster, after all, and I don't believe in coincidences. 
So after Washington's conservative cronies successfully eliminate the already meager supply of gay marriage licenses being offered by earthy­crunchy liberal governments in San Francisco, Portland, and small towns in New Mexico, New York and New Jersey, an enormous black market demand for these licenses will need to 
be met. This can then easily be accom­
plished in the clandestine establish­
ments that I will set up throughout America, which will fittingly be known 
as "queer-easies." 
After the underground word spreads about my "queer-easies," I will soon be Scrooge McDuck-ing it in the oodles of money that my brilliant scheme gener­ates. Just like Capone met the demand for alcohol in the Roaring Twenties, my glorious example of capitalism at work will meet the people's demand for gay marriage licenses in the era that will one day be dubbed the Flaming Aughts. 
So go ahead, President Bush. Give homosexuals a kick in the chaps. Throw them off their bucking broncos. Ride them out of town with your Smith and Wesson flailing. Spread your intol­erant evangelism throughout America; or at least all the way from El Paso to Fort Worth. It doesn't matter to me. 
I'll be right there, a Capone-like Donald Trump of the future, making my millions off your conservative blun­ders. And one day, with any luck, I'll be able to sit you down in a board room just like the Trumpster's and utter the words that John Edwards' other America has been longing to hear for quite some time. 
"You're fired." 
Joey Falco is a freshman political sci­ence and Spanish major. /lis column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
caglecartoons.com 


THE 0BSERVtR 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEW 
1 Starsky & Hutch': Fun but forgettable 
By COURTNEY MCKAY 
Scene Movie Critic 
Starsky & Hutch, loosely based on a 1970s television show, lacks a strong script and memorable comedic scenes, but still has enough episodes of hilari­ty to prove a decent movie for an hour and a half of mindless laughs. 
Teamed up for their sixth movie together, Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson play detectives David Starsky and Ken "Hutch" Hutchinson, mismatched mis­fits on the 1970s Bay City police force. Despite their conflicting personalities, the duo is partnered together by their exasperated boss, captain Doby (Fred Williamson). The tense Starsky, with his by-the-book work ethic, and the laid-back Hutch, who has been known to pocket a few dollars from the wal­lets of dead 
Stiller shines in his role, and Wilson, while still playing the mellow, charm­ing character he for which is best known, tones down his mannerisms a notch allowing Stiller and his slap­stick, spastic antics to take the lead. 
Ultimately, however, the supporting actors steal the show. Brilliantly cast, Snoop Dogg, as police informant and pimp Huggy Bear, delivers some of the funniest lines of the movie, including, "I know some people who know some people who rob some people." The sight of his scrawny body covered with archaic wiretapping devices may be the best scene in the movie. Will Ferrell also is hilarious in the role of Big Earl, the dragon-loving, hairnet­wearing convict with a crush on Hutch. Actresses Juliette Lewis, Carmen Electra and Amy Smart also turn in talented performances. 
Although a plot 

victims, must emerges occasionally,
"Starsky & Hutch"
team up to most of the time the catch the 
movie seems like a ruthless drug series of stitched­pusher Reese together comedy Feldman sketches. This lack of
Director: Todd Phillips

(Vince real plot direction, as
Writer: John O'Brien and Todd Phillips
Vaughn). well as careless cam­
Starring: Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, Snoop
Unbeknownst era angles from
Dogg, Vince Vaughn and Amy Smart

to the police, director and co-Vaughn has writer Todd Phillips, recently invented a form of cocaine adds to the campy atmosphere that that is completely undetectable by harkens back to cheesy television pro­drug-sniffing dogs and tastes striking­grams of the 1970s and gives the ly like artificial sweetener, all while movie a feeling of authenticity. planning a bat mitzvah for his daugh­Despite some slow moments, there ter. are many gems throughout the film. 
DVD REVIEW 
'Intolerably' cruel and mediocre 
By EMILY IAROCCI 
Scene DVD Critic 
Despite an all-star cast, the movie Intolerable Cruelty was certainly nothing to rave about. While the acting was done well, as would be expected from such wonderful actors as George Clooney, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Geoffrey Rush, and Billy Bob Thornton, the story was rather slow and not very interesting. Intolerable Cruelty was directed by the Coen broth­ers, who have also worked as producer (Ethan), writer (Joel) and director (both brothers) in such films as The Big Lebowski, Fargo and 0 Brother, Where Art Thou? 
The main screenplay writers were Robert Ramsey and Matthew Stone. Information concerning other works by these writers could not be found. If the two are somewhat inexperienced screen­play writers, then their efforts in this screenplay should actually be commend­ed. However, if they are experienced screenwriters, they should receive some criticism for a slow-moving plot that is only partially capable of grabbing the viewers interest. Wl!ile a handful of spe­cific scenes within the movie were very good, it just wasn't put together well and did not flow. 
Clooney plays Miles Massey, a very suc­cessful and infamous divorce attorney. While he is as accomplished as a divorce attorney can be, he feels that his life is lacking something. Nothing seems to sat­isfy him or initiate any sort of positive emotion. He is bored with life. 
One day he meets Marylin Rexroth (Zeta-Jones). the wife of his adulterous millionaire client, Rex Rexroth. Massey immediately seems to fall in love with her but continues to honor his client and does all that is in his power to prevent Marylin from receiving any benefit from the divorce. 
Marilyn seems to be after only one thing in life -money. The remainder of the movie follows her attempts to acquire money from weak men and to humiliate Massey as revenge for causing her to lose her divorce case. Along the way however, she discovers that she, like Massey, is also bored in life. She finds that maybe 
there is something between her and Massey that she should explore. 
Marylin Rexroth is the most interesting charac­ter in the movie, and the portrayal of this gold-dig­ger was successfully per­formed by Zeta-Jones. Her best scenes were those in which she was talking with her gold~dig­ger friends. Those_where Zeta-Jones was being One scene includes Starsky and Hutch going to question a suspect and being attacked by his knife-hurling son. Another amusing scene has Starsky and Hutch going undercover at a charity dinner. Starsky transforms into the deep-voiced, over-the-top Ward Finkle, whose tagline is the command, "Do it." Perhaps the movie's most memorable scene is the nightclub disco dan·ce•off, reminiscent of the walk-off scene in Stiller's other movie, 
Zoolander. 

Although it is full of cliches and pre­dictable story lines, Starsky & Hutch is amusing enough to satisfy those looking for something siUy, enjoyable and fun. 
Contact Courtney McKay at cmckay@nd.edu 

seductive with Clooney to get what she wanted, because she was aware that he had an intense interest in her. Clooney was also very convincing in his role, as an emotionally stunted, utterly bored man. Billy Bob Thornton's supporting role was very well performed, though I am not going to give away what his char­acter was, it would ruin one of the better parts of the movie. It is unfortunate that such a great cast was still unable to make up for the lack of quality within the plot. 
The DVD has good quality. The picture and sound are very clear. The extras available on the DVD however, are lack­ing. The standard extras are available such as, about the movie and outtakes. 
The DVD doesn't have any deleted scenes, or alternate endings, which would have been nice. Also, the about the movie parts are not well dones, and the outtakes are pretty bland. The funni­est part about the outtakes is the shots of George Clooney when he messes up, both intentionally and accidentally because he has very amusing facial expressions. Therefore, the DVD did not do anything to increase the value of the movie itself. 
All in all, Intolerable Cruelty, was mediocre, both in the plotline, and as a DVD, but the acting was impressive. 
Contact Emily Iarocci at eiarocd@nd.edu 


140-pounds  145-pounds  
JON VALENZUELA VS. MICHAEL SCHMITT Despite being his first year in Bengal Bouts, MichaelPICKS Schmitt has already made a name for himself by tearing LUKE BUSAM through the early rounds of the tournament. In last year's finals, Jon Valenzuela went the distance with for­Valenzuela mer champion Shawn Newburg, showing the two­HEATHER minute rounds were not an issue for his stamina. VAN HOEGARDEN Throughout the tournament Valenzuela has appeared confident and composed, especially in dealing with aValenzuela serious challenge from Pedro Alves in the semifinals. JOE HETTLER Meanwhile, in the semifmals against Larry Hofman, Schmitt didn't show even a· moment's hesitation. TheValenzuela exchanges in tonight's match will feature numerousPAT LEONARD combinations and a lot of contact. This one may come Valenzuela down to who is better suited for the longer rounds.  LUKE DILLON VS. PAUL ROBINSON Luke Dillon showed a tremendous ability to take aPICKS hard punch and deliver an even harder one in his LUKE BUSAM semifinal match against the taller Mike Piizenmayer. He will have to do so again tonight if Dillon is to winRobinson his first Bengal Bouts title. HEATHER Dillon's opponent, Paul Robinson, displayed a VAN HOEGARDEN remarkable ability to throw high quality punches after finding himself on the ropes in his semifmal match. Dillon Neither Dillon nor Robinson is afraid to brawl for a: JOE HETTLER score and both can take a hard shot. Dillon's right hook will certainly be a major factor tonight. RobinsonRobinson showed his punching power in the semifinals as wellPAT LEONARD by doubling over his opponent, Todd Strobel, early in Robinson the third round and ending the match.  
155-pounds  160-pounds  
NATHAN LOHMEYERVS. MIKE PANZICA The judges will have their work cut out for themPICKS when Nathan Lohmeyer and Mike Panzica start LUKE BUSAM exchanging punches as both boxers employ a dis­tinctly aggressive ring style. Neither boxer couldLohmeyer ever be called hesitant in the ring and both drewHEATHER blood from their opponents in the semifinals. VAN HOEGARDEN Lohmeyer overcame Mark Basola for his first trip to the finals tonight and Panzica edged outLohmeyer the skilled Brandon Gasser to earn his placeJOE HETTLER tonight. Lohmeyer and Panzica both seem to believe the best way not to take a punch is toLohmeyer throw a punch. This fight will feature seriousPAT LEONARD amounts of contact and both boxers' heads will be Lohmeyer ringing when the six minutes are up.  COLIN KERRIGAN VS. WILLIAM PHILLIP Colin Kerrigan returns to the finals to defendPICKS his 160-pound title tonight against senior Bill LUKE BUSAM Phillip. Though this is Phillip's first trip to the finals, he has proven himself to be one of the pre­Phillip mier boxers in the tournament. In the semifinalsHEATHER Kerrigan showed his versatility by attacking both VAN HOEGARDEN the head and body of his opponent, Alex Roodhouse.Kerrigan In Phillip's semifinal match against Justin JOE HETTLER Alanis, Phillip refused to let an exchange end on anything but his own terms, always finishing withKerrigan a score. Their styles should match up well tonight,PAT LEONARD with Kerrigan picking his punches and Phillip Kerrigan patiently waiting to land high-quality scores.  
180-pounds  LIGHT HEAVYWEIGHT  
JIM CHRISTOFORETII VS. ERIC CALLAHAN It's hard to imagine two fighters with less similarPICKS styles than Eric Callahan and Jim Christoforetti. LUKE BUSAM Callahan rarely doesn't throw a punch and Christoforetti is rarely taking one. Callahan over­Christoforetti came his semifinal opponent Larry Rooney by using HEATHER his jab relentlessly and following with nurry after VAN HOEGARDEN flurry of upstairs rights and lefts. Christoforetti, on the other hand, patiently dis­Christok:lretti missed the advances of his opponent Denis Sullivan JOE HETTLER and rarely allowed his opponent's attacks to find Callahan anything beside a protective glove or the space where his head once was. Callahan is sure to keepPAT LEONARD the punches coming tonight and Christoforetti will Callahan try to keep them from coming too close.  BILLY ZIZIC VS. JOHNNY GRIFFIN When Billy Zizic and Johnny Griffin step into thePICKS ring tonight it won't look like a typical Bengal Bouts LUKE BUSAM fight. Zizic has used his years of ring experience to establish himself as the program's best technicalZizic fighter, and Griffin is a great natural fighter. Both useHEATHER their feet better than any other fighters in the tourna­VAN HOEGARDEN ment, and their heads move as much as their hands. This match will come down to who can throw ofl'Zizic the advances of their opponent more often, and ZizicJOE HETTLER will no doubt be switching his stance a ntJmber of Zizic times. Though both are elusive fighters, contact will certainly be made, and if you happen to look awayPAT LEONARD when either one of these skilled fighters lands a Griffm punch, the crowd will let you know.  

150-pounds 
153-pounds 


While these two seniors may move with the
PICKS 

dexterity of lightweights, they both punch with LUKE BUSAM the power of much heavier fighters. D'Agostino seeks his second career Bengal Bouts title
D'Agostino 

tonight, but the devastating left hand of Pribaz
HEATHER 
stands in his way. 

VAN HOEGARDEN In the semifinals, Pribaz took advantage of the defensive style of Galen Loughrey, out-throwing
D'Agostino 

and out-scoring the junior captain. D'AgostinoJOE HETTLER will not be nearly as receptive to his advances tonight, and if Pribaz gives his powerful oppo­
D'Agostino 

nent any daylight to score, D'Agostino will capi­
PAT LEONARD 
talize, and eventually pull away with the champi­D'Agostino onship. 
165-pounds 
Both Hyan Duffey and Corey Harkins won in
PICKS 

close split decisions over evenly matched oppo­LUKE BUSAM nents in their semifinal fights. Duffey used his longer jab to overcome the advances of Bobby
Duffey 

Gorynski. Meanwhile, Harkins' advances and
HEATHER 

strong right secured his victory over Tim Iluml. VAN HOEGARDEN Duffey and Hark ins should match up well tonight, as both are technically sound fighters
Duffey 

with a tendency for counterpunching. TonightJOE HETTLER will be Harkins' first experience with the longer, two-minute rounds of the finals. Duffey fought in
Harkins 

last year's finals, losing a split decision to Paul
PAT LEONARD 
Harris. This will be a close fight with a lot Of Duffey clean contact and scoring. 
170-pounds 


PICKS LUKE BUSAM Dillon HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Bartels JOE HETTLER Dillon PAT LEONARD Dillon 
In tho semifinals Hoss Bartnls won the best light of the night against Alex Fnrgus, and he will need to do tho same tonight if he is tc> overcome senior captain Pat Dillon. Dillon has bonn impressive overcoming the dis­tinctly different styles of Craig Thompson and Pat McMorrow. Tonight he meets a unique fighter in Bartols, who overcame Fergus with relentless punehos. Bartels will likely bring the light to Dillon tonight, throw­ing evnrything but the kitehen sink. 
Dillon's right hand is as equally as impressive as Porgus' but he may have an advantage in his more tm:hnieal defense and his ability to box with his feet. Bartels' reaeh eould be a bit of an issue, but Dillon has shown a proclivity to taking a lead punch to seore more. 
HEAVYWEIGHT 

PICKS l.LJKE HUSAM Borovina li EATH ER VAN HOEGARDEN Borovina JOE II ETTLER Sehroeder PAT LEONARD Borovina 
Though these two can punch harder than anyone in the tournamont, don't oxpoet either to roly on just one hand or for this to dntoriorate into a bar room brawl. Borovina and Schrooder arnn't typical heavy­weights. 
Thoy both move extremely well and use their jabs to set up massive power punches. Borovina returns to d11fend his heavyweight title tonight and his speed and defonse remain his greatest assets. If he gets caught too dosn to Schronder's poworful hooks, he will bo in for a dovastating shot. Borovina's power. however, is nothing to overlook. Though he gives up a li~w pounds to the hoavier Schroeder, he maintains Uw ability to end the fight with a solid punch. 
PICKS LUKE BUSAM Demko HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Demko JOE HETTLER Demko PAT LEONARD Nicholson 
Both of these hard-working snniors won split decision victories in the semifinals to earn their first ever trip to the finals. Nicholson was at his best when he stayed outsido and usod his one­two combos to piek off his advancing opponent. Demko is more of an attacker and uses his jab primarily to set up a devastating right. 
Both have a tendency to brawl when eontaet starts, but will fare better tonight by dosing in with hard, stieking punches. In the past Demko has shown that he has no problem taking a punch or two in order to set up his strong right and tonight's light may present him with an opportu­nity to do just that. 
74th ANNUAL 
~ 

BENGAL BOUTS 
+ Date: Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
+ Time: 8 p.m. +Location: Joyce Center 
Defending 2003 Champions Colin Kerrigan -155 lb. Stefan Borovina -Heavyweight 
Fight Previews by Luke Busam Photos by Chuy Benitez 
.. 
page 4 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
Holding his own 
of the day so he went in again Borovina would soon forget. ASenior captain against a slightly tougher sparring opponent baeked opponent. That one also went Borovina into a eorner during
Stefan Borovina 

well, and Borovina was felling a match and caught him with optimistie. As practiee was a nasty hook under the tem­
decided to compete 

winding down, one of the sen­ple. Borovina was out in a ior eaptains at the time, Josh flash. He hit the mat where he
as one of the lightest 

Thompson, wanted to spar, regained eonseiousness and but eouldn't lind an opponent. was able to finish the mateh
heavyweights 

The freshman Borovina then despite the temporary outage. volunteered, making the vet­"I didn't really have a 
By LUKE BUSAM 

eran eaptain his third oppo­ehoiee," Borovina said. 
Sports Writer 

nent of the day. That third ses­"Everyone was telling me to 
sion didn't go quite as well as get baek in there and finish." 
Every Notre Dame boxer can the first two. Borovina said taking that claim at least one remarkable "He beat me all over the shot to the temple was a bit of moment. It can be as simple ring. It was ugly," Borovina a eonfidenee builder. as a preliminary round win, as said. "I think I got knoeked "I learned from that that I glorious as back-to-hack titles into the ropes, knoeked down, wasn't afraid of getting hit or as nauseating as a broken I ean't really remember. I beeause I don't think I'm ever nose. But it's a guarantee that went home after that and going to get hit like that e v e r y went right to again," Borovina said. Bengal bed beeause It wasn't until his sophomore Bout boxer I was so season of Bengal Bouts that
"He beat me all over the 
has at least beaten." Borovina found his niehe in
ring. It was ugly. I think I 
one great And that the heavyweight division. As a story to tell got knocked into the ropes, was only the freshman he fought in the the grand­knocked down, I can't middle of light heavyweight division, but kids. noviee train­due to a seareity of boxers in
really remember. I went 
Over the ing. Borovina the heavyweight division he years sen­home after that and went had taken on deeided to try his hand there ior captain right to bed because I was three oppo­as a sophomore. 
Stefan nents in one "There was only like five
so beaten. " 

Borovina's day before he boxers in it, not even enough forward­had even for a weight elass," Borovina looking Stefan Borovina went to his said. "Coaeh Tom Suddes attitude has Bengal Bouts captain first workout eame up to me and asked if I given him with the would mind fighting heavy­enough sto-entire elub. weight. I had pretty mueh ries for a busload of grand­After that day, Borovina sparred everybody in that kids. To understand Borovina began to push his limits even division, so I didn't mind." · one doesn't need to know that further. Over winter break, he Borovina deeided to stay at this year will be his third went home to Long Island and the light heavyweight level appearanee in the finals, or eontinued working out at a just in ease there was a that he hasn't lost a fight sinee nearby gym. ehange of plans. When he Mareh 2002 or that his speed "Training at home over win­learned shortly before weigh-and dedieation to teehnique ter break ins that have ehanged how people see during h e the heavyweight division. To freshman "/ try to take the mystery out w o u I d understand Borovina, one year, I was best fit
ofthe whole thing. It's nothing 
must simply know that he is a sparring i n
to get hyped-up over. It's just
boxer who has never shied with guys heavy­away from a ehallenge. who were the work, it's the training you weight, Even as a freshman, m a y b e he was
do over the season, the work 
Borovina was doing things going to too light
you put in down in the boxing 
that many veterans never do turn pro," for the and after only a few weeks Borovina room that comes out when you division. with the club, he was generat­said. "I go in and fight. " "I did­ing his first amazing story. He wasn't good n't want eame to praetiee one day feel­enough for to look
Stefan Borovina
ing partieularly good and left them. I was like the feeling partieularly terrible. terrible, Bengal Bouts captain little 
"I was really fired up and I but it gave guy, but wanted to get in the ring as them a I real­mueh as possible," Borovina body, and it gave me experi­ized I would still be light. So I said. enee." took stuff out of [my] book bag 
Borovina said he felt fine The experienee he earned at -a ealeulator, eoins, my wal­after his first sparring session that gym was not something let and whatever loose stuff I 

Stefan Borovina warms up before practice. Borovina has not lost since March 2002, and he defends his title tonight when 
he fights Johnny Griffin. 
had in there," Borovina said. "I got on the seale with my pants on and that stuff in my poekets and it got my weight up to 204 or 202, just barely heavyweight." 
Rather than have the pro­gram doetors and nurses worry about him being too light, Borovina deeided just to fake it. 
"I knew if I weighted in under the weight limit some of the doetors might have a prob­lem with it," Borovina said. "So I figured I'd just rig the thing and weigh in at the right weight." 

Borovina advaneed to the finals that year where he faeed 265-pound Carlos Abeyta. Despite the ridieulous weight differenee and a right eross that sent him very briefly to the mat early in the mateh, Borovina eonsiders that fight the best of his 
·eareer. 

"After that puneh it looked like I just got killed. I remem­ber in the baekground there was an 'Oh,' then a eolleetive perplexed silenee after I rolled over and jumped up to fight again," Borovina said. "The point was that I overeame a weight advantage. I lost in a split fdeeision], but I really boxed well and was aggressive and didn't give up." 
Sinee that mismateh. Borovina has not lost. Last year, in his seeond trip to the finals he earned his first heavyweight title and tonight he aims to earn his seeond. Borovina said he doesn't feel any added pressure this year, being only one of two defend­ing ehampions. 
"I try to take the mystery out of the whole thing. It's nothing to get hyped-up over," Borovina said. "It's the work, it's the training you do over the season, the work you put in down in the boxing room that eomes out when you go in and fight. You ean get caught up in stuff, but you have to get over that. 
"You just get in there and do your job." 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

-
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
page 15 
-

MOVIE REVIEW 
1Monster' presents haunting true story 
By MARY SQUILLACE Scene Movie Critic 
While it has nothing to do with crea­tures lurking under the bed or in the eloset at night, there is a good chance that Monster will make you want to sleep with the lights on. This film l'!~eounts the true story of Aileen Wuornos (Charlize Theron). America's first female serial killer in a way that is utterly haunting. 
Aileen. a prostitute, was executed in 2002 al'ter a Florida jury charged her with the murders of six men. However, returning to the actual locations of the murders, writer and director Patty Jenkins presents 
On one level. this film is successful because it provides the audience with a story that transcends the typical "based on a true story," ankle-deep depictions. Instead, Jenkins masterful­ly fleshes-out Aileen's character by focusing on her motivation rather than the crimes themselves. 
Additionally, Jenkins poignantly doc­uments the romance between Aileen and Selby without intentionally trying to break taboos or making their rela­tionship seem overly sexual. Unlike most movies that use homosexuality as a subplot, Jenkins focuses on the mutual love rather than the sexual attraction between the two women. 
Hather than creating a black-and­
white tale of good 

aspeets of versus evil,
"Monster"

Aileen's life pre­Jenkins wields a ceding the 
palette of grays. crimes. Aileen's character 
The lilm opens truly makes the as Aileen movie because she 
Director: Patty Jenkins 

despairingly evokes an entire 
Writer: Patty Jenkins 

stumblns into a spectrum of emo­
Starring: Charllze Theron, Christina Ricci, 
local bar, fully tions from the 
Bruce Dem and Lee Tergesen

prepared to audience. 
spend her remaining five dollars on one last drink. However, Aileen's plans to end her life are cut short when she meets Selby Wall (Christina Hicci). a shy, young lesbian who has been sent away by her disapproving parents. 
Aileen and Selby quickly fall in love, and Selby soon brings meaning and light to Aileen's existence. Yet, this love story descends into the dark tone that pervades the rest of the film as one of Aileen's clients brutally rapes her. In response, she kills him in self­defense. Ultimately this event triggers Aileen's rapid deterioration. 

Surprisingly, the audience can sympathize with her early in the film because her despera­tion is so tangible, and her plight is partly justified. However, by the end of this film, Jenkins does an equally good job of drawing pure disgust from the viewers as Aileen enters the final phases of her spiritual demise. 
By this time, it's no secret that Theron contributes largely to the role in her breakthrough performance. While it is jarring to see the beautiful Theron transformed into a physically unkempt woman, the life Theron breathes into this character is far more unsettling. 

She slides into the role flawlessly, donning a new set of mannerisms, and bringing a range of emotional intensi­ties. Without missing a beat. she fluc­tuates from mania to agony to para­noia and back again. The film is worth seeing just to witness Theron flex her newfound acting muscle. She is truly stunning in the most disconcerting way possible. 
Hicci's performance, however, is less impressive. Although her character is supposed to be meek and naive, Ricci's portrayal occasionally ventures over the top. 
While the film presents an interest­ing spin on a strangely compelling character, the film as a whole is pro­foundly disturbing. on a number of lev­els. For one, it brings attention to the cruelty and violence from which we're continually sheltered. Simultaneously, it raises important questions about our society and how it contributes to the sometimes heinous reactions of indi­viduals. 
Overall, the film borders somewhere between depressing and frightening. However, between Theron's perform­ance and Jenkins' insightful represen­tation, this film becomes worthy of the $8 ticket price and a handful of Monster-induced nightmares. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Depp lifts film past predictability 
Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Hush to By MARK BEMENDERFER 
help carry the film. In Mexico, Depp had Scene Movie Critic 
Antonio Banderas and Willem Dafoe, among others, to lighten the burden. 
All work and no play fortunately do not Secret Window is centered solely upon make Johnny Depp a dull boy. In a rather Depp's character, Mort Rainey. f\nd Depp short period of time, Depp has managed pulls it ofT, carrying the entire movie. to propel himself from a niche actor to One thing true about Depp is that he one of Hollywood's hottest names. Secret brings the characters that he plays to Window. directed by David Koepp, helps life. Mort Hainey is a truly sympathetic to solidify Depp's rising popularity in character. He has quirks, much like llollywood. Captain Jack Sparrow of Pirates of the 
Dnpp has always been a minor star in Caribbean. that help to flesh out the llollywood. lie character. These has a rather peculiarities worsen
"Secret Window"

impressive as Hainey's mental resume with 
condition continues over thirty lilms to erode throughout to his credit. the film. llowever, it was­It should be noted 
Director: David Koepp

n't until Pirates that the trailer 
Writer: David Koepp and Stephen King 
of the Caribbean paints this movie as
Starring: Johnny Depp, John Turturro, Marla 
came out that almost a supernatu­
Bello, limothy HuHon and Charles DuHon
Depp really ral thriller. This is became a house-not true. It is about a movie also owes a lot to Alfred Hitchcock's work will often find this hold name. While his follow-up, Once writer, who after an unfortunate turn of Hitchcock, as many of the elements of the movie rather predictable, or even dull. Upon A Time In Mexico, didn't set many circumstances finds himself haunted by film seem borrowed from the master of Those with a familiarity of both will find fires, it was a solid mainstream movie John Turturro's character John Shooter, suspense. The hero appears ordinary themselves recounting the other movies ­that once again showcased Depp's tal­who also happens to be a fellow writer. whose only real fault is some bad luck. or books that shared similar plot points. ents. The events that happen in this movie The nemesis also appears fairly average. For those people, this movie may still be 
Without Depp, Secret Window is merely could really happen to just about anyone, The plot itself is fairly simple without worth a watch just for Depp's portrayal an average movie with fairly predictable as neither the stalker nor circumstances too many bells or whistles. Personally, of Mort Rainey. Able to evoke laughs, twists and no real memorable moments. supernatural. there are worse combinations than a chills. sympathy, sometimes without even With Depp, Secret Window is a terrific The instances in the trailer that you see · King/Hitchcock combo. Freddy Got delivering dialogue, Depp made the movie. are the touches of Stephen King shining Fingered comes to mind. movie more than merely watchable. 
In a way, this is Depp's first starring through, as he wrote the short story However, these very traits can be the role since he gained his newfound popu­("Secret Window, Secret Garden") that movies own downfall for some. Those Contact Mark Bemenderfer at larity. In Pirates of the Caribbean, he had the movie is based on. However, this with a familiarity of either King or mbemende@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Grizzli·es mount comeback to defeat Sixers 
Richardson had 32 points for said Stoudamire, who made 
Associated Press 

the second consecutive game only six of 19 shots. "That's all I and 12 rebounds, Brand scored care about."
MEMPHIS -Philadelphia 

27 points and Maggette had 23, Portland blew a 20-point lead guard Allen Iverson was back in as the Clippers snapped a four­in the third quarter and wasthe 76ers starting lineup and he game losing streak and a six­trailing 99-98 with six seconds
was ranting again -about a 

game road skid, beating the to go when Portland coachnon-call on Memphis' Bo 
Suns. Maurice Cheeks called a playOutlaw. 
"They paid a lot of attention for Stoudamire. Milwaukee'sOutlaw's steal at midcourt led to Elton and that opened it up Brevin Knight played tight
to the go-ahead basket by 

for everybody;" Richardson defense, though, so the
James Posey with 15.5 seconds said. "We played good defense inbounds pass went into theleft and helped the Memphis and when we do that, we have a lane to Zach Randolph. 

Grizzlies to an 82-79 victory 

chance. The Bucks converged onover the 76ers on Tuesday 
"A road win is definitely a Randolph and the ball came
night. 

good one." loose with four seconds left.
"He didn't just foul him one 

Stoudamire grabbed it and
time," Iverson said. "He fouled Heat 96, Hornets 83 made the winning 12-footer ashim three or four times. He was The Miami Heat couldn't have the shot clock expired. 

just smacking his arms." 

picked a more opportune time "There wasn't a lot of time," Pau Gasol had 22 points and to get on a winning streak at he said. "I just had to get some­Posey scored the final four as home. thing up." 
Memphis erased a 10-point 

Dwyane Wade scored 23 Milwaukee called a timeout
fourth-quarter deficit with 

points to lead Miami over the with 0.6 seconds left anddefense and key shots down the New Orleans Hornets for its protested that there was a shot­stretch. The biggest defensive season-best sixth straight home clock violation before
play came with about 20 sec­

win. Stoudamire's shot. Replays,
onds left, on Outlaw's steal. The "It was a game that we want­though, showed one second wasball eventually ended up in the ed, a game that we needed on left on the shot clock as the ball 

hands of Earl Watson who 

our home floor," Wade said. left Stoudamire's hands. 
dished off to Posey for the layup With the win, Miami In addition, Milwaukee coachand an 80-79 lead. 

remained tied with the New Terry Porter thought
"I was just being aggressive, York Knicks for seventh in the Stoudamire traveled before

trying to get the ball," Outlaw said. "It came loose, and that Eastern Conference. shooting while acknowledging 
The Heat never trailed and that Randolph may have been
was it. I didn't even know it 
came loose." 

outscored the Hornets 18-11 in fouled in the lane. the final 9:17. While the Heat "It's just a tough scenario to
Posey added two more free are soaring at home, New call," he said. 

throws with 7.8 seconds left. 

Iverson's last-second 3-point­Orleans has lost seven straight Joe Smith's jumper for er was off the mark, and the 
on the road. Milwaukee missed as time Grizzlies had their 42nd win, Caron Butler finished with 20 expired. The Bucks have lost guaranteeing the franchise's points and Rafer Alston added four straight and six of seven. first winning record. 17, including a 3-pointer in the 
Iverson returned to the 76ers first quarter that set a franchise SuperSonics 118, Hawks 110 starting lineup after missing record for making at least one Brent Barry doesn't put much with 6:11 remaining. finally won a game that lasted four games with a bad knee, 3-pointer in 34 consecutive stock in Seattle's two-game win­Barry. who scored 25 points longer than 48 minutes by and two days after he refused to games. ning streak. in a 115-101 victory Saturday at defeating the Washington 
play when interim coach Chris Baron Davis had 23 points to Barry scored a season-high Orlando, had 17 points in the Wizards. Ford told the star guard he lead the Hornets, who played 28 points, Ray Allen added 27 second quarter, as many as the But the close nature of the would come off the bench. without injured starters Jamal and the Seattle SuperSonics Hawks. He went 4-of-5 on 3-game against what should have 
Iverson finished with 10 Mashburn and P.J. Brown and beat the Atlanta Hawks to win pointers. been an overmatched opponent points, all in the first half. He finished the game with nine two straight for the first time in Barry didn't score again until led to a testy team meeting in missed all seven of his shots in players. 25 games. his straightaway 3 made it 107-which the Knicks were read the 
the second half, mainly while "This was a terrible loss and a "We've beaten two teams that 99 with 3:20 remaining. riot act. 
reserve point guard Earl terrible game to be a part of," have been struggling all year He added a final 3 at the 2:11 "He was very mad. He knew Watson was defending him. He Davis said. "We have to put it long," Barry said. "We can't get mark before hitting a pair of • this was a terrible win," Penny also received a technical for behind us." excited about beating those free throws that built the lead Hardaway said of the tirade by arguing a non-call. New Orleans' Jamaal kinds of teams." back to eight with 53.6 seconds Thomas, the team president. "It's hard to believe that our Magloire and Miami's Lamar The Sonics improved to 4-1 in left. "It's almost unacceptable -it is team fought really hard and Odom each were ejected in the their last five games in Atlanta, "He was going three, four feet unacceptable, to barely win a played well throughout the third quarter, and there were but Seattle entered with just behind the 3-point line, knock­game like this against a team game, then to lose on a play like seven technical fouls in the one victory in seven games and ing shots down at the end of the that doesn't have any playoff that is really tough," Ford said. game. three of 14 overall. shot clock sometimes," Atlanta hopes, and on your home floor." "Everyone in the building knew "I missed six weeks with a guard Bob Sura said. "Nothing Tim Thomas scored 32 points what was taking place. They Trail Blazers 100, Bucks 99 broken hand," said Barry, who you can do about that. But over­and Stephon Marbury had 16 were yelling from their bench to The Milwaukee Bucks pre­returned from the injured list all they shot the ball well from points and 14 assists as New take a foul. vented Damon Stoudamire from last week. "These last two the 3-point line, which hurt us." York narrowly defeated an 
"It's very hard to take a loss taking the shot he wanted with games are the only legitimate opponent that had been strug­like this." the game on the line. chances I've had to play. I don't Knicks 114, Wizards 110, OT gling -which is an understate­The Portland Trail Blazers know what the doctor put in my Isiah Thomas angrily ment-all month. Clippers 110, Suns 98 guard still managed to win the hand, but it's working. I think I addressed the team behind New York remained tied with 
The Los Angeles Clippers' big game. have a little bionic motion." closed doors. Lenny Wilkens Miami for seventh place in the three of Quetin Richardson, Stoudamire picked up a loose Stephen Jackson scored 39 called it an embarrassment. Eastern Conference. Elton Brand and Corey ball as the shot clock wound points for the Hawks, who have The players were ashamed. lsiah Thomas did not com­Maggette got the best of down and made a fall-away lost six of seven. Jackson, who No, the New York Knicks did ment on his postgame remarks Phoenix's top trio of Amare jumper with one second left to has at least 30 in three of five not lose Tuesday night. except to say he spoke with the Stoudemire, Shawn Marion and lift Portland to its fourth games, hit four straight free After five overtime defeats, team -and to apologize for Joe Johnson. and it paid off in a straight win. throws on consecutive posses­including an excruciating one keeping the locker closed for rare road victory. "I hit the one that counts," sions to cut the lead to 99-93 several days earlier, the Knicks nearly 30 minutes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
BABYSITTER Needed ASAP for family in Granger, Summer avail. a plus\ Call Laura: 243-4776 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-9359 Part time supply center admin This person will be responsible for inven­tory, ordering, labeling, at the supply center in Galvin Life Sciences. The position will be approx. 10 hours a week. $11.00 an hour Must have access to email and basic excel and word skills. Send information to debra.norton@ invitrogen. com 

FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 DOMUS PROPERTIES... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR....WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
2 bdrm apt. lor rent. NC, WID, dish· washer, spacious, close to campus. New appliances. $650/mo. Available 411 but flexible. Call Paul 514-3188. 
VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system incl. Nice yard for volleyball etc-full bsmt. Walk to Corbys&StJoe Church. Call Joe Crimmins@ 574·514-0643(cell)or 574-273­0002(home) 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2004-2005. Academic year· Available June 1. 2 bdrm-2 bath -Fully Furnished ­Security System. (626)441-1275 or salvaty@earthlink.net 
Niles, 5 bed, 2 bath home, 15 min to Notre Dame, tranquil wooded set· ling, avail now, $1150/month. 269-349· 7334 
NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND GREAT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097 
PERSONAL 

Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class in March and get $1 00 back\ Call 1-800-KAP-TEST tor info. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
CARE NEEDED in my home lor 3 year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 2:30 pm -5 pm. 1 Saturday a month. Own transporta· lion required. 5 mins from ND. Major in early childhood development or child psychology a plus. References required. Call 288-6795. 
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



Apply Online (Deadline: March 19) www.nd.edu/,.,,teamwork 
eamwor. omorrow 
I I I 
I 
l 
~ 
I I I I 
l ~ 
I I I I I I I I 
l ' I 
I 
' 
• II 
I I 
I I I I 
1 
I I I 
' 
' 
.,.. ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
' 
' 
' 'I 
I 
' 
I I 
' 
' I 
I I 
l 
r-­
page 18 Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Covvboys 
secure Henson 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas Quarterback Drew Henson signed an eight-year contract Tuesday with the Dallas Cowboys, the latest step in his transition from baseball to the football. 
Henson's agent, Tom Condon, said the contract will be sub­mitted Wednesday to the NFL Management Council for its approval. 
The Cowboys gave the Houston Texans a third-round pick in 2005 in exchange for Henson. 
Henson is guaranteed $3.5 million and can become a free agent after four seasons if he or the Cowboys void the final four seasons of the deal. He'll make the rookie mm1mum of $238,000 this season and can raise his annual base salary based on playing time. 
The Texans selected Henson in the sixth round of last year's draft. Houston, which already has David Carr at quarterback, planned all along to deal the former Michigan starter who spent three full-time seasons playing baseball in the New York Yankees' organization. 
Henson, 24, worked out for 20 teams in Houston earlier this offseason. · 
Henson completed 214 of 374 passes (57 percent) for 2,946 yards and 24 touchdowns with only seven interceptions in his three seasons at Michigan. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Georgetown fires coach Esherick 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Craig Esherick was fired Tuesday by Georgetown after a 13-15 sea­son, the Hoyas' third straight · out of the NCAA tournament. 
President John J. DeGioia made the announcement in a statement. 
"After careful deliberation I have decided that it is time to make a change in leadership in our men's basketball pro­gram," he said. 
Esherick, who succeeded John Thompson as coach in 1999, had his contract extend­ed through 2009 a year ago. He indicated in the last two weeks that he was safe in his position and told people to game to West Virginia on the final day of the regular sea­son. 
Even so, DeGioia gave Esherick a vote of support two weeks ago, saying he had con­fidence that Esherick "is the right person to strengthen and lead our program." 
A message left for Esherick at his home was not immedi­ately returned. 
Fans have also been upset with athletic director Joe Lang, who said a year ago that an annual NCAA tournament berth was an "unreasonable expectation" for Georgetown. 
There has also been concern over the sport's finances. The university, in a report to the Department of Education, tal­lied a loss of more than $800,000 for the men's bas­ketball program during the 2002-03 academic year. 
Georgetown has sold out only one game since moving to the downtown MCI Center in 1997 -and that was this sea­son against then-No. 1 Duke, whose fans filled the upper half of the arena. 
The state of the program was a far cry from the days of Thompson. who led the team to the 1984 NCAA title and regular appearances in the 
NCAA  tournament for  two  
decades.  
Esherick  played  for  

Georgetown under Thompson and was the Hall of Farner's assistant from 1982 until sue­ceeding him when Thompson resigned for personal reasons in the middle of the 1998-99 season. 
Esherick had a 103-74 record as head coach. making the NCAA tournament just once -in 2001. The Hoyas lost to Boston College in the opening round of the Big East tournament last week, the first time in the tournament's 25-year history they did not reach the quarterfinals. 
The Hoyas opened the sea­son 10-0. 
"I am dedicated to sustain­ing that tradition of excellence which means a great deal to our university community and the many fans of Georgetown basketball," DeGioia said. 

"stay tuned," refurring to the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
strong recruiting class he had for next season. Oo C,Ampus"I ain't going anywhere. I may be here for another 30 qcrRIIURtioo l1/Jeekerul --SpeeiRl
years," Esherick said recently, adding it was unfair to judge ttt}R!J 11-17, %004 a college coach solely on wins and losses. 
Esherick has been heavily 
Nee~ a -place for !::JD"'-Y fa~i.Lkj to sta~, criticized by students and 
TYtj tY!e sacrect Hear-t PcnisVI ceVI.teY
alumni in recent seasons, but 
the words "Fire Esherick" [-g.utlol.t"'-0 3"1.. Oll\. ~OI.olY ~~pus IM.aps.} were heard in chants and seen on campus posters this 
we set a 4:-:ro.oo peY persolo'\. ol.oV\.CftLolf\.. foY the
season like never before. A protest rally had been sched­wee~V\.£i{.uled for Wednesday in front of DeGioia's office. 
The Hoyas lost their last "COM6 6ARLY [Tl-u..<.YS~a!::J]-STAY LAT6 nine games, their longest los­
[MoV\.£i{atO"-_sa~ Low pr~ce.
ing streak since the Thompson era began in 1972. They barely qualified for the FoY Yesewati.Oif\..S please caLL: 
Big East conference tourna-PauL e;~c;tu at ST-4--631.-)'-51.2 or 
ment each of the last two sea-u sons, backing in this year only MaYtj FowfeYiw at 57-t-631.:;)-4-36 
when Miami lost a home~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Get d.:Mn arrl dirtym20K 219:. 
Celebrate St. Pat's at Happy Birth:la.y Anna Ka.t_e! 
I.o..e, 
Yo.rGirls 


Friday, March 19th 7:00-9:00 Rockne Memorial 


Organized Games Free Play Refreshments 
All those purchasing alcohol must be 21 and show valid identification. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Florida A&M rattles Lehigh in play-in game 

AP 

Lehigh players look on from the bench during the NCAA tournament play-In game Wednesday night. Lehigh lost the game to Florida A&M, 72-57. 
Wednesday, March 17th 8 a.m. -9 p.m. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 


BOOKSIDRE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
111111111 (574) IJl-6111 • _._..d,aekde...co• 
To help the Fighting Irish Fight Hometessness, cuS'tomers can pick up a coupon at the Bookstore, givei*jotheircashier when they make their pun:hase, and 20% of their eligible sale will be donated by Hammes Notre Dame BookStore to the Center for the Homeless. 
Open to the public • Convenient·parking Will he serving Shamrock Cookies and Punch 

Associated Press 
DAYTON-The NCAA tourna­ment's only team with a losing record is getting the hang of climbing brackets in March. 
Terrence Woods, the nation's most prolific 3-point shooter, found his touch in the second half Tuesday, leading Florida A&M to a 72-57 victory over Lehigh in the play-in game. 
After opening the season with 10 losses in 11 games, the Rattlers (15-16) found them­selves celebrating the first NCAA tournament victory in school history. 
And they're still one win away from break-even. 
"This is a monumental day for Florida A&M," coach Mike Gillespie said. "One more time for all the people who say we don't belong here: I'm not going to apologize. We earned our way here." 
Next, the Rattlers (15-16) head to Columbus for a first-round game Friday against Kentucky, hoping to do much better than their three play-in predecessors. 
Northwestern State, Siena and North Carolina-Asheville fell hard in their first-round games against top seeds, losing by an average of 26 points. 
"As for Kentucky, they put their shoes on just like we do," said Woods. "I feel we have a chance, just like we did against Lehigh." 
Lehigh (20-11) had little chance once Woods blocked out his ailments and locked in on the rim. He bruised his thigh in the Mid-Eastern Athletic tourna­ment on Saturday and couldn't practice before the play-in game. 
He had trouble in the first half. when his back stiffened as well. His stride and his shot got better as the game went along, and he finished with 21 points and a 5-of-1 0 performance from behind the arc. 
"Once I got loose, I felt OK," said Woods, who was 4-of-6 from the field in the final 20 minutes. "In the second half, I felt a whole Jot better." 
Guard Tony Tate also hurt his leg in a pileup and had to leave the game temporarily. He gri­
maced often and finished with 
nine points on 1-of-8 shooting. 
Even with their limps, the 
Hattlers had more than enough. 
Lehigh led for less than a minute in its first NCM tourna­ment appearance since 1988. The Patriot League winner fell to 0-14 in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The atmosphere at the University of Dayton Arena was typical for the tournament's opening game. Small contin­gents of family and friends sat behind the benches and cheered each score, but most of the 7,808 fans sat quietly in the 13,266-seat arena, waiting for some drama. 
There wasn't much, and most of it involved Woods. 
The 6-foot-3 senior guard with the smooth release led Division I with 139 3-pointers last season, the fourth-highest total in NCAA history. He led the nation again this season with 129. shooting 
39.8 percent from behind the arc. 
He had a stifT gait in warm ups and missed his first three shots: a reverse layup and two short jumpers. Woods limped to the bench less than live minutes into the game. 
With their best shooter shut­tling in and out of the lineup, the Hattlers couldn't crack an extended defense that took away their specialty. Florida A&M shot almost as many 3s as free throws this season. but its wide­open offense was tame without Woods. 
In the second half, it got rolling. 
Woods came off a screen and hit a 3-pointer between two defenders, sparking a nine-point run that built the lead to 16 points midway through the half. Lehigh was only 2-of-15 from the field as Florida A&M pulled away. 
"We knew we could get back in it if we played some defense, but Woods started making 3s," said Austen Rowland, the Patriot League's player of the year. "We had hands in his face, but he kept making shots." 
Rowland was just 3-of-14 from the field for eight points. Kevin Tempest led Lehigh with 13. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
League will warn Nelson about contact policy 
"We're going to speak to
Associated Press 
Coach Nelson and tell him that 
OAKLAND-The NBA wants those types of actions aren't Don Nelson to stay out of appropriate," NBA spokesman Avery Johnson's business -Tim Frank told The Associated even if it might be with Nelson Press on Monday night. "I and the Dallas Mavericks in don't think the intent here the near future. was to cause a problem, but 
The NBA said it plans to talk it's not allowed in our rules to to Nelson, who last week have contact with players on made contact with the veteran other teams." Golden State guard via e-mail It was unclear whether and offered him a position on Nelson would face disciplinary the Mavs' coaching staff start-action by the league or only ing this postseason. receive a warning. 
Golden State general man­ager Garry St. Jean has spa-ken with league officials, who contacted him after the inci­dent. 
"The league has had discus­sions with us and we'll let them render a decision on whether or not that [contact with Johnson] is something that is in everybody's best interest," St. Jean said. 
Before Dallas played in Sacramento on Thursday night, Nelson said he had e­
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~
• Autism: The •
• 

Unexplained Epidemic •
• •

• 
Thursday, March 25th •
• 
•

• at 7p.m. •
• 

• DeBartolo 101 ••
• 

• The U.S. Dept. of Education estimates an increase of • 
• 
544% in the number of children diagnosed with autism since •• 

• 
1993. Patricia Stacey has a 7 year old son with autism. 

• 
She is a Creative Writing Professor, former staff member •• of the Atlantic Monthly and the author of the book, The •• 


•

• Boy Who Loved Windows, Opening the Heart and Mind of a 
• 

e Child Threatened with Autism. She will be sharing her own • 
• experiences of teaching a child with autism how to • • communicate. • 
•

: ND Disability Awareness Week • • March 22-26, 2004 • 
mailed Johnson -his former player with Golden State and Dallas -and offered him a coachirrg job. 
"He's got a standing offer from me to join my staff at any time," Nelson said. "I was hoping he would join us for the playoffs if they don't make it and be a part of our organi­zation again. I love working with the guy. I think he will be a good head coach." 
Johnson, in his 16th NBA season, has said he plans to go into coaching soon, but hasn't given a timeline. 
Before Monday night's game against San Antonio, the 38­year-old Johnson said he has­n't replied to any of Nelson's e-mails because of his com­mitment to the Warriors. 
After the Warriors' 97-80 win, he reiterated his stance. 
"I don't want anything to take attention away from me playing basketball right now," said Johnson, who had seven points and three assists in 16 minutes. 
"This is what I'm getting paid to do," he said. "If some­thing happens in the future, or if someone thinks I can move in that direction, then we'll have to evaluate that when the time comes. Right now, the focus has to be on basketball and this team." 
Johnson is signed through June 30 . 

Warriors coach Eric Musselman avoided the sub­ject. 
"I just worry about the 12 guys in uniform," he said . "That's all I'll comment on. I just worry about him with the Golden State Warriors." 
BOXING 
Klitschko gets shot at heavyweight title 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -A heavy­weight championship light will be held in Los Angeles for only the second time in 45 years. with Vitali Klitschko a partici­pant in both. 
Klitschko will face Corrie Sanders at Staples Center on April 24 for the WBC heavy­weight title made vacant by Lennox Lewis' recent retire­ment. 
"Our fans deserve to see today's top two heavyweights battle for sports' ultimate prize in what I guarantee will be the best, most anticipated night of boxing this city has ever host­ed," Staples Center president and CEO Timothy J. Leiweke said Tuesday in making the offi­cial announcem.ent. 


2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 Open for lunch, dinner, and late night fun. 
There is always action at Bookmakers. Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens. 
Tuesday: Every Tues. is ND Night. DJ, and specials starting at $1.00 all day long. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17. MAKE BOOKMAKER'S PUB YOUR ST. PATRICK'S DAY HEADQUARTERS. 
Friday: Live entertainment with Junior and the Ignitors Saturday: Come hear Funky Blues Institute. 
THE UNIVERSITY Of NoTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF ML'SIC PRESENTS 
WED. MARCH J7, 2004 
9:30 PM, BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
FREE AND OPEN 
TO THE PUBLIC 

CALL (574) 631-6201 FOR MORE INFORMATION 


NOMINATION DEADLINE FRIDAY, MARCH 19,2004 
forthe2004 
~student leadershiP Awards 
Help us identify undergraduate students who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in social, recreational, residential. service. and religious activities that promote the welfare of the University and extended communities. 
All Notre Dame Community Members are encouraged to . submit nominations. A student may nominate another student, but no self-nominations will be accepted. 

OUND THE NATION 
Page 21 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVUtS WIRE SERVlCES Wednesday, March, 17, 2004 

team  record  perc. ·lasfJ(f U...GJ~ ( ?  
New Jerley  40·25  .615  
New York  30-37  .448  
Miami Boston Philadelphia  30·37 30-38 28·39  .448 •.441 ).\·. i.418 ...  1'"a u~~/t uu11 :.s )  
Washington Orlando  20-45 19·50  .308 .275  

team 
x·lndlana Detroll New Orleans Milwaukee Clevelalld Toronto Atlanta Chicago 
Western Confere 
team n.>.C(.)rd Minnesota 46-21 San Antonio 44-24 Dalla' 42·24 Memphis 41-25 Houston 39·27 Denver 36·32 Utah 34·33 
team 
sacramento 
LA lakers 
Portland Seattle LA Clippers Golden Stale Phoenix 
2 Johns 

::·~·~~~--~~~i~~~~
1 Maryla~d(2). 
3 Syracuse 
.. Rutger~ 
5 Duke 6 Georgetown 6 Princeton 8 North carolina 9 Navy 10 NOTRE DAME 11 Cornell 12 Denver 13 UMBC 14 Hofstra 15 Army 16 Loyola 17 Massachussetts 18 Air Ioree 19 Ohio State · 19 Towson 
...... 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Purdue at NOTRE DAME, 7 p.m., ESPN2 LSU at Oklahoma, 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Trail Blazers at Pacers, 7 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE ATHLETICS NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships, 3:30 p.m., ESPN2 
FIGURE SKATING Four Continents Championships, 1 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA -Terrell Owens will get his wish to play for the Philadelphia Eagles, following a settle­ment reached Tuesday before an arbitrator could rule on the star receiver's case to become a free agent. 
The San Francisco 49ers, Baltimore Ravens and Eagles agreed to a deal to send Owens to Philadelphia, which will sign him to a seven-year contract. 
The Eagles sent a fifth­round draft pick to Baltimore and defensive end Brandon Whiting to San Franciso. The Havens get back the second-round pick they sent to the 49ers for Owens. 

"If the arbitrator ruled he was a free agent, he could have gone anywhere. This was the Eagles assur­ing that he came to them," said Gene Upshaw, execu­tive director of the NFL Players' Association. 
Owens, who spent eight sometimes controversial seasons with San Francisco, was supposed to become a free agent March 3. But his agent, David Joseph, failed to file papers voiding the final years of his contract by a Feb. 21 deadline. 
The 49ers then dealt the four-time Pro Bowl receiv· er to the Ravens on March 4, after Owens had agreed to a contract with the Eagles that reportedly included a $10 million signing bonus. 
Owens protested the trade to the Ravens, refused to show up for a physical and insisted he wanted to play for the Eagles. The union 11led a grievance on Owens' behalf to make him a free agent. 
Stephen Burbank, the arbitrator for disputes between the NFL and its players' union, heard two hours of arguments from lawyers Monday concern· ing the case, but didn't issue a ruling because a compromise was reached. 

The Havens said they had hoped to get Owens. 
"Our collective mind-set is to improve this team," coach Brian Billick said. "We'll keep doing this through the draft, free agency and in other ways. It's a disappointment to not get TO., but I'm conli· dent in our abilities to raise the Havens to the next level." 
Owens gives the Eagles and quarterback Donovan McNabb the No. 1 receiver the offense has needed. 
IN BRIEF 

Troy Vincent signs six-year where they once were." It took the Catamounts nine hours contract with Buffalo The 32-year-old cornerback has to get from Burlington to Buffalo on 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y.-Troy played 12 seasons, the last eight Tuesday, a trip that should have Vincent knows he won't be counted with the Eagles. A 1992 first-round taken less than two hours. 
on to be the savior of a Buffalo team pick of the Miami Dolphins, he has "Nine hours. It was 40 last year. that underachieved last year -and 42 career interceptions. We have 31 hours to spare," that's line with him. Vincent will replace cornerback Vermont coach Tom Brennan said 
''I'm just going to fit in," Vincent Antoine Winfield, a four-year minutes after landing at the airport 
said during a telephone conference starter, who signed with Minnesota in Buffalo. "We spent four hours on Tuesday after he signed a six-year earlier this month. the ground in New York. It was hor­contract with the Bills. "I didn't "We addressed a need by filling a rible." 
want to go to a place where I was void left by a very good player," Bills The Buffalo area was expected to the key and the main component head coach Mike Mularkey said. "It get from 8-to-1 0 inches of snow that was going to get a team to the was the biggest void we needed to from a lakefront storm that started 
promised land." take care of before we moved on." Tuesday morning and was expected 
Vincent saw players on the Bills The Bills were the first team to end midday Wednesday. There roster such as Takeo Spikes, London Vincent met with when the free­were winds of 20-30 mph. ­Fletcher. Nate Clements, Drew agency period began in early The first-round games, two of Bledsoe and Eric Moulds, and March. He also visited Cincinnati which lead to the East Hutherford immediately knew he could be a and Kansas City. Hegional and two of which go to the more-than capable addition. Phoenix Hegional, are Thursday. 
"I believe I can be one of the com­Vermont again suffers If any school knows about horrors ponents bringing things together," travel horrors in making its way to the NCAA tour­said Vincent, a live-time Pro Bowler. BUFFALO. N.Y.-Vermont's trip to nament, it's Vermont. "I've made plays in the past and I its first-round game in the NCAA Last year, the Catamounts were expect to make plays in the future tournament at least was better than stranded overnight in the Denver to help this organization get back to last year's. airport by a snowstorm. 
FENCING 
OSU ousts Irish at conference tournament 
Irish lose both titles for first time in 20 
years to finish season 
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing team stayed at home over spring break to host the. Midwest Fencing Conference Championships on March 6-7 but still found itself in a foreign location -second place. 
Ohio State (No. 5 men, No. 2 

women) came into the Joyce 
Center and took both the men's 
and the women's title, marking 
the first time in 20 years that 
the Irish did not take first in 
either division. 
The Buckeyes won five of the 

six events while Notre Dame 
did not win a single title. 
Second-place finishes were the 
best the Irish could muster, los­
ing the men's epee final, the 
women's saber final and the 
women's foil final-all to Ohio 
State. The Notre Dame teams 
took second place in each of 
their respective divisions. 
For the Buckeyes, the win 

avenged the losses suffered by 
their men's and women's teams 
at the hands of the Irish during 
their last visit to the Joyce 
Center. Notre Dame defeated 
the Ohio State men 15-12 and 
the women 14-13 at the Notre 
Dame Dual Meet on Jan. 31. 
Head coach Janusz Bednarski attributed the poor play to a couple factors, but cited attrition as the primarily reason. 
"We don't have all the best Buckeye saber Adam fencers at this moment for dif­Crompton, who Bednarski ferent reasons," he said. "The called "a top fencer in the teams we beat on the way had nation", returned from an aca­a big will to win. We had a will demic suspension that had kept but when you don't have some­him out of the Notre Dame body with you it's hard to Dual Meet to help exact [win]." revenge upon the Irish. Ghattas 
·One of the missing Irish was and Stearns both were frus­senior All-American and 2002 trated at the referee calls made NCAA epee champion Kerry during their bouts. Both Walton, who was invited to try argued with futility to have out for the United States many calls overturned. National Fencing Team. Two One of the few bright spots of other seniors, All-American the day came courtesy of the bragging rights, so they kind of fencers will compete in the had a relaxed attitude." National Championships on 
foilist  Derek  women's  epee  
Snyder and foilist Matt Castellan, did not suit up for  "... it really didn't count for anything  team. Without Kerry Walton, the women's team  
personal reasons.  besides bragging  faced an extreme­ 
Also, even though freshman saber Angela Vincent  rights, so [we] kind ofhad a relaxed  ly difficult first bout of the day in the quarterfinals  
did fence, she had  attitude. "  against  Ohio  
been in the hospi­ State.  However,  
tal the night before with an ill­ Forest Walton  the trio of Amy Orlando, Rebecca  
ness.  folllst  Chimahusky and  

The Irish resume practice March 25-28. during spring break to prepare for the NCAA Regional Qualifier on March 14. The Contact Matt Mooney at qualifier determines which mmooney@nd.edu 
r·-·-·-·-·-·~·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
~HOLY 
ill\j g~:EGE 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 
AT 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
IF INTERESTED CONTACT 
RESLIFECtl:),llC~C-ND.EDU 
FOR MORE INFORMATlON 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
While the lack of star power did contribute to the loss, the Irish also received uncharacteristically poor per­formances from normally reli­able squads. The women's foil team, which includes the "A­Team" of Alicja Kryzcalo and Andrea Ament, lost their final by a narrow 5-4 margin. Women's saber dropped their championship match as well, losing three consecutive bouts and falling by a 5-3 score. 
The men's saber team fared even worse. The usually dynamic freshman tandem of Patrick Ghattas and Matthew Stearns could not make it out of the semifinals as they were blanked 5-0 by Ohio State. 
walk-on Marielle Connor pulled off a convincing 5-2 win over the Buckeyes. The Irish were led by the play of freshman Amy Orlando, who shocked Ohio State All­American Alexandra Shklar in an intense 5-4 bout. 
While the team struggled as a whole, fifth-year senior Forest Walton said that poor play resulted from lack of moti­vation. "This really doesn't count for anything, it doesn't affect our individual standing and it doesn't count towards our NCAA point total. It's just pride for winning," he said. "A lot of people went into this knowing that it really didn't count for anything besides 
Summer in Spain 
1!fJiiere: 'Tofedo, .Spain rWfzen: ~ay 21-June .1.1,2004 
<Earn 3 credits 6y tal{i;ng a 300 feve{ fiistory course entitled: ~9dedieva{Spain: .Jl £anaof•71irec Q(cfigiott.s. "rTaugfit in tJ:.:ngfisli 6y %Jtre q)ame professo~ 'R§mie Consta6fe. 
. . 

'Vt".slt lnternationa{Stu£y Programs in 152 :Jlur£eyformore infomw.Lion. 'Ul'W"rt.·'.tuf. e.au/-intf.stud" 
-
.........·~­

---~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, March 17, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
victory. The other half of the
Qualifier 
women's foil "A-Team", sec­continued from page 28 
ond-seeded Andrea Ament, 
took third in the event with a tion. Notre Dame can send a 9-2 record. maximum of 12 representa­Other notable finishes on
c J SPUb 417 N. Michigan Street 
tives, two from each weapon. the day include Michal 
Senior epee captain Kerry Sobieraj, who finished run­Walton knows the Irish need ner-up at men's epee. Angela to fill at least one of the Vincent placed second in remaining two positions for women's saber.
ST. PATRICK'S DAY 
the team to have a legitimate In addition. the Irish realize shot at contending for a sec­after regional competition ond consecutive national title. that they have a growing rival "It will affect the pressure in their battle for national
WED. MARCH 17TH 
on everyone else," she said. fencing supremacy. Ohio State "If we're missing one person met the Irish with both teams then we know that the other at full strength for the first
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
individuals have to step it up time all season. Bednarski and win those crucial, extra feels the Buckeyes offered the bouts." clearest indication yet that As for the Regional bouts, their win at the Midwest
&KAROAKE 
Snyder and Kryzcalo head­Fencing Conference lined the performances of Championships was not a those already projected to fluke.
lOPM-CLOSE 
qualify. After missing the "I think the best was Ohio Midwest Fencing Conference State," Bednarski said. "They Championships for personal were fencing very fiercely
$3.00 Green Pitchers 
reasons, Snyder returned to because they feel the big the team in dramatic fashion. chance. I believe the return of
16oz Long Islands -16oz Margaritas 
His perfect 10-0 record on [Adam] Crompton to the team Sunday clinched the Regional helped them because he is the
16oz Captains & Cokes -16oz Jack & Cokes ALL $3.00 
title at men's foil. Capping off number one fencer on the 
his day, Snyder upset top­men's side. Suddenly the king seeded Ohio State freshman shows up and everybody is Boaz Ellis by a 5-4 score, mobilized by this." 
All Pint Drinks $3.00 
WED & FRI LENT SPECIALS $6.95 
marking the second time In order to combat this 
popcorn shrimp n' fries-fried clam strips n' fries-fish n' chips-fish sand n' fries 
Snyder has defeated the high­growing threat, Bednarski ly-touted Ellis in as many knows his team must empha­
MON-TUES-THURS 
tries. size team concepts and make
Pitcher Specials 5pm -Close I Kitchen open till 1Opm 
The foil success continued a combined effort if they are on the women's side, as to maintain their national
FRI N'SAT . 
Kryczalo also worked her way standing. "Whatever happens.
Buckets & Drink Pint Specials 5pm -Close I Kitchen open till 1Opm 
to the Regional title. Her lone I need good fencing," he said. loss of the day came at the "I need one for all and all for
OPEN SUNDAYS 1PM 
hands of Northwestern fresh­one atmosphere."
Buckets and Shooter Specials -Food 1pm-9pm 
man Jessica Florendo (5-1), but Kryczalo avenged the defeat and secured her third Contact Matt Mooney at
MUST BE 21 WITH VALID ID TO DRINK-NO AGE LIMIT TO EAT 
regional title in a 5-3 faceoff mmooney@nd.edu 
·13/17 Another' Pint IOpm 
•~ Sf fiMti&j fhJ!NrMII1M lims fct:'f~Mm . .... •~ Wunite wit/, fr.ttU! fo,. R!JfMifimt 1bmislf«<ln.MMrtl
I 

thJJrt'i{gu, un Nfl1~ ~,.,t[,;J 
ll

,_______..., t;.:. 
1 
· · ······! • 'l 
~· .. ~ ~J '¥fir:·~ .!'"r. .,. ~ .· • .,
1 ' '· I I
"':'$~;;J ~'~-/'·;,,;e' .J..~ :~ ..ll:t.:;~:.~)*y, ~/.•'·,;·;'',:r-:;: ......~r ltY,,,.f"Y:~i~?-.f:J~·· ~:·;:,.,.-.•',;';-.:·<;.~)~, ·~t;:.,,•:;~,l-";~/;~ i~,.. ·:~,' :~r. ~ ..... · ·~ ...Jo;...• ~""«,• {~ ; ... ~ ..... :~~~.,J' ~ ..·~~ ( ,•:• • ~. ~ 
~:.:.!1~~ ·~0Cfl!,,1;; =·.0:....>··r··-l,,~ ,;e,;~!f.!,.. ,k.~ ·~I\lv'''"·" IE!'•cjcf:~.,~~ '"''/L' ,_,:~ ••.,...1:._..nc'h ~~~t;:;r.~,.t~ ,t,,"1t,n•.1~ ~:-:::~ ...tan~:J.~, !ec.htH!:O•, i~~<'.'.• u 
W :;.; N,' .,...,, ; •:•:• ''>~' Vii.. ;.,.,} '••~ .. ] 
~: 


page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Irish-Boilers has significance for many 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 
For a first-round NIT matchup, tonight's game means too much for too many people. 
Start with Notre Dame coach Mike Brey. As soon as the pairings were announced Sunday night, he heard from his mother Betty. While that isn't unexpected, the reason is. 
Brey's mother is a Purdue graduate. 

"I've been getting a lot of pressure [Sunday and Monday]," Brey said. "This is a big one for the Brey family." 
While Brey's mother has been sere­nading him with the Purdue fight song, Brey grew up learning all about the Boilermakers. 
Now enter Chris Thomas, who knows all about growing up on a basketball court 
Thomas won the camp's MVP award and started to garner the attention of Purdue's assistant coaches. 
"I won a lot of awards arid that's probably the most successful I've been in any camp I've been to," Thomas said. 
In between learning to shoot with his left hand and running across campus between the gym, dining hall and dor­mitories, Thomas developed a natural affinity to the campus and even consid­ered attending Purdue at one point. Thomas' father, Frank, was good friends with former Purdue assistant coach Frank Kendrick and the relation­ship between Thomas and Purdue grew. 
"I really thought about it. The oppor­tunity was great for me, but it faded away," Thomas said. "My growth was definitely stemmed through them." 
Thomas has another significant con­nection to this game -Pike High School teammate David Teague is a sophomore guard for the Boilermakers. Thomas and Teague grew up together playing for rival middle schools. 
While Teague always had the talent to be a star player, he had a difficult time grasping the mental side of the game, Thomas said, especially when Teague would commit three fouls in two minutes. 
That is until halfway through high school. 
"It's the biggest improvement I've ever seen in a teammate of mine between his sophomore and junior year," Thomas said. "He's just smarter. He always had a stroke. He just didn't know how to play. He stepped up every­thing in his game. He can score on any­body, defend and rebound." 
One more connection for Thomas relates to Boilermaker guard and South Bend native Brandon 

McKnight. Three years 
"I think it is going to be
in West Lafayette, Ind. ago, McKnight fin­Thomas spent his an electric night in here ished as the runner-up childhood growing up to Thomas for
[tonight] and I think that 
at Purdue basketball Indiana's Mr.
it is great for both 
camps. One year as a Basketball award. 
member of the older teams." While Thomas is try­league, and a relative ing to ignore all of the unknown middle­Mike Brey outside pressure, all schooler at the camp, of these connections
Irish coach 
for Thomas have put one strain on the Indianapolis native. "Everybody is calling," Thomas said, "for extra tickets." 
The connections for Brey and Thomas don't even mention former Notre Dame and current Purdue center Ivan.Kartelo returning to Notre Dame after transfer­ring to Purdue in 2001. Or the fact that these two football rivals haven't played on a basketball court since 1966. 
All of the connections turn a first­round NIT game into something per­sonal. 
"From Purdue's point of view and Notre Dame's point of view, you are a little disappointed that you aren't in the NCAA Tournament," Brey said. "I think it is going to be an electric night in here [tonight] and I think that is great for both teams." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
COACHING 
Brey has only been 
LLI 
to the NIT once before
:E 
(with Delaware) and 
<C 
he lost in the first

c 
round. But this year, 
LLI 
he has a team that 
a::: 
ended the season
1­
playing relatively well
0 
and is eager for an NIT title. 

z 
STYLE OF PLAY 
With Francis out, the Irish have relied on an open attack that suc­ceeds or fails based on how well the Irish are shooting. Notre Dame's defense has also been impressive. 
PosT 
PLAYERS 
Cornette and Timmermans aren't your prototypical big man, as both have the range to step away from the basket and drain long shots. However, Notre Dame doesn't have a true rebounder on the court at the start. 
PERIMETER 
PLAYERS 
Thomas, Quinn and Jones have provided the bulk of Notre Dame's point produc­tion thus far, and if the Irish want to advance, they'll have to continue their scoring. 
BENCH 

His play in the Big East Tournament established Cornett as a bona-fide low-post presence who can rebound and score. And it boosted Falls' confidence when he hit that big shot against West Virginia. 
INTANGIBLES 
Most teams fade when faced with an NIT bid, but Brey is convinced the Irish won't do that. Playing at home before what will surely be a bois­terous St. Patrick's Day crowd, the Irish have a lot going for them. 
Keady is a legendary coach at Purdue who has led the Boilermakers to a Final

:::l 
Four appearance. He

Q 
has loads of postseason 

a::: 
coaching experience

:::l 
a. and has been coaching at West Lafayette longer than any Irish player has been alive. 
The way Purdue plays physical basket­ball, they could almost play in the Big East. They have quick guards who rely on screens to get open and play tough man-to-man defense. 
Ex-Golden Domer Kartelo is Purdue's leading rebounder, and he has help down low from Booker and Kiefer. The Boilermakers don't use their big men to score, but to set screens and disrupt opponents. 
Lowe and Teague key a Purdue offense with their quick style of play. They are also great 3­point shooters, as both make more than 37 percent of their 3-point attempts. They are also the only Purdue players who average double­digit point totals. 
Keady plays a nine­man rotation -rela­tively unusual in col­lege basketball. But he rotates his players in to help take advantage of mismatches and to keep fresh bodies on the floor at all times. 
Purdue is 4-7 on the road, and they'll face a hostile Joyce Center crowd. But there are many Purdue-Notre Dame connections that give the Boilermakers extra incentive to play. 


Ex-Irish player returns tonight 

Ivan Kartelo played for the Irish for two seasons before finally transferring to Purdue. Kartelo returns to the Joyce Center today, this time as a member of the Boilermakers. 
By MAIT LOZAR SpomWriter  Boilermakers, Jones doesn't expect Kartelo to back down tonight.  main factor in Kartelo's decision to transfer. Kartelo was a major influ­ minutes of playing time per game and is averaging 5.7 points and 6.0 rebounds per  
"He's definitely going to be  ence in getting former Irish  contest. He also ran into  
In what could be his last  going out there and compet­ player  Jere  Macura  to  some  off-court  trouble  
college basketball game,  ing hard. He's going to be  attend Notre Dame. When  when, on Feb. 22, Kartelo  
Purdue center Ivan Kartelo  physical. some might say too  Kartelo announced he was  was arrested for punching a  
returns to the place where  physical,  but  transferring in  bouncer  at  the  Wabash  
he played his first two sea­ that's  some- April 2001, it  Yacht Club. Purdue coach  
sons. Notre Dame senior captain Torrian Jones was a fresh­man on tho team in Kartolo's last season with  thing you have to deal with every game," Jones said. "He's going to  "He'll have a lot of emotions riding on the game.  was rumored Macura was also going to transfer, but Macura stayed  Gene Keady li,mited Kartelo to eight minutes on the court in the game following his arrest. Before the arrest, Kartelo  
the Irish. Jones feels the Irish have a good idea of what to expect after playing  want to go out there and play hard."  Torrlan Jones Irish guard  for his four years. Despite his  was also battling an injury to his hip, but that won't keep him from playing  
with transfer Dan Miller last  Kartelo saw  transferring,  tonight.  
season.  his  minutes  Jones  feels  "I think it will be good.  
''I'm sure [Kartelo) will  decrease significantly during  there  isn't  bad  blood  He's dealt with some injuries  
have a lot of emotion coming  his second year at Notre  between Kartelo and any  and some problems on and  
back, similar to Dan Miller  Dame. After averaging more  players on the Irish roster or  off the court," Notre Dame  
when  we  went  back  to  than 13 minutes per game in  members of the coaching  guard Chris Thomas said.  
Maryland last year," Jones  all 37 games his freshman  staff.  "It's always a great opportu­ 
said. "He'll have  a  lot of  year under Matt Doherty,  "I think he left here on  nity to come back to a place  
emotions  riding  on  the  Kartelo only played an aver­ pretty good terms," Jones  where you love and once  
game."  age of 5.5 minutes in 16  said.  "I  think  Tom  and  played for."  
Kartelo is known for his  games his sophomore year  myself had a good relation­ 
physical play and on a phys­ under Mike Brey. The major  ship with him."  Contact Matt Lozar at  
ical  team  like  the  drop in playing time was the  Kartelo  averages  20.5  mlozar@nd.edu  

Brey: Irish ntay change scheduling philosophy 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 
In the wake of a brutal schedule that may have been too tough for the Irish to overcome, Mike Brey said he will re­examine the way the Irish schedule their non-conference matchups in the future. 
But it's a sticky balance where Notre Dame must balance its desire to play in nationally-televised games against play­ing tough games that could keep the Irish out of the NCAA Tournament, he said. 
"In a lot of ways, we were fodder for our TV contract," Brey said. 
Part of Notre Dame's difficult schedule, which was ranked the 27th-hardest in the country, had to do with the elimina­tion of divisions in the Big East confer­ence. As a result, each team played every other league team at least once and played three teams twice. 
The system was changed by the con­ference this year in order to maximize the amount of marquee matchups to generate additional television revenue. So while other league teams played repeat games against weak opponents, Notre Dame went 2-4 against NCAA Tournament teams Pittsburgh, Connecticut and Syracuse, who they played twice. 
Although the Irish appeared on nation­al television 13 times -the most of any Big East team -the marquee opponents they were required to play to earn the TV exposure necessary to sustain a bas­ketball program may have hurt the Irish, Brey said. 
"Darn if you do," Brey said, "and darn if you don't." 
Brey doesn't want the Irish to back ofT their non-conference schedule, which has traditionally been one of the league's toughest since Brey took the helm. And the NCAA selection committee often overlooks relatively average won-loss records if a team schedules tough teams out of conference. 
"We can't back off our non-league schedule," the Irish coach said. "We want to play UCLA, and Michigan, and Indiana and DePaul. 
"But playing Pitt, Pitt and Kentucky ­that might be different." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Boilermakers should play every another tough road game. "It's the first round, Brey believes team in the state. But Notre not being selfish, but making that Notre Dame's 7-3 stretch
Rivalry 
Dame and its national schedule sure you have the right amount to end the season is an indica­continued from page 28 made meetings between the of home games in the rotation tor of the high-caliber basket­
two difficult. of your schedule," Brey said, ball the Irish are playing. long between meetings that the When Brey arrived at Notre "and you don't play on the road "Our seniors have played so last time Notre Dame and Dame three years ago, fans for six straight weeks like we well for us, they don't want Purdue met, the 3-point line clamored for him to restore did during my second year." basketball to end," Brey said. didn't exist and traditional rival­Fortunately for "And our young national television ries against those who wanted guys, I think it's
"There will be a lot 
games were a rar­"It's going to have DePaul, to see an Irish­important for this ity. Marquette and Boilermaker ofhype around the young nucleus
such a great fan 

Purdue coach UCLA. But only a game, the NIT game and the that's coming Gene Keady base not only from few -including took care of any back to keep play­
atmosphere will be
blames former our fans, but their his mother, who leftover issues. ing as long as we Irish couch Digger is a Purdue grad-The result is a great." can play."
fans."

Phelps for stop­uate asked game that has an Of course, it ping the rivalry. about the NCAA Tour­doesn't hurt to
Chris Thomas 

When Phelps Torrlan Jones Boilermakers. nament feel. play in a game
Irish guard 

arrived at Notre Brey eventually "It's going to local fans have
Irish guard 

Dame seeking to opened communi-have such a great been clamoring to turn it into a cation with fan base not only from our watch for years. national power, he phased out Purdue, but Keady refused to fans, but their fans," Torrian "There will be a lot of hype Notre Dame's traditional renew a series unless the Irish Jones said. "It's going to give a around the game and the Midwestern opponents in favor played their first game in West tournament-type atmosphere." atmosphere will be great," said of a more high-profile national Lafayette because the last Brey is confident the Irish Chris Thomas, an Indianapolis schedule. meeting between the two have shrugged off any lingering native. "Hopefully we can give 
Years passed between meet­schools took place in South disappointment about not play­a good show." ings. When Keady arrived at Bend. But the Irish, already ing in the NCAA Tournament. Purdue in 1980, he brought the burdened with difficult sched­And while many bubble teams Contact Andrew Soukup at philosophy that the ules, were reluctant to add who fall to the NIT struggle in asoukup@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
of the original letter for releas­University managed its football The Monogram Club's letter Heaton also said that the let­·ing the letter to the public with­program and was not directly did not specifically address the ter writers timed the release of
Monognun 

out having discussed their con­related to Notre Dame's 5-7 concerns raised in the alumni their letter at a time that could 
continued from page 28 cerns with the Monogram club 2003 season. The letter, he said, letter, which called for the ath­have had negative financial or other University representa­was intended to express dissat­letic director to be evaluated effects on Notre Dame. When tives. isfaction with the internal based on the success of the the letter was released in early 
right to their opinion and "If you're telling me that they organization at the University football program, more leeway February, he said the Irish were although they may have been had gone to the University and and not head coach Tyrone in selecting football coaches still hammering out details well intended," the letter states, had been rebuffed time and Willingham. The letter also was and the appointment of an related to the NBC contract and "the content of their letter con­time again, then perhaps you an attempt to emphasize the executive vice president. the future of the Bowl tained assertions that rendered could go public," he said. "Since importance of football success But Heaton said that many of Championship Series. "The it detrimental to Notre Dame." that didn't occur, I can't see to the trustees. the letter's original claims con­more we have dissention in our 
The letter also praised the what good is coming. from it." The original letter also tained factual errors that con­own group," Heaton said. "the Notre Dame athletic depart­Tim Kelley, one of the princi­charged that current adminis­tributed to increased misper­more they can do with us as ment and said that many of the pal writers of the original letter, trators had "proven incapable" ception, including minimizing they wish." claims in the alumni letter were declined to comment on the of running the football program the role of White in overseeing The original letter submitted wrong. Monogram Club's response. But at championship-caliber levels, the football program, an over­to the Board of Trustees con­
The Monogram Club is an in a previous interview, Kelley a charge Heaton vehemently simplification of a complex ath­tained 412 signatures, although organization composed of Notre said the group only decided to denied. "The letter indirectly letic department and assuming the Web site ndnation.com says Dame alumni who earned a release the letter to the media criticized a lot of people," he that football is not a high priori­that number has since grown to monogram during their tenure when it received no response said, later adding, "Nobody is ty in the administration. The over 2,200. Heaton said, howev­in South Bend. The club's board from the Board of Trustees. more passionate about football Monogram Club, he said, is in a er, that he thinks other alumni contains nine former football Notre Dame athletic director than [White]." better position based on its have been upset by how the players, and the president, Kevin White said his depart­Heaton also disputed the close relationship with athletic matter was first raised in the Dave Duerson, played football ment has a policy of responding alumni authors' claims that department officials to under­media. and is a member of the to every inquiry it receives. But football, along with Catholic stand the department's inner "People say to me, 'What's University's Board of Trustees. since the alumni letter wasn't identity and academic excel­workings. going on down there?"' he said. 
"We don't want to get into a addressed to him, he did not lence, formed the three pillars "We agree it's important, we "It's a negative on · the media fight with this group," contact its authors. on which Notre Dame was built. agree it's successful," Heaton University. said Michael Heaton '68. "We respond to every inquiry, "I don't think I would take it said. "But I think they don't "We don't want to fight with Heaton formerly served as the every letter and every e-mail, to that level, and I don't know if understand the athletic depart­these guys. We want to bring head of the Chicago Alumni and we've done that since I any of the other players would ment and the Monogram Club. them back into the fold and to Association and now is the arrived," White said. "I've never do it," said Heaton, who won a To that extent, they're raising ask us what we know and to club's legal counsel. "We con­seen the letter, and I can say national championship while an issue they have strong feel­show them that we're going to sider it a family issue. We want that in good faith." playing for Ara Parseghian. "We ings about, but the insinuation address the issues they find to keep this in the family. We In an interview a month ago, think football is very important, and the innuendo is not true. important." want to deal with this in­Kelley said the decision to write but nobody told us that it was All you have to do is meet with house." a letter grew out of a decade­the third most important thing the people in charge and you'll Contact Andrew Soukup at 
Heaton criticized the authors long discontent with how the at the University." know it's not true." asoukup@nd.edu 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
the team was led by seniors Cutler 6-4, 5-7, 7-5 at No. 3 and Spriggle 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) at No. 4. Junior Miranda Mikulyuk won her match 6-0, 6-1, while sophomore Kate Bowler, 6-2, 6-3 also tri­umphed at No. 5. 

In doubles Cutler and Spriggle won as well, 7-6 (7-5), 6-2. Palombo and freshman Grace Gordon defeated Amanda Dworak and Amy Meissner of UW-Green Bay 6-4, 7-5 in No. 3 doubles. 
The Belles then traveled to Orlando, Fla. and went 4-3 versus numerous opponents. Beginning on March 7, the Belles were victorious with dominating wins over Kings College (9-0), Haverford (8-1) and John Carroll (7 -2) on March 8. The following day Saint Mary's dropped their first match of the trip when they were defeated by Wesleyan University (6-3), but the team bounced back to beat Sacred Heart (6-3) on March 10. 
Saint Mary's concluded its 

trip with losses to Youngstown State (8-1) and Wheaton College (6-3). Overall, the Belles did very well against the competition and currently hold a 5-3 record. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

Law& • • • An Interdiseiplinary Colloquilll'D Series March 17~ 2004 4:00 p ..ID.. La-w School CourtrooDI ~~neteros No~nos: Ger1nan Idealis01., Judais01., and the Foundations ofJustice" Presenter P auI Franks Associate Professor Department ofPhilosophy Commentator Paolo Carozza Asgocia.te Profe8gor Law School  


-
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 California's San 52 Like community Dam 
property Sharing this birthday: Rob Lowe, Kurt Russell, Patrick Duffy, Nat King Cole 
1 Country's McEntire 31 Like some 53 Lit_ (college 
Happy Birthday: Hard work certainly won't frighten you this year. You'll be 
course, slangily)
5 Professional phone nos. on a mission to achieve your objectives and nothing will stop you from doing 54 17-Across's first just that. Those willing to help you will be well-rewarded, and those who arc
pitcher 32 Flight board 
national TV reluctant will be dismissed. Don't lose sight of what you are trying to
abbr.

10 Atomic groups: 
accomplish and you will be pleased with the results you get. Your numbers: Abbr. 33 Part of a hookah 12, 16, 22, 27, 35,47 
show 

58 Repeated call to14 Trash can, e.g., 34 Least amount of a dog 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Limitations may unfold due to the needs of
on a computer caring 
59 Crop up children or poor financial maneuvers. Some one in an established position will 15 Lollapalooza 35 Longtime record help you if you ask. *****
60 Biblical shep­

label TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make professional headway if you do
16 What Hamlet herd-turned­
a little extra work at home. Help older members of the family who are
called Polonius 36 Dandy prophet 
experiencing difficulties. ** 17 Late beloved 39 "My country'' fol· 61 Former Iranian GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Major career moves arc in order. Take time to entertainer lower president Bani-send out resumes or to sign up for courses that will bring you added skills. Apprenticeships will also pay oil **** 
19 Steak order 40 "Nice!" 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have the discipline to get overdue jobs 
62 Sportscaster Jim
20 Some diner 41 Wine: Prefix out of the way. Don't become involved in dubious fast-payback schemes that orders 63 Handshake's are sure to be somewhat illegal. ***
42 Where 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You must re-evaluate your emotional situation before 
21 Prince Khan 17-Across was 
you can forge ahead. Don't let your partner make you feel guilty. Make the
inducted in 1990

22 Suffix with prank choice that will ensure you happiness. *** 
DOWN

47 3-D graph line VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emotional upsets are likely if you were counting
23 Up to now 
1 Tease on others to do things for you. Don't confide in co-workers if you want to
48 Last: Abbr.

25 Be in the red avoid confrontations. ***
2 Author Umberto
49 Violinist LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your boss won't be too receptive if you haven't
26 Home, sweet or 3 Hair holder 
Zimbalist been pulling your weight. Physical activities will prove to be stimulating and 
not 
4 Low socks lead to new friendships. **** 
50 Declines

27 17-Across's SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk to individuals who have important inside 
5 Juice drinks 

alias 51 _-Magnon information. You will be able to make advancements at work, but beware of
6 Haircuts 26 Taj Mahal city 39 Popular party 45 Light show 
mounting personal problems. ** 7 Nontraditional 28 Like the "Too-ra-game 46 Family SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Avoid stretching the truth today. You may
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
haircuts loo-ra-loo-ral" 40 Permit to enter get blamed for something you didn't do. Social events should lead to romantic
problem

lullaby connections that are solid and lasting.***** 
8 Pretty shrub 41 Like some vehi· 
51 Actor Jackie CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Problems may arise if you try to push your
29 Cheesy snack
9 Part of a Mad. cles opinions on others or interfere with the personal affairs of friends or relatives.
52 Court cry
34 Five-spots ***
Ave. address 42 Moravians, e.g. 
55 Summer clock AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Limitations are likely if you have taken your
1oChocolate and 35 Ale ingredient 43 California fossil 
setting: Abbr. partner for granted. Take time to listen to the complaints of older members of
almond treat 36 Dreaded site 
your family. *** 37 Treater's phrase 44 Variety of sand-56 favor PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need to spend time with individuals dependent on you for advice. Open and honest group communication will
38 Pound piece piper 57 Designer inits. 
solve a lot of the problems being faced. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are an explorer. You are curious about everything and quite willing to spend time delving into anything that interests you. You like to 
For answers, call 1-900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800-814-5554. 
know how everything works and have a good sense of what you can and can't 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday do.
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugelliala.\·t.com past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . 
25 Normal force Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, Secret message: NEW SLANT ON CROSSWORDS fell on earth nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $1 00 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ ..... 
DILBERT 
FIVES 
It was at that moment that Dr. 0'Malley knew that 
medical specialty that had earned him 
only ridicule from his peers was about to become his cash 
cow ..... 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THOUY 
I I I 
02004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righls Reserved. 
PHULS 


± 
GONNIG 

Hf: WAS A GOOD DOORMAN BE:CAUSE: HE: KNE:W TI-le:--­

[ J I 

www.jumble.com
tWEENST J I I 
Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: PANSY SNOWY DIVERT AROUSEYesterday's Answer: When the tennis champ lost to the amateur, he­
WAS "UPSET" 

THE OBSERVER
-
PORTS
Wednesday, March 17, 2004 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Anticipation rises to a boil 
Irish, Boilermakers meet for the first time in 38 years 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 
Notre Dame students come to South Bend from across the nation, often with little appre­ciation for in-state rivalries. 
So when Irish coach Mike Brey calls tonight's first-round NIT game against Purdue Notre Dame's biggest home game of the season, he's not just referring to the fact that a loss means Notre Dame's sea­son is over. 
He knows that among Indiana fans, in-state rivalries can generate as much energy as Final Four games. 
"We've had arguably maybe the best home regular season schedule in the history of our program if you talk to .some of our long-time season ticket holders," he said. "I don't think there is a bigger game in the regular season than this one when you talk to the com­munity." 
Then again, that's to be expected from two schools that sit 100 miles apart but haven't played in 38 years. It's been so 
see RIVALRY/page 25 


FOOTBALL 
Forlller athletes respond to letter 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 

More than a month after sev­eral hundred alumni signed a letter to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees criticizing the way the football program is managed, a group of former Notre Dame athletes responded by saying the letter shouldn't have been released to the media because it damaged Notre Dame's image. 
In a letter obtained by The Observer, the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame National Monogram Club said the decision to make the alum­ni letter public created a "media frenzy" which hurt the University's image, impeded the overall administration of the University and athletic depart­ment and negatively affected revenue resources and athlete recruitment. 
"It is our opinion that although the authors ... have a 
see MONOGRAM/page 26 

FENCING 
Irish qualify for nationals 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 

Basketball is not the only collegiate sport caught up in the rush of March Madness. On March 14, the Notre Dame fencing team began its run towards a repeat champi­onship at the Midwest Regional Qualifier at Northwestern's Crown Sports Pavilion. 
Led by the foils of Derek Snyder and Alicja Kryczalo, the Irish finished the day pro­jected to secure 10 of 12 posi­tions for the National Championships held from March 25-28. Head coach Janusz Bednarski remains hopeful that freshman epeeists Amy Orlando and Aaron Adjemian will receive at-large bids for the remain­ing two positions. 

"They had a good season so 
would be surprised if at least one of them would not be there," he said. 
A national selection commit­tee will meet Friday to make the final determinations for individuals selected to com­pete in the National Championships. The commit­tee takes into account a vari­ety of factors including per­formance both before and during the Regional competi­
see QUALIFIER/page 23 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles look ahead after early Illatches 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Belles captured their third consecutive MIAA Tournament Championship Jast season. Led by a fifth­year head coach with a career record of 64-19 in Dee Stevenson, the tennis team hopes to build upon its past winning ways heading into this season. 
The team began the year with a 6-3 win in the season opener over Wisconsin-Green Bay on Feb. 21. 
"I feel we have as good of a chance of winning the confer­ence as ever before," senior Kris Spriggle said. "We lost our No. 5 and No. 6 singles players from last year, but our current players are just as strong, if not stronger. We are confident going into this season, but will not take any­thing for granted, as each team in the conference has gotten stronger over the past year." 
The Belles return numerous key players. Jeannie Knish has the No.1 spot and is no stranger to the MIAA singles championships. Kaitlin Cutler compiled a 17-1 record last year and will be seeking an MIAA title as well as Spriggle (15-2) and Kristen Palombo {14-4). 
In the singles matches against Wisconsin-Green Bay, 
see TENNIS/page 26 


NFL  NBA  FENCING  NCAA BASKETBALL  NCAA BASKETBALL  INSIDER  
Drew Henson signs  The NBA wants  to  Notre  Dame  loses  Georgetown  fires  Florida A&M 72  The  74th  annual  
an eight-year contract with the Dallas Cowboys.  regulate Don Nelson's contact policy after his emailed offer to Avery Johnson.  both the men's and women's titles at the Midwest Fencing Con­. ference Championships.  Craig Esherick from his position as head coach following a 13-15 sea­son.  Lehigh 57 The Rattlers advance to the round of 64.  Bengal Bouts concludes tonight in the Joyce Center starting at 8 p.m.  
page 18  page 20  page 22  page 18  page 19  Irish Insider  





