
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Affirmative action debate proves contentious 
Studies Department Richard said. "Ninety percent white is By CLAIRE HEININGER Pierce and Louis Crisostomo, a not providing an education for Assistant News Editor second-year law student and the leaders of tomorrow." 
the president of the Notre He added that since racial 
Tempers flared and tensions Dame Federalist Society, was clashes have dominated the surfaced as five Notre Dame asked to defend their views on affirmative action discussion, faculty members and roughly affirmative action and then to other "preferred" applicant 130 audience members met to address questions and audience groups such as legacies and the debate affirmative action in the commentary that often boiled children of University donors Jt>rdan Auditorium Monday over into controversial territo­are often overlooked. night. ry. "If you're black walking 
In an atmosphere that ranged Saracino articulated Notre across campus, people auto­from collaborative to combat­Dame's central argument in matically think you're here ive, a panel comprised of assis­favor of affirmative action, say­because of affirmative action. tant professor of political sci­ing that the University's current Part of me wants to require all ence Alvin Tillery, director of homogeneity contradicts its of the other special admits to admissions Dan Saracino, mission. wear a sign on their backs that director of Institutional Equity "This place does not accu­says. [my parent is a] 'faculty Rhonda Brown, associate direc­rately represent the world or tor of the African American the United States," Saracino see DEBATE/page 4 

Transition period begins for Istvan-Bell 
Incoming pair Students react prepares to take to controversial office April 1 end to election 
By AMANDA MICHAELS By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer News Writer 
After a drawn-out election The day after results of the stu­process, Adam Istvan and Karla dent body elections were Bell must now wait six weeks announced, students reacted to the before they can take over as stu­process. dent body president and vice presi­This year's election began with dent. However, they made it clear four tickets, which were narrowed that they plan on taking full advan­to a runoff after no ticket captured a tage of the time to prepare them­majority of votes. The Charlie 
selves for office. Ebersol-James Leito and Adam 
"For the next couple months, Istvan-Karla Bell tickets met in we'll be deciding who we want to Thursday's runoff election. However, have around us," Istvan said. "The a significant number of abstentions first step is obviously to begin kept either ticket from winning choosing our staff, to surround our­more than 50 percent of the close selves with people who can accom­vote. plish our goals. We've also already Under the Student Union started scheduling meetings with Constitution, the decision went to administrators to find out where the Student Senate, where senators they stand on issues relevant to were instructed to cast their votes in them. Basically, we need to find out accordance with how their respec­where we are right now so we can tive dorms voted. This procedure best see where we need to go in the caused some controversy, as smaller next two months and beyond." dorms carried the same weight as 
Istvan and Bell also plan on meet­much larger ones. In addition, ing with current student body pres­Judicial Council President Elliot ident and vice president Jeremy Poindexter chose not to release Lao and Emily Chin to get answers dorm vote totals to The Observer. to questions about their respective unable to attend. Some students, like Sorin junior positions, said Istvan. They are also By MATT BRAMANTI "I have a really busy week academically Craig Barbolla, said such a system focusing on making the transition News Writer this week, and I wasn't aware that my makes students in smaller dorms into office as smooth as possible. presence was expected at the meeting this more powerful, at the expense of 
"Meeting with Jeremy will be the Members of the Council of week," he said. larger dorms and the off-campus most important thing right now, to Representatives convened Monday The first resolution brought before the community. About 1,600 students find out how the transition between evening in LaFortune to discuss several council addressed the issue of elections in live off campus, but they had a sin­administrations is going to work," resolutions related to the restructuring of residence halls. In previous meetings, COR gle vote, just as Carroll's 100 resi­Istvan said. "Transitioning will be the Student Union Constitution. members agreed that each hall would dents did. placed on our shoulders and our However, neither student body presi­elect a president, a programming repre­"I'm concerned that when the staff's shoulders -we have to dent-elect Adam Istvan nor vice president­sentative and a senator. However, there Senate voted, the off-campus stu­make sure there's not a step missed elect Karla Bell attended the meeting, sur­were differing opinions on how the elec­dents had less of a say than the in the process." prising some council members who tions should be structured. smaller dorms on campus," Barbolla 
f Though Istvan has not yet been believed they would. One suggestion would have candidates said. told of any requirements he must Bell said she was unaware of the weekly for all three positions run on a combined Although some students had spe­
' 
' ... ~ fulfill before April 1, he said that he meeting, but said she would attend future ticket. Another plan proposed having sep­cific concerns over the election pro­plans on attending as many student meetings. arate elections for each position. cedures, the prevailing outlook on
t government meetings as possible, "Adam and I wanted to discuss several Hall Presidents Council co-chair Sarah campus was one of apathy.
f starting with Wednesday's Student things with [student body president] Keefer said the matter is urgent. Freshman Doug Cummings said he 
t 
Senate meeting. He missed Jeremy [Lao] before we came to the meet­"I need to tell dorms our decision was out of the loop when it came to Monday's Council of fngs," Bell said. [Tuesday]," Keefer said. "We need to have student government. Representatives meeting. Istvan cited a busy schedule with something that I can give them." "Honestly, I didn't even know [the 
respect to homework and impending see ISTVAN/page 4 midterms as the reason why he was see COUNCIUpage 6 see REACTION/page 4 


Tuesday, February 17, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
How true it is 
I am sitting on a Transpo bus. It's pretty early in the morning, and many people around me are headed to work. I am chatting with a young man sitting next to me, discussing the 
3000 page anthol­ 
ogy I have with  Katie Knorr  
me and the insane  
amount of writing  
involved with  Illustrator  
being an English  
major. All of a  

sudden, tbe woman sitting across from me leaps into the conversation. I hadn't even realized she was listen­ing. 
"You gonna get a job?" she asks me. "Well," I reply, "the job market isn't that good right now." ThiS lights a spark, I can tell right away. She immediately launches into a speech that lasts the rest of the ride home. She explains her view that education is pointless in today's economy because there aren't any jobs to be found anyway. She tells me that Notre Dame has billions of dollars saved for use on expansion, yet other people struggle to earn enough money to live on. I listen, silent, nodding and giving vague little smiles, as she talks and talks. 
I am beginning to feel terrible. She is forcing me to listen to an account of the kind of life I prefer to forget exists, the kind of life I have been lucky enough never to experience. She gives a story of a woman she knows, a mother with seven children, who barely has enough money to feed and clothe them all. I feel worse and worse as she goes on. Please stop, I think. I can't even imagine not having enough money to live on. That fear has never even crossed my mind. 
The bus pulls into Library Circle. I am almost guilty that this is my stop. I wonder what the woman is thinking, seeing me get off here. This feeling doesn't go away easily. I carry it around all day. 
Later, I am in class listening to a lecture by a retired police officer whose life had been turned around by volunteer service. His talk is like ice on a burning wound. I listen to him tell stories about himself and people he's worked with. He has come to Notre Dame to speak because here, people have the education and the opportunity to reach out to others. At Notre Dame, we are given the means to make a difference. 
He was the voice telling me that one hurting soul is painful for the whole community, and that it is up to the community to heal itself. He was the voice telling me that we can't get any­where by ourselves, and that most of the people who help us along the way are not as fortunate as we are. He was the voice telling me that it is not so much what you do as what you give, and that giving care allows for others to start caring about them­selves. 
He ended his talk by saying that even though people cause challenges, people are also the ones to solve them. And I couldn't help but think how true that is. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Katie Knorr at kknorr@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, a story in the Feb. 16 edition ofThe Observer entitled "Mendoza sponsors annual ethics week" incorrectly said Thomas Gruber pleaded guilty to fraud charges involving Sobieski Bank. In fact, former loan officer Andrew Ujdak pleaded guilty to the charges, while Gruber was president and CEO ofthe bank at the time. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WERE YOU PLEASED WITH THE RESULTS OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS? 



Maya Chan  Mike Manzo  Alex Schafer  
Freshman Lyons  Freshman O'Neill  Senior Keough  
..So apparently the male population isn't a fan ofCharlie Ebersol .....  ..I voted for the other guys ... so ... yeah."  "That was my pick. so it was cool ...  


OFFBEAT 
Gorilla sings Valentine songs to workers 
GRAND ISLAND, Neb.­Does "You Are So Beautiful" mean more when sung on bended knee by a gorilla? 
It did to three employees at Zwink State Farm Agency in Grand Island, who were recently sere­naded by a crooner in a gorilla suit. 
Holly Fitch, who works at the agency, conspired with her co-workers' loved ones to arrange for the musical missives as a spe­cial Valentine's Day treat. 
"It was awesome. It turned out great," Fitch 
said. 
The three lucky ladies were Darlene Zwink, Judy Price and Amye Lilienthal. 
The secret serenader inside the suit was Celeste Haveln, an employee at a flower shop owned by Fitch's mother and broth­er. 
West VIrginia may regulate tongue-splitting 
CHARLESTON, W.Va.­A House of Delegates leader has introduced a bill that would make it more difficult for people to speak with forked tongues. 
The measure proposed by House Majority Leader 

Brendan Delaney Richard Plngalore Barry King 
Sophomore Sophomore Freshman Alumni Alumni Alumni 
..Yes. but I ..I always had ..Who won it?" didn't know I confidence the voted for a engineers married guy .•, would win. ,. 

Rick Staton would make it a crime to split a tongue, unless it is done by a physi­cian. 
"That's a new fad, like tongue piercing, and once it's done it's permanent, you can't sew it back together," said Staton. "We have some health issues that are associated with it." 
Medical professionals say tongue splitting can cause excessive bleeding, infec­tion, nerve damage, swelling and a permanent speech impediment, among other problems. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:z:: !;( 
LLI 
~ 
.... 
cr: 
(.) 





0
_. 
HIGH 31 HIGH HIGH 39 LOW 25 LOW LOW 31 
37 30 

27 19 
HIGH LOW 


IN BRIEF 
The Students for Environmental Action is spon­soring a lecture by associate professor of civil engineering and geological sciences Clive Neal today in 12 Hayes Healey. Neal will speak on energy consumption and its environmental impact. 
A student discussion on affirmative action will take place tonight from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Center. The event is sponsored by Welsh Family Hall. 
Professor Claude Eilers of McMaster University will deliver a lecture entitled, "The Origins of Rome's Jewish Community" tomor­row at 4:30 p.m. The event is sponsored by the Department of Classics and will be held in 320 Malloy Hall. 
Students may attend an information meeting on a study abroad program in Seville, Spain, a new option for Notre Dame students in fall 2004 and spring 2005. The session will be held tomorrow at 7:00 p.m. in DeBartolo 117. 
The second part of the Strangers No Longer: Catholic Responses to Migration series will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Two Scalabrini missionaries from Tijuana, Mexico, and Albert Brown-Gort of the Institute for Latin Studies will be speaking on boarder policy and the migrant experience. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


46 
35 
31 
22 

Atlanta 40 I 30 Boston 31 I 23 Chicago 35 I 21 Denver 55 139 Houston 68 I 41 Los Angeles 75 I 55 Minneapolis 30 117 New York 34 I 28 Philadelphia 37 I 27 Phoenix 82 I 57 Seattle 51 I 37 St. Louis 45 I 26 Tampa 66 I 44 Washington 36 /26 
___,. 
Tuesday, February 17, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE Co-sponsorship for activities debated 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
Board of Governance officers discussed co-sponsorship of cam­pus activities during Monday's meeting, as all campus activities, groups or clubs must present their plans to the board to receive co­sponsorship. 
First year class president Claudia Toth presented a proposal for a battle of the bands between Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross College. 
"There won't be too many costs, considering we don't have to pay for the venue or the bands," Toth said. "Money will go towards tech­nicians and publicity." 
The event, tentatively scheduled for March 26, will be produced by the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross classes of 2007 and funded by all three schools. Notre Dame will most likely be in charge of finding bands, while Saint Mary's will handle catering. 
Also discussed was a co-spon­sorship of a Grassroots Organization Weekend [GRO] March 19-21. The weekend con­ference, put on by the Student Academic Council [SAC] and Peacemal..ers, is intended to allow students to better understand social injustices. 
SAC requested $1,500 from BOG · in order to keep the event free for all students who wish to attend. 
Both co-sponsorships were approved. Toth 's proposal, howev­er, was not allotted a specific amount of money. 
Treasurer Kym Dunlap reported that there is currently $11,000 in the co-sponsorship account. The members of the board agreed the funds should be wisely allocated. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Campaigning for next year's class boards will begin Thursday. Meet the Candidates Night will be held on Monday, where candidates from each class will have one hour, beginning with the class of 2007 at 7 p.m. Elections will be held Feb. 24. 

+ 
Student Activities Board is hold­ing a bus trip to see "The Passion of the Christ" on Ash Wednesday one hundred tickets were pur­chased for the event. The follow­ing day, John Fotopoulos, assistant professor of religious studies, will give a lecture. 

+ 
Residence Hall Association won several awards this past weekend at the Indiana Residence Hall Organization conference, compet­ing against 13 other schools. Saint Mary's received third place in both the spirit and banner com­petitions and was named School of the Year. Jackie Wright, RHA pub­licity co-chair, won the assistant director position for IRO next year. 


Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Regular meeting canceled 
Informal discussion focuses on Observer 
Viewpoint section 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Associate News Editor 
A lack of sufficient voting members prohibited the Council of Representatives from holding an official meeting yesterday after­noon, but the 14 members in attendance informally discussed their concerns about viewpoint letters and columns in The Observer regarding affirmative action. 
The issue was brought to the forefront at the last CLC meeting and again at Wednesday's student senate meeting, when representa­tives from the Diversity Council criticized The Observer for its decision to run a column against affir­mative action that was accompanied by an illustra­tion of Martin Luther King, Jr. The group had presented a letter to both student sen­ate and -The Observer mak­ing specific demands of the student newspaper and pro­posing the implementation of a required semester-long course on diversity aware­ness for all undergraduate students. 
Leah McGee, CLC's repre­sentative from the Diversity Council, briefed members on a Friday meeting that she and other student gov­ernment representatives had with Andrew Soukup, editor in chief of The Observer. 
"We ran down some of the issues we [the Diversity Council] presented in Senate ... We went back and forth for a while, but no real agreement was reached," she said. 
Some members criticized The Observer for refusing to take action for what they perceived to be poor deci­sion-making in its editorial practices. 
"I think they should take responsibility for their actions and at least write a letter of apology to the Diversity Council," said Emily Chin, student body vice president and a mem­ber of CLC. 
-Other members, including Wyatt Maxwell, suggested that the letters and editori­als were more a reflection of the opinions of the Notre Dame community than the attitude of the newspaper. 
Charlie Ebersol, however, said the .columns and letters printed seemed to suggest a conservative bias held by the editorial board. 
"The Observer this year is radically conservative." he 

said. 
Still, Ebersol recommend­ed that the Diversity Council show caution in the actions it takes on the issue. 
"They [The Observer] are not a student organization ... I don't agree with what they did [but] beyond this point I don't think we can expect anything from The Observer," he said. "Ignoring this is better than letting it get fanned." 
McGee thanked CLC for its advice and support and said that the Diversity Council is continuing to explore possi­ble ways of responding, though she declined to give details. 
In other CLC news: 
Chin updated the council on the work of the commit­tee studying transportation options for students with temporary disabilities. She said the committee spoke with Scott Howland, pro­gram coordinator of the Office for Students with Disabilities, and that the office would assist tem­porarily disabled students in renting motorized scoot­ers. She also said the University would reimburse students for the expense of the rentals. The new policy should take effect in the fall semester. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Law& • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
February 18, 2004 
4:00 p.m. .Law School Courtroom 
''The Place of Radical Protestantism in Early Modern Christianity'' 
Presenter Brad Gregory 
Associate Professor Department ofHistory 
Commentator John Copeland Nagle 
Professor Law School 
------------------' 
Tuesday, February 17, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Istvan 
continued from page 1 
"I think my presence at the Senate meeting would be helpful. since they'll most likely be talking about prob­lems with the election, and I've just gone through it too," Istvan said. "I think this is an issue that needs to be 
addressed imme­diately, because the discrepan­cies between the value of off-cam­pus votes and those of the smaller dorms were ridiculous and unneces­sary." 
Throughout the campaign, Istvan placed a high priority on certain points of his platform, including secur­ing a DVD rental for the basement 
hard alcohol policy -specif­
ically  the  
removal  of  
SYRs  from  

dorms and not directly against the ban of hard alcohol -dur­ing which time he gave an "impassioned" speech at a CLC meeting while Father Mark Poorman, vice president of student affairs, was present, Istvan said. Despite con-
would love to have a good working relationship with him if he gives me the oppor­tunity." 
He also plans on integrat­ing some of the other candi­dates' ideas into his policy plan, such as Craft-Lynch's proposal to put staplers and hole-punchers in every com­puter cluster. 
"A good idea is a good idea -it doesn't have to be mine. 
"There are two ways to judge student apathy. One, they don't care, or two, they're not involved. The first step is to make sure they care. , 
Adam Istvan student body president-elect 
of LaFortune, and he said that he intends to fulfill his promise to accomplish these things. 
"We're going to start with the easy stuff. We already have the ball rolling on DVD rental in LaFortune, so we're going to finish that up and make sure it goes through," Istvan said. "We're also going to move forward with start­ing to talk to whoever we need to talk to to see if we can get the discussion going on SYRs, and with each indi­vidual item from our plat­form." 
His current SYR policy reflects his protests over the changing of Notre Dame's 
"We're going to start with the easy stuff. We already have the ball rolling on DVD rental in LaFortune, so we·re going to finish that up ... 
Adam Istvan student body president-elect 
cerns that this incident will affect his relationship with Poorman and the administra­tion, Istvan said he does not think it will do any lasting harm. 
"Karla and I are meeting with Father Poorman next week, so I guess we'll see where we go from there," Istvan said. 'Tve heard noth­ing but wonderful things about [Poorman], and though it's been said to me that I'm his 'No. 1 hated student,I I don't think that's true. I 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
election] was going on until after it was all over," Cummings said. 
Senior Bill LaFleur echoed the sentiment, saying student government leaders have not shown results in the past. 
"I didn't pay attention at all," LaFleur said. "They don't pursue the without it. 
start when they're applying for college at age 16 or 17. Start at age three. Affirmative action should begin in preschool." 
Tillery, who supported cur­rent college admissions affir­mative action policies, offered his views in a PowerPoint pres­entation that illustrated several benefits -including voting rights and the GI Bill -from which blacks bad historically been excluded. He pointed out that the "strict judicial scruti­ny" cited by Lewis has only been 
Paraphrasing Justice Stewart Potter's famous statement that he couldn't pinpoint what pornography was, "but I know it when I see it," Brown claimed that Notre Dame has a long way to go to achieve equal minority representation on 

, campus. 
"What is critical mass? I don't know what it is, but it's not here yet," Brown said heatedly, . listing off situations from the classroom to the crew team 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
member' or 'my name is the same as the one on that build­ing,"' Saracino said to appre­ciative applause. 
As the speakers stepped out­side of the Notre Dame context, a prevailing source of division amongst the panel members 
I'm not so arro­gant to think that my ideas are the only ones worth­while," Istvan said. 
In regards to 
placing a  stu­ 
dent  on  the  
Board  of  

Trustees, emphasized by the Ebersol­Leito ticket, Istvan said he has requested Ebersol's assis­tance in the matter, but will matter with or 
"Obviously Charlie has some connections that can help us with getting a student on the Board of Trustees, and I've spoken with him about helping us out," Istvan said. "It'll be a lot harder without his help, and we'd really appreciate it, but even if he chooses to follow up on some other interests, I will still look into it," said Istvan. 
Istvan also said that they plan on looking into expand­ing the student section for next year's basketball sea­son, but how fervently they pursue it will depend on stu­dent interest and the per-was the contrast between the constitutional text cited in affir­mative action Supreme Court cases, such as Gratz v. Bollinger at the University of Michigan in 200 3 and the University of California v. Bakke in 1978, and the reality of minorities' histori­cal and everyday experience. 
While Lewis explained his own opposition to affirmative action on the grounds of consti­tutional principles, claiming that racial preference in admis­sions policies does not meet the "compelling government inter­est" requirement for legal justi­fication, other panel members criticized his abstract approach. 
"Affirmative action isn't about constitutional law. In reality, it's 
included in "Affirmative action Constitution since 
isn't about 
1977. 

Constitutional law.
"Is the 

Constitution In reality, it's about always a color­a historical blind document?" 
dialectic in
Tillery asked. "Is [1977 until now] American society.·· enough time?'' He referred to 
Richard Pierce 
the metaphor of a 

associate director of 
man who has 

the African-American
been "hobbled by chains" for cen­Studies department 
turies finally being called to the starting line of a race, say­ing the historical price paid by black Americans should not be overlooked in affirmative action arguments. Contemporary black experience of racism, he argued later, is equally rele­vant. 
"If you circulate an applica­tion and your name is Kylie or Shenika, you are 50 percent less .Lely to get a call back than Todd Smith because they assume you're black," Tillery said in reference to a Harvard study. "African Americans share more experiences than you realize." 
Brown added that the reality of African-American experi­enee. particularly at Notre Dame, should hold more weight than a "critical mass" or a quota. 
where black stu­dents found them­selves feeling iso­lated. "When we're all Domers from day one, then we have crit­ical mass -and we'll fight until we get to that point." 
Pierce ques­tioned how and when the point of equality would be determined. 
"If you support affirmative action, I would pose the question, how 
long should it exist?" he asked. "What are you going to mark as the signifiers of when it should end?" 
Saracino said that Notre Dame chooses to avoid such concretQ deadlines, focusing instead on consistent progress toward a more diverse student body. 
"Affirmative action is not quotas. Affirmative action is saying these are goals -and goals are laudable," he said. "I think we have a long way to go at Notre Dame in both socioe­conomic and ethnic diversity, but we're making progress ... [We want] to be able to say we're farther ahead than we were the year before." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cbeining@nd.edu 

about a historical dialectic in American society between modernity and memory ... It reflects the tension between what was -and how we per­ceive what was -and what is," said Pierce, who was asked to step in for the other two repre­sentatives against affirmative action, both of whom backed out of the debate on Monday afternoon. In the spirit of aca­demic exercise, Pierce departed from his personal views in order to represent those who oppose affirmative action on the grounds of ineffective poli­cy. 
"Affirmative action is just not 

•......,.....,I.Iv •
.I. n~ 
care. Not every student is going to go join student gov­
J . • ·•• ·-·. 

ernment, because that's not the way it works, but they need to know that we're here 

··. ~'PiJsliiPe ·l.iiw ~~~~:;rcQmtllon· Good''
for them," Istvan said. "Once I get my staff in place, we'll 1\f. Cat~leen Kaveny·. · open up lines of communica­tions to everyone, and we 
_: . . .. _·::::_ . . . . 
can move forward with want the student body wants and · . ·.•. •··.. · . ···••···••••••·•· ·. ·• ·. ·.7:00p.m. .· · · > · ·• . ·.· ·.. • ..·.. not my own personal agen­
''The Common Good· Globalization and Justice,,
da." . . .. . ·. .. ·..... ··.: .·: ............· ..· . .. , . ·. : ..· ....·. .. · .. ·. ·.. ·· ·. .· . . . . .. 
D~vid Hollenbach,..sJ
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
formance of the 
effective policy because it starts 
team in March. 
too late," he said. "If you want 
As Istvan and to improve someone's life, don't Bell look ahead to April 1, they 
also look back at 
.

the faults of pre­

.
vious adminis­
SE\'ENTH>ANNUAL· . trations, and the apathy that con­
........................TIIol\tfis AQUINAs···sYMPOSIUM tinues to plague the campus. 

dn
"There are two 
. ~. . . . . . . . . . 
ways to judge 
.. .·.·.·M····················M······.· ... · · ·student apathy. .,.-..o> .. ··o······. ·N· G.······o··.·····.·o·· · ··o·· 
One, they don't . ··~···· ..·....•.·......··· ···•··......·.· ... ·•·········.. •. ·..•....... ·....·· .···· .· ..•...·..···· careI or two, .. -. . . . 
.. . .

they're not 
involved. The Little Theatre, Moreau Center for the Arts 
first step is to 
make sure they SainfMaryis College 
8:15p.m. . .. Reception in LittleTheatre Lobby
do anything anyway." Some students, like sopho­
• 0 

more Elisa Valdez, noted the breakdown of senators' votes 
····.··..··.... Frid..ay, February 20, 2004· 
by gender. "It's funny how the dorm 
:· .·.·.
vote distribution was split, boy-girl." Valdez said. The Istvan-Bell ticket won 11 of 14 men's dorms, while 
Sponsored by the Joyce McMahon Hauk. Aquinas Chmr in Catholic Theology
Ebersol-Leito won 10 of 13 women's dorms. 
With the supportof the Centers for Spirituality and \Vomen's Intercultural Leade1~hip Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu Information call (574) 284·4636 

Tuesday, February 17, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sharon no-confidence votes fail 
JERUSALEM -Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon survived no confidence motions Monday, even though some legislative allies abstained amid deep divisions over his plans to evacuate some Jewish settlements. 
With the cracks showing in his center-right coalition, Sharon appealed for a broad-based government of national consensus. 
The parliament voted against the three motions by 53 to 45 margins, with 22 members either abstaining or not showing up for the ses­sion. The opposition needed 61 of the 120 mem­bers of parliament to topple the government. 
India, Pakistan plan peace talks 
ISlAMABAD, Pakistan -India and Pakistan held their first peace talks in 2 1/2 years Monday, praising a "new momentum" and working on a timetable to resolve decades of conflict between the nuclear-armed neighbors over Kashmir, terrorism and other issues. 
As the two countries back down from the brink of their fourth war in 2002, the three­day talks are to lay 'the groundwork for end­ing a half-century of tension since their 194 7 partition. 
"There is realization in India and Pakistan that war is not an option, that you have to look at ways to find a peaceful resolution of the outstanding disputes between the two countries," Pakistani spokesman Masood Khan said after a meeting between Foreign Ministry officials of the two countries. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Groups sue to stop S.F. gay marriage 
SAN FRANCISCO -As hundreds of gay and lesbian couples lined up at City Hall for the historic chance to wed with the city's blessing, opponents filed legal papers Monday arguing that only judges can declare California's prohibition on same-sex mar­riages to be unconstitutional. 
In a brief submitted for a court hearing Tuesday, lawyers for one of two groups seek­ing to block the unprecedented wedding march said Mayor Gavin Newsom was in bla­tant violation of state law when he directed the county clerk to issue marriage licenses to gay couples. 
"What the mayor and his cronies have attempted to do is short-circuit the legal process by being both judge and jury them­selves," said Alliance Defense Fund attorney Benjamin Bull. 
Spirit sets personal distance record 
LOS ANGELES -The Spirit rover went for its longest trip yet on the surface of Mars, trav­eling just over 88 feet but stopping short of the distance NASA had hoped it would cover, sci­entists said Monday. 
Engineers had hoped the rover would travel 164 feet on its way to a crater known as "Bonneville" to examine rocks and soil for evi­dence that water may have existed on the Red Planet, mission manager Jim Erickson said. 
"Spirit, she's put some more territory behind her," Erickson said. "We're closer but not as close as we'd wanted to be." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Seat belt, alcohol laws stall in House 
INDIANAPOLIS -A bill that would require people to wear seat belts in pickup trucks and a proposal prohibiting open containers of alcohol in vehicles both stalled in a House committee Monday. 
Representatives on the House Public Policy, Ethics and Veterans Affairs Committee ques­tioned some aspects of the seat belt bill. The open container bill met stronger opposition, with critics saying it amounted to federal government "blackmail." 
The open container law would prohibit open containers of alcohol in vehicles even if the driver is sober, although exceptions would be made for limousine drivers and those with recreational vehicles. A violation would be a Class B misdemeanor carrying a fine of up to $1,000. 
HAITI 
Rebel mov.ement spreads inland 
Gunmen kill three police officers in Hinche, now control Artibonite agricultural district 
Associated Press 
GONAIVES -Haiti's rebellion spread to the cen­tral city of Hinche on Monday as rebels and for­mer soldiers killed at least three officers at a police station. President Jean­Bertrand Aristide pleaded for foreign help to stop the bloodshed. 
The rebels descended on the police station in Hinche, about 70 miles northeast of Port-au-Prince, according to a Haitian security official who spoke on condition of anonymity. They killed dis­trict police chief Maxime Jonas, pushed police out of the city and threatened gov­ernment supporters, the official said. 
At least 56 people have died since the rebellion aimed at ousting Aristide exploded Feb. 5 in the city of Gonaives. 
About 50 rebels descend­ed on the police station in Hinche, about 70 miles northwest of Port-au­Prince. They killed district police chief Maxime Jonas, pushed police out of the city and freed prisoners from the jail before burning the station. 
Louis-Jodel Chamblain, a former Haitian soldier who had asked for technical Geneva-based International oil, while others will get led a paramilitary group assistance from the Committee of the Red Cross sacks of cereals, said Sandy known as the Front for the Organization of American into Gonaives on Monday. Laumark, director of CARE Advancement and Progress States. "It may be that the The convoy was carrying in Haiti. The distribution of Haiti, or FRAPH, which police cannot cope with this 1.6 tons of supplies, includ­will last about 10 days. killed and maimed hun­kind of attack." ing blood and surgical The rebels launched the dreds of people between Aristide refused to talk equipment. rebellion from Gonaives, 70 1991 and 1994, reportedly about strategies for halting A surgeon and a physi­miles northwest of Port-au­led the attack, according to the unrest or whether he cian were also sent to treat Prince, unleashing a deadly witnesses. would ask for military assis­some 40 people wounded in wave of violence that has 
The attack was consid­tance. He did, however, say the fighting. spread to more than a ered a serious blow and the the government would use "We are here to bring dozen towns. Both sides 
-first to the city of 50,000 peaceful means to quell the urgently needed medical have suffered casualties. people where corn, millet uprising that has prevented assistance to Gonaives," On Sunday night, Aristide and beans are produced. food, fuel and medical ship­Pedro Jsely, leader of the loyalists reportedly killed The rebels now control ments. Red Cross mission in Haiti, two anti-government sup­most roads leading in and "A group of terrorists are said Monday after arriving porters in the port town of out of the Artibonite. district, breaking democratic order," in the city. St. Marc. a rich agricultural area Aristide said. "We have the In addition to the medical Although the rebels are home to almost 1 million responsibility to use the law relief, the international non­thought to number less than people. and dialogue to take a governmental organization, Haiti's 5,000-member police "Blood has flowed in peaceful way." CARE, began distributing force, exiled paramilitary Hinch e." Aristide told Rebels armed with food to people in Gonaives. leaders and police have reporters at a news confer­machetes and rifles escort-· About 50,000 people will joined their forces, vowing ence late Monday, saying he ed an aid convoy led by the receive a gallon of vegetable to oust Aristide. 

Study links breast cancer, antibiotics 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A study suggests antibiotics might increase the risk of developing breast cancer, but researchers said the data should not stop women from taking the medica­tion. 
Women who took the most antibi­otics -who had more than 25 pre­scriptions, or who took the drugs for at least 501 days -faced double the risk of developing breast cancer over an average of about 17 years, com­pared with women who didn't use the drugs, the study showed. 
The authors said more research is · needed because H could have been the diseases women used antibiotics to treat -rather than the drugs themselves -that increased breast cancer risk. 
Also, since antibiotics are widely used to treat a variety of common infections caused by bacteria, includ­ing strep throat, some pneumonias and many gastrointestinal infections, it may be that women who never took the drugs were unusually healthy and therefore unusually resistant to can­cer, the researchers said. 
"It's very premature for people to stop taking antibiotics when they're needed," said lead author Christine Velicer, a researcher at Group Health Cooperative, a large nonprofit health plan in western Washington. "Antibiotics have a substantial public health benefit." 
The results appear in Wednesday's 
Journal of the American Medical Association and were released Monday. 
The study involved 2,266 women 20 and older who developed invasive breast ca,ncer and who were com­pared with 7,953 women who did not get breast cancer. 
An increased breast cancer risk was found with increasing use of antibiotics, with the greatest increased risk in women who took the drugs for at least 501 days. Even women who had up to 25 prescrip­tions over about 17 years faced an increased risk -about 1.5 times higher than nonusers. 
An increased breast cancer risk was found for all types of antibiotics, including penicillins. 
page6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 17, 2004 
received across student gov­was optimistic that the dinner sponsor a "Casino Night" event Joe Trombello also con­ernment. will be a success. "I expect to in the LaFortune Ballroom tributed to this report. 
Council 
"This is a group of people have a great turnout, to see Saturday. "We'll give out 
this strong, diverse and unique  between $900 and $1,000 in  
class," he said.  prizes for sophomores," Leito  
+ Sophomore class president  said.  Contact Matt Bramanti at  
James Leito said his group will  mbramant@nd.edu  



. . . 
Ticket .Distribution 
. ~· 

. . TUESDAY, February.17th 
WEDNESDAY, February 18th 
. . 

. . . . . . . . . ·. . . . . . 
Sorin Rootn, LaFortune Student,Center 7 PM untillO PM 
.*You must present your student 1D in order to pick -UP your tickets~ If you are picking up tickets for others, you will need their student IDs to sign them out.. 
·.;. 


MSPS FINE ART'S J,E~ SERIES Prdlents 
Nancy Nelson 
"African A111erican Women's Hair: 
A. L¢sson ~-Cultu.nd Identity'' 
.._, .,.,;.· 


.. 

Date:  Wednesday,  
.Feb. 18th  
Time:  7:00P.M.  
Where:  McGlinn Hall  
·cost:  FREE FREE  


who will best be able to work 
out [budgetary] problems," 
O'Donnell said. 
Keefer proposed that the · FMB present its budget to the Student Senate for review before the COR makes its deci­sion. 
However, Ebersol said such a 
presentation would be unnec­
essary. 
"COR has open meetings," Ebersol said. "If the senators want to come and listen to the budget, they can.. 
The last resolution addressed the approval of officials nomi­nated by the student body president. Under the revamped constitution, the president may appoint students to fill several positions, including seats on Senate committees. 
The council voted over­whelmingly to grant itself the power to approve such nomi­nations. A proposal to require a three-fourths supermajority for such approvals failed. 
Lao directed members of COR committees on policy and pro­gramming to resume their meetings. The committees are responsible for compiling pro­posed constitutional changes in their respective areas. 
"It's time to get cracking on this," Lao said. "We have 1 1/2 more months to write a consti­tution, and we don't have much right now." 
While a skeleton of the new constitution has been discussed at COR meetings for months, a final version is several weeks away, as council members hammer out the details. 
In other COR news: 
+ Freshman class president Jason Laws announced his organization will sponsor a freshman class dinner Thursday in LaFortune featur­ing catered barbecue from Famous Dave's. Laws said he 

This week learn how to: CHA CHA! (no partners or experience needed) Tuesdays, 7:30·8:45 pm 301 Rockne 
•· "'• 
Advanced class: East Coast Swing 8:45-10:00pm Sponsored by the ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club 
continued from page 1 
In the end, the council voted overwhelmingly to leave the decision up to the individual residence halls. Each dorm will make an annual determination -before campaigning begins -whether it will run elections with split or combined tickets. This determination is to be made by the hall's rector, pres-­ident, senator and, for future years, its programming repre­sentative. 
Student Union Board manag­er Charlie Ebersol said the council's vote will allow each dorm to select effective lead­ers. 
"We need the best people in the positions," Ebersol said. 
The council also passed· a resolution dealing with with the budget approval process. 
Under the current constitu­tion, money is allocated by the Financial Management Board and is sent to the Council of Representatives for review and approval. 
Chief of staff Pat Corker said the budget -which totals roughly $600,000-represents the combined financial resources of all student gov­ernment bodies. 
FMB chairman Don Norton said responsibility for approv­ing the budget belongs in the council, which represents all student union organizations. 
"It's the most rational thing that needs to be presented," Norton said. 
Ebersol soon presented an amendment to the resolution, however, requiring a three­fourths majority to approve the budget. His amendment passed with little debate. 
Seth O'Donnell, who runs the Club Coordination Council, said the supermajority will ensure the final budget will be well 

Tuesday, February 17, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Dow 10 627 85 -66.22

}ones ' • 
.,~~" ~29~­

FTSE IOO(London) 4,408.10 -3.90 

COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -4.82  -0.15  2.96  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  -1.34  -0.36  26.59  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.95  -0.60  30.14  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0.04  +0.01  24.06  
CORVIS CORP (CORY)  -10.97  -0.26  2.11  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.34  -0.17  49.22  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.25  -0.10  40.48  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.86  -0.57  30.09  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.11  -0.01  8.97  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.72  34.10  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -3.40  410.80  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  + 1.20  94.40  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  105.5  
EURO  0.7837  
POUND  0.5295  
CANADIAN$  1.318  

IN BRIEF 
Source code probe targets Mainsoft 
WASHINGTON -The investigation into the illegal disclosure of blueprints for some ver­sions of Microsoft Corp.'s Windows software has turned to a small technology company in Silicon Valley that works closely with Microsoft. 
Self-appointed sleuths eager to solve one of the technology industry's most intriguing mys­teries found references inside files accompa­nying the leaked Windows blueprints indicat­ing Mainsoft Corp. had been working with the computer code before it began circulating on the Internet. 
Microsoft has provided Mainsoft access to parts of its Windows blueprints since at least 1994 under conditions that generally prohibit­ed them from disclosing them to others. Mainsoft helps businesses convert their cus­tomized Windows programs to run on rival operating systems, such as Unix. 
Feds probe Titan overforeign contracts 
SAN DIEGO -Federal regulators are investi­gating whether information-technology firm Titan Corp. made illegal payments to overseas consultants, the company said Friday. 
The probe may affect the security and defense information technology concern's proposed sale to defense giant Lockheed Martin. Titan said in a statement it knows of no unlawful payments and will cooperate with the Securities and Exchange Commission investigation. 
Representatives of the company met recently with the SEC and the U.S. Justice Department about Titan's own internal review of payments to international consultants, the company said. 
Aventis challenges hostile takeover 
PARIS -French pharmaceuticals company Aventis SA launched a court challenge Friday against a hostile bid from rival drug company Sanofi-Synthelabo SA, and denied that its appeal was intended as a delaying tactic. 
An Aventis spokesman said the company had filed an application with the Paris appeals court earlier in the day seeking to overturn the decision by France's market watchdog, the AMF, to clear Sanofi to proceed with its hostile offer. 
Business school opens Ethics Week 
Panel ofND and IUSB law and business faculty discusses Enron scandal 
By TRICIA DE GROOT News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business kicked off its sev­enth annual Ethics Week with a forum entitled "Enron: A Multi-dimension­al Examination of an Unethical Enterprise." The panel was composed of Matt Barrett, Notre Dame Law School; Tom Frecka, Mendoza College of Business; Jim Seida, Mendoza College of Business, and was moderat­ed by Bill Schwartz, dean, School of Business and Economics, Indiana University at South Bend. 
Each member of the panel introduced a different angle in evaluating the Enron con­troversy and presented the audience with perspectives from both a lawyer and an accountant. The panel also Notre Dame professor Tom Frecka, left, speaks about the Enron scandal as Matthew discussed the scandal con­Barrett of the Notre Dame law school, Bill Schwartz, dean of IUSB's school of busi­cerning Enron's taxes. ness and economics, and Jim Selda of the Mendoza College of Business look on. 
Barrett began the forum by discussing the lawyers' that no such incident had taken place in the account­could plead that they had no perspectives in the Enron occurred since the Savings ing world due to the loss of criminal intent. Therefore, matter and its correlation to and Loan crisis 10 years Arthur Andersen. He dis­Enron's $38 billion debt was business ethics. Barrett ago. cussed how each of the six seen as only $12 billion, and said that "we know less After Barrett's discussion, factors played a role in the the company was able to about the lawyers because Frecka informed the audi­overall Enron scandal. "(make] a profit into a loss." of attorney client privilege," ence about the role account­Seida spoke next and dis­During the question-and­but at the same time he said ants played in the scandal. cussed the controversy sur­answer session. Barrett said there was evidence that His presentation focused on rounding Enron's taxes. He that, because the crime was lawyers made Enron's what he described as the said the beginning of white-collar in nature, there unethical actions possible. ABC's of Enron: A, for Enron's misrepresentation would not be a high demand 
Barrett said lawyers "have Arthur Andersen, "the of its taxes would be hard to for a speedy trial. a duty to the client to serve accounting firm with the pinpoint because simply too "There is a reluctance to as zealous advocates, while best reputation and the much information would prosecute a white collar accountants have the public largest employer of Notre have to be processed. crime. People are more watchdog role. They owe Dame students;" B for bank­"Information was there worried about blue collar their duty to the public." ruptcy; C for crime, conspir­for all investors," Seida said. offenses," he said. 
Barrett then discussed the acy, lack of compliance, con­But he said no one chose to The seventh annual Ethics role of three inside lawyers sulting and corporate cul­act on this information and Week continues with daily and two law firms pertinent ture; D for damage: E for he explained the length of forums at 12:30 p.m. in the to the Enron scandal. ethics: F for fraudulent time it takes before the Giovanini Commons in the Barrett described the two reporting and lack of fair company's illegal deeds Mendoza College of outside firms as "having reporting. Frecka used would be noticed. Business until this pressures and incentives to these acronyms to describe He also said Enron's Thursday. keep the firm's largest client the accountants' roles in the lawyers and accountants did happy." Enron scandal to demon­not object to their misrepre­Contact Tricia de Groot at 
In addition, Barrett noted strate the changes that have sentations, so the company pdegroot@nd.edu. 

PHARMACEUTICALS 
Eli Lilly defends Zyprexa patent 
Lawyers for three generic drug ing or losing its "life's blood," Lilly
Associated Press 
makers· who want to make cheaper attorney Charles Lipsey said. 
INDIANAPOLIS -The future of a knockoff versions of Zyprexa argued The case began about 2 1/2 years $4-billion-a-year Eli Lilly and Co. Lilly was awarded its patent based ago when Lilly filed a patent drug is at stake as a federal judge on faulty research. The lawyers also infringement lawsuit against the first weighs whether the company should contend the discovery of the drug's of three generic firms that have continue to hold its Zyprexa patent molecular structure was obvious. sought approval to sell non-brand in the face of a challenge from mak­If upheld, the generic companies' versions of Zyprexa in the United ers of generic drugs. claims could invalidate a 1993 States. 
Lawyers for Lilly and the generic patent that grants Lilly exclusive The three are Zenith Goldline drug makers presented closing argu­U.S. rights to the drug until 2011. Pharmaceuticals, owned by Ivax ments Thursday that concluded a Zyprexa, introduced in 1996, is Corp. of Miami; Indian drug maker three-week bench trial before U.S. now Lilly's top-seller and accounts Dr. Reddy's Laboratories; and the District Judge Richard L. Young, who for about a third of the company's U.S. arm of Israel-based Teva is not expected to issue a ruling for sales. Pharmaceutical Industries. several months. Zyprexa's sales now exceed the The companies claim Lilly knew 
Lilly's attorneys argued the compa­level once achieved by Prozac, Lilly's about the Zyprexa compound for ny's development of Zyprexa came former blockbuster anti-depressant years and included it in a patent that after years of research by Lilly that lost patent protection in 2001 expired in 1995. chemists who solved scientific prob­after a successful challenge by The generic companies argue that lems that· had stymied other generic drug makers. With Zyprexa, by the time Lilly was ready to mar­chemists' decades-long efforts to Lilly hopes to avoid a repeat of the ket Zyprexa, time was running out develop a schizophrenia treatment financial slide the company suffered on the first patent so it decided to lacking the side effects of old-line after the Prozac patent loss. apply for a second one, which vio­antipsychotics. In the trial, Lilly is looking at keep-lates patent rules. 
THE OBSER\'ER 
p
page 8 Tuesday, February 17, 2004 


) 
r 
I 
Spom·· Justin Sehuver·· · . Dan Tapetillo Anne Loughery Scene· :Maria Smith IDustrator Pat Quill 
The Apocalypse is upon us here at Notre Dame. As the world turns with the local bishop combating genitalia monologues, the Campus Crusaders condemning our University's attempts at gay tolerance, the basketball 
Peter Quaranto 
team finally win­ning and student government elec­
A Call to 
tions actually 
Action
intriguing, our world has to be at an end. Not to mention Alex Rodriguez ending up in a Yankees uniform, more attacks on U.S. troops in Iraq than any month since October and Janet Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction." And what of this turmoil breaking loose in Haiti? These days, I find myself yearning for a baseball card collection and simple boyish ignorance. 
While it is good that so many issues are being debated, society is more aware and interesting things exist to get us through the South Bend winter, I fear that one very important discus­sion gets lost in the mix. That discus­sion about mental health issues, which are more prevalent on college cam­puses than ever thought before, is one from which we cannot shy away. 
According to studies of the American College Health Association, 39 percent of college students reported feeling so depressed that is was difficult to func­tion during the past year. 9 percent admitted to having contemplated sui­cide and a 1.5 percent had attempted suicide. According to the National Mental Health Association (NMHA) suicide was the second-leading cause of death for college students. 
These are certainly not trivial prob­lems. Applying these studies to the Notre Dame populace would suggest that 3,120 students have been depressed at some point during the past year, 720 have contemplated sui­cide and 120 students have attempted suicide. 
Do you know what your next-door neighbor is dealing with? Have you taken the time to ask your roommate how he or she is handling the stress? Many profess the unity and strength of the Notre Dame family, but I fear many too many of us are not aware of the mental health realities of Notre Dame. 
And suicide and general depression are only the beginning of a long list of mental health issues that plague stu­dents on college campuses across the country. According to the NMHA, more than 19 million American adults live with anxiety disorders. Five to ten mil­lion people have eating disorders, and many more are affected by the likes of OCD, ADD, ADHD, Schizophrenia, and more. 
The harshest reality of such discus­sion is that the picture is worsening as college students are rapidly having more complex mental health problems and developments. This is alarming, but perhaps not very surprising when one looks at the typical daily schedule of the American college student. 
Yet with that trend and while most people can relate to one or more of these issues, whether personally or through friends and family, it is shock­ing how little attention these issues, which affect us in so many real ways, receive. 
As our Notre Dame world turns with heated debates on affirmative action, Viewpoint showdowns on the legitima­cy of the Vagina Monologues and even discussions of my own love, Election 2004, we must not forget the battles and injustices that all those who deal with mental health issues must face. 
We need to begin to ask questions about why so many college students deal with mental health problems. Is this a result of the many pressures and stresses that plague the lives of every student? College life is certainly not very conducive to healthiness, but does it go farther to tear at the mental and social threads that hold together the human person? Awareness will empower us to act more effectively in responding to these problems. 
How can we respond? The Harvard Crimson, the student newspaper, ran a 5-part series on mental health reali­ties at their school. If The Observer were to run such a series in conjunc­tion with the Pl)ychology department, what would it find? Such is one idea, but the possibilities of dialogues, awareness campaigns and other actions are endless. The administra­tion would do wisely to invest in such endeavors. 
For the many out there who are currently suffering from such mental health problems, know that you are not alone and that there is help. Mental health does not define who we are. The Health Services and Counseling Center on-campus offer many services and resources that are open to all of us and are very helpful. 
And for all who know of people suf­fering, the task that lies before us is to be friends, supporters and comforters in these lonely winter days. Community does not come from win­ning football championships, as some alumni would like to believe, or even from gaining national prestige, as the administration might want to believe; rather, community comes from people of different backgrounds and struggles coming together to share in one anoth­er's pain and suffer together. Community comes when we open our eyes to one another and shed the bar­riers that keep us apart and keep so many alone. 
Today, let us commit ourselves to building such a community. The task is daunting, but in the end, I do believe it will save us all. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore polit­ical science and international peace studies major. He wants to encourage the University to bring in Aung San Suu Kyi for this year's Commencement Address ifshe can get out of Burmese prison. Ifnot, the University should join the fight to free Burma. Contact him at pquarant@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­cessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
OBSERVER POLL 
Should the student government constitution be amended so that, in the 
..Wzthout friends no one would choose to live
future, the Senate will not decide an 
though he had all other goods." 
election in which a candidate does not achieve a majority? 
Aristotle philosopher 
Vote by 5 p.rr1. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


So, in an effort to curb off campus vio­lence and extend its ubiquity ever more into the lives of its students, NDSP has created a secret taskforce that we will now refer to as TCPD. Put simply, this assembly of butt-kickers makes Safe David Barrett Walk seem, well, sophomoric. 
Rather than knocking the icicles Jigga Geoff off my roof and salt­ing my sidewalk, Turtle Creek chose to serve and protect me by accommo­dating this exciting initiative with open arms and a renovated townhouse. Initially, this raised a few uni-brows, especially those of occupants in adja­cent buildings who feared that the heightened. police presence would impede on their late night partying and fence peeing. However, these fears were soon and subsequently allayed upon reassurance from the officers that they were there to keep the peace, not to meddle in their neighbors' private affairs. Yet it is not in their blood to turn a deaf ear to late-night carousing, especially if that carousing is keeping them up. 
The aforementioned neighbors hap­pen to be friends of.mine, and enjoy, on occasion, a quick wrestle before bed. In no way should this be taken euphemisti­cally. These guys are from the classical Greco-Roman school, and simply like to engage one another in a little gladiator­ial combat before brushing their teeth and washing their face. It is completely harmless, but totally vulnerable to skep­ticism. 
So, a couple of th,em are going at it pretty hard a couple of weeks ago. Epically they sparred. Ankle-locks, oil checks -they barred none. They waged back and forth like this for what seemed like minutes, until their new neighbor finally burst through their door with gun drawn and feet placed. Apparently he mistook the repeated thuds against the wall, coupled with screams of wild indulgence, to be some far more guilty pleasure than the wrestling duel it, in reality, was. Understandable, kind of. He let them off with just a warning, and a request that they keep it down next time. 
My first experience with TCPD, how­ever, came this past Friday, at a time I did not expect it, but in a situation where I desperately needed it. I was walking back from the Bombay Boutique on Edison right around closing time with some completely random girl I met there, when I heard some loud, obnoxious shouting coming from a group of guys behind me. I dismissed the taunts, homophobic in nature, as intended for somebody other than me. 
Seeing that they outnumbered me six to one and, unlike me, were without a female companion, it was not an illogi­cal conclusion. But ignoring them only further riled them up. 
Perhaps these guys were a little dis­appointed with how they knew their night would end. sweaty and uncon­scious from an all-out wrestle romp, and thought that embarrassing the helpless kid up ahead might help ease the pain. Chances are they, like every other male at this school, were high­school multi-sport standouts angry at the world because the inter-hall football season is now over. Let it go, guys. Regardless, they stopped yelling and started running to catch up with us. 
Enter TCPD. 
The benefits of being promoted from NDSP to TCPD are countless. Rather than tooting around campus on a 10­speed in a chinstrap, members of TCPD are each given a Dodge Neon with a recycled Le Sabre engine and a custom blue paint job. Undercover, they are told to remain inconspicuous, which every­body knows is impossible when behind the wheel of such a car. 
Anyway, just as things were about to get really ugly, I spied a blue Neon com­ing our way. Before I knew it, the trig­ger-happy officer was out of his car flashing his piece and saying, "Who got the problem, huh punks?" As he inter­rogated them, I ambled home and 
cooked a pizza, thankful for TCPD's 
intervention in what could have ended 
in my embarrassment. 
I am here today because of TCPD, and 
am forever in their debt. However, there 
still is work to be done. For one, they 
can really help me out by keeping high 
school students out of my parties. I sim­
ply cannot be held liable. Secondly, they 
can rough up the big guy who comes .around every weekend asking first for 
jumper cables and then for some spare 
change. I have reason to believe he does 
not actually need jumper cables. 
I, too, was a skeptic at first, more 
worried about how my life would be 
made worse rather than better by their 
presence here at Turtle Creek. But now, 
I could not be happier with what I have 
seen out of them. They are not simply 
NDSP's sister organization, or some 
Safe Walk spin-off. They are the real 
deal, and we are lucky to have them. 
Just remember that if you want to wres­
tle, you will have to do it quietly, and I 
am sure you will agree with me. 
David Barrett is a senior economics 
and philosophy major. His column 
appears every other Tuesday. He can be 
contacted at dbarretl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Election was not in spirit of Notre Dame 
Personal attacks appalling 

Kate Distler sophomore Pasquerilla East Feb. 16 
Students made mockery ofelection 
The result of this year's student body presiden­
tial election spoke volumes about you, Notre 
Dame. 

Not only did it reveal that your political apathy 
is beyond ridiculous, but it also proved you are 
incredibly immature. 
At some point in the last few weeks, I bet many 
of you discovered that Charlie Ebersol drives a 
Hummer. I bet you also heard that he is difficult 
to work with and arrogant, too. But come on, how 
many of you actually know Charlie Ebersol? 
That said, if you thought (and quite a few of you 
did) that throwing your votes behind Ad am Istvan 
and Karla Bell would spite Charlie Ebersol, well, 
guess again. Charlie still has his Hummer. and 
you now have a president-elect with no student 
government experience. 
Notre Dame, you made a mockery of this elec­
tion. 

I hope that come November 2004 you will 
demonstrate more maturity at the polls than you 
did last week. When given another opportunity to 
choose your candidate and cast your vote, I hope 
that more than 50 percent of you take it. . And if maturity somehow escapes you again 
come November, heed this advice: Before you 
enter that voting booth or seal that absentee bal­
lot, consider your options. You have them. If there 
is no candidate who speaks to your cause. who 
represents your ideals and is worthy of your vote, 
then abstain. They put that box on the ballot for a 
reason. 

That said, Notre Dame, I offer you this chal­
lenge in the wake of Istvan vs. Ebersol: Learn 
from your stupidity, grow up and, next time, vote 
like the mature 18-to 23-year-olds that you are 
supposed to be. 

And finally, to Adam and Karla, I wish you the 
best of luck in the year ahead. You are going to 
need it. 
Michelle McCarthy sophomore Pangborn Hall Feb. 16 

page 10 Tuesday, February 17, 2004 

Beatlemania gone wild 
Confessions of a modern-day Beatlemaniac 
I can remember my middle school days very well. Like most kids, I was desper­ately seeking my own identity. There were the popular kids, the nerds, the ath­letes ... I was tucked nicely in the middle of these groups, not quite sure where I 
belonged yet. In sixth grade, I remember donning green Converse sneakers and 
listening to Weezer's blue album, thinking that maybe, in 
all my awkwardness, I'd become a post-grunge punk. 
This worked for a little while, but I was still too nerdy, and I played too many sports to fit that role perfectly. I floundered around for a bit among the groups, and then one day my destiny became clear. 
I remember driving home one night in my family's wood­paneled mini-van. My younger siblings were being annoy­ing as usual, so I began to listen to the music my par­ents were playing on the van's tape deck. I'd heard the 

songs many times growing up but had never really lis­
tened to them. As I sat there in the car, before I knew Julie Bender 
what was happening, the Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's Lonely 
Hearts Club Band album exploded in my head and blew Assistant Scene Editor 
me away. From that moment on, the deal was sealed. I was to be a Beatlemaniac for the rest of my life, only three decades too late. 
Now, I would like to say I was a Beatie fan of the standard, respectable variety. Someone who appreciated the band's music and influence on culture and society, but who also maintained a normal lifestyle while doing so. Normal, however, will never be a word associated with what I became after first hearing Sgt. Pepper. Perhaps it was my desperation of seeking some sort of sixth grade identity, but things quickly spiraled into a rock 'n' roll obsession that haunts me to this day. I began buying all the Beatie albums I could afford with my meager weekly 
l 
! allowance. I checked out every single Beatle-related book in my local library. I began making Beatie mixed tapes off the radio from the Oldies station, and I started a scrapbook of every Beatie photo or article I found in the newspaper. And this was only the beginning. My Beatles obsession spread to the clothing I wore, to the Scouse accent I 
adopted ... it even infiltrated my schoolwork. I can remember interpreting Beatie 
lyrics for my English classes and giving presentations on the life of John Lennon. I had my school band play "Yellow Submarine" for a concert. After school each day, I'd put on a Beatles album and play air guitar until dinnertime. Looking back, perhaps the strangest and most embarrassing aspect of my Beatie obses­
sion was that I actually used to bake cupcakes on the Beatles' birthdays. John, Paul, George and Ringo each had baked goods made in their honor, which I would bring to school and pass out at my locker. I can only imagine what my teachers must have thought. 
If an identity was what I was seeking, I had certainly found one. By seventh grade I was well known around school as a Beatlefreak, and I didn't care. Even if I lacked all elements of middle school coolness, I loved the Beatles and I loved rock 'n' roll. That's all that mattered to me. 
I think it was when I baked cupcakes for Paul McCartney's birthday and neg­lected my own father's birthday a few days later that my parents realized maybe things were getting out of control. They sat me down and told me that the Beatles were well and good, but perhaps I should try and explore some other interests. I, of course, defended my Beatie obsession by stating that I couldn't help it that the Beatles were so amazing. Besides, I did have other emerging interests. My love of the Beatles was leading me to discover other great artists like Bob Dylan and The Rolling Stones. 
No~ that I am in college, I can look back on my middle school days and smile, knowmg I have matured somewhat in the past eight years. My after-school air guitar has turned into a real guitar, which I play any spare chance I can, much to 
~h~ dismay of my napping roommate. My music collection has a bit more variety 1~ It now, and I no longer resort to baked good for Beatie birthdays. (My apolo­gies to those who were excited that George's birthday is only a week away.) 
Despite this slight maturing, however, my love for the Beaties has remained in ~act. In fact: just last semester a life-long dream of mine carne true. While study­mg abroad m France, I was able to make the pilgrimage to my personal rock 'n' roll Mecca: Liverpool. I took the Chunnel to the motherland of my favorite mop tops and, with a very patient friend in tow, was able to ride on a Magical Mystery Tour Bus all around the hometown of those loveable lads. 
Although Liverpool might not get as many pages in a tourism book as London or Paris, for me it was the greatest sight my eyes had seen. Not only was it incredible to see the houses, schools and parks where the lads grew up, but to be in the company of other Beatiemaniacs was a homecoming experience in itself. 
The atmosphere on the bus was all Beatie, from the music playing to the chat­ter among the bus riders to the trivia questions of our tour guide. Riding that Magical Mystery Tour bus, I thought I'd died and gone to rock 'n' roll heaven. 
Now that I'm back to reality at school, I can only play my guitar, hum Beatie tunes and daydream wistfully cf my time in Liverpool. At least I now know that it's okay to love the Beatles as much as I do; I'm not alone in my obsession. 
Even 40 years after their music hit American shores, it is never too late to be a Beatlernaniac. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Julie Bender atjbender@nd.edu. 
.. 
------~ 
February marks the 40th annivers~ 
side. Capitol Records fmally released the "I ByJULIE BENDER Want to Hold Your Hand" single in late Assistant Scene Editor December 1963, and soon kids were call­
ing into radio stations asking them to play 
February is the 40th anniversary of the Beatie songs non-stop. The truth be told, Beatles coming to America. From the the Beatles had already been rejected mul­moment their Pan-American Flight 101 tiple times by U.S. record companies, and landed in New their sin­York and those g 1 e s four lads from released on Liverpool set foot smaller on American labels had soil, the world all flopped. would never Thanks to again be the Sullivan, same. They had though, all already taken this was England by now chang­storm, leaving ing. the nation in a By the swirling frenzy time the of Beatlemania, Beatles· and now here landed on they were ready American to conquer shores on America. Feb. 7, 
Ed Sullivan, 1964, they host of the had the famous Sunday number night television one song in staple The Ed the country Sullivan Show, and the had witnessed number the British one place in Beatlemania the hearts first hand while of teenage in a London air­girls every­port with his where. The wife in October screaming of 1963. So fans who impressed with John Lennon assembled the clamor these to greet "Beatles" made, them when Sullivan contacted the group's manager and they got off the plane in New York were asked them to appear on his program only a small taste of the mania that was to before the word Beatie had even been follow. uttered in America. Two days later, when the Beatles 
With Sullivan's promotion and hype, the appeared on the Ed Sullivan Show, 73 mil-
Beatles began to gain some attention state-lion fans tuned in to watch histo­ry in the making. The jowly Sullivan. who had been hyping the Beatles for weeks, announced, "Ladies and gentle­men, the Beatles! Let's bring them on!" Before he could even finish his sentence, the roar of fans in the audience drowned him out. Their screaming, their tears and their uncontrollable passion filled the next eight min­utes, shocking both Sullivan and the Beatles, neither of which had imagined the uproar and pande­monium the band was capable of creating. The Beatles tore through three quick numbers, "All My Loving," "Till There Was You" and ''She Loves You" before exiting tl,e stage for the other acts of thl! night. The audience, however, remained itching for their encore performance of "I Saw Her Standing There" and "I Want to IIold Your Hand." 
No one had ever seen anything like it, including the Beatles. In later interviews, Lennon is reported as saying of Americans, "They're wild, they're all wild. They just all seem out of their minds. I've never seen anything

George Harrison like it in my life." 



Tuesday, February, 17, 2004 page 11 
lgo today ••• or I at least,.this 111onth 
ary ofthe Beatles 'arrival in America an event that changed the world 

As wild as the fans were, those watching on television got to both see and hear the full show, and to them, the Beatles were the wild ones. Their mop-top hair, their cocky poses, their loud music -it was new and shocking. Young people loved it, old people were startled by it, and everybody had an opinion about it. 
Sister Susan Dunn, the rector of Lyons Hall, remembers well the Beatles' first Ed Sullivan appearance. "I was a junior in high school," Dunn said. "Their little heads were bopping up and down on the television. It was very bold." 
Notre Dame Classics professor Catherine Schlegel, who was only eight years old at the time of the Beatles' Ed Sullivan appear­ance, also remembers the show vividly. 
"It was the high point of my young life," she said. "I was totally blown away by them." Schlegel also remembers the response her mother had to the scruffY mop tops. 
"She said 'I give them three months ­they'll fade out like the Singing Nun did." 
Lucky for Beatie fans everywhere, Schlegel's mother was proven wrong. 
Almost overnight, the Beatles became a household name, and by April of that year, they had the top five songs in the country. With their quick wit and cheeky humor, the BE;latles charmed the American press and soon their hair, their clothes, their speech and their music were a ubiqui­tous presence in the United States. As the Beatles set out on their two-week tour after their first Ed Sullivan performance, most Americans, like Schlegel's mother, thought they were just a passing craze. Little did they know that this band would be the major cultural influence for the next decade and would continue to be a rele­vant force in music even 40 years after their first landing in the U.S. 
For the next two years, the Beatles toured in the maddening tornado of Beatlemania, running 
from hotel to plane to bus in attempts to escape their crazed fans. It wasn't until their 1966 Candlestick Park performance in San Francisco, Calif.. when the Beatles fmally decided that touring was no longer a real possibility for them. Their music was becoming too advanced for onstage reproduction, and the con­stant audience screaming made touring more of a burden than a pleasure. 
Solely a studio band from 1966 until their break up in 1970, the Beatles made some of the best music in rock 'n' roll. Every album was totally different, with songs only of the highest quality. The Beatles opened the doors to experimental sounds with Revolver. They single-handedly started the psychedelic movement with Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club. Their so­called "White Album" was a fantastic col­lage of four men slowly heading their sepa­rate ways. 

And, in 1970, they did just that. John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr were officially over as a band, but not before they had changed the 
course of modern music forever. Their influence was so great that, even 34 years after their break up, they are still win­ning grammy awards and influencing new musi­cians at every turn. 
Even fans who weren't there to wit­ness the Beatles on Ed Sullivan still owe a debt of gratitude to those four loveable mop tops. To thank the Beatlcs personally is, of course. impossible, but at least fans can resort to the old sing-a­long of the 

Beatles fan club, "We love you Beatles, oh yes we do. We love you Beatles, and we'll be true. If you're not near us, we're blue. Oh Beatles, we love you!" 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 17, 2004 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Without leading scorer, Toronto defeats Pittsburgh 8-4 
for the first time since beating
Associated Press 
Carolina on Nov. 5. Tellqvist played because Ed Belfour sat 
The Maple Leafs' top goal out with a stiff back for the fifth scorer was injured and their time in six games and backup No. 3 goalie was in net. The Trevor Kidd has allowed 13 Pittsburgh Penguins seemed to goals in his last four games. have every opportunity to end The Maple Leafs, who have their NHL-record home ice los­outscored the Penguins 17-6 in ing streak. beating them three straight 
Instead: like most nights, they times, also got a goal and two · had no chance, assists from Darcy Tucker and a 
Owen Nolan scored twice and goal and an assist each from figured in Toronto's first four Matt Stajan and Nik Antropov. goals, three in just over four "We kind of got away from the minutes of the first period, and program a little bit in the sec­the Maple Leafs sent the ond period, but we had enough · Penguins to an NHL-record sense of mind to pull it back in 12th consecutive home loss, 8-4 and get it going again," Bryan Monday night. McCabe said. "I thought we 
Despite playing without All­played pretty well." Star forward Gary Roberts Toronto gave Tellqvist some (pulled leg muscle). the Leafs margin for error in his first went 4-for-5 on the power play start since Nov. 15 as Tucker, and have 14 power-play goals Nolan and Mikael Renberg in six games. They also got a scored in a span of 4:11 midway short-handed goal from Mats through the first to put the Sundin in the second period, his Leafs up 3-0, Tucker and Nolan 31st goal in 41 career games on the power play. Tucker gath­against Pittsburgh. ered his own rebound and bat­
"Sure, the points were there, ted the puck past Sebastien but I've worked hard some Caron with his stick about waist pleased to finish their seven­from the left point and beating nights and had no points what­high. game road trip with another DiPietro. Senators 4, Rangers 1 soever," said Nolan, who was Defenseman Ric Jackman, point. Asham tied the score 50 sec­The Ottawa Senators had two points ofT his career high of traded by Toronto to Pittsburgh Arron Asham scored early in onds into the third when he such an easy time in their six. "It was nice to get reward­last week, and Tomas Surovy the third period and Rick one-timed a pass from Trent last meeting with the New ed for it and it was a big two scored early in the second to DiPietro stopped 29 shots, rally­Hunter past Huet. York Rangers, you could points for us." The Penguins get the Penguins to within a ing the New York Islanders to a The Kings managed just three hardly blame them for a haven't gotten those two points goal, but Nolan answered with tie with the Los Angeles Kings shots on a two-man advantage slow start in the rematch. at home since beating Chicago his second power-play goal of on Monday. for 1:54 late in the third period. Just 23 days earlier, the 1-0 on Dec. 29. They broke a tie the game on a hard one-timer "For us to get a point walking The Islanders outshot the Senators sent New York to with four other clubs that previ­from the left circle faceofT dot at in here at the end of a seven­Kings 8-1 in overtime. Los its worst loss in 11 years. ously shared the league record 12:15 of the second. game road trip is good," Kings Angeles hit the post late in the The Rangers insisted they'd with 11 consecutive home loss­"We decided to start pressing coach Andy Murray said. "We extra period. be ready for -the Senators on es: the Boston Bruins (1924-25), harder, and got a few more knew they were going to be "The five-on-three definitely Monday.Washington Capitals (197 5), goals up, but we still had a little tough, but we battled hard." got the crowd into it," DiPietro After a positive start, Ottawa Senators (1993) and lapse again," Nolan said. Trent Klatt scored in the sec­said of the 15,369 who attended things again turned strongly Atlanta Thrashers (2000). Until Sundin scored short-handed ond period for the Kings, who the game. "It was a dull game in Ottawa's favor. this season, the Penguins had just over a minute later to have earned points in 10 of until then. After that, we Zdeno Chara and Josh 
never lost more than eight in a restore the Maple Leafs' three­their last 11 games (4-1-4-2), poured it on." Langfeld scored 41 seconds row at home. goal lead. Antropov, Stajan and including eight overtime con­The Islanders got a scare with apart in the third period to 
"You definitely never think Bryan McCabe scored in the tests. They finished their trip about 11 1/2 minutes left when lift the Senators past the this is going to happen," third after J ean-Sebastien with eight points (2-1-2-2). Hunter and Kings defenseman free-falling Rangers. Penguins rookie Ryan Malone Aubin replaced Caron, who The tie moved Los Angeles Brad Norton hit knees. Hunter, At the halfway point, each said. "The refs must not like us allowed five goals on 28 shots. into sixth place in the Western the team leader .with 22 goals, team had seven shots and too much because it would be The Penguins have allowed 19 Conference, one point ahead of left the ice, but returned later. two fights. nice to get a break here or power-play goals in 56 chances Dallas. "It was a bit scary," Hunter But after Bobby Holik there." in their last 11 games, permit­Cristobal Huet stopped 36 said. "Right now, it's a little gave the Rangers a 1-0 lead, 
Pittsburgh has lost its last 15 ting at least one power-play shots for Los Angeles. sore. We'll see how it is the Senators picked up the games, but is not threatening goal in nine consecutive games. "Huet was outstanding," [Tuesday]. I don't think he was pace. the NHL record of 17 consecu­'Tm not going to get into the Murray said. "He was a key trying to hurt me." "We were missing our tive losses because it earned a goaltending," Penguins coach part of our game." Norton agreed he wasn't try­pregame nap," Senators point in Saturday night's 3-2 Eddie Olczyk said. "The penalty The Islanders had two good ing to hurt Hunter. right wing Daniel Alfredsson overtime loss in St. Louis. The killing gave up four goals and I scoring chances in the first "He just shot it, and turned at said of the holiday matinee. Capitals (197 5) and Sharks tried everybody (on the penalty­period, but Michael Peca's shot the last second," Norton said. "I "They got to 1-0 and it sort (1993) each lost 17 in a row in killing unit). pretty much." hit the crossbar and Oleg was trying to hit his shoulder, of woke us up." regulation time during their Maple Leafs defenseman Drake Kvasha's shot clanged off the but he made that turn and I Chara, who also had an record streaks. "I don't think Berehowsky, traded for right post with less than two couldn't move in time. I had no assist and a fight in his· sec­about it at all," Malone said. Jackman, had an inauspicious minutes remaining. intention to hurt him." ond straight multipoint "We've just got to get this thing Toronto debut, drawing three "When the posts are on your The Islanders outshot the game, put Ottawa in front at turned around and get some penalties -two of which led to side, that's good," Huet said. "A kings 8-1 in overtime. Los 7:11 of the period. bounces and work harder than goals by his former team. little luck like that helps." Angeles hit the post late in the Then Langfeld scored to we have been." Klatt scored 90 seconds into extra period, and a shot tipped help the Senators to their 
Toronto's No. 3 goalie, Mikael Kings 1, Islanders 1 the second period, grabbing a by Luc Robitaille went over the fourth straight win since the Tellqvist, made 22 saves to win The Los Angeles Kings were rebound of Joe Corvoa 's shot net. All-Star break. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classificds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
:j 
:j 
Looking for full or part-time work? 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO MOVING TO CHICAGO? Condo for VERY NICE 3bdrm home in
'! 
I, Reach Your Potential in outside CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM sale by 2 ND 1995 grads. Bright 1-EastBank area w/washer-dryer &
I',I NOTICES WANTED sales withMedia Direct, a growing mmmrentals@aol.com bedroom condo on 24th floor in alarm system incl. Nice yard for vol­II 
cable TV sales, marketing and audit secure building steps from lake & leyball etc-full bsmt.Walk to company. Salaryplus commission. 272-1525 public transportation. 10-15 minute Corbys&StJoe Church.Call Joe Ij COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Wanted-Old paintings, especially Bonuses, health benefits and paid walk to grocery & Wrigley Field. Crimmins@574-514 Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! Indiana and Notre Dame training. Hard working, enthusiastic DOMUS PROPERTIES... May 2004 closing. 0643(cell)or57 4-273-0002(home) !i people wanted. Sales experience is
:) 
S&H calculated. (574) 286-9359 a plus not a requirement. Phone HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 773-929-3178 or nasserweiss@hot-I BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM mail. com 
i 
www.bookhq.com HIRING AT BOOKMAKERS PUB, DUPLEX ... AND THREE 3 BED· 
PERSONALS 

1-800-376-7961 ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, Large 1 Bedroom Condo SERVERS AND BARTENDERS. THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL 3 full baths, 2·car garage, frpl, sky-YEAR. .. .WE ARE ALSO STARTING lights. $1640/mo. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 10 min from Univ. EXP. GOOD BUT WILL TRAIN. TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-not go it alone. If you or someone
FoR RENT
APPLY IN PERSON SCHOOL YEAR ... 5038. you love needs confidential support ~IApp.PooiLowtaxeslessthan or assistance, please call Sr. Mary rent 2046 SOUTH BEND AVE. B&B for JPW/gradlfootball for up to CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For 
12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email 234·2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR ND GREAT AREA FOR 5-6 STU-more information, see our bi-weekly 574-299-4997 SHELLY, MISSY, OR PAT. domercondo @yahoo.com SHOWINGS DENTS 2773097 ad in THE OBSERVER. 

Tuesday, February 1 7, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
~t'e.oLC!!!Yo.l'l ,.-4~ 
How do I balance making monev to supportmyself(and .future family) with following the Christial'l·lifestyle? 
Does Goo really love aa:a.Jnti ng majors? 
Join us for a discussion on ·Giving to Christ, Giving to Caesar,· · with guest speaker .· . 
·t~~r~=~~~:Ju~h~~r.······•
. . 
. . 
'li~it u~011 the wel:.= l:ttlp://c:•mpWim.i:cLi.uf.nd.edu. 
· SAINT MARYS COLLEGE INTERNATIONAL STUDYPROGRAM . · 
IN 
SEVILLE, SPAIN. 
A NEW OPTION FOR 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Fall 2004 -Spring 2005 
Information Meeting Wednesday, February 18t 2004 · 7:oop.m. DeBartolo Center 117 University of Notre Dame 
Course Offerings: Spanish language, civilization and . literature, and general education courses 
Application Deadline: March 30r 2004 Contact: Professor Isis Quinteros ig uinten£Ysaintmarys.edu 
MLB 

Dodgers hire DePodesta as new general manager 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-The Dodgers 
opted for a young Ivy Leaguer to 
lead them, hiring Oakland 
Athletics executive Paul 
DePodesta as general manager 
Monday. 
The move was the first by new 
owner Frank McCourt, whose 
$430 million purchase of the 
Dodgers from News Corp. closed 
Friday. It came just two days 
before pitchers and catchers 
report to spring training in Vero 
Beach, Fla. 
At 31, DePodesta is the third­
youngest person to be hired as a 
big-league general manager. 
Theo Epstein was hired by the 
Boston Red Sox at age 28 in 
2002, and Randy Smith was 29 
when the San Diego Padres 
hired him in 1993. 
DePodesta, an assistant to 
Oakland GM Billy Beane since 
1998, succeeds Dan Evans, who 
had one year remaining on a 
three-year contract. 
"We needed to make a change, we needed a fresh start," McCourt said at a news confer­ence. "In the end, I found this to be a clear choice if not an easy one. During the search, there was one person that stood out. 
"A lot of capable people had a high level of interest in this job. Money was no factor at all. We wanted to find the best possible person. We found that man in Paul." 
DePodesta graduated cum laude from Harvard in 1995 with a degree in economics. He played baseball and football for the Crimson. 
"I don't have all the answers. I know that," said DePodesta, who signed a five-year contract. "My mission is to be on a relentless quest for baseball knowledge. I know that will lead us in a posi­tive direction. 
"What I'm committed to is finding a way to win. I've been given a mandate by Frank and also the resources to be as aggressive as we possibly can." 
DePodesta said the Dodgers 

LSAT 
How would GMAT 
GRE

you score? 
MCAT. 

Take a practice test at Kaplan's Test Drive and find out. 
Where: Saint Mary's College, Science Hall When: Saturday, February 28th Times vary by exam. This is a FREE event. Call today to save your seat! 
To register, call or visit us on6ne today! 
1·8 00 ·KAP·TEST
KAPLAN. 

kaptest.comjtestdrlve 
Test Prep and Admissions 

have about twice the resources 
as the A's. 
"I don't think that there's any 

one way of doing things," he 
said. "When we were in 
Oakland, we did what we felt we 
had to do to win. I think proba­
bly my best attribute is being 
able to have an open mind ... 
Oakland reached the playoffs 
the last four seasons, but failed 
to win a postseason series. 
DePodesta worked for the 
Cleveland Indians for three 
years before joining the P:s. 
McCourt said the day after the 
sale was approved that the 44­
year-old Evans would be merely 
a candidate for his own job. The 
Dodgers' GM since Oct. 3, 2001, 
Evans interviewed along with 
other candidates including 
Philadelphia Phillies assistant 
GM Ruben Amaro. 
"I think more than anything 
else I'm glad that there's clo­
sure," Evans told The Associated 
Press. "We were on the right 
track for long-term success. I 
think Dodgers fans will be the 
real winner. That's obviously the 
most disappointing part. 
"Frank and Jamie McCourt have the right to make this deci­sion. I definitely don't agree with it. I loved working here. I was completely committed to the Dodgers and my staff. It's a shame we didn't get the oppor­tunity to complete our job here. That's not my call." 
Evans said his "hands were tied" during the ownership tran­sition, keeping him from making any significant deals. 
DePodesta is considered one of baseball's top young executives and had been expected to take over as GM of the A's in November 2002, when Beane agreed to become GM of the Boston Red Sox. But Beane changed his mind and stayed in Oakland. 
DePodesta also was offered the Toronto GM job a couple years ago, but turned it down. The Blue Jays then hired J.P. Ricciardi, who worked with DePodesta under Beane in Oakland. 

l j 
l \ 
page 14 
l ( 1 
l l 
jl 
t 
ll \ 
\ 
\ \ 
:" 
::~l:l 


ATION 
COJ\1PILED FROM. THE 0BSERVEltS \VIR£ SERVICES Tuesday, February 17, 2004 
MLB 

Reuters 

Former Texas Rangers shortstop Alex Rodriguez hits a home run last season. The Rangers and the Yankees have agreed to a deal that will send Rodriguez to the Yankees In exchange for Alfonso Soriano. 
Rangers trade Rodriguez toYankees 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Louisville at TCU 7 p.m., ESPN2 Purdue at Michigan State 7 p.m., ESPN Florida at Georgia 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
New Orleans at Indiana 7 p.m., FOXSports Net 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Alex Rodriguez is coming back to New York, the city he left when he was 4. and moving onto the biggest stage in town -Yankee Stadium. 
Baseball's highest-paid player, and perhaps its most talented, was finally and officially dealt to the New York Yankees from Texas on Monday after commissioner Bud Selig approved the record-set­ting swap. 
'Tm pretty excited. This is a big, big one," Yankees owner George Steinbrenner said at the team's minor league com­plex in Tampa, Fla. 
"It ranks with when we signed Reggie," he said, a reference to slugger Reggie Jackson. 
Rodriguez, the first reigning MVP to be trad­ed, will be introduced at the stadium on Tuesday, flanked by manager Joe Torre and Yankees cap­tain Derek Jeter, who will keep his shortstop job. The 28-year-old A-Rod will shift to third base to fill the hole left when Aaron Boone wrecked a knee last month. 
Texas gets second base­man Alfonso Soriano and a minor league player to be named, but it will still have to pay $6 7 million of the $179 million Rodriguez is owed over the remainder of his deal. 
Steinbrenner and Yankees general manager Brian Cashman personal­ly assured Jeter that he would keep his position and that Rodriguez would switch to third -where his only major league experience is one inning during an All-Star game. 
"Derek's response to me was he thinks this is pret­ty cool," said Cashman, who also said moving Jeter was "not a consider­ation whatsoever." 
"You go with the man that brought you to the dance," he said. "You're going to stick with him. You don't mess with suc­cess.... There is no issue there -who·s the start­ing quarterback? We have arguably the best left side of the infield in the history of baseball.·· 
Fervid Yankees fan and former mayor Rudolph Giuliani couldn't agree more. 
"It's great for the city. He·s returning home:· he told The Associated Press. "This could be another variation of Maris-Mantle, Jackson-Munson, Gehrig­Ruth." 

IN BRIEF 
Shot put cham_pion Toth 
tests positive For steroids 
American shot put champion Kevin Toth tested positive for the steroid THG and the stimulant modafinil at the 2003 national championships and could be sus­pended for two years, the U.S. Olympic Committee announced Monday: 
Toth is one of four athletes who flunked THG tests during the U.S. championships in June. The others, announced earlier, were Regina Jacobs, John McEwen and Melissa Price. 
Jacobs and Price also were national champions. 
All four face two-year bans if the positive tests are upheld. Final decisions on their cases are expect­ed this spring. 
Later Monday, agent John Nubani announced Toth was retiring, though he still plans to go through with the appeals process. 
Toth stunned the track and field world with a throw of 7 4 feet, 4 1/2 inches at the Kansas Relays in April -the best performance in the world in 13 years. His winning throw at the national champi­onships was 69-7 1/2. 
The USOC said Toth also tested positive for THG during an out-of­competition test in July. 
Toth, McEwen and Price are dis­puting the THG test results through the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency's arbi­tration process. Jacobs instead filed a claim with the American Arbitration Association. 
"We're contesting the charges, and the case will proceed through the USADA process," said Toth's attorney, Howard Jacobs, no rela­tion to Regina. 
European 100-meter champion Dwain Chambers also tested posi­tive last year for THG and faces a two-year ban. He will appear before a UK Athletics disciplinary panel Thursday. 
Toth was one of dozens of athletes 
who appeared before a grand jury probing a nutritional supplements lab. 
Kings' Webber removed 
from injured list 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -The Sacramento Kings activated Chris Webber from the injured list Monday, but the star forward will have to serve an NBA suspension before he can return to the lineup. 
Webber, a five-time All-Star, was the Kings' leader in scoring, rebounding and assists last season. He hasn't played since tearing carti­lage in his left knee during the sec­ond round of last season's playoffs, and he had extensive offseason sur­gery. 
Webber faces a suspension after pleading guilty last July to charges of lying to a grand jury about his relationship with Ed Martin, a University of Michigan booster who claimed he loaned $616,000 to Webber. 
• 

Tuesday, February 17, 2004 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
I 
~ 
I
Undefeated Stanford new No. 1 in AP poll I l 
Associated Press Carolina State 78-74 Sunday ior forward Josh Childress said place votes and 1,791 points the other eight first-place votes night. Monday. from the national media panel. and 1,721 points to match the I The last two unbeaten teams That ended the Blue Devils' He and his teammates weren't The Cardinal beat California 69-highest ranking in school histo­
l
are 1-2 in the rankings. 18-game winning streak and fazed when Duke was voted 58 in their only game last week ry. The Hawks, who beat Dayton Stanford replaced Duke at No. their four-week stay at No. 1. higher than Stanford even and are the fifth team to top the and Rhode Island last week, 
1 in The Associated Press men's This is the third season in though the Blue Devils had lost. poll this season. were ranked No. 2 for two l I
college basketball poll Monday, which Stanford (21-0) bas "Coming into the season, Duke The other schools with weeks in 1965-66. 
l
and Saint Joseph's moved up to reached No. 1, after five weeks was ranked ahead of us, and appearances at No. 1 were After No. 3 Duke, Mississippi 
No. 2 for the first time in nearly in 1999-00 and seven weeks in they always were, so it was nat­Connecticut (eight weeks), State (21-1) moved up two spots 
40 years. 2000-01. ural for them to take it. It didn't Kansas (one week) and Florida to fourth, matching the The Cardinal and the Hawks, "It lets us know that we're bother us," Childress said. "We (one week). The Gators dropped Bulldogs' highest ranking since 
the only undefeated teams in working hard, and people are kept playing hard and working out of the Top 25 completely the final poll of the 1961-62 sea­
Division I, each rose one spot respecting us, and we're doing hard, and that's paying off.". Monday. son. 
after Duke (21-2) lost to North something right," Stanford jun-Stanford received 64 first-Saint Joseph's (22-0) received Pittsburgh, which lost to Seton 
Hall in double overtime and then beat Connecticut in a showdown for first place in the Big East, dropped one place to fifth. 




Gonzaga moved from seventh
Sophomore Class Office Candidates 
to sixth, tying its highest rank­ing: The Bulldogs were No. 6 for the last two polls of 2001-02. 
Oklahoma State jumped three spots to No. 7, and Connecticut,
The tickets of candidates running for sophomore class office. are listed below. Elections> witt· be held on 
Kentucky and Louisville com­
Monday, February 23, 2004, 
pleted the Top 10. 
Texas was No. 11 for the third straight week, followed by Wisconsin, North Carolina State, Arizona, Wake Forest, North Carolina, Cincinnati, Georgia Tech, Providence and Southern Illinois.
Zach Holobowski Jason Laws Peter VanLoon · · 
The last five ranked teams 
A.J. Cedeno BillAndrichick Lauren Usignot· 
were Kansas, Texas Tech, Memphis, LSU and South
Maggie Teske .Megan Spokes .·Sagar Navare 
Carolina.
Afiya Wilkins Laura Horne· Stephen Shep;ard
:to:·-··:·: . -' : 
Florida (14-7), which lost 73­


'Vote 'Fe6ruary237 2004 at: ft. ttps:!Iapps.ruf:etfu/efecticms 
VoiCe cYoutCftoice '04. 
For Gay, lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 17th 
(and .every third Tuesday of the month) 
7:30 -9:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standins Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
70 to LSU on Saturday for its third loss in four games, dropped from No. 22 to out of the rankings. It is the first time the Gators -briefly No. 1 in December -have been out of the Top 25 since Feb. 8, 1999, a span of 94 polls. That was the 
. second-longest current streak behind Duke's 143; Kansas is now second with 70 consecutive polls. 
Memphis (18-4) and LSU (17­
4) were the week's newcomers, replacing Florida and Utah State. 
Memphis, which beat Marquette 89-71 Saturday, 
enters the Top 25  on  a  nine­ 
game  winning  streak  that  
includes  a  victory  over  
Louisville.  LSU's  win  over  

Florida on Saturday was its fifth straight since a three-game los­ing streak. 
tch * Michael Stars * 
Juicy Couture * Rock a :ttilmw= Joh11son *Anna Sui*~,,~,.,~ I:lTIE:'II:@t:: 
. ople * Herve-Chapeli ii!=!!!~i!:!~!!::i~~:!!'!li~:B'~:ili::1. t * Seven Jeans* Frencrl~l~1~11!11 
312 Vv. Cleveland Ave. Granger, IN 46530 
(574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 


CLUB SPORTS 
Hellrung qualifies for club skiing national championship 
Special to The Observer 
Senior standout Leigh Hellrung of the Notre Dame ski club quali­fied for her third trip to the Nationals this weekend in Regional competition. In a very strong field, the women's squad just missed joining Hellrung in team competition. The top three schools qualify for Nationals, and three strong varsity teams from Northern Michigan, St. Olaf, and Minnesota Duluth claimed those spots. The Irish tied another var­sity power, Minnesota, for fourth place in the 16-school field. 

Hellrung placed fourth in the Giant Slalom behind three skiers from Northern Michigan. Teammates Alanna Lundgren, 22nd, Molly Butler, 24th, Rita Morgan. 39th, and Saint Mary's Danielle Clements, 66th, compet­ed in a field of 189 to finish in third place heading into Sunday's Slalom. Hellrung's 11th place fm­ish again paced the club. but the Irish finished the Slalom in 6th place, and fourth overall. Butler finished 26th, Lungren, 29th. Morgan, 42nd, and Clement's 33rd in a field of 213. 
The men's squad placed a sur­prising. 1Oth in the Giant Slalom and 18th in the Slalom to fmish 14th overall in a 19-school field. Mike Ryan and Joe Payne fin­ished 47th and 49th respectively in the Giant Slalom. Payne was the only Irish skier to complete the Slalom, finishing 40th in the event. 
The top three schools and the top skier from among all the other schools earn the right to compete at ·the Nationals. This year, Hellrung will travel to Sugarloaf, Me. 
I 
I' 
)I,, Ultimate Frisbee 
't 
Notre Dame's ultimate frisbee men's squad kicked off its spring competition at Cincinatti's Arctic I 
Vogue this weekend. Eighteen t, II teams gathered to play in tem­I 
peratures ranging from the low I.' I 20's to the 30's and a strong'1: wind. A small Irish squad includ­ing two rookies split four pool games on Saturday, dropping their opener to Eastern Michigan 11-9, winning their second con­test with Xavier, 11-6, falling to Cincinnati Volatile 11-6, and defeating Ohio State B 11-3. This earned the Irish the No. 1 seed in the B bracket on Elimination Sunday. The Irish lived up to their seed with wins over Xavier, 11-4, Ohio State B 11-3, and Berea 

College 11-9 in the fmals. 
A sluggish start cost the Irish the game with EMU, and the Irish had no answer for Team Volatile's depth and experience, with most members having played 10 or more years. Senior Sean O'Neill and junior Matt Sul~van provided leadership for the Irish. Freshman Eric Morin and Mike Savino came up big on both offense and defense all weekend, while junior Jake Ament caught the final goal on Sunday to earn the B bracket title. 
Gymnastics 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's gymnastics club competed at Purdue's Golden Grips Invitational this weekend, with the women's squad placing 5th among 14 teams, and the men's squad fmished sixth. In women's competition, Purdue, Ohio, and Miami (Ohio) claimed the top three sports. Caitlin O'Brien placed sixth on the vault and tied for sixth on the beam to lead the Irish. Kristi Peterson, Mary Blazewicz, Maura Steed, Wendy Syetanoff. Kim Turnipseed, Krissy Jackson and Susan Jennings all earned points for the Irish. 
Andrew Roberts, Dana Colllins, Ross Strambu, Calvin Umeda and Todd Moffat all contributed to the men's scoring. Eastern Michigan, Purdue and Illinois finished at the top of the men's standings. 
Women's water polo 
Western Michigan played host to the Midwest Regional Seeding Tournament this weekend in Kalamazoo. As expected, Notre Dame and Miami Ohio renewed their bitter rivalry in a closely­contested championship final. The eighth-ranked RedHawks avenged a 7-6 Irish victory a week earlier with a 6-5 win to capture top seed in the Regional Championships in April. The Irish will be seeded second. 
Early round victories over Miami B, 12-3, and Ohio, 13-3, earned the Irish a spot in the finals. Freshman Jana Stewart saw considerable time in net, spelling team captain Brigette Alge. M.C. Cimino, Kaitlin Shorock, Christina Hoover, Bridget O'Neill and Katie Lancos led a balanced attack for the Irish. 
Men's volleyball 
Notre Dame's men's volleyball club fmished conference play this weekend in Sheboygan, Wise. The Irish dropped all three of 

2046 South Bend Ave 
272-1766 
Open for lunch, dinner and late night fun There is always action at Bookmaker's 
Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens 
Mon Specials all day long Tues Every Thes. is ND Night, DJ, and specials starting at $1.00 all day long Wed Karaoke 9-12 and all day specials, starting at $2.50 
"i 
Thurs Lunch and daily specials 
,,'"'Y.. Fri, Feb 20 
Live music with Darryl Buchaman 
Sat, Feb 21 
Live music with Darryl Buchaman 
Sun 
Sports all day and all you can eat Buffet $5.95 
their contests to Northern Illinois, 25-19, 25-10; Wisconsin Oskosh, 25-16, 25-18; and Wisconsin Milwaukee, 25-21, 23-25, 15-5. 
Notre Dame will next take to the courts against Michigan State at Lake Michigan High School this Saturday at 8 p.m. 
Women's Ice hockey 
Notre Dame dropped a pair of games this weekend to Western Michigan. In a season when sev­eral key players were lost due to injuries, studying abroad, and ill­ness, the club has never failed to pick itself back up and take on the challenge of playing in a very strong conference with a short­handed squad. 
On Friday, the Irish fell behind the Mustangs 2-0 and fought back to tie the score on a break­away goal from Julia LaPointe and an end-to-end rush by Tori Blainey. WMU scored again and again the Irish answered with LaPointe's second goal. Scrappy play found the Irish down 4-3 after two periods, but the lack of depth took its toll in the third period and the Irish fell 7-3. 

In the rematch on Sunday, the Irish were competitive early. trail­ing by one goal after the first period. The second period was a backbreaker however, as WMU scored six unanswered goals. The Irish showed resolve in battling to a scoreless third period. 
Equestrian 

Taylor University in Marion, Ind., was the venue for a pair of 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
A Talk on Robotics, AI and Implant Technology Is it a Glimpse into the Future? 
Dr. Kevin Warwick 
University of Reading, UK 

For More Information: 
http:l/xml.ee .nd.edu http:l/www.kevinwarwick.org/ http:l/www.cyber.rdg.ac.uk/people/K.Warwick.htm 
ND Contact: Panos Antsaklis, Dept. of Electrical Engineering (antsaklis.l@nd.edu) 
. . .. . . . 
.•.·.·.,; ·5~;i'j······ 
Tuesday, February 17, 2004

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
• 
83% ofthe world's air I;!Ollution ······comes fr<>m th~ procluctio11 and use of.electricity 

-·.:·-.::·--t 
.;.~ 


. . . . . 
·now .does this affect the environment? 
What are the alternatives? 
What can. you. do? 

· . Dr. Clive Neal, professor of Environmental Geosciences, will discuss our current energy consumption and its environmental impacts 
6:00 Tuesday, Feb.. l7 127 Hayes Healey 

.·.· 
·Sponsored by 

,.•.

Students for Environmental Action ... 
~:; 
-..·.~
,, 

. ~ ~ 
~ »
X ~ 
L.,,~·"" ,,,,.= -"'*"" "''·,.,;;,;,.,,'·""'"'""'"'"""'"'""""" -~'""'"'"'""·"'""'"'"'''"""'~*·""'""'' ""'·""·~ 
• 
IHSA shows this weekend. IUPUI's 37 points earned High Point Honors on Friday, with Purdue's 30 points good enough for Reserve High Point. The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's squad finished with 21 points. 
Results were as follows: class 1 open fences Katie Baron 2nd, Claire Freeman 4th; class 7 novice fences Catherine Linn 1st; class 8 open flat A Baron 3rd, Kelsey Ostberg 6th; class 9 open flat B Molly Kopacz 1st, Elizabeth Bell 3rd; class 10 open flat C Freeman .6th, Julia Burke no placing; class 15 novice flat Linn 6th; class 16 advanced walk trot canter Lauren Croall 2nd; class 18 advanced walk trot canter Kristen LaSota 3rd; class 21 walk trot Anne Trout 4th. 
Thursday, February 19, 2004 131 DeBartolo 3:30pm 

"Cyborg Engineering: Practical Experiments Using 
Implant Technology" 
::G1.#•~ ··•········· I
...•.••. 
~~ ).' 
;f 

Tuesday, February 17, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
UNLV 
continued from page 20 
from a cold-weather climate, the team more than held its own. 
"It was great just to get out of the cold weather and play," Gumpf said. "The girls just played hard all weekend. They didn't play perfect, but they played tough and believed in each other and in them­selves." 
Offensively on the weekend, the Irish were paced by jun­iors Megan Ciolli and Liz Hartmann. Ciolli, one of 40 players selected to the USA Softball Player of the Year watch list, collected a .625 batting average at the tourna­ment. 
Hartmann sparked the Irish power attack with three homeruns and seven RBI. She hit the game-winning home­run against Nebraska. 
"Megan'-s just a great leader," Gumpf said of her lead-off hitter. "She knows how to get it done, and then she goes out there and does it. Liz, meanwhile, was just on fire. 
"The other teams tried to pitch around [Hartmann] and they couldn't. I bet she's still giving the Nebraska coach nightmares." 
Notre Dame travels to the Palm Springs Classic in Palm Springs, Calif., this weekend where they will face five teams -including an exhibi­tion against the U.S. Olympic Team -over three days. The Irish do not open play at home until Mar. 20 against Eastern Michigan. 
Notre Dame 8, Hawaii 7 
Sophomore Kellie Middleton made the most of her first hit of the season, connecting on a two-run walk-off home run 
that gave the Irish the victory over the Rainbow Warriors. 
Middleton's hit closed out a five-run rally in the bottom of the seventh inning, after Notre 
Dame had allowed Hawaii to tack on two unearned insur­ance runs in the top of the seventh. 
Sophomore Heather Booth started for the Irish, scatter­ing seven hits and allowing two earned runs and five total runs in 5 2/3 innings. Reliever 

Megan Clolli slides Into second base against St. John's last season. Ciolli was one of the offensive 
mistakes against a good team l i k e California. The great thing about mistakes early on, though, is that they can be

Irish catcher Mallorle Lenn tags a St. John's runner at home plate last season. Lenn collected 
fixed."

an RBI In last weekend's 3-1 win over UNLV. 
~--------------------------~ 
leaders last weekend hitting .625. 
. Carrie Wisen (1-0) earned the just their second game of the victory after Notre Dame's season, Notre Dame outhit the 
rally. potent Golden Bears and jun­ior Steffany Stenglein (0-1) No. 2 California 2, Notre Dame 1 held one of the best offensive 
The Irish gave the 7-0 teams in the nation at bay. Golden Bears as much as they Nicole deFau provided the could handle but came up lone RBI of the game with a short in their loss to No. 2 single in the sixth inning but California. Despite playing in the Irish could not rally in the 
seventh. The Irish committed 


two errors in the game, one of which led to a California 

I ­
! CJS PUB417N.MichiganStreet 
I 
: WEDNESDAY'S 
1 ALL DRINKS, PITCHERS
! II HAL F p R I cEII 
I  10PM. CLOSE  
I  Karaoke  
I  Pool  • Golf •  Video  • Shuffle  Board  •  
: I I I  )PW FRI 8l SAT Kitchen open 11 am • 10 pm Buckets and Drink Pint Specials 11 am Live Entertainment 1 Opm  

Darts 
• Close 
1 OPEN SUNDAYS 1 pm
I Buckets and Shooter Specials • Food 1 pm • 9pm I WED & FRI LENT SPECIALS 
1 
STARTING ASH WED 
I popcorn shrimp n' fries • fried clam strips n' fries I fish n' chips .. fish sand n' fries 
I· 
Wisen (2-0) collected her second win of the year, setting the Cornhuskers down in order in the bottom of the seventh. 
Notre Dame 3, UNLV 1 
Stenglein (1-1) picked up her first victory of the year, striking out 10 UNLV batters in a complete game. She was able to continually pitch out of trouble, as the Rebels strand­
run. "The other teams tried to ed 10 runners 
"We hit on base in the
pitch around [Hartmann] 
the ball game. 
really well, and they couldn't. I bet Middleton but we she's still giving the paced the Irish 
made a lot attack with two
Nebraska coach
of mis­hits, two stolen 
takes," nightmares ... bases and one Gumpf said. RBI. .. You can't Sophomore
Deanna Gumpf 
make those Mallorie Lenn
Irish coach 
Notre Dame 6, No. 8 Nebraska 4 

! 
I Down 4-2 going into the sev­enth inning, the Irish stormed back to shock No. 8 Nebraska and collect their first win of the year over a ranked oppo­
nent. Freshman Stephanie Brown
I 
: 
hit the first run of her Notre Dame career with a one-out two run shot. Two batters 
later, Hartmann connected on a two-run blast of her own. 
and Hartmann 

collected  the  
other RBI  for  
the Irish.  

Notre Dame 4, Portland State 1 
Booth (1-0) pitched a com­plete-game five-hitter as the Irish cruised to their largest margin of victory at the UNLV Classic. 
Ciolli and Hartmann each hit solo homeruns, and sopho­more Megan Ruthrauff led the team with two RBI in the con­test. 
Ciolli hit 4-for-4 in the game and scored two runs. 
ContactJwtin Sc:huver at jsc:huver@nd.edu 
Undergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual community
1 
are invited to apply for membership on the 
Standing Committee
: 
for Gay and Lesbian
I I I 
Student Needs. : 
Applications are now available in the Office of
I I 
Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the 
I 
Standing Committee web site http://\V\\'W.nd.edul"'scglsn/
1 I 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Friday,
I 1 
April 5, 2004, and can be submitted at the Office ofStudent Affairs.
I 
I THI STANDING COII..ITTf:l ON 
I 
GAY AIID L~tUIAN 
Plea.re visit our web site for more information. 
!nUDaNT Nlf!!DS 

~--------------------------~ 

page 18 
Syracuse 
continued from page 20 
five points of the game. However, the Irish respond­ed with a 9-2 run that got them right back in it. 
After six straight Syracuse points, the Irish responded with a 23-8 run allowing the Irish to control most of the first half. That run was keyed by the Irish getting hot from 3-point range. Notre Dame started 1-of-7 
l_o' on 3-pointers, but made 5­
i 
I 
of-6 during that stretch to shred Syracuse.'s 2-3 zone. 
But after halftime. when the Irish led 38-29 going into the locker room, the 
Orangemen took a 53-52 lead by switching from their patented zone defense to man-to-man. 
However, the Orangemen couldn't sustain that defen­sive intensity and went back to the zone, and the Irish capitalized by going on a 16­4 run. Irish center Tom Timmermans made his first 3-pointer of the season dur­ing that stretch. 
In crunch time, the Irish made 13 straight free throws to close out the game 
I and take a major step
t
); toward the NCAA Tournament. 
Notes: 
+ Thomas was named the Big East Player of the Week Monday for his efforts in Notre Dame's wins over Connecticut and Seton Hall. 
In the two games, Thomas averaged 28.5 points, 5.5 rebounds and 4.5 assists. For the season, Thomas cur­rently ranks fifth in the Big
'l 
East in scoring, averaging 
19.0 per game. 
Thomas won the honor once last year, sharing the honor with Miami's Darius Rice for his play during the 
' 
week of Jan. 20, 2003. 
~ 
+ Syracuse guard Billy
~; 
Edelin missed his fifth game 
~-over the past three weeks Monday night. Edelin left the team for personal rea­
I 
I' sons and doesn't have a set r date to return to the Orange men. 
f. 
NOTRE DAME 84, SYRACUSE 72 at the CARRIER DOME 
NOTRE DAME (13-9, 7-5) 
Cornette 0-4 0-0 0, Jones 3-10 6-8 12, Tinimermans 4-9 3-4 12, Thomas 6-16 8-9 25, Quinn 7-10 4-6 22. Cornett 4-5 0-1 8, Falls 1-1 2-3 5 
SYRACUSE (16-6, 6-5) 
Warrick 9-20 10-12 28, Nichols 2-7 0­0 5, Forth 0-1 0-0 0, McNamara 7-23 3-4 20. Pace 2-7 0-0 4, Roberts 0-0 0­0 0, McNeil 3-4 0-0 6, McCroskey 4-9 0-0 9 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 38 46 84 SYRACUSE 29 43 72 
3-point goals: Notre Dame 11-23 (Thomas 5-10, Quinn 4-7, Falls 1-1. Timmermans 1-1. Cornette 0-4), Syracuse 5-22 (Nichols 1-5. McNamara 3-15, McCroskey 1-2). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 31 (Jones 12), Opponent 42 (Warrick 16}. Assists: Notre Dame 13 (Thomas 5), Syracuse 10 (McNamara 6). Total fouls: Notre Dame 14, 
,Syracuse 22. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

>'
,: 
I' 
The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 17, 2004 
and hard-working kind of led all season by junior for­team," McGraw said. "They're ward Jacqueline Batteast,
St. John's 
scoring a lot of points, so it's who averages over 14 points 
a test for our and eight rebounds per game. She also has eight double­doubles on the season. 
..They're a very aggressive 
The only and hard-working kind of other Irish player to
team. They're scoring a lot 
average dou­
ofpoints, so it's going to be 
ble figures in 
a test for it'sdefense. ·· points is guard Megan Duffy, who hit
Muffet McGraw 
all three of 
Irish coach her 3-point attempts against 
continued from page 20 
ages 3.5 3-pointers per game -the second most per game in the nation -and has con­nected on over 37 percent of her attempts this season. She leads the team with 15.8 points per game. 
Junior guard Secret Stubblefield is second on the team in points, averaging 13.9 per game, while freshman Angie Clark posts 13.0 points. Clark is also second in the Big East in double-doubles per 

going to  be  
defense."  
N o  t  r  e  

Dame's defense has ·been its strength for most of the season, holding nine of the last 10 opponents under 40 percent shooting 
game with eight and has been from the field. The Irish give Providence on Saturday. named Big East Rookie of the up just 59.4 points per game McGraw said St. John's will Week five times this season. this season. throw several defensive pack­
"They're a very aggressive The Irish offense has been ages at Notre Dame's offense. 
$ 

:-i.,~_-x:,.....r,. 
-. ~ ::.....-..... 
•Free~T73t t_;a~ $~ ~--· ~~) 
"They play a lot of junk defense," McGraw said. 
With only five games, including this one, left on Notre Dame's schedule, the Irish hope to end the season on a strong note to improve their seed in the Big East and NCAA Tournament. 
No matter what seed the Irish are in the NCAA Tournament, though, they will play their first two games at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame has a quick turnaround after tonight's game, facing Pittsburgh on the road Thursday. Tonight's tip is at 7 p.m. 
ContactJoe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

• 
Tuesday, February 17, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
DOGBERT CONSULTS 
I RECOMMEND FORM­ING A SEPARATE GROUP TO PURSUE DISRUPTIVE INNOVA­TIONS. 
FIVES 
SCOIT ADAMS BEST OF ALL, ONCE A
IT WILL BE A GLORIOUS YEAR THEY'LL LET YOU
PLACE : FULLY FUNDED, LOSERS TOUR THEIRAMAZING AMBIANCE, WORK SPACE AND SITBRILLIANT PEOPLE, IN THEIRFREE FROM 
BEAN BAGBUREAUCRACY! 
CHAIRS. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
W,.i~... ls +h~+ 
5o w~c ~ 
o. ,5ir\! )t~t'? 
eeJi~~ 
• het"e'? 
N"WA'j." :r""' 
t~~ost o~ +\1L J 
o~ ~~e 
S+-v4tr1+~ ~wJly.' ,
.'IU,;+y'J +c.p 
bv+ we. \u~e-+~<1..+
vtmry ~\8eJ ... 
.· vp ~ ~e f~"'Md ~J
\ 
· \ Ai4 t>tt.P,~~.
-· 
page 19
• 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KAWTE 
j 
1 
rx 
tSNORGTj
I J r I 
www.jiJITOie.oom 


GRINTY 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
riJ I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
An~r= "( I I J" rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GUILT TABOO MEMORY BEHINDYesterday's I 
Answer: What the zookeeper turned into every week­end-A "GAME" HUNTER 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  35 Marsh plant  71 Acts the stool  
1 Be sweet on  39 Giveaway: Var.  pigeon  
6 "Quiet!"  41 Place for butts  
9 Boy Scout unit  43 Final authority  DOWN  
14 The in "Psycho" Bates -·  44 Copycat's words  1 Radio letters 2 1996  
15 Soccer star Hamm  46 Auction ending?  Republican standard-bearer  
16 Baseball Hall­ 47 Race marker  3 Elevator maker  
of-Farner  49 Be a buttinsky  4 Meal  
Combs  51 Disco flasher  5 Polar helper  
17 Poolside wear  54 Put a stop to  6 Campfire treat  
20 Flat formation  56 Jackie's second  7 Maximally cool  
21 Harold Gray's Annie, for one 22 Louse-to-be 23 Mountain  57 Available, as a doctor 59 Org. for Annika Sorenstam  8 Truck stop fare 9 Court wear 10 "Awesome!"  
debris 25 Gate pivots 27 Bird of 29-Down 30 Smart-mouthed 32 Prefix with -asian  63 House wear 66 Kosher 67 Narc's grp. 68 Place for rouge 69 Idyllic places  11 Sumatra swinger 12 Pal of Kukla and Fran 13 Royal pains 18 Country singer Morgan  38 Bronte's Jane  51 Fine fur  61 Cyclist LeMond  
33 A, B, C, D or E  70 Map rtes.  
------------­ 19 Contented sighs  40 Hockey great  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  24 Ranch wear  Phil, familiarly  62 Questions  
~~~~,...  26 Russian's refusal 27 Gridiron  42 Mogadishu resident 45 Placed in a box,  53 Chain of hills 55 Fitzgerald and others  64  Tin Tin  
"zebras"  say  58 U.S.N. rank  
!-,-+..,..-f-,~  28 Heavenly glow  48 Late-night Jay  below Capt.  65 I.B.M.­ 
~;;:+;~  29 Mouse, to a  50 Oracle site  60 Hammer's end  compatibles  

27-Across 
31 At the drop of For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year}. Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lou Diamond Phillips, Michael Jordan, Alan Bates, Margaret Truman 
Happy Birthday: You'll have so many good ideas this year, but if you allow deceptive people to get involved in your life you won't get very far. You must be careful whom you deal with and whom you tell your trade secrets to. You are a genius in your own right but not the best this year at picking the right people. It's best to go it alone rather than be left out in the cold because sorrerne has stolen your ideas. Your nlliilixn: 5, 7, 13, 22. 37,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your luck will be superb today. Social entertainment and travel should be scheduled in. You can enhance your reputation if you are outgoing and open when talking to others. *"'** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be considering taking a vacation with your loved ones. You can finish off those creative projects that you left on the back burner. Purchases made uxlay will be lasting.**** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep busy if you don't want to get into argument~ with your mate. Productivity will speak for itself. Spend time fixing up your sUITOlUldings in a way that is sure to please everyooe. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your creative drive will enable you to complete hobbies or projects. Look into making purchases that will add to your wardrobe. You will be admired for your organizational ability. **"'* LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Relatives may not tell you the whole truth about the circumstances that surround them. You should look into taking a pleasure trip with the one you love or at least doing something special together. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social functions will result in romantic attractions. You can benefit through conservative investments. Look into seminars that will brooden your vision concerning finances. **** LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your energy into your personal goals. It is best to lay your cards on the table regarding your intentions and be prepared to defend your position. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Try not to be disappointed if your partner is not willing to bend to your whims. Take a differenr approach. Make them an offer they just can't refuse. * * * SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your intellectual attributes will entice new friendships. Get out and meet individuals who can provide you with mental as well as physical stimulation. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will meet new partners if you get involved in conununity seiVices. Your varied interests will put you in a position ofleaden>hip. You will be praised for your suggestions. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Taking drastic measures will not help if you have a problem with your mate. Talk to someone you respect and ask their opinion regarding your dilemma Evaluate your own motives. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't give your partner false impressions. Secret affairs or one-sided attractions will cause upset and could easily lead to an embarrassing situation. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are an outgoing eager little tyke. Curious about everything and everyone. Unconventional and drawn to the unusual. Intuitive, bright and quick to learn, you have a soft spot for the weak and devotion to your family. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q ­Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name __________________________________________ __ Address·------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


---~------~------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------­
THE 0BSER\'ER 
Tuesday, February 17, 2004 

page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
I 
I< 
I 
Victory puts Irish back in the tourney hunt 

Notre Dame defeats Syracuse 84-72 to win third straight 

By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish have officially moved to the bubble. 
Behind 25 points from Chris Thomas and 22 from Chris Quinn, Notre Dame defeated Syracuse 84-72 Monday night at the Carrier Dome, the third straight Irish win against a top-30 team in the RPI. 
The Irish are now 13-9 over­all and 7-5 in the Big East while the Orangemen fall to 16-6 overall and 6-5 in con­ference. 
:~· The win was Notre Dame's first against Syracuse since 
'\·.' ;i'..) 
I 1 Jan. 23, 2001 when the Irish 
' ' won 74-60 at the Joyce
i l Center. Before Monday, Syracuse had won 10 of their last 11 games against Notre Dame. Thomas reached 20 points for the fourth straight game for the first time in his career. Against the Orangemen, he 

was only 6-of-16 from the field but made 5-of-10 from behind the arc and 8-of-9 from the free throw line. 
Monday night was also the first time this season Thomas and Quinn each scored over 20 points in the same game ­something Irish coach Mike Brey has been looking for all year. 
With Torin Francis out, Torrian Jones continued to crash the boards leading the Irish with 12 rebounds. 
Syracuse forward Hakim Warrick recorded game-highs with 28 points and 16 rebounds. Gerry McNamara scored 20 points for Syracuse, but shot only 1-of-9 in the first half and never really got going like he usually does against the Irish. 
But early on, it looked like Syracuse would continue its dominance over the Irish with McNamara scoring the first 
see SYRACUSE/page 18 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fresh after their latest win 

By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
St. John's is 2-7 in its last nine games, but Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw knows records don't matter when her team plays away from the Joyce Center. 
"It's a road game," McGraw said. "So it's a problem." 
All of Notre Dame's (15-8 overall, 8-3 in the Big East} losses have come on the road this season -the team has a dismal 4-8 record outside of South Bend. The Irish are 11­0 at home this season and have a current 16-game Joyce Center winning streak. 
Notre Dame is fresh off an 81-51 victory against Providence on Saturday. The Irish had five players score in double figures, including Jeneka Joyce, who had four 3-pointers and a career-high 14 points. The win, coupled with a West Virginia loss, brought Notre Dame within half a game of second place in the Big East. Connecticut leads the conference at 10-1. 
St. John's (9-13, 3-8} has had a week off after losing to 

ClUB SPORTS 
Senior Leigh Hellrung earned her third consecu­
tive  trip to the  skiing  
nationals.  
page 16  

"'· 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Stanford claims the No. 1 ranking in the latest AP poll. 
page 15 ND SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame shows character with wins 
to beat Hawaii 8-7 in the bot­
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
tom of the seventh inning.
Associate Sports Editor 
The team then lost later that 
night to No. 2 California in a 

Playing in the home of nail-biter, 2-1, despite out­Siegfried and Roy, it was fit­hitting the Golden Bears 7-4. ting that the Irish used a lit­Saturday, the Irish again tle come-from-behind magic came back against Nebraska 
t + the UNLV ( ~~sic this \\ _kend, ral­··coming back like that lying to wins 
isn •t as. The girls just
against 

didn •t doubt themselves. 
Hawaii and No. · 8 They believe they can Nebraska en 
beat anybody, and they
route to ·col­

proved that this 
lecting a 4-1 record at the weekend.·· tournament. 
"Coming 

Deanna Gumpf
back like that isn't easy," Irish coach Irish coach D e a n n a Gumpf said. 
to win 6-4, this time posting two two-run home runs in the top of the seventh to get the victory. The Irish closed out play Saturday with a 3-1 win over host UNLV. 
Sunday Notre Dame cruised to a 

"The girls just didn't doubt 4-1 victory over Portland themselves; they believe they State, completing their suc­can beat anybody and they cessful run in the Classic. proved that this weekend." Despite being the only school 
Friday, Notre Dame came back from a five-run deficit 
MlB 
The Rangers traded Alex Rodriguez to the Yankees. 
page 14 
NBA 

The Sacramento Kings activated Chris Webber from the injured list Monday. 
page 14 
see UNLV/page 17 
MLB 
Dodgers signed DePodesta as its general manager, the third youngest GM for a major-league team. 
page 13 




